	 Enhancing national solidarity: the Albanian admirative	 23
Kosovo were ethnically, linguistically, and religiously mixed (see Section 2 below);
they were assigned to Montenegro and Serbia by the Treaty of Bucharest in 1913.
The entire territory was assigned to the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes
at the end of World War One (the Kingdom changed its name to Yugoslavia in
1929). Kosovo was incorporated into Albania 1941–44 and subsequently returned
to Yugoslavia, where it became the Kosovo-Metohija Autonomous Region (also
referred to as Kosmet) in 1945, and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo in 1974.5
In the spring of 1981, what began as a student demonstration against the truly
awful food in the student cafeteria at the University of Prishtina quickly escalated
into organized demands that Kosovo be granted the status of a republic within
Yugoslavia, a demand which, however, was popularly perceived as a prelude to se-
cession (and possible union with Albania). The uprising was violently suppressed
with the declaration of martial law for the first time since World War Two, and the
need not concern us here. For the linguistic situation in ancient times, see Katičić (1976) and
Hamp (2002, 2007). For medieval history see Fine (1984, 1987). Elsie (1997) provides a collec-
tion of translations of primary source materials relating to the twentieth century. The Ottoman
period, and especially its last phase, is highly contested between Slavic and Albanian points of
view (for the Turkish view, see Saral 1975). Skendi (1967) is the classic account of the crucial pe-
riod 1878–1912. The Albanian point of view on Kosovo was represented in English most influ-
entially by Malcolm (1998), a popular work which in 2008 received the Center for Albanology
(Tirana) Prize for the best work by a foreign author and, at the ceremony, was credited with be-
ing crucial in persuading key members of the international community to intervene in Kosovo.
Mertus (1999) discusses the role of media.
5.  Some aspects of toponymy are themselves politicized. Metohija ‘monastery property’ is
Serbian (from Greek metokhē ‘monastery property’) [In Kosovo, the name ‘Metohija’ refers to
the many Serbian Orthodox monasteries, which is the relevent meaning of the Greek in this
context]. In Albanian, the region is called Rrafshi i Dukagjinit ‘the plain of Dukagjin’, referring
to the main plain in the west of the region. Kosovo ([ˈkosovo]) is an adjective derived from
Serbian kos ‘blackbird’; it modifies the neuter noun polje ‘field, plain’ and refers to the main
eastern plain of the region, in Serbian Kosovo Polje. The word is borrowed into Albanian as
Kosovë ([koˈsovə]), definite form Kosova ([koˈsova]). At the beginning of the 1999 NATO war,
President Clinton, applying American English stress and vowel reduction to the name Kosovo,
pronounced it [kəˈsovə], which was interpreted by Serbs and Albanians as advocating Kosovar
independence — contrary to the terms of UNSCR 1244. Within a day he had changed his pro-
nunciation to [ˈkosəvə], which was perceived as an American pronunciation. At the end of the
Ottoman period, the entire vilayet of which modern Kosovo was a part was known as Kosova,
although both administrative units and nomenclature varied considerably throughout the nine-
teenth century. Turkish phonotactics changed final -o to -a when borrowing Slavic toponyms,
aided by the fact that Turkish ova ‘field’ is a common toponym in Turkish; the resemblance to
Serbian/Albanian is coincidental. The currently recognized international name of the republic
is Kosovo. There has been a movement to change the name of the country to Dardania, which
was the name of the approximate region of Kosovo in the ancient period, but this change has
not achieved wide usage.
24	 Victor A. Friedman
1980s were a period of violence and instability. In 1989, Serbia revoked Kosovo’s
autonomy, and in 1990, a group of Kosovar parliamentarians met in Kaçanik (near
the border with the Republic of Macedonia) and declared independence; in 1991,
they passed a constitution. In 1992, Ibrahim Rugova, head of the Democratic
League of Kosovo (in Albanian, Lidhja Demokratike e Kosovës, hereafter LDK)
was elected president of the new republic, which was recognized only by Albania.
The 1990s were a decade of oppression, resistance, and escalating violence,
most of it by Serbian police, military, and paramilitary forces against Albanians.6
During the first half of the 1990s, the LDK had the support of the overwhelming
majority of Kosovars and led a parallel government based on peaceful resistance.
The parallel government supervised parallel institutions such as education, health
care, and so on. Institutions were financed by remittances from abroad.7
By 1995, however, the mood had begun to change. LDK officials reported that
they were under pressure to resist more actively, and young people spoke of stag-
ing an armed uprising.8 Then, on 19 February 1996, OMRI [Open Media Research
Institute’s] Daily Digest No. 35, part II published the following report:
A previously unknown terrorist group has claimed responsibility for the bombing
of Serbian refugee camps in Kosovo on 11 February (see OMRI Daily Digest, 13
February). The Kosovo Liberation Army sent a letter to [the newspaper] Rilindja
[‘The rebirth’]9 saying the attacks were only a “first warning” to the Serbs, whom
it accused of wanting to “colonize” the province, AFP reported on 17 February.
6.  Such violence had already begun in the 1980s. In 1988, a group of about 200 Kosovar intel-
lectuals in Prishtina were rounded up in the middle of the night and held without charges for
six months. For the first three months they were held in a prison in Kosovo and beaten every
day with rubber hoses. For the next three months they were moved to a prison in Serbia proper
until the subcutaneous bruises healed. They were then released. The source of this information
is a colleague of the author’s, a former president of the Academy of Arts and Sciences of Kosova,
who was among those arrested.
7.  According to LDK officials with whom I spoke in 1995, every Kosovar abroad paid a volun-
tary income tax of 3%.
8.  The explicit expectation was that the United States would intervene to stop what would be
the inevitable slaughter of Albanians. The source of information is interviews I participated in as
part of a fact-finding mission for the South Balkan Project of the Center for Preventive Action of
the Council of Foreign Relations in December 1995. See Rubin (1996).
9.  While ‘the rebirth’ is an etymologically correct translation of rilindija (indefinite rilindje), in
Albanian this term also means ‘the renaissance’ and refers to the (re)birth of modern Albanian
national consciousness in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. As with modern na-
tionalisms everywhere, so too modern Albanian nationhood was portrayed as something pre-
existing that needed to be ‘awakened’ or ‘born again’. The Albanian rilindje has all the power of
‘renaissance’ in English.
	 Enhancing national solidarity: the Albanian admirative	 25
The group called on the international community to recognize the self-declared
independence of the province. Meanwhile, an unidentified leader of the National
Movement for the Liberation of Kosovo, told Gazeta Shqiptare on 18 February
that the group is preparing for a guerrilla war. Neither of these groups are sup-
ported by the main political formations in the province. — Fabian Schmidt
During the first half of 1997, the economy of Albania collapsed owing to invest-
ments in pyramid schemes on the part of the government and the majority of the
population, and the country devolved into anarchy. Desperate for money, crowds
attacked and emptied Albania’s armories, and an assault rifle could be purchased
on the streets of Tirana for as little as $5.00.10 By 1998, the Kosovo Liberation
Army (in Albanian, Ushtria Çlirimtare e Kosovës, hereafter KLA) was sufficiently
armed to increase organized attacks on Serbian targets and in turn was targeted
by Serbian forces, as were women and children. Major operations against and/or
exterminations of Albanians were centered in the Drenica region 40 km west of
Prishtina, Kosovo’s capital, and the shelling could be heard there.11 The KLA in-
creased its activities, organization, and attacks while Serbian police, military and
paramilitary forces responded with, or initiated even greater violence. By1999,
conditions in Kosovo were such that NATO launched a bombing campaign against
what was then the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia from 22 March to 10 June 1999,
when UNSCR 1244 created UNMIK, and NATO halted its bombing. On 12 June
1999, KFOR entered Kosovo. From then until independence was declared in
February 2008, UNMIK and KFOR had responsibility for administering Kosovo.12
2.	 Linguistic background
2.1	 Morphology of the Admirative
Kosovo has a long history of multilingualism. In ancient times, Latin was the lan-
guage of inscriptions, and numerous toponyms give evidence of the interaction of
Latin and the language that pre-dated its arrival and that gave rise to Albanian (see
Hamp 2007, also Hamp 2002). By the end of the Ottoman period, the principal
10.  This is according to eyewitness reports. The price went up to $30 after a few weeks.
11.  Again, the source is a report from a witness.
12.  The question of so-called final status is, to some extent, still moot as of this writing.
Nonetheless, the so-called ‘constructive ambiguity’ of the interim period, when Kosovo was
administered by the UN, was a) one during which Kosovars assumed that independence was
simply a matter of time and/or timing, and b) one which both de facto (and to some extent de
iure) ended with the declaration of independence in 2008.
26	 Victor A. Friedman
languages of Kosovo were Albanian, Serbian, Turkish, Romani, and Aromanian,
with Circassian and Judezmo also spoken in some villages and towns. In the con-
text of this article, however, our interest is focused exclusively on Albanian.13
Throughout the Second Yugoslav period (1945–1991), at the start of which
the current borders of Kosovo were established, Albanian was the first language
of the majority, and the percentage of Albanian-speakers gradually increased.
Albanian is divided into two main dialects, Geg and Tosk, which are spoken north
and south, respectively, of the river Shkumbi, which runs through the middle of
Albania. The dialects of Kosovo are all northeastern Geg. Although there was no
unified Albanian standard in practice prior to World War Two, the de jure standard
was based on the southern Geg dialect of Elbasan, located on the river Shkumbi.
After World War Two, a Tosk-based standard was promulgated in Albania, while
the pre-War Geg standard continued to be developed in Kosovo. In 1968, intellec-
tuals in Kosovo voted to adopt the standard of Albania, and in 1972 the unification
(which was in fact the abandonment of the Geg-based standard) became official.14
The so-called unified standard is used in all the Kosovar electronic news media
studied here, although the occasional Gegism does occur.
The Albanian admirative, whose use is the focus of our study, is a set of verbal
paradigms that have their origin in an inverted perfect and pluperfect, i.e. a partici-
ple followed by the auxiliary ‘have’ in the present and imperfect, respectively — the
normal order for the Albanian perfect and pluperfect being auxiliary+participle
(Demiraj 1971). Table 1 illustrates the morphology of the admirative in compari-
son with the non-admirative, using a paradigm based on the verb ‘have’, which is
also the auxiliary used for forming analytic paradigms in the active voice.15 The
verb itself is irregular and suppletive, the root being k- in the present and imperfect
and pa[t~s]- in the aorist and participle. The participle has a short form in -ë and
a long form in -ur. The status of the short participle and the paradigms using it are
extremely marginal in Standard Albanian, as they are not found in that language’s
northern Tosk dialectal base, but they do occur in our corpus. The semantics of the
13.  Owing to the nature of the data being analyzed here, only relations among Albanians, Serbs,
and the international community are involved. This to some extent reflects the Kosovar agenda
itself, which was not concerned with the fate of Kosovo’s non-Serbian minorities. In fact Kosovo
is still home to a number of other ethnic groups, especially Turks, Roms, Ashkali (Albanian-
speakers of Romani origin), Gorans (Muslims whose dialect is closest to Macedonian), and
others. Since our concern here is specifically Albanian pragmatics, however, their situation is
beyond the scope of this article.
14.  See Byron (1985) and Friedman (2004b) for additional details. Ismajli (1998) discusses the
situation in Kosovo 1945–1968.
15.  In mediopassive analytic past paradigms, the auxiliary ‘be’ replaces ‘have’.
	 Enhancing national solidarity: the Albanian admirative	 27
aorist paradigms need not concern us here, as they do not occur in the admirative
(see Friedman 1983 for further discussion). The double perfect and pluperfect,
which use the analytic perfect and pluperfect of ‘have’ as auxiliaries, mark types of
temporal distance and taxis whose details also need not concern us (see Friedman
2003; compare also example [15]).16 See Table 1.
Table 1.  First person singular of Albanian ‘have’
Nonadmirative Admirative
Present kam paskam
Perfect kam pasur paskam pasur
Imperfect kisha paskësha
Pluperfect (impf.) kisha pasur paskësha pasur
Double perfect kam pasë pasur paskam pasë pasur
Double pluperfect kisha pasë pasur paskësha pasë pasur
Aorist pata –
2nd pluperfect (aor.) pata pasur –
2nd double pluperfect (aor.) pata pasë pasur –
As I have argued elsewhere (Friedman 1981, 1986, 2000, 2003, 2004a), the basic
meaning of the admirative is ‘non-confirmativity’. At issue is a grammatical op-
position in Balkan languages for which Jakobson (1957), basing himself on Franz
Boas’ work, used the term evidential, a term that has seen considerable revival
in recent typological literature. Jakobson’s definition, which does not differ from
Maḥmūd al-Kāšǧārī’s formulation for Turkish dating from 880 years earlier, is
framed in terms of a past tense verb form that carries with it the meaning ‘wit-
nessed’ in opposition to one that marks ‘reported’ (see Friedman 2003 for details).
A brief comparison with the situation in Macedonian (which is in contact with
Albanian, as are both with Turkish) will help elucidate what I mean by non-con-
firmativity. As will be seen in Section 2.2 below, in Macedonian the so-called ‘wit-
nessed’ actually marks personal confirmation, whereas the so-called ‘reported’ is
simply unmarked with respect to the marked confirmative. Since the confirmative
is marked, however, that which is unmarked will contextually imply a reason for
not confirming; the reason can be a report or inference (if neutral), disbelief (du-
bitative), or surprise (admirative).17 Dozon (1879: 226–27) introduced the French
admiratif for Albanian (Albanian habitore; cf. habi ‘surprise’), citing Konstantin
Kristoforidhi’s Greek term aprosdókētoi ‘unexpected’ (m. pl.; Kristoforidhi was
16.  The admirative can also occur with analytic future and subjunctive markers (Lafe 1977).
Such usage is relatively rare, and there were no such examples in the corpus.
17.  The relationship between surprise and non-confirmation is discussed at the end of Section 2.2
28	 Victor A. Friedman
referring to both the present and past paradigms of the admirative in his descrip-
tion). Dozon defines the Albanian paradigms as expressing admiration or surprise,
sometimes ironic (or ‘dubitative’). Jacobsen (1964) used the term mirative to de-
scribe the marking of surprise in Washo, a language of California, and his usage
has gained popular dissemination. While both terms are etymologically correct,
the former is older, closer to modern Romance usage, and always used for Balkan
languages.
2.2	 Comparison with Macedonian
In Macedonian, a synthetic aorist (AO) and imperfect (IM) are marked for per-
sonal confirmation, in opposition to an unmarked past (L), which is descended
from the Common Slavic perfect. Owing to this opposition, the unmarked past
can contextually imply the active withholding of confirmation or marking of non-
confirmation (both felicitous [doubt] and infelicitous [surprise]), or it can be com-
pletely neutral. Examples (1) through (6) illustrate some relevant usages and are
explicated below. The examples are from both written sources (specified) and my
own fieldwork (by month and year), except (6), which is made up for the sake of
concentrating on the points at hand.18
	 (1)	 No	podocna se	sluči-ja	 rabot-i	 za	 ko-i	 ne	 znae-v
		 but later	 in happen-ao.3pl work-pl about which-pl neg know-im.1sg
		 ‘But after that things happened which I didn’t know about.’ (Nova
Makedonija 740619: 5)
	 (2)	 Mu	 se	javi-v	 na vujko mi.	 Ne	 be-še	 doma,	 na plaža
		 him.dat in call-ao.1sg to	 uncle	me.dat neg be-im.3sg at.home at	 beach
		 bi-l.
		 be-l.masc
		 ‘I called my uncle. He wasn’t home, apparently he was at the beach.’ (August
1992)
	 (3)	 Znae-v	 deka toj beše	 tvorec	na neko-i	 mošne čuvstviteln-i
		 know-im.1sg that	 he	be-im.3sg maker of	 some-pl very	 sensitive-pl
		 rabot-i	 za	 bela-ta	 kuḱa	 i	 deka gi	 organizira-l	 dobro
		 thing-pl for white-def house and that	 them.acc organize-l.masc well
18.  All translations are mine, except (1) and (3), which are Macedonian translations from The
Watergate Tapes published in the newspaper Nova Makedonija. The dating convention for news
sources is the following: the first two digits refer to the year, the second two to the month, and
the third two to the day, thus, for example 740619 means ‘1974 June 19’. For hard-copy sources,
the page number follows a colon after the date. Fieldwork examples are identified by the month
and year when they were heard.
	 Enhancing national solidarity: the Albanian admirative	 29
		 ‘I was aware of the fact that he had done some very sensitive things for the
White House and apparently he had done them well.’ (Nova Makedonija
740619: 5)19
	 (4)	 Nad	 Kumanovo puk-a-a	 ili	puka-l-e,	 zavis-i	 dali
		 above Kumanovo shoot-im.3pl or shoot-l.pl depend-pres.3sg whether
		 veruva-š	 vo televizijsk-i	 slik-i	 ili	ne.
		 believe-pres.2sg in	television-pl picture-pl or neg
		 ‘Above Kumanovo they were shooting or they were allegedly shooting, it
depends whether you believe television pictures or not.’ (June 2001)
	 (5)	 Za-toa	 što	 forma-ta	 be-še	 reše-n-o	 odgovara	 na se
		 for-that what form-def be-im.3sg decide-va-n answer.pr.3sg to	 in
		 reš-i,	 t.e. na minato-to opredeleno vreme, koe	 go
		 decide-ao.3sg i.e.	to	 past-def.	definite	 tense	 which it.acc
		 upotrebuva-me za	 označuvanje dejstv-a	 što	 se	vrše-l-e	 ili
		 use-pres.1pl	 for indication	 action-pl what in perform-l-pl or
		 se	izvrši-l-e	 vo opredelen moment vo minato-to.
		 in accomplish-l-pl in	definite	 moment in	past-def
		 ‘It is because the form “had been decided” corresponds to “was decided”,
i.e., to the past definite tense, which we use to indicate actions that were
performed or accomplished at a definite time in the past.’ (Minova-Ǵurkova
1984)
	 (6)	 Toj bi-l	 dobrovolec.
		 he	 be-l volunteer
		 a) ‘He was a volunteer.’ [statement of fact or same nuances as (d)]
		 b) ‘He has been a volunteer.’ [many times]
		 c) ‘He used to be a volunteer.’ [in his youth]
		 d) ‘He is a volunteer.’ d1 (apparently, he said, so they have said, presumably);
d2 (he claimed/it is claimed, but I don’t believe him/it); d3 (much to my
surprise)
Example (1) illustrates the fact that personal confirmation rather than a literal
source of evidence (e.g., witnessing) is the basic meaning of the synthetic past.
In this example, Nixon is lamenting the events that led to the Watergate scandal.
19.  In both (2) and (3), the effect of English ‘apparently’ is rendered (contextually) simply by
the choice of the unmarked (non-confirmative) past in Macedonian. The translation in (2)
is my English rendering of the Macedonian original, but in (3), the original was in English,
and the Macedonian translator chose the non-confirmative past without a modifying adverb.
Macedonian does have lexical equivalents of English ‘apparently’, but their deployment is differ-
ent precisely because of the fact that confirmative/non-confirmative is a grammatical opposition
in Macedonian.
30	 Victor A. Friedman
The use of a confirmative for ‘happened’, despite the fact that it is clear from the
context that the events were unwitnessed and only discovered later, demonstrates
that the speaker’s conviction is the essential motive in the choice of verb form. In
example (2), the speaker’s aunt is the source for both pieces of information learned
over the telephone. Nonetheless, the speaker personally confirms his uncle’s not
being home on the basis of his aunt’s report (otherwise his uncle would have come
to the phone), but he treats the statement of his uncle’s whereabouts as some-
thing that he cannot confirm, which in English can only be rendered by an ad-
verb such as apparently. Again, the literal source of information (‘evidence’) is not
the determining factor; rather, it is the speaker’s attitude to the information that
is conveyed. In sentence (3), the original was in English (The Watergate Tapes),
and the Macedonian was a translation. Here the Macedonian translator chose an
unmarked past without modification to render the effect of the English adverb
‘apparently’. In (4), the speaker’s comment is based on the fact that it became com-
mon knowledge in former Yugoslavia that during the Bosnian and Croatian wars
the various sides would each show the same footage of, e.g., village houses being
destroyed, and each would claim it was their village being destroyed by the enemy.
And so during the ethnic Albanian insurgency in 2001, when Kumanovo was not
far from the fighting, the comment in (4) represented a metalinguistic observa-
tion, viz., that it was up to the observer to choose whether or not to believe some-
thing ‘witnessed’ on television. Example (5), on the other hand, is a prescriptive
grammatical statement in which the unmarked past is used to refer to a generic
action. Particularly noteworthy here is that the unmarked past is used to refer to a
definite time in the past, despite the fact that the traditional name for this tense is
minato neopredeleno vreme ‘past indefinite tense’.
Finally, example (6) is the one that relates the foregoing material to the
Albanian situation that is the focus of this article. The interpretation of (6) will de-
pend entirely on the context in which it is uttered. Translation (6a) could be a sim-
ple factual statement that, for contextual reasons, either did not require personal
confirmation or for which such confirmation would be perceived as too emphatic
(see Friedman 2000, 2003 for additional details). Translations (6b) and (6c) display
meanings inherited from the original Common Slavic perfect, which is the source
of the Macedonian unmarked past. It is the meanings in translation (6d) that re-
late to the Albanian admirative. Precisely because the Macedonian synthetic pasts
are marked for confirmativity, the unmarked past can — contextually — specify
non-confirmation. When it does so, owing to the perfect origin of the unmarked
past, the focus can be on a past event or on a resultant state. When the focus is on
a past event, the translation is the same as in (6a) but with one of the additional
nuances in (6d1-2-3). In the case of translation (6d), however, the focus is on a re-
sultant state, and therefore, even though the English translation requires a present
	 Enhancing national solidarity: the Albanian admirative	 31
tense, the reference in Macedonian is always to an inference or report (6d1), to the
rejection of a real or putative previous statement (6d2), or to a reaction of surprise,
which requires the existence of a past state during which the speaker would have
been unwilling to confirm the subsequently discovered, pre-existing state (6d3).20
2.3	 Albanian usage compared with Macedonian
The Albanian situation represents a kind of mirror image of the Macedonian one.
Macedonian has marked confirmative pasts (aorist and imperfect), in opposition
to which the unmarked past (descended from an older perfect but now no longer
just a perfect) can, contextually, imply non-confirmativity (i.e., doubt, surprise, re-
port, inference, etc.). Moreover, in Macedonian the opposition confirmative/non-
confirmative does not exist in the present. Rather, as was noted above, the use of
the unmarked past with apparent present meaning — indicated in the translations
of (6d) — always has some reference to a previous statement or state of affairs.
In Albanian, by contrast, the marked category is non-confirmativity, there is no
special marking for confirmativity, and, moreover, there is a true present non-
confirmative (admirative) in addition to three past paradigms (imperfect, perfect,
pluperfect, as illustrated in Table 1). Table 2 illustrates the differences between
Macedonian and Albanian using the third singular of ‘be’. See Table 2.
Table 2.  Comparison of present and past 3sg ‘be’ in Macedonian and Albanian
PRESENT PAST
neutral non-confirmative confirmative neutral nonconfirmative
Macedonian     e beše[imperfect] /
(bi) [aorist]
    bil
Albanian është qenka ishte [imperfect] /
qe [aorist] /
ka qenë [perfect]
paska qenë
Table 2 calls for a few words of explanation. In both Albanian and Macedonian,
as in the other Indo-European languages, the verb ‘be’ is irregular and involves
suppletion. In Albanian, the 3 sg aorist is qe and in Macedonian bi. In Standard
Macedonian, the aorist of ‘be’ is marginal or obsolete while it is still used regularly
(albeit relatively rarely) in Albanian. It is the aorist form that furnishes the stem
for the Albanian participle qenë; as for the Macedonian form bil, this used to be a
participle, but occurs now only in analytic paradigms.
20.  Cf. the concepts of new information in Akatsuka 1985 or unprepared mind in Aksu-Koç and
Slobin 1986 in treating similar uses of the Japanese conditional and the Turkish perfect (miş-
past), respectively.
32	 Victor A. Friedman
Let us return now to example (6), given here in Albanian as (6′):21
	 (6′a)	 Ai qe vulnetar
		 He was [aorist] a volunteer.
	 (6′b)	 Ai ishte vulnetar
		 He was/used to be [imperfect] a volunteer
	 (6′c)	 Ai ka qenë vulnetar
		 He has been/was/used to be [perfect] a volunteer
	 (6′d)	 Ai qenka [present admirative] vulnetar
		 ‘He is a volunteer.’ d1 (apparently, he said, so they have said, presumably);
d2 (he claimed/it is claimed, but I don’t believe him/it); d3 (much to my
surprise)
	 (6′e)	 Ai paska qenë vulnetar
		 ‘He was/has been/is [perfect admirative] a volunteer.’ e1 (apparently, he
said, so they have said, presumably); e2 (he claimed/it is claimed, but I don’t
believe him/it); e3 (much to my surprise)
The aspectual differences among (6′a), (6′b), and (6′c) need not concern us here.
Because Albanian does not have a marked confirmative, any of these three sen-
tences could be used to translate the Macedonian sentence given in (6) depending
on the nature of the context. However, sentences (6′d) and (6′e) are also possible
Albanian translations of the Macedonian sentence (6), and it is these translations
that are relevant here. The admiratives of (6′d) and (6′e) — present and perfect re-
spectively — are marked non-confirmatives and carry with them the nuances ex-
pressed in translations (6d1-2-3), i.e. report, inference, doubt, disbelief, or surprise.
A crucial difference between the Albanian admirative set of paradigms and the
Macedonian unmarked past, however, is the fact that the Albanian present ad-
mirative of (6′d), despite its origin as an inverted perfect (participle+auxiliary),
is now a true present, whereas the perfect admirative of (6′e) is markedly past.
Thus, for example, the Albanian present admirative can be used in present tense
questions with no reference to a previous state, in which context the Macedonian
unmarked past cannot be used.
Consider in this light the following situation: A man walks into a barbershop
expecting to see the owner but only his apprentice is there. He asks the apprentice
“Where is the boss?” In this context, where there is no previous statement or state
of affairs being referenced, the customer could ask the question in Albanian using
either an indicative present (Ku është mjeshtri?) or, if he wanted to add a nuance
21.  I have omitted interlinear glosses for the sake of readability. Albanian ai ‘he’ and vulnetar ‘vol-
unteer’ are the same in each sentence. The various forms of 3 sg ‘be’ are labeled in the translations.
	 Enhancing national solidarity: the Albanian admirative	 33
of surprise, an admirative present (Ku qenka mjeshtri?). In Macedonian, however,
in this context, he could not use the non-confirmative past but only the present,
i.e. only Kade e majstorot? and not *Kade bil majstorot? Thus the present tense in-
terpretation of a Macedonian non-confirmative past in example (6′d) — as well as
the corresponding present tense interpretation of the Albanian admirative perfect
in (6′d) — is impossible here. This point is important because it demonstrates
that the apparent present meaning of the Macedonian non-confirmative past in
(6′d) is not because it is ‘tenseless’, but because it refers to a previous state of affairs
which, in English, is conventionally rendered by a present tense. Finally, and cru-
cially, the Albanian present admirative corresponds to an ordinary present tense
in Macedonian (and Bulgarian, and Turkish, all of which have marked confirma-
tives) in approximately 90% of those contexts in which Albanian uses a present
admirative, as illustrated by various translation data (Friedman 1981). Weigand
(1924, 1925), who first compared the Albanian admirative to Balkan Slavic usage,
misses these crucial points and inaccurately treats the present admirative as if it
were still an inverted perfect, which it is not (Friedman 1981, 1986).
The Albanian admirative thus represents a unique development within the
context of Balkan and Turkic ‘evidentiality’ insofar as Albanian is the only lan-
guage in this group with a marked non-confirmative and no marked confirma-
tive.22 Also unusual is the fact that the admirative is never obligatory, i.e. while
it is easy to construct a sentence in which the admirative would be expected, it
is impossible to construct one in which failure to use the admirative would be
ungrammatical. The Albanian admirative is thus an example of a grammatically
distinct paradigm whose usage is always pragmatically determined.23
3.	 The pragmatics of everyday Admirative usage
The three types of usage illustrated in (6′d) are distributed unevenly among speech
genres and also in absolute terms. The true neutral usage of (6′d1) is by far the least
22.  The other Balkan languages also have marked non-confirmatives of later origin (Friedman
1986), but these do not concern us here. For non-confirmativity in Balkan Romance languages,
see Friedman 2004a.
23.  The Albanian category also differs from, e.g., German unsubordinated subjunctive usages
of the type Er sei krank ‘He [said] he was sick’ in the same way that it differs from the uses of
deontic, epistemic, or presumptive modals of various European languages in that the Albanian
category is formally indicative (as demonstrated by its occurrence with the indicative negator
nuk rather than the modal negator mos), by the fact that it can co-occur with modal categories,
and moreover is derived from an indicative category (the inverted perfect) rather than a modal
one (subjunctive, future, conditional, optative — all of which occur in Albanian).
34	 Victor A. Friedman
common in both speech and writing. Example (7), which is from conversation,
and example (8), which is from a personal letter, are typical in this respect:
	 (7)	 Ai pas-ka	 një	 letër.
		 he	have-adm.pr.3sg one letter
		 ‘Apparently he has a letter.’ (August 1976)
	 (8)	 Qe-shë	 i	 lumtur të	 dëgjo-ja	 se	 qen-keni	 mirë me
		 be-ao.1sg pc happy	 sp hear-im.1sg that be-adm.pr.2pl well	 with
		 shëndet të	 gjithë.
		 health	 pc all
		 ‘I was happy to hear that you are all in good health.’ (Personal letter 4 April
1995)
In example (7), someone had told me (while I was staying in a dorm in Prishtina)
that I had received a letter. I went to the doorman to ask for it and he, in turn, took
me to an administrator and explained my request using (7). In such a context,
neither surprise nor disbelief were involved, but the doorman had no reason to
vouch for my statement since he was not involved in receiving the post. In example
(8), a Kosovar colleague had recently spoken on the telephone with an American
colleague with whom he had not been in touch owing to the troubles in Kosovo at
that time. He subsequently wrote him an e-mail so that they could be in contact
by that means. In the email, he referred to the telephone conversation. In both cas-
es, the admirative is a pragmatic choice carrying the force of English ‘apparently’
without strong nuances of disbelief or surprise, although at the same time the use
of an unmarked present would have been grammatically acceptable.
	 The admirative is extremely rare in formal writing, and when it occurs, it
usually has a dubitative nuance. Example (9) is illustrative:
	 (9)	 Po të	 prano-nim	 që	 shqip-ja	 pas-ka	 pas-ur
		 if	 sp accept-im.1pl that Albanian-f.def have-adm.pr.3sg have-pt
		 di-kur	 një	 të	 ardhme të	 tip-it	 “qenë	 kam”…
		 some-when one pc future	 pc type-.sg.masc.def be.pt have.pr.1sg
		 ‘If we were to accept that Albanian [is supposed to] have had at some time
a future of the type “qenë kam” [as in the inverted past, ‘been have’]…’
(Demiraj 1971: 35)
Here, the author is arguing against the possibility, proposed by someone else,
that Albanian ever had an inverted future of this type; this use of the admirative
strengthens his expressed sense of disbelief. While Demiraj’s usage here is affective,
i.e. it conveys a sense of subjective attitude (and this in a scholarly context, where
objectivity is the expected style), it is nonetheless somewhat restrained. Moreover,
Albanian possesses the same types of lexical and orthographic non-confirmative
	 Enhancing national solidarity: the Albanian admirative	 35
markers as, e.g., English. Thus the Albanian adverb kinse is a literary dubitative-le-
galistic marker that corresponds closely to English ‘allegedly’, while the more collo-
quialgjoja(fromTurkishgûya<Persiangūyā—itselfaparticlewithanetymological
meaning like ‘reportedly’) might be better translated ‘supposedly’. In Albanian, as in
other languages, the use of colloquial style in journalism lends a tone of expressivity
that, when nonconfirmation is involved, is conducive to sarcasm.
Albanian orthographic usage can also make the same use as does English of
quotation marks and exclamation points to indicate sarcastic or ironic meanings
of the type ‘so-called’ or ‘indeed!’ Albanian possesses a further syntactic device
that can combine with the admirative to make it unambiguously dubitative, name-
ly the 1pl dative + 3sg accusative clitic pronominal contraction na, literally ‘to-us
it’. Here, the 1pl n- (< në) is functioning as a kind of ethical dative, while the 3sg
accusative -a ( < e) refers to the following clause.24 Thus, while the phrase in (10a)
could be interpreted as an expression of surprise, the addition of na in (10b) adds
an unambiguous note of rejection.
	 (10a)	 shqip-ja	 e	 anë-s	 së	 Tetovë-s s’	 pas-ka	 lidhje
		 Albanian-def.f pc side-def.f.g pc T.-g.f	 not have-adm.pr.3sg link
		 me	 gjuhë-n	 letrar-e	 shqip-e;
		 with language-def.a literary-f Albanian-f
		 ‘the Albanian of the Tetovo region has no connection with literary Albanian’
	 (10b)	 shqip-ja	 e	 anë-s	 së	 Tetovë-s s’	 n-a
		 Albanian-def.f pc side-def.f.g pc T.g.f	 not to.us-it
		 pas-ka	 lidhje me	 gjuhë-n	 letrar-e
		 have-adm.pr.3sg link	 with language-f.a literary-f
		 shqip-e;
		 Albanian-f
		 ‘the Albanian of the Tetovo region has no connection with literary Albanian,
indeed(!);’ (Rilindja 810207: 9)
For languages with confirmative and/or non-confirmative verb forms, journalistic
usage, unlike colloquial style, is governed by conventions intended to enhance neu-
trality. In the Albanian-language press, admirative usage is usually limited to quo-
tations and to the humor pages, although occasionally polemical discussions and
letters-to-the-editor (example (10b) is from such a letter) will deploy admiratives.
The part of the exchange from which example (10b) was drawn was published in
what was then the Kosovar daily Rilindja and concerned an article published in the
Macedonian pedagogical journal Literaturen zbor (‘Literary Word’), dealing with
Slavic influence on the Tetovo dialect of Albanian. Occurring as it did mere weeks
24.  See Hubbard 1980 for a complete analysis of the non-literal uses of na.
36	 Victor A. Friedman
before the 1981 Kosovo Uprising, both the text — which contained 27 admiratives
in the space of less than a page — and the subtext are worth a separate analysis
of their own.25 Polemical editorials also display such usage, as in the following
example from Zëri i popullit (‘Voice of the People’), the Albanian communist party
paper, which combines an admirative, the particle na ‘to us + it’ and quotation
marks to render heavy sarcasm:
	 (11)	 Në shtyp-in	 borgjezo-revizionist	 flit-et	 shumë se
		 in	 press-def.a bourgeois-revisionist speak-mp.pr.3sg much	 that
		 kapitalizim-i	 i	 tanishëm monopolist n-a	 qen-ka	 “një
		 capitalism-def.m pc modern	 monopolist to.us-it be-amd.pr.3sg one
		 socializëm i	 ri”…
		 socialism	 pc new
		 ‘In the bourgeois-revisionist press, it is often said that modern monopolistic
capitalism is [supposedly] “a new socialism” ’ (Zëri i popullit 810828: 4)
This use of na is especially revelatory of how the Albanian admirative constructs
the speaker as reliable and enlists the addressee in the community of those who
do not believe the reported statement. The ethical dative na is part of the standard
beginning of folk tales corresponding functionally to the English Once upon a
time there was… In Albanian, the verb ‘be’ is normally the 3sg imperfect ishte, and
while the exact formula varies slightly, it is always preceded by na, which in this
context is inviting the hearer into the story, Na ishte… ‘There was to us (it)…’, etc.
With the non-confirmative admirative, this same na invites the hearer to share the
speaker’s non-confirmation, which, in this case, is always dubitative.
While dubitative usage can also occur in everyday conversation, it is by far less
common than the use of the admirative to express surprise (whence the term). In
examples (12a–q), I recorded every admirative used by a Kosovar colleague who
was the driver during a road trip around southwestern Kosovo in May 2002, and
in every case he was commenting on the unexpectedness of or was drawing at-
tention to whatever it was we were seeing, much as in English one might say “Oh,
look…!”.26
25.  The author of the Rilindja article, Fadil Sylejmani, was a professor at the University of
Prishtina at the time. In the 1990s he achieved significant visibility as the first rector of the con-
troversial University of Tetovo in the Republic of Macedonia, which was declared illegal at the
time of its founding in 1994–95, but is now a state institution.
26.  In this example and henceforth, I shall simply underline the admirative examples rather
than providing interlinear translations. The latter format will become excessively cumbersome
for the longer examples and distract from the basic point, which is the interpretation of admira-
tive usage.
	 Enhancing national solidarity: the Albanian admirative	 37
	 (12a)	 Këtu gropat paskan nisë menjëherë.
		 The holes have begun [to appear] here right away. (referring to shoddy road
construction)
	 (12b)	 Ah, këtu e paskan kufizuar.
		 Ah, they have limited it [the speed, i.e. made a speed limit] here. (upon
seeing a speed limit sign)
	 (12c)	 Paskan të drejtë.
		 They are (lit. ‘they have’) right. (upon seeing the curves in the mountain road
after the speed limit sign)
	(12d)	 Po rruga e mirë qenka.
		 Hey, this is a good road.
	 (12e)	 Paskan lopë.
		 There are cows. (upon seeing cows on the road)
	 (12f)	 Paskan nji shkollë.
		 They have a school. (on seeing a school in a small town)
	 (12g)	 Paska Nezim Berati?
		 It has [the name] Nezim Berati? (checking on name of the school)
	(12h)	 Turqit qenkan.
		 They are Turks. (on seeing the shoulder patches of soldiers at a KFOR
checkpoint).
	 (12i)	 Livadhi qenka e bukur.
		 The field is beautiful. (on rounding a mountain curve with a view)
	 (12j)	 Paska nji teqe.
		 There is (lit. ‘it has’) a tekke27 (walking along a street)
	 (12k)	 Paskan zanat
		 They have crafts. (on seeing a lively bazaar)
	 (12l)	 Qenka zona e bukur
		 The area is beautiful. (about the Dragash region)
	(12m)	 Paska ujë mjaft.
		 It has quite a bit of water. (on seeing a river running high).
	(12n)	 Paskan bâ nji xhami të re.
		 They have built a new mosque.
	 (12o)	 Më ngadalë, se kontrol paska.
		 [Go] more slowly, since there’s (lit. ‘it has’) a check point. (on seeing an
on-coming car’s headlights flash a signal)
	(12p)	 Ky paska parking.
		 There’s (lit. ‘it has’) a parking lot here.
	 (12q)	 Diçka paska ndodhur.
		 Something has happened. (on passing a car wreck on the highway)
27.  A tekke is a Muslim institution serving a community of dervishes. Its functions correspond
to those of a Christian monastery.
38	 Victor A. Friedman
Based on these data, we can say that when the admirative is a relatively neutral
reportative, the speaker is creating distance from the information being conveyed,
and, in a sense, aligning him/herself with the addressee as not being in a position
to vouch for the information personally. When the admirative is expressing the
speaker’s infelicitous non-confirmation, i.e. surprise, the speaker is calling for the
addressee to share in a discovery and constructing him/herself as worthy of the
addressee’s attention. Thus, in the reportative, the speaker attempts to absent him/
herself from the statement, whereas in the case of surprise (true admirativity),
the speaker is constructing his/her observation as noteworthy in and of itself. It is
precisely in dubitativity that the speaker seeks to enlist the addressee in rejecting
a third party’s statement, sometimes with the explicit na or, if the dubitativity is
aimed at the addressee, then na is a first person plural exclusive. We shall now see
how these relationships played themselves out in Kosovar news sources during the
crucial years leading to Kosovo’s independence.
4.	 The Admirative in news from Kosovo 1994–2000
4.1	 Admiratives and news sources
During the (second) Yugoslav period, when all sources of publication were con-
trolled by the party and the state, Rilindja (‘The Rebirth’) was the main Albanian-
language news source in Yugoslavia. The newspaper was shut down in 1990, and
the only Albanian-language news source allowed to continue in Kosovo was the
agricultural newspaper Bujku (‘The Farmer’). As a result, electronic bulletins be-
came a primary news source from Kosovo. Until 1998, the main electronic source
of news was the Kosova Information Center (in Albanian Qendra për Informim
e Kosovës, hereafter QIK), which began producing daily newsletters in 1991.
During this period, the QIK was closely connected to the LDK, the political party
responsible for Kosovo’s parallel government. In 1998, weekly reports from the
Council for the Defense of Human Rights and Freedoms (in Albanian Këshilli për
Mbrojtjen e të Drejtave e të Lirive të Njeriut, hereafter KMDLNJ), an NGO that
began producing weekly reports in 1992, superseded QIK as the main news source
coming out of Kosovo. This shift appears to represent a shift in the status of the
LDK, a shift which was connected with the growing power and popularity of the
KLA, even though (being an NGO) the KMDLNJ claims no political affiliation.
As to admirative usage in Rilindja, which I began monitoring in the 1970s,
the forms occurred exclusively in items other than news reports, e.g., comic strips,
humor columns, letters to the editor, and editorials. This journalistic style was also
typical of Albanian-language newspapers coming from Macedonia and Albania.
	 Enhancing national solidarity: the Albanian admirative	 39
I was therefore struck by the use of admiratives in QIK and KMDLNJ reporting
and kept track of all I could find. I also monitored the use of the dubitative particle
gjoja and the non-confirmative kinse. As it turned out, the patterns of usage can be
divided into three periods, which we can label (with reference to the administra-
tive organs in control at the time) (1) LDK, (2) KLA, and (3) UNSCR 1244.
During the first period (until 1998), the LDK established a functioning paral-
lel state in Kosovo, and the QIK was the main source of information. In fact, the
QIK served as a Ministry of Information for the LDK, in addition to its (QIK’s)
own news reporting. For the majority of Kosovar Albanians, the LDK held a le-
gitimate monopoly on power until the rise of the KLA.28 As to the second period,
although, as noted above, the KLA went public in 1996, and its ideology was al-
ready being voiced in 1995, it did not achieve legitimacy until late 1997 or early
1998. The replacement of the QIK by the KMDLNJ as a primary news source in
1998 coincided with the rise of the KLA as a genuine — and, ultimately, successful
— challenge to the strategy of the LDK. The third period begins with Kosovo com-
ing under UN administration (pursuant to UNSCR 1244) in June 1999, although
news reports, still from KMDLNJ, did not resume until October of that year; this
situation continued until independence was declared in 2008.
Sections 4.2–4.4 below contain figures, examples, and analyses of the use of
admiratives, gjoja, and kinse from representative samples of each of these three
periods (three months for QIK daily reports and six months for KMDLNJ weekly
reports). I checked all interpretations with native Albanian-speaking consultants,
both Kosovar and non-Kosovar. The emergent patterns and results will be sum-
marized in the conclusion.
4.2	 QIK reports 1994–1997
From 15 October to 31 December 1994, in a total of 57 news reports (none on
Sundays) admiratives occurred in 33 documents (at times more than once), i.e.
58%. Of these, 26 also contained the colloquial gjoja, although not necessarily in
the same phrase or article as the admirative (i.e., 78% of all documents with admi-
ratives also contained gjoja). An additional 15 documents contained gjoja without
any other markers of dubitativity, for a total of 41 (72% of all news documents).
The more literary (and neutral) kinse occurred in only 5 reports (i.e., less than
10% of the total), and always in a report with the admirative, with gjoja, or with
28.  Here we need to distinguish Kosovar Albanians from other groups in Kosovo. In the tug-of-
war between Serbs and Albanians for control of Kosovo, other ethnic groups were stuck between
the cracks, especially the Roms and Ashkali. This topic is too complex to be treated here. For
more discussion, see Friedman 2004b and Marushiakova et al. 2001.
40	 Victor A. Friedman
both. These proportions remained more or less constant throughout the QIK daily
reports that I monitored 1995–1997. Other signals of dubitativity such as na, scare
quotes, exclamation points, and marked colloquialisms also occurred. Examples
(13)–(24) illustrate the different types of usage.
Examples (13), (14), and (15) show admirative distancing from reports com-
ing from Serbian news sources through the use of perfect, pluperfect, and com-
pound pluperfect admiratives.
	 (13)	 Siç shkruan gazeta “Jedinstvo” i vëllai i Hashimit, Sherif Demaj para dy
vjetësh e paska vrarë të birin e plakës — Halilin. (QIK #914 [941212])29
		 As they wrote in the newspaper Jedinstvo [‘Unity’-Serbian], Hashim’s
brother, Sherif Demiraj, had killed Halil, the son of the old woman, two
years ago.
	 (14)	 Ditëve të fundit, përmes gazetave serbe u lansua mendimi se në Kosovë,
përkatësisht në Prishtinë, paskësh filluar iniciativa që të “takohen serbët dhe
shqiptarët dhe të bisedojnë për gjëra të thjeshta, preokupime të përditshme,
larg nga politika”. (QIK #887 [941110])
		 Recently Serbian newspapers launched the idea that in Kosova, precisely in
Prishtina, there have begun initiatives for “Serbs and Albanians to meet and
discuss simple matters, daily problems, far from politics.”
	 (15)	 Më 16 nëntor 10 policë rrethuan shtëpinë e Qamil Nuzës … dhe e arrestuan
… për arsye se … paska pas ikur në Shqipëri e tash paska ardhur për ta
vizituar familjen. (QIK #955 [950127])
		 On 16 November 10 policemen surrounded the house of Qamil Nuza … and
arrested him … because … he had gone to Albania and now had come to
visit his family.
Example (13) repeats the Serbian source’s claim, using a perfect, which would cor-
respond to the tense in the original Serbian report. Albanian has a rule of sequence
of tenses for indirect speech much like that found in English, so the effect of the
perfect tense here is that of semi-indirect speech, but by shifting to the admirative,
the QIK version can be interpreted as emphasizing that QIK takes no responsibil-
ity for the truth of the statement. As we shall see, such non-confirmativity has the
potential to be neutral, but in the context of QIK reports this is unlikely. Example
(14) is more strongly dubitative. Here the pluperfect admirative is used, which is
consistent with the rule of sequence of tenses for indirect speech. The combina-
tion of the admirative verb form and the quoted phrase renders a strong sense of
29.  All Kosovar electronic news reports will be referenced with an abbreviation indication the
agency, the number of the report, and a six digit date indicating year, month, and day — in that
order.
	 Enhancing national solidarity: the Albanian admirative	 41
non-confirmativity which, in the context of ordinary journalistic style, borders
on dubitativity. The compound past pluperfect in (15) (paska pas[ë] ikur) ‘he had
gone’ stands in a relationship of taxis (here, anteriority, see Jakobson 1957) to the
perfect paska ardhur ‘he had come’. Here again, it is the (Serbian) police accusation
that is placed in the admirative.
In example (16), the admirative is used to establish the unreliability of the
(Serbian) policeman’s testimony:
	 (16)	 Në seancën e djeshme, avokati Bajram Kelmendi njoftoi të pranishmit se
më herët i akuzuari Boban Kërstiq ka paraqitur tri versione. Sipas versionit
të parë ai ka deklaruar se e kishte jetën në rrezik, meqë vetura paska shkuar
në drejtim të tij, për çka shtoi z. Kelmendi, Kërstiq armën e ka përdorur
për ta zbrapsur sulmin. Sipas versionit të dytë B. Kërstiq ka thënë se ‘arma
i ka shkrepur rastësisht’, derisa në vendin e ngjarjes janë gjetur 29 gëzhoja
fishekësh, ndërsa sipas versionit të tretë, ai thotë se ka shtënë duke menduar
se në veturë gjendej Halil Tërstena. (QIK #942 [950113])
		 At the [court] session, the lawyer Bajram Kelmendi informed those present
that earlier the accused [Serbian policeman] Boban Krstić had given three
versions of his story [of why he fired on an Albanian family’s car killing the
parents’ six-year-old son who was sitting in the back seat]. According to the
first version he declared that his life had been in danger because the vehicle
was [allegedly] going towards him, for which reason, added Mr. Kelmendi,
Krstić used his gun to turn back the attack. According to the second version,
B. Krstić said that his “gun had gone off accidentally,” although 29 cartridge
shells were found at the scene of the event. According to the third version, he
said that he had fired thinking that Halil Tërstena [a wanted suspect] was in
the vehicle.
In (16), the admirative paska shkuar ‘was going’ is used for the policeman’s claim
that the vehicle was headed for him, whereas the (Albanian) lawyer’s report of
the policeman’s using his gun is rendered in the unmarked perfect indicative (ka
përdorur). In the second version of the policeman’s story, his words are put in
quotation marks followed by what appears to be contradictory evidence in the un-
marked indicative (janë gjetur ‘were found’). The third version is in the unmarked
indicative, since by now the unreliability of the policeman’s testimony has been
established.
Examples (17)–(24) illustrate a variety of admirative uses in which the admi-
rative is combined with some other signal meant to convey unambiguous dubi-
tativity. In (17), the main verb of an analytic (perfect) admirative is put in scare
quotes in the original.
42	 Victor A. Friedman
	 (17)	 Bojoviqi në vazhdim foli për ‘trimërinë e heroizmin’ e serbëve në luftën
ballkanike që e paskan ‘mahnitur’ botën. (QIK #866 [941017])
		 Continuing, Bojović spoke of ‘the heroic bravery’ of the Serbs in the Balkan
War which had ‘amazed’ the world.
In (18), the literary kinse ‘allegedly’, when combined with an admirative, renders
the meaning of ‘allegedly’ dubitative, and the exclamation point at the end of the
sentence adds to the effect.
	 (18)	 … dërsa nga Shaip Zariqi kërkoi një pushkë, me të cilën ai kinse poseduaka
nga viti 1944! (QIK #893 [941117])
		 … whereas from Shaip Zariqi [the police] sought a gun that he allegedly
[had] possessed since 1944!
In (19), the colloquial gjoja ‘supposedly’, by modifying the admirative, throws
doubt on the claim.
	 (19)	 Në këtë njoftim thuhej se Ymer Halimi … duhet ta zbrazte banesën, sepse në
të gjoja qenka vendosur pa leje. (QIK #911 [941208])
		 In this notification it said that Ymer Halimi … had to give up his dwelling
because he had supposedly moved in without permission.
In (20,) the QIK report accuses the Serbian newspaper Jedinstvo of lying to its
readers, prefaces the report of Jedinstvo’s claim with gjoja, and then puts the main
verb of Jedinstvo’s claim in the admirative.
	 (20)	 Në fund gazeta “Jedinstvo” gënjen dhe dezinformon lexuesit e saj duke
pohuar se gjoja gazeta “Bujku” e paska keqpërdorë këtë vrasje për qëllime
separatiste, duke pohuar se krimin mbi Ilirjanën e ka bërë policia serbe.
[QIK #1036 [950106])
		 At the end the newspaper “Jedinstvo” [‘Unity’-Serbian] lied to and misled its
readers by asserting that supposedly the newspaper “Bujku” [‘The Farmer’-
Albanian] had misused this killing for separatist goals by asserting that the
crime against Ilirjana had been committed by Serbian police.
In (21), the police accusation is described as a pretext, preceded by gjoja, placed in
the admirative, and put in quotation marks for good measure.
	 (21)	 Po këtë ditë, rreth orës 13, u morën në stacioni e policisë në Podujevë
Xhevdet A. Kosumi (17) dhe Ferit M. Kosumi (16) me pretekst se gjoja ata
“paskan bërë ushtrime”. (QIK #1659 [970307])
		 On the same day, around 1:00 PM, Xhevdet A. Kosumi (aged 17) and Ferit
M. Kosumi (aged 16) were taken to the police station in Podujevo on the
pretext that supposedly they “had been doing [military] exercises”.
	 Enhancing national solidarity: the Albanian admirative	 43
Example (22) is one of the few in a QIK report showing the dubitative use of na
with an admirative. The quotation marks around the statement after the admira-
tive verb could be literal, but the verb itself makes it clear that the reader is ex-
pected to share the writer’s ridiculing of the statement.
	 (22)	 Sipas një neokomunisti serb Kosova na qenka “pjesa më e sigurt e Serbisë”.
(QIK #1167 [950926]]
		 According to a Serbian neocommunist, Kosova is “the most secure part of
Serbia”.
Example (23) contains another use of na plus admirative plus quoted statement
with an additional admirative that is not dubitative, but expresses instead surprise
and dismay (u dashka ‘must’), enhanced by the exclamation point.
	 (23)	 Udhëheqja e dhunshme e Elektroekonomisë së Kosovës urdhëroi të gjithë
të punësuarit që në komunikim zyrtar dhe në shkresat, raportet dhe aktet
e tjera të ndërmarrjes të përdorin vetëm serbishten, e cila, me ligj dhe me
statut të kësaj Ndërmarrjeje Publike na qenka caktuar “gjuhë zyrtare”. Në
bazë të kësaj urdhërese, edhe punëtorët shqiptarë në këtë Ndërmarrje u
dashka të flasin serbisht njëri me tjetrin! (QIK #1659 [970307])
		 The violent board of directors of the Kosovo Electric Power Company
ordered all employees in all official communications, memoranda, reports
and other documents of the enterprise to use only Serbian, which according
to law and the statutes of this Enterprise has [supposedly] been designated
“official language”. On the basis of this order, the Albanian employees of this
enterprise also must speak Serbian with one another!
Finally, in example (24), the admirative itself displays a double-pronged approach
to sarcastic reporting. Here, the writer uses the admirative to express disbelief that
goods are not available in Serbia, and then uses the Turkism [me] bollëk ‘galore’ to
imply that not only is it untrue that goods are not available in Serbia, but it is also
untrue that the markets of Kosovo are well stocked.30
30.  Thousands of words entered Albanian — and all the other Balkan languages — from Turkish
during the centuries of Ottoman rule. The situation can be compared to the influx of French into
English after 1066. While some Turkisms became naturalized in the Balkan languages, as did
Gallicisms like table and chair in English, and others simply became obsolete with the passage of
time, a large number of Balkan Turkisms have been the targets of puristic anxieties. As a result,
in every Balkan language, Albanian included, a number of Turkisms were not pushed out, but
rather down, stylistically that is, through conscious substitution in formal registers by vocabu-
lary belonging to native or other non-Turkish languages (usually French, German, Greek, Latin,
English, or Russian, depending on various semantic, cultural, and political factors). The lower
register occupied by the Turkisms in question can be colloquial, intimate, and/or local, on the
one hand, or crude, vulgar, and uneducated, on the other, depending on the context. In the case
44	 Victor A. Friedman
	 (24)	 Gazeta më tutje shqiptarët i akuzon për “ekonomi gri” për shkak se në qytete
e Serbisë nuk paska mall, kurse në tregjet e Kosovës ka mall me bollëk!
([QIK #967 [950211])
		 The newspaper [Jedinstvo-Serbian] further accused the Albanians of a “gray
economy” because in the cities of Serbia there are [allegedly] no goods,
whereas in the markets of Kosovo there are goods galore!
4.3	 KMDLMJ reports 1998–23 March 1999
KMDLNJ reports during the period leading up to the NATO bombing in 1999
show both continuities and differences when compared to the QIK reports of
preceding years. As noted above, this change coincided with the KLA’s increased
activities, which were in direct contradiction to the policy of peaceful resistance
advocated by Ibrahim Rugova and the LDK. Weekly reports #433-#463 covered
the six month period from 25 October 1998–23 March 1999 (#463, the last weekly
report to come out until after the end of the war, was dated 23 Mar 1999 10:04:5).
Of these 31 weekly reports, 14 contained admiratives, of which two also contained
gjoja, but both times in different articles. Four reports contained kinse, but, in
contrast to the QIK reports, in the KMDLNJ reports kinse never co-occurred in
an article with another dubitative marker, and one occurrence was in a document
(#444) with no other dubitatives of any sort (the other three contained admira-
tives in other articles). Thus, without even examining the contexts, we see that the
proportion of admiratives is slightly down from QIK, but not much, whereas the
occurrence of gjoja is drastically curtailed. By contrast, the occurrence of kinse,
while numerically approximately the same, is radically different in two respects:
(1) unlike the QIK reports, kinse never occurs with another dubitative marker, and
(2) given the sharp reduction in the use of gjoja, the stability of kinse is, in effect,
an increase in that it now represents about 70% of the lexical dubitative markers,
whereas in the QIK reports it accounted for only 10%. Thus, based simply on this
morphological and lexical data, the tone of the KMDLNJ reports appears signifi-
cantly less emotional and more neutral. Nonetheless, all occurrences of kinse and
gjoja involved Serbian claims or accusations. At the same time, however, as we
shall see, the deployment of the admirative expands in KMDLNJ reports to in-
clude neutral reporting, at times with nuances of disapproving surprise.
of Kosovo, the adoption of the Tosk-based Albanian standard in 1968 gave these Turkisms an
added dimension of local intimacy, owing to the fact that Kosovo did not take part in the origi-
nal purification of the standard in Albania in the 1950s and 1960s; these kinds of Turkisms are
therefore sometimes perceived as Kosovar. Thus the usage in (24), like the clitic na, invites the
addressee to participate in the speaker’s attitude.
	 Enhancing national solidarity: the Albanian admirative	 45
Let us examine usages that continue the QIK style. In example (25), the use of
an admirative that is left in the present rather than shifted to the past resembles
the usage shown in (13) and produces a dubitative effect. Example (26) is of the
same type as (23), i.e. a Serbian claim introduced by an admirative and placed in
quotation marks:
	 (25)	 …policia serbe bastisi shtëpinë e Nazim Salihut në Ferizaj, me pretekst
se djemtë e tij qenkan ushtatrë të UÇK-së. (KMDLNJ: Informatat e
rendesishme javore [#460 990301])
		 …the Serbian police raided the house of Nazim Salihu in Ferizaj, on the
pretext that his sons are members of the KLA.
	 (26)	 Në afërsi të Shtimes nga persona të panjohur u vra Nazmi Olluri (1973),
për të cilin administrata serbe pohon se paska qenë i njohur si “lojal ndaj
Serbisë”. (KMDLNJ #443 [981102])
		 Nazmi Olluri (b. 1973) was killed near Shtime by unknown persons;
according the Serbian administration he was known as “loyal to Serbia.”
Examples (27) and (28) illustrate representative uses of gjoja and kinse, which, as
in the QIK reports, are limited to adding a nuance of rejection to Serbian claims.
	 (27)	 Policët keqtrajtuan fizikisht edhe vëllanë e babanë e tij — gjoja duke kërkuar
armë. (KMDLNJ #462 [990319])
		 The police also physically maltreated his brother and father, while
supposedly looking for arms.
	 (28)	 Forcat policore serbe edhe më tej vazhdojnë të qëndrojnë në Duhël, Grejçec,
Reshtan e Mohlan dhe po patrullojnë nëpër fshatrat e tjera të djegura, kinse
për t’i siguruar banorët shqiptarë që kanë filluar të kthehen për t’i pastruar
shtëpitë e tyre të djegura. (KMDLNJ #444 [981110]
		 Serbian police forces still continue to stay in Duhël, Grejçec, Reshtan,
and Mohlan and are patrolling other burned out villages, allegedly for the
security of the Albanian inhabitants who have begun to return to clean their
burnt out houses.
Examples (29)–(33), by contrast, illustrate types of admirative usage not attested
in the QIK reports. Examples (29) and (30) are reports from subcommittees of the
KMDLNJ on murders of Albanians. The use of the admirative here is intended
to stress the neutrality of the central office. Given the source of the information
in both articles and the use of u konfirmua ‘it was confirmed’ in (30), the only
possible interpretation is one of professional neutrality, albeit with an expressive
nuance of shock.31
31.  Cf. Ylli 1989, who argues that the admirative always contains some expressive nuance.
46	 Victor A. Friedman
	 (29)	 nga Nënkëshilli ynë në Istog, u njoftuam se në vitin e kaluar nga kjo komunë
qenkan vrarë edhe: Nazmi Mzijaj më 17 korrik në zonën kufitare Kosovë-
Shqipëri; Mirsad Zenel Idrizaj më 27 korrik në Glloxhan të Deçanit; Isuf
Sadikaj më 29 korrik në Padalishtë të Skënderajt dhe Bajram Binak Alijaj, i
masakruar gjatë korrikut në Uçë të Istogut. (KMDLNJ #453 [990112])
		 We were informed by our Subcommittee in Istog that last year in that
community have been killed also: Nazmi Mzijaj on 17 July in the Kosovo-
Albanian border zone; Mirsad Zenel Idrizaj on 27 July in Glloxhan village,
Deçan region; Isuf Sadikaj on 29 July in Padalishta village, Skënderaj [Srbica]
district; and Bajram Binak Alijaj, massacred during July in Uça village, Istog
district.
	 (30)	 Sot u konfirmua se 3 prej 10 shqiptarëve të kidnapuar të Rudicës së
Klinës nga paramilitarët serbë […] qenkan vrarë, kurse 7 të tjerët, të cilët
gjendeshin në arrest në burgun e Pejës […] u dënuan sot në Gjykatën serbe
të Qarkut në Pejë […]. (KMDLNJ #445 [981117])
		 Today it was confirmed that three of the 10 Albanians kidnapped from
Rudica in the Klina district by Serbian paramilitaries [names & birth years]
were killed, whereas the 7 others, who were under arrest in the prison of Peja
[accusations given] were sentenced today at the Serbian District Court of
Peja [names, birth years, and sentences].
In examples (31) and (32), the articles are reporting on crimes for which secondary
information is placed in the admirative as a means of rendering the effect of English
‘allegedly’ as used in a formal news report. In (31), a witness had declared informa-
tion to the subcommittee, which passed it on to the main office of the KMDLNJ. In
(32), the crime that is the focus of the article is in the unmarked indicative, while
the background allegations are in the admirative. In both cases, a nuance of shock
at the crime can be detected, but not any doubt of the report, given the context.
	 (31)	 Nuk dihen autorët e krimit, por, një dëshmitar okular i deklaroi Nënkëshilit
në Ferizaj se në atë kohë paska parë 3 persona që kanë hedhur lëndë
eksplozive nga një veturë e zezë pa targa. (KMDLNJ #458 [990216])
		 The perpetrators of the crime are not known, but an eyewitness stated to the
Subcommittee [of KMDLNJ] in Ferizaj that at that time he saw 3 persons
who threw an explosive device from a black vehicle without license plates.
	 (32)	 Në qendër të qytetit, dy persona të panjohur, që flitnin serbisht, sulmuan
dhe tentuan të rrëmbejnë studenten Afërdita Aliu (1973) nga Kaçaniku
i Vjetër, të cilës ia plaçkitën 60 DM dhe 50 dinarë. Falë ndërhyrjes së një
qytetari shqiptar ajo shpëtoi nga rrëmbimi dhe u dërgua në ambulancë ku
iu dha ndihma mjekësore. Njëri nga personat e panjohur e paska sulmuar
	 Enhancing national solidarity: the Albanian admirative	 47
Afërditën dhe e paska kërcënuar me revole edhe më 17 janar. (KMDLNJ
#457 [990209])
		 In the center of town, two unknown persons who were speaking Serbian
attacked and attempted to kidnap the student Afërdita Aliu (1973) from Old
Kaçanik, from whom they stole 60 Deutschmarks and 50 dinars. Thanks to
the intervention of an Albanian citizen she was saved from the assault and
sent to a clinic, where she received medical attention. One of the unknown
persons had attacked Afërdita and had threatened her with a revolver also
on 17 January.
The admirative usage in (33) combines nuances of reportedness and disapproving
surprise, where the nuance of disapproval at the Serbian doctor’s action — but not
doubt of the allegation — is what is being communicated:
	 (33)	 Mjeku Dushan NN në morgun e Spitalit të Prishtinës u paska kërkuar 200
e u paska marrë 100 DM anëtarëve të familjes së Sami Gashit të vrarë për të
lejuar marrjen e trupit të tij. (KMDLNJ #455 [990126])
		 Doctor Dušan NN at the morgue of the Prishtina Hospital demanded 200
and took 100 Deutschmarks from members of the family of Sami Gashi, who
had been killed, to let them claim his body.
The KMDLNJ reports during 1998 and the first third of 1999 differed significantly
from the QIK reports of preceding years in the projection of greater journalistic
neutrality by drastically reducing the use of gjoja, using kinse without any other
nonconfirmative marker, and varying the use of admiratives beyond expressing
only dubitativity. At the same time, dubitative usage was still reserved exclusively
for Serbian sources, and even neutral reports contained a nuance of disapproval of
the Serbs (or presumed Serbs) who were responsible for the acts that were report-
ed. In terms of Kosovar politics at this time, it is important to keep in mind that
this was a crucial period of transition. Although when the KLA first appeared, the
LDK claimed not to have any knowledge of, or lend support to the organization
or its activities (see Luci and Marković 2009), the LDK’s position grew increas-
ingly untenable as both KLA attacks and massacres by Serbian forces increased
and escalated.
As noted above, the replacement of QIK by KMDLNJ as the main Albanian-
language news source emanating from Kosovo was part of a process by which the
LDK lost its monopoly on power among Kosovars.32 At the same time, Albanian
32.  It should be noted that the QIK did not cease operation except during the NATO war. I am
speaking here of the extent of international distribution. It is also important to keep in mind
that national unity took precedence over dissent from the founding of the LDK until 1995 or so,
and even then the change took some time. In this context we can cite the fact that in 1990 the
48	 Victor A. Friedman
leaders had to contend with the fact that international support for independence
was out of the question. The NATO bombing campaign was based on UNSCR
1199 of 23 September 1998, which “alarmed at the impending humanitarian ca-
tastrophe as described in the report of the Secretary-General, and emphasizing the
need to prevent this from happening” and “[d]eeply concerned also by reports of
increasing violations of human rights and of international humanitarian law, and
emphasizing the need to ensure that the rights of all inhabitants of Kosovo are re-
spected,” demanded “that the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia […] cease all action
by the security forces affecting the civilian population and order the withdrawal of
security units used for civilian repression; […] make rapid progress to […] finding
a political solution to the problems of Kosovo;” insisted that “the Kosovo Albanian
leadership condemn all terrorist action;” and emphasized “that all elements in the
Kosovo Albanian community should pursue their goals by peaceful means only;”
and decided, “should the concrete measures demanded in this resolution and reso-
lution 1160 (1998) not be taken, to consider further action and additional mea-
sures to maintain or restore peace and stability in the region[.]”33 The NATO war
was explicitly intended to avert the humanitarian catastrophe cited in UNSCR
1199 while at the same time supporting a political solution to the problems of
Kosovo, as stated in the same resolution. A crucial point here is that at no time was
the nature of this solution ever spelled out, which in turn gave rise to the approach
labeled constructive ambiguity, to which we shall return below.
4.4	 KMDLMJ reports 1999–2000
KMDLMJ resumed reporting in September 1999. There are two striking facts about
this resumption: (1) the style and usage of the reporting, while retaining some of
the non-dubitative usages of the pre-bombing KMDLNJ reports, has, in large part,
shifted to that of the QIK; and (2) in the reports, UNMIK and, especially, KFOR,
now occupy the semantic and grammatical position occupied by the Serbs before
the bombing. In other words, as far as Kosovar media were concerned, the subtleties
and “constructive ambiguities” of international politics were irrelevant.34 Whatever
eminent Albanian folklorist Anton Çetta with a group of young Kosovar activists organized a
mass besë ‘truce’ of blood feuds affecting tens or even hundreds of thousands of Kosovars. At the
mass ceremony, the head of each affected family renounced its claims for the blood for the sake
of Ibrahim Rugova and Kosova (Stewart 1992). The renunciation was not permanent, however,
and the problem of blood feuds is again present.
33.  Cf. also UNSCR 1203 of October 1998.
34.  Although not specified in UNSCR 1244, it was expected that what was termed Kosovo’s
final status would somehow be determined at the end of three years. When it became clear that
	 Enhancing national solidarity: the Albanian admirative	 49
organizations stood in the way of an independent Kosovo were de facto in the same
position as the Serbian forces against whom Kosovars had been struggling prior to
the bombing. For most Kosovars, the NATO intervention was perceived as libera-
tion meant to save them from the Serbs and allow them to build an independent
Kosovo. To the extent that UNMIK and KFOR did not support this goal, they were
perceived and presented as equivalent to the Serbian oppressors.35
Among the 24 monthly reports October 1999–March 2000 (#464-#488), there
were 11 with admiratives; in addition, the reports showed 4 occurrences of kinse,
and 2 of gjoja.36 The occurrences of gjoja were not accompanied by the admira-
tive, but kinse was used with another dubitative marker in two of the four cases.
The post-war reports differed from the pre-war reports in terms of the temporality
of reporting. Whereas pre-war reports described events that had just taken place,
the post-war reports had to both keep up with current news and report on crimes,
atrocities, and other events that had taken place during the war, but a) could not
be reported at the time owing to the cessation of news operations, and b) were
often revealed only after the war, since during the bombing it was impossible to
cover events such as massacres and the digging of mass graves. It should also be
remembered that during the bombing thousands of Kosovars and other non-Serbs
fled and were driven out of the country.37
Starting with the lexical dubitative markers, the stronger, colloquial gjoja was
only used with reports from Serbs. The two examples are given here as (33) and (34).
this would not be possible in terms acceptable to all the parties involved, the term constructive
ambiguity was used to refer to the continuation of Kosovo’s status as a UN protectorate that
was still legally part of Serbia (cf. note 11). In March 2004, massive riots by Albanians all over
Kosovo destroyed 30 churches and monasteries and almost 300 Serbian houses, effectively end-
ing the ‘constructiveness’ of Kosovo’s ambiguous status.
35.  This perceived equivalence came as a surprise to some international actors. It is interesting
to note that, while KFOR occurs more frequently than UNMIK in the news examples, popular
perception in post-war Kosovo was that UNMIK was “more arrogant” than KFOR. It was taken
as a symbolic coincidence that UNMIK resembles Geg anmik (Tosk and Standard Albanian
armik), all related to Latin inimicus ‘enemy’. In 2002, graffiti in Prishtina included slogans
such as “POSHTË UNMIK, NATO=UÇK, RROFTË KOSOVA E LIRË (‘down with UNMIK,
NATO=KLA, long live free Kosovo’).
36.  During the post-war period, KMDLNJ also issued various unnumbered reports summariz-
ing the past month, three months, six months, etc. These showed similar patterns of usage but
are excluded here.
37.  Many citizens fled the country, but thousands were driven from their homes by Serbian
forces. The Yugoslav government expulsion of non-Serbs from Kosovo was known as Operation
Horseshoe. While some sources now claim that the operation as such was not a centralized plan,
both analysts familiar with the region at the time and citizens on the ground experienced it as such.
50	 Victor A. Friedman
	 (33)	 Autoritetet e burgut së bashku me forcat policore serbe, urdhëruan të
burgosurit që të dalin nga qelitë e tyre, gjoja për t ‘u strehuar e për t’i
shpëtuar bombardimeve të NATO-s. Më pas kanë shtënë me breshëri
automatikësh në drejtim të të burgosurve. (KMDLNJ #484 [000215])
		 The authorities of the prison together with Serbian police forces ordered the
prisoners to leave their cells, supposedly to shelter them from the NATO
bombing. They then sprayed automatic weapons fire in the direction of the
prisoners.
	 (34)	 Pas kësaj katrahure, fshatarët e Reçakut i kishin mbledhur trupat e të
masakruarve në xhaminë e fshatit për të bërë ceremoninë e varrimit sipas
traditave të vendit. Por, forcat serbe erdhën dhe i nxorën me dhunë trupat
e viktimave nga xhamia dhe i dërguan, gjoja për “ekspertizë”, në Spitalin e
Prishtinës. (KMDLNJ #483 [000208])
		 After this mess, the villagers of Reçak gathered the bodies of those
massacred in the village mosque in order to conduct a burial ceremony
according to local traditions. But, Serbian forces came and forcibly removed
the bodies of the victims from the mosque and sent them, supposedly for an
“expert opinion,” to the Prishtina Hospital.
The literary non-confirmative particle kinse occurred once in reference to a Serbian
report (35) and three times in reference to KFOR. Of those three occurrences, one
was plain (36), one was with a punctuational dubitative marker (37), and one was
strengthening the dubitative force of an admirative (38).
	 (35)	 Me atë rast kanë gjetur vdekjen 19 të burgosur shqiptarë dhe disa të tjerë
janë plagosur. Menjëherë pas bombardimit autoritetet e burgut kanë
urdhëruar të burgosurit që të strehohen në një pjesë të burgut, kinse për të
shpëtuar nga bombardimet, dhe, pasi i kanë rreshtuar, kanë filluar të shtien
në drejtim të tyre me lloje të ndryshme të armëve, me ç’rast kanë vrarë disa
të burgosur “të strehuar” aty. (KMDLNJ #479 [000118])
		 On that occasion, 19 Albanian prisoners were found dead and some others
wounded. Immediately after the bombardment, the prison authorities had
ordered the prisoners to take refuge in a part of the prison, supposedly to
get away from the bombing, and, after having lined them up, they began
to shoot in their direction with various fire arms, thus killing some of the
prisoners “taking refuge” there.
	 (36)	 Ushtarët u kthyen prapë në shkollë ku kërkuan një person, kinse nxënës i
kësaj shkolle, por edhe pas kërkimit të të gjithë ditarëve nuk e gjetën emrin e
tij. (KMDLNJ #488 [000323])
	 Enhancing national solidarity: the Albanian admirative	 51
		 The [KFOR] soldiers came back to the school again where they sought a
person, supposedly a pupil of that school, but even after searching all the
grade books, they did not find his name.
	 (37)	 Këtë bastisje ushtarët e arsyetuan se kinse kanë gjetur armë te disa fëmijë (!).
(KMDLNJ #480 [000124])
		 The [KFOR] soldiers justified this search [saying that] supposedly they had
found arms on some children (!).
	 (38)	 Më 23 nëntor, rreth orës 19.00, tre ushtarë rusë të KFOR-it hynë me dhunë
në shtëpinë e Rexhep Spahiut në Muçivërc, me pretekst se kinse shiptarët i
paskan vjedhur një lopë një serbi nga Çarakoc. (KMDLNJ #473 [991217])
		 On 23 November around 7 PM, three Russian KFOR soldiers forcibly
entered the house of Rexhep Saliu in Muçivërc on the pretext that allegedly
the Albanians had supposedly stolen a cow from a Serb from Çarakoc.
Examples (39) and (40) are also unambiguously dubitative admiratives. Example
(39) uses scare quotes to refer to a KFOR statement, whereas (40) uses dubitative
punctuation to refer to a statement made by a Serb, albeit supported by KFOR.
	 (39)	 Në mbledhjen e Bordit Administrativ të Këshillit Komunal të Skënderajt,
administratori i UNMIK-ut Ken Inoue kërkoi nga ky organ komunal që të
marrë vendim për mbylljen e Radio Drenicës, e cila ka filluar punën më 18
qershor të këtij viti. Në arsyetim u tha se ky radio stacion po e ‘penguaka’
sistemin komunikues të KFOR-it. (KMDLMJ #505 [000717])
		 At the meeting of the Administrative Board of the Town Council of
Skenderaj, the UNMIK administrator Ken Inoue asked this communal
organization to resolve to close down Radio Drenica, which had begun to
operate on 18 June of this year. As a justification it was said that/he told
them that this radio station is ‘hindering’ the KFOR communications
system.
	 (40)	 Është sinjifikativ fakti se një ditë më parë në këtë shkollë ka ardhur ish
drejtori i dhunshëm serb i shkollës, Lubisha Cërvenkoviq, i shoqëruar nga
pjesëtarët e KFOR-it, i cili ka kërkuar që të hapen punëtoritë, meqë në to
paska makina që ai duhet t’i marrë (!), por pasi udhëheqja e shkollës nuk
ndodhej aty, rojtari i objektit nuk e ka lejuar këtë, me ç’rast pjesëtarët e
KFOR-it ia kanë lënë porosinë rojtarit se do të vijnë të hënën. (KMDLNJ
#482 [000208])
		 The fact is significant that one day earlier the violent Serb former director
of the school, Ljubiša Crvenković, had come to the school accompanied
by members of KFOR and demanded that the work space be opened since
supposedly there was a car there that he had to get (!), but since the director
52	 Victor A. Friedman
of the school was not on the premises, the building guard did not allow
this, at which the members of KFOR left a message with the guard that they
would come on Monday.
Example (41) has two admiratives referring to KFOR. Here both the KFOR state-
ment and the verb used to introduce the KFOR statement are in the admirative,
whereas the eyewitness claim that the KFOR soldiers conducted themselves in an
arrogant manner is left in the unmarked indicative. In this context, the use of the
admirative for the KFOR report marks it as so strongly non-confirmative as to be
dubitative.
	 (41)	 Më 6 janar, rreth orës 14.00, afër 20 ushtarë francezë të KFOR-it në Suhadoll
bastisën … shtëpinë e Fehmi Rexhep Alushit, të vrarë nga paramilitarët
serbë vitin e kaluar në shtëpinë e tij. Togeri Pantuk, paska deklaruar se shkak
i bastisjes ishte se një fëmijë paska gjuajtjur me gurë një kamion francez ku
kanë qenë disa serbë. Sipas deklaratës së një dëshmitari ushtarët janë sjellë
në mënyrë arrogante dhe kanë demoluar çdo gjë në lokalet e bastisura.
(KMDLNJ #479 [000118])
		 On 6 January, around 2 PM, around 20 French KFOR soldiers in Suhadoll
raided and searched … the house of Fehmi Rexhep Alushi, who had been
killed by Serb paramilitaries last year in his home. Toger Pantuk declared
that the reason for the search was that a child had thrown stones at a French
truck where there were some Serbs. According to the declaration of some
witnesses, the soldiers conducted themselves in an arrogant manner and
destroyed everything in the place they searched.
Example (42) is another KFOR dubitative admirative. Here the interpretation
could be ‘they claimed that they used’ or ‘they supposedly used’.
	 (42)	 Po në këtë fabrikë pjesëtarët rusë të KFOR-it kanë dëmtuar tërësisht një
furrë “Kada”, e cila ishte e gatshme për prodhim, kurse tullat e saj i paskan
përdorur për nevoja ushtarake. (KMDLNJ #473 [991217])
		 At this same factory, Russian members of KFOR completely destroyed
a “Kada” furnace, which was ready for use in production, whereas they
[supposedly] used its bricks for military needs.
Finally, example (43) reports an infamous incident in which an UNMIK employee
was murdered on the street for speaking Serbian. The effect of the admirative here
is closer to the neutrality observed in examples (29) and (30).
	 (43)	 Në qendër të Prishtinës, në shetitoren e rrugës “Nëna Tereze”, rreth orës
21.00, u vra me një plumb Valentin S. Krumov (38) nga Bullgaria, punëtor
ndërkombëtar i UNMIK-ut. Zyrtarët e policisë së UNMIK-ut njoftojnë se
vrasja ndodhi në afërsi të ndërtesës së Qendrës për Paqe dhe Tolerancë. Pak
	 Enhancing national solidarity: the Albanian admirative	 53
çaste para vrasjes, një person e paska pyetur në gjuhën shqipe Krumovin
se sa është ora, kurse ky i qenka përgjigjur në gjuhën serbe dhe pastaj disa
të rinj paskan filluar ta godasin, kurse njëri prej tyre i paska shkrepur një
plumb në kokë dhe Krumovi ka mbetur i vdekur në vend. (KMDLNJ #466
[991022])
		 In the center of Prishtina, on the sidewalk of Mother Theresa Street, around
9 PM, Valentin S. Krumov (38) from Bulgaria, an international employee of
UNMIK, was killed by a bullet. Officials of the UNMIK police announced
that the killing occurred near the building of the Center for Peace and
Tolerance. Shortly before the killing, someone had asked Krumov in
Albanian what the time was, whereas the latter had answered in Serbian and
then some youths began to beat him whereas one of them shot him in the
head and Krumov died on the spot.
In this final example, the admirative could also be interpreted as an expression
of shock and dismay. Nevertheless, it is also a case of admirative usage associated
with an UNMIK source.
5.	 Conclusion
The examples given in Sections 4.2–4.4 illustrate how the Albanian-language elec-
tronic news sources in Kosovo used the admirative to construct their perceived
opponents as unreliable, themselves as neutral and trustworthy, their audience as
in solidarity with them, and their own reports as newsworthy. From a linguistic
standpoint, the facultativity of admirative usage is crucial in its pragmatic deploy-
ment. Precisely because it is a grammatical category that is never grammatically
required, it can be manipulated to produce effects of alienation and solidarity that
are related to, but do not have the same effect as found for, evidentials in systems
with marked confirmatives, such as Macedonian or Turkish. From a sociopolitical
standpoint, the transfer of the admirative reporting used for Serbs to KFOR and
UNMIK demonstrates not only how language is action, but also how this admira-
tive ‘voicing’ reveals the sender’s intent. At the time this transfer was occurring,
Kosovar power structures were negotiating the road to independence with an in-
ternational community that was divided and/or unsure about a solution to the
crisis. The deployment of admirativity indexed the Kosovars’ consistent strategy of
achieving independence by delegitimizing opponents, regardless of whether the
deployed means were peaceful or took the form of armed resistance. At the same
time, the deployment of the lexical non-confirmative markers such as gjoja and
kinse, and the concomitant colloquial vs. literary register distinction, helped sig-
nal subtle transitions in the strategy. While the LDK had control of the situation,
54	 Victor A. Friedman
resistance in print was most vocal and overt. During the transition from LDK to
KLA strategies, news sources adopted a more restrained approach even as overt
struggle became increasingly violent. Then, after international intervention had
occurred, the internationals were simply plugged into the news discourse at the
point where the Serbs had been, albeit with less discursive vehemence. In the view
of many Kosovars, independence was now only a matter of time. In fact, entrepre-
neurs had thousands of key chains made to celebrate independence in 2006, when
word on the street had it that the time had come.
Turning for a moment to a different but related situation, it is worth noting
that during all of 1980–81, in Communist Albania’s official daily, Zëri i popul-
lit, fewer than twenty admiratives total were found, and they were all in edito-
rial contexts such as shown in example (11). If ever there was a time between the
Tito-Stalin clash (1948) and the break-up of Yugoslavia (1991) during which Zëri
i popullit might have been expected to express an implicit opinion while reporting
on events in Yugoslavia, it was during 1981, when the above-mentioned uprising
occurred. In Kosovo itself, there was much informal talk of union with Albania —
as something that should have happened at the end of World War One or at the
end of World War Two, or as something that could make life better on both sides
of the border in the future. However, although Zëri i popullit was harshly critical of
Serbian/Yugoslav oppression in Kosovo and endorsed the region’s demand for re-
public status, still, while the long-term policy of Hoxha’s regime (as Gavrilis, 1994
argues) may ultimately have been unification, in the short term the security of the
Albanian state itself took precedence. Zëri i popullit was therefore careful not to
write anything that could be interpreted as encouraging what could be perceived
as irredentism, which in turn might have provoked conflict with Yugoslavia. The
relative absence of admiratives can be seen as a part of this restraint.
In general, we can say that in its most common conversational use by a speak-
er, the admirative constructs the self as noteworthy. The effect is that of lookee
there or voilà, but also of this in a deictic sense of positive attitude as in ‘this friend
of mine said the other day…’. By contrast, when attributed to the statement of an-
other, the effect of the admirative is most often to construct the other as unreliable,
again rather like deictic that as in that so-and-so or that Smith woman. Thus the
basic opposition is speaker/non-speaker. In news reporting (or related genres), the
user of the dubitative invites the addressee to share in the speaker’s disbelief of a
third party, thus creating solidarity between speaker and addressee against a third
party. At the same time, such usage constructs the speaker (or writer) as reliable
and worthy of solidarity.
Luci and Marković (2009) have observed how Serbian- and Albanian-
language news sources constructed “flattened” versions of complicated events
by means of dominant nationalist narratives. According to them, this flattening
	 Enhancing national solidarity: the Albanian admirative	 55
turned political sentiment, so-called ethnic hatred, and nationalism into tropes
that enabled particular constructions of Self and Other to dominate. From what
we have seen here, however, it can be argued that the construction of such nar-
ratives is also dependent on pragmatics and grammatical categories, and that a
socially informed pragmatic-linguistic analysis is crucial to understanding how
politics is performed in the world.
References
Akatsuka, Noriko. 1985. Conditionals and the Epistemic Scale. Language 61, 625–39.
Aksu-Koç, Ayhan and Dan Slobin. 1986. A Psychological Account of the Development and Use
of Evidentials in Turkish. In: Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology, Johanna
Nichols and Wallace Chafe (eds), 159–67. Norwood, N.J.: Ablex.
Byron, Janet L. 1985. An Overview of Language Planning Achievements Among the Albanians
of Yugoslavia. International Journal of the Sociology of Language 52, 59–92.
Demiraj, Shaban. 1971. Habitorja dhe mosha e saj. Studime filologjike 8, 3, 31–9.
Dozon, Auguste. 1879. Manuel de la langue chkipe ou albanaise. Paris: Ernest Leroux.
Elsie, Robert. 1997.	Kosovo: In the Heart of the Powder Keg. New York: East European
Monographs.
Fine, John V.A. 1984. The Early Medieval Balkans. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan.
Fine, John V.A. 1987. The Late Medieval Balkans. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan.
Friedman, Victor A. 1981. Admirativity and Confirmativity. Zeitschrift für Balkanologie 17, 1,
12–28.
Friedman, Victor A. 1983. Grammatical Categories and a Comparative Balkan Grammar. Ziele
und Wege der Balkanlinguistik, ed. Norbert Reiter, 81–98. Wiesbaden: Harrassowitz.
Friedman, Victor A. 1986. Evidentiality in the Balkans: Macedonian, Bulgarian, and Albanian.
In: Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology, Johanna Nichols and Wallace Chafe
(eds), 168–187. Norwood, N.J.: Ablex.
Friedman, Victor A. 2003. Evidentiality in the Balkans. In: Studies in Evidentiality Alexandra Y.
Aikhenvald and R.M.W. Dixon (eds), 189–218. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Friedman, Victor A. 2004a. Confirmative/Nonconfirmative in Balkan Slavic, Balkan Romance,
and Albanian, with Additional Observations on Turkish, Romani, Georgian, and Lak. In:
Evidentials in Turkic, Iranian and Neighbouring Languages, Lars Johanson and Bo Utas
(eds), 329–366. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Friedman, Victor A. 2004b. Language Planning and Status in the Republic of Macedonia
and in Kosovo. In: Language in the Former Yugoslav Lands, Ranko Bugarski and Celia
Hawkesworth (eds), 197–231. Bloomington, Ind.: Slavica.
Gavrilis, George. 1994. The Other Balkan Dilemma: The Nationalization of Albania’s Foreign
Policy, 1981–1994. M.A. Thesis, International Relations, University of Chicago.
Hamp, Eric P. 2002. On Serbo-Croatian’s Historic Laterals. In: Of All the Slavs My Favorites:
Studies in Honor of Howard I Aronson on the Occasion of his 66th Birthday, Victor A.
Friedman and Donald L. Dyer (eds), 243–50. Bloomington, Ind.: Slavica.
Hamp, Eric P. 2007. Studime krahasuese për shqipen. Prishtina: Academy of Arts and Sciences
of Kosova.
56	 Victor A. Friedman
Hubbard, Philip. 1980. The Syntax of the Albanian Verb Complex. Ph. D. dissertation, University
of California, San Diego.
Ismajli, Rexhep. 1998. “Në gjuhë” dhe “për gjuhë”: Rredhjat e planifikimit të shqipes në Kosovë
1945–1968. Peja: Dukagjini.
Jacobsen, William H. 1964. A Grammar of the Washo Language, Ph. D. dissertation, University
of California, Berkeley.
Jakobson, Roman 1957. Shifters, Verbal Categories, and the Russian Verb. Cambridge, Mass.:
Harvard University, Department of Slavic Languages and Literatures. (reprinted in 1971.
Selected Writings, 130–147. The Hague: Mouton)
Katičić, Radoslav. 1976. The Ancient Languages of the Balkans. The Hague: Mouton.
KFOR = NATO Kosovo Force.
KMDLNJ = Këshilli për Mbrojtjen e të Drejtave e të Lirive të Neriut, Council for the Defence of
Human Rights and Freedoms. <http://www.albanian.com/kmdlnj> [Internet news service,
Prishtina]
Lafe, Emil. 1977. De l’admiratif albanais et de quelques-unes des ses formes. In: Akten des
Internationalen albanologischen Kolloquiums, Herman M. Ölberg (ed), 471–483. Innsbruck:
Institut für Sprachwissenschaft der Universität Innsbruck.
Luci, Nita and Predrag Marković. 2009. Events and Sites of difference: Marking Self and Other in
Kosovo. In: Media Discourse and the Yugoslav Conflicts, Pål Koltsø (ed), 82–103. Burlington,
Vt.: Ashgate.
Malcolm, Noël. 1998. Kosovo: A Short History. New York; New York University.
Marushiakova, Elena, Vesselin Popov, Herbert Heuss, Ivan Boev, Jan Rychlik, Nadege Ragaru,
Rubin Zemon, Victor A. Friedman. 2001. Identity Formation among Minorities in the
Balkans: The cases of Roma, Egyptians and Ashkali in Kosovo. Sofia: Studii Romani.
Mertus, Julie. 1999. Kosovo: How Myths and Truths Started a War. Berkeley: University of
California.
Minova-Gjurkova, Liljana. 1984 Rešeno e… beše rešeno…: Dnevna jazična kritika. Nova
Makedonija 19 December, p. 11.
OMRI = Open Media Research Institute <http://www.hri.org/news/balkans/omri/>.
QIK = Qendra për Informim e Kosovës, Center for Information of Kosova. <http://www.kosova.
com/>. [Internet news service, Prishtina]
Rubin, Barnett, ed. 1996. Toward Comprehensive Peace in Southeastern Europe: Conflict
Prevention in the South Balkans. New York: Council on Foreign Relations/Twentieth
Century Fund.
Saral, Osman Yavuz. 1975. Kaybetiğimiz Rumeli. İstanbul: Boğaziçi.
Skendi, Stavro. 1967. The Albanian National Awakening: 1878–1912. Princeton: Princeton
University.
Stewart, Michael S. (executive producer). 1992. “Forgiving the Blood”: Blood Feud and
Nationalism in Kosovo, Yugoslavia. Documentary for Under the Sun, BBC2.
UNMIK = United Nations Interim Administration in Kosovo
Ylli, Xhelal. 1989. Habitorja e shqipes dhe mënyra ritreguese (preizkazno naklonenie) e bullgar-
ishtes. Studime Filologjike 26, 2, 47–56.
From quotative other to quotative self
Evidential usage in Pastaza Quichua*
Janis Nuckolls
BrighamYoung University
Evidentials in Pastaza Quichua, an Amazonian dialect of Ecuadorian Quechua,
are examined and their uses in narratives compared. The novel contribution of
this chapter is to show, by comparing data from personal experience narratives,
that evidentials are used to convey speaker subjectivity, rather than source of in-
formation, and that switches between different speaker subjectivities, which may
be encoded as ‘selves’ or ‘others’, are particularly evident in passages where mo-
mentous, life-changing statuses or interpersonal upheavals are being articulated.
1.	 Introduction
Over the past twenty-five years, the nature of the evidential system in the Quechua
family of languages has undergone a fair amount of scrutiny and analysis. My
chapter will focus on the Pastaza Quichua dialect spoken in Amazonian Ecuador,
which has a morphological paradigm consisting of three evidential enclitics ‑mi,
-shi, and ‑cha.1 Quechua scholars who insist on the evidential rather than the
epistemic character of these suffixes, describe them as respectively encoding di-
rect or eyewitnessed, indirect or hearsay, and conjectural knowledge on the part
of a speaker. My goal here is to show that discussions of evidentiality in various
*  I am grateful to two reviewers for extensive and very helpful comments on an earlier draft.
Thanks as always, to my Quichua consultant Luisa Cadena for being willing to share so many of
her and her family’s experiences with me. Finally, a big thanks to all of our panel’s participants
and especially to Lev Michael for suggesting this panel in the first place, and to Jacob Mey and
his colleagues for their editorial expertise.
1.  Pastaza Quichua is a dialect of the Quechua II group. Amazonian Quichua people refer to
themselves as ‘Runa’ and to their language as ‘Runa shimi’. They have traditionally led a subsis-
tence-based, swidden horticultural way of life, based on intimate knowledge of their complex
environment.
58	 Janis Nuckolls
Quechua dialects have generally been dominated by an empiricist discourse,
with the result that the deictic nature of this subsystem has been insufficiently
appreciated. I argue that, for the Pastaza Quichua dialect at least, an adequate un-
derstanding of these suffixes must bring speaker subjectivity and deixis into the
analytic framework. By examining contrastive narrative extracts, I demonstrate
that speaker subjectivity is particularly evident in shifts between the alleged direct
and indirect evidentials ‑mi and -shi, and that these shifts may be used to repre-
sent how people go about rupturing existing social relations as well as carving
out new social alignments. Specifically, the examination of discursive moments
featuring shifts in speaker subjectivity often reveals the depiction of processes of
major changes in and even terminations of social relationships. These processes
are represented as accomplished, in part, through words that announce future ac-
tions, express justifications for actions taken, or appeal to circumstances that have
unfolded.
2.	 The debate over the evidentials ‑mi and -shi
First, I want to explain how Quichua evidentials pattern morphosyntactically and
then I will address their functions in discourse. The suffixes ‑mi, -shi and ‑cha
might be considered validators as well as evidentials since they are simultaneously
part of two paradigmatic contrasts. ‑mi and ‑shi contrast with another indepen-
dent suffix, ‑chu, which functions as the focus of yes/no questions. Construed ex-
amples (1) and (2) show how ‑mi and ‑chu may contrast:
	 (1)	 Pai-chu ri-ra?
		 he-NEG	go-PST
		 Did he go? i.e., Is he the one who went?
	 (2)	 Pai-mi	 ri-ra
		 he-EVss go-PST
	 	 He went, i.e., He’s the one who went2.
Examples (1) and (2) demonstrate that ‑mi and ‑chu may occupy the same slot in
a word, and that they function to focus on one element in the utterance.3 The ‑chu
2.  In all examples, boldface will be used for the ‑mi enclitic, as well as for any translated words
that fall within its scope, while underlining will be used for the ‑shi enclitic, as well as for any
translated words that fall within its scope.
3.  Cole discusses the use of evidentials (which he labels ‘validators’) for focus in the Imbabura
(Ecuador) dialect (1985: 95); Muysken (1995) is a detailed syntactic analysis of evidentials’ focus
properties in various Peruvian dialects.
	 From quotative other to quotative self	 59
enclitic focuses on the element that is the topic of the yes/no question; ‑mi focuses
on the element that answers the yes/no question in the affirmative. The ‑mi suffix
of example (2) functions, then, to answer a question in the affirmative, by means
of an assertion.
There is another function of the ‑mi suffix, however, and it is most clearly il-
lustrated by its contrast with another enclitic, -shi. Consider the contrast between
sentence (2) and a possible sentence (3), featuring the ‑shi morpheme:
	 (3)	 Pai-shi	 ri-ra
		 he-EVo go-PST
		 He went, i.e. (according to someone) he’s the one who went.
How does one characterize the difference between sentences (2) and (3)? One line
of thought adopted by some scholars of Highland Ecuadorian Quechua dialects
(Carpenter 1982,4 Cole 1985: 164, Jake and Chuquin 1979: 173) is that ‑mi and
‑shi distinguish between directly acquired knowledge and knowledge acquired
through hearsay. This position echoes that of a number of influential analyses of
Peruvian dialects of Quechua (Cerrón-Palomino 1987, Faller 2003, Floyd 1999,
Muysken 1995, and Weber 1986), all of whom consider that some kind of basis in
direct experience is communicated by the various dialectal equivalents of the ‑mi
that is studied here.
These analyses vary greatly in the extent to which they explore the complexi-
ties of their respective evidential systems. Faller, Weber, and especially Floyd grap-
ple with the evidential versus validational functions of the ‑mi and ‑shi contrast.
Weber (1986: 140) sees validational meaning as an implicature of the direct experi-
ence meaning of the ‑mi enclitic in Huánuco Quechua. Floyd (1999: 59) considers
Wanka Quechua’s evidential ‑mi as prototypically involving eyewitness or direct
experience, with validational meanings emerging schematically from that proto-
type. Faller (2003: 7) argues that neither direct experience nor conviction alone
can account for the use of ‑mi in Cusco Quechua, and discusses the need to postu-
late licensing conditions which would sanction the use of ‑mi if a proper authorita-
tive source for a statement existed, or if a speaker had “the most direct source of
information possible for the described event” (Faller ibid.).
According to these analyses, therefore, example (2) above would be appro-
priately uttered by someone who saw the person in question go, while sentence
(3) would be uttered by someone who was merely told that that person had gone.
The problem with this line of thought, as explained in Nuckolls (2008), is that
4.  Cited in Floyd 1999: 58, who notes that Carpenter uses the term ‘witness’. Cole (1985: 164)
uses the term ‘first-hand information’. Jake and Chuquin (1979: 173) use the term ‘first hand
knowledge or experience of the truth’.
60	 Janis Nuckolls
the idea of direct experience is not unproblematic. Does ‘direct’ or ‘eyewitnessed’
mean that a speaker using ‑mi must be physically and temporally co-present with
the real world referent of whatever is marked by ‑mi? There are many examples
in my data, as well as a number of examples from other scholars’ sources, where a
speaker will make an assertion that is not direct in this sense.5
Another possibility is that even if the referent of what is marked by ‑mi is not
within the same physical or temporal space as the speaker, it is, in principle at least,
shareable and accessible to public scrutiny. This is the classic definition of an em-
pirical fact, as articulated by Locke in his Essay Concerning Human Understanding
(Wierzbicka 2006: 41). Yet there are examples of the ‘direct’ enclitic ‑mi used to
report perceptions from dreams or from psychotropically induced visions (Floyd
1999: 64; Nuckolls 2008: 72; Aikhenvald 2004: 347). As meaningful as they may be
for the people who engage in these activities, dreams and visions are not available
for public scrutiny.
If we consider ‑mi and ‑shi as mainly encoding the directness or indirectness
of one’s experience, then the patterning of these two enclitics in discourse will not
appear to be very coherent. I take the position, instead, that deixis and speaker
point of view are central to this system. I am not the first person to recognize that
deixis and speaker perspective are relevant for Quechua’s evidential system (See
Dedenbach-Salazar Sáenz 1997, Faller 2004, Floyd 1999, D.J. Hintz 2007, D.M.
Hintz 2007, Howard-Malverde 1988, Howard this volume). It is also the case that
deixis has been recognized to be an operative principle within the evidential sys-
tems of other languages (see Maslova 2003, Michael this volume, Mushin 2001,
this volume, Joseph 2003, and Schlichter 1986). I am, however, focusing on a dif-
ferent sort of deictic relation that is part of speakers’ overall social goals. Pastaza
Quichua evidentials are switched to express different voices and speaker perspec-
tives. By comparing the alleged ‘direct’ -mi and ‘indirect’ -shi morphemes as they
pattern in discourse, it is possible to show that the evidential system is governed
by a perspectival logic that is particularly apparent in narrative representations of
conversation.
3.	 Evidential perspectives in represented speech
Quichua discourse is replete with represented speech. This is true for narra-
tives of personal experience, myths, and traditional stories, as well as everyday
5.  Floyd (1994: 157) mentions the use of the direct experience suffix ‑m(i) in Wanka Quechua to
relate historical events. Weber (1986: 141) cites the use of the direct experience ‑mi in Huánuco
Quechua to talk about future events.
	 From quotative other to quotative self	 61
conversation. People usually report others’ words by means of the verb nina,
which means ‘to say’ as well as ‘to think, plan, or want’. Some form of this verb is
then preceded by a quotation complement which differs from other object com-
plements in that it represents thoughts or words as if they were quoted speech,
whether or not any actual speech was uttered (see Adelaar 1991 for details.) Even
non-humans may be represented as thinking with articulate human language
(Nuckolls 2010). Quotation complements may add significant complexity to any
utterance by juxtaposing different subjectivities. Typically, two different subjective
perspectives are represented, as when a narrator says that someone else said or
did something. When a narrator retells someone else’s story, however, it may be
necessary to represent up to three perspectives in one utterance, as for example,
when a narrator says that someone said that someone else said (or did) something.
What I want to demonstrate, then, is that the evidentials are part of what people
use to distinguish between these different speaking perspectives. I will character-
ize these distinctions by using the concepts of ‘speaking self’ and ‘other’. The direct
enclitic ‑mi articulates the voice of a speaking self, while the indirect or hearsay
enclitic ‑shi articulates the voice of someone other than the speaker. The enclitic
‑mi may additionally be involved in articulating a difference between a speak-
ing self of a speech event (ss) and a speaking self of a narrated event (sn), using
Jakobsonian terminology (see Jakobson 1984 [1957]). Since these two speaking
selves look exactly the same in form, their differences are covert and must be dis-
cerned through features of the discourse. Generally, a sentence which features -mi
with no quotation verbs can be assumed to represent the perspective of a speaking
self of the speech event (ss). Example (4), from a story about a man named Tito,
who encountered a pit viper, features this ‑mi as representing the speaking self of
the speech event — a speaking self which, in this instance, is the voice of the man’s
wife, Luisa Cadena, who told me the story. She explains that Tito had been wearing
boots and was therefore protected from the snake:
	 (4)	 Botas-wan-mi	 ri-shka-ra	 ñuka kusa.
		 boots-INS-EVss go-PFV-PST I	 husband
		 With (his) boots he had gone, my husband [had].
In example (5), by contrast, she quotes her husband, using ‑mi as a speaking self
of the narrated event (sn):
	 (5)	 ‘Eloisalya’	 ni-wa-n	 ‘Kasi-mi	 palo	 mikw-i
		 Eloise-LIM say-1OBJ-3SG almost-EVsn snake eat-NMLZ
		 tuku-nchi’	 ni-n
		 become-1PL say-3SG
		 ‘Eloisa’ he says to me. ‘We almost got killed by a snake’ he says.
62	 Janis Nuckolls
In the next example from the same story, we see how the ‑shi enclitic is used to
express the voice of an ‘other’, which in this case is the voice of Tito, who explains
that it took three shots for his friend to kill the pit viper. Tito watched the killing
from up in a tree he had climbed to get away from the snake which was lying at the
tree’s base, menacing him. He unquestionably had as direct an experience as pos-
sible of this event, despite the fact that the so-called ‘indirect’ enclitic ‑shi is used
to focus his statement:
	 (6)	 Kimsa tiru-i-shi	 wañu-chi-n	 ni-ra.
		 three	 shot-LOC-EVo die-CAUS-3SG say-PST
		 ‘With three shots he kills it’ he (my husband) says.
The sentence which immediately follows in the narrative restates essentially the
same events, but substitutes the verb ‘die’ for ‘kill’, and adds the enclitic ‑mi (ss) to
the final verb. In this case, then, we have the voice of Tito as an ‘other’, marked by
‑shi, and Luisa Cadena’s own speaking voice of the speech event, marked by ‑mi
on the final verb:
	 (7)	 Kimsa tiru-i-shi	 wañu-n ni-ra-mi.
		 three	 shot-LOC-EVo die-3	 say-PST-EVss
		 ‘With three shots he dies’ he (Tito) says.
In addition to substituting the verb ‘die’ for ‘kill’, example (7) makes clear what
was only understood in example (6), namely that there are two perspectives rep-
resented: that of Luisa Cadena, whose perspective is marked by ‑mi ss on the final
verb, and that of Tito who told her the story, and whose perspective is marked by
‑shi on the word for ‘shot’. Once a narrator establishes a perspective, the marking
of that perspective will sometimes be unspecified for a sentence or two, and will
then re-emerge.
Example (8) from the same story shows how three perspectives may be
brought into a narrative. In the following utterances, Tito quotes himself shouting
to his hunting companion in order to warn him about the snake:
	 (8)	 Ñuka-ta ña	 kai	 ruya-ta	 rikw-i!	 chi	 shapi-mi
		 I-ACC	 now this tree-ACC look-IMP that base-EVsn
		 siri-u-n	 ni-sha-shi	 kapari-ni	 ni-ra.
		 lie-DUR-3SG say-COR-EVo shout-1SG say-PST
		 Saying ‘Look at me (up in) this tree! It’s lying right at that base’ ‘I shout (to
my friend)’ he said
What we have here are three perspectives or voices represented by three sets of in-
terlocutorial relations: there is the dyad consisting of Tito shouting to his hunting
friend; there is the dyad consisting of Tito relating the story to Luisa; and there is
	 From quotative other to quotative self	 63
the dyad consisting of Luisa telling the story to me. Here are the three perspectives
in the utterance, presented in the order in which they are spoken:
Perspective A:
		 The speaking self of the narrative event (-mi sn) where Luisa becomes the
voice of Tito talking to his friend:
		 Ñuka-ta ña	 kai	 ruya-ta	 rikw-i!	 chi	 shapi-mi	 siri-u-n
		 I-ACC	 now this tree-ACC look-IMP that base-EVsn lie-DUR-3SG
		 ‘Look at me (up in) this tree! It’s lying right at that base!’
Perspective B:
		 The voice of the other (-shi), where Luisa specifies the perspective of Tito
who was asserting something to her:
		 ni-sha-shi	 kapari-ni
		 say-COR-EVo shout-1SG
		 ‘Saying (according to my husband) I shout’
Perspective C:
		 The speaking self of the speech event, which, if it had been specified, would
have been marked with ‑mi(ss), as it was Luisa asserting to me that said
something:
		 ni-ra-(mi)
		 say-PST-(EVss)
		 ‘He said’ (i.e., I assert as a speaking self of the speech event that he said all of
this).
It is clear from this example that ‑mi and ‑shi can have varying scopes. These en-
clitics may function to focus on a single word or phrase, or they may take an entire
clause within their scope. Evidential enclitics which attach to verbs, whether finite
or nonfinite, are generally clausal in their scope. Evidential enclitics that attach to
other elements, such as noun phrases, locative deictics, or adverbs usually focus
on those elements for the purpose of rhematizing them. The enclitic ‑mi in the first
fragment above, which attaches to the word sapi ‘base’ is focusing on this word for
emphasis. The enclitic ‑shi in the second fragment focuses on the verb nisha ‘say-
ing’, but has as its scope the entire quotation complement, specifying the otherness
of the voice doing the speaking.6
6.  Ni-sha is analyzable as the root ‘say’ plus the coreference marker ‑sha, which also communi-
cates ongoingness, hence ‘saying’.
64	 Janis Nuckolls
4.	 Evidential selves in narrative: The speaking self ‑mi
If we accept that the evidentials ‑mi and ‑shi function, in part, to express the vari-
ous perspectives from which an utterance is articulated, and that both ‑mi and ‑shi
function, in part, to focus parts of an utterance, we have, nevertheless, a number of
unanswered questions. Why do narrators sometimes switch their focus from the
other enclitic ‑shi to the speaking self ‑mi of the narrative event? In other words,
when people are relating the experiences of others, why do they sometimes focus
the accounts of those experiences with ‑shi and then switch to the speaking self ‑mi
of the narrative event, even when the same person’s experiences are being told?
To answer this question, let us first examine a number of contexts where the
speaking self ‑mi of the narrative event is used by a narrator telling about her own
experiences. In some of these examples, the narrator will be quoting herself, and
in some of them, she will be quoting others with whom she was interacting. We
notice right away that an utterance which features the speaking self -mi of the
narrative event is usually about momentous happenings, often concerning mat-
ters of life and death. The earlier example (5) counts as such a use, where Luisa’s
husband is represented as announcing to her that he was almost killed by a snake.
Examples (9) through (12) are all from my friend’s own experiences, and all fea-
ture the speaking self -mi of the narrative event to announce, threaten, predict
or warn about something momentous and potentially life-changing. Although
Pastaza Quichua does not have lexicalized illocutionary verbs for speech acts such
as promising, warning, scolding, etc., it does allow speakers to express such acts
through reported discourse. Example (9) is about what a man was reported to have
said to my friend after losing a battle with her over land.
	 (9)	 Wañu-chi-shka-ngichi-mi! Longo! Jivaro!
		 die-CAUS-PRF-2PL-EVsn	 Longo	 Jivaro
	 	 ‘I’m going to kill all of you! (i.e., You-all are killed!) Longo! (insult) Jivaro
(insult)!’7
In this example, the ‑mi enclitic focuses on the most dramatic announcement of
the utterance, the verb for ‘kill’. This reported announcement, framed as a quota-
tive utterance has the illocutionary force of a threat.
Example (10) is about what was said by a woman to my friend, who did not
yet realize she was pregnant, but whose appearance made it obvious to this other
woman that she was:
7.  The term longo is derogatory for an inexperienced young person — roughly equivalent to
‘punk’ in the English of certain gangster classes. The term Jivaro is ethnically derogatory, refer-
ring to Achuar and Shuar speakers.
	 From quotative other to quotative self	 65
	 (10)	 Wiksa-yu	 a-u-ngi-mi	 ni-wa-ra.
		 stomach-POSS be-DUR-2SG-EVsn say-1OBJ-PST
		 ‘You are pregnant’ she said to me.
In this example, the most significant and momentous information, that of being in
a pregnant state (and for the first time), is focused by means of ‑mi.
Example (11), from the same narrative as example (10), is what my friend
reported herself to have announced after giving birth.
	 (11)	 Kari wawa-ta-mi	 wacha-ni
		 boy	 baby-ACC-EVsn give birth-1SG
		 ‘I’ve given birth to a baby boy.’
Here, the information that it is a boy is very significant for the narrator, because
her husband had wanted his first child to be a boy.
Example (12), from a story about a fight with her husband, features words that
she reported herself to have said to him.
	 (12)	 Ña	 kunan-ga ñuka-n kan-ga	 tukuri-ngi-mi!
		 well now-TOP	 I-INS	 you-TOP finish-2SG-EVsn
		 ‘Well now, with me you are finished!’
In this example, -mi focuses on the newest information of the utterance, that
which announces the end of the relationship with her husband.
It is clear that the narrator uses the speaking self ‑mi sn to focus what was
said to her or what she said to others, when they concern highly dramatic and
momentous events that she herself had experienced. What happens, then, when
other people’s stories are told? If the interpretation that I am arguing against were
correct, namely, that ‑mi and ‑shi function to mark what is directly experienced
vs. what is known through hearsay, then we would expect to find a predominance
of ‑shi marked utterances when a narrator tells other people’s stories, since the
experiences of others are not accessible to the narrator. Nevertheless, what we
find instead, is a similar pattern to that used for a narrator’s own experiences. The
speaking self ‑mi of the narrative event continues to be used for the foreground-
ing of highly salient, emotionally revealing, and dramatically momentous passages
in narratives. At their most dramatic instantiations, these shifts may be used to
represent how people go about breaking off existing social relations as well as carv-
ing out new social alignments.
66	 Janis Nuckolls
5.	 Evidential selves in narrative: From other to self
To argue this point most effectively, it will be necessary to examine contiguous
narrative utterances where a switch takes place between the evidential other,
marked by ‑shi, and the speaking self ‑mi of the narrated event. A number of such
switches occur when Luisa Cadena relates a lengthy narrative concerning how her
husband Tito, along with a small group of men, became lost in the forest for sev-
eral months. The men were all eventually found; to survive, however, they had to
split up into two different groups. When Tito and his group were reunited with the
other group, they discovered that the other group had had to eat their own dog in
order to survive.
The first switch relates this surprising and, for my friend, very disturbing dis-
covery by switching from the evidential other -shi to the speaking self -mi (sn), in
order to present the point of view of the men who had had to eat their dog. In do-
ing so, she has one of those men reveal that their own survival was at stake:
	 (13)	 Chi-guna alyku-ta-shi	 miku-shka-una alyku-ta	 miku-shka-una-ra
		 that-PL	 dog-ACC-EVo eat-PRF-PL	 dog-ACC eat-PRF-PL-PST
		 ni-ra,	 chaki-chi-sha;	chi-wan-mi	 kausa-ra-nchi
		 say-PST dry-CAUS-COR that-INS-EVsn live-PAST-1PL
		 ni-ra-shi.
		 say-PST-EVo
		 And those (guys) ate their dog. ‘They had eaten their dog’, he said, ‘drying it;
with that we survived’, he said.
Let’s now consider utterances from an earlier part of this narrative, i.e. before the
men were found. By way of background, the men who became lost were on official
duty as soldiers monitoring the area where Ecuador borders Peru at a time when
relations between the two countries were tense. Nevertheless, the teniente (‘lieu-
tenant’) in charge of this border patrol insists on crossing the border and visiting
the Peruvians and drinking beer with them. His men do not want to go, but the
teniente insists. After the men share drinks, the Ecuadorians try to leave but they
discover that the motors on their canoes have been disabled; at which point the
Peruvians start firing on them. And this is how their two and a half month odys-
sey begins. In the process of running away on foot from the Peruvians, the men
become lost in the forest, suffering starvation, thirst, and exposure until they are
finally found by a search party of Ecuadorian soldiers.
There are several moments in the narrative where Tito is depicted as heroically
encouraging the men when they were inclined to give up. This encouragement is
voiced by means of a switch from ‑shi to ‑mi sn in example (14). The background to
this example is that the men had gone many days without water when they finally
	 From quotative other to quotative self	 67
discovered a spring. After drinking from this spring, one of the men becomes so
discouraged that he cries, wanting to give up:
	 (14)	 Upi-shka	 washa, kai-ma	 yaku	 shinaaa-lya-shi waka-sha
		 drink-PRF after	 here-DAT water like-LIM-EVo	 cry-COR
		 tiya-u-n.	 ‘Ama wañu-na-ta	 yar-i-chu!	 upi!	 Ña	 ñukanchi
		 sit-DUR-3 NEG	 die-INF-ACC think-IMP-NEG drink now we
		 hursa-ta-mi	 apa-nchi!’ ni-ni-shi	 ni-ra.
		 strength-ACC-EVsn take-1PL	 say-1SG-EVo say-PST
		 After drinking, he sits there just crying like water. ‘Don’t think about dying!
		 Drink! Now let’s get our strength! I say (to him)’, he said.
In another instance, my friend’s husband is depicted as taking the lead in finding
food for his group. Example (15) reveals that the men had been reduced to eat-
ing rotted fungi that could be found on decaying tree trunks. At this point, Tito
announces that he and some others are going to go and hunt for some meat. This
announcement is articulated through a switch to the speaking self ‑mi of the nar-
rative: (Transcript File, p. 211)
	 (15)	 Ismu-shka alyu	 wiña-shka-guna-shi a-n.	 Chi-guna-ta-shi
		 rot-PRF	 fungus raise-PRF-PL-EVo	 be-3SG That-PL-ACC-EVo
		 anchu-chi-sha	 miku-n-guna ni-n	 shuk-guna-ga, riku-ngi-ma.
		 remove-CAUS-COR eat-3SG-PL	 say-3 one-PL-TOP	 look-2-COND
		 Nina-ta- hapi-chi-shk-auna. ‘Kunan-ga puri-gri-sha-lya,
		 fire-ACC	catch-CAUS-PRF-PL	Now-TOP	 walk-TRLC-FUT-LIM
		 puri-gri-shun’,	 ni-shka	Tito-ga;	 ‘a-u-ngichi,	 kan-guna.
		 walk-TRLC-1PLFUT say-PRF Tito-TOP; be-DUR-2PL you-PL
		 Ñukanchi puri-nchi, wañu-chi-nga-mi	 ri-u-nchi,	 mikuna-ta’.
		 we	 walk-1PL	 die-CAUS-FINF-EVsn go-DUR-1PL food-ACC
		 ‘There were these rotted fungi that had grown. Removing these, you would
see (that) some of them ate them’ he said. So they light a fire (and he says):
‘Now I’ll just go walking, let’s go walk’ said Tito. ‘You-all stay here. We’ll
walk, we’ll go to hunt (i.e., ‘to kill’ something to eat)’.
In this example, the announcement that Tito is going to hunt for something is de-
picted as an heroic act, which he initiates to help his companions. There are, per-
haps interesting, subtexts to be explored here, concerning Tito’s status in relation
to these other men. Although not an indigenous person by birth, his early life ex-
periences with indigenous people as well as his marriage to an indigenous woman
gave him access to valuable knowledge and experiences living within the forest
that may have turned out to be critically important in this particular predicament.
68	 Janis Nuckolls
The final example from this narrative illustrates perhaps the most dramatic
shift of all, since it radically alters the relationship between the soldiers and the
teniente who had been their official leader until this point. This incident took place
shortly after the men became lost. It describes how and why the men split up into
two different groups. The teniente, who had insisted on crossing the border to
drink with the Peruvians, is unable to keep up with some of the others, including
Tito. Tito’s words to the teniente are full of reproach and bitterness and they are
articulated by means of a switch to the speaking self ‑mi of the narrative. With
these words, the teniente is stripped of his previous authority over the men, and
Tito and his companions, through their words, redefine their own formerly sub-
altern status .
	 (16)	 Ña	 chai	 siriri-sha, siririsha maki-manda aisa-sha-guna-shi
		 then	 there lie-COR	 lie-COR	 hand-from	 pull-COR-PL-EVo
		 ri-ra-nchi	 ni-ra.	 ‘Kasna-manda-mi	 teniente!	 Ama ri-shun
		 go-PST-1PL say-PST like this-from-EVsn lieutenant NEG	 go-1PL
		 ni-ra-nchi;	 mana-chu nukanchi enemigo ma-naun; pai-guna-ga
		 say-PST-1PL NEG-NEG	 we	 enemy	 be-3PL	 he-PL-TOP
		 Kan-mi	 pusha-ra-ngi, rik-i;	 kunan-ga kan-lya-ta	 mana
		 you-EVsn	 take-PST-2	 look-IMP now-TOP	 you-LIM-EMP NEG
		 puri-na-ta	 usha-ngi;	 ñukanchi-ga pakta-shun-mi;	 mana
		 walk-INF-ACC be.able-2SG; we-TOP	 arrive-1PL-FUT-EVsn NEG
		 wañu-shun-dzhu	ni-nau-ra-shi
		 die-1PL-FUT-NEG say-3PL-PST-EVo
		 ‘Now lying there, lying there, pulling (them) by the hand we went along’, he
said. ‘(It was) because of this, Teniente! (that we said) Let’s not go! Aren’t
they our enemies, those ones? You are the one who brought us (to this
point), look! Now you are (the one who is) not able to walk. As for us, we are
going to arrive (back home). We are not going to die’ they said.’
This example represents a sustained shift, since it features no less than three suc-
cessive utterances expressed through the speaking self -mi of the narrated event.
There are two utterances that function as accusations: ‘Because of this, teniente
…’, as well as ‘You are the one who’ …, both of which directly and unequivocally
blame the teniente for their situation. The third switched utterance ‘we are going
to arrive …’ functions as a dramatic announcement of the men’s intention to aban-
don the others and push on in order to survive.
	 From quotative other to quotative self	 69
6.	 Conclusion
To conclude: the evidential system of the Pastaza dialect of Ecuadorian Quichua
is inextricably linked with the expression of speaker subjectivity and with the jux-
taposition of different speaking perspectives. The enclitics ‑mi and ‑shi are not
distinguishing between direct and indirect experience; rather, they signal the per-
spectives, whether self or other, from which utterances are articulated. Because
so much of Quichua discourse is full of represented speech, and further, because
so much of what people say to each other is based in the here and now of their
discourse interactions, it has seemed to some researchers as if these enclitics were
marking the directness or indirectness of people’s experiences. What I propose
instead is that the evidential -mi is used to focus the assertion-making perspec-
tive of a speaking self who may belong to a speech event or to a narrative event.
This assertion-making function may also indicate pragmatically significant no-
tions such as focus and illocutionary force, involving acts of promising, warning,
or threatening. Such functions may then be marshaled by speakers to represent the
rupturing of existing social relationships or the carving out of new social align-
ments, as many of this chapter’s examples have demonstrated.
In some instances, the shift from an other to a speaking self may index some
form of retribution for a past action. In other instances, the shift to a speaking self
may indicate a new kind of empowerment. Whatever the function, shifts from an
other to a speaking self ‑mi of the narrative event are evident in many narrative
representations of momentous, life and death-related (or at least life-changing)
matters.
For reasons of space and time, I have not given as much attention to the other
enclitic, ‑shi, although this, too, has a number of social, interactional functions,
including the distancing of oneself from a statement, as well as the framing of
what is said as based on conventional wisdom or generally accepted knowledge.
There remain a number of linguistic questions about the patterning of ‑mi and ‑shi
in discourse, particularly regarding the relationship between grammatical person
and ‑mi and ‑shi.
I have taken the trouble to emphasize speaker perspective as a principle of evi-
dential usage because the empiricist discourse surrounding the labeling of eviden-
tial categories may be impeding linguists’ abilities to interpret the social meanings
of evidential categories. Here, labels such as ‘eyewitnessed’, ‘direct evidence’, ‘infor-
mation source’, and ‘data source’ are highly suggestive of official juridical and aca-
demic frameworks which make use of evidence for the advancement of a formal
argument or logical explanation. Another problem with this terminology is that
(in Hanks’ words, this volume), the very notion of information “does not presup-
pose a knower“. Hanks suggests that the term ‘knowledge’, which does presuppose
70	 Janis Nuckolls
a ‘knower’, is preferable to ‘information’, since “it is the speaker’s access” that we are
concerned with (Hanks, this volume).
Juridical and academic frameworks are culturally inappropriate for many of
the societies whose linguistic systems have an evidential category. One example of
the way in which such labeling may obscure speaker intentions and motivations is
provided by the fascinating examples of the ‘deferred evidence’ form reported by
Maslova (2003: 223–4) for the Yukaghir language of Siberia. Maslova observes that
this form is used even when “the link between a witnessed state of affairs (E) and
the situation that brought it about (S) is most straightforward and ‘trivial’ ”. She
cites an example from another linguist whose Yukaghir friend remarked that he
had grown ‘old and slim’, using the deferred evidence form. Maslova reasons that
this form was used because the speaker did not witness the process of his friend
growing older and slimmer, but only saw the result.
The empiricist emphasis in such an interpretation can hardly be more obvi-
ous. While Maslova’s explanation may be true in a technical sense, it overlooks
some possible social dynamics that may be at work in such a situation. Could it
be that comments about personal appearance might be seen as potentially face-
threatening acts? Might it be possible that to say that someone has become thin is
the opposite of a compliment (in other words, tantamount to saying that they look
unhealthy and sick)? Could it be that what would seem excessively critical if used
in the direct, ‘eyewitnessed’ form is being used with the ‘deferred evidence’ form
in order to soften the bluntness of the comment?
Bigger cultural questions that are raised by this data include the question of
the relationship between how people speak with each other, and how they repre-
sent themselves as speaking with each other. In a traditionally small-scale sub-
sistence–level society such as the one in which Quichua conversations take place
and where everyone knows everyone else intimately, any directly confrontational
language is extremely risky, if not downright dangerous. Additional close observa-
tion of actual conflicts (which are, admittedly, difficult to research because of their
volatility and unpredictability) is expected to lend further support to the position
I have outlined here.
Symbols and abbreviations
1	 First person
2	 Second person
3	 Third person
ACC	 Accusative
CAUS	 Causative
	 From quotative other to quotative self	 71
COND	 Conditional
COR	 Coreference
DUR	 Durative
EMP	 Emphatic
EVo	 Evidential other
EVsn	 Evidential, speaking self of the narrated event
EVss	 Evidential, speaking self of the speech event
FUT	 Future
IMP	 Imperative
INF	 Infinitive
INS	 Instrumental
LIM	 Limitative
LOC	 Locative
NEG	 Negative
NMLZ	 Nominalizer
OBJ	 Object
PL	 Plural
POSS	 Possessive
PRF	 Perfect
PST	 Past
SG	 Singular
TOP	 Topicalizer
TRLC	 Translocative
Transcription and orthography
Transcripts of these data may be accessed by means of the Transcript Files, which are archived
in AILLA (The Archives of Indigenous Languages of Latin America)
http://www.ailla.utexas.org
The transcription of Quichua utterances uses the following symbols to represent approximate
English Language sounds: p,t,k,b,d,g,ts,ch,s,sh,z,m,n,h,l,y,and w.
Other symbols include the palatalized nasal ñ, the alveopalatal affricate dzh, the palatalized
lateral ly, the palatalized velar stop ky and the alveolar flap r.
References
Adelaar, Willem F.H. 1991. The role of quotations in Andean Discourse. In: Mary H. Preuss
(ed.), Past, Present and Future: Selected Papers on Latin American Indian Literatures (in-
cluding the VIII International Symposium), 161–166. Culver City, Calif.: Labyrinthos.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra. 2004. Evidentiality. New York: Oxford University Press.
Carpenter, Lawrence. 1982. Ecuadorian Quichua: Descriptive Sketch and Variation. PhD
Dissertation, University of Florida, Gainesville.
72	 Janis Nuckolls
Cerrόn-Palomino, Rodolfo. 1987. Lingüística Quechua. Cusco: Centro de Estudios Rurales
Andinos ‘Bartolomé de las Casas’.
Chafe, Wallace and Johanna Nichols (eds.). 1986. Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of
Epistemology. Norwood, N.J.: Ablex.
Cole, Peter. 1985. Imbabura Quechua. Beckenham, Kent, UK: Croom Helm.
Dedenbach-Salazar Sáenz, Sabine. 1997. Point of view and evidentiality in the Huarochirí texts
(Peru, 17th century). In: Rosaleen Howard-Malverde (ed.), Creating Context in Andean
Cultures, 149–167. (Oxford Studies in Anthropological Linguistics Series). Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Faller, Martina. 2003. The evidential and validational licensing conditions for the Cuzco
Quechua enclitic –mi in Quechua. Belgian Journal of Linguistics 16: 7–21.
Faller, Martina. 2004. The deictic core of non-experienced past in Cuzco Quechua. Journal of
Semantics 21: 45–85.
Floyd, Rick. 1994. The Wanka reportative as a radial category. In: Peter Cole, Gabriella Hermon
and Mario Daniel Martin (eds.), Language in the Andes, 151–189. Newark, Del.: Latin
American Studies Program, University of Delaware.
Floyd, Rick. 1999. The Structure of Evidential Categories in Wanka Quechua. Dallas: Summer
Institute of Linguistics and University of Texas at Arlington.
Hanks, William F. this volume. Foreword: Evidentiality in interaction.
Hintz, Daniel J. 2007. Evidentiality and the co-construction of knowledge in South Conchucos
Quechua. Paper presented at the Society for the Study of Indigenous Languages of the
Americas and the Linguistic Society of America Annual Meeting, January 4, 2007,
Anaheim, California.
Hintz, Diane M. 2007. Past tense forms and their functions in South Conchucos Quechua: time,
evidentiality, discourse structure, and affect. PhD Dissertation, University of California,
Santa Barbara.
Howard-Malverde, Rosaleen. 1988. Talking about the past: tense and testimonials in Quechua
narrative discourse. Amerindia 13: 125–155.
Howard, Rosaleen. this volume. Shifting voices, shifting worlds: evidentiality, epistemic modal-
ity and speaker perspective in Quechua oral narrative.
Jake, Janice and Carmen Chuquin. 1979. Validation suffixes in Imbabura Quechua. In: Papers
from the Regional Meeting, Chicago Linguistics Society 15: 172–184.
Jakobson, Roman. 1957. Shifters, verbal categories, and the Russian verb. [Reprinted in: Russian
and Slavic Grammar, 41–58. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 1984].
Joseph, Brian D. 2003. Evidentials: Summation, Questions, Prospects. In: Alexandra Aikhenvald
and R.M.W. Dixon (eds.) Studies in Evidentiality, 307–327. (Typological Studies in
Language 54). Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Maslova, Elena. 2003. Evidentiality in Yukaghir. In: Alexandra Aikhenvald and R.M.W. Dixon
(eds.) Studies in Evidentiality, 219–235. {Typological Studies in Language 54). Amsterdam
& Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Mushin, Ilana 2001. Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance: Narrative Retelling. Amsterdam
& Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Muysken, Pieter. 1995. Focus in Quechua. In: E. Katalin Kiss (ed.), Discourse-Configurational
Languages, 375–393. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Nuckolls, Janis B. 2008. Deictic selves and others in Pastaza Quichua evidential usage.
Anthropological Linguistics 50, 1: 67–89.
	 From quotative other to quotative self	 73
Nuckolls, Janis B. 2010. Lessons from a Quechua Strongwoman: Ideophony, Dialogue and
Perspective. Tucson: The University of Arizona Press.
Schlichter, Alice. 1986. The origins and deictic nature of Wintu evidentials. In: Wallace Chafe
and Johanna Nichols (eds.), Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology, 46–59.
Norwood, N.J.: Ablex .
Weber, David. 1986. Information perspective, profile, and patterns in Quechua. In: Wallace
Chafe and Johanna Nichols (eds.), Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology,
37–55. Norwood, N.J.: Ablex.
Wierzbicka, Anna. 2006. English Meaning and Culture. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Shifting voices, shifting worlds
Evidentiality, epistemic modality
and speaker perspective in Quechua oral narrative*
Rosaleen Howard
Newcastle University
This chapter examines evidentiality and epistemic modality in Quechua narra-
tive discourse from the central highlands of Peru. Huamalíes Quechua falls into
the broad Quechua ‘I’ dialect grouping established by Alfredo Torero (1964);
evidential usage here can be compared to that of southern Conchucos Quechua
as studied by Diane and Daniel Hintz (2007; 2006) while it differs in interesting
ways from the Quechua ‘II’ dialects of southern Peru as studied by Faller (2002;
2006). The analysis focuses on an orally performed traditional narrative that deals
with the theme of social interaction between a human protagonist and a spirit
being of the ‘other world’. It describes the human protagonist’s gradual realization
of the nature of the spirit being with whom he has become involved; evidential
and epistemic markings grammatically structure this transition from conjecture,
to supposition, to direct witness. The aim is to show how the story’s cultural con-
tent, and the way in which evidentials and epistemic modality are operational-
ized, are mutually entailing. Form and content taken together throw light both on
how evidentiality and epistemic modality work in social interaction and on how
Amerindian understandings of the interface between the ‘natural’ and ‘supernat-
ural’ worlds, and between ‘humans’ and ‘non-humans’, inform grammatical usage.
*  This chapter is in memory of Elisabeth Bonnier, who died in 2009, and to whom I owe my
first introduction to the Tantamayo valley in 1982. My participation in the LSA 2010 panel at
which this paper was given was facilitated by a British Academy Overseas Conference grant
and by a Newcastle University Research Award; my thanks to these bodies, to Tristan Platt for
his kind support of my British Academy application, and to Janis Nuckolls and the anonymous
reviewers for their useful comments on an earlier draft. I am grateful to many friends in Lima,
Tantamayo, San Pedro de Pariarca, and Coyllarbamba for their friendship, hospitality, and un-
stinting assistance with my studies of Huamalíes Quechua over the years: Eladio Marticorena,
Consuelo Romero, Eleodoro Gabriel Blas†, Eladia Mallqui, Próspero Mallqui, Carlos Inga,
Reygardo Chávez, Elena Lloclla, Raquel Ocaña, Cristiam Ocaña, and Thérèse Althaus. I extend
a special thanks to Catherine J. Allen who drew my attention to the Eduardo Viveiros de Castro
(2006) paper.
76	 Rosaleen Howard
1.	 Introduction
The typical “supernatural” situation in an Amerindian world is the meeting in the
forest between a man — always on his own — and a being which is seen at first
merely as an animal or a person, then reveals itself as a spirit or a dead person and
speaks to the man. (…) These encounters can be lethal for the interlocutor who,
overpowered by the non-human subjectivity, passes over to its side, transforming
himself into a being of the same species as the speaker: dead, spirit or animal. He
who responds to a “you” spoken by a non-human accepts the condition of being
its “second person”, and when assuming in his turn the position of “I” does so
already as a non-human. (Viveiros de Castro, 2006: 562)
With these words Brazilian anthropologist Eduardo Viveiros de Castro sketches
the kind of scenario that forms the subject matter of myths throughout Amazonia
and the Andean region, in which storytellers explore the relationship between the
human, animal, and spirit worlds in a way that does not assume a dichotomy be-
tween realms, but rather reveals an interpenetration of ontological perspectives.
In order to understand the nature of the intersubjective relations between diverse
kinds of sentient beings and the worlds that they inhabit, as recounted in myth,
we must learn to apply interpretive principles quite other than those that we might
bring to bear from a rationalist Western point of view.
In this chapter, I shall analyse a story told to me by a Quechua speaking sto-
ryteller in the central highlands of Peru, which deals with just this sort of theme.
A man inadvertently strays from the domestic realm where he lives with his wife
and children, into the uncultivated sphere of the mountainside, where he encoun-
ters a spirit woman who, after a series of interpellations of the type Viveiros de
Castro describes, eventually lures him over to her world, never to be seen by his
family again.1 Viveiros de Castro’s discussion is underpinned by a phenomeno-
logical framework inspired by Benveniste’s (1966a, 1966b) account of subjectivity
in language; in order to serve his account of the nature of personhood and meta-
morphosis in Amerindian cosmologies, he develops the concepts of ‘cosmological
deixis’ and ‘ontological perspectivism’.2
1.  The gender identities of the protagonists in such stories may well be reversed: human women
can equally be lured into the realm of male spirit or animal beings.
2.  For Viveiros de Castro, ‘ontological perspectivism’ allows for a shifting fluidity in the per-
spective (‘point of view’) from which the subject of discourse is constituted (Viveiros de Castro
2006: 557). He gives the example of the word for ‘person’ in many Amerindian languages, which,
in mythic narrative, may be used equally well by humans and animals to self refer; from the
point of view of the speaking subject (whether human being, peccary, or howler monkey), the
word connotes ‘my kind’. By uttering the word in order to self refer, the speaker constitutes him/
herself as subject (Viveiros de Castro 2006: 557).
	 Shifting voices, shifting worlds	 77
In my analysis of the Quechua story presented here, I shall focus on the dis-
course features of the text — the related roles of evidentiality and epistemic modal-
ity in particular. My aim will be to show how the story’s cultural content, in terms
of Viveiros de Castro’s concept of ontological perspectivism and its linguistic form,
especially the way in which evidentials and epistemic modality are operational-
ized, are mutually entailing. Form and content taken together throw light both on
how evidentiality and epistemic modality work in social interaction and on how
Amerindian understandings of the interface between the ‘natural’ and ‘supernatu-
ral’ worlds, and between ‘humans’ and ‘non-humans’, inform grammatical usage.
Since evidentiality was identified as a grammatical category marking ‘source
of information’ by Boas (1938) and explored in depth by the contributors to the
volume edited by Chafe and Nichols (1986), linguists working on a wide range of
languages around the world have made considerable advances upon the earlier
debates. Aikhenvald’s (2004) typology of evidential systems is based on a survey
of five hundred languages; likewise, the contributions to Aikhenvald and Dixon
(2003) break further ground. Importantly, and as a means to stake out the less-
er-studied terrain of Amerindian languages, where ‘pure’ evidential systems are
relatively commonly attested, Aikhenvald insists that evidentiality should be con-
sidered a category in its own right, not to be subsumed within epistemic modality,
as had been suggested, conversely, by Palmer (1986: 51–95). Thus, for Aikhenvald,
it is crucial to keep evidentiality separate from the marking of validation and judg-
ment, even though, both formally and pragmatically, and in certain languages
but not all, evidentiality and validation may converge in usage. Where a single
morphological marker appears to perform the functions of both evidentiality and
validation, as has been found to be the case in Quechua, for Aikhenvald this is a
matter of ‘epistemic extension’, serving to assert reliability, truth value, probabil-
ity, or possibility, which accrues by pragmatic entailment to the ‘core’ meaning of
source of information (Aikhenvald 2004: 6–7).3
3.  For example, Weber (1986) argues that the Quechua enclitics -mi and -shi are basically evi-
dential, marking status of knowledge learned by direct experience versus knowledge learned by
indirect experience or hearsay, respectively, although “a validational interpretation for -mi is
often appropriate because of the axiom that direct experience is reliable” (Weber 1986: 139). In
this connection, Mushin discusses the difficulty of separating evidence from judgment, as the
latter may be dependent on the former, and notes, in reference to Weber’s (1986) study that -mi
“entails validation (…) by implicature, but certainty is not part of its core meaning” (Mushin
2001: 25–26; see also Mushin, this volume). Earlier, Adelaar (1997), citing Weber (1986) and
Floyd (1994), had pointed out that evidentiality and validation are two distinct parameters for
defining the meaning and function of -mi and -shi: direct vs. indirect observation on the one
hand; level of responsibility for ‘truth’ value of statements, on the other hand. However, once
social and cognitive (extra-linguistic) parameters are taken into account, the flexibility and
78	 Rosaleen Howard
In contrast to Aikhenvald, Mushin (2001, this volume) takes a broader ap-
proach. Her concern is with the pragmatics of usage of evidentiality in narrative
discourse. Working with the broadly defined concept of ‘epistemological stance’,
she brings the deictic function of evidentiality to the fore, showing how differ-
ent viewpoints are set up in narrative re-tellings, informed by varying degrees of
subjectivity in language, as defined by Lyons (1982: 102). For Mushin (2001; see
also this volume), epistemological stance helps us understand speakers’ choices of
evidential markers in relation to cognitive and cultural parameters of the perfor-
mative situation.
In the present study I shall build on Nuckolls’ (1993, 2006, 2008, this vol-
ume) groundbreaking work on the relationship between evidentiality, deixis,
and reported speech in Quechua discourse.4 Acknowledging in her more recent
work a debt to Mushin’s (2001) notion of epistemological stance, Nuckolls fore-
grounds the concept of ‘speaker perspective’ as the key to understanding and in-
terpreting the use of evidential markers in Quechua. Her analyses focus on the
distribution of -mi and -shi, whose semantics many other researchers have ex-
amined (Weber 1986; Howard-Malverde 1988; Adelaar 1997; Dedenbach-Salazar
Sáenz 1997; Faller 2002, 2004, 2006; Floyd 1994, 1999; Hintz, Daniel 2006; Hintz,
Diane 2007: 68–78).5 While other accounts largely privilege considerations of ‘di-
rect’ (-mi) and ‘indirect’ (-shi) sources of knowledge, Nuckolls proposes, rather,
that ‘the evidential system is governed by a perspectival logic that distinguishes
between different subjectivities that are making an assertion’ (Nuckolls 2008: 68;
my emphasis) and that, at least with regard to Pastaza Quichua, ‘we can redefine
evidentiality (…) as marking speaker perspective rather than source of informa-
tion’ (Nuckolls 2008: 68; my emphasis; see also Nuckolls, this volume and foot-
note 3).6 For Nuckolls, the patterning of the -mi and -shi enclitics, in correlation
dynamicity of the system in actual usage, across different dialects, and at different historical time
periods, has to be acknowledged (Adelaar 1997). Faller (2006) moves the debate still further in
her use of a speech act theoretical framework for the semantic and pragmatic analysis of Cuzco
Quechua evidentials.
4.  Hanks (1990) has also explored the deictic function of evidentiality for Maya.
5.  Nuckolls’ work centers on the Pastaza dialect of Quichua as spoken in eastern Ecuador. -shi
is realized as -si in Southern Peruvian dialects, where both -mi and -si have allomorphs -m/-n
and -s, respectively (Adelaar 1997: 4); from my personal experience, Bolivian Quechua dialects
make less frequent use of these markers than do the Peruvian and Ecuadorian varieties of the
language.
6.  Nuckolls’ ‘speaker perspective’ is somewhat different than what Weber (1986) means when
he talks of ‘information perspective’, that is, “how the speaker came by the information (…),
what the speaker’s attitude is toward the information (…), [and] what the speaker intends the
	 Shifting voices, shifting worlds	 79
with other discursive features such as deictic markers and reported speech, reveals
how ‘speakers take the trouble to sort out different voices and perspectives’, distin-
guishing between “the voice of the ‘speaking self’ versus the voice of ‘the other’”
(Nuckolls 2008: 68; this volume). Supported by insights into Quichua cosmology,
Nuckolls’ account of speaker perspective in discourse shows evidential usage to be
tied up with cultural perceptions of the relationship between the speaking subject,
the spoken word, speaker perspective, and the origins of knowledge. She illus-
trates, for example, how pragmatic shifts between the -mi and -shi enclitics may
“represent how people go about rupturing existing social relations as well as carv-
ing out new social alignments” (Nuckolls, this volume).
In mythological narratives such as the one I shall examine here, Nuckolls’ in-
sights, taken together with Viveiros de Castro’s discussion of cosmological deixis
and ontological perspectivism, help us explore the mutually entailing relationship
between linguistic form (how shifting speaker perspectives are grammatically cod-
ed in discourse) and thematic content (the narrative protagonist’s shift between
different spheres of reality). The present story tells of ontological transformation
along the lines described in the quotation that opens this article; moreover, it tells
of the protagonist’s gradual realization of the change that is overpowering him.
The tale’s theme will be seen to shape the distribution of evidential and other types
of epistemic marking in the narrative text. While the grammatical analysis will
be primarily served by the concept of ‘speaker perspective’, Viveiros de Castro’s
(2006) ontological perspectivist framework will enhance our sensibility towards
the sociocultural meanings at stake when it comes to interpreting the theme of
metamorphosis in myth.
It is hoped that this study will demonstrate that, perhaps more than for any
other grammatical category, a social interactional, contextual, and discourse-level
analytical approach is needed, in order for the semantic and pragmatic meanings
hearer to do with the information (…)” (Weber 1986: 137), although all these criteria may in-
form speaker perspective in a secondary way. Key to Nuckolls’ use of ‘perspective’ is the distinc-
tion she makes between ‘speaking self’ and ‘speaking other’ (see especially Nuckolls’ article in
the present volume). For purposes of analysis, this helps us tease out whether the voice in the
narrative event is speaking as author-narrator or as narrated protagonist, or whether, to echo
Viveiros de Castro’s (2006: 557) argument, the point of view constitutes some other subject po-
sition in the utterance. ‘Speaker perspective’ for present purposes is thus akin to the concept
of ‘voice’, and similar to Dedenbach-Salazar Sáenz’s (1997) use of ‘point of view’ in her study
of evidentiality in the Quechua of the Huarochiri manuscript (Taylor 1987); she uses the lit-
erary critical approach of Lanser (1981) to demonstrate the multi-vocal and multi-positional
nature of the narrative act in the seventeenth century texts. Diane Hintz, in her study of South
Conchucos Quechua (Peru) also acknowledges that ‘the principle of perspective is a signifi-
cant factor in understanding the ways in which evidential markings are or are not used’ (Hintz,
Diane 2007: 60, cited by Nuckolls 2008: 70; see also Hintz 2007: 80–96).
80	 Rosaleen Howard
and roles of evidential and epistemic markers in language to be fully brought to
light. The entire range of these meanings and roles only becomes manifest in ex-
tended spontaneous discourse; elicited single utterances lacking, as they do, the
wider textual and referential context within which evidentiality is by nature in-
stantiated.
While working within the framework of speaker perspective, I shall use the
terminology of ‘evidential’ and ‘epistemic modality’ for the purposes of morpho-
logical description. I shall demonstrate that the function of the morphemes in
question has first and foremost to do with speaker perspective rather than with
‘evidentiality’ or ‘epistemicity’ in a strictly semantic definition of these terms; it is
largely by pragmatic entailment that evidentiality and epistemic modality serve to
constitute speaker perspective in the narrative event.
As to the current narrative, the storyteller, don Simón (a pseudonym), told
me the story when I visited him in his home in the summer of 2009. Simón lives
in Tantamayo, a district capital located in the vertiginous reaches of the Upper
Marañón valley, at an altitude of some 3,500 metres above sea level. Tantamayo
district belongs to the province of Huamalíes, department of Huánuco, central
highland Peru. Nowadays it can be reached by an eighteen-hour bus-ride from the
city of Lima. Huamalíes Quechua is a variety of the Quechua I sub-group (Torero
1964, 1974). In dialectological terms, it is closely related to Ancash Quechua
(Parker 1976a; Julca 2009); Southern Conchucos Quechua (Ancash) invites close
comparison, as evidenced by the work of Daniel Hintz (2006, 2008) and Diane
Hintz (2007); Weber’s (1996) work on Huallaga Quechua (Huánuco) is also es-
pecially relevant.7 The present study represents a follow-up to my previous work
on the oral traditions of the region, which led to the compilation of an exten-
sive tape-recorded corpus of Huamalíes Quechua narratives told by a range of
storytellers, which has been transcribed and discussed in previous publications
(Howard-Malverde 1988, 1989, 1990, 1994).8
7.  Dictionaries of Ancash and Huánuco Quechua also support research on the Huamalíes vari-
ety, see Parker (1976b), Carranza Romero (2003), and Weber et al. (1998).
8.  The fieldwork was carried out in the 1980s in association with the French ‘Tantamayo-
Piruru’ archaeological project, based at the Institut Français des Études Andines in Lima, led by
the late Elisabeth Bonnier and Catherine Rozenberg; then again in 1999 and 2009. In 2011, the
tape-recorded corpus in question was digitized and housed with the Archive of the Indigenous
Languages of Latin America (AILLA) at the University of Texas at Austin.
	 Shifting voices, shifting worlds	 81
2.	 The grammaticalization of speaker perspective in Quechua
Speaker perspective, as defined above, is marked in Quechua discourse by a range
of correlating grammatical features, characterizable in general terms as follows:
(i) a series of enclitics which mark evidentiality and/or epistemic modality; (ii)
tense-aspect marking; (iii) demonstratives that mark proximal and non-proximal
spatio-temporal relations; (iv) reported speech. The features under (i) and (ii) may
vary slightly in their semantic traits from one dialect to another; the way in which
they are realized in Huamalíes Quechua will be specifically examined further on.
In tracing the shifts in speaker perspective throughout a piece of narrative dis-
course, as indexed by the types of formal feature enumerated above, I shall work
with a distinction between ‘personal’ and ‘non-personal’ stance. In this respect,
those levels of discourse where speaker subjectivity is present may be differentiated
from those where speaker subjectivity is absent. This distinction is underpinned
by ‘subjectivity in language’, as elaborated by Benveniste (1966b) and defined by
Lyons (1982) as follows: “the way in which natural languages, in their structure
and their normal manner of operation, provide for the locutionary agent’s expres-
sion of himself and of his own attitudes and beliefs” (Lyons 1982: 102; also see
Howard-Malverde 1988: 17; Mushin, 2001). Of relevance, firstly, is Benveniste’s
(1966c: 237–250) distinction between ‘histoire’ and ‘discours’ as two “levels of
utterance” (plans d’énonciation) whereby histoire is characterized by its lack of
presence of a speaking subject: “it is a matter of the presentation of events that
happened at a certain moment in time without any involvement on the part of
the narrator” (Benveniste 1966c: 239; my translation), while discours is constituted
by and through the speaking subject’s deictic relation to the world around him/
her.9 Secondly, I bring to bear Jakobson’s (1963) distinction between ‘speech event’
and ‘narrated event,’ in reference to which Nuckolls (2008 and this volume) like-
wise develops her framework of ‘speaking self’ (of the speech event) and ‘speaking
other’ (of the narrated event). Thirdly, Bakhtin’s (1981) differentiation, established
in his study of discourse in the novel, between the ‘world representing’ the text
and the ‘world represented’ in the text, is of relevance for tracking speaker subjec-
tivity in oral narrative performance at both the thematic and grammatical levels
(Howard-Malverde 1990). Huamalíes Quechua storytellers also mark a differ-
ence between personal and non-personal perspective in narrative discourse, as
9.  In the case of French, upon which Benveniste largely based his argument, the histoire vs.
discours distinction amounts to differences between written and oral language; in the case of
Quechua and other Amerindian languages, whose evidential and tense-aspect systems have
evolved in the oral medium, the grammatical features of different oral narrative genres can be
seen to constitute, and be constituted by, an analogous distinction.
82	 Rosaleen Howard
suggested by the genre terminology they use and their definitions of the terms.
As I was told by the narrators whom I consulted, the key feature of the ‘kwintu’
(‘tale’, from Spanish cuento), typified by non-personal stance, is that it unfolds in
a time and space outside the narrator’s own life experience. As soon as the action
is brought onto local territory, with landmarks named through use of toponyms,
the genre is defined as a ‘leyenda’ (‘legend’, a loan from Spanish) and grammatical
features reveal a personal stance.10
Speaker subjectivity — and its evidential, epistemic, and deictic correlates —
play a central role in shaping the Quechua traditional narrative genre; the style of
the latter is neither de-personalized nor monologic. Indeed, the distinction be-
tween storytelling and everyday conversation is not a hard and fast one in Andean
verbal culture. As a number of scholars (such as Howard-Malverde 1989; Allen
1993–1994; Mannheim and van Vleet 1998) have shown, on the one hand, stories
may crop up in the course of conversation and, on the other hand, story perfor-
mances may be punctuated by genre-shifting, whereby narrators, at certain points
in the narrative event ‘break out of performance’ (Hymes 1981) and revert to con-
versational commentary directed at the audience. While there are distinct gram-
matical markers that keep conversational and traditional narrative separate on the
formal level, as I shall summarize below in relation to Huamalíes Quechua, the
way in which the genre boundaries blur (Howard-Malverde 1989) is a key feature
of storytelling performance with implications for the operation of evidentiality
and epistemic modality.
It is also important to recognize the primordial role of dialogue in structur-
ing Quechua oral narratives. As Beier, Michael and Sherzer (2002) observe, “dia-
logue is one of the defining features of Native South American… discourse” (cited
by Nuckolls 2008, n. 3). Indeed, the storytelling performances in my Huamalíes
corpus suggest that ‘constructed dialogue’ (Tannen 1995) in the form of reported
speech (rather than narrative as such, conceived as the monologic discourse of a
single author-narrator) is the prior discursive mechanism by which the story gets
told. This dialogue largely unfolds between the protagonists of the narrated events,
the narrator giving them voice. Dialogue may also occur between narrator and
audience, in ‘breakouts’ from performance as previously described. Whatever the
case, dialogue allows for a subjective speaker perspective to be embedded within
the narrated events (or perspective of a ‘speaking other’, in terms of Nuckolls 2008,
this volume), and this in turn is constituted by the use of appropriate evidential,
epistemic, and tense-aspect marking.
10.  For further discussion of the cognitive connection between landscape, the situation of the
storytelling performance, and discursive features of the story text, see Howard-Malverde (1989,
1990, 1994) and Howard (2002b).
	 Shifting voices, shifting worlds	 83
I have outlined the parameters characterizing speaker perspective in Quechua
narrative performance. On the one hand, perspective is encoded by enclitics with
evidential and/or epistemic modal function. On the other, these enclitics correlate
with tense/aspect markers with which they may or may not co-occur in the utter-
ance and which in some cases have developed evidential (personal v. non-personal
knowledge) extensions of meaning. I shall now turn to a description of how these
parameters are formally articulated in Huamalíes Quechua grammar, before pro-
ceeding to the analysis of the text.
Table 1 lists the evidential (information source) and epistemic modal (vali-
dational) enclitics used in the Quechua of Huamalíes, with an indication as to
whether they encode personal or non-personal speaker perspective; where a suffix
appears in both columns, this indicates that the speaker perspective criterion is
neutral, or non-pertinent, in that case.11
Table 1.  The evidential and epistemic modal enclitics of Huamalíes Quechua
personal speaker
perspective
non-personal speaker
perspective
(i) personal knowledge (EV.PERS);
(ii) affirmative validation (VALID.AFF)
-mi
non-personal knowledge (EV.NPERS); -shi
negative assertion (NEG) -su -su
‘co-constructed knowledge; affirmation’
(EV.CO-CONSTR.KNOWL.AFF)
-chaa
‘co-constructed knowledge; negation’
(EV.CO-CONSTR.KNOWL.NEG)
-taaku
conjectural (CONJ) -chir
speculative (SPEC) -suraa
11.  The abbreviations used in this article follow the Leipzig Glossing Rules as far as these provide
for Quechua grammatical categories, and are as follows: 1SG 1st person singular; 2SG 2nd person
singular; 3SG 3rd person singular; ABL ablative; AG agentive; ATTRIB attributive; CAUS causative;
CISLOC cislocative; COM comitative; COMP comparative; COMPL completive; CONJ conjectural;
CONJUNC conjunctive; CONN connective; COR co-reference; DESID desiderative; DIST distal; DUR
durative; EV.CO-CONSTR.KNOWL.AFF co-constructed knowledge affirmative evidential; EV.CO-
CONSTR.KNOWL.NEG co-constructed knowledge negative evidential; EV.NPERS non-personal
knowledge evidential; EV.PERS personal knowledge evidential; EXHORT exhortative; FOC focus;
GEN genitive; IMP imperative; INDF indefinite; ITER iterative; LIM limitative; LOC locative; NEG
negative; OBJ object; PL plural; POSS possessive; PRF perfect tense; PROG progressive; PROH pro-
hibitive; PROX proximal; PST past tense; PURP purposive; Q interrogative; REFL reflexive; REP.PST
reportive past; SG singular; SPEC speculative; SUDD ‘sudden action’; SWRF switch reference; TOP
topicalizer; VALID.AFF affirmative validational.
84	 Rosaleen Howard
The evidential -mi participates in two paradigms: (i) it marks ‘personal knowledge’
by contrast with -shi ‘non-personal knowledge’ (‘voice of the speaking self’ versus
‘voice of the speaking other’ in Nuckolls’ terms (2008; this volume)); (ii) it affirms
a proposition by contrast with the negative assertion marker -su.
In Huamalíes Quechua, the evidential suffixes -mi and -shi correlate with two
tense/aspect suffixes; in this respect, evidentiality and tense/aspect distribution
constitute defining features of the conversational versus the traditional narrative
genres. Thus -mi may co-occur with -rqa- (past tense, personal perspective) while
-shi may co-occur with -naa (reportive past, non-personal perspective).12 In ex-
ample (1) the speaker is recalling a situation in the past that was part of his per-
sonal life experience; we note the co-occurrence of -mi and -rqa-:
	 (1)	 Virgen-pa	 hutin-chuu-mi	 ka-rqa-n	 vaca-kuna
		 Virgin-GEN name-LOC-EV.PERS be-PST-3SG cow-PL
		 ‘the (community owned) cows were in the name of the Virgin’
Example (2) is an extract from a commonly told traditional narrative, where the
narrated events are outside the speaker’s personal experience; we note the co-oc-
currence of -shi and -naa:
	 (2)	 unay-shi	 hambruna ka-naa
		 old days-EV.NPERS famine	 be-REP.PST
		 ‘in olden times there was a famine’
		 Say-shi	 warmi	 ishkay wawa-yuq	 ka-naa
		 DIST-EV.NPERS woman two	 child-ATTRIB be-REP.PST
		 ‘so then there was a woman with two children’
12.  The personal perspective function of -rqa- is not ubiquitous in the dialects of Quechua.
However, a similar ‘personal knowledge’ trait for -rqa- is reported for Southern Conchucos
Quechua (Hintz, Diane 2007); in Bolivian Quechua of Northern Potosí, -rqa- is systematically
used as a ‘direct past’ of personal experience, in contrast to -sqa- which is classed as ‘indirect
past’ of non-personal experience (Howard, forthcoming). On the other hand, -rqa- marked
the reported past of traditional narrative in the Quechua of the early seventeenth century
Huarochiri manuscript (Dedenbach-Salazar Sáenz 1997). It seems reasonable to hypothesize
that the ‘personal knowledge’ feature of -rqa- in some contemporary dialects has evolved as an
epistemic extension, influenced by the -mi/-shi distinction in the evidential system; however,
further research would be needed to confirm this. In its function as reportive past in Huamalíes,
-naa, is the semantic equivalent of -sqa- in Bolivian and Southern Peruvian varieties (for the
latter see Faller 2002, 2004; for further functions of central Peruvian Quechua -naa see, for
example, Adelaar (1977), Hintz, Diane (2007: 169–174), and Hintz, Daniel (2008, Section 3.2.3).
The cognate of -sqa- in Huamalíes Quechua (-shqa-) functions as a perfect participle that forms
a perfect tense in combination with the auxiliary kay (‘to be’) and occurs in the personalized
mode of discourse (Howard-Malverde 1988).
	 Shifting voices, shifting worlds	 85
In Huamalíes Quechua, there is no evidence that the marking of personal or non-
personal stance on every utterance is obligatory (see Adelaar’s 1997 discussion
on this issue); rather, the data show that both the evidentials -mi and -shi and
the tense/aspect markers -rqa- and -naa have ‘evidential scope’ (Valenzuela 2003)
across whole segments of the discourse; once speaker perspective has been estab-
lished, these markers may not recur until there is a shift in perspective, at which
point other markers indicate this shift. Examples of this pattern will be seen in the
text. Neither is it essential for -mi/-rqa- and -shi/-naa systematically to co-occur
in speech; examples (1) and (2) represent a typical pattern, but one which is not
strictly adhered to in practice. In a given utterance, tense marking may do the job
of establishing speaker perspective without evidential marking being present. In
the story, for example, we shall see how -naa marks non-personal perspective for
sustained stretches of the discourse, with only intermittent co-occurrence of -shi.
In Huamalíes Quechua, in addition to -mi and -su, there are two further sen-
tence suffixes with affirmative and negative functions, respectively; these mark
‘co-constructed knowledge’, -chaa in the affirmative and -taaku in the negative
and, in so far as they characterize source of information, may be considered to
be evidentials.13 Examples (3) to (6) were elicited from don Simón during field-
work in Tantamayo in 2009, when I asked him to explain the difference in usage
between these two sets of suffixes. These examples also serve to illustrate the con-
jectural -chir and the interrogative mood marker -ku. In giving me the examples,
don Simón imagined a dialogue between two people; I refer to these two positions
as ‘speaker’ and ‘addressee’. In example (3) the speaker, referring to the fire, asks a
question:
	 (3)	 quñu- yka-	 n-	 raa-	 ku?
		 heat-	 PROG- 3SG- DUR- Q
		 ‘is it still hot?’
13.  My interpretation of -chaa, assisted by don Simón’s metalinguistic explanations, is rein-
forced by the work of Daniel Hintz (2006), who has attested -chaa in neighbouring Southern
Conchucos Quechua. Hintz describes -chaa as ‘co-constructed shared knowledge’, with exam-
ples from naturally-occurring conversations in which -chaa occurs at moments in the exchange
where knowledge emerges from a growing consensus of understanding between the speakers;
in this respect -chaa can be seen to perform a key grammatical function in the constitution of
social interaction. I am also grateful to William Hanks for highlighting the shared knowledge
principle that seems to be at work in -chaa, during the LSA 2010 panel discussion. Our knowl-
edge of the geographical distribution of this suffix awaits further research. It should be noted
that Hintz (2006) does not attribute evidential value to -taaku. See Palmer (1986: 76–77) for dis-
cussion of the ways in which both speaker’s and addressee’s knowledge are taken into account
in the description of evidential systems in other languages of the world.
86	 Rosaleen Howard
In (4), the addressee states that the fire is not hot any more. Speaking from pre-
existing knowledge of the fact he marks his utterance with -mi and -su:
	 (4)	 mana- mi	 quñu- n-	 na-	 su
		 not-	 VALID.AFF- heat-	 3SG COMPL- NEG
		 ‘it is not hot any more’
In (5), the addressee raises the possibility that the fire may still be hot, marked by
use of the conjectural suffix -chir:
	 (5)	 aywa- y	 yata-	 mu-	 y	 quñu- yka-	 n-	 raa-	 chir
		 go-	 IMP touch- CISLOC- IMP heat-	 PROG- 3SG DUR- CONJ
		 ‘go and touch it, it may still be hot’
In (6), the addressee, having gone to feel the fire, responds that it is no longer hot,
this being established as the outcome of a co-operative enquiry as to the facts be-
tween the two parties in the interaction:
	 (6)	 quñu- n-	 taaku
		 heat-	 3SG EV.CO-CONSTR.KNOWL.NEG
		 ala-	 n-	 chaa
		 cold- 3SG EV.CO-CONSTR.KNOWL.AFF
		 ‘it is not hot, it is cold’
I shall now proceed to the analysis of the story told to me by don Simón, which illus-
trates the workings of evidentiality and epistemic modality in Huamalíes Quechua.
3.	 Synopsis of the tale of the “Encantadora” (‘Enchantress’) by don Simón,
Tantamayo, Huamalíes province, Huánuco department, Peru. Narrated
to Rosaleen Howard, September 4, 2009.
The narrator begins by defining his story as a ‘kwintu’ and specifying that the events
took place on territory over beyond Huancarán (where his own family come from).
The tale tells of the relationship that develops between a man, with wife and
family in ‘this world’, and a spirit woman who inhabits the mountainside (‘other
world’) where the man chooses to clear a plot of land for cultivation. In doing this,
he had not known about the spirit woman’s presence or the fact that it was her land
and that he should ask her permission to use it.
As the tale unfolds, the narrated protagonists of this world (the man and his
wife) go through different phases of gradually coming to understand what is go-
ing on. The mountain woman first of all manifests herself through sound. The
man hears musical noises in the hills and cannot at first discern their origin. Each
	 Shifting voices, shifting worlds	 87
time this occurs, he returns home to his wife and tells of his experience. The wife
conjectures that it may be a mountain spirit and performs medicinal cures on her
husband to counteract any harmful effects of this other world contact.
Eventually the man comes face to face with the mountain woman. She offers
him gold which he takes home to his wife and family. He continues to work on
mountain woman’s land and to increase his material wealth in this world in return.
In time, mountain woman asks him to remain with her in her world. At first,
she allows him to come and go back to visit his wife, taking more gold each time.
Later, she refuses to let him return home. The man lies to his wife about why he
will no longer come home and says that the children should visit him instead.
The children go to visit on the mountainside and only find traces of their fa-
ther’s presence (warm embers in the fire, piles of gold which they take home). They
never see him again and eventually even the traces of his presence disappear alto-
gether. The wife in this world retains the wealth accumulated from her husband’s
relationship with the mountain woman.
The narrator concludes by re-asserting personal knowledge of the geographi-
cal locations where the events took place.
In the tale of the ‘Enchantress’, growth of awareness and acquisition of knowl-
edge thus constitute the very theme of the story. For this reason, a grammatical
analysis of the text provides us with a particularly complex display of the semantic
and pragmatic roles of evidentiality and epistemic modality in Quechua social
interaction.
4.	 Method of text transcription and analysis
The narrative has been transcribed as comprising a total of 221 sentences. As a rule
of thumb, a sentence has been taken to be a unit containing one finite verb, but
sometimes more. The narrative has been divided into 12 sections based on inter-
related criteria of content and discursive features. Each section contains a coherent
narrative sequence, defined by opening and closing phrases and sequencers. Each
section is shown to be characterized by particular grammatical features of evi-
dentiality and/or tense-aspect that serve to constitute speaker perspective. These
features also support the functional role of each section in the unfolding of the
storyline, and tie in with criteria of backgrounding or foregrounding of the action.
The most striking feature of the narrative is the way in which reported speech
moves the story along. Quotative phrases composed of switch reference (SWRF)
or co-reference (COR) on the verb ‘to say’ (eg. ‘ni-pti-n-qa’ say-SWRF-3SG-TOP
‘when he/she said that’; ‘ni-r-qa’ say-COR-TOP ‘when he/she said that’) provide
narrative ‘hinges’ that chain events together and propel the action forward.
88	 Rosaleen Howard
In the illustrative utterances below, following Jakobson’s (1963) model and
taking a lead from Nuckolls (2008) with regard to the applications of this model
to Quechua, the narrative as a whole is taken to be a Speech Event, for our pur-
poses defined as a ‘first order’ speech event (Es1), whose locutionary agent is the
author-narrator, or Speech Event Participant (Ps).14 The storyline consists on the
one hand of the Narrated Events (En) uttered by (Ps) largely in non-personal mode,
recounting the deeds of the story’s protagonists or Narrated Event Participants
(Pn). On the other hand, the storyline is punctuated by numerous reported speech
utterances by the same (Pn) protagonists. We shall designate these utterances ‘sec-
ond order’ speech events (Es2). Out of the total of 221 sentences that make up
the story text, 104 are constituted as reported speech, that is, as (Es2) in our nota-
tion. The author-narrator (Ps) shifts from his perspective as voice of a ‘speaking
other’, and allows the action to unfold from the perspectives of the narrated par-
ticipants (Pn): man, wife, mountain woman, man and wife’s children, whose voices
are all constituted from the perspective of ‘speaking self’. The Pn perspectives are
expressed through musings, conjectures, expressions of opinion, decisions, and
expressions of intention as the narrated protagonists speak to each other, or think
to themselves.15
These ‘second order’ Speech Events embedded within the Narrated Events
belong to the level of discours rather than that of histoire in Benveniste’s (1966c)
terms. The embedded relationship between Narrated Event and ‘second order’
Speech Event, and the roles of the participants in each, can be schematically rep-
resented as follows:
		 Ps (Es1 { En [ Pn [ Es2 ] Pn ] En } Es1 ) Ps
According to this representation, the voice of the author-narrator (Ps) as speaking
self is heard in those few sections of the discourse where he speaks from personal
perspective, for example in leading into and out of performance mode at the be-
ginning and end of the narrative, and at rare moments in the course of the nar-
ration where he “break[s] out from performance” (Hymes 1981). These sections
are contained in round brackets ( ) and designated as first order speech event ut-
terances (Es1). For the greater part of the narration, the Ps speaks with the voice of
14.  The notation proposed here is summarized as follows: Es1 =‘first order’ Speech Event; Es2 =
‘second order’ Speech Event (reported speech); Ps = Speech Event Participant (author-narrator);
En = Narrated Event; Pn = Narrated Event Participant.
15.  These words and inner speech can also be seen as ‘constructed dialogue’, to use Tannen’s
(1995) phrase. Tannen makes the point that ‘reported speech’ is rarely, if ever, a verbatim re-
production of what the reportee ‘actually’ said, as the term might lead us to believe; rather, it is
revealing of the standpoint of the reporter who thus conveys the ‘other’s’ imputed words.
	 Shifting voices, shifting worlds	 89
a ‘speaking other’ in recounting the narrated events (En), contained in braces { }.
Embedded within the narrated events are the direct speech utterances of the nar-
rated protagonists (Pn), or second order speech events, contained within square
brackets [ ] and notated as (Es2).
Whereas the En utterances are marked for non-personal speaker perspective,
most typically by the reportive past -naa and evidential enclitic -shi, the Es2 ut-
terances contain grammatical features of personalized speaker perspective (see
Table 1, column 1).
In the extracts to be analyzed, those parts of speech that carry evidential or
epistemic modal value, and are thus of interest for the present discussion, have
been underlined.
In the article’s next section, 5, I look at just a few sentences from the narrative.
I indicate which Section of the narrative the sentences come from, how many sen-
tences there are in the Section as a whole, and give the numbers of the sentences
presented for analysis in the left-hand margin.
5.	 The tale of ‘The Enchantress’: illustrative utterances
Section 1 spans sentences 1 to 48, of which the first two are as follows:
	 1.	 (Sawra-qa ni-shun	 Encantadora	kwintu-ta)
		 (then-TOP	say-EXHORT Encantadora tale-OBJ)
		 So let’s tell the tale of the Enchantress
	 2.	 (Say	 kwintu {washa	 Huancarán-chuu mas	 washa	 waqta-n-chuu
		 (DIST tale	 {beyond Huancarán-LOC	 more beyond back-3SG.POSS-LOC
		 Qipaasin	castillo ka-q	 laadu-n-chuu	 ka-naa	 huk campesino
		 Qipaasin castle	 be-AG side-3SG.POSS-LOC be-REP.PST a	 peasant man
		 wayi-yuq	 warmi-yuq	 wambra-yuq	 uusha-yuq})
		 house-ATTRIB wife-ATTRIB child-ATTRIB sheep-ATTRIB})
		 That tale, beyond Huancarán, further beyond, behind, beside where
Qipaasin castle is, there was once a peasant man with a house, a wife, a child,
and some sheep
In the first two utterances, the narrator states twice that this is a ‘kwintu.’ In ut-
terance 2, he moves into non-personal narrative mode by marking the main verb
with reportive past -naa. No evidential enclitics are used. This is unusual in the
Huamalíes Quechua ‘kwintu’, where the opening utterance most typically contains
both -naa and -shi. My assumption is that in this case, the explicit stating of genre
(say kwintu ‘that tale’) is sufficient for the speaker not to feel the need to emphasize
non-personal perspective by also marking it with -shi.
90	 Rosaleen Howard
In the first Section, across a total of 48 sentences in En mode, each finite verb
is marked by the REP.PST -naa (47 occurrences in 48 sentences). -shi is not used in
the non-personal stance until the end of the Section, as we shall see.
In this same first Section, there are 17 occurrences of reported speech. This is
to say that 17 of the 48 narrative units identified as sentences have Narrated Speech
Events [Es2] embedded within them. For example, each time the man hears a mu-
sical sound in the hills, he wonders to himself what it might be, as in sentence 16:
	 16.	 {[Pi-taa	 canta-n]	 ni-naa	 [pi-taa,	 toca-n
		 {[who-CONJUNC sing-3SG] say-REP.PST [who-CONJUNC play-3SG
		 guitarra-ta] ni-naa}
		 guitar-OBJ]	 say-REP.PST}
		 ‘Who sings?’ he said, ‘who is it? They play guitar,’ he said.
And each time the man returns home there is a dialogue between him and his wife
in which he reports on his recent experience using present perfect tense, and she
uses conjecturals as she tries to judge what is going on, as in sentence 27:
	 27.	 {[Wiya-shka-:	 musico ka-q-ta	 canta-q-ta-nuu,	 say	 yaku
		 {[Hear-PRF-1SG music	 be-AG-OBJ sing-AG-OBJ-COMP DIST water
		 shikwa-mu-q-chuu]	 ni-pti-n-qa	 [qam may
		 fall-CISLOC-AG-LOC] say-SWRF-3SG-TOP [you	 maybe
		 qishya-na-yka-nki-chir	 say-nuu	 wiya-paku-shka-nki]
		 fall sick-DESID-PROG-2SG-CONJ DIST-COMP hear-DISTR-PRF-2SG]
		 ni-naa	 warmi-n-qa}
		 say-REP.PST wife-3SG.POSS-TOP}
		 When he said ‘I have heard a sound of music like someone singing, in the
waterfall,’ ‘maybe you are getting sick, that’s why you have been hearing
things,’ his wife said.
We see how conjecture is marked in the personalized speaker perspective of the
Narrated Participant, while the non-personal perspective of the author-narrator is
maintained by use of -naa in the Narrated Event frame. We also note that in the
man’s assertion “I have heard a sound of music”, there is no assertive marker at this
stage in the story. However, when the experience is repeated on his return to the
hill, he reports again to his wife as in sentence 43:
	 43.	 {Warmi-n-ta	 yapay willa-n	 [yapay-pis	 wiya-shka-:-mi]
		 {wife-3SG.POSS-OBJ again	 tell-3SG [again-FOC hear-PRF-1SG-EV.PERS]
		 ni-r}
		 say-COR}
		 He told his wife again, ‘I have heard (the sound) again,’ saying.
	 Shifting voices, shifting worlds	 91
This time, with the repetition of the experience of hearing the sound, the speaker
has the confidence and sense of commitment to use the personal-knowledge evi-
dential -mi.
Throughout this section, before the origin of the strange sound becomes clear,
we note a transition from wonderment on the part of the man, through conjecture
on the part of the wife, to gradual conviction of the man that he is indeed hearing
something, and we note the distribution of -chir and -mi accordingly. Conjecture
marked with -chir is based on protagonists’ judgment of the events in terms of
cultural knowledge: shepherds are known to play instruments when out on the
hills with their animals (as the man at first surmises); contact with the untamed
forces of nature are known to cause sickness in humans (as the wife keeps conjec-
turing). Assertion marked with -mi is based on evidence that something is indeed
going on, and, as we shall see in later Sections, is based on the conviction of the
speaker with regard to the facts asserted. But we also need to note that, as shown
by sentence 27, -mi is not obligatory. Rather, its use, as in sentence 43, makes more
explicit that an assertion is based on speaker’s conviction of the facts.
At the end of the Section, in utterance 48, for the first time the author-narrator
uses the non-personal evidential -shi to qualify an assertion, as follows:
	 48.	 {Say-chuu	aru-yka-pti-n	 (na-shi
		 {DIST-LOC work-PROG-SWRF-3SG (filler-EV.NPERS
		 Luis	huti-n	 ka-naa)	 say	 runa-pa	 huk
		 Luis name-3SG.POSS be-REP.PST) DIST man-GEN a
		 warmi-pa	 voz-ni-n	 [Luis]	ni-n}
		 woman-GEN voice-CONN-3SG.POSS [Luis] say-3SG}
		 While he was working there, what’s it, that man’s name was Luis, a woman’s
voice said ‘Luis’.
Here the ( ) mark an interjection by the author-narrator, who breaks out of per-
formance in order to give the listener a key piece of information necessary for
understanding the next event in the story: the man’s name. As he delivers this
piece of information he adopts non-personal perspective by marking the utter-
ance with non-personal evidential -shi. When the spirit woman speaks his name,
the man is getting closer to finding out her identity, although he still does not see
her. The spirit woman’s interpellation of the human protagonist by his name is a
turning point in the story. In Viveiros de Castro’s (2006: 562) terms, as discussed
at the opening of this article, by becoming the spirit woman’s ‘second person’, the
narrated protagonist’s human subjectivity is overpowered and he begins to pass
irrevocably over to ‘her side’. His gradual realization, and that of his wife, of this
process of ontological transformation, is staked out in the distribution of correlat-
ing evidential, epistemic modality, and tense/aspect markers in the text.
92	 Rosaleen Howard
The narrative proceeds into Section 2 (sentences 49–62) with the actions of the
narrative events still marked with -naa and concomitant occasional occurrences of
-shi. In the non-personal mode, at this unfolding stage of the story, evidentiality is
mainly evoked by the tense-aspect marker. Sentence 61 provides further examples
of the use of conjecture in the personal perspective mode, as the wife continues to
attribute her husband’s experiences to contact with the ‘mountain’ (other-worldly
reality); the non-personal mode narrated events are marked by -naa:
	 61.	 {Say-pita-qa	 warmi-n-qa	 llaki-ku-n
		 {DIST-ABL-TOP woman-3SG.POSS-TOP be sad-REFL-3SG
		 [runa-:	 qishya-n-chir	 wiya-paku-n-chir	 pasa-chir
		 [man-1SG.POSS be sick-3SG-CONJ hear-DISTR-3SG-CONJ earth-CONJ
		 sari-n	 hirka-chir	 burla-ku-n]	 ni-r-qa
		 grab-3SG mountain-CONJ joke-REFL-3SG] say-COR-TOP
		 shuqpi-si-naa	 hampi-si-naa}
		 rub-CAUS-REP.PST cure-CAUS-REP.PST}
		 After that his wife was sad and saying, ‘my man may be sick, he may be
hearing things, maybe the earth has grabbed him, maybe the mountain is
playing tricks on him,’ she had him have a medicinal rub, she had him cured.
Sentence 62 exemplifies use of the ‘co-constructed knowledge’ evidentials (affir-
mative -chaa and negative -taaku) arising in the context of the traditional healer
drawing the conclusion, having performed a medicinal cure, that there is nothing
wrong with the man:
	 62.	 {Hampi-q-ni-n-qa	 [mana-chaa
		 {Heal-AG-CONN-3SG.POSS-TOP [not-EV.CO-CONSTR.KNOWL.AFF
		 ima	 paasa-sh-taaku	 sawra alli-chaa]
		 INDF happen-PRF-EV.CO-CONSTR.KNOWL.NEG so good-EV.CO-CONSTR.
KNOWL.AFF]
		 ni-naa}
		 say-REP.PST}
		 His healer said, ‘nothing at all has happened so he is fine’.
Rather than using -mi (EV.PERS) and -su (NEG), the healer (Pn) uses -chaa and
-taaku, marking a state of affairs of which he and his addressees (man and wife as
narrated protagonists) co-operatively become aware in the process of interaction.
In Section 4 (sentences 76–86), the storyline develops without major incident.
As a precaution, the husband takes his wife or his dog for company when he goes
to work on the mountainside. While in their company, there is no sign of the
mountain woman. The Section is marked by an initial -shi (non-personal stance)
and thereafter all finite verbs of the Narrative Events are in narrative present. This
	 Shifting voices, shifting worlds	 93
is to say that the scope of the initial -shi covers all ten utterances of the section, and
the backgrounded nature of the content of this sequence requires no evidentiality
in the tense-aspect marking either (sentences 76 and 77 illustrate).
	 76.	 {Say-shi	 huk tiempo-chuu aywa-n ishka-n-na
		 {DIST-EV.NPERS one	time-LOC	 go-3SG	 two-3SG.POSS-COMPL
		 warmi-n-wan}
		 wife-3SG.POSS-COM}
		 Then one time the two of them went, he and his wife.
	 77.	 {Warmi-n-wan	 aywa-pti-n-qa	 ima-pis	 ka-n-su}
		 {Wife-3SG.POSS-COM go-SWRF-3SG-TOP INDF-FOC be-3SG-NEG}
		 When he went with his wife there was nothing (there).
The start of Section 5 (sentences 87–117) is signalled by the conjuction ‘saypitaqa’
(‘and after that…’) and the main verbs of the opening utterances (sentences 87 and
88) are again marked by -naa. The man goes back to the mountain alone, and as a
result the contact with the ‘other world’ woman is renewed (sentence 89).
	 87.	 {Say-pita-qa	 huk día-chuu-qa	 allqu-ta	 apa-naa-su}
		 {DIST-ABL-TOP one	day-LOC-TOP dog-OBJ take-REP.PST-NEG}
		 After that, one day he did not take the dog.
	 88.	 {Kiki-lla-n	 aywa-naa}
		 {Self-LIM-3SG go-REP.PST}
		 He went just by himself.
	 89.	 {Say-chuu	aru-yka-pti-n-qa	 [Luis]	ni-n	 yapay
		 {DIST-LOC work-PROG-SWRF-3SG-TOP [Luis] say-3SG again
		 qaya-ski-n}
		 call-SUDD-3SG}
		 As he was working there, (the mountain woman) said ‘Luis,’ she called out
again.
Section 5 constitutes the core sequence of the tale, in which the face-to-face in-
teraction between the man and the mountain woman finally occurs, taking the
shape of a conversation between them and the giving and receiving of gold. In
this sequence, as a means to heighten the drama of the storyline, the narrative
event verbs are largely marked by narrative present. Concomitant with the absence
of reportive past -naa, of the non-personal perspective mode, there is increased
presence of the non-personal, or ‘speaking other’, evidential -shi (13 occurrences
over 30 utterances; the greatest density of occurrences of -shi across all the nar-
rative sequences). This is also the Section of the tale as a whole with the highest
proportion of direct speech exchanges between the narrated protagonists (60% of
94	 Rosaleen Howard
the sentences in the Section). The ‘narrative’ genre moves ever closer to becoming
effective ‘dialogue’.
In Section 4, the storyline went through a phase where the presence of the
‘other world’ was not felt: when the man took his wife or dog with him to work on
the mountainside, -shi only occurred once and the verbs were in the narrative pres-
ent. By contrast, in Section 5, where the contact with the ‘other world’ intensifies,
the use of -shi increases proportionately. Thus, in this Section, the narrator takes
the greatest care to distance himself from the events he recounts; by use of -shi he
constitutes a non-personal speaker perspective, of ‘speaking other’ in Nuckolls’
(2008) terms. The contrast between Sections 4 and 5 can also be appreciated in
light of Viveiros de Castro’s (2006) observation that encounters between human
and other world protagonists always take place when the human goes alone into
the domain of the supernatural other.
Sentence 95, marked for narrator’s non-personal stance by -shi, reveals the
narrated protagonist’s growing awareness of what kind of being the mountain
woman is, in the utterance containing his inner thoughts, where EV.CO-CONSTR.
KNOWL.NEG -taaku occurs.16
	 95.	 {Ni-pti-n-shi	 [kay	warmi-ta-qa	 nunca-pis
		 {Say-SWRF-3SG-EV.NPERS [this woman-OBJ-TOP never-FOC
		 rika-shka-:-taaku]	 ni-r-qa	 [buenas tardes
		 see-PRF-1SG-EV.CO-CONSTR.KNOWL.NEG] say-COR-TOP [good	 afternoon
		 señora]	ni-n}
		 ma’am] say-3SG}
		 When she said that, ‘I have never seen this woman before,’ saying (to
himself), ‘good afternoon, ma’am,’ he said (to her).
In sentence 96, while the narrated event is marked by -shi, we find the mountain
woman’s response marked by the personal perspective suffix -mi as she asserts her
identity to the man.
	 96.	 {[Ama	 ni-ma-y-su	 nuqa mana-mi	 señora-su
		 {[PROH say-1SG.OBJ-IMP-NEG I	 NEG-EV.PERS married woman-NEG
		 ka-:	 señorita-mi	 ka-:]	 ni-n-shi}
		 be-1SG señorita-EV.PERS be-1SG] say-3SG-EV.NPERS}
		 ‘Do not say (‘ma’am’) to me I am not a married woman, I am a señorita,’ she
said.
16.  The ‘co-constructed shared knowledge’ meaning of evidential -taaku comes through in the
narrated protagonist’s inner speech, marking realization on his part of a state of affairs which he
had hitherto been struggling to comprehend.
	 Shifting voices, shifting worlds	 95
In 100–102 while the narrated event is marked by -shi, personal knowledge -mi
plays an important role in establishing that the substance mountain woman is of-
fering the man is gold.
	 100.	 {Say-shi	 [kay-ta	 muna-nki-ku] ni-n	 runa-ta
		 {DIST-EV.NPERS [PROX-OBJ want-2SG-Q]	 say-3SG man-OBJ
		 warmi}
		 woman}
		 So then, ‘do you want this?’ the woman said to the man.
	 101.	 {[Ima-taa]	 ni-pti-n	 [kay	 quri-mi]	 ni-n}
		 {[What-CONJUNC] say-SWRF-3SG [PROX gold-EV.PERS] say-3SG}
		 When he said, ‘what is it?’ ‘This is gold,’ she said.
	 102.	 {[Kay	 quri-mi]	 ni-pti-n-qa	 [nuqa ima-paa-raa
		 {[PROX gold-EV.PERS] say-SWRF-3SG-TOP [I	 what-PURP-CONJUNC
		 apa-shaa	 quri-ta-qa]	 ni-n}
		 take-1SG.FUT gold-OBJ-TOP] say-3SG}
		 When she said, ‘this is gold,’ ‘so what shall I take the gold for?’ he said
We see how in this and the previous sequence, the assertions made by the moun-
tain woman regarding her identity and the identity of the gold (lines 96, 101 and
102), which are central to the tale’s global meaning, are contained within the nar-
rated speech events and marked with -mi. That is, they are asserted from a ‘speak-
ing self’ perspective delegated to the narrated protagonist by the author-narrator,
while the latter retains a ‘speaking other’ perspective through use of -shi (line 96
ninshi ‘she said’, and line 100 sayshi ‘so then’). In terms of Viveiros de Castro’s
(2006) argument, the mountain woman’s power discursively to inhabit a non-
human subject position in her interaction with a human addressee, will lure him
irrevocably over to her world. A shift from -shi to -mi not only marks a shift from
‘speaking other’ to ‘speaking self’; in cosmological terms, it also signals a shift in
the locus of utterance from ‘this world’ to ‘other world’.
In Section 7 (sentences 137–167), the mountain woman begins to put pres-
sure on the man to stay living with her in her world. In sentence 145, in mountain
woman’s speech, uttered from her speaker perspective, we find a use of -mi with
illocutionary extension to express threat, as also described by Nuckolls (2008):
	 145.	 {[Ima-taa	 muna-yka-nki	 doña]	 ni-pti-n-qa
		 {[What-CONJUNC want-PROG-2SG ma’am] say-SWRF-3SG-TOP
		 [kay	 chakra-:-chuu	 muru-r-qa	 nuqa-wan-mi
		 [PROX field-1SG.POSS-LOC sow-COR-TOP I-COM-EV.PERS
		 ta-nki	 mana-qa mana-mi	 alli-su	 ka-nki
		 live-2SG.FUT not-TOP	 not-EV.PERS good-NEG be-2SG.FUT
96	 Rosaleen Howard
		 aw	wanu-nki-mi]	 ni-n-shi}
		 yes die-2SG.FUT-EV.PERS] say-3SG-EV.NPERS}
		 When he said, ‘What do you want, ma’am?’ ‘Here in my field sowing your
crops you will live with me, if not you will not be good and indeed you will
die,’ she said.
In the following sentence, 146, the author-narrator breaks out of performance to
emphasize in his own voice the abrupt and threatening way in which the mountain
woman had spoken. The Spanish phrase ‘de frente’ represents a code-mix, which
may also be taken as indicative of the personal stance adopted here:
	 146.	 (De	 frente ni-ski-n	 warmi-qa)
		 (Straight up	 say-SUDD-3SG woman-TOP)
		 The woman spoke to him straight up.
In response to mountain woman’s threat, the man defends himself by pointing out
that he has a wife and child at home. His use of EV.CO-CONSTR.KNOWL.AFF -chaa is
indicative of the way in which he is supplying her with information of which she
may not have been previously aware, as a means to try and ward off her threaten-
ing proposal.
	 147.	 {Ni-pti-n	 [nuqa-qa warmi-yuq-chaa
		 {say-SWRF-3SG [I-TOP	 wife-ATTRIB-EV.CO-CONSTR.KNOWL.AFF
		 ka-:	 suri-yuq-chaa	 ka-:
		 be-1SG son-ATTRIB-EV.CO-CONSTR.KNOWL.AFF be-1SG
		 taqay waq	 simpa-chuu taara-:]	 ni-n}
		 DIST	 other bank-LOC	 reside-1SG] say-3SG}
		 When she said that, ‘but I have a wife and I have a son, I live over there on
the other bank of the river,’ he said.
In Section 12 (sentences 210–221), the narrator rounds the tale off, firstly by re-
verting to his use of REP.PST -naa to recap on the key message, which is not of his
own sphere of experience (sentence 210):
	 210.	 {Say	 suceede-naa	 say-nuu	 illaqaa-naa
		 {DIST happen-REP.PST DIST.COMP disappear-REP.PST
		 say-chuu	 runa warmi	 hirka	 apa-naa}
		 DIST-LOC man	woman mountain carry-REP.PST}
		 That happened, in that way the man disappeared there, the woman carried
him off to the mountain.
And then, in sentence 211, he breaks out of performance and attests from a per-
sonal speaker perspective, using -mi, to knowledge of the geographical location
where these story events unfolded:
	 Shifting voices, shifting worlds	 97
	 211.	 (Say-pita	 say-ta-qa	 Encantadora	huti-n
		 (DIST-ABL DIST-DIR.OBJ-TOP Encantadora name-3SG.POSS
		 huti-si-ya-sh	 say	 Huancarán	washwaq-ta-mi
		 name-CAUS-PL-PRF DIST Huancarán beyond-OBJ-EV.PERS
		 munti-kuna-pa)
		 scrub-PL-ALL)
		 After that they named that place-woman ‘Enchantress’; it’s over there
beyond Huancarán through the scrub.
8.	 Concluding remarks
This chapter has tackled the theme of evidentiality and epistemic modality in social
interaction by exploring the distribution of evidential and epistemic modal mark-
ers in a Quechua oral narrative that tells of the gradually emerging relationship be-
tween the story’s human male protagonist and a non-human female of the ‘spirit’
world. The story traces the human protagonist’s gradual realization of his process
of ontological transformation, as his commitment to the world of the mountain
woman inexorably intensifies. As this realization evolves, in dialogue with his wife,
to whom he relates the initially unexplained signs of the spirit woman’s presence,
so too do the grammatical features of the text mark progressive stages of wonder-
ment, conjecture, supposition, realization, and eventual knowledge. Viveiros de
Castro’s (2006) concept of ontological perspectivism, together with the speaker
perspective framework of the grammatical analysis, give us insight into the way
that grammatical form and thematic content are mutually constitutive, in this
case, of how evidentiality and epistemic modality are instantiated in a tale about
human-spirit metamorphosis.
Furthermore, the very structure of the Quechua narrative, shaped by reported
speech utterances attributed to the narrated protagonists and embedded in the
narrative utterances of the author-narrator of the Speech Event as a whole, allows
for the discursive construction of multiple speaker perspectives. A crucial func-
tion of the evidential and epistemic modal markers is to shape these perspectives
grammatically, in order to indicate shifts from one perspective to another. The
function of -mi in marking the voice of the ‘speaking self’ and -shi as marking the
voice of the ‘speaking other’, respectively, is clearly illustrated in don Simón’s nar-
rative, corroborating Nuckolls’ (2008; this volume) findings for Pastaza Quichua.
In Huamalíes Quechua, as illustrated here, features that play a correlative part in
the marking of speaker perspective also include the tense aspect markers -rqa-
of personal mode, and -naa of non-personal mode. Of particular interest is
the role played by the evidentials -chaa and -taaku of affirmative and negative
98	 Rosaleen Howard
co-constructed knowledge, respectively. With regard to geographical reach, this
phenomenon appears, at the present state of our knowledge, to be limited to the
Quechua I dialects of the ‘Conchucos’ group (Torero 1974) to which Huamalíes
Quechua is closely related. The semantics and pragmatics of these two suffixes are
revealed through this story, whose very theme is the effort to understand inex-
plicable ‘supernatural’ encounters, through the narrated co-operative interaction
between the story’s participants.
It is hoped that this study will have further advanced our knowledge of the
semantics and pragmatics of evidentiality and epistemic modality as manifested
in the Quechua dialects. The Quechua case clearly begs the question of how far
evidentiality operates in this language purely as a ‘source of knowledge’ marker,
in line with Aikhenvald’s (2004) argument. When examined in a discursive con-
text like the ‘Enchantress’ tale, in which acquisition of knowledge is part of the
story’s very theme, it is hard to draw the conceptual line between evidentiality as
source of knowledge and epistemic modality as validation, conjecture, supposi-
tion and so on. While -mi can be taken as a ‘pure evidential’ (personal knowledge)
marker in some instances (as when the mountain woman asserts “this is gold”), in
other instances -mi can acquire illocutionary extensions and may even combine
with future tense (as when the mountain woman threatens the man with “you will
die”). The speaker perspective framework adopted here has proven, I believe, to
be a productive way of moving beyond the ‘source of knowledge vs. validational’
debates, and may serve to establish the patterning of evidentiality and epistemic
modality in discourse as primarily a matter of the constitution of voice, identity,
and social relations in interaction.
References
Adelaar, Willem. 1977. Tarma Quechua. Lisse, Netherlands: Peter de Ridder Press.
Adelaar, Willem. 1997. Los marcadores de validación y evidencialidad en quechua: ¿automa-
tismo o elemento expresivo? Amerindia, 22: 3–13.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra. 2004. Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra & R. M. W. Dixon, eds. 2003. Studies in Evidentiality. Amsterdam/
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Allen, Catherine J. 1993–1994. Time, place and narrative in an Andean community. Société
Suisse des Américanistes, Bulletin, 57–58: 89–95.
Bakhtin, Mikhail. 1981. Discourse in the novel. In Michael Holquist, ed., The Dialogic
Imagination, 249–422. Austin: University of Texas Press.
Beier, Christine, Lev Michael, and Joel Sherzer. 2002. Discourse forms and processes in low-
land South America. An areal typological perspective. Annual Review of Anthropology, 32:
121–146.
	 Shifting voices, shifting worlds	 99
Benveniste, Émile. 1966a. La nature des pronoms. Pp. 251–257. In Problèmes de linguistique gé-
nérale, I. Paris: Gallimard.
Benveniste, Émile. 1966b. De la subjectivité dans le langage. Pp. 258–266. In Problèmes de lin-
guistique générale, I. Paris: Gallimard.
Benveniste, Émile. 1966c. Les relations de temps dans le verbe français. Pp. 236–250. In
Problèmes de linguistique générale, I. Paris: Gallimard.
Boas, Franz. 1938. Language. Pp. 124–145. In Franz Boas, ed. General Anthropology. Boston/
New York: D. C. Heath & Company.
Carranza Romero, Francisco. 2003. Diccionario Quechua Ancashino-Castellano. Madrid/
Frankfurt: Iberoamericana-Vervuert.
Chafe, Wallace, and J. Nichols, (eds.) 1986. Evidentiality: the Linguistic Coding of Epistemology.
Norwood, N.J.: Ablex.
Dedenbach-Salazar Sáenz, Sabine. 1997. Point of view and evidentiality in the Huarochirí texts
(Peru, 17th century). Pp. 149–167. In Rosaleen Howard-Malverde, ed. Creating Context in
Andean Cultures. Oxford/New York: Oxford University Press.
Faller, Martina. 2002. Semantics and pragmatics of evidentials in Cuzco Quechua. Ph.D. disserta-
tion, Stanford University.
Faller, Martina. 2004. The deictic core of ‘non-experienced past’ in Cuzco Quechua. Journal of
Semantics, 21 (1): 45–84.
Faller, Martina. 2006. The Cusco Quechua reportative evidential and rhetorical relations. In
Peter Austin & A. Simpson, eds. Linguistische Berichte on Endangered Languages (ms.).
Floyd, Rick. 1994. The Wanka reportative as a radial category. Pp. 151–189. In Peter Cole, G.
Hermon & M. D. Martin, eds. Language in the Andes. Newark, Delaware: Latin American
Studies, University of Delaware.
Floyd, Rick. 1999. The structure of evidential categories in Wanka Quechua. Dallas: Summer
Institute of Linguistics.
Hanks, William F. 1990. Referential Practice. Language and Lived Space among the Maya.
Chicago: Chicago University Press.
Hintz, Daniel J. 2006. Evidentiality and the co-construction of knowledge in Southern
Conchucos Quechua. Paper presented at the International Congress of Americanists,
Seville, July 2006. Ms.
Hintz, Daniel J. 2008.Aspect and Aspectual Interfaces in South Conchucos Quechua: the Emergence
of Grammatical Systems. Ph.D. Dissertation. University of California, Santa Barbara.
Hintz, Diane. 2007. Past tense forms and their functions in Southern Conchucos Quechua. Ph.D.
Dissertation. University of California, Santa Barbara.
Howard, Rosaleen. 2002a. Yachay: the Tragedia del fin de Atahuallpa as evidence of the colonisa-
tion of knowledge in the Andes. Pp. 17–39. In Henry Stobart & R. Howard, eds. Knowledge
and Learning in the Andes. Ethnographic Perspectives. Liverpool: Liverpool University Press.
Howard, Rosaleen. 2002b. Spinning a yarn: landscape, memory, and discourse structure in
Quechua narratives. Pp. 26–49. In Jeffrey Quilter & G. Urton, eds. Narrative Threads.
Accounting and Recounting in Andean Khipu. Austin: University of Texas Press.
Howard, Rosaleen. Forthcoming. Kawsay Vida. A Multimedia Programme for Teaching and
Learning Quechua for Beginners and Beyond.
Howard-Malverde, Rosaleen. 1988. Talking about the past: tense and testimonials in Quechua
narrative discourse. Amerindia, 13: 125–155.
100	 Rosaleen Howard
Howard-Malverde, Rosaleen. 1989. Storytelling strategies in Quechua narrative performance.
Journal of Latin American Lore, 15 (1): 3–71.
Howard-Malverde, Rosaleen. 1990. The Speaking of History: ‘Willapaakushayki’ or Quechua
Ways of Telling the Past. University of London Institute of Latin American Studies, Research
Papers 21.
Howard-Malverde, Rosaleen. 1994. “La gente más bien hace guerra con los cuentos”: estrategias
narrativas en una comunidad quechua del Perú central. Pp. 117–136. In Margot Beyersdorff
& S. Dedenbach-Salazar Sáenz, eds. Andean Oral Traditions: Discourse and Literature.
Bonn: Holos, BAS 24.
Hymes, Dell. 1981 [1975]. Breakthrough into performance. Pp. 79–141. In Dell Hymes, “In
vain I tried to tell you”: Essays in Native American Ethnopoetics. Philadelphia: University of
Pennsylvania Press.
Itier, César. 1993. Estudio y comentario lingüístico. Pp. 127–178. In Pierre Duviols & César Itier,
eds. Joan de Santacruz Pachacuti Salcamaygua, Relación de antigüedades deste reyno del
Piru. Cuzco: Institut Français d’Études Andines/Centro Bartolomé de las Casas.
Jakobson, Roman. 1963 [1957]. Essais de linguistique générale. Paris: Éditions de Minuit.
Julca, Félix. 2009.Quechua ancashino. Una mirada actual. Lima: Editorial Pedagógico San
Marcos, CARE Perú.
Lanser, Susan Snaider. 1981. The Narrative Act: Point of View in Prose and Fiction. Princeton,
N.J.: Princeton University Press.
Lyons, John. 1982. Deixis and subjectivity: Loquor, ergo sum? Pp. 101–124. In Robert J. Jarvella
and W. Klein, eds. Speech, Place and Action. Studies in Deixis and Related Topics. Chichester:
John Wiley & Sons.
Mannheim, Bruce & Krista van Vleet. 1998. The dialogics of Southern Quechua narrative.
American Anthropologist, 100 (2): 326–346.
Mushin, Ilana. 2001. Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance. Narrative retelling. Amsterdam/
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Mushin, Ilana, this volume, “Watching for Witness”: Evidential strategies and epistemic author-
ity in Garrwa conversation.
Nuckolls, Janis. 1993. The semantics of certainty in Quechua and its implications for a cultural
epistemology. Language in Society, 22: 235–55.
Nuckolls, Janis. 2006. Reported discourse and dialogical perspectivism in Quichua linguacul-
ture. Paper to the International Congress of Americanists, Seville, July 2006. Ms..
Nuckolls, Janis. 2008. Deictic selves and others in Pastaza Quichua evidential usage.
Anthropological Linguistics, 50 (1): 67–89.
Nuckolls, Janis. this volume. From quotative other to quotative self in Pastaza Quichua eviden-
tial usage.
Palmer, Frank R. 1986. Mood and Modality. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Parker, Gary. 1976a. Gramática quechua: Ancash-Huailas. Lima: IEP.
Parker, Gary. 1976b. Diccionario quechua: Ancash-Huailas. Lima: IEP.
Tannen, Deborah. 1995. Waiting for the mouse: constructed dialogue in conversation. Pp. 198–
217. In Dennis Tedlock & B. Mannheim, eds. The Dialogic Emergence of Culture. Urbana/
Chicago: University of Illinois Press.
Taylor, Gerald. 1987. Ritos y tradiciones de Huarochirí. Lima: Instituto de Estudios Peruanos/
Instituto Francés de Estudios Andinos.
	 Shifting voices, shifting worlds	 101
Torero, Alfredo. 1964. Los dialectos quechuas. Anales científicos de la Universidad Agraria, II
(4): 446–478.
Torero, Alfredo. 1974. El quechua y la historia social andina. Lima: Universidad Ricardo Palma.
Valenzuela, Pilar M. 2003. Evidentiality in Shipibo-Konibo, with a comparative overview of
the category in Panoan. Pp. 33–61. In Aikhenvald, Alexandra & R. M. W. Dixon, eds. 2003.
Studies in Evidentiality. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Viveiros de Castro, Eduardo. 2006. Cosmological deixis and Amerindian perspectivism. In
Henrietta L. Moore & T. Sanders, eds. Anthropology in Theory. Issues in Epistemology, 552–
565. Malden, Mass./Oxford: Blackwell Publishers.
Weber, David. 1986. Information perspective, profile, and patterns in Quechua. Pp. 137–155.
In Wallace Chafe & J Nichols, eds. Evidentiality. The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology.
Norwood, N.J.: Ablex.
Weber, David John. 1996. Una gramática del quechua del Huallaga. Lima: Ministerio de
Educación/Summer Institute of Linguistics. (translation of A Grammar of Huallaga
(Huánuco) Quechua, University of California Publications in Linguistics, Vol. 112. Berkeley,
Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1989).
Weber, David John (with F. Cayco Z, T. Cayco V. and M Ballena D.). 1998. Rimaycuna:
Diccionario del Quechua de Huánuco. Lima, Perú: Instituto Lingūístico de Verano (SIL).
“Watching for witness”
Evidential strategies and epistemic authority
in Garrwa conversation*
Ilana Mushin
University of Queensland
				
“Thatta right, straight word we bin tell you. We all witness for that”
(from Sansom 1980: 27)
Linguistic forms with dedicated evidential meanings have been described for a
number of Australian languages (eg. Donaldson 1980, Laughren 1982, Wilkins
1989) but there has been little written on how these are used in social interaction.
This chapter examines evidential strategies in ordinary Garrwa conversations, by
taking into account what we know more generally about the status of knowledge
and epistemic authority in Aboriginal societies, and applying this understanding
to account for the ways knowledge is managed in ‘ordinary’ interactions.
1.	 Introduction
Evidential strategies are ways of communicating source of information. Such strat-
egies may also express the status of knowledge deriving from evoking source of
information. Evidential strategies express aspects of a speaker’s epistemological
stance towards the information as, for example, directly experienced or otherwise
(eg. Mushin 2001). They may also convey aspects of a speaker’s epistemic attitude
towards information as more or less certain, more or less valid.1 For example,
*  Earlier versions of this chapter were presented at the 2009 International Pragmatics
Association Conference and the 2010 LSA Conference. Many thanks to Janis Nuckolls and Lev
Michael for inviting my participation in their LSA panel on Social functions of Evidentiality, and
to Claire Bowern for stepping in to read the chapter when weather prevented my attendance.
I am grateful to the Garrwa people who consented to have their mundane talk recorded and
analysed, and to Alan Dench, Claire Bowern, Michael Walsh and an anonymous reviewer for
valuable feedback on earlier versions. I take full responsibility for the current version.
1.  This association between source of information and epistemic attitude (also expressed
through epistemic modal strategies) has been a particular focus of semantic-based studies of
104	 Ilana Mushin
when speakers assert that they know something because they have witnessed it,
this is not only an epistemological stance of direct perceptual (visual) experience,
but also may express the degree of speaker’s certainty of the truth or validity of the
information expressed.
But a speaker’s motivations to adopt evidential strategies does not reflect
merely an internal reconciliation of source and attitude. Speakers adopt evidential
strategies in social interaction as part of an ongoing negotiation of authority and
rights (eg. Heritage & Raymond 2005, Sidnell this volume), as a resource for social
action. Not only may the assertion of direct visual experience be an expression of
certainty, it may also be part of a claim to a high degree of epistemic authority over
the information. Such claims may be used in a range of activities, including assess-
ments (Heritage & Raymond 2005), complaints and criticisms (Wilkins 1986) —
contexts where an assertion of epistemic status becomes relevant.
This focus on evidential strategies as a means to engage in social actions thus
takes evidentiality out of a speaker focused semantic-pragmatic framework, which
has been a common approach to evidential meanings, and into more interactive,
pragmatics informed studies of social interaction.2 This not only presents a new
understanding of the functions of evidential marking, but also may help us un-
derstand better the contexts in which conventional and grammatical evidential
systems may develop.
In this chapter I examine the evidential strategies adopted by Aboriginal
Australians in social interaction in terms of the negotiation of epistemic author-
ity. I focus here on both the use and non-use of such strategies. While forms with
clear evidential meanings are found in many Australian Aboriginal languages, no
language has the kind of grammaticalised ‘obligatory’ system of evidential mark-
ing found in, for example, Tariana (Aikhenvald 2004), Quechua (eg. Weber 1986,
Nuckolls this volume) or Nanti (Michael 2008, this volume). In the following
Section 2, I present a summary of the kinds of evidential forms and meanings
that have been described for Australian Aboriginal languages. In Section 3, I pres-
ent a summary of aspects of Aboriginal culture and social organisation, largely
taken from ethnographic studies which provide a basis for understanding the way
evidentiality might be utilised. I then move to the more specific study of con-
versations involving members of the Garrwa-speaking community in Northern
evidentiality, whether one considers evidentiality to be a subclass of epistemic modality (eg.
Palmer 1986, Cornillie, 2009), or a separate category (eg. de Haan 2005)
2.  There has been a recent burst of CA-influenced linguistic and linguistic anthropological re-
search which, while not ‘pure’ CA (cf. Schegloff 2009), aims to account for linguistic structure
and linguistic behaviour in terms of the emergent sequences found in real-time talk (eg. Fox
2007, Sidnell 2009, this volume).
	 “Watching for witness”	 105
Australia. Section 4 presents a description of the social and linguistic environment
in which Garrwa people live today. In Section 5, I present extracts from a corpus of
conversations and demonstrate some of the ways evidential strategies are utilised
in interaction. In Section 6, I relate the patterns of evidential usage and non-usage
to earlier ethnographic work on Aboriginal camp culture, and summarise some
issues for future research.
2.	 Evidential marking in Australian Aboriginal Languages
There appears to be no Australian language that has the kind of fully grammati-
cal evidential system found in, for example, some languages of the Americas.
Evidential marking is not ‘required’ by the grammar, such that an utterance would
be deemed incomplete or inadequate without it (Aikhenvald 2004). However,
forms with clear evidential meanings have been described for a number of
Aboriginal languages, and are summarised here. Forms which tend to have dedi-
cated evidential meanings are usually particles (free, uninflected forms), or clit-
ics (forms which are prosodically dependent on the preceding word). Uninflected
particles are extremely common in Australian languages, often associated with
modal, quantificational, textual and interactional meanings.3 It is not uncommon
for Australian languages to have a set of particles which have meanings associated
with epistemic attitude without reference to source of information. For languages
which do have evidential forms. the two most commonly described evidential
meanings in Australian languages are ‘sensory evidence’ and ‘linguistic evidence’
(from Donaldson 1980: 275–6).
‘Sensory evidence’ forms are used to indicate that a speaker knows something
because of direct sensory experience. This experience is often visual, but may
also be auditory, olfactory or based in any other kind of physical sense. Sensory
evidence forms have been described for Ngiyambaa (South-East Australia)
(Donaldson 1980), Diyari (South Australia) (Austin 1981) and Warlpiri (Laughren
1982). Garrwa, the language used by the participants in the current study, also has
a sensory evidence clitic (Mushin 2012). The examples below are from Ngiyambaa
and Garrwa.4
3.  Australian languages in general tend to be highly agglutinating with elaborate inflectional
case systems on nominals, and numbers of verb inflections. Some Northern Australian lan-
guages are polysynthetic with multimorphemic verb structures.
4.  I have retained the glossing used in examples taken from other published work. Garrwa
glosses are as follows: abl – ablative, acc – accusative, contr – contrastive, ds – different
subject, erg – ergative, evid – (sensory) evidential, foc – focus, fut – future, hab – habitual,
106	 Ilana Mushin
	 (1)	 ngindu-gara	 girambiyi
		 you+NOM-SENS.EV sick+PAST
		 ‘You were sick. (one could see this)’  (Ngiyambaa: Donaldson 1980: 275)
	 (2)	 dhagun-gir-gara	 ngina	 dhingga:	 ga-rra
		 earth-NASTY.WITH-SENS.EV this+ABS meat+ABS be-PRES
		 ‘This meat tastes nasty with earth (I have tasted it)’
		 (Ngiyambaa: Donaldson 1980: 276)
	 (3)	 don’t you touchim, najba=wali ninya waydbala-wanyi
		 see=evid	 2sgacc	 whitefella-erg
		 Don’t touch — he might see your fingerprints, the whitefella.
		 (Don’t touch — it is possible he will see your fingerprints, the whitefella)
		 (Garrwa: 20.6.08.KS)
	 (4)	 jarrba=wali yaji	 warrki-wanyi
		 eat=evid	 place dingo-erg
		 A dingo might eat my things.  (Garrwa: 3.9.03.4.DG)
		 (= it is possible that a dingo will eat my things (because they are lying
around and no-one is looking after them)
	 (5)	 kudanyu=wali yirrba kamu
		 strong=evid	 fall	 later
		 ‘It might rain a lot later’ (said looking up at the cloudy sky)
		 (Garrwa: 10.4.00.1.KS)
On the basis of these (and other) utterance level examples, it appears that while
both the Ngiyambaa and Garrwa forms have the same evidential meaning insofar
as they appeal to direct sensory perception, their pragmatics appear quite differ-
ent. Garrwa =wali, often translated by speakers as ‘might’, is used in future-direct-
ed contexts to indicate the evidence for which a future inference is being made
(eg. that it might rain later because the speaker can see that sky is cloudy). The
Ngiyambaa examples show -gara used in realis (past or present) contexts, evoking
sensory evidence to support an otherwise unqualified assertion. This pragmatic
contrast between the Ngiyambaa and Garrwa ‘sensory evidence’ forms highlights
the independence of evidential meaning from epistemic attitude.
‘Linguistic evidence’ is used to mark information acquired by hearsay or
report, but typically without any actual indexing to the actual source of infor-
mation (ie. who it was who originally said X). ‘Linguistic evidence’ forms are
often translated as ‘they say that…’. These have been described for a number of
imp – imperative, loc – locative, nom – nominative, oblig – obligation, past – past, pl – plural,
purp – purposive, subs – subsequential. ‘=’ – clitic, ‘-’ – affix
	 “Watching for witness”	 107
languages, including Ngiyambaa, Diyari, Mparntwe Arrernte (also called Aranda;
Central Australia, Wilkins 1989), Yanykunytjatjara (Goddard 1985) and Warlpiri
(Laughren 1982).
	 (6)	 bura:y-dja=lu	 ga:y-aga
		 child+ABS-REP=3ABS bring-CONJ.M-IRR
		 ‘It is said that she’s going to bring the children.’
		 (Ngiyambaa; Donaldson 1980: 276)
	 (7)	 ngaju-ku nganta ngalaju yuwarli
		 I-DAT	 REP	 that(is)	house
		 ‘They say that house is for me (but I don’t vouch for it)’
 (Warlpiri; Laughren 1982: 138)
	 (8)	 the	 kwele re-nhe	 twe-ke
		 1sgA REP	 3sg-ACC hit/kill-PAST.COMPL
		 I am supposed to have killed him (I am reported to have killed him; I didn’t)
 (Mparntwe Arrernte; Wilkins 1989: 392)
Both Wilkins (1986) and Goddard (1985) report the frequent use of ‘linguistic
evidence’ forms in traditional Dreamtime (ie. mythic) stories. Reportive forms are
also associated with contexts of disalignment and disagreement between people,
where interactants may have conflicting attitides towards information. This is il-
lustrated in (9) and (10) below.
	 (9)	 yuntardi	 nganta
		 beautiful REP
		 (Lit: they say she is beautiful)
		 ‘She is beautiful indeed! As if she is beautiful!’(Warlpiri; Laughren 1982: 141)
	 (10)	 tyewe	 ngkwinhe imerte kwele	ayenge
		 friend 2sgPOSS	 then	 kwele 1sgS
		 (Lit: They say I’m your friend)
		 ‘You’re supposed to be my friend’ (but what you’re doing now makes me
question that).  (Mparntwe Arrernte; Wilkins 1986: 587)
This section has provided a brief survey of the main kinds of evidential forms and
their associated meanings found in Australian languages generally. The examples
have been largely taken from descriptive work on individual languages, with some
reference to Aikhenvald’s (2004) general typology of grammatical evidentiality. The
languages are limited to those for which evidential forms have been described at all.
In a number of cases, there have been attempts to characterise not just the
basic evidential meaning of a form, but also the pragmatic implications of the use
of these forms in different contexts (eg. as ironic, disaligning, complaining, etc).
108	 Ilana Mushin
Such descriptive linguistic projects necessarily start with the linguistic forms in
order to develop a rich description of meanings associated with the form. There
is less focus on the contexts themselves and the range of linguistic strategies that
might be conventionally or novelly associated with the actions of participants in
these contexts. The aim of the remaining sections of this chapter is to move away
from viewing evidentiality in the Australian Aboriginal context as being about the
presence or absence of monomorphemic forms (be they particles, clitics or suf-
fixes) in the language system, to focus on what and when evidential strategies are
deployed in actual talk.
3.	 Social interaction and epistemic authority in the Australian Aboriginal
‘Camp’ context
Since European contact in the late 19th century, the Garrwa people around
Borroloola and Robinson River have shifted from a nomadic hunter-gatherer life-
style to a more settled ‘camp’ existence, close to schools, shops, health centres and
other government services. Aboriginal camps are found in and around cities and
towns across Northern Australia. A shortage of housing in these camps means that
people tend to live in large extended family groups with considerable mobility. The
climate is tropical, and so much of life, social or otherwise, is conducted outside
and in public view. There is also widespread poverty, and acute social problems
associated with extreme poverty such as poor health, violence (domestic and oth-
erwise) and alcohol and drug abuse.5
In his classic ethnographic study, “The Camp at Wallaby Cross”, Sansom (1980)
describes in detail the “…ways in which things are said and done by Aborigines
of the fringe camps of Darwin… and about Aboriginal valuations of experience
shared with others.” (Sansom 1980: 3). As Sansom’s study is the only in-depth
account of the goings on among contemporary Aboriginal people in their own
communities, focusing in particular on how people talk about shared experienc-
es, it is worth summarising his study in some detail. While Garrwa people do
not live on the fringes of a larger urban area, the camp life described by Sansom
for Wallaby Cross shares many common features of the camp life of the Garrwa
people. Sansom’s work therefore provides a useful background for understanding
ways of negotiating and managing epistemic authority in other similar Aboriginal
communities.
5.  Currently there is a 17 year life-expectancy gap between Indigenous and non-Indigenous
Australians, according to official statistics. The difference is even higher in remote regions of the
kind discussed here.
	 “Watching for witness”	 109
Sansom describes these kinds of communities as ‘unpropertied’: “In an
Aboriginal encampment wealth is contained in words not things…” (p20). In such
societies, knowledge, especially sacred and ceremonial knowledge is a form of
property, while much less relevance is placed on ownership of material posses-
sions. Epistemic authority derives therefore from sanctioned ownership of infor-
mation, with strict rules on who is allowed to talk about such information — what
Sansom 1980: 24ff calls the “given word”:
Among a people who thus fashion the given word as object and property… any
given word is a finished creation that is held in the jurisdiction of the collectiv-
ity that produced it. And each jurisdiction has, for each given word, authorised
fiduciaries who are licensed to communicate the word to representatives of other
jurisdictions. (p24)
In other words, while events may be communally experienced, only certain people
will have a licence to talk about them to people outside this immediate sphere.6
For this reason, disclaimers of the ‘I don’t know’, or ‘go ask X’ variety are common
even when the speaker might actually have access to the information. Sansom also
comments that being “careless of referral”, ie. talking about information one does
not have the authority to report on, is pejoratively labelled as “cheek” (p26).
The out-of-doors lifestyle also has consequences for how epistemic authority
is managed. In this society, particular significance is placed on witnessed happen-
ings, as so much of social life is enacted in view: “everybody has, implicitly by
being there, the right to be a watcher ‘watching for witness’ ” (Sansom 1980: 82).
Sansom is careful to point out, however, that simply being witness is not the same
as having licence or epistemic authority to talk about what one has witnessed.
Consistent with the importance of witness, there is also a general proscription on
reporting events one has not witnessed. The result is a lack of talk about internal
states and motivations of people and a focus on what is happening visibly and in
the present time.7
6.  The processes by which how such licenses are agreed upon, and who are the candidate li-
cencees is an important issue, but not one to be addresssed properly in this chapter. In some
cases this will be determined by the kin or clan relations between people, but there are clearly
other factors involved, including education level (such as in matters of authority, when interact-
ing with White Australia).
7.  There is an interesting contrast here with Evans & Wilkins (2000) who show how Australian
languages tend to extend the sense of hearing to knowledge, with a discussion of the cultural im-
portance of knowledge gained by hearing rather than seeing. In theory, both may operate with
witness and seeing, as important for knowledge related to the here and now social interactions
of everyday life (eg. how one knows who was involved in a fight), while hearing may be associat-
ed with more long-term knowledge, such as knowledge of country, kinship and ceremony. This
110	 Ilana Mushin
Sansom’s work mostly focuses on the characterisation of social actions involv-
ing speech (eg. ‘proclaiming’, ‘disclaiming’, ‘broadcasting’), in terms of the role that
talk plays in establishing authority and eventhood (ie. constituting words as things
in and of themselves). The events and happenings characterised in Sansom’s work
mostly involve high stakes disputes, often in conjunction with ‘moral violence’
(eg. beatings and justification for beatings). The matters have serious social and
emotional carriage — has Trixie relinquished her right to raise her daughter? Has
Teatree been ‘running around’ on her husband, Simon? But despite the focus on
the use of language as a social action in these encounters, there is no detailed
account of the particular linguistic strategies involved.8 What, if any, evidential
strategies are used in cases where epistemic authority must be negotiated?
Questions concerning linguistic strategies are best addressed through exami-
nation of carefully transcribed recorded data.9 However, there are clear logistical
difficulties in recording naturally occurring interactions outside, where partici-
pants move locations and where multiple interactions by multiple participants
(including children) may enter the field of recording. It is also difficult obtain-
ing informed consent to use data featuring highly sensitive interactions involving
moral outrage, physical violence and verbal abuse.10
A key hypothesis guiding the analysis presented here is that the kinds of im-
portant roles that ‘witness’ plays in high-stakes encounters will also be observable
in situations that are less charged, but where claims to knowledge are at issue. The
data examined here contains no high-stakes encounters of the kind described in
Sansom (1980). There are, however, a number of cases where knowledge is dis-
puted, and where epistemic authority must be negotiated. So while the encounters
may not carry the social weight of the happenings observed by Sansom, they do
represent occasions where a ‘given word’ must be justified.
requires more consideration in any study of evidential strategies in the Australian Aboriginal
context.
8.  Sansom does discuss the choice of language variety as part of strategies for these speech
centred actions. Code switching between traditional Indigenous language varieties, creole vari-
eties and English varieties are normal practice in most Indigenous community settings. See
McConvell (1988) and Mushin (2010) for detailed linguistic studies of code choice in Indigenous
interaction.
9.  It is unclear how Sansom’s data were recorded. He spent 15 months ‘running with’ the mob of
‘Wallaby Cross’ (the name is a pseudonym), but does not mention any actual recording.
10.  The data used here has been vetted by the people featured in the recording. While there are no
violent encounters in my data, swearing has been deleted or altered at the participants’ request.
	 “Watching for witness”	 111
What then might one expect, given this characterisation of the role and sta-
tus of evidence types in an Aboriginal camp society?11 One hypothesis is that as
the status of ‘witness’ is so regulated, there will be a focus on witnessed actions
with claims to witness being among strategies to establish validity or certainty of
knowledge. Another hypothesis is that hearsay evidential strategies will be less
utilised even as a strategy for downgrading validity or certainty, as there seems
to be little accepted context for talking about information as known by virtue of
hearing it from someone else.
For the rest of this chapter, I examine the data recorded in Garrwa commu-
nities, focusing on sequences where knowledge is at issue. I show that while the
encounters recorded are of different kinds to those examined by Sansom, the strat-
egies adopted in the Garrwa data are quite consistent with Sansom’s ethnographic
observations, and support the hypotheses formulated above.
4.	 The data
The Garrwa people live mostly in the south-western gulf region of the Northern
Territory between the towns of Borroloola (Northern Territory) and the ex-mis-
sion community of Doomadgee (Queensland). Both have populations of over
1000 residents. About 20% of Borroloola residents are non-Aboriginal, with
much smaller proportions of non-Aboriginal people in Doomadgee. Robinson
River is a much smaller community (approx 250 residents) about 150 kms from
Borroloola along the road to the Queensland border. Robinson River is the main
settlement within Garrwa traditional lands in the ‘heart’ of Garrwa country. In
both Borroloola and Robinson River the traditional language, Garrwa, is regu-
larly spoken only by older adults, with children no longer learning Garrwa as a
11.  As a reviewer of this chapter rightly points out, I am generalising from one Aboriginal com-
munity (a Town Camp near Darwin) to another (a remote Aboriginal community). The social
organisation described for Wallaby Cross is remarkably similar to the communities of Boroloola
and Robinson River, as residents are highly mobile and rely on the kind of ‘mob’ groupings
described in Sansom (1980). Like Wallaby Cross, residents of Borroloola and Robinson River
may come from a range of different language and family backgrounds. Among younger people
inhabiting these communities in my time, I have witnessed the kinds of ‘high stakes’ encounters
between community members featured in Sansom (1980), where grievances are broadcasted
(loudly), alleged offenders are sanctioned, and this is often accompanied by violence. The simi-
larities in observed social organisation and public behaviour make it reasonable to assume that
similar practices extending to less ‘high stakes’ encounters may be applicable in communities
where Garrwa people live, as well as at Wallaby Cross.
112	 Ilana Mushin
first language.12 Even among older people, Garrwa is mixed with the local vari-
ety of Kriol on a regular basis. The data used here consist of this mix of Garrwa
and Kriol, with some English, usually when a non-Aboriginal person (often the
author) is part of the interactional field (see Mushin (2010) for an account of code-
switching in social interaction).
As noted in the previous section, the daily camp life of Garrwa people is very
similar to that described by Sansom for the camps outside of Darwin — with high
population density, lack of integration into the White Australian economy, and
high levels of poverty. On any given day, people are found in groups playing cards
and/or drinking (in Borroloola — Robinson River is a ‘dry’ community).
The data used for this study mostly consist of conversations recorded during
trips between 2000 and 2008. Some of the conversations are audio recorded only,
but some are also video recorded. The extracts discussed in Section 5 come from
video recorded data from Robinson River community: the ‘Porch Conversation’
(2003), recorded on the porch of a house, and ‘Robinson River Conversation’
(2008), recorded in the staffroom of the Robinson River school. These conversa-
tions feature the same three old women as principal interactants — Daphne (DG),
Hilda (HG) and Kate (KS)13 — although other people also feature during the re-
cordings. At the time of recording, all three women spent most days sitting to-
gether, often making artefacts.
The ‘Porch Conversation’ recording runs for two hours without editing, begin-
ning with a Garrwa language teaching exercise between the old women and some
(reluctant) children. This activity finishes within the first half an hour of recording
and is followed by an extended spontaneous collaborative storytelling sequence.
The extracts presented here come over an hour into the recording at a point where
the women are getting tired and hungry and are calling out to people walking
past. Other people join them on the porch at various intervals. Topics shift from
discussion of historical events, interrogation about the whereabouts of individ-
uals, attempts to solicit food or money from other participants. The ‘Robinson
River Conversation’ was recorded after the women had led a cultural activity at
the school. We had retired to the cool and quiet staffroom to discuss language
description activities. The recording, which runs for 25 minutes, was made while
the author left to get drinks at the local shop. Topics are mostly focused on present
events (such as what the children are doing outside).
12.  Although Garrwa people live in Doomadgee, it is not located in Garrwa traditional country.
I have not done any primary fieldwork in Doomadgee so I am unable to comment on the state
of the Garrwa language there. Anecdotal reports suggest that it is little used in Doomadgee.
13.  The names are pseudonyms.
	 “Watching for witness”	 113
In addition to these videotaped recordings, which feature in the extracts be-
low, four other audiotaped conversations, recorded in the town of Borroloola in
2003 were examined. These are primarily conversations between two other elderly
Garrwa women, with occasional other participants. Altogether the conversational
corpus consists of nearly an hour and a half of carefully transcribed talk. To sup-
plement this conversational talk, I have also looked at a corpus of elicited narra-
tives recorded between 2000 and 2003. Some of these are personal histories, some
‘adventure’ stories of floods during the tellers’ lifetimes, and some are traditional
mythical stories. These stories were recorded with groups of Garrwa speakers; so,
while there is a designated ‘storyteller’, there is often participation by other mem-
bers of the group.
5.	 Evidential strategies in Garrwa conversations
5.1	 Possible evidential strategies
Like many Australian languages, Garrwa does not have a large range of linguis-
tic forms dedicated to evidential, and indeed epistemic, meanings. As described
in Section 2 above, Garrwa has one clitic with a clear evidential meaning, =wali
which is used to indicate that the speaker is making a prediction based on sensory
evidence (eg. that it might rain because the speaker can see clouds building up).
There are other clitics with deontic modal and aspectual meanings, but none of
these are used in contexts where the status of knowledge is at issue.
The particle junu ‘perhaps’ is used to indicate a lack of certainty (as in (11),
where the speaker is not sure exactly where the birds are), but it can also be used
in contexts where the speaker clearly knows the information but wants to convey
that the factuality of the information is to be treated loosely (here translated as
‘whatever’). In (12), it is used to indicate that mustering cattle was only one of a
number of activities the speaker used to do. While clearly related to epistemic at-
titude, there is no particular evidential meaning associated with junu.
	 (11)	 julaki nayi karri junu
		 bird	 this	 east	 perhaps
		 I think there are birds here eastwards.  (3.9.03.4.DG)
	 (12)	 majirrimba nurr=ili	 buluki junu
		 muster	 1plExclnom=hab cattle	 perhaps
		 We used to muster cattle, whatever.  (25.8.03.1.ER)
114	 Ilana Mushin
These two forms, =wali and junu, are the only words in the language with mean-
ings associated with evidentiality and epistemic modality. There is no form which
points to information as gained by hearsay or report.
Speakers may of course make explicit reference to source of information
through the use of perception verbs, as in (13) below. This example comes from
a co-telling of a story about a recent flood. A crocodile had approached the area
where children were swimming. KS identifies the correct Garrwa word for saltwa-
ter crocodile after DG uses first an English word ‘alligator’ and then an inaccurate
Garrwa word. DG’s use of an evidential najba ngambali ‘We all [including KS] saw
it’ following the uptake of KS’s word, seems to reinforce the validity of the whole
statement — that there really was a saltwater crocodile.
	 (13)	 DG:	 alligator, uh jabanangka there.
				 crocodile(?)
				 banyinjarrba=yi
				 swimming.around=past
				 A crocodile was swimming around there
		 KS:		 madumbarra
				 salt.water.crocodile
				 A saltwater crocodile
		 DG:	 madumbarra,	 banyinjarrba=yi 		 there
				 salt.water.crocodile swimming.around=past
				 ngala	 nyulu	 wawarra-muku baruwaru yalu-ngi
				 contr 3sgnom child-pl	 swim	 they-dat
			 	 wayka rudu-na	 najba ngambal=i,	 madumbarra
				 down	 road-loc see	 1plInclnom=past saltwater.croc
				
A saltwater crocodile was swimming around there while the kids
were diving down the road. We all saw it — a saltwater crocodile.
 (1.5.01.2)
Similarly, direct reported speech may also be used to support the validity of a state-
ment, as in (14). In this example, the assertion that Tina forgets her own language
is supported by the direct representation of Tina telling the author that she should
go from Borroloola (where Tina lives) to Robinson River (where Kate lives) to get
better and more Garrwa language. Note that what is being validated here is facet of
Tina’s cognition — she ‘forgets’ her language — something that is non-observable.
Tina’s own words are presented as ‘observable’ evidence for her deficiency.
	 (14)	 yanybayi	 nanga	 Garrwan Diina
		 talk=past 3sgdat Garrwa	 Tina
		 barriwa kudiyan mudujba	 ebrithing
		 finish	 some	 forget
	 “Watching for witness”	 115
		 “oh jila=kiyi	 karri ja=ninyalu	 karu
			 walk=imp east	 fut=2sgacc/3plnom tell
		 kudiya ngayu	 mudijba”
		 some	 1sgnom forget
		 She talked Garrwa to Tina. Finished. She forgets some (of it), everything
“Oh go east. They’ll tell you some. I forget.”  (20.6.08.KS)
I have found no cases in my data where reported speech, or a reportive eviden-
tial marker, is clearly used to distance a speaker from information. The evidential
strategies I have been able to identify in my data are all ones that evoke direct
sensory experience as evidence for some assertion. In almost all cases, the sensory
experience is visual.14 This supports the hypothesis that evidential strategies among
camp-dwelling Aboriginal communities will favour visual evidential strategies as a
means of asserting epistemic authority. What matters is how one establishes one-
self as a ‘witness’.
5.2	 Actual evidential strategies
I have so far provided a characterisation of the types of evidential strategies found
in my data. I have not however considered when such strategies are employed in
conversation. What is perhaps most striking about the distribution of evidentiality
in my data is the lack of overt evidential strategies. Some recorded conversations
showed no use of evidentials at all.
The only situation in which I could consistently find the use of evidential strat-
egies was in contexts of disputed knowledge. This is comparable with observations
by Wilkins (1986), who noted the use of evidentials in Arrente contexts of dis-
alignment, such as criticising and complaining. It is also consistent with Sansom’s
characterisation of the establishment of epistemic authority in the one who has
the license to talk about something, as requiring justification. What is important is
not who knows something, or what people know, but who has the authority to talk
about such knowledge, and how do speakers justify this authority.
In the rest of this section, I examine three sequences where there is a dis-
alignment of claims to knowledge, in order to examine when and how evidential
strategies were used, and to provide an account for the lack of evidential strategies
in such contexts.15
14.  I have retained Donaldson’s (1980) term ‘sensory evidence’ throughout, as it is clear from my
analysis of the evidential clitic =wali that senses other than visual may be evoked as the source
of information. However in practice, it is clear that the visual sense is most commonly evoked.
15.  A note on transcription. The first line of transcription follows a Jeffersonian CA method
of representing the talk as transparently as possible, including sound shapes and prosody. The
116	 Ilana Mushin
	 (15)	 Porch Conversation
	 1144	 KS:		 >Majunganjawin’    kuyu^yili barri;<=
	 	 	 	 Maju-nganja-wanyi kuyu=yili barri
	 	 	 	 OlSi-nganja-erg   take=hab  foc
	 1145	 	 	 <h:ot one:;>= ^bu:juwan:; ^°∞i-jirdi u- w:adan:.∞°^hh
	 	 	 	 hot	 one	 bujuwan	      jidi     wadan
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 waterlily	 	 mix	   food
	 	 	 	 
Her sister used to take the hot waterlilies mixed with food
	 1146	 	 	 (0.6)
	 1147	 KS: 	 Wa:jba-.
	 	 	 	 wajba
	 	 	 	 Give
	 1148	 	 	 (1.0)
	 1149	 DG:	->	 Ngala ^miku mali  yal’any:’
	 	 	 	 Ngala miku  mili  yali-yanyi
	 	 	 	 contr neg intens 3Plnom-neg
	 	 	 	 But, no they didn’t
	 1150	 	 	 (0.3)
	 1151	 DG:	->	 Miku yal’yany’	 jarr:ba mil’;= ^NA:NI
	 	 	 	 Miku	 yali-yanyi jarrba	 mili	 nani
	 	 	 	 neg 3Plnom-neg   eat    intens   like.that
	 1152	 	 	 ˘bardibardi.
	 	 	 	 bardibardi
	 	 	 	 old.woman
	 	 	 	 They didn’t eat it like that old woman
	 1153	 	 	 (0.5)
	 1154	 DG:	->	 rrDi:yba yalu.
	 	 	 	 Diba     yalu
	 	 	 	 Grind    3Plnom
	 	 	 	 They grind it
	 1155	 	 	 (0.8)
	 1156	 KS:		 <Diba  ya^lu:,> hh NHH
	 	 	 	 Diba  yalu
	 	 	 	 Grind 3Plnom
	 	 	 	 They grind it
	 1157	 	 	 (1.1)
	 1158	 HG:		 °KHKH[HH°
	 1159	 KS:		      [>Dib’  yalu   dungalana  yarraji’a-.< (.)
second, more linguist-friendly line has the morpheme boundaries spelled out with an interlin-
ear gloss and free English translation.
	 “Watching for witness”	 117
	 	 	 	        Diba  yalu   dungala-na yarri-jiwa
	 	 	 	        Grind 3Plnom stone-loc   put-subs
	 1160	 	 	 y:ukur’runa.hh
	 	 	 	 yukururu-na
	 	 	 	 billycan-loc
	 	 	 	 They grind it up with a stone and put it in a billycan
	 1161	 	 	 (1.5)
	 1162	 HG:	->	 e:h N:ajba ngayili.
				 najba  ngay=ili
	 	 	 	 see    1Sgnom=HAB
	 	 	 	 I used to watch
	 1163	 	 	 (0.9)
	 1164	 DG:	->	 Ng[a:rri?
	 	 	 	 ngarri
	 	 	 	 Really?
In (15), a dispute over knowledge is resolved without assertion of epistemic au-
thority or without use of evidential strategies by the disputants. Kate is describing
a way of preparing bujuwan, which are waterlily roots, a local delicacy. In line
1149, Daphne disputes Kate’s account with a direct contradiction ‘no, they didn’t’,
repeated before offering her own account (‘they’d grind it’). This account seems to
be accepted by Kate because she repeats it and elaborates, continuing the account.
There appears to be no dispute between Kate and Daphne on epistemic rights here,
even though Kate is providing the account. Daphne provides no modification (eg.
‘I remember it differently’, or something to this effect). In 1162, Hilda, who had
hitherto not been part of the dispute sequence, adopts an evidential strategy to
support Daphne’s characterisation of the preparation of bujuwan. In this example,
the dispute is not so much over who has licence to talk, but rather over the factual
content (of how bujuwan were prepared). The evidential strategy of evoking direct
sensory experience is used, much as it was in (13) above, to establish validity for
the fact. In (15), the evidential strategy was used by the person asserting the fact
while in this example it is used by a third party. I suggest that it is precisely because
she has initiated her own entry into this discussion that Hilda must establish her
own epistemic credentials, hence the evidential strategy. Daphne and Kate do not
use evidential strategies even though they are the disputants, because they are not
disputing who has authority here.
	 (16)	 Porch Conversation
	 497	 KS:		 ‘e bin he:re; ˘ba:rrin. -nhh
	 	 	 	 e bin here barrin
	 	 	 	 He was here this morning
118	 Ilana Mushin
	 498	 	 	 (1.3)
	 499	 DG:		 >Wan[ja’nan’ ng:ani[nyini      jabarr’ ]=
	 	 	 	 Wanjawa     nanda  nganinyini jabarri
	 	 	 	 Where       that   man-ni     again
	 500	 Man:	     [Look through there;[^look through dere;]=
	 501	 KS:		 	 	 	              [ Jung:ku     nanyina]=
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Jungku	 	 na-nyina
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 Sit		 	 this-loc
											 He was here
	 502A	 DG:		 =[najbayi.]
	 	 	 	   najba=yi]
	 	 	 	   see=past
	 	 	 	 Where was that man seen again
	 502B	 Man:	 =[ look- ] de::re.
	 	 	 	 ((looking through video camera))
	 503	 KS:		 =[ba:rrin.]
	 	 	 	   barrin
	 	 	 	   this.morning
	 	 	 	 He was here this morning
	 504	 	 	 (0.5)
	 505	 DG:	->	 >Wanja niny’i;= ^nganinyi najbay’  wabula.<
	 	 	 	 Wanja ninji    nganinyi  najba=yi wabula
	 	 	 	 Where 2Sgnom    man       see=past  before
	 	 	 	 Where did you see that man before?
	 506	 	 	 (1.6)
	 507	 DG:	->	 >Wanja ni[n’  najba;= nganinyi] °nga:buji:.°<
	 	 	 	 Wanja ninji  najba   nganinyi   ngabuji
	 	 	 	 Where 2Sgnom see     man        FaMoBr
	 	 	 	 Where did you see the man, the great uncle?
	 508	 KS:	->	 [(Wanj’wa) ju:no?]
	 	 	 	 (Wanjawa  junu
	 	 	 	   where    perhaps
	 	 	 	 (Where) I don’t know
	 509	 	 	 (0.4)
	 510	 KS:	->	 R:obbiewanyi.
				 Robbie-wanyi
	 	 	 	 Robbie-erg
	 	 	 	 Robbie did
	 511	 	 	 (0.8)
	 512	 Man:	 (Wha:rah.)
	 	 	 	 (        )
	 “Watching for witness”	 119
	 513	 	 	 (0.8)
	 514	 DG:		 >Nganinyinyi  najba ‘rri;= kingka    la
			 	 nganinyi-nyi najba barri  kingkarri la
	 	 	 	 Man-erg      see    foc    up        loc
	 515	 	 	 Blacksfella-;S:-Spring:;= ^ngarri?
	 	 	 	 Blackfella   Spring        ngarri
	 	 	 	                            tag
	 	 	 	 The man saw (him) up at Blackfella Spring, didn’t he?
	 516	 	 	 (1.1)
	 517	 KS:		 Junkg’wa  ^k:a˘ja n’na w:anka;= nganinyi:?
	 	 	 	 Junkgu-wa  kaja  (nani) wanka    nganinyi
	 	 	 	 Sit-still  many  (that) alive    man
	 	 	 	 Big mob of blackfellas still living there
	 518	 	 	 (1.5)
	 519	 KS:		 [>Kabu ^y:an]ybakiy’ nana’kanyi;< bardibardinyi,
	 	 	 	   Kabu yanyba=kiyi   nana-nkanyi  bardibardi-nyi
	 	 	 	   look talk=imp      that-dat     old.woman-dat
	 	 	 	 Look, talk to that one, to the old woman
The extract in (16) shows how epistemic authority may be managed if it is at is-
sue, without use of visual or reportive evidential strategies. A man has approached
the three women sitting on the porch. Daphne asks him where a different man
is.16 Daphne pursues a response from the man in lines 505 and 506, repeating the
question. In 508, Kate claims not to know the answer. This would appear to be in
response to Daphne’s question to the man. She then claims that ‘Robbie’ would
know the answer (in 510). Kate is not the selected speaker. Like Hilda in the first
extract, she independently offers her epistemic status, which in this case is her
lack of knowledge of the man’s whereabouts (cf. Hilda’s assertion in Extract 1 of
certain knowledge). At the beginning of Kate’s turn in line 510 her eye gaze is
at Daphne, moving to focus on the ground as she finishes her turn in line 510.
Daphne’s gaze remains towards the man to whom she addressed the question.
After this, Kate’s attention is focused on the man and not on Daphne for the rest of
this extract (512–519). The lack of engagement between Kate and Daphne suggests
that Daphne is not treating Kate as someone with epistemic rights, and is continu-
ing to negotiate with the man to whom she originally addressed the question.
In 514, Daphne presents a possibility for the location of the man, ‘Blackfella
Spring’. The use of ngarri, a confirmation-seeking tag, presents this as less than
certain. In 517, Kate’s response builds on Daphne’s suggestion, aligning with it
and perhaps reinforcing the possibility that the man is at Blackfella Spring, but her
16.  The to-be-located man is not explicitly identified but is clearly recognised by the participants.
120	 Ilana Mushin
turn is directed towards the man, not Daphne. Kate’s alignment with Daphne in
supporting the possibility of a man being at Blackfella Spring (because there are
a mob of people there) comes after she has denied knowing anything about his
whereabouts. It is possible that this alignment is made in order to square her epis-
temic status with Daphne’s. After all, Daphne also originally denied knowledge of
the man’s whereabouts by asking someone else where he was. Now she is suggest-
ing a location. The fact that they are both addressing the man in front of them, and
not each other, supports the analysis that they are now engaged in both asserting
at least some knowledge of where the man might be.
In 519, Kate tells the man to talk to ‘that old woman’ about it, continuing her
stance of someone who may not have access or licence to the knowledge, but at
least knows someone who does. It is not clear who this old woman is. As she says
the utterance in line 519, Kate gestures away from both Daphne and Hilda, sug-
gesting that the old woman in question is not one of the women present. The man
leaves after this.
What do we make of the evidentials strategies in this passage? Here, denial of
knowledge is made not through claims of witness or non-witness, hearsay or direct
experience, but rather through the assignment of knowledge to two other people
(Robbie and another old woman). The identification of a licensed source of informa-
tion is used here as a way of managing the fact that the two women (and the man) are
not in possession of the right knowledge, but there is clearly some competitiveness
between Kate and Daphne in how epistemic rights are expressed. The assignment
of knowledge to other people is highly consistent with Sansom’s characterisation of
knowledge and the ‘given word’ assigned to particular people by consensus.
	 (17)	 Robinson River Conversation
	 1	 DG:		 ˚balba=yi barrin˚
				 go=past   this.morning
	 	 	 	 he went this morning
	 2	 KS:		 well wanyi-ngi barri kuyu=yi
				 what-erg        foc    take=past
	 	 	 	 and who bin takim?.
	 3	 HG:		 and where he go
	 4	 KS:	->	 I bin jis najba jiwayki-yudi walajkurri
					 see   swag-with    emerge-ds
	 5			 nawu, ngayu barri wanbiya=yi  barri nayi-na
				 now   1sgnom foc    arrive=past foc    this-loc
	 6	 	 	 school-nyina
				 school-loc
				
I just saw him with a swag coming (through the door) I
arrived here (before him) in this school
	 “Watching for witness”	 121
	 7	 DG:		 wulani	   wanbiya=yi ngabungaburri
				 yesterday arrive=past sundown
	 8	 	 	 wanya     ngajaka    im up there langa road
	 	 	 	 what      ask
	 9	 	 	 (       ) danyan dere
	 	 	 	           clothes
	 	 	 	 
He arrived at sundown yesterday what(I) asked him up the
road (about) clothes there
	 10	 	 	 Kuyu  ngayu kajan danyan
	 	 	 	 bring 1sgnom many  clothes
	 	 	 	 I brought lots of clothes
	 11	 KS:		 mardamarda karu=kiya ninji yalu  marda
	 	 	 	 also       tell=oblig 2sgnom 3plnom also
	 	 	 	 Couldn’t you have told him (for me) as well?
	 12	 DG:		 ay
	 13	 KS:		 karu=kiya nganinji    jala (bakiya ngayu
	 	 	 	 tell=oblig 1sgacc/2sgnom rel           1sgnom
	 14	 	 	 bailimup that whitefella
	 	 	 	 You should have told me when you bailed up that Whitefella (??)
	 15	 DG:		 yeh
	 16	 DG:		 ngamu=kiya   kuyu dere bayungu dalalambi-ji
	 	 	 	 1sgalone=oblig bring      west   take.out-purp
	 	 	 	 I wanted to bring (them) west there to take out.
	 17	 HG:		 kuyu=yi  barriwa    (          )
	 	 	 	 take=past finish
	 	 	 	 He took them — finished (  )
	 18	 DG:		 wany-ini	kuyu=yi
	 	 	 	 what-erg  take=past
	 	 	 	 Who took them?
	 19	 KS:		 hey
	 20	 HG?:	 (wanya)
	 	 	 	 (what/who)
	 21	 KS:	->	 miminya
	 	 	 	 MaDaCh
	 22	 KN: ->	 wanya
	 	 	 	 what
	 23	 HG:		 kabu  najbi
	 	 	 	 look  see=imp
	 	 	 	 Look, see
	 24	 KS:		 winjawa nani      waydbala-wanyi sellim
	 	 	 	 where   like.that whitefella-erg
122	 Ilana Mushin
	 	 	 	 second hand clothes
	 	 	 	 where was that whitefella selling those second hand clothes?
	 25	 KN:		 e bin here ain’t e? dey
	 26	 KS:	->	 e ‘s there bayungu and Doreen reckon they’re gone
	 27	 KN: ->	 (  ) they’re gone now bardibar[di najba=yi]
	 28	 HG:		 	 	 	 	 	 	 	    [I bin ju]st seeim
	 	 	 	 gone today bayungu-na nanda mudika
	 	 	 	 	    west-abl   that  car
	 	 	 	 I saw him go today from the west, (in) that car
	 29	 KS:		 malijba=kiyi wijkunumba=kiyi
	 	 	 	 chase=imp     bring.back=imp
	 	 	 	 chasim (and) bringim back.
	 30	 	 	 Kabu wijkunumba=kiyi nanda waydbala
	 	 	 	 look bring.back=imp   that  whitefella
	 31	 	 	 malijba=kiyi ja=nurru      bayimba
	 	 	 	 chase=imp     fut=1plExclnom buy
	 32	 	 	 nanga-nbu yaji
	 	 	 	 3sg-loc	 thing
	 	 	 	 
look here, bring him back, that whitefella. Chase him. We’re
going to buy the things he has.
The extract in (17) is an illustration of the use of visual evidence as an evidential
strategy in negotiating epistemic authority. In (17) the same three women have
been discussing the presence of a Salvation Army person who has been buying
and selling second hand clothes. Kate is complaining that Daphne did not help
Kate get clothes from the Salvation Army person (Kate is fairly invalid and cannot
get around easily). The full sequence is not given here, but it starts with some dis-
cussion and questions about his whereabouts. In line 1, Daphne claims he left the
community that morning. Kate challenges this claim in line 2 by questioning who
had taken them (ie. if he has gone, then by what means did he leave the commu-
nity?). Hilda’s turn in line 3 seems to continue this interrogation by asking where
went (if he has gone, where did he go to?). In line 4, Kate uses direct visual per-
ception as an evidential strategy to directly contradict Daphne’s claim, claiming
she saw him earlier that day (with a swag). Daphne does not immediately counter
this claim of direct sensory experience by Kate. Instead she shifts the focus from
the Salvation Army man’s whereabouts to what he was doing the day before when
he was in the community, thereby implicitly accepting Kate’s claim to epistemic
rights based on witnessed evidence.
But the overall dispute between Daphne and Kate is not yet resolved and in line
21, Kayla (KN) is brought into the conversation as an adjudicator. Kayla is a young-
er woman, the classificatory granddaughter of Kate. Kayla’s response seems to be
	 “Watching for witness”	 123
designed to appease both women. She first says that he had been here, supporting
Kate, but the use of the tag question (ain’t e) provides downgrading of her claim of
authority. In line 26 Kate explicitly contrasts her knowledge state (that he is still in
the community) with Daphne’s claim that he has left already. This reiteration of the
dispute between Kate and Daphne over the Salvation Army person’s whereabouts
has not been resolved. Both Kayla and Hilda at this point confirm that they had
seen him leave — again using visual evidence as a way of resolving this dispute. Kate
clearly accepts this now as she urges the others to ‘chase him and bring him back’.
6.	 Conclusions
The examples above all demonstrate some of the ways in which Garrwa people
negotiate epistemic authority in fairly mundane conversational contexts. This lack
of explicit coding of evidentiality is in striking contrast with many other small
society communities, such as those described in South America, where all talk
permeates with evidential coding and so the study of evidential strategies becomes
a matter of which strategy is selected, rather than whether evidentiality is used
at all. Indeed, even when potential or actual sources of knowledge are explicitly
mentioned in Garrwa, there is scant use of the possible evidential strategies avail-
able; compare the situation of the speakers that were identified at the beginning of
Section 5 with respect to the clitic =wali, the use of sensory perception construc-
tions, and the use of reportive constructions.
The lack of consistent evidential coding is perhaps a reflex of the overall
paucity of grammatical and lexical evidential strategies in Garrwa. Under this
interpretation, we can say that the language has not developed any large or sophis-
ticated system of evidential coding, because indexing source of information is not
a primary concern in Garrwa culture. How then does this pattern accord with the
general characterisation of Australian Aboriginal camp culture as one in which
knowledge and the capacity to talk about knowledge is highly socially controlled,
but much of social life takes place in public view?
One possible motivation for the lack of evidential coding is that it is not neces-
sary to make source of information explicit in most ‘ordinary’ contexts. This may be
because it is clear among members of this community where the epistemic author-
ity lies, or it may be because much knowledge is publicly available and so evidence
is not required when information is provided. Only when knowledge is in dispute
do people bring into play the establishment of epistemic authority, with the author-
ity being justified on the basis of claims to witness. This is what we see in (15) with
Hilda’s claim to witness the proper method for preparing waterlilies, in (16) with
Kate’s claim to know a witness, and in (17) with Kate and Kayla’s claims to witness.
124	 Ilana Mushin
What is consistent across these examples is that in cases of disputes over
knowledge, there does seem to be a preference for citing witnessed events as a
strategy for claiming epistemic authority. This finding is very similar to what
Sansom (1980) described for the evoking of epistemic authority in Wallaby Cross.
But Sansom was focused on what he called ‘happenings’, which were significant,
often violent and grog-fuelled events, such as beatings and spearings. In such
high-stakes encounters, claims to witness may become more significant as part of
the communal justice system. Sansom was less focused on ordinary interactions,
such as the ones presented here. Even so, what we find in these more mundane en-
counters is consistent with the analysis of the role of ‘witness’ being given priority,
as this is the evidential strategy employed when epistemic authority is at issue. To
this extent, the principle applies regardless of social contexts.
The ‘happenings’ described by Sansom (1980) clearly require a higher degree
of social accountability than does ordinary talk, and thus a greater imperative in
claiming to be a licensed witness, and doing the social work involved in managing
these claims. Under these circumstances, the practices associated with claiming
witness are amplified and become more conventionalised than what is found in
ordinary conversation. These differences are perhaps comparable with the simi-
larities and differences between talk-in-interaction in ordinary conversation and
in institutional talk in general. For example, the highly regulated systems for al-
locating turns of talk in institutions such as courtrooms and classrooms have been
shown to be accountable in terms of the underlying system of turn-taking de-
scribed for ordinary conversation (Sacks, Schegloff & Jefferson 1974). That is, the
same basic principles of allocating turns to next speakers, and allowing speakers to
continue their turns may be far more restrictive in, say, a courtroom, but it is the
same principle that is at play. In the present study of epistemic authority, a general
principle of associating licensed witness with epistemic authority, and the linguis-
tic means for evoking this association, seems to apply regardless of the type of talk,
but the talk attains a different significance and flavour in high-stakes encounters
such as ‘happenings’.
The present chapter has examined evidential strategies and the management
of epistemic authority in two different (although comparable) communities of in-
digenous people. I have shown resemblances in linguistic practices associated with
claims to witness across different kinds of talk that support a general principle not
only of the primacy of direct sensory evidence, visual evidence being the most sa-
lient, but also of the importance of the role of ‘witness’, a role which must be nego-
tiated and socially sanctioned. As Sansom (1980) argues, the role of witness must
be licensed because so much of social life is in fact on public display in Wallaby
Cross. The same applies in Robinson River and Borroloola.
	 “Watching for witness”	 125
The public nature of life in such communities has consequences for the de-
ployment of evidential strategies in conversation. The Garrwa data shows an over-
all restricted set of possible evidential forms, and a general avoidance of evidential
strategies, and this is perhaps because so much (mundane) knowledge is not only
shared, but also implicitly acknowledged as shared. It is only when knowledge is in
dispute, a situation which may potentially lead to social disharmony, that claims to
witness are made and evidential strategies emerge in the talk. What is required in
future linguistic-pragmatic work is a more precise analysis of where the boundar-
ies lie between knowledge that requires a licensed witness and is accountable, and
knowledge which is not accountable such that anyone may be authorised to speak
on it.
As a final point, another kind of encounter that has not been examined in
this chapter, nor in Sansom (1980), is talk around sacred interactions, such as cer-
emony or land tenure. In these situations, my hypothesis predicts a more height-
ened attention to who has access to what knowledge. While it is often difficult to
obtain permission to record talk about sacred matters, an understanding of how
epistemic authority is deployed in these situations would significantly enhance our
understanding of the management of epistemic authority in Australian Aboriginal
communities more generally. On the other hand, attention to more mundane in-
teractions is perhaps a better measure of how people use evidential strategies in
daily interaction and may provide a better sense of ‘business as usual’ social inter-
action in these societies.
References
Aikhenvald, Alexandra. 2004. Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Austin, Peter. 1981. A grammar of Diyari. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Cornillie, Bert. 2009. Evidentiality and Epistemic Modality: On the close relationship between
two different categories. Functions of Language 16(1): 44–62.
de Haan, Ferdinand. 2005. Encoding speaker perspective: Evidentials. In: Zygmunt Frajzyngier,
Adam Hodges & David Rood (eds), Linguistic Diversity and Language Theories, 379–397
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Donaldson, Tamsin. 1980 A grammar of Ngiyambaa. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Evans, Nicholas & David Wilkins,. 2000. In the mind’s ear: Semantic extensions of perception
verbs in Australian languages. Language 76(3): 546–592.
Fox, Barbara. 2007. Principles shaping grammatical practices. Discourse Studies 9: 299–318.
Goddard, Cliff. 1985. A grammar of Yanykunytjatjara. Alice Springs: IAD (Institute for
Aboriginal Development) Press.
Heritage,John&GeoffreyRaymond.2005.InTermsofAgreement:IndexingEpistemicAuthority
and Subordination in Talk-in-interaction. Social Psychology Quarterly 68(1): 15–38.
126	 Ilana Mushin
Laughren, Mary. 1982. A preliminary description of propositional particles in Warlpiri. Working
Papers of SIL-AAB, Series A, 6: 129–162.
McConvell, Patrick. 1988. Mix-im-up: Aboriginal codeswitching, old and new. In: Monica
Heller (ed.), Codeswitching: anthropological and sociolinguistic perspectives, 99–149,
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Michael, Lev. 2008. Nanti Evidential Practice: Language, Knowledge and Social Action in an
Amazonian Society. PhD Dissertation, University of Texas at Austin.
Michael, Lev. this volume. Nanti Self-Quotation: Implications for the pragmatics of reported
speech and evidentiality.
Mushin, Ilana. 2001. Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance: Narrative Retelling. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Mushin, Ilana. 2010. Code switching as an interactional resource in Garrwa/Kriol talk-in-inter-
action. Australian Journal of Linguistics 30(4): 471–496.
Mushin, Ilana. 2012. A grammar of Western Garrwa. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Nuckolls, Janis. this volume. From quotative other to quotative self in Pastaza Quichua eviden-
tial usage.
Palmer, Frank R. 1986. Mood and Modality. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Sacks, Harvey, Emanuel A. Schegloff & Gail Jefferson. 1974. A simplest systematics for the orga-
nization of turn-taking for conversation. Language 50: 696–735.
Sansom, Basil. 1980. The camp at Wallaby Cross: Aboriginal fringe dwellers in Darwin.
Canberra: AIAS (Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies).
Schegloff, Emanuel A. 2009. One perspective on Conversation Analysis: Comparative
Perspectives. In: Jack Sidnell (ed.), Conversation Analysis: Comparative Perspectives, 357–
406. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Sidnell, Jack (ed.). 2009. Conversation Analysis: Comparative Perspectives. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press. (Studies in Interactional Sociolinguistics 77).
Sidnell, Jack. this volume. Who knows best? Evidentiality and epistemic asymmetry in conversa-
tion.
Weber, David J. 1986 Information perspective, profile and patterns in Quechua. In: Wallace
Chafe & Johanna Nichols (eds), Evidentiality: The linguistic coding of epistemology, 137–
155. Norwood, N.J.: Ablex.
Wilkins, David. 1986. Particle/clitics for criticism and complaint in Mparntwe Arrernte. Journal
of Pragmatics 10: 575–596.
Wilkins, David 1989. Mparntwe Arrernte (Aranda): Studies in the structure and semantics of
grammar. Unpublished PhD Dissertation, Australian National University.
“Who knows best?”
Evidentiality and epistemic asymmetry
in conversation
Jack Sidnell
University of Toronto
This essay reviews current work in conversation analysis with an eye to what it
might contribute to the study of evidentiality and epistemic asymmetry. After a
brief review of some aspects of the interactional organization of conversation, I
turn to consider the way in which participants negotiate relative epistemic po-
sitioning through the use of particular practices of speaking. The analytic focus
here is on agreements and confirmations especially in assessment sequences. In
conclusion, I consider a single case in which various practices are employed to
convey a delicate balance of knowledge and simultaneously to attend to a range
of other, non-epistemic, interactional issues.
Introduction
Recent work in conversation analysis has shown that, in designing their contri-
butions to some spate of talk, conversationalists take into account not only the
differential distribution of knowledge among participants but also the differen-
tial distribution of rights and responsibilities to know (Heritage and Raymond
2005, Raymond and Heritage 2006, Stivers 2005, Stivers et al. forthc., among oth-
ers). In what follows, I review some of that research, attempting to show how it
might be relevant to the study of evidentials and evidentiality by linguists. The
literature on evidentials indicates that all languages provide a range of resources
that allow speakers to convey various degrees of ‘doubt’ and ‘certainty’ via mean-
ings relating to source of knowledge.1 As is well-known, some languages require a
1.  While many of the chapters in the present collection may challenge these assumptions, I
am working with a traditional definition of evidentiality in which we assume a core or pri-
mary meaning having to do with ‘source of knowledge’ and a variety of secondary, derived and
inferred meanings ranging from surprise, disbelief, (un)certainty and so on. These derived
128	 Jack Sidnell
specification of source of knowledge in many sentence-types as a requirement of
general well-formedness, while in other languages ‘evidential’ marking, if we allow
it to be so described (pace Aikhenvald 2004, 2006) is optional.
Whatconversationanalysis(CA)addstotheworkwithinlinguisticsoneviden-
tiality is an explicit focus on interaction (see also Hanks, this volume). Language
has its natural home in social interaction and so it should not surprise us to find
that some features of its design are adapted to this environment. In order to see the
way in which the resources of a language are adapted to interaction, we obviously
have to know something about interaction; so I’m going to start with a very brief
sketch of some of the most important findings of CA concerning the structure of
talk-in-interaction. Following that, I will attempt to provide some sense of the way
in which issues of knowledge (and specifically knowledge asymmetry) can be un-
derstood in sequential and interactional terms. I then turn to review some recent
conversation analytic studies that bear on this issue.
I have three basic points to make in what follows. First, I want to suggest that
evidentials are but one set of resources among many that speakers have available
for modulating the claims to knowledge that attend their talk; and consequently,
that evidentiality should not be considered in isolation from the other practices
that speakers deploy to negotiate epistemic positioning.2 Second, I will argue that,
in many cases at least, the evidentials and other ‘epistemic’ modulations that are
present in some bit of talk do not so much reflect the speaker’s degree of certainty
(as is commonly supposed) as they do the asymmetry that speakers assume to ex-
ist between what they know and what their recipients know.3 Third, I want to show
that epistemic positioning (or whatever we choose to call it) is typically brought off
en passant, in the course of whatever else it is the participants are doing.
An initial sense of these points can be had from a consideration of the follow-
ing extract taken from a phone conversation between two nurses. Here Bea has
called Rose to see if she wants to work a “case” involving a woman who has had an
aneurism. It turns out that Rose already knows something about the specific case.
meanings are particularizations of the core primary meaning in context and therefore as varied
as the contexts in which these forms are used.
2.  At this level, whether evidentiality is thought of in terms of marking source of knowledge or
speaker (un)certainty (see Chafe and Nichols 1986) makes little difference, since in either case,
the effect is to modulate (and typically to diminish) any perceived claim to epistemic authority.
3.  This perhaps distinguishes quasi-evidential lexical marking (such as English “seems,” “appar-
ently,” and so on) from “true” grammaticalized evidential marking which does, according to the
literature, unequivocally qualify speaker’s access (and is moot as to the relation between speaker
and recipient).
	 “Who knows best?”	 129
The transcript begins at the conclusion of Rose’s detailed account to Bea of what
she knows.
	 (1)	 SBL-1–10
	 01	 Rose:	 nThey thought et first she wz hit witha golf: (0.5) ball
	 02	          uhr bat er something but it wasn’t that i[t w’ss:]uh-
	 03	 Bea:                                              [Uh-hah.]
	 04	 Rose:    a ruptured aneurism  hhh And i-u-u-thi-  (0.3) they
	 05	          didn’wan’Doctor Reeves’n Saint Joh:n they took’er dow:n
	 06	          tih U.C.L.A:.
	 07	 Bea:     Yhe:s:.
	 08	          (0.3)
	 09	 Bea:     Ah-hah.
	 10	 Rose:->  An’it (0.3) Ah’it left’er (0.4) quite permanently damaged
	 11	      ->  °I s[uppose°
	 12	 Bea:         [ tk
	 13	 	   ->  Uh:pparently,
	 14	         	 (.)
	 15	 	   	   Uh ^he is still hopeful.
	 16	         	 (.)
	 17	 Rose:   	 The husb’n,
	 18	 Bea:      Ah hah end yih never jus’ (.) eh yih js’ never saw such
	 19	 	 	   devotion in yer li:fe.
At line 10 Rose is continuing the account of the patient’s situation as she knows it.
With “it left’er (0.4) quite permanently damaged”, she concludes with the conse-
quence for the patient. By appending “I suppose”, Rose marks this as an inference
and thus clearly downgrades the epistemic claim which attends a declaratively for-
matted assertion such as “it left’er (0.4) quite permanently damaged”. Moreover, by
appending “I suppose”, Rose establishes the relevance of confirmation by Bea in
the next turn. Bea however does not respond with a straightforward confirmation.
Rather, with “apparently” she marks her own access as in some way limited (viz., to
“appearances”) and thus holds out the possibility of complete recovery. Her subse-
quent talk explicates the reason for the equivocation here — the woman’s husband
is still “hopeful” that his wife might heal.
Several observations are on point here. First, notice the way that Rose’s “I sup-
pose” downgrades her own epistemic status relative to Bea’s — that is, it indexes
a differential in the distribution of knowledge between speaker and recipient. We
see this in the fact that Rose’s “I suppose” is treated by Bea as a request for confir-
mation. Second, notice the way that Bea’s “apparently” suggests a difference not in
epistemic access between herself and the husband but rather a difference in rights
130	 Jack Sidnell
to know. In saying “^he is still hopeful.”, Bea suggests that confirmation has been
withheld (or at least qualified) precisely in an effort to respect the greater rights of
someone closer than is she. And we may further note that the repair sequence here
(Rose’s understanding check “The husb’n,” in line 17 which is confirmed at line 18
by Bea with “Ah hah”) presumably deals with a hearing of “he” as referring to the
doctor who has already been mentioned in prior talk where, if “he” had referred to
the doctor, quite different grounds for hope of recovery and thus for Bea’s response
with “apparently” would have been implied — i.e. that there was some precedent
or medical reason for supposing that recovery was possible.
Interactional structure and knowledge asymmetry
First, a very obvious but crucially important observation regarding interaction: it
involves two or more participants who alternate in their incumbency of the roles
of speaker and hearer. Moreover, any bit of talk that is addressed to some hearer(s)
or recipient(s) should be designed to be suitable and appropriate to that person: it
should be, as Sacks put it, “recipient designed.”4 Here, it may be useful to observe a
striking contrast between (mainstream) linguistics and CA. In linguistics, we sel-
dom focus on the people using language — rather, we typically investigate proper-
ties of the linguistic system itself.5 When we do turn our attention to the language
users, we typically focus on speakers and more or less forget about the hearers. In
contrast, in CA the minimal unit of analysis is (the product of) a speaker-recipient
dyad. The focus on interaction in CA has shown that although the words may
come out of the speaker’s mouth, who the recipients are (in some situational or
categorical sense) and how they organize their conduct, moment-by-moment in
the course of interaction, significantly shapes the talk that the speaker ends up
producing (see C. Goodwin 1979, M. Goodwin 1980, Goodwin and Goodwin
1987). This recipient design has a pervasive relevance for interaction and plays a
4.  Sacks discussed notions of recipient design throughout his lectures, but the definitive state-
ment comes from the seminal paper that Sacks, Schegloff and Jefferson wrote in 1974, and in
which the authors talk about
	 “
the multitude of respects in which the talk by a party in a conversation is constructed or
designed in ways which display an orientation and sensitivity to the particular other(s) who
are the co-participants” (Sacks, Schegloff, & Jefferson 1974: 727).
Obviously this is a norm rather than a categorical rule, and cases of ‘recipient-design error’ can
be found.
5.  There are of course exceptions — see Hanks 1990 for one, as well for a discussion of these
matters.
	 “Who knows best?”	 131
key role in what we describe as conversationalists’ epistemic practices. Thus, al-
though we typically think of evidentials as reflecting or conveying the speaker’s
degree of certainty etc., a focus on interaction suggests that what a recipient knows
or, better, what a speaker assumes a recipient knows is equally, if not more, im-
portant. Ultimately, much of the evidential and epistemic marking in talk indexes
the differential between what one participant knows and what he or she assumes
the other knows. This is made more complicated by the fact that it is not simply
what participants know that is relevant, but moreover what they are entitled or
obligated to know — and of course the assumptions each makes about the other
in this respect (see Sacks 1995, Roth 2002, Sidnell 2005, Raymond and Heritage
2006, Stivers et al. 2011).
Second, opportunities to contribute to interaction are distributed as turns-at-
talk (Sacks, Schegloff and Jefferson 1974) and these turns exhibit various structur-
al regularities both within and across languages. Simply put, language is packaged
in turns-at-talk: a turn is comprised of units that are positioned relative to one an-
other. Thus we have turn-initial position, turn-final position, and also turn-medial
position. As it happens, some bits of language can only occur in turn-initial or
turn-final position (e.g. “Oh”). Other bits of language (i.e. specific language forms)
can occur in either position but their sense and import differ according to the
position in which we find them.
Third,ininteraction,turnsarethevehiclesforactionsandactionsareorganized
into sequences. Of course, the classic and perhaps prototypical sequence is that
composed of question and answer, but there are many others — greeting-greeting,
invitation and acceptance or declining, request and granting or rejection, accusa-
tion and defense, complaint and excuse or justification, and so on and so forth
(Schegloff 2007). For many turns (though not for all), we can describe their po-
sitioning as “first” (e.g. question, invitation, accusation) or “second” (answer,
acceptance, defense). Now, just as the positioning of an item within a turn has
consequences for the participants’ understanding of its sense and import, so too
has a turn’s positioning within a sequence. Moreover, once again there are items
(or practices, such as repetition) that either seem only to occur in one position or,
as in the case of repeats, can logically occur in one position only.6
To summarize this whirlwind tour:
1.	 Recipient design: Talk-in-interaction is always addressed to some particular
other (or others) and exhibits in the details of its design the speaker’s orienta-
tion to that other (or others). One basic aspect of recipient design has to do
6.  For example, turn-initial “no” is typically produced as a response and thus occurs in second
or third position rather than first.
132	 Jack Sidnell
with what the speaker assumes the recipient knows and how well she or he
knows it.
2.	 Turn organization: Talk-in-interaction is composed of turns-at-talk. Turns-
at-talk are themselves composed of units (named turn constructional units or
TCUs). Such units have beginnings, middles, and endings. The positioning of
some item within one of these positions can affect how it is understood, and
shape how it is taken up (or not).
3.	 Action sequencing:Turns are the vehicles for actions and actions are organized
into sequences. These sequences are composed of positions and once again,
the occurrence of some item in one position rather than another can signifi-
cantly shape how it is understood and how it is taken up in subsequent talk.
Sequential organization and epistemic asymmetry
Using this sketch of interactional structure, we can start to describe the distribu-
tion of knowledge and the manifestation of epistemic asymmetries in conversa-
tion in a sequentially sensitive way. We will consider three positions in a sequence:
first, second, and third. In first position, we can observe a basic contrast between
those utterances that “tell” and those that “ask”.
This basic dimension of contrast clearly correlates, to a significant extent, with
salient grammatically defined categories such as declarative and interrogative.7
The contrast can be usefully characterized in a two-by-two ‘epistemic’ grid (where
‘K’ represents ‘knowledge’):
Table 1.  Normative knowledge asymmetry for “telling” and “asking”
Speaker Recipient
TELL K+ K-
ASK K- K+
This contrast is implicit in much of earlier conversation analytic writing. Sacks
(1995) for instance described recipient design as obeying the rule “don’t tell your
recipients what they already know” (emphasis added). Similarly, Heritage (1984b)
writes:8
7.  This is obviously not a one-to-one mapping — compare interrogatives that don’t do ques-
tioning (“Who’s your Daddy?,” “What the heck is going on?”, “Where do you get off?”), as well
as declaratives that do questioning (“That’s what I was going to ask you,” or “You’re going then”;
see Schegloff 1984, Heritage 2002b, Sidnell 2010, Sadock and Zwicky 1985)
8.  See Stivers and Rossano (2010), Heritage and Raymond (forthc.).
	 “Who knows best?”	 133
[A] questioner, in addition to proposing that an answer should be provided ‘next’
by a selected next speaker, also proposes through the production of a question
to be ‘uninformed’ about the substance of the question. Moreover the questioner
also proposes by the act of questioning that the recipient is likely to be ‘informed’
about this same matter. Thus a standard way of accounting for the non-produc-
tion of an answer is for the intended answerer to assert a lack of information and
hence, an inability to answer the question as put. (Heritage 1984b: 250)
So both tellings (declaratives, assertions, etc.) and questions can be seen to index
the differential knowledge of speaker and recipient — which is to say, that these
two broad types involve inverse specifications for the distribution of knowledge.
Of course, at each end of this scale we find various lexical and grammatical re-
sources in English and other languages that allow for significant movement within
the broad category. Thus for instance within the category of tellings, a speaker can
modulate the utterance with hedges such as “I think,” or “I suppose” to qualify the
(K+) position the act of telling presupposes. Below, I will discuss such ‘downgrades’
which diminish the claim to know inherent in tellings — obviously, evidential mark-
ing, be it lexical (as in English “seem,” “appear”) or grammatical, is another resource
available to speakers here. At the other end of the scale, various aspects of ques-
tion design serve to modify the basic (K-) position inherent in the action of asking.
Heritage and Raymond (forthc.) describe this in terms of an epistemic gradient:
… different question designs can adjust the depth of the epistemic gradient be-
tween questioner and respondent, encoding different degrees of information
gap and different levels of commitment to the candidate answer advanced by the
questioner. Consider the following four questions: (1) Who did you talk to? (2)
Did you talk to John? (3) You talked to John didn’t you? (4) You talked to John?
All four questions are united in assigning ultimate authority for the information
being sought to the respondent. However they differ in the extent to which the
questioner claims pre-existing access to the information under question. Each
question establishes a distinctive gap in knowledge, a distinctive epistemic gradi-
ent, between questioner and respondent. (Heritage and Raymond forthc.)
It should be obvious that many first position utterances are designed to occupy the
gray area between the two extremes (for instance the assessments discussed be-
low), while for others the gradient is simply irrelevant (as in “get out of the way!”).
Turning now to second position, we do not find the same neat division of
the conceptual space. This is due in part to the fact that as responses, second po-
sition utterances are already divided between those that respond to tellings and
those that respond to askings. With responses to tellings, we can distinguish those
that treat the telling as informative from those that do not. In English, recipients
have available to them a virtual battery of terms and phrases ranging from simple
news receipts such as “oh” and “yeah?” to more elaborated newsmarks such as
134	 Jack Sidnell
“Oh really” through to still more developed responses such as “you’re joking” and
so on (see Maynard 2003).9 On the other side, responses such as “I know…” or “I
heard”, or even “yup” resist the informativeness of the telling. Less extreme, but
still resistant in this sense are responses with “okay” (see Heritage and Sefi 1992).
Responses to questions are more complicated. Participants distinguish be-
tween responses that answer a question and those that do not. Thus, non-answers
establish the relevance of accounts for not answering (the virtually standardized
account being “I don’t know”, which may of course lead to the provision of a sec-
ond account, e.g. “I haven’t heard from him…”). They also warrant follow-up ques-
tions, either to the same or to other co-present parties (‘pursuit’, see Pomerantz
1984b). With respect to answering responses, for Y-N (‘Yes-No’) type questions,
one can distinguish answers that employ a “yes” or “no” token (or some equivalent
but phonetically variant token such as “yup” or “nope”) from those that do not
(see Raymond 2003). Most relevant to the present discussion is likely the contrast
between such ‘type-conforming’ responses and those that employ some kind of
repetition. Specifically, it would seem that for English at least, repeat-formatted an-
swers claim greater epistemic authority than do token answers. The special class of
‘marked’ agreements, such as “of course” or “absolutely”, just like answers prefaced
with “oh,” challenge the terms of the question — suggesting that the questioner
should have known the answer independently (see Heritage 1998, Stivers 2011).10
Particularly relevant to the discussion that follows are ‘mismatches’ between first
and second position in which second position speakers respond to first position
tellings with ‘answers,’ and, more specifically with ‘confirmations.’ By confirming
what has been asserted, a second position speaker claims greater epistemic author-
ity over the matter being discussed (Schegloff 1996, Stivers 2005).
Finally, we should consider third position in sequences consisting of question,
answer, and receipt. As Heritage (1984a) noted, third position in such a sequence
is more or less dedicated to the job of showing whether the answer has been in-
formative — this being displayed in English by the use of “oh”. Non-occurrence of
“oh” in this position can be heard as indicating that the answer given was already
known or did not address the matter asked about and was therefore uninformative.
9.  Responses such as “you’re kidding” and “are you serious” which play on the serious/non-
serious distinction shade into expressions of surprise — what Drew (2003) describes as markers
of “ritualized disbelief” — and may be taken as indices of mild skepticism (Sidnell n.d.).
10.  I use the term “marked/unmarked” here and elsewhere in a very general way to indicate a
situation in which participants have a choice between a default (unmarked) form such as “yes”
and an alternative (marked) form such as “of course”. Marked forms invite recipients to inspect
the talk and context to determine what else is being accomplished in addition to the basic func-
tion (e.g. agreement).
	 “Who knows best?”	 135
The following example (2) illustrates many of these points. This is taken from
a telephone call, the beginning of which was not recorded. Where the recording
starts, Frank is talking to Al about where Al should leave a check which Frank
plans to pick up on the weekend. Al says that he will ask “him” whether he has
“checks or cash” but when the phone call is resumed it is this “him” (Jim in the
transcript) who speaks. In response to a “how are you” type inquiry (Jim asks
“Whuddiyih kno:w.”) Frank remarks: “Nodda mu:ch the: waves er about tuh wosh
us away.” This receives only minimal acknowledgement from Jim when it is pro-
duced but, now in the closing section after a first terminal item has been produced
(Jim’s “Bye now” at line 01), the topic is reinvoked.
	 (2)	 NB:III:2:R:5
	 01	 Jim:	 Bye now .h Ho:w u-how big er those waves down theh.
	 02	 	 	 (0.4)
	 03	 Frank:	 Oh:: about (.) thirty foot I guess
	 04	 	 	 (1.7)
	 05	 Jim:	 Chris[t thirty fee]:t.
	 06	 Frank:	      [Big enough::]
	 07	 	 	 (.)
	 08	 Jim:	 Thet’s[hh
	 09	 Frank:	       [He::h?
	 10	 Jim:	 Thirty fee(h)eet,[·hh Is]
	 11	 Frank:	                  [↑Ye:h.]
	 12	 Jim:	 Is it all a’way up tih the houssiz?
	 13	 	 	 (0.5)
	 14	 Frank:	 Oh: ↓no:. ↓No it’s jis comes uup (.) Yihknow where the:-
	 15	 	 	 uh(p) (0.4) Uh you ben down here before[‘avenche.]
	 16	 Jim:	                            	 	      [  Yaah.  ]
	 17	 Frank:	 Wheh the sidewalk is?
	 18	 Jim:	 Ye:ah?
	 19	 Frank:	 Whur it ends,
	 20	 	 	 (.)
	 21	 Jim		 Goes[all the way] up there?]
	 22	 Frank:	     [They c’m up]  tuh the:]re,h Yea:h.
	 23	 Jim:	 Je:sus Christ must be so:methin uh;?	
	 24	 Frank:	                                   (·tch)
	 25	 Jim:	 °↑mnYe:ah, °hhh ((wearily))
This fragment can be seen to consist of two base question answer sequences. The
first begins at line 01 with the question, “Ho:w u-how big er those waves down
theh.” and continues to line 11. The second begins at line 12 with the question, “Is
it all a’way up tih the houssiz?” and continues to line 25. Embedded in the second
136	 Jack Sidnell
is another pair consisting of the question “Uh you ben down here before ‘avenche.”
and the answer “Yaah” at line 16. Let’s briefly consider each of these pairs in terms
of the epistemic organization outlined above. First, note significant differences in
the design of the question in each case.
		 “Ho:w u-how big er those waves down theh.”
	 	 “Is it all a’way up tih the houssiz?”
	 	 “Uh you ben down here before ‘avenche.”
The first of these is a so-called ‘wh-question’, while the second and third are
Yes-No interrogatives (‘YNIs’). As questions, each presumes a basic knowledge
asymmetry in which the speaker/asker is less informed about the matter talked
about than is the recipient. Notwithstanding that basic asymmetry, each question
conveys that its speaker/asker knows something. So in the first case, the speaker’s
definite referring expression “those waves” presumes the existence of said waves,
and links back to the earlier mention of them by Jim. Furthermore, asking how
big they are presumes that ‘they’ are in fact “big waves”. Consider now the two
YNIs. “Is it all a’way up tih the houssiz?” employs morpho-syntactic inversion and
conveys a ‘steep epistemic gradient’ between speaker and recipient — notice, that
Frank, the recipient, has reported the waves, and Jim is in another location with
no access to them. Presumably, Jim has drawn the inference that they might reach
up to the houses, both from Frank’s estimate of their height as 30 feet and from
Frank’s earlier joke about the waves threatening to “wosh us away.” We can com-
pare Jim’s question with Frank’s “Uh you ben down here before ‘avenche.” which,
while indexing the epistemic priority of the recipient by virtue of requesting him
to confirm, nevertheless conveys, by virtue of the [assertion + tag formatting],
Frank’s belief that Jim has in fact been “down here before.”
Consider now the responses that each of these questions elicits. Jim’s initial
question requests information about the height of the waves; and Frank’s response,
“Oh:: about (.) thirty foot I guess” contests the presumption that he (Frank) should
know this. First, the “oh” prefacing suggests that there is something inapposite
about the question (see Heritage 1998). The inclusion of “about” and “I guess” fur-
ther mark this answer as an estimate. Finally, the use of a round number (30) sug-
gests that what is being given is a rough approximation as does “big enough” at line
06 (see Sacks 1995). There are clearly other things going on here: As the ensuing
talk indicates, Jim’s question was meant to elicit not an estimate of the height of the
waves but rather an assessment of their size (see e.g. “all the way up to the houses,”
and “Must be something huh?”). The estimate Frank gives resists the implication
that there is something assessable here. (See Figure 1.)
We can compare the answers to the two YNIs just as we compared the questions
themselves. By answering the question “Uh you ben down here before ‘avenche”
	 “Who knows best?”	 137
with “Yaah” (in overlap), Jim accepts the terms of the question, including the epis-
temic presumption indexed by its formatting. In contrast Frank’s, “Oh: ↓no:. No
it’s jis comes uup (.) Yihknow where the:- uh(p) Wheh the sidewalk is? Whur
it ends,” once again uses “oh” prefacing to push back on the question — specifi-
cally, it seems, the suggestion that this is a reasonable inference to be drawn from
what Frank himself has said. Notice in this respect that by embedding the second
YNI within the answer to the first — by asking ““Uh you ben down here before
‘avenche.” — Frank suggests that Jim’s ability to understand what Frank is saying
presupposes some independent knowledge about the place he is talking about.11
Before leaving this example we should register, I think, that these epistemic po-
sitionings are lodged within a trajectory of action within interaction. Very briefly,
at the beginning of this exchange Frank has characterized the waves (albeit joking-
ly) as a potential threat to his safety, saying that they are “about to wosh us away”.
While obviously said light-heartedly, there is clearly something complainable here
(we can imagine perhaps that the waves have hampered enjoyment of the beach).
Now in the segment we have considered, the topic of the waves is reinvoked by
Jim (“Ho:w u-how big er those waves down theh.”). The question invites Frank to
elaborate something Jim has found remarkable, topical, and ultimately assessable
in what Frank has said. However, Frank resists that invitation and gives instead
an ‘objective’ estimate of the height of the waves. This misalignment continues
throughout the fragment and into the subsequent talk not shown here. Consider
for instance the contrast between Jim’s descriptively maximizing “all a’way” in line
12 and Frank’s descriptively minimizing “jis comes uup” in line 14. The point of
this sketch then is that, if we ask what is going on in reference to any fragment of
talk, the answer will always involve more than just epistemic positions — partici-
pants to interaction are engaged in the practical activities of everyday life. While
matters of evidence and epistemic positioning may figure prominently, they are
typically dealt with en passant, in the midst of other business.
11.  As suggested by the placement of the embedded question-answer sequence just before
“where the sidewalk is… where it ends” (i.e. lines 14–19).
“Uh you ben down here before 'avenche.”
Speaker Recipient
K–
“Is it all a'way up tih the houssiz?”
K+
Figure 1.  Epistemic gradient and question design
138	 Jack Sidnell
Establishing who knows best in assessment sequences
Much of the recent CA literature on epistemics in interaction has focused on as-
sessment sequences. By an assessment we mean an utterance that expresses its
speaker’s positively or negatively valenced stance toward some person or object
talked about — for example “It’s a fantastic film” or “That is so gross” (see Goodwin
and Goodwin 1987). Utterances like these typically, though not invariably (see
Pomerantz 1978, 1984a), make agreement the relevant next action, such that any
other action will be heard as withholding agreement (that is, as tantamount to
disagreement). Moreover, an agreeing second assessment is vulnerable to being
heard as ‘just going along’ with the first. It is for this reason, perhaps, that in order
to convey unequivocal agreement, a second assessment must typically upgrade the
evaluation of a first (as in Example 10, below, where “pretty” becomes “beauti-
ful”, and so on). Even though participants agree, in assessment sequences they
frequently can be seen to compete over the matter of who knows more about, or
knows better, whatever is being evaluated. This competition takes place within an
organized structure of positions. First position assessments carry an implied claim
to primacy while second assessments are, as noted, vulnerable to being heard as
merely agreeing with a first. It is therefore not surprising that most of the epis-
temic practices described in relation to assessments have to do with either second
speakers ‘getting out from under’ the implications of second position, or with the
converse phenomenon of first speakers downgrading claims that might otherwise
accrue to first positioned assessments. These practices are overwhelmingly more
common than are epistemic practices that underscore primacy in first position or
weaken epistemic claims in second position responses.
In an influential paper, Heritage and Raymond (2005) develop CA work on
assessments with an eye to the epistemic rights and duties implicated in them.
These authors note that to agree with an assessment presupposes some access to
whatever is being assessed. Where one participant has no such access to the assess-
able, the best that can be accomplished is what Heritage and Raymond describe as
a ‘simulacrum’ of agreement as in (3):12
	 (3)	 NB:IV:10:2
	 1	 Lottie:	
[h h] Jeeziz Chris’ you sh’d see that house E(h)mma yih’av
	 2	 	 	 ↓no idea.h[hmhh
	 3	 Emma:	 	       [I bet it’s a drea:m.
While Emma seems prepared to affiliate with Lottie on the matter of the house
(in contrast to a response such as “I never really liked her taste actually…”), she is
12.  See also example 1, line 23.
	 “Who knows best?”	 139
not able to agree with the assessment insofar as she has no basis for doing so (an
eventuality apparently anticipated by the inclusion of “You have no idea” in the
first assessment).
Consider now a situation in which both participants do have access to the item
being assessed, as in the following case.
	 (4)	 JS:II:61
	 1	 J:	 T’s tsuh beautiful day out isn’t it?
	 2	 L:	 Yeh it’s jus’ gorgeous…
Here, what is being assessed is the weather, which is equally available to both par-
ticipants to evaluate and thus to assess. Notice then that in 4, J designs her assess-
ment as a question to invite L’s confirmation, in this way displaying her own sense
that the weather is something equally available to both participants.
Example 4 presents a rather simple case; however, as Raymond and Heritage
(2006: 684) note, “epistemic rights to assess are not solely (or even mainly) distrib-
uted on the basis of physical access to a referent state of affairs; they are socially
distributed.” This can be seen in cases where two quite different bases for knowing
are concurrently relevant in an interaction. In talking about a particular child, for
instance, one participant may have epistemic rights based on the fact that she is
the child’s grandmother, while the other may have rights based on the fact that
she has more recently seen the child during a visit to her house (see Raymond and
Heritage 2006). Because they presuppose joint or shared — though not equivalent
— access, sequences of assessment and agreement routinely involve participants
ranking the immediacy or quality of their access.
In assessment sequences of this kind, then, agreement can easily lead into ne-
gotiation of ‘who knows better’ or ‘who knows best’. According to Heritage and
Raymond (2005) and Raymond and Heritage (2006), these epistemic negotiations
are shaped by three basic features of assessment sequences. First, as noted above,
assessments presuppose access; thus, in order to agree or disagree with a first
speaker’s assessment of some state of affairs, a second speaker must have some ac-
cess to it. Second, speakers rank access to whatever is being assessed as first-hand,
second-hand, mediated, etc. Third, a first assessment “carries an implied claim
that the speaker has primary rights to evaluate the matter assessed” (Raymond
and Heritage 2006: 684). Because first position assessments carry such an implied
claim, “practices for downgrading claimed rights to assess cluster in first posi-
tion, while practices for upgrading claims cluster in second position” (ibid.: 685).
Consider (5), below (from Heritage and Raymond 2005).
	 (5)	 Downgraded first position assessment [SBL 2-1-8:5]
	 1	 Bea:	 hh hhh We:ll,h I wz gla:d she c’d come too las’ni:ght=
140	 Jack Sidnell
	 2	 Nor:->	 =Sh[e seems such a n]ice little [l a dy]
	 3	 Bea:	    [(since you keh) ]	 	 	   [dAwf’l]ly nice l*i’l
	 4	 	 	 p*ers’n. t hhhh hhh We:ll, I[: j’s]
	 5	 Nor:	 	 	 	 	 	 	      [I thin]k evryone enjoyed jus...
As Heritage and Raymond note, it has emerged earlier in this sequence that Norma
had met the person being assessed in line 2, a long-time friend of Bea’s, the night
before for the first time. And they continue to say that this “asymmetry in their
experience is indexed in Norma’s evidentially downgraded assessment (she seems
such a nice little lady) and Bea’s declaratively asserted agreement”. The authors
conclude of this example, “By downgrading her claimed access, Norma manages
her initial assessment so as to defeat any epistemic priority that might have been
inferred from its sheer first positioning” (Heritage and Raymond 2005: 18).
Another resource for downgrading claimed rights in first position is shown in
Example 6.
	 (6)	 Downgraded first position assessment [NB IV 10 Rev 08:01–23]
	 35	 Emm: ->	
.hhuhhhh (.) Oh wul weh-uh no:w duh: didju HAVE a hard trip
	 36	 	 ->	goin up there Sundee?=That Sunee Anna Canyon’s kahna ba:d=
	 37	 Lot:	 =[.hh
	 38	 Emm: ->	
=[isn’it [with ahll those li:ghts.=
	 39	 Lot:	 	 	 [hh
	 40	 Lot:	 =I: dint yihknow I wz thinkin I thik (.) God I’m crazy tih
	 41	 	 	 go et night yihknow by my[s:elf en the]n I I
	 42	 Emm:	 	 	 	 	 	 	   [M m   h m : ]
Here, Emma is asking about Lottie’s recent road trip. Emma’s question about a
“hard trip” is further specified by the assessment of Sunee Anna Canyon. It seems
that it is this portion of the drive and specifically the effect of all the lights that she
is inquiring about. While both participants have access to what is being assessed
— the driving conditions in this particular locale — it is Lottie’s trip that’s being
talked about, and thus it is she who has primary rights to access here. Notice that
Emma adds a tag question to her assessment (“isn’t it”). As Heritage and Raymond
(2005: 20) write, by appending a tag question to a first position assessment, a
speaker formulates her turn as, in the first instance, “a question to be answered
rather than an assertion to be agreed with,” and thus cedes “epistemic authority in
the matter to her co-participant”.
The following example (7) provides another example of this use of a tag ques-
tion. Here Gary is talking about a group of people using their family name. Earlier
in the conversation, Mike and Curt’s greater access to these matters (and specifi-
cally members of this family) has been displayed in a number of ways (see also
Goodwin 1989).
	 “Who knows best?”	 141
	 (7)	 Auto discussion 9–10
	 39	 GAR:  ‘N Keegans aren’t (always) very big are they?
	 40	       (0.4)
	 41	 CUR:  No. They’re a[ll   thin. ]
	 42	 MIK:               [They’re not] they’re not to[o bi:g but-
On the other side of things, Heritage and Raymond (2005) discuss a range of prac-
tices that second speakers use to upgrade their claimed access. One practice in-
volves formatting the response as a [confirmation + agreement token] as in the
following case (8):
	 (8)	 Upgraded second position assessment [Holt 1.1:8]
	 01	 Mum: 	 Miriam’s going next week,
	 02	 Les: 	 Ye:s: yes:.
	 03	 	 	 (0.4)
	 04	 Mum: 	 She[‘s been in hot water with’er Mum t’day,
	 05	 Les: 	    [M
	 06	 Les: 	 Why::?
	 07	 Mum: 	 .hh We:ll. (0.2) Uh you know (.) there’s a cra:ze with the
	 08	 	 	 girls now to have (.) a secon:d. (1.1) ring ih- a secon:d
	 09	 	 	 uh earring in on[e ear.
	 10	 Les: 	 	 	     [Oh: it’s very chea:p isn’it.
	 11	 Mum:-> 	
It’s very cheap yes’n this is u- this is what Ann said. An’
	 12	 	 	 Ann said (0.3) she- she’ll haf (.) tuh have another. (0.5)
	 13	 	 	 .hh (.) hole in’er ear...((continues story))
Heritage and Raymond argue that in this case, as the story-teller, Mom has pri-
mary rights to assess the matter of a second ring in the ear. Leslie orients to Mom’s
greater rights here by producing a first assessment with an appended tag ques-
tion (which would otherwise claim epistemic priority by virtue of its positioning).
Mom’s response is formatted as a [confirmation + agreement] token. With this,
Heritage and Raymond (2005) suggest, Mom is able to claim epistemic primacy
from second position. They write:
Lesley’s epistemically downgrading tag is a ‘Yes/No’ question: like other questions
of this type, it invites a ‘type-conforming’ “Yes” or “No” response as the first compo-
nent of any response (Raymond, 2003). In this context, Mum’s deferral of the type-
conforming “Yes” is constructed as a marked action…Whereas “Yes it is.” would be
understood as wholly occupied with agreement, Mum’s actual response “It’s very
cheap yes”, with its initial declaratively formed partial repeat, confirms Lesley’s
evaluation rather than simply agreeing with it. (Heritage and Raymond 2005: 24)
Another practice is illustrated in the following fragment (9).
142	 Jack Sidnell
	 (9)	 [Heritage 1:11:4]	
	 01	 Ile:	 No well she’s still a bit young though isn’t [she<ah me]an:=
	 02	 Nor:	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	    [S h e : :]
	 03	 Ile:	 =uh[:
	 04	 Nor:	    [She wz a year: la:st wee:k.
	 05	 Ile:	 Ah yes. Oh well any time no:w [then.]
	 06	 Nor:	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 [Uh:::]:[m
	 07	 Ile:	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 [Ye:s.=
	 08	 Nor:	 =But she[:’s (		   )]
	 09	 Ile:->          [Cuz Trixie started] so early [didn’t sh[e,
	 10	 Nor:-> 	
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	     [°O h : : [ye:s.°=
	 11	 Ile: 	 =°Ye:h°=
Heritage (1984a) has shown that “oh” conveys a “change of state”. In the case of
“oh”-prefaced responses to assessments, “oh” conveys that the first assessment has
“occasioned a review, recollection, and renewal of the speaker’s previous experi-
ence and judgment, and that it is this review that forms the basis for the second
assessment” (Heritage 2002a: 214). “Oh”-prefacing thus indexes the speaker’s prior
and previous experience or position and thus provides a “systematic way of claim-
ing that a speaker has independent access to, and already holds a position regard-
ing the referent.” (Heritage ibid.) The second assessment thus shows itself to be
independent of its “second position” and based on quite independent grounds. A
final practice is illustrated by (10).
	 (10)	 NB VII powertools -
	 01	 Edn: 	 =Oh honey that was a lovely luncheon I shoulda ca:lled you
	 02	 	 	 s:soo[:ner but I:]l:[lo:ved it.Ih wz just deli:ghtfu[: l.]=
	 03	 Mar: 	      [((f)) Oh:::]  [°(      ) 	 	 	 	 	    [Well]=
	 04	 Mar: 	 =I wz gla[d    y o u]  (came).]
	 05	 Edn: 	 	 	 [‘nd yer f:]  friends] ‘r so da:rli:ng,=
	 06	 Mar: 	 = Oh :::[: it wz:]
	 07	 Edn:->	 	 	 [e-that P]a :t isn’she a do:[:ll?]
	 08	 Mar:->	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 [iY e]h isn’t she pretty,
	 09	 	 	 (.)
	 10	 Edn:	 Oh: she’s a beautiful girl.=
	 11	 Mar:	 =Yeh I think she’s a pretty gir[l.
	 12	 Edn:	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 [En that Rei nam’n::
With a question-formatted second assessment such as Margie produces at line 8,
a second position assessor can reclaim first position, effectively turning the tables
such that the first assessor must now agree or disagree with her. By use of such
negative interrogatives as well as tag questions, a second assessor ‘usurps’ control
	 “Who knows best?”	 143
over the terms of agreement. This, then, provides a convenient point from which
to summarize this elaborate and subtle argument.
What Heritage and Raymond show is that even where participants agree, they
still negotiate the “terms” of that agreement — that is, what exactly they are agree-
ing to and who of the two has greater rights to decide this. In the last example
examined (10), Edna is assessing Margie’s friend Pat and although she is compli-
menting both Pat, and by extension Margie, in doing so she is claiming to know
about something that clearly belongs more to Margie than herself. In responding
and agreeing, Margie subtly alters that assessment and invites Edna to agree with
the reformulation (“pretty”). Interestingly, this negotiation continues in the subse-
quent talk — Edna has apparently heard Margie’s reformulation as a downgraded
assessment and thus as implicating disagreement (Pomerantz 1984a) — she coun-
ters this with an “oh”-prefaced reassertion of her assessment now characterizing
Pat as “beautiful”.
Establishing who knows best through practices of confirming
Stivers (2005) describes a number of practices speakers use for confirming a prior
speaker’s talk — an action which can be thought of as constituting a special case of
agreeing. One practice involves repeating what another has said in an immediately
preceding turn (see Schegloff 1996). In (11), three children are playing with blocks
and in line 1, G announces “I’m gonna see if this will work.” She then places the
marble in the maze of blocks and, when it comes out the other end, announces
“okay it does”. However, the marble then begins to roll back into the maze, oc-
casioning G’s modification with “well almost.” and T’s “No it doesn’t.”. J then con-
firms what G has said by repeating G’s words and appending “yeah.”
	 (11)	 [G1:T3 6:41]
	 01	 G:	 	 I’m gonna see if this will work.
	 02	 	 	 (1.0)
	 03	 	 	 Okay it does_
	 04	 	 	 (0.2)
	 05	 	 ->	 W[ell almost.
	 06	 T:	      [No it doesn’t.
	 07	 J:	 =>	 Well almost yea:h.
Notice that in this case G’s turn at line 05 did not invite confirmation or disconfir-
mation. Compare in this respect the following case (12), in which Curt and Mike
are talking about a part Curt wants to obtain for the car he is rebuilding:
144	 Jack Sidnell
	 (12)	 Auto-discussion p. 27 (Simplified)
	 31	 MIK:	 =What size is it Curt,
	 32	 CUR:  	 Uh:: three, fifty fou:r no:w,
	 33	 MIK: -> Well that’s what. a three twenny seven?
	 34	 CUR: => No, two eighty three.
	 35	 MIK:  	 Three, yeah,
Here, after Curt gives the size of the part (line 32) in response to Mike’s question
(line 31), Mike attempts to identify it, saying “Well that’s what. a three twenny
seven?”. Because this is produced as a question and with rising intonation, it invites
confirmation or disconfirmation from Curt. When Curt corrects, Mike accepts
this by repeating the last mentioned number and adding “yeah”.
We see, then, that confirmation is a special way of agreeing; it can occur both
in contexts where it was invited by a prior turn-at-talk and in those where it was
not. Stivers (2005) argues that such uninvited confirmations carry with them an
epistemic challenge. Specifically, confirming what another has said where a confir-
mation has not been invited, is to challenge the implicit claim to epistemic priority
that accrues to a first position assertion. Stivers cites the following case from class-
room interaction (Example 13). Here, the teacher issues a request to one of the
students in lines 01–02. The student in question responds, however, by asserting
that what she is being asked to do is actually “Alison’s job”. The teacher responds
first with an “oh”-prefaced agreement and subsequently with a confirming, par-
tially modified repeat of what the student had said.
	 (13)	 Schegloff (1996: 176)
	 01	 TEA:	 Check and see if there’s any down on the
	 02	 	 	 bottom that people forgot to hang up.
	 03	 GIR: ->	
That was Alison’s job.
	 04	 TEA: =>	
Oh that’s right. It is Alison’s job.
	 05	 GIR:	 A:lison! ((Calling out for her))
Stivers notes that the re-saying specifically treats the original assertion as a claim
or an opinion, not as a statement of fact. By confirming it, the speaker thereby
asserts that she has stronger epistemic authority to make the claim that this was
Alison’s job. (Stivers 2005)
Here’s another example (14), from a telephone call between Clara and her im-
mediate superior at an internet firm (Angie). Clara has been explaining that she
will not be able to complete a budget on time — treating this as failure for which
she needs to apologize to Angie. In the excerpt, she is reaching the end of a long
list of factors that have resulted in this situation. She concludes by noting that “it’s
a short wee:k so”.
	 “Who knows best?”	 145
	 (14)	 YYZ
	 27	 C:	 	 Just we’ve got- Michael and I did the resourcing for next
	 28	 	 ->	 
week and it’s just- it’s=just ughu(h)h(hh) .hh and it’s a
	 29	 	 ->	 short wee:k so
	 30	 	 	 (.)
	 31	 A:	 =>	 Yeah:- Oh: yeah it is a short week=
	 32	 C:	 	 Ye[ah
	 33	 A:	 	   [.hh[hh
	 34	 C:	 	 	 [so (.) I’m rilly rilly sorry,
Although not invited, Angie confirms this assertion in line 31. Notice that she first
agrees with “yeah:” before cutting off and restarting the turn with an ‘oh’-prefaced
modified repeat. The repeat is modified by uncontracting the “it’s” to “it is” — in
this way also prosodically marking what Angie is saying as a repeat and confirma-
tion of what Clara has just said.
Stivers describes such turns as “modified” repeats and it is relevant in the pres-
ent context to consider in a bit more detail the character of the modification itself.
In (12), “that was Alison’s job” becomes “that is Alison’s job”; in (13), “it’s a short
week,” becomes “it is a short week.” In other examples Stivers discusses, the modi-
fication involves replacing a complex and epistemically downgraded construction
(e.g. “I think it’s just all the spices”) with the equative “it is.” Across these examples,
then, we see that what is modified is precisely the locus of evidential and epistemic
marking in these constructions — specifically the verb form. Clearly, in (12), “was”
conveys less certainty about who is currently responsible for the job than does “is”.
Similarly for examples involving a replacement of “I think it is” by “it is”. And we
can perhaps conclude that, by virtue of a basic iconic relation in which greater
emphasis (increased phonic substance) conveys greater epistemic commitment,
an uncontracted copula may be used to claim epistemic authority in relation to a
contracted one. 13
Now consider the following case (15), in which Canadian radio and televi-
sion journalist Mary Lou Finlay is interviewing MP Barbara Stronach. Stronach,
a conservative party member, had earlier gone on record defending the rights of
same-sex partners to marry. Later, the Prime Minister and leader of the conserva-
tive party approved a series of newspaper ads arguing against same-sex marriage.
In the interview excerpted below, Finlay asked Stronach whether this might be
evidence of an emerging rift within the party. Stronach’s strategy was to downplay
the issue insisting that it was actually one of many that needed attention. The frag-
ment begins with Stronach remarking “we need to deal with this an’ get on with
13.  Consider also the so-called assertive “do” of English as discussed in Jakobson’s (1971) con-
sideration of Boas’s approach to grammatical meaning (Boas 1921).
146	 Jack Sidnell
it.” The interviewer treats this as an expression of disinterest, countering “this is an
important issue to a lot of people.”
	 (15)	 As it happens
	 01	 Stron:	 =we need to deal with this an’ get on with [it.
	 02	 Finlay:	
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 [(yih)
	 03	 	 	 this is an important issue to a lot of people.
	 04	 Stron:	 ah-ah I agree. it’s a-it’s-it is an important issue.
	 05	 	 	 but there are many other important issues that we
	 06	 	 	 must address as well.
Interestingly, in this example the interviewer’s first assertion is already stressed
and uncontracted. “This is an important issue to a lot of people” is insistent and
appears to be designed to contrast with what Finlay takes as Stronach’s unarticu-
lated position that this issue is not particularly important. One consequence of
this is that Stronach has nowhere to go. She starts by agreeing and twice begins a
confirming turn with a contracted “it’s”, finally producing the turn as “it is an im-
portant issue.” So here the resource for claiming epistemic priority in second posi-
tion is made partially unavailable by the design of the initial assertion. Specifically
because the interviewer already employed a stressed and uncontracted copula,
Stranach can’t draw on this prosodic resource to mark her own turn as “modified”
and in the end she simply repeats what Finlay has said.
Evidentials and other linguistic resources implicated in epistemic
negotiations
Heritage (2008: 309) writes that, “Epistemic positioning is conducted through the
entire resources of language and sequence organization.” The following is a partial
listing of resources implicated in such epistemic positioning:
1.	 Grammatical formatting — e.g. Interrogative vs. declarative etc.; see Heritage
and Raymond forthc.
2.	 Turn format — e.g. Epistemic gradients in question design; see Heritage
2002b, Heritage and Raymond forthc.
3.	 Sequence organization — e.g. use of presequences to establish that something
is ‘news’ for the recipient; see Schegloff 2007.
4.	 Epistemic particles — e.g. “oh”; see Heritage 1984a, 1998, 2002a; also ‘question
particles’ in various languages (e.g. Mandarin; see Wu 2009).
5.	 Epistemic downgrading via so-called parenthetical verbs — e.g. English “I
think…”; see Thompson and Mulac 1991, Sidnell 2011, among others.
	 “Who knows best?”	 147
6.	 Collaborative/anticipatory turn completion and recognitional overlap — see
e.g. Lerner 2004, Jefferson 2004; see also Sidnell 2005: 177–179.
7.	 Evidential marking — see e.g. Fox 2000.
If we are to examine evidential marking from an interactional point of view, the
challenge will be to integrate its analysis with whatever else is going on in some
particular encounter. This will require that analysis of evidential marking in any
particular language proceed on the basis of a prior consideration of the range of
resources deployed in the service of epistemic positioning. That is to say, we will
need to go beyond the paradigmatic alternates defined by the grammatical cat-
egory of ‘evidentials’ to consider a broader swath of practices.
With that in mind, we can turn to consider one last example (16) in which
the speaker qualifies what he says with what appears to be a marker of indirect
evidence — “so I gather”.
	 (16)	 Holt May 88: Side 2 Call 4
	 14	 Dee:	 .p.t.hhh Uh:: but quite honestly the prices that ‘ey’ve
	 15	 	 	 ‘ad to- ‘ave to pay up[here is absolutely]’orrifi:c you=
	 16	 Mar:	 	 	 	 	 	    [((fidget)) h h h h]((fidget))
	 17	 Dee:	 =kno:[w,
	 18	 Mar: ->	
     [yerah,h So I gather I mean they’re .hhhh they’re
	 19	 	 ->	they’re fantastic aren’t[they  n o : w,]
	 20	 Dee:	 	 	 	 	 	 	 [That’s ri:ght,] they’re taw-
	 21	 	 	 they’re payin a[hundred ‘n ten Mark
Here, in a discussion of the amount Dee’s daughter and son-in-law have had to pay
for a house, Dee remarks “prices that ‘ey’ve ‘ad to- ‘ave to pay up here is absolutely
‘orrific.” A few observations on this are the following. First, although this is clearly
a telling by which Dee means to inform Mark, the matter of ‘high and rising hous-
ing costs’ is something that she can expect Mark also to know about and to have
an opinion about, since adult members of the society in question typically track
housing costs even if they are not actively participating in the market. Moreover,
the repair from “have had to” to “have to” suggests a subtle recalibration of the as-
sessment — from what her daughter and son-in-law specifically have had to pay
to what (young) people more generally have to pay.
Second, Dee prefaces the assessment with “quite honestly.” Edwards and
Fasulo (2006) have studied the use of such phrases and found that, in assessment
sequences, they are used to frame first assessments as “personal to the speaker”
and make relevant “subsequent claims for independent, ‘my-side’ assessments by
second assessors.” (Edwards and Fasulo 2006: 343) So while Dee’s talk concerns
her own daughter and son-in-law, matters to which she has obviously greater epis-
temic access, the use of “quite honestly” to ‘personalize’ the issue of rising house
148	 Jack Sidnell
costs suggests she is attending to the fact that this at least is a shared domain of
knowledge.
Third, the phrase “absolutely ‘orrific” not only assesses the matter negatively; it
carries a sense of personal anxiety, worry, and so on, on Dee’s part. The cumulative
effect of these various practices is to convey Dee’s own investment in the assessable
matter. Thus, while Dee surely cannot claim exclusive rights to assess the issue, she
has built this assessment to display her sense of entitlement to talk authoritatively
about ‘rising house costs,’ by virtue of having been inconvenienced by them (see
Sacks 1984).
All this puts Mark in a rather delicate position. Notice that one way Mark
could respond here would be to show that he has been informed by the telling, for
instance with a news receipt such as “oh” or “oh really?”. To do so, however, would
be to treat the news simply as news without acknowledging the complaint that
the assessment “absolutely ‘orrific” embodies. Alternatively he might have simply
agreed with “yeah”, but this would similarly disattend the action-relevance of Dee’s
talk. This brings us to a vitally important point: in the study of interaction: it is
quite impossible to understand the epistemics independently of the actions that
are being simultaneously accomplished. Mark’s job here is to respond not only
to whatever knowledge claims underpin Dee’s talk, but also to the action she is
engaged in pursuing. Of course with “fantastic,” a second assessment which is on
a par with “absolutely ‘orrific,” Mark can agree, while at the same showing some-
thing more akin to empathy.14 With the evidential “so I gather” Mark can show
that he has relatively less, though nevertheless independent, access to the matters
talked about. We can see the tag-question as further developing this ceding of
epistemic authority to Dee by inviting her to confirm the assessment.15 And let
us note finally that Dee confirms Mark’s agreement with “That’s right”, thereby
positioning herself as the ultimate authority on the matter.
Thus, although one can see each part of Mark’s response here as working more
or less independently with the overall effect of ceding authority on the matter to
Dee, I want to offer a slightly different, though not in the end incompatible, analy-
sis of this same bit of talk. This alternate analysis begins with observation that a
14.  Though this resists the projected “troubles telling” embodied in “absolutely ‘orrific”, a telling
that Dee pursues nonetheless through announcing the price.
15.  This actually runs somewhat counter to the argument in Heritage and Raymond (2005),
where it is suggested that tag questions in second position upgrade the epistemic claims of the
speaker by inviting a first assessment speaker to confirm what is being agreed with — thereby
usurping the primacy that inheres in first position. Here, note that Mark embeds the tag within
the turn — by adding “now” he downplays the response relevance of the tag-question (all of this
is overlapped by Dee’s “That’s right”).
	 “Who knows best?”	 149
turn-at-talk is produced unit-by-unit (see C. Goodwin 1979, M. Goodwin 1980).
In the case of Mark’s talk at line 18 of example (16), we can see that it begins with
a token of agreement (“yerah”). This is followed by the expression “so I gather.”
Notice that the turn might have reached completion here — with the production
of “gather.” But notice also that, on its own, “yerah, h. So I gather.” is ambiguous.
Had Mark stopped speaking at this point, Dee might have heard him as agreeing
that the prices are “absolutely ‘orrific” and downgrading the evidential claim by
appending “so I gather”. Alternatively though, she might have understood Mark’s
“so I gather” as indicating he had already heard what the couple paid. This possible
understanding of the talk would, of course, imply that someone else had told Mark
this bit of news; that might then have been taken as evidence that this bit of news
was the subject of gossip, viz., that Mark and some other family member had been
talking about the huge amounts of money that Dee’s daughter and son-in-law had
been shelling out (e.g. “My goodness, Mark did you hear what Dee’s daughter paid
for a house!”).16 We can see Mark’s subsequent talk in this turn as an attempt to
block this potential, but likely unintended understanding of his “so I gather.” With
“I mean”, Mark indicates that what will come next is meant to explicate what he
has already said. With “They’re fantastic aren’t they now”, Mark not only cedes
authority to Dee (as noted above), he also returns the talk explicitly to the topic of
housing costs in general (“they”), rather than the more specific matter of what this
couple have had to pay.
All of this suggests that the evidential sense of “so I gather” may compete
with an alternate, non-evidential, possible understanding. That is, even a lexical
collocation — which appears quite plainly to indicate Mark’s indirect source of
knowledge — permits a rather different, non-evidential interpretation, roughly
equivalent to “what you’re telling me, I already heard/know.” In his subsequent
talk, Mark himself shows that he is alive to this possible understanding of what he
has said.
This short fragment well illustrates the three main points of the essay and it
is worth returning to these now in conclusion. First, evidentials are but one of a
range of resources speakers use to accomplish epistemic positioning in interaction.
Second, in many cases at least, these resources index a knowledge differential be-
tween speaker and recipient, rather than simply downgrading the speaker’s claim
to know. Third, these epistemic negotiations are embedded in whatever else it is
that the participants are up to — here complaining/telling, agreeing/sympathizing,
and so on. The rough sketch of the single short episode analyzed here also hope-
fully illustrates another basic point: namely, that when we approach interaction,
16.  It is worth considering the potential dangers inherent in the use of so-called ‘hearsay’ evi-
dentials in contexts where gossip is considered morally reprehensible.
150	 Jack Sidnell
it is tempting but ultimately problematic to isolate its components and treat them
separately. To borrow from Schegloff (2005), as scholars of interaction we are re-
quired to respect the integrity of the object which we investigate. In the present
case, this means refusing to isolate the ‘epistemic’ and ‘evidential’ practices from
whatever action the participants are actually pursuing — for instance complain-
ing, telling troubles and resisting the telling of troubles, etc.
To conclude on a note more specifically addressed to the theme of the current
issue, such a ‘respect’ implies not treating the ‘evidential’ bits of language indepen-
dently of all the other practices conversationalists use to modulate the epistemic
claims that attend their talk, or indeed independently of what the participants are
doing and what actions are being accomplished. Evidentiality is one piece of a
broader interactional domain, populated by formally diverse phenomena ranging
from tag questions to prosodic patterns and just about everything in between.
References
Aikhenvald, Alexandra. 2004. Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra . 2006. Evidentiality in grammar. In: Keith Brown (ed.) Encyclopedia of
Language and Linguistics (2nd edition). Oxford: Elsevier. pp. 320–325.
Boas, Franz. 1921. Language. In: Franz Boas (ed.). General Anthropology. Boston/New York:
Heath. pp 124–145
Chafe, Wallace and Joanna Nichols (eds.) 1986. Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of
Epistemology. Norwood, N.J.: Ablex
Drew, Paul. 2003. Precision and exaggeration in interaction. American Sociological Review,
68(6): 917–938.
Edwards, Derek and Alessandra Fasulo. 2006. “To be honest”: Sequential uses of honesty phras-
es in talk-in-interaction. Research on Language and Social Interaction, 39(4): 343–376.
Fox, Barbara. 2001. Evidentiality: Authority, responsibility, and entitlement in English conversa-
tion. Journal of Linguistic Anthropology 11: 1–29.
Goodwin, Charles. 1979. The Interactive Construction of a Sentence in Natural Conversation.
In George Psathas (ed.) Everyday Language: Studies in Ethnomethodology, New York:
Irvington, pp. 97–121.
Goodwin, Marjorie H. 1980. Processes of Mutual Monitoring Implicated in the Production of
Description Sequences. Sociological Inquiry 50(3–4): 303–17.
Goodwin, Charles and Marjorie H. Goodwin. 1987. Concurrent Operations on Talk: Notes on
the Interactive Organization of Assessments. IPrA Papers in Pragmatics 1(1): 1–55.
Hanks, William F. 1990. Referential Practice: Language and Lived Space among the Maya.
Chicago: Chicago University Press.
Heritage, John. 1984a. A Change of State Token and Aspects of Its Sequential Placement. In:
Jean M. Atkinson & John Heritage (eds.) Structures of Social Action: Studies in Conversation
Analysis. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. pp. 299–345.
Heritage, John. 1984b. Garfinkel and Ethnomethodology. Oxford: Polity Press.
	 “Who knows best?”	 151
Heritage, John. 1998. ‘Oh’-prefaced Responses to Inquiry, Language in Society 27(3): 291–334.
Heritage, John. 2002a. ‘Oh’-prefaced responses to assessments: a method of modifying agree-
ment/disagreement’. In: Cecilia Ford, Barbara Fox and Sandra Thompson (eds.), The
Language of Turn and Sequence, New York: Oxford University Press. pp. 196–224.
Heritage, John. 2002b. The Limits of Questioning: Negative Interrogatives and Hostile Question
Content. Journal of Pragmatics 34:1427–1446.
Heritage, John. 2008. Conversation Analysis as Social Theory. In: Bryan Turner (ed.), The New
Blackwell Companion to Social Theory, Oxford: Blackwell. pp. 300–320.
Heritage, John. 2011 Territories of Knowledge, Territories of Experience: Empathic Moments in
Interaction. In: Tanya Stivers, Lorenza Mondada and Jakob Steensig (eds.), The Morality of
Knowledge in Conversation. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. pp. 159–183.
Heritage, John and Geoffrey Raymond. 2005. The Terms of Agreement: Indexing Epistemic
Authority and Subordination in Assessment Sequences, Social Psychology Quarterly 68:15–
38.
Heritage, John and Geoffrey Raymond. forthc. Navigating Epistemic Landscapes: Acquiescence,
Agency and Resistance in Responses to Polar Questions. In: Jan Peter de Ruiter (ed.)
Questions. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Heritage, John and Sue Sefi. 1992. Dilemmas of Advice: Aspects of the Delivery and Reception of
Advice in Interactions between Health Visitors and First Time Mothers. In: Paul Drew and
John Heritage (eds.), Talk at Work, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. pp. 359–419.
Jakobson, Roman. 1971. Boas’ view of grammatical meaning. In Selected Works of Roman
Jakobson (vol. 2). The Hague: Mouton. pp. 489–496.
Jefferson, Gail. 2004. A sketch of some orderly aspects of overlap in natural conversation. In:
Gene H. Lerner (ed.) Conversation Analysis: Studies from the first generation. Amsterdam &
Philadelphia: John Benjamins. pp. 43–59. [1975]
Lerner, Gene H. 2004. Collaborative turn sequences. In: Gene H. Lerner (ed.) Conversation
Analysis: Studies from the first generation. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
pp. 225–56.
Maynard, Douglas. 2003. Bad News Good News: Conversational Order in Everyday Talk and
Clinical Settings. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Pomerantz, Anita. 1978. Compliment Responses: Notes on the Co-operation of Multiple
Constraints. In: Jim Schenkein (ed.), Studies in the Organization of Conversational
Interaction. New York: Academic Press. pp. 79–112.
Pomerantz, Anita. 1984. Agreeing and Disagreeing with Assessments: Some Features of
Preferred/Dispreferred Turn Shapes. In: Jean M. Atkinson & John Heritage (eds.) Structures
of Social Action: Studies in Conversation Analysis. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
pp. 57–101.
Pomerantz, Anita. 1984. Pursuing a response In: Jean M. Atkinson & John Heritage (eds.)
Structures of Social Action: Studies in Conversation Analysis. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press. pp. 152–163.
Raymond, Geoffrey. 2003. Grammar and social organization: Yes/No interrogatives and the
structure of responding. American Sociological Review 68: 939–67.
Raymond, Geoffrey and John Heritage. 2006. The Epistemics of Social Relationships: Owning
Grandchildren, Language in Society 35(5): 677–705.
152	 Jack Sidnell
Sacks, Harvey. 1984. On Doing ‘Being Ordinary’. In Jean M. Atkinson & John Heritage (eds.)
Structures of Social Action: Studies in Conversation Analysis. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press. pp. 413–29.
Sacks, Harvey. 1995. Lectures on Conversation (2 vols.) Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
Sacks, Harvey, Emanuel A. Schegloff, and Gail Jefferson. 1974. A simplest systematics for the
organization of turn-taking for conversation. Language 50(4): 696–735.
Sadock, Jerold M. and Arnold Zwicky. 1985. Speech Act Distinctions in Syntax. In Tim Shopen
(ed.), Language Typology and Syntactic Description: Clause Structure (Vol. 1). Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press. pp. 155–196.
Schegloff, Emanuel A. 1984. On Some Questions and Ambiguities in Conversation. In Jean
M. Atkinson & John Heritage (eds.) Structures of Social Action: Studies in Conversation
Analysis. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. pp. 28–52.
Schegloff, Emanuel A. 1996. Confirming allusions: Toward an empirical account of action.
American Journal of Sociology 104: 161–216.
Schegloff, Emanuel. A. 2005. On Integrity in Inquiry … of the investigated, not the investigator.
Discourse Studies 7: 455–80.
Sidnell, Jack. 2005. Talk and Practical Epistemology: The Social Life of Knowledge in a Caribbean
Community. (Pragmatics and Beyond, New Series, 142). Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Sidnell, Jack. 2007 Comparative studies in conversation analysis. Annual Review of Anthropology
36: 229–244.
Sidnell, Jack. 2009. Language-specific resources in repair and assessments. In Jack Sidnell (ed.)
Conversation Analysis: Comparative Perspectives. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
pp. 304–325.
Sidnell, Jack. 2010a. The design and positioning of questions in inquiry testimony. In: Susan
Ehrlich and Alice Freed (eds.) “Why Do You Ask?”: The Function of Questions in Institutional
Discourse. Oxford: Oxford University Press. pp. 20–40.
Sidnell, Jack. 2010b. Questioning repeats in the talk of four-year old children. In Hilary Gardner
and Mike Forrester (eds.) Analyzing Interactions in Childhood: Insights from Conversation
Analysis. Oxford: Wiley/Blackwell. pp. 103–127.
Sidnell, Jack. 2010c. Conversation Analysis: An Introduction. Oxford: Blackwell.
Sidnell, Jack. 2011. The epistemics of make-believe. In Tanya Stivers, Lorenza Mondada and
Jakob Steensig (eds.) The Morality of Knowledge in Conversation, Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press. pp. 131–155.
Sidnell, Jack. n.d. Doubt, skepticism and disbelief in interaction. Manuscript.
Sorjonen, Marja-Leena and Auli Hakulinen. 2009. Alternative responses to assessments. In
Jack Sidnell (ed.) Conversation Analysis: Comparative Perspectives. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press. pp. 281–303.
Stivers, Tanya. 2005. Modified repeats: One method for asserting primary rights from second
position. Research on Language and Social Interaction 38(2): 131–158.
Stivers, Tanya. and Makoto Hayashi. 2010. Transformative answers: One way to resist a ques-
tion’s constraints. Language in Society. 39: 1–25.
Stivers, Tanya, & Federico Rossano. 2010. Mobilizing response. Research on Language and Social
Interaction 43(1): 3–31.
Stivers, Tanya. 2010. An overview of the question-response system in American English. Journal
of Pragmatics 42 (10): 2772–2781.
	 “Who knows best?”	 153
Stivers, Tanya, Lorenza Mondada. and Jakob Steensig (eds.) 2011. The Morality of Knowledge in
Conversation. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Thompson, Sandra A., and Anthony J. Mulac. 1991. A Quantitative Perspective on the
Grammaticization of Epistemic Parentheticals in English. In: Elizabeth Traugott and Bernd
Heine (eds.), Grammaticalization II, Amsterdam: John Benjamins. pp. 313–339.
Wu, Ruey-Jiuan Regina. 2009. Repetition in the initiation of repair. In Jack Sidnell (ed.),
Conversation Analysis: Comparative Perspectives. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
pp. 31–59.
Nanti self-quotation
Implications for the pragmatics of
reported speech and evidentiality
Lev Michael
University of California, Berkeley
This chapter describes two quotation strategies employed by speakers of Nanti,
one involving grammaticalized quotatives and another involving complement-
taking verbs of saying, and examines the consequences of the pragmatic differ-
ences between these strategies for two key questions in the study of evidentiality:
first, the importance of degree of grammaticalization in delimiting ‘evidentials’;
and second, the importance of the analytical distinction between epistemic
modal and ‘source of information’ evidential meanings. Nanti use of the two
quotation strategies is specifically analyzed in the context of self-quotation prac-
tices in order to isolate specific aspects of their pragmatics. This analysis shows
that the lexical quotative strategy expresses that the quoted party is not only the
source of the content of the utterance, but is also an ‘illocutionary source’, who is
committed to the interactional force of the utterance, while the grammaticalized
quotative strategy does not indicate such a commitment. The functional differ-
ence between lexical and grammatical quotative strategies in Nanti is compared
with differences between lexical and grammaticalized quotative and reportive
strategies found in other languages, and the Nanti results are found to be consis-
tent with cross-linguistic tendencies towards functional differentiation of lexical
quotative and reportives, on the one hand, and their grammaticalized counter-
parts, on the other. These facts, it is argued, motivate a distinction on functional
grounds between grammaticalized reportives and quotatives and their lexical
counterparts, supporting the use of grammaticalization as a criterion for distin-
guishing evidentials proper from evidential strategies. The commitment-aug-
menting function of the lexical quotative construction in Nanti self-quotation
is then examined in light of the commitment-diminishing function commonly
attributed to quotatives and reportives (and also found in Nanti). It is argued
that both types of commitment-modulating effects emerge as implicatures from
the basic information and illocutionary source semantics of Nanti lexical quota-
tives, and from pragmatic reasoning based on whether the quoted party is first
person or third person. The fact that both commitment-modulating functions of
156	 Lev Michael
Nanti lexical quotatives are derived from semantics of lexical quotatives elements
is argued to show that the distinction between information source and epistemic
modal meanings, often taken to be a pivotal notional distinction in defining
evidentiality as a grammatical category, is also essential to the proper analysis of
the pragmatics of evidential strategies in discourse.
1.	 Introduction
One of the striking features of talk in the communities where Nanti is spoken
is the sheer density of reported speech. Many aspects of Nanti communicative
practice contribute to this density: speakers of Nanti show a strong preference
for communicating knowledge they have acquired through talk with others as re-
ported speech; they largely avoid directly imputing internal states (e.g. cognitive or
emotional) in favor of reporting speech that indexes those states; and they exhibit
an appreciation for the detailed recounting of interactions between individuals
through turn-by-turn reporting of their utterances. In the wide repertoire of Nanti
speech reporting practices responsible for the abundance of quotation in Nanti
verbal life, one common form of quotation is particularly remarkable: the use of
quotative constructions to frame as ‘reported speech’ utterances that are being ex-
pressed for the first time, rather than drawn from a previous speech event. Of
particular interest, Nantis principally employ this practices, which I call concur-
rent quotative framing (CQF) in taking strong evaluative or epistemic stands in
discourse, often in opposition to stances expressed by other participants. As such,
the interactional functions of CQF contrast with the distancing and responsibility-
diminishing functions often ascribed to reported speech.
This chapter makes use of the interactional characteristics of CQF to shed
light on two unresolved issues regarding the treatment of evidentiality in dis-
course: the relevance of grammaticalization to the analysis of evidential meanings
in discourse; and the validity of the notional distinction between evidentiality and
epistemic modality even in the realm of discourse. These issues are approached
below in three steps. I first describe the structural and functional characteristics of
CQF and compare them to those of several Nanti speech reporting practices that
have more obvious counterparts in other languages. I then employ the structural
and functional differences between Nanti reported speech constructions — specif-
ically, the difference between the lexical quotative construction employed in CQF
and the Nanti grammaticalized quotative evidential — to contribute to the cur-
rent debate regarding the significance of the distinction between grammaticalized
evidentials and other relatively ungrammaticalized ‘evidential strategies’, arguing
that the differences between these two reported speech constructions support the
	 Nanti self-quotation	 157
validity of this separation. Finally, I show that the apparently contradictory respon-
sibility- and commitment-augmenting properties of CQF and the responsibility-
diminishing ones often attributed to reported speech both emerge from pragmatic
reasoning based on the evidential semantics of quotative elements. This analysis is
based on maintaining the notional distinction between evidential and epistemic
modal meanings, and thereby argues against conflating these two notional catego-
ries even in the case of the deployment of evidential strategies in discourse.
This chapter is based on recordings of naturally-occurring communicative in-
teractions among speakers of Nanti, a language of the Kampan sub-branch of the
Arawak family (Michael 2008: 212–219). Nantis form a mainly monolingual group
of some 450 individuals who live at the headwaters of the Camisea and Timpia
Rivers in lowland southeastern Peru, and who rely on a combination of hunt-
ing, fishing, wild-gathering, and shifting manioc-based horticulture (see Michael
2008: 3–40 for an ethnographic and historical overview). The author carried out
monolingual linguistic and ethnographic fieldwork in the Nanti communities be-
tween 1997 and 2005, primarily in Montetoni, the largest of the Nanti communities.
Nanti reported speech constructions are introduced in Section 2, where Nanti
lexical and evidential quotatives are distinguished both structurally and function-
ally: lexical quotatives tend to introduce socially consequential utterances and
indicate that the quotative party is an ‘illocutionary source’, while the evidential
quotative introduces less socially consequential utterances, and only indicates
that the quoted party is an ‘informational source’. The structural and functional
properties of CQF are described in Section 3, focusing on its utility for expressing
individual commitment to epistemically or morally contentious stances. A brief
comparison with similar discursive practices in other languages is also provided in
this section. In Section 4, I turn to a pragmatic account of CQF, showing that both
the distancing functions often attributed to reported speech and the commitment-
enhancing functions of CQF can be accounted for in terms of pragmatic reasoning
regarding the identification of quoted parties as ‘illocutionary sources’. I also brief-
ly discuss how other discursive effects such as authority-imbuing and objectivity-
emphasizing properties of reported speech can be reconciled with this account. In
the two remaining sections, I use the results of Sections 2–4 to shed light on two
open questions regarding the relationship of evidential strategies to grammatical-
ized evidentials. In Section 5, I argue that the functional differentiation of Nanti
lexical and evidential quotative constructions supports the distinction between
evidential strategies and grammaticalized evidentials, and in Section 6, I contend
that the polyfunctionality of lexical quotative constructions discussed in Section 4
argues for maintaining a clear notional distinction between evidentiality and epis-
temic modality, even in the domain of evidential strategies, and not only with
respect to grammaticalized evidentials.
158	 Lev Michael
2.	 Overview of Nanti reported speech constructions
Nantis make use of three distinct constructions in reporting others’ or their own
speech. These constructions include two quotative constructions and one report-
ive construction. Since usage of the terms ‘quotative’ and ‘reportive’ is somewhat
inconsistent in the literature, for the purposes of this chapter I define quotative
constructions as reported speech constructions that provide information about the
source of the reported speech but not the recipient of the report, while I identify
reportive constructions as reported speech constructions that provide information
about the recipient, but not the source.1
The two Nanti quotative constructions are in turn distinguished by the form
of the quotative element: in one construction, the quotative element is a lexical
verb of saying, while in the second, the quotative element is a grammaticalized
quotative evidential. This section describes the basic structural and communica-
tive functions of these Nanti reported speech constructions, focusing on the two
quotative constructions.
Lexical quotative construction
The Nanti lexical quotative2 construction (LQC) employs inflected forms of the verb
kant ‘say’, which can optionally take a reported speech complement, as in (1). The
complement usually follows the verb of saying, but may also precede it, as in (13a),
below.3 The verb of speaking in lexical quotative constructions normally appears
1.  The distinction I draw here between ‘quotative’ and ‘reportive’ evidentials aligns roughly with
Aikhenvald’s (2004: 137–140) distinction between ‘quotation’ and ‘reported evidentiality’ (see
also Lampert and Lampert 2010), since reported evidentials typically index the speaker as the
default recipient of the report, although overt person marking on reportive evidentials indi-
cating the recipient is cross-linguistically rare. The reader should be aware that there is some
variation in the literature, however, with the term ‘quotative’ sometimes used to refer to re-
ported speech constructions that do not indicate the source of the report in any way (see e.g.
Güldemann 2008, Gómez Rendon 2006).
2.  I use the term ‘lexical quotative’ here to emphasize the functional parallel with the evidential
quotative discussed below, drawing on the functional similarity between reported speech con-
structions and their grammaticalized evidential counterparts noted by Aikhenvald (2004: 132).
3.  The orthography is phonemic and largely self explanatory; coda nasals assimilate to the place
of articulation of the following voiceless stop, and the i-class realis suffix -i surfaces as -e follow-
ing the perfective -ak. The first line of interlinearized examples shows surface morphophono-
logical changes; the epenthetic consonant t and epenthetic vowel a are included in this line but
are not segmented or glossed in other lines. Likewise, ‘=’ indicates latching of one turn of talk to
the previous one, ‘-’ indicates a false start, typically involving a glottal closure; a caret indicates
	 Nanti self-quotation	 159
in the minimally inflected realis imperfective form, as in (1), but can also bear ad-
ditional morphology, as in (2). Nanti only permits direct speech reports. Note that
realis marking in Nanti is compatible with either past or present temporal refer-
ence interpretations, requiring that the temporal reference given in the English free
translations be chosen on the basis of knowledge of the broader discourse context.
	 (1)	 Ikanti hara nokemi pariki.
		 i=	 kant -Ø	 -i	 hara	 no= kem	-i	 pariki
		 3mS= say	 -impf -real.i neg.irreal 1S=	hear -real.i park.officials
		 ‘He said, “I will not listen to the park officials.” ’
	 (2)	 Nokantabetakari ha pantabageti, te inkeme.
		 no= kant -be	 -ak	 -a	 =ri	 ha	 pi=	 antabaget
		 1S=	say	 -frust -perf -real.a =3mO neg.irreal 2S= cultivate
		 -i	 te	 i=	 -n	 kem	-e
		 -real.i neg.real 3mS= irreal- hear -irreal.i
		 ‘Although I said to him, “Don’t cultivate!”, he didn’t pay attention.’
Quotative evidential construction
Nanti quotative evidentials are clausal proclitics that immediately precede the
speech report they introduce, as in (3) and (4). They have grammaticalized from
inflected forms of the verb of saying — kant ‘say’ — that appears in the lexical quo-
tative construction. As is evident from the forms listed in Table 1, Nanti quotative
evidentials consist of a disyllabic form that retains the person information borne
by the inflected verb from which it grammaticalized. These frozen person markers
provide person information about the source of quoted utterance, as in (3) and (4).
It is important to note that the trochaic stress pattern displayed by quota-
tives decisively distinguishes them from ‘clipped’ fast speech forms of full verbs of
fast speech clipping, with the segments following this mark reconstructed from other prosodic
and grammatical features of the utterance. The following morpheme abbreviations are used: 1S,
1st person subject; 1O, 1st person object; 2S, 2nd person subject; 2O, 2nd person object; 3mS,
3rd person masculine subject; 3mO, 3rd person masculine object; 3fS, 3rd person feminine
subject; 3fO, 3rd person feminine object; 1P, 1st person possessor; 2P, 2nd person possessor;
3mP, 3rd person masculine possessor; 3fP, 3rd person feminine possessor; abl, ablative; adl,
adlative; appl:purp, purposive applicative; caus, causative; cl, classifier; cntf, counterfactual;
cond, conditional; deont, deontic; dirreal.i, doubly irrealis, i-class verb; dstr, distributive;
frus, frustrative; hab, habitual; impf, imperfective; irreal.a, irrealis, a-class verb; irreal.i, ir-
realis, i-class verb; loc, locative; mal.rep, malefactive repetitive; neg.irreal, irrealis negation;
neg.real, realis negation; pass.irreal, irrealis passive; pass.real, realis passive; perf, perfec-
tive; pl, verbal plural; real.a, realis, a-class verb; real.i, realis, i-class verb; reg, regressive;
sub, subordinator.
160	 Lev Michael
saying, which exhibit an iambic stress pattern, e.g. iká, the clipped form of ikánti
‘he says (realis imperfective)’ or ikántake ‘he said (realis perfective)’.
Table 1.  Nanti quotatives and their lexical sources
quotative gloss source gloss
nóka quot.1 nokánti ‘I say’
píka quot.2 pikánti ‘you say’
íka quot.3m ikánti ‘he says’
óka quot.3f okánti ‘she says’
	 (3)	 Oka nani, kametitake.
		 oka	 nani kameti	 -ak	 -i
		 quot.3f fine	 be.good -perf -real.i
		 ‘She said, “Fine, good.” ’
	 (4)	 Ika nagabehake nohatake.
		 ika	 no= agabeh	-ak	 -i	 no= ha -ak	 -i
		 quot.3m 1S-	 be.able -perf =real.i 1S=	go	-perf -real.i
		 ‘He said, “It is appropriate for me to go.” ’
The quotative evidential is also often employed in conjunction with other verbs
of communication, many of which appear to be unable to take a reported speech
complement without the use of the quotative, as in the case of kenkitsa ‘narrate’,
exemplified in (5), or kahem ‘call out, yell’, exemplified in (6).
	 (5)	 Nokenkitsatake noka nogonkehata Shampinkihari.
		 no= kenkitsa	 -ak	 -i	 noka	 no= gonke	-ha	 -Ø	 -a
		 1S	 tell.story -perf -real.i quot.1 1S=	arrive cl:water -impf real.a
		 Shampinkihari
		 place.name
		 ‘I narrated, “I arrived in Shampinkihari by river.” ’
	 (6)	 Ikahemake ika tahena aka.
		 i=	 kahem -ak	 -i	 ika	 tahena	 aka
		 3mS= yell	 -perf -real.i quot.3m come.imp here
		 ‘He yelled, “Come here!” ’
Reportive evidential construction
Like the Nanti quotative evidential, the reportive evidential is a clausal proclitic
which immediately precedes a speech report, as in (7). The reportive is gram-
maticalized from inflected forms of the verb kem ‘hear, understand’, and like the
	 Nanti self-quotation	 161
quotative, is a disyllabic element that retains the person information carried by
inflected forms of the verb. In the case of the reportive, the person information
borne by the evidential provides information about the receiver of the report. We
do not consider the reportive further in this chapter.
Nanti reportive evidentials, like their quotative counterparts, exhibit trochaic
stress, unlike the similar disyllabic forms that result from the fast speech clipping
of inflected forms of kem ‘hear’, which display iambic stress (i.e noké, the clipped
form of nokémi ‘I hear/heard’).
	 (7)	 Noke onti otomi timake.
		 noke	 onti	 o-	 tomi tim	 -ak	 -i
		 rept.1 pred.foc 3fS- son	 exist -perf -real.i
		 ‘I hear that she is pregnant (lit. that her son exists).’
2.1	 Functional differentiation of Nanti lexical and evidential quotative
constructions
Although Nanti lexical and evidential quotative constructions have similar com-
municative functions, in that they both introduce reported speech, they exhibit
several key information structural, syntactic, and communicative functional dif-
ferences. First, lexical quotative elements (i.e. inflected forms of the verb kant ‘say’)
are asserted, in the information structural sense, while their evidential quotative
counterparts are not.
This difference in assertivity between these quotative elements is evident in
their behavior with respect to the denial test for assertivity (Lambrecht 1996),
which I now briefly review. This test serves to identify asserted and non-asserted
portions of an utterance on the basis that denials target the asserted portion of
an utterance. This can be seen in (8), in which a sentence with a relative clause
is denied in (8b), which yields the interpretation that the proposition in the ma-
trix clause, and not the relative clause, is being denied. This result shows that the
matrix clause is asserted, while the relative clause is presupposed. A similar result
obtains in clauses with focused elements, as in (9), where it is the focused element
that is asserted, while the remainder of the sentence is presupposed.
	 (8)	 a.	 A:	 I saw the man who caught the fish.
		 b.	 B:	 That’s not true!
				 = It’s not true that the speaker saw the man in question.
				 ≠ It’s not the true that the man caught the fish.
	 (9)	 a.	 A:	 Who caught the fish?
		 b.	 B:	 Bikotoro caught the fish.
162	 Lev Michael
		 c.	 A:	 That’s not true!
				 = It is not true that Bikotoro is the person who caught the fish.
				 ≠ It is not true that a fish was caught by someone.
The assertivity of the lexical quotative and the non-assertivity of its evidential
counterpart are apparent in Nanti interactional data, as in (10) and (11).
	 (10)	 a.	 A:	 Inihakero chapi, ikanti pintime aka, aka Montetoniku.
			 i=	 nih	 -ak	 -i	 =ro	 chapi	 i=	 kant -Ø	 -i
			 3mS= speak -perf -real.i =3fO yesterday 3mS= say	 -impf -real.i
			 pi=	 n-	 tim	-Ø	 -e	 aka,	aka	 Montetoni	 -ku
			 2S= irreal- live -impf -irreal.i here here place.name -loc
			 ‘He spoke to her yesterday, he said, “Live here, here in Montetoni.” ’
		 b.	 B:	 Teratyo, tera oga. Onti ikanti birompa,4 chichata pipokake.
			 tera	 =tyo,	 tera	 o-	 oga	 onti	 i=	 kant -Ø
			 neg.real =affect neg.real 3f- that pred.foc 3mS= say	 -impf
			 -i	 biro	 =mpa,	 chichata	 pi=	 pok	 -ak	 -e.
			 -real.i 2.foc.pro =advr voluntarily 2S= come -perf -real.i
			
‘No, not that (i.e. he did not say that). Rather, he said, “It is your
responsibility, you came of your own volition.” ’
	 (11)	 a.	 A:	 Oka kantani ipitake.
				 oka	 kantani i=	 pit	 -ak	 -i
				 quot.1 remain	 3mS= be.in.location -perf -real.i
				 ‘She said, “He was there.” ’
		 b.	 B:	 Tera. Nokamosotuti hanta, none ma.
				 tera	 no= kamoso	 -u	 -i	 hanta none ma5
				 neg.real 1S=	check.on -ret -real.i there	 I.didn’t.see.person
				 ‘No (he wasn’t). I visited there briefly and I didn’t see him.’
Nanti evidential and lexical quotatives also differ in their scopal behavior. Like
evidentials in many, but not all, languages (Aikhenvald 2004: 256), Nanti quotative
evidentials cannot fall under the scope of clausal polarity markers. Furthermore,
they cannot be focused on, or fall under the scope of, modal adverbs. As such, ut-
terances like (12a) and (13a), which involve clausal negative and positive polarity
elements that have scope over the respective quotative elements in each sentence,
4.  Pronouns bearing the adversative clitic =mpa are now conventionalized interjections that
serve to indicate that the responsibility for some action lies with the addressee, and not with
the speaker.
5.  The idiomatic expression none ma derives from noneake mameri ‘I saw nothing/no-one’. The
expression is used to indicate that the speaker did not encounter a specific person that he or she
expected to see upon visiting some location.
	 Nanti self-quotation	 163
require lexical quotative constructions. Corresponding utterances in which the
verb of saying is replaced by quotative evidentials, as in (12b) and (13b), are unat-
tested. Similarly, the use of modal adverbs to qualify or describe the act of speak-
ing require the use of the full lexical verb, as in (14a).
	 (12)	 a.	 Tera nonkante yoberahahiga.
			 tera	 no= n-	 kant -e	 i=	 oberah -hig
			 neg.real 1S=	irreal- say	 -irreal.i 3mS bother	-pl
			 -a	 -Ø
			 -real.a -impf
			 ‘I would not say, “They bother (us).” ’
		 b.	 *	Tera noka yoberahahiga.
	 (13)	 a.	 Paniro pigogine nokigaka, ari ikanti.
			 paniro	 pi=	 kogi	 -ne	 no= kig	-ak	 -a	 ari
			 one.anim 2S= barbasco -alien.pos 1S=	dig -perf -real.a pos.pol
			 i=	 kant -Ø	 -i
			 3mS= say	 -impf -real.i
			 “ ‘I dug up one of your barbasco plants,” indeed he said.’
		 b.	 *	Paniro pigogine nokigaka, ari ika.
	 (14)	 a.	 Chichata okanti pinkige nosekane.
			 chichata	 o=	 kant -Ø	 -i	 pi=	 n	 kig	-e	 no-
			 voluntarily 3fS= say	 -impf -real.i 2S= irreal dig -irreal.i 1P-
			 seka	 -ne
			 manioc -alien.pos
			 ‘Of her own volition she said, “Harvest (lit. dig) my manioc.” ’
		 b.	 *	Chichata oka pinkige nosekane.
Most significantly for the purposes of this chapter, however, lexical and evidential
quotatives also differ functionally. The lexical quotative is frequently employed
to report utterances that are not merely assertive in the informational structural
sense discussed above, but are also interactionally assertive, whereas the evidential
quotative is not. In particular, the lexical quotative is often used to report utteranc-
es with significant illocutionary force, such as commands, demands, prohibitions,
invitations, and utterances that express a stance on matters that are epistemically
or morally contentious in the broader discourse context in which the reported
speech is produced. The evidential quotative, in contrast, is mainly employed to
relate utterances that are informative but lack significant illocutionary force or do
not express a contentious stance. We will return to these generalizations shortly
after we consider some examples of the lexical quotative construction in use.
The following five brief strips of interaction illustrate the functional differ-
ences between evidential and lexical quotatives. Each of these interactions exhibits
164	 Lev Michael
shifts in use between the lexical and evidential quotative; these shifts bring into
relief their functional differences. The first strip of interaction we consider, (15),
is drawn from a conversation between Migero (then the community leader of
Montetoni) and the author (LDM). The conversation concerns a series of events
beginning when Ankiri (a pseudonym), a young unmarried man, harvested man-
ioc from his classificatory father, Barentin, without asking for permission, which
constitutes a relatively serious breach of Nanti social norms. Migero learned of
Ankiri’s transgression from his own wife Maira, and in his role as community
leader, he investigated the incident (including talking to and ultimately chastising
Ankiri), and then went to visit Santihago, Barentin’s step-son, to tell him what he
had learned, since Barentin was away from the village on an extended fishing trip
at the time. The strip of interaction in (15) follows immediately after my asking
Migero if he had told Santihago about Ankiri’s actions.
	 (15)	 a.	 Migero: Arita nokamantakeri.
			 ari	 -ta	 no= kamant -ak	 -i	 =ri
			 pos.pl -cngnt 1S=	tell	 -perf -real.i =3mO
			 ‘Indeed, as you say, I told him (Santihago).’
		 b.	 Oga oka ikigake iriri Barentin.
			 oga	 oka	 i=	 kig	-ak	 -i	 ir-	 iri	 Barentin
			 that.fem quot.3f 3mS= dig -perf -real.i 3mP- father personal.name
			 ‘That one (my wife) said, “He harvested (lit. dug) his father’s (manioc).” ’
		 c.	 Noka ikigake.
			 noka	 i=	 kig	-ak	 -i
			 quot.1 3mS= dig -perf -real.i
			 ‘I said, “He harvested (it).” ’
		 d.	 Noka paniro ikigake.
			 noka	 paniro	 i=	 kig	-ak	 -i
			 quot.1 one.anim 3mS= dig -perf -real.i
			 ‘I said, ‘He harvested (it) by himself.”
		 e.	 LDM: Te inebite?
			 te	 i=	 nebi	 -e
			 neg.real 3mS= ask.for -irreal.i
			 ‘He didn’t ask for (it)? (= He didn’t ask for permission to harvest it?)’
		 f.	 M: Te inebite, onti ikigake kogapagera.
			 te	 i=	 n-	 nebit	 -e	 onti	 i=	 kig
			 neg.real 3mS= irreal- ask.for -irreal.i pred.foc 3mS= dig
			 -ak	 -e	 kogapagera
			 -perf -real.i lacking
			 ‘He didn’t ask for (it), rather he harvested (it) lacking (permission).’
	 Nanti self-quotation	 165
		 g.	 Ikanti paita nonkantaheri.
			 i=	 kant -i	 paita no= n-	 kant -ah	 -e	 =ri
			 3mS= say	 -real.i later	 1S=	irreal- say	 -reg -irreal.i =3mS
			 ‘He (Ankiri) said, “I will come back and tell him later.” ’
In the course of this brief strip of interaction, Migero uses evidential quotatives
three times, in (15b, c, & d) and a lexical quotative once, in (15g). Migero uses evi-
dential quotatives to report to the author the utterances with which he and Maira
informed Santihago of Ankiri’s actions, but when Migero reports Ankiri’s reponse
to Migero’s inquiry and subsequent chastisement (not explicitly mentioned at this
point in the conversation), Migero shifts to a lexical quotative. Ankiri’s reported
utterance, in contrast to Migero’s and Maira’s informative utterances, constitutes
Ankiri making a commitment to tell Barentin about having harvested his manioc,
an act with significant social consequences for Ankiri.
The second strip of interaction we consider, (16), is drawn from a conversation
between Migero and his brother-in-law Anteres, in which Migero recounts for
Anteres the visit of a couple who dropped by and drank manioc beer at Migero’s
home.
	 (16)	 a.	 Migero: Okanti neroga.
			 o=	 kant -Ø	 -i	 neroga
			 3fS say	 -impf -real.i here.you.go
			 ‘She (my wife) said, “Here you go.” ’ (i.e. she invited him to drink)
		 b.	 Ika nokahati.
			 ika	 no= kahat -Ø	 -i
			 quot.3m 1S=	bathe	-impf -real.i
			 ‘He said, “I’m going to bathe.” ’
		 c.	 Oka tera samanita.
			 oka	 tera	 samani =ta
			 quot.3f neg.real long	 =cngnt
			 ‘She (the visitor’s wife) said, “Not long (i.e. we’ll be back soon).” ’
Of the three instances of reported speech in (16), the only one that Migero reports
using the lexical quotative construction is his wife’s utterance, in (16a), which
constitutes a conventionalized invitation to enter the house and drink. In Nanti
society, invitations to drink manioc beer are socially significant as affirmations of
bonds of friendship and cooperation between households; the lack of such invita-
tions can be taken as the denial of these bonds and often leads to bruised feelings,
even when the lacking invitation is due to an oversight. Migero’s use of the lexical
quotative construction in (16a) is thus consonant with the social consequentiality
of his wife’s reported utterance. In contrast, the two subsequent reported utter-
ances in (16b & c), attributed to the visitor and his wife respectively, simply serve
166	 Lev Michael
to indicate that the visitor and his wife took a break from the long drinking session
by taking a brief trip to the river, a very common and socially inconsequential part
of drinking sessions.
The third strip of interaction we consider, (17), is drawn from a conversation
between Migero and a group of Nantis who have gathered to hear about a con-
troversy involving a young man, Erobakin, who had left the community in which
he was living, Kuriha. This example is especially interesting because is exhibits a
lexical quotative embedded as part of a speech report introduced by an evidential
quotative, in (17b).
	 (17)	 a.	 Migero: Ika notimabetaka Kurihaku.
			 ika	 no= tim	-be	 -ak	 -a	 kuri	 -ha	 -ku
			 quot.3m 1S=	live -frus -perf -real.a peach.palm -cl:fluid -loc
			 ‘He said, “I formerly lived at Peach Palm Creek.” ’
		 b.	 Ika ikanti hara ashinetiri.
			 ika	 i=	 kant -i	 hara	 a=	 shine
			 quot.3m 3mS= say	 -real.i neg.irreal 1pl.incl.S= make.welcome
			 -Ø	 -i	 =ri
			 -impf -real.i =3mO
			 ‘He said, “He (the leader there) said, “Let’s not make him welcome.”” ’
In (17a), Migero employs an evidential quotative to relay to his audience a simple
declarative utterance with which Erobakin informed Migero that he no longer
was living at Kuriha. Migero’s next utterance, however, consists of an embed-
ded quotation, in which he quotes Erobakin quoting the community leader of
Kuriha. The exterior quotative element is an evidential quotative, as we would
expect from the fact that Migero is simply relating an informative utterance of
Erobakin’s. The quotative element embedded in the reported speech introduced
by the evidential quotative, however, is a lexical quotative introducing a reported
speech complement that depicts the leader of Kuriha exhorting the other resi-
dents to shun Erobakin. This reported utterance is one that exhibits considerable
illocutionary force, since as much as with these words, the leader seeks to effect a
significant social change, in accord with the use of the lexical quotative.
We now examine an instance in which the lexical quotative is employed to
express a strong evaluative stance. This fourth strip of interaction is drawn from
a conversation between Tekori, the operator of the community radio, and the au-
thor, in which Tekori related a conversation between Migero and the leader of an-
other community in which a young Nanti man had stayed for many months after
accompanying an older man who had family in that community. The older man
subsequently returned to his own community, but the young Nanti man remained,
	 Nanti self-quotation	 167
becoming a de facto resident of the community, something which displeased the
leader of that community.
	 (18)	 a.	 Tekori: Ika samani ipitake.
			 ika	 samani	 i=	 pit	 -ak	 -i
			 quot.3m long.time 3mS= be.in.place -perf -real.i
			 ‘He said, “He was here for a long time.” ’
		 b.	 Ikanti tera onkametite imperate intimera aka.
			 i=	 kant -Ø	 -i	 tera	 o=	 n-	 kameti	 -e
			 3mS= say	 -impf -real.i neg.real 3fS= irreal- be.good -irreal.i
			 i=	 n	 pera	 -e	 i=	 n-	 tim	-Ø	 -e
			 3mS= irreal be.lazy -irreal.i 3mS= irreal- live -impf -irreal.i
			 =ra	 aka
			 =sub here
			 ‘He said, “It is not good that he was lazy (i.e. that he was too lazy to
return to his home), living here.” ’
In (18a), we see that Tekori uses the evidential quotative to report the statement
of fact, uncontested by Migero or anyone else, that the young man had stayed in
the other community for a long time. When Tekori shifts to quoting the leader’s
strongly negative evaluation of the young man’s behavior in (18a), however, we see
him shift to using the lexical quotative as expected from the strong stance he takes
with the utterance.
The final example we consider is drawn from a conversation in which Hirero,
my immediate neighbor, informed me of an argument surrounding the malfunc-
tion of the community’s sole CD player at the time. At this point in the conversa-
tion, Hirero relates how the young man who many suspected of breaking the CD
player is accused by his sister of doing so, and how the young man responded.
	 (19)	 a.	 Hirero: Okanti biro tinkarahakero.
			 o=	 kant -Ø	 -i	 biro	 otin-	 karah -ak
			 3fS= say	 -impf -real.i 2.foc.pro caus:dstr- break	-perf
			 -i	 =ro
			 -real.i =3fO
			 ‘She said, “You broke it.” ’
		 b.	 Ikanti te nontinkarahero.
			 i=	 kant -i	 te	 no= n-	 otin-	 karah	 -Ø
			 3mS= say	 -real neg.real 1S=	irreal- caus:dstr- break -impf
			 -e	 =ro
			 -irreal.i =3fO
			 ‘He said, “I didn’t break it.” ’
168	 Lev Michael
		 c.	 Ika nonehapahi te onihe.
			 ika	 no= neh -apah -Ø	 -i	 te	 o=	 n-
			 quot.3m 1S=	see	 -all	 impf -real.i neg.real 3mS= irreal-
			 nih	 -e
			 speak -irreal.i
			 ‘He said, “I saw when I arrived that it did not work (lit. speak).” ’
The interaction that Hirero reports in this sequence is a highly socially charged
one, in which the young man and his sister are arguing over the attribution of
blame for the possible loss of a highly valued possession. The stakes are high, and
the utterances attributed to each quoted party are not disinterested observations
about agreed-upon facts in the world, but rather represent efforts by each party
to assert a highly socially consequential and epistemically contested claim in the
face of active opposition by their interlocutor. Note that when Hirero shifts from
reporting the young man’s forceful expression of his contested epistemic stance
in (19b) to his supporting factual claim (19c), Hirero shifts from using the lexical
quotative to the evidential quotative.
As exemplified above, the majority of utterances reported using lexical quota-
tives share the property of being significantly socially consequential in the contexts
of their use. This characteristic manifests itself in a number of ways: the utterances
either commit the quoted speaker to some future course of action with respect to
others (they constitute the means by which the quoted speaker hopes to affect or
bring about the actions of others), or they express the quoted party’s commitment
to a stance that renders them vulnerable to criticism or opposition from others.
These types of utterances can be characterized as ones that carry significant illocu-
tionary force, as indicated by the fact that the lexical quotative can be felicitously
glossed with English speech act verbs in terms of ‘promising’ (14), ‘inviting’ (15),
‘exhorting’ (16), ‘declaring’ (17), and ‘asserting’ (18).6 In contrast, most utterances
reported with evidential quotatives are less socially consequential and usually lack
significant illocutionary force, being more felicitously glossed with English ‘say’.
In short, lexical quotatives typically introduce illocutionary forceful speech, while
evidential quotatives do not.
These observations suggest that the functional difference between Nanti lexi-
cal and evidential quotatives can be characterized in terms of the distinction made
by Levinson (1988: 186) between the ‘informational source’ and ‘illocutionary
source’ of reported speech constructions. While Levinson observes that there is
6.  As useful as glossing with speech act verbs may be as a heuristic, the validity of glossing ut-
terances that lack explicit performatives with speech act verbs is a questionable substitute for
an analysis of the utterances in terms of their social indexicality, as Silverstein (2009: 343–344)
observes.
	 Nanti self-quotation	 169
“a close and intrinsic connection” between the status of a source as an informa-
tional source and an illocutionary source, and ultimately seems to conclude that
in practice, a quoted party cannot be an illocutionary source without also being
an informational source, it is exactly this distinction between these two kinds of
sources that appears to be relevant to Nanti quotative constructions. Although for
any given reported utterance, informational and illocutionary sources are exten-
sionally identical (Levinson’s point), the two Nanti quotative constructions differ
intensionally, in that the lexical quotative characterizes the quoted party as an illo-
cutionary source (as well as an informational source), while the evidential quota-
tive characterizes the quoted party as only an informational source.
I conclude this section by raising an interesting empirical matter which the
close examination of concurrrent quotitative framing (CQF) in the following sec-
tion may help resolve. Although Nantis’ preference for reporting socially conse-
quential utterances with lexical quotatives is clear, as is the preference for relatively
socially inconsequential ones to be reported with quotative evidentials, one finds
examples in naturally-occurring discourse where the proposed correlation does
not obviously hold. There are cases where an utterance which appears to be quite
socially consequential is reported with an evidential quotative, as in (20), and
there are others in which utterances which are not obviously socially assertive are
reported using a lexical quotative construction, as in (21).
	 (20)	 Noka kantanaka pagerora, hara pihoki.
		 noka	 kant -an	 -ak	 -a	 pi=	 ag	 -Ø	 -e	 =ro	 =ra
		 quot.1 do	 -abl -perf -real.a 2S= take -impf -irreal.i =3fO =sub
		 hara	 pi=	 hok	 -i
		 neg.irreal 2S= discard -real.i
		 ‘I said, “You should stay with her, don’t abandon (your wife).” ’
	 (21)	 Ikanti aiño ige.
		 i=	 kant -Ø	 -i	 ainyo	 ige.
		 3mS= say	 -impf -real.i exist.anim my.brother
		 ‘He said, “My brother lives (there).” ’
That this kind of post hoc ambiguity should present itself to the analyst is not entire-
ly surprising, given that indexicals (of which quotative elements are an example)
are not only presupposing, but also creative (Silverstein 1976). There is no reason
to believe that Nantis’ use of quotative strategies is governed by mechanical subcat-
egorization, based on whether an utterance has significant illocutionary force or
not. Rather, we would expect the choice between these two speech reporting strat-
egies to be influenced by whether or not the speaker wishes to present the utterance
as socially consequential. In the case of English, for example, a speaker can choose
to report a directive either as a complement to a speech act verb such as ‘demand’
170	 Lev Michael
and ‘order’, which does characterize the utterance as illocutionary forceful, or as
a complement to ‘say’, which does not. Because Nanti exhibits very few explicit
speech act verbs, however, we cannot rely on the suitability of speech act verb para-
phrases as a test for illocutionary force, but as I show in Section 3, the distribution
of lexical and evidential quotatives in instances of concurrent quotative framing
lends strong empirical support to the proposal that lexical quotatives characterize
quoted parties as illocutionary sources, while evidential quotatives do not.
3.	 Structural characteristics and interactional functions of concurrent
quotative framing (CQF)
By embedding speech from some other communicative context into an ongo-
ing interaction, reported speech constructions typically link two distinct speech
events: the speech event in which the reported speech construction is employed,
and another speech event to which the reported utterance is attributed (potentially
including earlier stages of the same ongoing social interaction). In the prototypical
case, reported speech is construed as having been drawn from some past speech
event and reproduced in the ongoing one (Güldeman and Von Roncador 2002),
although as Tannen (1989) and others have observed, the ways in which reported
utterances can be linked to other speech events can go well beyond faithful repli-
cation of past utterances, and include ‘reports’ from possible and counterfactual
worlds and verbal representations of thought or affective stances (e.g. Clark and
Gerrig 1990, Koven 2001, Mayes 1990, Sakita 2002). That said, even in the diverse
forms of reported speech discussed by critics of the naive replicationist view of
reported speech, the two speech events from which speech is drawn are generally
held to be distinct (see also Hanks 1990: 205–217, Mushin 2001: 70).
Nanti CQF differs from typical instances of reported speech in that the speech
event to which the reported speech is attributed and the ongoing speech event
are one and the same. In other words, CQF consists of the use of quotative re-
sources to frame utterances that arise at a particular moment in the ongoing in-
teraction as ‘reported speech’, despite the fact that the speech so ‘reported’ is not
attributed to previous or otherwise distinct communicative interactions. Consider
the brief strip of interaction given in (22), drawn from a conversation between two
community leaders, Migero of Montetoni, and Hoha of Marankehari, regarding
the appropriateness of men from one community taking women from the other
community as wives. In (22a), Hoha concludes an extended turn in which he ex-
presses his stance that it is not appropriate for men from Montetoni to come to
Marankehari to take wives, and that as the leader of the community, it is appropri-
ate for him to take women who have gone to Montetoni, back to Marankehari.
	 Nanti self-quotation	 171
Migero begins his response in (22b), in which he expresses his contending stance
that as long as the women in question do not already have husbands, men from ei-
ther community are free to propose that they form a couple. Migero expresses his
oppositional stance by employing a reported speech construction, and it is clear
from the broader interactional context that he is not quoting one of his own past
utterances, but rather is employing concurrent quotative framing.
	 (22)	 a.	 Hoha: … nagabehi nagaatiro.
			 no= agabeh	-e	 no-	 ag	 -aa	 -i	 =ro
			 1S=	be.able -real.i 1S= get -trnsloc -real.i =3mO
			 ‘… it is appropriate for me to take her back (to Marankehari).’
		 b.	
Migero: Irompa, irompa, pinka nokanti terira ainyo iro okoritiri,
iriniake inkante tsame, biro nontsipatakempa.
			 iro	 -mpa	 iro	 -mpa	 pinka	 no= kant -Ø	 -i
			 3f.pro -advr 3f.pro -advr actually 1S=	say	 -impf -real.i
			 te	 =rira ainyo	 iro	 o-	 koritiri i-	 ri-	 nih
			 neg.real =rel	exist.anim 3f.pro 3fP- spouse	3mS= irreal- speak
			 -ak	 -e,	 i=	 n-	 kant -Ø	 -e	 tsame
			 -perf -irreal.i 3mS= irreal- say	 -impf -irreal.i hort
			 biro	 no= n-	 tsipat	 -ak	 -empa
			 2.foc.pro 1S=	irreal- accompany -perf -irreal.a
			 ‘To the contrary, to the contrary, actually, I say, “To she who doesn’t have
a husband, he (i.e. a man seeking a wife) can speak and say, “Let’s go, I
will accompany you.”” ’
The above example of CQF illustrates that this interactional strategy relies on the
lexical quotative construction, with a minimally inflected form of the verb kant
‘say’ that bears only subject person marking, null-marked imperfective aspect, and
realis reality status. Instances of CQF typically involve first person subject mark-
ing on the lexical quotative element, but as we shall see below, there are dialogical
uses of CQF that involve second person subject marking. Note that the temporal
reference for inflected forms of kant ‘say’ in CQF is, strictly speaking, ambiguous
between present and past reference, since realis marking is compatible with both
interpretations, meaning that knowledge of the discourse context is necessary to
assign an accurate gloss.
The preceding example of CQF also illustrates that the main communica-
tive function of CQF in Nanti interactions is to indicate a speaker’s individuated
commitment to a stance expressed by the framed utterance. By ‘commitment’, I
here refer to the speaker’s explicit claim of a particular stance as his or her own,
which thereby makes that speaker socially responsible, or accountable, for hold-
ing that stance. In other words, use of CQF constitutes a commitment event in the
172	 Lev Michael
terminology of Kockelman (2004), by which the speaker clarifies his or her role
as a principal, rather than as an animator of the concurrently quotatively framed
utterance and the stance it expresses (Goffman 1981).
The following strip of interaction, (23), illustrates one of the major interac-
tional factors conditioning the use of CQF: the presence of stances contending or
contrasting with the speaker’s own in the interaction in which the CQF-bearing
utterance was produced. It is drawn from a conversation in which two men,
Bikotoro and Anteres, are discussing the circumstances surrounding a dispute
between Bikotoro’s daughter and her husband, Anteres’ son. Several weeks pri-
or, certain events at a manioc beer feast in Marankehari, where the two young
adults lived together, had led to an argument between them, subsequent to which
Bikotoro’s daughter returned to her parents’ household in Montetoni. Soon there-
after, efforts ensued by her husband and his political allies, including Anteres, to
get her to come back to Marankehari.
Bikotoro’s daughter’s return to Montetoni and the subsequent demands that
she come back to Marankehari put Bikotoro in a difficult position. Although
Bikotoro appeared quite happy to have his daughter living with him again, several
politically powerful individuals from Marankehari insisted that his daughter re-
turn to Marankehari, and they furthermore accused Bikotoro of encouraging his
daughter to stay in Montetoni. Bikotoro was clearly stung by these accusations, and
we see that in this conversation, one of Bikotoro’s principal discursive concerns is
to present his and his daughter’s actions as reasonable and morally defensible. To
this end, Bikotoro argues that his daughter’s return to his household was an unpre-
meditated but appropriate response to being offended by the behavior of certain
men in Marankehari during the manioc beer feast in question, and that he himself
played no role in her decision. He characterizes his daughter’s actions as reason-
able under the circumstances, but not as indicative of any decision to permanently
relocate to Montetoni. In this interaction, then, Bikotoro works to present particu-
lar framings of his own actions and those of his daughter which contradict other
framings of the same events that were already circulating at that time in the Nanti
discursive sphere. As we shall see, Bikotoro’s interactional contributions are dense
with CQF, as he commits to the contested stances that he takes.
	 (23)	 a.	 Bikotoro: Pine maika okantaka hanta naro, hanta,
			 Pine	 maika o=	 kant	 -ak	 -a	 hanta naro	 hanta
			 you.see now	 3fS= happen -perf -real.a there	 1pro there
			 ‘You see what happened there, I, there,’
		 b.	 nokanti irobenti, onti pishinkitara.
			 no= kant -i	 irobenti	 o-	 nti	 pi= shinki	 -Ø
			 1S	 say	 -real.i because.of.that 3fS= cop 2S	 be.intoxicated -impf
	 Nanti self-quotation	 173
			 -a	 =ra
			 -real.a =dep
			 ‘I said, “It’s because of that, because you (the participants in the
Marankehari manioc beer feast) were intoxicated.” ’
		 c.	 Anteres: Kantira aryo.
			 kant -i	 -ra	 aryo
			 say	 -real.i =dep indeed
			 ‘Uh-huh.’7
		 d.	 Bikotoro: Iro arisano paita opintsata^ke ohatahe.
			 iro	 arisano paita o=	 pintsa	 -ak	 -i	 o=	 ha -ah	 -e
			 3f.pro indeed	 later	 3fS= decide -perf -real.i 3fS= go	-reg -irreal.i
			 ‘Because of that, she subsequently decided to return (to Montetoni).’
		 e.	 Iro pinka ari nokanti.
			 iro	 pinka	 ari	 no= kant -Ø	 -i
			 3f.pro actually truly 1S=	say	 -impf -real.i
			 ‘Yeah, actually, that’s what I say.’
		 f.	 Anteres: =Ari pikanti.
			 ari	 pi=	 kant -i
			 truly 2S= say	 -real.i
			 ‘Truly you say.’
		 g.	 Bikotoro: Oga okantaka kogapagero.
			 o=	 oga	 o=	 kant	 -ak	 -a	 kogapagero
			 3f= that 3fS= happen -perf -real.a lacking
			 ‘That (my daughter’s return to Montetoni) happened for no reason (i.e.
lacking forethought).’
		 h.	 Matsi onpintsate onkante nohatahera hanta, onpokahe aka.
			 matsi o=	 n-	 pintsa	 -e	 o=	 n-	 kant -e
			 neg	 3fS irreal- decide -irreal.i 3fS= irreal- say	 -irreal.i
			 no= ha -ah	 -e	 =ra	 hanta o=	 n-	 pok	 -ah
			 1S=	go	reg -irreal.i =dep there	 3fS= irreal- come reg
			 -e	 aka
			 -irreal.i here
			 ‘It’s not as if she decided, that she said, “I’m going back there (to
Montetoni to live),” and came back here.’
		 i.	 (unintelligible) Tyanpa nonkante?
			 tya	 =npa	 no= n-	 kant -Ø	 -e
			 interrog =advr 1S=	irreal- say	 -impf -irreal.i
			 ‘What could I have said?’ (i.e. there was nothing I could/should say,
because my daughter’s actions were reasonable.)
7.  The expression kantira and related ones such as kantira aryo are employed as continuers
(Schegloff 1982).
174	 Lev Michael
		 j.	 Oga okantaka maika onti oburoki.
			 o-	 oga	 o=	 kant	 -ak	 -a	 maika o-	 nti	 oburoki
			 3f- that 3fS happen -perf -real.a now	 3fS- cop manioc.beer
			 ‘What happened was due to the manioc beer (i.e. the events at the
manioc beer feast).’
		 k.	 Agabehi okanti nohatahera hanta, inaku.
			 o=	 agabeh	-i	 o=	 kant -i	 no= ha -ah	 -e	 =ra
			 3fS= be.able -real.i 3fS say	 -real.i 1S-	 go	reg -irreal.i =dep
			 hanta ina	 -ku
			 there	 my.mother -loc
			 ‘It was appropriate for her to say, “I’m going back there to my mother’s
(to Montetoni).” ’
		 l.	 Ari pinka ari nokanti.
			 ari	 pinka	 ari	 no= kant -Ø	 -i
			 truly actually truly 1S=	say	 -impf -real.i
			 ‘Yeah, that’s what I say.’
		 m.	 Anteres: =Ari pikanti.
			 ari	 pi=	 kant -Ø	 -i
			 truly 2S= say	 -impf -real.i
			 ‘Truly you say.’
		 n.	 Bikotoro: Ari nokanti.
			 ari	 no= kant -Ø	 -i
			 truly 1S=	say	 -impf -real.i
			 ‘Yeah, that’s what I say.’
		 o.	 Anteres: Ari pinka inkahara nokanti pikema?
			 ari	 pinka	 inkahara no= kant -Ø	 -i	 pikema
			 truly actually earlier	 1S=	say	 -impf -real.i you.hear
			 ‘Indeed I said earlier, did you hear?’
		 p.	 Bikotoro: Iro, iro patiro nokanti.
			 iro	 iro	 patiro	 no= kant -Ø	 -i
			 3f.pro 3f.pro one.inan 1S=	say	 -impf -real.i
			 ‘That, that one (thing) I say.’
This strip of interaction exhibits eight lexical quotative constructions that are de-
ployed for purposes of CQF, which are uniformly associated with the articulation
of contested stances. Bikotoro’s first use of CQF in (23) is in line e, where it follows
on his claims in lines a-d that his daughter returned to Montetoni because of her
disagreeable experiences at the Marankehari manioc beer feast, a starkly different
interpretation of events than that of his interlocutor, Anteres. Bikotoro’s next use of
CQF is in line l, following his assertion in lines g and h that his daughter’s return
to Montetoni was an impulsive reaction to the (offensive) events at aforementioned
	 Nanti self-quotation	 175
feast, and not a premeditated return to Montetoni in order to live there, and the
added evaluation in lines j and k that her return to her mother’s home was an appro-
priate and reasonable action under the circumstances. These uses of CQF are thus
associated with Bikotoro’s expression of contested epistemic and moral stances.
The contested nature of the evaluations under discussion is signaled by
Anteres’ response in line o, where he responds to Bikotoro’s articulation of his
position — and perhaps specifically to the final point in the segment concerning
the appropriateness of his daughter’s actions — with the utterance ari pinka inka-
hara nokanti pikema? ‘Indeed I said earlier, did you hear?’. This utterance exhibits
two discourse particles associated with disagreement and incompatible evaluative
stances. The first of these, pinka, grammaticalized from the inflected verb pinkante
‘you will say’, is employed when a speaker expresses a proposition that either di-
rectly contradicts one expressed by an interlocutor, or contradicts a supposition or
presupposition held by the interlocutor, as in (24).
	 (24)	 a.	 LDM: Tyani shintaro oka inkenishiku?
			 tyani shint -Ø	 -a	 =ro	 oka	inkenishiku
			 who	 own	 -impf -real.a =3fO this forest
			 ‘Who owns this (part of the) forest?’
		 b.	 Bikotoro: Teratya, pinka teratya.
			 tera	 =tya	 pinka	 tera	 =tya
			 neg.real =still actually neg.real =still
			 ‘Nobody yet, actually, nobody yet.’
The second discourse particle, pikema ‘you hear’, is grammaticalized from the in-
flected verb form pikemake ‘you heard’, and serves as a sentence-final tag to project
an affirmative continuer response to the assertion to which it is appended. This
particle is especially common in interactions in which recipients exhibit skepticism
about a speaker’s assertions, or resistance to his or her demands. In any event, it is
relevant that Bikotoro’s articulation of his stance, and his use of CQF in lines l and
n in (23), motivates Anteres to index his own stance, which is framed (through the
use of the discourse particles pinka and pikema) as contesting Bikotoro’s.
CQF also centrally involves the individuated attribution of stances to the
speaker, whereby utterances and their social consequences are strongly identified
with the speaker. This is perhaps clearest in interactions in which Nantis ‘agree
to disagree’, setting out their differing personal positions on an issue of mutual
concern. Consider the strip of interaction in (25), drawn from the coda of the
same conversation between Bikotoro and Anteres, in which Bikotoro states his
ultimate evaluation of the messy state of affairs, subsequent to which Bikotoro and
Anteres discursively collaborate to unambiguously attribute Bikotoro’s stance to
Bikotoro alone.
176	 Lev Michael
	 (25)	 a.	 Bikotoro: Inkanteme paita onkuta, (unintelligible) non-, non-,
nopintsa^ti noka tota nagahe.
			 i=	 n-	 kant -Ø	 -e	 =me	 paita onkuta,	 no=
			 3mS= irreal- say	 -impf -irreal.i =cntf later	 morning 1S=
			 n-	 no= n-	 no= pintsa	 -Ø	 -i	 noka	 tota	 no=
			 irreal- 1S=	irreal- 1S=	decide -impf -real.i quot.1 hold.on 1S=
			 ag	 -ah	 -e
			 take -reg -irreal.i
			 ‘He should say tomorrow morning, unintelligible, “I will-, I will-, I have
decided to take (her) back.” ’
		 b.	 Inkanteme.
			 i=	 n-	 kant -Ø	 -e	 =me
			 3mS= irreal- say	 -impf -irreal.i =cntf
			 ‘He should say (that).’
		 c.	 Aryo pinka aryo nokanti.
			 aryo	 pinka	 aryo	 no= kant -Ø	 -i
			 indeed actually indeed 1S=	say	 -impf -real.i
			 ‘Indeed, actually, indeed I say.’
		 d.	 Anteres: [Aryoro pikanti?
			 aryoro pi=	 kant -Ø	 -i
			 truly	 2S= say	 -impf -real.i
			 ‘Indeed you say?’
		 e.	 Bikotoro: Inkanteme maika.
			 i=	 n-	 kant -Ø	 -e	 =me	 maika
			 3mS= irreal- say	 -impf -irreal.i =cntf maika
			 ‘He should say (that) now.’
		 f.	 Ari ontentanake, (unintelligible).
			 ari	 o=	 n-	 tent	 -an	 -ak	 -e
			 indeed 3fS= irreal- accompany -abl -perf -irreal.i
			 ‘Indeed she would accompany him away, (unintelligible).’
		 g.	 Tyanpa nonkante?
			 tya	 =npa	 no= n-	 kant -Ø	 -e
			 interrog =ncgnt 1S=	irreal- say	 -impf -irreal.i
			 ‘What would I say?’ (i.e. I would not oppose him)
		 h.	 Anteres: (unintelligible)
		 i.	 Bikotoro: =Ari pinka aryo nokanti.
			 ari	 pinka	 aryo	 no= kant -Ø	 -i
			 indeed actually indeed 1S=	say	 -impf -real.i
			 ‘Indeed, actually, I say.’
	 Nanti self-quotation	 177
		 j.	 Anteres: Ari pikanti?
			 ari	 pi=	 kant -Ø	 -i
			 truly 2S= say	 -impf -real.i
			 ‘Indeed you say?’
		 k.	 Bikotoro: Ari nokanti.
			 ari	 no= kant -Ø	 -i
			 truly 1S=	say	 -impf -real.i
			 ‘Indeed I say.’
		 l.	 Intaga nokanti.
			 intaga	 no= kant -Ø	 -i
			 that.is.all 1S=	say	 -impf -real.i
			 ‘That’s all I say.’
		 m.	 Anteres: Intaga pikanti.
			 intaga	 pi=	 kant -Ø	 -i
			 that.is.all 2S= say	 -impf -real.i
			 ‘That’s all you say.’
		 n.	 Bikotoro:	 [Intaga nokanti.
			 intaga	 no= kant -Ø	 -i
			 that.is.all 1S=	say	 -impf -real.i
			 ‘That’s all I say.’
In lines a and b, Bikotoro expresses a strong evaluative stance with deontic illo-
cutionary force, namely, that his son-in-law should make amends with Bikotoro’s
daughter, followed by the use of CQF in line c. The course of action he advocates
stands in stark contrast to how the social crisis has been dealt with thus far, and is
based on an assessment of where the responsibility for resolving the situation lies
that is very different from that made by Anteres. Rather than placing responsibility
in the hands of the residents of Montetoni, and himself specifically, Bikotoro effec-
tively asserts that the situation is his son-in-law’s to resolve. After Anteres responds
with a continuer in line d, Bikotoro reiterates his deontic stance, and adds in line
g that he would acquiesce to his daughter’s going back to Marankehari. Moreover,
the manner in which he articulates the latter point, Tyanpa nonkante? ‘What would
I say?’, is generally employed by Nantis to express that they consider the immedi-
ate topic of discussion to be one which they have no responsibility to resolve or
have no right to interfere in. Bikotoro thus seeks to make clear that resolving the
issue of his daughter’s place of residence is simply not his responsibility. Having
done this, Bikotoro then deploys CQF again in line i, triggering an interleaved set
of utterances in which both he and Anteres deploy CQF to unambiguously attri-
bute Bikotoro’s expressed stance to Bikotoro and Bikotoro alone. The coda to this
topic thus amounts to a collaborative effort by both participants to attribute the
expressed stances to Bikotoro in an individuated manner.
178	 Lev Michael
The two extended interactions that we have just examined both show that
Bikotoro uses CQF to articulate contested stances, and that both he and Anteres
employ CQF to unambiguously link these stances to Bikotoro alone. Significantly,
just as CQF is dense in interactions in which individuals seek to individuate their
stances, CQF is absent in the speech of individuals who seek to present their evalu-
ative statements as general or collective truths, supporting the analysis of CQF as a
discursive strategy for individuated stance commitment (Michael 2008: 178–186).
I close this section with a brief comparative discussion of self-quotation
which, despite the considerable scholarly attention paid to reported speech, is a
relatively neglected phenomenon (Golato 2002). The first focused examination of
self-quotation was Maynard’s (1996) study of Japanese self-quotation of past ut-
terances. Maynard concluded that self-reporting serves as a strategy by which the
speaker can occupy multiple “subject positions” by reporting “voices” indexing
those positions. Like Nanti CQF, then, Japanese self-quotation serves to attribute
to the speaker particular stances, although it does not appear to have the commit-
ment-enhancing effects that Nanti CQF has.
It is possible, of course, that such commitment-enhancing effects do exist in
Japanese, but that they are not apparent in the case of past self-quotation.8
There are indications, however, that in a variety of languages, self-quotation,
and quotation more generally, exhibits the commitment-enhancing effects that I
have noted for Nanti quotation, and for CQF in particular. For example, Kuipers
(1993) notes that Weyewa quotatives individuate utterances and the stances they
express by attributing them to specific individuals, rather than presenting them
as widely-held stances; in doing so, Kuipers says, they have the effect of heighten-
ing the connotation of personal responsibility for discourse (ibid.: 95). Similarly,
Güldemann (2008: 411–417) notes examples of self-quotation in Aguaruna,
Kwaza, and Irish as well as in many African languages; he remarks that self-quo-
tation has the effect of reinforcing the illocutionary force of an utterance in the
way that the English ‘tell construction’ does, e.g. I am telling you, don’t do that
again. It is unclear if any of these languages exhibit the functional differentiation
in their quotative constructions with respect to the illocutionary force of reported
speech that we find in Nanti, but they all demonstrate the cross-linguistic use of
quotative constructions to either indicate or ‘reinforce’ the illocutionary force of
utterances.
8.  Two other works on self-quotation, likewise concerned with self-reports of past utterances,
focus on other properties of this discursive strategy, such as the manipulation of social indexi-
cality (Koven 2001), or its use to demonstrate or replay reasoning processes (Golato 2002).
	 Nanti self-quotation	 179
4.	 CQF and the pragmatics of quotation
I treat two related points in this section. First, I return to the question of the se-
mantics of the lexical quotative construction (LQC) raised in Section 2.1, and
argue that CQF shows that the LQC encodes that the source of the utterance is
an illocutionary source. Second, I show how the apparent paradox posed by the
responsibility-augmenting function of Nanti CQF, in light of the responsibility-di-
minishing function often attributed to reported speech, can be resolved by treating
the illocutionary source semantics of the construction as basic, and by deriving the
distancing or commitment-enhancing properties of the construction as stemming
from pragmatic reasoning regarding the commitment event realized via CQF.
In Section 2.1, where I demonstrated that LQCs are frequently used to report
utterances with significant illocutionary force, I closed with a brief discussion of
cases in which the LQC is used to report utterances which, from the post hoc posi-
tion of the analyst, are not obviously ones with considerable illocutionary force.
Such cases raise the question of the nature of the association between LQCs and
illocutionary forceful utterances: in particular, does the lexical quotative in some
way encode that its reported speech complement carries significant illocutionary
force, or does it merely attribute the utterance to its source, in a manner parallel
to that by which evidentials indicate information source? Or in Levinson’s (1988)
terms, does the LQC characterize the quoted party as simply an ‘informational
source’ or more specifically as an ‘illocutionary source’?
CQF allows us to distinguish the two possible analyses. Recall that Nantis
principally employ CQF to commit to contested epistemic and evaluative stances,
an interactional move with considerable illocutionary force. If neither the lexi-
cal nor the evidential quotative denotes that the quoted party is an illocution-
ary source per se, then we would have no reason to expect a preference for one
construction over the other in cases of CQF, since the relevant illocutionary force
meaning would arise via implicature from the information source meaning of
the quotative constructions, and there is no a priori reason to believe that one
construction would preferentially yield that implicature. If, however, one of the
two constructions does denote that the quoted party is an illocutionary source,
we would expect that construction to be vastly preferred in CQF, as it would be
well suited for expressing commitment to contested epistemic and moral stances,
while the other would not. The fact that CQF is consistently realized using lexical
and not evidential quotatives thus indicates that the lexical quotative denotes that
the quoted party is an illocutionary source, while the evidential quotative simply
indicates that the quoted party is an information source.
With this result in hand, we now turn to the apparent paradox posed by the
responsibility-enhancing effects of CQF in light of the responsibility-diminishing
180	 Lev Michael
function often attributed to reported speech. At least since Chafe’s (1986: 268–269)
seminal work on evidentiality, reported speech has been seen as closely related to
issues of speakers’ responsibility regarding claims expressed in discourse. Much of
the work on this topic, however, has focused on the responsibility-diminishing or
‘distancing’ properties of reported speech, such as when Hill and Irvine (1993: 13)
discuss how “reported speech distribute[s] responsibility, thinning out and social-
izing its central force”. Similarly, Fox (2001: 174) observes that
by doing a message as ‘animator’ [i.e. by quoting] … a participant can be seen to
distribute responsibility to other (perhaps noncopresent) participants and thereby
minimize the potentially negative consequences of their actions.
And Güldemann (2008: 103) appears to extend the distancing function even to
instances of self-quotation:
…[A]nd perhaps most importantly, SP [i.e. the quoted party] is the mental source
of the quote and represents the different center of consciousness, the alien ego
(in self-quoting, of course, only pragmatically), from which the reporter seeks to
distance her/himself in the ongoing discourse.
The fact that Nanti CQF realizes a commitment event, indicating or emphasiz-
ing speakers’ responsibility for utterances and the stances they express, presents a
puzzle in light of analyses of reported speech as responsibility-diminishing. It is
important to note that this discrepancy is not simply a question of differences be-
tween the communicative functions of quotative constructions in Nanti and those
in other languages: quotative constructions in Nanti can also serve responsibility-
diminishing functions similar to those observed in other societies, as evident in
the strip of interaction we now consider.
This strip is drawn from a brief conversation between the author and the com-
munity leader, Migero, concerning a man, Barentin, whose garden was located
within the borders of the Manu National Park, a reserve near the community of
Montetoni. Some months prior to this conversation, officials from the park had vis-
ited Montetoni to inform the residents there that they were forbidden to hunt and
farm in the the park. However, since the loss of this territory would have meant that
over half the families in the community would have been deprived of their hunt-
ing territories, most Montetoni Nantis simply ignored the pariki, or park officials.
In line with his default policy of mollifying government officials, Migero at first
attempted to convince community members to heed the park officials, but he even-
tually realized the futility of doing so, and instead settled on the rhetorical position
that he and his kin had heeded the pariki, but others in the community, contrary to
his wishes, failed to do so. In this conversation, Migero reports speech that he at-
tributes to Barentin to animate a stance from which he explicitly distances himself.
	 Nanti self-quotation	 181
	 (26)	 a.	 Migero: Hee, naro nokem^i.
			 hee naro	 no= kem	-Ø	 -i
			 yes	1.foc.pro 1S=	hear -impf -real.i
			 ‘Yes, I paid attention (lit. heard).’
		 b.	 Te inkeme.
			 te	 i=	 n-	 kem	-e
			 neg.real 3mS= irreal- hear -irreal.i
			 ‘He didn’t pay attention.’ […]
		 d.	 Tera naro kanterime, tsamaite kamatitya.
			 tera	 naro	 kant -e	 =ri	 =me	 tsamai -Ø
			 neg.real 1.foc.pro say	 -irreal.i =3mO =cntrexp farm	 -impf
			 -e	 kamatitya
			 -irreal.i downriver
			 ‘I didn’t say to him, “Farm downriver.” ’
		 e.	 Chichata yogotake intsamaite, ikanti nontsaga^te, nontsagabagete
kamatitya.
			 chichata	 i=	 ogo	 -ak	 -i	 i=	 n-	 tsamai -Ø
			 voluntarily 3mS= know -perf -real.i 3mS= irreal- farm	 -impf
			 -e	 i=	 kant -Ø	 -i	 no= n-	 tsaga -Ø
			 -irreal.i 3mS= say	 -impf -real.i 1S=	irreal- fish	 -impf
			 -e	 no= n-	 tsaga -bage -e	 kamatitya
			 -irreal.i 1S=	irreal- fish	 -dur	-irreal.i downriver
			 ‘Of his own volition he thought to farm, he said, “I’m going to fish, I’m
going to fish extensively downriver.” ’9
			 […]
		 f.	 Ikanti hara nokemi pariki, oga aka nontsamaite.
			 i=	 kant -Ø	 -i	 hara	 no= kem	-i	 pariki
			 3mS= say	 -impf -irreal neg.irreal 1S=	hear -real.i park.official
			 oga	aka	 no= n-	 tsamai -e
			 this here 1S=	irreal- farm	 -irreal.i
			 ‘He said, “I will not pay attention to the park officials, I’m going to farm
this land here.” ’
This interaction shows Migero employing LQCs to set up a stance that he attri-
butes to Barentin in line a and which he contrasts with his own in lines e and
f, even going so far as to ‘negatively’ quote himself in line d, reporting what he
didn’t say, in order to display his disalignment with Barentin’s stance. Migero’s use
of LQCs in this interaction clearly illustrates that they can serve as a distancing
9.  The garden in question was a ‘hunting garden’, intended to support fishing trips far from the
community that could last for weeks at a time.
182	 Lev Michael
strategy as well as, in the case of CQF, a commitment strategy. We now turn to a
pragmatic account of this multifunctionality.
The analysis of the multifunctionality of LQCs is grounded in treating them
as always encoding the individuated attribution of an utterance and its associated
illocutionary force to the quoted party, with distancing or commitment effects
arising as pragmatic implicatures. Beginning with the case of third party quota-
tion, we observe that this involves explicit attribution of an utterance, and of any
stances that the utterance indexes, to a third party, without any explicit mention
of whether the speaker or anyone else holds that stance. Distancing effects arise
from the (defeasible) inference that while the quoted speaker holds a particular
stance — and in the case of LQCs, holds it explicitly as an illocutionary source
— the speaker does not. Inferences of this sort arise from the Maxim of Quantity,
the communicative presumption that speakers are being optimally informative,
as well as from derivative maxims such as the Rule of Strength, “Make the stron-
gest claim that you can legitimately defend” (Fogelin 1967: 20–22, cited in Horn
2004: 15), and the Maxim of Quantity-Quality, “Make the strongest relevant claim
justifiable by your evidence” (Harnish 1976: 363, cited in Horn 2004: 15). With re-
spect to stances then, the fact that a speaker attributes a stance to a third party, but
does not express that stance him- or herself, yields the inference that the speaker
does not hold that stance, since the maxims lead the addressee to assume that the
speaker has made the strongest claim legitimated by the situation. The result is a
defeasible distancing from the stance expressed by the quoted utterance (see below
for further discussion). The commitment-enhancing effects of CQF then follow
straightforwardly: since LQC attributes stances to quoted individuals, CQF brings
about the explicit attribution of a stance to the speaker, thereby rendering the use
of CQF a commitment event (Kockelman 2004), with no distancing inferences.
Güldemann’s (2008) discussion of the pragmatics of ‘quotative indices’ in
African languages suggests that the analysis of third-party quotation and self-quo-
tation that I have outlined here is of broad applicability, since for the languages in
his sample, third-party quotation is generally associated with distancing, self-quo-
tation with ‘illocution reinforcement’. There are a number of important exceptions
to be considered, however. First, reported speech has often been analyzed as some-
times having authority- and objectivity-enhancing effects in interaction (e.g.	
Clift 2007, Heritage and Raymond 2005, Vincent and Perrin 1999). I argue that
such effects are, however, largely orthogonal to the relationship between speaker
and quoted utterance that we are considering here. The ability of quoted utter-
ances to confer authority for a given claim stems from the relationship between
the source of the quoted utterance and the content of the quoted utterance. To the
degree that the quoted party is recognized by the participants in an interaction as
having authority with respect to the claim expressed in the quoted utterance, or to
	 Nanti self-quotation	 183
the degree to which the quoted utterance demonstrates authority by indexing the
quoted party’s participation in a relevant event (Clift 2006), the quoted utterance
can function as an ‘authoritative’ means for the speaker to introduce a relevant
claim into the ongoing interaction. Given the analysis of distancing as a conver-
sational implicature, the fact that speakers can draw on the authority associated
with particular pairings of quoted parties and quoted utterances is not surprising,
as implicatures of non-commitment to the utterance are simply defeased by the
authority of the quoted utterance. Note that even here, however, ‘distance’ plays a
important role. It is precisely the fact that it is an authoritative other, distinct from
the speaker, that serves as the illocutionary or informational source of the utter-
ance, that renders it authoritative in cases of third-party quotation. Distancing of
speaker from quoted source is central in generating overtones of ‘objectivity’ in
similar ways as is sometimes attributed to reported speech (e.g. Álvarez-Cáccamo
1996, Holt 1996: 242).
Second, a different issue is posed by cases in which reported speech has been
analyzed as serving primarily evidential purposes, as in Matses (Fleck 2007: 603–
604), or the related goal of explicitness in depicting communicative interactions,
as in Kalapalo (Basso 1995). In these cases, reported speech is analyzed neither as
serving responsibility-diminishing or authority-enhancing functions, but rather
more properly evidential ones, which are distinct from epistemic concerns. It is
helpful to compare such uses of reported speech with the Nanti case. As men-
tioned in Section 1, Nantis make extensive use of reported speech to recount com-
municative interactions in great detail, in a manner similar to what is described
for these languages. Crucially, when Nantis relate conversations in this way, they
principally do so using the evidential quotative, and not the lexical quotative. This
leads me to conclude that Nanti formally distinguishes reported speech construc-
tions that serve to express speaker commitment from those that serve narrowly
evidential communicative goals. Evidential uses of reported speech like those in
Matses and Kalapalo thus correspond to the Nanti evidential quotative, suggesting
that those reported speech constructions involve identification of informational
source, but not illocutionary source per se.
5.	 Distinguishing grammaticalized evidentials and evidential strategies
One of the major sources of disagreement that has emerged in the study of eviden-
tiality in recent years concerns the importance of grammaticalization as a crite-
rion for distinguishing evidentials proper from other ‘evidential-like’ phenomena.
While early work on evidentiality tended to admit both lexical and grammatical-
ized expressions of information source as forms of evidentiality (e.g. Chafe 1986),
184	 Lev Michael
much recent work has followed Aikhenvald’s (2004) critical stance towards treat-
ing lexical expressions of information source meanings as ‘evidentials’. This stance
stems from a position that evidentiality constitutes a grammatical category, such
that for an element to qualify as an evidential, it must be a grammaticalized mor-
pheme which has some information source specification as its primary meaning.
This has led advocates of this position to distinguish evidentials proper from ‘evi-
dential strategies’, including constructions in which lexical elements, such as verbs
of perception, indicate the source of information for an associated utterance.10
However, because typology relies crucially on semantics to construct cross-
linguistic categories (Haspelmath 2007), and because there is little agreement
among typologists on explicit semantic or structural criteria for distinguishing
grammatical categories (Boye 2010, Boye and Harder 2009), some linguists grant
less importance to grammaticalization in identifying ‘evidentials’ (e.g. Boye and
Harder 2009, Weimer and Stathi 2010: 276) than others do. In short, there is no
clear consensus regarding either the line that distinguishes evidentials from evi-
dential strategies, or the significance of such a distinction.
Although these two issues can be treated as definitional ones grounded in
broader theoretical questions, e.g. regarding the relationship between lexical items
and grammaticalized morphemes (e.g. Boye and Harder 2009), in principle they
admit an empirical resolution. In particular, if there exist systematic functional
differences that distinguish grammaticalized evidentials from evidential strate-
gies, this would support maintaining a strong analytical distinction between these
two ways of expressing information source meanings.
Nanti lexical quotatives and evidential quotatives present an example of pre-
cisely this kind of functional difference, since lexical quotatives and their gram-
maticalized counterparts differ in their semantics, with the former indicating that
the quoted party is an illocutionary source and the latter merely indicating that the
quoted party is the informational source of the quoted utterance. The existence of
functional contrasts like those in Nanti appears to be consistent with a cross-linguis-
tic tendency for languages to functionally differentiate lexical quotatives from their
grammaticalized evidential counterparts (Aikhenvald 2004: 137–140). Note that the
precise nature of this functional differentiation appears to vary among languages.
The Bulgarian lexical quotative construction, for example, lacks the distancing prop-
erties of its grammaticalized evidential counterpart, the reportive (Gvozdanović
10.  Aikhenvald (2004) employs the term ‘evidential strategy’ to refer to both a) lexical expres-
sions of information source meanings, which often consist of complement-taking verbs, and b)
‘secondary meanings’ associated with non-evidential grammatical categories (e.g. tense, aspect,
and mood) and construction types (e.g. passives). For the purposes of this chapter, I restrict the
term ‘evidential strategy’ to refer only to the former, lexical, realization of evidential meanings.
	 Nanti self-quotation	 185
1996: 63, cited in Aikhenvald 2004: 138); in contrast, the Tewa lexical quotative con-
struction indicates that the speaker does not take responsibility for the veracity of
the reported speech, a sense lacking when the reportive is used instead (Kroskrity
1993: 146, cited in Aikhenvald 2004: 139). Aikhenvald reports similar effects for
Papuan languages. The behavior of lexical quotatives in Tewa and Papuan languages
contrast with the generally illocution-reinforcing properties of lexical quotatives in
the sample of African languages considered by Güldemann (2008: 411), suggesting
that although functional differentiation between lexical quotatives and their gram-
maticalized counterparts in any given language may not be cross-linguistically un-
usual, the precise nature of that functional differentiation varies.
It is worth noting that the functional differentiation of the lexical and eviden-
tial quotatives in Nanti is in fact an even clearer case of functional differentiation
than those cited earlier, since these other cases involve differentiation between
lexical quotative and reportive evidential constructions, while in Nanti we are able
to directly compare lexical quotatives with grammaticalized evidential quotatives.
To the degree that this sort of functional differentiation in the quotative notional
domain is characteristic of the notionally delimited information source domain
more generally, an empirical answer to the question of the validity of distinguish-
ing lexical from grammaticalized evidentiality may be forthcoming. The Nanti
facts suggest that a comparative research program closely focused on the prag-
matic differentiation of relatively grammaticalized versus relatively non-gram-
maticalized evidentials with similar notional content in particular languages will
be helpful in resolving the question of the significance of grammaticalization in
delimiting evidentiality as both a language-specific and cross-linguistic category.
6.	 Distinguishing epistemic modality and evidentiality in grammar
and discourse
The question of whether evidentiality and epistemic modality are distinct gram-
matical categories or not has spawned intense debate in recent years. In this sec-
tion I review this debate and show that the pragmatic arguments in the previous
section support the importance of maintaining the distinction between evidential
and epistemic modal meanings as much in the analysis and description of eviden-
tial strategies as in that of grammaticalized evidentials. Turning first to grammati-
calized evidentiality, we find that in early functionalist and typological work on the
topic, evidentiality and epistemic modality were largely conflated, with evidentials
being seen as a means for qualifying the validity of a proposition (see e.g. Chafe
and Nichols 1986, Frayzinger 1985, Givón 1982, Palmer 1986, Willett 1988). More
recently, however, Aikhenvald (2004) and De Haan (1999, 2001), among others,
186	 Lev Michael
have argued that evidentiality, narrowly defined as indicating the ‘source of infor-
mation’ from which knowledge of some situation springs, must be distinguished
from epistemic modality, narrowly defined as the expression of degrees of speaker
certainty regarding the validity of a given proposition. Evidence in favor of this
view can be drawn from languages in which the relationship between evidentiality
and epistemic modality meanings does not follow the otherwise expected correla-
tion between the directness of an evidential category and its associated epistemic
modal strength (see e.g. Bybee et al. 1994: 180). Counterexamples to the expected
correlation are found first in languages in which evidentials carry no epistemic
modal entailments and where associated epistemic modal meanings, if they ex-
ist, are defeasible; and second, in languages where the epistemic modal meanings
associated with various evidentials are invariant, such as when use of evidentials
entails or implies certainty on the part of the speaker regarding the validity of
the evidential-marked utterance, as in the case of Kashaya (Oswalt 1986: 43; see
Michael 2008: 67–75 for further discussion).
Reactions to the efforts by typologists to distinguish epistemic modality and
evidentiality have been diverse. Formally-oriented linguists have split on the issue
(compare, e.g. Faller 2002 and Speas 2007 vs. Blain and Déchaine 2007), while
most typologically and functionally-oriented linguists have been sympathetic to
Aikhenvald’s and De Haan’s arguments (e.g. Boye 2010, DeLancey 2001, Nuyts
2001, Plungian 2001, cf. Stenzel 2004). Students of language use in interaction,
on the other hand, who are largely concerned with evidential strategies rather
than grammaticalized evidentials as such, have tended to favor collapsing eviden-
tiality and epistemic modality into a single notional category, essentially on the
grounds that whatever the semantic grounding of evidential strategies in informa-
tion source meanings, the interactional purposes to which evidential strategies are
put are epistemic in nature (e.g. Atkinson 1999, 2004, Ifantidou 2001, Fox 2001,
Kärkkäinen 2003, Sakita 2002). There is no doubt, of course, that evidentials and
evidential strategies are frequently associated cross-linguistically and cross-cul-
turally with epistemic modal implicatures (see, e.g. Boye and Harder 2009: 27–28,
Mushin 2001: 23–26, this volume, Speas 2008), and it is not surprising that such
implicatures are especially relevant in societies in which the expression of interac-
tants’ certainty regarding the truth of utterances looms large in local communica-
tive practices, as it does in English (Chafe 1986). There are good reasons to believe,
however, that when speakers use evidential strategies in interaction, they are often
motivated by communicative goals other than those of an epistemic modal nature.
As Phillips (1993: 255–256) has observed, the use of evidentials is mediated by
culture-specific ideologies of language and knowledge, and considerations as di-
verse as local understandings about appropriate ways to talk about others’ internal
states, or the relationship between wisdom and social hierarchy, may inform the
	 Nanti self-quotation	 187
use of evidentials to a greater degree than concerns about expressing speaker cer-
tainty. Likewise, I have argued that in certain contexts, Nantis’ use of evidentials
and evidential strategies is motivated not by a desire to diminish epistemic respon-
sibility, but rather by a desire to distance themselves from particular states of affairs
(Michael 2008: 135–153). Even restricting our attention to evidential strategies in
interaction, it appears that we must be careful about assuming that lexical expres-
sions of information source are proxies for expressing epistemic modal meanings.
The analysis in Section 5 supports the conclusion that it is important to distin-
guish evidential and epistemic modal meanings when analyzing evidential strat-
egies, since the capacity for Nanti lexical quotative constructions to serve both
distancing and commitment enhancing functions depends crucially on their in-
formation source — or more precisely, their illocutionary source — semantics. At
first glance, the fact that Nanti LQCs can either distance speakers from quoted
utterances or indicate their commitment to them may seem like evidence in favor
of treating evidential strategies like LQC as essentially epistemic modal in nature.
Crucially, however, it is not possible to treat LQCs as having any single epistemic
modal meaning, since they can yield both distancing and commitment-enhancing
meanings. As discussed in Section 5, these multiple meanings are possible because
they arise as conversational implicatures from pragmatic reasoning regarding the
more basic evidential semantics of the reported speech construction that identify
the (illocutionary) source of the quoted utterance.
7.	 Conclusion
This chapter has described the structural and functional characteristics of Nanti
concurrent quotative framing (CQF), a form of self-quotation, and has used the
interactional and pragmatic properties of this discursive strategy to illuminate
functional differences between lexical and evidential quotatives in Nanti, and to
argue for maintaining the distinction between evidential strategies and grammati-
calized evidentials, on the one hand, and for maintaining the distinction between
evidentiality and epistemic modality in the analysis of evidential strategies, on
the other.
In particular, I have shown that the Nanti lexical quotative construction
(LQC), of which CQF is a special case, characterizes the quoted party as an il-
locutionary source, and not just an utterance-informational source. This charac-
teristic of LQCs distinguishes them from their grammaticalized counterparts, the
evidential quotatives, which only specify that the quoted party is an informational
source. Similar functional differences between lexical quotative constructions and
their grammaticalized counterparts in other languages suggest that functional
188	 Lev Michael
differentiation between evidential strategies and grammaticalized evidentials may
be typical of the quotative/reportive notional domain. To the degree that further
research confirms this functional differentiation cross-linguistically, typologists
will have a compelling reason to maintain a theoretical distinction between lexical
and grammaticalized expressions of evidential meanings.
This chapter has also provided a detailed study of a form of self-quotation —
a phenomenon that has received little attention to this point — and showed that
CQF constitutes a ‘commitment event’ by which the speaker explicitly takes an
epistemic or moral stand, typically in the face of oppositional stances of interlocu-
tors or other stances already circulating in the broader discourse context. I also
showed how this commitment-enhancing function is actually compatible with the
distancing function often attributed to reported speech constructions, based on a
pragmatic analysis that takes the notionally evidential speech-attributing function
as semantically basic, and derives the distancing effect as a consequence of max-
ims that lead the listener to assume that the speaker presents the most compelling
evidence possible when introducing claims in discourse. In turn, the success of
this analysis in reconciling the distancing and commitment-enhancing character-
istics of reported speech constructions serves as evidence in favor of maintaining
the notional distinction between evidentiality and epistemic modality even in the
domain of evidential strategies.
References
Aikhenvald, Alexandra. 2004. Evidentiality. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Álvarez-Cáccamo, Celso. 1996. The power of reflexive language(s): Code displacement in re-
ported speech. Journal of Pragmatics 25(1). 35–59.
Atkinson, Paul. 2004. The discursive construction of competence and responsibility in medical
collegial talk. Communication and Medicine 1(1). 13–23.
Basso, Ellen. 1995. The last cannibals: A South American oral history. Austin: University of Texas
Press.
Blain, Eleanor and Rose-Marie Déchaine. 2007. Evidential types: Evidence from Cree dialects.
International Journal of American Linguistics 73(3). 257–291.
Boye, Kasper. 2010. Semantic maps and the identification of cross-linguistic generic categories:
Evidentiality and its relation to epistemic modality. Linguistic Discovery 8(1). 4–22.
Boye, Kasper and Peter Harder. 2009. Evidentiality: Linguistic categories and grammaticaliza-
tion. Functions of Language 16(1). 9–43.
Bybee, Joan, Revere Perkins and William Pagliuca. 1994. The evolution of grammar. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.
Chafe, Wallace and Johanna Nichols (eds.). 1986. Evidentiality: The linguistic coding of epistemol-
ogy. Norwood, N.J.: Ablex.
	 Nanti self-quotation	 189
Chafe, Wallace. 1986. Evidentiality in English conversation and academic writing. In Wallace
Chafe and Johanna Nichols (eds.), Evidentiality: The linguistic coding of epistemology, 261–
272. Norwood, N.J.: Ablex.
Clark, Herbert and Richard Gerrig. 1990. Quotations as demonstrations. Language 66(4). 764–
805.
Clift, Rebecca. 2006. Indexing stance: Reported speech as an interactional evidential. Journal of
Sociolinguistics 10(5). 569–595.
Clift, Rebecca. 2007. Getting there first: Non-narrative reported speech in everyday interaction.
In Elizabeth Holt and Rebecca Clift (eds.), Reporting Talk: Reported speech in interaction,
120–149. New York: Cambridge University Press.
De Haan, Ferdinand. 1999. Evidentiality and epistemic modality: Setting boundaries. Southwest
Journal of Linguistics 18. 83–101.
De Haan, Ferdinand. 2001. The relation between modality and evidentiality. Linguistische
Berichte, Sonderheft 9. 201–16.
DeLancey, Scott. 2001. The mirative and evidentiality. Journal of Pragmatics 33(3). 369–382.
Epps, Pattie. 2008. A grammar of Hup. Berlin & New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Faller, Martina. 2002. Evidentiality in Cuzco Quechua. Ph.D. dissertation, Stanford University.
Fleck, David. 2007. Evidentiality and double tense in Matses. Language 83(3): 589–614.
Fogelin, Robert. 1967. Evidence and meaning. New York: Humanities Press.
Fox, Barbara. 2001. Evidentiality: Authority, responsibility, and entitlement in English conversa-
tion. Journal of Linguistic Anthropology 11(2). 167–192.
Frayzinger, Zygmunt. 1985. Truth and the indicative sentence. Studies in Language 9. 211–216.
Givón, Talmy. 1982. Evidentiality and epistemic space. Studies in Language 6(1). 23–49.
Goffman, Irving. 1981. Forms of talk. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press.
Golato, Andrea. 2002. Self-quotation in German: Reporting on past decisions. In Tom
Güldemann and Manfred von Roncador (eds.), Reported Discourse: A meeting ground for
different linguistic domains, 49–70. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Gómez Rendon, Jorge. 2006. Interpersonal aspects of evidentiality in Ecuadorian Quechua.
ACLC Working Papers. 37–50.
Güldemann, Tom. 2008. Quotative Indexes in African Languages. A Synchronic and Diachronic
Survey. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Güldemann, Tom and Manfred von Roncador. 2002. Preface. In Tom Güldemann and Manfred
von Roncador (eds.), Reported Discourse: A meeting ground for different linguistic domains,
vii–x. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Hanks, William. 1990. Referential practice: Language and lived space among the Maya. Chicago:
University of Chicago Press.
Harnish, Robert. 1976. Implicature and logical form. In Stephen Davis (ed.), Pragmatics: A
reader. New York: Oxford University Press.
Haspelmath, Martin, 2007. Pre-established categories don’t exist: Consequences for language
description and typology. Linguistic Typology 11(1). 119–132.
Hill,JaneandJudithIrvine.1993.Introduction.InJaneHillandJudithIrvine(eds.),Responsibility
and evidence in oral discourse, 1–23. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Holt, Elizabeth. 1996. Reporting on talk: The use of direct reported speech in conversation.
Research on Language and Social Interaction 29. 219–245.
Horn, Lawrence. 2004. Implicature. In Lawrence Horn and Gregory Ward (eds.), Handbook of
Pragmatics, 3–28. Oxford: Blackwell Publishers.
190	 Lev Michael
Ifantidou, Elly. 2001. Evidentials and relevance. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Kärkkäinen, Elise. 2003. Epistemic stance in English conversation. Amsterdam & Philadelphia:
John Benjamins.
Kockelman, Paul. 2004. Stance and subjectivity. Journal of Linguistic Anthropology 14(2). 127–
150.
Koven, Michèle. 2001. Comparing bilinguals’ quoted performances of self and others in tellings
of the same experience in two languages. Language in Society 30(4). 513–558.
Kuipers, Joel. 1993. Obligation to the word: Ritual speech, performance, and responsibility
among the Weyewa. In Jane Hill and Judith Irvine (eds.), Responsibility and evidence in oral
discourse, 88–104. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Lambrecht, Knud. 1996. Information Structure and Sentence Form: Topic, Focus, and the Mental
Representations of Discourse Referents. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Larson, Mildred. 1978. The functions of reported speech in discourse. Dallas: Summer Institute of
Linguistics and The University of Texas at Arlington.
Maynard, Senko. 1996. Multivoicedness in speech and thought representation: The case of self-
quotation in Japanese. Journal of Pragmatics 25. 207–226.
Michael, Lev. 2008. Nanti evidential practice: Language, Knowledge, and Social Action in an
Amazonian Society. Ph.D. dissertation, University of Texas at Austin.
Mushin, Ilana. 2001. Evidentiality and epistemological stance. Amsterdam & Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Nuyts, Jan. 2001. Epistemic modality, language, and conceptualization. Amsterdam &
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Ochs, Elinor, Carolyn Taylor, Dina Rudolph, and Ruth Smith. 1992. Story-telling as a theory-
building activity. Discourse Processes 15. 37–72.
Oswalt, Robert L. 1986. The evidential system of Kashaya. In: Wallace Chafe and Johanna Nichols
(eds.), Evidentiality: The linguistic coding of epistemology, 29–45. Norwood, N.J.: Ablex.
Palmer, Frank R. 1986. Mood and modality. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Phillips, Susan. 1993. Evidentiary standards for American trials: Just the facts. In Jane Hill
and Judith Irvine (eds.), Responsibility and evidence in oral discourse, 248–259. New York:
Cambridge University Press.
Plungian, Vladimir. 2001. The place of evidentiality within the universal grammatical space.
Journal of Pragmatics 33(3). 349–357.
Sakita, Tomoko. 2002. Reporting Discourse, Tense, and Cognition. Oxford: Elsevier.
Schegloff, Emanuel. 1982. Discourse as an interactional achievement: Some uses of “uh huh”
and other things that come between sentences. In Deborah Tannen, (ed.), Analyzing dis-
course: Text and talk. Georgetown University Roundtable on Language and Linguistics
1981, 71–93. Washington, D.C.: Georgetown University Press.
Silverstein, Michael. 1976. Shifters, linguistic categories, cultural description. In Keith Basso
and Henry Selby (eds.), Meaning in anthropology, 11–56. Albuquerque: University of New
Mexico Press.
Silverstein, Michael. 2009. ‘Direct’ and ‘indirect’ communicative acts in semiotic perspective.
Journal of Pragmatics 42. 337–353.
Speas, Margaret. 2007. On the syntax and semantics of evidentials. Language and Linguistics
Compass 2(5). 940–965.
Stenzel, Kristin. 2004. A reference grammar of Wanano. Ph.D. dissertation, University of
Colorado.
	 Nanti self-quotation	 191
Sternberg, Meir. 1986. Proteus in quotation-land: Mimesis and the forms of reported discourse.
Poetics Today 3(2). 107–156.
Tannen, Deborah. 1989. Talking voices: Repetition, dialogue, and imagery in conversational dis-
course. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Vincent, Diane and Laurent Perrin. 1999. On the narrative vs. non-narrative functions of re-
ported speech: A socio-pragmatic study. Journal of Sociolinguistics 3(3). 291–313.
Index
A
access
joint or shared  139
primary rights  140
action sequencing  131,132
admirative  21–55
absence of  54
and K`FOR  52, 53
and other  54
and self  54
and UNMIK  52, 53
as a neutral reportative  38
compared with the non-
admirative  26, 27 Table 1
compound past pluperfect 
41
compound pluperfect  40
in formal writing  34
in KMDLNJ  38, 39, 44–53
in news sources from
Kosovo  22, 38–54
in QIK  39, 39–45
meaning of  27
morphology of  25–28
non-confirmative  36, 38,
40, 41
paska shkuar  41
past  45
perfect  26, 32, 33, 40–42
pluperfect  26, 40, 41
pragmatics of everyday usage 
33–38
present  32, 33, 45
to establish unreliability  41,
53, 54
to express disapproval  44,
47
to express disbelief  35,
43, 53
to express dubitativity  21,
28, 35, 38, 40, 41, 43–45,
49–52
to express neutrality  21, 38,
44, 45, 52, 53
to express sarcasm  36, 43
to express surprise  27, 35,
36, 38, 43–47, 53
usage  21, 35, 38–55
uses of  41
verb forms  22, 40–42
Albania  22–26, 38
and Kosovo  22–26, 48, 54
Albanian  26, 32–35
compared with Macedonian 
28–33
dialects  26, 36
language press  35
news sources, (see news
sources, Albanian-
language)
non-confirmative markers 
34, 35
perfect and pluperfect  26,
40
present admirative  33
situation  31
standard  26
usage  31–38
Albanian admirative  21–55
compared with Macedonian 
28–33, 31 Table 2
constructs speaker and
addressee  36
in Albanian-language
electronic news sources 
38–53
analytical distinction  155
Ancash Quechua  80
aorist  27, 28, 32, 31
assertion  59, 129, 136, 145
and knowledge  133
and sensory evidence  106,
115
and speaker perspective  69,
78, 95
assertivity  161–163, 169
first position  144
speaker  60, 114, 174, 175
marker  84, 90, 91, 95, 106
negative  83 Table 1, 84
of epistemic authority  117,
144, 146
of epistemic status  104,
119, 140
reassertion  143
assessment
evidentially downgraded 
138, 140, 143, 144
assessment sequences  138,
139
first position  138, 140
features of  139
second position  138, 141,
142
first and second assessments 
138, 140
	 tag questions  140, 142
		 type conforming  141
asymmetry  130–132, 136
See also epistemic symmetry
Australian Aboriginal 
105–108
C
communicative functions
as an authoritative function 
183
as a responsibility-
diminishing functions 
180, 183
of quotative constructions 
180
responsibility-augmenting 
179
194	 Index
responsibility-diminishing 
179, 180
See also distancing
Conchucos Quechua  75,
80, 98
concurrent quotative framing
(CQF)  156, 157, 169–178,
179–183, 187
absent CQF  178
as a commitment event  171,
187
as a discursive strategy  178
	 commitment-enhancing
functions  157, 178, 179,
182, 188
	 contentious stances 
157,163, 163 (see also
stance)
	 responsibility and
commitment-augmenting
properties  157
	 responsibility-enhancing
effects  179
	 use of  175, 177
confirmation  27–30
confirmative verb forms 
30–32, 35, 53
practices of  143–146
conversation analysis  127,
128, 130, 138
	 speaker-recipient  130
		 responses to tellings and
questions  132, 133
		 design of  136
		 wh-question  136
		 Yes-No Interrogatives
(YNIs)  136, 137
	 talk-in-interaction  128
culture specific ideologies 
186
Cusco Quechua  59
D
deixis
and admirative  54
and evidential enclitics  63
and reported speech  78
and speaker subjectivity  17,
58, 60, 82
and speaking subject  81
and the evidential system 
16, 17, 58, 60, 78
cosmological  76, 79
deictic markers  79
dialect
of Albania  26
of Kosovo  26
See also Quechua, dialects
See also Albanian, dialects
differential distribution
	 of knowledge  127, 133
	 of rights and responsibilities 
127
	 of lexical and evidential
quotatives  169, 179
	 of epistemic modality and
evidentiality  15, 186,
187
direct experience
	 and evidential enclitics  59,
60, 62, 65, 69
	 and evidential strategies 
17, 103, 115, 120, 122
	 implicature of  59
sensory  105, 115, 117, 122
	 visual  104, 122
direct knowledge  57, 59–61,
78, 103
distancing  157, 180, 182, 188
	 admirative  40
as a conversational
implicature  183
Nanti  187
	 speaker distance  38, 115,
183
See also reported speech
See also responsibility-
diminishing function
E
Ecuadorian Quichua  69
enclitics  58–60, 63, 69
direct  61
evidential (see evidential
enclitics)
indirect  61
that mark evidentiality and/
or epistemic modality 
81, 83
epistemic access  129
epistemic asymmetry  127, 132
See also conversation
analysis
epistemic authority  104–125
in Aboriginal camps 
108–113
negotiation of  104, 108–
110, 120–122, 123–125
epistemic claim  129, 168
epistemic gradient  133, 136
epistemic meanings  113
epistemic modality
and enclitics  81, 83, 83
table 1
and evidentiality  75–98,
114, 157, 183–186
as a category  77
as validation  98
epistemic modal value  89
implicatures  186
in Quechua dialects  98
in Quechua oral narrative 
75–98
in social interaction  75–98
markers  80, 91, 97
markings  79, 75, 79, 82
meanings  156, 157, 186
semantic and pragmatic
roles of  87–97
epistemic negotiations  139
epistemic organization 
135–136
epistemic positioning  128,
137
epistemic rights  139
epistemic primacy  141
events
commitment  171, 187
communally experienced 
109
described  59
direct experience of  62
distance from  94
dramatic  65
high stakes disputes  110,
124
mundane  124
narrated  61, 66, 68, 82, 82,
84, 88, 90, 92, 95
narrated speech  90, 95
narrative  63–65, 69, 80, 82,
86, 92,
verbs  93
past  30
protagonist’s judgment
of  91
speech  62, 63, 69, 81, 88
witnessed  124
	 Index	 195
evidential enclitics  57–70,
75–98
evidentiality  14, 15, 57–70,
75–98
and context  79, 80
and enclitics  81
and epistemic modality 
75–98, 114, 157, 183,
184, 186
and narrative genres  84
and tense-aspect marker 
92, 93
and validation  77
as a category  77, 156
as a cross-linguistic
grammatical category  15
as a source of knowledge
marker  98
Balkan and Turkic  33
coding of  123
definition of  77, 78
discussions of  57
distribution of  115
grammatical  107
in Quechua oral narrative 
75–98
in social interaction  75–98,
103–125
of meanings  185
pragmatics of usage of  78
semantic and pragmatic
roles of  87–98
study of  127
to constitute speaker
perspective  87
See also evidentials
evidential meanings  104–
107, 113, 155, 157
linguistic evidence  105–
107, 108, 113
sensory evidence  105–106,
109, 113, 115, 117, 119,
122–124
evidentials  14, 15, 57–70,
75–98, 127, 128, 131,
184–186
and co-constructed
knowledge  92, 97, 98
and cultural ideologies  14
and epistemic modality 
75–98
and reported speech  183
coding of  123
Cuzco Quechua evidentials 
15
debate over  58–60
definition of  27
deliminating  155
direct  58
evidential categories  69, 70
evidential enclitics (see
evidential enclitics)
evidential forms  104, 105,
107, 125
linguistic evidence 
105–107, 108, 113
sensory evidence  105–106,
109, 113, 115, 117, 119,
122–124
evidential functions  59
evidential markers  78, 80, 91,
97, 98, 115
evidential markings  75, 79,
82, 85, 104–108, 133
evidential meanings (see
evidential meanings)
evidential other  66–68
evidential perspectives  60–63
in represented speech  60–
63, 69
evidential self  66–68
in narrative  66–68
evidential strategies (see
evidential strategies)
evidential system  57, 59, 60,
69, 77, 78, 104, 105
of Quechua  60
evidential usage  57–70, 75, 79
grammaticalized  157,
183–185
pragmatic differences of 
155, 185
indirect  58
lack of  115
non-personal  91, 93
personal knowledge  91, 98
proposed explanation for 
15
purity of  98
Quichua  58–61
reportative  160, 161
to establish validity  114
value  89
Yurakaré evidentials  14, 16
evidential strategies  103–125,
156, 157, 183, 184
actual  115–123
epistemic attitude  103, 105,
106, 113
epistemological stance  103
in Garwa conversations 
113–123
of interactional purposes 
186, 187
possible  113–115
study of  123
to negotiate epistemic
authority  104, 110, 115,
119–122, 123, 124
F
functional differentiation  178
of evidential strategies  184
of grammaticalized
evidentials  184
		 from lexical quotatives 
184, 185, 187
of lexical quotative
construction  155
of Nanti lexical and
evidential quotative
constructions  161, 163,
164, 168, 187
G
Garrwa  103–125
Geg  26
grammaticalization  183, 184
degree of  155
grammaticalized evidentials 
157, 183–185
grammaticalized reportative 
155
grammaticalized quotative
strategy  155
grammaticalized quotative 
155
		 evidential  156
H
Highland Ecuadorian
Quechua  57, 59
Huallaga Quechua  80
Huamalíes Quechua  75, 80,
81, 83–86, 89, 97, 98
Huánuco Quechua  59
196	 Index
I
illocutionary source  155, 157,
168, 169, 179, 181
illocutionary force  163, 166,
168–170, 178, 179, 181
	 reinforcement of  178
implicature  59, 155, 179
conversational  183, 187
epistemic modal  14, 186
pragmatic  182
indexicals  169
indirect experience
and evidential enclitics  57,
60, 61, 65, 69
and evidential strategies  120
indirect knowledge  57,
59–61, 78, 149
inference  31, 32, 106, 129,
136, 137, 182
information
and evidentiality  15, 77,
78, 186
and evidentials  14, 58, 59,
83, 85, 91, 96, 155, 159,
161, 169, 179, 183, 184
and evidential strategies 
103, 113–115, 156, 186,
187
and knowledge  69, 70, 103
and linguistic evidence  106
	 and the admirative  38, 46
	 and evidence  30, 69, 123
and quotative constructions 
158, 159, 161, 169, 179
	 lexical  161, 163, 179, 187
and reportative
constructions  158
	 attitude towards  30, 107,
	 distance from  38, 115
epistemic attitude towards 
103, 105
epistemic authority over  104,
109, 123, 133
	 epistemological stance
towards  103
implicatures from  155
	 lack of  133
	 person  159, 161
	 significant  65
	 source of  15–18, 30, 38,
45, 58, 69, 77, 78, 83,
85, 103, 105, 106, 114,
155–157, 168, 169, 179,
184–187
		 direct  59
		 from the authoritative
other  183
		 indexing  123
		 lexical and evidential
expressions of  183, 187
		 licensed  120
	 validity of  103–125
interaction  128, 130, 131
interactional structure  130
social interaction  128
interactional strategy  171
inverse specifications  133
issues of knowledge  128
J
Jakobson
and definition of evidential 
27
distinction between ‘speech
event’ and ‘narrated
event’, 81
Jakobsonian terminology  61
model of  88
K
KFOR  48–53
KLA  25, 38, 39, 44, 45, 47, 54
KMDLNJ  38, 39, 45, 46
admiratives in  38, 39,
44–53
and QIK  38, 39, 44, 47, 48
and UNMIK and KFOR 
48–53
as a primary news source 
38, 39
reports  39, 44–53
knowledge
acquisition of  87, 98
and assertion  133
and epistemic authority 
103, 109, 110, 115, 117,
125
and evidential enclitics  57,
59, 69, 78, 79, 83 Table 1,
84–86, 91, 92, 95, 96, 98
and evidentiality  15, 16,
57, 79, 83, 92, 98, 127,
128, 186
and evidential strategies 
103, 120, 125
and information  69, 70
and reported speech  156
asymmetry  18, 128,
130–132, 132 Table 1, 136
claims to  18, 110, 111, 115,
123, 128, 148
co-constructed  83 Table 1,
86, 92, 97, 98
cultural  91
definition of  71
differential  127, 133, 148
direct  57, 59–61, 78, 103
disputed  110, 115, 117,
123–125
distribution of  127, 129,
132, 133
epistemic access to  18
eventual  97
independent  137
indirect  57, 59–61, 78, 149
issues of  110, 111, 113, 128
lack of  18, 119
non-personal  83, 83
Table 1, 84
of discourse context  159,
171
personal  83, 83 Table 1, 84,
87, 91, 95, 96, 98
pre-existing  86
rights to  18, 127
shared  125, 148
sources of  78, 98, 123, 127,
128, 149
status of  103, 113
Kosovo  21–55
admirative in  38–53
Albanian community  48
and Albania  23, 26, 54
and KFOR and UNMIK 
25, 49
Bujku (The Farmer)  38
Democratic League of (see
LDK)
dialects of  26
geo-political background of 
22–25
independence of  21–25, 38,
47–49, 53
Kosovar news sources (see
news sources, from
Kosovo)
languages of  26
Liberation Army (see KLA)
	 Index	 197
linguistic background of 
25–33
L
LDK  24, 38, 39, 44, 47, 53
and KLA  38, 39, 47, 54
and QIK  38, 39
officials  24
lexical quotative  155, 156,
165–169
elements  161, 171
reportatives  155
strategy  155, 181, 182
lexical quotative construction
(LQC)  158, 159, 163, 165,
169, 171, 179, 181, 182, 187
Bulgarian  184
commitment-modulating
effects  155
		 commitment-augmenting
function  155
		 commitment-diminishing
function  155
		 commitment-enhancing
function  187
	 distancing function  187
	 functional differentiation of 
155
	 multifunctionality of  181
	 Papuan  185
	 polyfunctionality of  157
	 self-quotative practices  155
	 Tewa  185
	 Weyewa  178
M
Macedonia  24, 38
Macedonian  27–33
compared with Albanian 
28–33, 31 Table 2
confirmative past  31
evidentials in  53
pedagogical journal
Literaturen zbor  35, 36
standard  31
synthetic past  30
unmarked past  30
marked agreements  134
	 “oh,” 134, 136, 137, 142, 144,
145
Maxim of Quantity  182
Maxim of Quantity-Quality 
182
modified repeat  144
N
Nanti  155–157
concurrent quotative framing 
170, 178, 179, 187
distancing  187
evidential and lexical
quoatatives  161–162, 183,
184, 187
quotative evidential  160
quotative constructions  169,
180
quotation strategies  155, 169
		 complement taking verbs of
saying  155
grammaticalized quotatives 
155
	 reported speech
constructions  158–169,
183
See also grammaticalized
quotative strategy
See also lexical quotative
strategy
See also reported speech,
reported speech
constructions
See also lexical quotative
strategies
See also concurrent quotative
framing
narrative  57, 62, 65–68
and reported speech  87
as a speech event  88
contrastive  58
conversational  82, 84
discourse  78, 81
dramatic passages in  65, 68
event  63–66, 69, 80, 82, 92
verbs  93
evidential and epistemic
marking in  79, 80
evidential selves in  64–68
Garrwa  112–113
genre  94
Huamalíes Quechua  80,
86, 87
lengthy  66
moments  66
nationalist  54
non-personal  89
of myths  60, 76, 79, 107, 113
of personal experience  57,
60, 113
oral  75–98
political  21–55
present  93, 94
Quechua  75–98
re-tellings  78
representations of
conversation  60
sequence  87, 93
units  90
traditional  60, 75, 81–84, 113
utterances  66, 97
NATO
bombing campaign  21, 25,
44, 48, 49
intervention  49
sources  21
war  48
news sources
Albanian-language  21, 22, 35,
36, 38, 47, 53, 54
and admiratives  22, 38–53,
53, 54
Bujku (The Farmer)  38, 42
Council for the Defense
of Human Rights and
Freedoms (see KMDLNJ)
electronic  21, 22, 26, 38, 53
from Kosovo  21, 22, 26,
38–53
involving KFOR and UNMIK 
22, 48
involving Serbia  22, 39–53
Jedinstvo (Unity)  40, 42
Kosova Information Center
(see QIK)
media  22, 26, 48
news reports  22, 38–54
Rilindja (The Rebirth)  35, 38
Zëri i popullit (Voice of the
People)  36, 54, 55
non-admirative  26
compared with the admirative 
27 Table 1
non-answers  134
non-confirmation  27, 28, 30,
31, 34, 35, 40, 41
non-confirmative admirative 
36, 38, 40
non-confirmative markers  34,
35, 47, 53
198	 Index
non-confirmatives  32, 33, 39,
50, 52
non-confirmative verb forms  35
O
other  54, 57–70
evidential  66–68
quotative  57–70
shift from  69, 95
speaking  81, 82, 84, 88, 89,
93–95, 97
unreliable  21–55
voice of  62, 63, 79, 97
world  75, 86, 93
P
Pastaza Quichua  57–70, 78, 97
practices of confirming 
143–146
pragmatics
analysis  188
differences  155, 185
of quotation  179
of quotative indeces  182
implicatures  182
reasoning  187
Q
QIK  38
admiratives in  39–41, 44, 45
and KMDLNJ  38, 39, 44, 45,
47, 48
and LDK  38, 39
pragmatic implicatures  182
pragmatic reasoning  187
reports  39–45, 47
Quechua
and evidentiality and
validation  77
and Jakobsen’s model  88
dialects  57–59, 75, 80, 81,
83–85, 89, 98
discourse  78, 81
use of evidential markers
in  78
family of languages  57
grammaticalization of speaker
perspective in  81–86
oral narrative  75–98
social interaction  87–97
Quechua I  75, 80, 98
Quechua II  75
Quichua,
dialects  69, 57–70, 78, 97
discourse  61, 62, 69
Ecuadorian  69
Pastaza Quichua  57–70, 78,
97 (see also evidentials)
quotative
construction  178, 179 (see
also lexical quotative
construction)
elements  158
evidential  160, 163, 169
evidential construction  159
framing (see concurrent
quotative framing)
lexical (see lexical quotatives)
lexical and evidential  157,
163
quotative/reportative notional
domain  185, 187
quotative resources  170
quotation strategies  155, 169
(see also Nanti)
R
recipient designed  130, 132
reported speech  61, 64, 81, 87,
156, 166, 170, 180, 182, 183
	 and narrative  87
as an evidential  183
complement  179
constructions  157, 158
	 quotative constructions  158
	 reportive constructions  158,
160
		 reportative evidential  160,
161
density of  156
directive  114, 115
	 distancing function (see
distancing)
	 Kalapalo  183
	 Matses  183
	 Nanti. (see Nanti, reported
speech constructions)
	 objectivity-enhancing
functions of  157
	 recipient of  158, 160
	 responsibility-diminishing
function of  179, 180
	 turn-by-turn reporting  156
utterances  170
responsibility  177
	 and reported speech  179,
180, 185
	 augmenting of  157, 179
	 diminishing of  156, 157,
179, 180, 183
	 disclaim of  14
epistemic  187
	 for discourse  178
	 moral  15
	 speaker  180, 185
Rule of Strength  182
S
scopal behavior  162
self  55, 57–70
as noteworthy  54
evidential  66–70
quotative  57–70
reliable  21–55
speaking  61, 63–68, 79, 81, 84
perspective of  60–63, 69,
88, 95
shift to  69, 95
voice of  97, 88
self-quotation  178, 180, 182,
187
	 Japanese  178
practices  155
See also reported speech
self-reporting. See self-
quotation
sequences
	 question answer  135
	 repair  130
sequential organization  132
first position  132, 133
second position  131, 133
third position  134
simulacrum of agreement  138
social interaction  128
epistemic modality in  75–98
evidentiality in  75–98,
103–125
in Aboriginal camps  108–113
pragmatics informed studies
of  104
Quechua  87–97
speaker  31, 57–60, 64, 69, 79
and addressee  36, 38, 54,
85, 86
and assertion  60
and epistemic authority  109,
115, 117, 123
	 Index	 199
and evidential strategies  104,
113–115, 117, 123
and non-speakers  54
as reliable  36, 54
attitude of  30
confidence and commitment
of  91, 183
conviction of  30, 91
degree of certainty  131
disbelief of  54
epistemological stance of  103,
105
epistemic attitude of  103
Garrwa speakers  111–113
intentions and motivations
of  70
non-confirmation of  36
observation  38
personal experience of  84
perspective (see speaker
perspective)
selected  119
speaker subjectivity  57, 58, 69,
81, 82
surprise of  38
use of admiratives  54
speaker perspective  60, 60–68,
75–98
and evidentiality  78–80,
construction of  97
grammaticalization of  81–86
in Quechua oral narrative 
75–98
marking of  97
non-personal  81–98
personal  81–98
shifting  75–98, 79, 81, 85, 97
subjective  82
speech event  61–63, 69, 81,
88, 97
first order  88
narrated  95
participant  88
second order  88
utterances  88
stance  163, 172, 175, 181
commitment  168, 171
contested  171, 172, 178
deontic  177
epistemic  168, 179
epistemically or morally
contentious  175, 179, 188
	 evaluative  179
individuated attribution of 
175
oppositional  171
strong evaluative  166
strong  167
widely-held  178
stress patterns
iambic  160, 161
trochaic  161
strips of interaction  163–166,
170, 172, 174, 175, 180
T
tense-aspect marking  81–83,
85, 91, 97
and evidentiality  93
to constitute speaker perspective 
87
Tosk  26
Tetovo  36
third party quotation  182
turn organization  131
U
unequivocal agreement  138
UNMIK  48, 49, 52, 53
UNSCR  1199, 48
UNSCR  1244, 25, 39
and UNMIK  25
utterances  58, 61–64, 66, 68, 69
articulated by perspectives  69
information of  65
levels of  81
of reported speech  170
perspectives in  63
quotative  64 (see also lexical
quotative constructions)
socially consequential  168,
169, 175
that function as accusations 
68
V
validators  58
marking of validation  77
validational enclitics  83
validational functions  59
validational meaning  59
validation and evidentiality  77
validity of information 
103–125
versus source of knowledge  98
visual experience  104, 105, 115
visual evidence  119, 122–124
visual evidential strategies  115,
119, 122
W
Wanka Quechua  59
witness  103–125
