16 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
tivity. In Sections (3.) and (4.) these dimensions are analyzed in the various
constructions with parecer and resultar.
1. Frequency distribution
The evidential verb parecer combines with an infinitive or a que-clause,
with an adjectival or a nominal complement, and sometimes also stands
alone. The corpus sample helps us determine the most frequent uses of this
verb in written and spoken Spanish. As shown in Table 3, it is in the clausal
combinations (infinitive, que-clause) that big differences appear between
written and oral discourse.34
Table 3. Distribution of parecer constructions
parecer Que-
clause
35
me/le
parece
que
Infi-
nitive
Adjectival
attribute
Nominal
attribute
None Other 36
Total
Written 271 42 797 562 207 218 170 2315
% 11.7 1.8 34.43 24.28 8.94 9.42 7.34 100
Oral 184 208 11 208 73 79 91 856
% 21.50 24.30 1.28 24.30 8.53 9.23 10.63 100
More than 45% of the oral parecer examples are followed by a que-clause;
more than half of these constructions have an overt conceptualizer (me ‘to
me’ and le ‘to him’).37
Less than 2% of the occurrences in the spoken cor-
pus have an infinitive, whereas this construction constitutes more than 34%
of the written parecer examples. In other words, when looking at the distri-
bution of the three clausal constructions alone, in the written language the
infinitive (72%) outnumbers parece que (24.4%) and me parece que
(3.6%), while the reverse is true for the spoken discourse: parecer + infini-
tive only represents 3% of all clausal constructions. Adjectival attributes
occur in 24% of the attested spoken and written examples, while nominal
and zero complements appear in about 9% of cases.
The distribution of resultar differs considerably from that of parecer, as
shown in Table 4.38
Frequency distribution 17
Table 4. Distribution of resultar constructions
resultar Que –
clause
Infinitive Adjectival
attribute
Nominal
attribute
None Other39
Total
Written 40 74 1026 111 6 70 1327
% 3.01 5.58 77.32 8.36 0.45 5.28 100
Oral 133 1 57 9 13 8 221
% 60.18 0.45 25.79 4.07 5.88 3.61 100
The resultar construction with a que-clause is typical of oral discourse
(60.18%) and it is twenty times more frequent than in written discourse. It
stands for 99% of the resultar + clause constructions. In the written corpus,
by contrast, the infinitival construction barely reaches the five percent level
(5.58%), while resultar + que-clause is even less frequent. The infinitive
and the que-clause correspond to 65.5% resp. 34.5% of the clausal types in
written Spanish. As for the other constructions, in written discourse adjec-
tival attributes are three times as frequent as in oral discourse, and represent
more than three quarters of the examples (77.32%). Nominal attributes
occur twice as often in written discourse as in oral discourse, yet they re-
main under the ten percent level (8.36%), just like the other categories.
It does not suffice to account for the que-clause and the infinitive con-
structions in terms of the raising mechanism (cf. Hernanz 1999). The sig-
nificant differences between oral and written language point to a special
functional meaning of the two constructions. One can thus suppose that
hearer-speaker interaction in spoken language clearly favors the use of a
que-clause with parecer. The analysis in this chapter aims to clarify this
functional variation in evidential terms. Moreover, the distribution of evi-
dential parecer and resultar differs considerably. In written discourse, the
infinitival construction represents more than one third of all parecer con-
structions, while it remains rather marginal with resultar. By contrast, in
oral discourse the que-clause is significantly more frequent with resultar
than with parecer. This distribution could point to different types of quali-
fications with parecer and resultar and different tendencies in the concep-
tualization of the event expressed in the clause following them.
18 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
2. From source of information to (inter)subjectivity
2.1. Evidentiality: a typology
Over the last two decades several typologies of evidentiality40
have been set
up, of which I discuss the ones proposed by Chafe (1986) and Willett
(1988).41
I also briefly comment on Aikhenvald (2004).
As shown in Figure 1, Chafe (1986) distinguishes between several
sources of knowledge – (i) no source, (ii) evidence, (iii) language and (iv)
hypothesis – which he connects to four modes of knowing: (i) belief, (ii)
induction, (iii) hearsay and (iv) deduction.
Figure 1. Chafe’s (1986: 263) evidential schema
According to Chafe, belief is most often expressed by mental state predi-
cates such as I think, I guess, I suppose, while evidential verbs as must and
seem or adjectives like obvious involve induction. Phrases like have been
said to, is supposed to, apparently, and it seems refer to hearsay informa-
tion. Finally, modal auxiliaries such as should, could or would and adverbs
like presumably involve deduction.
Willett’s (1988) cross-linguistic typology of evidentiality distinguishes
between direct –or attested– information, on the one hand, and indirect
information, on the other. The direct source of information can be visual,
auditory or contain other sensory information. The indirect type of informa-
tion is further subdivided into reported information (secondhand, thirdhand,
folklore) and speaker-oriented inferential statements (from reasoning or
results).
From source of information to (inter)subjectivity 19
Direct Indirect
Attested Reported Inference
visual secondhand results
auditory thirdhand reasoning
other sensory folklore
Figure 2. Willett’s (1988) taxonomy of Sources of Information
42
Two of Chafe’s (1986) modes of knowing, namely induction and hearsay,
correspond to the notions in bold presented in Willett’s (1988) taxonomy
(attested, reported, inference): induction can be equated with attested and
inferential evidence, while hearsay corresponds to reported evidence. The
main difference between Chafe (1986) and Willett (1988) is the direct link
the former establishes between “evidence” and “induction”. The fact that,
in Chafe’s model, induction includes both direct evidence and inference
implies that all types of evidence lend themselves for induction. From this
point of view, direct visual or sensory evidence and inference are not as
opposed as suggested by Willett (1988). Furthermore, Chafe’s attention to
evidence seemingly excludes inference on the basis of language or reason-
ing, which, nevertheless, is an important inferential type. Hence, for induc-
tion to be a real mode of knowing, it should refer to the speaker’s process-
ing of different sources of information.
A rather different approach is the one proposed by Aikhenvald (2004).
From a typological point of view, she analyzes to what extent languages
combine different evidential values. Some languages combine only two
types of markers (firsthand and non-firsthand, or reported vs ‘everything
else’), whereas other languages combine up to five different evidential
types (cf. Aikhenvald 2004: 25–36). In doing so, Aikhenvald not only re-
stricts her analysis to traditional source-evidentiality, but also strongly
condemns the use of the term “evidential” for lexical expressions that do
not belong to the obligatory grammatical paradigms of a language.43
From
her point of view, the lexical evidential expressions can only be considered
“evidentiality strategies”. Since the analyses presented here rely on a func-
tional definition of evidentiality, this volume does not follow this restric-
tion. Moreover, an integrated account of both grammatical and lexical evi-
dentiality can contribute to a better understanding of the whole domain (cf.
Squartini in press).44
As for the the evidential types of Spanish parecer and
resultar, my analysis takes the benefit of Chafe (1986) and Willett (1988).
In line with Chafe, I use “Hearsay” to refer to indirect, reported information
and use the term “Belief” for the mode of knowing for which no source of
information is available, i.e. when there is no induction from evidence.
20 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
Thus, “Belief” expressions are not strictly speaking evidential: they can
either convey an epistemic qualification or be a hedge with a subjectifier
function. In line with Willett (1988) I take the term “Inference” to refer to
the speaker’s indirect evidence with parecer, which is either based on some
kind of “attested evidence” or on reasoning. Since direct evidence without
inference is expressed by perception verbs in Spanish, this source of infor-
mation will not be addressed here.
I will test the different evidential types by means of a series of concrete
contextualizations. First, I will combine a parecer or resultar statement
with the comment pero yo no lo veo así ‘but I don’t see it that way’. The
infelicitous combination illustrates that it is impossible to dissociate the
speaker and the source of information. In this case, the parecer expression
has a speaker-oriented inferential basis. Second, from Nuyts (2001b: 71–
72) I borrow the (translated) questions ¿Quién lo dice? ‘Who says that?’
and ¿Tú crees? ‘Do you think so?’, which differentiate between hearsay
information and inferential information or belief. Third, more distant hear-
say can be detected by means of a felicitous o eso dicen ‘at least that is
what is said’ comment.
2.2. Speaker commitment and reliability
When a speaker utters a qualification, he is or is not committed to it. If the
speaker endorses the qualification, it is used performatively, entailing
speaker commitment. In the cases without speaker commitment, we have a
descriptive use. From such a point of view, commitment is directed to
qualifications. In this book, speaker commitment is understood in another
way, namely as commitment to the state of affairs expressed. With epis-
temic qualifications the degree of speaker commitment refers to the idea
that the modalized proposition is likely to be or become true, while the
commitment associated with evidential qualifications has to do with the
speaker’s appraisal of the knowledge used. Here the ‘evidential commit-
ment’ differs from the commitment to the state of affairs. This observation
sheds new light on the literature regarding whether speaker commitment
depends on the evidential types or not.
Palmer (1986: 54, 2001: 52) argues that the degree of speaker commit-
ment and the probability of the statement depend on the type of information
used and Nuyts (2001b: 344) mentions that “evidentials bring the naming
of sources to bear on the state of affairs in terms of degrees or types of
speaker commitment”.46
Chafe (1986); Floyd (1996); Fitneva (2001); and
Plungian (2001) show that the link between source-evidentiality and
From source of information to (inter)subjectivity 21
speaker commitment is not always warranted. For example, the value of
reported knowledge is also associated to the authority attributed to the
source of information, so that the speaker commitment can differ from one
reported voice to another. Reported knowledge seen on television differs
from information gathered in a bar. Floyd (1996: 935) argues that the per-
sonal commitment of the speaker attributed to reportives also depends on
whether the speaker judges the relationship between the previous conceptu-
alizer and the designated scenario to be “direct” or not. In other words, the
evidential type as such does not determine the speaker commitment.
All this invites us to examine whether the evidential expressions stand
for different degrees of reliability rather than conveying different degrees of
speaker commitment to the state of affairs. It has the advantage of being
more in line with the values and judgments of knowledge that inherently
play a role in the evidential qualification. It is not clear, however, whether
there is a generally accepted scale of reliability. Although direct evidence
can be considered more reliable than any other source, it is the question
whether (subjective) inference can systematically be seen as more reliable
than hearsay. Note that different linguistic expressions of the same mode of
knowing or evidential type can differ as to their reliability. Chafe (1986:
263), for example, differentiates between guess and suppose, the former
being less reliable than the latter. Different degrees of reliability seem thus
to depend on a different processing of the knowledge involved. The speaker
attributes more value to his or her own knowledge with suppose than with
guess.
Let us give an example from Spanish deber ‘must’ and parecer to illus-
trate how the concept of reliability can be understood. In (2) and (3), I dif-
ferentiate between two evidential types: inferential deber ‘must’, and evi-
dential parece ser que ‘it seems to be that’, which has either an inferential
or a hearsay reading. The modal verb deber ‘must’, in (2), indicates that the
speaker thinks (s)he is in a position to believe that his/her interlocutor has a
lot of color words at his/her disposal. Although the deber expression in (2)
is generally seen as conveying strong speaker commitment, it does not
necessarily score high on the reliability scale. In the example below, deber
can be attributed an intermediate degree of reliability. The state of affairs is
conjectured or inferred; hence, the qualification has a psychological basis
rather than an empirical one.
(2) A. …en esa misma gama de los platinados.
B. -Ud. debe tener un vocabulario interesante al respecto a colores
de pelos ¿Qué colores conoce? Uno es negro, otro es platinado.
(Habla Culta: Havana)
22 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
‘A. ... in the same range of the platinum blonds. B. You must have
an interesting vocabulary with regard to the colors of hair. Which
colors do you know? One is black, the other is platinum gold.’
The question is whether the relative reliability of the deber statement is also
linked to its inferentiality. Rather, the degree of reliability depends on the
speaker’s processing of the knowledge. Given the variety of reliability
judgments with one and the same evidential type, it need not be linked to
inferentiality. In this context, a combination of different kinds of informa-
tion (impeding an exclusively speaker-oriented statement) may be a recipe
for the reliability of the qualification. It can also be assumed that the
speaker negotiates the degree of reliability by using a specific expression.
In this respect, the lexical stem of obligation certainly contributes to higher
reliability. The expression itself is then meaningful in that it guides the
hearer to a certain interpretation by excluding other ones.
The statement with parece ser que ‘it seems to be that’ in (3) is at first
sight more attenuated one than the one with deber.
(3) ¿Cómo pagan hoy los servicios secretos de todo el mundo a sus
agentes? ¿Quiénes pagan mejor?
- Señor Marina: Bueno, parece ser que la CIA es la que paga me-
jor. Yo diría que la KGB paga bastante menos.... (España Oral:
CDEB033A)
‘How do the world’s secret services pay their agents? Who is pay-
ing the best? Mister Marina: Well, it seems to be that the CIA pays
the best. I would say that the KGB pays far less.’
In (3), the statement says that there is (or that the speaker has) information
that the CIA pays most. The evidential qualification can either involve
inference or be based on hearsay, but the reliability of the qualification does
not differ. With parece ser que, the speaker’s processing of personally
acquired information or the processing of reported information, results in
reference to an established, reliable state of affairs. Since parece ser que
does not involve strictly personal conjectures, it does not convey speaker
commitment, but its reliability turns out to be higher than with deber.
For the two above-examined constructions, the high/low degree of
speaker commitment correlates with low/high degree of reliability. The
argument is that with in (2) and (3), not the inference but the speaker’s
processing of evidence determines the degree of reliability. But how then
should we understand the strong speaker commitment with inferential de-
ber? The evidence as such does not lend itself for more or less commit-
From source of information to (inter)subjectivity 23
ment; it is the speaker’s subjective appraisal of the evidence that makes
more or less commitment possible. In Chapter 7, I will show that it is
probably due to a specific mental operation that leads to the evidential
qualification.
Now, the question is how the degree of speaker commitment and the re-
liability of the different constructions can be measured. This is not evident.
For example, with a concessive clause such as aunque puedo equivocarme
‘though I may be mistaken’, which refers to the speaker’s uncertainty about
his/her own perception, the clause can be seen as an attenuation of a state-
ment that inspires reliability and/or strong commitment. Yet, it can also be
an attenuation of a statement that is already weak. Moreover, it remains to
be seen whether the reverse holds: does an infelicitous combination of a
main clause and a concessive clause correspond to lower reliability or
speaker commitment of the statement in the main clause? The infelicity
could also be due to other factors. As a consequence, I will examine each
example very carefully and take into account the context as much as possi-
ble.
2.3. (Inter)subjectivity
The third central notion of my analysis is (inter)subjectivity. The term of
intersubjectivity was first used in modern linguistics by Benveniste (1958),
who regards the speaker-addressee interaction as the fundamental condition
for linguistic communication. According to the French linguist, intersubjec-
tivity refers to the fact that in communication each participant is a speaking
subject who is aware of the other participant as speaking subject (Ben-
veniste 1958: 258–260).
Traugott (2003) further develops Benveniste’s (1958) concept of inter-
subjectivity along the line of conversational interaction between speaker
and hearer. Intersubjectivity, she argues, is the “explicit expression of the
speaker's attention to the “self” of the addressee in both an epistemic sense
(paying attention to their presumed attitudes to the content of what is said),
and in a more social sense (paying attention to their “face” or “image
needs” associated with social stance and identity), whether or not there is
mutual understanding” (Traugott 2003: 128). Verhagen (2005) further re-
fines Benveniste’s line of research on intersubjectivity by paying special
attention to the construal relationship between subject(s) of conceptualiza-
tion and object of conceptualization.47
In Verhagen’s (2005: 6) view, the
role of the different speech participants as cognizers is encompassing and
pervasive: “the addressee is always engaging in cognitive coordination with
24 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
some subject of conceptualization” and “ a speaker [...] is committed to the
assumption that her utterancer is in principle interpretable by someone else
sharing the knowledge of certain conventions”.
This volume relies on a less ambitious, i.e more applied, definition of in-
tersubjectivity in terms of shared interest in the statement emitted. Subjec-
tivity and intersubjectivity “emerge from an interaction between what an
author does – including action intended to be perceived and designed as
such and action not so intended – and an audience interpretation of all
available information” (Schiffrin 1990: 142). Schiffrin’s (1990) definition
of intersubjectivity goes in the direction of Nuyts’ (2001a,b) understanding
of the notion which is adopted in this book. As for the (inter)subjectivity of
epistemic expressions, Nuyts argues that:
The alternatives within this dimension [of evidentiality] could [...] be phrased
as follows: does the speaker suggest that (s)he alone knows the evidence and
draws a conclusion from it?; or does (s)he indicate that the evidence is known
to (or accessible by) a larger group of people who share the conclusion based
on it? In the former case the speaker assumes strictly personal responsibility
for the epistemic qualification, in the latter case (s)he assumes a shared re-
sponsibility for it (although (s)he remains coresponsible too, of course).
(Nuyts 2001b: 34)
Nuyts’ (2001a,b) use of (inter)subjectivity moves from audience interpreta-
tion one step further to the shared responsibility of the epistemic judgments
(in Dutch and German). Nuyts’ (2001a) proposal consists in separating the
analysis of the speaker’s assessment of reality from the question as to
whether the speaker shares the evidence,48
or assumes “the hearer’s knowl-
edge” about the evidence used for the epistemic statement (cf. Nuyts
2001b: 37). Shared evidence – or the assumption of shared evidence – leads
to an intersubjective view of the state of affairs expressed by the speaker.
I subscribe to the correlation proposed by Nuyts (2001a,b) between sub-
jectivity based on non-shared evidence and intersubjectivity based on evi-
dence which is assumed to be shared. Since (inter)subjectivity is sometimes
employed in terms of shared or non-shared access to information (cf. Ber-
múdez 2002), the link between the kind of evidence and the speaker’s
statement should be looked at in more detail. Consider the following exam-
ple:
(4) From today’s newspaper it seems that in the Iraqi town of
Falluja a new Saddam is in the making.
A three-dimensional analysis of parecer 25
Although in (4) the access to the source of information, i.e. newspaper
article(s), can hardly be considered restricted to the speaker, the speaker’s
conclusion is not necessarily shared with other people. In other words, not
all readers of the newspaper need to endorse the inferential statement.
Provided that the evidence can be better specified, so as to untangle the
confusion between information and evidence, the proposal of (in-
ter)subjectivity can be appplied. Evidence is then only a small and deliber-
ately limited part of the information available to a broader group of people,
i.e. the part that involves the very basis of the evidential statement. Thus,
the shared or non-shared status of the information should be differentiated
from the shared (intersubjective) or non-shared (subjective) reference to the
specific evidence used for the statement.
3. A three-dimensional analysis of parecer
3.1. Evidential types
3.1.1. Parecer + infinitive
In (5), the speaker communicates that (s)he has the impression that people
are reluctant to stand up against the power of television. The evidential
reading of parecer + infinitive is based on inference from direct evidence
or reasoning.
(5) ... y la música pervierte en la misma forma como un vocabulario
vulgar. Exactamente, es lo mismo.
Enc. – Sí. Es que em... la gente parece tener miedo al enfrentar
esos poderes de la televisión... (Habla Culta: Caracas: M12)
‘and the music is perverting in the same way as popular language.
Exactly, it is the same. A: Yes, in fact... people seem to be reluctant
to stand up to these powers of broadcasting.’
The tests in (6b) detail the kind of inference at stake; they also confirm that
this construction does not yield a hearsay reading.49
For the sake of conven-
ience, I repeat the central clause of the example before giving the contextu-
alization.
26 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
(6) a. ... la gente parece tener miedo al enfrentar esos poderes...
b. A: * pero yo no lo veo así. ‘but I don’t see it that way.’
B: *¿Quién lo dice? ‘Who says that?’
B: ¿Tú crees? ‘Do you think so?’
The example in (6a) cannot be followed by the adversative clause pero yo
no lo veo así ‘but I don’t see it that way’ (6b), by which the speaker would
contradict the preceding proposition on the basis of his/her own under-
standing of reality. A hearsay question by the interlocutor, e.g. ¿quién lo
dice? ‘who says that?’ (6b) does not felicitously correspond to the state-
ment in (6a), either. This contrasts with the fact that the statement can eas-
ily be followed by the speaker-oriented question ¿tú crees? ‘do you think
so?’. The infelicitous contextualizations of (6b) illustrate that parecer +
infinitive is not based on hearsay: no secondhand evidence is involved
without the speaker’s own processing. In conclusion, parecer + infinitive
has an inferential reading, while it does not refer to hearsay.
3.1.2. Parece que
In contrast with parecer + infinitive, the parece que construction can rely
on two sources of information. Parece que (7a) can rely on hearsay or on
an inference from evidence, as illustrated by the contextualization in (7b).
(7) a. A: Y ahora, después, conociendo los entretelones del asunto, ...
hubo que tener una explicación del problema porque parece que el
secretario general le quiso hacer favores a una dama y la eligió de
secretaria y trabajaba poco en secretaría; en cambio se dedicaba a
otras cosas. (Habla Culta: Santiago: M49)
‘And now, afterwards, knowing the details of the case, ...he had to
have an explanation of the problem, because it seems that the secre-
tary-general wanted to do favors to a lady and elected her as a sec-
retary and she worked little in the secretariat; instead she devoted
herself to other things.’
a. …porque parece que el secretario general le quiso hacer favores
a una dama…
b. A: pero yo no lo veo así. ‘but I don’t see it that way.’
B: ¿Quién lo dice? ‘Who says that?’
B: ¿Tú crees? ‘Do you think so?’
A three-dimensional analysis of parecer 27
The parece que construction in (7a) is not as strictly speaker-oriented as the
infinitival one: the adversative clause pero yo no lo veo así in (7b) can
readily contradict the evidential statement made by (7a). Furthermore, both
the hearsay question ¿Quién lo dice? and the question ¿Tú crees? in (7b)
are completely unproblematic. These questions show that the parece que
construction can rely on hearsay as well as on inference.
3.1.3. Me/le parece que
The me/le parece construction has a dative,50
which functions as the con-
ceptualizer,51
i.e. it expresses the speaker’s or another participant’s belief or
opinion.
(8) a. INF A. -No creo que haya tenido ningún problema especial nues-
tra familia... INF.B. -Claro.
INF.A. -... y me parece que ese número aparece como un número -
digamos- muy normal.
INF.B. -¡Qué curioso! Igual que mi madre; son seis también.
(Habla Culta: Santiago: M40)
‘A: I don’t think that our family has ever had a special problem. B:
True. A: and I think that this number looks like a, let’s say, very
normal number. B: How strange! Just like my mother’s [family],
they are also six.’
a’. INF A: Fue una vez sola al oculista, nada más. Y ya después no
volvió a salir. Y no se acostumbra a la casa – le cuesta acostum-
brarse. Muchas veces le parece que está en la otra casa, que está
en Charcas.
INF.B. -Extraña.
INF.A. -Extraña mucho, sí.. (Habla Culta: Buenos Aires: M27 B)
‘He went to the ophthalmologist only once. And after [this time] he
never went out again. And he doesn’t get used to the house, it is
hard to get used. Many times he thinks that he is in another house,
that he is in Charcas. B: he is homesick A: yes he is very much
homesick.’
a. …me/le parece que ese número aparece como un número –
digamos – muy normal…
28 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
b. A: * pero {yo/él} no lo {veo/ve} así. ‘but {I don’t/he doesn’t}
see it that way.’
B: * ¿Quién lo dice? ‘Who says that?’
B: ¿Tú crees?/¿El cree? ‘{Do you/does he} think so?’
Just like parecer + infinitive, the me/le parece que construction (8a) does
not combine with the adversative clause pero {yo no lo veo/él no lo ve} así
(8b), i.e. refutation by the conceptualizer is not possible. This shows that
the conceptualizer overtly attached to the verb parecer coincides with the
source of information – whether it be the speaker in me, or a third entity
referred to by le, as in (8a’). The opinion can but need not be based on
reasoning, since it can also rely on direct evidence. The infelicitous ques-
tion ¿quién lo dice? in (8b) shows that the statement is not congruent with
hearsay. Thus, although the speaker is not necessarily the conceptualizer,
the addition of a conceptualizer blocks a clear hearsay reading of the parece
que construction.
The mode of knowing with me/le parece que is close to the “belief” type
because it goes beyond the inference from evidence. Unlike the inference,
which is necessarily drawn at the moment of enunciation, the “belief” type
is usually based on the conceptualizer’s general knowledge. In (9), the
speaker uses me parece que for different means. The construction in the
first line is inferential, i.e. the speaker has some evidence regarding María
Isabel’s departure. The other constructions do not rely on specific evidence,
but emphasize the speaker’s subjective version of the state of affairs. Nuyts
(2004) considers them “subjectifiers” which belong to a different functional
category than evidentiality.
(9) María Isabel se fue. Y... eh... y me parece que hace como – no sé
un lustro ... muchísimo tiempo y son dos años pero me parece mu-
chísimo. Y me parece que ya María Isabel debe haber cambiado
que ya me va a costar mucho trabajo... por... para más la bestia no
escribió ni una sola carta así que – me parece que va a ser otra
persona y como yo la quiero mucho me da mucha pena. (Habla
Culta: Buenos Aires: M21 B)
‘María Isabel went away... eh... and I think it was, I don’t know 5
years ago... a lot of time and two years went by, but it seems very
long ago. I think that María Isabel must have changed, which will
cost a special effort...moreover, the brute didn’t write me not a sin-
gle letter, thus – I think that it will be another person and since I
love her so much it grieves me a lot.’
A three-dimensional analysis of parecer 29
In sum, the me/le parece que construction relies on reasoning or on person-
ally verified evidence, but can also be a mere subjectifier without evidential
qualification whatsoever.52
This is in clear contrast with the parece ser que
construction discussed in the following subsection.
3.1.4. Parece ser que
The parece ser que construction is a special case. By means of this con-
struction, the speaker lets the hearer know that (s)he has evidence to prove
that the assertion is valid.53
According to Maldonado (p.c.) the link between
ser and the que-clause is related to the nominal phrase un hecho ‘a fact’:
(10) Es un hecho que > parece ser un hecho que > parece ser que
It is a fact that > it seems to be a fact that > It seems to be that
The statement with parece ser que (11) can be inferential or convey hearsay
evidence.
(11) a. ¿Cómo pagan hoy los servicios secretos de todo el mundo a sus
agentes? ¿Quiénes pagan mejor?
- Señor Marina: Bueno, parece ser que la CIA es la que paga me-
jor. Yo diría que la KGB paga bastante menos.... (España Oral:
CDEB033A)
‘How do the world’s secret services pay their agents? Who is pay-
ing the best? Mister Marina: Well, it seems to be that the CIA pays
the best. I would say that the KGB pays far less.’
b. A: pero yo no lo veo así. ‘but I don’t see it that way.’
B: ¿Quién lo dice? ‘Who says that?
B: ¿Tú crees? ‘Do you think so?’
The inferential reading of parece ser que differs from that of parece ser in
that the inference is not provoked by visual or auditory evidence. The quali-
fication then yields a certain inferred version of reality, which the speaker
him/herself does not necessarily subscribe to, as shown in (12).
(12) a. El fondo es este, la cultura, los derechos de los pueblos indíge-
nas, de los pueblos indígenas de todo el país, no solo de los de
Chiapas. Parece ser que los indígenas solo sirven como escenario,
30 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
como asunto de escenografía, pues, del poder, y así no debe ser.
(Entrevista (PAN), Martínez Cázares, 19-10-1998)
‘The essence is this, the culture, the rights of the indigenous peo-
ples, of the peoples of the whole country, not only those in Chia-
pas. It seems to be that the indigenous only serve as a platform, as
an affair of decor of power, it must be different.’
b. A: pero yo no lo veo así. ‘but I don’t see it that way.’
B: ¿Quién lo dice? ‘Who says that?
B: ¿Tú crees? ‘Do you think so?’
In line with other inferentials, a parece ser que construction can combine
with the speaker-oriented ¿tú crees? question in (11b) and (12b). By means
of the ¿tú crees? question the interlocutor shows the desire to know
whether the speaker agrees with this version of perceived reality, rather
than questioning the speaker’s own statement. The speaker can also con-
trast the evidential statement in (11a) and (12a) with the adversative pero
yo no lo veo así, e.g. (11b) and (12b). In these examples the speaker is
clearly not a firsthand witness of the payments by the CIA or the political
neglect of the indigenous peoples. By means of the parece ser que con-
struction (s)he distances him/herself from his/her source of information.
Finally, the interlocutor can ask the ¿quién lo dice? question, which shows
that (s)he can assume that the speaker’s statement relies on hearsay infor-
mation or that the inference is not his/her own opinion about the state of
affairs.
The readings of parece que and parece ser que display a different com-
bination of hearsay and inference. With parece que, both hearsay informa-
tion and various types of inferred knowledge can be used, whereas infer-
ences are restricted with parece ser que. In order to avoid inference from
visual or auditory evidence, the speaker can insert ser ‘to be’ in between
parecer and que. This distinction is corroborated in (13), where the visual
and auditory evidence is mentioned explicitly by means of solo les dejan
tocar la guitarra ‘they only let them play the guitar’.
(13) a. Parece (ser) que los indígenas solo sirven como escenario.
‘It seems to be that the indigenous only serve as a platform.’
b. Parece que los indígenas solo sirven como escenario, es que so-
lo les dejan tocar la guitarra.
‘It seems that the indigenous only serve as a platform, they only
let them play the guitar.’
A three-dimensional analysis of parecer 31
c. ??
Parece ser que los indígenas solo sirven como escenario, es
que solo les dejan tocar la guitarra.
‘It seems to be that the indigenous only serve as a platform, they
only let them play the guitar.’
The evidential statement by means of parece que can easily be followed by
solo les dejan tocar la guitarra ‘they only let them play the guitar’ (13a).
By contrast, this explicit reference to visual or auditory evidence does not
readily combine with the parece ser que construction (13b). The inference
from direct evidence as witnessed by solo les dejan tocar la guitarra ‘they
only let them play the guitar’ enhances the speaker-orientedness of the
expression, which turns out to be too concrete for the statement with parece
ser que, except in ironic contexts.
An additional test confirms that parece ser que involves a more diffuse
view of the state of affairs. The contrast between the felicitous addition of
the conceptualizer in (14a) and its infelicitous counterpart in (14b) shows
that a distant or preferably implicit source of information is used for the
parece ser que construction.
(14) a. {Según él, / le} parece que los indígenas solo sirven como esce-
nario.
‘(According) to him, it seems that the indigenous only serve as a
platform.’
b. {??
Según él, / *
le} parece ser que los indígenas solo sirven como
escenario.
‘(According) to him, it seems to be that the indigenous only serve
as a platform.’
The addition of an overt third person conceptualizer (él or le), fully com-
patible with parece que, is infelicitous with parece ser que (hence the aster-
isk in (14b)). This shows that the latter construction tends to be in contrast
with a concrete, overt source of information. The speaker avoids reference
to known conceptualizers and relegates the legitimacy of the proposition to
general knowledge.
3.1.5. Parece que with a left dislocated subject
Parece que and parece ser que not only appear in sentence-initial position,
but can also follow a left-dislocated subject, as in (15a). The question is,
however, whether the specific sentence position should be considered as an
32 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
evidential construction type in its own right. As I will show, the answer is
negative.
(15) a. INF.A. -Y fíjate que tiene dos alumnas casadas.
INF.B. -Sí.
INF.A. -Pero las hermanas casadas parece que son, por más que
ella le cuente, no serán del tipo de la madre. (Habla Culta: Buenos
Aires: M27 B)
‘A. Well look, he has two married sisters. B Yes. A. But the mar-
ried sisters, it seems that they are, whatever she may say, they will
not be the mother’s type.’
b. A: ??
pero yo no lo veo así. ‘but I don’t see it that way.’
B: ¿Quién lo dice? ‘Who says that?
B: ¿Tú crees? ‘Do you think so?’
The first contextualization in (15b) by means of pero yo no lo veo así
shows that the speaker cannot easily distance him/herself from the state-
ment made in (15a), which argues for a more speaker-oriented reading than
the parece que construction in sentence-initial position.54
In contrast,
¿quién lo dice? and ¿tú crees? questions, which test hearsay and inference
respectively, are not impossible. This suggests that the left-dislocated con-
struction position cannot be explained in terms of sources of information:
for a statement such as the one in (15) the speaker can either rely on infer-
ence or on hearsay. The infelicitous pero yo no lo veo así is then due to the
emphasis entailed by the left-dislocation of the subject or the object. The
speaker subscribes to the qualification more clearly than with a sentence-
initial parece que construction.
When ser is inserted into a construction with a left-dislocated subject, as
in (16a), the evidential reading of parecer is more diffuse. As the contrast
between the first question in (15b) and the first question in (16b) shows, the
left-dislocation of the subject in (16a) easily leads to a hearsay reading.
(16) a. O sea, que tiene que pasar un proceso de selección hasta que
encuentra uno - Tiene que - mira, mira a mi favor tengo lo siguien-
te, los sifones parece ser que es una materia que - necesita una li-
cencia especial para fabricar porque es una - una cosa explosiva.
(Habla Culta: Madrid: M14)
‘Thus, he has to go through a selection process till he finds some-
one. He has to – look, look positive for me is the following, traps it
A three-dimensional analysis of parecer 33
seems to be is a matter that requires a special license to be pro-
duced because it is something explosive.’
b. A: pero yo no lo veo así. ‘but I don’t see it that way.’
B: ¿Quién lo dice? ‘Who says that?
B: ¿Tú crees? ‘Do you think so?’
The difference between parece que and parece ser que can be further em-
phasized by adding o eso dicen or ‘that is what is said’ to the evidential
statement, as in (17a–b). This kind of tag stresses that the information used
for the statement is likely to have an unspecified, distant status; hence, it
allows us to verify whether the left-dislocated construction is compatible
with such a reading.
(17) a. ??
Los sifones parece que es una materia que necesita una licen-
cia especial, o eso dicen.
‘Traps it seems is a matter that requires a special licence, or this is
at least what is said.’
b. ?
Los sifones parece ser que es una materia que necesita una li-
cencia especial, o eso dicen.
‘Traps it seems to be is a matter that requires a special licence or
this is at least what is said.’
The tests in (17) show that the hearsay tag o eso dicen ‘that is what is said’
conflicts with both parece and parece ser with a left-dislocated subject.
This can be explained by the fact that the left-dislocation brings the source
of information closer to the speaker. The acceptability is somewhat lower
for parece que than for parece ser que with a left-dislocated subject con-
struction, however.
Furthermore, in the corpus, left-dislocation patterns with first-person
conceptualizers, e.g. (18a): no second- or third-person conceptualizers were
found. The difference in frequency between a left-dislocation construction
with me as in (18a) and the one with le in (18b) indicates that left-
dislocation readily allows for more speaker-oriented evidence.
(18) a. INF.A. Yo no sé si esto sería el, el Ateneo antes, o...
INF.B. -El Ateneo no.
INF.A. -¿No? Yo me hago un lío.
INF.B. -El Ateneo me parece que pilla más para arriba. (Habla
Culta: Madrid: M16)
34 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
‘A: I don’t know whether this would be, the Society, or... B: The
Society, no, A: No? I am mixing it up, B: The Society it seems that
it is more upwards.’
b. ?
El Ateneo le parece que pilla más para arriba.
In conclusion, a parece que construction with a left-dislocated subject
yields a less distant, more speaker-oriented evidential reading than a sen-
tence-initial parece que construction. Although hearsay is certainly plausi-
ble, left-dislocation tends to foreground the speaker’s interpretation of hear-
say.
3.1.6. Parenthetical parecer
The parenthetical use of parecer, as exemplified in (19), is another con-
struction that has more to do with a specific position in the utterance than
with a specific evidential type. My corpus research indicates that the most
frequently encountered parenthetical in written discourse is al parecer
‘seemingly’, e.g. (19a) and (19b), which alternates with según parece ‘by
all appearances’ (19c). Furthermore, me parece ‘it seems to me’ (19d) and
por lo que parece ‘by all appearances’ (19e) are most often found in oral
discourse.
(19) a. Cuando quiso reaccionar ya el pasillo estaba copado por hom-
bres encapuchados y armados con revólveres y cuchillos, estos úl-
timos fabricados, al parecer, en las propias celdas de los reclusos.
Uno de ellos esgrimía con furia un bate de béisbol... (Notic: Col:
Semana: 833)
‘When he wanted to react, in the corridor he was already sur-
rounded by masked men armed with guns and knives, the last ones
[were] fabricated, it seems, in the very cells of the prisoners. One
of them furiously threw a baseball bat.’
b. A comienzos de este año, varios paramilitares se entregaron a
las autoridades del Magdalena, muy cerca de Santa Marta. Al pa-
recer, según fuentes consultadas por Semana, esos hombres entre-
garon a la Fiscalía una serie de documentos. (Notic: Col: Semana:
826)
‘At the beginning of this year, several paramilitary surrendered to
the authorities of Magdalena next to Santa María. Seemingly, ac-
A three-dimensional analysis of parecer 35
cording to sources consulted by Semana, these men submitted a se-
ries of documents to the court of justice.’
c. sí, hacen precisiones que rubrica la sola firma del presidente
general de la compañía. En esta misma forma es nombrado un di-
rector, a disgusto, según parece, de los Cano, ya para la fecha, ac-
cionistas más que minoritarios. (Notic: Col: Semana: 830)
‘yes, they make some precisions that carry the sole hallmark of the
secretary general of the company. In the same way, he is appointed
director, despite the reluctance, it seems, of the Canos, [who are]
now shareholders in a more than minority position.’
d. ... escribía y la señora le dictaba al dactilógrafo. Trabajamos
como seis... siete días. Eran tres días para contestar eso pero había
un día San Pedro creo por ahí en julio... julio me parece... eh... yo
pedí prórroga. (Habla Culta: Santiago: M24)
‘... he wrote and the lady dictated him. They worked six ... seven
days. We had three days to reply to it, but it was also Saint Peter’s
Day, I think there in July ... July it seems to me... eh. I requested
respite.’
e. INF -Mm, ah, bueno, habrá pendientes, habrá laderas que sean
boscosas, pero – en general Auvernia es un país muy pobre.
ENC. -¡Ah, sí? Por lo que parece, no. (Habla Culta: Buenos Aires:
M13 A)
‘INF Mm, ah, good, there will be mountain slopes, there will be
hillsides that are forested, but – in general, Auvernia is a very poor
country. ENC: - oh, yes? By the look of it, not [really].’
In the above examples the speaker uses the parenthetical form to stress that
(s)he has evidence to claim that there is some basis for the statement ut-
tered. However, as can be seen from the foregoing translations, the different
parenthetical constructions do not rely on the same source of information.
Indeed, the al parecer constructions in (19a) and (19b) are based on re-
ported information. In (19b), the source is mentioned by means of según
fuentes consultadas por Semana, ‘according to sources consulted by Se-
mana’. Since Semana is the Colombian weekly in which the article on the
paramilitary is published, the journalist refers to him/herself getting infor-
mation from others: the inference with the parenthetical al parecer is thus
clearly based on gathered information.
36 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
Other parentheticals do not necessarily involve secondhand information.
For example, the inferential statement with según parece in (19c) can be
based on visual or auditory evidence. The speaker interprets the situation
surrounding the appointment of the new director and infers that the change
of boss did not fit the strategy of the Canos. The other two parentheticals
license inferences that do not involve other parties. The me parece paren-
thetical in (19d) is an expression with a subjectifier function similar to the
belief mode of knowing. This is corroborated by fact that creo que ‘I think’
precedes parenthetical me parece. The parenthetical por lo que parece in
(19e), for its part, has an inferential value which comes from direct evi-
dence only. Here the speaker is involved in the visual or sensory perception
and comes to a conclusion on the basis of what (s)he perceives. In contrast
to examples (19b) and (19d) where the stimuli, i.e. las fuentes consultadas
and creo que, are overtly mentioned, in (19e) the source of the inferential
statement does not show up explicitly.55
In sum, parenthetical statements can be provoked by several types of
concrete stimuli: reported information, inference from reasoning or vis-
ual/auditory evidence, and belief. This illustrates that parentheticals cannot
be considered a construction type with a specific mode of knowing.56
3.1.7. Summary
The parecer constructions correlate with various combinations of evidential
values. The main finding is that the parecer + infinitive construction does
not allow for hearsay readings, while the parece que construction can yield
hearsay and inferential readings. Table 5 summarizes the relation between
evidentiality and the distribution of parecer.
Table 5: Evidential types with parecer
Belief Inference Hearsay
parecer + infinitive
Me/le parece que
parecer + que-clause
parece ser + que-clause
me parece según parece al parecer
A three-dimensional analysis of parecer 37
In the next section, I will examine whether the different sources of informa-
tion lead to different degrees of speaker commitment and reliability to the
proposition.
3.2. Speaker commitment and reliability
Fernández Leborans (1999: 2453) observes that parece que conveys real
speaker commitment to the proposition, whereas parecer + infinitive lacks
such a commitment. In previous Spanish analyses, the speaker commitment
is linked to the factivity of the proposition (cf. Porroche 1990). Against the
background of the evidentiality-based analysis presented in the preceding
section, I will now discuss different degrees of speaker commitment and
reliability.
In the literature on evidentiality, it has been argued that the speaker is
more committed to the proposition when (s)he emits an inferential state-
ment than when relying on hearsay (see Palmer 1986: 54). If we apply this
assumption to the parecer constructions under consideration, the parecer +
infinitive construction should convey a stronger speaker commitment than
parece que. In the Spanish linguistic tradition, however, it is generally
assumed that the speaker is less committed to the event expressed in the
infinitive than to that of the inflected que-clause. Thus, the Spanish eviden-
tial verbs seem to go against the oft-mentioned assumption that inference
conveys a stronger speaker commitment than other sources of information
such as hearsay.
I will show that, although the various parecer constructions manifest
different degrees of speaker commitment, this commitment is to be seen
independently of their source of information. Moreover, the concept of
reliability may prove more useful if it comes to measuring the strength of
the qualification. The examples presented in the section below show that,
on the one hand, inference as such does not lead to a specific, fixed type of
speaker commitment, while, on the other hand, speaker commitment is not
at stake in hearsay statements, since this source of information “neither
automatically precludes belief nor automatically presumes doubt” (Floyd
1996: 931).57
This section is organized as follows. I first analyze parecer + infinitive
and the me/le parece que construction (3.2.1.). In (3.2.2.), I deal with the
parece que construction, while (3.2.3.) is dedicated to parentheticals and
left-dislocation.
38 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
3.2.1. Parecer + inf. and me/le parece que
In (20a), parecer + infinitive is inferentially driven, while the subjectifier in
(20b) renders the conceptualizer’s opinion based on pure knowledge or on
inference. When I add the concessive clause, the statements remain intact,
as shown by the contrast between (20a) and (20b).
(20) a. La gente parece tener miedo al enfrentar esos poderes de la
televisión..., aunque puedo equivocarme.
‘The people seem to be reluctant to stand up to these powers of
broadcasting, though I may be mistaken.’
b. Me parece que ese número aparece como un número -digamos-
muy normal, aunque puedo equivocarme.
‘It seems to me that this number looks like a, let’s say, very normal
number, though I may be mistaken.’
The fact that the concessive statement aunque puedo equivocarme can
(further) attenuate the statement, as illustrated in (20a), points to some
commitment in parecer + infinitive. Although the speaker may be commit-
ted, this commitment cannot be equated with certainty about the likelihood
of the proposition. The inferential knowledge just indicates that the speaker
has evidence to presuppose that the presentation of the state of affairs is
reliable. Yet, the reliability is not high: the speaker processes his/her own
impression and adds that it may be a wrong presentation. The me parece
que statement in (20b) does not rely on evidence, but has a subjectifier
function which, rather than qualifying the state of affairs, emphasizes the
reliability of the proposition.58
3.2.2. Parece que
The parece que construction in (21) can be based on inference from direct
evidence and on hearsay. Parece que cannot readily be attenuated by the
concessive clause, which is probably due to the possible involvement of
more information than the speaker alone. Hence, the reliability of the
statement is rather high. On the other hand, if the concessive clause is per-
ceived as felicitous, the doubt may be directed to the transmission of the
information rather than to the speaker’s inference.
A three-dimensional analysis of parecer 39
(21) a. ... hubo que tener una explicación del problema porque parece
que el secretario general le quiso hacer favores a una dama, aun-
que puedo equivocarme.
‘... he had to have an explanation of the problem, because it seems
that the secretary-general wanted to do favors to a lady, though I
may be mistaken.’
The hesitation about this construction entails two comments on speaker
commitment. First, in line with the literature that links evidentiality with
speaker commitment, one could say that an inferential reading of a parece
que construction leads to a stronger speaker commitment than the hearsay
reading of the same construction. Second, the possible hearsay reading can
be considered alien to any consideration of commitment or self-confidence.
Then, only the inferential reading of parece que can be investigated. These
alternative possibilities reveal the specific problem regarding the speaker
commitment. It would seem that only one of the two, namely the inferential
value based on direct evidence, directly corresponds to some kind of
speaker commitment. However, if this commitment cannot be compared
with that of other sources of information, it cannot provide us with a valid
account of the different constructions of parecer.
Reliability is a good alternative to speaker commitment since it allows
for a unified account of the reading attached to the construction. It does not
make sense to differentiate between two different degrees of commitment
based on their respective evidential readings. Therefore, a unity reading that
is influenced by both its hearsay dimension and its inferential dimension is
a plausible idea.
The same observation holds for the statement parece ser que ‘it seems
to be that’ in (22a). As the questionable acceptability of (22b) suggests, the
strength of the commitment to the judgment is irrelevant here. The reliabil-
ity of the utterance is high, probably because it is based on generally avail-
able knowledge, be it processed in terms of hearsay or as inference.
(22) a. Parece ser que los indígenas solo sirven como escenario...
‘It seems to be that the indigenous only serve as a platform.’
b. ??
Parece ser que los indígenas solo sirven como escenario, aun-
que puedo equivocarme.
‘It seems to be that the indigenous only serve as a platform,
though I may be mistaken.’
In sum, the parece que construction cannot readily be analyzed in terms of
speaker commitment based on the source of information. This is mainly
40 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
due to the possible hearsay reading, which annuls any kind of speaker
evaluation.
3.2.3. Parentheticals and left-dislocation
The parentheticals are a special case: they may be seen as an explicit ex-
pression of speaker commitment, since, by their very position in the sen-
tence, they never render the core statement of the utterance. Given that a
variety of expressions fit in the parenthetical position, as illustrated in
(2.1.6.), it is not surprising that different types of speaker commitment are
involved. Although the position of the parenthetical in the utterance may
also play a role, this issue exceeds the scope of the present volume.59
As
shown in (23), some parenthetical constructions conflict with the conces-
sive subclause, while others do not.
(23) a. ... pero había un día San Pedro creo por ahí en julio... julio me
parece... eh... yo pedí prórroga, aunque puedo equivocarme.
‘...but it was also Saint Peter’s Day, I think there in July ... July it
seems to me.. eh. I requested respite, though I may be mistaken.’
b. ??
En esta misma forma es nombrado un director, a disgusto, se-
gún parece, de los Cano, aunque puedo equivocarme.
‘In the same way, he is appointed director, despite the reluctancy, it
seems, of the Canos, though I may be mistaken.’
c. ??
... estaba copado por hombres encapuchados y armados con
revólveres y cuchillos, estos últimos fabricados, parece ser, en las
propias celdas de los reclusos, aunque puedo equivocarme.
‘When he wanted to react, in the corridor he was already sur-
rounded by masked men armed with guns and knives, the last ones
[were] fabricated, it seems to be, in the very cells of the prisoners,
though I may be mistaken.’
The different degrees of felicitousness in (23) suggest different degrees of
speaker commitment with parentheticals, depending on the presence or
absence of a conceptualizer. The subjectifier me parece, in (23a), can yield
a strong commitment, while the distant según parece (23b) and parece ser
(23c) do not. In the latter examples, the speaker seemingly does not con-
sider to be responsible for the evidence, which (s)he delegates to generally
known reality.
A three-dimensional analysis of parecer 41
On the other hand, it is the reference to the known reality that renders
the statement more reliable. The speaker embeds the evidence in a broader,
non-personal view of the state of affairs, which increases the realiability of
the qualification.
The construction with a left-dislocated subject in (24) is one of the few
examples in which speaker commitment and reliability go hand in hand.
Not the evidence, but the specific foregrounding of the speaker’s view then
motivates the commitment.
(24) Pero las hermanas casadas parece que son, por más que ella le
cuente, no serán del tipo de la madre, aunque puedo equivocarme.
‘But the married sisters, it seems that they are, whatever she may
say, they will not be the mother’s type, though I may be mistaken.’
In sum, parentheticals allow for various degrees of speaker commitment
and a parecer construction with a left-dislocated subject displays a stronger
speaker commitment than the sentence-initial parece que construction.
3.2.4. Summary
The idea that speaker commitment to the propositional content is directly
linked to the evidential type is less straightforward than assumed in the
literature (cf. Palmer 1986: 54), where the hearsay information is generally
considered as involving low speaker commitment, in contrast with the
strong speaker commitment of inference.
Table 6. Speaker commitment with parecer
Weak speaker commitment Strong speaker commitment
Parecer + infinitive
Me/le parece que
Parecer + que-clause
Parece ser que
Left-dislocation + parece que
Según parece me parece
42 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
I have shown that the inferential statement does not prove to stand always
for a strong speaker commitment. Moreover, the hearsay readings cannot
automatically be considered as unreliable.
It has become clear that the test with the concessive clause does not
yield unequivocal results about the speaker commitment. Reliability has
been proposed as an alternative, but should be elaborated more in order to
account for the “non-factivity” or “near-factivity” of the propositional con-
tent introduced by parecer + infinitive and parece que, respectively (cf.
Porroche 1990; Hernanz 1982). In Section (3.3.) the notion of (in-
ter)subjectivity will allow us to underpin the intuitions about reliability.
3.3. (Inter)subjectivity
A statement is subjective when it is restricted to the speaker’s realm, while
a statement is called intersubjective when the speaker (assumes (s)he)
shares it with other people (cf. Nuyts 2001b: 34–37). In contrast with Ber-
múdez (2002), who argues that parecer + infinitive is intersubjective, I
show that it is parece que that can be considered intersubjective in the ma-
jority of cases.
This section is organized as follows. I first discuss the difference be-
tween subjective parecer + infinitive and (inter)subjective parece que con-
structions (3.3.1.). Then I refute Bermúdez’ (2002) arguments (3.3.2.),
before I look at the parentheticals and the left-dislocation constructions
(3.3.3.).
3.3.1. Parecer + infinitive vs. parece que
I argue that parecer + infinitive stands for a subjective evidential statement,
while parecer + que-clause, which lacks an overt conceptualizer, can ex-
press an intersubjective statement. In (25) a person has traveled abroad,
which seems to have a good impact on him/her.
(25) Decidí respirar un poco y viajar fuera del país por unas semanas.
Parece que el viaje me hizo mucho bien; según ellos, tenía mejor
semblante. (Notic: Perú: Caretas: 1451)
‘I decided to breathe a bit and travel abroad for a couple of weeks.
It seems that the journey did good to me, according to them, I had a
better face.’
A three-dimensional analysis of parecer 43
In (25), the evidential statement conveyed by parece que is shared with
other people, which is corroborated by según ellos ‘according to them’.
This explicit mention of the shared evidence leads me to conclude that the
statement is intersubjective. In direct speaker-hearer interaction, however,
parece que can also yield a subjective statement, e.g. (26):
(26) Parece que no me entiendes. (Habla Culta: Colombia: M1)
‘It seems that you don’t understand me.’
Although the statement in (26) is not likely to be shared, all speech partici-
pants have access to the evidence, which explains the reliability associated
with both the subjective and the intersubjective readings of parece que. By
contrast, the infinitival constructions in (27) always imply a subjective
statement.
(27) a. La segunda ley es la que tendrá que decidir cómo reestructurar
los pasivos de las empresas con el Estado. Es decir, la carne y có-
mo cortarla. Todo parece indicar que el gobierno se inclina por
aceptar únicamente las deudas tributarias. (Notic: Perú Caretas:
1427)
‘The second law is that one that will have to decide how to restruc-
ture the assets and liabilities of the companies with the State. That
is, the meat and how to cut it. Everything seems to indicate that the
government is inclined to only accept the debt subjected to tax.’
b. En estas corrientes se basa la polémica de hoy, en un contexto
donde la pedagogía parece atravesar por una crisis. (Encicl: Peda-
gogía)
‘In these streams is based today’s controversy, and in a context
where the pedagogics seem to go through a crisis.’
In (27a), the author makes her/his point by using the expression todo
parece indicar ‘everything seems to indicate that’. The interlocutors or
other people are not responsible for the inference made by the
speaker/writer. This is also the case of (27b). The access to the source of
information may be shared with other people, but the statement that the
pedagogical sciences are facing a crisis is a personal consideration about
his/her understanding of pedagogical sciences.
I argue that the (inter)subjective status of evidence and statement is a
good descriptive alternative for the abstract notion of “near-factivity” used
in previous accounts of parecer. When a statement is supported by more
44 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
people it can be seen as receiving a higher factive value and as being more
reliable. By contrast, when the speaker is solely responsible for the eviden-
tial qualification with parecer its factivity is not warranted, and its reliabil-
ity is therefore deemed to be low. Note that parece que sometimes balances
between a subjective and an intersubjective statement, which correlates
with Hernanz’ (1982) intuitions regarding the double reading of this con-
struction.60
The replacement of (non-)factivity by (inter)subjectivity implies
a revision of Bermúdez’ (2002) account.
3.3.2. Bermúdez (2002) on (inter)subjectivity
In this section, I discuss four of Bermúdez’ examples in the paragraphs
marked by A., B., C. and D., and refute the way he analyzes them.
A. As shown in (2.2.3.), the me/le parece que construction is considera-
bly different from the parece que construction, in that the former is a sub-
jectivity marker that emphasizes the conceptualizer’s belief, while the latter
can yield both an inferential or a hearsay reading. Bermúdez (2002) bases
his subjectivity account of parece que on these two constructions without
differentiating between them. This leads him to argue that a mí me parece
que saben ‘it seems to me that’ in (28) is subjective, as opposed to intersub-
jective parecen no saber ‘they seem not to know’.
(28) … Sí, los personajes parecen no saber nada, pero al mismo yo al
mismo tiempo [sic] a mí me parece que saben mucho. (from Ber-
múdez 2002: 27)
‘... Yes, the characters don’t seem to know anything, but at the
same I at the same time to me it seems that they know a lot.’
Bermúdez (2002: 27) is of course right in attributing the a mí me parece
que construction a subjective reading based on non-shared information. The
dative obviously annuls the intersubjective dimension of the construction:
this overt conceptualizer, be it me ‘me’, te ‘you’ or le ‘him/her’, renders
impossible a statement shared between speaker and other people.
Unlike what Bermúdez argues, the parecer + infinitive construction in
(28) does not give any indication as to the accessibility of the evidence to
other people than the speaker. Second, the statement expressed by means of
parecer + infinitive can be both subjective as to the evidence, and at the
same time based on generally accessible information. Therefore I can argue
that the evidential statement expressed by parecer + infinitive is not shared
A three-dimensional analysis of parecer 45
in (28): it is the speaker who comments on the capacity of the subject per-
sonajes ‘characters’ and their apparent lack of knowledge.
B. I now contrast the overt presence of the conceptualizer in the parece
que construction (29a) with the restrictions on mentioning a specific con-
ceptualizer in parecer + infinitive (29b). Bermúdez (2002) argues that the
infelicitous conceptualizer in (29b) confirms the intersubjectivity of pare-
cer + infinitive.
(29) a. Me parece que Laura tiene frío. (from Bermúdez 2002: 27)
‘It seems to me that Laura is cold.’
b. ??
Laura me parece tener frío.
‘Laura seems to me to be cold.’
c. *
Laura le parece tener frío.
‘Laura seems to him/her to be cold.’
With regard to (29b), it is worth noting that, though rather uncommon, me
parecer + infinitive is not excluded. Mentioning a second or a third person
conceptualizer, however, as in (29c), would be hardly acceptable. Unlike
Bermúdez, I consider the restriction to the first person conceptualizer (me)
a confirmation of the subjectivity present in the infinitival construction.
The unproblematic adding of an overt conceptualizer me to the parece
que construction in (29a), for its part, can be understood as a procedure to
block the intersubjective reading associated with such a construction. The
mere fact that not one but several conceptualizers can be added to a parece
que construction illustrates that the evidential statement expressed by
parece que cannot only rely on several sources of information, it can also
draw on support from various speech participants. By contrast, the me/le
parece que construction only refers to the conceptualizer’s belief state, at
the exclusion of other conceptualizers.
C. The account given in B. can also be extended to the me parece ser
construction in Bermúdez’ example taken from the dialogue between
Euthyphro and Socrates, repeated in (30). The explicit mention of me un-
derlines the subjective nature of the statement.
(30) Eutifrón. – A mí me parece, Socrates, que esta chanza va muy bien
con lo que ambos decimos. Porque no soy yo solo el que inspiro la
necesidad de que estas hipótesis merodeen alrededor de nosotros y
no permanezcan fijas. Eres tú precisamente quien me pareces ser
Dédalo, puesto que si de mí dependiese haría lo possible para que
permaneciesen. (from Bermúdez 2002: 27)
46 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
‘Euthyphro. – It seems to me, Socrates, that this joke agrees fairly
well with what both of us are saying. Because it is not only me who
observes the necessity that these hypotheses be circling around us
and do not remain fixed. It is precisely you who seems to me to be
Daedalus, since, if it depended on me, I would have done every-
thing to keep them here.’
From a pragmatic point of view, the disagreement with Socrates might be
an indication that this construction is unlikely to be intersubjective.
D. Bermúdez’ (p.c.) examples given in (31) can be accounted for in the
same line.
(31) a. ¿Sabes qué? Parece que Luis está enamorado.
‘Do you know? It seems that Luis is in love.’
b. ??
¿Sabes qué? Luis parece estar enamorado.
‘Do you know? Luis seems to be in love.’
In (31a), the parece que construction stating that Luis is in love can felici-
tously follow the ¿sabes qué? question, while this is not the case for the
infinitival one. If the speaker asks the interlocutor whether the latter already
knows about the news, it is not difficult to imagine that the evidence used
for the evidential statement is shared with other people. But the parece que
construction in (31a) can also be a subjective statement by a speaker who
has just discovered that Luis is in love. This explanation is in favor of the
possibility of combining subjectivity and intersubjectivity. That parecer +
infinitive is not congruent with the ¿sabes qué? question is then to be seen
against the background of the intersubjective statement this question en-
tails.
In sum, in contrast with what Bermúdez claims, there are several rea-
sons to see the parecer + infinitive constructions as expressing subjective
statements, while parece que constructions can include an intersubjective
dimension, i.e. can convey a shared statement.
3.3.3. Left-dislocation and parentheticals
Let us now examine whether the left-dislocation construction (32) and the
parentheticals (33) can also be analyzed in terms of subjectivity and inter-
subjectivity.
A three-dimensional analysis of parecer 47
(32) INF.A. -Y fíjate que tiene dos alumnas casadas.
INF.B. -Sí.
INF.A. -Pero las hermanas casadas parece que son, por más que
ella le cuente, no serán del tipo de la madre. (Habla Culta: Buenos
Aires: M27 B)
‘A: Well look, he has two married students. B: Yes. A: But the
married sisters, it seems, whatever she may say, they will not be the
mother’s type.’
A parecer construction with a left-dislocated subject, as in (32), is oriented
towards the interlocutor: the background knowledge concerning the topical
subject las hermanas casadas ‘the married sisters’ is shared by the speaker
and the hearer(s). By adding parece que son... serán ‘it seems that they
are... will be’, the speaker focuses on his/her involvement in the evidential
statement, however, without restricting it to a strictly subjective one. Again,
it is clear that the left-dislocation construction cannot be considered to have
a specific evidential dimension which contrasts with other constructions.
The same is true for the parenthetical constructions, as in (33).
(33) a. Sí, hacen precisiones que rubrica la sola firma del presidente
general de la compañía. En esta misma forma es nombrado un di-
rector, a disgusto, según parece, de los Cano, ya para la fecha, ac-
cionistas más que minoritarios. (Notic: Col: Semana: 830)
‘yes, they make some precisions that carry the sole hallmark of the
secretary general of the company. In the same way, he is appointed
director, despite the reluctance, it seems, of the Canos, [who are]
now shareholders in a more than minority position.’
b. ... escribía y la señora le dictaba al dactilógrafo. Trabajamos
como seis... siete días. Eran tres días para contestar eso pero había
un día San Pedro creo por ahí en julio... julio me parece... eh... yo
pedí prórroga. (Habla Culta: Santiago M 24)
‘... he wrote and the woman dictated him. They worked six ... seven
days. We had three days to reply to it, but it was also Saint Peter’s
Day, I think there in July ... July it seems to me.. eh. I requested
respite.’
The availability of various parenthetical constructions suggests that it is not
surprising that the parenthetical as such is neither subjective nor intersub-
jective.61
In most of the cases, however, the parenthetical stands for a sub-
jective statement e.g. (33a) and (33b).
48 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
3.3.4. Summary
The foregoing sections have shown that the difference between the parece
que and the parecer + infinitive constructions can be grasped in terms of
(inter)subjectivity. In Table 7, the (inter)subjective values of the different
constructions are summarized.
Table 7. (Inter)subjectivity with parecer
Subjective statement Intersubjective statement
Parecer + infinitive
Me/le parece que
Parecer +que-clause
Left-dislocation + parece que
Me parece Según parece
An (inter)subjectivity account pays more attention to the different dimen-
sions of the evidential reading of parecer and takes into account the
speaker-hearer interaction. Moreover, it avoids the problematic association
of source-evidentiality and epistemic commitment.
4. A three-dimensional analysis of resultar
Since the literature has hardly dealt with resultar, the present analysis will
explore the semantic structure of the verb. Hernanz (1982) discusses adjec-
tival (copular) constructions, without discussing resultar + infinitive, and
Combé (1981) examines resultar with a left-dislocated subject, as an
equivalent of parecer. In this section, I apply the criteria regarding eviden-
tiality, speaker commitment and (inter)subjectivity to evidential resultar. I
show that resultar considerably differs from parecer as regards these three
dimensions.
Before we proceed, let us first recall the distribution of resultar. In con-
trast to parecer, resultar cannot combine with me ‘me’ (34a) and does not
have a parenthetical use, as shown in (34b). As far as the infinitive in (34c)
is concerned, only copular ser/estar ‘to be’, the existential quantifier haber
‘to be’ or verbs of possession such as tener ‘to have’ fit in the infinitive slot
A three-dimensional analysis of resultar 49
of resultar.62
The resulta ser que construction (34d) and the left-dislocated
construction (34e) are generally felicitous with resultar. Finally, the que-
clause construction (34f) is the most frequent one with resultar.
(34) a. *Me resulta que las condiciones del tratado les irritan.
‘It turns out to me that the conditions of the treaty irritate them.’
b. * Las condiciones del tratado, resulta, les irritan.
‘The conditions of the treaty, it turns out, irritate them.’
c. *Las condiciones del tratado resultan irritarles.
‘The conditions of the treaty turn out to irritate them.’
d. Resulta ser que las condiciones del tratado les irritan.
‘It turns out to be that the conditions of the treaty irritate them.’
e. Las condiciones del tratado resulta que les irritan.
‘The conditions of the treaty, it turns out that they irritate them.’
f. Resulta que las condiciones del tratado les irritan.
‘It turns out that the conditions of the treaty irritate them.’
Below I will show that resultar, unlike parecer, has only one central read-
ing. Since the distribution of resultar is more restricted than that of pare-
cer, I will discuss the different constructions together. This allows me to
directly group the information under the three following headings: eviden-
tial types (4.1.), speaker commitment/reliability (4.2.) and (inter)subjectivi-
ty (4.3.).
4.1. Evidential types
The evidential reading of resultar can be based on hearsay or on inference
from direct evidence. The following tests show, however, that the speaker
is not involved in the conclusion expressed by resultar to the same extent
as (s)he is with parecer.
I first test the inferential reading of resultar. The combination of a resul-
tar construction with an adversative stance from the part of the speaker,
pero yo no lo veo así ‘but I don’t see it that way’ in (35), (36) and (37),
proves to be odd.
(35) a. Hasta aquí todo correcto. Pero más allá de este dato se observa
que mientras la Colonia Güell mide precisamente 44 metros de al-
to, esta cifra resulta ser la cuarta parte de la Sagrada Familia.
(Notic: España: ABC)
50 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
‘Up till here everything is correct. But beyond this fact one ob-
serves that while the Güell column measures precisely 44 meters,
this figure turns out to be the fourth part of the Sagrada Familia.’
b. A: ??
pero yo no lo veo así. ‘but I don’t see it that way.’
B: ?
¿Quién lo dice? ‘Who says that?’
B: ¿Tú crees? ‘Do you think so?’
B: ??
o eso dicen. ‘Or that is what they say.’
By means of resultar + infinitive, the speaker compares the size of the
Güell column with that of the Sagrada Familia. The statement in (35) can-
not be followed by pero yo no lo veo así ‘but I don’t see it like that’, which
points to a speaker-oriented reading. The acceptability of the ¿tú lo crees?
question points to a clearly inferential dimension with resultar + infinitive.
The hearsay question ¿quién lo dice?, though rare, is not impossible. But
the hearsay cannot be detached from the speaker’s own view of reality, as
shown by the infelicitous addition of o eso dicen ‘or that is what they say’.
The resulta que construction in (36) is somewhat different. Although
this construction can also rely on both inference and hearsay, the latter
source of information comes to mind more easily than with resultar + in-
finitive. Therefore, the eso dicen comment is not incompatible with the
statement expressed by resulta que.
(36) a. La crisis de los teatros suele explicarse con una realidad que,
aunque sea palmaria, no interesa: ocurre en toda Europa; pero re-
sulta que la europeización nos quita las buenas costumbres sin
darnos otras a cambio. (Notic: España: ABC)
‘The crisis of the theatres is commonly explained by means of a re-
ality that, albeit obvious, is not interesting: it happens all over
Europe; but it turns out that the Europeanization deprives us of the
good habits, without replacing them with new ones’
b. A: ??
pero yo no lo veo así. ‘but I don’t see it that way.’
B: ¿Quién lo dice? ‘Who says that?
B: ¿Tú crees? ‘Do you think so?’
B: eso dicen. ‘That is what they say.’
Finally, resultar with a left-dislocated subject in (37) differs from the pre-
vious construction in that the hearsay question (¿quién lo dice?) is judged
inappropriate, just like the eso dicen comment. In other words, the type of
evidence appears to be more speaker-oriented.
A three-dimensional analysis of resultar 51
(37) a. ... un huaco retrato de bastante mala factura, encima de un es-
critorio metálico color gris. [...] Yo, distraída como ando, pensé,
“ah, es una nueva requisa en el aeropuerto, ojalá sea de la colec-
ción de mi tía Chabuquita Larco y se lo devuelvan a la pobre”. Pe-
ro no, hija, el ceramio resulta que hablaba y además, pucha, de
temas de actualidad. (Notic: Perú: Caretas: 1468)
‘a badly painted archaeological object, above a grey metal table. I
thought, absent-minded as I have been lately: “ah, this is a new
confiscation in the airport, hopefully it is from my aunt’s collection
and they will give it back to the unfortunate”. But no, my friend,
[the figure on] the bottle it turns out that it was talking, moreover,
Jesus, about the topics currently discussed in the media.’
b. A: ??
pero yo no lo veo así. ‘but I don’t see it that way.’
B: ??
¿Quién lo dice? ‘Who says that?
B: ¿Tú crees? ‘Do you think so?’
B: * eso dicen. ‘That is what they say.’
Left-dislocation constructions based on hearsay should not be excluded.
When a football fan who was unable to attend the match hears from his
friend that Barcelona was defeated, he can still tell a third friend the follow-
ing:
(38) El Barça resulta que ha perdido el partido de esta tarde.
‘FC Barcelona, it turns out, has lost the match of this afernoon.’
Thus, the resultar construction with a left-dislocated subject also allows the
speaker to distance him/herself from the statement.63
In sum, it is shown that the results of the pero yo no lo veo así test differ
from resultar to parecer. The fact that all constructions reject this contextu-
alization leads me to conclude that in resultar’s readings the speaker’s
perception of reality cannot be seen in contrast with the general perception.
Yet, it has been shown that this does not automatically imply that resultar
generally stands for a subjective, speaker-oriented view of the state of af-
fairs. Hearsay information is more easily encountered in a resulta que con-
struction than in resultar + infinitive or in resulta que with a left-dislocated
subject.
52 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
Table 8. Evidential types with resultar
Inference Hearsay
Resultar + infinitive
Resultar + que-clause
Left dislocation + resulta que
4.2. Speaker commitment and reliability
In the previous section I have shown that the speaker him/herself does not
specifically interfere in the construction. The verb resultar expresses a
relatively high reliability, without therefore involving the speaker’s own
commitment.
In Section (3.2.), I have argued that for attenuation to make sense, the
statement should be felt to be strong enough. As the different markings
suggest (viz. star, one and double interrogation mark), the degree of infelic-
ity varies according to the resultar construction used.
(39) a. ... esta cifra resulta ser la cuarta parte de la Sagrada Familia,
aunque puedo equivocarme.
‘this figure turns out to be the fourth part of the Sagrada Familia,
though I may be mistaken.’
b. *... resulta que la europeización nos quita las buenas costum-
bres, aunque puedo equivocarme.
‘it turns out that the Europeanization deprives us of the good hab-
its, though I may be mistaken.’
c. ... el ceramio resulta que hablaba y además, pucha, de temas de
actualidad, aunque puedo equivocarme.
‘[the figure on] the bottle it turns out that it was talking, moreover,
jeezes, about the topics currently discussed in the media, though I
may be mistaken.’
Only in the resulta que construction the specific speaker commitment does
not apply, which correlates with the general opinion its represents. In (39a)
and (39c), the concessive clause with resultar can either display a rather
strong commitment of the speaker, or attenuate it.
A three-dimensional analysis of resultar 53
Table 9. Speaker commitment with resultar
Weak speaker commitment Strong speaker commitment
Resultar + infinitive
Resulta + que-clause
Left dislocation + resulta que
4.3. (Inter)subjectivity
Intersubjectivity is crucial for the analysis of resultar. With parece que, it
is possible to change from an intersubjective to a subjective statement. This
possibility is far more restricted with resultar: the lack of overt conceptual-
izers in (40), on the one hand, and strong restrictions on infinitival and
parenthetical constructions, on the other, have to do with the intersubjective
status of the statement expressed by resultar.
(40) a. {*me/ Ø} resulta que la europeización nos quita las buenas
costumbres.
‘it turns out to me that the Europeanization deprives us of the good
habits.’
b. {*según él/ Ø} resulta que la europeización nos quita las bue-
nas costumbres.
‘According to him it turns out that the Europeanization deprives us
of the good habits.’
The presence of an overt conceptualizer indicates that the evidential state-
ment can be delegated to a specific entity, be it the speaker or other partici-
pants. The fact that the resulta que construction cannot be attributed to any
specific conceptualizer then indicates that this construction stands for an
intersubjective evidential statement.64
I have shown for parecer that the infinitival constructions are most suit-
able for subjective readings without intersubjective dimension. In the same
way I argue that the restrictions on the resultar + infinitive construction
correlate with the inherent intersubjectivity of this verb in present-day
Spanish. The few resultar + infinitive constructions form an exception:
they stand for a more subjective statement, as is illustrated by the example
54 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
with resultar + infinitive preceded by creo ‘I believe/think’ found on the
Internet, as in (41).
(41) Y yo noto que se avergüenza por ello (creo que resulta ser la mejor
parte del relato), dice que le molesta no poder controlar-
lo........siempre ha podido hacerlo, por lo menos con mujeres.....
‘And I see that he is ashamed because of it (I believe this turns out
to be the best part of the story), he says that he doesn’t care that he
cannot control himself ... he has always been able to do so, at least
with women.’
In (41), the speaker gives his/her personal view of the state of affairs ex-
pressed in the copular resultar construction. The use of the hedge creo que
‘I think’ shows that the speaker does not share the statement with other
people. Hence, the combination of the mental state verb creer ‘to
think/believe’ and the resultar + infinitive construction in (41) supports the
attribution of subjectivity to resultar + infinitive. The fact that in the corpus
and on the Internet, I have not found a single resulta que example with creo
que corroborates that this construction usually expresses an intersubjective
statement.
Unlike parecer, sentence-initial resulta que cannot render either an in-
tersubjective or a subjective statement, but is limited to an intersubjective
one based on shared evidence. This is also the case in (42), where the infer-
ence from direct evidence can be shared with other people.
(42) ... un huaco retrato de bastante mala factura, encima de un escrito-
rio metálico color gris. [...] Yo, distraída como ando, pensé, “ah,
es una nueva requisa en el aeropuerto, ojalá sea de la colección de
mi tía Chabuquita Larco y se lo devuelvan a la pobre”. Pero no,
hija, el ceramio resulta que hablaba y además, pucha, de temas de
actualidad.. (Notic: Perú: Caretas: 1468)
‘a badly painted archeological object, above a grey metal table. I
thought, absent as I am lately: “ah, this is a new confiscation in the
airport, hopefully it is from my aunt’s collection and they will give
it back to the unfortunate”. But no, my friend, [the figure on] the
bottle it turns out that it was talking, moreover, jeezes, about the
topics currently discussed in the media.’
Thus, subjectivity is not excluded from the construction with a left-
dislocated subject.65
In fact, this construction occupies a position between
A three-dimensional analysis of resultar 55
the resulta que and the resultar + infinitive construction on the (in-
ter)subjectivity scale.
Table 10. (Inter)subjectivity with resultar
Subjectivity Intersubjectivity
Resultar + infinitive
Resulta + que-clause
Left-dislocation + resulta que
5. Conclusions
In this chapter, it has become clear that the evidential dimension of the
purely evidential verbs does not necessarily correlate with a certain degree
of speaker commitment to the proposition. This difference has invited me
to invoke the notion of reliability and to apply the criterion of (in-
ter)subjectivity of the evidence and the statement to parecer and resultar as
a refinement of the previous descriptions.
The distinctions between the parecer + infinitive and the parece que
constructions described by Hernanz (1982) and Porroche (1990) are now
further underpinned on an evidential basis. By means of a series of func-
tional tests I have shown that the parece que construction involves a
broader array of evidential types than parecer + infinitive. The tests con-
firm the claim that the latter construction conveys a more speaker-oriented
evidential qualification.
Speaker commitment has been a difficult dimension to pin down. The
fact that hearsay readings of parecer cannot be analyzed in terms of speaker
commitment attenuates the oft-made assumption that inference or belief
entails stronger speaker commitment than hearsay. The relation between
subjectifiers such as me parece que and speaker commitment shows that
epistemic-like expressions can more easily be accounted for in terms of
speaker commitment than truly evidential ones.
Reliability is a step in the good direction, but needs the concept of (in-
ter)subjectivity. Since intersubjective statements are more broadly sup-
ported than subjective ones, the former are more reliable and hence, con-
sidered to be expressing “near-factivity”, while, based on the speaker’s
inference only, the latter lead to a “non-factive” interpretation. The parece
56 Evidentiality with parecer and resultar
que construction can yield either subjective or intersubjective statements,
but the access to the evidence is always intersubjective. By contrast, pare-
cer + infinitive conveys only subjective statements. The different distribu-
tion of the readings is a more refined representation of the difference be-
tween the “near-factivity” and “non-factivity” related to parecer.
All the above mentioned characteristics have also been tested for resul-
tar. I have argued that the distribution of resultar is restricted due to its
strong intersubjectivity. The sources of information and the speaker com-
mitment pattern differently with the infinitival construction and left-
dislocation, on the one hand, and the sentence-initial resulta que-clause on
the other.
In the next chapter, I will show how the linguistic expressions of pare-
cer and resultar + infinitive lend themselves for conveying subjectivity. I
will especially deal with the prominence of the subject, the ungrounded
infinitival process and the process of subjectification.
Chapter 3
Degrees of transparency and subjectification
with parecer and resultar
In the previous chapter I have accounted for the parecer and resultar +
infinitive constructions on the basis of their subjective inferential readings.
In this chapter I will show that these constructions are more frequent with
parecer than with resultar. The different frequency distribution will be
explained against the background of the different conceptual structure.
Moreover, it will be linked to the transparency and subjectification of pare-
cer, in contrast to the lack of these with resultar.
The chapter is organized in the following fashion. I first show that the
transparency of parecer gives prominence to the grammatical subject,
which in turn, allows for a dynamic construal of parecer’s infinitive (cf.
Langacker 2000). Second, I illustrate that parecer displays more advanced
subjectification than resultar. Finally, I present a diachronic and synchronic
account of the subjectification of parecer and resultar.
1. Transparency
In this section I apply the notion of transparency (1.1.) to the corpus data of
parecer and resultar (1.2.). I will discuss the degree of transparency on the
basis of the semantics of the infinitives and the finite verbs in the que-
clauses that follow parecer and resultar.
1.1. Definition of transparency
In Cognitive Grammar the concept of transparency has become increas-
ingly popular since the mid-nineties, but formal analyses used the term
some time before (cf. Gaatone 1976, 1995; Lamiroy 1995, 1998). Lan-
gacker (2000: 342)66
defines the notion of transparency as follows:
the fact that any element which can occur in the appropriate position in the
subordinate clause can likewise occur in “raised” position in the main
clause. The main clause itself imposes no constraints on the raised NP – its
58 Degrees of transparency and subjectification
structural motivation comes from its role in the subordinate clause. (Lan-
gacker 2000: 342)
Gaatone (1976, 1995), for his part, defines transparency in terms of the free
selection of the subject of the finite verb. This author offers two main crite-
ria to verify the absence of selection restrictions: on the one hand, the
grammatical subject of a transparent verb is constrained by the infinitive
that follows, on the other, transparent verbs are compatible with impersonal
verbs.67
The following French verbs or verb phrases are transparent accord-
ing to Gaatone (1995):
aller ‘to be going’, (s’)arrêter ‘to stop’, s’avérer ‘to appear’, avoir beau ‘to do
in vain’, avoir failli ‘just not happen’, avoir l’air ‘to look like’, avoir manqué
‘to fail to’, cesser ‘to stop’, commencer ‘to begin’, continuer ‘to continue’, de-
voir ‘must’, être censé ‘to be expected’, être en passe ‘be on the verge of’, être
en train ‘to be V-ing’, être en voie ‘to be V-ing’, être loin ‘not to be in a posi-
tion’, être près ‘to be close’, être supposé ‘to be supposed’, être sur le point ‘to
be on the verge’, finir ‘to finish’, n’en pas finir ‘not stop’, ne pas laisser ‘not
let + inf’ , ne pas manquer ‘not to be absent’, menacer ‘to threaten’, paraître
‘to appear’, pouvoir ‘can/may’, se révéler ‘to prove to’, risquer ‘to risk’, ne
saurait ‘to be unable to’, sembler ‘to seem’, tarder ‘to keep waiting to’, tendre
‘to tend to’, se trouver ‘to stand to’, venir ‘to come’.
Langacker’s (2000: 349) overview of transparent verbs and adjectives pre-
sented in (a), (b) and (c) contains English verbs similar to the French ones
mentioned in Gaatone (1995):
(a) may, will, must, can, be, have, do, be used to;
(b) sure, certain, liable, (un)likely, apt, bound, destined, supposed, set, gonna,
about;
(c) seem, appear, tend, chance, turn out, prove, happen, promise, threaten, fail,
get, begin, start, come, continue, cease, keep (on), persist, quit, stop, end up.
Since evidential verbs paraître, sembler, avoir l’air and se révéler show up
in Gaatone’s list and seem, appear, turn out show up in Langacker’s list, it
can be expected that parecer and resultar are also transparent to some ex-
tent. Moreover, Lamiroy (1995, 1998) argues that some of the so-called
transparent verbs face restrictions on the infinitive. For example, verbs such
as avoir beau ‘to do in vain’ or être supposé ‘to be supposed’ which Gaa-
tone (1995) considers transparent cannot combine with meteorological
infinitives (cf. Lamiroy 1995: 280–283).68
As far as my analysis is con-
cerned, parecer does not seem to face any of the semantic restrictions men-
Transparency 59
tioned by Lamiroy (1995), while resultar only admits a small group of
infinitives and most often combines with a que-clause.
Langacker’s CG approach to transparency pays considerable attention to
the prominent role of the preverbal subject of the transparent verb, which
contrasts with the subject in the finite que-clause (see Section 2.). It is thus
interesting to analyze whether all types of infinitive allow for a preverbal
position of their subject. In my analysis, I combine Langacker’s version of
transparency with Lamiroy’s (1995, 1998) proposal to examine the infini-
tives. Since parecer, unlike resultar, is generally taken as fully transparent,
I hypothesize that parecer + infinitive combines with all kinds of verbs and
that the verbs in infinitival position and those in the que-clause are semanti-
cally similar.
1.2. Transparent parecer vs. non-transparent resultar
For the analysis below, I differentiate between nine verb types which com-
bine with parecer: (i) action verbs (action), (ii) aspectual verbs (aspect),
(iii) change-of-state verbs (change), (iv) communication verbs (communi-
cation), (v) copular verbs and other verbs referring to attribution (attribu-
tion), (vi) modal verbs (modal), (vii) mental activity verbs (mental), (viii)
perception verbs (perception) and (ix) verbs expressing psychological reac-
tion (psychological).
The columns of Table 11 represent the different verb types, discussed in
the previous section, while the rows refer to the absolute and the propor-
tional figures of the verb types in the written and the oral corpora.
Table 11. Semantic classification of the infinitives following parecer
type attribut action com aspect change modal mental percep psych Tot
writ 313 176 117 18 96 1 49 14 9 797
% 39.27 22.08 14.68 2.26 12.05 0.13 6.15 1.76 1.13 100
oral 5 2 0 0 1 0 0 2 1 11
% 45.45 18.18 - - 9.09 - - 18.18 9.09 100
Table 11 shows a clear preference for attributive predicates (written:
39.27%, oral 45.45%).69
The verbs expressing action (around 22%) and
communication (14%) rank second and third, closely followed by the
change-of-state verbs (12%).70
The other categories range from marginal
(mental activity 6%) to very rare (the rest). Those infinitives requiring an
agentive subject, such as the action or communication verbs, are slightly
less frequent than non-agentive attributive and change of state verbs.
60 Degrees of transparency and subjectification
Let us now examine the corpus data on the finite verbs following parece
que. I have labeled the verbs found in the corpus with parece que in the
same way I did for the analysis of the infinitives, so that we can compare
the semantic distribution of parecer’s infinitives with the semantics of the
finite verbs following parece que.
Table 12. Semantic classification of the finite verb following parece que
type attribut action com Aspect change modal mental percep psych Tot
writ 106 42 11 21 43 11 27 1 3 271
% 39.11 15.50 4.06 7.75 15.87 4.06 9.96 0.37 1.11 100
oral 107 27 5 8 17 5 7 3 3 184
% 58.15 14.67 2.72 4.35 9.24 2.72 3.80 1.63 1.63 100
Table 12 shows that the attributive verbs are far more frequent than the
other categories (written: 39.11%, oral: 58.5%).71
The verbs expressing
action (15.5% resp. 14.7%) and change-of-state verbs (15.9% resp. 9.3%)
form the second and the third group.
When one compares the written data in Table 11 and Table 12, one ob-
serves that the attributive verbs are most frequent in both the infinitives and
the que-clause (both 39%). The other categories only differ slightly: with
parece que action verbs and communication verbs are less frequent than in
the infinitive, while aspectual and modal verbs are more frequent. 72
These small differences indicate that, despite the advanced transparency,
parecer admits a certain variation in the que-clause and in the infinitive.73
Interestingly, verbs expressing communication or action are more subject-
oriented and show up more often in the infinitival position. Thus, the verbs
that appear slightly more often in the infinitive have an agentive subject,
which gives the latter more prominence (see Section 2.). By contrast, the
speaker-oriented modals appear more easily in the que-clause. Yet, the
corpus data do not show serious restrictions on the semantic category of the
verb with the infinitive nor the que-clause. Since their distribution is similar
to a large extent, it can be concluded that parecer is transparent.
The me/le parece que construction in (1) is different from both parecer
+ infinitive and parece que because of its overt reference to the conceptual-
izer of the event expressed in the que-clause.
(1) INF A. -No creo que haya tenido ningún problema especial nuestra
familia... INF.B. -Claro.
INF.A. -... y me parece que ese número aparece como un número -
digamos- muy normal.
INF.B. -¡Qué curioso! Igual que mi madre; son seis también..
Transparency 61
(Habla Culta: Santiago: M40)
‘A: I don’t think that our family has ever had a special problem. B:
True. A: and I think that this number looks like a, let’s say, very
normal number. B: How strange! Just like my mother’s [family],
they are also six.’
The me/le parece que construction is not part of the alternation of infinitive
and que-clause constructions with parecer. As shown in Table 13, this kind
of construction is much more frequent in the oral corpus than in the written
one.74
Table 13. Semantic classification of the finite verb following me/le parece que
type attribut action Com aspect change modal mental percep psych Tot
writ 31 0 1 0 3 2 4 0 1 39
% 79.49 - 2.56 - 7.69 5.13 10.26 - 2.56 100
oral 148 18 8 5 8 15 4 1 1 208
% 71.15 8.65 3.85 2.40 3.85 7.21 1.92 0.48 0.48 100
The overwhelming majority (more than 70%) of the verbs that show up
with me/le parece que belong to the attributive type. The second and third
group are the action verbs (8.6%) and the modal verbs (7.2%). In compari-
son with parecer + infinitive and parece que, the action verbs are less fre-
quent and the modal verbs more frequent.
All verb types are possible with me/le parece que; hence, in this con-
struction too, parecer proves to be a transparent verb. Yet, quantitatively
there appears to be a preferential link with attributive, modal and other
qualifications. One can thus conclude that there is a shift to less action-
oriented and more speaker-oriented verbs in me/le parece que construc-
tions.
Let us now compare these results with those of resultar. As shown in
Table 14 and Table 15, the main difference with parecer is that the infiniti-
val construction is restrained to attributive predicates, e.g. (2).
(2) El mensaje de Albert Camus siempre mira hacia adelante, deja la
puerta abierta a la esperanza, resulta ser en el fondo una llamada,
si no al optimismo, si al coraje y a la acción. (Notic: España: ABC)
‘The message of Albert Camus always looks ahead, leaves the door
to hope open, as a matter of fact [it] turns out to be a call, if not for
optimism, at least for courage and action.’
Table 14 gives an overview of the verbs that combine with resulta que. 75
62 Degrees of transparency and subjectification
Table 14. Semantic classification of the finite verb following resulta que
type attribut action Com aspect change modal mental percep psych Tot
writ 18 11 1 0 6 2 1 0 1 40
% 45 27.5 2.5 - 15 5 2.5 - 2.5 100
oral 51 39 7 2 9 5 7 4 1 133
% 38.35 29.32 5.26 1.50 6.77 3.76 5.26 3.01 0.75 100
In both corpora, attributive predicates rank highest (45% resp. 38.4%). The
action verbs (27% resp. 29%), and the change-of-state verbs (15% resp.
6.8%) are the second and third most important categories. In written dis-
course, the frequency (45%) of attributive predicates with resulta que
slightly differs from that of parecer + infinitive (39%) and parece que
(39%). On the other hand, it is worth stressing that resultar combines far
more often with action verbs. As shown in Table 15, the case of the infini-
tive with resultar is different.
Table 15. Semantic classification of the infinitives following resultar
type attribut action com aspect change Modal mental percep psych Tot
writ 74 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 74
% 100 - - - - - - - - 100
oral 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
% 100 - - - - - - - - 100
All 75 infinitives of resultar found in the corpus belong to the attributive
type. Hence, resultar is not transparent since it cannot combine with the
infinitival form of action or change-of-state verbs. Resultar itself does not
have an agentive structure similar to other non-transparent verbs, however;
the verb is still attached to its basic resultative, copular reading.76
In sum, parecer is transparent because (i) it combines with all verb types
and (ii) the inflected and infinitival forms that combine with it display a
similar semantics. This does not mean that there is no variation, however.
Action and communication verbs appear more readily in a parecer + infini-
tive construction, while aspectual and modal verbs do not. When a concep-
tualizer is added, the attributive predicates are preferred. The verb resultar
is not transparent, since at the present stage of the language only attributive
predicates can show up in the infinitive.
Transparency and focal prominence 63
2. Transparency and focal prominence
Since transparent parecer can combine with all kinds of infinitives it is also
able to select a thematic subject (cf. Gutiérrez Ordóñez 1986, Porroche
1990, Cabeza Pereiro 1997). In this section I show that the role of parecer’s
grammatical subject can be further accounted for in relation to the non-
finite status of the process (cf. Achard 1998, Langacker 2000). I will pre-
sent a dynamic interpretation of both the thematic subject and the infinitival
process.
I first briefly present Langacker’s view of the “focal” subject (2.1.).
Then I deal with parecer + infinitive and que-clause (2.2.) and examine the
same constructions for resultar (2.3.). In the last subsection, I address the
focal prominence of the left-dislocated subject (2.4.).
2.1. Focal prominence
According to Langacker (2000: 327–329), the main difference between the
infinitive (18a) and the that-clause (18b) constructions consists in the
choice of focal participants.77
(3) a. Don is likely to leave. (taken from Langacker 2000: 326)
b. That Don will leave is likely.
The raising construction in (3a) is characterized by the prominence of Don
as the most salient participant in the process expressed by the infinitive.
According to Langacker, this constellation emphasizes the “participant’s
role in the overall relationship”, while in (3b) it is the process as a whole
that has focal prominence. Importantly, Langacker (2000: 329) suggests
that Don’s volition is “critical” in the raised construction of to be likely,
while it is more neuter in the that-clause. He seems to suggest that Don’s
intention is more prominent in (3a) than in (3b).
Invoking the volition of the subject may be valid for the to be likely con-
structions but cannot be generalized for verbs like seem or parecer. If voli-
tion correlates with “near-factivity” of the event communicated in the in-
finitive versus “non-factivity” of that in the that-clause, this interpretation
of the subject’s role would go against all intuitions about seem/parecer +
infinitive described in the literature, and the evidential account presented in
the previous chapter.
Thus, the focal prominence of the subject is not necessarily critical for
the realization of the event. Instead, I argue that the thematic subject of the
64 Degrees of transparency and subjectification
Spanish evidential verbs plays a special role in the speaker’s conceptualiza-
tion of the infinitival process. The focal prominence or thematic role of the
subject evokes possible worlds, which leads the speaker to compare the
described event with other possible outcomes.78
2.2. Parecer + infinitive and parece que
In this section I argue that a dynamic interpretation of the thematic subject
with focal prominence can further underpin the (inter)subjectivity account
given in the previous chapter. Let us look at the parecer constructions in
(4).79
(4) a. El rumbo menos conservador designado por su nuevo director,
Gérard Mortier, parece haber retraído a muchos aficionados “de
toda la vida”. (Notic: España: ABC Bravo Julio)
‘The less conservative turn fixed by its new director, Gerard Mor-
tier, seems to have drawn back a lot of long-life aficionados.’
b. Parece que el rumbo menos conservador designado por su nuevo
director, Gérard Mortier, ha retraído a muchos aficionados “de to-
da la vida”.
The subject rumbo ‘turn’ in (4a) is thematic and receives focal prominence
as the most salient part of the utterance, while in (4b) the whole que-clause
is the salient part of the utterance. Now, the speaker associates the charac-
teristics of the subject el rumbo ‘the turn’ in (4a), by virtue of its thematic
function, with his/her viewing of the infinitival process. Thus, the charac-
teristics associated with the subject in (4a) play their role in the speaker’s
construal of the non-finite process expressed by the infinitive. Unlike the
finite verb in the que-clause in (4b), the infinitive is not “grounded” as an
instantiated type of a process, i.e. is not situated with respect to the reality
acknowledged by the hearer and the speaker (cf. Langacker 1991). The
ungrounded status of the infinitival form enhances the possibility of subjec-
tively elaborating the infinitival process from the point of view of the
prominent subject. This subjective elaboration consists in comparing the
central event of the statement with other similar processes in relation to the
knowledge the speaker has about the subject. This subjective comparison
leads to a less exact view of the infinitival process, which in the literature
has been considered “non-factive”.
Transparency and focal prominence 65
The subject of the que-clause in (4b), by contrast, lacks focal promi-
nence and does not invite a dynamic construal, since this subject is embed-
ded and agrees with a grounded, i.e. tensed, process. In the que-clause,
tense and mood (i.e. the ground) situate the process with regard to the
speech participants (the speaker and the hearer). Although the statement is
not necessarily shared, the speaker refers to a grounded process that is ac-
cessible to the speech participants. In other words, the speaker comments
on a grounded process that may be ‘already there’ for the hearer. This con-
trasts with the dynamic conceptualization of parecer + infinitive.
Yet, the question arises what to do with the Spanish evidential construc-
tions with a covert subject as in (5)?
(5) Pareció haber escuchado la advertencia del general Lébed.
(Notic: Arg: Cronista: 676_EUE)
‘He seemed to have listened to General Lebed’s warning.’
This type of construction has an implicit subject which is present in the
previous discourse. The possibility of omitting the subject implies that it
remains activated in the flow of discourse. Hence, there is a conceptual
basis for further processing the subject. At the same time, however, the
absence of an overt subject in (5) enhances the prominence of the infinitival
processes haber escuchado ‘have listened’.
Now, how can subjectless constructions such as the meteorological ones
in (6) be dynamically construed without the presence of an element bearing
focal prominence? The infinitival process in (6a), which receives more
prominence, is dynamically construed without reference to elements other
than the process itself. Here the use of an impersonal infinitive is possible
because no concrete temporal grounding is needed for the event expressed.
Yet, it is a case in point that impersonal verbs tend to favor sentence-initial
parece que such as in (6b).
(6) a. Parece llover mucho últimamente.
‘It seems to be raining a lot lately.’
b. Parece que está lloviendo/llueve mucho.
‘It seems that it is raining/it rains a lot.’
I will now show that the focal prominence of the subject and the un-
grounded infinitival process correlate with the notion of subjectivity pre-
sented in the previous chapter. I exemplify this by contrasting the intersub-
jective parece que construction in (7a) with the subjective infinitival con-
66 Degrees of transparency and subjectification
struction in (7b). In this example the speaker/writer says that it seemed that
the last aficionados of the opera were about to disappear.
(7) a. ¿…o ha degradado la ópera al hacerla popular? Si este género
no se hace más popular, morirá. No hace demasiado tiempo pare-
cía que iban a desaparecer los últimos aficionados y que la ópera
perecería. (Notic: España: ABC)
‘... or has opera been degraded by making it more popular? If this
genre does not become more popular, it will die out. Not so long
ago it looked as if the last aficionados would disappear and that op-
era would meet its end.’
b. Los últimos aficionados parecían { ?
ir a/Ø} desaparecer.
In (7a), the que-clause following parecía ‘it seemed’ is both prominent and
grounded with respect to the speech participants. Overt grounding of the
state of affairs expressed in the que-clause favors an intersubjective state-
ment, since it is presented as an event that is already conceptualized. This is
in line with the assumption that the embedded subject of the finite verb
does not invite for a dynamic construal of the state of affairs.
As shown in the previous chapter, the parecer + infinitive construction
can only express a subjective statement. Since the dynamic conceptualiza-
tion of the subject and the infinitival process is not driven by other partici-
pants than the speaker, it correlates with a subjective, speaker-oriented
statement. Moreover, the fact that the aspectual periphrasis ir a ‘to be going
to’ fits less well in the infinitive construction in (7b) corroborates the idea
that the speaker’s conceptualization of the infinitive also includes the sub-
jective construal of other speaker-oriented dimensions such as aspect and
modality.
In sum, the ungrounded infinitive correlates with a special role to the
subject. The focal prominence of the overt subject that precedes parecer
influences the conceptualization of the state of affairs as a specification of
the subjective point of view. With or without preposed subject, parecer
expresses a subjective view of the ungrounded infinitival process, although
with a focal subject the infinitival process is less prominent. In this respect,
parecer differs from resultar, as will be shown in the next section.
Transparency and focal prominence 67
2.3. Resultar + infinitive and resulta que
The issue of focal prominence with resultar is related with its (in-
ter)subjectivity. As shown in section (1.2.) the que-clause construction, in
(8), has the near monopoly on the uses of resultar, while this verb only
combines with a small number of attributive infinitives, as illustrated in
(9a) and (9b).
(8) Las autoridades están desconcertadas con el asesinato del aboga-
do Eduardo Umaña. Resulta que después del crimen el gobierno
ofreció una recompensa de 500 millones de pesos. (Notic: Col:
Semana: 837)
‘The authorities are dismayed by the assassination of the lawyer
Eduardo Umaña. It turns out that after the crime the government
offered a reward of 500 million pesos.’
(9) a. El mensaje de Albert Camus siempre mira hacia adelante, deja
la puerta abierta a la esperanza, resulta ser en el fondo una llama-
da, si no al optimismo, si al coraje y a la acción. (Notic: España:
ABC)
‘The message of Albert Camus always looks ahead, leaves the door
to hope open, as a matter of fact [it] turns out to be a call, if not for
optimism, at least for courage and action.’
b. El mensaje de Camus resulta tener rasgos de una llamada.
‘The message of Camus turns out to have the characteristics of a
call.’
c. *El mensaje de Camus resulta basarse en una llamada.
‘The message of Camus turns out to be based on a call.’
The que-clause in (8) is a fully objective proposition; its subject does not
lead to a dynamic conceptualization. It is clear that this piece of informa-
tion is picked up by the speaker and that no other resulting views are taken
into account.
The examples of resultar + infinitive in (9) tend to express subjectivity.
Resultar can combine with the copula ser ‘to be’ (9a) and the attributive-
like verb phrase tener rasgos de ‘to have the characteristics of’ (9b), but not
with the more action-oriented basarse ‘to base oneself on’ (9c). Thus, the
infinitives that combine with resultar cannot refer to actions and other
evolving processes. Only attributive predicates qualify for a dynamic, i.e.
68 Degrees of transparency and subjectification
subjectively elaborated, conceptualization. In other words, with resultar,
the possibility of considering other resulting views is restricted to the cate-
gorization of attributes. The impossibility of a focally prominent subject
with other infinitives leads me to conclude that, at this stage of Spanish,
resultar blocks most infinitival processes that involve different resulting
views.
In sum, resultar + infinitive implies a shift to subjectively construing the
ungrounded process. So far the grammatical subject of resultar can only
have focal prominence when the verb combines with attributive predicates.
This implies that with verbs other than attributive ones, the view over the
whole state of affairs is more important than specific prominence for one of
the parts of this process.
2.4. Left-dislocation
Let us now look at left-dislocation in line with the above-proposed link
between focal prominence and subjectivity.80
A left-dislocated subject is
thematic, but the que-clause does not give rise to the same subjective con-
strual as the infinitive, as in the examples (10) and (11).
(10) INF.A. -Y fíjate que tiene dos alumnas casadas.
INF.B. -Sí.
INF.A. -Pero las hermanas casadas parece que son, por más que
ella le cuente, no serán del tipo de la madre. (Habla Culta: Buenos
Aires: M27 B)
‘A. Well look, he has two married students. B. Yes. A. But the
married sisters, it seems that they are, whatever she may say, they
will not be the mother’s type.’
(11) ... un huaco retrato de bastante mala factura, encima de un escrito-
rio metálico color gris. [...] Yo, distraída como ando, pensé, “ah,
es una nueva requisa en el aeropuerto, ojalá sea de la colección de
mi tía Chabuquita Larco y se lo devuelvan a la pobre”. Pero no,
hija, el ceramio resulta que hablaba y además, pucha, de temas de
actualidad. (Notic: Perú: Caretas: 1468)
‘a badly painted archeological object, above a grey metal table . I
thought, absent as I am lately: “ah, this is a new confiscation in the
airport, hopefully it is from my aunt’s collection and they will give
it back to the unfortunate”. But no, my friend, [the figure on] the
Subjectification 69
bottle it turns out that it was talking, moreover, Jesus, about the
topics currently discussed in the media.’
In (10) and (11), hermanas casadas ‘married sisters’ and ceramio ‘bottle’
precede a grounded que-clause, and gramatically agree with the finite verb.
The main difference with an infinitival process lies in the fact that with left-
dislocation the process expressed in the que-clause cannot be further sub-
jectively elaborated because of the grounded subclause. Nevertheless, the
focal prominence of the subject does not exclude a subjective, speaker-
oriented construal of the predicate which parecer and resultar combine
with.
3. Subjectification
So far I have not taken into account the dynamics of language change in
progress. In this section, I will account for the subjectivity of parecer and
resultar + infinitive in terms of both the diachronic evolution and the syn-
chronic semantic shift referred to as subjectification. Subjectification is the
process whereby a certain part of speech receives an increasingly subjective
reading, which can be understood as a more speaker-oriented reading (cf.
Traugott 1989, 1995, 2003) or as the conceptualizer’s subjective viewing of
the linguistic expression (Langacker 1990, 1998, 2000, 2006).
I first conduct a Traugottian diachronic analysis of the subjectification
with parecer and resultar (3.1.). Then I show that the Langackerian notion
of synchronic subjectification accounts for the subjective reading of the
infinitival constructions in terms of transparency and lack of overt concep-
tualizers (3.2.).
3.1. Diachronic subjectification
3.1.1. Traugott’s (1989) proposal
Traugott (1989: 31) defines subjectification as “the historical pragmatic-
semantic process whereby meanings become increasingly based in the
speaker’s subjective belief state, or attitude toward what is said”. Traugott
argues that, for subjectification to take place, there should be some kind of
(metonymic) pragmatic strengthening (through inferencing). Traugott’s
version of subjectification addresses meaning change in terms of certain
70 Degrees of transparency and subjectification
aspects of the linguistic expression inviting the speaker to widen his/her
scope on what is said. Traugott and Dasher (2002: 97) repeat that subjecti-
fication is “associative and metonymical” to the speaker/writer’s act of
communication, most especially to the speaker/writer’s attitude to the
proposition. Both Traugott (1989) and Traugott and Dasher (2002) pay
special attention to the speaker/writer - hearer/reader interaction in subjecti-
fication.
Traugott argues that the temporal conjunction since, which originally
only meant ‘after(ward)’ or ‘from that time on’ invited the inference of a
more subjective, causal interpretation (cf. Traugott 1989: 34). The shift
from temporal since to causal since implies a change from a concrete rela-
tion in the state of affairs to an abstract view of the state of affairs. In other
words there is a change from scope over the predication to scope over the
proposition.
Let us now apply this type of subjectification to parecer and resultar.
From the point of view of diachronic subjectification (cf. Traugott 1989),
the hypothesis is that parecer and resultar have undergone a diachronic
evolution from concrete readings to more abstract ones. A detailed descrip-
tion of parecer’s and resultar’s concrete and abstract readings is hence
needed in order to verify this process. I comment on diachronic examples
from the online Corpus del español (13th
century – 19th
century). I first
present parecer (3.1.2.) and then pass on to describe resultar (3.1.3.).
3.1.2. A diachronic view of parecer + infinitive
The corpus data I present below point to an evolution of parecer from a
verb of physical appearance including movement to a speaker-oriented
evidential auxiliary that can combine with infinitives. My data also illus-
trate that, while the first infinitives in the 14th
century were only copular
ones, the later ones include all types of verbs.
Bolinger (1991 [1972]) describes parecer with examples from 13th
-
century Old Spanish, but does not discuss later examples. Below I refer to
Bolinger’s comments where needed, and complement his analysis with
examples from the Corpus del español from the 13th
to the 16th
century.81
In the 13th
century, parecer is often used as a verb denoting appearance
or location, which can be understood both physically or metaphorically.
The parecer examples below refer to the physical appearance ‘to appear, to
show up’, e.g. (12a) and (12b), or the presentation of historical facts in
historiography (12c). This appearance or location reading could be consid-
ered a concrete reading of parecer.
Subjectification 71
(12) a. ... siempre se mueuen so ell orizon & non parece ninguno dellos.
(Alfonso X. Libros del saber de astronomía. 13th
century)
‘They always move under the horizon and no one of them shows
up.’
b. De que me aduxiste en tan alto puyal. De qui toda la tierra pare-
çe fastal mar. (Berceo, Gonzalo de. Milagros de Nuestra Sennora.
13th
century)
‘That you took me in so high a ‘place’. From here the whole world
appears up till the sea.’
c. Rey de Leon el qual cercaron los moros en la cueua de Cova-
donga que es en Asturias de ouiedo & por quien dios mos?? muy
grand ??? en aquel logar segund pareçe en esta estoria delas co-
sas que *acaescieron en su tiempo.
(Alfonso X. Estoria de España II. 13th
century)
‘The King of Leon who was surrounded by the Moors in the cave
of Covadonga which is in Asturias de Oviedo and for whom God
showed very big thing at this place, as it appears in this history of
the things that happened at his time.’
Importantly, my 13th
-century corpus data also contain nominal (13a) and
adjectival (13b) attributes, highlighting the copular function of parecer. In
these constructions, the writer compares the situation with a miracle (13a),
states that the fruit looks red (13b) or that the moon seems bigger (13c). In
the latter case, the writer indicates that the reality is different. The speaker
does not express certainty about his/her perception. This implies that the
subjective impression reading is also one of the “concrete” readings from
the first stages of the Spanish language.
(13) a. E esto dize la ystoria porque parece milagro enla tierra que
estaua yerma & seca & quemada dela calentura del sol tornar pes-
quera grande & muy abastada por el agua dela mar. (Anonymous.
Gran conquista de Ultramar. 13th
century)
‘And the history tells this because it seems a miracle to find a lake
provided with water from the sea in the wild, dry region that was
burnt by the hot sun.’
b. pero [esta fruta] es fuert & dura de quebrantar, quando la que-
brantan; fallan la de dentro aspera & de color uerde & clara pero
72 Degrees of transparency and subjectification
de fuera parece uermeia; mas no con tan grand claridat. (Alfonso
X. Lapidario. 13th
century)
‘But this fruit is strong and hard to break, when they break it; they
break the one that is rough from within and green-colored and
clear, but from outside it seems red, but not with great clarity.’
c. ... sauet que esta estrella que nos dezimos luna por esta rrazon
paresçe mayor delas otras por que esta mas çerca de nosotros e
dela tierra por que esta enel primero çirculo e esta planeta ha el
cuerpo rredondo. (San Isidoro. Semejanza del mundo. 13th
century)
‘Know that this star that we call moon for this reason seems [to be]
the bigger than the other ones because it is closer to us and to the
earth, because it is in the first circle and this planet has a round
body.’
Bolinger (1991: 30) argues that these copular expressions are the result of a
comparative parecer construction with como ‘like’, as in (14a), which he
paraphrases in terms of ‘it looked like’ or ‘it looked as if’. According to
Bolinger, this como-construction itself points to a widely productive adver-
bial combination with parecer in Old Spanish.
(14) a. et paresçia como era uermeia.
‘And it looked like it was red.’
b. assi como oy en dia paresce.
‘so like it appears today.’
(Alfonso X. Estoria de España. 13th
century, taken from Bolinger
1991: 29–30)
My examples in (13) illustrate that constructions with or without como are
used at the same time. Anyhow, the combination of the ‘appearance’ read-
ing of parecer is extended by way of the ‘look like’ reading of adjectival
and nominal complements toward that of a “mere linking verb” (Bolinger
1991: 31). The parecer + infinitive as used in present-day Spanish is not
attested in the 13th
century. Bolinger (1991: 34) mentions that of his 700
parecer examples from Old Spanish only three combine with an infinitive,
which then necessarily was preceded by the preposition de, as in (15).
(15) a. ... parescçe grieue de guerrear Calatrava a aquellos que la ui-
nien combater. (Alfonso X. Estoria de España. 13th
century)
‘It seems necessary to struggle [for] Calatrava against those that
come to fight.’
Subjectification 73
b. ... quiero y dexar cient moros et cient moras, ca parescrie mal de
leuar moros nin mora. (Alfonso X. Estoria de España. 13th
cen-
tury)
‘I want to leave a hundred male and a hundred female Moors, be-
cause it would look bad to carry Moors.’
c. ... nin paresçe bien de apartar se una de tantas. (Alfonso X.
Estoria general. 13th
century, taken from Bolinger 1999: 34)
‘Nor does it look well to split off one from a lot of other ones.’
In these constructions, the infinitive has a subject-like function and, thus,
parecer cannot be considered the “linking verb” it is nowadays. In fact, it is
not clear whether the parecer + infinitive construction really originates
from this construction. It stands to reason that parecer + infinitive has
arisen as a variant of the que-clause construction. This construction is at-
tested from the first stages of the Spanish language on. Bolinger (1991: 32)
argues that parece que has a strong adverbial dimension: bien ‘well’ or
manifiestamente ‘certainly’, as in (16a), often show up with parece que.
Yet, in the Corpus del español, from the 13th
century onwards I found con-
structions without adverbs such as me parece que (16b) and parece que
(16c).
(16) a. Manifiestament[r]e paresçio que assi fue como el juido dixo.
(Alfonso X. General Estoria. 13th
century, taken from Bolinger
1991: 32)
‘It obviously appeared that it happened like the jew [had] said.’
b. ... a todos los altos hombres que eran ay: & dixo les assi. Ami-
gos este combatir no me parece que nos aprouecha: ca a ellos no
podemos fazer daño. (Anonymous. Gran conquista de Ultramar.
13th
century)
‘To all these important people who were there: and I told them like
this. Friends, this fighting does not seem to me that it serves us:
because these guys we cannot hurt them.’
c. El huesped fue & mucho alegre quando entendio estas palauras
[...] pues paresçe que aquell cauallero era ally quando que vos
fuistes librado dela mala prision çertas dixo el Rey uos dezides
verdat que el era ally. (Anonymous. Cuento de Tristán de Leonís.
14th
century)
‘The host was really happy when he heard these words, well it
seems that this knight was there when you were liberated from the
74 Degrees of transparency and subjectification
bad prison. Right, said the King, you speak the truth that he was
there.’
Bolinger (1991: 37) states that by the end of the 16th
century “the personal-
ization of parecer with infinitive had accomplished”, without further detail-
ing his assumption.82
In what follows, I will discuss Bolinger’s hypothesis
regarding the shift to the infinitive and then comment on my own 14th
-
century corpus data of parecer + infinitive.
Bolinger (1991: 38) suggests that the infinitive constructions with pare-
cer made their way through the accidental formal resemblance between a
sentence-initial parece que construction (17a) and a left-dislocation one
(17b).
(17) a. Parece que Etna arde siempre.
‘It seems that the Etna is always glowing.’
b. Etna parece que arde siempre. (taken from Bolinger 1991: 38)
‘The Etna it seems that it is always glowing.’
c. Etna parece arder siempre.
‘The Etna seems always to be glowing.’
Bolinger states that a construction like the one in (17a) only has to displace
its thing-person subject in order to accomplish the first shift toward an
infinitival construction. Importantly, Bolinger (1990: 38) mentions that not
all subjects move as easily to the left-dislocated position as a third person
subject, as shown in the constructions with first personal yo in (18). The
infelicitous left-dislocation, Bolinger contends, could account for the infe-
licitous combination of a first person subject with parecer + infinitive.
(18) a. Parece que yo no soy así.
‘It seems that I am not like that.’
b. * Yo parece que no soy así.
‘Me it seems that I am not like that.’ [lit.]
c. ??
Yo no parezco ser así.
‘I don’t seem to be like that.’
Drawing on Bolinger’s data it is possible to argue for a narrowing of the
perception from a broader, intersubjective view with parece que to a
speaker-oriented, subjective view with parecer + infinitive. The fact that
the speaker has difficulties to view him/herself then implies that the expres-
sion is subjective.
Subjectification 75
Yet, my own examples from the Corpus del español show that an exten-
sion of the copular construction is more plausible. I found a few examples
of parecer + ser towards the end of the 14th
century. In (19), the writer has
recourse to parecer with the infinitive ser verde ‘to be green’ to tell that the
viewed reality is sometimes false: the reeds look fresh, but in reality they
are not. The infinitival construction may thus be seen as an extension of the
adjectival attribute uermeia ‘red’ exemplified in (13b).
(19) ... por ende la maldat le aconpaña sienpre, perdida la bondat. Al
junco e al carrizo el tal es conparado, que paresçe ser verde e todo
es desecado: fuera tiene frescura, con que ha engañado la vista de
los omnes que lo tengan provado. (López de Ayala, Canciller Pe-
dro. Libro Rimado de Palacio. 1380)
‘Finally the badness always accompanies, once the goodness is
lost. One can compare it with reeds, which seems to be green and
[but] all is dried out: from outside it has a fresh look, with which it
has misled the view of the people that have tasted it.’
Interestingly, in the 15th
century, verbs other than ser start to combine with
parecer and display a greater lexical variety from then on. In (20a), parecer
combines with the infinitive mostrar ‘to demonstrate’, deleitarse ‘to enjoy’
(20b), convenir ‘to agree’ (20c) and llegar ‘to arrive/reach’ (20d), among
other verbs.
(20) a. E avn podemos esto considerar acatando el vocablo que lo pa-
resce mostrar / ca dezimos piedad commo si dixiesemos patriedad
que es por respecto alos padres & patria. (Cartagena, Alfonso de.
Oracional de Fernán Pérez de Guzmán. 1487-03-26)
And we even can consider it respecting the word that seems to
demonstrate it, because we say devotion as if we said patriotism,
which is [the equivalent] of respect for the fathers and the father-
land.’
b. ... y aquellos que en tus largos vicios estan lançados havnque
paresce deleytarse no es possible que la anima en vicios corronpi-
da puede alegre biuir. (Flores, Juan de. Triunfo de amor. 15th
cen-
tury)
‘... and those [of you] who are chucked in your lavish vices, al-
though you seem to enjoy it, it is impossible that a soul can live
joyfully when it is corrupted in perversion.’
76 Degrees of transparency and subjectification
c. ... habent insidiatrix sanguini. i. quien asecha para matar & pa-
rece conuenir mas con la letra que se sigue. (Fernández de Santae-
lla, Rodrigo. Vocabulario eclesiástico. 15th
century)
‘..habent insidiatrix sanguini.. i. who sets a pitfall to kill & seems to
agree more with the letter that he follows.’
d. Donde despues del pecado del primero padre ninguno onbre pu-
do llegar por que es cercado del biuo fuego que sube tan alto que
parece llegar cerca del cielo. (Valera, Diego de. Crónica de Espa-
ña. 1482)
‘Where after the sin of the first father no one could arrive because
it is surrounded by heavy fire that goes so high that it seems to
reach the sky.’
In the 16th
century, examples are found of parecer with estar + gerund (21).
From the 16th
century on, the diversity of infinitives that combine with
parecer steadily became larger, which has made parecer an increasingly
more transparent verb.
(21) De la otra parte acá del hondo valle, el río por su anchura más
s'estiende. De la una parte d'él verán alisos, que de lexos paresce
estar cayendo sobre una tabla d'agua tan hermosa, tan clara, que
la sombra y arboleda. (Montemayor, Jorge de. Obra selecta. 1540)
‘From that side there of the deep valley, the river widens. From this
side you will see alders, that from far seem to be falling over a wa-
ter table, which is as beautiful, as clear as the shadow and the
trees.’
The foregoing examples show that the ‘complement’ of parecer undergoes
an extension from adjectival or nominal attributes toward infinitives. The
parecer reading of appearance seems to have disappeared and is nowadays
expressed by aparecer ‘to show up’. Subjectification is at stake since pare-
cer is “increasingly based in the speaker’s subjective belief state” (Traugott
1989: 31). The evolution presented above does not show, however, that the
meaning of parecer radically changes: there is only a narrowing down of
meanings that were already there from the beginning. My corpus data indi-
cate that parecer does not undergo major metonymic changes: the only
possible one is the shift from a physical appearance reading to a subjective
impression reading. Traugott’s subjectification applies to parecer to the
extent that one of the initial meanings is now spread over different linguis-
tic expressions with parecer. It is observed that the verb becomes more
Subjectification 77
transparent without acquiring a new meaning. In present-day Spanish,
parecer broadens the scope over the predication in that it can also include
various types of infinitival processes. Needless to say that further research
should refine the above-described tendencies.
3.1.3. A diachronic view of resultar + infinitive
Resultar has a resultative meaning which hardly differs from its origins,
which are situated in the 15th
century, as shown in example (22).
(22) El escrivano diz: “Señor, diez ducados resultó de esta armada en
que yo contribuí la ochava parte; mandadme dar la ochava parte
de estos diez docados”.
(Colón, Cristobal. Textos y documentos completos de Cristobal Co-
lón. 15th
century)
The clerk says: “Sir, ten ducates was the result of this war fleet to
which I contributed the eighth part; make me receive the eighth
part of these ten ducates”.’
It is in the 17th
century when one observes examples of resultar with estar
‘to be’ and with ser ‘to be’.83
In the utterance in (23), resultar expresses the
result of a lawsuit against Bernardo, and less the speaker’s observation
about the state of affairs.
(23) BERNARDO: Presto venís a leer mi sentencia. SECRETARIO:
Estos son cargos. Cargos Primeramente resulta estar culpado don
Bernardo de Cabrera en no haber agradecido a su majestad el
haberle hecho Conde de Val, Almirante de la Mar. (Amescua, An-
tonio. La adversa fortuna de Don Bernardo de Cabrera. 1574-
1644)
‘Bernardo: I ask you, come and read my verdict. Secretary: These
are the allegations. First Don Bernardo de Cabrera turns out to be
accused of not having thanked his majesty for having awarded him
Count of Val and Sea admiral.’
In (24), the concrete result is less central than the general assessment of the
state of affairs as viewed by the speaker and probably also by other people.
(24) ... acto positivo de nobleza el no sujetarse a leyes tan santas, orde-
nadas con acuerdo del más prudente, más docto y más grave sena-
78 Degrees of transparency and subjectification
do del mundo: de que resulta ser menor el fruto que de ellas se
consigue, que el daño de habituarse el pueblo a la transgresión de
leyes justas. (Fernández Navarrete, Pedro. Conservación de Mon-
arquías y Discursos Políticos. 1626).
‘... a positive act of nobility [is] not respecting the laws so holy,
and commanded with the agreement of the most cautious, most
learned and most serious senate of the world: of which the benefit
that they get from it turns out to be smaller than the damage of the
people getting accustomed not to respect just laws.’
This is also the case in the 19th
century example in (25), which yields a
future reading.
(25) Si el indianete ese resulta ser lo que aparenta, y, andando los días,
te apunta deseos de casarse contigo, por mí no lo dejes. (Pereda,
José María de. La Puchera. 1870)
If this Indian boy turns out to be what he makes believe, and, after
a few days, lets you know desires to marry with you, for me don’t
refuse.’
These examples suggest that resultar experiences a slow evolution toward a
more speaker-oriented reading, which only breaks through in the 19th
cen-
tury, though it was already initiated in the 15th
century.
3.1.4. Discussion
The admittedly small set of data presented in the previous sections suggests
that the subjectification of parecer and resultar is a century-long process.
However, the case of parecer shows that speaker-oriented readings may
have emerged pretty early in association with adjectival attributes. The
extension to all kinds of infinitives follows in the 15th
century, apparently
without sensible meaning change. Further research should spell out whether
parecer + infinitive also shifts from an evidential reading to a more epis-
temic reading, in line with what Traugott (1989) points out for the modal
verbs. Resultar’s evolution towards more transparency is a more recent
development than that of parecer. Resultar + infinitive testifies to a seman-
tic change from the resultative reading to a more speaker-oriented reading,
which only appears in the 19th
century..
Bolinger’s (1991) hypothesis about the left-dislocation may be problem-
atic, although it would further underpin what I have been arguing in the
Subjectification 79
present and the previous chapter. The left-dislocation construction as inter-
mediate stage between parece que and parecer + infinitive can explain how
the speaker-oriented reading acquired an infinitive construction. The fact
that, unlike present-day Spanish, at the beginning only copular infinitives
combined with parecer illustrates that this speaker-oriented reading based
on inference was initially rather reduced. Given the great diversity of infini-
tives found in the present-day corpus, one can conclude that the subjective
reading of parecer + infinitive has become conventionalized over the cen-
turies.
3.2. Synchronic subjectification
In this section, I examine whether Langacker’s synchronic version of sub-
jectification (3.2.1.) can be applied it to parecer (3.2.2.) and resultar
(3.2.3.).
3.2.1. Objective construal vs. subjective construal
Langacker’s version of subjectification is commonly understood as the shift
towards a more subjective construal, which is driven by “cognitive opera-
tions inherent in its conception” (Langacker 2003: 5). One of these opera-
tions is “mental scanning”, i.e. the viewing of a scene, which occurs along a
continuum with two extremes: the maximally objective construal, when the
linguistic expression is the object of conception – all participants being
“onstage” –, and the maximally subjective construal, when the construction
itself is the subject of conception – the participants remaining “offstage”. In
other words, an element of the linguistic expression that is not overtly pre-
sent, but covertly construed, is more subjective. For example, Langacker
(1990: 23) regards be going to in (26) as subjective because the earthquake
is not directly controlling the event by means of be going, but rather the
offstage speaker is foretelling the event’s occurrence.
(26) An earthquake is going to destroy that town.
That aspectual verbs such as go to are subjective touches the heart of Lan-
gacker’s model. The mental scanning of the go to-construction uses the
inherent motion pattern along temporal lines. Since the switch from motion
to temporality or ‘fictive motion’ is subjectively construed, it is a manifes-
tation of subjectification. Thus, it is clear that Langacker does not attempt
80 Degrees of transparency and subjectification
to consider subjectification in terms of pragmatic speaker-hearer interaction
and does not subscribe to pragmatic strengthening as a process of semantic
change.84
More recently, Langacker has shifted towards a new version of subjecti-
fication that is closer to Traugott’s view of subjectification as metonymic
change. “Subjectification is the ‘laying bare’ of conceptual operations
which are immanent in the original lexical meanings and in that sense con-
stitute their deepest properties” (Langacker 1998: 88). Since parecer and
resultar + infinitive do not substantially differ from their lexical meanings,
I will continue to use the definition of subjectification in terms of absence
of the “onstage” conceptualizers. I first discuss parecer (3.2.2.) and then
comment on resultar (3.2.3.).
3.2.2. Conceptualizers with parecer
The onstage, i.e. overtly mentioned, conceptualizer is most often the
speaker, but can also be the hearer or a third entity responsible for the view-
ing of the process. For example, the verb seem can have a conceptualizer
like me in (27a), while evidential promise and threaten cannot.
(27) a. There {seems/appears} (to me) to be a problem. (from Langacker
2000: 256)
b. This promises {*to me/ Ø } to be a good argument.
c. This threatens {*to me/ Ø } to be a bad argument.
In (27a) and (27b), the conceptualizer necessarily remains offstage and
unprofiled, which implies that the conceptualizer is construed subjectively.
According to Langacker, the absence of such a participant implies that all
attention is directed to the infinitival process, which is modally or aspectu-
ally qualified.
The overt prepositional object to me situates the seem construction ob-
jectively in the speaker’s realm. In Langacker’s (2000: 256) terms, the
indirect object me in (27a) is an “onstage conceptualizer”, i.e. an explicit
expression of the viewer. From a conceptualist point of view, the overt
expression of to me makes the construal more objective, and prevents
him/her from subjectively construing the conceptualizer of the infinitival
process. Most often the viewer is only potential, and remains “offstage”. In
this respect, the subjectification consists in the subjective construal of an
“offstage” conceptualizer that plays a role in the viewing of the linguistic
expression and, hence, of the state of affairs expressed.85
Note that, whereas
Subjectification 81
to me is possible, to him or to her is excluded. This illustrates that there are
restrictions on the type of participant that can be onstage.
I now apply these theoretical considerations to parecer and resultar. The
subjective import of evidential verbs like parecer or resultar can be ana-
lyzed in terms of conceptualizers that remain “offstage”. In Langacker’s
example (27) the conceptualizer precedes the copular infinitive be, but
other more lexically diverse infinitives are also possible. In Spanish, by
contrast, the “onstage” conceptualizer is only available in a construction
like the one with a copular infinitive in (28a), which is the only example I
found in the corpus. With other infinitives, parecer + infinitive cannot be
accompanied by an “onstage” conceptualizer, as shown in (28b).85
(28) a. ... en tercer lugar quisiera indicarle lo que me parece ser la...
problemática más decisiva en la cual la iglesia esta envuelta en es-
tos momentos. (Habla Culta: San Juan: M12)
‘Thirdly, I would like to point out what seems to me to be the most
decisive problems that the Church is facing at the moment.’
b. *... quisiera indicarle lo que me parece poner trabas al desarro-
llo económico.
‘I would like to point out what seems to me to block the economic
development.’
Lexically more elaborate infinitives such as the action verb poner trabas ‘to
block’ cannot combine with an “onstage” conceptualizer as easily as the
copular verbs. In Langackerian terms, the absence of an “onstage” concep-
tualizer and the greater variety of infinitives that combine with parecer
point to increased subjectification.
Langacker (2000, 2003) repeatedly mentions that the conceptualizer re-
fers to the speaker or the hearer involved in the communication. In (29a), I
show that it sometimes turns out to be difficult to introduce a second person
conceptualizer in the parecer + ser construction by means of a clitic form.
And (29b) testifies to the sometimes questionable acceptability of the third
person clitic.
(29) a. ?
¿La problemática te parece ser decisiva?
‘Do the problems seem to be decisive to you?’
b. ?
Las condiciones del tratado le parecen ser duras.
‘The conditions of the treaty seem to him/her to be hard.’
In (29), it is illustrated that with parece ser, the onstage conceptualizer does
not naturally appear in the third person, nor in the second person. Yet there
82 Degrees of transparency and subjectification
are special cases in which these constructions can be used: for example, the
emphatic reaction of disbelief or surprise in the case of (29a) or the “echo”
comments made by a journalist for (29b).86
These pragmatically marked
uses corroborate that when the onstage conceptualizer appears, it is pre-
dominantly centered on the speaker. Moreover, they show that the infinitive
construction is inherently speaker-oriented, whether the speaker be onstage
or offstage. When the conceptualizer is offstage, the speaker construes the
scene (and its own intervention) more subjectively.87
3.2.3. Conceptualizers with resultar
In line with the differences discussed so far, parecer and resultar differ as
to the position of “onstage” conceptualizers. When resultar is followed by
an infinitive (30a) or a que-clause (30b), the verb cannot combine with me,
while with an adjectival attribute, this is no problem, as shown in (30c).
(30) a. Bueno... y entonces hacen arreglos de ese tipo, y por supuesto...
e... a veces {*me / Ø} resultan ser buenos libros, que... que son...
útiles, pero, normalmente, otros... en otros casos, no. (Habla Culta:
Caracas: M7)
‘Well, and then they make arrangement of this type, and of course,
sometimes it turns out to be good books, which are useful, but
normally, in other cases, they are not.’
b. {*me / Ø} resulta que son buenos libros.
c. Los libros {me / Ø} resultan buenos.
‘The books prove interesting to me.’
The question is for what reason the conceptualizer cannot be overtly men-
tioned. One could argue that resultar’s intersubjectivity blocks “onstage”
conceptualizers. Yet, the subjective infinitival construction also needs an
“offstage” conceptualizer. Moreover, the conceptualizer of resulta que
constructions is diffuse and does not readily connect to a particular entity.
Does this mean that the absence of an “onstage” conceptualizer leads to a
subjective construal of the infinitival process following resultar? The an-
swer is affirmative. Not the offstage conceptualizer as such, but the shift
from a construction with a finite verb to an infinitival one entails a subjec-
tive conceptualizer associated with the speaker. Since this subjective read-
ing is not the most natural reading of resultar, the infinitival construction is
rather scarcely used. This account confirms the observations made on resul-
tar so far. Hence, with verbs that do not witness an onstage/offstage alter-
Conclusions 83
nation of the conceptualizer, the offstage conceptualizer is only crucial
when it is related to the difference between constructions with a que-clause
and those with an infinitive.
In sum, the notion of subjectification is useful to explain the degree to
which the conceptualizer of an evidential statement is subjectively con-
strued. Neither parecer nor resultar can appear with an overt conceptual-
izer in all infinitival constructions, albeit for different reasons. Parecer
readily yields a subjective construal of the infinitival process, whereas with
resultar only a couple of verbs allow for a subjectively construed conceptu-
alizer in an infinitival construction.
4. Conclusions
As for the transparency, my corpus data have shown that the infinitives that
may follow parecer correspond more or less to the same semantic types as
the finite verbs in parecer’s que-clause. This is not at all the case for resul-
tar, which only combines with a very limited group of infinitives.
The focal prominence of the subject is a result of the verb’s transpar-
ency. My account of the prominence is a dynamic interpretation of the
thematic subject of parecer described by Porroche (1990) and Cabeza
Pereiro (1997), in that the grammatical subject has been argued to play a
crucial role in the subjective conceptualization of the event expressed. The
ungrounded nature of the infinitival process makes possible a subjective
comparison with other similar views related to the elements associated with
the subject.
The interrelatedness of the non-finite process and the focal position of
the subject has proven to be in line with the earlier comments on subjectiv-
ity. That is, an intersubjective statement does not give rise to the dynamic
mechanism of subjective elaboration. This argument further unravels the
oft-mentioned opposition between near-factive and non-factive readings of
parecer. Although evidential parecer and resultar do not convey epistemic
modality, the subjective comparison with other processes explains then
why parecer + infinitive is perceived as less factive than parece que. As for
resultar, it is not surprising that the predominantly intersubjective state-
ments do not readily show up in infinitival constructions.
There are considerable differences between Traugottian and Langack-
erian subjectification. Yet, for both models, the greater variety of infinitives
involves more subjectification. From a diachronic point of view, the shift
from copular complements to all verb types implies an extension of the
subjective reading. From a synchronic point of view, the lack of conceptu-
84 Degrees of transparency and subjectification
alizers with verbs other than the copular ones leads to a subjective construal
of the conceptualizer.
In sum, although the analysis of evidence and statements in terms of (in-
ter)subjectivity is not at issue in Cognitive Grammar, one can keep the
(inter)subjectivity distinction as a level of interpretation in the conceptuali-
zation of evidential expressions, on the one hand, and at the same time
cognitively underpin the specific complementation of the linguistic expres-
sion of evidentiality, on the other.
Chapter 4
Evidentiality and modality with prometer and
amenazar
Another pair of verbs with evidential and epistemic dimensions is prometer
and amenazar. Rather than pure likelihood, these verbs express a prediction
made on the basis of explicit or implicit evidence. The central argument of
this chapter is that prometer conveys a stronger prediction about the event
expressed by the infinitive than amenazar. Applied to (1) and (2), the
speaker considers it more obvious that winter should be rainy than that the
important meeting should be overshadowed by pressure measures.
(1) Este invierno promete ser llovedor. -Llovedor, patrón, promete ser
este iinvierno. -Se ve mucha chicharra en el monte. Y es la señal.
(Barrios, Eduardo. Gran señor y rajadiablos)
‘This winter promises to be rainy. Rainy, boss, this winter prom-
ises to be. One notices lots of crickets in the mountains. And this is
the signal.’
(2) El importante encuentro amenaza ser ensombrecido por medidas
de presión de varios sectores, por lo que el gobierno dispuso la in-
tervención de las Fuerzas Armadas. (Notic: Bolivia: ERBOL: 04-
15-96)
‘The important meeting threatens to be overshadowed by pressure
measures from several sectors, as a consequence the government
ordered the intervention of the Armed Forces.’
This different kind of prediction can be explained by the different commit-
ment to the event conveyed by lexical prometer and amenazar, here hallar
una solución ‘to find a solution’ (3) and dejar la coalición ‘to leave the
coalition’ (4).
(3) Los vecinos recorrieron todas las calles del barrio con gran albo-
roto, hasta que se presentaron autoridades del Partido Comunista,
que prometieron hallar una solución a la grave crisis. (Cuba: Cu-
baNet: Junio 11, 1998)
86 Modality with prometer and amenazar
‘The local residents went through all the streets of the district with
much racket, till officials of the Communist Party appeared [and]
promised to find a solution for the serious crisis.’
(4) El MBL [Movimiento Bolivia Libre] vuelve a amenazar con dejar
la coalición. (Notic: Bolivia: ERBOL: 06/13/96)
‘The MBL once again threatens to leave the coalition.’
In addition to the predictive dimension, there is also an evaluative dimen-
sion, which in (1) and (2) consists in an orientation towards respectively a
positive and negative evaluation of the event expressed by the infinitive. It
is generally assumed that the positive characteristics of a promise and the
negative features associated with a threat lead to a positive versus a nega-
tive evaluation of the likely event. I will examine the evaluation conveyed
by these two verbs in greater detail and show that this assumption is borne
out by amenazar but not by prometer.
The chapter is organized as follows. The first section presents a series of
research lines dealing with promise and threaten, which will be linked to
modal prometer and amenazar. In Section (2.), I give an overview of the
frequency distribution of modal and lexical prometer and amenazar and
describe the interaction of the participants and the illocutionary force (or
the absence of it) with the latter readings. The description of the lexical
readings will lay the basis for the examination of the prediction hypothesis
in Section (3.). In Section (4.), I test the hypothesis that prometer allows for
both positively and negatively oriented complements, while amenazar is
restricted to negatively oriented ones.
1. Previous research lines on promise and threaten
In the field of Spanish linguistics, little attention has been paid to the se-
mantic, pragmatic and conceptual characteristics of modal amenazar and
prometer. Hernanz (1999) briefly tackles the issue of subject raising with
amenazar and prometer, which she considers an equivalent of the raising
mechanism with parecer. Howeve, her formal description does not take
into account the semantics of these verbs. More recently, Vázquez-Laslop
(2001: 246), has analyzed the difference between lexical prometer, which
she refers to as a “deontic control verb”, and “epistemic” prometer, “which
shows some features of a raising verb”. Vázquez-Laslop (2001: 246–255)
mainly deals with the semantic and syntactic constraints on “epistemic”
prometer without commenting on amenazar. In the cognitive-functional
Previous research lines 87
literature, modal promise and threaten have been widely discussed in terms
of the development of epistemic meaning (cf. the seminal papers by
Traugott 1989, 1997; and by Verhagen 1995, 1996). But Rooryck (1997,
2000), who works in the formal tradition, also links the French equivalents
of promise and threaten to different kinds of epistemic modality. Several
authors deal with promise and threaten in terms of subjectification. I will
discuss these research lines below.
1.1. Epistemicity, inferentiality and evaluative orientations
Promise and threaten express some kind of epistemic modality, but the
label “epistemic” is not sufficient for their semantic analysis in view of this
predictive dimension and this possible evidential import. A question that
imposes itself is how the evidence from the world out-there relates to the
speaker’s (autonomous) assessment of the state of affairs and the resulting
prediction expressed by the semi-auxiliaries. Moreover, the verbs under
consideration convey the speaker’s appraisal of the probable state of affairs
in positive or negative terms. The relation between the evidential dimension
and these two qualifications needs to be investigated further.
Traugott (1997) discusses the likelihood and the evaluation expressed by
“epistemic” promise and threaten. On the one hand, Traugott (1997: 190)
argues that their “epistemic” reading has an inferential dimension since the
speaker draws a conclusion on the basis of the reality outside the speaker’s
realm. She mentions that promise and threaten share some properties with
“inferential” epistemic modals like should and ought to, which Coates
(1983: 19) paraphrases as: “from the evidence available I tentatively as-
sume that …”. On the other hand, Traugott (1997) states that promise and
threaten also resemble “non-inferential” epistemic modals such as may,
might and could, which contain judgments about the likelihood of the state
of affairs, situated in the speaker’s subjective realm and correspond to “I
think it is likely” (Traugott 1997: 190).
As Traugott (1997) rightly points out, the inference can be based on
“appearance” (direct evidence) as well as on “expectations and knowledge”
(reasoning), as in (5a) and (5b).
(5) a. The Capitol promised to be a large and handsome building,
judging from the part about two thirds already above ground.
(1795 Twin [ARCHER], taken from Traugott 1997: 188)
b. The hapless, aggrieved house-husband threatens to become as
rigid and unexamined a comic invention as the grotesquely intru-
88 Modality with prometer and amenazar
sive mother-in-law once was. (1992 Independent [ARCHER], taken
from Traugott 1997: 194)
In the promise example (5a), the speaker explicitly describes how this half-
built building appears to him/her, and bases his/her statement upon it. With
threaten in (5b), the comic role of the aggrieved husband is likely to replace
the intrusive mother-in-law role. The examples in (5) illustrate that the line
between non-inferential reasoning and inference based on reasoning is thin.
With promise in (5a) the evaluative comment on the building is clearly
based on direct evidence and may stand for both likelihood and evaluation.
Reasoning is not absent, however, since any inference involves mental
processing that parallels reasoning. The comment in (5b) on the negative
evolution of the comic roles is not directly based on direct evidence and,
hence, emphasizes the importance of reasoning.
The specific status of the non-inferential dimension raises several ques-
tions: is non-inferential likelihood implicated from the evidential type of
inference? In other words, is the inferential dimension primary with respect
to the likelihood expressed or is the non-inferential likelihood inherently
present as an independent qualification conveyed by promise/threaten?
Traugott (1997) seems to be aware of the problem when she states that
neither the (positive or negative) evaluation nor the likelihood can be seen
as either inferential or non-inferential. This leads me to conclude that the
inferential (evidential) and the non-inferential (epistemic modal) qualifica-
tions are distinct from one another. In other words, even if the source of
information is clearly inferential (either from direct evidence or from rea-
soning), the strength of the speaker’s prediction does not necessarily de-
pend on the inferential input.
Verhagen (1995, 1996, 2000) argues that Dutch and English be-
loven/promise and dreigen/threaten have an “argumentational orientation”,
which is based on an inferential orientation, on the one hand, and an
evaluative orientation, on the other. These orientations apply to both “de-
scriptive” (lexical) and “epistemic” (subjective) readings of the verbs under
consideration. Verhagen (2000) states that the lexical and the subjective
readings have the same argumentational orientation, which, according to
him, involves for both verbs an increased strength of the assumption or
expectation. Yet, Verhagen’s own (2000: 200–202) examples do not unam-
biguously support this argument, as shown in (6).
Previous research lines 89
(6) a. A: Is Peter coming to the party? (Verhagen 2000: 200-202)
B: Sure, he promised.
b. A: Are they really going to freeze the budget?
B: Well, they did threaten to do so.
In the promise example (6a), the speaker’s reporting that someone prom-
ised to be present leads to the expectation that the person will actually be
there. Although there is a certain strength of expectation, the threaten ex-
ample in (6b) does not create the same strength of expectation as that ex-
pressed by promise. Nevertheless, Verhagen (1996: 802, 2000: 202) states
that the inferential orientation of dreigen ‘to threaten’ is the same as that of
Dutch beloven ‘to promise’ and English promise: “[the verb] also func-
tion[s] to strengthen the belief or expectation that may be formulated in the
complement”.
The evaluative orientation of promise/beloven is concerned with the fa-
vorable view of the conclusion suggested in the utterances. Verhagen sees
the evaluation as a separate dimension, apart from inferential knowledge.
Verhagen (1996: 802–804) argues that the evaluative orientation of “epis-
temic” beloven ‘promise’ is not as strong as the inferential orientation,
because beloven can also combine with the negatively oriented attribute
tijdrovend ‘time-consuming’, as in (7). The fact that beloven is not re-
stricted to positively oriented complements, shows that the usually positive
evaluation can be downplayed to emphasize the likelihood of the event
expressed.
(7) [Er wacht hem een nieuwe taak,] die tijdrovend belooft te zijn.
(Verhagen 1996: 797)
‘A new task awaits him, which promises to be time-consuming.’
Verhagen (2000: 202) contends that with dreigen ‘threaten’, however, there
is no difference of strength between the inferential and the evaluative orien-
tation: “Dreigen and threaten orient the interpreter towards the conclusion
that the proposition expressed in the complement may become true, just
like beloven and promise do, but this time this conclusion is evaluated
negatively, suggesting that something should be done about it; the latter is
what makes these verbs different from beloven and promise”.
Verhagen’s evaluative orientation offers both useful and problematic
elements for the analysis of amenazar and prometer. On the one hand, in
distinguishing between an inferential and an evaluative orientation, Verha-
gen implicitly suggests that the evaluation is never based on inference,
whereas the likelihood is seen as exclusively inferential. This view is prob-
90 Modality with prometer and amenazar
lematic, however, since the likelihood should then always depend on the
evidential type. Moreover, it is not excluded that the positive or negative
view of the event expressed in the evaluation correlates with the speaker’s
assumptions based on inference from external evidence.
On the other hand, by refraining from attributing an inferential status to
the evaluative orientation in “epistemic” promise and threaten, Verhagen
(1996) opens the path to an evaluation of the state of affairs that relies on
the speaker’s own assessment only. When the evaluation is (partly) de-
tached from inference based on direct evidence, promise and threaten and
their equivalents cannot keep a monopoly on positive and negative connota-
tions respectively. That is, the speaker has more flexibility to assess the
state of affairs in positive, negative or neutral terms, separately from infer-
ential knowledge.
1.2. Different epistemic values
Rooryck (2000) differentiates between an evaluative, a temporal and a
modal dimension in French promettre ‘to promise’ and menacer ‘to
threaten’.88
As for the evaluative and the temporal dimension, Rooryck
(2000) argues that the verb promettre is closely related to the inchoative
aller ‘to be going to’ “carrying an additional positive connotation”, while
menacer “seems to be basically a variant of risquer ‘to risk’, with pejora-
tive import” (Rooryck 2000: 43; see also Diewald 2004 and Reis 2005 for
similar observations on aspect). The temporal dimension of promettre and
menacer is concerned with a state of affairs projected into the future, just
like the constructions with aller and risquer.89
Importantly, Rooryck links the two verbs to different types of modality,
claiming that promettre conveys epistemic necessity, while menacer ex-
presses epistemic possibility, as summarized in Table 16.
Table 16. Epistemic necessity vs. possibility (Rooryck 2000: 44)
Objective epistemic necessity Objective epistemic possibility
Future Aller/promettre Risquer/menacer
Past Venir de Avoir failli
Previous research lines 91
Rooryck (2000: 44) illustrates the opposition between epistemic necessity
and epistemic possibility with the two examples presented in (8) and (9). In
the menacer example (8), the house may – but need not necessarily –
collapse, which is illustrated by the infelicitous reformulation with the ad-
jective “necessary” in (8b). Rooryck argues that with menacer certain but
not all conditions are present for the collapse of the house to happen, as
seen in (8b).
(8) a. Cette maison menace de s’écrouler. (Rooryck 2000: 44)
‘This house threatens to collapse.’
b. It is possible/*? necessary that this house will collapse.
‘Certain conditions are present for this house to collapse.’
Rooryck (2000: 44) mentions that the possibility expressed in (8b) is in line
with the possibility attached to risquer, i.e. the expression of uncertainty.
For promettre, by contrast, the possibility reading is too weak, as shown in
(9b).
(9) a. Cette maison promet d’être un havre de paix.
‘This house promises to be a haven of peace’
b. It is *? possible/necessary (inevitable) that this house will be a
haven of peace
‘All conditions are present for this house to be a haven of peace.’
On the basis of the test in (9), Rooryck claims that it is impossible to say
that there is only a chance of the house becoming a haven of peace. The
assumption that with promettre all conditions are present for the house to
be a peaceful haven leads Rooryck to argue that promettre conveys a neces-
sity reading.90
In this context, Vázquez-Laslop’s (2001: 246–47) comment
on Spanish “epistemic” prometer in (10) is helpful. Unlike Rooryck (2000),
this author argues that the state of affairs expressed by prometer is “quite
likely” (10b) rather than “highly likely” (10c) to come true.
(10) a. El señor del Rosal ha gastado hasta la camisa, pero la boda que
ha planeado promete ser de lo más espectacular.
‘Mr. del Rosal has spent down to the shirt on his back, but the
wedding he has planned promises to be most spectacular.’
b. It is quite likely/it is expected that the wedding Mr. del Rosal
has planned will be most spectacular.
c. ?
It is highly likely for the wedding to be most spectacular.
92 Modality with prometer and amenazar
My corpus data presented in Section (3.) will also challenge Rooryck’s
(2000) distinction between epistemic necessity and possibility.91
Mena-
cer/amenazar and promettre/prometer certainly differ as to the predictive
value they express. Although the reformulations of the constructions in (8)
and (9) in terms of different conditions may be useful, epistemic necessity
is too strong for promettre and its equivalents in other languages. Instead of
having recourse to necessity, the relative strength of the prediction will
suffice to account for prometer.
Whereas Rooryck (2000) does not offer an explanation for the differ-
ence between promettre and menacer, Vliegen (2006) does for Dutch and
German dreigen/drohen and beloven/versprechen. Vliegen’s main argu-
ment is that the different likelihood of realization of the event expressed in
the infinitive is due to their different lexical meaning. The likelihood de-
rives from (i) the commitment of the subject in the lexical reading of the
verbs, and (ii) the presence or absence of illocutionary force in the verbs’
lexical readings.92
The subject of lexical beloven/versprechen is more
committed to the realization of the event expressed in the infinitive than
that of dreigen/drohen. The proposal to take subject commitment and illo-
cutionary force into account is an alternative to accounts that link epistemic
modality to source-evidentiality.
1.3. Transparency and subjectification
Transparent verbs are characterized by their loss of valency and their shift
away from the lexical content. The syntactic tradition has mainly focused
on the former, while cognitive linguistics most often addresses the latter.
Nowadays transparency is increasingly referred to as a continuum with
two endpoints, i.e. completely transparent verbs and fully lexical ones,
that are opposed to each other both semantically and formally (cf. Lan-
gacker 1995, Lamiroy 1995: 278). Lamiroy (1995, 1998) draws attention
to the restrictions on the type of infinitive that certain verbs manifest. In
her analysis of aspectual verbs, Lamiroy (1995: 283) states that if such a
verb can combine with a static verb (verbe d’état), it also can do so with
an action verb (verbe d’action), as opposed to Ruwet’s (1983) observa-
tion that raising verbs seem to prefer static verbs. It can be assumed that
so-called raising verbs such as modal menacer and promettre react differ-
ently to an action verb than the inchoative se mettre à ‘to begin’.
As for the shift in the lexical content discussed by cognitive-functional
linguists,93
transparency is seen as the final stage of the attenuation of ob-
jective characteristics associated with a certain verb. Langacker establishes
Previous research lines 93
a clear correlation between the attenuation of subject control, the raising
construction and the final transparency of the verb, which is an alternative
to the so-called raising of the subject.94
Langacker (2000) argues that modal
promise has reached the “extreme situation where attenuation of subject
control results in transparency”. Yet, Langacker does not give any empiri-
cal underpinning of the alleged total absence of restrictions on the subject
or infinitive with promise and threaten. In my analysis of amenazar and
prometer, I will be more cautious about the transparency of these verbs and
examine the different infinitives that can combine with the modal uses of
these verbs. In Chapter 5, I will show that these verbs are subject to restric-
tions and are, thus, still on the way to complete transparency.
The increasing transparency of these verbs can be seen as illustrative of
the ongoing subjectification process. The analysis of subjectification starts
from the assumption that the shift from the lexical to the “epistemic” read-
ings of promise and threaten is not unmotivated. In the literature there are
roughly speaking two concepts of subjectification. On the one hand, there is
Traugott’s (1989) notion of diachronic subjectification. On the other hand,
there is Langacker’s conceptual and synchronic subjectification concept.
For the case of promise/beloven and threaten/dreigen, Verhagen (1995:
121–126, 2000: 203–206) also proposes to differentiate between “character
subjectivity” and “speaker-hearer subjectivity” which guide different paths
of subjectification.
For Traugott, modal promise and threaten are the results of a “unidirec-
tional” process of grammaticalization.95
Traugott (1997) differentiates be-
tween three stages for both promise and threaten. From the very beginning,
the verb is a performative and commissive verb which expresses commit-
ment to the interlocutor (cf. Traugott 1997: 186). The second stage starts in
the sixteenth century, when both verbs allow for a “non-intentional, non-
commissive, epistemic” reading in their transitive use with a nominal com-
plement. In examples such as the one in (11), Traugott states that the verbs
mean ‘predict’.
(11) ... the title of this Paper promising some Experiments about the
Production of Electricity, I must not omit to recite.... (1675-1676
Boyle. Electricity and Magnetism 20–21, from Traugott 1997: 187)
The third stage, beginning in the eighteenth century, is characterized by the
“non-intentional and epistemic” meanings of promise and threaten with
infinitival complements, as in the present-day example in (12).
94 Modality with prometer and amenazar
(12) The route promised to throw a variety of weather at us.
(1992 Flying [HECTOR], taken from Traugott 1997: 189)
In contemporary English, the speaker views the proposition as likely, and
evaluates it positively or negatively. Traugott argues that the “epistemic”
readings of promise and threaten with an infinitive are a rather recent phe-
nomenon in English (end of the 19th
century). In Chapter 6, I will look more
closely at the subjectification process of both English promise/threaten and
Spanish prometer/amenazar. Traugott’s analysis of promise and threaten is
a good basis for analyzing amenazar and prometer from a diachronic point
of view. A drawback of Traugott’s (1997) proposal is that promise and
threaten are ascribed the same path of evolution, which is questioned by
Verhagen (2000).
Verhagen’s (1995, 2000) view of subjectification emphasizes the
speaker − hearer interaction in the conventionalization of meaning. Al-
though Verhagen (2000) posits the same epistemic value for prom-
ise/beloven and threaten/dreigen, his diachronic account, by contrast,
points to important differences between the two verb pairs. Verhagen
shows that “epistemic” dreigen ‘to threaten’ is older than beloven ‘to prom-
ise’ and that these readings appear much earlier than the 19th
century, as
suggested by Traugott (1993, 1997). Interestingly, in present-day Dutch,
“epistemic” dreigen + infinitive is much more frequent than lexical dreigen
+ infinitive. Moreover, modal dreigen shows up considerably more often
than modal beloven.96
According to Verhagen (2000: 203), the synchronic
difference in frequency correlates with a diachronic difference. He men-
tions that while “epistemic” dreigen already appears in the 16th
century, as
in (13a), beloven begins to appear in the 19th
century. The oldest example in
the Woordenboek der Nederlandse Taal is from 1793, quoted by Verhagen
(2000: 203) and printed in (13b).97
(13) a. Het schip, twelck dreycht te sinken... (1566)
‘the ship, which threatens to sink.’
b. Dat zelfde meisjen, 't welk iets beloofde te worden.(1793)
‘That same girl, who promised to become something.’
Verhagen (2000: 204) argues that the difference between beloven and drei-
gen can be explained by their different answers to the following question:
“To whom may we attribute “responsibility,” so to speak, for the choice of
the words beloven and dreigen on a particular occasion of use?” Verhagen
(2000) argues that with beloven/promise the speaker holds the reported
Previous research lines 95
subject responsible for the choice of the word promise, in contrast with a
reported threat, which does not allow for such an interpretation. Since
threaten cannot be used performatively, the producer of a threat sentence
cannot be taken to be reporting the person’s wording of the threat. In other
words, “categorizing an event as a threat is definitely the responsibility of
the producer, whereas categorizing it as a promise may be taken as simply
echoing the subject of the promise” (Verhagen 2000: 204). According to
Verhagen, this responsibility of the speaker makes threaten more speaker-
hearer subjective “from the start”, while promise has remained character-
subjective for a longer period. That dreigen outnumbers beloven is then due
to the high frequency of speaker-hearer subjectivity and the low frequency
of character subjectivity. This proposal is challenging and could indeed be a
valid refinement of Traugott’s account. In my own analysis, I will check
whether modal amenazar + infinitive appears earlier than modal prometer
+ infinitive.
Finally, a third type of subjectification presented here is Langacker’s
conceptual subjectification. While Traugott’s understanding in terms of
pragmatic strengthening is exclusively diachronic, Langacker’s subjectifi-
cation through attenuation is mainly synchronic. 98
Subjectification stands
for “a semantic shift or extension in which an entity originally construed
objectively comes to receive a more subjective construal” (Langacker 1991:
215). As Langacker (2000: 298) points out, with verbs like promise and
threaten subjectification is no(t) (longer) to be understood in terms of re-
placement of one situation by another. He follows Verhagen’s (1995: 114)
argument that:
... what is called objective use does not differ from subjective use in that
subjectivity (of the relevant kind) is lacking, but rather in that it exhibits a
certain descriptive objectivity that is absent from the subjective use. I will
try to argue that the role of the objective sense of “promise”, etc. in con-
nected discourse in fact incorporates certain features that are definitional of
the subjective sense. (Verhagen 1995: 114)
Thus, it stands to reason that the subjective component is immanent in the
objective conception and becomes more prominent when the objective
construal shifts to a subjective one. The increased subjectivity goes hand in
hand with the attenuation of the objective features of the verb. Grammatical
constructions undergoing subjectification involve attenuation when the
control exerted by an agent decreases (Langacker 2000: 297). Like so many
nouns in –ation, attenuation stands for a gradual process that can be repre-
sented as a continuum from low to advanced attenuation. An extreme form
of attenuation is complete transparency of a grammatical form. The above
96 Modality with prometer and amenazar
presented concept of attenuation, as a motor of conceptual subjectification
is an alternative synchronic account of the shift from lexical (“objective”)
readings to non-lexical (“subjective”) readings. In Chapter 6, I will analyze
the attenuation and subjectification of amenazar and prometer in detail.
2. The lexical origins of the speaker commitment
This section discusses the lexical patterns that form a basis for analyzing
the speaker commitment of prometer and amenazar’s modal readings. In
lexical constructions with prometer, the subject expresses maximal com-
mitment and the action only takes place if the subject wants it. With
amenazar, by contrast, the subject does not have a maximal intention to act,
due to the fact that the speaker him/herself usually also tends to avoid the
accomplishment of the threat. The absence or presence of illocutionary
force is an interesting extension of the different commitment to the infiniti-
val process with amenazar and prometer. Below, I first give an overview of
the frequency distribution of the two verbs (2.1.). Then I comment on the
general properties of subject commitment (2.2.) and test them on the basis
of the underlying conditional relations (2.3). Finally, illocutionary force
will be presented as an extension of the commitment pattern (2.4.).
2.1. Frequency distribution
Table 17 highlights a considerable frequency difference in the proportion of
modal and lexical prometer and amenazar constructions with an infinitival
complement.
Table 17. Infinitival complements with amenazar and prometer.
Amenazar Prometer
% %
Modal 124 47.51 34 9.86
Lexical 137 52.49 311 90.14
Total 261 100 346 100
The lexical origins of speaker commitment 97
Proportionally speaking, the modal readings of amenazar are more than
four times as frequent as the ones of prometer. In other words, almost half
of the examples of amenazar with an infinitive have a modal reading, while
only 10% of the infinitival prometer constructions do so.
A more detailed view is presented in Tables 18 and 19, where I take into
account the diversity of the complements of amenazar and prometer.
Table 18. Distribution of amenazar constructions
Amena-
zar
Direct objects total
Infi-
ni-
tive
Oblique
NP Prep NP Clitic
que-
clause
Zero
Fiction
Modal 85 0 1 0 0 0 1 87
% 97.7 - 1.15 - - - 1.15 100
Lexical 61 40 50 20 23 17 22 233
% 26.18 17.17 21.46 8.58 9.87 7.30 9.44 100
Non-
fiction
Modal 30 0 7 0 0 0 5 42
% 71.43 - 16.67 - - - 11.9 100
Lexical 59 34 48 57 23 2 36 259
% 22.78 13.13 18.53 22.01 8.88 0.77 13.90 100
Oral
Modal 9 0 1 0 0 0 2 12
% 75 - 8.33 - - - 16.66 100
Lexical 17 18 21 19 22 1 10 108
% 15.74 16.67 19.44 17.59 20.37 0.93 9.26 100
What stands out in Table 18 is the overwhelming majority of infinitival
complements in modal amenazar constructions (97.7%, 71.43% and 75%).
If we look at the distribution of modal and lexical amenazar + infinitive
constructions, there is a big difference between fiction prose, on the one
hand, and non-fiction prose and oral speech, on the other. Whereas more
than half of these constructions are modal in fiction prose, this is the case
for only one third of the constructions in non-fiction and spoken language.
98 Modality with prometer and amenazar
Table 19. Distribution of prometer constructions
Direct objects
Prometer Infini-
tive
que-
clause Nominal Prono-
minal
Adjective Zero Total
Fiction
Modal 18 0 13 2 7 4 44
% 40.91 - 29.55 4.55 15.91 9.09 100
Lexical 202 97 97 50 0 32 500
% 40.40 19.40 19.40 10.00 - 6.40 100
Non-
fiction
Modal 13 0 4 0 2 5 24
% 54.17 - 16.67 - 8.33 20.83 100
Lexical 59 19 72 10 0 7 168
% 35.12 11.31 42.86 5.95 - 4.17 100
Oral
Modal 3 0 3 1 4 2 13
% 23.08 - 23.08 7.69 30.77 15.38 100
Lexical 49 54 32 56 0 40 232
% 21.12 23.28 13.79 24.14 - 17.24 100
Table 19 shows that in the distribution of both lexical and modal prometer
complements other than the infinitive play an important role. Except for the
fact that que-clauses are impossible and adjectival constructions are possi-
ble, the modal prometer constructions with a (pro)nominal complement or
without complement seem to be very much in line with the lexical construc-
tions.
2.2. Subject commitment
I will now argue that the relation between the subject and the event denoted
by the infinitival complement is different in lexical prometer (14) and
amenazar (15).
(14) El general Dwight D. Eisenhower, comandante en jefe de las fuer-
zas aliadas, prometió al pueblo italiano una paz honrosa si los ita-
lianos retiraban su ayuda a los alemanes. (Encicl: Italia)
‘General Dwight D. Eisenhower, Commander in Chief of the Al-
lied Forces, promised the Italian people an honorable peace if the
Italians withdrew their support for the Germans.’
The lexical origins of speaker commitment 99
(15) Los partidos MBL y UCS amenazan con abandonar la coalición si
el caso no es remitido a la justicia ordinaria, para que ésta sea la
instancia encargada de castigar a los criminales. (Notic: Bolivia:
ERBOL: 06/14/96)
‘The parties MBL and UCS threaten to leave the coalition if the
case is not referred to the ordinary court, so that this instance is in
charge of punishing the criminals.’
The subject of lexical prometer is a central, exclusively human or human-
oid entity, which assumes responsibility for the thing or the event promised,
e.g. una paz honrosa ‘an honorable peace’ in (14). Hence with prometer,
the promisor, here general Eisenhower, conveys some kind of commitment
to the realization of the promised peace expressed in the complement. The
general wants to arrange an honorable exit strategy for the Italians if they
withdraw their support from the Germans.
As illustrated by this example, in the default case, the act of promising
implies that the promisor and the promisee, i.e. the (explicit or implicit)
indirect object or oblique, are positively oriented towards realization of the
promised act. Although one can also promise not to do something, the pro-
misor generally intends to realize something that the promisee likes. In line
with Searle (1969: 63), the utterance of the promise “counts as the under-
taking of an obligation to do [the future act] A”.99
Thus, a promise differs
considerably from a threat, as Searle (1969: 58) points out:
One crucial distinction between promises, on the one hand, and threats, on
the other, is that a promise is a pledge to do something for you, not to you;
but a threat is a pledge to do something to you, not for you. A promise is
defective if the thing promised is something the promisee does not want
done; and it is further defective if the promisor does not believe the pro-
misee wants it done, since a non-defective promise must be intended as a
promise and not as a threat or warning. (Searle 1969: 58)
This quote points to different behavior of the subjects of lexical prometer
(14) and lexical amenazar (15). The subject or addresser of amenazar is
not as committed as the promisor of prometer, since the former verb is used
to introduce an action that is not undertaken for its own sake, but is consid-
ered a means for achieving something else. The addresser only proceeds to
the realization of the threat if the requirements expressed are not ful-
filled.100
With amenazar, there is no agreement between the addressee and
the addresser on the accomplishment of the event threatened. This is an
obvious consequence of the fact that the addresser feels obliged to do
something that the addressee does not like.
100 Modality with prometer and amenazar
In (15), it is not the implicit addressee of the coalition partner but the
covert subject in the conditional clause, i.e. those persons who have to refer
the case to the ordinary court, who have the final responsibility for the
possible departure of the two political parties announced in the infinitive.
The warning expressed in the amenazar statement makes the threat condi-
tional and its realization less likely. By contrast, the utterance of the prom-
ise makes the promisor oblige him/herself to attempt to realize the prom-
ised event, which is in line with the relative strength of the prediction ut-
tered.
With example (16), Verhagen (1996: 801) indicates that the commit-
ment of the subject of prometer leads to an increased argumentational force
that points to the realization of the event.
(16) Speaker A: Do you think John will be coming to the party?
Speaker B: Well - he promised.
Verhagen (2000) also argues that both “descriptive” and “epistemic”
threaten have the force of an argument in favor of the prediction that the
event expressed in the infinitive will become true. Interestingly Verhagen
(2000: 202) founds his point upon the “descriptive”, i.e. lexical, examples
reprinted in (17).
(17) a. Speaker A: Are they really going to freeze the budget?
Speaker B: Well, they did threaten to do so.
b. He threatened to come, so be prepared: he could appear any
minute.
c. He threatened to fire us, but things might not be as black as they
look.
In my view, these examples do not unambiguously argue in favor of the
realization of the event expressed by the infinitive. Examples (17a) and
(17c) may also suggest the possible non-realization of the event expressed
by the infinitive following lexical threaten. When a speaker says that some-
thing might not be as it looks, (s)he predicts that it may not become true.
The threaten construction in (17b) is less explicit as to non-realization, but
the use of could also implies that it could not. Non-accomplishment of the
event introduced by threaten is thus still possible.
In conclusion, the different commitment of the subject to the realization
of the event is an important factor explaining why the modal readings of
prometer and amenazar convey different kinds of predictions.
The lexical origins of speaker commitment 101
2.3. The different impact of conditional clauses
In this section I further underpin the difference between lexical prometer
and amenazar on the basis of adding a clause introduced by a condición de
que ‘provided that’, as in (18) and (19). While si in (14) and (15) is am-
biguous in that it can yield both a temporal and a conditional reading, the
conjunction a condición de que ‘provided that’ only yields a conditional
reading. The conditional clause with a condición de que ‘provided that’ in
(18) and (19) will help us deepen the insights into prometer and amenazar
gathered so far.
(18) El general Dwight D. Eisenhower, comandante en jefe de las fuer-
zas aliadas, prometió al pueblo italiano una paz honrosa a condi-
ción de que los italianos retiraran su ayuda a los alemanes.
‘General Dwight D. Eisenhower, Commander in Chief of the Al-
lied Forces, promised the Italian people a honorable peace provided
that the Italians withdrew their support for the Germans.’
(19) a. ??
Los partidos MBL y UCS amenazan con abandonar la coali-
ción a condición de que el caso no sea remitido a la justicia ordi-
naria, para que ésta sea la instancia encargada de castigar a los
criminales.
b. Los partidos MBL y UCS no amenazan con abandonar la coali-
ción a condición de que el caso sea remitido a la justicia ordina-
ria, para que ésta sea la instancia encargada de castigar a los cri-
minales.
‘The parties MBL and UCS {Ø / do not} threaten to leave the coa-
lition (but) only if the case is {not / Ø} referred to the ordinary
court, so that this instance is in charge of punishing the criminals.’
With prometer in (18), the replacement of si ‘if’ by a condición de que
‘provided that’ does not entail a reformulation of the construction. By con-
trast, with amenazar the negation is not felicitous within the scope of the
conditional clause, as shown in (19a). This leads to the logical reformula-
tion in (19b) in which the subject stops threatening on condition that an-
other action is undertaken. When a condición de que ‘provided that’ is used
with amenazar, the negation of the subclause in (19) has to move to the
main clause, while this is not the case for prometer in (18).
If the exclusively conditional conjunction a condición de que is used,
the positive reading of the conditional subclause cancels the threat of the
amenazar clause. This corroborates the point that amenazar has an underly-
102 Modality with prometer and amenazar
ing implication that the threat can be averted. With prometer, by contrast,
the promise will be carried out if the criteria are fulfilled. In the next sec-
tion I will look in more detail at the illocutionary force of promise and
threat.
2.4. Illocutionary force
Illocutionary force refers to the strength with which the speaker performs
what he communicates in the utterance. When the speaker says prometo ‘I
promise’, i.e. using the first person and the present tense of prometer, (s)he
produces a speech act in which the act of promising conveys direct com-
mitment to what (s)he says.
Below I reformulate the examples given at the beginning of the chapter
which contain the promises by the communist authorities (20a–b) and the
threat to the coalition partners (21a–b) to leave the Bolivian government.
Examples (20) and (21) show that when the addresser is involved in com-
municative interaction with an addressee, prometer and amenazar display a
different illocutionary force.
(20) a. “Vamos a encontrar una solución a la grave crisis” les prome-
tieron autoridades del Partido Comunista.
‘ “We will find a solution for the serious crisis”, officials of the CP
promised them.’
b. “Voy a encontrar una solución a la grave crisis”, te lo prometo.
‘ “I will find a solution for the serious crisis”, I promise you (it).’
c. “Mi padre te va a denunciar”, te lo prometo. (Maldonado p.c.)
‘ “My father will inform against you”, I promise you (it).’
The distributional potential of prometer, illustrated in (20), shows that the
promise expressed can be either descriptive, “without involving speaker
commitment to it at the moment of speaking” (Nuyts 2001b: 39), as in
(20a), or performative, when the speaker’s commitment is involved at the
moment of speaking, as in (20b) and (20c). The latter forms have illocu-
tionary force and are, hence, uttered with the highest degree of performativ-
ity, as shown by the clitic doubling in (20b)101
and by the use of a nega-
tively oriented proposition (20c). In (20c), someone promises that (s)he will
inflict harm to the interlocutor, which boils down to a threat. In such a con-
struction, an interpretive shift takes place from promising something posi-
tive to predicting and ascertaining something negative.
The lexical origins of speaker commitment 103
Thus, in contrast to the normal lexical prometer constructions, the em-
phatic prometo construction with illocutionary force can have either a posi-
tive or a negative result for the interlocutor, as shown in (20c). This obser-
vation corroborates Searle’s (1969: 58) comments on the English construc-
tions I promise and I hereby promise, which according to him, “are among
the strongest illocutionary force indicating devices of commitment provided
by the English language”. This is not the case with amenazar, as shown in
(21), where the illocutionary force is reduced.
(21) a. Te amenazo con dejar la coalición.
‘I hereby threaten you with leaving the coalition.’
b. “Vamos a dejar la coalición” el MBL les amenazó.
‘ “We will leave the coalition” the MBL threatened them.’
c. *“Voy a dejar la coalición” te lo amenazo.
‘ “I will leave the coalition”, I threaten you (it).’
d. *“Voy a ayudarte” te amenazo.
‘ “I will help you”, I threaten you (it).’
A threat cannot be expressed with the same illocutionary force as a prom-
ise. In (21a), the infinitival amenazar construction has illocutionary force
directly threatening the addressee. In (21b–d) amenazar combines with
direct speech, but has only a performative value in direct speaker-hearer
interaction similar to (21a). The ungrammaticality of the utterances in (21c)
and (21d) shows that amenazar does not allow for an emphatic assertion
directed to the interlocutor.102
In line with the absence of character subjec-
tivity with lexical amenazar given in the previous section, the speaker is
prevented from playing a prominent role in the illocutionary commitment
to the proposition. Finally, the fact that a positive threat, such as the one in
(21d), is excluded illustrates that amenazar does not manifest the shift from
a clearly negative expectation to a broader axiological domain.
In sum, illocutionary force is another feature of lexical uses that can ac-
count for the modal uses. The illocutionary force of lexical prometer ex-
plains why the modal use which developed from it, makes a strong predic-
tion. By contrast, lexical amenazar lacks this illocutionary force and, hence,
has not developed a modal use making a strong prediction with different
evaluative orientations.
104 Modality with prometer and amenazar
3. The modal orientation of amenazar and prometer
In this section, I will present corpus evidence showing that speaker com-
mitment differs in modal prometer and amenazar. I will first present the
hypothesis to be tested in this section (3.1.). I will discuss the quantitative
results of the data analysis of amenazar in section (3.2.), and those of pro-
meter in section (3.3.).
3.1. Working hypothesis
The working hypothesis of this section is that the low speaker commitment
with modal amenazar correlates strongly with non-realization of the event
expressed by the infinitive, while the strong speaker commitment with
modal prometer correlates with the realization of the event (cf. Vliegen
2006). The tendency towards realization vs. non-realization illustrates that
the verbs make different predictions. To a great extent, my data confirm
Vliegen’s (2006) point that, unlike promise-like verbs, threaten-like verbs
can more easily be linked to non-realization of the event expressed in the
infinitive. However, as shown in Cornillie (2004: 11–17), there are restric-
tions on the tense of these forms: non-realization is exclusively found in
past contexts. Furthermore, an exception should be made for meteorologi-
cal expressions.
3.2. Prediction with amenazar
The analysis presented in this section will confirm that there is low speaker
commitment with amenazar, which is in line with Rooryck’s (2000: 43–44)
analysis of menacer in terms of epistemic possibility.
We will begin with a series of amenazar examples that illustrate how
the event expressed by the infinitive behaves with regard to (non-)realiza-
tion. In a considerable number of examples the (complete) realization of the
event is clearly blocked, as in examples (22) and (23). In (22), a porción de
leche ‘portion of milk’ is about to boil over. Before this happens, the
woman removes the fire that heats up the milk and by doing so prevents the
accomplishment of the event described in the infinitive from taking place.
(22) Al lado de la mesa en el suelo y dentro de un brasero de latón,
borboteaba una tetera y amenazaba subirse, dentro de un jarro de
The modal orientation 105
hierro enlozado, una porción de leche. La mujer removió el fuego,
puso unas tazas y unos platillos. (Rojas, Manuel. Hijo de ladrón)
‘Next to the table on the ground and in a tin brazier, a tea can was
bubbling and in an iron pitcher a portion of milk threatened to boil
over. The woman removed the fire, placed cups and a couple of
saucers.’
In (23), something tense (algo tenso) is about to break down. In the subse-
quent utterance, however, it is literally mentioned that nothing happened.
(23) En la obscuridad blanquean las camisas de los trabajadores y en el
aire hay algo tenso que amenaza romperse de un momento a otro.
Nada llegó a romperse, sin embargo. (Rojas, Manuel. Hijo de la-
drón)
‘In the darkness the workers’ shirts appeared white and in the air
there is something tense that threatens to break down from one
moment to another. Nothing happened to break down, however.’
As the preceding examples show, contextual clues often offer conclusive
evidence. This does not mean, however, that the exact number of cases with
non-realization can be predicted conclusively. Indeed, some contexts of
amenazar remain undecided as to the realization of the event expressed by
the infinitive, as in example (24) for instance. Here, the protagonist seems
to be unable to hold his false teeth in his mouth properly.
(24) Natalicio, Gondra, Coronel Jara, Eligio Ayala, todo lo que podía
recordar y cada nombre desataba un torrente de amarga verbo-
rragia que amenazaba llevarse la dentadura postiza que bailaba
enloquecida y parecía salirse una y otra vez. (Halley Mora, Mario.
Manuscrito alucinado: las mujeres de Manuel).
‘Natalicio, Gondra, Coronel Jara, Eligio Ayala, all yhat he could
remember and each name unleashed a stream of bitter word-
mongering that threatened to remove his false teeth which fool-
ishly danced and seemed to pop out several times.’
I have analyzed an example such as (24) as “open” with regard to the non-
realization or realization of the event expressed in the infinitival comple-
ment in conformity with the lack of concrete evidence.
106 Modality with prometer and amenazar
Table 20. Realization or non-realization of the event expressed by the infinitive
modal non-
realization
open perspec-
tive
realization total
amenazar 33 91 0 124
% 26.61 73.39 0 100
As shown in Table 20, in up to 26% of the modal constructions with
amenazar, there is evidence that the infinitive is ultimately not realized,
while the realization of more than 73% of the infinitives following
amenazar is left open. Importantly, no examples were found in which the
realization of the event was explicitly communicated.103
From Table 20 we
can conclude that amenazar does not express strong speaker commitment
to the realization of the proposition.
Note that all the above examples with ultimate non-realization of the
event are in the past tense or in the historic present tense. In narrative dis-
course, a past form of amenazar seems to acquire a sort of aspectual read-
ing with the meaning ‘to be about to + inf’ (cf. Diewald 2004; Reis 2005;
Heine and Miyashita 2007). As a matter of fact, amenazar introducing an
eventually non-realized event is a means of putting emphasis on the possi-
bility of this event in the succession of actions or events in the narrative
discourse (Nuyts p.c.).104
The fact that almost all non-realization examples
of amenazar are in the past tense is not without importance. The apparent
tense restriction invites us to verify to what extent the possibility of a non-
realization reading is also available with the present tense constructions of
amenazar. This will be the topic of the next section.
3.3. Refinement of the non-realization criterion
This subsection examines whether modal amenazar constructions express
another type of speaker commitment when they occur in the present tense. I
first discuss the general tense distribution (3.3.1.). Then, I show that in the
present tense amenazar can also convey modal non-realization of the event
expressed in the infinitive (3.3.2.). Finally, I mention that some amenazar
constructions tend to express likely realization of the event (3.3.3.).
The modal orientation 107
3.3.1. Tense distribution
Let us first look at the distribution of the present and past tenses in all ex-
amples with modal amenazar in my data-base, represented in Table 21.105
Table 21. Modal amenazar: distribution of tense
present
imp.
imp.
past
simple
past
Gerund
(past)
past
subjunc.
Total
non-realization 2 20 7 1 3 33
% 6.06 60.61 21.21 3.03 9.09 100
open perspective 40 46 1 4 0 91
% 43.96 50.55 1.10 4.40 0 100
As shown in Table 21, only two occurrences of modal amenazar with a
non-realized event are in the present tense, which is only 6% of all expres-
sions suggesting non-realization, and only 5% of all present tense examples
of modal amenazar (2/40). The past tense constructions thus constitute the
overwhelming majority of examples in which the event is not realized.106
At
the same time more than 55% of the constructions with an open perspective
are also in the past tense.
Threfore, the question imposes itself whether there is a correlation be-
tween present tense and strong prediction of realization of the event ex-
pressed in the infinitive. In other words, can the examples in the present
tense – which are not related to the historic present – somehow escape the
tendency to non-realization of the event they describe?
3.3.2. Possible non-realization in present tense constructions
Although nearly all amenazar examples in the corpus are in the past, modal
amenazar in the present can also convey possible non-realization. The pos-
sible non-realization with amenazar in the present tense seems to be related
to the speaker’s view of the characteristics of the subject. With amenazar,
the overt mention of the subject enables a changing speaker’s view of the
state of affairs.107
In (25), amenazar appears in the present tense and communicates that
the existing tensions (fricciones y tensiones) have the potential of leading to
mutiny. However, the speaker does not say that (s)he believes that there
108 Modality with prometer and amenazar
will be disorder, but rather expresses the presupposition that ongoing ten-
sions may lead to more disorder. These tensions could also disappear, how-
ever, in which case there will be no mutiny.
(25) Las fricciones y tensiones que los afligen en la actualidad amena-
zan con llevarlos a un motín. Pero somos, lastimosamente, una mi-
noría y poco caso se hace de nuestros consejos y recomendaciones.
(González Real, Osvaldo. El Mesías que no fue y otros cuentos)
‘The frictions and tensions that plague them currently threaten to
lead them to mutiny. But we are, unfortunately, a minority and they
don’t listen to our advice and recommendations.’
In example (26), aventuras mal orientadas como estas amenazan ‘mis-
guided adventures like these threaten’ implies that more of the same activi-
ties could have serious political repercussions for the governor in question.
(26) ... la FNCA denunció el reciente viaje del gobernador republicano
de Illinois, George Ryan, y afirmaron que ‘aventuras mal orienta-
das como estas amenazan con tener serias repercusiones políticas
para el Partido Republicano. (Fidel Castro, 01/11/99)
‘... the FNCA denounced the recent trip of the Illinois Republican
governor, George Ryan, and they affirmed that ‘misguided adven-
tures like these threaten to have serious political repercussions for
the Republican Party.’
Still, it is not certain that the governor’s first trip to Cuba will have any
consequences at all. The trip of the governor might not lead to serious re-
percussions for the Republican party after all. So, in the end the utterance
keeps an open perspective on the event, which includes both non-
realization and realization.
In (27), the infrastructural problems with electricity and water supply
have the potential of inflaming the citizens. Once again it is said that when
this situation gets worse, people’s patience will come to an end: that is, the
event described by the infinitive will be eventuate. However, if things im-
prove, the event will not be realized.
(27) Eso, unido a la escasez crónica del fluido eléctrico y a las esporá-
dicas interrupciones en el suministro de agua, amenazan con aca-
bar con la paciencia de los ciudadanos. (Notic: Col: Semana: 820)
The modal orientation 109
‘This, together with the chronic scarcity of electric power and with
the sporadic interruptions of the water supply, threaten to consume
the patience of the citizens.’
So far I have shown that modal amenazar constructions that have an overt
subject convey the potential of non-realization of the event. They, thus,
express low speaker commitment and convey a weak prediction. The
amenazar constructions that lack such a subject are discussed in the next
subsection.
3.3.3. Possible realization in meteorological utterances
Modal amenazar also combines with complements expressing meteorologi-
cal processes as in (28). In such a construction without overt subject, the
prediction with amenazar cannot be based on different phases of the poten-
tial evolution of the state of affairs.
(28) a. Amenaza con llover.
‘It threatens to rain.’
b. El día amenaza con ser muy deprimente.
‘This day threatens to be very depressing.’
In these examples, the speaker is more committed to the proposition and
probable realization is presented as the most natural outcome. Since the
utterances in (28) lack an underlying potential that can prevent the realiza-
tion of the event, nothing can influence this view of the realization. Mete-
orological verbs or subjects like el día ‘the day’ do not invite the speaker to
subjectively elaborate on the preceding context or the evolution sketched in
the utterance.
Statements with amenazar in the present tense as in (28) rely on infer-
ence from direct evidence. This type of inference implies that the relevance
of the event expressed in the infinitive is high for the speaker and the inter-
locutor. The likelihood that the speaker’s prediction corresponds to reality
is much higher than with past constructions or with present constructions
containing a referential subject. By contrast, the amenazar constructions in
(26) and (27), which have a potential towards non-realization, involve in-
ference from reasoning. In the present tense modal constructions with
amenazar, the difference between inference from direct evidence and infer-
ence from reasoning seems to correlate with an open perspective versus a
possible non-realization reading, respectively. This might indicate that, in
110 Modality with prometer and amenazar
some cases, the type of inference leads to a specific predictive judgment
and subsequent speaker commitment. Further research on this topic is
needed, since this may not hold for all modal amenazar forms in the past
tense.
The following four Internet examples of amenazaba con llover show
that (i) the four statements are based on inference from direct evidence, and
(ii) all outcomes are possible, realization (29–30) as well as non-realization
of the rain (31–32).
(29) Más tarde, sobre las dos de la tarde, quedamos en la peña con todo
el mundo y empezamos a preparar la paella. El tiempo había cam-
biado, estaba nublado y amenazaba con llover, cosa que no tardó
mucho.
(http://www.sebulcor.com/lapaella.htm)
‘Later on, around 2 PM, we met in the bar with all the other people
and we started preparing the paella. The weather had changed, it
was cloudy and it threatened to rain, something that did not last.’
(30) El día jueves cuando salimos de viaje el tiempo amenazaba con
llover y llegamos con lluvia.
(http://www.punksunidos.com.ar/salud/amanita2.htm)
‘Thursday when we left for a journey the weather threatened to
rain and we arrived with rain.’
In (29) and (30) the source of information is inference from direct evidence,
because the respective speakers are present in these utterances. Importantly,
other past tense examples of inference from direct evidence clearly include
the observation that rainfall in the end did not take place. In (31), a jobless
person from Argentina tells that it threatened to rain, but he also mentions
that in the end it did not. In (32) the concessive clause communicates that,
although showers were imminent, the rain did not eventuate.
(31) Muchas de las personas que pasaron la noche frente al Nación
provenían del conurbano bonaerense y llegaron hasta el lugar con
mantas y ropa para hacer frente al frío de la madrugada. "Amena-
zaba con llover, pero por suerte no llovió", indicó Rodolfo, un des-
empleado que ocupaba el lugar 133 en la fila. (El día, Argentina,
28-03-2002)
‘Many persons which remained [in the line] the whole night in
front of the Nation [building] came from the Buenos Aires urban
quarters and arrived at the place with blankets and clothes to brave
The modal orientation 111
the early morning cold. “It threatened to rain, but fortunately it
didn’t rain”, Rodolfo, an unemployed who occupied place 133 in
the row, pointed out.’
(32) Era de noche y el cielo amenazaba con llover aunque no lo hacía,
pero la noche se encontraba completamente oscura y nublada...
(http://www.fortunecity.es/ilustrado/inanimado/180/gmagicas/Lauri
er3.htm)
‘It was night and the sky threatened to rain, although it didn’t, but
the night was completely dark and cloudy.’
From the preceding past tense examples, it has become clear that inference
from direct evidence is not a criterion that can account for all constructions
with expected realization. Although the inferential type may be crucial in
modal amenazar constructions in the present tense, this is not so in past
tense constructions.
3.4. Prediction with prometer
In this section I will discuss prometer in terms of realization and non-
realization of the event expressed in the infinitive. This section is subdi-
vided into two subsections. In (3.4.1.), I first discuss the tense distribution
in examples with prometer, before dealing more analytically with the cor-
pus examples in (3.4.2.).
3.4.1. Tense distribution
Table 22 adds the figures of prometer to those of amenazar. Since in my
data I did not find any clear cases of non-realization of the event expressed
by the infinitive of prometer, we can conclude that, unlike amenazar, pro-
meter always leaves open the future, which, as we will see, correlates with
stronger speaker commitment to the prediction made.108
112 Modality with prometer and amenazar
Table 22. (Non-)realization of the event expressed by the infinitive
modal non-
realization
open perspec-
tive
realization Total
amenazar 33 91 0 124
% 26.61 73.39 0 100
prometer 0 34 0 34
% 0 100 0 100
Since tense has proved a crucial indication of the strength of the prediction
with some amenazar constructions, it is also important to look at the distri-
bution of tense with prometer.
Table 23. Modal prometer: distribution of tense
present imper-
fect
past imper-
fect
subjunctive
(past)
total
open perspective 23 10 1 34
% 67.65 29.41 2.94 100
If we compare Table 23 with Table 21 for amenazar it becomes clear that
the tense distribution with modal prometer is the inverse of that with
amenazar: two thirds of the non-lexical prometer constructions are in the
present tense.
In spite of the fairly limited number of examples at my disposal, some
correlations can be observed. (i) The fact that the illocutionary force of
lexical prometer only shows up in the present tense may favor a modal
construction in the present tense. (ii) The present tense may be evidence for
the assumption that prometer is preferably based on inference from direct
evidence. (iii) The preference for the present tense allows for pragmatic
strengthening of the future dimension. This future dimension of the present
tense enables strong prediction.
The modal orientation 113
3.4.2. Possible realization in present and past tense constructions
In this section I will examine the likelihood of realization of the event with
prometer and compare it with the insights gathered for amenazar. In (33),
the past form of prometer describes the likelihood of the continuation (pro-
longarse) of a state of affairs defined as alegría ‘joy’.
(33) Los sones del arpa, las guitarras y el bandoneón daban el condi-
mento especial a una alegría que prometía prolongarse por lo me-
nos hasta el alba del día siguiente. (Dimas Aranda, Santiago Vida,
ficción y cantos)
‘The harp sounds, the guitars and the bandoneon gave a special fla-
vor to a [atmosphere of] joy that promised to be continued at least
till dawn the next day.’
The belief that the joyful atmosphere will continue is not influenced by
potential changes of the state of affairs. The characteristics associated with
the subject do not suggest for any change in the state of affairs. The same
reading is possible for (34), where all evidence available points to the con-
tinuation (persistir) of the rain. Although there is no suggestion of non-
realization with prometer, there is no guarantee that it will certainly con-
tinue to rain either.
(34) Traían sólo unas pocas botellas, pues una mayor parte la habrían
ocultado en algún lugar del bosque. Empezaba a caer una lluvia
fina que prometía persistir y levantada la barbacoa se trasladó el
fogón al amparo del techo de tacuapí. (Rivarola Matto, José María,
Follaje en los ojos: Los confinados del Alto Paraná)
‘They only had a couple of bottles with them, because they had
hidden the major part of these in some place in the forest. The driz-
zle began to fall, which promised to go on and once the barbecue
came to an end, the burner was passed under the reed roof.’
In the present tense construction in (35), the walls are expected to be trans-
formed (transformarse) into something special (algo especial), which can
be many different things. The important element in this construction is that
the speaker can no longer balance hedge between possible non-realization
or realization, as is the case with amenazar. With prometer the speaker can
only express commitment to the prediction of realization of the event. This
is also the case with (36).
114 Modality with prometer and amenazar
(35) Más allá, casi colgando de un barranco, un atisbo de otra casa.
Son cuatro paredes que se levantan y prometen transformarse en
algo especial, un atelier quizás. (Karlik, Sara, Nocturno para er-
rantes eternos)
‘Further away, almost hanging on a gorge, a glimpse of another
house. It is four walls that stand up and promise to become some-
thing special, a workshop perhaps.’
(36) La muestra, que promete ser apasionante, empieza en el XIX, con
el alemán Leibl o el norteamericano Eakins, Maillol, Ensor,
Munch, Khnopff y otros simbolistas. (Notic: España: ABC)
‘The exposition, which promises to be fascinating, begins in the
19th
century, with the German Leibl or the North-American Eakins,
Maillol, Ensor, Munch, Khnopff and other symbolists.’
The above discussed prometer constructions do not support Rooryck’s
(2000: 43–44) proposal to handle prometer in terms of “epistemic neces-
sity”. Instead, they express prediction. In (37), I will use the tests that Ro-
oryck (2000: 44) applies to promettre and menacer (see Section 1.2). As we
will see, the notion of prediction will prove helpful to nuance the distinc-
tion between possibility and necessity. The (b) reformulations are adapted
from Rooryck’s (2000: 43–44) analysis, while those in (c) are my own
reformulations.
(37) a. Los sones del arpa, las guitarras y el bandoneón daban el con-
dimento especial a una alegría que prometía prolongarse por lo
menos hasta el alba del día siguiente. (Dimas Aranda, Santiago
Vida, ficción y cantos)
‘The harp sounds, the guitars and the bandoneon gave a special
flavor to a [atmosphere of] joy that promised to be continued at
least to dawn the next day.’
b. It is *? possible/necessary (inevitable) that the joy will continue
at least to dawn the next day.
‘All conditions are present for the joy to continue at least till dawn
the next day.’
c. It is expected/can be predicted/possible/likely/ *necessary (inevi-
table) that the joy will continue at least till dawn the next day.
‘All conditions are present for the joy to continue at least to dawn
the next day.’
The modal orientation 115
Although the alegría example in (37) displays all conditions for assuming
that the joy continues at least till dawn the next day, this does not mean that
the event will necessarily or inevitably take place.109
Against Rooryck’s
rejection of a “possible”-analysis of the promettre constructions (37b), I
hold that possibility seems to be always implied in prometer.110
Since “pos-
sibility” as such does not suffice to describe prometer, I also refer to the
predictions or expectations about the realization of the event expressed in
the infinitive. In other words, in (37), it is said that all conditions are pre-
sent for assuming that the joy will continue: the continuation is in line with
the expectations. Since the speaker cannot foresee every possible impedi-
ment to the realization of the event evoked in the infinitive, the epistemic
necessity reading proves to be too strong.
In sum, with modal prometer all conditions are present for believing that
the event expressed in the infinitive will come true. The speaker commit-
ment is stronger than that of amenazar. Yet, this does not mean that the
event will necessarily be realized, as the term “epistemic necessity” sug-
gests. Instead, prometer conveys a kind of prediction about the possibility
of the event, which is often seen as an equivalent of “high probabil-
ity/likelihood”.111
3.5. Theoretical implications
In view of the above-presented analysis, I would like to make some com-
ments on terminological and theoretical issues raised by van der Auwera
and Plungian’s view of the overlap between evidentiality and epistemic
modality (1998).
The corpus data illustrate that epistemic modality is present in both
amenazar and prometer. Since these verbs are also considered evidential in
nature, they belong to the overlap domain between evidentiality and modal-
ity. Van der Auwera and Plungian (1998: 85–86) limit this overlap domain
to epistemic necessity and inferential evidentiality:
The claim is only that the inferential reading amounts to epistemic modality
and more particularly necessity: for both categories we are dealing with the
certainty of a judgment relative to other judgments. From this point of view it
also causes no surprise that inferential evidentials often receive an English
translation with epistemic must. Inferential evidentiality is thus regarded as an
overlap category between modality and evidentiality. [see Table 24]
116 Modality with prometer and amenazar
Table 24. Inferential evidentiality = epistemic necessity
Necessity
... Deontic
necessity
Epistemic necessity
=
Inferential evidentiality
Quotative
evidentiality
...
Evidentiality
They rightly state that the inferential reading should not exclude other evi-
dential readings (e.g. the Turkish evidential -miş has inferential, reportative
and mirative readings,112
cf. Aksu-Koç and Slobin 1986: 159). However,
van der Auwera and Plungian’s (1998: 85) restriction to epistemic necessity
does not seem warranted against the background of the analysis presented
above. The case of modal prometer and amenazar shows that the overlap
category between modality and evidentiality should not be exclusively
situated in the domain of necessity but can also include prediction.
In the next section, I will examine whether the lexical patterns of
amenazar and prometer also influence the evaluative orientation of their
modal counterparts.
4. The evaluative orientation of amenazar and prometer
Amenazar and prometer also have a diametrically opposed evaluative ori-
entation viz. negative versus positive. In this section I will investigate to
what extent the modal readings follow this pattern. In the first subsection I
present the working hypothesis (4.1.). The other subsections describe the
negatively oriented complements of prometer (4.2.) and the positively ori-
ented ones of amenazar (4.3.).
4.1. Working hypothesis
In its lexical readings, prometer generally patterns with a positively evalu-
ated event expressed in the infinitival complement, while amenazar com-
bines with an infinitival process whose realization is to be avoided. Nega-
tively evaluated complements with prometer and positively oriented ones
with amenazar even seem to be semantically incompatible.
It is often argued that promise by default stands for a positive speaker
evaluation, whereas threaten leads to a negatively oriented evaluation.
The evaluative orientation 117
However, Verhagen (1995: 117) mentions both negatively and positively
oriented complements for “epistemic” beloven ‘to promise’. Verhagen
(1996: 801–802) states that a negative construction often renders a kind of
ironical statement that proves the opposite of what is said, while the “epis-
temic” reading of dreigen ‘to threaten’ “necessarily indicates a negative
evaluation”. Verhagen (2000: 202) argues that the negative evaluation of
dreigen and threaten “makes these verbs different from beloven and prom-
ise”. Although these characterizations are not wrong, a more fine-grained
account of the opposite orientation of the complements of both prometer
and amenazar should be based on corpus data and be related to dominant
characteristics of the lexical reading.
As shown in Section (2.4), due to its illocutionary force, prometer can
combine with negatively oriented events, while this does not hold for
amenazar. The working hypothesis of this section, then, is as follows: the
modal reading of prometer explains why prometer can emphasize the pre-
diction of a negative event despite its default positive connotation. With
prometer, the speaker foregrounds the prediction and backgrounds the
evaluation of the state of affairs.
I hypothesize that the inability of lexical amenazar to introduce a posi-
tive event leads to negatively oriented complements only. The weaker pre-
diction attached to amenazar leaves more room for the course of the events,
i.e. the natural evolution of reality. The inability to transcend this evolution
is expected to corroborate amenazar’s reluctance to combine with posi-
tively oriented complements.
4.2. Evaluation with prometer
The corpus examples of prometer below allow us to check whether the
speech act function of prometer is stronger than the positive evaluation. As
shown in (38), modal prometer can also precede a negatively oriented com-
plement.
(38) Tomé aquel desayuno y me dirigí a encarar mi trabajo de mecáni-
co. El sol prometía ser inmisericorde, y no me resultó extraño que
Nila apareciera de nuevo trayendo para mi uso un sombrero pirí
ancho. (Halley Mora, Mario. Los habitantes del abismo)
‘I had that breakfast and I went to start my job as a mechanic. The
sun promised to be merciless, and I wasn’t surprised that Nila re-
appeared bringing me a very wide sombrero.’
118 Modality with prometer and amenazar
In (38), the modal reading of prometer has a mixed effect: although the
evaluation by means of inmisericorde ‘merciless’ can hardly be perceived
as positive, the whole construal is not necessarily negative. Thus, the kind
of prediction expressed transcends a positive or a negative evaluation. The
construction in (39) confirms that prometer readily combines with nega-
tively oriented complements without therefore inducing a negative evalua-
tion.
(39) Con un merengue hip-hop del grupo dominicano Sandy & Papo,
Telecom lanzó el primer golpe en la que promete ser la más agre-
siva contienda comercial de los próximos años: la lucha por el
mercado de la larga distancia. (Notic: Col: Semana: 840)
‘With a hip hop merengue by the Dominican group Sandy & Papo,
Telecom launched the first assault of what promises to be the most
aggressive trade war of the coming years: the struggle for the long-
distance market.’
In (39), the aggressive battle for a good commercial position on the market
is not seen as something negative, although the complement is not inher-
ently positive at all. This is also the case with (40).
(40) Lleras Restrepo tuvo que dirigir las controvertidas elecciones del
19 de abril de 1970. Su libro, que promete ser explosivo por las
nuevas revelaciones que hace, tuvo sin embargo varios obstáculos.
(Notic: Col: Semana: 831)
‘Lleras Restrepo had to coordinate the controversial elections of
April 19th
1970. His book, which promises to be explosive because
of its new revelations, nevertheless had several obstacles.’
The adjective explosivo ‘explosive’ carries, in principle, a negative evalua-
tion by nature. Yet, in (40) it is used in a metaphorical way, thus overriding
incompatibilities between the default positive evaluation of prometer and
the negative complement. This figurative use cannot be the main explana-
tion, however. The strong prediction plays an important role: the inference
is strengthened by the explicit mention of por las nuevas revelaciones que
hace ‘because of the new revelations it makes’.
In sum, the speaker’s ability to express his/her own evaluation of the
likely state of affairs is well developed in prometer, since the speaker can
emit both negative and positive statements. The prediction is even more
prominent than the evaluation (cf. Verhagen 1996: 802). The speaker com-
mitment also attenuates the speaker-orientedness of the negative orienta-
The evaluative orientation 119
tion. Both elements are linked: prometer’s tendency towards realization
reduces the impact of the positively or the negatively oriented comple-
ments.113
4.3. Evaluation with amenazar
I will now verify whether the lack of a speech act function impedes tran-
scending the negative evaluation with amenazar. Below I attempt to de-
scribe the rationale behind amenazar examples that combine with positive
complements, such as in (41).
(41) … las nubes multiplican su volumen, ganan peso y amenazan con
quebrar la superficie de la tierra liberando a las criaturas del
abismo. (Ledrado, Arturo. Viceversa)
‘the clouds increase their volume, become heavier and threaten to
break the surface of the ground liberating the creatures from the
abyss.’
In (41), the speaker describes the evolution of an event that is about to hap-
pen. In this literary example, the clouds will probably break the surface of
the ground into pieces. Such an evolution is neither positive nor negative.
In fact, the outcome of this contact between the clouds and the soil is the
liberation of the creatures from the abyss, which could be something posi-
tive. Examples like these show that with amenazar too, the prediction can
overrule the orientation of the evaluation. Although in many modal exam-
ples with amenazar the lexical semantics of threat remain present, the utter-
ance in (41) suggests that amenazar may be experiencing a process of at-
tenuation of the threat.
There is a tendency to probable realization when the evaluation is back-
grounded. In an utterance such as (42), the speaker does not have a well-
determined position with regard to the evaluation usually associated with
amenazar.
(42) El sol se ocultaba lentamente detrás del cerro San Francisco, dos
mbiguás nadaban en pareja hacia el sur. La correntada era fuerte
y una tenue brisa amenazaba con convertirse en un viento más li-
gero. (Gayoso Manzur, Milia. Ronda en las olas)
‘The sun slowly disappeared behind the San Francisco hill, two
mbiguá-birds swam together southwards. The stream was strong
and a persistent breeze threatened to become a lighter wind.’
120 Modality with prometer and amenazar
In (42), the change from a breeze to a lighter wind cannot be viewed as
negative. In this example, prometer could replace amenazar, while keeping
the same evaluation. The two verbs differ in temporal perspective, how-
ever. Amenazar usually stands for (short-term) immediacy: the speaker/
writer emphasizes that the change is about to happen. Prometer, by con-
trast, can involve (long-term) futurity. In other words, amenazar without
evaluation appears to have an increasingly more pronounced aspectual
dimension of immediacy.
In the corpus, the examples of amenazar with positive complements are
less frequent than the ones of prometer with negative complements, despite
the fact that modal amenazar + infinitive appears four times as much as
prometer. Although in certain readings it yields a more aspectual (inchoa-
tive) reading, amenazar still very much has a negative evaluation associ-
ated with it.
5. Conclusions
In search of a better explanation for the different types of speaker commit-
ment and prediction conveyed by modal prometer and amenazar, we have
found that the illocutionary force and subject commitment present in their
lexical readings form an important explanatory path. In lexical prometer
constructions the subject expresses maximal commitment to the realization
of the event expressed by the infinitive, while with amenazar the subject is
not held to a commitment to act. The absence or presence of illocutionary
force is an important extension of these different degrees of commitment.
On the basis of this description two hypotheses were postulated: (i) the
prediction of the event expressed by the infinitive is weaker with modal
amenazar than with prometer (first hypothesis); (ii) the evaluation is more
speaker-oriented with prometer than with amenazar (second hypothesis).
The first hypothesis is confirmed to a large extent. The modal values of
amenazar and prometer correspond to low versus intermediate speaker
commitment, respectively. Although the majority of examples with
amenazar have past tense, in the majority of cases the present tense forms
of modal amenazar can also have non-realization. In some performative
cases, inference through direct evidence leads to stronger speaker commit-
ment. Yet, this is no guarantee for a general correlation between source of
information and speaker commitment.
The analysis given in this section refines Vliegen’s (2006) claim about
the likelihood of non-realization in that not all dreigen/amenazar construc-
tions express the same value. My corpus data also show that Rooryck’s
Conclusions 121
label of “epistemic necessity” is too strong a term to refer to the prediction
expressed by prometer. The combination of prediction and evidentiality
refines van der Auwera and Plungian’s (1998) overlap category of inferen-
tial evidentiality and epistemic necessity.
The second hypothesis tested in this chapter was concerned with the
evaluation expressed by prometer and amenazar. The analysis has shown
that prometer readily combines with negatively oriented complements,
while amenazar is reluctant to combine with a positively oriented comple-
ment. But the corpus examples of amenazar introducing positively oriented
ones point to ongoing change from lexical to modal amenazar.
In the next two chapters I will detail the semantic change of prometer
and amenazar in terms of transparency (Chapter 5) and subjectification
(Chapter 6).
Chapter 5
Partial transparency with modal prometer and
amenazar
Lexical prometer and amenazar are often followed by verbs that depict
action. Their subjects that utter a promise or a threat are then agentive. The
subjects of modal prometer and amenazar, by contrast, are not the utterers
of a direct promise or a direct threat.114
These modal constructions also
necessarily lack an explicit interlocutor or addressee of the promise or
threat typical of the lexical readings. Because of the lack of an agentive role
for the subject and the lack of an addressee, modal prometer and amenazar
can be considered more “transparent” than their lexical counterparts.
Langacker (2000: 315) argues that modal promise represents the “ex-
treme situation where attenuation of subject control results in transpar-
ency”. It is not clear, however, whether interferences related to some kind
of subject control are completely absent. A more detailed analysis of the
infinitival complements and the subjects of the modal constructions allows
the analyst to examine to what extent they can be considered transparent. In
this chapter I will show that modal amenazar and prometer still face re-
strictions that stem from the lexical readings.
The chapter is organized as follows. Section (1.) examines in detail the
restrictions on the infinitives that follow modal prometer and amenazar. In
section (2.) I describe the restrictions on the subject of these verbs.
1. Restrictions on the infinitive
In this section, I will present the results of corpus research on the infinitives
selected by modal amenazar and prometer. In Cornillie (2004: 17–24), it
was shown that the infinitives following modal amenazar and prometer
belong to a different semantic type. The analysis of the infinitives presented
below elaborates on this difference and corroborates Lamiroy’s (1995,
1998) conclusion that full transparency is rare.
In (1.1.), I first present the hypothesis and the proposed classification of
the infinitives and then give a general overview of the distribution of the
infinitives (1.2.). Next, I analyze the infinitival complements of amenazar
(1.3.) and those of prometer (1.4.). Finally, in (1.5.), I will discuss the in-
Restrictions on the infinitive 123
finitives that cannot combine with amenazar and prometer. Subsection
(1.6.) summarizes the main points of this section.
1.1. Working hypothesis and methodology
The central hypothesis about transparency with amenazar and prometer is
that although the subject of modal amenazar and prometer is expected to be
constrained by the infinitive (cf. Gaatone 1995), the two verbs have a pref-
erence for combining with specific types of infinitive while they reject
other ones (cf. Lamiroy 1995, 1998). Due to the competition with the agen-
tive lexical readings, modal prometer is expected to combine with a more
limited group of infinitives than modal amenazar.115
For the analysis of the infinitival complements below, I have distin-
guished between four semantic categories of verbs, namely, (i) copulas and
other attributive verbs, (ii) aspectual verbs, (iii) verbs expressing a change
of state and (iv) action verbs.116
I link the different infinitives with
amenazar and prometer to the internal and external viewpoints they express
respectively. The fourfold categorization allows me to differentiate between
change-of-state and action verbs that point to an internal viewpoint with
amenazar, on the one hand, and attributive predicates suggesting an exter-
nal viewpoint with prometer, on the other. Unlike with my analysis of
parecer (Chapter 3, Section 1.3.), I will list the infinitives that occurred in
the data in the endnotes, as they may form the basis for further research.
1.2. Global distribution
Let us first look at the infinitives found in the lexical versus the modal
constructions of amenazar and prometer. For the examination of the lexical
readings I will complement the four verb types proposed in the previous
section with verbs of communication, e.g. hablar ‘to talk’, decir ‘to say’ or
contar ‘to tell’, and with mental state verbs, e.g. esperar ‘to wait/hope’ and
respetar ‘to respect’.
As shown in Table 25, more than 70% of the infinitives with lexical
amenazar and prometer are action verbs, such as ayudar ‘to help’ in (1).
(1) ¿Cómo llegamos? El camionero prometió ayudar pero puso sus
condiciones. Nada mejor pude encontrar. (Dimas Aranda, Santia-
go. La pesadilla)
124 Partial transparency with modal prometer and amenazar
‘How do we get there? The truck driver promised to help, but he
imposed his conditions. I could not find any better.’
Communication verbs and mental activity verbs combine more or less
equally frequently with lexical amenazar and lexical prometer. The most
striking difference between the two verbs lies in the fact that change-of-
state verbs are slightly more frequent with amenazar (A), while the attribu-
tive verbs are more frequent with prometer (P).117
Aspectual verbs are in-
frequent with both amenazar and prometer.
Table 25. Infinitives with lexical amenazar (A) and prometer (B)
action change-
of-state
attribu-
tion
aspect commu-
nication
mental
activity
total
A
Present 30 5 0 0 4 2 41
% 73.17 12.20 - - 9.76 4.88 100
Past 72 3 1 2 14 3 95
% 75.79 3.16 1.05 2.11 14.74 3.16 100
P
Present 70 1 6 2 13 6 98
% 71.43 1.02 6.12 2.04 13.27 6.12 100
Past 160 6 8 4 22 9 212
% 76.56 2.87 3.83 1.91 10.53 4.31 100
A comparison of the infinitives following lexical amenazar and prometer
with those of their modal counterparts yields interesting results. Table 26
indicates that communication and mental state verbs, which always need a
human subject, do not show up in the modal constructions. Furthermore,
modal amenazar and prometer tend to combine with different infinitives.
Verbs expressing action and change of state have the lion’s share of the
infinitives with modal amenazar. In the case of prometer, by contrast, the
most extensive group is formed by attributive verbs. The percentage of
action verbs is much lower in the modal constructions with prometer than
in those with amenazar.118
Restrictions on the infinitive 125
Table 26. Infinitives with modal amenazar and prometer119
action change-of-
state
attribution aspectual total
Amenazar 61 57 2 4 124
% 49.19 45.96 1.62 3.23 100
Prometer 9 5 17 3 34
% 26.47 14.7 50 8.83 100
Attributive verbs express a static and categorizing view of events, while
action verbs and change-of-state verbs inherently represent a dynamic
process themselves. The fact that modal prometer prefers attributive verbs
(50%), while amenazar barely combines with this verb type (1.62%) points
to restrictions on prometer. The latter verb seems to experience a shift from
strong agentivity in the lexical construction to necessarily low agentivity in
the modal one. By contrast, amenazar still regularly combines with dy-
namic processes in modal constructions. This observation corresponds to
the analysis of the subject commitment presented in the previous chapter
(Section 2.1.) and will receive a diachronic underpinning in Chapter 6 (Sec-
tion 2.).
The fact that amenazar, unlike prometer, patterns predominantly with
action and change-of-state verbs could be a basis for arguing that modal
amenazar is more transparent than modal prometer. However, since one
could also say that prometer is more transparent by avoiding the posi-
tive/negative polarization in the evaluation, it does not seem justified to
unequivocally apply the concept of transparency to amenazar and prome-
ter. Therefore I propose to deal with the restricted transparency of modal
amenazar and prometer in terms of the different viewpoints construed by
the verbs, namely the internal and external viewpoint (cf. Cornillie 2004:
17–20). In the following sections, I will argue that the attributive infinitives
with prometer suggest that the speaker/conceptualizer adopts an external
viewpoint on the event. An external viewpoint allows the
speaker/conceptualizer to comment on an event from a vantage point out-
side the state of affairs.120
As for amenazar, the predominance of action and change-of-state verbs
point to an internal viewpoint on the event expressed in the infinitival com-
plement. An internal viewpoint is limited to the ongoing evolution pre-
sented in the utterance and does not license the speaker to view the state of
affairs from another vantage point than the process itself. Since with
126 Partial transparency with modal prometer and amenazar
amenazar a broader viewpoint is usually not available, the modal reading
often displays an aspectual dimension.
1.3. Infinitives with amenazar
Modal amenazar most often introduces dynamic activities or events. Inter-
estingly, the majority of these infinitives follow a past form of amenazar,
while the aspectual and attributive verbs are equally distributed over the
past and the present tense, as shown in Table 27. It is clear that rather than
absolute restrictions to a specific type of infinitive, non-lexical amenazar
displays collocation preferences for certain infinitives.
Table 27. Amenazar: infinitives in modal constructions121
action change-of-state aspectual attribution
present 24 15 2 1
past 37 42 2 1
The action verbs can be exemplified by the infinitive destruir ‘to destroy’
in (2). Despite the agentive structure of the infinitive, this construction does
not yield an agentive reading. This may but need not necessarily be related
to the non-agentive subject mercadería ‘products’ (cf. Section 2.).
(2) De ese modo, la mercadería extranjera subsidiada copó el 40% del
mercado argentino y amenaza con destruir nuestra industria na-
cional. (Notic: Arg: Cronista: 696_laet)
‘In that way, the foreign subsidized products took 40 % of the Ar-
gentinian market and threaten to destroy our national industry.’
This amenazar construction conveys a further elaboration of an ongoing
process. In (2), the event expressed in the infinitival complement is seen as
the final stage of the ongoing deterioration of Argentina’s economic output:
the destruction of its industry (destruir nuestra industria). The realization
of the event is seen as an endpoint, which is conceptualized from the view-
point of other stages of the ongoing evolution. Other action verbs that fol-
low modal amenazar are listed in the notes.122
These examples can be given
an analogous analysis.
The second most frequent group of infinitives with modal amenazar are
the change-of-state verbs, such as romperse ‘to break down’ in (3).
Restrictions on the infinitive 127
(3) En la obscuridad blanquean las camisas de los trabajadores y en el
aire hay algo tenso que amenaza romperse de un momento a otro.
Nada llegó a romperse, sin embargo. (Rojas, Manuel. Hijo de la-
drón)
‘In the darkness the workers’ shirts appear white and in the air
there is something tense that threatens to break down from one
moment to another. Nothing happened to break down, however.’
Note that these verbs frequently occur in a middle voice construction with
se. Such a middle form reflects a major focus on the event itself to the det-
riment of the agentivity of the subject, due to the reflection of the subject
entity in the se-form (cf. Maldonado 1999). These constructions most often
imply a sudden change, which can be interpreted as the culminating stage
of an evolution. The subject algo tenso ‘something tense’, in (3), for in-
stance, has the potential of leading to several states of affairs: the tension is
increasing and awaits a climax. Other infinitives expressing change of state
are mentioned in the notes.123
Most aspectual verbs with amenazar found in the corpus express an evo-
lution in which the subject entity is involved or affected.124
In (4), for ex-
ample, the buildings (edificios) are already in a bad state and risk to deterio-
rate further.125
(4) Nuestra tribu se estableció en el territorio que parecía más seguro:
el parque México. Ahí estaríamos lejos de los edificios que amena-
zaban con seguir cayendo. Ahí reiniciamos la vida como pudimos.
(Cadena, Agustín, Los Tiquiliches)
‘Our tribe settled in the territory that seemed most secure: the Mex-
ico park. There we would be far away from the buildings that
threatened to tumble down further. There we restarted our life as
best as we could.’
Finally, there is the attributive relation between the subject and the com-
plement of amenazar. Interestingly, the attributive complements in some
way or another also express a change of state, as in (5).126
(5) El proyecto, sin embargo, amenaza con ser más largo y difícil de
lo que se esperaba. (Notic: España: ABC author: Serbeto Enrique)
The project, however, threatens to be longer and more difficult
than what we expected.’
128 Partial transparency with modal prometer and amenazar
The project mentioned in (5) runs the risk of being too long and too diffi-
cult. The explicit mention of más largo implies that the view of a state of
affairs yielded by amenazar is not a static one.
In conclusion, there do not seem to be many restrictions on the infiniti-
val complement of amenazar: action and change-of-state verbs are most
frequent, while aspectual and attributive verbs form only a small propor-
tion. The complements of amenazar have the following characteristic in
common: in one way or another, they express some kind of change that
constitutes an elaboration of the state of affairs from an internal viewpoint.
This internal viewpoint of modal amenazar correlates with the lexical read-
ing of amenazar. The threat is only realized when there is no other way out.
In the same way the event denoted by the infinitives that follow modal
amenazar is seen as a possible endpoint after a series of preceding steps.
This view emphasizes the course of the action and is, hence, dynamic. In
the next section, I will show that modal prometer does not construe such an
internal, dynamic perspective.
1.4. Infinitives with prometer
The four infinitive types observed for amenazar are also available with
prometer, albeit in a different proportion, as shown in Table 28.
Table 28. Prometer: infinitives in modal constructions127
Action change-of-
state
attribution aspectual
Present 8 5 12 0
Past 1 2 5 3
I will start the discussion of prometer’s infinitives with the action verbs.
Example (6) shows that despite the agentive lexical reading of the action
verb generar ‘to generate/engender’ prometer yields a modal reading. Note
that in order to avoid a lexical reading of prometer this action infinitive
combines preferably with an inanimate subject.128
(6) La Asobancaria planea revelar un estudio de los logros y retos de
la política social en el país que en el contexto de la actual contien-
da política promete generar un debate interesante. (Notic: Col:
Semana: 840)
Restrictions on the infinitive 129
‘The Asobancaria plans to unveil a report of the achievements and
the challenges of the social policy of the country, which in the pre-
sent political combat promises to generate an interesting debate.’
The infinitival complement generar un debate ‘to provoke a debate’ in (16)
is the probable result of a study (un estudio) that is yet to come. Hence, it is
not the result of an internal evolution or the elaboration of previous stages
of a given evolution. The debate in (6) is conceptualized in relation to the
context of a battle for the market position (el contexto de la actual con-
tienda), and is, hence, viewed from an external viewpoint. Other examples
of action verbs with prometer are listed in the notes.129
As far as the attributive infinitival complements are concerned, the ma-
jority of the examples of prometer lead to a categorization of the subject. In
(7), ser llovedor ‘be rainy’ categorizes the invierno ‘winter’. Interestingly,
given that the overall conclusion in (7) can only take place when winter is
over, an external viewpoint is plausible.
(7) Este invierno promete ser llovedor. -Llovedor, patrón, promete ser
este invierno. -Se ve mucha chicharra en el monte. Y es la señal.
(Barrios, Eduardo. Gran señor y rajadiablos)
‘This winter promises to be rainy. Rainy, boss, this winter prom-
ises to be. One notices lots of crickets in the mountains. And this is
the signal.’
In the corpus I have found nominal attributes such as cosaco ‘Cossack’ and
categorizing adjectives such as explosivo ‘explosive’, formidable ‘fantastic’
or inmisericorde ‘merciless’. Other attributes are listed in the notes.130
One could argue that the change-of-state and aspectual verbs following
prometer in (8) and (9) are counterexamples to the external viewpoint
analysis presented in the preceding paragraphs. Indeed, these examples
sketch an ongoing evolution that can also be viewed from an internal point
of view. Yet, elements such as algo especial ‘something special’ in (8) or
por lo menos ‘at least’ in (9) point to a clear presence of the speaker/con-
ceptualizer. This leads me to conclude that with most change-of-state and
aspectual verbs the speaker/conceptualizer analyzes and categorizes the
events from an external point of view too.131
(8) Más allá, casi colgando de un barranco, un atisbo de otra casa.
Son cuatro paredes que se levantan y prometen transformarse en
algo especial, un atelier quizás. (Karlik, Sara. Nocturno para er-
rantes eternos)
130 Partial transparency with modal prometer and amenazar
‘Farther away, almost hanging in a gorge, a glimpse of another
house. It is four walls that stand up and promise to become some-
thing special, a workroom perhaps.’
(9) Los sones del arpa, las guitarras y el bandoneón daban el condi-
mento especial a una alegría que prometía prolongarse por lo me-
nos hasta el alba del día siguiente. (Dimas Aranda, Santiago Vida,
ficción y cantos)
‘The harp sounds, the guitars and the bandoneon gave a special fla-
vor to a [atmosphere of] joy that promised to be continued at least
till dawn the next day.’
In sum, with prometer the attributive infinitives are preferred to those ex-
pressing an action or a change of state. Interestingly, many of the infinitives
that combine with modal prometer, especially the attributive ones, have a
strong categorizing function that allows the speaker/conceptualizer to
comment from an external viewpoint. So far I have not focused on restric-
tions on the modal constructions. Hence the following section deals with
the infinitives that cannot combine with modal prometer and amenazar.
1.5. Infinitives absent in the corpus
In this section I examine whether the verbs under consideration can com-
bine with a series of infinitives which Lamiroy (1995: 282–284, 1998: 292)
uses in order to examine the gradual transparency of temporal and aspectual
verbs.132
Among others, these infinitives include meteorological verbs,
deontic verbs such as falloir ‘hacer falta/to need’, impersonal verbs like
s’agir ‘tratarse/to be about’ and middle voiced infinitives such as se
résoudre ‘resolverse/to be arranged’.
1.5.1. Impersonal and middle voiced infinitives
Let us first look at meteorological verbs such as the (usually) negatively
oriented llover ‘to rain’ or the positively oriented hacer bueno ‘to be nice
weather’ in (10).
(10) a. Hoy promete hacer bueno.
‘The weather promises to be nice today.’
Restrictions on the infinitive 131
b. Hoy promete ?
llover/ ??
nevar.
‘Today it promises to rain/snow.’ [lit.]
c. ?
Amenaza con hacer bueno.
‘It threatens to be nice weather.’ [lit.]
Modal prometer does not combine as well with llover ‘to rain’ and nevar
‘to snow’ in (10b) as with hacer bueno ‘to be nice weather’ in (10a). How-
ever, in a context of continuous drought, llover ‘to rain’ can be a perfect
infinitival complement of modal prometer. For nevar ‘to snow’ it is harder
to imagine a specific context in which a modal reading is possible. As
shown in the previous chapter (Section 4.), it is also difficult to find a posi-
tively oriented complement with amenazar. In example (10c) the combina-
tion of hacer bueno and amenazar sounds odd. Only if good weather is
undesired for the speaker, this combination can be felicitous. Since this is
not very common, the example in (10c) has a certain ironic tone.
Other impersonal infinitives which are the grammatical subject of the
construction cannot combine with prometer or amenazar, such as tratarse
‘to be about’ in (11).
(11) *Promete/*amenaza con tratarse de un asunto muy serio.
‘It promises/threatens to be about a really serious topic.’
However, the infinitive of the impersonal tratarse ‘to be about’ is not pre-
vented from following modal amenazar in the internet example (12). This
is not caused by the difference between prometer and amenazar, however,
but has to do with the subject assignment in the construction. Unlike the
construction in (11), not the infinitive following modal amenazar and pro-
meter, i.e. tratarse, but another infinitive, i.e. pensar, is the grammatical
subject.
(12) En otros términos el problema de la responsabilidad médica y el
seguro es un problema realmente complejo. Pensar en resolverlo
con una simple norma que atribuye un derecho a ser indemnizado
mediante el seguro obligatorio, amenaza con tratarse de una solu-
ción demasiado simple para un problema muy, pero muy complejo.
(www.gacetajuridica.com.pe/legal_express/ legal32.pdf)
‘In other words the problem of medical responsibility and insur-
ance is a really complex problem. Thinking to solve it with a sim-
ple norm that attributes the right to be compensated to obligatory
insurance threatens to be too simple a solution of a very very com-
plex problem.’
132 Partial transparency with modal prometer and amenazar
The same construction type is possible with prometer and resolverse ‘to
solve’ in (13). In this example, esta contienda ‘this battle’ is the subject of
the middle voice construction with resolverse ‘to solve’.
(13) Las pugnas son de tal magnitud que los gobiernos no consiguen
arbitrar entre las posiciones en pugna. Fiat versus Ford, Techint
contra Usinor, son algunos de los protagonistas de esta contienda
que promete resolverse ‘a sangre y fuego’.
(http://www.po.org.ar/po/po646/para.htm)
‘The conflicts are so big that the governments do not manage to
arbitrate between the conflicting positions. Fiat versus Ford, Te-
chint against Usinor, these are some of the protagonists in this bat-
tle which promises to be solved harshly.’
1.5.2. Double infinitive constructions
Amenazar and prometer do not combine with double infinitive construc-
tions, such as with the impersonal infinitives hacer falta ‘to be needed’ and
ser necesario ‘to be necessary’ in (14).
(14) a. [*Promete/*amenaza con] hacer falta llegar a un acuerdo.
‘It promises/threatens to be needed to reach an agreement.’
b. [*Promete/*amenaza con] ser necesario llegar a un acuerdo.
‘It promises/threatens to be necessary to reach an agreement.’
These infinitives yield a deontic reading, which does not pattern with the
modal prediction reading. The same holds for deontic modal infinitives
such as tener que ‘have to’ in (15).
(15) La prensa [*promete/*amenaza con] tener que publicar artículos
interesantes.
‘The press [promises/threatens] to have to publish interesting arti-
cles.’
The deontic reading of tener que conflicts with the modal reading of pro-
meter and amenazar. Infinitives that involve too strong an interplay of
forces seem to be incompatible with the specific profile given by prometer
and amenazar. In such constructions the deontic forces activate the original
lexical patterns of the verbs. This shows that the attenuation of prome-
ter/promise is not in its final stage yet (pace Langacker 2000).
Restrictions on the infinitive 133
Interestingly, with dynamic poder ‘can/to be able’ it depends on the
second infinitive whether the prometer construction can receive a modal
reading or not. In (16a), the verb prometer receives a lexical reading: the
journalists promise to be able to respect the principles of the monarchy,
while in (16b) a modal reading is more natural: here the speaker refers to
the ability to work in a good atmosphere. This is also the case in (16c).
(16) a. La prensa promete poder respetar a los principios de la monar-
quía.
‘The press promises to be able to respect the principles of the
monarchy.’
b. La prensa promete poder funcionar en un buen ambiente.
‘The press promises to be able to function in a good atmosphere.’
c. Así que lo bueno es que el arbitraje internacional sí presenta un
modelo análogo que promete poder funcionar en el VMDR.
(www.alfa-redi.org)
So that the good thing is that the international arbitrage really pre-
sents an analogous model that promises to be able to function in the
WMDR.’
On the Internet, I have found only a few examples of amenazar with dy-
namic poder, such as the one in (17).
(17) a. La baja productividad del arroz amenaza con no poder satisfa-
cer las demandas de una población creciente.
(www.canalsolidario.org/web/noticias/ver_noticia/asp?id_noticia=
2167)
‘The low rice productivity threatens not to be able to satisfy the
needs of a growing population.’
Note that, unlike dynamic poder, the deontic reading of poder does not co-
occur with modal amenazar and prometer. In a deontic poder construction
the speaker or a third entity grant the subject the permission to realize an
action. Just like deontic tener que, deontic poder is incompatible with the
modal profile construed by amenazar and prometer. Against the back-
ground of the infelicitous combination with deontic verbs, I will try to de-
termine which other verbs are precluded from combining with modal
amenazar and prometer because of conflicting force structure.
134 Partial transparency with modal prometer and amenazar
1.5.3. Action and communication verbs
In this section, I will discuss action and communication verbs which assign
a special role to the addressee.133
The absence of overt participants with
prometer is probably due to a strategy to omit interference with the agen-
tive lexical semantics of prometer, in which the promisor and the promisee
may be felt to stand in a closer relationship than the addresser and the ad-
dressee associated with amenazar. The elicited examples in (18), however,
appear to offer evidence against this intuition.
(18) a. [El colega/el nuevo contacto/el nuevo libro] promete ayudarte a
llegar lejos.
‘[The colleague/the new contact/the new book] promises to help
you to further your career.’
b. [El colega/la falta de contactos/el nuevo libro] amenaza con de-
jarte atrás.
‘[The colleague/lack of contacts/the new book] threatens to leave
you behind.’
In (18a) prometer can receive a modal reading and still combine with the
agentive infinitive ayudarte ‘to help you’ provided that the subject is not
human or humanoid. In (18a), prometer with a human subject such as el
colega is understood as a lexical verb. By contrast, prometer readily yields
a modal reading with a subject like el nuevo libro ‘the new book’, though
this is less evident with el nuevo contacto ‘the new contact’, which can
either be a human or a non-human entity with a human agent implied.
The modal readings of amenazar in (18b) differ from those of prometer
in (18a) in that they combine with agentive infinitives even when the sub-
ject is human. Although the subject colega ‘colleague’ can certainly trigger
a lexical reading of amenazar, the modal reading does not pose any prob-
lem. The amenaza dejarte construction with the falta de contactos and the
nuevo libro ‘new book’ by default yields a modal reading. All of this points
to the importance of the subject, which will be dealt with in Section (2.).
Some agentive infinitives which are compatible with lexical amenazar
and prometer cannot combine at all with the non-lexical counterparts when
they have a human subject: verbs inflicting harm to the interlocutor such as
castigar ‘to punish’ and pegar ‘to hit’ are directly associated with the lexi-
cal reading of amenazar and, as shown before, action verbs such as ayu-
darte ‘to help you’ or hacerlo ‘to do it’ which involve a direct interlocutor
cannot combine with modal prometer.
Restrictions on the subject 135
Finally, the combination of modal amenazar and prometer with infini-
tives expressing communication did not occur in the corpus. This is proba-
bly to do with the intuition that the preferred subjects of the modal con-
structions are non-human. However, communication verbs should not be
excluded for amenazar. Example (19) shows that non-human subjects (with
an agent implied) trigger different readings of prometer and amenazar. In
(19a) the authors of el texto ‘the text’ have the intention of doing something
with the text, which entails that it is not immediately understood modally.
By contrast, the amenazar construction in (19b) overrides the potentially
intentional reading of the subject and, hence, is spontaneously read
modally. With a human subject and a communication infinitive, finite
amenazar has a lexical reading, as shown in (19c).
(19) a. La versión final del texto promete [decir/repetir] lo mismo.
‘The final version of the text promises to [say/ repeat] the same.’
b. La versión final del texto amenaza con [decir/repetir] lo mismo.
‘The final version of the text threatens to [say/ repeat] the same.’
c. El profesor amenaza con [decir/repetir] lo mismo.
‘The professor threatens to [say/ repeat] the same.’
In sum, several infinitives do not readily co-occur with modal amenazar
and prometer. Verbs depicting a strong deontic interplay of forces cannot
follow modal amenazar and prometer. Some meteorological constructions
sound odd in combination with these verbs, and impersonal subject infini-
tives are not felicitous either. However, middle constructions of tratarse
and resolverse with a preverbal subject do combine with modal prometer
and amenazar. Finally, amenazar can combine with a communication verb,
provided the subject is not human.
2. Restrictions on the subject
In this section I will analyze to what extent lexical patterns impose restric-
tions on the subject of modal prometer and amenazar. Concretely, I will
determine which characteristics of the subject prevent amenazar and pro-
meter from being fully transparent.
This section is organized as follows. I first present the working hypothe-
sis and comment on the methodology (2.1.). I then give a general overview
of the subjects in the lexical constructions (2.2.). After this general presen-
tation, the subjects of modal amenazar (2.3.) and those of prometer (2.4.)
are discussed.
136 Partial transparency with modal prometer and amenazar
2.1. Working hypothesis and methodology
It is generally assumed that a verb is transparent when the grammatical
subject is constrained by the infinitive (cf. Gaatone 1995). Although the
grammatical subject of modal amenazar and prometer agrees thematically
with the infinitive, the finite verb forms still have some kind of thematic
relation with the subject. This relation is not agentive, however. As shown
in the previous chapter, lexical prometer prototypically has a human subject
who can see to the intended accomplishment of the infinitive, while
amenazar does not need such an agentive subject. Although both verbs
express a kind of intentional commitment in their lexical readings, the in-
tention is stronger with prometer than with amenazar.
The working hypothesis of this section is that certain subject types
which are frequent with lexical prometer and amenazar also appear with
their modal counterparts. If this hypothesis is true, it confirms that both the
formal claim regarding the lack of thematic role assignment and Lan-
gacker’s claim concerning full attenuation are too strong. In this section I
also test whether the subject of modal prometer is submitted to more re-
strictions than that of modal amenazar.
The semantic description of the subject carried out in the next section is
based on the classification of subject and oblique entity proposed by Del-
becque (2003: 383) for passives, which differentiates between 9 semantic
categories, which I reproduce in Table 29.
Table 29. Classification of the subject
1. Individual or person O. Paz, presidente ‘president’
2. Concrete object cedro ‘cedar’, dinero ‘money’
3. Event, action, process crimen ‘crime’, reparto ‘distribution’, guerra
‘war’, intento ‘intention’
4. State of affairs bienestar ‘welfare’, hecho ‘fact’, situación ‘situa-
tion’, coyuntura ‘economic climate’
5. Concept, notion, idea tema ‘theme’, condición ‘condition’
6. Place, spatial entity Buenos Aires, Occidente ‘Occident’, celda ‘cell’,
isla ‘island’, puerto ‘port’
7. Semiotic entity texto ‘text’, libro ‘book’, debate ‘debate’, código
‘code’, película ‘film’
8. Collective entity Institution ‘institution’, grupo ‘group’, comunidad
‘community’, Nación ‘Nation’
9. State of mind emoción ‘emotion’, nostalgia ‘nostalgia’
Restrictions on the subject 137
This classification was applied to the corpus data of amenazar and prome-
ter. For the sake of completeness, I also added the “zero” subject type,
which corresponds to constructions which lack an explicit subject. The next
section then presents a general overview of the subjects that combine with
all uses of amenazar and prometer.
2.2. The subjects of lexical amenazar and prometer
The figures presented in Table 30 confirm that the prototypical subject of
lexical prometer is a person or an animate individual (54%). Since the
“zero” subjects (31.27%) mostly refer to individuals, the amount of animate
individuals is actually still higher. The percentage of human subjects with
amenazar is lower. Almost 30% of the subjects of amenazar are animate,
and 24% of the subjects remain implicit. Moreover, unlike prometer, con-
crete objects, collective nouns, states of affairs and processes together con-
stitute about 40% of all subjects with lexical amenazar.
Table 30. Semantic classification of the subject135
Subjects amenazar % prometer %
Individual 218 29.38 534 54.21
Object 84 11.32 27 2.74
Process 68 9.16 25 2.54
State of
affairs
81 10.92 11 1.12
Notion 10 1.35 6 0.61
Location 19 2.56 6 0.61
Semiotic 14 1.89 15 1.52
Collective 6 0.81 16 1.62
Mind 10 1.35 1 0.10
Zero134
181 24.39 308 31.27
741 100 985 100
In the subsections below, I will connect this information to the analysis of
the subjects of the modal constructions. The previous section has shown
that agentive patterns in the subject can be activated by agentive infinitives,
so I will deal with the subjects in combination with the types of infinitive.
138 Partial transparency with modal prometer and amenazar
Recall that I have subdivided the infinitival complements of prometer and
amenazar into the four semantic groups used in section (2.): action verbs
(with an agent), aspectual verbs, attributive verbs and change-of-state verbs
(without an agent).
2.3. Subjects of modal amenazar
All types of subject are possible with amenazar, as shown in Table 31.
Although individuals and collective entities are not frequent at all, they are
by no means excluded. Yet, the table most clearly confirms that processes,
states of affairs and objects occupy the most prominent position among the
subjects of modal amenazar.
Table 31 presents the subject types in the rows and the infinitive types in
the first four columns. This ordering allows me to relate the type of subject
to the type of infinitive. The fifth column gives the total of the subjects,
while the sixth one gives the percentages.
Table 31. Subjects of modal amenazar
Subject action change of
state
attri-
bution
aspect Total
Individual 3 3 2.42
Object 22 16 1 39 31.45
Process 18 14 1 1 34 27.42
State of
affairs
7 17 1 25 20.16
Notion 2 1 3 2.42
Location 3 1 4 3.23
Semiotic 1 2 1 4 3.23
Collective 3 1 1 5 4.03
Mind 3 3 2.42
Zero 2 2 4 3.23
124 100
Restrictions on the subject 139
2.3.1. Non-human subjects
In the modal amenazar constructions, human individuals are rather infre-
quent subjects, while a subject such as proyecto ‘project’ expressing a
process or an event is more prototypical.
(20) El proyecto, sin embargo, amenaza con ser más largo y difícil de
lo que se esperaba. (Notic: España: ABC author: Serbeto Enrique)
The project, however, threatens to be longer and more difficult
than what we expected.’
The figures presented in Table 31 bring to the fore that the action or
change-of-state verbs most frequently have subjects expressing a concrete
object, a process or a state of affairs. Such subjects do not activate agentiv-
ity in the construction. A typical example of a subject denoting a “concrete
object” with an infinitival complement expressing action is arbustos
‘bushes’ in (21): in this example the bushes cannot be viewed as endowed
with intentions.
(21) Los neumáticos se enterraban en el fango, pero Santana se las
agenciaba para sacarlas y seguir. Los arbustos espinosos amena-
zaban con detener su guagua, pero que va: Santana era un chofer
de mucha experiencia. (de la Paz, Jorge Luis. La guagua)
‘The tires sank in the mud, but Santana managed to pull them out
and to go on. The prickly bushes threatened to stop his car, but did
not as so. Santana was a very experienced driver.’
In (22), the subject un cambio de gobierno ‘a governmental change’ de-
notes a process and combines with an action verb romper ‘to break’. Al-
though the subject here can be seen as the result of human action, this com-
bination does not block a modal reading.
(22) El periodo más difícil se inició en 1974, cuando Turquía intervino
para apoyar a los turcochipriotas después de que un cambio de
gobierno amenazara con romper el equilibrio constitucional a fa-
vor de aquellos grecochipriotas que deseaban la unión. (Encicl:
Organización de las Naciones Unidas)
‘The most difficult period started in 1974, when Turkey intervened
to support the Turkish Cypriots after a governmental change
threatened to alter the constitutional balance in favor of those
Greek Cypriots who wanted the union [with Greece].’
140 Partial transparency with modal prometer and amenazar
State of affairs subjects such as escasez ‘scarcity’ and interrupciones ‘inter-
ruptions’ in (23) readily combine with amenazar. In (23), the lack of an
agentive pattern in the subject cancels any potential agentive relation be-
tween the subject and the infinitival complement acabar con ‘to make an
end to’.
(23) Eso, unido a la escasez crónica del fluido eléctrico y a las esporá-
dicas interrupciones en el suministro de agua, amenazan con aca-
bar con la paciencia de los ciudadanos. (Notic: Col: Semana: 820)
‘This, together with the chronic scarcity of electric power and with
the sporadic interruptions of the water supply, threaten to consume
the patience of the citizens.’
2.3.2. Human subjects
Let us now look at the human subjects and subjects which somehow in-
volve the participation of a human agent. The group of human and human-
oid subjects ranges from individuals to less individual entities. I first dis-
cuss the subjects denoting individual persons. In (24), for example, the
subject niños indisciplinados ‘undisciplined children’ does not include
intentional commitment to the change-of-state complement convertirse en
delincuentes ‘becoming delinquents’, which is not agentive at all.
(24) El director tiende a ver en aquéllos a un grupo de niños indiscipli-
nados que amenazan convertirse en delincuentes juveniles. (Notic:
Arg: Cronista: 645_LA)
‘The director tends to see them as a group of undisciplined children
that threaten to become young delinquents.’
However, it appears that intentional commitment is not crucial for deter-
mining whether the reading of amenazar is to be considered lexical or mo-
dal. In (25), for example, aquellos ‘those people’ refer to the mighty, who
do not physically threaten to annihilate the world, but only do so in the
subjective interpretation of the speaker.
(25) ... tenemos frente a ese colosal imperio y la infinita fuerza que
poseen aquellos que están haciendo retroceder al mundo y amena-
zan con llevarlo al exterminio, cuyas ideas, cuyos conceptos y cu-
yas mentiras hay que destruir. (Fidel Castro. 03/07/98)
Restrictions on the subject 141
‘... we have in front of us a gigantic empire and the infinite force in
the hand of those who are deteriorating the world and threaten to
bring it to an end, whose ideas, whose concepts and whose lies
should be destroyed.’
Moreover, although the powerful certainly can annihilate the world, one
does not expect that they have any interest in doing so. Hence, the speaker
and the hearer can subjectively view this apocalyptic approach. The same
happens in (26), where the speaker or the central figure is part of a human
mass. Although it is formed by human beings, the mass itself is not an in-
tentional entity undertaking any action.
(26) Me dispuse a satisfacer su pedido, mientras luchaba -con mayor o
menor éxito- contra la marea humana que amenazaba aplastarme
(mi finalidad no era de ningún modo morir por asfixia, como en los
terribles ómnibus alemanes de exterminio). (González Real, Os-
valdo. Anticipación y reflexión)
‘I was ready to meet his request, while I was struggling – more or
less successfully – against the human sea that threatened to crush
me (my objective was by no means to die from suffocation, as in
the terrible German extermination coaches).’
Finally, there are also collective subjects with a humanoid component. The
instituciones ‘institutions’ in (27), for example, imply an agent that runs the
complex management of these institutions and takes the decisions. Al-
though these agents can display intentional commitment to the accom-
plishment of the process expressed by the infinitive, in (27), they do not
automatically trigger a lexical reading of amenazar.
(27) El retraso agita más todavía el pugilato político entre las diversas
instituciones que componen el Consorcio Madrid Capital Cultural,
y que amenazan con quebrar la celebración. Los ciudadanos se-
rán, como siempre, al final, los únicos perjudicados. (Bravo, Julio.
Abc)
‘The delay increases even more the political fight between the dif-
ferent institutions that form the Madrid Capital Cultural Consor-
tium, and that threaten to crack the celebration. In the end the citi-
zens will, like always, be the only victims.’
There are two possible readings of amenazan con quebrar in (27). On the
one hand, the subject of the amenazar construction can be understood as
142 Partial transparency with modal prometer and amenazar
uttering a real threat. In this case, the delay leads those responsible for the
institutions to seriously consider cancelling the celebration. The combina-
tion of the collective entity instituciones and the highly agentive action verb
quebrar la celebración ‘to cancel the celebration’ makes this reading possi-
ble. On the other hand, focus on the delay and the subsequent political
problems entail that the behavior of the different institutions will disturb the
celebration. This implies that the celebration itself will take place. In other
words, a modal reading is also possible.
Note that this double reading might be favored by the specific position
of amenazar in the relative clause which is preceded by the conjunction y
‘and’. Indeed, constructions with human or humanoid subjects, as in (26)
and (27), do not display the tendency to put the modal verb in the subordi-
nate clause. This is illustrated by the agentive main clause examples in (28).
(28) a. Las diversas instituciones que componen el Consorcio Madrid
Capital Cultural amenazan con quebrar la celebración.
‘The different institutions that form the Madrid Capital Cultural
Consortium threaten to cancel the celebration.’
b. El retraso y el pugilato político entre las diversas instituciones
que componen el Consorcio Madrid Capital Cultural amenazan
con quebrar la celebración.
‘The delay and the political fight between the different institutions
that form the Madrid Capital Cultural consortium threaten to crack
the celebration.’
In (28a), the finite form of amenazar has been moved to the main clause,
which almost imposes a lexical reading on the institutions’ threat. By con-
trast, in the main clause in (28b) the non-human subjects el retraso ‘the
delay’ and el pugilato político ‘the political fight’ do not block a modal
reading.136
2.4. Subjects of modal prometer
In this section I will analyze whether modal prometer combines less often
with agentive human subjects than amenazar. At first sight, this is certainly
the case: the corpus data in Table 32 show that prometer, in contrast with
modal amenazar, does not have subjects that denote individuals (nor loca-
tions), while collective subjects are possible, though not frequent.
Restrictions on the subject 143
Table 32. Subjects of modal prometer
Subject action change of
state
attribution aspect total %
Individual 0 0.00
Object 1 3 4 1 9 26.47
Process 4 6 10 29.41
State of
affairs
2 2 5.88
Notion 2 4 1 7 20.59
Location 0 0.00
Semiotic 1 1 2 5.88
Collective 1 1 2 5.88
Mind 1 1 2.94
None 1 1 2.94
100
Table 32 indicates that the bulk of the subjects with prometer refer to proc-
esses, objects and notions (day, month and season). It also shows that ac-
tion verbs prefer processes to individuals, objects or collective nouns. The
attributive predicates, which do not involve any action at all, combine with
most subject types. This distribution emphasizes that the combination with
specific infinitives downplays the potential agentivity of the subject. These
corpus data seem to corroborate the hypothesis that agentive subjects do not
favor a modal reading of prometer. The following sections detail thes dis-
tribution of subjects found with modal prometer.
2.4.1. Collective nouns
As noted before, in my data human individuals do not figure among the
subjects of modal prometer. By contrast, the corpus contains a couple of
collective nouns in which human beings are involved such as operadores
de larga distancia ‘long distance operators’. In (29), the operators are ex-
pected to become the biggest advertising investors on the market, they do
not make any promise themselves.
(29) Los operadores de larga distancia prometen convertirse en los
mayores inversionistas publicitarios pues el ejemplo de otros paí-
144 Partial transparency with modal prometer and amenazar
ses contempla una inversión entre 15 y 30 por ciento. (Notic: Col:
Semana: 840)
‘The long distance operators promise to become the biggest adver-
tising investors because the example of other countries points to an
inversion between 15 and 30 %.’
In (30), the subject ronda ‘round/turn’ refers to a kind of temporal and
physical organization with a specific aim, e.g. delivering services or secu-
rity; ronda can thus be understood as a group of persons and may convey
intentional commitment to avoiding major problems. Nevertheless, no
agentivity emanates from the rondas in the present example, prometer has a
modal reading here.
(30) En enero de 1994, 76 familias regresaron a Purus. Aquí han re-
construido su comunidad y se han organizado en rondas que pro-
meten mantener alejados a los terroristas de su pueblo. (Notic:
Perú: Caretas: 1433)
‘In January 1994, 76 families returned to Purus. Here they recon-
structed their community and they have organized themselves in
rounds which promise to keep at a distance the terrorists of their
village.’
Other subjects are more clearly the product of human beings. El remake in
(31), for example, obviously needs a producer, who is mentioned here:
Umberto Polar. The question thus needs to be considered whether the act of
recuperar la armonía ‘to recover the harmony’ reflects an intention of the
producer or a mere by-product of the remake perceived by the speaker.
Given the descriptive subclause at the end of the example, the modal read-
ing seems most plausible. However, more information about Umberto Po-
lar’s plans could alter this and lead to a lexical “promise” reading, instead.
(31) Se grabó en Buenos Aires pero se urdió desde Lima. El remake
producido por Umberto Polar para el 5, promete recuperar la ar-
monía de ese barrio protagónico que fue el primero en figurar en
un melodrama. (Notic: Perú: Caretas: 1431)
‘It was recorded in Buenos Aires but it was planned from Lima.
The remake produced by Umberto Polar for the 5, promises to re-
cover the harmony of this prominent barrio which was the first to
be used in a melodrama.’
Restrictions on the subject 145
In contrast with the lack of knowledge about the agent’s plans in (31), in
(32) it is explicitly mentioned that the infinitival process will probably be
realized a través de los últimos avances tecnológicos ‘through the latest
technological advances’. Moreover, the subject cinetismo refers to an artis-
tic movement, which is naturally constituted by producers. Since it is hard
to pin down the responsibility for this movement to a couple of agents,
prometer does not directly entail an agentive lexical reading.
(32) Otros artistas de nuestro continente muestran que el cinetismo no
ha agotado aún todas sus posibilidades y promete a través de los
últimos avances tecnológicos llevar todavía más lejos sus origina-
les propuestas visuales. (González Real, Osvaldo. Anticipación y
reflexión)
‘Other artists from our continent show that the “cinetismo” move-
ment has not yet exploited all its possibilities and promises to fur-
ther develop its original visual proposals through the latest techno-
logical advances.’
This example shows that knowledge about the plans of the artistic move-
ment does not as such impose a lexical reading. In other words, the combi-
nation of responsibility and agentivity appears to be the most central ele-
ment of the lexical reading. It is important to stress that the two dimensions
have to be combined, since agentivity itself is not sufficient, as shown in
(33). In the example below, the agentive infinitive repetir ‘to repeat’ is the
subject. Interestingly, the modal reading is still possible since there is no
intention attached to the act of repeating the allusions.
(33) Al fin, risueño a su turno, interrogó: - ¿Alguna picardía murmura-
ba esta mala lengua? Como repetir las alusiones prometiera re-
mover el escándalo, Felipe Toledo intervino: - Basta, que no viene.
(Barrios, Eduardo. Gran señor y rajadiablos)
‘Finally, smiling at his turn, he interrogated: - some slyness mum-
bled this gossip? As if repeating these allusions promised to take
away the row, Felipe Toledo intervened: - It is alright, he will not
come.’
The discussion of the above-mentioned examples has shown a complex
interplay of different elements that co-determine whether prometer yields a
modal or a lexical reading. For the humanoid subjects, intention, agentivity
and responsibility are the most important ones. This analysis is in line with
the observation that the shift from lexical to modal readings in promise-like
146 Partial transparency with modal prometer and amenazar
verbs is blocked when the verb combines with a humanoid subject that is
directly associated with agentivity and responsibility. Intention has proved
to be less important than the former two factors.
2.4.2. Human subjects
According to Vliegen (2006), animate subjects cannot combine with modal
promise/beloven/versprechen. Although such subjects are absent in my
data, I argue for a more gradual shift from lexical to modal readings in
Spanish. Let us first look at some evidence from Germanic languages.
Vliegen (2006) assumes that an “epistemic” reading of prom-
ise/beloven/versprechen is blocked when its subject is “capable of inten-
tional action”. Even if the subject is not a concrete agent, strong intention,
Vliegen argues, would make a modal reading of prometer impossible. In
this context, Vliegen mentions that in German and Dutch a prometer con-
struction invoking an experiencer is “practically excluded in the epistemic
reading”. I reproduce his examples in (34).
(34) a. Eva verspricht den Tag zu geniessen. (from Vliegen 2006)
b. Eva belooft van de dag te genieten. (from Vliegen 2006)
‘Eva promises to enjoy the day.’
In Spanish, the subject of modal prometer does not seem to adhere to the
same restrictions, however. In (35), an animate subject, i.e. the girl Ana,
with aprovechar ‘to enjoy/exploit’, i.e. an infinitive equivalent to the Dutch
and German ones in (34), does not block a modal reading. The girl Ana will
probably go to Buenos Aires to have a tango course. From the context, the
reader can deduce that the event expressed in the infinitive is likely to be
realized in one way or another.
(35) Alguien le pregunta a Ana si baila tango. Mientras contesta que
“solo un poco”, se va poniendo de pie: baila. Baila con gracia, er-
guida, con estampa, atenta, con el codo derecho un poco levantado
y tratando de no mover la cabeza como en la salsa. Promete apro-
vechar la oportunidad que brinda Buenos Aires de aprender a bai-
lar tango.
(http://protagonistas.terra.com.co/protagonistas2/dia_a_dia/22-07-
2003/nota98653.html)
‘Someone asks Ana if she dances the tango. While she answers
“only a little”, she stands up: she can dance. She dances elegantly,
Restrictions on the subject 147
upright, with rhythm, attentively, with the right elbow a little bit in
the air and trying not to move the head as in salsa. She promises to
make the most of the opportunity that Buenos Aires gives [her] to
learn to dance the tango.’
Yet, in (35), the volition or agentivity of the human individual could simply
be less prominent due to the fact that the subject Ana is not explicitly men-
tioned in the utterance (Gergel p.c.). This means that lexically elaborate
animate subjects are not expected to appear in modal readings of prometer
with a human subject and an agentive infinitive. When the explicit subject
Ana is added, the modal reading indeed becomes less acceptable. The inten-
tion to learn the tango strengthens the tendency towards a lexical reading.
(36) Baila con gracia, erguida, con estampa, atenta, con el codo dere-
cho un poco levantado y tratando de no mover la cabeza como en
la salsa. Ana promete aprovechar la oportunidad que brinda Bue-
nos Aires de aprender a bailar tango.
‘She dances elegantly, upright, with rhythm, attentive, with the
right elbow a little bit in the air and trying not to move the head as
in salsa. Ana promises to make the most of the opportunity that
Buenos Aires gives [her] to learn dancing tango.’
Interestingly, the infinitival complement aprovechar la oportunidad ‘to
make the most of the opportunity’ can only be associated with a human
being. Nevertheless, without an explicit subject, prometer can have a modal
reading when it combines with this complement. This is rather surprising,
since the modal reading of prometer is usually not available in construc-
tions with a human subject and an agentive infinitive, as shown with salir
enseguida ‘to leave/come out immediately’ in (37). In (37a), there is no
indication that a modal reading of the person’s leaving might correspond to
the intention of the speaker, while in (37b) the prometer construction refer-
ring to the release of the book can only be modal.
(37) a. [Promete/amenzaza con] salir enseguida.
‘(s)he promises/threatens to leave immediately.’
b. El libro promete salir enseguida.
‘The book promises to come out immediately.’
As shown before, prometer can most easily background the agentivity of
the human subject when the infinitive does not depict an action or a change
148 Partial transparency with modal prometer and amenazar
of state. This is clearly the case in sentences like (38), in which prometer
combines with a copular complement.
(38) Emilio Antonio es un talento musical que promete ser un gran
artista en el futuro.
‘Emilio Antonio is a musical talent who promises to be a great art-
ist in the future.’
Emilio Antonio does not interfere in the modal prometer construction, al-
though logically speaking, he certainly could. Although Emilio Antonio
will no doubt have the intention of becoming a great artist, in these kind of
utterances, the future does not lead to a lexical reading. An infinitive like
debatir ‘to debate’, e.g. (39), by contrast, does not readily trigger a modal
reading.
(39) En sesión adelantada por el 9 de Julio, los ediles prometen debatir
esta tarde un dictamen elaborado por las comisiones de Planea-
miento Urbano, Ecología y Vivienda.
(Notic: Arg: Cronista: 669_ELCO)
‘In the advanced session instead of July 9th
, the councillors promise
to debate this afternoon a proposal worked out by the Urban Plan-
ning, Ecology and Housing commissions.’
The construction with los ediles ‘the councillors’ is generally considered
agentive and, hence, does not readily lead to a modal reading. However, the
temporal marker en sesión adelantada por el 9 de Julio ‘in the advanced
session instead of July 9th
’ establishes a positive horizon of expectations
regarding the accomplishment of the infinitive which paves the way for a
modal reading. In such a construction, the inference of probable realization
of the event expressed can background the impact of the animate subject.
This is the basis for a future modal reading.
3. Conclusions
The detailed corpus-based analysis of the infinitive and the subject has
shown that amenazar and prometer are not completely transparent.
First, the type of infinitive is linked with a specific viewpoint expressed
by modal amenazar and prometer. The frequent change-of-state and action
infinitives with amenazar correlate with an internal viewpoint on the state
of affairs, while the frequent association of modal prometer with attributive
Conclusions 149
infinitives points to an external point of view. Furthermore, a small group
of deontic and communication verbs do not co-occur with modal amenazar
and prometer.
In general, the difference between lexical and modal prometer is larger
than between lexical and modal amenazar. The strong intentions that lexi-
cal prometer conveys make the possibility of modal constructions smaller;
this is also reflected in the small number of modal prometer in the corpus.
Recall that only 9.9% of the constructions with infinitive examples have
such a reading. By contrast, since lexical amenazar lacks strong intentions,
this reading is not so different from a modal reading. This results in a
higher frequency of modal readings: up to 47.5% of the amenazar construc-
tions with an infinitive have a modal reading. Moreover, the higher fre-
quency also leads to a greater variation of infinitival complements.
The analysis of the subjects points to a great variety of non-human and
human subjects with both amenazar and prometer. Here too, amenazar
turns out to be less influenced by agentive patterns. Illustrative of this is the
possibility of having a modal reading with a human subject and an agentive
infinitive. One can thus conclude that, as far as the attenuation of agentivity
is concerned, amenazar is more transparent than prometer.
The case of prometer/promise and amenazar/threaten confirms Lan-
gacker’s (2000: 358) idea that full transparency and full non-participation
are “the endpoint in a continuous spectrum of possibilities”. However,
prometer and amenazar have not reached this endpoint yet. In the next
chapter, I will go into more detail about the shift from lexical to modal
readings and present various stages of the process of subjectification with
amenazar and prometer.
Chapter 6
Subjectification of prometer and amenazar
The synchronic analyses presented in the previous chapters have shown that
the two readings of amenazar and prometer are “no accidental homonyms”
(Verhagen 1996: 801). This chapter offers an explanation for the shift be-
tween the two readings in terms of subjectification. On the one hand, I will
review previous metaphor and metonymy-based analyses of prom-
ise/beloven and threaten/dreigen and apply them to amenazar and prometer
(Sections 1 and 2). On the other hand, I will check to what extent Lan-
gacker’s synchronic subjectification is in line with the results of the dia-
chronic analysis. I will also examine whether it is a viable account of the
diachronic evolution itself (Section 3).
1. A diachronic approach to promise and threaten
This section lays the basis for the description of the diachronic corpus data
of Spanish prometer and amenazar conducted in Section (2.). First I present
Traugott’s (1997) description of the historical evolution of promise and
threaten (1.1.). Next, I argue that it is hard to explain the shift from lexical
to modal readings in terms of metaphorical extension (1.2), and propose
that metonymic change is a more appropriate explanation (1.3.).
1.1. An overview
Traugott (1997) differentiates between three different stages for the devel-
opment of the epistemic meaning of promise and threaten. These three
stages, however, are not directly associated with the three general tenden-
cies (T) of pragmatic strengthening, viz., T I: shift from an external to an
internal situation, T II: from an external/internal to textual and metalinguis-
tic situation, T III: subjectification. I first present the different stages and
then link them up with the first and the third tendency.
Stage I of promise is situated in the Middle English period, when the
verb enters the English language as a borrowing from French. From its first
use in the English language, promise has been a performative and commis-
sive verb which expresses commitment to the interlocutor (cf. Traugott
A diachronic approach 151
1997: 186). Moreover, the subject is necessarily animate, i.e. (s)he is able
to perform an illocutionary speech act. The first stage of threaten goes back
to Old English. Just as in present-day English this verb does not necessarily
convey commitment or performative speech acts.
The second stage, Traugott argues, starts in the 16th
century, when both
verbs allow for a “non-intentional, non-commissive, epistemic” reading in
their transitive use with a nominal complement. Traugott (1997: 187–188)
mentions that the verbs in (1) mean ‘to predict’.
(1) a. Yf any man all this can gett, shall he haue the greatest felicitie,
shall he fynde her [felicity] in these [honor, glory, pleasure] that
we haue shewed you, promise more than they giue?” (1593 Queen
Elizabeth, transl. of Boethius, 57 [DHCE])137
b. ... the title of this Paper promising some Experiments about the
Production of Electricity, I must not omit to recite.... [capitals
original]
(1675-1676 Boyle. Electricity and Magnetism 20–21 [DHCE])
c. As the morning promised a fair day we set out, but the storm
coming up again we were obliged to come to. (1784 Muhl
[ARCHER])
d. The croupous symptoms had appeared early and gone on rapidly
so that suffocation was threatened. (1864 Spencer [ARCHER])138
Traugott (1997: 198) claims that the change to a ‘predict’ reading is moti-
vated by the fact that the “pragmatic inference of futurity implied by prom-
ise and threaten at Stage I came to be semanticized in contexts where no
proposition is syntactically expressed, i.e. in contexts with direct objects”.
Although this is certainly true for promise because of the frequent combina-
tion with nominal complements, Traugott does not support this claim for
threaten with corpus evidence.
The fact that promise combines frequently with indefinite complements
at Stage II (or with no complement at all) leads to an underspecification of
the commitment expressed by these verbs and “presumably allowed for the
demotion of the semantics of commitment” (Traugott 1997: 198). Impor-
tantly, Traugott points out that other verbs of the commissive class, like
guarantee and pledge, which only preselect definite objects, have not made
the shift to an epistemic reading of the future event. Furthermore, the in-
animate subjects in (1) point to an extension towards a more abstract read-
ing, although they still ‘control’ the finite predicate. The control relation
between the subject and the finite verb leads Traugott to conclude that
Stage II is an intermediate step between Stage I, with full control, and Stage
152 Subjectification of prometer and amenazar
III, without control.
Stage III, beginning in the 18th
century, is characterized by the “non-
intentional and epistemic” meanings of promise and threaten with infiniti-
val complements. The speaker views the proposition as likely, and evalu-
ates it positively or negatively. Traugott (1997: 188) mentions that earlier
examples of promise contain more often inchoative be-complements (2a)
than “stative copula and activity verbs” (2b), the latter being very frequent
in present-day English. Note that the inchoative event reading may stem
from the specific context in which the construction is used; example (2a),
for instance, describes a building under construction. Traugott (1997: 189)
states that “it is not clear that [threaten] was first limited to inchoative be-
complements, although the early examples involve change-of-state verbs”,
such as in (2c).
(2) a. The Capitol promised to be a large and handsome building,
judging from the part about two thirds already above ground.
(1795 Twin [ARCHER])
b. The route promised to throw a variety of weather at us.
(1992 Flying [HECTOR])
c. I am sometimes frightened with the dangers that threaten to di-
minish it [my estate] (1780 Mirror No81 [OED])
According to Traugott (1997: 198), Stage III is motivated by the general
process whereby “epistemic meanings gradually shift from more “objec-
tive” possibility based in general beliefs and attitudes to more “subjective”
possibility in the individual speaker’s belief or attitude”. Thus, in Stage III
the evaluation of the likelihood of the state of affairs is directly related to
the speaker.
Although the differentiation between the three stages is an inspiring
model to follow, Traugott’s (1997) analysis also has certain drawbacks: (i)
promise and threaten are basically treated as verbs with the same historical
evolution. It is striking that Traugott gives far fewer examples of threaten
than of promise. In my own analysis I will clearly differentiate between
amenazar and prometer and verify whether the stages of their evolution
differ (cf. Verhagen 2000). (ii) The historical changes are temporally sepa-
rated from each other over a long period of time. Yet, there is no reason
why, once the verb allows for a modal reading of promise/threaten + nomi-
nal complement (Stage II), an infinitival construction (Stage III) should
only show up three centuries later. My account of Spanish will show that
these forms show up in the same period. (iii) Traugott (1988) extensively
discusses the cognitive notions “metaphor” and “metonymy” in relation to
A diachronic approach 153
the semantic-pragmatic tendencies (I, II, and III), but Traugott (1997) does
not directly apply them to the subjectification of promise and threaten. In
my analysis of amenazar and prometer I will use slightly modified notions
of metaphor and metonymy.
In the following subsection, I will first examine in further detail whether
the three historical stages presented for promise and threaten correspond to
the tendencies which Traugott considers as manifestations of a general
principle of grammaticalization and subjectification. I will show that the
historical stages mainly correspond to the first two tendencies and that it is
less easy to pin down the third tendency to one specific stage. I argue that
metaphorical change is involved in the extension to nominal complements
(first tendency) (1.2.), while metonymic change seems to account well for
the other stages (1.3.). After this theoretical discussion I will analyze the
rise of modal readings in amenazar and prometer.
1.2. Metaphorical extension
Below I show that the first semantic-pragmatic tendency, i.e. the shift from
an external to an internal situation, applies to both promise and threaten,
but cannot readily be accounted for in purely metaphorical terms.
1.2.1. Principles of metaphorization
In their lexical readings, promise and threaten express a concrete commit-
ment to a thing or an action (complement), and connect the possible conse-
quences of the realization of the complement with an interlocutor or/and
other participants. In their modal readings, by contrast, promise and
threaten have undergone a shift to a cognitive, perceptual and evaluative
domain. In the grammaticalization literature, this shift from external to
internal situations has largely been claimed to be metaphorical in nature.
Metaphorization occurs when a thing or process present in the speaker-
hearer interaction (the source domain)139
is specified in terms of another
thing or process which is not present in the context (the target domain) (cf.
Traugott 1988: 413). For example, a metaphor such as life is a journey
connects two different domains by introducing the notion of journey (and
the different phases it implies) to characterize the concept of life discussed
in the conversation. Now, it is the question to what extent this mapping also
applies to the shift in meaning of verbs such as promise and threaten.
154 Subjectification of prometer and amenazar
1.2.2. Forces and counterforces
The alternation of two readings of a verb often invites one to assume direct
mapping between the domain expressed by the first reading to that of the
second reading. In this way, Sweetser (1990) deals with the English deontic
and epistemic modal verbs in terms of metaphor.140
(3) a. John may go. (deontic reading)
b. John may be there. (epistemic reading)
According to Sweetser, in the deontic reading of may (3a) there is a socio-
physical force of the imposer on the imposee: the imposer cancels the bar-
rier the imposee could face. Sweetser (1990) argues that through a meta-
phorical shift this deontic force constellation leads to the epistemic modal
reading of may in (3b). In (3a), Sweetser (1990) interprets the utterance as
“John is not barred from going”, whereas in (3b), it is the speaker who is
not barred by his/her premises “from the conclusion that John is there” (cf.
Chapter 8 for a more detailed discussion of Sweetser’s (1990) metaphorical
model).
Such a metaphorical shift is not directly applicable to promise and
threaten. When threaten has an interlocutor, the subject communicates to
the addressee/participant that the threat will materialize if (s)he crosses a
virtual barrier. When there is no interlocutor involved, there is no barrier,
however. By contrast, promise always implies an interlocutor/participant
but does not impose real barriers on him/her.141
If one assumes that the
force relations in lexical promise and threaten are metaphorically reinter-
preted as force directed to the proposition in the modal reading, one cannot
rely on the subject and the interlocutor of promise and threaten.
Moreover, the specific force structure in the lexical reading consists of
more than barriers alone. As said in Chapter 4 (Section 2), the subject of
promise usually promises to do something for another person or entity,
while with threaten, the subject only reluctantly proceeds to act towards
another person or entity if the conditions for avoiding the threat are not
fulfilled. The different subject intentions and the possible counteracting
forces also play a role in promise and threaten (cf. Pelyvás (1996) for the
English modals). With promise, the possible counteracting force (or combi-
nation of forces) is not located in the promisee, who is the beneficiary, but
can only correspond to the promisor. The existence of counterforce is also
hinted at by Searle (1969: 58–63), when he mentions that an explicit prom-
ise always implies a special effort. As for the lexical readings of threaten,
by contrast, the interlocutor/participant is the default counteracting force
A diachronic approach 155
which attempts to resist or prevent the threat from being accomplished.
This interplay of forces does not yield a view of the force structure that can
satisfactorily serve as a basis for metaphorical extension.
In sum, the force structure is far more complex than it looks at first
sight. The metaphorical shift in the alternation of the lexical and non-lexical
readings of promise and threaten in present-day English may be all too
simple to account for the diachronic evolution. It is at least striking that
Traugott’s (1997) diachronic analysis of promise and threaten does not
refer to metaphor.
1.2.3. Personification as a restricted metaphor
Verhagen (2000: 204–205) states that if metaphor plays a causal role in the
change of promise and threaten, it is not “mappings from the real-world
domain to the domain of reasoning, but rather more ordinary ones like per-
sonification”. On the basis of the personification example with beloven ‘to
promise’ reprinted in (4a), Verhagen (2000: 205) argues that a modal read-
ing of a nominal construction of beloven is available considerably earlier
than the first infinitival one, in (4b). In (4a), the body is not committed to
the soul, but provides evidence for a particular expectation about the soul,
although it may be false. In (4b), this reading is extended to constructions
with an infinitival complement.
(4) a. Een schoon lichaem belooft wel een schoone Ziele; maar het
aenghezicht belieght oock wel het herte. (WNT/ De Brune, Bank. 1,
14, 1657)
‘A beautiful body may promise a beautiful Soul; but the face may
well deceive the heart.’
b. Dat zelfde meisjen, 't welk iets beloofde te worden. (1793)
‘That same girl, who promised to become something.’
The personification in (4a) is in line with Traugott’s argument that the first
shift to Stage II involves a process of semanticization of the “pragmatic
inference of futurity implied by promise and threaten” in utterances with a
direct object, i.e. contexts where no proposition is syntactically expressed
(Traugott 1997: 198).142
It is worthwhile verifying, however, whether the
shift from an intentional reading to a non-intentional reading, as in (5), can
be explained in metaphorical terms.
156 Subjectification of prometer and amenazar
(5) As the morning promised a fair day we set out, but the storm com-
ing up again we were obliged to come to. (1784 Muhl [ARCHER])
The example in (5) shows that, although the shift from Stage I to Stage II is
metaphorical to a certain extent, the very shift between “domains”, gener-
ally required in prototypical metaphors, is lacking. At Stage II, according to
Traugott, the inanimate subject of the subjective construction, here morn-
ing, predicts something without uttering a promise or a threat. Verhagen
(2000: 206), for his part, states that metaphorical uses seem to have pre-
ceded the “use as a modal with an infinitival complement”.143
Moreover, he
argues for a different evolution of “speaker-hearer subjective” drei-
gen/threaten (6a) and “character subjective” beloven and promise (6b),
based on the latter’s illocutionary force.
(6) a. He threatened to come home early.
b. He promised to come home early. (from Verhagen 2000: 204)
Verhagen (2000) contends that by using the verb promise the speaker holds
the reported subject responsible for the choice of the word promise, as op-
posed to the speaker’s interpretation of a reported threat. The specific re-
sponsibility of the speaker makes threaten more speaker-hearer subjective
“from the start”, which then implies that dreigen/threaten shows up earlier
in a modal reading than promise, the latter remaining character subjective
for a longer period (cf. Verhagen 2000).
Yet, it is not clear how the criterion of illocutionary force combines with
the personified uses of beloven/promise and dreigen/threaten, since the
intermediate stage of personification does not involve illocutionary force. It
would seem that the issue of speaker-hearer subjectivity faces a problem
similar to that of mapping between domains, namely that it does not take
into account the intermediate stages of the evolution.
My analysis will suggest another path focused on the similarity between
the early nominal and infinitival complements. Modal amenazar + nominal
complement appear together with modal amenazar + infinitive in the 15th
and 16th
century. By contrast, prometer + nominal complement can predict
before the construction extends to combine also with infinitival comple-
ments. Before I present this central argument, I first discuss the differences
between promise and threaten in terms of the metonymic shift from lexical
to non-lexical readings.
A diachronic approach 157
1.3. Metonymic extension
Although Traugott (1997) does not explicitly mention the metonymic rein-
terpretation of promise and threaten, metonymy has become increasingly
important in Traugott’s work. Traugott and Dasher (2002: 29) argue that
metonymy is probably more basic to language and cognition than meta-
phor. This assumption is based on the idea that a potential metaphor “must
be understood or perspectivized metonymically for the metaphor to be
possible” (Barcelona 2000: 31). The observation that promise and threaten
differ as to the importance of elements such as the subject or the counter-
acting force may support the argument that local, metonymic changes are at
the basis of the process of subjectification. The underspecification of the
commitment of the subject (the shift from Stage I to Stage II) is illustrative
of this metonymic change towards the new “epistemic” readings.
The metonymic shift towards the personification of the subject of prom-
ise and threaten could be based on the loss of the addressee. Recall that in
the basic lexical readings the two verbs have a different relation to the ad-
dressee. The threat often, but not always, involves a concrete addressee,
while the promise is always directed to an interlocutor (be it explicitly or
implicitly). Since the addressee is not always present in threaten, this verb
lends itself more easily to a subjective view of the threat (as the relative
frequency of modal dreigen/drohen and amenazar shows, cf. Vliegen
(2006) and Chapter 5, Section 2.1.). The threat is not directed to any par-
ticular entity but is seen as a more general threat of an imminent situation
that had better be avoided. Since with promise the promise made by the
subject can fade away only in a construction without an interlocutor, I hy-
pothesize that promise does not as easily lend itself to a prediction reading
which is more distant from its original lexical reading.
The question now is whether there is a second metonymic shift from
Stage II to Stage III. That is, can the so-called “raising” with promise and
threaten and the gradual shift from “objective” possibility (general beliefs)
to a more “subjective” possibility (individual speaker’s belief) (cf. Traugott
1997: 198) be accounted for in terms of metonymic change? If such a
change takes place, this would imply that the subjective possibility is a part
of the objective possibility. This seems reasonable since a generally shared
opinion usually also includes the opinion of the speaker. In the terminology
used in this volume, the metonymic shift is actually a shift from an inter-
subjective commitment toward a subjective commitment to the judgment.
In this case, there is a process of narrowing the perspective from a broadly
held view of the state of affairs to a strictly speaker-oriented view. Stage III
clearly corresponds with Tendency III, where the meanings “tend to be-
158 Subjectification of prometer and amenazar
come increasingly based in the speaker’s subjective belief state/attitude
toward the proposition” (Traugott 1989: 34–35; Traugott and Dasher 2002:
95).
Still, it is important to verify whether “objective” possibility and “sub-
jective possibility” really correspond to the constructions with a nominal
complement and those with an infinitival complement, respectively. In
other words, does the objective-subjective opposition imply that within the
infinitives expressing “subjective possibility” further specifications are
impeded? The diachronic corpus data will show that the types of infinitive
with Spanish amenazar and prometer undergo a broadening of the set of
constructions, which hence leads to a more frequent speaker-oriented view
of the state of affairs.
In sum, a metonymy approach to promise and threaten avoids the prob-
lematic side of the metaphorical approach in terms of domains and forces.
Moreover, it focuses on smaller and more local changes in the course of the
evolution from lexical to subjective verbs.
2. A diachronic analysis of amenazar and prometer
In this section, I verify to what extent the historical evolution of amenazar
and prometer correlates with the history of promise and threaten proposed
by Traugott.144
The analysis below is based on a thorough scrutiny of the
historic sections of Corpus del español (http://www.corpusdelespanol.org):
I have systematically looked at the most frequent verb forms of amenazar
and prometer between the 13th
and 19th
century. For the present description
I consider the 13th
century as an early stage of Spanish, although it could be
argued that previous centuries constitute the earliest centuries. I have dou-
blechecked the corpus data to make sure that the observations made below
are not built on loose sand. Yet, since the analysis is not based on a detailed
quantitative description, further corpus research will certainly be able to
refine the point made below taking into account the frequency of the differ-
ent construction types and the different readings.145
I first discuss amenazar
(2.1) and then deal with prometer (2.2).
2.1. Amenazar
In this section I will argue that at the end of the 15th
century the first occur-
rences of modal amenazar + infinitive co-occur with amenazar + nominal
complement. I first comment on the modal readings of the nominal con-
A diachronic analysis 159
structions (2.1.1), before I pass on to present the first occurrences of modal
amenazar + infinitive (2.1.2). Finally, I describe the modal uses in the 18th
and the 19th
century (2.1.3).
2.1.1. The modal readings with amenazar
At the end of the 15th
century, Antonio de Nebrija published his Dictionar-
ium latino-hispanicum (Salamanca, 1492), in which he translates the Latin
words portentosus and prodigium by means of amenazar, as shown in (7).
In these uses, amenazar does not have an intentional subject, nor an ad-
dressee. Interestingly, the subject milagro is positive, and is compensated
by the negatively oriented nominal complement mal ‘evil’.
(7) Portentum. milagro que significa mal
miracle that-COMPL signify.3SG bad-OBJ
‘the miracle that signifies something bad.’
Portentosus. lo que assi amenaza mal
it that-COMPL this way threaten.3SG bad-OBJ
‘which is a bad portent.’
Prodigium. milagro que amenaza mal
miracle that-COMPL threaten.3SG bad-OBJ
‘miracle that portends evil.’
Two years earlier, in his Universal vocabulario de latín en romance
(Sevilla, 1490), Alfonso de Palencia gave more or less the same comment
on portentum when discussing a series of expressions such as antedezir ‘to
foretell’ and mostrar ‘to show’, as in (8), which can be called evidential.
(8) monstruum es quasi monestrum: que amonesta auer de venir algo
siniestro.
‘that warns that something bad is to happen.’
& prodigium lo antedize: ‘foretells it.’
& portentum lo amenaza: ‘gives a sign of it.’
& ostentum lo muestra: ‘shows it.’
As far as the semantics are concerned, these first occurrences of non-lexical
amenazar have a clearly evidential dimension: they refer to the direct evi-
dence the speaker uses to make his/her statement. These examples of hu-
manist lexicographical description show that before the 16th
century,
amenazar is associated with the prediction of bad things that could happen.
160 Subjectification of prometer and amenazar
The use of the clitic lo ‘it’ and the nominal complement mal show that de
Palencia (1490) and Nebrija (1492) consider non-lexical amenazar a transi-
tive verb that assigns an object function to the announced event.
In Alfonso de Palencia’s (1490) work, amenazar appears together with
the verb amonestar ‘to warn’, which also occurs in other 15th
-century texts,
as shown in the lexical (9a) and evidential (9b) constructions below. In
(9a), the subject of amenazar directs a threat to a person, denoted by le ‘to
him/her’, and warns him/her, while in (9b), the two verbs convey a more
evidential meaning.146
(9) a. Enlas otras tres coplas seguientes declara que sera guerra y
hanbre y mortandad. Enlas otras quatro coplas que se syguen le
amenaza e amonesta que faga oraçion y confesion. (Coplas y glo-
sas de Mingo Revulgo Burgos, 1485)
‘In the other three following coplas he declares that there will be
war, famine and death. In the other four coplas that follow he
threatens and warns him/her that (s)he should pray and confess.’
b. ... como casa envegeçida cuyo çimjento se acuesta que amenaza
y amonesta con señales su cayda sy asy la nuestra vida es continuo
amenazada por que sera salteada de muerte tan comedida. (Can-
cionero de Salvá. Anonymous, 15th
century)
... as an old house whose mortar falls down and so it threatens col-
lapse and warns with symptoms, like this our life is continuously
threatened because it will suddenly be overridden by simple death.’
In (9a), the combination of amenazar and amonestar shows that the words
of the subclause are definitely the words uttered by the human subject of
amenazar and amonestar. The illocutionary force of amonestar in (9a)
gives amenazar a more performative reading, leading to a more subject-
oriented reading than the one in (9b). In the latter example, the possibility
of the house’s collapse is phrased by means of the reference by amenazar
and amonestar to concrete indications that the mortar is not strong enough.
In (9b), su cayda ‘its collapse’ is the object of amenazar and amonestar,
and the complement con señales ‘with signals’ is associated with both
amonestar and amenazar, which clearly lays the basis for an evidential
reading based on inference from external evidence. The potential character
of amenazar is shown in the prepositional construction in (10), where so-
spechar ‘to suspect’ and amenazar are used in the same context.
A diachronic analysis 161
(10) ... & la crisi[s] siempre sospecharas que siempre amenaza de re-
cayda. (Bernardo de Gordonio. Anon. translation. Prognostica. Las
pronósticas. 1495)
‘... and the crisis you will always suspect that it always threatens
with fall.’
Although these evidential constructions lack an addressee, they do not in-
volve real personification, since amenazar is not restricted to non-human
subjects. An alternative explanation is that a metonymic shift excludes a
potential addressee/participant and runs parallel with a shift from an exter-
nal commitment to an internal, mental commitment: in (9b) and (10) it is
the speaker who judges that there is a risk that something negative might
happen.
Interestingly, the nominal complement of amenazar is frequently caída
‘fall’ or ruina ‘ruin’, as exemplified by the humanist dictionaries like the
one of Alfonso de Palencia (1492).147
The amenaza ruina construction is a
fixed expression in present-day Spanish. In the next subsection, I will argue
that the infinitives that show up with evidential amenazar are similar to
these nouns.
2.1.2. Modal amenazar + infinitive: first examples
In the early stages of Spanish, amenazar combines with infinitives, que-
clauses, nominal complements or clitics. In (11), I give an example of the
13th
century lexical amenazar with an infinitive.148
(11) … mato a ponpeo & le tajo la cabeça. Et fizo el esto a ponpeo &
esto mjsmo mas que lo non quiera dios mesura el de ty & esto te
amenaza de fazer. (Alfonso X. General estoria. 1272-1284)
‘... he assassinated Pompeus and decapitated him. And he did this
to Pompeus and although God does not want it, he plans the same
for you, he threatens to do this to you.’
In addition to the lexical reading, I now show that amenazar + infinitive
also develops a modal dimension in the 15th
century. The caer examples
presented below indicate that the first occurrences of modal amenazar +
infinitive show up more or less around the same period as the above dis-
cussed modal constructions. Example (12) comes from the translated ency-
clopaedia Propiedades de las cosas (1492) and describes the profession of
the dentist. When the encyclopedist says that the tooth threatens to fall out,
162 Subjectification of prometer and amenazar
he describes a potential outcome, a likely state of affairs that is not consid-
ered a positive evolution.
(12) ... desçeca & consume los humores podridos que corrompen las
rayzes de los dientes & las enzias. refirma el diente que se anda &
amenaza de se caer. (Bartholomaeus Anglicus; Vicente de Burgos
(translator). Liber de proprietatibus rerum (1230-1240). Propieda-
des de las cosas. Toulouse. 1494)
‘[this] dissects and depletes the rotten pieces that corrupt the roots
of the teeth and molars. Repair the tooth that moves and threatens
to fall.’
The construction in (12) is related to the amenaza caída construction dis-
cussed in the previous section. Since the step from a change-of-state com-
plement caída to a change-of-state infinitive is minimal in comparison with
shifting from a lexical to a subjective threat, this example suggests that
modal amenazar + infinitive develops together with the evidential reading
of the nominal construction. The absence of an addressee in both the infini-
tival construction in (12) and the nominal ones mentioned before is an ideal
basis for a modal reading.
Although example (12) comes from a translated text (from the medieval
Franciscan encyclopedist Bartholomaeus Anglicus), it clearly exemplifies
modal amenazar with a change-of-state verb as its complement. Moreover,
this type of construction persists: at the end of the 16th
century Lope de
Vega’s utterance in (13) contains the same infinitive caer ‘to fall’ in a con-
struction with amenazar.149
Since modal amenazar + caer also appears in
the 16th
century (13), it is clear that example (12) is not a hapax.150
(13) … Este tronco anciano, que ya amenaza a caer de la muerte en el
mar cano. (Vega, Lope de. El vaso de elección San Pablo. 1598)
‘This old trunk, which already threatens to fall dead in the grey
sea.’
As for the shift from lexical to non-lexical readings, the question now arises
whether these constructions involve a metaphorical extension from the
physical threat. The answer is seems to be negative. Although diente ‘tooth’
and tronco ‘trunk’ could embody a personification of a threat and some-
thing could be undertaken to avoid it, they themselves do not convey any
threat in (12) and (13).
In what follows, I will show that the amenaza de se caer construction is
representative for other similar constructions at the end of the 15th
century.
A diachronic analysis 163
As exemplified in (14) and (15), The Crónica de Aragón (1499) contains
occurrences that present competition between lexical and modal readings of
amenazar, which illustrate the same subjective potential, although in a less
explicit way. Given the presence of action verbs in the infinitival comple-
ment, these examples display more competition between the lexical and
modal readings.
(14) ... assi apoderas la poderosa Castilla. que assi domas la nunca
domada prouincia. O espada mas que tajante y tan vencedora que
assi vences la que siempre amenaza vencer: y queda tanto y tantas
vezes por ti vencida. (Gauberto Fabricio de Vagad. Crónica de
Aragon. 1499)
‘... Like this you empower the powerful Castilia, that this way you
dominate the never dominated province. O sword so sharp and so
victorious that this way you conquer that [country that] always
threatens to win: and that so many times has been conquered by
you.’
In (14), Castilla implies a whole group of potentially human agents, which
foregrounds the physical threat. In the opinion of this Aragonese writer the
threatening collective entity Castilla ‘Castilia’ retains some kind of inten-
tion to win. By contrast, a modal reading could represent Castilla as a coun-
try that always awaits the moment to win. In (15), the death of King James
is not an intentional subject that threatens to harm Spain.
(15) ... començo de anocheçer nuestra España: y a sentir el agrauio que
la muerte le amenazaua fazer: que bien como su vida [del rey don
Jayme] era quasi publica muerte delos enemigos de dios.
(Gauberto Fabricio de Vagad. Crónica de Aragon. 1499).
‘... Our Spain started a dark period: and so to feel the injury/hurt
that death threatened her to do, which just like his life [of King
James] was almost like a public killing of the enemies of god.’
This utterance relates the harm that the death of the king has possibly in-
flicted upon the Spanish people (referred to by means of the clitic le). In
this construction, if muerte ‘death’ is personified, there is a metaphorical
extension from the subject associated with the action of threatening to the
allegorical ‘Death’. Since the death presented here rather refers to a sad
event with a great impact, however, the amenazar construction is more
likely to receive a modal reading.
164 Subjectification of prometer and amenazar
In conclusion, although the modal dimension of these examples from the
end of the 15th
century is not as clear-cut as the amenaza de se caer occur-
rence in (12), they nevertheless show that amenazar could have a modal
reading in a construction with other infinitival complements before the
beginning of the 16th
century. I also give two examples from the 16th
cen-
tury. In (16) a sad suspicion threatens to dominate the speaker’s mind.
Since this suspicion is not an intentional threatening entity, it does not lead
to a metaphorical extension in terms of personification.
(16) …. Ha tomado del alma mía gobierno un triste recelar, que con
espanto amenaza hacer mi mal eterno. (Cetina, Gutierre de. Obra
selecta. 1536)
‘Has taken over my soul a sad suspicion, that dreadfully threatens
to harm me my life long.’
The amenazar construction in (16) favors a modal reading since the state of
mind does not correspond to the agentive pattern of hacer ‘to do’. The same
non-human subject without agentive structure is found in (17). Here the
combination of the subject, i.e. enfermedades ‘diseases’ and the agentive
infinitive cortar ‘to cut’ renders a non-lexical reading possible. Literally,
the state of someone’s health cannot cut, and thus can hardly be in itself the
motive of a threat directed to the participants.
(17) … especialmente cuando las enfermedades suceden en tal coyuntu-
ra que les deshacen las trazas de sus oficios, o los amenazan con
cortarles la tela de la vida cuando estaban en lo mejor della.
(Puente, Luis de la. Vida del P. Baltasar Álvarez. 1589)
‘… especially when the diseases go that way that they ruin the ca-
reer or threaten to cut the web of life [lit: to them] when they are in
the best part of it.’
The infinitives and the subjects of the constructions presented so far de-
serve some further comments.151
The infinitives caer ‘to fall’, vencer ‘to
overwin’ and fazer ’to do’, hacer ‘to do’ and cortar ‘to cut’ point to a dy-
namic process involving a change of state or an action. Thus, the first ex-
amples of modal amenazar + infinitive do not express a static or categoriz-
ing view of the state of affairs, but express change-of-state. There is an
important difference: the amenaza de se caer construction does not mani-
fest a competition between lexical and non-lexical readings, while the ones
with fazer/hacer and cortar do. As for the subjects of these constructions,
the 15th
century diente ‘tooth’, espada ‘sword’ or muerte ‘death’ are con-
A diachronic analysis 165
crete objects or concrete events that often but not always allow for personi-
fications. I will now show that the range of infinitives and subjects broad-
ens in the 18th
and the 19th
century.
2.1.3. Modal amenazar + infinitive: 18th
and 19th
century
In this section I will show that, while the initial infinitives with modal
amenazar most often involved action or change-of-state, a considerable
amount of copular infinitives appear three centuries later. From the second
half of the 18th
century on, the subject often relates to an abstract state of
affairs, as in (18), where a situation is expected to go on for a while.
(18) Las golondrinas anidan a su placer en los desvanes, y las ratas
trotan tranquilamente en los sótanos. Semejante estado amenaza
prolongarse hasta que los viejos muros cedan a su propia pesa-
dumbre. (Barreras, Antonio El espadachín: narración histórica del
motín de Madrid en 1766)
‘The swallows nest in the attic and the rats run untroubled in the
basement. Such a situation threatens to go on till the old walls give
in to their own sorrow.’
Modal amenazar + infinitive boom in the 19th
century, which leads to a
considerable diversification of the subjects and the infinitives that combine
with the verb, and which co-exist with the earlier constructions (cf. layer-
ing, Hopper 1991). In the 19th
century, just like in present-day Spanish,
there are still personifications of real threats. In (19), for example, the per-
sonified sea threatens to devour the mountain.
(19) El mar embravecido amenaza engullirse y tragarse entero este
monte, pero la soberbiade sus olas queda confundida por la dureza
de sus peñas, y se convierte en espuma. (Francisco Palau, Beato.
Mis relaciones con la Iglesia. 1842)
‘The wild sea threatens to devour and to swallow the whole moun-
tain, but the pride of its waves is confounded by the hardness of the
cliffs, and becomes foam.’
In the 19th
century other modal amenazar constructions without personifi-
cation are increasingly more frequent. Despite the personification potential
of the subjects, the infinitive convertirse ‘to become’ in (20) and (21) does
not provoke a metaphorized threat reading of amenazar. For example, not-
166 Subjectification of prometer and amenazar
withstanding the fact that the statue of Melancholy could give rise to a
personification rather easily, in (20) it does not invite a metaphorical exten-
sion on the basis of personification, since there is no intentional relation
between the subject and convertirse ‘to become’. The same observation
holds for the demon in (21) who threatens to become a real monster.
(20) Ophelia, deshojando flores, simulaba la estatua de la Melancolía
cuando llega a ese punto en que amenaza convertirse en desespe-
ración y en catástrofe. (Sawa, Alejandro. La mujer de todo el
mundo. 1886)
‘Ophelia, stripping leaves of flowers, simulated the statue of Mel-
ancholy when it reaches the point that it threatens to become de-
spair and catastrophe.’
(21) Hoy día, muchachos y muchachas son víctimas del excesivo apren-
dizaje de lecciones, y en número creciente, de año en año, van ca-
yendo en las garras del demonio de los exámenes, que amenaza
convertirse en el más implacable monstruo que el mundo haya co-
nocido jamás en la realidad ni en la leyenda. (Giner de los Ríos,
Francisco. Escritos sobre la universidad española. 1877)
‘Today, boys and girls are victims of the excessive rehearsal of les-
sons, and year after year in increasing number, they are falling in
the claws of the exams demon, which threatens to become the most
inexorable monster that the world has ever known in reality and in
legend[s].’
The change-of-state infinitive convertirse ‘to become’ expresses a qualifi-
cation rather than an action. More generally, in the 19th
century, modal
amenazar manifests a shift from combining with an action-oriented infini-
tive towards a larger categorizing view of the preceding subject. This shift
towards a more speaker-oriented view is illustrated by the following exam-
ples of amenazar with a copular infinitive, i.e. ser la mayor energía ‘to be
the major energy’ (22), other attributives such as faltar ‘to be lacking’ (23)
or hacerse universal ‘to become universal’ (24), to quote but a few. Since
these qualifications still have a dimension of change, they cannot be seen as
exclusively categorizing.
(22) El mundo contemporáneo ha comenzado a entrever la aurora de
esta fuerza que amenaza con ser la mayor energía social de nues-
tro tiempo. (Giner de los Ríos, Francisco. Ensayo. Selección. 1877)
A diachronic analysis 167
‘The contemporary world has started to hint at the daybreak of this
force that threatens to be the major social energy of our time.’
(23) Ya ha avisado del peligro de la seca el jefe delacueducto; ya ha
rogado el mayor de la ciudad que economicen los vecinos el agua
que amenaza faltarles. (Martí, José. En los Estados Unidos. Esce-
nas norteamericanas. 1874)
‘The boss of the aqueduct has warned about the drought; the mayor
of the city has asked that the citizens save water that threatens to
be lacking for them.’
(24) ...grandes diplomáticos y personajes de diversas naciones, celosos
de su popularidad, que amenaza hacerse universal como su gloria.
(Castro, Rosalía de. El caballero de las botas azules. 1861)
‘... important diplomats and persons from different nations, jealous
of each other’s popularity, which threatens to become as universal
as their glory.’
This emergence of infinitives that express a qualification suggests a broad-
ening of the distribution of modal amenazar in comparison with the con-
structions found in the 15th
and the 16th
century.152
Traugott (1997:198) describes the shift to the infinitival constructions
with English threaten and promise as motivated by the general process
whereby “epistemic meanings gradually shift from more “objective” possi-
bility based in general beliefs and attitudes to more “subjective” possibility
in the individual speaker’s belief or attitude”. The fact that, from the 19th
century on, the infinitives of Spanish amenazar more easily express qualifi-
cations suggests that this gradual shift can be refined. Within the infinitival
use, there appears to be an evolution in Spanish from a restriction to
change-of-state and action verbs toward an extension to attributives.153
This shift does not imply that the verb as such becomes more speaker-
oriented, since there is layering with older readings of modal amenazar.
Moreover, this co-existence of readings can already be observed in 16th
-
century Spanish. Furthermore, Spanish amenazar has acquired a “subjec-
tive possibility” reading much earlier than English threaten in Traugott’s
(1997) diachronic description. In this respect, the analysis elaborated above
contributes to Verhagen’s (2000) suggestion that just as Dutch “epistemic”
dreigen appeared already in the 16th
century, English “epistemic” threaten
+ infinitive might have appeared earlier than the 18th
century.
My account of the infinitives patterning with amenazar can thus be a
basis for further research on Traugott’s (1997: 189) observation that “it is
168 Subjectification of prometer and amenazar
not clear that epistemic threaten was first limited to inchoative be-
complements, although the early examples do involve change of state
verbs”. My analysis has shown that the modal reading of amenazar first
shows up with non-copular change-of-state verbs and is found in combina-
tion with copular verbs only at a later stage. In (2.2) I will show that the
first infinitives of modal amenazar clearly differ from those with modal
prometer.
2.2. Prometer
Let us now look at the development of the modal reading of prometer from
the lexical commitment reading with possible illocutionary force. I first
discuss the first shift from the lexical readings of prometer to modal read-
ings (2.2.1). Then, I present the first modal readings of prometer + infini-
tive (2.2.2). Finally, I briefly review the greater variety of infinitives in the
19th
century (2.2.3).
2.2.1. The rise of modal readings with prometer
In the early stages of Spanish, prometer and amenazar considerably differ
as to the use of the infinitive. For example, in the 13th
and 14th
century pro-
meter is much more frequent with an infinitive than amenazar. In (25),
Alfonso X describes a person who promises to keep his faith; the infinitive
conveys the promised event.
(25) ... la promission que cada vno faze por si: o la que fazen sus padri-
nos por el quando resçibe el baptismo que reniega del diablo & de
todas sus obras & promete de guardar la fe de nuestro señor ihesu
xpisto & los mandamientos dela fe catolica: & por esta razon. (Al-
fonso X. Siete partidas. 1251-1265)
‘...the promise that each one does for him: or the one that his godfa-
thers do for him when he is presented for baptism that forsakes the
devil and all his works and promises to keep the faith in our lord
Jesus Christ and all orders of the Catholic faith and for this reason.’
The speech act function of prometer involving illocutionary force is present
from the early stages of Spanish in both the que-clause construction (26)
and the infinitival one (27).
A diachronic analysis 169
(26) ... yo prometo que si entrare en España que vaya a Santiago.
(Alfonso X. Siete partidas. 1251-1265)
‘... I promise that when I enter in Spain, I will go to Santiago.’
(27) ... te ruego que me otorgues mi madre & mi mugier. & mis fijas
que tienes alla. & prometo te yo de te dar quantos thesoros e en
tierra de Mayda. (Alfonso X. General Estoria IV. 1280).
‘I request you that you give me back my mother, my wife and my
daughters who you have there and I promise you to give you all the
treasury that I have in the country of Mayda.’
In the Corpus del español, the modal readings of prometer are less frequent
at the end of the 15th
century than those of amenazar. In (28), prometer
shows signs of an incipient evidential reading in terms of personification of
the malas aficiones ‘vices’ and the pensamientos ‘thoughts’ that promise
sweetness, which in the end turns out to be false.
(28) ... pues si con igual hazaña qual sin dubda todo ombre podra fazer
sacudiendo de si malas aficiones: & pensamientos torpes que al
principio prometen dulçura & ala fin paren tristeza & disfamia.
(Fernando del Pulgar. Claros varones de Castilla. 1500)
‘... well if with such a heroic deed without doubt everyone will be
able to shake off vices and awkward thoughts that at first promise
sweetness but in the end seem like sadness and a bad name.’
Although the subjects malas aficiones ‘vices’ and pensamientos ‘thoughts’
are not strictly non-human, they are non-intentional since they do not
commit themselves to do something for a participant. Yet, the subject of the
preceding clause, i.e. todo ombre ‘everyone’, may but need not be the ex-
periencer. In (28), it is the speaker who associates the complement dulçura
‘sweetness’ with the subjects on the basis of concrete evidence from the
speaker’s general experience. The same reading is found in Garcilaso de la
Vega’s utterance reproduced in (29).
(29) “Las minas prometen tanta riqueza, que, a pocos años que se la-
bren, valdrá más el hierro que la plata”. (Garcilaso de la Vega, El
Inca. Comentarios reales. 1578)
‘The mines promise so much wealth, that, if they are exploited for
a couple of years, iron will be worth more than silver.’
170 Subjectification of prometer and amenazar
Garcilaso expresses his impression that the mines have a great economic
potential. Here too, the subject is non-intentional and non-commital and the
whole proposition is related to the speaker’s appraisal of the state of affairs.
In the two preceding examples no direct evidence is given; instead, these
constructions indicate that the subjects have a potential to realize what is
denoted by the complement.
Verhagen (2000) argues that due to the illocutionary force beloven/
promise + infinitive acquire their “epistemic” reading later than dreigen/
threaten. However, beloven/promise constructions with a nominal comple-
ment (personifications amongst others) do not have illocutionary force. If
the “epistemic” reading of the construction with an infinitival complement
comes from the nominal construction, illocutionary force can only play a
minor role in the development of the “epistemic” reading of prometer con-
structions with a nominal complement. In the following section I will argue
that illocutionary force has no real influence on the development of the
modal reading of prometer + infinitive.154
2.2.2. Modal prometer + infinitive: first examples
The first examples of modal prometer + infinitive are found at the end of
the 16th
century. In (30) Lope de Vega says that the detainee was firm and
steadfast and that he promised to be a very hard diamond.
(30) TEOSINDO Ya queda preso.
LEOVIGILDO ¿Y queda reducido?
ORMINDO Antes, firme y constante, promete ser durísimo di-
amante.
LEOVIGILDO Pues ablandarle quiero con la inocente sangre de
un cordero. (Vega, Lope de. La mayor corona.
1598)
‘T: He is already caught; L: And has he already been subjugated?
O: On the contrary, he was firm and steadfast, he promises to be a
very hard diamond; L: Thus, I want to spank him with the innocent
blood of a sheep.’
The question is whether the combination of prometer and the copula ser ‘to
be’ is meant to reflect the words of the detainee or those of the speaker. In
the latter case, the speaker promises not to say anything and to remain firm;
then the construction would be agentive. Such an interpretation is not plau-
sible, however, since the utterance with prometer would be a strange an-
A diachronic analysis 171
swer of a detainee to the question concerning his own state.
The prometer example in (31) comes from a text by Vázquez de
Espinosa published in 1600. In this text, the studies (estudios) of a college
(colegio) are presented as very principled which leads the writer to con-
clude that the institution itself is likely to be among the best. In (30) and
(31), unlike the nominal prometer constructions, inference from direct evi-
dence is at issue.
(31) ... hay otro convento de Nuestra Señora de Guadalupe en la otra
parte de la ciudad, colegio dedicado para estudios, sus principios
son tan grandes que prometen ser uno de los mejores de las Indias
y que puede competir con los aventajados de Europa. (Vázquez de
Espinosa, Antonio. Compendio y descripción de las Indias Occi-
dentales. 1600)
‘There is another convent of Our Mary of Guadalupe in the other
part of the city, a college dedicated to studies, its principles are that
high that [the college] promises to be one of the best of the Indias
and one that can compete with the most outstanding ones of
Europe.’
(31) is an example of the so-called accusativus cum infinitivo. The writer
omits el colegio ‘the college’ between the finite verb form prometen ‘they
promise’ and the infinitive ser ‘to be’. In (31), prometer nevertheless re-
ceives a modal reading.
Now, how can the later development of modal prometer + infinitive be
accounted for? I argue that the later appearance of the modal reading with
this construction can be explained by the different complements of
amenazar and prometer. As shown in (2.1), modal amenazar combines
with change-of-state nouns such as ruina ‘ruin’ and caída ‘fall’ and
change-of-state verbs such as caer ‘to fall’. By contrast, the nominal com-
plements of prometer denote abstract qualifications such as dulçura
‘sweetness’ and riqueza ‘wealth’ that do not lend themselves to infinitival
extensions. Moreover, with these abstract nouns there remains a link be-
tween what is promised and an undetermined promisee. For example, the
minas ‘mines’ promise wealth to someone, while the threat of an imminent
event such as a fall does not have an addressee. In other words, with prome-
ter the shift from a clear object status of the nominal complement to a near-
modal one of the infinitive is more complex than with amenazar, which
easily alternates change-of-state nouns and verbs. Rather than a difference
in illocutionary force, the type of nouns and infinitives could be the real
172 Subjectification of prometer and amenazar
reason for the slower evolution towards modal readings of prometer + in-
finitive.
Traugott (1997: 188), for her part, argues that the early examples of
promise are limited to “inchoative events with the verb be”. In Spanish, by
contrast, although the first complements of prometer are copular, it is not
clear whether they correspond to inchoative events. The ser-complements
in the above-mentioned examples express rather an attributive relation with
the subject than an inchoative event. The detainee in (30) is already there
and his being firm and steadfast is known, and the college in (31) is already
imparting education. These subjects are thus not participating in an inchoa-
tive event: the future dimension is related to the prediction, which can turn
out to be true or false in the future.
The attributive nature of the infinitives does not imply that they are re-
stricted to copular verbs only. At the beginning of the 17th
century, Salas
Barbadillo (1608) uses modal prometer both in an infinitival construction
(32) and in a que-clause construction (33). In the first construction, prome-
ter is followed by durar ‘to last’ and its subject is discurso ‘speech’. This
subject cannot be seen as an intentional subject referring to a human agent.
Here, the speaker makes a judgment about the probability that the discourse
will take some time.
(32) No es razón que las canas del señor Cosme Laurencio estén tanto
tiempo en pie como este discurso que nos aguarda promete durar,
que su presencia persuade respeto, y la necesidad que tenemos de-
lla le debe estimación. (Salas Barbadillo, Alonso Jerónimo de. El
sagaz estacio, marido examinado. 1608)
‘There is no reason why the hackles of Mr. Cosme Laurencio
should constantly raised, as this speech that awaits us promises to
last, as his presence invokes respect, and the need that we have of
it, deserves consideration for him.’
The same author uses modal prometer also with an addressee le ‘to him’
and a que-clause. This construction indicates that what his heart tells him
about his proven courage is a basis to assume that he will probably return
home victoriously.
(33) ... por Flandes va el mancebo generoso, al templo de la Fama
peregrino. Fianzas de su brazo valeroso le ha dado el corazón, que
le promete que ha de volver a España vitorioso. (Salas Barbadillo,
Alonso Jerónimo de. El sagaz estacio, marido examinado. 1608)
‘Through Flanders goes the generous boy, to the sanctuary of the
A diachronic analysis 173
Fama he goes on a pilgrimage. His heart has assured him about his
courage, [his heart] that promises/tells him that he will return to
Spain victoriously.’
The construction in (33) cannot be considered purely lexical. The subject
clause is inanimate and the subordinate clause does not correspond to a
clear promise. This example indicates that at the beginning of the 17th
cen-
tury, modal prometer appears not only in constructions with an infinitive,
but also with a que-clause and an addressee, e.g. le ‘to him’. Hence, this
non-intentional reading of prometer seems to be well integrated at that
stage of the language. Example (34) is a confirmation of this pattern.
(34) .... estudia y deja el rústico ejercicio, que las letras prometen en-
salzar tu nombre y fama. (Molina, Tirso de. La Elección por la vir-
tud. 1634)
‘...study and leave the rural practice, that the writings promise to
glorify his name and fame.’
The (34) example from Tirso de Molina confirms that modal prometer is
established in the Spanish language in the first half of the 17th
century.
Moreover, the infinitive ensalzar ‘to glorify’ illustrates that there is an
incipient extension of its use to other infinitives than the attributive ones.
2.2.3. Modal prometer + infinitive: 18th
and 19th
century
From the second half of the 18th
century on, a greater diversity of infinitives
appears: we find ocupar ‘to occupy’ (35), adquirir ‘to acquire’ (36) and
resarcir ‘to indemnify, to forgive’ (37), to mention but a few. The non-
intentional subjects of these constructions block a lexical reading of prome-
ter.
(35) Este objeto, cuando no estuviese contenido en las instrucciones del
viaje, debía [estar] por su importancia y por la utilidad que pro-
mete ocupar muy principalmente la atención de usted. (Jovellanos,
Gaspar Melchor de. Correspondencia. 1778)
‘This object, if it were not present in the travel instructions, it
should be because of its importance and its usefulness which prom-
ises to particularly occupy your attention.’
174 Subjectification of prometer and amenazar
(36) ... ha buscado novia a toda prisa, y se ha casado con la hija de un
rico labrador de aquí, sana, frescota, colorada como las amapolas,
y que promete adquirir, en breve, un volumen y una densidad su-
periores a los de su suegra doña Casilda. (Valera, Juan. Pepita
Jiménez. 1864)
‘.. he has looked for a girlfriend in haste, and he has married a
daughter of a rich farmer from here, sane, fresh and with the color-
ing of poppies, and she promises to acquire a volume and a stout-
ness superior to those of his mother in law Miss Casilda.’
(37) Esta maldición amedrenta a su mala ventura y la suerte se le mues-
tra favorable. ¡Qué gusto! un bello juego promete resarcirle sus
pasados afanes y pérdidas. (Montengón, Pedro. Eusebio. 1784)
This curse terrifies his bad chance and luck is favorable to him.
That’s good! A beautiful game promises to redeem his previous as-
pirations and losses.’
This greater variety of infinitives leads me to argue that at the beginning of
the 20th
century modal prometer underwent a shift from a combination with
copular verbs or aspectual verbs such as durar to a combination with action
verbs and change-of-state verbs. This evolution goes in the opposite direc-
tion from the one described for amenazar. Thus, the shift to more “subjec-
tive possibility”, as proposed by Traugott (1997), should only be consid-
ered in relation with the semantics of the verbs. Prometer is less restricted
with copular complements and the shift towards a “subjective possibility”
reading is made clear by the broadening of the group of infinitives, as
Traugott (1997) describes for English.
3. Conceptual subjectification
In this section, I will propose that the diachronic change is in line with the
synchronic conceptual interpretation of subjectification. In the first subsec-
tion, I will discuss the link between attenuation and subjectification (3.1.).
Then, I will analyze amenazar and prometer with regard to attenuation
(3.2.). In the last subsection, I will link up the notion of attenuation with
focal prominence (3.3.).
Conceptual subjectification 175
3.1. Attenuation
Langacker (2000: 297) argues that the subjectification of grammatical con-
structions involves “attenuation” when the control exerted by an agentive
subject decreases. An extreme form of attenuation is the complete transpar-
ency of a grammatical form. Since amenazar and prometer are not com-
pletely transparent, as was shown in Chapter 5, the attenuation encountered
in amenazar and prometer may be partial too.
According to Langacker (2000: 301), attenuation of a linguistic expres-
sion can be observed with respect to at least the following four parameters:
(1) change of status (actual or potential), (2) change of focus (particular
elements as focus of attention, profile), (3) shift in domain (physical inter-
action > social or experiential one), (4) change in locus of activity or po-
tency (from a focused onstage participant to an offstage one, the addressee).
Since chapter 4 has extensively dealt with the likelihood of the proposition,
I will not return to the actual or potential status here. In the previous sec-
tion, I have shown that from a diachronic point of view an analysis in terms
of shift of domains is not warranted for prometer and amenazar. Therefore,
I mainly discuss the change of focus (1) and the locus of potency (4). Let us
first consider Langacker’s comments on the “objective” and “subjective”
readings of promise.155
In [a lexical promise construction], the subject has to be capable of volition,
planning, and communicative interaction. By contrast, [the subjective con-
struction] merely expresses the speaker’s assessment based on an overall
appreciation of the current situation; hence there are no restrictions on the
subject. The overall pattern documented here suggests that the so-called
“raising” constructions are best seen as the limiting case of “equi” construc-
tions, representing the extreme situation where attenuation of subject con-
trol (or its counterpart in the object-raising constructions) results in trans-
parency. (Langacker 2000: 315)
The attenuation of the thematic structure and the so-called raising of the
subject goes in the direction of certain generative accounts of the link be-
tween raising and non-lexical readings (see Rooryck 2000: 44–47).156
The
nominal complements discussed in Section (2.) indicate, however, that it is
not justified to postulate a necessary correspondence between epistemic
value and syntactic verb raising, which is in line with Traugott (1997: 191).
Attenuation has to be seen as a dimension of the subjectification that
prometer and amenazar undergo. Since there are clear differences between
amenazar and prometer, it is to be expected that their subjectification will
also differ. Langacker mentions promise and threaten in the same context
176 Subjectification of prometer and amenazar
and thereby seems to suggest that one can give the same account for both
verbs. Below I will show that at least the Spanish equivalents need a differ-
ent account.
3.2. Subjectification
Subjectification with amenazar and prometer boils down to the shift from
an objective construal of the scene to a subjective construal of the relation
expressed by these verbs. An analysis of prometer within Langacker’s
Cognitive Grammar framework goes as follows: the act of promising ex-
pressed in lexical prometer functions as a trajector, and the accomplishment
of this promise is the landmark. The intention of the subject is seen as po-
tency directed toward realizing the event expressed in the infinitive. The
conceptualizer traces a mental path from the trajector to the landmark,
which situates the infinitival event “downstream in the flow of time relative
to some reference point” (Langacker 2000: 302).
Importantly, in Langacker’s view the trajector of subjective prometer
does not change with respect to that of objective prometer. What is differ-
ent from the objective scene is the profile and the locus of potency associ-
ated with this trajector. With subjective prometer, the trajector has a dimin-
ished role in the profiled relationship, since it is the landmark event, i.e. the
infinitival process, that is profiled. Attenuation involves a realignment of
the locus of potency from the subject of the finite verb to the speaker. From
the above, it is clear that within Cognitive Grammar the shift from an ob-
jective to a subjective construal of prometer does not imply any change of
the semantic structure, but is focused on the realignment of the profiled
relationship and the locus of potency. This process is the subjectification of
the ‘objective’ construal.
This version of subjectification in terms of gradual attenuation does not
conflict with what we have seen in the prometer constructions with meta-
phorical personification in the 15th
and the 16th
century. The relation be-
tween the subjects malas aficiones ‘vices’ and pensamientos ‘thoughts’ and
the finite verb in (39) is already attenuated, since the subjects do not in-
volve intention or volition but indicate that they present themselves as
sweet or nice. The experiencer is diffuse: the subject of the preceding
clause todo ombre ‘everyone’ can but need not be the experiencer.
(39) ... pues si con igual hazañaqual sin dubda todo ombre podra fazer
sacudiendo de si malas aficiones: & pensamientos torpes que al
Conceptual subjectification 177
principio prometen dulçura & ala fin paren tristeza & disfamia.
(Fernando del Pulgar. Claros varones de Castilla. 1500)
‘... well if with such a heroic deed without doubt everyone will be
able to shake off vices and awkward thoughts that at first promise
sweetness but in the end seem like sadness and a bad name.’
In a construction such as in (39), there is still potency in the trajec-
tor/subject and, hence, the landmark is not exclusively profiled. With the
infinitival construction in (40), by contrast, the locus of potency is re-
aligned from the subject to the speaker. The infinitival landmark process is
profiled and receives all attention.
(40) La muestra, que promete ser apasionante, empieza en el XIX, con
el alemán Leibl o el norteamericano Eakins, Maillol, Ensor,
Munch, Khnopff y otros simbolistas. (Notic: España: ABC)
‘The exposition, that promises to be fascinating, begins in the 19th
century, with the German Leibl or the North-American Eakins,
Maillol, Ensor, Munch, Khnopff and other symbolists.’
Although the process of attenuation also holds for amenazar, the trajector -
landmark relation may be different. As said in Chapter 5, the intention (the
trajector) of amenazar + infinitive is directed at change in the ad-
dressee/participant. Thus, the realization of the infinitival process is not the
final landmark, but a focus of attention between the trajector and the land-
mark of amenazar, as opposed to prometer whose trajector - landmark
relation is direct. The real landmark of amenazar is then the process in-
tended by the threat. Since the trajector - landmark relation differs for
amenazar and prometer, the attenuation and subjectification manifested by
them are also expected to be different.
In constructions in which the interlocutor is not present, the complement
of amenazar can become the landmark. The absence of an interlocutor
means that in such a construction the potency of the subject is less crucial.
Moreover, since such a subject is less profiled, a construction without ad-
dressee paves the way for a more subjective reading. In the first occur-
rences of subjective amenazar the absence of the interlocutor/participant
reduces the potency of the subject. Look at amenazar in (41): here the po-
tency of the subject crisis is reduced due to the absence of an addressee, i.e.
the lack of a real landmark.
178 Subjectification of prometer and amenazar
(41) ... & la crisis siempre sospecharas que siempre amenaza de recay-
da. (Bernardo de Gordonio. Anonymous translation. Prognostica.
Las pronósticas. 1495)
‘... and the crisis you will always suspect that it always threatens
with regression.’
In the infinitival construction in (42), el diente ‘the tooth’ is not the locus of
potency since it does not stand for any threat.157
Yet the locus of potency
cannot unambiguously be linked with the speaker either, but has become
more ‘diffuse’. Just as in the case of prometer, the attenuation of potency
causes the infinitival process to be the most profiled element of the con-
struction.
(42) ... desçeca & consume los humores podridos que corrompen las
rayzes de los dientes & las enzias. refirma el diente que se anda &
amenaza de se caer. (Propiedades de las cosas. Toulouse. 1494)
‘dissect and deplete the rotten pieces that corrupt the roots of the
teeth and molars. Repair the tooth that moves and threatens to fall.’
In sum, in the subjective construal of prometer, the locus of potency is very
strongly associated with the speaker, while with amenazar the potency is
never fully associated with the speaker but becomes more diffuse. This
implies that the subject may retain some potency as long as it is not di-
rected to an interlocutor. Hence, amenazar does not need complete attenua-
tion to yield a subjective construal. With prometer, by contrast, the locus of
potency cannot be the subject on any account, in that it would coincide with
the control of the subject. The attenuation of prometer is slower, since the
conflict with its agentive patterns is always present.
3.3. Focal prominence
In this section I will briefly deal with the focal prominence of the subject
with subjective amenazar and prometer.
Although in earlier stages both verbs had modal readings in combination
with a que-clause, in present-day Spanish, a modal que-clause construction
is not possible with amenazar and prometer. Nowadays the subject is usu-
ally overtly expressed, but can also remain covert. In Chapter 4, I have
shown that the subject of modal amenazar plays a role in the conceptualiza-
tion of the prediction reading.158
There I argued that the possible non-
realization of the event expressed in the complement can be seen in relation
Conclusions 179
to the potential of change attached to the subject. This has not been ob-
served for prometer.
In the previous section, I have shown that the locus of potency is re-
aligned with the speaker in the case of prometer, while this is not so clear
for amenazar. The specific role of the subject with amenazar has to be
interpreted in this context. The potency becomes diffuse, which does not
prevent the subject from playing a role in principle. With a prominent sub-
ject, the inferential statement can be influenced by the characteristics re-
lated to the subject and point to different outcomes, including non-
realization of the event expressed by the infinitive. By contrast, when such
a subject is absent, there is full attention to the realization of the prediction.
4. Conclusions
Lexical and modal readings of amenazar and prometer (and their English
counterparts) are no accidental homonyms. The above sections have also
shown that Traugott’s (1989) version of subjectification and Langacker’s
(1990, 2000) are different but complementary for the description of the
shift from lexical to modal readings of amenazar and prometer.
In this chapter I have also reviewed the role of metaphor and metonymy
in the semantic change that promise and threaten undergo. Metonymy can
account for the different shifts from lexical to modal readings, while meta-
phor in terms of “mapping between domains” cannot (cf. Sweetser 1990).
Verhagen’s (2000) proposal of (metaphorical) personification is useful to
analyze promise/prometer constructions with a nominal complement. And
the metonymic shifts with amenazar lead to greater flexibility in the emer-
gence of modal readings. The fact that, unlike prometer, the interlocutor is
not a necessary part of the amenazar construction leads more easily to
metonymic shifts than with prometer.
Traugott’s diachronic account of promise and threaten in three historical
stages runs parallel to the shift in Spanish prometer and amenazar. My
analysis has shown that the different stages of the Spanish verbs are closer
to each other than those proposed for English. At the end of the 15th
cen-
tury, the nominal and infinitival constructions with modal amenazar may
even have arisen simultaneously, albeit with a restricted number of infini-
tives. Moreover, the link between the nominal complements and the infini-
tival complements, on the one hand, and the metonymic changes, on the
other, have proven to be a stronger motive of change than that of illocution-
ary force (cf. Verhagen 2000).
180 Subjectification of prometer and amenazar
As for Langackerian subjectification, the attenuation of the subjects
leads to a change in the locus of potency, which gives a special profile to
the complement of the constructions. I have shown that this kind of subjec-
tification is not in contrast with the diachronic approach. Although Lan-
gacker (2000) does not reject the idea of mapping between domains, Lan-
gackerian subjectification takes into account the two endpoints of the con-
tinuum, namely the maximally objective construal and the maximally sub-
jective construal, and, more importantly, the continuum itself.
Chapter 7
Evidentiality, modality and transparency
with poder, deber and tener que
In the Hispanic literature a gradience is observed from poder over deber to
tener que in terms of weak, intermediate and strong speaker commitment
(cf. Fernández de Castro 1999, Gómez Torrego 1999). Since in the general-
linguistic literature there is no agreement on the origin of speaker commit-
ment, it is worth examining whether the evidential dimension is related to
the different degrees of commitment conveyed by the modals. Unlike truly
evidential parecer/resultar and modal amenazar/prometer, the Spanish
modals poder, deber and tener que can – but need not exclusively – express
the speaker/conceptualizer’s judgment of the likelihood that the proposition
is true. In this chapter, I will argue that the epistemic qualification and the
speaker commitment of poder, deber and tener que are to some extent re-
lated to the evidential modes of knowing involved.159
This chapter thus
deals with the overlap domain of inferential evidentiality and epistemic
modality (cf. van der Auwera and Plungian 1998).
Although the readings of deber and tener que can vary according to the
type of inference that takes place, the corpus data from the Habla Culta
show that each of the three epistemic/evidential modals has a prototypical
reading: (i) an epistemic judgment with poder usually does not involve
inferences and corresponds to a weak speaker commitment, (ii) a statement
with deber is most often based on inductive inference and stands for an
intermediate commitment, (iii) the statements with tener que are most often
driven by deductive inference and convey strong commitment.
In this chapter I also discuss the relative transparency of the three differ-
ent epistemic and evidential modal verbs. I want to examine whether they
combine with the same kinds of subject and infinitive.
The chapter is organized as follows. I first briefly discuss the frequency
distribution of the modal verbs in the spoken and written corpora (1.). Then
I examine the possible relation between inference and poder (2.), and deal
with the different readings of deber (3.) and tener que (4.) attested in the
corpus. In the last section I examine the transparency of the modals on the
basis of the corpus results.
182 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
1. Frequency distribution
In the overwhelming majority of cases, poder is construed with an infini-
tive. Its readings can be roughly subdivided in three types of modality:
dynamic modality, deontic modality and epistemic modality. Yet, since
there are a lot of bridging contexts where it not clear whether an expression
has one or the other reading, additional columns are provided. Dynamic
modality is usually characterized in terms of the capacity or ability of the
subject-participant or the situation. Second, deontic modality is tradition-
ally defined in terms of “permission” and “obligation” (Palmer 1986: 96–
97). Deontic modality stands for the relation between the speaker (or an-
other addresser) and the participant(s) or addressee(s), who may but need
not be mentioned in the utterance. Third, epistemic modality stands for the
assessment, typically but not necessarily by the speaker, of the likelihood of
the event expressed. Epistemic modality can be either performative or de-
scriptive.
Table 33. Readings of poder.
Dynamic Epistemic Deontic Dyn -
Epis
Deont -
Epi
Deont -
Dyn
Total
written 620 419 228 108 6 10 1391
% 44.57 30.12 16.39 7.76 0.43 0.72 100
oral 1942 330 597 263 20 75 3227
% 60.18 10.23 18.50 8.15 0.62 2.32 100
The dynamic readings of poder clearly outnumber the epistemic and deon-
tic readings in both the oral and the written corpus. Interestingly, the epis-
temic readings are more frequent in the written corpus than in the oral one,
while the deontic readings occur with a similar frequency.
The modal verb deber, almost exclusively construed with infinitives, ba-
sically expresses two types of meanings: a deontic one and an evidential
one. Table 34 presents the distribution of deber. Two elements deserve
special attention: (i) the overwhelming majority of deber examples are
deontic in nature, and (ii) the evidential reading is more frequent in the
spoken corpus.
Frequency distribution 183
Table 34. Readings of deber
Deber Deontic Evidential Deontic -
Evidential
Total
written 495 36 4 535
% 92.52 6.73 0.75 100
oral 467 153 10 630
% 74.13 24.29 1.59 100
The results presented in Table 34 invite us to further analyze the relation
between the type of meaning and the spoken or written nature of the corpus.
Since non-deontic deber has an evidential dimension, it is expected to be
related to the speaker’s immediate environment. Such an interaction be-
tween the speaker and the surrounding reality is most common in spoken
discourse.
The case of tener que ‘have to’ is similar in this respect, as shown in
Table 35.
Table 35. Readings of tener que
Deontic Evidential Deontic -
Evidential
Alethic Total
written 189 0 0 0 189
% 100 0 0 0 100
oral 1260 60 9 4 1333
% 94.52 4.50 0.68 0.30 100
The epistemic/evidential readings of tener que are only observed in the oral
corpus and are less frequent than those of deber. Although tener que con-
firms the tendency observed for deber that epistemic modals with a strong
evidential dimension are more common in spoken discourse, the distribu-
tion of tener que above all points to a strong deontic dimension. Recall that
the purely epistemic modal readings of poder are far more frequently at-
tested in the written corpus. I will take this difference as a basis for the
cognitive-functional account of the modals and the evidential and epistemic
qualifications they convey.
184 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
2. Poder: preference for epistemic modality
The epistemic modal poder is more directly speaker-oriented than the other
modals: “the fact that the speaker makes use of some kind of evidence upon
which her appreciation is based does not seem to belong to the immediate
semantic scope of the item in question” (Mortelmans 2001: 133).160
The
epistemic verb poder/may is most often defined in terms of autonomous
assessment of the possibility that the proposition corresponds to reality.
Fernández de Castro (1999: 158)161
gives an elaborate semantic descrip-
tion of poder, to which he applies Lyons’ (1977) distinction between sub-
jective and objective epistemic modality:162
(1) Juan puede venir. ‘John may come.’
A: I think that John is coming/will come.
B: That John comes is a possible fact.
According to Fernández de Castro (1999: 164–166), the A interpretation is
“subjective”, while the B interpretation is “objective”. The author argues
that the latter interpretation can also be considered “neutral dynamic modal-
ity”, since the circumstances allow that John comes (cf. Palmer 1979: 176).
Fernández de Castro (1999: 171) claims that the context determines the
epistemic, dynamic or deontic uses of poder, suggesting that there is only
one meaning of poder with several contextual varieties.
In the same vein, Silva-Corvalán (1995: 73) adopts a “mono-semantic”
approach and distinguishes between an invariant meaning, on the one hand,
and a contextualized meaning on the other. As for the epistemic readings of
poder, Silva-Corvalán discerns “root possibility” (2a) and “epistemic pos-
sibility” (2b) on a contextual basis:
(2) a. Ya puede tener todos los millones que quiera [la persona sigue
siendo buena, si es buena por naturaleza]. (from Silvá-Corvalán
1995: 82)
‘(S)he may have all the millions (s)he wants [the person continues
to be good, if (s)he’s good by nature].’
b. Que si hoy se cierra el plazo, dentro de tres meses ya puede ser
el examen.
‘if the deadline is today, then the exam may be within three
months.’
Epistemic poder 185
According to the author, both readings in (2) are concerned with the
speaker’s assessment of the likelihood that the content of a proposition is or
may become true. Silva-Corvalán (1995: 82) sets up an ideal context for
these two readings. The clearest context of “root possibility” (2a) includes
(i) a non-agentive, non-volitional, non-specific subject, (ii) a stative infini-
tive (e.g. ser ‘to be’, estar ‘to be’, cf. the class of attributive verbs men-
tioned before), (iii) no evidence of previous actualization of the proposition,
and (iv) a non-past time orientation. The truly epistemic modal reading of
poder (2b), Silva-Corvalán (1995: 82) argues, involves “the speaker’s logi-
cal inference and lack of confidence about the possibility of actualization of
the proposition”. The best context for such a reading is one with (i) inani-
mate, non-specific subjects, or obligatory subjectless sentences, (ii) stative
verbs, and (iii) a negated infinitive. Although Silva-Corvalán refers to de-
duction and inference, she does not consider them part of an evidential
qualification in poder. More concretely, she argues that lack of evidentiality
is crucial for epistemic possibility (2b), as opposed to root possibility (2a):
“If evidentiality exists, an example may then be interpreted as conveying
root possibility” (1995: 83). The “non-past orientation” of the “root possi-
bility” may conflict with its alleged evidential dimension, since evidential
readings can also draw on past events. For example, Fernández de Castro
(1999: 168) mentions that the epistemic reading of poder with the passiv-
ized infinitive ser engañado ‘be cheated’ in (3a) is inferential in nature.163
(3) a. Pedro puede ser engañado por Juan.
‘Peter may be cheated by John.’
b. Pedro puede ser engañado por Juan. Es que no se ven última
mente.
‘Peter may have been cheated by John. Therefore they don’t see
each other lately.’
The fact that es que no se ven últimamente ‘they don’t see each other lately’
can be added to this clause, as in (3b), without loss of the epistemic possi-
bility reading, shows that inferentiatility is not incompatible with epistemic
possibility. Yet, the link between absence of evidentiality and prominence
of epistemic possibility paves the way for considering weak speaker com-
mitment in terms of lack of evidential qualifications. In the rest of the chap-
ter, I will contrast this with the intermediate and strong commitment of
deber and tener que.
Let us have a further look at poder. In corpus example (4), the conclu-
sion expressed by “root-epistemic” poder is based on an inference from the
186 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
preceding context, which indicates that the evidential dimension is not
necessarily absent in poder.
(4) ... por ejemplo una amiga se la pasa todo el santo día en la casa...
después cuando ya están establecidos en el matrimonio etcétera
¿no? Eso creo que puede traer unos problemas hasta más graves
que los anteriores ¿no?. Bueno... (Habla culta: Caracas: M16)
‘For example a friend stays the whole day at home... then when
they are settled in marriage etc., you know? I think that this [situa-
tion] may/can bring problems that are more serious than the earlier
ones, you know? Well…’
In (4) the speaker communicates that on the basis of his/her own knowledge
(s)he subscribes to the possibility that problems may arise. The poder con-
struction is preceded by the mental state verb creer ‘to believe’. As shown
in (5), however, there need not be a speaker-oriented hedge for an inferen-
tial reading to be possible.
(5) ENC: Que alguna persona dijiste....
INF B: ... que en operación de la garganta o quién sabe qué, quedó
sordo.
INF A: Todas esas cosas pueden ser muy peligrosas para el oído.
(Habla Culta: México: M18)
‘ENC: that a person, you said. INF B: which in a throat or whatever
operation, became deaf. INF A: All these things may be very dan-
gerous for the ears. ’
Most often the conclusion expressed by poder is based on the speaker’s
own belief and, hence, is not the result of additional reasoning. The most
common autonomous epistemic value corresponds to the assessment of the
likelihood that the proposition could be true. The particle quizás ‘maybe’ in
(6) is illustrative of the low speaker commitment of the poder construction.
(6) ... una de las cosas que quizás... eh.... actualmente más me ha
llamado la atención es... eh.... eh... la importancia que le está dan-
do el cine a lo estético. Quizás puede ser por la competencia que
hay con otros medios de comunicación de masas. (Habla Culta:
Santiago: M8)
... one of the things that at the moment strikes me most is the im-
portance that the film industry attributes to the esthetic. This may
be due to the competition with other mass media.’
Inferential deber and tener que 187
The epistemic reading of poder usually does not rely on the speaker’s addi-
tional reasoning on the basis of evidence. This fact makes it possible for the
epistemic modal to also refer to another conceptualizer, as in (7).
(7) A veces se me ... se me ha dicho que posiblemente el que una per-
sona se ... exprese con bastante concisión puede ser influencia del
uso del inglés yo ..v.. efectivamente [ he estu ... he estu ] he estu-
diado con mucho cuidado el idioma inglés. (Habla culta: San Juan:
M20)
‘Sometimes I have been said that possibly the fact that a person ex-
presses him/herself with a lot of precision may be an influence
from using English. Indeed I have carefully studied the English
language.’
In (7) the speaker reports on someone else’s assessment of the possible
influence of English on their mother tongue. Thus, poder is not restricted to
the speaker’s own assessment, but can also express the point of view of
other conceptualizers.
In sum, the inferential dimension is not crucial to the epistemic reading
of poder, which is most often based on the conceptualizer’s autonomous
assessment, although poder can be inferential or refer to other conceptual-
izers than the speaker.
3. Deber and tener que: on inferentiality and hearsay
The modal verbs deber and tener que have so far not been accounted for in
terms of inductive and deductive inferentiality or reportive evidentiality . In
this section I will show how my analysis can fill this gap.
3.1. Deber
In the recent linguistic literature, the relation between “deontic” and “epis-
temic” uses of English must and its counterparts has been widely discussed
(cf. Bybee et al. 1994; Goossens 1999, 2000). In the Spanish linguistic
tradition, the similarities between the two readings have not gone unnoticed
either. Gómez Torrego (1999: 3348), for example, links the “likelihood”
(probabilidad) reading of deber (de) in (8a) with an “obligation” (obliga-
ción) reading.164
188 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
(8) a. Mi padre debe de estar en casa en estos momentos.
‘My father must be at home at the moment.’
b. Mi padre puede estar en casa en estos momentos.
‘My father may be at home at the moment.’
Gómez Torrego (1999: 3348) notes that an utterance with deber (8a) ex-
presses a hypothesis based on “external or pragmatic circumstances”, while
no external evidence is needed with poder (8b). With deber, there is a situa-
tion that makes the speaker think that his father is at home. Since the
proposition is only true under the “condition” that nothing irregular hap-
pens, a “margin of doubt” remains in this deber expression.
Fernández de Castro (1999) and Silva-Corvalán (1995) refer to the obli-
gation patterns in a more systematic way. Fernández de Castro (1999: 179–
180) argues that what is communicated by means of deber (de) is the “con-
viction that there exists a cause-effect relation” between the circumstances
and the statement, which he calls an “illocutionary act different from a
simple assertion, since it involves a “qualification of commitment” by the
speaker to the content of the message” [my translation]. Fernández de Cas-
tro (1999: 180) also observes that modal adverbs expressing high likelihood
like seguramente ‘certainly’ and muy posiblemente ‘very possibly’ can
paraphrase deber constructions, while epistemic poder corresponds to
lower likelihood, as expressed by adverbs such as quizás ‘maybe’ or talvez
‘perhaps’.
Unlike the Anglo-Saxon tradition, Silva-Corvalán (1995: 86), for her
part, relates the different readings of deber to “epistemic possibility”, which
differs from poder in that deber expresses the speaker’s confidence in the
realization of the proposition. The author considers deber “more strictly
modal in its semantics” than poder in that it is “in all contexts non-factual”.
According to Silva-Corvalán (1995: 87), this semantic difference “accounts
for the fact that one of the Contextualized Meanings of deber is EP (epis-
temic possibility), but not RP (root possibility), which is related to ability
and evidentiality”. While deber does indeed not have a root possibility
reading, it certainly involves evidentiality, as Olbertz (1998) points out.
Olbertz (1998) argues from a Functional Grammar point of view that
deber is the only periphrasis expressing inferential modality. This type of
modality is different from epistemic modality with respect to “the source of
the speaker’s commitment to the truth of the proposition” (Olbertz 1998:
410). While in the case of epistemic modality, the source is the speaker
with his/her personal convictions and beliefs, in the case of inferential mo-
dality, the speaker relies on evidence from which (s)he infers that the
proposition must be true. Thus, as far as deber is concerned, it is justified to
Inductive inferences with deber 189
assume that the mode of knowing and the speaker’s commitment go hand
in hand.
3.2. Tener que
Fernández de Castro (1999: 190) argues that tener que scores highest on the
commitment scale. Interestingly, his corpus data indicate that the “maxi-
mal” speaker commitment of tener que to the statement receives contextual
support from the presence of elements such as por fuerza ‘by force’ and
estoy segura ‘I am sure’, as in (9a). Other examples by Fernández de Castro
(1999: 191) show that mental predicates such as sospechar ‘to suspect’ (9b)
express too weak a speaker commitment to combine with tener que, in
contrast with creer ‘to think’, which easily combines with tener que (9c).
(9) a. Vamos, que no le gusta [una determinada ciudad]. Pues también
tendrá que tener cosas bonitas, hombre, estoy segura; monumen-
tos artísticos, palacios [...].
‘Thus, he doesn’t like it [a certain city]. Well it should also have
beautiful things, you know, I am sure; artistic monuments, palaces.’
b. ?
La polícia sospecha que tuvo que tratarse de un atentado.
‘The police suspects that there must have been an attack’
c. Sí, creo que tiene que haber todavía una bolsa por lo menos.
‘Yes, I think that there must be at least one bag.’
Olbertz (1998: 396) considers tener que as a periphrasis that can express
both “event-oriented epistemic modality” and “proposition-oriented epis-
temic necessity” but no “inferential modality”. Event-oriented epistemic
modality indicates that the occurrence of the state of qffairs (SoA) is “cer-
tain”, as opposed to a “possible” SoA (poder + infinitive) and a “highly
probable” SoA (deber + infinitive).165
Olbertz (1998: 396) argues that the
source of the judgment is “general knowledge of the world and/or of the
situation, which is not made explicit”. This leads her to argue that tener que
does not express inferential modality. Although the evidence is not overtly
mentioned in a tener que construction, the statement can be based on per-
sonal evidence. Moreover, personal beliefs may not be the best criterion,
since the belief of the speaker is central in both deber and tener que
whether it is based on explicit evidence or not. I will therefore discuss Ol-
bertz’ (1998) account of tener que in further detail.
Olbertz (1998: 413) argues that when using tener que + infinitive, the
speaker commits him/herself to the truth of the proposition. By contrast,
190 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
with deber, Olbertz argues, the speaker’s commitment to the truth of the
proposition depends on his/her data: “if the data turn out to be wrong, the
speaker is no longer committed to the truth of the proposition”. This leads
Olbertz (1998) to contend that tener que “expresses unconditioned modal
necessity, whereas deber expresses conditioned modal necessity”. Olbertz
(1998) bases her argument on the different distribution of negation, which I
reproduce in (10). The infelicitous negation with tener que in (10a) is ar-
gued to be illustrative of the fact that “strong truth commitment can be
expressed in positive terms only” (Olbertz 1998: 405). In (10b) the nega-
tion falls within the scope of deber and refers to the proposition: the weaker
commitment does not block the negation.166
(10) a. * No tiene que ser fácil para ti.
‘it does not have to be easy for you.’
b. Tú claro, de estas cosas no debes estar muy al tanto.
‘You, of course, are not very much acquainted with these things,
I suppose.’
Interestingly, Silva-Corvalán (1995: 90–91) suggests that the restriction on
negation with tener que is due to the fact that the “possibility” reading of
tener que is a more recent development.
This chapter will show that both deber and tener que express an inferen-
tial reading. The observations described in the literature are a good basis for
the investigation into the evidential dimension of deber and tener que. Sev-
eral questions arise. First, if tener que is associated with special contextual
support (hedges), what kind of hedges does deber combine with? My cor-
pus data will show that deber occurs more often with hedges such as creo
que ‘I think’ than tener que. Second, Gómez Torrego (1999) seems to sug-
gest that deber and tener que are always based on external evidence. Yet, I
will show that these verbs can also have purely epistemic readings which
are not based on external (direct) evidence. Third, the observation that the
“epistemic” reading of tener que could be more recent than that of poder
and deber opens an interesting line of research. Against the background of
the assumed shift from deontic to epistemic readings, there may be a corre-
lation between the commitment and the evidentiality of tener que, on the
one hand, and its recent development from deontic readings, on the other.
Fourth, the link between the evidence used and the inferential statement is
not clearly defined in the Spanish linguistic literature. Olbertz’ (1998) re-
fusal to attribute inferential modality to tener que and her argument that
deber is “conditioned by the source of information” could be imputed to a
restricted view of inference, viz. based only on direct evidence. On the
Inductive inferences with deber 191
other hand, it can indicate that these verbs do not have one but several evi-
dential readings, i.e. both inferential and non-inferential ones. I will argue
that inference from reasoning is crucial in both deber and tener que and that
they tend to be based on a non-logical (inductive) versus a logical (deduc-
tive) type of inference. I will therefore review the logic behind inference
from reasoning in (3.3.). Furthermore, I will discuss the existence of non-
inferential evidential readings in (3.4.).
3.3. Deduction and induction
In order to improve our knowledge of inferential mechanism, I will first
discuss Dendale’s (1994) and Kronning’s (1996, 2001) logic-based ap-
proach to French devoir. Dendale (1994, 1999, 2000) argues for an inferen-
tial mechanism for all readings of evidential devoir,167
while Kronning
(1996, 2001) has a three-dimensional view of this verb in terms of deontic,
alethic and epistemic readings. In this section, I will mainly discuss the
former view, which is based on deduction and induction.
The most frequent form of deduction is the syllogism, i.e. the deductive
argument in which a conclusion (q) is inferred from two premises (p), a
major and a minor premise. The major premise stands for an implication
and guarantees the shift from the minor premise to the conclusion. The
modus ponens of deduction is the following:
(11) p —> q
p
..
. q
With devoir it is rare to find two explicit premises. The most frequent ex-
plicit premise is the minor one, as in (12):168
(12) On ne doit pas connaître cette maladie-là, vu que c’est une mala-
die toute récente, existentielle en plus de ça.(Queneau L439. 26)
‘One must ignore this disease, given that it is a very recent disease,
and in addition an existential one.’
In (12) the minor premise is made explicit by means of a causal subordinate
clause introduced by vu que ‘given that’, while the major premise consists
in assuming that important diseases are generally known. The combination
of the two premises provides a solid ground for the conclusion communi-
cated by means of devoir. If the minor premise is not explicitly mentioned
192 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
in the utterance, it is more difficult to pinpoint the premises of the infer-
ence. For example, for the conclusion ‘she must be ill’ in (13b), the speaker
may rely on a whole series of possible premises to which the hearer does
not have access.
(13) a. Caroline a mauvaise mine.
‘Caroline looks bad.’
b. Elle doit être malade. (taken from Dendale 1994: 27)
‘She must be ill.’
The process of creating information follows three stages: (i) premises, (ii)
inference and (iii) evaluation of the conclusion(s). It is a “parcours mental
avec recherche et confrontation d’hypothèses” (Dendale 1994: 33–34). The
validity of the deductive inference depends on the validity of the premises:
To say that a deductive argument is valid is to say that it is not possible for
its conclusion to be false when its premises are true. Therefore, a deductive
argument is valid when, if its premises are true, its conclusion must be
true. Deductive arguments that fail to guarantee the truth of their conclu-
sions, if their premises are true, are thus invalid. (Copi and Cohen 2003: 16)
Although the context often does not contain explicit premises, it is the
speaker who evaluates the different premises and decides on the final con-
clusion. Since the premises are often unclear, speaker and hearer never
have a guarantee of complete validity of the conclusion. Belief in one’s
own premises can be strong, however, and the conclusion is often presented
as a logical result of the speaker’s reasoning.169
Dendale’s (1994) account of devoir is stated in terms of deduction rather
than abduction (see also Dendale and De Mulder 1996). The latter type of
inference involves a process of finding premises, which is the basis for an
interpretive reconstruction of causes and intentions (Peirce 1965: 28,
374).170
What is at stake, for Dendale (1994: 30), is a logical implication of
the consequent from the antecedent which is not necessarily based on a
unidirectional cause-effect relation, as shown in (14d).
(14) a. Jean a beaucoup travaillé. ‘John has worked a lot.’
b. Jean est fatigué. ‘John is tired.’
c. Jean doit être fatigué parce qu’il a beaucoup travaillé.
‘John must be tired because he has worked a lot.’
d. Jean doit avoir beaucoup travaillé car il est fatigué.
‘John must have worked a lot because he is tired.’
Inductive inferences with deber 193
Note, however, that the utterance in (14a) is based on an abstract logical
relation, while the one in (14b) involves some kind of perception, which is
also hinted at by the conjunction car.171
This may point to different kinds of
deductive readings, or question the exclusively deductive basis of devoir in
(14b).
Kronning (1996, 2001) offers an alternative to the overall mechanism of
logical deduction, without rejecting, however, the deductive inferential
dimension of devoir proposed by Dendale (1994). Kronning’s (1996, 2001)
account distinguishes between “alethic modality”, which expresses all non-
deontic forms of necessity (15a) and “epistemic modality” which refers to
likelihood (15b).
(15) a. Tout ce à quoi on réfère doit exister. Appelons cela l’axiome
d’existence. (Searle 1969:121, taken from Kronning 2001: 68)
‘All what is referred to must exist. Let us call this the existence
axiom.’
b. Le ciel se découvre. Le temps doit être en train de s’améliorer.
‘The sky is clearing. The weather must be getting better.’
The statement in (15b) is based on premises in praesentia (cf. Dendale
1999: 21), while the one in (16) relies on premises in absentia.
(16) D’après les prévisions météo, le temps doit s’améliorer demain.
(from Kronning 2001: 76)
‘According to forecasts, the weather will get better tomorrow.’
Kronning (1994: 288, 2001: 76) points out that the premises in praesentia
are generally perceptual data on which the speaker bases his/her statement
via an inferential process. Squartini (2004: 876) argues that the premises in
absentia in (16) come from an external source, which is reported by the
speaker. Note that premises in absentia do not necessarily refer to indirect
sources of information, since reasoning can also be a basis for speaker-
oriented inference.172
Prototypically, deductive inference is based on the
speaker’s own reasoning; but, the logical relation is also found in inferences
based on explicit evidence and reported hearsay. Moreover, when the logi-
cal relation is backgrounded, a purely epistemic reading may become pos-
sible.
In addition to the logical inferences based on deduction, there are so-
called non-logical inferences, namely induction, mathematical calculation
and estimation (cf. Dendale 1994). Induction can be split up into three
stages. The first stage is to understand the observation of the evidence. The
194 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
second is to form a hypothesis that attempts to describe the information in
relation to the person's general knowledge. The resulting conclusion goes
beyond the initial information by incorporating one's general knowledge.
The third step is to evaluate the validity of the conclusion that was reached.
Unlike deductive inferences, inductive inferences yield conclusions that
increase the semantic information over and above that found in the initial
premises. Dendale (1994: 32) gives the following example of inductive
inference with devoir:
(17) Les Allemands de l’Est doivent avoir beaucoup souffert si on en
juge par ce que cette famille est-allemande a subi.
‘The East-Germans must have suffered a lot if you see what this
East-German family has undergone.’
In (17) the account of the family’s situation is used as a premise for induc-
tive reasoning, which leads to an assumption regarding the whole of East
Germany. In the case of inductive inferences, we cannot be sure that the
conclusion is a logical result of the premises, but we may presuppose that it
is reliable. The speaker adds an interpretive dimension to the evidence
used, which is likely to be true given the information available in the world
out-there. Yet, unlike a deductive conclusion, an inductive conclusion does
not suggest that the event is a necessary outcome according to the speaker’s
knowledge.
Dendale (1994: 37) argues that the different evidential values, i.e. the
logical or non-logical type of operations chosen by the speaker, are aimed
to provide the interlocutor with the “elements needed for [the latter’s]
evaluation of the degree of reliability of the information”. This evaluation is
subjective in principle and susceptible to variation since it depends to a
large extent on the expectations and norms the interlocutor subscribes to.
By contrast, the degree of speaker commitment is stable: it is stronger with
logical inferences than with non-logical ones. The analysis presented in
Sections 4 and 5 will account for the different degrees of speaker commit-
ment in terms of the different inferential types.
The division between logical and non-logical inferences with devoir
highlights the fact that the latter involve creative, inductive reasoning,
which leads to lower speaker commitment than deductive inference. Deduc-
tive and inductive inferences with devoir are not always based on a factual
statement but can also rely on information that comes from other people.
Now, after the discussion above we can go a step further. It stands to reason
that in some cases the inference itself is made by other people and reported
by the speaker (cf. Squartini 2004).173
In this case, despite the modal value
Inductive inferences with deber 195
of devoir, the speaker does not necessarily support the statement made
elsewhere. This possibility illustrates that the speaker can be foregrounded
or backgrounded, which points to specific discourse strategies.
Dendale (1994) pays a lot of attention to the logical relations involved in
the inference. But little is said about how the logical mapping works in
discourse. For example, how does the deductive modal combine with
speaker-oriented hedges such as creo que ‘I think’? What is the difference
with inductive inferences? In Section 3., I will show that hedges like creo
que ‘I think’ or supongo que ‘I suppose’ more often accompany inductive
than deductive readings. These hedges, I will argue, are in turn an indica-
tion of the reduced role of inference itself, in favor of a purely epistemic
reading.
3.4. Non-speaker oriented evidentiality
The relation between epistemic modality, inferential evidentiality and re-
ported knowledge has extensively been discussed for the French, Dutch,
German and English equivalents of deber. Below I will look at how previ-
ous studies deal with the speaker commitment involved (or the absence of
it). Lyons (1982: 109) distinguishes between “objective” and “subjective”
readings of must to account for the ambiguity in (18).
(18) You must be very careful.
a. You are required to be very careful.
b. I require you to be very careful.
c. It is obvious from evidence that you are very careful.
d. I conclude that you are very careful.
The two “epistemic” interpretations of English must correspond to a more
evidential, “objective” reading (18c) and a more epistemic, “subjective”
one (18d).174
The evidence mentioned in (18c) could be further subcatego-
rized into different types of evidence: the evidence can be shared (intersub-
jective) or non-shared (subjective). For English must, it is generally as-
sumed that the evidence is directly related to the speaker, and is, hence,
subjective. Although this is certainly the case for English must, De Haan
(1999) argues that this need not be so for Dutch moeten ‘must’. This author
observes a reportive evidential reading that is different from the so-called
epistemic reading. The relation between reportive and epistemic readings is
not uncontroversial, however. Generally speaking there are two views on
196 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
this issue: (i) the reportive reading is different but derived from an initial
inferential statement, as in De Haan (1999), (ii) the reportive reading is
different from the inferential reading and is not derived from the latter, as
argued by Traugott (1989), Mortelmans (2001) and Squartini (2004).
De Haan (1999) argues for a strict distinction between evidentiality and
epistemic modality. He does not consider English must to be a full-fledged
evidential verb, and therefore gives it the label “epistemic”: “its epistemic
necessity is based on some kind of evidence the speaker has for the state-
ment”. According to De Haan (1999: 86), the existence of evidence alone is
not a sufficient condition to take must for a fully grammaticalized eviden-
tial, since the same evidence can be used with the epistemic modal may, as
in (19).
(19) a. John is at home, because the light is on.
b. John may/must be at home, because the light is on.
De Haan (1999) contends that in Dutch, unlike English, the evidence used
for a modal statement of moeten may be indirect, that is, taken from another
person’s evaluation, as in (20).
(20) Het moet een goede film zijn.
‘It must be/ it is said to be a good movie.’
According to De Haan, Dutch moeten is developing into an evidential by
means of conversational implicature. The hearer picks up a proposition like
(20) and can decide that the “presence of evidence for the speaker’s state-
ment is more important than the evaluation” of the likelihood that the
proposition is true. Then, the hearer (the future speaker) “throws out the
evaluation part and keeps the evidence part” (De Haan 1999: 87). De Haan
(1999) emphasizes that the relation between the inferential/epistemic read-
ing and the evidential one is not a “logical entailment”, and argues that this
is the reason why this change does not occur in many languages. Interest-
ingly, when the speaker throws out the evaluation restricting himself to
reporting the evidence, there is no commitment involved. This once again
confirms the link between speaker commitment and epistemic judgment of
the proposition.
Other reportive uses do not convey speaker commitment either. Squar-
tini (2004) analyzes Romance devoir/devere/deber and their ability to func-
tion as a reportive marker. Squartini (2004) considers the reportive reading
as intermediate between the deontic and the epistemic reading, just like
‘alethic modality’ (cf. Kronning 2001: 75–76). As noted above, Kronning’s
Inductive inferences with deber 197
(2001: 76) example (21a) illustrates that devoir can report on a source ex-
ternal to the speaker. The reportive reading of devoir in (21a) combines
with a future dimension: the proposition is expected to become true. This
futural use of devoir is also possible in the hypothetical protasis of a condi-
tional clause (21b) and the future in the past reading (21c).
(21) a. D’après les prévisions météo, le temps doit s’améliorer demain.
‘According to the forecasts the weather will get better tomorrow.’
b. Si je ne dois pas vous voir bientôt, je vous enverrai l’objet par la
poste (from Fleischman 1982: 148)
‘If I don’t see you again soon, I’ll send the thing to you by mail.’
c. Je savais qu’il devait venir. (from Müller 1964: 84)
‘I knew that he would come.’
Interestingly, Squartini (2004: 889) shows that Spanish does not admit the
latter two uses:
(22) a. * Si debía/debiera/debe llover, podríamos ir en coche.
‘If it rains we could go by car.’
b. * Esa actitud debía/debería influir en los demás.
‘This attitude was to influence the others.’
As for the reportive function, Squartini (2004: 887–890) states that, unlike
devoir, Spanish deber only allows for a “non-factual reportive” function.
More concretely, he observes that deber can be a reportive marker with
tenses expressing a “lower degree of assertiveness”, such as the imperfect
(23a) and the conditional (23b) in Olbertz’s (1998: 395) examples.
(23) a. Debía haber llegado a casa hace una hora.
‘He should have arrived home one hour ago.’
b. No deberías estar en Madrid hasta dentro de quince minutos por
lo menos.
‘You should not be in Madrid any earlier than at least fifteen
minutes from now.’
It is not clear, however, whether it is the reportive dimension that is at stake
in the examples in (23). In (23), counterfactual deber is reportive in that it
reports on the promise to arrive (23a) or the agreement to meet (23b) at a
certain place at a certain moment. Such a report does not contain an evalua-
tion of the likelihood, and is very close to the deontic values of deber. More
198 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
fundamentally, the question arises whether a counterfactual can have a
reportive reading.175
Traugott (1989: 41–42) also comments on the relation between eviden-
tiality and epistemic modality when she discusses the development of Eng-
lish should from sculan. Originally this verb had a deontic reading, express-
ing financial and moral obligation – like Spanish deber –, but soon devel-
oped a reportive or, more specifically, a quotative function, as in (24).
(24) Mænige sæden the hit geseon sceoldan. (from Traugott 1989: 41)
‘Many said who supposedly had seen it.’ [that it seen should]
What is interesting about this construction is that it shows that in some
cases the reportive reading may have begun to be used before the first in-
ferential one appeared. In English should there is thus a path from deontic
modality over an evidential reading based on hearsay to an epistemic, more
speaker-oriented reading.
Mortelmans (2001), for her part, shows that the elaborate German modal
system has a strongly evidential but weakly epistemic modal sollen
‘must/should’, as opposed to the weakly evidential but strongly epistemic
readings of müssen ‘must’.176
The quotative (i.e. reportive) use of sollen
expresses a meaning based on a skeptical interpretation on the part of the
speaker, suggesting that the source of information is not very reliable. The
lack of real commitment is emphasized by the speaker’s ability to distance
him/herself from the reported state of affairs by means of speaker-oriented
particles, such as ja ‘after all’, sogar ‘even’, or selbst ‘even’ expressing
surprise (Mortelmans 2001: 138). According to Mortelmans (2001), epis-
temic inferential müssen, by contrast, involves strong subjective commit-
ment, which is illustrated, amongst others, by its combination with ‘harmo-
nizing’ modal adverbs such as sicher ‘surely’ and bestimmt ‘definitely’.
Importantly, müssen is only rarely accompanied by speaker-oriented
hedges. I will analyze this in further detail in Sections 4. and 5.
4. Deber: preference for inductive inferences
In this section I will show that deber yields both inferential readings and
non-inferential readings. After the presentation of the general tendencies
(4.1.), I will deal with the inductive inferential (4.2.), epistemic (4.3.), de-
ductive inferential (4.4.) and reportive (4.5.) readings found in the corpus.
Inductive inferences with deber 199
4.1. General tendencies
A qualitative analysis of the corpus data indicates that deber most often
applies to past events; and inferences are an ideal means to construe a past
event. In the corpus these inferences are more often based on reasoning
than on direct evidence. In addition to inferential readings, the corpus also
contains epistemic readings of deber.
Coates (1983: 46, 138) mentions that the English equivalent of deber,
must, is accompanied by speaker-oriented hedges such as I think, I mean
and I suppose in one quarter of the cases. Goossens (1999), for his part,
describes a shift from an objective-inferential to a more subjective-
epistemic component in must. In the same vein, I will show that Spanish
deber undergoes an evolution towards a more subjective-epistemic reading.
In the next sections I will distinguish between four readings according to
the mode of knowing involved. As shown in Table 36, the inferential read-
ing of deber is most often based on inductive reasoning. Second, in a con-
siderable number of non-deontic constructions deber also has a purely epis-
temic reading, i.e. the speaker is the only source. Third, deductive reason-
ing is not excluded with deber. Fourth, according to the corpus data, deber
has not (yet) developed a reportive function, in which the information
comes from other people.177
Table 36. Modes of knowing with non-deontic deber
Inductive
inferential
Epistemic Deductive
inferential
Reportive Total
deber 90 54 8 0 152
% 59.21 35.53 5.26 - 100
I will deal with these four readings in the four sections below.
4.2. Inductive inference
Inductive (non-logical) inferences constitute the most frequent group of
non-deontic deber readings (59.2%). They are based on the speaker’s crea-
tive associations provoked by some kind of evidence. Interestingly, such an
inferential judgment does not correspond to the highest speaker commit-
ment, since it leaves open possible associations by other people. In (25), the
200 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
speaker’s inductive reasoning is made explicit in the sentence preceding
deber.
(25) Bueno yo... yo oí en el radio de que uno de los rehenes... había
logrado escaparse por una ventana pero antes había tratado de
suicidarse ¿no? lo cual me hace creer que bueno que el pobre debe
de haber estado sufriendo horrores. (Habla Culta: Caracas: M15)
‘Well I.. I heard on the radio that one of the hostages succeeded in
escaping through a window, but that he had tried to commit suicide
before, hadn’t he?, which makes me think, well, that the poor guy
must have been suffering tremendously.’
This example testifies to the three stages of induction mentioned in the
previous section. First, the speaker takes in the information heard (on the
radio): one of the hostages had tried to escape after a suicide attempt. Sec-
ond, the information is connected to the speaker’s general knowledge and
makes him/her form the hypothesis that kidnappings are generally painful
and that no one attempts to commit suicide without serious reason. Third,
the resulting conclusion that has incorporated this knowledge goes beyond
the initial information: debe de haber estado sufriendo ‘he must have been
suffering’. The speaker’s choice of deber indicates that this unique conclu-
sion has been validated as much as possible, but is not completely certain.
The inductive inferences abundantly appear in past tense constructions,
as exemplified in (26), where the conceptualizer is searching for a valid
interpretation of the state of affairs (s)he is confronted with.
(26) Sí. Y después cuando pasamos a mi cuarto vio la cama. Dijo: ah
¿esa es la cama de la niña? Dije: no ahí duermo yo. No dije noso-
tros porque... ¿no? dije: ahí duermo yo. Y se quedó callada. Ella
debió pensar una cama tan grande tan grandotota para esta seño-
ra; bueno no sé qué pensaría pero algo pensó porque se quedó ca-
llada. (Habla Culta: Bogotá: M42)
‘Yes. And afterwards when we passed to the room she saw the bed.
She said: ah this is your daughter’s bed? I said: No, I sleep there. I
didn’t say “we” because ... you know? I said I sleep there. She re-
mained silent. She must have thought such a large bed for this
woman; in fact I don’t know what she thought but she thought
something, because she remained silent.’
In (26), the conceptualizer observes a woman who remains silent when she
sees the bed. This visual perception leads him/her to hypothesize what is
Inductive inferences with deber 201
going on in the head of the woman. By using deber, the conceptualizer is
elaborating further on the available information in an inductive way.
4.3. Epistemic modality
In 35.5% of the cases deber has a reading that is less inferential and more
epistemic in nature. This rather high number of non-inferential readings
points to an increasingly important epistemic qualification with evidential
deber. Since this epistemic reading is a byproduct of the inductive inferen-
tial reading, it stands for the same intermediate speaker commitment to the
epistemic judgment.
Epistemic modality is often enhanced by means of subjective hedges
such as creo que ‘I think’ or supongo que ‘I suppose’, which highlight the
speaker’s belief state. In the spoken corpus data, these hedges appear in
more than one fifth of the evidential/epistemic readings of deber. These
hedges often make for a purely epistemic reading replacing the explicit
reference to an inductive inferential process, as in (27).
(27) INF: No son... no es como para enorgullecerse los políticos de
Chile. No sé cómo será en otras partes. Me imagino que en otras
partes debe ser peor todavía; pero por lo menos en Chile no es pa-
ra... pa' eno... enorgullecerse. (Habla Culta: Santiago: M4)
‘INF: No they are, you cannot be proud about the politicians in
Chile. I don’t know how it is elsewhere. I imagine that elsewhere it
must be even worse; but at least in Chile it is not something to be
proud about.’
Since, in (27), the hedge me imagino que ‘I imagine that’ is a substitute for
evidence to draw upon, debe ser has a more epistemic reading. Yet, not all
constructions with speaker-oriented hedges automatically receive an epis-
temic reading without an inferential dimension, as shown in (28).
(28) INF A: hay más incentivo intelectual ¿ah?, yo creo aquí en Santia-
go por lo menos.
INF B: Claro.
ENC: Esto es lo que piensa la gente.
INF A: Y yo creo que debe ser cierto ¿ah? en cierta manera....
INF B: Sí es cierto es cierto....
INF A: porque aquí está todo. (Habla Culta: Santiago: M6)
202 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
‘INF A: There are more intellectual incentives, ah, at least here in
Santiago, I think INF B: definitely, ENC: This is what the people
think, INF A: I think that it must be true, in some way INF B: yes,
it is true, it is true. INF A: Because here you have everything.’
Example (28) shows that the borderlines between autonomous epistemic
assessment of likelihood and inductive inferences are sometimes fuzzy. In
the first line, speaker A makes an epistemic statement with yo creo ‘I
think’. Then, creo que debe ser ‘I think that it must be’ emphasizes that the
general opinion about the intellectual life in Santiago de Chile is likely to
be true. Finally, the speaker communicates the evidence (s)he had in mind.
On the one hand, the deber statement can be based on the speaker’s
autonomous assessment of the likelihood. On the other, given the evidence,
this statement can be seen as based on inductive inference. Note that these
two modes of knowing do not imply a different degree of commitment to
the likelihood: both stand for intermediate commitment, without absolute
certainty. The excerpt in (28) contains two more elements that I still have to
comment on: (i) one could argue that a causal subclause such as porque
aquí está todo ‘because you have everything here’ also invites logical de-
duction, (ii) the presence of esto es lo que piensa la gente ‘this is what the
people think’ right before debe ser cierto raises the question of a possible
reportive reading of deber. I will first discuss logical deduction with deber
(4.4.), and then turn to the reportive readings (4.5.).
4.4. Deductive inference
In the 5.2% of occurrences of deber invoking deductive inferencing, the
speaker expresses a stronger commitment to the likelihood that the proposi-
tion is true, as shown in (29) and (30).
(29) Me acuerdo que yo escribí por el periódico decía: Si existe una
manera venezolana de tocar piano.... ya... debe haber desapareci-
do porque yo no conozco esa manera. (Habla Culta: Caracas: M2)
‘I remember that I wrote for the newspaper, I said: If there exists a
Venezuelan way of playing the piano… it must already have disap-
peared, because I don’t know this way [of playing the piano].’
In (29), the speaker logically deduces that, in case there existed something
like a Venezuelan way of playing the piano, it must have disappeared. The
minor premise is that the speaker does not know this way of playing piano,
Inductive inferences with deber 203
the major premise is that (s)he knows everything about pianos. In the same
vein, in (30) speaker B strengthens speaker A’s creo que ‘I think’ statement
by means of deber.
(30) INF A: Creo que es gas.
INF B: Debe ser gas sí porque este edificio es nuevo.
INF A: Sí claro el gas es barato [...] gas.
INF B: No ahora todas - las calderas últimas son de gas.
(Habla Culta: Buenos Aires: M22)
‘INF A: I think it is gas. INF B: It must be gas yes because this is a
new building. INF A: Yes, gas is cheap INF B No, all new boilers
work with gas.’
From the fact that it is a new building, speaker B deduces that the source of
energy used must be gas. The minor premise is that this is a new building,
and the major premise is that new buildings use gas. Here the deductive
character of the inference entails a stronger commitment to the likelihood
than the one conveyed by inductive inferential or epistemic belief readings.
Note that the deductive readings of deber seem to come close to the de-
ontic readings of the verb. In (30), it is as if gas were obligatory in all new
buildings. While these deductive readings tend to express necessity, they
downplay the deontic obligation pattern.178
The potentially deontic dimen-
sion of deber can be neutralized by a subjective hedge such as creo que, as
exemplified in (31).
(31) ¿y qué has sabido de Guillermo? pasando a otro tema. Pues de
Guillermo... estoy bravísima con él porque no me ha escrito. Creo
que mañana me debe llegar una carta. Yo le escribí hace unos
ocho días. Yo no puedo decir que le escribí una carta. Le escribí
fue un regaño. Espero que reaccione y en la sem... por ahí mañana
o pasado mañana reciba una carta. (Habla Culta: Bogotá: M32)
‘And any news about Wilhelm? Turning to another topic. Well
Guillermo… I am angry with him because he didn’t write me. I
think that tomorrow a letter should reach me. I wrote him a week
ago. I cannot say that I wrote him a letter. What I wrote was a rep-
rimand. I hope that he reacts and this week tomorrow or the day af-
ter tomorrow I receive a letter.’
In (31), the speaker expects a letter from her friend Guillermo. She thinks
that he will reply to her last letter. In fact, the speaker considers the ex-
pected arrival of Guillermo’s letter as a logical consequence of her own
204 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
letter. Yet, since logical deduction would be too strong in this case, the
speaker weakens her inferential statement by means of creo que ‘I believe
that’. Thus, rather than enhancing the likelihood of the deber statement, the
hedge creo que reduces the degree of speaker commitment to the claim.
4.5. Reportive readings
It remains to be investigated whether Spanish does not admit a reportive
reading of deber. From the corpus data it appears that deber hardly allows
the speaker to transmit someone else’s inference.
Recall that French devoir can have a reportive function in a meteoro-
logical construction such as (32a). In order to verify whether Spanish deber
can have the same function, I have done an Internet search on según las
previsiones meteorológicas ‘according to the forecasts’. The search engine
Google has found only one example of deber similar to the French, which
is reproduced in (32b). By contrast, there are numerous examples of poder
in the same context, as in (32c).
(32) a. D’après les prévisions météo, le temps doit s’améliorer demain.
(from Kronning 2001:76)
‘According to the forecasts, the weather will get better tomorrow.’
b. Según las previsiones meteorológicas debe haber un cambio a
mejor para el fin de semana.
(http://usuarios.lycos.es/anjana/carta019.html)
‘According to the forecasts, there will/must be a change to better
weather for the next weekend.’
c. Según las previsiones meteorológicas, pueden caer lluvias de 30
litros en una hora en las provincias de Girona, Tarragona y Barce-
lona. (El Mundo, 15-10-2003)
‘According to the forecasts, there may be showers of 30 liters per
hour in the provinces of Girona, Tarragona and Barcelona.’
I have not come across similar examples in the spoken corpus. Moreover,
other constructions such as debe ser que in (33) do not qualify for a repor-
tive function in Spanish.
(33) Inf. A.–... y parece que...
Inf. B.–... esta.... matica de café, que le dicen después también
Inf. A.–... que se murió...
Inf. B.–... aja...
Inductive inferences with deber 205
Inf. A.–... entonces debe ser que Tordito... que le sucedió una cosa
mala también.
Inf. B.– Sí, exacto.
Inf. A.– Sí, hizo un mal negocio, o algo así. (Habla Culta: Cara-
cas: M25)
‘Inf. A: ‘and it seems that’, Inf. B: this settlement, that they said af-
terwards; Inf. A; that he died; Inf B: aja...; Inf. A: well it must be
that Tordito suffered something bad too; Inf. B: Yes exactly; Inf.
A: Yes, he had a bad business problem, or something like that.’
The judgment expressed by debe ser reflects the speaker’s inference, not
his/her report of an inference made earlier by another person. It is not pos-
sible to interpret it as ‘it is said that’, despite the que-clause with a finite
verb in the past, which in other contexts favors such an interpretation.
On the Internet, however, I have found a few deber examples that go in
the direction of adding a reportive dimension to the overall reading.
(34) No he leído Pan, debe ser un libro hermoso, y puedes envíarmelo.
Tengo hambre de buena literatura; mejor dicho, de hermosa litera-
tura. (Internet example, Carta de Ricardo Flores Magón. 23 de
mayo 1922)
‘I have not read Pan... it [must be/is said to be] a beautiful book,
and can you send it to me[?]. I am hungry for good literature; in
other words, beautiful literature.’
In (34), deber keeps its original evidential reading. Yet, the revolutionary
captive who writes this letter could also be echoing the positive opinion
concerning the book stated by somebody else. In this case, there is no real
speaker commitment to the epistemic judgment that the book is possibly
beautiful. Though not impossible, such an incipient hearsay reading is not
at all productive at the present stage. In (35), the positive judgment is en-
dorsed by the speaker; it could be a reported judgment, although it does not
solely derive from reported information.
(35) Con respecto al de las TTSS 2, aun no lo tengo, pero te tengo que
decir que por lo que me dice y manda Señor Oni debe ser un libro
maravilloso. Con toda la información sobre las grandes bestias de
este espantoso lugar y las historias de cada uno de ellos. Creo que
es muy bueno también.
(http://www24.brinkster.com/sogetsu/vertema.asp?tema=521&pag)
206 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
‘With respect to the one of TTSS2 I don’t have it yet, but I have to
tell you that according to what Mr Oni says and sends me, it must
be a marvellous book. With all information about the big monsters
of this terrible place and the stories of each one of them. I think it is
very good too.’
In (35), the inference may be made by Mr. Oni. The book reported to be
commented on by Mr. Oni, is then presented to the speaker as a splendid
work. The speaker him/herself may also be responsible for the inference.
The endorsement by means of creo que... también corroborates the double
reading: on the one hand, this statement can express the speaker’s support
of someone else’s inference, on the other hand, it can be a confirmation of
the speaker’s own inference, which in any case coincides with Mr. Oni’s
opinion.
In sum, reportive readings are not regularly available with deber, al-
though in some cases the verb is on the verge of reporting someone else’s
inference.
5. Tener que: preference for deductive inferences
In the literature tener que is attributed the strongest speaker commitment
and the highest likelihood (cf. Gómez Torrego 1999; Fernández de Castro
1999). I will link this commitment to the prominent position of deductive
inferences. I will first present the general tendencies of the use of tener que
(5.1.), before I pass on to describe the different readings in sections (5.2.),
(5.3.), (5.4.) and (5.5.).
5.1. General tendencies
The most important mode of knowing with tener que is deductive reason-
ing, while inference from direct evidence is extremely rare.
Table 37 gives an overview of the evidential/epistemic readings of tener
que. More than half of the occurrences involve deductive inferences, while
epistemic and inductive inferential readings each cover about one quarter.
Deductive inferences with tener que 207
Table 37. Modes of knowing with non-deontic tener que
Deductive
inferential
Epistemic Inductive
inferential
Reportive Total
tener que 31 15 14 0 60
% 51.67 25.00 23.33 - 100
The fact that tener que is a more recent development than the other modals
(Silva-Corvalán 1995) leads me to assume that tener que has not undergone
the same evolution towards a speaker-oriented epistemic reading. Olbertz
(1998), for her part, argues that tener que does not belong to inferential
modality but expresses the speaker’s “unconditioned” belief. I will show
that this is untenable in view of the different modes of knowing involved in
this modal.
5.2. Deductive inference
In 51.7% of the cases, tener que has a deductive inferential reading, which
involves a logical relation between the premises and the conclusion. Deduc-
tive inferential tener que is often accompanied by a conditional, causal or
temporal clause with an explicit minor premise, as in (36).
(36) Pero si [la música] tiene ciento dos años y todavía se conoce y se...
y se toca tiene que tener calidad ¿verdad?. ... exacto.... y el músi-
co que lo compuso tenía que ser de calidad. (Habla Culta: Caracas:
M7)
‘But insofar as the music is one hundred and two years old and it is
still known and it is played, it must be of quality, true? ... exactly ...
and the musician who wrote it must be of quality.’
The speaker argues that insofar as century-old music is still played, one can
conclude that it meets high quality standards. The minor premise is explic-
itly mentioned in the si-clause, while the major premise is that only good
things last. In (37), deductive inferential tener que combines with a causal
porque-clause. The inferential statement is introduced by a si-clause situ-
ated on a higher syntactic level.
208 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
(37) ... Claro que te digo que si las llevó a un buen joyero a España el
joyero le tiene que haber dicho que eran muy baratas porque eran
azulísimas, Claudia. (Habla Culta: Mexico: M5)
‘Sure, I am telling you that if he brought them to a jeweler in Spain,
the jeweler must have said to him that they were very cheap be-
cause they were very blue, Claudia.’
In (37) the speaker formulates a deductive conclusion on the basis of in-
formation about the jeweler and the jewels themselves. Other examples,
such as the one in (38), relate a porque clause to the context preceding the
tener que statement.
(38) Lucaks no puede por su fe marxista este ... permitir ni la más mí-
nima ... ataque o cosa contra la historia para él eso es lo más im-
portante. Bueno pues este ... a él le tiene que gustar más un realis-
ta porque el realista ... se agarra a la realidad y la realidad en úl-
tima instancia es la historia. (Habla Culta: San Juan: M4)
‘Because of his marxist belief, Lucaks cannot tolerate the slightest
attack or thing against history, which is the most important thing
for him. Well, he.. he must prefer a realist because the realist clings
to reality and reality in the end is history.’
There is a direct logical relation between the tener que statement and the
evidence given in the causal subclause introduced by porque ‘because’.
In sum, all examples presented here express a strong commitment to the
likelihood that the proposition is true. These likelihood readings are deter-
mined by the logical relation between the evidence and the statement. Inter-
estingly, this is an alternative to Olbertz’ (1998) claim that tener que is
unconditioned by inferences.
5.3. Inductive inference
When the speaker’s own creative reasoning plays a role in reaching a con-
clusion, inductive inference wins out from logical deduction. The corpus
data of tener que show that inductive inference is at issue in more than 23%
of the readings. In these readings, the degree of speaker commitment ex-
pressed is somewhat lower than that of the deductive inferential ones.
Deductive inferences with tener que 209
(39) Yo de agricultura no entiendo nada oye pero por los resultados se
ve que Chile tiene que tener unos problemas tremendos. (Habla
Culta: Santiago: M9)
‘I don’t know anything about agriculture, hey, but through the re-
sults one observes that Chile must have a couple of tremendous
problems.’
In (39), the state of affairs the speaker is observing around him/her leads to
the conclusion that Chile must have a lot of problems. A similar view holds
for (40).
(40) Es que por desgracia yo no... yo descuento que incluso la inmensa
mayoría del pueblo norteamericano sea enemigo de esas estupide-
ces. Claro tiene que serlo porque yo no me explico que una inmen-
sa mayoría esté contagiada de locura no creo en eso; al contrario
creo que la comunidad en general es el depósito de la sensatez.
(Habla Culta: Bogotá: M2)
‘Unfortunately I don’t, I conclude that the overwhelming majority
of the North-American people is against these stupidities. Yes, it
must be so, because I can’t understand that an overwhelming ma-
jority would be infected by madness, I don’t believe in that; on the
contrary I think that society in general is the safeguard of common
sense.’
In (40) the speaker’s reasoning is explicitly mentioned by means of descon-
tar ‘to conclude’, explicarse ‘to understand’ and creer ‘to think’. Rather
than a logical relation, it is the speaker’s creative reasoning that determines
the conclusion. The contextual elements show that the commitment of the
speaker is lower with inductive inferences than with the purely deductive
ones. In (41), the speaker’s reasoning with tener que is marked by means of
subjective hedges, which help avoid an exclusively deductive view of what
is said. Instead, the speaker is put at the center of the creative process of
inductive inferencing.
(41) ENC: Dime una cosa: en términos generales así, la obra... por qué
esta obra... está situada en la guerra civil ¿ah?
INF A: Mm... mm.
ENC: Ahora si se publicó en España yo me imagino que esta obra
tiene que ser... eh... si se le pone color político ¿no es cierto?....
INF A: Sí.
210 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
ENC: ... tiene que ser a favor del régimen actual. (Habla Culta:
Santiago: M2)
‘ENC: Tell me something: in general terms, this work ... why this
work is situated in the civil war ah? INF: Mm.. mm. ENC: Well if
it was published in Spain I imagine that this work must be .. eh .. if
one gives it a political color ... isn’t it? INF A: yes INF it must be
in favor of the present regime.’
The speaker elaborates on his/her own knowledge about Spanish politics
and infers that the author of the books is writing in favor of the present
regime. The hedge weakens the strength of the conclusion and eliminates
two other readings: (i) it blocks the possibility of a deductive inferential
reading, and (ii) turns an otherwise deontic reading of obligation into an
inductive one.
It is important to stress that with hedges such as me imagino que or creo
que, the reading of tener que does not shift to an epistemic reading, but to
an inductive one. This contrasts with the deber constructions which most
often shift directly to an epistemic reading. This supports a gradient view of
evidentiality and epistemic modality from tener que over deber to epistemic
poder.
In sum, around a quarter of the non-deontic tener que constructions have
an evidential reading based on inductive inference. As a result, speaker
commitment is weaker than with deductive inference.
5.4. Epistemic modality
For another 25% of the cases, tener que yields an epistemic reading without
a clearly inferential dimension, which Olbertz (1998: 410) calls a “belief”
reading.179
Rather than an overall “belief” reading, tener que just conveys
an epistemic reading as a byproduct of the original deductive inferential
reading. But the epistemic belief readings in (42) and (43) can by no means
be regarded as dominant.
(42) ... esa tremenda disciplina que hay en el ejército y que tú tienes...
tienes que haberla sentido en la armada; eso de obedecer ciega-
mente... (Habla Culta: Santiago: M16)
‘This terrible discipline that rules in the army and that you must
have felt in the war fleet; this blindly obeying.’
Deductive inferences with tener que 211
In (42) the speaker assumes that the interlocutor has undergone the strict
discipline without relying on explicit evidence or additional reasoning. The
speaker is simply committed to his own belief. The same pattern can be
observed in (43):
(43) ya voy a comenzar los ensayos del... de mi última pieza que se
llama Todo lo contrario; es... una pieza sobre la reversión petrole-
ra la [sic] tiene que... que haber preocupado en... en... en mayor o
menor medida a todos los venezolanos... ¿no? que... que tienen uso
de razón o sea que piensan. (Habla Culta: Caracas: M20)
‘I will start the rehearsals of my last play which is called Todo lo
contrario; it is a play about the recession of the oil sector which
must have alarmed to a greater or lesser degree all Venezuelans...
you know? all those who use common sense, in other words those
who think.’
In (43), the speaker takes it for granted that people with common sense
must have been alarmed by the recession in the seventies. The statement is
not linked up with any evidence from the present context. Furthermore,
there is no risk of a competing deontic reading (which would have been
formulated by means of the counterfactual conditional debería haber pre-
ocupado).
In sum, it has become clear that tener que can also yield an epistemic
reading that only refers to the speaker’s or the conceptualizer’s autonomous
assessment of the proposition. In this reading, the degree of commitment is
similar to that of a deductive inferential reading.
5.5. Reportive readings
In line with deber, the tener que statement can be reported only if it is in-
troduced by a verb that explicitly refers to other people’s assessment of the
state of affairs, as shown by se ha concluido ‘it has been concluded’ in the
Internet example (44).
(44) A partir del supuesto que los Reyes Magos procedieran del oriente,
se ha concluido que su punto de origen tiene que haber sido Babi-
lonia.(http://www.iac.es/galeria/mrk/Magos.htm)
‘Starting from the assumption that the Magic Kings came from the
East, it has been concluded that their origin must have been Baby-
lonia.’
212 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
Tener que is not used for reporting hearsay knowledge. No examples of the
type made up in (45) were found in the corpus or on the Internet.
(45) ?
Según las previsiones meteorológicas tiene que haber un cambio
a mejor para el fin de semana.
‘According to forecasts, there will/must be a change to better
weather for the next weekend.’
The construction in (45) yields a deontic reading which conveys deontic
force emanating from an unspecified entity. This is a general characteristic
of tener que: if the speaker is not involved, the construction easily shifts to
a deontic reading which most often expresses obligation emanating from
another entity than the speaker, in this case an external force. We can thus
conclude that tener que has not yet reached the same stage in the evolution
as deber.
5.6. Discussion
In the previous sections I have argued that the inferential processes of deber
and tener que result in a stronger epistemic commitment. The low degree of
speaker commitment expressed by epistemic poder can be related to the
fact that this verb most often does not rely on inferential processes. This
leads me to conclude that unlike what happens with the evidential verbs
dealt with in the other parts of this volume, evidentiality does play a role in
the epistemic judgments made by modal verbs. Moreover, the evidential
qualification determines the strength of the epistemic qualification.
In the previous sections each of the three epistemic/evidential modal
verbs has been argued to have a core reading. I have shown that deber most
often correlates with inductive inference and tener que with deductive in-
ference. Accordingly, these three different sources for the statement entail
the weak, intermediate and strong speaker commitment usually associated
with poder, deber and tener que respectively.
The hedges used in one fifth of the evidential deber constructions sug-
gest that this verb experiences a tendency towards construing a more epis-
temic view of the state of affairs. The hedges used with tener que reveal a
reading based on inductive instead of deductive inferencing. This is in line
with the gradient shift from deductive inferential modality over inductive
inferential modality to epistemic modality.
The gradience from poder over deber to tener que can also be linked to
a different distribution of subjects and infinitives. It is generally assumed
Transparency 213
that poder, deber and tener que are fully transparent. Although there are no
serious restrictions on the subjects and the infinitives of these verbs, the
distribution of these verbs still may display different tendencies. Starting
from the observation that poder has developed most strongly into an epis-
temic verb, one can assume that it has become an independent epistemic
form that combines with the widest array of verbs.
According to Silva-Corvalán (1995), the ideal distribution of the epis-
temic readings of poder includes stative verbs and agentless subjects. Yet,
rather than dwelling on the ideal context, it is useful to take into account the
real use of the different verbs. I expect, on the one hand, that poder more
readily combines with action or change-of-state verbs than deber and tener
que and, on the other hand, I hypothesize that poder combines with a wider
group of subjects than the other two verbs. The different distribution of the
subject and the infinitive will point to different degrees of transparency.
6. Transparency
In this section, I will compare the distribution of epistemic/evidential con-
structions with that of the dynamic/deontic ones. The section is structured
as follows: I will first present the classification criteria used for the calcula-
tions presented in the tables (6.1.). Then I will discuss the quantitative data
on the infinitives and the grammatical subjects of poder (6.2.). Next I will
examine deber (6.3.) and tener que (6.4.).
6.1. Classification
The classification of the infinitives is in line with the labels used for the
analysis of parecer, amenazar and prometer: (i) action verbs (action), (ii)
aspectual verbs (aspect), (iii) change-of-state verbs (change), (iv) commu-
nication verbs (communication), (v) copular verbs and other attributive
verbs (attribution), (vi) modal verbs (modal), (vii) mental activity verbs
(mental), (viii) perception verbs (perception) and (ix) verbs expressing
psychological reaction (psychological).180
As for the subjects, I follow the
same classification used for amenazar and prometer (cf. Delbecque 2003:
383).
Besides the absolute frequency of the combinations, the tables present
(i) the relative frequency of the infinitive mentioned in the first column
with the four readings and (ii) the relative frequency of the infinitive in
214 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
comparison with other infinitives that combine with the reading mentioned
in the heading.181
6.2. Infinitives and subjects with poder
The epistemic constructions with poder, on the one hand and the dynamic
and deontic constructions, on the other, have a different distribution. Epis-
temic poder combines most with attributive infinitives (51.32%), while this
is not the case with the dynamic (6.48%) and deontic readings (9.22%).
From another point of view, nearly half of the attributive infinitives
(49.02%) entail an epistemic reading of poder, while in 23.18% and
10.61% of the cases an attributive infinitive leads to a dynamic or a deontic
reading respectively.
Table 38. Infinitives with poder
epis-
temic
% dyna
-mic
-
epist
% dyna-
mic
% deon-
tic
%
Action 201 8.58 (i)
29.39 (ii)
162 6.91
43.78
1489 63.55
58.16
491 20.96
59.59
Aspect 24 25.26
3.51
9 9.47
2.43
46 48.42
1.80
16 16.84
1.94
Change 56 42.75
8.19
25 19.08
6.76
37 28.24
1.45
13 9.92
1.58
Commu-
nication
12 2.29
1.75
17 3.25
4.59
369 70.55
14.41
125 23.90
15.17
Attribu-
tion
351 49.02
51.32
123 17.18
33.24
166 23.18
6.48
76 10.61
9.22
Modal 0 0.00
0.00
0 0.00
0.00
0 0.00
0.00
0 0.00
0.00
Mental
activity
18 6.23
2.63
22 7.61
5.95
213 73.70
8.32
36 12.46
4.37
Percep-
tion
6 6.06
0.88
0 0.00
0.00
76 76.77
2.97
17 17.17
2.06
Psycho-
logical
reaction
4 20.00
0.58
3 15.00
0.81
9 45.00
0.35
4 20.00
0.49
None 12 5.41
1.75
9 4.05
2.43
155 69.82
6.05
46 20.72
5.58
Transparency 215
In the dynamic and deontic poder constructions, by contrast, almost
60% of the infinitives express an action. Interestingly, in more than 63% of
the cases, an action verb leads to a dynamic reading of poder, while such a
verb entails a deontic reading in more than 20% of the occurrences. Other
infinitives that easily provoke a dynamic reading are the aspectual ones
(48%), the communication verbs (70.55%), and the mental activity (73.7%)
and perception (76.77%) verbs. The absence of an infinitive also favors a
dynamic reading (69.82%). Interestingly, not one group of infinitives leads
to a deontic reading of poder in more than 25% of the cases. By contrast, in
addition to the attributive infinitives (49.02%), aspectual infinitives
(25.26%) and change-of-state verbs (42.75%), such as caer ‘to fall’, readily
combine with epistemic poder.
The above description confirms Silva-Corvalán’s claim (1995) that sta-
tive (attributive) infinitives favor an epistemic reading with poder, although
it is shown that change-of-state verbs frequently yield such a reading too.
On the other hand, epistemic poder combines with an action verb in nearly
30% of the cases, but such an infinitive only leads to an epistemic reading
of poder in less than 10% of the cases. Let us now look at the distribution
of the grammatical subjects with poder presented in Table 39.182
Some 35% of all subjects with epistemic poder are human individuals
such as gente ‘people’, which is less than half the percentage observed for
dynamic (79%) and deontic (83.7%) readings. Of all individual subjects,
63.8% and 21.79% lead to a dynamic and a deontic reading of poder re-
spectively, while only 7.73% entail an epistemic reading. The collective
subjects more often invite a dynamic reading (50.59%). By contrast, the
subjects expressing a process, e.g. obras ‘works’, or a state of affairs, e.g.
problema ‘problem’, are far more frequent with epistemic poder than with
dynamic and deontic poder. Of all subjects denoting a state of affairs,
59.44% provoke an epistemic reading; for concrete objects and processes
this is the case in 44.83% and 47.53% of the cases.
Note that 53.29% of the poder constructions that lack an overt subject
have a dynamic reading, while only 26.09% receive an epistemic reading.
The low number of covert subjects in deontic constructions (9.12%) has to
do with the easily identifiable second person singular of numerous deontic
forms. The speaker then directly addresses the obligation to the interlocu-
tor. Third person singular covert subjects, by contrast, often refer to what is
said before the modal statement is uttered.
216 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
Table 39. Grammatical subjects with poder
epis-
temic
% dyna-
mic -
epist.
% dyna
mic
% deon-
tic
%
Individual 245 7.73
35.77
212 6.69
57.14
2023 63.80
78.96
691 21.79
83.76
Concrete
object
26 44.83
3.80
9 15.52
2.43
14 24.14
0.55
9 15.52
1.09
Process 106 47.53
15.47
37 16.59
9.97
62 27.80
2.42
18 8.07
2.18
State of
affairs
85 59.44
12.41
16 11.19
4.31
36 25.17
1.41
6 4.20
0.73
Notion 5 29.41
0.73
2 11.76
0.54
6 35.29
0.23
4 23.53
0.48
Location 10 30.30
1.46
5 15.15
1.35
17 51.52
0.66
1 3.03
0.12
Semiotic 16 40.00
2.34
8 20.00
2.16
13 32.50
0.51
3 7.50
0.36
Collective 35 20.59
5.11
12 7.06
3.23
86 50.59
3.36
37 21.76
4.48
State of
mind
1 16.67
0.15
2 33.33
0.54
3 50.00
0.12
0 0.00
0.00
Non-
specified
13 38.24
1.90
6 17.65
1.62
9 26.47
0.35
6 17.65
0.73
None 143 26.09
20.88
62 11.31
16.71
293 53.47
11.44
50 9.12
6.06
In sum, Silva-Corvalán’s (1995) ideal context is corroborated to a large
extent. Epistemic poder combines less often with action verbs and human
individual subjects than deontic and dynamic poder. This is also confirmed
by the fact that, as far as the type of infinitive and the subject are con-
cerned, poder constructions that combine an epistemic and a dynamic read-
ing occupy an intermediate position between epistemic and deon-
tic/dynamic readings.
6.3. Infinitives and subjects with deber
I will now examine the infinitives and the subjects that combine with the
evidential and the deontic deber constructions. We will start with the cor-
pus results of the infinitives summarized in Table 40.183
Table 40 highlights that all infinitives combine more with deontic deber
than with evidential deber. The highest probability of a deontic reading is
Transparency 217
found with action, e.g. dar ‘to give’, and communication verbs (both 96%).
By contrast, more than 30% of the attributive infinitives lead to an epis-
temic reading of deber. Note that more than 70% of the infinitives that
combine with evidential deber are attributive ones like ser ‘to be’.
Table 40. Infinitives with deber
evidential/
epistemic
% Deontic %
Action 18 3.91
9.52
442 96.09
45.95
Aspect 4 18.18
2.12
18 81.82
1.87
Change 11 18.64
5.82
48 81.36
4.99
Communication 2 3.45
1.06
56 96.55
5.82
Attribution 136 31.26
71.96
299 68.74
31.08
Modal 0 0.00
0.00
0 0.00
0.00
Mental activity 14 15.38
7.41
77 84.62
8.00
Perception 2 16.67
1.06
10 83.33
1.04
Psychological
reaction
2 28.57
1.06
5 71.43
0.52
None 0 0.00
0.00
7 100.00
0.73
More than 68.74% of the attributive infinitives correlate with a deontic
reading; many of these forms are passive ones. I will now examine whether
the discrepancy between attributive verbs and action verbs is also reflected
in the kinds of subjects that are found with deber. Table 41 gives us an
overview.184
Although 37% of the grammatical subjects of evidential deber are indi-
viduals, less than 14% of all individual subjects entail an evidential reading,
in contrast with 86% for deontic deber. Subjects that denote a process or a
result, such as cumplimiento ‘completion’, most frequently yield a deontic
reading of deber (96.2%) and constitute 18% of all subjects with this read-
ing. This high frequency can be related to the frequent passive infinitives.
Note that up to 38% of the evidential deber constructions do not have an
overt subject. The absence of an overt subject leads to an evidential reading
218 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
in more than half of the cases (53.68%). Such utterances often refer to the
whole state of affairs.
Table 41. Grammatical subjects with deber
eviden-
tial/epistemic
% deontic %
Individual 70 13.83
37.04
436 86.17
45.32
Concrete
object
4 4.40
2.12
87 95.60
9.04
Process 7 3.80
3.70
177 96.20
18.40
State of
affairs
6 15.00
3.17
34 85.00
3.53
Notion 0 0.00
0.00
25 100.00
2.60
Location 2 12.50
1.06
14 87.50
1.46
Semiotic 7 23.33
3.70
23 76.67
2.39
Collective 5 5.68
2.65
83 94.32
8.63
State of mind 1 11.11
0.53
8 88.89
0.83
Non-
Specified
14 53.85
7.41
12 46.15
1.25
None 73 53.68
38.62
63 46.32
6.55
In conclusion, although evidential/epistemic deber combines with an at-
tributive verb in more than 70% of the cases, this does not mean that an
attributive infinitive automatically entails an evidential reading. Moreover,
the percentage of human subjects of evidential and deontic deber does not
differ a lot. What differs is the fact that evidential deber appears more often
in constructions without an overt subject than with a human individual
overtly expressed subject. Notice that these two characteristics are more
prominent with evidential deber than with epistemic poder constructions.
This can be explained by the speaker’s strategy to avoid agentive patterns
typical of the deontic reading.
Transparency 219
6.4. Infinitives and subjects with tener que
The distribution of the infinitives found with tener que is presented in Ta-
ble 42.185
Table 42. Infinitives with tener que
evidential/
epistemic
% deontic %
Action 4 0.46
6.67
868 99.54
59.90
Aspect 0 0.00
0.00
41 100.00
2.83
Change 6 8.82
10.00
62 91.18
4.28
Communication 2 2.22
3. 33
88 97.78
6.07
Attribution 43 14.88
71.67
246 85.12
16.98
Modal 0 0.00
0.00
0 0.00
0.00
Mental activity 4 3.33
6.67
101 96.19
6.97
Perception 0 0.00
0.00
20 100.00
1.38
Psychological
reaction
1 7.69
1.67
12 92.31
0.83
None 0 0.00
0.00
11 100.00
0.76
All types of infinitives combine much more with deontic tener que than
with evidential tener que. Less than 15% of the attributive infinitives occur
in an evidential reading. On the other hand, when we look at the most fre-
quent infinitives found with tener que, the difference between the action
infinitives (60%), e.g. elaborar ‘to elaborate’, combining with a deontic
reading and the attributive infinitives (71.67%), e.g. haber ‘to be’, combin-
ing with an evidential reading is greater than with deber. Evidential tener
que does not easily combine with action verbs (0.46%), perception and
aspectual verbs (0%), while the attributive infinitives are as frequent as
with evidential deber (71%).
Let us now examine whether similar differences are found with the sub-
jects of tener que, the distribution of which is summarized in Table 43.186
The deontic construction with tener que has most often a human subject
(66%), and 97.75% of the human subjects pattern with a deontic reading.
220 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
While only 2.25% of the human subjects crop up in an evidential construc-
tion, subjects like tú ‘you’, nevertheless make up 36% of all evidential
constructions. Although the relative frequency of covert subjects is high
with evidential verbs (36.7%), most of these subjects are found in a deontic
construction (88.04%).
Table 43. Grammatical subjects with tener que
eviden-
tial/epistemic
% deontic %
Individual 22 2.25
36.67
956 97.75
65.96
Concrete object 5 7.58
8.33
61 92.42
4.21
Process 1 0.60
1.67
166 99.40
11.46
State of affairs 1 7.69
1.67
12 92.31
0.83
Notion 1 10.00
1.67
9 90.00
0.62
Location 3 27.27
5.00
8 72.73
0.55
Semiotic 3 15.00
5.00
17 85.00
1.17
Collective 1 2.22
1.67
44 97.78
3.04
State of mind 0 0.00
0.00
2 100.00
0.14
Pronoun 1 7.69
1.67
12 92.31
0.83
None 22 11.96
36.67
162 88.04
11.18
In sum, just like deber, evidential tener que predominantly combines
with attributive verbs, although such an infinitive is no guarantee for an
evidential reading. This leads me to conclude that the deontic reading al-
lows for all kinds of combinations with tener que.
Transparency 221
6.5. Summary
Table 44 summarizes the most important elements of the above presented
distributions and allows us to compare the different verbs. The percentages
are given in the same order as in the previous tables.
Table 44. Summary of poder, deber, tener que
Percentages
action
verb
attributive
verb
individual
subject
object -
SoA -
process
None
% % % % %
Epistemic poder 8.58
29.34
49.02
51.24
7.73
35.77
50.6
31.68
26.09
20.88
Evidential deber 3.91
9.52
31.26
71.96
13.83
37.04
7.70
8.99
53.68
38.62
Evidential tener
que
0.46
6.67
14.88
71.67
2.25
36.67
5.29
11.67
11.96
36.67
Deontic poder 20.96
59.52
10.61
9.21
21.79
83.76
9.26
4.00
9.12
6.06
Deontic deber 96.09
45.95
68.74
31.08
86.17
45.32
92.26
30.97
46.32
6.55
Deontic tener que 99.54
59.90
85.12
16.98
97.75
65.96
94.71
16.51
88.04
11.18
Dynamic poder 63.55
58.12
23.18
6.48
63.80
78.96
25.70
4.38
35.29
11.44
First, epistemic poder combines with a higher number of infinitives ex-
pressing an action and a lower number of attributive infinitives than eviden-
tial deber and tener que. Action verbs almost always pattern with a deontic
reading of deber and tener que, but the attributive infinitives with deber
and tener que do not automatically imply an evidential reading. Interest-
ingly, the 31.26% of attributive infinitives with deber indicate that this verb
is more advanced in downplaying the deontic patterns. In general, both
action verbs and attributive predicates are increasingly infrequent with
epistemic poder (8.58%/49.02%), evidential deber (3.91%/31.26%) and
evidential tener que (0.46%/14.88%) in that order.
The figures in Table 44 corroborate that poder more easily conveys an
epistemic reading than deber and tener que express an evidential one. My
hypothesis is that action verbs are less problematic for poder due to the
preference of dynamic poder, and hence not of deontic poder, to combine
with action verbs. A dynamic construction lacks the agentive patterns asso-
ciated with deontic modality, which facilitates a possibility reading. In this
222 Evidentiality and transparency with modals
context it is not surprising that when poder combines with an attributive
infinitive, it has an epistemic reading in half of the cases.
The distribution of the subjects shows that when poder combines with a
subject denoting an object, a state of affairs or a process, it receives an
epistemic reading in half of the cases. This is not at all the case for eviden-
tial deber and tener que where these subjects combine with the deontic
counterparts of the verbs in more than 90% of the cases (92.26% and
94.71%, respectively). This shows that poder is more transparent than de-
ber and tener que.
Evidential deber and tener que more often lack an overt subject than
epistemic poder does. Although with deber the absence of an overt subject
leads to an evidential reading in more than half of the cases, no other ob-
servations can be made on the basis of the information available.
7. Conclusions
The use of modal poder, deber and tener que presents different proportions
of evidentiality and epistemic modality. All three verbs can involve inferen-
tial evidentiality, albeit to a different extent: while it is less crucial with
poder, the evidential dimension of deber and tener que are more developed.
The analysis presented above is a refinement of the previous analyses in
three different ways.
First, the description of the non-deontic modal readings in terms of their
most important mode of knowing has underpinned the gradience of weak,
intermediate and strong speaker commitment from poder over deber to
tener que, as suggested by Fernández de Castro (1999). The corpus data
show that these three modals have a prototypical non-deontic reading: (i) an
epistemic judgment with poder corresponds to a weak commitment, (ii) an
inductive inferential statement with deber conveys intermediate commit-
ment, (iii) a deductive statement with tener que yields strong speaker com-
mitment.
Second, I have shown that the speaker commitment is not as fixed as
suggested in the Spanish literature. The different modes of knowledge, I
have argued, lead to different kinds of speaker commitment. Small shifts in
commitment occur when the epistemic or evidential modal does not rely on
its most habitual mode of knowing. For example, tener que based on induc-
tive inference yields a weaker speaker commitment than tener que based on
deductive inference.
Third, the possibility of purely epistemic readings of deber and tener
que illustrates that these verbs do not necessarily convey evidential read-
Conclusions 223
ings. The distinction between epistemic modals and evidential modals is
thus not always as strict as assumed in the literature (cf. Anderson 1986,
Nuyts 2001b). The existence of these epistemic readings correlates with the
gradience from the less epistemic readings of tener que to the more epis-
temic ones of poder. Interestingly, this gradience is also reflected in the
different distribution of subjects and infinitives with the three modal verbs.
Chapter 8
Epistemic and evidential modals: modal grounding
and subjectification
In this chapter I will argue that the epistemic and evidential modals poder
‘can/may’, deber ‘must’ and tener que ‘have to’ realize modal grounding of
the infinitival process. This specific form of modal grounding comes about
through the diachronic and synchronic subjectification of the dynamic and
deontic readings of these verbs. In considering Spanish epistemic/evidential
modals as “grounding predications”, I extend Langacker’s (1990) notion of
“grounding predication”, because Spanish modals include temporal and
modal grounding at the same time. Unlike English modal auxiliaries, the
Spanish modals have tense and mood inflection, and, hence, do not belong
to a well-defined morphosyntactic category of modal auxiliaries. Yet, al-
though the morphosyntactic restrictions on the Spanish epistemic modals
are less far-reaching than those on the English modal auxiliaries, the Span-
ish epistemic modals present a specific, restricted distribution. In line with
Cornillie (2003, 2005a, 2006), I will argue that, although formally speaking
the Spanish epistemic and evidential modals cannot be considered real
grounding predications, their modal grounding function and their concep-
tual content are very similar to the function and the content of the English
ones. As for the narrowing of Langacker’s concept of grounding predica-
tions, I follow Pelyvás’ (1996) and Nuyts’ (2002) argument that grounding
predications are limited to epistemic/evidential modals, and hence exclude
the deontic modals.
The chapter is structured in the following way. First, I will briefly pre-
sent an historical view of the Spanish modals in terms of diachronic subjec-
tification. Then I will discuss whether grounding should be approached in a
purely grammatical or in a cognitive-functional way. In Section (2.) I will
explain the link between grounding predications and the different types of
subjectification proposed by Langacker. I also tackle the difference be-
tween the notions of content and profile, and relate them to Langacker’s
dynamic evolutionary model. In Section (3.) the unavailability of a ‘modal’
infinitive will be proposed as a major criterion for epistemic modality. In
Section (4.) I will comment on the debate concerning the shift from deontic
to epistemic modality and propose to apply the concepts of reference-point
and subjectification. The difference in subjectification accounts for the
different types of epistemic modality expressed by the Spanish modals.
Diachronic subjectification 225
1. Diachronic subjectification vs. modal grounding
In this section I will first discuss the diachronic subjectification of the
Spanish modals (1.1.) before addressing the question of modal grounding
and how it differs from temporal grounding (1.2.). I will not give a detailed
diachronic account of poder and deber but confine myself to presenting
new data on the historical evolution of tener que.
1.1. Diachronic subjectification
1.1.1. From deontic to epistemic poder and deber
In many typologically diverse languages the epistemic meanings of modals
have developed from their dynamic and deontic counterparts (Bybee et al.
1994: 202–204).187
Dynamic capacity or deontic permission and obligation
are then reinterpreted in terms of weak vs. strong speaker commitment to
the truth of the proposition. The shift from deontic readings to epistemic
ones implies that deontic meanings are diachronically prior to epistemic
readings. Yet, since modal deber and poder are not ‘homegrown’ but origi-
nate in the Latin verbs debere and posse, the genesis of epistemic meanings
might have taken place before the Spanish verb forms started to be used (cf.
Olbertz 1998: 246).
Yllera (1980: 138–140) mentions that in the first Spanish texts, the epis-
temic readings of deber and poder are infrequent. Epistemic poder is ob-
served from the 13th
century onwards, while epistemic deber is not regu-
larly used until the 15th
century. Olbertz (1998: 246) refers to the Latin
ancestors of the modals, namely debere and posse, which have fulfilled
epistemic functions from the earliest texts on (cf. Bolkestein 1980: 123–
127). Interestingly, Olbertz (1998: 246) suggests that the reason why epis-
temic examples in Spanish texts are less frequent than those in Latin lies in
the type of texts these constructions appear in. Many Latin texts discuss
philosophical problems, while the medieval Spanish texts are most often
narratives.188
Further corpus research should corroborate whether the epis-
temic modal readings of deber and poder come from their deontic or dy-
namic counterparts, but the high frequency of the latter readings in present-
day Spanish in comparison with the low frequency of the epistemic ones
makes this assumption highly plausible.189
226 Modal grounding and subjectification
1.1.2. The development of tener que
Since the Spanish deontic and epistemic modal readings of tener que are
homegrown, it is useful to consider this verb in terms of grammaticalization
and subjectification. Recall that the “epistemic” reading of tener que is a
recent development that deserves closer scrutiny.190
I will mainly argue that
tener que has developed as an alternative for tener de. This view constitutes
a revision of the explanation that the tener que construction has developed
from constructions with non-finite relative clauses with or without antece-
dent, as in (1) (cf. Mori 1974; Olbertz 1998). I give two examples from
Yllera (1980: 100,117) 191
quoted in Olbertz (1998: 250–252):
(1) a. en aquestol’ avemos mucho que gradeçer. (Fernán González.
around 1250)
‘in that respect we have much to owe him.’
b. non tenemos que comer. (Alfonso XI. around 1350)
‘we do not have (anything) to eat.’
In the literature it is often stated that the development of deontic tener que
supposes two shifts. First, the tener que construction is a result of the shift
from possessive haber ‘to have’ in (1a) to possessive tener ‘to have’ in
(1b). A second, more complicated change involves a shift from a situation
in which some person has something (tener) to a situation in which some-
thing should be done (tener que). Since this is not a straightforward shift, I
will first detail other aspects of tener que below.
Olbertz (1998: 250) mentions that the predecessors of tener que are
haber que ‘to have to’ and haber de ‘to have to/will’. The hundreds of oc-
currences of haber de in the Corpus del español show that this verb is by
far the most common one between the 13th
century and the second half of
the 19th
century. Moreover, this verb is polyfunctional in that it has both
deontic, futural and epistemic/inferential readings. The deontic reading of
haber de is not necessarily the first one. Since the future form in Romance
is based on habere (cf. cantare habeo > cantaré ‘I will sing’), it is plausible
that the futural reading of haber de is prior to the deontic reading. In any
case, the inferential reading is not the basic reading of haber de. The three
readings have in common that the actions or the propositions are not actual
but potential. That is, the speaker and the hearer rely on the idea that the
future will show whether the action is really accomplished or the proposi-
tion has become true.
Diachronic subjectification 227
The haber que construction does not have these three different readings,
but seems to be restricted to the deontic reading. A review of the Corpus
del español yields only a few examples of deontic haber que. In the 13th
century example (2a), the que-complement of haber has an object function.
The corpus also indicates that from the 14th
century on haber que is only
used in impersonal constructions, as in (2b). Ha que + infinitive is the form
that precedes hay que + infinitive.192
This construction is the result of gram-
maticalization accompanied by subjectification: a possessive reading of a
transitive construction shifts to a deontic reading of a modal construction.
Interestingly, the deontic haber que construction in (2b) is performative in
nature, and hence, displays speaker commitment.
(2) a. Ca al que en njnguna culpa non cahe non le han que perdonar.
(Alfonso X. General estoria V. 13th
century)
‘Because to the one who has no guilt they have nothing to absolve
him from.’
b. ... del quarto año del Regnado deste Rey don Ordoño non ha que
contar que […] si non tanto que murio en este año el papa Basilio
& fue puesto ensu lugar. (Pedro Afonso de Barcelos. anonymous
transl. Crónica de 1344. 14th
century)
‘... about the fourth year of the Rey don Ordoño’s government one
should only tell that pope Basilius died and was carried to the
grave.’
The low frequency of haber que is a case in point. It shows that the haber
construction with de is preferred to the one with que and that the construc-
tion with de also serves to express various readings. Now, it is not justified
to postulate that tener que originates from haber que. First of all, tener que
is a more recent development than haber que: although haber que + infini-
tive is restricted to the third person impersonal construction after the 14th
century, tener que is not attested before the end of the 15th
century. The fact
that the tener de construction expresses a deontic reading considerably
earlier than tener que supports the analysis. Moreover, an account based on
tener de can refine the traditional explanation in terms of the shift of the
relative clause tener trabajos que hacer to tener que hacer trabajos.
The deontic readings with tener were present from the first stages of
Spanish (cf. Yllera 1980: 110–116; Delport 2004). The deontic readings of
tener de are first found in the 13th
century, as shown in Alfonso X’ writings
in (3).
228 Modal grounding and subjectification
(3) … quiso otrosi quela parte dela labor dela yglesia que fuese en
poder del obispo demandar en que cosas segaste & esto es porque
el tiene de dar cuenta adios dello. (Alfonso X. Siete partidas. 13th
century)
‘He also wanted that part of the work of the Church was in the
hands of the bishop to ask in which things you cut and this is be-
cause he has to report on it to God.’
In this construction, tener de expresses a descriptive deontic reading in
which the obligation does not stem from the speaker but from a third entity.
Other tener constructions are semi-transitive. They combine the preposition
de with the conjunction que, thus conveying a kind of partitive reading, as
exemplified in (4).193
(4) si el procurador fuere rebelde que non sea restituydo el señor del
pleito maguer que diga que el procurador non tiene de que pagar.
(Alfonso X. Siete partidas. 13th
century)
‘if the attorney opposes the fact that the lawyer be refunded al-
though he says that the attorney does not have of to pay.’ (i.e.
“something for which to pay”)
From a traditional point of view, one could say that the (semi-)transitive
construction in (4) refers to an intermediate stage between tener de and
tener que. Such a view is only part of the story, however, since the first
occurrences of tener que in the Corpus del español do not point to a (semi-)
transitive relation between the que-complement and tener, as shown in (5a)
and (5b).
(5) a. ... no como dize sant isidoro dela orden del a b c. que la a es
primera. la b segunda la c tercera por que desta orden no tiene
que hazer el gramático. (Antonio de Nebrija. Gramática castel-
lana. 1492)
‘... not like Saint Isidoro in alphabetical order, where a is the first, b
the second, and c the third since the grammarian should not work in
this order.’
b. ... para hacer el monumento no tienen que desvelarse los frailes,
ni para qué buscar paños, ni tapices, ni otros atavíos. (Mendieta,
Jerónimo de. Historia eclesiástica indiana. 1564)
‘… to celebrate the monument, the brothers must not stay awake,
neither do they have to look for clothes, carpets nor other finery.’
Diachronic subjectification 229
In the example from Nebrija’s grammar (5a), tener que has a deontic read-
ing. The que-clause cannot be seen as a relative clause that refers to an
overt or covert antecedent. This is also the case in (5b), where the intransi-
tive infinitive desvelarse ‘to stay up’ receives a deontic perspective. These
two forms are characterized by their performativity. Unlike the examples of
tener de, they express direct speaker commitment to the proposed event.
Further research is needed, but one could hypothesize that the shift from
tener de to tener que involves speaker-oriented subjectification. This does
not mean, however, that tener que cannot have descriptive readings any-
more.
The data from the Corpus del español indicate that until the 16th
century
tener de is more frequent than tener que. In the 17th
century both construc-
tions are used quite regularly. From the 18th
century onwards, tener que is
more frequent than tener de. In the 19th
century, tener de is almost extinct.
More refined corpus research should confirm this general survey of the
data. The epistemic/evidential readings of tener de/que appear later than the
deontic ones. Corpus data show that the tener de construction yields an
epistemic/evidential reading in the 16th
century, as in (6), while with tener
que this reading only shows up in the second half of the 19th
century, as
illustrated in (7).
(6) … hay disposición y suelo para hacer una muy buena y gran ciu-
dad, y según sus calidades y trato y contratación, yo creo que tiene
de ser antes de mucho tiempo muy populosa y estimada. (Motoli-
nía, Toribio de. Historia de los indios de la Nueva España. 1543)
‘There is provision and territory to construct a very good and big
city, and according to its qualities, agreement and contract, I think
that before long [the city] must be very densely populated and re-
spected.’
(7) El resultado de la equivocación deshecha tiene que ser desastroso.
(Arenal, Concepción. Observaciones sobre la educación física, in-
telectual y moral de Herbert Spencer. 1856)
‘The result of this sad mistake must be disastrous.’
In sum, this diachronic overview has shown that the deontic reading of
tener que appeared earlier than its epistemic/evidential counterpart. Despite
the Latin origins of poder and deber, it is justified to state that in Spanish
the deontic and dynamic readings precede the epistemic ones. The deontic
readings of tener de crop up in the 13th
century and perhaps appeared even
earlier. In the Corpus del español I have not found deontic tener que con-
230 Modal grounding and subjectification
structions before the end of the 15th
century. If it really had been a variety
of the possessive, transitive constructions with a que-complement, the tener
que construction would have been used earlier. In this respect, the descrip-
tion based on tener de above can be considered an alternative account of
the development of tener que. No doubt more systematic quantitative re-
search should further underpin the general description proposed here.
1.1.3. Diachronic vs. synchronic accounts
The diachronic analysis presented in the previous section has confirmed
that the epistemic modals show up later than the other modal readings. The
result of the diachronic evolution is a wide array of different coexisting
modal uses in Spanish and other languages. It is also useful to account for
the different coexisting dynamic, deontic and epistemic modal readings of
these modals in present-day Spanish.
In the remainder of the chapter I follow Langacker’s model of subjectiv-
ity insofar as it helps us account for the synchronic uses of the modals in
language in general and in Spanish in particular. I will argue that the epis-
temic modals are a semantic extension of the non-epistemic modals through
conceptual subjectification. I will show that the Spanish epistemic and
evidential modals have a reference-point function and can be considered
modal grounding predications. In the next section I will address the ques-
tion of temporal and modal grounding.
1.2. Modal grounding
In this section I will argue that the tense marking of the Spanish modals
does not have to be considered a problem for the modal grounding these
verbs realize. I first discuss the difference between temporal and modal
grounding (1.2.1.). Then I present Nuyts’ and Pelyvás’ views on modal
grounding (1.2.2.). Finally I formulate my own position on the matter
(1.2.3.).
1.2.1. Temporal vs. modal grounding
Within the framework of Cognitive Grammar, the grounding of linguistic
expressions occupies a prominent position: it specifies a designated entity
with regard to “fundamental notions such as time, reality and referential
Diachronic subjectification 231
identity” (Langacker 2003: 7).194
Importantly, Cognitive Grammar only
considers certain forms as real grounding devices: they are “a small set of
highly grammaticized elements, one of which has to be chosen as the final
step in forming a full nominal or finite clause” (Langacker 2002: 29).
Elements with a clear grounding function for English verbal construc-
tions are, on the one hand, tense and mood markers, and, on the other hand,
modals. When tense markers or modals ground processes, they provide the
process considered with a putative address with respect to reality. In Eng-
lish, indicative marking―just like the -s plural for nouns―provides
grounding for the process considered, while modals do not have tense nor
mood, as shown in (8).
(8) a. Peter already goes to school.
b. Peter must [*s/Ø] go to school.
This opposition leads Langacker to argue that, as far as grounding is con-
cerned, modal auxiliaries and tense are mutually exclusive. Since the un-
tensed English modal auxiliaries combine modal and temporal grounding,
they are the prototype of grounding predications. The English modal auxil-
iaries may, can and must are present tense forms. But the past tense forms
might and could do not necessarily convey a reported statement about a
situation in the past: they often express a future reality (9a) or a present
statement about the past (9b) (the examples come from Radden 1999: 265).
Unlike may and can, deontic must does not have such a past form without
tense inflection; instead, the past form of have to is used, as shown in (9e).
(9) a. She may wake up – she might wake up.
b. She may be back – she might be back.
c. I can run the marathon in less than four hours.
d. I could run the marathon in less than four hours in my younger
days.
e. He must come – he had to come.
The difference between may, can and must and their past forms, on the one
hand, and had to on the other is that the former allow for performative uses,
i.e. with speaker commitment to the statement, while the latter is necessar-
ily descriptive, i.e. without such a commitment (cf. Verstraete 2001, Nuyts
2001b). A further differentiation of the uses of might and could is possible:
might is most often used performatively, while could often stands for de-
scriptive dynamic and deontic uses.
232 Modal grounding and subjectification
In the Romance languages modal verbs carry tense, mood, and person
marking. One can therefore argue that the grounding function is still pro-
vided by these markers, even with modals. Mood is a pervasive grounding
element in Spanish, since the subjunctive is a specific means of subjective
grounding (cf. Achard 1998, 2002; Lunn 1989, 1995). In (10a), epistemic
poder receives indicative marking, while the finite verb pensar in poder’s
que-clause has subjunctive mood in (10b).
(10) a. Estos alumnos tienen más bajos puntajes... Ya ¿Sí o no?. Ya. Tú
lo dices frente a eso; sí puede ser y además gente que no le inter-
esa yo creo además. ¿ah?.... Claro. (Habla Culta: Santiago: M2)
‘These pupils have lower scores. Well. Yes or no? Well. You say it
in comparison with this. Yes it may be and, moreover, people who
are not interested, I believe. ah? Definitely.’
b. Me da la impresión... eres muy individualista o sea tienes una
personalidad muy propia... puede que pienses así ¿ya?; pero hay
otras personas que no son así. (Habla Culta: Santiago: M9)
‘I have the impression... you are very individualistic, namely you
have a very particular personality... it may be that you think that
way, okay?, but there are other persons who are not like that.’
Real modal grounding predications are performative in nature, while the
descriptive modal expressions combine temporal grounding and modal
grounding. In other words, the Spanish present tense is an unmarked form
of the performative epistemic modal expressions, as opposed to the past
forms that specifically locate an epistemic statement in the past.195
In this
respect, a distinction can be made between temporal grounding and modal
grounding.
In Cognitive Grammar terms, both Spanish and English performative
epistemic modals profile the infinitival process, the latter being the
grounded entity, “rather than the grounding relation” represented by tense
and person marking (Langacker 1990: 27). If performativity rather than
tense is the major criterion for modal grounding predications, other linguis-
tic expressions may also qualify for realizing modal grounding. Nuyts
(2002) and Pelyvás (1996), who work within cognitive-functional linguis-
tics, have already widened the concept of grounding predication to (epis-
temic) modal grounding. Below, I will briefly comment on these proposals.
Diachronic subjectification 233
1.2.2. Widening the concept of grounding
From a cognitive-pragmatic point of view, Nuyts (2001, 2002) argues for a
grounding system that goes beyond the highly grammaticalized linguistic
forms: he considers mental state verbs such as to think (10a) and modal
adjectival and adverbial predicates such as probable (10b) and probably
(10c) also as means of epistemic grounding.
(10) a. I think they have run out of fuel. (from Nuyts 2001b: 107)
b. It is probable that they have run out of fuel.
c. They have probably run out of fuel.
Rather than emphasizing the grounding of a proposition with regard to the
speech event, Nuyts (2002) focuses on epistemic grounding which ex-
presses the speaker’s assessment of the proposition’s likelihood. Nuyts’
(2002) proposal regarding modal grounding is very much in line with
Traugott’s account in terms of “pragmatic strengthening”, in that it mainly
links grounding with the speaker’s belief state toward the proposition.
Interestingly, a rather similar view of modal grounding has been pro-
posed within the framework of Cognitive Grammar. Pelyvás (1996: 188)
claims that the symbolic relationship of epistemic grounding “manifests
itself in function rather than in form”, which leads him to view cognitive,
i.e. mental state, predicates and sentence adverbs as (epistemic) grounding
predications.196
Hence, in Pelyvás’ view, the tense marking of the cogni-
tive/mental state predicates does not prevent them from being considered
grounding predications. Importantly, Pelyvás (1996: 171) also argues that
the tense criterion for grounding predications is “too inclusive” because it
does not take into account the different conceptual nature of epistemic and
deontic modals. According to the author only epistemic modals deserve the
label of “grounding predication”. Pelyvás bases his argument on the shift-
ing focus of attention from the participants associated with the deontic
interplay of forces, such as speaker/imposer and the subject/doer (narrow
scope), to the epistemic view of the process as a whole (wide scope), which
leaves the prominent interplay of forces intact. I will come back to this
topic in Section (4.).
1.2.3. Application to Spanish
The views of modal grounding discussed in (1.2.2.) are particularly perti-
nent to the analysis of the tensed epistemic modals in Spanish. I follow
234 Modal grounding and subjectification
Langacker’s argument that the tenseless modal auxiliaries are the real
grounding predications, but, as said in (1.2.1.), I will minimize the temporal
grounding in the present tense constructions in favor of the modal ground-
ing. Although tense remains the principal temporal grounding element in
Spanish, the modal grounding in the present tense constructions de-
emphasizes the temporal grounding of the verbs.197
The conceptual dimen-
sion of Langacker’s theory, developed to account for both temporal and
epistemic grounding, may well serve to analyze the epistemic grounding
conveyed by the Spanish epistemic modals.
2. On formal and conceptual aspects of grounding
Below I will discuss the evolution of the English modals towards grounding
predications (2.1.), and deal with the content and the profile of the modals
(2.2.). I will argue that the conceptual content of epistemic modals fits bet-
ter in the dynamic evolutionary model than the content of the deontic mo-
dals (2.3.).
2.1. Grounding predications and subjectification
From the emergent English modals to the present-day modals, the ground
has shifted from being objectively construed, i.e. onstage, to being subjec-
tively construed, i.e. offstage (cf. Langacker 1990, 1991). I first discuss the
two types of subjectification proposed by Langacker (1990) (2.1.1.), and
then apply them to Spanish (2.1.2.).
2.1.1. Two types of subjectification
According to Langacker (1990, 1991) the subjectification process of the
English modals is associated with two kinds of losses or replacements: (i)
the potency originally located in the subject is increasingly realigned with a
more diffuse source of potency and (ii) the inflection and past participles
are lost and are replaced by subjective grounding by the conceptual-
izer/speaker. The English modals have developed from main verbs with a
syntactic subject (trajector) being the onstage locus of potency. For exam-
ple, Old English magan,198
which led to may, expressed the strength or
physical ability of the subject (cf. Radden (1999: 272) for a complete list of
the Old English forms).199
On formal and conceptual aspects of grounding 235
The first stage of subjectification (type I) comes about when the directed
potency is realigned from the objective axis to the subjective axis. The fact
that the objectively construed subject of deontic have to in (11) is no longer
the locus of potency implies that the potency relation is to some extent
subjectively construed. The objectively construed subject, here he in (11),
is “the trajector of the landmark process” (Langacker 1990: 26).
(11) He had to go to the bathroom. (Radden 1999: 267)
In the traditional CG-view, the tense marking ensures that the ground itself
is still objectively construed. With type I subjectification, the modal relation
is “put onstage and is profiled” (Langacker 1991: 271), as the bold line
shows in Figure 3.
Figure 3. Periphrastic grounded predications (Langacker 1990:26)
It can be inferred from Langacker’s (1990, 1991) analysis that, in addition
to have to, the tensed forms of English “periphrastic” grounded modals like
need to and be able to with inflection have reached this first stage of sub-
jectification. The second type of subjectification (type II) stands for the
highest subjectivity and is only expressed by English modal auxiliaries
such as must, can and may, as in (12). Langacker considers these verbs
grounding predications.
(12) He may be finishing his paper.
As with the periphrastic modals have to and need to in Figure 3, the po-
tency in these modal auxiliaries is not associated with the subject. The dif-
ference between the English periphrastic modals and the modal auxiliaries
lies in the fact that the former are said to profile the modal relationship,
while with the latter the infinitival process is profiled, as shown in Figure 4.
236 Modal grounding and subjectification
Figure 4. Grounding predications (Langacker 1990: 26)
Langacker’s combination of formal and conceptual facets of grounding
makes it hard to apply the two types of subjectification to other European
languages. In the next section I will apply the proposed system to Spanish
and will also discuss a series of problems.
2.1.2. Application to Spanish
Unlike English, it is not clear whether Spanish also has a proto-modal type
such as English magan. The fact that Spanish deber and poder come from
verbs that, as noted in (1.1.1.), were already modal in Latin might imply
that Spanish does not have such originally non-modal forms. The case of
tener que is not an example of objective potency either. One could state that
the dynamic reading of poder, as in (13), is closest to the modal reading
with an onstage locus of potency.
(13) ... en aquellos momentos tenía en mi compañía o en la compañía en
la cual yo trabajo que es Producciones Cisne un número de actores
que podrían representar bien aquella obra... había podido conse-
guir una niña ..v.. que podía interpretar muy bien el papel de
Helen Keller un papel muy difícil. (Habla Culta: San Juan: M17)
‘At that time I had in my company or in the company in which I
work, Producciones Cisne, a number of actors that would be able to
perform this work well.. I had been able to get a girl that could
perform the role of Helen Keller, a very difficult role, very well.’
The first type of subjectification of periphrastic grounded modals readily
applies to the deontic modal reading of poder in (14). The locus of potency
is no longer the subject, here ustedes, which implies that the potency rela-
tion is to some extent subjectively construed.200
(14) “No, padre, usted se equivoca; yo soy mexicana, me casé con un
señor de origen árabe... me llevó a vivir a Chile. Cuando él murió
On formal and conceptual aspects of grounding 237
yo heredé este lugar; pero ustedes pueden entrar: no se les cobra-
rá nada”. (Habla Culta: Mexico: M15)
“No, father, you are mistaken; I am Mexican, I got married with a
man of Arabic descent... he took me to live in Chile. When he died,
I inherited this place; but you may come in: you will not be charged
anything.’
A first problem is that Langacker (1990) considers all tensed modals as
necessarily belonging to the category of periphrastic grounded modals
(Type I Subjectification) (cf. Langacker’s (1990: 27) comments on German
sollen ‘to have to’ or mögen ‘can/may’, to name but two). From this point
of view, all Spanish modals should be considered periphrastic grounded
predications. As argued before, the present tense does not alter the view of
the modal expression, however. Moreover, tense reflects the viewpoint in
time from which the speaker assesses the likelihood of the proposition,
without therefore situating the infinitival process in the past, present or
future. The compound infinitive in (15) illustrates that haber further an-
chors the infinitival process in the past independently from the temporal
grounding of the finite verb, which has subjunctive mood. In my view, a
performative construction such as the one in (15) illustrates that modal
grounding predications are possible in Spanish.
(15) ... eran españoles, principalmente refugiados universitarios, perso-
nas que han pasado a América como consecuencia de la Guerra
Civil Española. Por esa razón quisiera señalar que... el influjo que
pueda haber tenido en mí lo español ..v.. es más bien a través de
lecturas a través de ... relaciones personales con estos emigrados y
estos profesores y menos a través de contactos directos. (Habla
Culta: San Juan: M20)
‘They were Spaniards, mainly university refugees, people who
came to America as a consequence of the Spanish Civil War. For
that reason I would like to point out that the influence that the
Spanish [things] may have had on me ... is more through readings
and through personal relations with these emigrants and these pro-
fessors and less through direct contacts.’
Thus, the present tense of the grounded modals, be it in the indicative or the
subjunctive mood, does not prevent the epistemic modal from modally
grounding the infinitival process.
A second problem in the application of Langacker’s (1990: 28) account
to Spanish is the argument that the formal differentiation between grounded
238 Modal grounding and subjectification
and grounding predications should not be confused with the distinction
between deontic and epistemic readings. Yet, in Spanish the tense and per-
son marking has a different impact on an epistemic modal relation than on a
deontic modal relation.201
The temporal and person grounding of deontic
modals is much broader than that with epistemic modals. There is a link
between the tense of the deontic relation and the compound infinitive, as
shown in (16).
(16) Pensaba que por ejemplo vos tenés ya todo dispuesto ahí tenés una
mesa vestida ¿no? Sí. Podías haber puesto el grabador ahí abajo
¿no? y entonces avisar a todos los que llegaran que efectivamente
todo lo que dijeran se iba a grabar.... (Habla Culta: Buenos Aires:
M24)
‘I thought that for example you have everything, there you have a
dressed table. Right? Yes. You could have put the recorder there
below, right? and then inform all the people that arrive that every-
thing they said would be recorded.’
It is almost impossible to formulate an epistemic construction with second
person marking and imperfect past tense marking. The modal construction
in (16) directs a force at the interlocutor who is onstage. Thus, a distinction
should be made between applying (deontic) force oriented to another par-
ticipant and applying force to the epistemic view of the infinitival process.
In (17), the poder construction in the third person yields different readings
in the past and in the present. In (17a), the past construction can yield an
epistemic, deontic or a dynamic reading, while the present construction can
only yield an epistemic reading.
(17) a. Podía haber puesto el grabador ahí abajo.
‘(S)he could have put the recorder there below.’
b. Puede haber puesto el grabador ahí abajo.
‘(S)he may have put the recorder there below.’
The reduced distribution of the epistemic modal grounding is also exempli-
fied by the puede que construction in (18), which cannot yield dynamic and
deontic readings.
(18) Me da la impresión... eres muy individualista o sea tienes una per-
sonalidad muy propia... puede que pienses así ¿ya?; pero hay
otras personas que no son así. (Habla Culta: Santiago: M9)
On formal and conceptual aspects of grounding 239
‘I have the impression... you are very individualistic, namely you
have a very particular personality... it may be that you think that
way, okay?, but there are other persons who are not like that.’
The puede form in (18) cannot be put in the past form and can, thus, be
considered as the prototypical grammaticalized and performative grounding
predication in Spanish. Since the que-clause necessarily takes subjunctive
mood, the process expressed in the que-clause is subjectively construed and
grounded by the modal construction.
In sum, when one differentiates between temporal grounding and modal
grounding, only the epistemic modals appear to function as real grounding
predications that profile the infinitival process, which is then a grounded
head. Thus, an epistemic modal like poder, although not a real grounding
predication in the Langackerian sense, has the same function as its English
counterparts.202
In the next section I will show that the content of epistemic
modals differs from that of the deontic ones.
2.2. Content and profile
Langacker (1990:14) argues that the difference between type I Subjectifica-
tion, i.e. grounded predications (e.g. have to), and type II Subjectification,
i.e. grounding predications (e.g. must), has to do with the distinction be-
tween “base (content) and profile (designation)”. Langacker (1990: 14–15)
contends that it is not the conceptual content which determines the final
shape of the construal but its designation or profile.
In the analysis of English and German modals, the difference between
content and profile implies that “must designates (or profiles) the landmark
process, whereas müssen ‘to have to’ by definition profiles the modal rela-
tion of necessity” (Mortelmans 2002: 393). Thus, in Langacker’s (1990:
14) view both deontic and epistemic must “evoke as [their] base a ground-
ing relationship, but within that base [they] profile only the grounded entity
(a schematically-characterized thing or process)”.
However, the idea that deontic and epistemic modals give a similar pro-
file to the grounded entity (infinitive) is problematic, since a deontic modal
statement implies that the speaker him/herself can interfere in the process,
while this is impossible with epistemic modals. In other words, since deon-
tic force and its participants are more salient than epistemic modal ‘force’,
the content of deontic and epistemic modality should be different.
In this context, it is appropriate to view epistemic modality on a concep-
tual level, more or less dissociated from the type of linguistic expressions
240 Modal grounding and subjectification
available in a particular language (cf. Nuyts 2001b; Pelyvás 1996, 2001,
2003). Since the base or conceptual content is not language specific, I argue
that, in Spanish, just like in German and in English, epistemic modality
assigns a special profile to the process as a whole, while deontic modality
profiles the force relation between participants involved in this process.
This view is also supported by Langacker’s dynamic evolutionary model.
2.3. Dynamic evolutionary model
The argument that Spanish epistemic modals are more suitable for modal
grounding is in line with the dynamic evolutionary model (see Figure 5),
which contains the notions of potential and projected reality, i.e. the
speaker’s knowledge of the possible (future) evolution of reality (see Lan-
gacker 1991).203
On the one hand, potential reality includes all future events
that can potentially take place from the moment of speaking onward, or
includes all views on the past that are potentially true. On the other hand,
projected reality stands for developments in the future that the speaker
considers very likely to take place.
Figure 5. Dynamic evolutionary model (Langacker 1991: 277)
In most European languages, epistemic modals readily express potential
and projected reality. Spanish modals, just like the English ones, allow the
speaker to have an encompassing view of the state of affairs, which is more
potential than actual. The projected reality, for its part, should be viewed as
a kind of potential reality that is seen as more certain. The projected reality
is prototypically expressed by the future tense. Applied to the Spanish mo-
dals, it is plausible to assume that poder expresses potential but not pro-
jected reality, while deber and tener que stand for both potential and pro-
jected reality. Since these verbs do not express the same degree of likeli-
hood, the potential dimension may determine the reading to a greater or a
Aspectual and modal marking 241
lesser extent. Moreover, the projected reality does not necessarily include
the future. The compound infinitives with deber and tener que show that
past events also combine with projected reality. In many cases the projected
reality has an evidential dimension. As shown in the previous chapter, the
view of reality can be “projected” both on the basis of inferential processes
and on the basis of the speaker’s epistemic assessment of the likelihood.
The strongest projection of reality is based on logical inferences, while the
readings without inferences have developed a stronger potential reality
dimension.
The proposed dynamic elaboration of reality adequately accounts for
epistemic modality, but is less appropriate for dynamic and deontic modal-
ity. The dynamic reading expressing capability stands for a present (known)
reality, since it focuses on a characterization of the subject. Nevertheless,
the dynamic reading also indicates that it can be further developed in the
future. The deontic reading is part of the present reality, since the speaker
or another participant interferes at the moment of enunciation. The imposer
appeals to the addressee to realize the desired event or action. Although the
outcome is projected and remains potential, the force relation is not. As
observed in the previous chapter (Section 3.), some inferential construc-
tions of tener que have an inherent deontic dimension, such as in (19).
(19) … compran el periódico y lo primero que leen es la página depor-
tiva. Enc. A eso era que te quería yo llevar. Tiene que haber un in-
terés permanente cuando nuestros periódicos todos tienen una sec-
ción de deportes. (Habla Culta: San Juan: M11)
‘They buy the newspaper and the first thing they read is the sports
page. Enc: To this point I wanted to come. There must be a perma-
nent interest when all our newspapers have a sports section.’
While the deontic overtones can often be excluded from epistemic deber,
this is not possible with the epistemic reading of tener que, where the locus
of potency is not the speaker but a more diffuse entity.204
3. Aspectual and modal marking
In this section I first present the methodology of the analysis (3.1.), before I
discuss the impossibility of construing epistemic modals as infinitives
(3.2.).
242 Modal grounding and subjectification
3.1. Methodology
Aspectual marking will allow me to structurally underpin Pelyvás’ (1996,
2001, 2006) argument that only epistemic modals qualify for epistemic
grounding. Although other verbs could also be used, inchoatives such as
empezar ‘to begin’ or the future ir a ‘to be going to’ have a double advan-
tage: (i) they allow us to examine whether the (synthetic) tense marking can
be broadened to (analytic) aspectual marking. If the modal cannot receive
any other explicit temporal marker, then the impact of the tense marking on
the modal profile is minimized altogether; (ii) it is assumed that verbs as-
signing epistemic modal grounding cannot be further profiled themselves.
On the one hand, the availability of a profile is then limited to processes
which involve possible participants. On the other hand, the lack of supple-
mentary marking illustrates the special relationship between the modal and
the grounded entity. Since the infinitive following the aspectual is viewed
as a process, only deontic modals can be the target of conception, whereas
epistemic ones only represent the subject of conception.
3.2. Infinitive and Spanish modals
In (20), the inchoative verb ir a ‘to be going to’ can readily precede the
infinitival form of poder, which then receives an ability and a permission
reading.
(20) Buenos Aires está atestada de autos y si la gente va a poder usar la
bicicleta en los trayectos cortos y medianos, es posible que reduz-
camos el caos en el tráfico. (Noticias: La Nación. 19/05/1997)
‘Buenos Aires is full of cars and if people are going to be able to
use the bike for small and medium length distances, it is possible
that we reduce the traffic chaos.’
In this construction, both the deontic (permission) and the dynamic (ability)
reading have prominent involvement of participants. The permission in (20)
is based on a letting schema with the beneficiary la gente ‘the people’,
while the focus of the ability reading is centered on the capacities of the
subject la gente ‘the people’ to use the bike. By no means could epistemic
poder show up in a construction with ir a ‘be going to’. Importantly, deber
‘must’ and tener que ‘have to’ in (21) cannot express epistemic modality
when these verbs are preceded by an aspectual verb.
Aspectual and modal marking 243
(21) a.... la gente va a poder usar la bicicleta. [*epistemic/dynamic]
‘people are going to be able to use the bike.’
a....* la gente va a deber usar la bicicleta. [*epistemic]
‘*people are going to must use the bike.’
b.... la gente va a tener que usar la bicicleta. [*epistemic/deontic]
‘people are going to have to use the bike.’
The epistemic modals poder, deber and tener que in (21) cannot explicitly
be further grounded themselves, i.e. they cannot be profiled by another
verb. This is very much in line with the assumption that an epistemic modal
verb stands for the subjective grounding of aspect, as a part of the projected
or potential reality.
Silva-Corvalán (1995: 69) mentions that deontic deber can be preceded
by ir a, as shown in (22a). Although I have not found deontic deber in an
infinitive position in the corpus nor on the Internet, Silva-Corvalán’s native
speaker judgment indicates that a deontic reading of an aspectually marked
infinitive is in principle not considered problematic. This example corrobo-
rates my claim.205
(22) Juan va a deber cruzar el río.
‘John’s going to have to cross the river.’
In infinitival constructions tener que seems to be preferred to deber. In
corpus example (23), tener que is preceded by the inchoative vamos a ‘we
are going to’. While tener que can have both a speaker-oriented and a par-
ticipant-oriented deontic reading, in combination with an aspectual profile
tener que seems to shift to a more speaker-oriented reading.
(23) ....entonces me lastimé las dos rodillas.. ¡Qué barbaridad! ¿Y
ahora ya no haces ningún deporte? Pues no pero lo vamos a tener
que hacer ahora también por los chamacos para que sigan el mis-
mo paso que nosotros porque es una cosa muy.... Mi suegro por
ejemplo ahorita corre tres kilómetros. (Habla Culta: Mexico: M5)
‘Then I hurt both my knees. What a bad luck! And now you don’t
do sports? Well, no, but now we will have to do it, too, because of
the friends so that they follow our steps because it is a very ...
thing. My father-in-law for example runs three kilometers.’
With its flexible distribution tener que fills the gap in the deontic field. The
relative unavailability of deber in an aspectual construction seems to
broaden the use of tener que. In combination with an aspectual verb, the
244 Modal grounding and subjectification
speaker-oriented deontic readings of deber seem to be handed over to tener
que. Rather than being merely an aspectual adjunct, the aspectual verb
appears to be a pragmatic reinforcement of the modal in (23). It is a way of
rendering the deontic force more speaker-oriented in the sense that the
aspectual dimension becomes an expression of deontic compulsion or insis-
tence.
One could also try to explain the infrequent construction of deontic de-
ber with ir a in terms of a different force structure. Deber most often con-
veys a strong intention of the speaker (i.e. the imposer) to move the ad-
dressee (or doer) to realize the event expressed in the infinitive, while tener
que often expresses a more diffuse kind of force. However, a more plausi-
ble explanation is that deontic tener que is a more recent development and
is thus less grammaticalized than deontic deber. This different distribution
of deber and tener que shows that the deontic modals are undergoing a
change towards less temporal grounding.
4. The shift from deontic/dynamic to epistemic modality
Let us now deal with the link between epistemic/evidential commitment
and deontic obligation. I will first discuss the metaphorical account of epis-
temic modality (4.1.). Next I will argue for an alternative account of modal
grounding based on its reference-point function (4.2.) and on subjectifica-
tion (4.3.). Finally, I will present the different epistemic readings in Spanish
in terms of the subjectification of non-epistemic readings (4.4.).
4.1. Force dynamics and metaphor
In the field of Cognitive Linguistics, epistemic modality and deontic (root)
modality have broadly been analyzed in terms of force dynamics, i.e. (ki-
netic) forces and barriers (cf. Talmy 1988, 2002). Sweetser’s (1982, 1988,
1990) analysis of modals relies on the metaphorical extension of the force
structure present in deontic (root) modality (24a) to epistemic modality
(24b) in terms of barriers.
(24) a. John may go. (deontic)
b. John may be there. (epistemic)
Yet, Pelyvás (2000: 235–240) convincingly argues that Sweetser’s account
of may is problematic on the following grounds. First, the different scope of
From deontic/dynamic to epistemic modality 245
the negation with the deontic and the epistemic readings impedes an inter-
pretation in terms of the metaphorical extension of barriers. In (25a), the
deontic force relation is negated, while in (25b) not the epistemic relation
but only the infinitival process is negated.
(25) a. John may not go.
b. John may not be there.
Second, the structural relationship between the source domain – “the doer”
(subject), i.e. John – and the target domain – the speaker and the premises
(s)he relies on – is not preserved. If a real metaphorical shift took place, the
elements of the source domain would have to correspond to those in the
target domain.
These two criticisms also hold for a metaphor-based analysis of the dif-
ference between Spanish deontic and epistemic modals: a more local ap-
proach to the shift toward epistemic readings seems to be required.206
In
line with the basic principle of force dynamics, Pelyvás (2000) offers an
alternative analysis of modal force in terms of the presence or absence of
“counteracting forces of relative strengths”. Moreover he starts from
Traugott’s (1989) hypothesis that epistemic may derives from the now
extinct reading of ability. Langacker’s recent proposals also go in the direc-
tion of a more gradual view of the shift from deontic to epistemic modal
readings.
Langacker (1990: 28) seems to support the metaphorical mapping from
potency in the social sphere to potency in the domain of reasoning pro-
posed by Sweetser (1988), which is close to Langacker’s concept of re-
alignment of deontic force. At the same time, however, Langacker (1990:
28) proposes an alternative account of the English deontic and epistemic
modals in terms of the increasing “diffuseness” of the locus of potency,
ending up with the epistemic modals expressing the “nature of evolving
reality itself”. More recently, Langacker (1998, 1999, 2000: 298) somehow
reconsiders the subjective realignment proposed in Langacker (1990). Now
the potency relation in modals undergoes a process of attenuation of objec-
tively construed elements and involves an increasingly diffuse source of
potency from main verbs to epistemic modals (cf. Langacker 2000: 307–
309). This correlates with Langacker’s adoption of Verhagen’s (1995) ar-
gument that both dimensions are already “imminent in the objective con-
ception”. Thus, rather than metaphorical mapping, there seems to be a con-
tinuum from concrete potency to extremely diffuse or nebulous potency.
246 Modal grounding and subjectification
Below, I follow Pelyvás’ (1996, 2003) adaptation of Langacker’s system
which essentially considers the epistemic grounding by modals as a combi-
nation of reference-point function and subjectification.
4.2. Reference-point
A reference-point serves “for purposes of establishing mental contact with
another [entity]” [the target], as shown in Figure 6 (Langacker 1993: 1,
1999: 173).207
In a construction such as this girl, this serves as a reference-
point (R), which attracts the attention of the conceptualizer and has initial
prominence. The reference-point R then shifts to the target, i.e. the instanti-
ated girl (T), and the initial prominence of R fades away.
Figure 6. Reference point construction (Pelyvás 1996: 160)
Although reference-points are most developed in deixis (cf. Langacker
1993; Taylor 1996), epistemic modals also function as a reference-point by
making the infinitival process the main focus of attention (cf. Pelyvás
2001). The dynamic nature of the reference-point is useful for the analysis
of modals, since it enables the contextualization of a process:
The dynamic aspect of the reference-point topic has a life history: it must first
be established as such, often by a device that makes it salient as the explicit
focus of attention. Once established, on the other hand, it may well remain im-
plicit as subsequent expressions, themselves now in focus, are integrated into
the context it provides. (Langacker 1993: 24)
The dynamic nature of the reference-point construction can account for the
shift of prominence from the reference-point to the target, i.e. the infinitival
process, which then becomes the grounded entity. While the modal has
initial prominence, it ultimately profiles the target infinitival process, al-
From deontic/dynamic to epistemic modality 247
though the construction “occasionally retains some prominence of the ref-
erence-point” (Pelyvás 2001).
Pelyvás’ (2001) proposal can help us elucidate the differences between
the deontic and the epistemic modals in Spanish. The dynamic nature of the
reference-point is crucial for a better understanding of the conflicting rela-
tion between aspectual markers and epistemic grounding (26a), on the one
hand, and the felicitous combination of aspectual markers and deontic mo-
dals (26b), on the other.
(26) a. …* el pobre va a deber de haber estado sufriendo horrores.
‘* the poor guy will must have been suffering tremendously.’
b. ... tú vas a deber/tener que hablar un poquito más.
‘ you will have to speak a bit more.’
The fact that epistemic modals cannot combine with an aspectual verb, as
in (26a), shows that they cannot be profiled themselves. Since the refer-
ence-point cannot be “left in profile” (Pelyvás 2001), the epistemic modal
verb cannot be preceded by any other verb which blocks the dynamic na-
ture of the epistemic grounding. This correlates with the reference-point
function of modals that necessarily shift attention from the modal refer-
ence-point to the proposition as a whole. In (26b) the aspectual verb gives a
full profile to the deontic potency relation, which keeps this profile. The
result of the combination with an aspectual verb is that the infinitival proc-
ess introduced by the deontic modal is less prominent than the deontic mo-
dal relation.
Furthermore, the infelicity of the construction in which the epis-
temic/evidential modal stands alone in (27b) confirms that deber de has a
reference-point function in that the verb only serves to modally ground the
infinitival process, without remaining profiled itself.208
Evidential deber
needs an infinitival process to which it can shift its own profile, as shown in
(27c). The fact that in (27d) the proposition introduced by the epistemic
modal can stand alone corroborates that the infinitival process is the
modally grounded head.
(27) a.... el pobre debe de haber estado sufriendo horrores.
(Habla Culta: Caracas: M5)
‘the poor guy must have been suffering tremendously.’
b. * el pobre debe (de)...
‘the poor guy must.’
c. ... debe (de) ser así.
‘it must be so.’
248 Modal grounding and subjectification
d. … ha estado sufriendo horrores, así es.
‘he has been suffering tremendously, so it is.’
By means of the examples in (28) I will now show that deontic deber can-
not be considered a reference-point to the infinitival process.209
The inde-
pendent modal in (28b) shows that the deontic relation in the deber con-
struction in (28a) retains prominence. This does not mean, however, that
the construction with ser así (28c) is not possible anymore. In (28d), it is
shown that without the deontic modal relation the infinitival process does
not refer to the whole proposition but to the deontic modal relation. This
once again corroborates that deontic deber cannot be considered a mere
reference-point to the infinitival process.
(28) a. ... tú deberías hablar un poquito más. (Habla Culta: San Juan:
M16)
‘you should speak a bit more.’
b. … sí, deberías....
‘yes, you should.’
c. … debería ser así.
‘It should be so.’
d. ... habla un poquito más, así es.
‘(s)he speaks a bit more, so it is.’
In sum, the reference-point function of the epistemic modals profiles the
infinitival process as a grounded head and makes the latter the focus of
attention. By contrast, the deontic modal relation is profiled and, since it
retains prominence, it does not lend itself to a shift of attention to the infini-
tival process. This leads me to argue that, despite their tense inflection, the
Spanish epistemic modals are similar to the modal grounding with the
highest degree of subjectification.
4.3. Subjectification and interplay of forces
Let us now look at the second dimension of modal grounding, viz. its ad-
vanced subjectification. Different degrees of subjectification point to the
varying extent to which the locus of potency becomes increasingly diffuse.
So far I have argued that the force relation impedes the deontic modals to
be real modal grounding predications, like the Spanish epistemic modals.
For the sake of clarity, I exemplify this difference by means of Pelyvás’
(1996) description of English may. The deontic permission reading of may
From deontic/dynamic to epistemic modality 249
usually involves a concrete and easily accessible force.210
The participants
involved in the deontic force (F) present in may belong to the objective
scene: the speaker is included in the scope of predication since s/he may be
one of the participants in the interplay of forces, as shown in Figure 7 by
means of the dotted line between the trajector (tr) and the landmark (lm).
Fig. 7. Deontic reading Fig. 8. Epistemic reading
(narrow scope) (wide scope)211
Figure 8 represents the epistemic modal reading of may. In this construc-
tion, there is no force relation driven by force F, as in Figure 4, but only
viewing from the vantage point of the Speaker (S) or Ground (G).
Pelyvás distinguishes between a ‘narrow scope’ (Figure 7) and a ‘wide
scope’ (Figure 8) reading of the modal auxiliary may. The reprinted image
schema of ‘narrow scope’ in Figure 8 illustrates that this kind of scope can
include various types of interplay between deontic forces. With ‘narrow
scope’, the speaker interferes more in the state of affairs than that (s)he
profiles a special kind of elaborated reality with regard to the state of af-
fairs. In the epistemic reading, by contrast, the force or potency is maxi-
mally diffuse, and thus broadens the scope of the predication. The speaker
and the modal ground are part of the wide scope which leads to a subjective
construal of the process.
The narrow scope and wide scope correlate with the absence and. pres-
ence of a reference-point function. The profile of the deontic relation leads
to a narrow scope view, while the non-profiling of an epistemic reference-
point enables wide scope on the state of affairs. Since the argumentation for
English may is compatible with what I have argued for the Spanish modals
so far, it can be taken to be valid for Spanish too.
250 Modal grounding and subjectification
4.4. Different epistemic and evidential readings
As for the subjectification from deontic to epistemic modality, Pelyvás
(1996: 167–168) proposes a ‘breakdown mechanism’ similar to attenuation
which reduces the profile of the agentive structure step by step. There is a
shift of the profile from the deontic relation with the doer (overall trajec-
tor), which has a prominent position in the interplay of forces, to the
speaker and, ultimately, to the process itself. Hence, the subjectification of
epistemic modals is based on the progressive attenuation of the interplay of
forces to a scene in which no other force is involved. Since no participant
other than the speaker actively interferes in the epistemic modals, the infini-
tival process becomes more salient than the potential interplay of forces:
the only element in profile is the (infinitival) process itself. Still, the deon-
tic or ability force patterns influence the different epistemic readings. In
what follows, I will discuss how the epistemic readings of poder, deber and
tener que can be understood as the result of subjectification of different
force types and counterforces. All three verbs can be accounted for in terms
of attentuation of the force structure.
First, epistemic poder yields a potential reality reading including differ-
ent possible realities, with the speaker not deciding on any of them. This is
in line with the ability reading of poder, the subject of which bears the
potential to perform some purposeful action and could–but does not neces-
sarily–experience a strong counterforce. Epistemic poder does not express
strong likelihood, since there is a potential resisting force against which the
event is construed.212
The weak commitment of the speaker to the likeli-
hood expressed in epistemic poder is also in line with the deontic reading
of poder, where the speaker’s force is weaker than that of the addressee or
the doer denoted by the grammatical subject (cf. Pelyvás 2000: 238–239).
Thus the addressee may or may not perform the action allowed by the emit-
ter of force.
Second, the epistemic/evidential reading of deber stands for a combina-
tion of potential and projected reality (cf. Langacker’s dynamic evolution-
ary model). The deontic reading of this verb corresponds to the strong in-
tention of the speaker, on the one hand, and the doer’s unspecified reluc-
tance to perform the purposeful action, on the other (cf. Pelyvás 2000: 244).
In line with this deontic reading, it is not surprising that the evidential read-
ings of deber are most often based on inductive inferences, which attribute
an important role to the speaker, but do not express the highest likelihood
that the proposition is true. In epistemic deber, the subjectified counterforce
involving unknown reality brings about a weaker speaker commitment than
in an affirmative, unmodalized utterance.
Conclusions 251
Third, the epistemic/evidential modal reading of tener que ‘have to’ is
somewhat different from that of deber, in that it expresses the highest like-
lihood that the proposition is true. With deontic modal tener que, the
speaker usually invokes external arguments to commit the doer to the reali-
zation of the purposeful action. These arguments can be the volition of
other unspecified participants or logical requirements associated with the
action proposed. The subjectification of this pattern leads to a strongly
deductive epistemic/evidential modal reading which correlates with the
observation that the logical inferences are clearly related to rules and prin-
ciples used in the world ‘out there’. As a matter of fact, in the modality
expressed by tener que, the speaker him/herself is less directly involved in
the assessment of reality, relying instead on the explanatory power of gen-
erally accepted criteria as implicit premises of the statement.
5. Conclusions
On the basis of a slight adaptation of Langacker’s views of subjectivity and
subjectification, I have shown that the epistemic/evidential readings of the
Spanish modals can be considered modal grounding predications, while the
deontic readings cannot.
In Section (1.), I have presented a diachronic analysis of tener que and
discussed the evolution of deber and poder. The conclusion of the first
subsections was that the Spanish epistemic modals develop from deontic
(or dynamic) modals. Next, I have discussed the status of grounding in the
analysis of linguistic expressions in general and of modals in particular.
There I have differentiated between temporal and modal grounding. In this
way, I have nuanced Langacker’s (1990) claim that inflection prevents non-
English modal from being considered grounding predications (Type II Sub-
jectification).
I have reviewed the different types of subjectification proposed by Lan-
gacker (1990) and applied them to the Spanish system in Section (2.). The
conclusion was that the temporal grounding of epistemic modals is more
restricted than that of deontic modals. This has led me to argue that Type I
and Type II subjectification are not only different in profile but also in con-
ceptual content. The modal grounding predications are restricted to the
epistemic modals. Although the epistemic readings of the Spanish modals
formally differ from grounding predications, their conceptual content is
very similar. The dynamic evolutionary model holds for all types of epis-
temic modals but cannot account for the deontic modals.
Section (3.) has illustrated that Spanish epistemic modals distinguish
252 Modal grounding and subjectification
themselves from the deontic ones by the inability to be profiled themselves.
Epistemic modals stand for the modal grounding that most completely
profiles the infinitival process or the grounded entity. The impossibility of
adding an aspectual auxiliary verb corroborates their dynamic reference-
point function.
In Section (4.), the concepts of reference-point and subjectification have
further underpinned the difference between epistemic modal grounding
predications and deontic modals. Unlike the deontic modal, the epistemic
modal is a reference-point which has only initial salience and profiles the
infinitival process, which becomes more salient. Epistemic modals are also
the result of subjectification in that they have undergone a shift from force
directed to the doer (subject) in deontic modal readings to the process itself.
In other words, the ‘narrow scope’ view of the prominent interplay of
forces in the deontic reading shifts to a ‘wide scope’ view that includes the
speaker and the epistemic modal grounding.
Finally, I have discussed the relation between epistemic and other types
of modality. In line with Pelyvás’ (1996, 2000, 2001, 2006) alternative to
Sweetser (1990), I have shown that the attenuation of the force structure
present in the dynamic and deontic readings leads to the different epistemic
modal readings associated with poder, deber and tener que. Thus, the type
of deontic force and counterforce appears to be related to the weak and the
strong evidence used for potential or projected reality expressed in the epis-
temic/evidential readings of the Spanish modals.
Chapter 9
General conclusions
In this volume I have elaborated a cognitive-functional account of the rela-
tion between form and meaning of seven verbs with modal and/or eviden-
tial meanings. The approach, which considers both synchronic and dia-
chronic data, is innovative in comparison with the syntax-oriented accounts
of finite verb + infinitive constructions in Spanish in a number of ways
which I will survey in this chapter.
Three main conclusions emerge from the analyses presented. First, the
evidential and modal (semi-)auxiliaries are characterized by a different
frequency distribution in written and spoken Spanish, which points to a
different relation between evidence and speaker. Second, the relation be-
tween evidentiality and epistemic modality is not a very straightforward
one. Third, diachronic and synchronic evidence confirms that the verb +
infinitive construction is a more appropriate form for a subjective statement
than the que-clause construction.
1. Evidential and epistemic qualifications
The central argument of the functional analysis is that parecer/resultar,
amenazar/prometer and poder/deber/tener que can be analyzed in terms of
evidentiality and that evidential qualifications are different from epistemic
modal ones. The analysis of parecer and resultar in terms of evidentiality
and (inter)subjectivity, which I elaborated in Chapter 2, is in two ways an
improvement of the previous studies in the field. On the one hand, it refines
the analysis of the broad group of non-factive predicates, to the extent that
it shows that so-called “non-factive” parecer + infinitive and “near-factive”
parece que constructions convey different evidential readings. As an alter-
native for the unjustified link between source-evidentiality and epistemic
speaker commitment, I show that the notion of (inter)subjectivity can un-
derpin the so-called “non-factive” and “near-factive” readings of parecer +
infinitive and parece que: I account for “non-factive” parecer + infinitive
in terms of a subjective statement based on subjective evidence, in contrast
to “near-factive” parece que, which relies on intersubjective, i.e. shared,
evidence to express a broader supported statement. The subjective state-
254 General conclusions
ment conveyed by parecer + infinitive is perceived as expressing lower
factivity than the intersubjective statement with parece que.
As far as modal amenazar and prometer are concerned, the analysis pre-
sented in Chapter 4 is new in the field of Spanish linguistics, in that it has
dealt in more detail with the modal qualification as distinct from the infer-
ential qualification. I have shown that the different types of prediction
originate from the different lexical semantics (namely the commitment of
the subject), on the one hand, and the illocutionary force, on the other. The
subject commitment and the presence of illocutionary force lead to a
stronger speaker commitment in the modal readings of prometer which,
hence, expresses a stronger prediction that the proposition will eventually
come true. The absence of real speaker commitment and illocutionary force
with amenazar, by contrast, results in a weaker speaker commitment in
terms of a weaker prediction. The fact that, unlike prometer, the event pre-
dicted by amenazar is left unrealized in quite a number of cases in my cor-
pus confirms this reading.
The analysis of poder, deber and tener que in terms of evidentiality pre-
sented in Chapter 7 differentiates between the evidential readings of each
verb which are, traditionally, called “epistemic”. It is generally observed
that poder expresses weak commitment (possibility) and that deber conveys
intermediate speaker commitment (strong possibility), while tener que
conveys maximal commitment and near-certainty (cf. Gómez Torrego
1999, Fernández de Castro 1999: 189). My analysis gives an explanation
for these different degrees of speaker commitment in terms of the modes of
knowing involved. I have argued for a prototypical epistemic/evidential
reading for each of the three verbs: poder usually does not rely on infer-
ence, while deber and tener que most often involve inductive inferences
and deductive inferences, respectively. With modal verbs, the absence of
inference appears to lead to weak speaker commitment to the proposition,
the creative reasoning of inductive inferences results in intermediate
speaker commitment, while the logical reasoning of deductive inferences
results in strong speaker commitment. Interestingly, when deber and tener
que involve deductive and inductive inferences, respectively, the speaker
commitment is either strengthened or weakened in comparison with the
most frequent readings of these verbs. Thus, the modal verbs are the only
verbs examined that clearly link the evidential qualification with the epis-
temic modal qualification.
In conclusion, I have argued that: (i) The concepts of epistemic modality
and speaker commitment cannot readily be applied to evidential parecer
and resultar, since these verbs do not convey a judgment of the likelihood
that the event is true but only suggest that there is (shared or non-shared)
Linguistic representation 255
evidence to make a statement. (ii) Modal amenazar and prometer do not
express the same speaker commitment to the proposition, i.e. they express a
different judgment on the likelihood: while amenazar conveys weak predic-
tion, prometer predicts strongly. It is not warranted to derive this difference
from different evidential qualifications. (iii) The weak, intermediate and
strong speaker commitment of epistemic poder and epistemic/evidential
deber and tener que can be accounted for in terms of the different eviden-
tial modes of knowing involved in these three verbs. The overall conclusion
is that only with the modal verbs, the type of inference determines the
strength of the epistemic judgment or speaker commitment to the proposi-
tion.
2. Linguistic representation
For all three verb types special attention has been paid to how the various
evidential and epistemic readings are linguistically represented and to the
cognitive process of change involved. Concepts such as transparency,
grounding and subjectification led to a cognitive-linguistic account of the
constructions both from a synchronic and a diachronic point of view.
The different degrees of grammaticalization are underpinned by a cor-
pus-based transparency analysis. The corpus data illustrate that, unlike
resultar, parecer can be considered transparent in that it occurs more or
less with the same verbs in the infinitive and in the que-clause.
The analysis of the infinitive and the grammatical subject of modal
amenazar and prometer has indicated that verbs are only partially transpar-
ent. The corpus data presented in Chapter 5 show that amenazar most often
introduces change-of-state and action verbs and hardly ever combines with
attributive verbs, while prometer does so in the majority of cases. I have
argued that this has to do with the tendency to yield an internal or an exter-
nal viewpoint on the state of affairs. Modal amenazar and prometer are not
only less transparent than parecer in view of their specific viewpoint, they
moreover do not combine with infinitives that activate the agentive patterns
of lexical prometer and amenazar (deontic verbs, communication verbs
etc.). The semantic classification of the subjects illustrates that amenazar
and prometer are partially transparent. Although human and non-human
subjects are possible with the two verbs, the latter are far more frequent
than the former.
With respect to poder, deber and tener que, Chapter 7 offered quantified
corpus results on the infinitives and the grammatical subjects that combine
with these verbs. These figures allowed for a differentiation between epis-
256 General conclusions
temic poder, on the one hand, and evidential/epistemic deber and tener que,
on the other. Epistemic poder combines with action verbs more frequently
than deber and tener que, which most often introduce attributive infinitives.
Moreover, I have shown that when poder combines with a subject denoting
a thing, a state of affairs or a process, it receives an epistemic reading in
half of the cases. Since evidential/epistemic deber and tener que do not
manifest this pattern, one can conclude that poder is far more transparent
than deber and tener que. Unlike poder, the latter verbs still face competi-
tion with the agentive patterns of the deontic reading.
In addition to the transparency, the role of the complementation type of
the seven verbs has been emphasized throughout the monograph. In line
with the cognitive-linguistic tradition, I have argued that the ungrounded
infinitives of the evidential and modal constructions lend themselves ide-
ally to a more dynamic conceptualization of the event expressed. I have
contended in Chapter 2 that the combination of the prominent anteposed
subject and the ungrounded nature of the infinitival process enable a sub-
jective conceptualization of parecer + infinitive. In such a construction, the
speaker can compare different views of the state of affairs. The necessarily
ungrounded complement of amenazar correlates with the conceptualization
of the event from the subject’s perspective (cf. Chapter 4). The characteris-
tics associated with the anteposed subject seem to play a role in this con-
ceptualization. By contrast, the grounded que-clause with parece que gains
in prominence and leads to a more objective conceptualization, which is
also most often found with resultar. The modal verbs function as a refer-
ence-point for the ungrounded infinitival process in that they shift promi-
nence to the process without remaining in profile themselves (cf. Chapter
8). With the modal verbs, the subject does not play a special role in the
conceptualization which is directly driven by the speaker’s epistemic judg-
ment.
Finally, the limited diachronic analyses of the verbs have shown a
steady increase of evidential constructions with infinitives, which testifies
to their (involvement in a) subjectification process. Chapter 2 shows that
the evidential use of parecer is progressively extended from constructions
with nominal attributes to all types of infinitives. The same diversification
of infinitive types is observed with modal amenazar and prometer (cf.
Chapter 6). Verhagen’s hypothesis that a modal ‘threat’ shows up earlier
than modal ‘promise’ in terms of the different infinitives that follow
amenazar and prometer. The result of the diachronic evolution can also be
approached synchronically. Langackerian (synchronic) subjectification in
terms of the attenuation of the trajector relation or the absence of onstage
conceptualizers can also account for the difference between evidential and
Further research 257
other readings. In the same way, I have explained evidential modal deber
and tener que in terms of attenuation of the deontic force structure, which
ends in complete absence of force in epistemic readings. Such a gradual
shift refines the traditional account of deber and tener que based on (the
metaphorization of) obligation.
Working from the assumption that linguistic forms tell us something
about their meaning, the combined results of the corpus analysis and the
different dimensions of the cognitive-functional analysis support the idea
that parecer vs. resultar, amenazar vs. prometer and poder vs. deber/tener
que are three pairs of (semi-)auxiliaries. The corpus research shows that the
first verb of each pair is more common in written discourse than in spoken
discourse. With regard to the process of grammaticalization, parecer,
amenazar and poder face fewer restrictions by non-evidential or non-
epistemic readings than resultar, prometer and deber/tener que and can be
considered more transparent. As for evidentiality and epistemic modality,
the first group of verbs conveys lower likelihood that the speaker-oriented
interpretation (parecer) is the correct one or that the prediction comes true
(amenazar and poder). The other verbs involve a more general interpreta-
tion (resultar) or express stronger commitment. All the tendencies dis-
cussed above can be summarized and schematized in the following way:
Written discourse
More advanced grammaticalization
More transparent verbs
Subjective type of evidence or epis-
temic modality
Weak statement
Spoken discourse
Less grammaticalization
Less transparent verbs
Intersubjective type of evidence or
evidential modality
Strong statement
3. Further research
Several types of research could be undertaken to supplement the results
obtained in the cognitive-functional analyses. It could be useful to extend
the analysis of the grammaticalized evidential and modal verbs examined in
this volume to other linguistic expressions that convey evidentiality and
epistemic modality such as sentence adverbs, adjectives, particles and men-
tal state predicates (cf. the function-to-form approach of Nuyts 2001b).
Evidential and modal adjectives may lend themselves better to intersubjec-
258 General conclusions
tive readings than constructions with the infinitive and mental-state predi-
cates, and can moreover combine different qualifications (cf. parece
posible ‘it seems possible). From the comparison of these different con-
structions, there may emerge an interesting view of how the speaker uses
language and which constructions (s)he prefers for specific qualifications or
combinations of qualifications.
My research has emphasized the difference between evidentiality and
epistemic modality with parecer/resultar and amenazar/prometer, and has
analyzed how the modal verbs integrate evidentiality and epistemic modal-
ity. This investigation can further benefit from experimental empirical re-
search along the lines proposed by Sanders and Spooren (1996) and Nuyts
and Vonk (1999).
Sanders and Spooren (1996) study epistemic modifiers (without exclud-
ing evidential verbs, however) and attempt to empirically underpin the
categorization of certainty expressed by these modifiers. These authors
want to measure the modal statement on a scale from ‘not certain at all’ to
‘very certain’, differentiate between knowledge-based and observational
evidence and link the evidence with different kinds of certainty and subjec-
tivity. In their pilot project, subjects were offered a list of epistemically
modified sentences. The sentences are statements of facts, i.e. they do not
refer to opinions, logical or natural laws or other generic expressions, nor
intentional acts. The subjects were asked to perform two tasks: (i) they had
to give their judgment on the certainty of the imaginary speaker about
his/her utterance, by indicating this judgment on a seven-point scale, as
shown in (1); (ii) they had to judge the appropriateness of the two eviden-
tial types in combination with the sentence by placing the labels (a) and (b)
on a seven-point scale.
(1) It seems that Piet has gone shopping.
not certain at all |---|---|---|---|---|---|---| very certain
It seems that Piet has gone shopping, because ...
a. his coat is gone.
b. he always does so on Tuesdays.
does not fit at all |---|---|---|---|---|---|---| fits very well
(Sanders and Spooren 1996: 249)
A second experiment proposed by Sanders and Spooren (1996: 251) tests to
what extent certain kinds of evidence determine which type of epistemic
Further research 259
modifier is appropriate. The authors set up a series of combinations of evi-
dence and epistemic modifiers and ask the subjects to judge whether they
are appropriate. The result of the investigation was a clear differentiation
between evidential, epistemic modal and mental state verbs.
Although the two evidential types (i.e. knowledge-based and observa-
tional evidence) proposed by Sanders and Spooren (1996) would have to be
refined with the evidential types discussed in this volume, the application
of such an analysis to a group of Spanish native speakers would certainly
be a valuable complement to the evidentiality and (inter)subjectivity ac-
count presented in this book. Speaker intuitions can shed new light on the
difference between evidentiality and modality, and the combination of the
two qualifications (cf. modal auxiliaries).
The analysis of evidentiality and epistemic modality could also be fur-
ther extended in terms of their information structure. Nuyts and Vonk
(1999) empirically analyze the (non-)focality of epistemic expressions by
means of a method in which subjects are invited to produce epistemic ex-
pressions spontaneously on the basis of short cartoon strips depicting brief
and simple stories. These cartoons leave sufficient room for alternative
interpretations and are “therefore likely to cause some degree of uncertainty
on the part of the speaker” (Nuyts 2001: 236). The authors differentiate
between the “focality on the qualification” and “focality on the state of
affairs” depicted in the cartoon strip. The condition of focus on the qualifi-
cation is achieved by presenting subjects with an explanation why the story
ends the way it does, and by asking their opinion about how good this ex-
planation is. In this way their focus of attention is drawn to the likelihood
that the explanation holds. The result of this analysis is that “speakers tend
to avoid using epistemic expressions under conditions of focality” (Nuyts
2001b: 259).
It would be interesting to do the same experiment with Spanish native
speakers and investigate both the evidential and epistemic qualifications. In
this way it might become possible to compare epistemic expressions with
clearly evidential expressions. Research on focality may further corroborate
the different nature of the two qualifications. For example, it might be the
case that, unlike epistemic equalifications, evidential ones more easily al-
low for focus.
The synchronic corpus research presented in this book has mainly fo-
cused on the frequency of the different constructions. The corpus research
could also be further elaborated in terms of register and geographical varia-
tion. On the one hand, one could examine different types of newspapers
(popular press, regional press, quality press), and on-line language in order
to describe possibly diverging tendencies in the use of evidential and modal
260 General conclusions
expressions (cf. Grondelaers, Speelman and Geeraerts 2002). On the other
hand, a comparison between the language use of different countries would
be required to find out whether the results obtained are generally valid for
most of the Spanish-speaking countries or whether there are important
regional differences (cf. the Leuven-based Research Unit “Quantitative
lexicology and variational linguistics”).
Since the diachronic corpus analysis conducted in this volume is limited,
it only can be viewed as a basis for more fine-grained diachronic descrip-
tions. In future research, the tendencies I have observed should be exam-
ined in greater depth and on the basis of a larger sample of examples, pref-
erably drawn from a systematically compiled corpus based on scientific
standards. The frequency of the constructions also needs to be taken into
account in order to empirically underpin the tendencies commented upon.
Furthermore, the functional analyses elaborated in this volume can help
analyzing specific discourses in which the speaker carefully describes
his/her own position without therefore giving the complete picture of real-
ity. This strategy is systematically applied in various types of discourse,
although political discourse may be an extraordinarily interesting market
for such communicative strategies, as shown below.
The invasion of Iraq (spring 2003) perfectly exemplifies how spin doc-
tors use linguistic tools, at times to the detriment of the factual situation.
Before, during and after the war, the discourse of the “coalition of the will-
ing”, i.e. the United States and its allies, has shown how crucial it is to
communicate to the public that one has evidence to make claims or state-
ments (and to start a war) without making explicit the commitment to this
information, as is the case with seem in (2).
(2) While stating (without any interest in proving it) that he has no
weapons of mass destruction, Saddam seems to be threatening to
use them against any invading military. (The electronic Warfare &
Information Association)
An utterance such as the one in (2) can be analyzed in terms of the subjec-
tivity of the seem construction and the ambiguity of the threat. The low
likelihood associated with this construction allowed the spin doctors to put
the alleged weapons of mass destruction on the agenda, without claiming
explicitly that Saddam Hussein would use them in any case. Since eviden-
tial and epistemic qualifications are frequently used to guide, and some-
times deliberately misguide, the listener or reader to conclusions that serve
the underlying message, the description of the different evidential and mo-
dal types can serve as a basis for analyzing political and other discourses in
Further research 261
Spanish and other languages. In other words, a descriptive and theoretical
linguistic study such as the one offered here also ultimately stimulates the
critical appreciation of day-to-day language as it is used to individually or
collectively communicate about the world with its more than six billion
inhabitants.
Notes
Chapter 1
1. Besides the term “reading”, I follow Nuyts (2001b) in using the term “qualifi-
cation” to refer to what evidential and epistemic modal modifiers express.
2. Besides the Spanish literature on modal auxiliaries, there are many other
specialized publications which examine equivalents in other languages. See
Sanders and Spooren (1996), Rooryck (2000) and Usoniene (2001) for the
equivalents of parecer. For modal verbs see Halliday (1970), Palmer (1979,
1986, 2001), Lyons (1977, 1982), Perkins (1982, 1983), Coates (1983),
Goossens (1982, 1985, 1987), Langacker (1985), Bybee et al. (1994), Bybee
and Fleischman (1995), Pelyvás (1996), Mortelmans (1996, 2001), Achard
(1998), van der Auwera and Plungian (1998), Nuyts (2001a,b), Verstraete
(2001, 2002), Narrog (2005a,b), to name but a few.
3. Combé (1981), Gutiérrez Ordóñez (1986), Olbertz (1998) and Gómez Torrego
(1999) discuss only the syntax of parecer.
4. Fernández de Castro (1999: 189) states that in the parecer + inf construction
the speaker does not make an assertion but has information to think that the
proposition is true. He gives the following interpretation: “From what I can
see, the presupposition that I can formulate is...” or “What I can see is similar
to...” [my translation].
5. Marín-Arrese et al. (2004) differentiate between “evidential, epistemic and
deontic modality” and list a series of evidential verbs in Spanish together with
the calculation of their relative frequency. However, they do not account for
the different constructions the evidential verbs allow for, nor do they detect an
evidential reading in amenazar, prometer or deber and tener que. Hassler
(2002) discusses reported speech in Romance and Hassler (2003) deals with
evidential adjectives in Spanish, while Squartini (2001) addresses the eviden-
tiality of the Romance tense system, but only briefly discusses the inferential
use of the Spanish conditional and future tense.
6. I have omitted three verbs mentioned in Fernández de Castro’s (1999: 328)
table. I will not discuss internal necessity expressed by haber de + inf ‘to have
to/to be necessary/to be supposed to’, whose regional and register variation
would require an extensive study in its own right. Neither will I deal with the
expressions of approximativeness venir a ‘to be approximatively X’ and ten-
der a ‘to tend to’ since they do not convey an evidential qualification.
7. Studies on the Dutch, English and French counterparts of parecer and resultar
also refer to the label “epistemic”. Sanders and Spooren (1996: 242–247) con-
sider the Dutch verbs schijnen ‘to seem, to look’, lijken ‘to seem’ and blijken
‘to turn out’ “nonsubjective epistemic modifiers” that express “uncertainty”,
“semicertainty” and “certainty” respectively. Usoniene (2001: 186–188), for
her part, discusses the seem + to be construction in terms of epistemic modal-
Notes 263
ity, which is the result of an extension of the meaning of seem from perception
to modal evaluation.
8. González Vázquez (1999, 2000) gives probably the best Spanish written over-
view of the different types of modality, in general, and the discussion on epis-
temic modality and evidentiality, in particular. Yet, since the author discusses
mainly English written studies which I refer to throughout the volume, I will
not go into further details.
9. The Gramática Descriptiva de la Lengua española (1999) only mentions them
on the side. Other reference grammars such as Butt and Benjamin (1996) and
Matte Bon (2002) do not even mention them.
10. Hernanz (1999: 2234) also mentions semejar ‘resemble’. In this book I will
not deal with the less frequent infinitival and clausal constructions of this
verb.
11. Note that Vázquez-Laslop (2000, 2001) treats lexical prometer as a “deontic”
verb.
12. The study of the sources of knowledge was first carried out by American struc-
turalists who studied polysynthetic Native American languages that are rich in
affixes, amongst them evidential ones (see the overviews in Chafe and Nich-
ols 1986; Infantidou 2001).
13. Nuyts (2001b) adopts a function-to-form approach to epistemic modality,
taking into account in addition to modal verbs, mental state verbs, e.g. I think,
modal adjectives and adverbs, e.g. possible, probable, probably. The imple-
mentation of this approach to Spanish is a valuable topic for further research.
14. The existing corpus analyses do not describe the evidential and modal verbs
either quantitatively and qualitatively. Although Olbertz (1998) describes the
frequency distribution of the verbal periphrases, she only does so on the basis
of a small corpus of peninsular Spanish. Fernández de Castro (1999) offers a
qualitative description of the corpus data, while Marín-Arrese et al. (2004)
limit the analysis to a quantitative description only.
15. The corpus can be consulted at http://www.corpusdelespanol.org.
16. One of the advantages of this corpus is its very fast and powerful search engine
which allows a wider range of searches than almost any other large corpus in
existence. Moreover, the frequency and the use of all morphological forms
(conjugations, plurals, etc) are available for more than 20.000 words. The
main problems in using this corpus for research purposes are the limited ac-
cess to the context of the forms requested, the lack of direct geographical in-
formation and the time-consuming manual extraction of the data.
17. I used the complete 20th
century corpus only for amenazar and prometer,
because these verbs are less frequent than the other verbs examined in this
volume. For parecer and resultar I have used the non-fiction prose section of
the Corpus del español is (6.800.000 words) and a subpart of the oral section,
namely the Corpus del habla culta (705.500 words), which contains Latin
American and peninsular Spanish spoken by university students of several
capitals. The examples of the modal verbs come from the same Corpus del
habla culta and from a selection of opinion texts published in the Spanish
264 Notes
newspaper El País (378 028 words). The restriction to the subcorpora for the
other verbs was mainly motivated by practical reasons. Since the Corpus del
español only gives access to linguistic forms that show up less than 2000
times and due to the fact that many constructions with parecer, poder and
deber occur much more frequently, I have extracted data from an off-line
subcorpus by means of Abundantia Verborum, which was developed by Dirk
Speelman (1997), at the Leuven Department of Linguistics.
18. All participants are in their late twenties or thirties and have a university
degree. The Spanish ones come from Castilia or Aragón. The Mexican
informants live in central Mexico, namely Mexico DF and Querétaro.
19. Traditionally, philosophers of language have been involved in determining
how the linguistic code conveying this information corresponds to logical
representations in the mind. The modular view of language can be seen as
coming from this tradition.
20. Note that I use the term “functional” in the Anglo-Saxon tradition, i.e. to refer
to the communicative and cognitive function of language. In the field of
Spanish linguistics, “functional” most often refers to the structuralist
gramática funcional developed by Emilio Alarcos in the 1950s, which is
widespread in Spain.
21. Grice’s William James Lectures (1967) paved the way for an inferential model
of communication, where communication is viewed as intentional behavior,
and understanding an utterance as recognizing the intentions behind it. Since
Austin (1962) and Searle (1969) launched Speech Acts, Grice (1975)
published his Conversational Maxims, and Sperber and Wilson (1986)
presented their Relevance Theory, the pragmatic dimension of language has
become increasingly important.
22. Ifantidou (2001) includes a very broad group of “evidentials” by discussing
frankly, confidentially, seriously, unfortunately, sadly, happily, evidently,
obviously, clearly, allegedly, reportedly, to believe, to admit, to suppose, to
hear, to think, the Greek particle taha (equivalent of seem), to name just a
few.
23. Ifantidou (2001) argues that evidential markers are higher level explicatures by
which the speaker aims at optimal relevance. Sperber and Wilson (1986: 183):
“On the analogy of “implicature”, we will call an explicitly communicated
assumption an explicature. Any assumption communicated, but not explicitly
so, is implicitly communicated: it is an implicature”.
24. Dendale (1994: 37) also claims that the hearer subjectively evaluates whether
the information is reliable or not. More concretely, he states that the modal
value of devoir, unlike the evidential qualification, is never stable, and hence
suggests that the epistemic speaker commitment cannot generally be mixed
with the source of information.
25. Some linguists make the link with truth-conditionality. Willett (1988: 55), for
example, defines evidentiality as the domain which deals with “how the
speaker obtained the information on which s/he bases an assertion”. Anderson
(1986: 274), for his part, considers evidentiality a linguistic category that
Notes 265
“shows the kind of justification for a factual claim which is available to the
person making the claim”. Finally, Rooryck (2001: 125) relates evidentials to
the evaluation of “the truth value of a sentence both with respect to the source
of the information contained in the sentence, and with respect to the degree to
which this truth can be verified or justified”. In other words, this definition
establishes a direct link between factivity and evidentiality.
26. Besides the distinction between epistemic modality and evidentiality, there are
more dimensions proposed in the literature. DeLancey (1997, 2001) argues for
“mirativity”, as different from evidentiality, in that it refers to the unexpected
status of information. When dealing with evidentiality, the French tradition
refers to both evidentialité (Vet 1988; Dendale and Tasmowski 1994) and
information médiatisée ‘mediated information’ (see Lazard 1956: 149;
Guentchéva 1994: 8, 1996).
27. Palmer’s position is heavily criticized in the literature amongst others by De
Haan (1999) and Faller (2002).
28. Here I refer to the evidential values that are not based on direct perception.
29. The result of the speaker’s assessment is expressed in terms of speaker
commitment to the proposition.
30. Delbecque (2000: 156) uses the notion of conceptual distance to determine the
conceptual constraints for the paradigmatic procedure of cliticization in
Spanish.
31. Interestingly, Nuyts (2001b: 11) points out that despite Langacker’s (1987)
emphasis on the role of imagery in conceptualization, suggesting an imagistic
view of conceptualization, Langacker (1987) also maintains that predicates – a
clearly propositionalist notion – are the basic building blocks of so-called
conceptual structure. Moreover, Nuyts (2001b: 11) shows that Langacker
himself occasionally states that his pictorial diagrams are no more than
“informal” renderings of meaning, and that his view “does not imply any
necessary commitment to sensory imagery as an exclusive or essential facet of
the meaning of linguistic expressions” (Langacker 1987: 111). Nuyts (2001b:
11) concludes that this is “somewhat surprising since in practice Langacker’s
semantics is crucially determined by his schematic representations, and thus
by a pictorialist or imagistic perspective”.
32. In other words, the cognitive architecture is far more complex than sometimes
assumed in Cognitive Grammar (a point which is also directly or indirectly
advocated by Nuyts and Pederson 1997; Nuyts 2001b; Wilson and Sperber
2002; Seuren 2002, 2004).
33. At this stage it is not clear, however, to what extent the conceptual level
influences linguistic representation. Levinson (1997) argues that the
conceptual representation and the linguistic representation must be separate
and that cultural differences lead to different conceptual representations in
languages.
266 Notes
Chapter 2
34. The Chi-square significance test has been applied to this table. The Chi-
Square probability is lower than 0.0001. Thus, it can be concluded that the re-
lationships found in the data are statistically significant, and hence, not just
due to coincidence. I am very grateful to Freek Van de Velde for his kind as-
sistance with the statistical calculations.
35. Note that within the group of parecer constructions with a que-clause, there
are 48 parece ser que ‘it seems to be that’ in the written corpus and 2 in the
oral one. (respectively 2.07% and 0.24% of all parecer constructions).
Besides ser ‘to be’ and estar ‘to be’, suceder ‘to happen’ can also be inserted
in parece que ‘it seems that’, as in the following example:
... esos jóvenes habían iniciado los primeros contactos con la ciencia desde la
curiosidad y hasta el entusiasmo. Sin embargo, de alguna manera parecía
suceder que la propia enseñanza de las ciencias alejaba a una parte impor-
tante. (Encicl: Enseñanza de las ciencias)
‘... these youngsters had initiated the first contacts with science with curiosity
and even with enthousiasm. Yet, in one way or another it seemed to happen
that the teaching of the sciences itself drove a considerable portion away’
36. The “other” group mainly corresponds to the comparison readings of parecer
(parecerse, parece como si).
37. The me parece que construction constitutes 80 % of these constructions.
38. The Chi-square significance test is applied to this table. Since the Chi-Square
probability is lower than 0.0001, it can be concluded that the relationships
found in these data are statistically significant.
39. The “other” group includes mainly resultar de ‘to result from’ constructions.
40. Since the term “evidentials” refers to morphosyntactic evidential markers, I
use the term “evidential types” or “evidential values” instead.
41. The overviews of Anderson (1986) and Plungian (2001) exceed the scope of
the present volume. The indirect evidential values they comment on run
parallel to those proposed above and the direct evidential values they
extensively deal with, cannot be applied to parecer and resultar. See Squartini
(2001) for a discussion of Anderson (1986) and Willett (1986).
42. Just like Faller (2002), I verticalize Willet’s (1988) taxonomy.
43. This is a strong reduction which reaffirms clear borders between grammar and
lexicon. Grammaticalization and other studies have shown that the border is
not neat.
44. See also a special issue of the Italian Journal of Linguistics (in press) on
lexical evidentiality, edited by Mario Squartini.
45. The diversity of Willett’s evidential types is based on evidentials from
morphosyntactically very different languages.
46. Given the fact that Nuyts (2001b) clearly differentiates between evidentiality
and epistemic modality, it should be noted that this author considers the
speaker commitment that corresponds to evidential qualification and the
judgment of the likelihood of the event as two different things.
Notes 267
47. Verhagen (2005) distinguishes between personal and impersonal (inter)sub-
jectivity and attributes a specific role to the conceptualizer. His model
combines Cognitive Grammar subjectivist claims about conceptualization
with attention to the speaker-hearer interaction.
48. Albeit without reference to (inter)subjectivity, Faller (2002: 8), in her disserta-
tion on Quechua evidentials, also attempts to further subdivide between evi-
dence used by the speaker and shared information in terms of two independent
scales. On the one hand, the author wants to differentiate between direct and
inferential knowledge on the basis of a scale (i), “that is ordered according to
the amount of inference involved in arriving at a statement”. On the other
hand, Faller proposes a second scale that is ordered according to the number
of intervening speakers (ii).
(i). visual > auditory > other sensory > inference from results > reasoning
(ii). (direct) > secondhand > thirdhand > hearsay /folklore
Since Spanish is not rich in morphosyntactic evidentials, the ordering in scale
(ii) will not be followed. Instead the concept of (inter)subjectivity will be
used.
49. My findings coincide with those of Bermúdez (2002: 26), who calls it
deduction instead of inference: puede deducirse de la evidencia directa ‘can
be deduced from direct evidence’.
50. For the sake of the example, I only mention me ‘me’ and le ‘him/her’ although
the whole dative paradigm (singular and plural) could be used.
51. The dative with parecer could also be called experiencer. However, since the
latter term is most often used in the context of psychological reaction, e.g. le
molesta ‘it bothers him/her’, I prefer the term “conceptualizer” (cf. Langacker
1987). The conceptualizer refers to the entity that views the scene, which can
be the speaker, the hearer or another entity present in the construction.
52. Anderson (1986: 284) labels it seems to me “experiential inference”. That is, it
is a kind of direct inference based on the conceptualizer’s own experience.
53. Combé (1981: 190) describes constructions like parece ser ‘it seems to be’ as
bearing “an emphatic, matter-of-fact or explanatory force”. These qualifica-
tions can be related to the different possible sources of information. The ex-
planatory force is inferential in nature; the matter-of-fact reading has to do
with the possible hearsay evidence.
54. The left-dislocation is obviously not restricted to the subject but can also in-
volve an object.
55. This is in line with Chafe’s argument that inference, although produced on the
basis of a concrete stimulus, takes place “without any indication of what the
nature of the evidence was” (Chafe 1986: 266). The source of information
used for an inference should necessarily remain “unspecified”.
56. Unlike left-dislocation or the infinitival construction, the parenthetical use of
parecer cannot be considered a construction type with a specific syntax. In a
268 Notes
way, the parenthetical is a clause in a clause with a “relative syntactic auton-
omy with respect to the propositional content” (Bosque 1990: 32–33) [my
translation].
57. In his study of (Wanka) Quechua repor(ta)tives, Floyd (1996: 931–932) words
the relation between hearsay and ‘validation’ (commitment) this way: “The
validational notions associated with the reportative are ambiguous and might
be better thought of as a byproduct of the degree of confidence in the individ-
ual who served as the information source: if the speaker believes the origin’s
account is trustworthy, he will also believe the story. In other words, they are
implicatures from the speaker’s construal of the origin’s relationship to the
designated conceptualization. This goes counter to the view in which reporta-
tive evidentials are viewed primarily as devices to relinquish personal repon-
sibility for the contents of an utterance”.
58. The confidence in one’s own experience is in line with Anderson’s (1986)
notion of “experiential inference” for the reading of it seems to me, i.e. the
English counterpart of me parece que.
59. See Ifantidou (2001: 119–160) for an overview.
60. Unlike what Porroche (1990) says, there seems to be both a “near-factive” and
a “non-factive” reading of parece que. For the sake of clarity, I will mainly
deal with its “near-factive” reading.
61. Rooryck (2001: 128) describes the parenthetical in terms of a “circumstantial
inference”, which implies that the speaker’s statement can vary.
62. Note that Subirats-Rüggeberg (1987: 122–123) only mentions ser ‘to be’,
estar ‘to be’ and tener ‘to have’. Nicole Delbecque has drawn my attention to
the combination with the existential haber ‘to be’.
63. When a special pragmatic marker such as ahora ‘now’ is added, the resultar
construction can yield an exclusive “hearsay” reading, by which the speaker
tries to distance him/herself from the statement. I want to thank Álvaro Oc-
tavo de Toledo y Huerta for drawing my attention to the following example:
Y ahora resulta que Bush es bueno, pero yo no me lo creo
‘And now it turns out that Bush is good, but I don’t believe it’
64. Note that, unlike the infinitive and que-clause constructions with resultar, a
construction with resultar + adjectival attribute allows for an overt conceptu-
alizer, as in (i). Thanks are due to Béatrice Lamiroy for reminding me of this
type of construction.
(i) Me resulta difícil describir este sentimiento.
‘It turns out to be difficult to describe this feeling.’
65. Since language is not static but always in evolution, extensions of readings of
one of the described readings may take place. The combination of sentence-
initial resulta que and evidential modal deber ‘must’ in (i) indicates that resul-
tar may be shifting to allow a more subjective statement. The inferential read-
ings of deber are in line with the one rendered by resultar. Moreover, the mo-
dals appear to influence the reading of resultar by overruling the intersubjec-
tivity.
Notes 269
(i) Resulta que debe ser hoy el día de las recriminaciones gratuitas y no am-
bivalentes. (http://www.zonalibre.org/blog/adrian/archives/003547.html)
‘It turns out to be that today must be the day of the free and unambivalent
reproaches’
Another explanation of these constructions is that resultar is used by the
speaker to make the evidential deber statement stronger. In this case, resultar
backs up with intersubjective evidence the modal inferential statement ex-
pressed by deber. This points to a shift in the use of the resulta que construc-
tion from evidential marker to discourse particle. The speaker highlights that
(s)he has generally valid evidence to support his/her statement.
Chapter 3
66. Langacker’s paper called “Raising and Transparency” was first published in
1995 in Language 71.1. 7–62. The (2000) chapter is “adapted with substantial
revisions”.
67. Other criteria for transparent verbs that Gaatone (1993) proposes, are: (1) they
are not transitive, (2) they do not have valency, (3) they do not impede the
second verb to be impersonal, (4) they do not affect the passive relation, (5)
the syntactic relations are reduced to the agreement between the subject and
the verb which precedes the infinitive. Lamiroy (1996) shows that, when one
applies all these criteria, there are very few plainly transparent verbs.
68. The same criticism applies to Langacker’s (1995, 2000) list.
69. The Chi-square significance test is applied to this table. The Chi-Square prob-
ability is 0.0033, and is, hence, higher than 0.0001. The relationships found in
the data cannot be considered statistically significant and may be due to a de-
batable sample. In other words, if we take another sample there is no guaran-
tee that we would find a similar distribution.
70. Since the data of parecer + infinitive in the oral corpus are not statistically
significant, no comparison with the written corpus was possible.
71. The Chi-square significance test has been applied to this table. Since the Chi-
Square probability is 0.0034, the relationships found in the data cannot be
considered statistically significant.
72. These data corroborate Hernanz’ (1999) observation that parecer + infinitive
does not readily combine with inchoative verbs.
73. In the spoken corpus the attributive verbs (58%) are more frequent than in the
written corpus. However, in view of the small number of infinitives that fol-
lows parecer in the spoken corpus, the distribution of the infinitives and the
verbs in the que-clause cannot be analyzed as well as in the written language.
74. The Chi-square significance test has been applied to this table. Since the Chi-
Square probability is 0.0780, the relationships found in the data cannot be
considered statistically significant.
75. The Chi-square significance test has been applied to this table. Since the Chi-
Square probability is 0.6240, the relationships found in the data cannot be
considered statistically significant.
270 Notes
76. The fact that only attributive infinitives combine with resultar entails that all
other verb types obligatorily appear in resultar’s que-clause. This can explain
why action verbs show up in resultar’s que-clause more frequently than in
parecer’s que-clause.
77. In Cognitive Grammar, focal participants are important elements of a gram-
matical relation. “Certain participants are singled out for special prominence
irrespective of their semantic roles. Choosing a participant to be subject or ob-
ject is very much akin to focusing a spotlight on it, by making these selec-
tions, the speaker directs attention to the focused participants (as well as to the
interconnections which involve them directly), and thereby imposes a particu-
lar image on the scene (Langacker 1991: 301). As pointed out by Maldonado
(2002: 6), focal participants show important “salience asymmetries which are
claimed to correspond to figure/ground organization. The most salient element
in a relation is called the trajector (tr) and is characterized as the primary fig-
ure. The second focal element the landmark (lm) is characterized as the sec-
ondary figure within the profiled relationship. [...] Given this hierarchical ar-
rangement, the grammatical subject is equated with the trajector and the object
with the landmark”.
78. See Rooryck (2000) for a comparative description of paraître and seem.
Rooryck (2000: 21) states that “seem and appear can be analyzed
straightforwardly as involving a configurationally expressed comparison of
events or situations both in raising and nonraising contexts”. I argue that the
semantics of comparison play a more crucial role in “raising” constructions
than in “nonraising” ones.
79. In this chapter I do not deal with parece ser que and the parenthetical construc-
tions.
80. Langacker (1995, 2000) does not address left-dislocation when he discusses
focal prominence. I extend the argument presented so far to left-dislocation.
81. Note that in this analysis the 13th
century is considered as the first stage of the
Spanish language, although one could argue that the very first stage is much
earlier. The analysis below is merely indicative and should be considered as a
basis for a more refined, future investigation into the evolution of the
evidential verbs.
82. Bolinger (1991: 37) only mentions that Keniston (1937: 505) only gives one
example of this parecer + infinitive construction, namely one with the copular
infinitive estar.
83. I have found only one example of 16th
-century resultar + infinitive. The re-
sulta ser construction is preceded by the pronoun se. Since no other examples
have been found, it is impossible to draw conclusions from it.
Mirárades ora que muy pocas eran las fuerças que contra una pobre don-
zella como lo yo soy avíades menester, donde se resulta ser poco el ven-
cimiento mayormente para cavallero como lo vós presumís. (Anonymous.
Platir. 1533)
Notes 271
‘Look now, very few were the forces that you needed against a poor lady
as I am, where small turns out to be the victory, all the more so for the
landlord you pretend to be.’
84. For a discussion of the difference between pragmatic strengthening and subjec-
tive construal, see Brisard (2006).
85. However, the “onstage” or “offstage” conceptualizer is not the only question
related to subjectification. In Chapter 6, I show that, despite the clear subjec-
tive import, prometer and amenazar are still bound to some of the characteris-
tics present in the lexical reading. The subject’s role of these verbs will cor-
roborate Langacker’s (2000: 358) proposal that full transparency and full non-
participation are “the endpoint in a continuous spectrum of possibilities”:
“If raising and control constructions are analyzed as forming a continuum, this
has the advantage of not forcing an arbitrary dichotomization (involving sub-
stantially different grammatical structures) on examples that vary continu-
ously or are distinguished only by subtle semantic nuances”. (Langacker
2000: 358)
86. I would like to thank Nicole Delbecque for these comments.
87. Importantly, there is another parecer construction that allows for the insertion
of me with verbs other than ser ‘to be’:
a. Me parece oír su voz.
‘I have the impression to hear his/her voice’
b. Me parece que he oído su voz.
‘I have the impression that I have heard his/her voice’
In the utterances (a) and (b), the “onstage” conceptualizer is not optional, but
a constitutive part of this subjective construction, since there is co-reference
between the conceptualizer and the infinitive. The pronoun me in the main
clause refers to the speaker as the logical (implicit) subject of the infinitive.
Chapter 4
88. Although Rooryck (2001a,b) has published two papers on evidentiality, he
does not discuss promettre and menacer in terms of evidentiality.
89. These verbs also have an equivalent in the past, namely venir de ‘just finish
V-ing’ for promettre and avoir failli ‘just not have + participle’ for menacer.
90. Rooryck (2000) seems to use the term “necessary” literally. However, Palmer
(1979) has pointed out that “epistemic necessity is not to be paraphrased as ‘in
the light of what is known it is necessarily the case that...’, but by something
like ‘From what I know the only conclusion I can draw is ...” (see also Palmer
2001: 89). More recently van der Auwera and Plungian (1998) have argued
that possibility and necessity are the endpoints on the modal scale. Future
studies should also account for “intermediary values in some of the modality
types (e.g. degrees of epistemic probability)” (cf. van der Auwera and Nuyts
in print: 18).
272 Notes
91. Rooryck seems to suggest that the modal reading principally arises by virtue
of the future perspective. However, since most of the evidential constructions
with must have a past complement, this cannot be the only valid explanation
(Nuyts 2001b: 200).
92. As shown before, Verhagen (1996, 2000) argues that the “descriptive” reading
and the “epistemic” reading are construed in exactly the same line. He pro-
poses the notion of “argumentational orientation” for both the lexical and the
subjective reading of beloven/promise and dreigen/threaten (Verhagen 1996:
801). In contrast with Vliegen, however, this author does not link this up with
different degrees of likelihood.
93. Against the background of the discussion on attenuation presented in the pre-
vious section, the term of “loss” is perhaps not the most appropriate one, since
it has been shown that, depending on the framework used, the so-called “lost”
elements are pragmatically strengthened or realigned in terms of another pro-
filed relationship.
94. Still, Langacker’s analysis is very much in line with certain generative propos-
als concerning the link between raising and non-lexical readings (see, for ex-
ample, Rooryck’s (2000: 44–47) account of raising with menacer and promet-
tre).
95. Some authors question the unidirectionality of grammaticalization and argue
for “degrammaticalization” (cf. Ramat 1992, Janda 2001, van der Auwera
2002 among others).
96. Vliegen (2006) mentions that he has found 805 occurrences of dreigen, but
only 98 of beloven, in the corpora from the ‘Instituut voor Nederlandse Lexi-
cologie’ in Leiden (about 38 million word forms).
97. The Woordenboek der Nederlandse Taal is the ‘Dictionary of the Dutch Lan-
guage’, started in the second half of the nineteenth century (De Vries: 1864–
1998).
98. For other differences, see also Brisard (2006) and Lozowski (1999, 2002).
99. In line with the Gricean conversational maxims, it is expected that the promi-
sor ideally tends to hold his/her promise. When one knows (s)he is not in a
position to comply with the promise, it is socially preferred that no promise is
uttered. Hence, when a promise is not held, the would-be promisor displays
socially unacceptable behavior, while the promisee feels cheated. Starting
from the assumption that communication is originally and intentionally posi-
tive for society, a promise is, thus, by default expected to be accomplished by
a committed subject. Yet it should be clear that the explanation presented here
describes general tendencies of the verbs and in no way pretends to offer a
general guarantee. For example, the commitment of prometer’s subject does
not necessarily mean that there is a 100 % guarantee that this realization ulti-
mately takes place. The insincere promisor may have lied deliberately or may
have changed his/her ideas about the promised action. In Searle’s (1969: 59)
words, “the only way my audience can interpret my [promise] utterance is to
assume that I believe that it is not obvious that I am going to do the thing
Notes 273
promised. A happily married man who promises his wife he will not desert her
in the next week is likely to provide more anxiety than comfort”.
100. From a social-semiotic point of view, one can argue that it is expected that the
threat will not last a long time. It is not linguistically encoded how long the
threat expressed by amenazar remains present, nor whether it fades away or is
realized, but one can imagine that the temporal range of a threat is kept as
short as possible. Moreover, the addresser him/herself is often reluctant to
undertake action and an unmaterialized threat is usually in the interest of the
addressee.
101. Lo ‘it’ takes up the propositional content of the direct clause.
102. On the internet (a Blog page), I found one example of an emphatic assertion
which was directly sent to the interlocutor:
Hey, esa descripción no me hace justicia... yo no te pago, te amenazo!!!
‘Hey, this description does no justice to me.. I don’t pay you, I threaten !!’
(http://indiferencia.net/archivos/categorias/weblogs/_se_muerde_la_cola.p
hp)
103. It may also be of interest to mention that these figures are higher than those
available for Dutch and German. For Dutch dreigen, the context of 18.1 % of
the examples points to non-realization, whereas with German drohen it does
so in less than 14 % of the cases (cf. Vliegen 2006).
104. It is not possible to compare this with the Dutch and German corpus data,
since Vliegen (2006) does not refer to the tense criterion.
105. Due to the number of cells with less than 5 occurrences, these data are not
statistically significant.
106. The gerund examples in the past correspond to the use of a gerund construc-
tion in a past context, i.e. with preceding verbs in the past tense.
107. This is additional evidence for the argument that lower “factivity” (or here
weaker epistemic value) correlates with the availability of features associated
with the subject (cf. Chapter 3, Section 2.2.).
108. As far as Dutch beloven and German versprechen are concerned, 5.8 % and
2.9 % of the examples are accompanied by non-realization (cf. Vliegen 2006).
109. Palmer (2001: 89) mentions that “the word necessary is not used in an epis-
temic sense in ordinary language (as opposed to logical terminology). It would
not be normal to say *It is necessary that John is in the office, although it is
possible to say, in semi-logical language, It is necessarily the case that John is
is in the office”. Previously, Palmer (1979) described “epistemic necessity” in
terms of ‘From what I know the only conclusion I can draw is ...”. However,
neither of both explanations applies to modal prometer, since this verb is not
restricted to one exclusive conclusion.
110. Recall that Rooryck (2000: 43–44) judged the label “possible” too weak for
“epistemic” promettre.
111. This is in line with Vázquez-Laslop’s (2001: 246–247) comment that epis-
temic prometer carries a “modal operator, the scope of which is the whole
proposition”, that corresponds to “it is quite likely/it is expected”.
274 Notes
112. The term of mirativity refers to the grammatical marking of unexpected in-
formation (cf. DeLancey 1997).
113. This also points to a paradoxical side of prometer: although prometer can
combine with both negatively and positively oriented complements, this dou-
ble possibility does not increase the number of modal constructions with this
verb. As shown before, modal amenazar is far more frequent.
Chapter 5
114. In the lexical prometer and amenazar constructions the locus of the promise
or the threat is the referent of the subject mentioned in the sentence itself, in
the modal constructions it is the implicit conceptualizer who evaluates the
likelihood. The subjects of the modal constructions do not play an agentive
role in the construction.
115. Note that impersonal verbs are naturally excluded in the lexical reading of
both verbs, while they readily show up in the modal readings.
116. Other semantic categories found in the infinitives that combine with parecer
do not combine with modal amenazar and prometer. Communication verbs,
modal verbs, and verbs expressing a mental state or a psychological reaction
were not found in the corpus.
117. Note that when the present and past forms are counted together, the data in
this table are statistically significant (Chi Square Probability: <.0001).
118. Table 2 also corroborates the general tendencies revealed by Vliegen’s (2006)
analysis of the German and Dutch equivalents of amenazar and prometer.
Vliegen (2006) shows that beloven/versprechen has a preference for copular
verbs (94.2% and 93.2%, respectively), whereas dreigen/drohen most often
combine with other verbs (80.8% and 67%, respectively). However, our data
show that Spanish prometer is far more flexible in combining with other verbs
than attributive ones (which take 50%), while amenazar does not combine as
much with attributive verbs (only 1.62%) as Dutch dreigen and German dro-
hen do.
119. This table has a Chi-Square probability of <0.0001, but 25% of the cells have
less than 5 occurrences. Although this table gives strong indications of the use
of modal amenazar and prometer, it may be not statistically significant.
120. Ruwet (1991: 80–81) bases the different points of view on syntactic proper-
ties. According to the author, an internal point of view reading, “where the
content of the complement clause is seen from the point of view of the main
subject”, is related to the absence of subject-to-subject raising. Vázquez-
Laslop (2001: 259), for her part, distinguishes between an external point of
view and an internal one on the basis of different types of modality: the for-
mer viewpoint corresponds to epistemic modality, whereas the latter view-
point stands for “some sort of target-oriented modality” (in verbs like permitir
‘to allow’ and obligar ‘to oblige’). In this volume, I show that the different
viewpoints of amenazar and prometer include epistemic modality and differ
as to the status of the course of evolution (in the case of amenazar) and the
Notes 275
speaker’s own judgment (in the case of prometer).
121. Although this table gives strong indications about the use of modal amenazar,
it is not statistically significant.
122. Other action verbs and verb phrases with modal amenazar are: arrancar el
techo de la casilla ‘to tear loose the thatched roof of the box’, revelar miste-
rios o intrigas ‘to reveal enigma’s and intrigues’, comerse los hospitales ‘to
eat up the hospitals’, anular todo valor ‘to cancel all value’, destruir nuestra
industria ‘to destroy our industry’, impedir su viaje ‘to impede his journey’,
incendiar al país ‘to inflame the country’, deglutirla ‘to swallow it’, disparar
‘to shoot’, tragarse el patio ‘to eat up the patio’, llevarse la dentadura postiza
‘to take away the false teeth’, devorar al mundo ‘to devor the world’, que-
marle la ropa ‘to burn the clothes to someone’, vomitarle encima ‘to vomit on
him’, tragarse mi jardín de las delicias ‘to eat up my garden of delicacies’,
obstruir el comercio ‘to hinder the commerce’, llevar a Clinton a pique ‘to
lead Clinton to the ground’, confluir con el silencio ‘to converge with the si-
lence’, disparar su carga ‘to drop his load’, llevarse la mujerada por delante
‘to take with him the women’, detener su guagua ‘to stop his car’, asentarse
en mi mente ‘to fix in my mind’, apoderarse de todo el terreno nacional ‘to
take possesion of the whole national territory, derribar la Tercera República
‘to bring down the Third Republic’, derribar el cobertizo de palma ‘to bring
down the palm shelter’, destruir las frágiles carrozas ‘to destroy the fragile
covered wagons’, descargar su ira cielo abajo ‘to relieve his rage down’,
tomarse a Santa Fe ‘to occupy Santa Fe’, tirar la puerta ‘to kick down the
door’, destruir barcos y vidas humanas ‘to destroy boats and human lives’,
socavar la autoridad eclesiástica ‘to undermine the ecclesiastic hierarchy’,
sobrepasarlas ‘to surpass’, llevarlos a un motín ‘to lead them to a mutiny’,
arrastrar el resto ‘to drag the rest’, estallar mi cabeza ‘to burst my head’,
devorarlo ‘to devour him/it’, llevarlo al exterminio ‘to lead him to the
ground’, regalarme ‘to give away’, pasar a la arboleda y destruirlo todo ‘to
go to wood and destroy it all’, asfixiarlo (1) ‘to asphyxiate him’, asfixiarle el
corazón ‘to asphyxiate the heart’, llevar a la ruina al Bolshoi ‘to destroy
Boshoi’, tirarla al suelo ‘to throw it/him to the ground’, quebrar la superficie
de la tierra ‘to break the surface of the earth’, quebrar la celebración ‘to can-
cel the celebration’, sacar ‘to pull out’, hacer chirriar el engranaje de la pro-
gramación ‘to make the chainwheel of the programmation crunch’, subir la
tasa de interés ‘to raise the interest rate’, disolverle los huesos ‘to dissolve the
bones’, soltarse ‘to break away’, hacerlo reventar ‘make him burst open’,
borrar la huella de los hombres ‘to erase men’s track’, extender el fuego ‘to
extend the fire’, invadirme ‘to descend upon me’, invadir la base fluvial ‘to
enter in the fluvial base’, elevar el precio ‘to raise the price’, hacerla estallar
‘to make it burst’, romper el equilibrio constitucional ‘to break the constitu-
tional balance’, estrangularme y acabar con la posibilidad de sobrevivir ‘to
strangle and end the possibility of surviving’, meterse dentro de la habitación
‘to go inside the room’, aplastar (2) ‘to crush’.
123. Other change-of-state verbs and verb phrases with modal amenazar are: con-
276 Notes
vertirse en un grave problema ‘to become a big problem’, convertirse en la
ciudad de las puertas enrejadas ‘to become the city of fenced doors’, conver-
tirse en la trampa más siniestra ‘to become the most sinister pitfall’, conver-
tirse en un viento más ligero ‘to become a lighter wind’, convertirse en un
conflicto internacional ‘to become an international conflict’, convertirse en un
nuevo incidente diplomático con Italia ‘to become a new diplomatic incident
with Italy’, convertirse en el inicio de un enfrentamiento regional ‘to be the
beginning of a new regional conflict’, convertirse en delincuentes juveniles ‘to
become young delinquents’, abrirse ‘to open’, desplazarse ‘to move on’, ex-
plotar ‘to explode’, subir ‘rise’, deshacerse (2) ‘to fall apart’, podrirnos a to-
dos ‘to rot us all’, afectar los intereses de 10 hoteles ‘to affect the interests of
10 hotels’, subirse ‘to go up’, caer ‘to fall’, inundar la habitación entera ‘to
drown the whole room’, venirse abajo (2) ‘to come down’, romper toda
esperanza ‘to break all hope’, sumir al país en el caos ‘to lose the country in
chaos’, terminar con su paciencia ‘to end his patience’, diluirse en una
bronca insoportable ‘to end up in an unbearable tiff’, generalizarse ‘to gener-
alize’, desplomarse ‘to crash’, apagarse ‘to die away’, extenderse ‘to extend’,
evolucionar hacia una guerra civil ‘to evolve into a civil war’, derramarse y
caerse ‘to flow away and fall down’, devorarme ‘to devour me’, llegar hasta
donde se encontraban ‘to get where they were’, reventar las costuras de la
prenda ‘to burst the sewing of the clothes’, derrumbarse (2) ‘to collapse’, ha-
cerla desaparecer ‘to make her disappear’, perderse ‘to lose oneself’, sumir a
Europa en una situación de anarquía ‘to lose Europe in a situation of anar-
chy’, desbordar toda medida ‘to surpass all measures’, quebrarse ‘to break’,
desgranarse ‘to fall into pieces’, inundar los resquicios de su mente ‘to flood
the meshes of his mind’, reventar ‘to burst’, radicalizarse ‘to radicalize’,
tener serias repercusiones políticas ‘to have serious political repercussions’,
afectar a zonas habitadas ‘to affect inhabited zones, acabar con la paciencia
de los ciudadanos ‘to end the citizen’s patience’, romper la barrera del
sonido ‘to break through the sound barrier’, caer sobre el pueblo silencioso
‘to fall over the silent village’, desbordarse ‘to overflow’, hacerse trizas ‘to
be picked to pieces’.
124. The perspective given by amenazar is in line with a state of affairs in which
the subject entity has already been affected.
125. Next to seguir + gerund ‘go on V-ing’, other aspectual verbs with amenazar
found in the corpus are: no terminar ‘not to stop’, acabarse ‘to stop’ and
acabar en guerra ‘to end up in war’.
126. The other attributive construction with modal amenazar is ser una rotunda
esfera ‘to be a plain field’.
127. Although this table gives strong indications of the use of modal amenazar, it
is not statistically signifcant.
128. I further deal with the role of the subject in Section (2.).
129. Other action verbs with modal prometer are: recuperar la armonía de ese
barrio protagónico ‘to get back the harmony of this central quartier’, mostrar
toda la riqueza ‘to show all wealth’, dilucidar misterios ‘to clarify enigmas’,
Notes 277
llevar todavía más lejos sus originales propuestas visuales ‘to improve his
original visual proposals’, remover ‘remove’, llegar hacia ninguna parte me-
dianamente iluminadora ‘to get to nothing enlightening’, sustituir a numero-
sos procesos fotográficos ‘to replace various photographic processes’.
130. Other attributive verbs with modal prometer are: ser la más agresiva con-
tienda comercial de los próximos años ‘to be the most aggressive trade war of
the coming years’, ser llovedor ‘to be rainy’, ser una de las satisfacciones de
mi vida ‘to be one of the satisfactions of my life’, ser uno de los grandes
atractivos ‘to be one of the big attractions’, ser duradero ‘to be lasting’, ser
apasionante ‘to be fascinating’, ser más fría que de costumbre ‘to be colder
than usual’, ser soleado y caluroso ‘to be sunny and warm’, ser grande, exci-
tante ‘to be great, exciting’, ser inmisericorde ‘to be merciless’.
131. Note that in the corpus modal prometer also combines two times with the
change-of-state verb convertirse ‘to become’: convertirse en una melena
indómita ‘to become an untamed hairdo’ and convertirse en los mayores in-
versionistas publicitarios ‘to become the biggest advertising investors’.
132. In this context, Lamiroy (1998: 290) states that “la classe des verbes transpa-
rents sera par définition hétérogène, puisque tous les verbes ne se situent pas
au même endroit de la chaîne [de grammaticalisation]”. [“The class of trans-
parent verbs will be heterogeneous by definition, since not all verbs are situ-
ated at the same point in the grammaticalization chain”]
133. The action verbs that combine with modal prometer in the corpus do not
involve patients or active participants, while they sometimes do with
amenazar.
134. The label “Zero” refers to those subjects which remain implicit, i.e. are lim-
ited to the person marking expressed in the verbal morphology.
135. The data presented in this table are statistically significant (Chi Square Prob-
ability: <.0001).
136. Vliegen (2006) states that with Dutch dreigen and German drohen the typi-
cally weak commitment of the subject in the lexical reading explains why the
majority of the subjects in modal readings are animate. My analysis does not
confirm this observation for Spanish. Although the commitment and agentiv-
ity of the subjects of amenazar is certainly reduced, the animate subjects of
amenazar bearing potential agentivity are not at all frequent.
Chapter 6
137. Due to the limited number of examples, the periodization given in Traugott’s
analysis should be taken with some caution.
138. Traugott’s (1996: 188) example of threaten, however, does not readily fit into
the meaning of ‘prediction’. In this context it is worth mentioning that
Traugott only mentions one example of threaten, whereas promise is repre-
sented in various examples. My own corpus research on amenazar shows that
at the first stages the verb yields a “prediction” reading when it combines with
278 Notes
a nominal complement. Further evidence could show a similar tendency for
threaten.
139. Traugott and Dasher (2002: 28) prefer the notion of “conceptual structure” to
that of “domain”, which is usually used by Sweetser (1990) and Langacker
(1987, 1991) amongst others. The former authors argue that the borders of a
domain are far from clear.
140. Sweetser’s account of the alternation between deontic and epistemic modals
relies on the metaphorical extension of the force structure proposed by Talmy
(1985), which is present in deontic (root) modality, to epistemic modality.
Langacker’s (1991) proposed grounding predication function of modals is
largely based on Sweetser’s (1990) metaphorical account, while Langacker
(1999, 2000) proposes attenuation of subject control as a process parallel to
subjectification.
141. Although, as shown in Chapter 4, the reading of prometer in constructions
with strong illocutionary force can be one of threat. Thus, in some cases there
is sociophysical force.
142. Note that Verhagen’s (2000) analysis situates this “personification” shift in
the 16th
and 17th
century, which is a considerably earlier stage than the one
Traugott (1997) proposes for English. It may be that in English, too, the “per-
sonification” reading was already available in the 16th
and 17th
century.
143. Neither Traugott (1997) nor Verhagen (2000: 206) give concrete examples of
threaten with a nominal complement (although Verhagen refers to their exis-
tence).
144. As far as I know such a study has not been carried out for Spanish yet, nor
does Corominas and Pascual’s (1984) etymological dictionary mention the
modal readings of these verbs.
145. I am very grateful to Álvaro Octavio de Toledo y Huerta for his comments on
my analysis of amenazar and prometer, which have helped me avoiding a se-
ries of pitfalls. All remaining problems are my own responsibility, of course.
146. In (9a), amenazar appears in the main clause, while the one in (9b) is situated
in the que-clause. The que-clause position seems to be preferred by the early
evidential expressions.
147. Note that in this amenazar construction, the complement introduced by the
preposition de ‘from’ is an alternative construction to the nominal comple-
ment with an object function. In the following example, from 1559, the noun
is not linked with amenazar through the preposition de:
-… todas ellas [cosas criadas], cuanto de sí es, amenazan caída y, por decir-
lo que es, caminan cuanto es de suyo al menoscabo y al empeoramiento.
(León, Luis de. De los nombres de Cristo 1559)
‘All these created things, insofar as they are his, threaten ruin and, to say like
it is, insofar it is his, they go in the direction of discredit and decline’
148. Note that the preposition de is used instead of con, the latter being the most
common one in present-day Spanish.
Notes 279
149. Interestingly both constructions appear in a relative que-clause. Thus, from
the early modal evidential readings on, a main clause position of the construc-
tion does not seem to be preferred.
150. This time the two verbs are linked by the preposition a ‘to’, instead of the
preposition de ‘from’. The preposition con, which is nowadays most frequent,
is a more recent evolution.
151. Note that several times modal amenazar shows up with the que-clause:
No entiendo este misterio, podría ser que este fuese juicio y castigo de-
llos. Pero también podría ser que lo fuese de nosotros, y amenaza que las
persecuciones de la fe no son acabadas. (Meneses, Felipe de. Luz del al-
ma cristiana. 1556)
‘I do not understand this mystery, but it could be that it was a judgment
and punishment of them. But it could also be that it was ours, and it
threatens that the persecutions because of religion are not finished’
152. This evolution is contrary to that of parecer, which first combines with the
copular ser and then shifts to other verbs (see Chapter 3).
153. The corpus data presented in Chapter 5 (Section 1.3.) indicate that in present-
day Spanish the attributive infinitives do not often combine with modal evi-
dential amenazar.
154. The lack of diachronic evidence for the illocutionary force does not mean,
however, that in the present-day use modal evidential prometer cannot be in-
fluenced by the lexical prometer reading with illocutionary force. It only ques-
tions that, historically speaking, illocutionary force motivates the early modal
uses.
155. In this section, I use “objective” and “subjective” in a Langackerian way, i.e.
referring to an objective scene or construing the normally objective path sub-
jectively.
156. “Verbs which ‘lose’ their canonical thematic structure to function as raising
verbs receive a meaning which combines temporal properties with epistemic
modality” (Rooryck 2000: 45).
157. Other amenazar constructions in the 15th
century are not completely exempt
of threat.
158. In Chapter 3, I have argued that with parecer + infinitive the preposed subject
co-determines the dynamic conceptualization of the infinitival process.
Chapter 7
159. Nuyts (2001b: 207–208) argues that the Dutch modal auxiliary kunnen
‘can/may’ can yield an intersubjective reading in some cases. In my opinion,
intersubjectivity does not readily apply to subjective modals.
160. Mortelmans (2001: 133) refers to the epistemic dürfte ‘may’ in German.
161. Gómez Torrego (1999: 3359–3362) mainly deals with poder in formal terms
and makes no mention of a possible correlation between the “capability” or
“obligation” readings and the “possibility” reading.
280 Notes
162. See Verstraete (2001) and Nuyts (2001b) for a discussion on objective and
subjective modality.
163. Tasmowski and Dendale (1994) argue for a purely evidential reading of
pouvoir. Their argument is based on logical operations that lead to several
possible conclusions, in contrast to the unique conclusion with devoir.
However, my corpus data presented in Chapter 7 will show that the inferential
dimension of poder is only marginal.
164. Gómez Torrego (1999) respects the normative prescription that deber de is
used for “probability” readings, while deber expresses “obligation”, although
he recognizes that in present-day use both readings are associated with deber
without de. My corpus data show that in Mexico deber de is frequently used
to express an obligation. For a good description of the debate see Fernández
de Castro (1999: 172–176).
165. Olbertz (1998) uses capitals for Proposition-oriented Epistemic Necessity. In
line with the description of the other concepts, I prefer to put this and other
notions between quotation marks.
166. Silva-Corvalán (1995: 90–91) concludes this from its absence in Moliner
(1981).
167. The evidential dimension is not only to be based on visual information of
another type of direct evidence but also involves the reasoning provoked by
direct or indirect evidence: it is a process of “creation of information”
(Dendale 1994).
168. In this utterance, devoir has either a deontic or an evidential reading.
169. This dynamic reasoning based on inference can be an alternative to the rather
static belief that motivates the “certainty reading” of tener que (cf. Olbertz
1998: 413).
170. Abductive reasoning has the logical form of an inverse modus ponens and is
“reasoning backwards” from consequent to antecedent. Therefore Peirce calls
it also “Retroductive reasoning” (1965: 74). From a classic logical point of
view, reasoning backwards is not a valid form of inference. It is conjectural,
or presumptive thinking, aiming at matching pragmatic standards of
plausibility, guided by the reasoner´s “guessing instinct” (1965 (7): 46).
Peirce, however, claims that abduction is logical inference, because it can be
represented in a “a perfect definite logical form” (1965 (5): 188).
171. See Goethals (2002) for a semiotic-linguistic study of the Spanish causal
conjunctions porque ‘because’, ya que ‘since’ and como ‘since’.
172. Kronning (1994, 2001) and Squartini (2004) revise Dendale’s (1994, 1999,
2000) proposal for deductive inferentiality of devoir by reducing the ‘domain
of application’ of inferential deduction and inferential evidentiality in general.
173. This hypothesis is not incompatible with Dendale’s argument that the
evidential value is the basic value of devoir and that the modal value is
derived from it. However, my position differs from Dendale’s claim that the
evidential value is unique and stable (only inference), whereas its modal value
is plural and variable (different degrees of certainty). Since reported
Notes 281
knowledge can also be invoked, the evidential value can hardly be called
unique and stable.
174. Nuyts (2001b: 37–38, 207–208) relates the “objective modality” of Dutch
kunnen ‘may’ with intersubjectivity, however, without discussing moeten
‘must’. It seems that, although must conveys an evidential qualification, its
“objective” reading is not necessarily intersubjective.
175. Interestingly, Squartini (2004: 888) contrasts the counterfactual use of deber
with the more factual use of tener que. Look at the deontic examples:
a. El profesor tuvo que castigarme porque no estudié.
‘The professor had to punish me because I didn’t study.’
b. El profesor debió castigarme porque no estudié.
‘The professor should have punished me because I didn’t study.’
176. Both verbs also have a deontic reading; sollen conveys a stronger obligation
than müssen.
177. The result of the joined tables 1 and 2 has a Chi-Square probability lower than
0.0001 and is hence statistically significant.
178. In this context, Kronning (1996, 2001) argues for recognizing an “alethic
necessity” reading as a bridge between deontic and epistemic readings.
179. Recall that Olbertz (1998) only considers deber to be an inferential modal.
180. Since these verb classes have been exemplified in the other chapters, there is
no need to repeat them. The only specification required is the following: the
ser/estar + past participle of the verb are both categorized as attributive verbs,
notwithstanding the possible semantic differences in the passive infinitive.
181. The Chi-square significance test is applied to this table. The Chi-Square
probability is lower than 0.0001 (without remarks on the low counts of certain
cells). Thus, it can be concluded that the relationships found in the data are
statistically significant.
182. The Chi-Square probability of this table is lower than 0.0001. However, since
25% of the cells have expected counts less than 5, the Chi-Square may not
provide us with statistically significant information.
183. The Chi-Square probability of this table is lower than 0.0001. However, since
22% of the cells have expected counts less than 5, the Chi-Square may not be
valid.
184. The Chi-Square probability of this table is lower than 0.0001. However, since
23% of the cells have expected counts less than 5, the Chi-Square may not be
valid.
185. The Chi-Square probability of this table is lower than 0.0001. However, since
39% of the cells have expected counts lower than 5, the data are not
statistically significant.
186. The Chi-Square probability of this table is lower than 0.0001. Since 41% of
the cells have expected counts less than 5, this table is not statistically
significant.
282 Notes
Chapter 8
187. See also Goossens (1982, 1999, 2000) on the development of the English
modals, Guo (1995) on Chinese modals, and Nuyts (2001b) on the Dutch mo-
dals.
188. Elvira (2002, 2003) outlines different stages of semantic change from deontic
or dynamic modality to epistemic modality for deber and poder.
189. It stands to reason that the epistemic reading of poder (and perhaps the deon-
tic reading) originates from dynamic poder, which expresses the subject’s ca-
pacity to do something. Thus, it does not seem to be justified to treat deontic
deber and deontic poder on the same basis. Further research should shed a
new light on this topic.
190. I base my analysis on the corpus data from the on-line Corpus del español,
which offers lists per hundred examples. These overviews allow me to detect
tendencies in the usage of the verbs under consideration. However, the exam-
ples remain to be converted into a relational database, for a more fine-grained
quantitative description to be possible. This is left for further research.
191. Yllera (1980: 117) mentions only a few lines on the use of tener que. She
observes that this construction is not frequent in the 15th century, and she nei-
ther discusses the possible link with tener de nor commenting on the rise of
the evidential readings.
192. Interestingly, Olbertz (1998: 251) refers to the evolution of the Latin auxiliary
habere and states that the Latin infinitive is used as a means of expressing
non-factive, future oriented readings as an alternative to the Latin gerundivum
form (dare aquam bibere vs dare aquam bibendam ‘give water to drink’): the
infinitive gradually took over the function of the gerundivum. Importantly in
Romance there are no gerundivum forms.
193. Interestingly, tener que also shows up as a kind of “mental state” verb. This
use is regularly found until the beginning of the 17th
century.
Mas si alguno tiene que ha derecho en alguna cosa que otri touiere en
iuro de paz demandegelo por el fuero. (Alfonso X. Fuero real. 13th
cen-
tury)
‘But if someone thinks he has the right to something that other people
possessed, reclaim it before the tribunal’
194. Grounding has inspired many cognitive linguists to analyze nominal and
verbal constructions in terms of the objective perception and/or subjective
elaboration of the linguistic expression (cf. Pelyvás 1996, Brisard 2002, Hey-
vaert 2003).
195. Some past forms of deontic modals can be performative.
Debió haberlo hecho inmediatamente.
‘(S)he should have done it immediately’
196. Pelyvás (1996, 2000, 2003) differs from Nuyts (2002) in that he subscribes to
the basic assumptions of the Cognitive Grammar. Pelyvás (1996: 156) is not
convinced by the “pragmatic strengthening” approach, which, according to
Notes 283
him, focuses too much on the alleged impact of Grice’s Maxims, which are
“very often interpreted and reinterpreted in incompatible ways”.
197. Only (indicative/subjunctive) mood combines both the modal and the
temporal type of grounding in Spanish.
198. Since Langacker (1990) does not give concrete examples, I reprint Radden’s
(1999) examples when needed.
199. Langacker (1990: 28) refers to can and will as main verbs having a subject
that functions as a trajector of both the verb and the associated process,
although he “suspect[s] that they no longer profile the relationship of
potency”. This “exception” shows that the formal criterion of absence of tense
marking is not always on a par with the conceptual side of the construction.
200. The non-modal reading of deber ‘owe’ below does not have an onstage locus
of potency either. The grammatical subject Su Alteza ‘Your highness’ has to
comply with the reimbursement of the money.
Tanbién te dise que yo he gastado para traher esa gente a Castilla mil y
duzientos castellanos, los cuales me debe Su Alteza la mayor parte de
ellos, y por esto le escriví que me mandase a tomar la cuenta. (Colón,
Cristobal. Textos y documentos completos de Cristobal Colón. 15th
centu-
ry)
‘It also says that I have spent 1200 ducates to bring these people to Cas-
tilia, of which you owe me the major part, and therefore I wrote you to re-
quest you to make the bill for me.’
The absence of such examples in the 13th
and 14th
centuries of the Corpus del
español leads me to hypothesize that this use shows up later than the modal
readings. This deber construction is then an example of “degrammaticaliza-
tion” (van der Auwera and Plungian 1998: 116–117).
201. Recall that deontic modality concerns the speaker’s (or another participant’s)
intervention in the proposition, while epistemic modality refers to the belief
state toward the proposition.
202. The restriction of grounding predications to epistemic modality contrasts with
Mortelmans’ (2002) analysis, which considers speaker-oriented deontic
readings of sollen ‘to have to’ and müssen ‘to have to’ as grounding
predications, thereby excluding other deontic readings.
203. The dynamic evolutionary model is an elaboration of the basic epistemic
model (cf. Langacker 1991: 240–9, 275–81). In the epistemic model, basic
reality represents the level at which events are directly “observed, dreamed,
imagined, ...” (Achard 2002: 208). The model is based on three theoretical
notions: known reality, immediate reality, and irreality. These three ways of
looking characterize the speaker’s basic conception of reality.
204. In English, the same opposition exists between must and should. The should
construction cannot shed the deontic overtones.
a. They must be dead by now.
b. They should be dead by now.
205. Another construction I found on the Internet shows that deontic deber can be
preceded by evidential parecer.
284 Notes
No puede ser ninguno de los elementos, de modo que parece deber con-
cluirse que tiene que ser algo así como la masa indiferenciada de los
elementos previa a toda “formación” (José Ferrater Mora 1979: 2135–
2143)
‘It cannot be any of the elements, subsequently he seems to have to con-
clude that it has to do with something as the undifferentiated mass of ele-
ments previous to whatever “formation”.’
206. In this context, Langacker’s (1999, 2000) proposal of “attenuation” or the
progressive reduction of subject control in the finite verb forms facilitates the
analysis of epistemic and deontic modal constructions in terms of a gradient
shift from a strong interplay of forces to no force at all.
207. The term reference-point was first used by Rosch (1975) to refer to the
relation of a prototype and other elements of a certain domain. Rosch (1975)
proposes prototypes as a reference point in making judgements on the
similarities and differences in other experiences and things in the world.
Langacker gives another function to reference-point. The reference-point
function derives from the cognitive procedure of mental scanning of what is
linguistically encoded (Langacker 2003: 3). When the ground is implicit, an
entity is usually grounded by means of a “Reference-point” (RP) which
connects with the empirical world and delivers the referential value of the
entity.
208. Gómez Torrego (1999: 3359–60) points out that not only deontic but also
(root) epistemic poder can in certain contexts stand alone without an explicit
infinitive, and provides the following example:
A: ¿Puede estar tu padre en casa ahora?
‘Can your father be at home at the moment.’
B: Sí, puede.
‘Yes, he can/may.’
I am not sure whether this example points to a real epistemic use, since
epistemic modifiers do not readily show up in interrogative sentences (cf
Nuyts 2001b). The interpretation of the question in A is the following: “given
the knowledge you have about the situation can your father be at home?”
More prominence is given to the objective possibility that the father is at
home.
209. Although evidential parecer and amenazar/prometer do not stand for a strong
relation between participants, they cannot be considered to have the same
reference-point function as the epistemic modals. For example, parecer can
show up independently in constructions like por lo que parece ‘as it seems’ or
lo parece ‘it seems so’, which illustrates that this expression can still be
profiled itself. As far as amenazar and prometer are concerned, I have shown
in Chapter 6 that the profile of these verbs does not completely fade away
either, which is confirmed by the thematic relation these verbs maintain with
the subject. Thus, these evidential verbs cannot be mere reference-points to
the infinitival process.
Notes 285
210. Note that other deontic forces associated with more abstract entities are far
more diffuse than that of permission.
211. These figures are taken from Pelyvás (1996: 168).
212. I am indebted to Ricardo Maldonado for drawing my attention to this specific
point.
References
Achard, Michel
1998 Representation of Cognitive Structures. Syntax and Semantics of
French Sentential Complements. Berlin/New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
2002 Selección de modo en construcciones oracionales de complemento.
In Estudios cognoscitivos del español. Revista Española de Lingüís-
tica Aplicada, Ricardo Maldonado (ed.), 111–130. Cas-
tellón/Querétaro: AELA/UAQ.
Aijmer, Karin
1980 Evidence and the Declarative Sentence. Stockholm: Almquist/ Wik-
sell.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y.
2004 Evidentiality. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y. and Robert M.W. Dixon (eds.)
2003 Studies in Evidentiality. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Aksu-Koç, Ayhan A. and Dan I. Slobin
1986 A psychological account of the development and use of evidentials
in Turkish. In Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology,
Wallace L. Chafe and Johanna Nichols (eds.), 159–167. Norwood
NJ: Ablex.
Anderson, Lloyd B.
1986 Evidentials, paths of change, and mental maps: typologically regular
asymmetries. In Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemol-
ogy, Wallace L. Chafe and Johanna Nichols (eds.), 273–312. Nor-
wood NJ: Ablex.
Austin, John L.
1962 How to Do Things with Words. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
van der Auwera, Johan
2002 More thoughts on degrammaticalization. In New Reflections on
Grammaticalization, Ilse Wischer and Gabriele Diewald (eds.), 19–
29. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
van der Auwera, Johan and Vladimir A. Plungian
1998 Modality's semantic map. Linguistic Typology 2: 79–124.
Barcelona, Antonio (ed.)
2000 Metaphor and Metonymy at the Crossroads. A Cognitive Perspec-
tive. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Barnes, Janet
1984 Evidentials in the Tuyuca verb. International Journal of American
Linguistics 50: 255–271.
Benveniste, Emile
1958 Problèmes de Linguistique Générale. Paris: Gallimard.
References 287
Bermúdez, Fernando
2002 La estructura evidencial del castellano. Elevación de sujeto y grama-
ticalización. Romansk Forum 16: 19–29.
2003 Llegando a la conclusión: la escena del camino en los conectores
consecutivos. Revue Romane 38 (2): 239–271.
Blanche-Benveniste, Claire, José Deulofeu, Jean Stéfanini and Karel vanden Eynde
1987 Pronom et syntaxe: l'Approche Pronominale et son Application au
Français. Paris: SELAF.
Bolinger, Dwight L.
1946 Spanish parece que again. Language 22. 359–360.
1961 Syntactic blends and other matters. Language 37 (3): 366–381.
1980 Wanna and the gradience of auxiliaries. In Wege zur Universalien
Forschung, Günter Brettschneider and Christian Lehmann (eds.),
292–299. Tübingen: Gunter Narr.
1991 Essays on Spanish: Words and Grammar. (Hispanic Monographs
Essays). Newark, Delaware: Juan de la Cuesta.
Bolkestein, Machtelt
1980 Problems in the Description of Modal Verbs. An Investigation of
Latin. Assen: Van Gorcum.
Bosque, Ignacio (ed.)
1990 Indicativo y Subjuntivo. Madrid: Taurus.
Botne, Robert
1997 Evidentiality and Epistemic Modality in Lega. Studies in Language
21: 509–529.
Brisard, Frank
2006 Logic, subjectivity, and the semantics/pragmatics distinction. In Sub-
jectification: Various Paths to Subjectivity, Angeliki Athanasiadou,
Costas Canakis and Bert Cornillie (eds.), 41–74. Berlin/New York:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Butt, John and Carmen Benjamin
1996 A New Reference Grammar of Modern Spanish. London: Edward
Arnold.
Bybee, Joan
1985 Morphology: A Study of the Relation between Meaning and Form.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Bybee, Joan, Revere Perkins and William Pagliuca
1994 The Evolution of Grammar: Tense, Aspect and Modality in the Lan-
guages of the World. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Bybee, Joan and Paul J. Hopper (eds.)
2001 Frequency and the Emergence of Linguistics Structure. Amster-
dam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Cabeza Pereiro, Carmen
1997 Las Completivas de Sujeto en Español. Santiago de Compostela:
Universidade de Santiago de Compostela.
288 References
Chafe, Wallace L.
1986 Evidentiality in English conversation and academic writing. In Evi-
dentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology, Wallace L. Chafe
and Johanna Nichols (eds.), 261–272. Norwood NJ: Ablex.
1987 Cognitive constraints on information flow. In Coherence and
Grounding in Discourse, Russel Tomlin (ed.), 21–51. Amster-
dam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
1994 Discourse, Consciousness and Time. Chicago: The University of
Chicago Press.
Chafe, Wallace L. and Johanna Nichols (eds.)
1986 Evidentiality: The linguistic coding of epistemology. Norwood NJ:
Ablex.
Claudi, Ulrike and Bernd Heine
1986 On the metaphorical basis of grammar. Studies in Language 10 (2):
297–335.
Coates, Jennifer
1983 The Semantics of the Modal Auxiliaries. London: Croom Helm.
Combé, Henk A.
1981 Some discrepancy Phenomena in Spanish. In Predication and Ex-
pression in Functional Grammar, A. Machteld Bolkestein, Henk A.
Combé, Simon C. Dik et al., 185–203. London/New York: Academic
Press.
Company, Concepción
1995 Old forms for new concepts: the recategorization of possessive du-
plications in Mexican Spanish. In Historical linguistics 1993: Se-
lected Papers from the 11th
International Conference on Historical
Linguistics, Henning Andersen (ed.), 77–92. Amsterdam/ Philadel-
phia: Benjamins.
1998 The interplay between form and meaning in language change:
grammaticalization of cannibalistic datives in Spanish. Studies in
Language 22 (3): 529–565.
2006a Zero in syntax, ten in pragmatics: Subjectification as syntactic can-
cellation. In Subjectification: Various Paths to Subjectivity, Angeliki
Athanasiadou, Costas Canakis and Bert Cornillie (eds.), 375–397.
Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
2006b Subjectification of verbs into discourse markers. Semantic-pragmatic
change only? In Topics in subjectification and modalization, Bert
Cornillie and Nicole Delbecque (eds.), 97–121. Amsterdam/ Phila-
delphia: Benjamins.
Copi, Irving and Carl Cohen
2003 Introduction to Logic. New York: Prentice Hall.
Cornillie, Bert
2003 Subjetivización, predicaciones de anclaje y los modales españoles.
Foro Hispánico 24: 21–34.
References 289
2004a The shift from lexical to subjective readings in Spanish prometer ‘to
promise’ and amenazar ‘to threaten’. A corpus-based account.
Pragmatics. 14 (1): 1–30.
2004b Epistemic Modality and Evidentiality in Spanish (semi-)auxiliaries.
A functional-pragmatic and cognitive-linguistic account. Ph. D.
Diss., Department of Linguistics, K.U.Leuven.
2005a Reference point and subjectification in grounding predications: the
case of the Spanish modals. Annual Review of Cognitive Linguistics
3: 56–77.
2005b Subjectivity in esperar-based constructions. In Reviewing Linguistic
Thought: Perspectives into the 21st Century. Sophia Marmaridou,
Kiki Nikiforidou and Eleni Antonopoulou (eds.), 77–96. Berlin/New
York: Mouton de Gruyter.
2005c Agentivity and subjectivity in Spanish prometer and amenazar. A
study of diatopical and constructional variation. Revista Interna-
cional de Lingüística Iberoamericana. 3 (5): 171–196.
2005d A paradigmatic view of Spanish amenazar ‘to threaten’ and prome-
ter ‘to promise’. Folia Linguistica 39 (3/4): 385–316.
2006 Conceptual and constructional considerations on the subjectivity of
English and Spanish modals. In Subjectification. Various Paths to
Subjectivity, Angeliki Athanasiadou, Costas Canakis and Bert Corn-
illie (eds.), 177–205. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Corominas, Joan
1998 Breve diccionario etimológico de la lengua castellana. Madrid: Gre-
dos.
Corominas, Joan and José Antonio Pascual.
1984 Diccionario crítico etimológico castellano e hispánico. Madrid:
Gredos.
Croft, William
1999 Some contributions of typology to Cognitive Linguistics, and vice
versa. In Cognitive Linguistics: Foundations, Scope, and Methodol-
ogy, Theo Janssen and Gisela Redeker (eds.), 61–93. Berlin/New
York: Mouton de Gruyter.
2001 Radical Construction Grammar. Syntactic Theory in Typological
Perspective. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Cuyckens, Hubert and Britta E. Zawada (eds.)
2001 Polysemy in Cognitive Linguistics: Selected papers from the Interna-
tional Cognitive Linguistics Conference, Amsterdam, 1997. Amster-
dam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Cuyckens, Hubert, Thomas Berg, René Dirven and Klaus-Uwe Panther (eds.)
2003 Motivation in Language: Studies in honor of Günter Radden. Am-
sterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
290 References
Davidse, Kristin
1994 Fact projection. In Perspectives on English. Studies in Honour of
Professor Emma Vorlat, Keith P. Carlon, Kristin Davidse and Bry-
gida Rudzka-Ostyn (eds.), 259–286. Leuven/Paris: Peeters.
Davies, Mark
2003 Corpus del español. http://www.corpusdelespanol.org/
De Haan, Ferdinand
1999 Evidentiality and Epistemic Modality: Setting Boundaries. Southwest
Journal of Linguistics 18: 83–101.
De Kock, Josse
1998 Norma, Libertad y Probabilidad. Ocho Soluciones del Español. Sa-
lamanca: Ediciones Universidad de Salamanca.
De Kock, Josse (ed.)
2001 Lingüística con Corpus: Catorce Aplicaciones sobre el Español. Sa-
lamanca: Ediciones Universidad de Salamanca.
Declerck, Renaat
1991 A Comprehensive Descriptive Grammar of English. Tokyo: Kaitaku-
sha.
DeLancey, Scott
1986 Evidentality and volitionality in Tibetan. Evidentiality: The Linguis-
tic Coding of Epistemology, Wallace L. Chafe and Johanna Nichols
(eds.), 203–213. Norwood NJ: Ablex.
2001 The mirative and evidentiality. Journal of Pragmatics 33 (3): 369–
382.
Delbecque, Nicole
1996 Towards a cognitive account of the use of the prepositions por and
para in Spanish. In Cognitive Linguistics in the Redwoods: the Ex-
pansion of a New Paradigm in Linguistics, Eugene H. Casad (ed.),
249–318. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
2000 Cognitive constraints on complement clause cliticization in Spanish.
In Complementation. Cognitive and Functional Perspectives, Kaoru
Horie (ed.), 149–196. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
2003 La variable expresión del agente en las construcciones pasivas. Nue-
va Revista de Filología Hispánica 2: 373–416.
Delbecque, Nicole and Béatrice Lamiroy
1999 La subordinación sustantiva. In Gramática descriptiva de la lengua
española, Ignacio Bosque and Violeta Demonte (eds.), 1965–2083.
Madrid: RAE/Espasa Calpe.
Delport, Marie-France
2004 Deux Verbes Espagnols: haber et tener. Étude Lexico-Syntaxique.
Perspective Historique et Comparative, Paris: Éditions Hispaniques.
Dendale, Patrick
1994 Devoir: épistémique, marqueur modal ou évidentiel? Langue fran-
çaise 102: 24–40.
References 291
1999 ‘Devoir’ au conditionnel: valeur évidentio-modale et origine du
conditionnel. Cahiers Chronos 4. 7–28.
2000 Devoir épistémique à l’indicatif et au conditionnel: inférence ou pré-
diction? In Actes du XIIe Congrès International de Linguistique et de
Philologie Romanes, Bruxelles, 23–29 juillet 1998, A. Englebert et
al. (eds.), 159–169 (vol. 7.). Tübingen: Max Niemeyer.
2001 Le futur conjectural versus devoir épistémique: différences de valeur
et restrictions d’emploi. Le Français Moderne 69 (1): 1–20.
Dendale, Patrick and Walter De Mulder
1996 Déduction ou abduction: le cas de devoir inférentiel. In
L’Énonciation Médiatisée, Zlatka Guentchéva (ed.), 305–318. Leu-
ven/Paris: Peeters.
Dendale Patrick and Johan van der Auwera (eds.)
2001 Les Verbes Modaux. Amsterdam: Rodopi (Cahiers Chronos 8).
Dendale Patrick and Liliane Tasmowski.
2001 Introduction: evidentiality and related notions. Journal of pragmatics
33 (3): 339–348.
Di Tullio, Ángela
1996 Verbos psicológicos en español. Signo y Seña. Revista del Instituto
de Lingüística 5: 221–238.
1998 Complementos no flexivos de verbos de percepción física en espa-
ñol. Verba 25: 197–221.
Diewald, Gabriele
2000 Scheinen als Faktizitätsmarker. In Wortschatz und Orthographie in
Geschichte und Gegenwart. Festschrift für Horst Haider Munske
zum 65. Geburtstag am 5. Mai 2000. Mechthild Habermann, Peter O.
Müller and Bernd Naumann (eds.), 333–355. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
2001a A basic semantic template for lexical and grammaticalized uses of
the German modals. Belgian Journal of Linguistics 14: 23–41.
2001b Scheinen–Probleme: Analogie, Konstruktionsmischung und die
Sogwirkung aktiver Grammatikalisierungskanäle. Synchronie und
Diachronie der Modalverben. Linguistische Berichte 9: 87–110.
2004 Faktizität und Evidentialität: Semantische Differenzierungen bei den
Modal- und Modalitätsverben im Deutschen. In Tempus / Temporali-
tät und Modus / Modalität im Deutschen - auch in konstrastiver Per-
spektive. Internationales Kolloquium. 8.-9. September 2000, Oddleif
Leirbukt and Paul Valentin (eds.), 231–258. Bergen. Tübingen:
Stauffenberg (Eurogermanistik).
Dik, Simon C.
1978 Functional Grammar. Dodrecht: Foris.
1989 The Theory of Functional Grammar. Part 1: The Structure of the
Clause. Dordrecht/Providence: Foris.
292 References
Dirven, René
1985 Metaphor as a basic means for extending the lexicon. In The Ubiq-
uity of Metaphor, Wolf Paprotté and René Dirven (eds.), 85–119.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
1989 A cognitive perspective on complementation. In Sentential Comple-
mentation and the Lexicon: Studies in Honour of Wim de Geest, Jas-
pers, Dany, Willem Klooster, Yvan Putseys and Pieter A.M. Seuren
(eds.), 113–139. Dordrecht: Foris.
Dirven, René and Marjolijn Verspoor (eds.)
1998 Cognitive Exploration of Language and Linguistics. Amster-
dam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Divjak, Dagmar
2004 Degrees of Verb integration. Conceptualizing and Categorizing
Events in Russian. Doctoral dissertation. K.U. Leuven.
Elvira, Javier
2002 Modalidad e inferencia pragmática. Paper presented at the confe-
rence on Les modalités et leur expression dans les documents espa-
gnols du Moyen Age. Université de Paris X/Nanterre/Instituto Cer-
vantes de París. 15-16 November 2002.
2003 Sobre el desarrollo del valor epistémico del verbo poder. Paper pre-
sented at the VI Congreso Internacional de Historia de la Lengua
Española. Madrid. October 2003.
Facchinetti, Roberta, Manfred, Krug and Frank Palmer
2003 Modality in Contemporary English. Berlin/New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Faller, Martina
2002 Semantics and Pragmatics of Evidentials in Cuzco Quechua. Ph. D.
Diss., Department of Linguistics, Stanford University.
Fernández de Castro, Félix
1999 Las perífrasis verbales en el español actual. Madrid: Gredos.
Fernández Leborans, María Jesús
1999 La predicación. Las oraciones copulativas. In Gramática descriptiva
de la lengua española, Ignacio Bosque and Violeta Demonte (eds.),
2357–2460. Madrid: RAE/Espasa Calpe.
Fernández Leborans, María Jesús and María del Carmen Díaz Bautista
1990 Sobre la sintaxis del verbo español “parecer”. Boletín de la Real
Academia Española. 353–420.
Fisher, Cynthia, Henry Gleitman and Lila R. Gleitman
1991 On the semantic content of subcategorization frames. Cognitive Psy-
chology 2. 231–254.
Fitneva, Stanka
2001 Epistemic markers and reliability judgments. Evidence form Bulgar-
ian. Journal of Pragmatics 33: 401–420.
References 293
Fleischman, Suzanne
1982 The Future in Thought and Language. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
1989 Temporal Distance: A basic linguistic metaphor. Studies in Lan-
guage 13: 1–50.
Floyd, Rick
1996a The radial structure of the Wanka reportative. In Cognitive Linguis-
tics in the Redwoods: the Expansion of a New Paradigm in Linguis-
tics, Eugene H. Casad (ed.), 895–941. Berlin/New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
1996b Experience, certainty and control, and the direct evidential in Wanka
Quechua questions. Functions of Language 3: 69–93.
Gaatone, David
1976 Il doit y avoir – *il faut y avoir. Revue Romane 9.2. 245–267.
1995 Syntaxe et sémantique: le cas des verbes transparents. Le Langage et
le texte. Hommage à Alexandre Lorian. The Hebrew University of
Jerusalem. 55–71.
García, Erica C.
1967 Auxiliaries and the criterion of simplicity. Language 43 (4): 853–
870.
Giacalone Ramat, Anna and Paul J. Hopper
1998 The limits of grammaticalization. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benja-
mins.
Givon, Talmy
1971 Historical syntax and synchronic morphology: An archaeologist’s
field trip. Chicago Linguistic Society 7. 394–415.
1979 On understanding grammar. New York/London: Academic Press.
1982 Evidentiality and Epistemic Space. Studies in Language 6. 23–49.
1993 English grammar: a function-based introduction. Amsterdam/ Phila-
delphia: Benjamins. (2 vols).
Goethals, Patrick
2002 Las Conjunciones causales explicativas españolas como, ya que,
pues y porque: un estudio semiotico-linguistico. Leuven/Paris: Pee-
ters (Orbis Supplementa 21).
González Fernández, María Jesús and Ricardo Maldonado.
2006 Syntactic Determinants of Pragmatic Markers of “Closure”. In Top-
ics in subjectification and modalization, Bert Cornillie and Nicole
Delbecque (eds.), 19–44. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
González Vázquez, Mercedes
1999 Evidencialidad y Modalidad epistémica. Análisis tipológico y se-
mántico de su interacción. MA-Thesis. Universidade de Vigo
2000 De lo Posible a lo Necesario: Semántica de la Modalidad. Ph. D.
Diss., Department of Linguistics. Universidade de Vigo.
Gómez Torrego, Leonardo
1988 Perífrasis verbales. Madrid: Arco Libros.
294 References
1999 Los verbos auxiliares. Las perífrasis de infinitivo. In Gramática des-
criptiva de la lengua española, Ignacio Bosque and Violeta Demonte
(eds.), 3323–3390. Madrid: RAE/Espasa Calpe.
Goossens, Louis
1982 On the development of the modals and the epistemic function in
English. In Papers from the Fifth International Conference on His-
torical Linguistics, Anders Ahlqvist (ed.), 74–84. Amster-
dam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
1985 Modality and the modals: a problem for Functional Grammar. In
Predicates and terms in Functional Grammar, Machteld Bolkestein,
Casper de Groot and J.L. Mackenzie (eds.), 203–217. Dordrecht: Fo-
ris.
1987 Modal shifts and predication types. In Ins and outs of predication,
Johan van der auwera and Louis Goossens (eds.), 21–37. Dordrecht:
Foris.
1999 Metonymic bridges in modal shifts. In Metonymy in Language and
Thought, Klaus-Uwe Panther and Günter Radden (eds.), 193–210.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
2000 Patterns of meaning extension, “parallel chaining”, subjectification,
and modal shifts. In Metaphor and metonymy at the crossroads. A
cognitive perspective, Antonio Barcelona (ed.), 149–169. Ber-
lin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Grice, Paul H.
1975 Logic and Conversation. In Syntax and Semantics 3: Speech Acts, P.
Cole and J. Morgan (eds.), 41–58. New York: Academic Press.
1989 Studies in the Way of Words. Cambridge MA: Harvard University
Press.
Grondelaers, Stefan, Dirk Speelman and Dirk Geeraerts
2002 Regressing on er. Statistical analysis of texts and language variation.
In 6ièmes Journées internationales d'Analyse statistique des Don-
nées Textuelles – 6th International Conference on Textual Data Sta-
tistical Analysis, A. Morin and P. Sébillot (eds.), 335–346. Rennes:
Institut National de Recherche en Informatique.
Guentchéva, Zlatka
1994 Manifestations de la catégorie du médiatif dans les temps du fran-
çais. Langue française 102: 8–23.
Guentchéva, Zlatka (ed.)
1996 L’Énonciation Médiatisée. Leuven /Paris: Peeters.
Guo, Jiansheng
1995 The Interactional Basis of the Mandarin Modal néng ‘can’. In Mo-
dality in Grammar and Discourse, Joan Bybee and Suzanne
Fleischman (eds.), 205–238. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Gutiérrez Ordóñez, Salvador
1986 Variaciones sobre la Atribución. León: Universidad de León.
1997 Temas, Remas, Focos, Tópicos y Comentarios. Madrid: Arco Libros.
References 295
2002a De Pragmática y Semántica. Madrid: Arco Libros.
2002b Forma y Sentido en Sintaxis. Madrid: Arco Libros.
Halliday, Michael A. K.
1970 Language structure and language function. In New horizons in lin-
guistics, John Lyons (ed.), 140–165. Aylesbury, U.K.: Penguin.
1994 An introduction to functional grammar. 2d ed. London/Baltimore:
Edward Arnold.
Harder, Peter
1996 Functional Semantics. A Theory of Meaning, Structure and Tense in
English. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Hassler, Gerda
2002 Evidentiality and reported speech in Romance languages. In Re-
ported Discourse. A meeting ground for different linguistic domains.
Tom Güldemann and Manfred von Roncador (eds.), 143–172. Am-
sterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
2003 Uso evidencial de adverbios modales. Paper presented at the 6th
Congreso Internacional de Lingüística Hispánica at Leipzig. Sep-
tember 2003.
Haverkate, Henk and Kees Hengeveld (eds.)
1993 Aproximaciones Pragmalingüísticas al Español. Amsterdam: Rodo-
pi.
Heine, Bernd
1993 Auxiliaries: Cognitive Forces and Grammaticalization. Oxford: Ox-
ford University Press.
1997 Cognitive foundations of grammar. Oxford/New York: Oxford Uni-
versity Press.
Heine, Bernd, Ulrike Claudi, and Friederike Hünnemeyer
1991 Grammaticalization: A conceptual Framework. Chicago: University
of Chicago Press.
Heine, Bernd and Tania Kuteva (eds.)
2002 World Lexicon of Grammaticalization. Cambrigde: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
Heine, Bernd and Mechtild Reh
1984 Grammaticalization and Reanalysis in African languages. Hamburg:
Helmut Buske Verlag
Heine, Bernd and Hiroyuki Miyashita
2007 The structure of a functional category: German drohen. Language
Sciences.
Hengeveld, Kees
1988 Illocution, mood, and modality in a Functional Grammar of Spanish.
Journal of Semantics 6.3/4. 227–269.
Hernanz, María Lluïsa
1982 El infinitivo en español. Bellaterra: Ediciones de la Universidad Au-
tónoma de Barcelona.
296 References
1999 El infinitivo. In Gramática descriptiva de la lengua española, Igna-
cio Bosque and Violeta Demonte (eds.), 2195–2356. Madrid:
RAE/Espasa Calpe.
Heyvaert, Liesbet
2003 A Cognitive-functional Approach to Nominalization in English. Ber-
lin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Hopper, Paul J.
1991 On some principles of grammaticization. In Approaches to Gram-
maticalization Vol I, Elizabeth Traugott and Bernd Heine (eds.), 17–
35. Amsterdam/ Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Hopper, Paul J. and Elizabeth Closs Traugott
1993 Grammaticalization. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Ifantidou, Elly
2001 Evidentials and relevance. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins
Keniston, Hayward
1937 Spanish Syntax List. New York: Henry Holt Company.
Kiparsky, Paul and Carol Kiparsky
1970 Fact. In Progress in Linguistics, Manfred Bierwisch and K.E. Hei-
dolph (eds.), 143–173. The Hague: Mouton.
Kronning, Hans
1996 Modalité, Cognition et Polysémie: Sémantique du Verbe Modal de-
voir. Uppsala: Acta Universitatis Upsaliensis. (Studia Romanica Up-
saliensia 54)
2001 Nécessité et hypothèse: devoir non déontique au conditionnel. In Le
conditionnel en français, Patrick Dendale and Liliane Tasmowski
(eds.), 251–276. Université de Metz.
Kuteva, Tania
2004 Auxiliation: An Enquiry into the Nature of Grammaticalization. 2d
ed. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Lamiroy, Béatrice
1983 Les Verbes de Mouvement en Français et en Espagnol: Étude Com-
parée de leurs Infinitifs (Linguisticae Investigationis supplementa
11). Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
1987 The complementation of aspectual verbs in French. Language 63:
278–298.
1991 Léxico y Gramática del Español; Estructuras Verbales de Espacio y
Tiempo. Barcelona: Anthropos.
1994 Les syntagmes nominaux et la question de l’auxiliarité. Langages
115 : 64–76.
1995 La “transparence” des auxiliaires. In Tendances Récentes en Linguis-
tiques Française et Générale, Hava Bat-Zeev Shyldkrot and Lucien
Kupferman (eds.), 277–287. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
1998 Prédication et auxiliaires. In Prédication, Assertion, Information, M.
Forsgren, K. Jonasson and H. Kronning (eds.), 285-299. Uppsala:
Acta Universitatis Uppsaliensis.
References 297
1999 Auxiliaires, langues romanes et grammaticalisation. Langages 135:
63–75.
2003 Les notions linguistiques de figement et de contrainte. Linguisticae
Investigationis 26: 53–66.
Langacker, Ronald W.
1985 Observations and speculations on subjectivity. In Iconicity in syntax,
John Haiman (ed.), 109–150. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
1987 Foundations of Cognitive Grammar. Volume 1: Theoretical prereq-
uisites. Stanford: Stanford University Press.
1990 Subjectification. Cognitive Linguistics 1: 5–38.
1991 Foundations of Cognitive Grammar. Volume 2: Descriptive applica-
tion. Stanford: Stanford University Press.
1991 Concept, Image and Symbol. Berlin /New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
1993 Reference-point constructions. Cognitive Linguistics 4. 1–38.
1995 Raising and transparency. Language 71: 1–62.
1997 Consciousness, construal, and subjectivity. In Language Structure,
Discourse and the Access to Consciousness, Maxim I. Stamenov
(ed.), 49–75. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
1998 On subjectification and grammaticization. In Discourse and Cogni-
tion. Bridging the Gap, Jean-Pierre Koenig (ed.), 71–89. Stanford:
CSLI Publications.
2000a Conceptual grouping and constituency. In Grammar and Conceptu-
alization, Ronald W. Langacker, 147–170. Berlin/New York: Mou-
ton de Gruyter.
2000b Subjectification and grammaticization. In Grammar and Conceptu-
alization, Ronald W. Langacker, 297–315. Berlin/New York: Mou-
ton de Gruyter.
2000c Raising and Transparency. In Grammar and Conceptualization,
Ronald W. Langacker, 317–357. Berlin/New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
2002a Deixis and subjectivity. In Grounding: The Epistemic Footing of
Deixis and Reference, Frank Brisard (ed.), 1–28. Berlin/New York:
Mouton de Gruyter.
2002b Estructura de la cláusula en la gramática cognoscitiva. In Estudios
Cognoscitivos del Español. Revista Española de Lingüística Aplica-
da, Ricardo Maldonado (ed.), 19–66. Castellón/Querétaro: AE-
LA/UAQ.
2003 Extreme subjectification: English tense and modals. In Motivation in
Language: Studies in honor of Günter Radden, Hubert Cuyckens,
Thomas Berg, René Dirven and Klaus-Uwe Panther (eds.), 3–26.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
2006 Subjectification, Grammaticization, and Conceptual Archetypes. In
Subjectification: Various Paths to Subjectivity, Angeliki Athana-
siadou, Costas Canakis and Bert Cornillie (eds.), 17–40. Berlin/New
York: Mouton de Gruyter.
298 References
Lazard, Gilbert
1956 Caractères distinctifs de la langue tadjik. Bulletin de la société de
linguistique de Paris. 52 (1): 117–186.
1999 Mirativity, evidentiality, mediativity, or other? Linguistic Typology
3: 91–109.
2001 On the grammaticalization of evidentiality. Journal of Pragmatics
33: 359–367.
Lehmann, Christian
1982 Thoughts on Grammaticalization. A programmatic Sketch. Vol. I
(Arbeiten des Kölner Universalien-Projekts 48). Köln: Universität zu
Köln. Institut für Sprachwissenschaft.
2002 New reflections on grammaticalization and lexicalization. In New
Reflections on Grammaticalization, Ilse Wischer and Gabriele
Diewald (eds.), 1–18. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Levinson, Stephen C.
1983 Pragmatics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1997 From Outer Space to Inner Space: Linguistic Categories and Non-
linguistic Thinking. In Language and Conceptualization, Jan Nuyts
and Eric Pederson (eds.), 13–45. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press
Lozowski, Przemyslaw
1999 Panchrony, or linguistics without synchrony. In Cognitive Perspec-
tives on Language, Barbara Lewandowska-Tomaszczyk (ed.), 23–35.
Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
2002 Deconstructing the world-view: from actuality to virtuality in cogni-
tive linguistics. In Cognitive Linguistics Today, Barbara
Lewandowska-Tomaszczyk and K. Turewicz (eds.), 65–79. Frank-
furt am Main: Peter Lang.
Lunn, Patricia
1989 Spanish mood and the prototype of assertability. Linguistics 27. 687–
702.
1995 The Evaluative Function of the Spanish Subjunctive. In Modality in
Grammar and Discourse; Joan Bybee and Suzanne Fleischman
(eds.), 419–449. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Lyons, John
1977 Semantics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1981 Language and Linguistics: An Introduction. Cambridge: Cambridge
University.
1982 Deixis and subjectivity: Loquor, ergo sum? In Speech, Place, and
Action: Studies in Deixis and Related Topics, Robert J. Jarvella and
Wolfgang Klein (eds.), 101–124. New York: Wiley.
1994 Subjecthood and subjectivity. In Subjecthood and Subjectivity: The
Status of the Subject in Linguistic Theory, Marina Yaguello (ed.), 9–
17. Paris: Ophrys.
References 299
1995 Linguistic Semantics: An Introduction. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
Maldonado, Ricardo
1988 Energetic Reflexives in Spanish. Berkeley Linguistics Society 14:
153–165.
1999 A Media Voz: Problemas Conceptuales del Clítico se en Español .
México: Instituto de Investigaciones Filológicas UNAM.
2002 Objective and subjective datives. Cognitive Linguistics 13 (1): 1–65.
Marín-Arrese, Juana, Laura Hidalgo Downing and Silvia Molina Plaza
2002 Evidentiality and modality in English and Spanish: connections and
interactions. In English Modality in Perspective: Genre Analysis and
Contrastive Studies, Roberta Facchinetti (ed.), 135–146. Verona: U-
niversità di Verona.
Mori, Olga
1974 Sobre las construcciones españolas ‘tener que + infinitivo’ y ‘haber
que + infinitivo’ y sus equivalentes en inglés. Filología moderna 15:
155–181.
Mortelmans, Tanja
2000 Konjunktiv II and epistemic modals in German: a division of labour.
In Constructions in Cognitive Linguistics, Ad Foolen and Frederike
Van der Leek, 191–215. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
2001 On the 'Evidential' Nature of the 'Epistemic' Use of the German Mo-
dals müssen and sollen. Belgian Journal of Linguistics. 131–149.
2002 “Wieso sollte ich dich küssen, du hasslicher Mensch!” A study of
the German modals sollen and müssen as `grounding predications’ in
interrogatives. In The Epistemic Footing of Deixis and Reference,
Frank Brisard (ed.), 391–432. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Mushin, Ilana
2001 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance: Narrative Retelling. Am-
sterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Narrog, Heiko
2005a Modality, mood and change of modal meanings: a new perspective.
Cognitive Linguistics 16 (4): 677–731.
2005b On defining modality again. Language sciences 27 (2): 165–192.
Noël, Dirk
2002 Believe-type matrix verbs and their complements. Corpus-based in-
vestigations of their function in discourse. A collection of articles.
Ph. D. Diss., Department of Linguistics. Universiteit Gent.
Nuyts, Jan
1992 Aspects of a Cognitive-pragmatic Theory of Language: On Cogni-
tion, Functionalism, and Grammar. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Ben-
jamins.
2000 Tensions between discourse structure and conceptual semantics: The
syntax of epistemic modal expressions. Studies in Language 24:
103–135.
300 References
2001a Subjectivity as an evidential dimension in epistemic modal expres-
sions. Journal of Pragmatics 33: 383–400.
2001b Epistemic Modality, Language, and Conceptualization: A Cognitive-
pragmatic perspective. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
2002 Grounding and the system of epistemic expressions in Dutch: a cog-
nitive-functional view. In The Epistemic Footing of Deixis and Ref-
erence, Frank Brisard (ed.), 433–466. Berlin/New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
2004 The modal confusion. On terminology and the concepts behind it. In
Modality: Studies in Form and Function, Alex Klinge and Hendruk
Müller (eds.), 5–38. London: Equinox.
2005 Modality: Overview and linguistic issues. In The Expression of Mo-
dality. William Frawley ed., 1–26. Berlin/New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Nuyts, Jan and Eric Pederson (eds.)
1997 Language and Conceptualization. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Nuyts, Jan and Wietse Vonk
1999 Epistemic modality and focus in Dutch. Linguistics 37: 699–737.
Olbertz, Hella
1998 Verbal Periphrases in a Functional Grammar of Spanish, Ber-
lin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Palmer, Frank R.
1979 Why auxiliaries are not main verbs. Lingua 47. 1–25.
1990 Modality and the English modals. Second edition. London: Long-
man.
2001 Mood and modality. 2d ed. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Perkins, Michael R.
1982 The Core Meanings of the English Modals. Journal of Linguistics
18: 245–273.
1983. Modal expressions in English. London: Pinter.
Pelyvás, Péter
1996 Subjectivity in English: Generative Grammar versus the Cognitive
Theory of Epistemic Grounding. Frankfurt am Main: Lang.
2000 Metaphorical extension of may and must into the epistemic domain. In
Metaphor and metonymy at the crossroads. A cognitive perspective,
Antonio Barcelona (ed.), 233–250. Berlin/New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
2001a On the development of the category modal: a cognitive view. How
changes in image-schematic structure led to the emergence of the
grounding predication. In Wort und (Kon)text, Piroska Kocsány and
Molnár Anna (eds.), 103–130. Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
2001b The development of the grounding predication. Epistemic modals and
cognitive predicates. In Pragmatics and the Flexibility of Word Mean-
ing, E. Németh T. and K. Bibok (eds.), 151–174. Amsterdam: Elsevier.
References 301
2006 Subjectification in (expressions of) epistemic modality and the devel-
opment of the grounding predication. In Subjectification: Various
Paths to Subjectivity, Angeliki Athanasiadou, Costas Canakis and
Bert Cornillie (eds.), 121–150. Berlin/New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Plungian, Vladimir A.
2001 The place of evidentiality within the universal grammatical space.
Journal of Pragmatics 33: 349–357.
Porroche Ballesteros, Margarita
1990 Aspectos de atribución en español. Zaragoza: Pórtico.
Radden, Günter
1999 Modalverben in der Kognitiven Linguistik. In Grammatik und Men-
tale Prozesse. Angelika Redder and Jochen Rehbein (eds.), 261-294,
Tübingen: Stauffenbrug Verlag.
Ramat, Paolo
1992 Thoughts on degrammaticalization. Linguistics 30:549–560.
Reis, Marga
2004 Modals, So-Called Semi-Modals, and Grammaticalization in Ger-
man. Paper delivered at Berkeley Germanic Linguistics Roundtable.
2-3 April 2004.
Riddle, E.
1975 Some pragmatic conditions on complementizer choice. Chicago Lin-
guistic Society 11. 467–474.
Rivero, María-Luisa
1971 Mood and presupposition in Spanish. Foundations of Language 7.
305–336.
1980 On left dislocation and topicalization in Spanish. Linguistic Inquiry
11. 363–395.
Rodríguez Espiñeira, María José
2000 Percepción directa e indirecta en español. Diferencias semánticas y
formales. Verba 27. 33–85.
2001 Alternancias de esquema sintáctico con predicados de valoración in-
telectual. In Léxico y Gramática. Aleixandre Veiga, M. González
and M. Souto (eds.), 313–326. Lugo: Tris Tram.
Rojo, Guillermo
1974 Perífrasis verbales en el gallego actual. Verba. Annex 2. Santiago
de Compostela: Universidade de Santiago de Compostela.
Rooryck, Johan
1997 On the interaction between Raising and Focus in sentential comple-
mentation. Studia Linguistica 50. 1–49.
2000 Configurations of Sentential Complementation: Perspectives from
Romance languages. Routledge: London.
2001a Evidentiality (Part I). Glot International. 5.4.
2001b Evidentiality (Part II). Glot International. 5.5.
302 References
Rosch, Eleanor
1973 Natural categories. Cognitive psychology 4: 328–350.
1975a Cognitive representations of semantic categories. Journal of Experi-
mental Psychology 104: 192–233.
1975b Cognitive Reference Points. Cognitive Psychology 7: 532–547.
Rudzka-Ostyn, Brygida (ed.)
1988 Topics in Cognitive Linguistics. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benja-
mins.
Ruwet, Nicolas
1972 Théorie syntaxique et syntaxe du français. Paris: Éditions du Seuil.
1983 Montée et contrôle. Une question à revoir. Revue Romane 24: 17–37.
1991 Syntax and Human Experience. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.
Sanders, José and Wilbert Spooren
1996 Subjectivity and certainty in epistemic modality: A study of Dutch
epistemic modifiers. Cognitive Linguistics 7: 241–64.
Schiffrin, Deborah
1990 The principle of intersubjectivity in communication and conversa-
tion. Semiotica 80: 121–151.
Schwenter, Scott A.
1994 ‘Hot News’ and the Grammaticalization of Perfects. Linguistics 32:
995–1028.
1999 Evidentiality in Spanish morphosyntax: A reanalysis of (de)queísmo.
In Estudios de Variación Sintáctica, María José Serrano (ed.), 85–
87. 1999. Madrid: Iberoamericana.
Searle, John. R.
1969 Speech Acts. An Essay in the Philosophy of Language. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
1983 Intentionality. An Essay in the Philosophy of Mind. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Seuren, Pieter A.M.
1969 Operators and Nucleus, a Contribution to the Theory of Grammar.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
2002a A View of Language. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
2002b How the cognitive revolution passed linguistics by. In Language and
evolution. Frank Brisard and Tanja Mortelmans (eds. Antwerp Pa-
pers in Linguistics 101.
2003 Verb clusters and branching directionality in German and Dutch. In
Verb Constructions in German and Dutch, Pieter A.M. Seuren and
Gerard Kempen (eds.), 247–296. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benja-
mins.
Silva-Corvalán, Carmen
1995 Contextual conditions for the interpretation of ‘poder’ and ‘deber’ in
Spanish. In Modality in Grammar and Discourse, John Bybee and
References 303
Suzanne Fleishmann (eds), 67–105. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Ben-
jamins.
Speelman, Dirk
1997 Abundantia Verborum. A computer tool for carrying out corpus-
based linguistic studies. Doctoral dissertation. K.U.Leuven.
Sperber, Dan and Deirdre Wilson
1986 Relevance: Communication and Cognition. Oxford: Blackwell.
Squartini, Mario
1998 Verbal Periphrases in Romance. Aspect, Actionality and Grammati-
calization. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
2001 The internal structure of evidentiality in Romance. Studies in Lan-
guage 25 (2): 297–334.
2004 Disentangling evidentiality and epistemic modality in romance. Lin-
gua 114 (7): 873–889.
2006 Lexical vs. grammatical evidentiality in French and Italian. Linguis-
tics.
Stein, Dieter and Susan Wright (eds.)
1995 Subjectivity and Subjectivisation in Language. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Subirats-Rüggeberg, Carlos
1987 Sentential complementation in Spanish: a lexico-grammatical study
of three classes of verbs. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Sweetser, Eve E.
1982 Root and epistemic modals: causality in two worlds. Berkeley Lin-
guistics Society 8: 484–507.
Sweetser, Eve E.
1990 From Etymology to Pragmatics. Metaphoric and Cultural Aspects of
Semantic Structure. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Talmy, Leonard
1985 Lexicalization patterns: semantic structure in lexical forms. In Lan-
guage Typology and Syntactic Description: Grammatical Categories
and the Lexicon, Timothy Shopen (ed.), 57–149. Volume 3. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
1988 The Relation of Grammar to Cognition. In Topics in Cognitive Lin-
guistics, Brygida Rudzka-Ostyn (ed.), 165–205. Amster-
dam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
2000 Toward a Cognitive Semantics. Cambrigde MA: MIT Press. (2 vols).
Tasmowski, Liliane
1989 A look at sembler from different angles. In Sentential Complementa-
tion and the Lexicon: Studies in Honour of Wim de Geest, Dany Jas-
pers et al. (eds.), 403–423. Dordrecht: Foris.
Tasmowski, Liliane and Patrick Dendale
1994 Pouvoir: un Marqueur d'évidentialité. Langue Française 102 : 41–
55.
304 References
1998 Must/Will and doit/futur simple as epistemic modal markers. Seman-
tic value and restrictions of use. In English as a Human Language.
To honour Louis Goossens, Johan van der Auwera, Frank Durieux
and Ludo Lejeune (eds.), 325–336. München: Lincom Europa.
Taylor, John
1989 Linguistic Categorization: Prototypes in Linguistic Theory. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
1996 Possessives in English: an Exploration in Cognitive Grammar. Ox-
ford: Clarendon Press.
Traugott, Elizabeth Closs
1982 From propositional to textual and expressive meanings: Some se-
mantic-pragmatic aspects of grammaticalization. In Perspectives on
Historical Linguistics, Winfred P. Lehmann and Yakov Malkiel
(eds.), 245–271. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
1988 Pragmatic strengthening and grammaticalization. Berkeley Linguis-
tics Society 14: 406–415.
1989 On the rise of epistemic meanings in English: an example of subjec-
tification in semantic change. Language 65: 31–55.
1993 The conflict promises to erupt into war. Berkeley Linguistics Society
17. 348–358.
1995 Subjectification in grammaticalisation. In Subjectivity and Subjec-
tivisation in Language, Dieter Stein and Susan Wright (eds.), 31–54.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1997 Subjectification and the development of epistemic Meaning: The
Case of Promise and Threaten. In Modality in Germanic Languages,
Toril Swan and Olaf Jansen Westvik (eds.), 185–210. Berlin – New
York: Mouton de Gruyter.
1999 The rhetoric of counter-expectation in semantic change. In Historical
semantics and cognition, Andreas Blank and Peter Koch (eds.), 177–
196. Berlin/New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
2003 From subjectification to intersubjectification. In Motives for Lan-
guage Change, Raymond Hickey (ed.), 124–139. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Traugott, Elizabeth and Bernd Heine (eds.)
1991 Approaches to Grammaticalization, Vol I&II. Amsterdam/ Philadel-
phia: Benjamins.
Traugott, Elizabeth and Ekkehard Koenig
1991 The semantics-pragmatics of grammaticalization revisited. In Ap-
proaches to Grammaticalization, Vol 1, Elizabeth Traugott and
Bernd Heine (eds.), 189–218. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Traugott, Elizabeth Clossand Richard Dasher
2002 Regularity in Semantic Change. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
References 305
Usoniene, Aurelia
1999 Perception verbs revisited. Lund: Department of Linguistics. Work-
ing Papers. 211–225.
2001 On the Modality of the English Verbs of Seeming. Belgian Journal
of Linguistics 14: 183–204.
Van Gelderen, V.
1999 Direct and indirect discourse: an alternative view on the role of com-
plementizers. Project Description Paper. Leiden University.
Vázquez Laslop, María Eugenia
2001a La Arquitectura Lingüística del Compromiso: las Oraciones de de-
ber ser. México: Colegio de México.
2001b Epistemic prometer and full deontic modal verbs. Belgian Journal of
Linguistics. 207–241.
Vendler, Zeno
1967 Linguistics in Philosophy. Ithaca/New York: Cornell University
Press.
Verhagen, Arie
1995 Subjectification, syntax, and communication. In Subjectivity and
Subjectivisation in Language, Dieter Stein and Susan Wright (eds.),
103–128. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1996 Sequential conceptualization and linear order. In Cognitive Linguis-
tics in the Redwoods: the Expansion of a New Paradigm in Linguis-
tics, Eugene H. Casad (ed.), 793–817. Berlin/New York: Mouton de
Gruyter.
2000 'The girl that promised to become something': An exploration into
diachronic subjectification in Dutch. In The Berkeley Conference on
Dutch Linguistics 1997: the Dutch Language at the Millennium,
Thomas F. Shannon and Johan P. Snapper (eds.), 197–208. Lanham
MD: University Press of America.
2005 Constructions of Intersubjectivity. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Verstraete, Jean-Christophe
2001 Subjective and objective modality: interpersonal and ideational func-
tions in the English modal auxiliary system. Journal of Pragmatics
33. 1505–1528.
2002 Interpersonal Grammar and Clause Combining in English. Ph. D.
Diss., Department of Linguistics. K.U. Leuven.
Veyrat Rigat, Montserrat
1993 Aspecto, Perífrasis y Auxiliación: un Enfoque Perceptivo. LynX (a
monographic series in Linguistics and World Perception). Annex 6.
Universidad de Valencia.
Vliegen, Maurice
2006 The relation between lexical and epistemic readings: the equivalents
of promise and threaten in Dutch and German. In Topics in subjecti-
fication and modalization. Bert Cornillie and Nicole Delbecque
(eds.), 73–95. Amsterdam/ Philadelphia: Benjamins
306 References
Wierzbicka, Anna
1988 The semantics of grammar. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: Benjamins.
1994 Semantics and epistemology: The meaning of ‘evidentials’ in a
cross-linguistic perspective. Language Sciences 16.1. 81–137.
Wilson, Deirdre
1975 Pressupositions and Non-Truth Conditional Semantics. New York:
Academic Press.
Wilson, Deirdre and Dan Sperber
2002 Pragmatics, Modularity and Mind reading. Mind and Language 17.
3–23.
2004 Relevance theory. In Handbook of pragmatics. L. Horn and E. Ward
(eds.), 607–632. Oxford: Blackwell.
Willett, Thomas
1988 A cross-linguistic survey of the grammaticalization of evidentiality.
Studies in Language 12: 51–97.
Yllera, Alicia
1980 Sintaxis histórica del verbo español: las perífrasis medievales. Zara-
goza: Departamento de Filología Francesa, Universidad de Zaragoza.
Author index
Achard, Michel 63, 232, 262, 283
Aikhenvald, Alexandra 7, 18, 19
Anderson, Lloyd 7, 223, 264, 266,
267, 268
van der Auwera, Johan 11, 115
Barcelona, Antonio 51, 157, 204
Benjamin, Carmen 263
Benveniste, Émile 23
Bermúdez, Fernando 4, 24, 42, 44,
45, 46, 267
Boas, Hans 10
Bolinger, Dwight 70, 72, 73, 74, 78,
270
Bolkestein, Machteld 225
Brisard, Frank 271, 272, 282
Butt, John 263
Bybee, Joan 6, 187, 225, 262
Cabeza Pereiro, Carmen 63, 83
Chafe, Wallace 6, 7, 10, 18, 19, 20,
21, 263, 267
Coates, Jennifer 87, 199, 262
Combé, Henk 48, 262, 267
Cornillie, Bert 3, 6, 104, 122, 125,
224
Dasher, Richard 12, 70, 157, 158,
278
De Haan, Ferdinand 5, 10, 195, 196,
265
De Mulder, Walter 192
De Vries, Gijs 272
DeLancey, Scott 265, 274
Delbecque, Nicole 136, 213, 265,
268, 271
Delport, Marie-France 227
Demonte, Violeta 6
Dendale, Patrick 5, 10, 191, 192,
193, 194, 195, 264, 265, 280
Díaz Bautista, Carmen 3
Diewald, Gabriele 90, 106
Dixon, Robert 7
Elvira, Javier 282
Faller, Martina 1, 10, 265, 266, 267
Fernández de Castro, 4, 5, 6, 181,
184, 185, 188, 189, 206, 222, 254,
262, 263, 280
Fernández Leborans, María Jesús 3,
15, 37
Fischer, Cynthia 12
Fitneva, Stanka 20
Fleischman, Suzanne 197, 262
Floyd, Rick 20, 37, 268
Gaatone, David 59, 58, 123, 136,
269
Geeraerts, Dirk 260
Givón, Talmy 12
Goethals, Patrick 280
Gómez Torrego, Leonardo 5, 181,
187, 188, 190, 206, 254, 262, 279,
280, 284
González Vázquez, Mercedes 5, 263
Goossens, Louis 187, 199, 262, 282
Grice, Paul 264, 283
Grondelaers, Stefan 260
Guentchéva, Zlatka 265
Guo, Jiansheng 282
Gutiérrez Ordóñez, Salvador 63, 262
Halliday, Michael 262
Hassler, Gerda 262
Heine, Bernd 106
Hernanz, María Lluïsa 3, 6, 17, 42,
44, 48, 55, 86, 263, 269
Heyvaert, Liesbet 282
Hopper, Paul 165
Ifantidou, Elly 9, 264, 268
308 Author index
Kronning, Hans 191, 193, 197, 204,
280, 281
Lamiroy, Béatrice 59, 58, 59, 92,
122, 123, 130, 268, 269, 277
Langacker, Ronald 12, 13, 59, 58,
59, 63, 64, 69, 79, 80, 81, 92, 93,
95, 122, 132, 136, 149, 150, 175,
176, 179, 180, 224, 230–239, 240,
245, 246, 250, 251, 262, 265,
267–272, 278, 283, 284
Lazard, Gilbert 265
Levinson, Stephen 265
Lozowski, Przemyslaw 272
Lunn, Patricia 232
Lyons, John 184, 195, 262
Maldonado, Ricardo 29, 102, 127,
270, 285
Marín-Arrese, Juana 262, 263
Matte Bon, Francisco 263
Miyashita, Hiroyuki 106
Mori, Olga 226
Mortelmans, Tanja 184, 196, 198,
239, 262, 279, 283
Narrog, Heiko 12, 262
Nichols, Joanna 7, 10, 263
Nuyts, Jan 1, 5, 10, 12, 13, 20, 24,
28, 42, 102, 106, 223, 224, 230,
231, 232, 233, 240, 257, 258, 259,
262, 263, 265, 266, 271, 272, 279,
280, 281, 282, 284
Olbertz, Hella 5, 188, 189, 190, 197,
207, 208, 210, 225, 226, 262, 263,
280, 281, 282
Palmer, Frank 7, 10, 11, 20, 37, 41,
182, 184, 262, 265, 271, 273
Pederson, Eric 12, 265
Peirce, Charles 192, 280
Pelyvás, Peter 154, 224, 230, 232,
233, 240, 242, 244, 245, 246, 247,
248, 249, 250, 252, 262, 282, 285
Perkins, John 262
Plungian, Vladimir 11, 20, 115, 116,
121, 181, 262, 266, 271, 283
Porroche, Margareta 3, 15, 37, 42,
55, 63, 83, 268
Radden, Günter 231, 234, 235, 283
Reis, Marga 90, 106
Rooryck, Johan 6, 87, 90, 91, 92,
104, 114, 115, 120, 175, 262, 265,
268, 270, 271, 272, 273, 279
Rosch, Eleonor 284
Ruwet, Nicolas 93, 274
Sanders, Ted 258, 259, 262
Sapir, Edward 10
Schiffrin, Deborah 24
Searle, John 99, 103, 154, 193, 264,
272
Seuren, Pieter 265
Silva-Corvalán, Carmen 5, 184, 185,
188, 190, 207, 213, 215, 216, 243,
280
Speelman, Dirk 260, 264
Sperber, Dan 264, 265
Spooren, Wilbert 258, 259, 262
Squartini, Mario 19, 193, 195, 196,
197, 262, 266, 280, 281
Sweetser, Eve 154, 179, 244, 245,
252, 278
Talmy, Leonard 244, 278
Tasmowski, Liliane 10, 265, 280
Taylor, John 246
Traugott, Elizabeth 6, 12, 23, 69, 70,
76, 78, 80, 87, 88, 93, 94, 95, 150,
151, 152, 153, 155, 156, 157, 158,
167, 172, 174, 175, 179, 196, 198,
233, 245, 277, 278
Usoniene, Aurelia 262
Van de Velde, Freek 266
Vázquez-Laslop, Eugenia 6, 86, 91,
263, 273, 274
Author index 309
Verhagen, Arie 6, 14, 23, 87, 88, 89,
90, 93, 94, 95, 100, 116, 118, 150,
152, 155, 156, 167, 170, 179, 245,
256, 267, 272, 278
Verstraete, Jean-Christophe 231,
262, 280
Vliegen, Maurice 92, 104, 120, 146,
157, 272, 273, 274, 277
Willett, Thomas 7, 10, 18, 19, 264,
266
Wilson, Deirdre 264, 265
Yllera, Alicia 225, 226, 227, 282
Subject index
agentive, 14, 59, 60, 62, 122–149,
164, 170, 175, 178, 185, 218, 221,
250–256, 274
alternation, 13, 15, 61, 83, 154, 155,
278
amenazar, 2, 6, 8, 9, 11, 14, 85–284
animate, 137, 146–148, 151, 277
assessment, 10, 11, 24, 77, 87, 90,
175, 182–187, 202, 211, 233, 241,
251, 265
attenuation, 14, 23, 52, 92, 95, 119,
122, 132, 136, 149, 174, 175, 176,
177, 178, 180, 245, 250, 252, 256,
272, 278, 284
auditory evidence, 18, 19, 29, 30, 31,
36, 267
auxiliary, 1, 2, 70, 249, 252, 279,
282
belief, 6, 18, 20, 27, 28, 36, 37, 44,
45, 55, 69, 76, 89, 113, 152, 157,
167, 186, 189, 201, 203, 207, 208,
210, 211, 233, 280, 283
beloven, 88–94, 117, 146, 150, 155,
156, 170–274
categories, 5, 17, 59, 60, 62, 115,
123, 136, 274
chi-Square, 266, 269, 274, 281
cognition, 11, 157
Cognitive Grammar, 13, 59, 84, 176,
230, 232, 233, 265, 267, 270, 282
cognitive-functional, 3, 13, 86, 92,
183, 224, 232, 253, 257
commitment, 4, 5, 9, 10, 11, 13, 14,
15, 20, 21, 22, 23, 37, 38, 39, 40,
41, 42, 48–56, 85, 92–125, 136,
140–144, 150–153, 157, 161, 168,
181, 185–190, 194–212, 222–231,
244, 250– 277
complementation, 8, 13, 84, 256
conceptualization, 11, 12, 13, 17, 23,
64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 83, 84, 174,
178, 256, 265, 267, 268, 279
conceptualizer, 16, 21, 27, 28, 31,
38–45, 53, 60, 62, 69, 80–84, 125,
129, 130, 176, 181, 187, 200, 211,
234, 246, 267, 268, 271, 274
corpus, 7, 8, 70–75, 158, 169, 226–
229, 263, 282, 283
deber, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, 14, 21, 22,
181–269, 280–284
deduction, 14, 18, 185, 191, 192,
193, 202, 203, 208, 267, 280
deductive, 4, 5, 7, 14, 181, 187, 191–
212, 222, 251, 254, 280
definition, 6, 7, 10, 19, 24, 80, 239,
265, 277
deontic, 14, 86, 130, 132, 133, 135,
149, 154, 182–257, 262, 263, 278,
280–285
devoir, 5, 58, 191, 192, 193, 194,
196, 197, 204, 264, 280
diachronic, 3, 8, 13, 14, 59, 69, 70,
77, 83, 93, 94, 95, 125, 150, 155,
158, 167, 174, 175, 179, 180, 224,
225, 229, 230, 251, 253, 255, 256,
260, 279
discourse, 1, 7, 8, 9, 16, 17, 34, 62,
65, 95, 106, 172, 183, 195, 257,
260, 269
distribution, 7, 15, 16, 17, 36, 48, 49,
56, 59, 60, 86, 96–98, 106, 107,
111, 112, 122, 123, 136, 143, 167,
181–183, 190, 213–215, 219,
222–224, 238, 243, 244, 253, 263,
269
dreigen, 88–94, 117, 120, 150, 156,
157, 167, 170, 272–277
Dutch, 6, 24, 88, 89, 92, 94, 146,
167, 195, 196, 262, 272–282
Subject index 311
dynamic, 13, 14, 59, 63–67, 83, 125–
128, 133, 164, 182, 184, 213–216,
221–230–256, 279–283
English, 6, 7, 58, 88, 89, 94, 103,
115, 150–155, 167, 174, 179, 187,
195, 196, 198, 199, 224, 231, 232,
234, 235, 236, 239, 240, 245, 248,
249, 251, 262, 263, 268, 278, 282,
283
epistemic modality, 1, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9,
10, 11, 83, 87, 92, 115, 181–198,
210, 212, 222, 224, 239–259,
263–266, 274, 278, 279, 282, 283
evidentiality, 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10,
11, 13, 15, 18, 19, 20, 24, 28, 36,
37, 39, 48, 92, 115, 116, 121, 181,
185, 187, 188, 190, 195, 196, 198,
210, 212, 222, 253, 254, 257, 258,
259, 262, 263, 264, 265, 266, 271,
280
focal prominence, 63–69, 83, 174,
178, 270
force, 14, 92, 96, 100–103, 120, 133,
141, 154–157, 167, 170, 189, 212,
238, 239, 240, 241, 244–249,
250–257, 267, 278, 279, 284
French, 6, 23, 58, 87, 90, 150, 191,
195, 204, 262, 265
general knowledge, 28, 31, 189, 194,
200
German, 24, 92, 114, 141, 146, 177,
194, 195, 198, 237, 239, 240, 273,
274, 277, 279
grammaticalization, 12, 93, 153, 196,
226, 227, 233, 239, 255, 257, 272,
277
grounding, 13, 14, 65, 66, 224, 225,
230–255, 278, 283
hearsay, 6, 9, 10, 18–55, 187, 193,
198, 205, 212, 267, 268
human agent, 134, 140, 172
illocutionary force, 1, 14, 86, 92, 96,
102, 103, 112, 117, 120, 156, 160,
168–171, 179, 254, 278, 279
impersonal, 58, 65, 130, 131, 132,
135, 227, 267, 269, 274
induction, 14, 18, 19, 191, 193, 200
inductive, 6, 14, 181, 187, 191, 194,
195, 198, 199, 200, 201, 202, 203,
206, 208, 209, 210, 212, 222, 250,
254
inferential, 4, 5, 10, 11, 14, 18, 19,
20–29, 36–50, 59, 87, 88, 89, 90,
111, 115, 116, 121, 179, 181,
185–212, 222, 226, 241, 254, 262,
264, 267–269, 280, 281
interlocutor, 1, 21, 26, 30, 46, 47, 93,
102, 103, 109, 122, 134, 150–157,
177–179, 194, 211, 215, 238, 273
interplay of forces, 132, 135, 155,
233, 248, 249, 250, 252, 284
intersubjectivity, 13, 16, 23, 24, 45,
46, 53, 56, 82, 268, 279, 281
Latin American Spanish, 7, 9, 263
left-dislocation, 15, 32, 33, 34, 37,
40, 42, 46, 47, 56, 68, 69, 74, 78,
267, 270
lexical reading, 92, 117, 128, 133–
135, 141–148, 154, 157, 161, 164,
173, 271, 274, 277
likelihood, 1, 3, 11, 38, 85, 87, 88,
89, 92, 109, 113, 115, 120, 152,
175, 181–208, 233, 237, 240, 250,
251, 254, 257–260, 266, 272, 274
main clause, 8, 23, 59, 101, 142,
271, 278, 279
may, 2, 6, 11, 22, 23, 32, 37, 38, 39,
40, 41, 43, 47, 52, 58, 63, 65, 68,
75, 78, 83, 87, 88, 89, 91, 92, 94,
100, 108–112, 119, 123, 126, 134,
144, 152–157, 169, 175–179, 182,
184, 185, 186–198, 204, 206, 213,
224, 231–240, 244–249, 250,
257–260, 268–284
312 Subject index
mental operation, 23
metaphor, 150, 152, 153, 154, 155,
157, 179, 245
metonymy, 69, 76, 80, 150, 153,
156, 157, 161, 179
middle voice, 130
modal reading, 6, 14, 97, 117, 118,
126, 128, 131, 132, 133, 134, 139,
142, 143, 144, 145, 146, 147, 148,
149, 152, 154, 155, 156, 162, 163,
164, 168, 170, 171, 185, 236, 249,
251, 272, 283
modes of knowing, 1, 11, 14, 15, 18,
19, 181, 202, 207, 254, 255
must, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 18, 21, 22,
28, 30, 58, 93, 99, 115, 151, 157,
187, 188–212, 224, 228, 229, 231,
235, 239–247, 265, 268–272, 281,
283
narrow scope, 233, 249, 252
necessity, 4, 11, 46, 90, 91, 92, 114–
116, 121, 189–196, 203, 239, 262,
271, 273, 281
obligation, 4, 14, 22, 99, 182, 187,
188, 198, 203, 210, 212, 215, 225,
228, 244, 257, 279, 280, 281
offstage, 79, 80, 81, 82, 175, 234,
271
onstage, 79, 80, 81, 82, 175, 234,
235, 236, 238, 256, 271, 283
parecer, 1–86, 123, 181, 213, 253–
274, 279, 283, 284
parenthetical, 15, 34, 35, 36, 40, 47,
48, 53, 267, 268, 270
participant structure, 1, 8
past tense, 106, 107, 110, 111, 113,
120, 200, 231, 238, 273
peninsular Spanish, 7, 263
perceptual evidence, 4, 5, 153, 193
poder, 2–14, 30, 54, 133, 181–190,
204, 210–218, 221–232, 236,
238–243, 250–257, 264, 279,
280–284
possibility, 4, 11, 46, 53, 64, 65, 68,
90, 91, 92, 104, 106, 114, 115,
149, 152, 157–160, 167, 174,
184–190, 195, 210, 221, 222, 254,
271, 274, 275, 279, 284
potency, 175–180, 234–236, 241–
249, 283
prediction, 6, 14, 85, 86, 87, 88, 92,
100–132, 157, 159, 172, 178, 179,
254, 255, 257, 277
present tense, 102, 106, 107, 109,
111, 112, 113, 120, 126, 231, 232,
234, 237
profile, 132, 133, 175, 176, 180, 224,
232–235, 239–251, 256, 283, 284
prometer, 2, 6, 8, 9, 11, 14, 85–181,
213, 253–263, 271–279, 284
prominence, 13, 59, 63, 64, 66, 68,
95, 103, 118, 138, 144, 147, 179,
206, 218, 230, 233, 242, 247, 250,
252, 256
qualification, 5, 10, 11, 12, 20, 21,
22, 23, 24, 29, 32, 37, 41, 44, 55,
88, 166, 167, 181, 185, 188, 201,
212, 254, 259, 262, 264, 266, 281
raising, 6, 17, 63, 86, 92, 93, 157,
175, 270, 271–274, 279
reasoning, 11, 18, 19, 20, 25, 28, 29,
36, 87, 88, 109, 155, 186– 200,
206–211, 245, 254, 267, 280
Relevance Theory, 9, 264
reliability, 10, 15, 20, 21, 22, 23, 37–
52, 55, 194
reported information, 18, 19, 22, 35,
36, 205
reportive, 14, 187, 195, 196, 197,
198, 199, 202, 204, 205, 206
resultar, 1–20, 48–83, 181, 253–270
semantic classification, 59, 60, 61,
62, 137
Subject index 313
sentence position, 31
source of information, 5, 9, 10, 18,
19, 20, 21, 25, 28, 30, 31, 33, 35,
37, 39, 43, 50, 88, 110, 120, 190,
198, 264, 267
Spanish, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 15–21, 37,
53, 64–68, 70–81, 86, 91, 94, 146,
150, 152, 158–280, 283
speech participants, 23, 43, 45, 65,
66
spoken language, 10, 16, 17, 97,
181–183, 201, 204, 253, 257, 263,
269
stance, 1, 23, 49
subjectification, 9, 12, 13, 14, 56, 59,
69, 70, 76–87, 92– 95, 121, 149,
150, 153, 157, 174–177, 179, 180,
224–230, 234, 235, 236, 244–252,
255, 256, 271, 278
subjectifier, 20, 29, 36, 38, 40
subjectivity, 13, 15, 18, 23, 24, 25,
42–56, 64–69, 83, 84, 93, 95, 103,
156, 230, 235, 251, 253, 258–260,
267
subordinate clause, 8, 59, 142, 173,
191
synchronic, 3, 8, 12, 13, 14, 59, 69,
79, 83, 93–96, 150, 174, 224, 230,
253, 255, 256, 259
tener que, 2, 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 11, 14,
132, 133, 181, 183, 185, 187, 189,
190, 206–213, 219–229, 236, 240,
241–244, 247, 250, 251–255, 257,
262, 280, 281, 282
trajector, 176, 177, 234, 235, 249,
250, 256, 270, 283
transparency, 12, 13, 14, 59, 58, 59,
60, 69, 78, 83, 92–95, 121–125,
130, 149, 175, 181, 213, 255, 256,
271
transparent, 13, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62,
63, 76, 92, 122, 125, 135, 136,
148, 149, 175, 213, 222, 255, 256,
257, 269, 277
Tuyuca, 10
verb type, 59, 61, 62, 83, 123, 255,
270
verbal periphrases, 4
viewpoint, 123, 125, 126, 128, 129,
130, 148, 237, 255, 274
visual, 11, 18, 19, 29, 30, 31, 36,
145, 200, 267, 277, 280
wide scope, 233, 249, 252
written language, 16, 17, 34, 59–62,
181–183, 253, 257, 263, 266, 269
