Introduction 11
Subjectiﬁcation is a factor driving semantic change precisely because there is
always a strong implicature that what the speaker says is representative of her
beliefs/conclusions, and therefore her attitude.
Many linguistic phenomena are sensitive to the construal of information as
more or less subjective. The category of deixis (Jakobson 1957; Lyons 1977;
Anderson & Keenan 1985; Fillmore 1997) is probably the most thoroughly
investigated with respect to its subjective properties, and will be discussed in
more detail in Section 1.4. below. Other linguistic categories of particular
interest include logophoric pronouns (Sells 1987; Stirling 1993), switch-
reference (Stirling 1993), unbound reﬂexives (Zubin et al. 1990; N.Li 1992;
Kemmer 1995), predicate types (Field 1997), complementiser choice (Givon
1980; N. McCawley 1978; Watanabe 1984), aspect (Wright 1995) and tense
(Fleischman 1990). This list is by no means exhaustive and there are many other
linguistic categories that may beneﬁt from an analysis which takes into account
the subjective properties of language. (For more recent overviews and bibliogra-
phies of the range of linguistic phenomena sensitive to subjectivity see
Fludernik 1993, Stein & Wright 1995, Duchan et al. 1995.)
The subjective properties of evidential forms has been addressed to some
degree in the literature (Palmer 1986; Chafe 1986; Aksu-Koç & Slobin 1986;
Friedman 1995). Evidential forms are indicators of subjective construal because
they express the speaker (or conceptualiser)’s own perspective with respect to
their knowledge of the information encoded in some proposition.
1.4 Displaced subjectivity and the deictic centre
From Bühler to Langacker, the characterisations of subjectivity presented in this
chapter have assumed the actual speaker as the deictic origin/conceptualiser, the
zero coordinates representing here, now and I. In many, if not most, speech
situations, speakers do take themselves and the current speech situation as the
reference point for deictic orientation. However, it is also true that speakers
may shift reference points to some coordinate that does not represent them-
selves as the here, now and I, resulting in the representation of someone else’s
attitudes and experiences.
The ability to ‘displace’ subjectivity, construing states of aﬀairs from a
vantage point other than the here and now of the speaker/conceptualiser, is a
crucial property of human cognition and human language. Without this
property, it would be impossible to express past events, future hopes and
12 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
expectations, or the point of view of someone other than oneself. These are
often identiﬁed in introductory Linguistics textbooks as one of the fundamental
properties of human language (e.g. Finegan et al. 1992, Fromkin et al. 1999),
alongside other essential properties such as arbitrariness of signs and the
discreetness of symbols.
Much of the work on displaced subjectivity in linguistics has focussed on
deictic coding in the distinction between direct and indirect speech representa-
tion (e.g. Coulmas (ed.) 1986a; Janssen & van der Wurﬀ (eds) 1996), as in (7)
and (8) below.
(7) Peter said that he had had a wild party last Saturday at his house.
(8) Peter said, “I had a wild party last Saturday at my house.”
In (7), which is an example of indirect speech representation, the time of the
party (last Saturday) is indexed to the time of the actual utterance (with the
actual speaker) and is not related to when Peter (the reported speaker) may
have said anything. Similarly, the use of third person pronouns in the content
of speech clause indicates that the information about whose party and whose
house is indexed to the actual speaker, not the reported speaker. The deictic
orientation of the content of speech as indexed to the speaker of that utterance
is maintained such that it can be argued that only the actual speaker’s subjectiv-
ity is expressed.
In contrast, in (8), which is an example of direct speech representation, the
time (last Saturday) and place (my house) of the party and the identity of the
host (I) are indexed to the time, place and identity of the reported speech event
(i.e. the time and place when Peter made the utterance). They are not indexed
in any way to the time and place of the person who uttered (8). The deictic
orientation of the content of speech expresses the subjective stance of the
reported speaker, who might not be the actual speaker. This is a shift away from
the ‘default’ deictic orientation which takes as its centre the time and place of
the actual speech situation, and the identity of the actual speaker.
Examples of direct speech representation like (8) are perhaps the most
straightforward evidence that subjective language is not simply about the
indexation of information to the identity, attitudes and experiences of the
actual speaker (the zero coordinates of the here, now and I, in Bühler’s deictic
ﬁeld). The deictic properties of subjective language enable it to be displaced, to
represent a perspective other than the current speaker. Subjectivity in language
is not simply about representing the speaker’s imprint. Rather it is about the
representation of some designated experiencer’s imprint, which may or may not
Introduction 13
0coincide with the identity of the speaker. It is for this reason that, like Lang-
acker and others, I prefer the terms ‘conceptualiser’ or ‘experiencer’ when
talking about the one whose subjectivity is being expressed.
The notion of subjectivity displaced from its default deictic orientation is
not restricted to the contrast between direct and indirect speech representation.
The use of displaced subjectivity in discourse has long been associated with
styles of literary language, as complex conﬁgurations of subjective ‘voices’
(omniscient narrator, character, character-as-narrator, etc.) are represented in
ﬁctional narrative and other literary genres. Most of the work on the linguistics
of subjectivity and its displacement, and the role of discourse perspective in the
choice of linguistic forms, has been published by linguistically-oriented literary
theorists (e.g. Hamburger 1973; Cohn 1978; Banﬁeld 1982; Ehrlich 1990;
Fludernik 1993). They have shifted the focus of the study of subjectivity in
literature from its aﬀects on literary style to its linguistic structure.
Since its origins are in literary theory, the study of the linguistics of dis-
placed subjectivity has focussed almost exclusively on written literary narrative.
However, as the analysis of narrative retelling presented in the second half of
this book will demonstrate, the displacement of subjectivity is not restricted to
literary discourse, but is also an essential property of narration, regardless of the
medium (this point is also made in Polanyi 1982, Tannen 1989 and Labov
1997). Thus the frameworks developed to account for the relationship between
linguistic structure and the subjective orientation in literary language can be
applied to spoken language, albeit with some modiﬁcation to account for
properties of interactive discourse.
The particular approach to the displacement of subjective orientation
adopted in this work is a version of Deictic Centre Theory, which was developed
by the SUNY Buﬀalo Centre for Cognitive Science to analyse displaced subjec-
tivity in ﬁctional narrative (Rappaport et al. 1989; Duchan et al. 1995). The
‘Deictic Centre’ approach was formulated in the context of cognitive science
research to augment existing theoretical approaches to literary subjectivity with
principles from linguistics, psychology and computer science.
Deictic Centre Theory,
… attempts to model the consequences of shifting deixis out of the here/now,
I/you of face-to-face interaction, where it is anchored in real world situations,
into the purely textual realm of ﬁction, where deixis is cut adrift from its
physical moorings… (Zubin & Hewitt 1995:130)
14 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
The deictically oriented ‘window’ onto the narrative world crucially involves the
establishment of an origin of perspective (a shifting localisation in time, space
and person from which the story world is exposed to the reader/listener…”
(Ibid.:132)) and an object of perspective (“the content of the deictic window as
it moves along its spatial, temporal and personal coordinates throughout the
story world” (Ibid.:132)). By deﬁnition, the object of perspective must lie
somewhere within the story world. The origin of perspective however may lie
anywhere within or without the story world. These properties of the deictic
window are illustrated in Figure 1.3 below.
The degree to which the origin and the object of perspective are located in
story world
Deictic Center “Window:”
spatial/temporal/psychological
coordinates establishing a deictic
perspective in the narrated world.
origin of
perspective
content, or
object of
perspective
Figure 1.3Object and origin of perspective
(from Zubin & Hewitt 1995)
the same domain represents the degree to which information is perspectivised.
The issue of degree of perspectivisation is particularly relevant to the study of
narrative where diﬀerent characters know diﬀerent things, some of which are
accessible to anyone in the discourse world (including the speaker and hearer in
the actual speech situation) — objective facts about the story world. Other types
of information are accessible to only one character (e.g. their thoughts and
Introduction 15
perceptions). In this case, the speaker and hearer in the actual speech situation
have the ‘privilege’ of seeing into that character’s mind.
Both the origin and content of perspective are interpretable only through the
distribution of deictic forms, including forms with “lexicalised” deictic interpreta-
tions such as directional verbs (Fillmore 1975) and epithets (Banﬁeld 1982). (See
Wiebe 1989 for a comprehensive list.) Deictic Centre Theory is thus a practical
application of the basic semantic notions of subjectivity and deixis to account for
the use of language in ﬁctional narrative. However, the principles of Deictic
Centre Theory apply equally well to conversational narratives, and narratives of
‘lived experiences’. It has proven very useful for the analysis of the distribution
of evidentiality and other epistemological stance coding in narrative retellings.
1.5 Summary
Subjectivity has been characterised here as part of the conceptual structure of
information that lies behind its linguistic ‘packaging’. The subjective construal
of some state of aﬀairs is mitigated by the limitations of the human cognitive
system and is structured according to the nature of this system. To this extent,
it is a cognitive notion.
The subjective representation of information in particular discourse
contexts is also mitigated by both the speaker’s assessment of the context
(including her relationship to her interlocutor(s)) and her assessment of the
information itself. Speakers legitimate their utterances by indexing the informa-
tion appropriately to the relationship between interlocutors and the speaker’s
involvement (or lack of involvement) in the information they communicate.
The adoption of a particular subjective orientation thus relies on contextual,
social and cultural knowledge necessary for the interaction, and not just knowl-
edge of the linguistic system. To this extent, subjectivity is a pragmatic notion.
Subjectivity therefore touches on both cognitive and pragmatic phenomena
that motivate the deployment of linguistic forms in discourse. It is not itself a
linguistic category nor does it pick out a formally identiﬁable set of morphemes
in a language. Nevertheless, there is a great deal of systematicity in the eﬀect of
subjectivity on both the choice of linguistic forms and on their grammatical and
semantic development. Understanding the nature of this systematicity, and the
extralinguistic phenomena that motivate it is one of the questions driving this
research into the pragmatics and linguistic expression of epistemological
assessment that is the major theme of this book.
</TARGET "1">
<TARGET "2" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Evidentiality"
SUBJECT "Pragmatics & Beyond, New Series, Volume 87"
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "220"
WIDTH "150"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 2
Evidentiality
This chapter presents a critical overview of evidential semantics and evidential
systems as they have been deﬁned and discussed in the Linguistics literature.
The term ‘evidentiality’ has been in use for some time. Jacobsen (1986)
accredits Franz Boas with the ﬁrst use of the term in descriptive linguistics,
applied to Kwakiutl “suﬃxes expressing subjective relation … those expressing
subjective knowledge” (Boas 1911:443, cited in Jacobsen (1986:4). However,
like many other labels for ‘linguistic’ categories (e.g. aspect, topic, focus), there
has been considerable confusion in how to apply the term to particular linguis-
tic phenomena. For some, evidentiality is a minor grammatical category
manifested in a small number of the world’s languages. For others, evidentiality
is a semantic category which may be realised grammatically, lexically or
paraphrastically. For example, Floyd (1993) applies the term to a
grammaticalised paradigm in Quechua (see Section 2.3.1 for a detailed descrip-
tion), while Biber & Finegan’s (1989) English ‘epistemic markers’ represent the
range of parts of speech in English.
The semantic scope of evidentiality has also been lacking a deﬁnitive
analysis. For some, forms are evidential only if they specify type of source of
information. For others, the core semantics of the evidential category centre
around the expression of speaker attitude towards knowledge rather than the
speciﬁcation of knowledge acquisition. Part of the lack of consistency in the
semantic characterisation of evidentiality arises from its lack of a clear deﬁni-
tion as a grammatical category. It is therefore unclear whether forms should be
characterised as evidential only if evidentiality can be analysed as part of the
core semantics of a form, and not as a conventional implicature. But the lack of
consistency in deﬁning evidential meanings also arises from the lack of a clear
boundary between speciﬁcation of source of information and speciﬁcation of
speaker attitude towards the information and its source.
The ﬁrst half of the chapter examines how the semantics of evidentiality has
been characterised in previous work, focusing particularly on how the relation-
ship between source, speaker attitude and evidentiality. Although it is typically
assumed that evidential categories involve both source of information and
18 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
speaker commitment in their semantics, discussion of their relationship has
been somewhat sporadic. A more comprehensive analysis of the relationship
between source and attitude, as encoded in evidential forms, is attempted here.
The second half of the chapter presents a description of grammaticalised
evidential systems in three unrelated languages: Quechua, Makah and Tibetan
as an illustration of diﬀerent types of grammatical evidential systems that have
been the focus of the study of evidentiality in linguistics so far.
2.1 Evidential semantics
Chafe (1986:262) divides approaches to evidential semantics into two types:
broad and narrow. The narrow deﬁnition restricts evidential meaning to
speciﬁcation of types of source of information and says little else about the epi-
stemological relationship of the information to the speaker. The broad interpre-
tation, the one adopted in this study, is that evidentiality reﬂects speaker’s
attitudes towards knowledge. The main diﬀerences between the two
characterisations are whether one considers the core semantics of evidential
forms to be about where speakers got their information from (i.e. the source of
information) or whether they are about the expression of the speaker’s subjec-
tive relationship to the information they express (i.e. the status of their knowl-
edge). This is based in part on how the information was acquired, but also on
other contextual factors.
2.1.1 Evidentiality as source of information
The term ‘evidentiality’ literally evokes the notion of evidence: the sources from
which a speaker comes to know something that they want to express in lan-
guage. Jakobson (1957 [1971]:135) describes evidentials as coding, “… the
alleged source3
of information about the narrated event.”. Bybee (1985:184)
similarly describes evidentials as “…markers that indicate something about
source of the information in the proposition.” The Quechua and Tuyuca
examples in (1) and (2) represent canonical evidential meanings according to
source-based characterisation.
(1) Quechua
waala-man-shi Wankayuu-ta li-n’a
tomorrow-goal-rep Huancayo-acc go-fut
‘He will go to Huancayo tomorrow, (I hear).’ (Floyd 1993:204)
Evidentiality 19
(2) Tuyuca
díiga apé-wi
soccer play-3sg.dir
‘He played soccer (I saw him play)’
(adapted from Barnes 1984, cited in Palmer 1986)
In both (1) and (2), the forms in boldface mark that the propositional informa-
tion in the sentence was acquired from some particular type of information
source. In (1), the clitic -shi codes that the prediction that he will be going to
Huancayo tomorrow is known because someone else told the speaker. In (2), the
Tuyuca suﬃx -wi codes that the speaker knows that he played soccer because he
actually saw the event — a direct visual perceptual experience.
The source-based interpretation of evidentiality has often been used as the
semantic basis for describing morphological evidential systems, like those found
in Quechua and Tuyuca. The Quechua and Tuyuca evidential forms in (1) and
(2) are both members of paradigmatic sets that have been described as dividing
semantic space according to sources of information. Willett’s (1988) typological
study of grammaticalised evidential systems has been particularly inﬂuential in
maintaining a characterisation of evidentiality in terms of source of informa-
tion. Although Willett does classify evidentiality as a modal category, “it
participates in the expression of the speaker’s attitude.” (p.52), his typology of
evidential semantic categories is ﬁrmly grounded in types of information source
— categories like visually attested, reported, inferring — rather than in types of
attitudes — categories like certainty, conﬁrmation and commitment.
The source-based analysis of evidentiality seems to work well for that small
subset of languages, which have paradigmatic morphological evidential mark-
ing. Typologically, these systems are the exception however (Palmer 1986). For
many languages, it is unclear whether a true grammatical contrast has devel-
oped to distinguish types of information source or whether information source
is merely a conventional implicature. The fuzziness of the distinction is more
apparent when one casts the net wider to encompass languages with less
morphologically elaborate means of coding evidential meanings, as in the case
of some Balkan Slavic languages (e.g. Macedonian and Bulgarian).
Macedonian and Bulgarian are two languages whose evidential forms have
been analysed not only in terms of information source (e.g. Lunt 1952; Jakob-
son 1957; DeBray 1980), but also in terms of ‘speaker attitude’ (Friedman 1986;
Fielder 1995). Since Macedonian reportive evidentiality will be considered in
some detail in the second half of this book, it is useful to consider the existing
semantic analyses of its evidential system here.
20 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
The evidential system in Macedonian and Bulgarian is encoded in the system
of past tense contrasts: a ‘simple past (sp)’ inﬂection and an ‘L-form past (l)’
construction, consisting of an inﬂected auxiliary (based on sum ‘to be’), and an
L-participle.4
The semantic contrast in these tense forms has been described as
‘witnessed/non-witnessed’, or ‘non-reportive/reportive’ — both making reference
to information source. The examples in (3) and (4) illustrate this distinction. The
evidential contrast, as traditionally described, maps nicely onto Willett’s (1988)
typology of evidential categories: the simple past codes information as ‘attested’
while the L-form past codes information as ‘indirect/reported’.
(3) Taa mesi leb
3sg bake:sp bread
‘She baked bread (I saw her do it).’ = attested
(4) Taa mesila leb
3sg bake:l bread
‘She baked bread (I didn’t see her do it/I was told).’ = indirect/reported
Friedman (1986:168) however argues that information about the nature of the
source is contextually determined in this opposition,
It will be shown that evidentiality, which in the languages discussed here
actually involves the speaker’s attitude toward the information — source being
an implication derived from that attitude — is the chief contextual variant
meaning … in the Balkan Slavic… These forms are thus not special evidential
forms but rather forms contextually capable of expressing evidentiality…
Under this interpretation, the semantics of the evidential distinction in Balkan
Slavic is based on the degree to which the speaker has a strong belief state with
respect to the information, and is therefore prepared to ‘vouch for’ it, and not
on the type of source per se. According to Friedman, interpretation of the
nature of the source arises pragmatically from the conventional inference that
if speakers are prepared to vouch for information, then they are likely to have
directly witnessed or experienced the events/situations they describe. Informa-
tion which is not ‘vouched for’ is less likely to have been experienced directly.
The contrast illustrated in the translations of (3) and (4) ought to be reinter-
preted as in (3¢) and (4¢).
(3¢) Taa mesi leb
3sg bake:sp bread
‘She baked bread (I vouch for it).’
Evidentiality 21
(4¢) Taa mesila leb
3sg bake:l bread
‘She baked bread (I am not prepared to vouch for it).’
Under this interpretation, the contrast in the Balkan system is not about source
of information at all, but rather about speaker attitude. However, rather than
reanalyse evidentiality as the coding of speaker attitude (i.e. adopt a ‘broad’
interpretation of evidentiality), Friedman’s solution was to reanalyse the Balkan
Slavic system as one that reﬂects status (Jakobson’s 1957 ‘shifter’ category of
speaker attitude) and to avoid the term ‘evidential’. This strategy is clearly
derived from the fact that Friedman was working from Jakobson’s ‘narrow’
characterisation of evidentiality (within which the Balkan system was classiﬁed
as evidential and not status), and was also concerned with identifying the core
semantics (‘gesamtbeteutung’) of the contrast.
Friedman’s reanalysis of the Balkan ‘evidential’ system in terms of status,
with ‘information source’ as an implicature, also derives from the cross-
linguistic tendency for direct perceptual or private experience to result in a
strong belief in the information. In contrast, information that is acquired by
indirect means, such as hearsay, results in a weaker belief in the information
(Givon 1982; Willett 1988). In the case of Macedonian and Bulgarian, the
simple past codes a strong belief in the validity of the information, thereby
implying that it was acquired by direct experience. Friedman’s analysis of
Balkan Slavic illustrates some of the problems with a narrow source based
interpretation of evidentiality — that it fails to capture this relatively systematic
relationship between speciﬁcation of source of information and type of ‘speaker
attitude’ (also called ‘evaluation’, ‘validation’ or ‘commitment’).
The strength of the relationship between direct experience/witness eviden-
tials and a high degree of speaker commitment makes it tempting to analyse
direct evidentiality as reﬂecting a more ‘subjective’ representation of informa-
tion, since it encodes information that the speaker/conceptualiser was
experientially involved with. Under this interpretation, indirect evidentiality
would represent a less ‘subjective’ perspective, since it encodes information
outside of the speaker/conceptualiser’s immediate domain of experience.
However, there is plenty of evidence that the relationship between evidential
categories and speaker commitment is not ﬁxed, at least with respect to some
evidential categories. While the use of a direct evidential may necessarily
represent the speaker as more involved, and the use of a reportive evidential
may represent the speaker as more ‘distanced’ from the event, these parameters
22 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
are independent of whether the speaker believes in the validity of the informa-
tion they report. This is especially true of reportive evidentiality where degree
of speaker commitment is also connected to assessment of the reliability of the
reported source. For example,
(5) Barbara told me that John was cheating on his wife.
The way that interlocutors will assess their knowledge of the proposition in (5),
John cheating on his wife, is wholly dependent on what they know about the
reported speaker, Barbara. If Barbara is known to be a trustworthy source, then
the hearer might infer that the speaker of (5) believes in the truth of John’s
inﬁdelity — a high degree of speaker commitment. If the reported speaker is
known to be an untrustworthy gossip then the hearer might infer that the
speaker is dubious of the truth of the information. The degree of speaker
commitment in these reportive cases may also be signalled prosodically (and by
facial expression in face-to-face interaction). This further suggests that the
relationship between reportive evidentiality and degree of speaker commitment
is not ﬁxed by the nature of reportiveness per se.
The degree to which reportive information represents a strong or weak
commitment to validity also depends on the relationship between the interlocu-
tors themselves in the current speech situation. What is at issue here is the
assumption of ‘authority’ over information, where the person who has assumed
‘authority’ is understood as taking responsibility for the validity of the informa-
tion. Assumption of authority, whether it is self- or socially-imposed, will
inevitably aﬀect not only the evidential categories that are used, as some of the
papers in Hill & Irvine 1992 have shown, but also how they are used to impli-
cate diﬀering degrees of commitment. For instance, the person who has lesser
authority in a speech situation might cite someone who has more authority in
order to demonstrate their strong belief in the information, and perhaps to
persuade their interlocutors to adopt the same degree of commitment and
belief. In this context, reportive evidentiality would be used to ‘vouch for’
information, the converse of what would be expected according to Friedman’s
analysis of the Balkan system. In other contexts, speakers might choose to
represent information as a report in order to signal their lack of commitment or
ambivalence with respect to their epistemological assessment. In these circum-
stances they shift responsibility for the truth of the information to the reported
speaker, essentially washing their own hands of the aﬀair. This is the expected
outcome under Friedman’s analysis of the semantic/pragmatic relationship
between source of information and speaker attitude towards that information.
Evidentiality 23
It seems then that evidential meanings analysed in terms of source of
information do not behave as a coherent category with respect to their relation-
ship to attitudinal notions like ‘commitment’. Direct evidential meanings do
seem to consistently imply a high degree of speaker commitment cross-linguis-
tically, while reportive evidentiality is independent of the degree to which
speakers might ‘vouch for’ the information they assert.
In terms of this relationship, only the inferential evidential category can be
analysed as semantically (vs. pragmatically) representing the strength of
speakers’ degrees of commitment to the validity of their knowledge (cf. report-
ive evidentials, where degree of commitment is contextually determined).
Evidence for this is found in epistemic modal systems, which code inference as
a category but which diﬀerentiate diﬀering degrees of speaker attitude within
that category. For example, in (6), the use of an English epistemic modal signals
that the speaker infers that s/he was hit by the addressee but the choice of modal
form (must or might) signals a diﬀerence in the degree of speaker commitment
to the validity of the assertion ‘you hit me’. Similarly in the Quechua example
in (7), the use of the ‘conjecture’ marker -chi signals not only that the speaker
has inferred that the addressee hit him but also that the speaker makes this
assertion with a certain (low) degree of ‘commitment’.
(6) You must/might have hit me.
(7) Quechua
Qam-pis maqa-ma-shka-nki-chi
you-also hit-1obj-perf-2-inf
‘You also hit me (a group of people beat me up and I think you were one
of them)’ (adapted from Weber 1986:139)
This raises the issue of whether epistemic modals should be classiﬁed as
evidential at all, since their meanings seem to have more to do with speaker
attitude or commitment than with speciﬁcation of source of information.
Under a strict ‘source-based’ account of evidentiality, their meanings would fall
outside the parameters for according evidential status. However there have been
alternative proposals for the scope of evidential semantics which cast a wide net
to incorporate forms like the epistemic modals illustrated above.
2.1.2 Evidentiality as attitudes towards knowledge
One solution to the problems associated with source-based deﬁnitions of
evidential meanings is to consider these meanings to fall within the larger
24 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
domain of ‘Epistemic Modality’ — this being the basis for linguistic
categorisation. As epistemic modals, evidentials encode both speaker attitude
and type of source of information — other epistemic meanings encode aspects
of speaker attitude without making reference to source of information. This is
the approach adopted by Palmer (1986) and Willett (1988) in their typologically
based accounts of grammaticalised evidentiality. Another solution is adopted by
Chafe (1986). He extends the notion of evidentiality to cover all phenomena
associated with the expression of epistemological assessment, independent of its
grammatical status. Let us consider these approaches in more detail.
Palmer’s (1986) aim was to develop a typological account of the coding of
‘epistemic modality’ in grammatical systems. He states that the term epistemic,
“…should apply not simply to modal systems that basically involve the notions
of possibility and necessity, but to any modal system that indicates the degree
of commitment by the speaker to what he says.” (p.51)
Evidentiality is classiﬁed ‘narrowly’ as those forms that encode types of source
of information. However Palmer’s classiﬁcation diﬀers from the source-based
characterisations, described in the previous section, since it includes eviden-
tiality under the broader rubric of ‘epistemic modality’. This classiﬁcation thus
explicitly acknowledges that the coding of source of information may also
reﬂect the strength of speakers’ assessment of their knowledge resulting from
the manner of knowledge acquisition. However the independence of source of
information and degree of speaker commitment has already been established.
Palmer’s claim that the whole ‘purpose’ of evidentiality is to code speaker
commitment is therefore too strong. Degree of speaker commitment is an
inference that can be drawn from evidential use, but one cannot claim that
speakers use evidentials solely to express their degree of commitment.
Epistemic modals, which do not distinguish types of knowledge source, fall
under the rubric of ‘judgments’. These are forms that represent the reasoning of
speakers that led them to the propositions expressed in an utterance — an
expression of an inferential epistemological stance. Judgments are further
subclassiﬁed into deductions, assumptions and speculations. English epistemic
modals are judgments according to this classiﬁcation.
Epistemic modal systems in diﬀerent languages therefore are characterised
according to whether they code categories of evidentiality, judgments or both in
their grammar. For example, Palmer classiﬁes English as a language with only
judgments in its grammatical system (i.e. the epistemic modal auxiliaries), while
German is claimed to have both evidentials and judgments. Palmer also notes
Evidentiality 25
that it is rare for languages to code only evidentials in their grammar (Tuyuca
is cited as an exceptional case) and that most grammatical systems of epistemic
modality distinguish some combination of evidentials and judgments. It is also
common for morphological evidential paradigms such as those found in
Quechua, Tuyuca and many other Amerindian languages to also contain non-
epistemic forms such as negative morphemes, counterfactuals, etc.
Palmer’s division of labour between evidentials and judgments results in a
taxonomic classiﬁcation of epistemic modality: if a (grammatical) form
expresses ‘speaker commitment’ then it is an epistemic modal; if it explicitly
mentions source of information then it is an evidential, otherwise it is a judg-
ment. Figure 2.1 is my formulation of Palmer’s model of Epistemic Modality as
a classiﬁcation of the semantics of grammatical forms.
Palmer’s goal was to classify a range of grammatical forms cross-linguistic-
Epistemic Modality
Evidentials Judgements
Sensory
Evidence Hearsay Speculation Deduction
Figure 2.1Palmer’s model of Epistemic Modality
ally. One advantage of his system is that it accounts for grammatical systems
where a single paradigmatic set includes forms that code source of information
and forms that make no reference to source of information.
Despite the neatness of this classiﬁcation, Palmer does note that the
boundaries between evidentials and judgments are often blurred,
It would be a futile exercise to try to decide whether a particular system (or
even a term in a system in some cases) is evidential rather than a judgment.
There is often no clear distinction because speakers’ judgments are naturally
often related to the evidence they have. (Ibid.:70)
26 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
Some diﬃculties in equating evidential forms with particular interpretations of
speaker belief states in the previous section have already been identiﬁed. The
English examples in (8) and (9) are a further illustration of this problem,
(8) It looks like it is going to rain (= Speaker has used visual evidence (e.g.
dark clouds in the sky) to support the prediction that it is going to rain).
(8¢) It looks like it’s going to rain, but I’ll be glad if you tell me I’m wrong.
(8≤) ??It’s going to rain, but I’ll be glad if you tell me I’m wrong.
(9) It looks like I’ll have to completely rewrite this chapter. (= Speaker
deduced that she will have to rewrite the chapter based on a range of
unspeciﬁed evidence).
(9¢) It looks like I’ll have to completely rewrite this chapter, but I’ll be glad if
you tell me I’m wrong.
(9≤) ??I’ll have to completely rewrite this chapter, but I’ll be glad if you tell me
I’m wrong.
Both (8) and (9) begin with the construction It looks like, which literally makes
reference to information acquired by visual perception. Furthermore, use of It
looks like in (8) and (9) has an implication that the speaker has a weaker belief
state with respect to the proposition than if they had not used the construction
at all. This is illustrated in (8¢) and (9¢), where the speaker opens herself to the
possibility of contradiction, thus indicating a fairly weak belief state. In (8≤) and
(9≤), which lack the evidential qualiﬁcation, it is odd for the speaker to allow for
the possibility of contradiction.
The most natural interpretation of (8) is that the speaker knows that it is
going to rain because s/he has seen some evidence of it (e.g. rain clouds). The
construction is therefore ‘evidential’, under a ‘source of knowledge’ based
interpretation. In (9) however, it is diﬃcult to infer what kind of visual evi-
dence was involved in concluding that the speaker will have to rewrite a
chapter. My ﬁrst interpretation of the evidence behind (9) is that the speaker
was told (by her adviser or editor) that she would have to write the chapter
over, but it may also be the speaker’s own assessment of her work.
Both (8) and (9) involves situations where it can be assumed that the
speaker has deduced the proposition from some kind of evidence. The nature
of the source of information is less predictable in (9) than in (8), despite the
use of the same epistemic modal construction. Does this make the construc-
tion It looks like… a judgment rather than an evidential? Palmer classiﬁes
deductions as a kind of judgment, yet he also concedes that use of some
Evidentiality 27
evidentials implies deductive thinking.
The construction It looks like… is an example of an epistemic construction
that has properties of both evidentials and judgments, depending on the
context. However the same issues arise for grammaticalised epistemic modals,
illustrated in (10) and (11) below. As in the examples in (8) and (9) above, the
nature and recoverability of the source of information is more or less deter-
mined by the context. In (10), the context makes clear what kind of evidence
was used. In (11), it is less recoverable.
(10) [Looking in my purse]
I must have lost my wallet!
[= I have evidence that led me to the conclusion that I left my wallet at
the store. The evidence is visual (i.e. I cannot see my wallet)]
(11) [Hearing the football scores]
Morris must be happy about his football team’s victory.
[= I have evidence that led me to the conclusion that Morris would be
happy about his football teams victory. (not clear what the evidence is)]
Another example of the problems in identifying ‘evidential’ forms separate from
‘judgments’ is the aforementioned Balkan Slavic past tense contrast (simple past
vs. L-form). Friedman’s (1986) analysis, framed in terms of ‘speaker commit-
ment’ rather than ‘evidentiality’, suggests that the Balkan Slavic past tense
system is predominantly judgmental rather than evidential, in Palmer’s sense.
(Although Palmer 1986 does not include Balkan Slavic in his survey.) However,
there is a conventionalised matching of past tense forms to diﬀerent types of
evidence in Balkan Slavic. The use of simple past forms is associated with direct
experience while the use of L-form past is typically associated with hearsay
contexts.
Willett’s (1988) typology of grammaticalised evidentiality provides one
solution to the problems identiﬁed above with a simple ‘evidential/judgment’
classiﬁcation of epistemological assessment. Willett proposed a tripartite
classiﬁcation of evidentiality into direct/attested, indirect/report and indirect/
inferring (each of which may be further divided into subcategories). By includ-
ing the category of ‘inferring’ as an evidential category, Willett avoids the
problem of deciding which forms overtly express source of information and
which only imply the use of evidence to reach a conclusion.5
It is clear that the focus on grammatical systems, evident in both Willett and
Palmer’s typologically based analyses of evidentiality, has led to divisions between
those forms which express types of source of information and those forms which
28 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
express speakers’ attitude towards knowledge. However, the amount of overlap
and fuzzy boundaries between what counts as ‘type of evidence’ and what
counts as ‘speaker commitment’ suggests that this distinction is to some extent
an artefact of the questions generated by such typological research.
Another signiﬁcant attempt to characterise evidentiality in terms of speaker
attitude is found in Chafe (1986), which is a description of English evidential
coding. As English has few, if any, grammaticalised markers of evidentiality,
Chafe’s characterisation is necessarily unrestricted with respect to the range of
forms he considers as potentially evidential. The result is a characterisation of
evidential semantics that is independent of any grammatical realisation.
Chafe’s characterises evidentiality as expressions of “attitudes towards
knowledge” (p.262). Like Palmer, Chafe’s characterisation assumes the belief
state of the speaker resulting from the assessment of knowledge (= ‘speaker
commitment’) as the primary motivating force behind the semantics and
pragmatics of evidentiality. However his classiﬁcation of evidential categories is
signiﬁcantly diﬀerent from Palmer’s subdivision of evidentials and judgments.
In Chafe’s classiﬁcation, evidentials reﬂect an inherent relationship between
source of knowledge (sensory evidence, language, hypothesis) and type of
knowledge (belief, induction, hearsay, deduction). These relationships are
illustrated in Figure 2.2.
The acquisition of diﬀerent types of knowledge invariably leads to an
Source of Mode of
Knowledge
???
evidence
language hearsay
hypothesis
k
n
o
w
l
e
d
g
e
reliable
unreliable
Knowledge
Matched
Against
verbal resources
expectations
Knowing
belief
induction
deduction
Figure 2.2Chafe’s model of Knowledge Types (Chafe 1986:263)
assessment of its reliability, “the likelihood of its [information] being a fact”
(p.264). The assessment of reliability is therefore also a part of the meaning of
evidential forms. For example induction (type of knowledge acquired by
Evidentiality 29
perceptual experience) is listed as more reliable than hearsay, which is more
reliable than deduction (type of knowledge based on hypothesis).
According to Chafe’s formulation then, the semantics of evidentiality is
about matching of our type of knowledge, established on the basis of some
source, against some measure of reliability. That evidentiality is not simply
about source of information, but rather what types of knowledge result from
these sources, acknowledges that evidential meanings are not simply derived
from facts about the world. It implies that cognitive and pragmatic processes
mediate between the way that information is actually acquired and the way we
talk about the status of our knowledge.
The acknowledgment of conceptual and pragmatic bases for evidential
coding comes close to the notion of ‘epistemological stance’ which is outlined
in the next chapter. Epistemological stance is about the construal of informa-
tion with respect to the status of knowledge. To this extent it ﬁts with Chafe’s
deﬁnition of evidentiality as about ‘attitudes towards knowledge’. However
the relationships between ‘source of knowledge’ and ‘mode of knowing’ in
Figure 2.2 imply a direct relationship between the type of knowledge we have
and the way we talk about it, ignoring the subjective and indexical properties of
evidentiality. This model implies, for example, that reportive information must
be talked about with reportive marking. There is little room for the kinds of
mismatches between source of knowledge evidential expression that occur in
actual discourse.
Chafe makes a distinction between induction, the type of knowledge based
on evidence, and deduction, the type of knowledge based on hypothesis. Since
induction is based on some kind of evidence, it includes evidential expressions
of both direct perception (which speciﬁes the type of evidence) and inference
(which does not indicate the nature of the evidence). In contrast, deduction
involves reasoning beyond inference from evidence since is matches the
evidence against some kind of hypothesis. These evidential contrasts are
represented in (12a–c).
(12) (from Chafe 1986:266, 267, 269)
a. I see her coming down the hill (Induction: Sensory Experience)
b. It must have been a kid (Induction: Inference)
c. Adults presumably are capable of purely logical thought. (Deduction)
Chafe’s model does not account for the fact that all modes of knowing must be
based on some kind of evidence. The diﬀerence between sensory experience,
inference and deduction is not so much a diﬀerence in modes of knowing as the
30 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
degree to which the speaker has assimilated the information and integrated
diﬀerent kinds of evidence to formulate her representation of some state of
aﬀairs. The model also does not acknowledge that even beliefs and opinions
must have some basis in evidence. In (13), one must infer that the speaker has
some reason, some evidence, for forming the opinion that she had been
misjudging another person, even if that evidence is not made explicit by the epi-
stemic construction ‘I think’.
(13) I think that a lot of the time I’ve been misjudging her.
(from Chafe 1986:266)
Finally, while Chafe’s model represents how diﬀerent types of evidence relate to
types of knowledge and to degrees of reliability, and provides examples from
discourse to illustrate the range of linguistic devices that were used in his
corpus, it does not systematically develop the relationship between use of forms
and the evidential meanings they convey. Some of the examples are categorised
inconsistently, suggesting the lack of a systematic means of classiﬁcation
(14) The idea that Christ followed this pattern, and Moses, I suppose.
(15) Well Schaeﬀer it seems had just found the latest article from
the Smithsonian.
Chafe classiﬁes (14) as a belief/opinion, marked with the parenthetical I suppose.
However this sentence can also be interpreted as a deduction based on hypothesis
(I presume/hypothesise could be substituted for I suppose here). The example in
(15) however is classiﬁed as hearsay even though the parenthetical it seems does
not directly convey information acquired by someone else’s utterance.
Descriptions of evidential systems in individual languages have shown that
the speciﬁcation of the nature of the source varies from a clear semantic
component (e.g. Quechua reportive clitic -shi) to a pragmatic inference (e.g.
Balkan Slavic). These diﬀerences can be represented as a scale which measures
the strength of the pragmatic connection between the nature of source of
information and the amount of contextual information required to recover this
information from the use of the evidential form.
At one end of the scale are forms that have one and only one interpretation
of source of information, regardless of context. The Quechua form -shi is
almost always only used for information whose source was someone else’s
utterance (Floyd 1993). In the middle of the scale are forms for which source is
inferred from context, but there is a default interpretation of source type. For
example, evidence associated with the use of the English construction it looks
Evidentiality 31
like… depends on both the nature of the embedded information and the
context of utterance, but the default interpretation is that the form was acquired
by visual evidence. Similarly, the source of information associated with use of
the Balkan Slavic L-form past must be inferred by context, but the default
interpretation of the L-form past is that information was acquired by hearsay
(Friedman 1986).
At the far end of the scale are forms whose use implies that knowledge of
the information was acquired by some means (as opposed to being inherently
known), but the nature of the evidence is diﬃcult to recover. These are truly
inferential forms which focus on the speaker’s own cognitive processes as they
assess the available evidence. English epistemic must is a form of this type — its
use implies that the speaker had some evidence for the proposition expressed,
but the nature of the evidence is not implicated in the use of the form unless
there is strong contexualisation.
The scale in Figure 2.3 represents the degree to which source of information
Quechua
-shi
Balkan Slavic
-L form
English Epistemic
Must
Context Free
Interpretation
of Source
Highly Contextualized
Interpretation of Source
Figure 2.3Relationship between degree of context and interpretation of source
is recoverable from the use of an evidential form, independent from context. In
a context-free study, the number of forms that can be classiﬁed as narrowly
evidential is small, since they can only include those forms that code source of
information regardless of context. In a discourse based study of evidential use,
all of the types of forms described above are ‘evidential’ since they all express
information about the speaker’s assessment of the nature of the source, even if
the actual source is not speciﬁed.
The broad deﬁnitions of evidentiality in both Chafe (1986) and Palmer
(1986) focused on the expression of a speaker’s belief in the validity of their
knowledge as the primary meaning of evidential forms. Here it has been argued
that speakers’ commitment to their belief in the validity of information is an
epiphenomenon to the more basic role of evidentiality as a marker of epistemo-
logical classiﬁcation and assessment, and that ‘speaker commitment’ is not an
inherent part of evidential meaning.6
Of evidential categories, only inferring
32 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
evidential forms were shown to inherently code speaker’s belief in the validity
of information.
The association of speaker beliefs with inferential forms suggests a converse
relationship between the degree to which source and speaker commitment is
recoverable from the choice of evidential forms. Evidential forms that encode
speciﬁc information about the nature of the source of information are less likely
to also encode speciﬁc information about epistemological status. In contrast,
evidential forms for which the source of information is only recoverable in
context are more likely to encode a consistent degree of speaker commitment.
For example, forms like English epistemic must, which was high on the context-
uality scale in Figure 2.3, necessarily involve some interpretation of the speak-
er’s belief state (here a strong commitment to the information being valid).
Conversely, forms like Quechua -shi, which are low on the contextuality scale
of source interpretation do not necessarily code the speaker’s belief state
(merely reportiveness). Note that the hypothesis does not predict what degree
of commitment a highly contextual evidential will encode. It may be high (as in
epistemic must — Peter must be having a party), or it may be low (as in episte-
mic might — Peter might be having a party).
Figure 2.4 below is an augmentation of Figure 2.3 that accommodates the
relationship between degree of contextualisation required for the interpretation
of source and the degree to which the use of the form implies a particular
degree of speaker commitment.
Quechua
-shi
Balkan Slavic
-L form
English Epistemic
Must
Context Free
Interpretation
of Source
Highly Contextualised
Interpretation of
Source
Strong implication
of degree of speaker
commitment
Weak implication
of degree of speaker
commitment
Figure 2.4Relationship between context, interpretation of source and implication
of attitude
Evidentiality 33
The relationship between source of information and speaker commitment
presented above avoids both the assignment of evidential forms into discreet
categories (like evidentials and judgments) and the assertion of a necessary link
between source of information and speaker commitment.
Most of the studies of evidentiality presented in this chapter have focused
solely on the semantic properties of grammatical evidentials. They have focused
only on those categories that have grammatical reﬂexes in language, and have
shifted focus away from evidentiality expressed by other means and the status
of information that lacks overt evidential coding. This may explain the lack of
discussion of the expression of ‘fact’ or ‘culturally shared knowledge’, which are
categories of knowledge that often lack any evidential coding. But the broad
characterisation of evidentiality as the categorisation of attitudes towards
knowledge is not restricted to grammaticalised forms. Nevertheless the fact that
evidential categories may be expressed grammatically, and that the categories
which have become grammaticalised are fairly robust cross-linguistically is
signiﬁcant. It indicates the salience of epistemological status as a conceptual
category and the salience of coding particular knowledge types in diﬀerent
language communities.
2.1.3 Evidentiality and deixis
The identiﬁcation of evidential semantics with epistemic modality provides one
dimension of classiﬁcation. Evidentiality can also be characterised as a deictic
category, one that functions to index information to some point of origin
(Bühler’s ‘origo’). Some types of deixis function to index information to the
spatio-temporal coordinates of the origo (eg. demonstratives and temporal
adverbs). Other types of deixis index information to the participants in the
speaking event (e.g. ﬁrst and second person pronouns). Evidential markers are
deictic because they index information to the conceptualiser who makes an epi-
stemological judgement. In context, the choice of evidential categories (e.g.
witness or report) serves to select the deictic origin — the one from which all
temporal, spatial and identifying information can be calculated.
The deictic properties of grammatical evidential markers have been
recognised for a number of languages (e.g. Jakobson (1957) for Bulgarian,
Schlichter (1986) for Wintu, Woodbury (1986) for Sherpa, Floyd (1993) for
Quechua, Grenoble (1998) for Russian). However, descriptions of the deictic
nature of evidentiality have been given relatively little focus in the literature,
compared with its epistemic modal nature. Perhaps this is because evidentiality
34 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
is not a prototypical deictic category. The semantics of prototypical deictic
markers like personal pronouns I and you, can only be understood in terms of
indexicality. That is, they have no meaning outside of their function to point
out the current speaker and addressee. Evidential markers clearly have some
semantic content independent of their indexical function — the categories of
source of information and their associated meanings of epistemological
assessment that have been discussed in the earlier sections of this chapter. These
epistemic aspects of evidential meaning imbue evidential forms with subjective
meanings that go beyond simply the establishment and maintenance of the
‘origo’, determining whose epistemological perspective is being expressed.
The epistemic modal aspect of evidential meaning does not however detract
from the usefulness of evidentiality to enable the speaker to maintain and shift
the point of origin from which the propositional information modiﬁed by the
evidential marker. For example, the Quechua reportive evidential clitic -shi in
(1) (repeated below) enables the hearer of this utterance to index the proposi-
tional information he will go to Huancayo tomorrow to an origo that is someone
other than the current speaker (the origin of the hearsay), in addition to its
meaning as a marker of information acquired by someone else’s linguistic
input. Use of the direct evidential clitic -mi in this context would point to the
current speaker as the origo of the information (perhaps implying that the
current speaker had divine knowledge of the subject’s intention to go to
Huancayo).
(1) Quechua
waala-man-shi Wankayuu-ta li-n’a
tomorrow-goal-rep Huancayo-acc go-fut
‘He will go to Huancayo tomorrow, (I hear). (Floyd 1993:204)
It is these deictic properties that allow evidentiality to be used as a tool to
represent information from particular perspectives, to mark shifts in discourse
perspective, and to enable hearers to interpret the status of information with
respect to some person’s epistemological assessment of it. Some of the applica-
tions of these functions will be addressed in the latter chapters of this book.
2.1.4 Summary
I have outlined some of the issues associated with the characterisation of
evidentiality as a semantic category focussing in particular on two aspects of
evidential meaning that have been discussed in the Linguistics literature on
Evidentiality 35
evidentiality: modal (including speciﬁcation of source of information and
speaker/conceptualises’ assessment of information based on their knowledge
status); and deictic (indexical functions).
One of the main themes of this discussion has been to highlight how
diﬃcult it is to provide a coherent description of evidential meaning within a
strictly semantic model. As an index of some conceptualiser’s subjective
viewpoint (e.g. so-called ‘speaker attitude’), evidentiality is bound up with the
contextualisation of language in real world contexts. Like other deictic cat-
egories, the semantics of evidentiality can only be understood alongside a
detailed account of its pragmatic properties. Once we understand how
evidential markers are used by speakers, we will be in a better position to
understand both the meanings of particular evidential markers and the range of
meanings that are encoded in grammaticalised evidential systems.
2.2 Evidentiality and grammaticalisation
The linguistic study of evidentiality has been primarily concerned with the
status of evidential forms and evidential meanings in morphological systems —
systems in which a paradigmatic contrast in evidential meanings can be found.
These are generally regarded as being grammatical evidential systems, in the
sense that they form paradigmatic meaning contrasts, and are typically
described as obligatory components of clause structure. Studies of grammatical
evidential systems have focused on the underlying semantics of the forms
(Givon 1982; Anderson 1986), on the development of a typology of evidential
categories (Palmer 1986; Willett 1988) and on the processes which have led to
their status as a grammatical category (Schlichter 1986; Gordon 1986; Mithun
1986; Thurgood 1986; Nichols 1986; Willett 1988; Traugott 1989).
Truly independent grammatical evidential systems are rare in the world’s
languages and their absence in European languages has led to a confusion of
descriptions in languages, especially Amerindian languages, where such systems
are clearly present. The characterisation of evidentiality as a grammatical
category in a language is complicated by the extent to which discrete evidential
meanings may be mapped onto a discrete set of morphemes. It is often that case
that evidential meanings are fused with other grammatical meanings within the
same paradigm. For example, some grammatical tense and aspect systems may
acquire evidential meanings (e.g. DeLancey 1986; Friedman 1986; Woodbury
1986; Willett 1988). This is the case in Balkan Slavic, where the L-form past
36 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
tense has a conventionalised evidential meaning in addition to its meaning as a
tense marker. Are these forms less grammatically evidential as evidential
systems that do not reﬂect other, non-evidential grammatical meanings? Palmer
(1986) did not include such systems in his discussion of evidential meanings.
However, Willett (1988) did include languages like Bulgarian in his survey.
Evidential meanings are also manifested in a wide range of lexical forms and
paraphrastic constructions. These may occur in addition to morphological
evidential forms in a language, but will be utilised even in languages that lack a
clear paradigmatic set of evidential distinctions. For example, in Japanese (Aoki
1986) evidential meanings are coded with lexical nominals, adverbials and
predicates, grammatical particles and morphological verb derivation. The same
evidential meaning can be coded with more than one type of form, as in (16)
where the nominal soo (da) and the sentence ﬁnal particle tte both code that the
information it is going to rain was acquired by hearsay. The diﬀerence between
soo da and tte is pragmatic: soo da tends to be used in formal and literate
contexts while tte only occurs in informal conversational language.
(16) ame ga huru soo da / tte
rain subj fall hearsay
‘(It said that) it is going to rain.’
The variation in the means by which languages encode evidential meanings
raises the question: Why should evidential meanings be incorporated into the
structure of the language — either as a separate grammatical paradigm or as
part of the complex meaning of another verbal category? Adequate
characterisations of the meanings and functions of evidentiality as a linguistic
category need not assume any degree of grammaticalisation. Nevertheless, there
is clearly something signiﬁcant about the fact that evidentiality has become a
grammatical category in some languages — a restricted choice speakers must
make in order to fulﬁl the rules of their grammar.
In order to answer the question of why evidential meanings do become
built into the grammar of languages, we need to establish some criteria for
recognizing grammatical evidentiality in individual languages. But identifying
properties of grammatical status have purposes more far reaching than typolog-
ical classiﬁcation. Any study which aims to capture processes of language
change, especially the processes of grammaticalisation must be able to qualitat-
ively describe the state of linguistic forms synchronically, addressing the
question ‘at what stage in the grammaticalisation process is such and such a
form?’. The method of describing the grammatical status of evidential forms
Evidentiality 37
outlined below is aimed at providing a consistent way of answering that ques-
tion. This will be followed by illustrative descriptions of such systems in three
languages well known for their evidential systems: Makah, Quechua and
Tibetan.
Hopper (1991) oﬀers a challenge for any attempt to identify grammatical
states within a dynamic framework of grammaticalisation,
If grammar is not a discrete, modular set of relationships, it would seem to
follow that no set of changes can be identiﬁed which distinctively characterise
grammaticization as opposed to, say, lexical change or phonological change in
general. The only way to identify instances of grammaticization would be in
relation to a prior deﬁnition of grammar; but there appear to be no clear ways
in which the borders which separate grammatical from lexical and other phenom-
ena can be meaningfully and consistently drawn.7
Hopper (1991:19)
In this statement, Hopper implies that, given the fact of continuous language
change, it is useless to try and identify synchronic grammar. His interest lies in
the processes by which lexical forms acquire the properties associated with
grammatical forms in the evolution of language. It is true that the boundaries
between what is grammatical and what is lexical are not easily drawn. However
it is possible to gather formal, semantic and pragmatic criteria which together
present a picture of a fully grammaticalised linguistic item in contrast with
items that display fewer grammatical characteristics.
The following list provides a guide to checking the grammatical status of
forms cross-linguistically. Forms which conform to all of the criteria may be
described as fully grammaticalised. Forms which do not conform to any of the
criteria are unambiguously lexical. It is assumed however that many forms will
conform to only a subset of the listed criteria, occurring somewhere between
fully grammatical and fully lexical status. In these cases, the forms are considered
to be ‘partially’ grammaticalised. It is also theoretically possible for a single form
to behave more like a grammatical form under certain discourse conditions and
behave more like a lexical item in other contexts. An example of this type would
be verbal forms which can operate as primary predicators (main verbs) but also
may occur in verbal clusters or as auxiliary verbs in certain contexts.
The list thus provides a means of identifying both the grammatical status
and the grammatical type of sets of evidential forms in diﬀerent languages by its
characterisation in terms of a limited set of properties. Grammatical status
informs us of the degree to which a form is grammaticalised (forms which
satisfy all criteria are the most grammaticalised). Grammatical type informs us
of the general structural properties of the form in question. For example, the
38 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
past tense suﬃx -ed in English is highly grammaticalised according to the listed
criteria. Its particular conﬁguration of grammatical properties allows it to be
classiﬁed as a verbal inﬂectional morpheme. Once identiﬁed and classiﬁed, it is
then possible to formulate hypotheses about the behaviour of these forms in
discourse based on their conﬁguration of grammatical properties.
The classiﬁcation system adopts ﬁve independent properties to determine
the grammatical status of linguistic forms. These are based on current theoreti-
cal principles of grammaticalisation (e.g. Lehmann 1985; Traugott & Heine
(eds) 1991; Hopper & Traugott 1993).
a. Closed class
A closed class is a small set of forms to which it is diﬃcult to add new forms. In
contrast, lexical categories are ‘open’ in the sense that they are an unlimited set
which is easy to through creative word generation and regular derivational
processes. For example, prepositions comprise a closed class in English.
Prepositions are limited in number and new prepositions are only occasionally
and gradually added to the current set. In contrast, nouns are an open class to
which it is easy to add forms either by creative use of language or by regular
morphological derivation. Closed class items are thus more grammaticalised
than open class items.
b. Morphosyntactic restrictiveness
Grammaticalised forms tend to occur in ﬁxed morphosyntactic slots. If the
form is morphologically bound as an aﬃx, then it occurs in a ﬁxed slot in the
word, typically in paradigmatic contrast with aﬃxes of the same grammatical
category (e.g. tense suﬃxes in Macedonian - saka ‘want’ (3sg.pres), sakashe
‘wanted’ (3sg.sp), sakala ‘she (had) wanted (apparently)’ (3sg.l)).
If the form is morphologically bound as a clitic then it occurs in a syntacti-
cally deﬁned position, also in paradigmatic contrast with other clitics of the
same category (e.g. Quechua evidential clitics — see Section 2.3.1). Free forms
are restricted in their combinatory properties. Combinations of lexical forms
produce compounds whose meaning as a whole is diﬀerent and not totally
predictable from its parts. The semantics of combinations of grammaticalised
forms are more transparent and predictable than the compounding process for
lexical items (e.g. preposition into vs. compound ﬁshpaste). Furthermore the
combinatory power of lexical forms is far greater than for grammaticalised
Evidentiality 39
forms. Virtually all nouns and verbs can contribute to compounds in English
whereas only a few prepositions combine with each other and with open class
items (into, across from, a shoe-in, a stakeout, a turn-oﬀ, etc.)
c. ‘Bleached’ semantics
The semantics of grammaticalised forms are typically described in terms of
abstract schematic representations. For example, the semantics of prepositions
in English typically code abstract spatial relations between concrete items.
Furthermore the use of grammaticalised forms tends to have predictable
semantic consequences (e.g. progressive aspect morphology predictably adds a
meaning of continuance over time to any event verb). Lexical items tend to
have more complex meanings that are not predictable from the use of that item
(i.e. they are more contextually sensitive).
d. Hyperextension of use
Fully grammaticalised forms occur obligatorily when the morphosyntactic and
semantic conditions for their use are met, regardless of whether they contribute
to the message pragmatically. For example, all verbs must be tense-marked in
English even if the time of the event relative to the time of speaking can be
determined by other linguistic and pragmatic factors. They are hyperextended
because their use is determined by the language rather than the dictates of the
context and communicative intent of the speaker.
Forms which are not fully grammaticalised may only occur when their use
actually contributessomethingtothe message.Forexample,althoughMandarin
Chinese lacks a fully grammaticalised tense system, speakers may use temporal
adverbials to indicate time of event when the context demands it. These adverb-
ials are not typically analysed as grammatical forms even though their use is
highly restricted. In contrast, English must code tense in every main clause.
e. Reduced form
Grammaticalised forms may be free morphemes (e.g. prepositions), but there
is a cross-linguistic tendency for grammatical forms to be less phonologically
robust than full lexical items (e.g. they are likely to manifest as clitics or aﬃxes).
In contrast, lexical items tend to be free morphemes, or the roots of multi-
morphemic words.
40 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
These ﬁve properties are intended to identify grammaticalised morphologi-
cal forms in synchronic language use. It is not intended to be exhaustive. It is
clearly biased in favour of grammaticalised morpheme classes, the manifesta-
tion of most evidential systems described as ‘grammaticalised’. These properties
are less useful for the analysis of syntactic constructions in terms of
grammaticalisation. However the list was developed on the basis of well-attested
evidence of the processes by which lexical items move towards
grammaticalisation (e.g. Traugott & Heine (eds) 1991; Hopper & Traugott
1993). This work shows that the process of grammaticalisation involves move-
ment towards all ﬁve of the properties outlined in the checklist above:
a. Movement to a closed class — As lexical forms become specialised for
speciﬁc grammatical purposes they lose properties associated with their
original lexical class and develop new properties independent of that class.
(i.e. ‘decategorialization’ Hopper & Traugott 1993)
b. Movement to Morphosyntactic Restriction — “paradigmaticization” and
“ﬁxation” (Lehmann 1985)
c. Movement to more ‘Bleached’ Semantics — “generalization of meaning”
(Hopper & Traugott 1993)
d. Hyperextension of Use — “obligatoriﬁcation” (Lehmann 1985)
e. Movement towards Form Reduction — Tendency for free morphemes to
become bound as they become more grammaticalised
(“Condensation” Lehmann 1985, noun–aﬃx, verb–aﬃx paths described in
Hopper & Traugott 1993).
These criteria for identifying grammaticalised forms were designed to be
universally applicable. Like most meanings associated with grammatical
categories (e.g. tense, aspects, number, gender etc.), the cross linguistic coding
of evidential meanings spans the gamut of linguistic phenomena from lexical
verbs to adverbs to uninﬂected particles to clitics and also derivational and
inﬂectional aﬃxes.
2.3 Grammaticalised evidentiality in three languages
This section illustrates the descriptive usefulness of the ﬁve properties of
grammaticalisation by examining the grammatical status of evidential markers
in three unrelated languages for which grammaticalised evidentiality has been
described — Quechua (Andean), Makah (Wakashan) and Lhasa Tibetan
Evidentiality 41
(Tibeto-Burman). These three languages are typologically representative of the
range of grammatical (morphological) evidential systems found in the world’s
languages.8
The formal and semantic properties of the grammatical evidential markers
in each of the three languages is matched against the criteria for grammaticali-
sation established to determine the degree of grammaticalisation (its grammati-
cal status) and the nature of the grammaticalised system (its grammatical type).
It must be stressed that the following descriptions of the grammatical
evidential forms in these languages are only a part of the complete set of
linguistic strategies a speaker may use to express evidential meanings. Just as the
existence of a fully grammaticalised tense system in English does not preclude
the existence and use of other lexical temporal deictic terms (e.g. temporal
adverbials), the existence of a grammaticalised evidential category (or cat-
egories) does not mean that the language lacks other means of marking eviden-
tiality. The tendency in linguistics has been to identify categories on the basis of
their formal properties rather than their functional properties. The two may
overlap, which is interesting, but it is rarely the case that the burden of a
particular communicative function is carried by only one type of form.
2.3.1 Quechua
Quechua is a highly agglutinative suﬃxing language.9
Evidential forms are
bound enclitic morphemes. There are three clitics: -mi ‘direct experience, -shi
‘reported/hearsay’ and -ch(r)a/-chi ‘inference’. Both Weber (1986) and Floyd
(1993) concur that the semantics of the evidential forms prototypically invoke
some relationship between the speaker and the propositional information in
terms of the source of that information: for -mi, the source is direct witness or
experience; for -shi, the source is another speaker; for -chra /-chi, the source is
some indirect external evidence which allows for speaker conjecture.
The sentence in (17) illustrates this contrast. Note that the use of evidentials
does not aﬀect the propositional information that ‘it will die’. The only diﬀer-
ence between (a), (b) and (c) is the invoked relationship between the speaker
and the information in terms of the nature and status of the source of that
information.
(17) wañu-nqa-paq-mi (a)/shi (b)/chi (c)
die-3fut-fut-evid
a. said by the diviner
‘(I assert that) it will die’
42 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
b. said by someone who brings the diviner’s prediction
‘(I was told that) it will die’
c. said in response to the diviner or to the messenger
‘(perhaps) it will die’
(from Weber (1986:138))
Quechua evidential forms are described as clitics rather than suﬃxes because
they can attach to lexemes of any word class. In (18), the ﬁrst instance of the
evidential clitic -mi is attached to a noun phrase while the second -mi is
attached to a verb.
(18) Hatratruu-mi wataraykaa. wataykamar-mi aywamusha
on:bush-dir I:am:tied tying:me-dir she:went
‘I am tied on a bush. Having tied me (here), she went.’
(from Weber 1986:145)
Weber (1986) argues that although evidential clitics often occur on the ﬁrst
word of a clause, their position in a sentence is governed by the ‘information
proﬁle’ of that sentence. Evidential clitics occur on rhematic material only and
cannot precede forms which are marked as ‘topic’ with the clitic -qa, as in the
extreme example of (19) where the reportive evidential clitic -shi is ‘pushed’ to
the end of the clause by a sequence of -qa marked words.
(19) chawrana-qa puntatruu-qa trayaruptin-qa wamrata-qa mayna-shi
so:already-top at.the.peak-top arriving-top child-top already-rep
diosnichi-qa heqarkaykachisha syelutana-shi
our:God-top had:taken:her:up to:heaven:already-rep
‘When she (the witch) reached her peak, God had already taken the child
up into heaven.’ (from Weber 1986:145)
The Quechua evidential system has been described as ‘obligatory’, in the sense that
allacceptableQuechuasentencesrequireanevidentialclitic.Theobligatoryuseof
evidentialsinQuechuaisillustratedin(20),whichcontrasttheacceptabilityof(a)
(clitic only) and (b) (clitic and verb of perception) with the unacceptability of (c)
(verb of perception, no clitic). The direct evidence clitic -m(i) must be used, even
when the source of information is explicitly represented paraphrastically.10
(20) a. Akshru-kta-m talpu-la
potato-acc-dir plant-past
‘He planted potatoes (i.e. the speaker saw him planting)’
Evidentiality 43
b. Akshru talpu-ya-a-ta-m lika-la-a
potato plant-imperf-pmot-acc-dir see-past-1
‘I saw him planting potatoes.’
c. *Akshru talpu-ya-a-ta lika-la-a
potato plant-imperf-pmot-acc-dir see-past-1
*‘I saw him planting potatoes.’
(from Floyd (1993:75))
Floyd does note that Quechua utterances often occur with no evidential coding
in ‘free-ﬂowing’ conversation. However, speakers listening to taped conversa-
tion do not judge such language use to be acceptable, or at least ‘good
Quechua’, even when they are judging their own utterances. Floyd notes that
they will typically correct such language to an utterance that is coded with an
evidential clitic. This is evidence that even if speakers do not use grammatical
evidential coding in every sentence or utterance, the category of evidentiality is
deeply salient and part of speakers’ knowledge of what constitutes ‘proper’ use
of Quechua. So just as tense is an obligatory deictic category in English,
evidentiality is an obligatory deictic category in Quechua.
Table 2.1 matches the description of Quechua presented here against the
criteria for grammaticalisation.
There is plenty of evidence that the set of Quechua evidential clitics is fully
Table 2.1Summary of Quechua evidential clitics
Criteria Grammatical properties of forms
a.Closed class Yes Only three evidential forms (a small number of
other clitics may ﬁll this slot eg. negative -cha)
b.Restricted morphosyntax Yes Evidential clitics occur on the ﬁrst non -qa marked
constituent. Use of -qa is dependent on information
structure. (cf. Weber 1986)
c.Bleached semantics Yes Evidential meanings are highly schematic and con-
text sensitive (Floyd 1993)
d.Hyperextended use Yes Evidentials occur even in the presence of speciﬁc
references to source of information.
e.Reduced form Yes Evidential forms are bound and uninﬂected.
grammaticalised. Grammatical evidential systems like the Quechuan one are
found mainly in the Western Hemisphere (North and South America) where
44 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
many languages with paradigmatic sets of bound evidential morphemes have
been described. (Although the evidential system described for the Australian
language Ngiyambaa (Donaldson 1980) also seems to ﬁt into this type.)
It should be noted that this summary of the properties of grammatical
evidential forms in Quechua is not a description of the whole evidential system.
There are ways of coding evidential meanings other than the three clitics.
Despite the claim of grammatical obligatoriness, not all clauses of Quechua
discourse are coded with an evidential clitic in actual discourse. This could
mean that there is no evidential coding for those clauses. However it could also
mean that other evidential strategies are used. Unfortunately descriptions of
Quechua have tended to downplay or ignore other kinds of evidential strategies
in favour of the syntax, semantics and pragmatics of the grammatical system.
2.3.2 Makah
Makah (Wakashan) is a polysynthetic language with a rich set of bound
morphemes that have been described as evidential (Jacobsen 1986). They
include: -pi.d “inference from physical evidence, usually the result of the
inferred action, which has not itself been witnessed” (22); -q’adi “evidence
obtained from hearing, in the absence of direct experience or visual observa-
tion” (23); -wa˜t “indicates hearsay, and occurs constantly in the narration of
tales and myths” (24); - »
xa˜-…-š “probability inferred from unspeciﬁed evi-
dence” (25); -a˜…šk’ub “belated awareness of a fact” (26). The absence of a
form indicates direct experience (21).
(21) wiki.c’a »
xaw
‘It’s bad weather’ (seen or experienced directly)
(22) wiki.c’a »
xakpi.d
‘It looks like bad weather’ (with an inference from physical evidence)
(23) wiki.c’a »
xakq’ad‘
‘i
‘It sounds like bad weather’ (on the evidence of hearing)
(24) wiki.c’a »
xakwa.d
‘I’m told there’s bad weather’ (the quotative)
(25) wiki.c’a »
xak »»
xa.š
‘It’s probably bad weather’ (general inference from unspeciﬁed evidence)
(26) wiki.c’a »
xakšk’ub
‘My goodness! It’s bad weather!’ (surprise/sudden realisation)
(from Jacobsen 1986:10,19 and Davidson (p.c.))
Evidentiality 45
Jacobsen characterises these forms as “… outer layer suﬃxes that occur just
preceding the pronominal endings, and following suﬃxes indicating causative,
passive and tense.” (Jacobsen 1986:11), but they may in fact have the morphol-
ogical status of clitics. Whether clitic or suﬃx, the forms demonstrate a high
degree of morphosyntactic restrictiveness.
Like Quechua, Makah speakers intuitively feel that evidential coding is a
required part of an utterance, even when their use is pragmatically redundant.
Even decontextualised forms given in elicitation sessions tend be marked
evidentially. For example, when asked how to say “the wood burned” in Makah,
a speaker used the -pi.d suﬃx to indicate that even out of context, she was
required to indicate that she could only know that the wood burned because she
had some physical evidence (e.g. charred logs). This speaker did not accept the
same form when it lacked the evidential clitic (Davidson p.c.). This is evidence
that the use of evidentials is a language requirement rather than a speaker
choice and that evidentiality is a hyperextended category in this language.
Further evidence for the hyperextension of evidential clitics in Makah
comes from the fact that the absence of an evidential clitic implies that the
information was directly experienced. This is consistent with Willett’s (1988)
claim that if an evidential category lacks formal manifestation, then it will be the
direct experience category (c.f Quechua which marks direct evidence with the
clitic -mi). Two analyses are possible: direct experience is coded with a zero
clitic; or there is an assumption by speakers of the language that the lack of an
evidential clitic means that the speaker is representing information as personal
experience (i.e. it is a default category). Either way, it appears that utterances are
always understood as carrying some evidential force whether or not there is a
clitic present. Table 2.2 presents a summary of the grammatical status of Makah
evidential clitics
Makah also has a nominal derivational suﬃx -ckw
i which derives a noun
referring to the physical results of an action. In certain contexts, the form is
used to imply that the remains are evidence for that prior action, as in (27).
(27) bukwačck‘
‘i ‘It was a deer (when seeing tracks).’
(cf. bukwač ‘It’s a deer’) (from Jacobsen 1986:20)
Although this derivational aﬃx is very specialised in its evidential use, it is a
good illustration of the pervasiveness of evidentiality throughout diﬀerent parts
of a language. Table 2.3 lists my analysis of the status of -ckw
i as a grammatical-
ised evidential marker.
The grammatical status of the Makah evidential system is similar to
46 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
Quechua in terms of its paradigmatic status and properties of hyperextension.
Table 2.2Makah evidential clitics
Criteria Grammatical properties of forms
a.Closed class Yes Evidentials are included in a limited set of position-
bound clitics.
b.Restricted morphosyntax Yes Evidential clitics occur in ﬁxed positions in the clitic
complex which always occurs following the ﬁrst
word in a syntactic unit.
c.Bleached semantics Yes Evidential meanings are highly generalised and
context sensitive
d.Hyperextended use Yes All utterances appear to have evidential meanings.
Forms uttered in isolation are evidentially marked
e.Reduced form Yes Origins of evidential clitics are traceable to lexical
verbs.
Table 2.3Makah evidential derivational suﬃx
Criteria Grammatical properties of forms
a.Closed class Yes Suﬃx is one of a large set of derivational aﬃxes, but
the set is ﬁnite.
b.Restricted morphosyntax Yes Suﬃx is bound in a ﬁxed word position.
c.Bleached semantics ? Meaning is relatively abstract, but more speciﬁc
than many kinds of derivation.
d.Hyperextended use No Suﬃx is not automatically used in context since it
can be replaced with an evidential clitic like -pi.d
e.Reduced form Yes Bound suﬃx derived from
The Makah system clearly makes more evidential distinctions than the Quechua
tripartite system: the category of ‘direct experience’, coded with -mi in
Quechua, separates auditory perception from all other kinds of perceptual
experiences; inferential evidence is subdivided into inference from information
in the immediate physical environment (i.e. information that the speaker has
available to them at the time of the inference), and inference from general
cultural knowledge. Makah also distinguishes a category which expresses the
notion of mirativity (Delancey 1997) — information which has not yet been
Evidentiality 47
properly assimilated into the speaker’s consciousness11
— a category not
formally distinguished in the Quechua system.
2.3.3 Lhasa Tibetan
Paradigmatic sets of evidential morphemes, exempliﬁed by the above discussion
of the Quechua and Makah systems, comprise one type of grammatical
evidential system. Another type arises when forms which are already grammati-
cal in a language acquire evidential meaning while still maintaining their other
prior grammatical meaning(s). Several Tibeto-Burman languages have such a
system (e.g. Lhasa Tibetan – Delancey 1986, 1991; Newari – Hargreaves 1989;
Bendix 1992; Amdo Tibetan – Sun Jackson 1993; Akha – Thurgood 1986). In
these languages, there is a complicated association of evidential categories with
use of tense/aspect categories, person, intentionality and volitionality.
In Lhasa Tibetan (Delancey 1986, 1991), “typical evidential categories” are
expressed by the choice of perfective auxiliary + copula ((28) and(31)) or
perfective suﬃx ((29) and (30)).
(28) ]a-s yi-ge bri-pa-yin
I-erg letter write-perf
‘I wrote a letter.’
[1st person volitional (=direct experience/personal experience)]
(29) ]a na-byu]
]
I sick-perf
‘I got sick’
[1st person non-volitional (=experienced but not conscious experience’.)]
(30) k’o] gis yi-ge bri-so]
]
s/he erg letter write-perf
‘S/he wrote a letter (I saw it happen).’
[ﬁrst hand knowledge of an event not involving the speaker
(=direct witness)]
(31) k’o] gis yi-ge bri-pa-red
s/he erg letter write-perf
‘S/he wrote a letter (it seems).’
[“reports a fact a speaker knows only by inference.” (p.210)]
(from Delancey 1986).
The evidential categories expressed in the Lhasa system are quite diﬀerent from
Makah and Quechua. (28) and (29) illustrate a distinction between events
48 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
which are personally experienced. The auxiliary pa-yin in (28) denotes a
personally experienced event over which the speaker had some kind of con-
scious control. The sentence in (29) also denotes an event that was personally
experienced but the choice of the perfective suﬃx -byu] means that the event
was not under the control of the speaker/experiencer. This reﬂects a slightly
diﬀerent evidential meaning than that expressed in (28); one in which the
interpretation of the experiencer as complete controller is downplayed. Although
theuseoftheseperfectiveformsishighlycorrelatedwithﬁrstpersoncontexts,they
arenotgrammaticallyrestrictedtoﬁrstpersonsubjectsonly.Thenon-ﬁrstperson
uses are highly marked however and only used for certain rhetorical purposes. In
Lhasa, the category of ‘direct experience’, coded with a clitic in Quechua and
unmarked in Makah, is split into two types depending on the experiencer’s
volitional and intentional relationship to the information in question.
The examples in (30) and (31) illustrate more canonical evidential cat-
egories of direct visual perception and inference. The perfective suﬃx -so] is
similar in meaning to Makah clitic -p.id. The perfective auxiliary + copula
construction -pa-red is similar to Makah - »
xa:-…-š and Quechua -chra.
Clearly there are many interesting things to be observed about the seman-
tics and pragmatics of the set of Lhasa Tibetan perfective forms. Of primary
interest here however is the grammatical properties of these evidential contrasts.
Unlike Quechua and Makah, evidentiality in Tibetan is not a property of a set
of forms distinct from other categories. In this language, evidentiality is a
property of the morphological aspectual system and is intrinsically connected
with the expression of perfective events.
The criteria for grammatical status can be applied to the evidential elements
of the Lhasa Tibetan aspectual system. The forms are bound to the verb in a
ﬁxed position and are therefore morphologically restricted. Evidential coding
is further restricted applying only in perfective contexts. But when a perfective
aspect is chosen, the speaker is forced to make a choice of evidential category.
This is evidence of the hyperextension of evidentiality in Tibetan since the
language forces the speaker to make an evidential choice whenever a perfective
event is expressed. The evidential distinctions are part of a closed class of the
language — the marking of morphological aspect. They are semantically
abstract and the interpretation of their meanings is highly context dependent.
Table 2.4 presents a summary of the grammatical properties of the Lhasa
Tibetan system. All of these properties suggest that evidentiality is fully gram-
maticalised in Lhasa Tibetan despite the absence of a separate paradigm of
evidential forms and the restriction of evidential coding to perfective contexts.
Evidentiality 49
2.4 Summary
Table 2.4Lhasa Tibetan aspect/evidential morphology
Criteria Grammatical properties of forms
a.Closed class Yes Very limited set of aspectual markers
b.Restricted morphosyntax
Yes
Perfective morphemes occur in ﬁxed position. Evid-
entiality is only expressed through perfective mor-
phemes.
c.Bleached semantics Yes Highly Abstract and context sensitive.
d.Hyperextended use
Yes
An evidential choice must be made when perfective
aspect is chosen.
e.Reduced form Yes Forms are bound suﬃxes and uninﬂected copulas
The ﬁrst part of this chapter was concerned with the characterisation of
evidentiality as a notional linguistic category, embracing concepts of source of
information, speaker attitude and deictic orientation. The second part of the
chapter was concerned with the identiﬁcation and characterisation of gram-
matical evidential systems cross-linguistically.
It is necessary to establish clear criteria for measuring the degree of gramm-
aticalisation of any evidential marker, or set of evidential markers partly because
the degree of grammaticalisation of evidential forms is hypothesised to have an
eﬀect on the deployment of evidential marking in discourse. These criteria were
applied to the evidential systems of three unrelated languages. Each of these
languages had a set of evidential forms which fulﬁlled all of the criteria for
grammaticalisation, but the systems also diﬀered in striking ways: in the
semantics of the evidential categories that were grammaticalised; in the degree
to which their use could be described as hyperextended in the grammar; in the
degree of fusion of evidentiality with other grammatical categories.
These characterisations represent only the grammatical morphology of the
overall evidential system in these languages. It is assumed that the range of
evidential meanings will be codable with a range of linguistic devices in addition
to the grammatical system, just as temporal deixis is coded in English with
grammatical tense (-ed), temporal adverbs (now, after) and temporal preposi-
tional and noun phrases (on Saturday, Friday night, etc.). The grammatical
tense is required on all verbs and the use of the lexical forms is motivated by
pragmatic considerations.
50 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
In the ﬁrst part of this chapter I argued that the study of evidential meaning
in terms of the relationships between source of information and type of speaker
attitude requires a better understanding of speakers’ use of evidential forms in
diﬀerent contexts — a deeper understanding of evidential pragmatics than has
been available to date. Certainly the deictic properties of evidential forms, while
touched upon in many accounts, have yet to be thoroughly explored.
A coherent framework for describing the pragmatics of evidential systems
is also essential for developing a better understanding of the processes by which
morphological evidential systems develop. We also need to understand better
how fully grammaticalised evidential systems interact with less grammaticalised
strategies; the contexts in which particular evidential strategies are selected; and,
perhaps most importantly, whether there is any real diﬀerence in evidential
pragmatics between languages with fully grammaticalised evidential systems
and those without. These are the points that will be addressed in the rest of this
book. The next chapter provides a framework for exploring these questions
further.
</TARGET "2">
<TARGET "3" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Epistemological stance"
SUBJECT "Pragmatics & Beyond, New Series, Volume 87"
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "220"
WIDTH "150"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 3
Epistemological stance
The discussion of evidential semantics and grammatical evidentiality in the last
chapter raises three questions concerning the nature of evidentiality as a
linguistic category:
1.
The scope of evidential meaning — is evidentiality simply about the
speciﬁcation of source of information (the narrow view), or is it also about
speakers’ assessment of their knowledge (the broad view)?
2.
The inventory of evidential forms — are evidentials only those forms which
constitute a morphological paradigm of evidential oppositions, or should any
form which can express an evidential meaning be included in a description of
the evidential ‘system’ of a language?
3.
The pragmatics of evidentiality — do people use evidential forms to simply
express source of information (and any associated evaluative implications), or
do they have other functions in discourse?
This book is mainly concerned with the third of these questions — how people
use the evidential strategies available to them in discourse. A thorough knowl-
edge of evidential pragmatics is also seen as fundamental to our ability to
address the other two questions concerning the scope of evidential meanings
and the linguistic properties of evidential forms. We cannot know the scope and
organisation of evidential meanings without taking into account the ways in
which people use language to express aspects of epistemological status. Similar-
ly, we cannot address the motivations for grammatical evidential meanings to
evolve in languages without an understanding of their pragmatics.
In order to address questions about the pragmatics of evidentiality, I have
found it useful to ‘stand back’ from talking about evidential systems per se, and
to talk rather about ‘the ways in which speakers talk about their epistemological
status’. In this way, the object of investigation is recast as a thing that speakers
do, rather than a predetermined set of form/meaning correspondences (e.g. a
morphological system or a set of lexical items).
52 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
It is in this context that the notion of epistemological stance was developed
as a way of talking about meanings related to evidential systems, without
deciding a priori what counts as ‘evidential’ in any particular language. The
usefulness of epistemological stance as a way of talking about evidential
meaning and its utilisation in discourse cross-linguistically is illustrated by the
empirical study of narrative retelling that forms the second part of this work.
This chapter presents an overview of the principles that lie behind the notion of
epistemological stance, which is then used as the framework for talking about
linguistic behaviour in the retelling data.
The ﬁrst part of this chapter presents some arguments for the notion of epi-
stemological stance as the pragmatic basis of linguistic evidentiality. The second
part of the chapter presents an outline of epistemological stance types.
3.1 Evidential pragmatics and epistemological stance
Much, if not most, of language use is about talking about things one knows
about, regardless of how that knowledge may have been acquired and how
speakers might assess the quality of that knowledge. Evidential forms are the
linguistic forms par excellence which capture the expression of a speakers’
relationship to their knowledge (this was Chafe’s (1986) formulation of
evidential meanings). But the relationship between speakers and their knowl-
edge of what they talk about is more complex than simply mapping sources of
information (and any conventionalised associated attitudes) onto linguistic
forms. In addition to paying attention to how they have come to know what
they know, speakers must also assess the context in which they have chosen, or
are required to, talk about such topics.
In terms of conceptual structure, one can say that when verbally represent-
ing a piece of knowledge, speakers necessarily take a stand on how they acquired
the information, how they know it. This stand is their epistemological stance
towards the information. Epistemological stance is thus a necessary part of the
construal of information, operating in conjunction with other necessary parts
(e.g. an understanding of spatio-temporal coordinates, the relationship between
the speaker and addressee(s), etc.).
Epistemological stance is about both the underlying pragmatic pressures
that motivate the the conceptualisation of information in terms of a speaker’s
assessment of her knowledge, and the internal structure of these
conceptualisations that result in a variety of mappings onto linguistic structure.
Epistemological stance 53
As a conceptual structure, epistemological stance is independent of linguistic
form and may be expressed by any of grammatical, lexical or paraphrastic means.
Butthemotivationsthatspeakershave toadoptaparticularepistemological stance
is a pragmatic issue — one which can only be addressed through an analysis of
speakers’ linguistic strategies used to represent the status of their knowledge.
The two pieces of evidence that I draw on to motivate the use of epistemo-
logical stance to account for evidential pragmatics, independent of the linguistic
category of evidentiality are:
a. Even a superﬁcial glance at the ways in which people use evidential coding
indicate that, even in languages with highly grammaticalised evidential
systems, speakers’ use of evidential forms does not necessarily reﬂect the
actual means by which they acquired information.
b. There is a high degree of conventional interaction between evidentiality and
other (i.e. non-evidential) linguistic categories which suggests that the
expression of speakers’ epistemological assessment goes beyond its manifes-
tation in evidential forms.
The pragmatic basis for mismatches between source of information and
evidential coding is the main theme of Chapter 7, in which the ﬁndings from
the retelling study are discussed. Discussion of a range of linguistic strategies
that are used in languages to express the adoption of particular epistemological
stances is taken up in the second part of this chapter (Section 3.2), and will be
described in more detail for narrative retelling in Macedonian, Japanese and
English in Chapter 5. In the rest of this section is an explanation these two
general points about epistemological stance which provides some theoretical
background to the empirically-based discussions that come later.
The ﬁrst point relates to the fact that while epistemological stance may
reﬂect the actual historical (objective) origin of speakers’ knowledge, it may
equally reﬂect a more subjective construal based on their current recall and on
pressures and interests associated with the current speech situation. So in (1),
the propositional information the miners are going out on strike is evidentially
marked with apparently, which typically implies information acquired by
report. But this does not mean that the information was in fact acquired by
report. One could utter this statement even if one were part of the strike-
organising committee (thereby having direct experience upon which to base this
assertion), perhaps for the purpose of downplaying a direct involvement. The
utterance in (1) expresses a reportive epistemological stance towards the proposi-
tional information, but the information was acquired from direct experience.
54 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
(1) Apparently the miners are going out on strike.
The mismatch between actual source of information and the evidential category
selected exists even in cases where the coding of evidentiality is a part of the
grammatical structure of a language (e.g. Quechua, Makah and Tibetan,
described in the previous chapter). In these languages the choice of evidential
forms is often described as a direct representation of the source of information.
However it is clear from the distribution of such evidential forms in discourse
in these languages that source of information alone does not determine the
form selected.
The Quechua examples in (2) and (3) illustrate the mismatch between
actual source and evidential coding in grammaticalised evidential systems. The
clitic -mi is typically described as coding information that was directly experi-
enced by the speaker (Weber 1986; Floyd 1993), as in (2).
(2) Taki-ya-n-mi
sing-imperf-3-dir
‘He’s singing (i.e. the speaker heard him singing).’
(from Floyd 1993:75)
The sentence in (3) is from a text where the speaker is talking about how her
father got a deformed foot. The speaker was not present during any of the
events she describes and thus could not have obtained any of the information
by direct personal experience.
(3) chay-pii-mi papaa-mii-si chraki palta-n nana-y-ta allayku-yku-la
that-abl-dir father-1pl-also foot palm-3pl hurt-inf-acc begin-asp-past
‘That’s why/when the bottom of my father’s foot began to hurt.’
(from Floyd 1993:102)
If choice of evidential form was merely a function of the actual source of infor-
mation, then examples like (3) ought to be considered unacceptable. This is
clearly not the case in (3) which occured in spontaneous discourse. The
adoption of an epistemological stance of personal experience in (3), as
reﬂected in the choice of evidential clitic -mi, has a particular rhetorical eﬀect.
The hearer must infer that the speaker has some particular reason for assuming
a personal experience epistemological stance for information she has not
actually personally experienced. In this case, she might infer, as Floyd
(1993:102) suggests, that the reason why the speaker’s father’s foot began to
hurt is a ‘valid and true’ reason.
Epistemological stance 55
So while the adoption of an epistemological stance is an automatic response
to attending to some body of information, the type of epistemological stance is
not automatic, even when evidential coding is grammaticalised. The representa-
tion of epistemological stances that do not match with the actual source of
information can be used as a powerful rhetorical tool, especially in those
languages with a evidential system, like that found in Quechua, where speakers
are expected to overtly code their epistemological stance in every utterance.
Mismatches between actual source of information and evidential category
selection may also be a function of an indeterminacy of information source. In
real life situations it is often diﬃcult to identify one particular source from
which some knowledge was acquired. Much of the information we know about
is acquired through exposure from more than one source. For example I may
know that Peter is going to have a party on Saturday because (a) he told me he
was when I bumped into him, (b) Alexis also told me that Peter was going to
have a party, (c) I received an invitation to the party in the mail, and (d) I
noticed Peter buying party supplies at the supermarket. While I might decide
that one of these sources of information is more accurate or valid than the
others, it is not the case that I know about Peter’s party from one source.
How I choose to talk about Peter’s forthcoming party is therefore a reﬂec-
tion of which type of source I decide is most appropriate to evoke in the
discourse context. For example, I might represent the information about the
party as hearsay if I am not sure whether someone I am talking to has been
invited (I hear that Peter is going to have a party, have you heard anything like
that?). I might take a more experiential stance if I want to boast about my
knowledge of the party over someone else’s (Guess What! There’s a party
happening at Peter’s on Saturday!). Alternatively I avoid evoking any particular
type of source, presenting the information more ‘factually’ (objectively) if I
consider the source to be irrelevant. (Peter is having a party on Saturday).
The second reason to support the notion of epistemological stance as a
framework for investigating linguistic evidentiality, is that it allows for forms
not typically associated with evidentiality to be linked with a speakers’ express-
ion of their epistemological assessment of information. So while morphological
evidential markers can be described as those forms that have grammaticalised
the expressions of particular epistemological stances, the adoption of an episte-
mological stance will have eﬀects on other aspects of linguistic structure. This
claim is supported by the results of the narrative retelling study, and will be
elucidated further in Chapter 7.
56 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
In some languages the relationship between non-evidential grammatical
categories and epistemological stance has become so conventionalised as to
have been described as a grammatical rule. This has been the case for the
‘conjunct/disjunct’ system described for many Tibeto-Burman languages (e.g.
DeLancey 1992). The data in (4) are from Newari and the analysis is based on
Bendix’s (1992) description of this system. The ‘evidential’ system of Newari
functions very similarly to the Tibetan system described in Section 2.3.3. and
should be taken as representative of conjunct/disjunct systems in general.
Verbal inﬂections are used to distinguish information that is personally
experienced — ‘internal’ (as in (4a)), from information which must be
acquired by ‘external’ means — perception, hearsay or inference — (as in
(4b,c)). The semantic diﬀerences between internal and external inﬂections
restricts their combinations with person marking. Typically, the internal form
can only occur in 1st person statements (4a) and 2nd person questions (4b¢).
Both are contexts in which the referent of the sentence subject is also the
experiencer of the information. In contrast, the external form only occurs with
2nd and 3rd person statements (4b,c) and 1st and 3rd person questions (4a¢,c¢),
contexts where the referent of the sentence subject did not directly experience
the event in question.
The link between the categories of person and evidentiality is so strong in
Newari that until relatively recently these verbal inﬂections were analysed as
agreement markers (e.g. Hale 1980), that distinguished ﬁrst person subjects (4a)
from second and third person subjects (4b,c). This analysis was considerably
complicated by the fact that the ‘agreement’ marking is reversed in yes/no
questions for ﬁrst and second persons (4a¢,b¢) and was eventually abandonded
in favor of the evidential-type analysis presented here.
(4) Newari (Tibeto-Burman: Bendix 1992)
a. ji won-a a¢. ji won-o la
1sg go-int 1sg go-ext q
‘I go, I used to go, ‘Did I go? (Have I gone?)
I went, I have gone.’
b. cho won-o b¢. cho won-a la
2sg go-ext 2sg go-int q
‘You went, you have gone.’ ‘Did you go?, Do you go?’
c. wo won-o c¢. wo won-o la
3sg go-ext 3sg go-ext q
‘S/he went, s/he has gone.’ ‘Did s/he go, etc?’
Epistemological stance 57
Conventionalised relationships between person and evidential categories have
also been observed for Japanese (e.g. Aoki 1986; Iwasaki 1993; Kamio 1994).
Systematic relationships between tense and evidential categories have also been
observed (e.g. Woodbury 1986). In Chapter 7 I show how the choice of refer-
ring expressions for story characters in narration is also reﬂective of the
expression of epistemological stance. The notion of epistemological stance thus
provides a way of talking about the predictability and perhaps universality of
such relationships, incorporating non-evidential linguistic categories (such as
tense, person and reference) into a comprehensive account of how people talk
about the status of their knowledge.
So talking about evidential meanings in terms of people’s assessment of the
status of their knowledge, their epistemological stance, recognises the multi-
functionality of linguistic expressions. This is a departure from the tendency in
linguistic analysis to identify categories on the basis of their formal rather than
their functional properties. The two may overlap, which is interesting, but it is
rarely the case that the burden of a particular communicative function is carried
by only one type of form. The notion of epistemological stance gives us tools to
talk about a communicative function independent of its linguistic realisation in
any particular language and across languages more generally. The usefulness of
this division cannot be underestimated in the task of cross-linguistic compari-
sons of discourse strategies, such as the study of narrative retelling presented in
the second half of the book.
Although the notion of epistemological stance recognises the independence
of source of information, speaker attitude towards that information and the
resulting linguistic coding, it also recognises that these relationships are
typically conventionalised within speech communities. For example, it may be
usual for members of a speech community to adopt an epistemological stance
reﬂecting personal experience when they talk about information that has been
acquired by sensory experience. It also may be conventional for speakers of the
same language not to adopt a personal experience epistemological stance for
information that has been told to them by someone else. This is clearly the case
in a language like Quechua where the relationship between actual sensory
experience (the ‘real world’) and a personal experience epistemological stance
(‘the conceptualised world’) is grammatically packaged into the ‘direct exper-
ience’ evidential clitic -mi, which is judged by speakers to be ungrammatical (as
opposed to just ‘odd’) in contexts of hearsay.
Nevertheless, the mismatch between actual source of information and
adoption of epistemological stance, illustrated in (1) and (3) above, is evidence
58 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
of the function of language to reﬂect conceptual structure, rather than reﬂect
actual states of aﬀairs in the world. In both cases, the mismatch was explained
by factors independent of the nature of the source of information itself. In (1),
for example, direct experience was expressed as hearsay (with apparently) so
that the speaker could avoid responsibility for knowing too much about a
miner’s strike. The choices speakers make with respect to epistemological stance
highlight the role of pragmatic factors in the construal of information with
respect to its source and epistemological status.
The Quechua and English examples above support a model where episte-
mological stance mediates between speakers’ actual acquisition of information
and how they talk about it. Speakers are motivated to adopt a particular episte-
mological stance partially on the basis of their source of information, but also
on the basis of their rhetorical intentions, on how they want their own utter-
ance to be understood and treated in the moment of the interaction. When
multiple sources are at issue, speakers may weigh up the status of the informa-
tion overall, or they may select one type of source as the basis for the stance they
adopt. Their choice in this respect is also dependent on their overall communi-
cative goals. Of course this does not rule out the adoption of an epistemological
stance which does indeed reﬂect the nature of the actual source of information.
It is only after a particular epistemological stance has been adopted that the
appropriate linguistic coding is selected.
Figure 3.1 represents relationship between source of information, discourse
context, epistemological stance and evidentiality as it has been described in this
section. The actual source of information is aﬀorded a special status in this
model. Although there are many factors which may motivate speakers to
represent the nature and status of the source of information diﬀerently from its
actual manner of acquisition, the epistemological stance adopted is still a
reﬂection of the speaker’s construal of this source, and their assessment of their
knowledge based on the method(s) of acquisition, according to the particulars
of an interactive setting. It is the intersection of these variables which motivates
the adoption of a particular epistemological stance, which will result in, among
other things, the selection of conventional evidential coding.
3.2 Types of epistemological stance
Epistemological stance, deﬁned as the construal of information with respect to
a speaker’s assessment of their epistemological status, is assumed to be a
Epistemological stance 59
universal concept. However the range of epistemological stances that might be
Actual source of
Information
(Invariant)
Speaker
Assessement of
Actual Source
Adoption of
Epistemological
Stance
Interactional
Setting
Speaker
Assessement of
Interaction
Linguistic
Choices
Figure 3.1Model of epistemological stance adoption
adopted to represent a particular state of aﬀairs is dependent on the
conceptualising individual’s assessment of how they acquired their information
based on both cultural conventions and interactive goals. While it is impossible
to determine a priori what epistemological stances might be adopted in a given
communicative context, it is possible to identify some diﬀerent types of episte-
mological stances, based on simple linguistic evidence.
The following subsections present a hypothetical non-exhaustive list of
some diﬀerent types of epistemological stances: personal experience (private
and perceptual), reportive, inferential, factual and imaginative. These epistemo-
logical stances are hypothesised to be universal in the sense that speakers of all
languages have the ability to represent them as part of their construal of states
of aﬀairs. The contexts in which these stances are actually adopted is predicted
to vary signiﬁcantly cross-linguistically however.
3.2.1 Personal experience
The adoption of a personal experience epistemological stance towards informa-
tion involves its representation as the product of the conceptualiser’s direct and
conscious perceptual experience. In many cases the speaker is the only person
who has access to the ‘truth’ of the information. These are private states, like
emotions and sensations. In other instances, the information may be something
the speaker has directly but not exclusively experienced, something that other
people might have experienced if they were also present. These are contexts
where the conceptualiser has witnessed an externally perceivable event. In these
cases, the adoption of a personal experience epistemological stance represents
information as the speaker’s version of events.
60 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
(5) Yippee! After months of throwing my money away I just won the lottery!
Boy am I relieved!
A personal experience epistemological stance can be linguistically realised in
many ways. The most obvious linguistic correlates of personal experience are
ﬁrst person reference, the use of ‘expressive’ language (as discussed above) and
the mention of private states and speaker intentions. All of these properties are
illustrated in (5) where the speaker talks about her own experience of winning
the lottery in the context of her own life, highlighting not only her feelings
about the event (i.e. relief) but also its place in the context of her life (that she
has been trying to win for some time and has lot a lot of money in the mean
time). The exclamations yippee and boy contribute an aﬀective meaning to the
utterance by expressively representing her relief and excitement.
The conjunct/disjunct system of Newari (repeated below) can be described
in terms of a personal experience epistemological stance.
(6) Newari (Tibeto-Burman: Bendix 1992)
a. ji won-a
1sg go-int
‘I go, I used to go, I went, I have gone.’
b. wo won-o
3sg go-ext
‘S/he went, s/he has gone.’
c. ji-n yat-o
1sg-erg do-ext
‘I seem to have done it (drunk /hypnotised, etc)’
The sentences in (6) illustrate the grammatical coding of a personal experience
epistemological stance in Newari (Tibeto-Burman). The internal (= ‘conjunct’)
verb suﬃx “… expresses the proposition being true… and having direct
experience of intention to perform the action.” (Bendix 1992:229). The
external (= ‘disjunct’) verb suﬃx, “ expresses… having experience of observing
incontravertible evidence” (Bendix 1992:230). The examples in (a) and (b)
illustrate the ‘unmarked’ use of the internal/external distinction in declarative
sentences — internal with ﬁrst person conscious experiencers and external
forms with second and third person experiencers. In (c), although the speaker
is the experiencer, their use of the external verb suﬃx expresses their lack of
conscious experience and intention in the event described. The internal form
in Newari can thus be analysed as a grammatical marker of the personal
experience epistemological stance.
Epistemological stance 61
Languages also diﬀer in the range of contexts for which the adoption of a
personal experience epistemological stance is appropriate. In Newari, the
‘internal’ form can only be used for information that is either a private state of
the conceptualiser (an emotion or feeling) or if it is an externally perceivable
event, it must describe an event under the control of the conceptualiser.
Externally perceivable events which are not under the control of the conceptual-
iser are marked with the ‘external’ form, the same form used to describe other
peoples’ experiences. The sentences in (7a,b) illustrate this contrast. The event
described in (a) is one that was consicously instigated by the subject while the
event described in (b) was not under the conscious control of the subject.
(7) Newari (from Bendix 1992:236)
a. ji dyon-a
I go.to.sleep-int
‘I went to bed/sleep’
b. ji dyon-o
I go.to.sleep-ext
‘I fell asleep’
In Korean, the distinction between personal subjective experience and external
observable experience is marked by predicate valency (and case marking) — a
more transitive ‘agentive’ construction and a less transitive ‘experiential’
construction, illustrated in (8).
(8) Korean (from Chun & Zubin 1990:81)
a. Suni-ka/nun Toli-lul coahanta
Suni-nom/top Toli-acc like:ag
‘Suni likes Toli.’
b. Suni-eykey/ka/nun Toli-ka coh-ta
Suni-dat/nom/top Toli-nom likeable:exp
‘Toli is likable to Suni.’
In (8a), the ‘agentive’ form of the predicate, in conjunction with nominative/
accusative case marking, objectiﬁes the scene, implying that Suni’s liking of Toli
is an externally observable situation. In (8b), the use of ‘experiential’ predicate
morphology, in conjunction with nominative/dative case marking presents the
scene as Suni’s subjective experience of liking Toli, the representation of a
personal experience epistemological stance. Agentive and experiential construc-
tions show similar restrictions on person marking as was described for Newari:
the experiential construction is more natural in 2nd person questions while the
62 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
agentive construction is more natural in 2nd and 3rd person statements. These
patterns are illustrated in (9).
(9) Korean (from Chun & Zubin 1990:84)
Na-nun ne-wa Changho-ka kathi issnon kes-ul poass-nuntey
I-top you-and Changho-nom together being-acc saw-and
‘I saw you with Changho and…’
a. Na-nun Changho-lul cohahae ‘I like Changho. (ag)’
b. Na-nun Changho-ka coha ‘I like Changho. (exp)’
c. ??Ne-nun Changho-ha coha ??‘You like Changho. (exp)’
d. Ne-nun Changho-ka coha ?‘Do you like Changho? (exp)’
e. ??Changho-nun ne-ka coha ??‘Does Changho like you? (exp)’
f. Changho-nun ne-lul cohani ‘Does Changho like you? (agt).’
Unlike the pattern described for Newari, there is no formal restriction on the
use of agentive or experiential constructions in ﬁrst person statements ((9a,b)
above). Recall that in such contexts in Newari, the ‘internal’ verb inﬂection was
greatly preferred. Use of the external verb inﬂection was restricted to contexts
where the speaker did not have consicous knowledge or control over the events
described. Although the Korean agentive construction overlaps with the Newari
external inﬂection to some degree, its use in 1st person contexts does not
necessarily imply a lack of conscious control on the speaker’s part. If anything,
it implies a greater degree of agency or volition that might result in some
observable evidence (i.e. for (9a) that there are ways that some objective
observer might be able to deduce that the speaker likes Changho). Like the
Newari internal inﬂection, use of the Korean experiential construction with 1st
person does however represent more clearly the subjective experience of the
speaker — a representation of some private state which would otherwise be
unknowable to an objective observer.
This comparison of the expression of personal experience in two unrelated
languages demonstrates the variability in what counts as ‘personal experience’
for a personal experience epistemological stance. Both languages have gram-
maticalised a distinction between private states and externally perceivable
events. However where the Newari verbal inﬂection system contrasts all states
and activities instigated by the speaker (including private states and agentive
activities) with the speaker’s perceptual experiences of the external world (e.g.
witness), Korean separates wholly subjective personal experiences from those
which could be deduced from perceptual evidence in the real world, even when
they also involve the speaker as the primary focus of the utterance.
Epistemological stance 63
In contrast, English does not make a grammatical distinction between
private states and externally perceivable events. The contexts in which it is
appropriate to adopt a personal experience epistmological stance seem to diﬀer
from those described for Newari and Korean. These are illustrated in the
following examples in (10)
(10) a. Ouch! I just stubbed my toe! That hurt!
b. Jessica stubbed her toe just now. It looks like she is in pain.
c. Ouch! I saw Jessica stubbing her toe just now! That hurt!
d. ??Ouch! Apparently Jessica stubbed her toe yesterday. That hurt!
e. ??Ouch! I heard that Jessica stubbed her toe yesterday. That hurt!
The utterance in (10a) describes a situation where the speaker has stubbed her
own toe. This is a tactile event that directly aﬀects the speaker. The information
is clearly presented from a personal experience epistemological stance, signalled
by the use of expressive language that aﬀectively describes not only what
happened but also what it felt like.
The utterances in (10b) and (10c) describe situations where the speaker has
witnessed someone else stubbing their toe. She has direct experience of the
event to the extent that she has a visually perceived experience of it. Unlike the
situation in (10a), the speaker is not directly aﬀected by the event itself
(although she might empathise with the pain she is in). The diﬀerence between
(10a) on the one hand and (10b) and (10c) on the other hand is an example of
the diﬀerence between internal and external perception.
In (10b), the speaker presents a description of what she witnessed, together
with an inference that the person she witnessed is in pain. Although it is clear
from the phrase “It looks like..”, that the situation is known to the speaker
because she saw the event, it is not clear that she is taking a stance of personal
experience towards it. In particular, she makes no direct reference in the ﬁrst
sentence of the utterance of her role as perceiver. The fact that the speaker
makes an inference about the level of Jessica’s pain based on this visual evidence
suggests rather that she did not represent such information from a personal
experience epistemological stance, but rather construed the information in
terms of more objective criteria (resulting in a more ‘objective’ construal, in
Langacker’s sense (Section 1.3)).
In (10c), the speaker does construe at least aspects of the event she has just
witnessed, the experience of another person, as her own experience. This
example represents a more ‘subjective’ construal of the scene, in Langacker’s
sense, since the conceptualiser overtly refers to herself as a perceiver, linguistic-
64 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
ally including herself as part of the construal of the situation. The aﬀective
exclamation ouch! and the exclamative phrase that hurt! both convey not only
that the speaker was witness to the event, but that she was (sympathetically)
feeling what the actual toe-stubber felt. In other words, not only does the
speaker represent the information that Jessica stubbed her toe more subjectively
by including herself in the representation as witness, the use of aﬀective
language represents a closer relationship to the experience than would ordinar-
ily be expected for a mere witness. This type of juxtaposition of linguistic
strategies gives the impression that the speaker is able to feel what the experien-
cer feels, a sign that she has adopted a personal experience epistemological
stance towards information that was not acquired by direct experience, without
claiming to be the actual experiencer.
The felicitous adoption of a personal experience epistemological stance in
English in a context where the speaker has only witnessed the event described
and was not actually aﬀected by it is diﬀerent from the contexts described for
Newari and Korean grammatical marking of a personal experience stance. In
Newari, the adoption of a personal experience stance, signalled with internal
verb inﬂectional morphology, was felicitous only when the speaker had some
internal and controlled experience of the event. In Korean, personal experience
could be subdivided into private experiences (the most personal of personal
experiences) which are less volitional (and less transitive) than publically
observable personal experiences, coded transitively with agentive predicate
morphology and nom/acc case marking.
The utterances in (10d) and (10e) represent situations where the speaker
has acquired the information that Jessica stubbed her toe some time after the
event. The ‘distance’ from the event means that the aﬀective language that was
perfectly acceptable when the speaker experienced or directly witnessed the
event becomes much less acceptable. This is taken as evidence that a personal
experience epistemological stance has not been adopted.
In (10e) the speaker uses the adverb apparently to code the information as
not acquired by direct experience or witness of the event. She does not mention
her role in the acquisition of information, and thus presents a more objective
construal of the information. In (10e), the speaker does include herself and how
she acquired the information in the utterance. While this is a more subjective
representation of information (since it codes the role of the conceptualiser) it
is still not representative of a personal experience stance towards the informa-
tion that Jessica stubbed her toe. The evidence that this is not a personal
experience stance comes from the infelicitous use of aﬀective language. In
Epistemological stance 65
(10c), which did represent a personal experience stance, the speaker had coded
in the utterance not only that she had witnessed the event but also the pain that
she would be experiencing if she were in Jessica’s position.
The use of a personal experience epistemological stance to code informa-
tion that in some senses is not ‘private’ (i.e. knowable only to the experiencer)
can be used as a rhetorical device to represent information as more empathetic.
Adoption of personal experience epistemological stance typically also gives an
impression of certainty and conﬁdence — it is the speaker’s own version of
information. It would be odd, for example, to challenge information presented
from this stance.
In fact, the notion of ‘challengeability’ of information is a useful heuristic
for the adoption of diﬀerent kinds of epistemological stances. In both (11) and
(12), the speaker reports her direct experience. The information in (11) is
something that B is unlikely to know independently from being told by A — a
private state. The information that A had a car accident in (12) is an externally
perceivable event that B would have witnessed if she were present. Despite these
diﬀerences, without further context, it sounds odd for B to refute what A has
asserted as personal experience
(11) (private state)
A: I’m exhausted!
B: No you’re not.
(12) (public event)
A: I had a car accident last week
B: No, you didn’t
There are, of course, situations where speakers may be convinced of the validity
of their personal experience information at the time of speaking but later
discover that they are mistaken. In (13), speaker A, a student, assumes a
personal experience stance towards the information that she failed. In this
particular context however the professor (B) is in a position to know more
about the relevant information than the student. Under these circumstances, it
is ﬁne for the professor to challenge the validity of the utterance.
(13) A: [student about to receive graded exam] I know I failed.
B: [professor] No, you didn’t
The strangeness of challenging information presented as personal experience
conﬁrms that this stance generally reﬂects the speaker’s willingness to take
responsibility for the information. Challenges may arise, but they felicitously
66 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
arise only when the challenger is in a position to know more about the original
speaker’s experience than the original speaker.
3.2.2 Inferential
Adoption of an inferential epistemological stance is expressed in the representa-
tion of information as inferred or deduced based on some body of evidence. An
inferential epistemological stance may be adopted when speakers use a range of
information types acquired by direct perception to form a conclusion — a
product of their own reasoning. This is illustrated in (14) where the speaker’s
inferential epistemological stance towards the information that Peter is having
a party on Saturday night is signalled by epistemic must. The implications of
this utterance are that the speaker had reasoned that Peter was having the party
based on some strong evidence (e.g. she saw Peter buying party supplies, she
knows that Peter is busy on Saturday based on what he told her, etc.).
(14) Peter must be having a party on Saturday night.
Forms associated with an inferential epistemological stance in English are epi-
stemic modals (e.g. must, might, can) and adverbials (e.g. probably, undoubt-
edly, possibly). The diﬀerences between these forms lies in the degree to which
the speaker has a strong belief in, or commitment to, the validity of the infor-
mation. For example, the use of must in (14) indicates that the speaker had a
strong belief that the inference they drew was a valid one. The adoption of an
inferential epistemological stance does not itself imply a particular strength of
belief however, just that the knowledge has been assessed in terms of both the
available external evidence and the speaker/conceptualiser’s own capacity for
reasoning.
Since an inferential epistemological stance is adopted on the basis of the
speaker’s assessment of diﬀerent kinds of evidence, it is felicitous to challenge
the conclusion if the challenger feels that they have better evidence, as in (15),
where the use of must signals that speaker A is fairly certain of the facts based on
whatever evidence she has, and (16), where the use of possibly signals that
speaker A is less certain of the facts than in (15).
(15) A: Peter must be having a party on Saturday night.
B: No, he’s not. (I don’t know how you concluded that!)
(16) A: Peter is possibly having a party on Saturday night.
B: No, he’s not. (He told me he decided not to.)
Epistemological stance 67
An inferential epistemological stance expresses a relatively ‘subjective’ construal
of information because it includes an aspect of the conceptualiser (i.e. allusion
to their reasoning process) within the scope of the construal. It is less subjective
than a personal experience stance, in which the conceptualiser is wholly
included within the scope of the construal. For this reason, in contexts in which
knowledge is actually acquired by direct experience, the adoption of an inferen-
tial epistemological stance represents the information as more ‘distanced’ from
the speaker’s own experience. This is illustrated in (17) where the speaker is
talking about her own actions but signals the adoption of an inferential episte-
mological stance with must.
(17) I must have broken the window.
The example in (17) suggests that the speaker was somehow unaware of the fact
that she broke the window at the time it broke (e.g. if she were drunk or
particularly unobservant). Her unawareness of the experience at the time
lessens her motivation to construe the fact that she was the breaker of the
window from a personal experience epistemological stance, since she can only
use the resulting evidence available (e.g. shards of the window, knowledge of
her movements, what other people told her, etc.) to make an assessment of the
status of her knowledge with respect to the broken window.
The adoption of an inferential epistemological stance has been described
here as the construal of information as the product of a reasoning process,
regardless of the type of conclusion that might arise from such a process. As
such, it is theoretically independent of the strength of the speaker/conceptual-
iser’s belief state in the validity of their conclusions. For example, both the
English epistemic modals in (18) and (19) are taken as evidence of the adoption
of an inferential epistemological stance, though the use of must in (18) indicates
a strong belief in the validity of the inference while the use of might in (19)
indicates a weaker belief in the validity of the inference.
(18) Peter must be having a party
(e.g. I have seen him buying party supplies so I’m sure that it is true.)
(19) Peter might be having a party
(e.g. It’s his birthday next week and he sometimes holds birthday parties,
but I don’t have compelling evidence that he is having a party.)
The fact that speakers do make a qualitative assessment of their commitment to
their conclusions suggests an additional complexity in the type of inferential
stance adopted — one in which knowledge is assessed not only in terms of an
68 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
of how the knowledge was acquired (e.g. by a synthesis of available external
evidence and human reasoning), but also in terms of the strength of the
conclusion, based on the (unspeciﬁed) evidence.
Cross-linguistically, forms which express an inferential epistemological
stance are those which have traditionally fallen under the rubric of ‘epistemic
modality’. English has a rich inventory of such forms — auxiliary verbs,
adverbials, and verbs — and many other languages have similar ranges of
grammatical expressions which contribute to the representation of information
as the product of a reasoning process concerning unspeciﬁed external evidence.
In some languages, the adoption of an inferential epistemological stance is
expressed in the verbal morphology. Wintu, like Makah (Section 2.3.2), has a
number of suﬃxes associated with inferences constructed from diﬀerent kinds
of evidence. For example, the suﬃx -re. “… indicates that the speaker believes
his statement to be true because of circumstantial sensory evidence.” (Schlichter
1986:51), as in (20). In contrast, the suﬃx -‘el “denotes that the speaker
believes his proposition to be true because of his experience with similar
situations, regular patters, or repeated circumstances common in human life.”
(Schlichter 1986:52), as in (21).
(20) heke ma.n hara.kire.m
somewhere ex go-com.dub
‘He must have gone somewhere (I don’t see him).’
(from Schlichter 1986:51)
(21) ‘Gmto.n nuqa.‘
‘el
berries ripe
‘The berries must be ripe (it’s that time of year).’
(from Schlichter 1986:53)
Although the suﬃxes distinguish conclusions based on diﬀerent kinds of
evidence, they both represent a strong belief on the part of the speaker that they
have arrived at the correct conclusion.
The grammaticalisation of inferential forms is evidence of the salience of
inference as a type of epistemological stance in some languages. Inferencing is
a basic part of the building of knowledge represenations (variously known as
‘frames’ – Minsky 1974; ‘scripts’ – Schank 1984; ‘mental models’ – Johnson-
Laird 1981). Inferencing allows people to access ‘background’ information
which is not overtly present either in the immediate physical environment — to
ﬁll in the gaps of their imperfect mental representations. These ‘gaps’ can be as
mundane as inferring that an aforementioned room has a door, walls and a
Epistemological stance 69
ceiling. They can be as complex as inferring that someone has been in a particu-
lar place based on the colour of mud splashed on their trousers, or the smell of
their hair, or the expression on their face. While our knowledge of such things
does require a constant drawing upon our ability to infer information from
overtly presented ‘evidence’, it does not necessitate the constant adoption of an
inferential epistemological stance towards it.
Like all of the epistemological stances described here, the adoption of the
inferential epistemological stance derives in part from the assessment of
information source (e.g. as a ‘reasoning process’), but it also relies on the
speaker/conceptualiser’s motivation to draw attention to the fact that the
information is know by inference. This motivation can only be explained in
terms of how and when people use such expressions in actual discourse.
3.2.3 Reportive
The adoption of a reportive epistemological stance represents information as
acquired by virtue of what someone else has said. Like an inferential epistemo-
logical stance, the reportive epistemological stance is adopted to represent
knowledge of information that is not part of the speaker/conceptualiser’s direct
experience of the information but rather information that has become known
after the fact. However, unlike an inferential epistemological stance, which does
not refer to the speciﬁc evidence that a speaker/conceptualiser has used to draw
an inference, a reportive epistemological stance speciﬁes the type of evidence
that has motivated the adoption of the stance as linguistic evidence.
The adoption of a reportive epistemological stance may be expressed
linguistically in several ways. It is most explicitly signalled by embedding the
information under some speech act predicate that attributes the information to
some other speaker. In English, representation of other people’s utterances can
be indirect, representing the ‘gist’ of the previous utterance (as in (22a)) or direct,
representing the purported exact words of the previous utterance (as in (22b)).
(22) a. John says that Peter is having a party on Saturday night.
b. John said “Peter is having a party on Saturday night.”
It has been claimed that all languages have the means of representing informa-
tion as the product of an utterance by direct speech representation, while the
universality of indirect speech representation is less clear (Li 1986). Certainly
both direct and indirect speech representation phenomena have been described
70 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
for an enormous range of languages (e.g. Coulmas 1986a; Lucy 1993; Janssen &
Van Der Wurﬀ 1996).
Although certain properties of reported speech representation are clearly
language speciﬁc, some fundamental properties of direct speech are shared
across languages: use of an (optional) framing clause containing a speech act
predicate and some reference to the reported speaker; a shift in deictic centre
from the time and place of the actual speech act, and the identity of the current
speaker, to the time and place of the reported speech act, and the identity of the
reported speaker; potential use of ‘expressive’ language (Banﬁeld 1982). It is
assumed that most, if not all, languages will utilise reported speech representa-
tion, direct or otherwise, as the most explicit means of expressing the adoption
of a reportive epistemological stance.12
The pragmatics of reported speech
representation as a reﬂection of a reportive epistemological stance will be
examined more closely in the chapters reporting the results of the narrative
retelling study.
Languages may also employ means other than reported speech representa-
tion to express a reportive epistemological stance. Many languages also have
grammaticalised means of coding information as the product of someone else’s
utterance. These are the forms which have been called ‘reportive evidentials’
elsewhere in the literature. A selection of these is illustrated in the examples
below:
(23) Quechua
Lishi-shi prista-ka-mu-la
Lishi-rep borrow-ref-afar-past
‘Lishi borrowed it (I was told).’ (Floyd 1993:199)
(24) Wintu
Xinel kirke.m
die com.dub
‘He has died (I’m told).’ (Schlichter 1986:49)
(25) Cayuga
thayekya’kh˛
ohá’ ake
˛’.
he-went-to chop-wood they say
‘They say he went to chop wood.’ (Mithun 1986:103)
(26) Ngiyambaa
Nindu-dhan girambiyi
you+nom-ling evid sick+past
‘You are said to have been sick.’ (Donaldson 1980:276)
Epistemological stance 71
(27) Japanese
Taroo wa doyoobi ni paati o suru-n-da tte
Taroo top Saturday loc party obj do-nom-cop rsp
‘I heard that Peter is having a party on Saturday’
Grammaticalised markers of reportiveness commonly historically derive from
speech act predicates in reported speech representation (Mushin 1997,
Grenoble 1998). However there are several signiﬁcant diﬀerences between these
strategies for expressing the adoption of a reportive epistemological stance:
a.the reportive evidential clitic replaces any overt predication of speech (i.e the
propositions are not syntactically embedded under a speech predicate);
b.reported speech representation typically involves the explicit mention of the
reported speaker while use of the reportive clitic simply reports the informa-
tion as the product of some prior utterance unconnected to any purported
original speaker;
c.reported speech representation typically involves some shift in deictic
coding to the time, place and identity of the reported speech act (and reported
speaker) while use of a reportive clitic does not motivate any shift in the deictic
centre (it shares this property with wholly indirect reported speech representa-
tion as in (a) above).
A reportive epistemological stance may also be reﬂected in ‘evidential’ forms
which do not speciﬁcally make reference to information as the product of a
speech act but which nevertheless conventionally imply that information was
acquired from what someone else said. The Balkan Slavic L-form past tense,
described as an ‘indirect evidential’ in Willett’s (1988) classiﬁcation, is an
example of a form which is not historically related to reported speech represen-
tation (it derives from the Common Slavic perfect tense), but which neverthe-
less is conventionally interpreted as reﬂecting a reportive epistemological
stance. Although the L-form past has a range of meanings, most of which are
associated with expression of the speaker’s disinclinaction to ‘vouch for’
information, its default interpretation in conversation is that the speaker knows
about the information because they have heard it from someone else. This
conventionalised interepration has resulted in analyses of the L-form as a
reportive form in earlier grammars of Macedonian and Bulgarian (including
Jakobson’s 1957 analysis of the Bulgarian L-form as a ‘true evidential’). The
reportive connotations of the Macedonian L-form past will be discussed in
72 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
more detail in Chapter 5 as it relates to the adoption of a reportive epistemolog-
ical stance in narrative retelling.
Whether it is expressed through reported speech representation (direct or
indirect), some grammaticalised reportive marker, or some other evidential
marker conventionally used in hearsay contexts, adoption of a reportive episte-
mological stance always reﬂects the representation of information as the
product of what someone other than the current speaker has said. This original
linguistic source may or may not be identiﬁable but it is always implied.
Since reportive epistemological stance is about the representation of
information as acquired from a source other than the actual speaker, it is
typically odd to adopt a reportive epistemological stance towards information
acquired by personal experience.
(28) ??I heard that I’m exhausted.
(29) ??I heard that I had a car accident.
The utterances in (28) and (29) represent the same propositional information
as (11) and (12) above (which illustrated the adoption of a personal experience
epistemological stance), but these are now represented as being known by
virtue of hearing the information from someone else. The results are utter-
ances for which it is hard to contrive a context which would result in a felici-
tous interpretation. This is because information about people’s private states,
and their personal experiences are not typically acquired by hearsay, nor are
people typically embued with the authority to talk about someone else’s
personal experience.
Of course, there are contexts where a reportive epistemological stance is
appropriate to adopt towards information that is about one’s own personal
experience, but these are precisely the contexts where the source of information
is in some position of authority with respect to their knowledge. For example,
the speaker might utter (28) if her doctor has informed her that she is
exhausted and in need of a vacation. In this scenario the speaker has delegated
knowledge of her feelings to another person who is socially authorised to make
assertions about aspects of other people’s private states. Similarly, the speaker
might utter (29) if she was knocked unconscious and was told that she was in an
accident when she came to in the hospital. Note that both of these describe
scenarios where the speaker was not aware of the experience, only ﬁnding out
about it by virtue of what someone else said. This is similar to the patterns
described for Newari in the previous section where speakers code information
as ‘personally experienced’ (i.e with internal verb inﬂection) only when the
Epistemological stance 73
experiencer can be construed as the volitional instigator of an action or event.
It is also similar to the situation described as the contextualisation of (17),
where the speaker adopts an inferential epistemological stance towards her
knowledge of breaking a window because she has no conscious memory of her
involvement in the event.
In terms of ‘challengability’, knowledge of information which is construed
as an epistemological stance of personal experience can be considered unchal-
lengable because it represents information as private experience of the speaker,
often unknowable to outside observers. The degree to which information
represented from a reportive epistemological stance is challengable is more
complex than the personal experience epistemological stance. The challeng-
ability of such information relies both on the knowlege state of the challenger
(i.e. if they know more about the information than the current speaker), and
also on the status of the originator of the information. An utterance like (30), for
example, where the source of information is considered reliable, is less likely to
be challenged than an utterance like (31), where the source is of dubious
character.
(30) A: Sue [usually honest person] told me that she was having an aﬀair.
B: ??No, she’s not.
(31) A: John [jealous ex-boyfriend] told me that Sue was having an aﬀair.
B: No, she’s not.
The adoption of a reportive epistemological stance can have the rhetorical eﬀect
of making the speaker seem less responsible for the information. In English, the
function of reportive coding has been described ‘distancing’ or ‘detaching’ the
actual speaker from the information described as reportive (e.g. Clark & Gerrig
1990; Mayes 1990). For example, the speaker might utter either (30) or (31) if
she wanted to avoid being mistaken as the originator of a rumour.
Although the adoption of a reportive epistemological stance necessarily
codes information as at least one step removed from the speakers direct
experience, it does not necessarily code the information as unreliable or
uncertain. The extent to which information expressed from a reportive episte-
mological stance can be considered reliable lies in the identity of the source and
not in its reportiveness per se. The speaker might utter (30), which cites a
reliable source, if she wanted to bolster her expression of certainty that she
knew about an aﬀair. She might utter (31), citing a less reliable source, if she
wanted to express more skepticism about the status of her knowledge. Further-
more, the degree to which (30) and (31) may be understood with respect to the
74 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
speaker’s degree of certainty relies totally on the degree to which the hearer
knows that Sue is a more reliable source than John in this instance.
In terms of conceptual structure, adoption of a reportive epistemological
stance represents a relatively objective construal of information because it shifts
focus away from the conceptualiser as the origin of the information by attribut-
ing it to what someone else has said. Certainly it represents a more objectiﬁed
conceptual structure than an inferential epistemological stance which repre-
sents information as the product of the speaker/conceptualiser’s own thought
processes. However information represented from a reportive epistemological
stance is not wholly objectively construed. In order to represent information as
the product of what someone else has said, the speaker/conceptualiser must
evoke some aspect of themselves as the person who ‘heard’ the information.
Although adoption of a reportive epistemological stance means that speakers do
not subjectively represent themselves as a direct source, either by direct experi-
ence or reasoning process, they are ‘present’ as the recipient of the information
via what someone else has said.
3.2.4 Factual
Adoption of a factual epistemological stance is reﬂected in the absence of any
representation of the source of information (and its status) in the construal.
Adoption of a factual epistemological stance typically implies either that the
information is assumed to be known by anyone in the speech community as
general cultural knowledge or, more generally, that the source of information
is unimportant to the establishment of the validity of the information.
In English, universally accepted ‘world truths’ are best represented from a
factual epistemological stance. In (32) and (33) below, the English sentences
represent truths that are accepted universally (or at least by members of certain
English-speaking communities). The (a) sentences are epistemologically neutral
while the (b) and (c) sentences draw attention to the way that knowledge of this
information was acquired. The (b) sentences represent the univerally accepted
information from a reportive epistemological stance. The (c) sentences repre-
sent the information as an opinion, a construct that is situated with the speaker,
but not necessarily the rest of the community.
(32) a. Two plus two equals four
b. ??Two plus two equals four, according to by ﬁrst grade teacher.
c. ??I am under the impression that two plus two equals four.
Epistemological stance 75
(33) a. Rain is wet.
b. ??Apparently rain is wet.
c. ??Rain is wet, I think.
Adoption of a factual epistemological stance requires that the conceptualiser
disassociate herself from the representation, resulting in a maximally objective
construal, in Langacker’s ‘optimal viewing arrangement’. In other words, the
speaker does not ‘own up’ to the fact that what they are talking about is their
own representation of events, and not a description of the events themselves.
The rhetorical eﬀect of this disassociation is to represent information as ‘factual’
and hence unchallengable.
The unchallengeability of information presented from a factual epistemo-
logical stance makes it highly suitable as a means of expressing culturally
shared knowledge. The factual stance adopted in (34) is of this type. It repre-
sents information commonly known by the speech community via a range of
public sources (e.g. the media, public announcement, etc.). The bare challenge
to the information that the Olympic games were held in Sydney in the year
2000 is infelicitous, since anyone in the community should know the assertion
to be true. Note that the clariﬁcation question in (35), requesting information
about how A acquired the information is also somewhat infelicitous since
anyone in the community should also know the type of source for this culturally
salient assertion.
(34) A: The Olympic games were held in Sydney, Australia in the year 2000.
B: ??No they weren’t.
(35) A: The Olympic games were held in Sydney, Australia in the year 2000.
B: ??How do you know?
The adoption of a factual epistemological stance need not represent knowledge
assumed to be either culturally shared (as in the case of ‘universal’ truths) or
culturally salient (as in the case of public information). (36) represents infor-
mation from a factual epistemological stance that is not presupposed to be
culturally shared. The fact that the speaker can be questioned with regard to
source of information is evidence that the information is not yet ‘public
property’. Similarly, although the information in (37) is presented as fact, it can
be challenged by a speaker who believes that they have more reliable sources.
This type of ‘qualiﬁed’ challenge is still strange when the information is truly in
the public domain, as in (38), where it is not possible for B to have heard
diﬀerently from A (unless B misheard, or had been socially isolated for a
considerable period of time).
76 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
(36) A: Peter is having a party on Saturday.
B: Who told you?/How do you know?
(37) A: Peter is having a party on Saturday.
B: No he’s not. He told me just now that he cancelled it.
(38) A: The Olympic games were held in Sydney, Australia in the year 2000.
B: ??No they weren’t. They were held in Albuquerque.
In English, information which was actually acquired from some speciﬁc source
or sources, rather than being in the domain of ‘public knowledge’ (e.g the
information in (36)) may be also be presented as fact. However, there are
languages for which it can be argued that no information is presented as purely
factual, without any reference to some kind of source of information. These are
languages with highly grammaticalised evidential systems such as Quechua
(Floyd 1993), and Jaqi languages (Hardman 1986). In the Jaqi languages, for
example, even folktales describing events purported to have taken place in the
distant past must be represented as ‘non-personal’ knowledge, indicating that
the speaker did not witness the information, nor did she infer the information
based on what she did witness.
3.2.5 Imaginative
The epistemological stances described so far — personal experience (both
private state and perceptual experience), inferential, reportive and factual —
all involve the representation of knowledge that is the speaker’s construal of
information acquired in the real world (e.g. representations of actual events)
according to its manner of acquisition and the degree to which it is represented
as publically or privately knowable in the real world. In contrast, an imagin-
ative epistemological stance represents information as embedded in some
ﬁctional storyworld. The adoption of an imaginative stance expresses some-
thing like “suspend all disbelief and accept what I say as factual because this
information is not grounded in the real world”. The imaginative epistemologi-
cal stance is thus well-suited to the depiction of events as ﬁctional or hypo-
thetical, as in (39) and (40).
(39) There once was a king and he had three daughters…
(40) It would be great if you came to Peter’s party!
The example in (39) conventionally signals the start of a ﬁctional story that is
not purported to be grounded in any real world event. The example in (40)
Epistemological stance 77
signals a hypothetical situation with the use of a conditional construction. This
is something that the speaker would like to become reality, but which she must
acknowledge is not yet reality.
The adoption of an imaginative epistemological stance blends aspects of the
personal experience and factual stances. It is similar to a personal experience
stance because it licenses the speaker to talk about ‘private’ information that is
typically inaccessable to someone other than the conceptualiser. Unlike a
personal experience stance, however, an imaginative stance does not purport to
reﬂect the speaker’s own personal experience. On the contrary, an imaginative
stance is used to talk about information that involves other people and events.
The adoption of an imaginative stance to talk about direct personal experience
implies that the speaker wants to distance themselves from the experience. This
is illustrated in (41).
(41) Jack: Who ate the last cookie?
Jill: Well Jill was walking past the cookie jar and lo and behold a
cookie materialised in her hand. What was she to do? She
couldn’t very well abandon it?
The adoption of an imaginative epistemological stance is also similar to the
adoption of a factual epistemological stance because it downplays the nature of
the source of information and the way in which the speaker acquired the
information. Information that is deictically centered within the storyworld is
accepted as fact, even if it represents something that the audience believes does
not exist in the ‘real’ world (e.g. unicorns, ﬂying carpets, etc.).
Like information expressed from a personal experience epistemological
stance and a factual epistemological stance, information represented from an
imaginative epistemological stance is typically unchallengable. Where informa-
tion represented as personal experience was unchallengable because it repre-
sents something only the speaker/conceptualiser knows, and information
represented as fact is unchallengable because it represents something that
everyone is supposed to know, information represented as ‘imaginative’ is
unchallengable because it does not claim to be about the real world and
therefore there is nothing to challenge.
In (42) the information that there was a princess is presented in the conven-
tional frame of a ﬁctional fairy tale (once upon a time…). The use of this frame
expresses to the hearer that the following information should not be understood
as a representation of some real world situation, that the hearer should suspend
any disbelief and accept whatever the speaker says as ‘true’ for that story. Under
78 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
these circumstances, it is diﬃcult to eﬀectively challenge the veracity of the
narrative information. Similarly, as (43) demonstrates, it is diﬃcult to challenge
information presented as hypthothetical since it too is not grounded in any
reality but is based on some creative representation of the speaker.
(42) A: Once upon a time there was a princess….
B: ??No there wasn’t.
(43) A: In another universe, pigs would ﬂy
B: ??No, they wouldn’t
Diﬀerent cultures have diﬀerent storytelling styles. However despite the
widespread cultural salience of folklore and creative storytelling, it has proven
diﬃcult to ﬁnd a language which has a grammatical morpheme which codes an
imaginative epistemological stance (i.e. in contrast with grammatical markers
of personal experience, witness, hearsay, etc). It is still possible however to
identify the imaginative epistemological stance through its linguistic expression.
Adoption of an imaginative epistemological stance by deﬁnition displaces the
deictic centre from somewhere in the representation of the ‘real’ world to its
location in the representation of a story world. This can be signalled by deictic
shift alone without any further grammatical expression particular to the
expression of an imaginative epistemological stance.
The adoption of an imaginative epistemological stance may be further
signalled by conventionalised expressions. The English phrase once upon a time
conventionally functions to transport the audience into a ﬁctional storyworld,
even though the phrase literally suggests that the events of the narrative took
place at some unspeciﬁed time in the past. In some languages (e.g. Quechua),
such storytelling is coded with a special past tense form ‘narrative past’ or
‘remote past’ which situates the information at some distant and unspeciﬁed
past time — a ‘mythical’ past.
One of the advantages to the adoption of an imaginative epistemological
stance is that it allows speakers to represent the private states of other individ-
uals (i.e. the consciousness of characters in the story world), without explicitly
indicating that the information was not one’s own (as was the case with
inferential and reportive epistemological stances when adopted to talk about
other peoples’ personal experiences). Information represented from an imagin-
ative epistemological stance can utilise all the ‘expressive’ devices normally
reserved for the representation of information from personal experience. For
example, Jill’s utterance in (41) above contains both expressive devices like lo
Epistemological stance 79
and behold, as well as representations of her own thoughts as if she were a
character in a story (e.g. What was she to do?).
From a storyteller’s perspective, an imaginative epistemological stance
stance is always construed as maximally objective. Since an imaginative episte-
mological stance represents information as the product of the storyteller’s
creative imagination, and hence not grounded in the conception of a real world
state of aﬀairs, speaker/conceptualisers are not themselves represented in the
construal.13
The result would look something like (44), a construction which
cannot be interpreted as representing ﬁction.
(44) ??I know/imagine/made up that there once was a princess.
Finally it should be stressed that although the adoption of an imaginative episte-
mological stance represents information as ‘factual’ within a ﬁctional story
world, ﬁctional stories need not be told from an imaginative epistemological
stance. For example, some stories may be told as direct experience or witness —
the teller represents the information as if they were there to witness the events
of the story. In Quechua, folktales are conventially marked with the hearsay
evidential clitic, conventionally representing storyworld information as hearsay
even when it is culturally shared knowledge.
3.2.6 Towards a typology of epistemological stances
The diﬀerent types of epistemological stance — personal experience (subcat-
egorised into private experience and witness), reportive, inferential, factual and
imaginative represent a range of ways that a speaker can position themselves
with respect to their knowledge of a state of aﬀairs. Evidence for the existence
of these particular epistemological stances comes from their tendency to
become grammaticalised in languages which have grammatical evidential
systems. It is also possible to identify linguistic phenomena cross-linguistically
which code particular types of source of information (e.g. reported speech
representation for a reportive epistemological stance, use of expressive language
in an imaginative epistemological stance). This list of epistemological stance
types is not intended to be exhaustive. It is possible, for example, that there
other types of epistemological stance that are constructed by speakers languages
other than English that are not constructed by English speakers. Epistemologi-
cal stance itself is a cognitive (and thus universal) concept, but the actual
adoption of diﬀerent epistemological stances in context is mitigated by cultural
and linguistic diﬀerences.
80 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
The diﬀerences between the epistemological stances identiﬁed here have
been described in terms of both the conceptualiser’s role in the construal (i.e. if
they are represented as part of the construal) and the degree to which the
purported source of information (and its status) is also included in the repre-
sentation. The more that the conceptualiser is represented as part of the
construal, the more ‘subjective’ the representation.
Under this interpretation, adoption of a personal experience epistemologi-
cal stance, which represents the strongest connection between the represen-
tation of the state of aﬀairs to be described and the representation of the
conceptualiser’s role is the most subjective of epistemological stance types.
Adoption of a stance of direct perception (witness) is slightly less subjective
because although the speaker overtly acknowledges their role in their knowledge
of information, there is an assymmetry between the representation of that
knowledge and the representation of the conceptualiser in the construal.
The inferential epistemological stance represents a less subjective construal
than either private or perceptual experience. The speaker does not directly
acknowledge her experiential role in the acquisition of knowledge but does
acknowledge the cognitive eﬀort that she applied to develop their construal, and
the resulting belief state that is constructed from this cognitive eﬀort.
Adoption of a reportive epistemological stance is still less subjective than
any type of personal experience stance because although the conceptualiser’s
presence is evoked by claiming that the source was another utterance (that the
conceptualiser heard), and the conceptualiser may indeed be included in the
representation of information (I heard that…), there is more distance between
the conceptualiser and the representation of the information.
Neither the factual epistemological stance nor the imaginative epistemolog-
ical stance express any information about the conceptualiser. However it can be
argued that the imaginative epistemological stance is more subjective than the
factual epistemological stance by virtue of being the creative product of a
conceptualiser (even if that conceptualiser is eﬀaced from the construal).
Furthermore, information represented from an imaginative epistemological
stance may represent the subjective construal of a story world character
independent from the actual storyteller. In contrast, a factual epistemological
stance stance simply represents information as if it were describing facts about
the world and not some conceptualiser’s version of those facts.
The diﬀerences between these stances with respect to subjectivity are
illustrated in Figure 3.2.
Epistemological stance 81
3.3 Summary
Subjective Objective
Conceptualiser
is Evoked
Conceptualiser
is effaced.
Private
Experience
Reportive
Imaginative
Factual
Perceptual
Experience
Inferential
Figure 3.2Degree of subjectivity and epistemological stance types
This chapter has taken a step back from the narrow examination of linguistic
evidential systems to instead begin the exploration of the more general pragmatic
question: how do people talk about the status of their knowledge, especially in
terms of the evidence upon which they base their epistemological assessments?
It was argued that the mismatch between actual source of information and
the ways that speakers talk about the status of their knowledge indicated that
the choice of evidential strategies adopted by speakers relied on a pragmatically
determined construct, that went beyond the application of semantico-gram-
matical rules. It was also suggested that the expression of epistemological
assessment involves more than just use of the grammatical and lexical forms
which have traditionally been described as ‘evidential’ in the linguistics literature.
Both of these points were used as evidence forthe notion of epistemological stance,
which was characterised as the speakers conceptualisation of information based
on their construal of the nature and status of their knowledge in the context of
language use.
Epistemological stance may be expressed by linguistic means which go
beyond the traditional deﬁnitions of ‘evidential’ forms — means such as deictic
conﬁgurations, choice of referring expressions and use of ‘expressive’ language
— and some of these strategies will be examined in the following chapters with
respect to narrative retelling. Nonetheless, the relationship between adoption of
epistemological stance and its linguistic expression does tend to be conven-
tionalised in evidential coding across languages. In some languages, the
hyperextended use of a particular evidential form automatically points to the
type and status of the source of information. For example, in Quechua, utter-
ances coded with the clitic -mi are immediately interpreted as personal experi-
ence (including visual perception of events), while the use of -shi means that
information was acquired second-hand by report.
82 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
In other languages, the hyperextended use of a particular evidential form
literally points to the fact that some kind of evidence was used to reach some
conclusion. Other contextual cues are used to determine the type of source. For
example, the inferential L-form past in Balkan Slavic literally means only that
information was not directly experienced (and therefore the speaker cannot
‘vouch for’ its validity). It does not point to any particular type of indirect
experience. However the source of knowledge when L-forms are used in Balkan
Slavic is typically interpreted as hearsay, expressing the adoption of a reportive
epistemological stance, in the absence of other contextual cues.
Although there is a high degree of conventionalisation between source and
epistemological stance; epistemological stance and evidential coding, these are
not necessary relationships. There are pragmatic factors, independent of the
assessment of type and status of the source, which inﬂuence the choice of
evidential coding. Choice of epistemological stance, and the linguistic strategies
used to express it, also rely on the speaker’s rhetorical purpose, the extent to
which they want to claim authority over information, and their immediate
interactive goals.
The model of discourse production incorporating the choice of epistemo-
logical stance and its subsequent linguistic eﬀects is illustrated in Figure 3.3.
Figure 3.3 represents the general picture that was outlined in the ﬁrst three
Actual source of
Information
(Invariant)
Speaker
Assessement of
Actual Source
Adoption of
Epistemological
Stance
Interactional
Setting
Speaker
Assessment of
Interaction
Linguistic
Output
Cultural
Conventions
Linguistic
Choices
Figure 3.3The Big Picture
chapters of this book: extralinguistic factors that lead to the adoption of an epi-
stemological stance (the source of information, the interactive setting, the
Epistemological stance 83
cultural setting, and the speaker’s assessment of all three variables; the eﬀect
that the adoption of an epistemological stance has on choice of linguistic forms
(evidential coding matches the choice of epistemological stance).
This work is a study of the pragmatics of linguistic expressions. It is
primarily concerned with factors that eﬀect the choice of linguistic forms. Some
of these factors are built into the structure of a language itself. These are the
grammatical rules which dictate what forms are available and unavailable for
use. However, as is illustrated in Figure 3.3, in actual language use, a myriad of
contextual, cultural and conceptual factors conspire to limit a speaker’s
linguistic choices.
The model raises the important question of how these extralinguistic factors
interplay to limit linguistic choice. As mentioned earlier, the answer to this
question has important implications not only for understanding language use
but also in understanding the development of language structure — how it is
that we ﬁnd that certain relationships between type of epistemological assess-
ment and types of linguistic expressions become conventionalised in diﬀerent
languages, and that the same types of patterns of grammaticalisation can be
recognised cross-linguistically.
The study of narrative retelling which forms the basis of the rest of this
work was designed with these questions in mind. It constrains the discourse
context so that we can better focus on the pragmatics of epistemological stance
adoption, and also on the linguistic manifestations of such epistemological
stances in particular textual and interactional environments.
</TARGET "3">
<TARGET "4" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Epistemological stance adoption in narrative retelling"
SUBJECT "Pragmatics & Beyond, New Series, Volume 87"
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "220"
WIDTH "150"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 4
Epistemological stance adoption
in narrative retelling
4.1 Goals of the narrative retelling study
Epistemological stance provides a way of talking about evidential meanings
independent of their formal manifestation in any language. It represents
evidential meanings as pragmatically motivated conceptual categories express-
ible in a number of ways both within one language and across languages. Epi-
stemological stance allows one to ask questions about the range of linguistic
phenomena that might be used to reﬂect diﬀerent epistemological stances and
the motivations for diﬀerent evidential strategies in particular discourse
contexts. In seeking answers to these questions we come closer to a better
understanding not only of the conceptual and pragmatic factors that drive the
choice of linguistic strategies to express epistemological assessment, but also the
conceptual and pragmatic factors that might motivate the evolution of eviden-
tiality as a grammatical category, and account for the typological similarities
which have been observed.
The study of epistemological stance adoption in narrative retellings in
Macedonian, Japanese and English was designed with these questions in mind.
These languages diﬀer from each other both in the range of strategies available
to speakers to express diﬀerent epistemological stances, and in their grammati-
cal status. It stands back from focussing on evidentiality as a linguistic category
to investigate the linguistic strategies that are adopted when particular kinds of
epistemological assessment are at issue. This comparison of how speakers talk
about the status of their knowledge when retelling a story in three languages
provides insight into the role of grammatical evidentiality in comparison with
other strategies, and the relationship between grammatical status of evidential
expressions and evidential pragmatics.
The Narrative Retelling study is an investigation of epistemological stance
adoption in a ﬁxed discourse context — retelling someone else’s story of
personal experience. This is a canonical context for the adoption of a reportive
epistemological stance towards the story information, since that information was
86 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
acquired by the reteller by virtue of hearing it from someone else. The issues
examined in this study therefore focus on the adoption of reportive epistemo-
logical stance: the range of strategies used in each language to reﬂect a reportive
epistemological stance; the motivations for deviating from a reportive episte-
mological stance in this context; what other epistemological stances are
adopted; and the eﬀects of adopting a reportive epistemological stance on other
(i.e. non-evidential) aspects of language use and discourse structure.
The reportive epistemological stance has been chosen as the focus of
investigation over other types of epistemological stances primarily because it is
well documented that all languages use some systematic means to code infor-
mation as the product of an utterance (e.g. through the representation of speech
as reported speech (Li 1986)). However it is also recognised that the range of
contexts in which it is appropriate to adopt a reportive epistemological stance
may vary from language to language, and the range of forms available for
coding information as the product of someone else’s utterance may vary cross-
linguistically. Recall also that reportiveness was identiﬁed as a separate cross-
linguistic evidential category in Willett (1988). Many languages have developed
grammatical morphemes that code information as the product of someone
else’s utterance, expressing a reportive epistemological stance (e.g. Quechua
-shi, Makah -wa.d). A comparison of deployments of reportive marking in
languages with grammatical reportiveness with languages which rely on other
means to code reportiveness, like reported speech, is easier to operationalise
than comparison of markers of a personal experience stance, or of another kind
of ‘non-personal’ epistemological stance across languages.
This investigation of epistemological stance adoption in narrative retelling
was further narrowed by the selection of three languages for investigation —
Macedonian, English and Japanese. Each of these languages represents a
diﬀerent type of evidential system and a diﬀerent set of potential reportive
forms. Macedonian has a fully grammaticalised evidential contrast in past tense
contexts; English lacks grammaticalised evidentiality; Japanese has some forms
which have some of the properties of grammaticalisation but which are not
generally analysed as hyperextended in their use.
Narrative is a useful discourse genre to use as the database in an investiga-
tion of epistemological stance in an interactive setting because it has a well
deﬁned linear structure (a succession of temporally ordered events) and
typically some ‘point’, about which the story is constructed (Labov 1972;
Polanyi 1989). Both of these factors make narrative an easier form of discourse
to remember and retell than, say, passages of conversational discourse. There is
Epistemological stance adoption in narrative retelling 87
considerable psycholinguistic evidence for the claim that well-structured stories
are more easily remembered than non-narrative utterances (e.g. Thorndyke
1977; Mandler & Johnson 1977; Mandler 1982). Memorability was extremely
important to the design of this study which compares personal experience
stories with retellings of those stories.
The ﬁrst part of this chapter outlines the methods of text elicitation and
annotation and the make up of the resulting corpus. The second part of the
chapter outlines the model of narrative structure adopted throughout the
investigation.
4.2 The corpus
In order to investigate the deployment of epistemological stance adoption
cross-linguistically, it was necessary to collect a comparable corpus of texts in
each of the three languages of investigation. The text elicitation methodology
was designed to create a balance between control of contextual variables and the
naturalness of the resulting language. The corpus of retellings was therefore
elicited and recorded in each of the languages in a controlled environment. The
method was designed to motivate speakers to adopt a reportive epistemological
stance, and hence to use reportive strategies in their telling without speciﬁcally
instructing them to do so. The text elicitation methodology was designed to be
repeatable with instructions given to participants that could easily translate
across the three languages.
Although there were good reasons for requiring that the text elicitation
methodology control for a number of contextual factors, the methodology was
also designed to retain a degree of naturalness in the elicitation context,
motivating speakers to use language that they might use in spontaneous
conversation. For example, the narratives were retold to people with whom the
reteller was already familiar.
There have been several cross-linguistic studies of linguistic structure in
narrative. Comparable narratives were collected by using the same non-
linguistic input as the source for the story. The Pear Stories project (Chafe
1980), for example, used a silent ﬁlm in order to collect versions of the ‘same’
story across several diﬀerent languages. A wordless picture book ‘The Frog
Story’ has also been used in several cross-linguistic discourse projects (e.g.
Slobin & Berman 1994). Participants in these studies were asked to view a ﬁlm
or examine the pictures in the book and then tell the story of what they saw.
88 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
Studies of narrative production based on non-linguistic input have pro-
vided useful insight into many functional aspects of language structure (e.g.
functions of referential strategies, information packaging, event structure and
temporal organisation). In these studies, it was possible to use exactly the same
source of narrative information across languages because the input information
was not itself linguistic. In contrast, the current investigation of reportive epi-
stemological stance adoption in narrative production required that the input
source of information be another telling of a story, a linguistic source, which
was coherent, natural and culturally salient for each language group under
investigation. This requirement resulted in the use of diﬀerent input sources of
information for each of the three languages.
The narrative chosen as the initial source of narrative information was a
personal experience story, elicited from the teller by asking her to think of
something interesting and exciting that had happened to her in the past. She was
alsoaskedtothinkofastorythatwouldbeunknowntoheraudience.Thismethod
was based on Labov’s (1972) elicitation of personal experience narratives. The
collection of personal experience stories fulﬁlled the requirement that the input
narrative, from which the retellings would be constructed, be reasonably natural
— something the teller might volunteer in a conversational context.
The corpus of personal experience stories represent a set of narratives that
represent narrative events as either consciously instigated by the teller, directly
aﬀecting the teller, or at least witnessed by the teller. Furthermore, they also
represented events that were not instigated or witnessed by the person hearing
the story, nor was the person hearing the story directly aﬀected by these events.
It was hypothesised that a person who heard the personal experience story
would therefore attribute the story to the original teller/experiencer and adopt
a reportive epistemological stance to retell the story to a third party. They
would not represent the events story as something they had witnessed or
experienced themselves.
Although it was predicted that retellers of someone else’s personal experi-
ence story would not adopt a personal experience stance towards the informa-
tion in the story, this did not preclude the possibility that they would adopt
some other non-reportive epistemological stance towards story information.
For example, it was theoretically possible that retellers would adopt an imagin-
ative epistemological stance towards the story, resulting in the representation
of the story as a ‘ﬁctional’ account of the narrative. It was hypothesised
however that retellers would be unlikely to adopt an imaginative epistemological
stance towards the retelling of a personal experience story precisely because they
Epistemological stance adoption in narrative retelling 89
knew that the events in the story were actually experienced by the original teller
and not themselves ﬁctional. The text elicitation methodology was therefore
designed to make sure that retellers knew that they story they heard was a ‘true’
story.
The method by which the narrative retellings were elicited was based on the
children’s party game ‘Broken Telephone’ (or ‘Chinese Whispers’). In that
game, a sentence is whispered around a circle of participants. The resulting
sentence is compared with the original, with the expectation that the sentence
will have transformed over the course of its journey. This study used a personal
experience story as its input linguistic material.
The reteller was exposed to the input personal experience story in one of
two ways. In some cases, the original experiencer/teller told her story directly to
the reteller. This method preserved the naturalness of face to face interaction
but allowed only one retelling for each personal experience story — it was
impossible for the original teller to repeat verbatim the story she had just told
to someone else. However, in order to compare diﬀerent speakers’ epistemolog-
ical stance types for the same story it was important to collect multiple versions
of the same input story. Therefore a prerecorded personal experience story was
also used. These prerecorded stories were collected independently of the
retelling elicitation sessions. They consisted of both elicited stories and sponta-
neous conversational narratives of between 5 to 10 minutes. All personal
experience stories were told to a native speaker of the language in question, not
to the researcher or directly to the tape. Synopses of these stories are given in
Appendix A.
Both prerecorded stories and ‘live’ personal stories were recorded under
similar conditions and represented an informal style of storytelling typically
associated with conversational contexts. That is, they were the products of two
friends talking with each other, one of whom was telling a story of personal
experience. The diﬀerence lay in the way that the reteller was exposed to them.
A tape recording represents a disembodied voice. It is not possible for the
reteller to interrupt as she is listening (e.g. to clarify some information or to add
her own evaluative comments), nor is it possible to her to gain information
from non-verbal cues. Furthermore, although some of the retellers did recog-
nise the voice on the tape as a member of their own social group, in most cases,
the retellers did not know the person who told the prerecorded story. In
contrast, retellers always knew the participant who told the ‘live’ personal
experience story.
90 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
The diﬀerence between hearing an unknown voice on a tape and hearing a
live account of personal experience from a known person may have various
eﬀects on the subsequent retellings of those stories. The lack of non-verbal cues
and the inability for the reteller to respond to a prerecorded original teller to
clarify parts of the story may result in a less coherent retelling than if the
original telling had been viewed ‘live’. However it was not possible in this study
to determine all the systematic diﬀerences that the physical presence of the
original teller makes to the retelling of that story by someone else. This parame-
ter was considered signiﬁcant for this study only to the extent that it aﬀected the
choice of epistemological stance adoption by retellers. These situations will be
discussed in later chapters as they arise.
It was hypothesised that prior acquaintance with the original teller would
have a more signiﬁcant eﬀect on the choice of evidential strategies used in a
retelling than whether the story was told ‘live’ or was prerecorded. If one does
not have any kind of personal relationship with the original experiencer, then
one’s entire knowledge of the storyteller is based solely on information coded in
the story itself. If a reteller knows the identity original teller however, then they
have access to knowledge that goes beyond the information contained in the
story. For example, they may be able to make assumptions about the exper-
iencer/teller’s motivations (e.g. She opened the door — typical of her); they may
feel more comfortable evaluating the actions of the experiencer/teller (e.g. She
stupidly opened the door).
The intrusion of the reteller’s own attitudes towards the events of the story
based on what she knows about the previous teller diminishes the reportive
ﬂavour of a text. A ‘pure’ reportive text presents all information simply as a
retelling. It was hypothesised that an unknown voice on a tape would evoke a
more reportive text than any telling (live or prerecorded) by a member of the
reteller’s own social group. Unfortunately this hypothesis could not be easily
tested in this study. Most of the recordings were retellings based on the prere-
corded personal experience stories. In some cases, the retellers recognised the
voice on the tape. Given the size of the corpus, it was diﬃcult to separate the
variable of prior acquaintance from the variable of mode of telling. I discuss
these variables in my analysis of the corpora where they appear to be a strong
mitigating factor in the choice of epistemological stance adoption.
All participants in this study were female members of the same ‘speech
community’ as the original teller. Choosing members of the same ‘speech
community’ meant that retellers all spoke the same dialect and could assume a
large amount of shared cultural knowledge.
Epistemological stance adoption in narrative retelling 91
The Macedonian participants were all middle-aged women who had left
Macedonia at least 20 years prior to the time of recording to settle in Australia
and Canada (although many of them had returned to visit over the years).
Although these women had been separated from Macedonia and had long
resided in an English speaking country, their expatriate communities are
suﬃciently strong and large to preserve Macedonian as their primary language
for everyday communication (e.g. at home, in church, socially). Macedonian
was clearly the preferred community language and most of the participants’
English ability was very poor, despite their long residence in Australia or Canada.
There is considerable dialect variation in Macedonian. Much of this
variation is lexical and phonological. Friedman (1988) has suggested that there
is some variation in the use of diﬀerent tense paradigms across dialects, directly
aﬀecting the evidential system. The Macedonian retellings used in this study
represent a particular dialect from the villages around the town of Bitola in
southwestern Macedonia and from Bitola itself. It should be stressed however
that their dialect diﬀers from the contemporary Bitola dialect since they left
their villages more than 20 years previously.
The English and Japanese participants were all undergraduate and graduate
students at the University at Buﬀalo, aged in their 20s. The Japanese partici-
pants were all foreign students who had resided in the states a short while and
who socialised almost exclusively with other Japanese speakers.
All retellers were recruited in social groups to ensure that there was some
degree of familiarity. They were therefore comfortable talking with each other
and had some degree of familiarity with each other’s speech style. In some cases,
the relationship was quite intimate (several of the English and Japanese partici-
pants were college roommates or close friends; two of the English participants
were sisters), while in other cases, the participants were merely acquaintances
or fellow members of the same social group. The fact that participants always
knew to whom they would be retelling the story lessened the formality of the
text elicitation scenario, encouraging retellers to speak as they would in a more
spontaneous conversational setting. It is possible that the participants retold
stories to each other (as gossip, etc.) in everyday conversation anyway, which
would also lessen the formality of the text elicitation context.
Given these parameters, it seemed reasonable to assume that the evidential
strategies used by participants did represent their everyday use of language —
not some highly formal or stilted style that might be used in ‘classroom’ or
‘experimental’ contexts. The recording sessions took place for the most part in
participants’ homes, dorm rooms or social club/churches — places where the
92 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
participants were comfortable. A few sessions were conducted in the Linguistics
department on campus, a place that the participants were already familiar with,
being undergraduate students of Linguistics subjects.
The text elicitation sessions were conducted in pairs and groups of three or
four participants. Members of pairs were assigned the roles of a designated
reteller and an audience. A prerecorded personal experience story was used as
input in these cases.
Designated retellers were told to listen to a person on a tape who would be
telling a true story. They were therefore already expecting to hear a personal
experience story. They were also told prior to listening to the tape that they
should listen carefully and to try and remember as much of the story as possible
since they were to retell the story to another person. These instructions were
designed so that the reteller knew from the outset that she must construct a
retelling, and diminished the likelihood that she would feel unable to perform
the task after hearing the tape.
Participants were not told the exact purpose of the elicitation prior to the
recording session. The task was presented as a memory task (“Tell her as much
of the story as you can remember”) and if participants asked prior to the
recording what the study was about, they were told that the research was focused
on what gets left out as a story is retold down a speaker chain. Many of the
participants were familiar with the “Broken Telephone” format as a party game
and assumed that the goals of this research were similar to the goals of the game.
Immediately after hearing the story on tape, the designated audience was
brought into the room and she was instructed to listen to the story told to her.
The designated reteller was instructed to tell her friend the story she had just
heard. This version was recorded.
It should be noted that the person designated as the ‘audience’ was present
when the instructions to retell the story were given. Furthermore, the original
tape recorder was still present when she entered the room. Therefore there was
ample contextual evidence that the elicitation task involved a retelling of
something on a tape even before the reteller began her version. The contexuali-
sation of the text elicitation was designed to reinforce the fact that the task
involved a retelling and thus increase the retellers’ motivation to adopt a
consistent reportive epistemological stance towards the story. An alternative
possibility was that the extralinguistic contextualisation of the retelling task
would suppress reportive coding in the narrative as pragmatically redundant.
The fact that this generally did not happen is evidence for the strength of the
relationship between actual acquisition of knowledge and adoption of particular
Epistemological stance adoption in narrative retelling 93
epistemological stances towards that knowledge.
The elicitation method was almost identical for the groups of three partici-
pants, except that the ﬁrst designated ‘audience’ was told that she had to
remember as much of the story as possible to retell to the third participant in
the group. Thus two types of retellings were collected in these recording
sessions: a ﬁrst generation retelling reconstructed from hearing a personal
experience story; and a second generation retelling reconstructed from hearing
a retelling of a personal experience story. These two types of retellings were
collected to investigate whether distance from the original source of informa-
tion aﬀected general patterns of epistemological stance adoption.
In groups of four participants, one participant was designated as the ‘teller’
of a personal experience story, and was asked to tell a story about something
that had happened to her that the others in the group did not know about. She
told her story to the second participant (designated reteller1), who retold it to
the third reteller (designated reteller2), who retold it to the fourth participant
(designated audience). Only in these groups of four participants was the
original teller present to tell her story. Figure 4.1 summarises the three types of
elicitation scenarios.
Two Participants
Tape
Three Participants
Tape
Four Participants
Teller
Reteller Audience
Reteller1 Reteller2 Audience
Reteller1 Reteller2 Audience
Figure 4.1Text elicitation paradigms
The retelling corpuses for each language used in this study involved the
retellings of one prerecorded personal experience story and two personal
experiences stories that were told ‘live’ by the original teller.
94 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
The total number of texts in each corpus is given in Table 4.1 (prerecorded
Table 4.1Size of text corpus
Language Personal Retelling1 Retelling2 Total retellings
Macedonian
English
Japanese
3
3
3
6
6
7
6
4
6
12
10
13
and ‘live’ groups not distinguished). The diﬀerences in the size of the overall
corpuses are attributable to the fact that some of the retellers failed to follow
directions, resulting in unsuitable texts. This occurred most frequently during
the collection of the Macedonian corpus where retellers often told their own
stories (similar to the one they had heard) instead of retelling the other person’s
story. The problem usually lay with the fact that the retellers couldn’t under-
stand why it was more interesting to record the same story over and over rather
than collect as many diﬀerent personal stories as there were speakers, and so
were less cooperative in the task of retelling.
Each ‘story’ (personal version and retellings) was assigned a title and a two
letter abbreviation, prefaced by the ﬁrst letter of the language (e.g. the Japanese
‘Car Rental’ story was abbreviated as JCR). Multiple retellings were assigned a
subscript letter following the title (e.g. the ﬁrst sequence of JCR to be recorded
was JCRa, the second sequence was JCRb, etc.). First generation retellings were
assigned a “1”, second generation retellings were assigned a “2” (e.g. the ﬁrst
generation retelling of JCRa was JCRa1, the second generation retelling of JCRa
was JCRa2). The Macedonian and Japanese corpuses were transcribed and
translated with the aid of a linguistically trained native speaker. The orthogra-
phies were chosen to function as closely to English orthographic as possible
(e.g. ‘sh’=[w], ‘ch’=[v], ‘zh’=[Š], ‘j’=[3] in Japanese, [j] in Macedonian).
This did not always mirror standard orthographic conventions for Macedonian
and Japanese since neither of these languages uses the Roman script natively.
Each non-English text was given a free English translation and a word-by-word
gloss with grammatical morphemes in small capitals (abbreviations are
provided at the beginning of the book).
Texts were divided into ‘units’: clauses and ‘pause groups’ (which did not
correspond with the notion of a clause but which nevertheless represented a
distinct utterance, like an exclamation). Each unit was entered as a separate
record and assigned both a text number and a unit number within that text.
The units were coded as ‘clauses’, ‘phrases’, ‘exclamations’, or ‘unﬁnished’. A
Epistemological stance adoption in narrative retelling 95
unit was coded as ‘unﬁnished’ if the teller was interrupted (by the audience or
by herself). It did not include unﬁnished words within complete units.
Only clauses were used for the subsequent analyses of type, frequency and
distribution of epistemological stance expression presented in the following
chapters. The exclusion of non-clausal units from the analysis was not expected
to eﬀect the analysis of epistemological stance adoption and evidential coding
because the linguistic phenomena associated with epistemological stance
examined here, grammaticalised or otherwise, typically only occurred within
clauses. For example, the Macedonian ‘evidential’ L-form past only occurs in
clauses because it is a ﬁnite verb inﬂection. Clauses were by far the most
frequent unit type (81% of Macedonian units, 80% of Japanese units, and 87%
of English units), often also corresponding with pause units.
4.3 Evaluation of the retelling corpus
Although there was a considerable amount of variation in the linguistic
strategies each reteller used to signal their epistemological stance towards the
story they told (see Chapters 5 and 6 for a full discussion), it is clear that all
were being faithful to the task of retelling. Retellers did not, for example, report
a similar story of their own experience. They did not signiﬁcantly embellish the
story with extra events and interactions between characters that were not in the
original. Regardless of the evidential strategies adopted in their versions, it was
clear that each reteller was in fact engaged in retelling the story of someone else’s
personal experience, as it was told to them. This is a context in which a strong
preference for the adoption of a reportive epistemological stance was expected.
The kinds of variation found across retellings in this study were entirely
consistent with the results of earlier studies of narrative retelling, from Bartlett
(1932) onwards. Retellings were generally much shorter than the original;
retellers tended not to reconstruct a verbatim repetition of the story; story
events tended to be more schematically represented. Nevertheless, the resulting
narratives were clearly retellings of the original story since all events in the
retelling could be linked back, either directly or by inference, to information
acquired from the original version of the story.
(1) Macedonian
a. Go mesiv toj lebot
3sg.acc knead:1sg.p dem bread:def
96 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
b. Skisna ubavo
sour:3sg.p well
c. Go razmesiv
3sg.acc knead.again:1sg.p
d. Go naprajv somuni destina
3sg.acc make:1sg.p loaves ten
e. Svekor mi ja nagori furnata
F-in-law 1sg.dat 3sg.acc light:3sg.p oven:def
f. Go opekavme
3sg.acc cook:1pl.p
‘(a) I kneaded that bread. (b) It rose nicely. (c) I kneaded it again.
(d) I made ten loaves. (e) My father-in-law lit the oven. (f) We cooked it.’
(MBS)
retold as
I ovaa nevestata go mesila lebot.
and dem bride:def 3sg.acc knead(L) bread:def
And this bride baked the bread. (MBSa1)
(2) Japanese
ironna nanka senmonyogo mitai na koto o ii-dashite
many something technical seeming thing obj say-start-con
‘plus’ sono hito no eigo ga~ mitai na kanji de sa
plus that person gen English subj seeming smthng.like that ip
zenzen wakara-nakute
totally understand-neg-con
And he started talking about many technical seeming things. Plus that
person’s English was like [you know] and I couldn’t understand it at all
(JCR)
retold as
nanka senmonyoogo toka hanasarechatte waka-na-katta-n
technical like talk-caus-pp-con understand-neg-p-nom
da tte
cop rsp
[But] apparently they talked to her using technical terms and she
couldn’t understand at all (JCRc2)
(3) English
It was raining outside
And she thought
“Oh my God the roof is leaking
It’s come through the attic
Epistemological stance adoption in narrative retelling 97
Through the bedroom above the~ the kitchen
And is l~
It’s dripping into a pot in the sink or something.” (EMS)
retold as
So now she’s all nervous
Cos it was raining out
And she thought that there was a leak
So she ﬁgured it went in through the attic and then downst~
Down into the bathroom and now into the kitchen (EMSc1)
The preceding examples from each of the corpuses illustrate the connection
between the retellings and the original version of the story that was retold. In
(1), from the Macedonian corpus, the sequence of events associated with baking
bread, explicitly listed in the original story, are implied in the more general
narrative event clause in the retelling — I ovaa nevestata go mesila lebot ‘And
this bride baked the bread’. The example from the Japanese corpus in (2)
retains all of the narrative meaning from the original (the information that
‘they’ used technical language and that the protagonist (= the original teller)
could not understand ‘them’.
The English passage in (3) is an example of narrative information that was
directly represented as the character’s thought process in the original version of
the story but was retold as a sequence of more ‘objective’ narrative clauses.
Although the retelling of this passage did not use direct thought representation,
it did retain the narrative information that the character of the mother thought
that there was a leak, and that the leak had ﬂowed through several rooms in the
house. The shift in mode of representation from the highly subjective direct
thought to the more objective mode of indirect representation (And she thought
that there was a leak) does not detract from the faithful reporting of narrative
information that was present in the story that the reteller heard.
4.4 Classiﬁcation of clauses and the deictic centre
The model of narrative structure adopted in this study makes a primary
distinction between ‘narrative’ and ‘extranarrative’ information. Information
which could be linked to information in the previous telling of the story, either
as a direct repetition of what the previous teller said or as an inference based on
what the previous teller said, was classiﬁed as ‘narrative’. Information which
expressed a retellers’ own experience of hearing someone else’s story, their own
98 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
‘evaluations’ of the narrative material (e.g. whether the story was told well,
whether it made sense, etc.), or their ‘online’ experience as a reteller was
classiﬁed as ‘extranarrative’. This designation shares much with Labov’s (1972)
model of narrative structure which distinguished ‘internal evaluation’, which
was lexically and syntactically coded within the sequence of narrative events,
and ‘external evaluation’ which was coded paraphrastically ‘outside’ of the
coding of the sequence of narrative events.
Narrative units which directly represented the speech of characters as they
spoke in the story, were coded separately as ‘content’ units. Content units are a
type of narrative unit because they represent information that was in the
previous telling of the story, but there are important formal diﬀerences between
the content of direct speech and other narrative units which motivated their
classiﬁcation as a separate category. These formal properties include the
presence of a framing clause identifying the reported speaker and the speech
event, total shift in deictic centre to the time, place and identity of the speaking
character, and use of ‘expressive’ syntax and other ‘expressive’ devices (Banﬁeld
1982).14
Although the speech of story characters in retelling is information
acquired by the reteller from the previous teller, the direct representation of
story characters’ speech eﬀaces the presence of the reteller in the retelling, and
represents the characters’ epistemological stance, not the reteller’s. The follow-
ing examples illustrate narrative, content and extranarrative units for each of
the languages of investigation.
(4) Macedonian
a. Narrative
I go mesila nevestata lebot sve
and 3sg.acc knead:l bride:def bread:def everything
And the bride kneaded the bread and everything. (MBSc2)
b. Content
I taa mu veli deka “E de bre Blagoja
and 3nom 3dat say:3sg that excl excl excl Blagoja
ne mi se pogodi zelnikot.”
neg 1sg.dat refl make.well:3sg.sp zelnik:def
And she says to him that, “Hey Blagoja, the zelnik did not turn out
well for me.” (MZS1)
c. Extranarrative
Ovaa lenta se rasprava za edna mlada nevesta
dem tape refl discuss:3sg ben one young bride
This tape talks about a young bride. (MBSb1)
Epistemological stance adoption in narrative retelling 99
(5) Japanese
a. Narrative
sagashita-n da-kedo nai-n da tte zenzen
look.for-p-nom cop-but neg-nom cop rsp not.at.all
And she looked (for it) but there was no (hotel like that), apparently.
(JLBb1)
b. Content
hora koko ni kuupon ga aru kara
look here loc coupon subj be.located conj
“Look! Here is a coupon!…” (JCRb1)
c. Extranarrative
soo-yuu sekenbanashi no yoo na
that.kind prattle nom ip ip
It’s that kind [of story], just prattle (JCRa1)
(6) English
a. Narrative
And one day her mother made soup (EMSc1)
b. Content
So they call X’s parents
Like
“(a) What shall we do! (b) what shall we do!
(c) My bed’s on ﬁre!” (EBS2)
c. Extranarrative
She gave a lot of detail and I can’t remember it all. (EMSa1)
The diﬀerence between narrative, extranarrative and content units can be
usefully characterised in the framework of ‘Deictic Centre Theory’ (Zubin &
Hewitt 1995), described in Chapter 1. Deictic Centre Theory assumes a model
of a story world as a mental representation of all information associated with
the narrative events, the setting of the narrative and the identities of the story
characters. All linguistic information associated with narration has a deictic
proﬁle that allows this information to be represented and interpreted from
diﬀerent perspectives. This ‘deictic proﬁle’ is determined in two dimensions:
the origin of perspective, “…a shifting localisation in time, space and person
from which the story world is exposed to the reader/listener” (Zubin & Hewitt
1995:132); and the object of perspective, “the content of the deictic window as it
moves along its spatial, temporal and personal coordinates throughout the story
world” (Ibid.:132).
100 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
Under a Deictic Centre Theory interpretation, narrative units represent
information whose object of perspective is within the story world, but whose
origin of perspective lies outside of the storyworld (with the time, place and
identity of the current narrator). Narrative units in the retelling corpus are
therefore expected to be represented from a reportive epistemological stance
since they encode the reteller as origin of perspective whose object of perspec-
tive was acquired from someone else’s telling of the story.
Extranarrative units also represent information whose origin of perspective
lies outside of the story world with the here and now of the event of retelling.
Unlike narrative units however, the object of perspective in extranarrative units
also lies outside of the story world, either with the here and now of the
retelling context or with the where and when of the hearing of the story by the
previous teller (i.e. when the reteller acquired the story). Extranarrative units
are therefore expected to be represented from a personal experience epistemo-
logical stance (i.e. the experiences of the reteller as a reteller in the current
context and as a former hearer of the story).
Like other narrative units, content units represent information whose
object of perspective lies within the story world, as a speaking event in the story.
Unlike canonical narrative units however, the origin of perspective of content
units also lies within the story world — with the where and when of that
speaking event in the story and with the who of the speaking character.
Content units therefore represent the epistemological stance of the speaking
character and would therefore be expected to use reportive strategies only when
the characters themselves are represented as adopting a reportive epistemologi-
cal stance.
The deictic properties of the unit types are summarised in Table 4.2:
Of the three types of units found in this classiﬁcation, only narrative units (i.e.
Table 4.2Deictic proﬁle of text units
Unit type Origin of perspective Object of perspective Expected epistemological
stance
Extranarrative
Narrative
Content
External
External
Internal
External
Internal
Internal
Personal Experience
Reportive
Variable
those units that represented information found in the previous telling of the
story that maintained a deictic anchor with the reteller) were expected to
Epistemological stance adoption in narrative retelling 101
represent a reportive epistemological stance in narrative retelling. However it is
important to stress that information that was present in the previous version of
the story could in fact be retold as either narrative or content units. This is
illustrated in the English example in (3) above where direct representation of
thought (i.e. content units) in the original story was retold as indirect thought
(i.e. narrative units) in the retelling. It was therefore important to consider both
narrative and content units in the analysis of epistemological stance adoption
(and the linguistic strategies chosen to code epistemological stance) in the
narrative retellings.
Extranarrative units can provide important cues for the reteller’s epistemo-
logical stance towards narrative information. Indeed many strategies for
expressing epistemological stance are extranarrative in their deictic proﬁle since
they can convey information about the how the reteller acquired their story and
the extent to which they were committed to adopting a reportive epistemologi-
cal stance towards narrative information. It was therefore also important to
examine extranarrative units in the analysis of epistemological stance adoption
in retelling.
</TARGET "4">
<TARGET "5" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Reportive epistemological stance realisation in Macedonian, Japanese and English"
SUBJECT "Pragmatics & Beyond, New Series, Volume 87"
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "220"
WIDTH "150"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 5
Reportive epistemological stance realisation
in Macedonian, Japanese and English15
Two means by which speakers can signal that they have adopted a reportive epi-
stemological stance towards information were identiﬁed in Section 3.2.3. These
were reported speech representation and reportive evidential morphemes.
Reported speech representation was claimed as a universal linguistic means of
indicating the adoption of a reportive epistemological stance. Not all languages
have grammatical morphemes which code the epistemological status of infor-
mation as ‘reportive’, but it can be claimed that the core function of such
morphology, in languages which have it, is to express a speaker’s adoption of a
reportive epistemological stance.
The identiﬁcation of reported speech representation and reportive
evidential morphemes as canonical indicators of a reportive epistemological
stance does not preclude the possibility that languages may have other means by
which speakers can signal that they have adopted a reportive epistemological
stance. In this chapter I describe of the range the linguistic devices that were
used by speakers of Macedonian, Japanese and English in the Narrative
Retelling task to indicate to their audience that the story they told was a retelling
based on what someone else had told them (i.e. indicating the adoption of a
reportive epistemological stance towards story information). These descriptions
are based only those strategies which were actually used by the retellers in the
task of retelling, and not on hypothetical indicators of reportiveness, or ones
which may occur in other contexts.
5.1 Macedonian
Macedonian was chosen as one of the languages of investigation because of its
well described grammaticalised system of evidential coding (introduced in
Section 2.1.1, and described in more detail in Section 5.1.1. below). It was
predicted that since a grammatical system was available to code story informa-
tion as originating from someone else’s telling of the story in that language,
104 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
speakers would make extensive use of it. Certainly there was widespread use of
this system in the Macedonian corpus but other reportive strategies were also
used — reportive framing and evidential direct speech.
5.1.1 L-form past vs. simple past
It has long been observed that the choice of past tense forms in some Balkan
Slavic languages (primarily Macedonian and Bulgarian) is motivated by the
speaker’s epistemological state. In contexts where the speaker has direct
experience of the events described, a simple past form is chosen, as in (1). If the
speaker has not had direct experience of events described, but has learned about
them through hearsay or inference, an L-form past is chosen, as in (2).
(1) Taa go mesi lebot
3sg 3sg make.bread:3sg.sp bread:def
‘She baked the bread (I saw her do it/I vouch for it).’
(2) Taa go mesila lebot
3sg 3sg make.bread:l bread:def
‘She baked the bread (that’s what she told me/supposedly/that’s what
I heard)’
The L-form past derives from an old Slavic perfect participle. In 1st and 2nd
person, the L-form still occurs with a sum ‘be’ auxiliary, as in (3).
(3) i ste gi zapalile kolite i ste pochnele
and aux:2pl 3pl.acc start:l cars and aux:2pl start:l
da vozite
to drive:2pl
and you started the cars and you started driving (MCA3)
In Macedonian, the auxiliary is no longer used in 3rd person contexts (as in (2)
above), although in closely related Bulgarian, the 3rd person auxiliary is still
maintained in some contexts.
The semantics of the Macedonian simple past/L-form contrast has been the
subject of some debate in the Macedonian descriptive literature. Much of the
discussion has focused on how the meaning of the L-form itself should be
characterised. Lunt (1952) described the diﬀerence in terms of ‘distancing’,
Reportive epistemological stance realisation in Macedonian, Japanese and English 105
…these forms [L-forms] show an action viewed as distanced in time or reality.
This may be realised in two ways. The speaker may be disclaiming responsibil-
ity for the accuracy of the statement by specifying that he was not a witness to
the event, or he may be stating an action which started or took place in the past
but which is still relevant at the moment of utterance. (Lunt 1952:91)
Thus the L-form is described as encoding a range of meanings. One type of
meaning is associated with the epistemological status of information — the
relinquishment of responsibility for unwitnessed information. Other meanings,
such as the description of actions which took place in the distant past, are
related to the old perfect meaning of the form and do not seem to have
evidential implications. In contrast, Lunt (1952) describes the simple past as
always encoding that the action was ‘witnessed’ with no implications about the
‘distance’ of the event from the time of speaking, nor of its relevance to the
present context. (DeBray 1980 also describes the distinction between simple
past and L-form past in terms of a witnessed/non-witnessed distinction.)
Friedman (1986) identiﬁes two shortcomings of Lunt’s analysis: that the
alternation between simple past and L-form represents a semantic contrast in
speaker attitude rather than evidence (and therefore the witnessed/non-
witnessed distinction should be analysed as a pragmatically determined con-
trast, not a semantic one); and that the semantic diﬀerence between simple past
and L-form does not involve a binary opposition of contrasting evidential
values. Rather, the simple past is positively marked, while the L-form (which
covers a broader range of meanings) is analysed as unmarked in this category
(see Section 2.1.1).
Under Friedman’s analysis, simple pasts are used only in contexts where
speakers are prepared to ‘conﬁrm’ or ‘vouch for’ information, an implication
being that if a speaker is able to vouch for information, then they must have had
direct perceptual or experiential knowledge of it. Theoretically, speakers may
use the simple past even when they have not witnessed the event, if they want to
stress their intention to ‘vouch for’ information. (cf. ‘prepared minds’ Aksu-
Koç & Slobin (1986)). For example, although the most common interpretation
of the sentence in (1) above is that the speaker saw the subject baking bread, it
can also be interpreted as representing a context where the speaker did not see
the subject baking bread, but is still able to ‘vouch for’ the fact (for example, if
the speaker were just conﬁrming a commonly held expectation that the subject
was going to bake bread — and in fact she did).
106 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
The passage in (4) is a text example of the use of simple past in a context
where the speaker does not have direct experience of an event. The speaker is
describing a car accident that he directly experienced (as the victim). He
‘knows’ that the driver of the other vehicle was drunk because he (the driver)
was seen coming out of a bar. The speaker never spoke to the driver, nor did he
see him drinking alcohol. His knowledge of the drunkenness of the driver is not
from direct experience but from a number of diﬀerent evidence sources
(possibly including a police report). Despite the lack of direct experiential
evidence, the speaker uses a simple past rather than an L-form to stress that he
is vouching for the validity of the assertion (with the added rhetorical punch
that he was the victim of this car accident).
(4) beshe pijan znam oti beshe pijan
be:3sg.sp drunk know:1sg comp be:3sg.sp drunk
He was drunk. I know that he was drunk. (MCA)
In contrast, while the L-form past does not encode ‘non-conﬁrmable/non-
witnessed’ as part of its core semantics, its use in contrast with the simple past
implies that the speaker does not vouch for the information. A further implica-
tion from this contrast is that the speaker did not directly perceive or experience
the events described. Thus use of the L-form past connotes that the speaker
infers the information from some indirect evidence. In (5) below (from the same
‘car accident’ text as (4)), the speaker uses an L-form to imply that he did not
actually witness the drunk driver opening the door of the car (although he is able
to ‘vouch for’ the fact that the driver ended up back in the bar). In this example,
the use of the L-form does not obviously imply however that the speaker knew
about the door opening because they had been told so by someone else.
(5) toj ja otvoril vratata i pravo vo barot
3sg.nom 3sg.acc open:l door:def and straight loc bar:def
da ti odi pak da pie
to ? go:3sg again to drink
He (had) opened the door and straight into the bar he went (goes) again
to drink. (MCA)
It is possible to give a characterisation of the semantics of the simple past/
L-form past distinction in terms of its deictic properties. Under this interpreta-
tion, the simple past functions deictically (a) to temporally index the time of the
event as prior to the speaking time, and (b) to epistemologically index the event
to the experiencer of that event. In contrast, the L-form functions deictically (a)
Reportive epistemological stance realisation in Macedonian, Japanese and English 107
to temporally index the time of the event as prior to the speaking time, and (b)
to epistemologically delink the event to the experiencer. In other words, the
L-form does not index the information to any speciﬁc source or type of source
but rather asserts that the information is not indexed to the experiencer. This
analysis wholly consistent with Friedman’s (1986) characterisation of the
semantic diﬀerences between the forms.
The contrast between simple pasts and L-forms in Macedonian is an
example of grammaticalised evidentiality in the same sense that Lhasa Tibetan
past perfectives and auxiliaries were described as grammatical markers of
evidentiality. In both cases, evidential meanings are expressed in a closed class
of bound suﬃxes which are also used for temporal deictic orientation. The
semantics of these forms is clearly highly schematic and the evidential meaning
of the L-form past is relatively context-dependent.
In past tense contexts speakers are required by the grammar of their
language to make a choice of forms which distinguish epistemological deictic
orientation. They may avoid past tense altogether but once past temporal
deictic orientation is selected, speakers must either deictically link the informa-
tion to the experiencer (using simple past), or assert no epistemological link to
the experiencer (using L-form).16
Table 5.1 presents a summary of the grammatical status of the Macedonian
past tense paradigm using the criteria for grammatical status listed in Chapter 2.
Friedman’s (1986) analysis of Balkan Slavic past tenses denies the explicit
Table 5.1Grammatical status of Macedonian past tense system (simple past/L-form)
Criteria Grammatical properties of forms
a.Closed class Yes Evidential contrast within inﬂectional category.
b.Restricted morphosyntax Yes Evidential marking must occur with use of past
tense.
c.Bleached semantics Yes Schematic meaning of epistemological deictic
orientation.
d.Hyperextended use Yes All past tense verbs must have some evidential
marking even if it is not pragmatically necessary.
e.Reduced form Yes Verbal Suﬃx
coding of type of source of information by either the simple past or the L-form
past — they code ‘attitude’ rather than ‘evidentiality’. The pragmatics of both
108 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
inﬂectional paradigms however suggest that speakers do choose simple pasts or
L-forms according to the type of epistemological stance adopted. The use of
simple past forms to index information to direct experience and witness is
wholly consistent with the adoption of a personal/perceptual experience episte-
mological stance.
The use of L-forms to assert the delinking of information to direct experience
is consistent with the adoption of an epistemological stance that denies personal
involvement(e.g.areportiveepistemologicalstanceoraninferentialepistemologi-
cal stance). In the particular context of text elicitation used in this study, the
audience already knew before the reteller even began her narration that the
source of the story came from a previous teller. Therefore the only possible
interpretation of the L-form past in this context is as a marker of reportiveness.
Although the use of present forms in past contexts is an accepted narrative
style in Macedonian (Lunt 1952; Friedman 1977), past tense forms are the default
tense used in narration, particularly to code completed narrative events. Since
speakersarerequiredtochoosepasttenseverbformsaccordingtotheirepistemo-
logical stance, it was expected that retellers would consistently use L-form pasts as
their main past-tense marking strategy for identifying the story as a retelling,
reﬂecting the consistent adoption of a reportive epistemological stance.
Recall that epistemological stances need not reﬂect the actual source of
information. The construal of information with respect to epistemological stance
is also motivated by other contextual factors. The expectation that L-forms would
be used as the main reportive strategy does not exclude the possibility that retellers
would fail to adopt a reportive epistemological stance altogether, resulting in an
absence of L-form pasts. For example, retellers may choose to avoid past tense
forms altogether by use of historic present; they may choose to present the story
as their own experience. It was expected that when retellers faithfully fulﬁl the
task of retelling a story that originated as another person’s personal experience,
adopting a reportive epistemological stance, that they would consistently use
L-form pasts in preference to other strategies. This expectation was only
partially supported by the distribution of L-forms in the retelling corpus and
this ﬁnding will be discussed in detail in the following chapters.
5.1.2 Reportive frames
Some retellers began their version of the story with an overt reference to how
they acquired the story, overtly framing the story as a retelling. The use of
reportive frames is illustrated in (6) and (7) below.
Reportive epistemological stance realisation in Macedonian, Japanese and English 109
(6) zhenava shto zborva ne e prikaska ami
woman:def what tell:3sg neg be:3sg story but
e zhiva vistina koga bila mlada nevesta
be:3sg live truth when be:l young bride
svekrva mu rekla da mesat leb
mother-in-law 3dat say:l to knead:3pl bread
What this woman is telling is not a story but the living truth. When she
was a young bride her mother-in-law told her to bake bread. (MBSd1)
(7) Ovaa lenta se rasprava za edna mlada nevesta…
dem tape refl discuss:3sg ben one young bride
I ovaa nevestata zela leb da mesi
and dem bride:def take:l bread to knead
This tape talks about a young bride… And this bride took on the task of
kneading bread. (MBSb1)
In (6), the teller explicitly establishes ‘this woman’ as the source of the story
(and furthermore that the story is a ‘true’ story and not a ﬁctional account). In
(7), the reteller refers to the tape itself as source of information. Since people
know from world knowledge that a tape often has voices recorded on it, this
information implies that the story was acquired by hearing someone else’s
version of it (the verb rasprava ‘discuss’ also reinforces this interpretation).
These opening strategies are ‘extranarrative’ because they represent
information about the reteller’s experience as the hearer of the story. So while the
reportive frame itself reﬂects a personal experience or factual epistemological
stance, it also expresses the reteller’s intention to represent the subsequent telling
of the story from a reportive epistemological stance. Once the reportive frame is
established, both retellers shift from non-past verb forms to L-form pasts — the
verb form expected when a reteller has adopted a reportive epistemological
stance.
A slightly diﬀerent example of reportive framing is illustrated in (8) where
the reteller begins her version of the story by syntactically embedding narrative
information as the content of indirect reported speech.
(8) X mi kazhuvashe sega deka sakashe nova kola
X 1dat tell:3sg.sp now that want:3sg.sp new car
da se kupe I prvo go prasha tatko i…
to refl buy:3sg and ﬁrst 3acc ask:3sg.sp father 3dat
X told me now that she wanted to buy a new car. And ﬁrst she asked her
father… (MNC1)
110 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
The content of the reported speech is oﬀset by the presence of a complemen-
tiser deka ‘that’, which signals that the content of speech is embedded under the
main speech act predicate. This is diﬀerent from the examples in (6) and (7)
above where the objects of the main verbs of speaking in the initial clauses were
simple noun phrases rather than subordinate clauses. Furthermore, the
informational content of the reported speech passage in (8) is coded with
simple past forms rather than the L-form past forms found in (6) and (7). The
simple pasts in (8) are licensed by the syntax of reported speech in Macedonian
which prefers concordance of tense in main and subordinate clauses — in this
context their use does not signal the adoption of a personal experience stance
towards the story information.
In fact, the use of simple past in (8) does indeed signal that the reteller has
adopted a reportive epistemological stance because she has syntactically
embedded the story information under a predicate of saying attributed to the
original teller. The predicate kazhuva ‘say/tell’ shifts epistemological deixis of
the subsequent simple past forms from current teller-as-experiencer to reported
speaker-as-experiencer. The simple past is thus reﬂective of the previous teller’s
epistemological stance, which was one of personal experience. The previous teller
as experiencer of the events in the story is expected to use simple past forms.
Furtherevidencethatthetellerin(8)wasadoptingareportiveepistemological
stance, even when simple past forms were used after the reportive frame, is the
subsequent use of L-form pasts in this text, illustrated in (9).
(9) I posle tatko i rekol deka kje odat na ‘auction’ …
and later father 3sg.dat say:l that will go:3pl loc auction
And later her father said that they will go to an auction… (MNC1)
Only one Macedonian reteller failed to use L-form pasts at all in retelling once
the reportive frame was established. This was the retelling of the text in (8), a
retelling reconstructed from a retelling, given in part in (10).
(10) X reche deka saka da kupi kola
X say:3sg.sp that want:3sg.sp to buy:3sg car
I ja prasha majka mu Majka mu mu reche
and 3sg ask:3sg.sp mother 3sg mother 3sg 3sg say:3sg.sp
X said that she wanted to buy a car. And she asked her mother. Her
mother said… (MNC2)
Although the teller in (10) refers to the original teller by name as the source of
the story, thus evoking the reportive context, she never supports a reportive epi-
Reportive epistemological stance realisation in Macedonian, Japanese and English 111
stemological stance with the use of L-forms. She maintains the use of simple
pasts throughout her retelling with no further cues of reportiveness.
Why should a Macedonian speaker who is clearly aware that she is report-
ing what someone else said fail to consistently code the narrative with reportive
marking? One explanation for the continued lack of L-form pasts in this
particular version is that the teller considered the entire narrative to be
embedded under the reportive frame established as the ﬁrst line of the telling.
Her total lack of other reportive cues suggests however that the choice of simple
past over L-form past was a deliberate strategy to detract from the reportiveness
of the narrative information and to present the story as ‘vouched for’. This
analysis is plausible because the teller in (10) knew the original speaker very well
and also already knew some details of her experience in getting the car. It is
possible that the reteller was trying to convey an aura of conﬁdence and
authority in her version of the story based on her prior knowledge of events.
This analysis is supported by the ‘mirative’ analysis of the simple past/L-form
distinction proposed in Friedman (1995), where simple pasts were more likely
to be used for information that was completely ‘assimilated in the speakers
consciousness’, even if it had not been personally experienced (DeLancey
(1997) and Slobin & Aksu-Koç (1986)). Simple pasts are less likely in contexts
where the speaker talked about information that had just entered into their
consciousness (e.g. surprise). Under this analysis, the use of the simple past is
appropriate if the reteller in (10) did in fact have prior knowledge of the
original teller’s experience.
Whatever the reason, the complete absence of reportive marking after the
ﬁrst line in (10) is evidence that despite the grammatical status of epistemologi-
cal stance in Macedonian past tense choices, the forms are not automatically
chosen to match the source of information (otherwise L-forms would automati-
cally be chosen in retellings). The teller in (10) was no doubt aware that she was
retelling a story told to her by someone else (in this case, not the original teller).
However, she chose to downplay the reportiveness of the information for prag-
matic reasons that might have been compromised if L-form pasts had been used.
Most of the Macedonian retellers did begin their versions of the story with
some kind of reportive framing. However, there were some cases where retellers
did not extranarratively contextualise the story they told as a retelling in this
way — they simply began their retelling with consistent use of L-form pasts, as
in (11). In the context of the recording session, where it was clear that the
retelling’s source was someone else’s story, use of L-form is enough of a
linguistic cue to establish and maintain a reportive epistemological stance.
112 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
(11) Si bila edna nevesta I svekra mu mu rekla
refl be:l one bride and M-in-law 3dat 3dat say:l
da mesat leb
to knead:3pl bread
There once was a bride. And her mother-in-law told her to knead bread.
(MBSc1)
5.1.3 Evidential reported speech
Another strategy that retellers used to express the adoption of a reportive episte-
mological stance towards story information was the representation the story (or
parts of the story) as a quote attributed to the previous teller of the story. The
passages in (12) and (13) are examples of this ‘evidential direct speech’ strategy.
(12) I veli “Jas ostanav doma. Go mesiv lebot…”
and say:3sg 1nom stay:1sg.sp home 3acc knead:1sg.sp bread:def
And she[previous teller] says, “I stayed at home. I kneaded the bread…”
(MBS1)
(13) I veli “Tatko mi beshe posle na krajot” veli
and say:3sg father 1sg.dat be:3sg.sp last loc end:def say:3sg
“A listatsijata pochna od pet ilijadi. I nagore” veli
and auction:def start:3sg.sp gen ﬁve thousand and up say:3sg
“krenavme do kaj sedum” veli “i pol ilijadi” veli
rise:1pl.sp dat loc seven say:3sg and half thousand say:3sg
And she [previous teller] says, “My father was last in the end.” She [previous
teller] says, “and the auction started from $5000 and up” she [previous teller]
says. “We raised (it) to seven,” she [previous teller] says, “and a half thou-
sand.” she [previous teller] says. (MNC1)
Like most languages, Macedonian codes direct speech by representing the
content of the reported speaker’s speech act as an iconic representation of that
speech act. All deixis within the content of speech is interpreted as relative to
the time, place and identity of the reported speaker as they spoke. The content
of speech in direct speech thus purports to be a replica of the exact words the
reported speaker uttered. Macedonian direct speech also typically occurs with
a framing clause containing a speech act verb and some reference to the
reported speaker.
Reportive epistemological stance realisation in Macedonian, Japanese and English 113
(14) Mu veli “Daj zelnikot” I taa mu veli deka
3sg.dat say:3sg give:imp zelnik:def and 3nom 3dat say:3sg that
“E de bre Blagoja ne mi se pogodi
excl excl excl Blagoja neg 1sg.dat refl make.well:3sg.sp
zelnikot.”
zelnik:def
‘He says to her, “Bring (us) the zelnik.” And she says to him that, “Hey
Blagoja, the zelnik was not made well.”’ (MZS1)
The passage in (14) is a canonical example of direct speech from the
Macedonian corpus — a conversational exchange between two characters in the
story. The ﬁrst line contains a framing clause, mu veli ‘he says to her’, which
indexes ‘he’ as the speaking character. This is followed by an imperative clause
which represents the order given by that character to bring the zelnik. The
second passage of speech also consists of a framing clause indexing ‘she’ the
speaker to the following content of speech. The ﬁrst person dative pronoun mi
is interpreted as referring to the reported speaker (‘she’) and not the current
teller. The use of ‘expressive’ devices such as imperative syntax and exclamatives
are also associated with a direct mode of speech representation (Banﬁeld 1982).
Both (12) and (13) above are also unproblematically analysed as examples
of direct speech representation. In (12), for example, the ﬁrst person reference
(Jas ‘I’) and verb agreement (ostanav ‘I remained’, mesiv ‘I kneaded’) both refer
back to the reported speaker and not to the actual speaker. The lack of express-
ive devices in both (12) and (13) is attributable to the fact that the represented
speech act is an act of narration, and not a represented conversation between
story characters.
The main diﬀerence between examples like (12) and (13) on the one hand
and (14) on the other hand is the nature of the reported speaker and their
relationship to the narrative. The passage in (14) is an example of narrative
direct speech. The reported speaker is a character in the story, the words that
they speak are deictically centred within the story, and the speech act itself is
analysable as an event in the story world.
In contrast, the direct speech passages in (12) and (13) above do not
represent individual events in the story, but rather the act of narration itself.
The reported speaker is not a character in the story but rather the person who
told the story. These are examples of evidential direct speech. Only evidential
direct speech reﬂects the teller’s reportive epistemological stance.
114 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
Direct speech involves a complete deictic shift from current speaker to
reported speaker. This includes a shift from reﬂecting the one’s own stance as
a current speaker to representing the stance of the reported speaker. Thus direct
speech purports to represent the epistemological stance of the reported speaker.
In (12) and (13), both from ﬁrst generation retellings, the content of speech is
reﬂective of a personal experience epistemological stance. L-forms would be
predicted only if the original teller represented information from a reportive
perspective. Although theoretically possible, this never occurred in my corpus.
5.1.4 Summary
Three retelling strategies were identiﬁed for the Macedonian corpus which
indicate to the audience that the reteller has construed of the story as a retelling
— a report of what someone else has said — reﬂecting the adoption of a
reportive epistemological stance towards narrative information. Reportive
framing extranarratively evokes the reteller’s commitment to retelling the story
as a retelling, explicitly grounding the subsequent narration in the context of
retelling a story acquired by hearing it from someone else. The use of L-form
past as the ‘default’ past tense form, the verb form conventionally associated
with information acquired reportively, is a grammatical means of representing
the story as the product of someone else’s telling (and someone else’s experi-
ence) that maintains the reteller as the centre of deixis with respect to narrative
information. Evidential direct speech exploits the total deictic shift function of
direct speech representation to completely eﬀace the presence of the reteller,
reconstructing narrative information as a purported verbatim rendition of what
the previous teller said.
Although each of these strategies can be described as ‘reportive’, in the sense
that they reﬂect the reteller’s adoption of a reportive epistemological stance,
there are signiﬁcant diﬀerences between them with respect to their deictic
properties and to their narrative status. These diﬀerences will have conse-
quences for both narrative structure and narrative style. The pragmatics of the
choice of epistemological stance representation strategy will be addressed in the
next chapter.
Reportive epistemological stance realisation in Macedonian, Japanese and English 115
5.2 Japanese
The study of reportive epistemological stance adoption in Japanese already has
some basis in the Japanese linguistics literature. There are general studies of
Japanese evidentiality (e.g. Aoki 1986; Ohta 1991; Kamio 1994), and related
work on the expression of speaker ‘attitudes’ (e.g. Maynard 1993). This body of
literature has already identiﬁed epistemological status as a signiﬁcant pragmatic
factor in the choice of linguistic forms, and it was predicted that Japanese
retellers would make prodigious use of evidential strategies in the process of
narrative retelling.
As expected, Japanese retellers did make use of a number of diﬀerent
strategies for signalling that the story they retold was a retelling of what some-
one else had said. Extranarrative strategies of reportive framing and evidential
reported speech were very similar to those extranarrative strategies described for
the Macedonian retellings. Two narrative evidential strategies were also
identiﬁed as reﬂective of a reportive epistemological stance: the sentence ﬁnal
particle tte, which has many properties of a grammatical marker of reportive
evidentiality; and the adjectival predicate rashii which in the context of retelling
also evokes the fact that information was acquired through linguistic evidence.
5.2.1 Reportive frames
Some retellers introduced their version of the story with a precis of how they
acquired the story, framing what they were about to relate as a retelling.
(15) kono hanashi wa X-san to Y-san no aida de
this story top X and Y gen time loc
aida no hanashi o rokuon sareta mono
time gen story obj recording-pass-p thing
This story is something that was recorded between X and Y. (JCRb1)
(16) ano ne ano X san tte yuu hito ga ite
X rsp say person subj be.located:con
kanojo onaji “Linguistics Department” no hito na-n dakedo
3sg same gen person cop-nom cop-but
kanojo ga ne sono hanashi o ne teepu ni fukikonda no ne
3sg subj ip that story obj ip tape loc record-p nom ip
kanojo no keeken un ano ne
3sg gen experience ip
Guess what there is a person called X. She’s in the same linguistics de-
partment. She taped this story, her experience. (JLBb1)
116 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
In (15), the reteller begins her version of the story with a reference to how the
story was originally told — a recorded segment of a conversation between two
other people (clearly with whom the reteller was familiar since she knew their
names). In (16), the reteller does not assume that her addressee knows the
original teller and provides some background information before describing the
kind of story that she is about to tell (i.e. that it is a story recorded by the
original teller of her own experience).
Reportive frames help to contextualise the story by giving the listener some
information about its origins. By making explicit reference to the fact that the
story was acquired from someone else’s telling of it, the reteller signals their
conscious intention to represent the story as a retelling. Since it represents the
reteller’s own experience of hearing the story, the reportive frame itself is not a
conclusive indicator that the reteller has adopted a reportive epistemological
stance towards all of the narrative information. However it does set up a context
in which it a reportive epistemological stance towards the actual narrative
information might be expected.
5.2.2 Evidential reported speech
Like Macedonian, Japanese retellers also used evidential reported speech as a
means of indicating the adoption of a reportive epistemological stance. Recall
that evidential reported speech was easily identiﬁed in Macedonian because its
use coincided with a total shift in deixis from current reteller as deictic origin to
previous teller as deictic origin, typically grounded with a framing clause of
direct speech (veli ‘she says’). The content of speech in Macedonian evidential
reported speech was thus presented as personal experience — a representation
of the previous narrator recounting her own experience. Evidential reported
speech was in complementary distribution with the L-form past tense, reinforc-
ing its role as a strategy for coding reportiveness.
Japanese reported speech, while similar to its Macedonian counterpart, has
its own unique features, as listed below:
a. The main verb of the clause is a verb of speaking (typically yuu ‘say’).
b. The main verb is connected to the content of speech with a complementiser
to (often tte in informal speech).
c. The reported speaker is marked as a topic or subject of the verb of speaking.
d. Speech act verb + complementiser typically occurs at the end of the report-
ed speech passage.
Reportive epistemological stance realisation in Macedonian, Japanese and English 117
The examples in (17) and (18) illustrate the common forms of reported speech
in Japanese. The reference to the reported speaker and to the speech act
predicate are in boldface. Together they create a frame for the content of speech.
(17) kore wa shitsurei da yo to iwarete
this top rude cop ip rsp say-pass-con
And I was told “ It’s not fair!”/And I was told it wasn’t fair. (JFS)
(18) de ne keesastu ga nani shiteru-n da tte yuu kara
part ip police subj what do-prog-nom cop rsp say conj
Then the police asked “What are you doing here.”/Then the police asked
what I was doing (there). (JLB)
The passages in (19) and (20) are examples of Japanese use of evidential
reported speech, similar to the Macedonian use of reported speech to express a
reportive epistemological stance.
(19) sore.de yappari Amerikajin wa kechi dakara
and after.all Americans top stingy so
soo.yuu no ga umai ne tte itte-ite
nom subj skilled ip rsp say-prog
And, as we know, Americans are stingy so she[previous teller] was saying that
they are good at that kind of thing. (JCRa1)
(20) moshi kanojo ni tanonda to shite mo soo.yuu fuu na
if 3sg loc ask-p part do-con also like.this ip
koto ni wa nara-na-katta wa tte itte
nom loc top become-neg-p ip rsp say-con
If she[previous teller] had asked her the same thing, she couldn’t have ﬁgured
out what to do, she[previous teller] said. (JCRb1)
Unlike Macedonian, Japanese tends not to code personal and temporal deictic
shifts consistently in reported speech representation. Deictic orientation is one
of the main cues for determining whether represented speech is ‘direct’ (a
constructed replica of the original utterance) or ‘indirect’ (a representation of
the ‘gist’ of the original utterance). The lack of deictic cues thus makes it
diﬃcult to determine whether Japanese evidential reported speech is categori-
cally direct or indirect representation.17
A categorical distinction between direct and indirect speech representation
in Japanese may not be necessary to determine the degree to which a passage of
reported speech is more or less like direct speech representation. Cues other
than deictic orientation may be used for this purpose, especially the use of
118 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
‘expressive’ language (Banﬁeld 1982). Using this criteria, it is possible to analyse
the examples of evidential reported speech in (19) and (20) as direct speech
representation. For example, the interactive particles ne (in (18)), and wa (in
(19)) that precede the framing clause suggest a more expressive representation
of the previous teller’s account — a more direct mode of representation. The
analysis of these passages of evidential reported speech as representing a more
direct mode of representation has important implications for its analysis as a
marker of a reportive epistemological stance. This issue will be addressed
further in the next chapter.
Japanese evidential reported speech, like its Macedonian counterpart, is an
extranarrative evidential strategy because the framing clauses of the reported
speech passages reﬂect the reteller’s personal experience as the one who heard
the story (and therefore has the authority to quote from personal experience of
hearing the story). However not all instances of extranarrative reported speech
frames reﬂected the reteller’s reportive epistemological stance towards the
narrative. The passages in (21), (22) and (23) are examples of another kind of
reported speech framing context that diﬀers from the examples of evidential
reported speech in (19) and (20). In these examples, the framing construction,
tte yuu, is followed by the nominal hanashi ‘telling/story’.
(21) de Amerikajin wa kechi dakara nanka soo.yuu koto ni atama ga
and Americans top stingy therefore nom loc head subj
hataraku-n da ne tte yuu o-hanashi datta to omo
use-nom cop ip rsp say story cop-p rsp think
And Americans are economical so he could do it, it’s said in the story, I
think. (JCRb2)
(22) dakara Maaku ga ika.ni gambatte kureta ka
so Mark subj how do.one’s.best-con give-p qp
tte yuu hanashi rashii-n da yo ne
rsp say story seem-nom cop ip ip
So the story was about how Mark did his best for her, it seems. (JCRc2)
(23) futari de rentakaa o kariyoo to yuu hanashi
two part car.rental obj rent-cj rsp say story
ni natta-n da-kedo
loc become-p-nom cop-but
And it turns out that they decided to rent a car, it’s said in the story.
(JCRc2)
Reportive epistemological stance realisation in Macedonian, Japanese and English 119
The construction tte yuu hanashi frames the narrative information as a story
without speciﬁcally indexing the narrative information to the previous teller of
the story. It functions to reinforce the information as a story, not necessarily a
retelling of a story. This construction is not primarily associated with retold or
hearsay information, and may be used in ﬁctional and personal narratives with
equal acceptability. For this reason, although tte yuu hanashi shares many
properties with other reported speech framing clauses, it was not counted as
introducing evidential reported speech for the purposes of reﬂecting a reportive
epistemological stance.
5.2.3 Sentence ﬁnal tte
Sentence ﬁnal tte is a particle which has sometimes been described as an
‘informal’ or ‘conversational’ variant of soo da, a nominal evidential construc-
tion typically associated with hearsay (Aoki 1986; Ohta 1991; Lampkin 1995).
The hearsay function of tte, translated here as ‘apparently’, is illustrated in (24)
and (25) where each reteller codes narrative information as something she
heard from someone else.
(24) torakku no ushiro ni nokkete mora-tta-n da tte
truck gen back loc get.on-con receive-p-nom cop rsp
Apparently she got on the back of the truck (JLBa2)
(25) jaa hajimemasu onna.no.hito ga futari ita-n da tte
excl begin woman subj two be.located-p-nom cop rsp
Let’s Start. Apparently there are two women… (JCRc2)
Sentence ﬁnal tte is syntactically part of the narrative utterance and is therefore
classiﬁed as a narrative evidential strategy, coding information as acquired by
hearsay without deictically shifting outside of the narrative story world. The
passages in (24) and (25) therefore reﬂect the reteller’s reportive epistemologi-
cal stance towards the narrative information.
The form tte has several syntactic and discourse functions, not all of which
signal the adoption of a reportive epistemological stance. As a complementiser,
tte is virtually synonymous with the reported speech complementiser to
(Okamoto 1995; Suzuki 1997). Like to, tte is used as a complementiser to attach
the content of reported speech or thought to the main clause of speaking. The
passages in (26) and (27) illustrate the parallelism in function between com-
plementisers to and tte as they function to link the content of thought with a
main verb of cognition, omou ‘think’.
120 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
(26) de toriaezu musende.yonde kureta kara to omotte
and so radio-con give-p conj rsp think-con
jiitto matte-tara ne
without.moving wait-cond ip
I waited patiently for a taxi, thinking because the man called one for me.
(JLB)
(27) de nanka kanojo mo ie ni kaetta kara konai kara
and 3sg also home loc return-p conj come-neg conj
tte omotte
rsp think-con
Since she had already come home and I thought [assumed] she wouldn’t
come out again. (JLB)
The tte/to complementiser also has functions other than the introduction of
reported speech or thought, some of which are represented in my corpus. The
passage in (28) illustrates two non-reported speech uses of tte. In the ﬁrst
instance, tte is used to connect two NPs and to introduce ‘Jafu’ as the name of
a company. In the second instance, tte is used to present ‘J-A-F-U’ as the
(romanised) spelling of ‘Jafu’. These uses of tte suggest that the particle is a
marked of general linguistic ‘representation’ (e.g. representation of a name or
of a spelling of a name), not just speech representation.
(28) Jafu tte kaisha shiteru nanka Jafu
Jafu rsp company know-prog Jafu
J-A-F-U tte kaite
J-A-F-U rsp write-con
‘Do you know Jafu? “Jafu”, spelled J-A-F-U’ (JCRc2)
A comprehensive analysis of the semantics and pragmatics of tte would require
full consideration of its discourse functions. These are discussed in more detail
in Maynard (1993), Itani (1996) and Suzuki (1997). The purpose here however
is to describe the properties of tte as a linguistic marker of a reportive epistemo-
logical stance. Since its non-reported speech uses do not function to index some
content of speech/thought with its source, and are therefore not analysable as
evidential, they will not be discussed further here.
The reportive evidential functions of the particle tte relate to its speech
representation functions. Of tte and to, tte was by far the more frequent
reported speech/thought complementiser in the retelling corpus (ratio 8:1),
even though to is typically regarded as the unmarked reported speech com-
plementiser, occurring in both speech and writing. In these contexts, however
Reportive epistemological stance realisation in Macedonian, Japanese and English 121
it is the entire reported speech framing construction (complementiser + speech
act verb), and not the use of tte alone, that indexes content of speech/thought
to the reported speaker/thinker.
Only the sentence ﬁnal uses of tte, illustrated in (24) and (25), index
narrative information to some previous teller of the story, but without explicit
mention of either the speech act itself or the actual reported speaker (as is
expected in canonical reported speech representation). So although sentence
ﬁnal tte may derive historically from the reported speech complementiser, and
synchronically it still has this function, its properties as a sentence ﬁnal particle
are closer to a grammatical hearsay evidential morpheme, as is found in many
languages with more fully grammaticalised evidential systems, than as a
reported speech marker.18
Certainly there is a close relationship between reportive evidentiality and
reported speech. One of the sources of grammatical reportive evidentials across
languages is verbs of speaking in reported speech (Hardman 1986; Gordon
1986; Jacobsen 1986; Willett 1988; Mushin 1997). Both reported speech and
reportive evidentiality involve some reference to a prior utterance. However
there are some fundamental diﬀerences between the notional categories of
reported speech and reportive evidentiality, as illustrated in the English and
Japanese examples (29) and (30) below.
(29) Reported Speech:
English
a. Peter said that he was going to have a party on Saturday
b. Peter said “I’m going to have a party on Saturday”
Japanese
c. Piita wa (kondo no) doyoobi ni paati o suru to itta
Peter top (next gen) Saturday loc party obj do rsp say-p
(30) Reportive evidentiality:
English
a. Apparently Peter is having a party on Saturday.
Japanese
b. Piita wa doyoobi ni paati o suru(-n da) tte
Peter top Saturday loc party obj do-nom cop rsp
Reported speech has a dual function. It contextualises information as the
product of a former speech act and also represents the propositional content of
that former event. This is true of both direct speech representation, where the
122 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
propositional content is an iconic representation of the former utterance, and
indirect speech representation, where the propositional content is represented
as a summary of the actual former utterance. Reported speech is typically a
complex syntactic construction that incorporates both aspects of the semantics
of reported speech. The speech act predicate is typically a main clause consistent
with the deictic orientation of the prior discourse. The content of speech is
usually marked by special morphosyntax and/or by shifts in deictic coding. As
a main clause predicate, it can be argued that the event of speaking is substan-
tially foregrounded in reported speech. As the subject of reported speech
passage, the identity of the reported speaker is also foregrounded.
When propositional information is expressed as reportive evidentiality, as
in (30), it draws attention to the fact that the source of this information was the
product of another person’s utterance. To this extent it is like reported speech.
Unlike reported speech however, it does not foreground the former speech act
itself, but rather maintains focus on the propositional information — what
someone was supposed to have said. While the identity of the original speaker may
be known in context, reportive constructions typically make no reference to the
former speaker as source. So while reportive evidentiality codes information as
something that was originally said, it backgrounds the fact of the speech event
and highlights the propositional information as most relevant to the discourse.
The passage in (31) is an example of a reported speech passage in a retelling
that was itself represented as acquired by hearsay. The embeddedness of
reported speech under a reportive marker is further evidence of their general
semantic and pragmatic diﬀerences. It is also a good illustration of the diﬀerent
functions of the particle tte. The entire speech act framed by the complemen-
tiser + speech verb construction, tte itta ‘(she) said’ is coded as reportive by the
sentence ﬁnal use of tte which makes no overt reference to the person who
originally told the story.
(31) soko no tonari ni Burger King ga aru kara
there gen next.to loc Burger King subj be.located conj
soko de machiawase.shiyo tte itta-n da tte
there part rendevous-cj rsp say-p-nom cop rsp
There is a Burger King next to the hotel so “Let’s meet there” she said,
apparently. (JLBb1)
What is the grammatical status of sentence ﬁnal tte as an evidential marker?
Certainly sentence ﬁnal tte fulﬁls many of the criteria for grammatical status
that were established in Chapter 2.
Reportive epistemological stance realisation in Macedonian, Japanese and English 123
a.it is a member of a closed class in paradigmatic opposition to the more
‘formal’ reported speech complementiser to (although sentence ﬁnal to does not
function as a reportive marker — Okamoto 1995).
b.by deﬁnition, sentence ﬁnal tte is very restricted in its morphosyntax, even
more than other ‘sentence ﬁnal’ particles. It must always occur last in the
sentence, following all other particles.
c.the semantics of sentence-ﬁnal tte is highly schematic — it indexes informa-
tion to some previous speech act (by a diﬀerent speaker) without explicitly
referring to the original speaker or to the speech act.
d.although it was a very frequently used particle in the retelling corpus, the
status of sentence ﬁnal tte as a hyperextended marker is not immediately clear.
Certainly sentence ﬁnal tte did not occur in every instance where its syntactic
and semantic selectional criteria were fulﬁlled. Nevertheless, its frequency and
distribution in the retelling corpus were suﬃcient to allow the hypothesis that
sentence ﬁnal tte is becoming hyperextended and may indeed ultimately
function obligatorily to coding information as the product of hearsay. Further
details of the frequency and distribution of sentence ﬁnal tte in the retelling
corpus will be given in the next chapter.
e.it is also unclear to what extent tte can be analysed as a ‘reduced form’. It is
a free morpheme which is most frequently found in the construction tte yuu (tte
+ say). This construction occurs as a framing clause for reported speech, as
discussed earlier, but it also has a number of other ‘clause combining’ functions
(many of which are discussed in Maynard 1993). Historically tte yuu is the
earlier construction — Okamoto (1995) analyses tte as a contracted form of to
yuu no wa ‘what is called’ — the sentence-ﬁnal tte can therefore be analysed as
a reduction of this construction (a loss of the verb component). On the other
hand, it is also possible to analyse tte as a separate particle even in the tte yuu
construction. Under this interpretation, it is not necessary to analyse tte as a
reduced form.
Table 5.2 summarises the grammatical properties of sentence-ﬁnal tte.
The morphosyntactic and semantic properties of sentence ﬁnal tte indicate a
fairly robust grammatical status as a hearsay evidential marker.
5.2.4 Adjectival predicate rashii
The adjectival predicate rashii, often translated as ‘seems’, is a lexical inferential
124 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
evidential marker, one which codes information as the product of the speaker’s
Table 5.2Sentence-ﬁnal tte
Criteria Grammatical properties of forms
a.Closed class Yes tte is part of a small set of ‘representational’ particles
(to, toka, tte)
b.Restricted morphosyntax Yes tte can only occur sentence-ﬁnally. It cannot be
followed by other sentence-ﬁnal ‘interactional’
particles.
c.Bleached semantics Yes the semantics of sentence ﬁnal tte are highly sche-
matic and can be deﬁned in deictic terms.
d.Hyperextended use ? unclear
e.Reduced form ? unclear
inferential processes based on some kind of external evidence (Aoki 1986). As
a syntactic predicate, rashii occurs within narrative clauses so that like sentence
ﬁnal tte, rashii operates as a narrative evidential strategy. There are however
signiﬁcant syntactic and semantic diﬀerences between sentence ﬁnal tte and
rashii. As an inferential form, rashii implies that the propositional information
it modiﬁes is partially the creative mental input of the current teller (who does
the inferring). Purely reportive forms like tte and reportive framing present
information as completely divorced from the mental input of the current teller
— they simply report that something was said. However, in the context of
narrative retelling, rashii is interpreted as ‘inference based on what the previous
teller said’ and so to this extent it reﬂects the reteller’s commitment to faithfully
frame their story as a retelling, reﬂecting a reportive epistemological stance.
The use of rashii in retellings thus preserves a reportive ﬂavour while
simultaneously marking information as the product of the reteller’s conception
of the information — it is the retellers inference, not a representation of an
inference of the previous teller. The passage in (32) is an example of this use
(33) is the equivalent passage from the original story. The use of rashii in the
original (personal experience) version of the story is motivated by the fact that
the teller is talking about the emotional state of one of the story characters —
information which the teller can only know by observation of the individual’s
behaviour and/or by what that character might have said about his emotional
state (i.e. that he didn’t like the role he was given in the ﬁlm).
Reportive epistemological stance realisation in Macedonian, Japanese and English 125
(32) de sono yaku tte yuu no ga honto wa ano kare~
and that role rsp say nom subj really top 3sg
honto wa motto hora ni shuyaku mitai yari-ta-kat-tara
really top more you.see loc main.role seem do-want-p-conj
rashii-n da-kedo
seem-nom cop-but
And the character was really~ It seems he really he wanted to play a
starring role. (JFSa1)
(33) ko katate sh~ mado kara katate shika misenai no ne
one.arm window from one.arm only show-neg nom ip
sore ga ki.ni.iranakatta rashi-kute
that subj like-neg-p seem-con
(His role was) only to show his arm from the window and he didn’t like
it, it seems. (JFS)
In (32), the information that the story character in question wanted to play the
main role in the ﬁlm is not directly mentioned in the previous telling. All the
reteller heard was that this person was annoyed at the small size of the part he
was given in the movie, and from there inferred that he actually wanted to be
the main character. This is not a straight reportive use of rashii since the actual
teller does not simply report or represent what they claim to have been told.
Rather, they add their own inferences about aspects of the story based on
evidence from the story (i.e. if the person was unhappy with his role then he
wanted to be the main character).
In (32), rashii was used to modify narrative information in a ﬁrst gener-
ation retelling to present it as an inference based on hearsay. Rashii also
occurred second generation retellings (i.e. a retelling of a retelling) to modify
reportive frames as originally products of hearsay. This use of rashii would be
infelicitous in a ﬁrst generation retelling since in this context the teller does
have direct access to what the original teller said. The passage in (34) is an
example of a second generation use of rashii in a reportive frame. (35) is the
equivalent passage in the previous telling (a ﬁrst generation retelling).
(34) rentaru ka shuuri ka tte yuu kanji rashii-n da-kedo
rental or repair or rsp say type seem-nom cop-but
[It seems] she said it was a rental or repair [or something like that] (JCRa2)
126 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
(35) de hitori no ko ga [XXX] kinoo ka mae ni
and one gen girl subj yesterday or front loc
kinoo ah sono hi atta koto ka na
yesterday that day be.located-p nom qp ip
kinoo atta dekigoto ka nanka o hanashite ite
yesterday be.located-p event or something obj talkprog-con
to nanka kuruma no koto de nanka
and car gen nom part something
shuri nanoka [dooka] yoku wakara-nai kedo XXX
repair something completely understand-neg but
One girl is talking about things which happened to her yesterday or the
day when she was talking. [Something] about a car. I’m not sure whether
is about repairing or renting. (JCRa1)
In (34), rashii is used to indicate that the current speaker infers that the original
speaker said that the story was either about renting or repairing [a car]. She can
only infer that the original speaker said this because she heard the story as a
retelling and did not hear the original. (35) is the equivalent passage in the ﬁrst
generation retelling. Note that the ﬁrst generation reteller herself is not sure she
understood what she heard correctly. The use of rashii in (34) may have been
doubly motivated by the fact that the teller was presented with uncertain
information from which she was forced to reconstruct her own version.
Although rashii was typically interpreted as ‘inference from hearsay’ in the
context of retelling, it should be noted that rashii-modiﬁed clauses did not
always reﬂect information actually acquired by inference. In (36), the reteller
expresses that she ‘infers’ that the character in the ﬁlm was the main character’s
father. However a comparison of this information with the equivalent passage
in the original story (in (37)) shows that the reteller is simply reporting infor-
mation that she heard. She is not actually inferring anything since all of the
information she reports (i.e. that the ﬁlm character in question was the main
character’s father) was overtly expressed in the previous telling. This is a good
example of a mismatch between actual method of knowledge acquisition and
adoption of epistemological stance.
(36) de sono yaku tte yuu no wa otoosan no yaku datta
and that role rsp say nom top father gen role cop-p
rashii no ne
seem nom ip
And the character was the main character’s father, it seems. (impl. that’s
what I heard). (JFSa1)
Reportive epistemological stance realisation in Macedonian, Japanese and English 127
(37) dakedo sono kuruma no naka no hi~~ naka no yaku
but that car gen inside gen (person) inside gen role
tte yuu no wa otoosan yaku na no yo
rsp say nom top father role part nom ip
But the character who is in the car is the main character’s father. (JFS)
Examples like (36) suggest that rashii does indeed function as a reportive
evidential, speciﬁcally indexing information to some previous speech event,
and, when asked, Japanese native speakers were typically happy to substitute
‘true’ reportive forms like sentence ﬁnal tte for rashii in retelling contexts.
Under this interpretation, rashii in retellings should be included in the inven-
tory of evidential strategies used by Japanese retellers to establish and maintain
a reportive epistemological stance towards the story they tell.
However the use of rashii does have additional implications in retellings
besides the coding of reportiveness. These implications derive from its basic
meaning as an inferential evidential and therefore are not applicable to purely
reportive evidentials like sentence ﬁnal tte. As a marker of inferred information,
rashii implies that the reteller has contributed some mental eﬀort in recon-
structing the narrative. For example, in (32) she has used the information that
the story character was annoyed together with the information that he was not
the starring role in the ﬁlm (he was the main character’s father) to infer that the
story character wanted to be in the starring role. This kind of inferencing is a
sign that the reteller has constructed a coherent representation of the story in
her own mind. This coherence is reﬂected in her choice of rashii to code the
information as second-hand.
In contrast, the choice of tte as a reportive marker in (38), repeated below,
merely presents the information that the character got on the truck as some-
thing that the previous speaker said. (39) is the equivalent passage in the
previous telling that motivates the use of tte in the retelling.
(38) torakku no ushiro ni nokkete mora-tta-n da tte
truck gen back loc get.on-con receive-p-nom cop rsp
Apparently she got on the back of the truck (JLBa2)
(39) ma torakku datta kara
excl truck cop-p conj
sono ushiro de ii tte itte torakku no ushiro ni notte
that back part good rsp say-con truck gen back loc get.in-con
[But] It was a truck so she said, “It’s OK to be in the back.” and she got
in the back. (JLBa1)
128 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
Tte only implies that the information itself was in the previous telling. It cannot
imply that the teller took parts of what was said in the previous telling to
construct an inference that the character got back in the truck. The choice of tte
as a reportive marker therefore signals the teller’s commitment to simply repeat
what she can remember the previous teller said, rather than attempt to con-
struct her own version of the story based on what the previous teller said.
5.2.5 Summary
Examination of the Japanese retelling corpus revealed a range of linguistic
strategies, both narrative and extranarrative that were employed to reﬂect the
reportive epistemological stance of the reteller. The extranarrative strategies of
reportive framing and evidential reported speech were remarkably similar to
those extranarrative strategies described for the Macedonian data — an
interesting result given the unrelatedness of the languages.
Two narrative strategies for expressing reportiveness were also identiﬁed
based on both their semantic properties and the frequency of their distribution
in the retelling corpus. The relatively grammaticalised sentence ﬁnal tte was the
most frequent and that there is evidence that sentence ﬁnal tte is indeed
becoming a default reportive evidential marker, at least in informal language
contexts. The adjective predicate rashii was also used relatively frequently in the
corpus to code information as the product of inference based on what the
previous teller had said. Its pragmatics with respect to epistemological stance
are far more complex than sentence ﬁnal tte, since its meaning combines
aspects of both reportive and inferential epistemological stances. It is this
complexity which may account for why it was used less frequently in the
retelling corpus than sentence ﬁnal tte as a narrative reportive strategy.
5.3 English
English has been described as lacking clear grammatical markers of evidentiality
(e.g. Chafe 1986; Biber & Finegan 1988). None of its verbal categories contrast
types of epistemological status (cf. Macedonian simple past/L-form past tense
contrast), nor does English have a grammaticalised reportive marker that codes
information as the product of some prior utterance (cf. Japanese sentence ﬁnal
particle tte). Indeed corpus-based investigations of evidential distribution in
English discourse have indicated that most types of English discourse are
Reportive epistemological stance realisation in Macedonian, Japanese and English 129
‘faceless’, distinctive by their relative lack of epistemic evaluation (Biber &
Finegan 1988, 1989).
The results from the retelling study support this ‘faceless’ characterisation
of English discourse. They show that forms indicating the adoption of a reportive
epistemological stance were use far less frequently than in Macedonian and
Japanese. The exact nature of the diﬀerence in frequency and distribution, and
the reasons for this diﬀerence are discussed in the next two chapters. Although
there seemed to be an avoidance of reportive coding in the English corpus, a
range of strategies, both narrative and extranarrative, could be identiﬁed. That
is, there were identiﬁable means by which speakers expressed that the story they
were telling was the product of someone else’s telling, reﬂecting the adoption of
a reportive epistemological stance towards the story they told.
5.3.1 Reportive frames
Like both Macedonian and Japanese retellings, some English retellers intro-
duced their version of the story as a retelling of what someone else had told her.
Examples of English reportive frames are given in (40) and (41). In both
examples, the opening line of the retelling is a description of what the reteller
had heard on a tape — a woman telling a story — from which their own version
was constructed. The reportive frame establishes the retellers’ intention to retell
the story as a retelling of what she heard (and to make that explicit to her
audience), and signals the intention to adopt a reportive epistemological stance.
(40) okay um
So this woman is telling this story about how um…
that there’s always been these…
vermin problems or rat problems in their house and… (EMSa1)
(41) It was a lady
she was telling a story or something
and
what was she saying ? {trying to remember}
First she started talking about her house… (EMSd1)
5.3.2 Other extranarrative reportive strategies
Reportive frames, by deﬁnition, occur prior to the telling of the story. They
correspond somewhat with Labov’s (1972:363) notion of abstract, “… one or
130 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
two clauses summarising the whole story”. Reportive frames contextualise the
retelling as a retelling before any narrative information is divulged. The
contextualisation of the story as a retelling is not restricted to the beginning of
the retelling however. The passages in (42) and (43) occur after the narrative
sequence has begun. In both cases, the reteller interrupts her retelling of the
narrative to inform the audience that the story was originally told by the person
who is the character of the ‘daughter’ (the daughter’s telling the story/the
daughter I guess is the one telling the story). The use of the inferential I guess in
(43) here is motivated by the fact that this passage is from a second generation
retelling — one in which the reteller heard the story as a retelling, not as the
original personal experience story. Her knowledge that the daughter is the
character telling the story derives not from her personal experience of hearing
the original story but rather is based on what she could surmise from what the
previous teller said. In this example, this extranarrative contextualisation of the
story as a retelling is further reinforced by the phrase as I recall, which reﬂects
the adoption of a reportive epistemological stance — one in which the reteller
is trying to be faithful to her source by remembering accurately what she heard.
(42) the mother went into the kitchen
put the soup into the refrigerator
then went back into the living room
with the husband and her daughter
the daughter’s telling the story
and they’d hear like a “plop” sound
“What’s that?” (EMSc1)
(43) as I recall it it was a grandmother’s house and now there’s
the mother
and the daughter I guess is the one telling the story (EMSa2)
None of the English retellers used evidential direct speech as a strategy for
representing the story they told as a retelling (cf. Macedonian and Japanese
retellers). There were some examples of evidential indirect speech however. In
these cases, parts of the narrative were represented as the product of some
previous telling by being syntactically embedded under a verb of speech (she said
that…). The use of evidential indirect speech is illustrated in thepassage in (44).
(44) and she said that
the cat never used to do that right
when the father saw that he~
you know
Reportive epistemological stance realisation in Macedonian, Japanese and English 131
he shushed it away
and ﬁgured that the cat was trying to get some meat right
but when he looked to see what was happening
it was a mouse
@@ it was a mouse
she said that
the mouse looked like Elvis
coz it had all grease on it
you know
and um
and it was like
the mouse was inside the the the pot
and she said
it was big [the pot] (EMSd1)
The extranarrative reportive strategies identiﬁed in the English retelling corpus
function to draw attention to the fact that the story being told is the product of
someone else’s telling and that the reteller is committed to the task of telling the
story as a retelling. The reportive framing strategies used prior to, as well as
during, the retelling of the narrative draw attention to the source of the story —
the identity of the original teller — as well as the fact of the retelling. The use of
evidential indirect speech in (44) presupposes the framing of the story as a
retelling, but nevertheless draws attention to particular parts of the narrative as
the product of what the original teller said.
The extranarrative reportive strategies described here also diﬀer in terms of
their degree of subjectivity as a construal of information as reportive. The
passage in (43) illustrates a highly objectiﬁed representation of the story — one
in which the reteller makes overt reference to herself (as I recall…). But even
when reportive frames are not self-referential (as in (41) and (44)), they are still
relatively objective modes of representation since they draw attention to the
conditions under which the reteller acquired the narrative information (i.e. the
reteller’s experience as an audience to the story), deictically orienting the
information to the time and place of the previous telling of the story, rather
than the time and place of the narrative events themselves. In this sense,
evidential indirect speech is also a relatively objective mode of representation,
since it too indexes the content of speech (syntactically an embedded clause), to
the previous telling of the story.
132 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
5.3.3 Reportive adverbials
As noted earlier, English uncontroversially lacks a grammaticalised system of
evidential coding to systematically reﬂect the adoption of a reportive epistemo-
logical stance. However, English does have a rich inventory of adverbials of
‘propositional attitude’, some of which were used to express the reportive epi-
stemological stance of the reteller.19
These are illustrated in (45)–(47) below.
Since they modify narrative propositions with respect to the reteller’s epistemo-
logical status from within the boundaries of narrative syntax, these adverbials
were classiﬁed as a narrative evidential strategy in English.
(45) so she sends the husband in
he’s looking around
and he notices that the cat’s one the stove
and apparently the cat never gets on the stove
so he goes over to the cat and he looks in the pot
(46) so apparently the mouse was trying to like hop across
to get out of this big old soup pot. (EMSa2)
(47) and and I guess it’s an old house that~
evidently it must have been handed down from generation (EMSa2)
The use of adverbials of propositional attitude to indicate a reportive epistemo-
logical stance diﬀers from the use of extranarrative strategies because unlike
extranarrative strategies, there is no overt mention of the reteller or the reteller’s
experience of acquiring the story. Furthermore, the use of the adverbials does
not coincide with other deictic shifts that locate the centre of deixis outside of
the narrative story world.
5.3.4 Summary
The evidence from the English retelling corpus shows that despite the lack of a
grammaticalised evidential system, such as the Macedonian past tense, and the
lack of a conventionalised reportive marker, such as the Japanese sentence ﬁnal
particle tte, English retellers did take advantage, albeit sporadically, of a range of
evidential strategies available to them to reﬂect the adoption of a reportive epi-
stemological stance. The extranarrative strategies were quite consistent with the
patterns found in Macedonian and Japanese (except for the absence of
evidential direct speech as a strategy), while narrative strategies were limited to
adverbials of propositional attitude.
Reportive epistemological stance realisation in Macedonian, Japanese and English 133
5.4 Summary
This chapter presented a description of the strategies that signalled that the
retellers of the Macedonian, Japanese and English retellings had adopted a
reportive epistemological stance towards the narrative they reconstructed. Only
those strategies found in the corpus were listed and it is therefore likely that
they do not represent the entire range of reportive evidential strategies for each
language. The range of types of reportive strategies employed even in this
limited context indicates a great deal of variation in approach from language to
language and from individual reteller to individual reteller. Nevertheless,
despite the variations, some striking patterns were observed.
Retellers of all three languages made use of both narrative and extranar-
rative evidential strategies, where ‘extranarrative’ was characterised as informa-
tion whose spatio-temporal deictic centre lay outside of the storyworld, and
‘narrative’ was characterised as information whose spatio-temporal deictic
centre lay inside the storyworld. Extranarrative strategies of reportive framing
and evidential reported speech were used by retellers in all three languages (with
some variation in the type of reported speech representation in evidential
reported speech). Narrative strategies were more language speciﬁc. Both
Macedonian and Japanese have grammaticalised means of coding narrative
information as the product of a previous telling of the story by someone other
than the reteller. English speakers do not have grammaticalised means available
for this purpose.
The identiﬁcation of multiple reportive strategies for each language
supports the formulation of epistemological stance as a cognitive/pragmatic
phenomenon, independent of any actual linguistic realisation. However
recognition of the range of linguistic devices used by speakers in this context of
narrative retelling only answers part of a question about the impact of episte-
mological stance adoption on language use and language structure. It answers
how a reportive epistemological stance is signalled in Macedonian, Japanese and
English. It does not answer the question of to what extent a reportive epistemo-
logical stance is signalled throughout the narrative retelling; and what motivates
the use of particular reportive strategies in the context of narrative retelling.
These are the questions to be addressed in the next chapter.
</TARGET "5">
<TARGET "6" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Reportive strategies in narrative retelling"
SUBJECT "Pragmatics & Beyond, New Series, Volume 87"
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "220"
WIDTH "150"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 6
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling
This chapter analyses the distribution of reportive strategies in each of the three
languages of investigation. The results of this analysis paint a detailed picture of
the patterns of reportive epistemological stance adoption across the three
languages of investigation: how it interacts and competes with other epistemo-
logical stances; how the pragmatics of discourse structure and discourse context
come to aﬀect not only the epistemological stance adopted but also the linguis-
tic strategy chosen to reﬂect that stance.
Of particular interest to this study are questions about the factors which
motivate both the consistent adoption of a reportive epistemological stance in
a narrative retelling context and the linguistic strategies chosen to reﬂect that
epistemological stance: how universal or language/culture speciﬁc are these
choices? How do they relate to the grammatical status of reportiveness in each
of the languages? What do these results tell us about the relationship between
pragmatics and grammar? What do these results tell us about the adoption of
epistemological stance?
6.1 The reportive density index
The range of reportive strategies identiﬁed in Chapter 5 as available to speakers
of all three languages of investigation, shows that retellers made use of both
narrative and extranarrative strategies to indicate their commitment to retelling
the story as a report of somebody else’s experience, known from hearing the
story told by someone else. The extranarrative strategies of reportive framing
and evidential reported speech were relatively similar across all three languages.
Narrative strategies diﬀered more noticeably as they varied according to the
grammatical status of the reportive forms.
The classiﬁcation of reportive strategies into diﬀerent types, narrative and
extranarrative, gives us part of the picture of what it means to reﬂect the
adoption of a reportive epistemological stance towards a retold narrative.
Analysis of the frequency and distribution of these strategies constitutes the
136 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
next stage of the investigation. The results of this analysis provide evidence not
only for patterns of epistemological stance adoption by retellers in three
languages, but also the pragmatic status of the diﬀerent linguistic strategies used
to express that epistemological stance.
The observation that retellers speaking three diﬀerent languages choose
from a range of reportive strategies is taken as evidence that epistemological
stances are conceptual structures whose linguistic manifestation is dependent
on the balance between numerous pragmatic and structural factors. The data
did show that the existence of a more fully grammaticalised system resulted in
a more consistent and frequent coding of a reportive epistemological stance in
retelling. However this did not mean that retellers were locked into using the
grammaticalised forms to the exclusion of other evidential strategies, nor did it
mean that they only represented narrative information from a reportive episte-
mological stance. Thus an analysis of evidential coding as the direct mapping of
assessment of knowledge acquisition and knowledge status onto linguistic
structure is not supported by the data, even in languages like Macedonian
which have a fully grammaticalised system for representing a reportive episte-
mological stance.
A casual glance at the retelling texts in all three languages is enough to
observe that there was signiﬁcant variation in not only the types of reportive
strategies adopted (from speaker to speaker, language to language), but also in
the frequency of reportive coding throughout each retelling. Explanations for
the variation in amount of reportive coding range from structural restrictions
(the number of narrative clauses over which evidential strategies have ‘scope’)
to discourse factors (shifts in narrative perspective aﬀecting the representation
of epistemological stances) to other pragmatic factors (e.g. retellers’ assessment
of their role as a reteller aﬀecting their epistemological stance towards the story).
Before it was possible to investigate the variation in frequency, distribution
and type of reportive strategy in retelling more rigorously, it was necessary to
have ways to measure the amount of each retelling that was explicitly expressed
as reportive that can be applied equally and consistently for Macedonian,
Japanese and English retellings. With this end in mind, a ‘reportive density
index’ was calculated for each retelling text in each language that represents the
rate of reportive coding per narrative clause.
A reportive density index of 1.00 means that every narrative clause in the
retelling was under the scope of some reportive marker. A higher reportive
density index thus corresponds to a large amount of narrative information that
was directly under the scope of a reportive marker, and therefore represented
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 137
from a reportive epistemological stance. A lower reportive density index
corresponds to a small amount of narrative information that was represented
from a reportive epistemological stance.
The calculation of evidential density in retelling applies exclusively to
narrative clauses, since they represent information acquired from the previous
storyteller and not from the reteller’s personal experience of events in the story
world. Extranarrative clauses may refer to the current or previous act of
narration and the current teller’s experience of hearing the previous story or
telling her current version of the story. Extranarrative clauses do not in them-
selves refer to events and situations in the storyworld represented by the
storyteller and told to her by the previous teller and therefore do not contain
information that is expected to be expressed from a reportive epistemological
stance.
Similarly, clauses that directly represented the content of characters’ speech
and thought in the narrative were also excluded from the calculation of repor-
tive density. Although content clauses do represent information that is
deictically centred within the storyworld, and therefore are part of the narrative,
the information is presented entirely from the speaking/thinking character’s
perspective. It therefore assumes the epistemological stance of that character, so
that if there is evidence that a reportive epistemological stance has been
adopted, it must be interpreted as an aspect of the speaking character’s subjec-
tivity, and not the current teller.
6.1.1 Scope of narrative reportive strategies
Calculations of ‘scope’ for each evidential strategy varied according to the
discourse and syntactic properties of the diﬀerent types of reportive identiﬁed
for each language. Lexical reportive strategies (e.g. Japanese rashii and English
adverbials evidently and apparently) had scope only over the narrative clause in
which they occurred, as in (1) and (2).
(1) de mitsuketa no ga Ikuko-chan to Natsumoto-kun
and ﬁnd-p nom subj Ikuko and Natsumoto
de umaku ita rashii no ne
and well-prog-p seem nom ip
And ﬁnally she found Ikuko and Natsumoto and apparently the ﬁlm
went well. (JFSa1)
138 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
(2) so she sends the husband in
he’s looking around
and he notices that the cat’s one the stove
and apparently the cat never gets on the stove
so he goes over to the cat and he looks in the pot (EMSa1)
Similarly, Macedonian L-forms were also calculated as having scope only over
the clause in which they occurred. Prior or subsequent narrative clauses
required independent reportive marking if they were to be interpreted as coding
the adoption of a reportive epistemological stance, as in (3).
(3) Bila nekoja nevesta mlada. Mesila leb. Svekrvata
be:l some bride young knead:l bread M-in-law:def
poshla na pazar
go:l loc market
There was a young bride. She had baked some bread. The mother-in-law
had gone to market. (MBSc2)
The scope of Japanese sentence ﬁnal particle tte, identiﬁed as a partially
grammaticalised narrative reportive strategy, was complicated by some facts of
Japanese syntax. Spoken Japanese narrative discourse rarely consists of single
independent ﬁnite clausal units. Japanese has many methods of linking of
clauses in discourse. Some of these are illustrated in the passage in (4).
(4) a. de “Red Roof Inn” ni saishoo tsuretette moratta-n
and “Red Roof Inn loc ﬁrst take-prog-con receive-p-nom
da kedo
cop but
b. zenzen Burger King mo nanimo nai shi
not.at.all ‘Burger King’ also nothing neg and
c. de “koko ja nai” toka itte X san ga ittara
and “here cop-neg like say-con X subj say-cond
d. de “koko ja nai aah ja nai koko ja nai” toka itte
and “here cop-neg cop-neg here cop-neg like say-con
e. de kekkyoku sono ‘police’ no hito mo okori dashichatte
and ﬁnally that police gen person also angry show-pp-con
f. nanka irairashatte
something be.annoyed-con
g. de tonikaku “Red Roof Inn” de oro-sare-ta no ka na.
and anyway “Red Roof Inn inst put.down-caus-p nom ip ip
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 139
(a) And she got a ride to “Red Roof Inn” ﬁrst but (b) there was no
Burger King and.(c) so X said like, “This is not the place, not the place.”,
(d) she said “This is not the place.” and (e) eventually the policeman
started to get angry, and (f) he was irritated (g) And anyway I think she
was dropped oﬀ. (JLBa1)
The forms in boldface in (4), free forms and suﬃxes, illustrate several diﬀerent
kinds of Japanese connective that combine this sequence of main clauses into a
multi-clausal syntactic unit. The verbs in (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) have conjunc-
tive connective suﬃxes. (a) ends with a disjunctive connective particle kedo
‘but’. (a), (c), (d), (e) and (g) all begin with a narrative connective de ‘and then’
that emphasises the continuation of the narrative temporal sequence. (g) ends
with a sequence of non-connective sentence-ﬁnal particles (no ka na) that
signals the completion of the connected sequence.
Japanese has long been described as a ‘clause chaining’ language, where
clauses are morphologically linked and only the ﬁnal verb in the chain is
marked with ﬁnite tense aspect morphology. Main verbs within a clause chain
typically occur with the connective suﬃxes -te, -tara, -tari or -to, and a few
other suﬃxes (Kuno 1973; Watanabe 1994; Myhill & Hibiya 1988; Iwasaki 1993;
Hasegawa 1996). Of these connective suﬃxes -te and -tara are most common
means of clause combining in narrative. They have been often described in
terms of switch reference — -te indicates that the subject of the current clause
continues from the previous clause while -tara marks a change in subject from
the previous clause.
The types of connections marked with verbal suﬃxes like -te and -tara form
easily deﬁnable clause chains which end when a tensed verb form is reached.
Connective particles like shi and kedo have slightly diﬀerent clause linking
properties. Both forms follow a plain (present) form of the verb. Furthermore,
kedo typically followed the modal predicate -n da construction — a form which
is typically associated with utterance ﬁnality (Iwasaki 1985).
Shi was rarely used in my corpus. However kedo occurred frequently and its
particular morphosyntactic and pragmatic properties are worth considering in
more detail. Kedo ‘but’ is itself typically analysed as a sentence ﬁnal particle. Its
primary meaning is as a logical connector. In (a), kedo codes the logical connec-
tion between the proposition that the character got a ride to the motel “Red
Roof Inn” ﬁrst and the proposition that there was no Burger King there. The
connection between these two propositions is signiﬁcant to the narrative because
the character was expecting to be taken to a Burger King situated near a motel.
Most instances of kedo in the narrative retellings were as logical connectors
140 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
of narrative information. (5) and (6) further illustrate the function of kedo as a
narrative connective.
(5) sore de ironna toko ni goken gurai denwa.shita-n da kedo
that and various place loc ﬁve about telephone-p-nom cop but
soo.yuu “special”.yoogo tte yuu ka tokubetsu na muzukashii
special words rsp say or special part diﬃcult
eigo de shaberarette
English loc talk-pass-con
So she called about ﬁve diﬀerent places, but she was talked to in some-
thing like ‘special words’, in very special, diﬃcult English. (JCRc1)
(6) soshitara ichidai takushii ga atta-n da kedo
then one taxi subj be.located-p-nom cop but
hoka no hito ga tottechatte…
another gen person subj take-pp-con
Then there was one taxi, but someone else took it… (JLBb1)
Kedo may also occur at the ends of utterances with the implication that more
information follows, but that such information is left unsaid. This is the ‘non-
logical’, ‘suspended clause’, or ‘hedging’ function of kedo described by Ohta
(1991), Ohori (1995) and Itani (1996), illustrated in (7).
(7) Udookai-tte.ie.ba watashi are o omoidashimasu kedo ne
athletic.meet-top I that obj recall ip
‘Athletic meet? I recall that (incident) [impl. there is more to tell]
(from Ohori 1995:208)
Ohori (1995) discusses a range of clause linking forms in Japanese which may
be suspended as the ﬁnal element in an utterance. Some of these ‘suspended’
forms are reduced idioms. He analyses suspended kedo as meaning “Though X,
that’s not the whole story”, implying that the speaker has omitted some relevant
information. The ‘suspended’ function of kedo is mainly associated with conversa-
tional language. Suspended kedo did occur in the retelling corpus, typically to code
some kind of extranarrative ‘aside’. (8) is an example from the retelling corpus.
(8) n.de toriaezu sagashite mo nai kara~~ nanka
and anyway look.for-con also neg conj
soko ga sa~ noosu no chikaku no “Red Roof Inn” tte
there subj North gen near gen Red Roof Inn rsp
shitteru
know-prog
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 141
And anyway they were looking for (the motel) but there was no (motel)
like~ the hotel was~ Do you know “Red Roof Inn” near North Campus?
B: shiranai
know-neg
I don’t know [it].
A: shiranai nanka “Mariott” no ura no hen ni aru-n
know-neg Marriott gen back gen place loc be.located-nom
da kedo nanka ja soko ni itte tomete moratte
cop but excl there loc go-con stop-con receive-con
kikoo tte yuu-n da tte
ask-cj rsp say-nom cop rsp
You don’t know. It’s at the back of the Marriott. He told her to stop at
[Red Roof Inn] and ask, apparently. (JLBb1)
In (8), the reteller interrupts her telling of the story to explain to her current
audience the location of a particular motel. Although the identity of the motel
was mentioned in the original story she heard, the location was not discussed.
This knowledge comes from the current teller’s own familiarity with the motel
and its location. Her explanation of the location is marked with kedo. However
immediately following kedo, she returns to the narrative (marked with reportive
tte). There is no logical connection between the extranarrative explanation of
the location of the motel, and the continuation of the narrative time line.
Only instances of kedo that clearly linked narrative clauses (illustrated in (5)
and (6) above) were counted as connectors in a narrative clause chain. Examples
of kedo which were not followed by some logical counterpart in the corpus
(even if such a counterpart were inferable) were counted as sentence ﬁnal
forms. The identiﬁcation of sentence-ﬁnal kedo forms based on the semantics
of the preceding and following sentences was also generally supported by
intonational evidence. Connected kedo sentences often were not followed by a
pause and had intonation contours which were indistinguishable from other
connected forms. Sentence-ﬁnal kedo was usually followed by a pause and had
intonation contours that were distinct from those found in connected clauses.
As extranarrative clauses, suspended kedo clauses typically represented the
personal evaluation of the current teller and were not expected to occur with
reportive coding.
As a connective particle, kedo clearly has a diﬀerent syntactic status than
canonical narrative connective suﬃxes like -te and -tara. For example, kedo
often co-occurs with the ‘extended predicate’ construction -n da, while -te and
-tara cannot occur following -n da. Both connector kedo and sentence-ﬁnal tte
142 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
tended to cooccur with -n da. Although this coocurrence makes kedo look
more like a ﬁnal form, the evidence from intonation, semantics and from the
fact that other connectives (e.g. kara, shi) can follow -n da is enough to
preserve the analysis of kedo as a connective. From a pragmatic perspective
however, both types clearly signal some continuation of the unfolding narra-
tive. In both cases, the audience senses that the chain of narration is not
complete, that the speaker is not at the ‘end’ of her utterance. Only clauses
ending in non-connective sentence ﬁnal particles (ne, yo, sa, wa, ka na, and
tte), or a total absence of particles and a ﬁnite verb were analysed as endpoints
to some narrative chain sequence.
Sincesentence-ﬁnalttebydeﬁnitioncanonlyoccurattheendofaclausechain
sequence, it is claimed that tte has pragmatic scope over an entire clause chain and
not just over the single clause directly preceding it. All clauses in a chain that
ended in reportive tte are therefore counted as under the scope of the particle.
For example, in (9) below, clauses (a), (b) and (c) are all analysed as pragmati-
cally under the scope of tte in (c). Clauses (d) and (e) are both pragmatically
under the scope of tte in (e). The scope is ‘pragmatic’, rather than syntactic or
semantic, because sentence-ﬁnal reportive tte does not directly eﬀect the syntax
of the clauses under its scope. The use of reportive tte directs the audience to
interpret all clauses in the chain as a report of someone else’s utterance.
(9) a. de ma jibun ni mairu no kankaku ga nakute
and excl self loc miles gen sense subj neg-con
b. kiromeetoru no kankaku de sugoi chikai na
kilometres gen sense inst very near part
c. tte omotta-n da tte
rsp think-p-nom cop rsp
d. sore de mo “suitcase” futatsu motte
that and also suitcase two hold-con
e. koo aruki hajime-ta-n da tte
this walk begin-p-nom cop rsp
(a) “I have no sense of miles” and (b) it [the motel] was very close on the
kilometre scale, she thought, apparently. (d) Anyway, despite everything,
carrying two suitcases, (e) she started walking, apparently.
6.1.2 Scope of extranarrative evidential strategies
Calculation of reportive density for extranarrative reportive strategies (i.e.
evidential reported speech and reportive framing) is more complicated than the
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 143
calculations of reportive density for narrative reportive strategies. Since
extranarrative evidential strategies are deictically centred outside of the story
world, and may not even be syntactically linked to narrative clauses, it is more
diﬃcult to established ﬁxed means of measuring the number of narrative clauses
over which extranarrative evidential coding has scope. The method used in this
study is at least consistent for the three languages under investigation here.
Narrative information that was represented as the speech of the previous
teller was analysed as under the scope of evidential reported speech. The
framing clauses of evidential reported speech (direct or indirect) were not
counted in the calculation of reportive evidential density, since they themselves
were extranarrative clauses. However, the narrative clauses embedded under
these framing clauses were counted as representing information from a report-
ive epistemological stance. In the case of evidential direct speech, the represen-
tation of reportiveness also corresponded with a shift in deictic centre from the
time and place of the retelling (representing the ‘voice’ of the reteller) to the
time and place of the original telling (representing the ‘voice’ of the original
teller). This allowed for a relatively easy calculation of narrative clauses which
fell under the scope of the reportive framing clause.
In contrast with evidential direct speech, narrative clauses embedded under
evidential indirect speech frames maintained the deictic centre of the here and
now of the retelling (i.e. they did not represent the ‘voice’ of the original teller).
The scope of reportiveness was therefore less clearly marked beyond the
narrative clause syntactically embedded within it. This study therefore took a
conservative approach to the analysis of the scope of evidential indirect speech
and only counted clauses that were syntactically subordinate to the main
framing clause of indirect speech.
The English passage in (10) begins with narrative clauses which are not
marked with any evidential coding. The extranarrative framing clause in (c)
codes the following subordinate clause that the cat never used to do that as the
gist of what the original teller said. There is no clear linguistic evidence that the
subsequent narrative clauses ((e)–(g)) are also representations of the gist of
what the original teller said so only (d) was analysed as being under the scope of
the reportive framing clause. In fact, there is some evidence that the reteller has
shifted her deictic centre back from representing what the original teller had
said to the here and now of her own retelling in the use of right directly after
the indirect speech passage. The reteller uses right here to check that her
audience is following the story. The analysis of reportive evidential indirect
144 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
speech is similar to that given to Japanese sentence ﬁnal tte, where the reportive
scope of tte was calculated on the basis of syntactic evidence.
(10) a. and and when the father went into the kitchen
b. he saw the cat on top of the stove
c. and she[previous teller] said
d. that the cat never used to do that
right
e. when the father saw that
he~
you know
f. he shushed it away
g. and ﬁgured that the cat was trying to get some meat
right (EMSd1)
Reportive framing, the other extranarrative reportive evidential strategy
described in the previous chapter, functions to contextualise the narrative as a
retelling. It signals the reteller’s commitment to retelling the story that they
heard as a product of what the previous teller said, and not as a product of their
own creative retelling process. It signals the reteller’s intention to adopt a
reportive epistemological stance towards the story they tell, setting up a context
where narrative information is expected to be consistently coded as reportive.
(11) a. zhenava shto zborva ne e prikaska
woman:def what tell:3sg neg be:3sg story
ami e zhiva vistina
but be:3sg live truth
b. koga bila mlada nevesta
when be:l young bride
c. svekrva mu rekla da mesat leb
mother-in-law 3dat say:l to knead:3pl bread
What this woman is telling is not a story but the living truth. When
she was a young bride her mother-in-law told her to bake bread.
(MBSd1)
The passage in (11) is a canonical example of the role of reportive framing in
setting up the shift to a reportive epistemological stance once the narrative has
begun. The reteller begins her account at (a) with the contextualisation of the
story as what the original teller was relating, and that the story was a true
account. Both pieces of information contribute to the establishment of the
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 145
reteller’s intention to report as accurately as possible what she heard and not to
invent her own version of the story. The subsequent narrative clauses are then
marked with L-form past tense to signal that the reteller has in fact adopted a
reportive epistemological stance towards the narrative information.
It seems then that reportive framing functions similarly to the framing
clauses of evidential reportive speech in signalling a shift from the extranar-
rative epistemological stance of the reteller’s own experience as a reteller to the
epistemological stance adopted towards narrative information. In evidential
direct speech, the shift was signalled by a total deictic shift to the original telling.
In evidential indirect speech, the shift was signalled by syntactic embedding. In
reportive framing, the shift is signalled by consistent use of narrative reportive
evidential strategies. Since narrative information introduced by a reportive
frame is expected to be doubly marked as reportive, the presence or absence of
a reportive frame at the beginning of a retelling was not factored into the
calculation of reportive density.
6.1.3 Reportive densities
The following tables present the numbers of reportive epistemological stance
markers and reportive density index for each language.
The results do show considerable individual variation in both the choice of
reportive strategies and in the amount of narrative information that fell under
the scope of a reportive device. Even taking individual variation into account,
some interesting generalisations can be made about patterns of epistemological
stance adoption in each language. Macedonian and Japanese showed a similar
rate of reportive evidential coding — about half of narrative clauses over the
whole retelling corpus fell under the scope of some marker of reportiveness.
The overall reportive evidential density index for English retelling was far lower
than both Macedonian and Japanese.
At least one retelling text in each language had a reportive evidential density
index between 0.00 and 0.10, suggesting that for those texts, the reteller did not
adopt a reportive epistemological stance towards the narrative information,
even though they were actively engaged in retelling someone else’s story. This
pattern was clearly the exception rather than the rule for Macedonian and
Japanese speakers. For English speakers, consistent coding of narrative informa-
tion as reportive was the exception.
No retelling text had a reportive evidential density index of 1.00 (although
two of the Macedonian texts came close to this number), indicating that even
146 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
in cases where the reteller had been careful to maintain an explicit link with her
Table 6.1Macedonian reportive density
Text Narrative
clauses
L-form Scope Extranarr.
frame
Scope Total Density
MBSa1
MBSa2
MBSb1
MBSb2
MBSc1
MBSc2
MBSd1
MBSd2
MZS1
MZS2
MNC1
MNC2
37
35
31
48
34
28
28
46
37
19
33
22
7
13
15
20
7
16
3
15
20
13
10
–
7
13
15
20
7
16
3
15
20
13
10
–
–
–
–
–
9
–
7
–
–
–
2
1
–
–
–
–
25
–
24
–
–
–
7
1
7
13
15
20
32
16
27
15
20
13
17
1
0.19
0.37
0.48
0.42
0.94
0.57
0.96
0.33
0.54
0.68
0.52
0.05
Total 398 139 139 19 57 196 0.49
Table 6.2Japanese reportive density
Text Narrative
clauses
tte/soo Scope rashii Scope Ext.
frame
Scope Total
JCRa1
JCRa2
JCRb1
JCRb2
JCRc1
JCRc2
JCRd2
JFSa1
JFSa2
JFSb1
JLBa1
JLBa2
JLBb1
19
12
38
18
35
51
32
27
29
54
83
41
165
–
1
1
–
–
14
2
3
3
8
4
5
35
–
2
9
–
–
39
6
3
3
23
10
16
99
–
–
–
–
3
2
–
5
1
3
–
4
10
–
–
–
–
3
2
-
5
1
3
–
4
10
4
4
6
–
3
–
2
–
1
2
2
–
–
15
4
17
–
8
–
2
6
4
25
–
–
15
6
26
–
11
41
8
8
10
30
35
20
109
0.78
0.50
0.70
0.00
0.31
0.80
0.25
0.29
0.34
0.55
0.42
0.49
0.66
Total 600 74 210 28 28 25 81 319 0.53
source of the story, there were circumstances in the process of story reconstruc-
tion which motivated a movement away from coding information explicitly as
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 147
the product of someone else’s’ speech. In most cases, the reportive evidential
Table 6.3English reportive density
Text Narrative
clauses
Adverbial Scope Ext. frame Scope Total Density
EMSa1
EMSa2
EMSb1
EMSb2
EMSc1
EMSd1
EBS1
EBS2
EGS1
EGS2
68
74
61
45
71
61
95
74
60
43
2
3
–
–
–
–
1
2
–
–
2
3
–
–
–
–
1
2
–
–
–
–
–
1
–
6
1
–
2
3
–
–
–
1
–
15
12
–
3
5
2
3
–
1
–
15
13
2
3
5
0.03
0.04
0.00
0.02
0.00
0.25
0.14
0.03
0.05
0.12
Total 652 8 8 13 36 44 0.07
density index was much lower, reinforcing the analysis that there are discourse
pressures at play which interfered with consistent epistemological stance adoption
in narrative retelling. This issue will be taken up in detail in the next chapter.
The calculation of reportive evidential density in the retelling corpus
indicates that Macedonian and Japanese retellers engaged in very similar
patterns of reportive strategies. Retellers of both languages made use of narra-
tive and extranarrative reportive strategies but in both cases there was a
preference for narrative reportive strategies over extranarrative reportive
strategies: 71% of Macedonian narrative clauses under the scope of a reportive
device were under the scope of reportive L-form past verb inﬂections; 66% of
Japanese narrative clauses under the scope of a reportive device were under the
scope of the reportive sentence-ﬁnal tte. All but one of the Macedonian
retellings made some use of L-forms while 10 of the 13 Japanese retellings made
some use of sentence-ﬁnal tte. These results were in marked contrast with the
use of reportive strategies found in the English retelling corpus where grammat-
ical reportive evidential strategies were absent and the reportive coding that was
adopted was of a very low density in all retellings.
The high density of the L-form past in the Macedonian retelling corpus is
related to its grammatical properties as an inﬂectional category. One of the
properties of fully grammaticalised linguistic phenomena is that they are
predicted to occur whenever their semantic and syntactic criteria are met (=
‘hyperextended use’). The Macedonian L-form was classiﬁed as a grammaticalised
148 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
‘indirect’ evidential marker (in Willett’s (1988) sense) partially because speakers
of Macedonian intuitively feel that a sentence which expresses a past time
proposition (e.g. she baked the bread) which was not directly witnessed or
experienced by the speaker requires an L-form inﬂection on the verb. In the
context of narrative retelling, the L-form is expected to occur in all narrative
clauses as the required means of coding past time events as reportive. The high
frequency of L-forms throughout the Macedonian retelling corpus is, in this
sense, unsurprising.
The same cannot be said for the Japanese sentence ﬁnal particle tte.
Although it was also analysed as relatively grammaticalised, according to the
criteria for grammatical status outlined in Chapter 2, Japanese sentence ﬁnal tte
and L-form past tense have very diﬀerent grammatical statuses with respect to
their properties as a reportive marker.
Recall that the Macedonian L-form historically derives from the Old Slavic
perfect tense form which has shifted meaning over time to encode resulting
states of events, thence inferences about the events based on that resulting state
and ﬁnally, to encode the more general meaning that the resulting state
describes an event of which the speaker did not have personal experience. But
the L-form is conventionally associated with hearsay contexts, and represents a
reportive epistemological stance in addition to its original ‘inferential’ meaning.
It is because of its origins as a perfect marker that the L-form is still grammati-
cally part of the obligatory verb inﬂection paradigm of Macedonian, coding past
tense in addition to its evidential meanings.
In contrast, Japanese sentence ﬁnal tte also functions as a complementiser
linking reported speech to its speech act verb in contemporary ‘informal’
spoken Japanese. Its status as a grammatical marker of reportive evidentiality is
clearly derived from its properties as a marker of reported speech (as outlined
in Section 5.3.2). Synchronically, sentence ﬁnal tte has syntactic and semantic
properties of a grammatical form: membership of a closed class; highly restrict-
ive morphosyntax; ‘bleached’ semantics. However, unlike Macedonian L-form,
sentence ﬁnal tte does not constitute part of an obligatory grammatical category
in Japanese.
So while it can be claimed that Japanese has grammaticalised means of
expressing a reportive epistemological stance, it is diﬃcult to argue that the
semantic ﬁeld of evidentiality is distinguished as a grammatical category in
Japanese (or at least is a dimension of meaning within an obligatory and
paradigmatic category in that language). To this extent, the evidential ‘system’
of Japanese resembles that of English, which also displays a wide range of
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 149
strategies by which speakers may express diﬀerent epistemological stances, but
which lacks a paradigmatic obligatory grammatical category that encodes
evidential meanings. However, the gulf of diﬀerence in reportive density
between Japanese and English in this retelling context indicates that speakers of
these languages were making diﬀerent assessments concerning the appropriate-
ness of their linguistic strategies for expressing epistemological stances.
The grammatical status of the Macedonian L-form can be used to explain its
relatively high density index, since speakers must make a commitment to a
particular epistemological stance whenever past tense is required. Theoretically,
the L-form is the unmarked verb inﬂection in narrative retelling since it is the
unmarkednarrativetense,anditisthedefaultevidentialcategoryforinformation
not witnessed or ‘vouched for’ by the speaker. However, this analysis does not
explain why Macedonian speakers made use of other reportive strategies,
notably the extranarrative strategy of evidential reported speech, as alternatives
to the unmarked L-form strategy, nor does it explain why half of the narrative
clauses in the corpus were not under the scope of any evidential marker, despite
the fact that evidential meanings are built into the grammar of that language.
In addition, the grammatical status of evidential forms cannot be used at all
as an explanation for the clear preference for sentence ﬁnal tte in the Japanese
retelling corpus over the other identiﬁed reportive strategies (i.e. the reportive
inferential predicate rashii and extranarrative evidential reported speech) since
the grammar of Japanese does not force speakers into selecting sentence ﬁnal tte
whenever its syntactic and semantic properties are met.
The sporadic uses of reportive coding in the English retellings must also be
accounted for. In the context of this three-language corpus we must ask why
speakers of English fail to consistently mark their retellings as the product of
someone else’s storytelling. For explanations of these patterns of language use,
we must look closer at the pragmatics of reportiveness.
6.2 The pragmatics of reportiveness
Explanations for the overall relative high density of reportive evidential strat-
egies in Japanese and Macedonian, the preference for more grammaticalised
evidential strategies over other strategies, and the relative low density of
reportive evidential coding in the English corpus, extend beyond simply
understanding the formal and semantic properties of the individual forms. They
are to be found in the pragmatics of the retelling context — the textual and
150 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
extralinguistic factors which motivate speakers to select particular linguistic
strategies to construct a coherent text which best expresses their intentions in
the communicative context.
The pragmatic analysis of reportiveness developed in this work focuses on
two important aspects of the communicative context as primary factors which
motivate the adoption of a reportive epistemological stance, and the choice of
linguistic strategy once that epistemological stance has been adopted.
a. the cultural imperatives that guide speakers to make particular linguistic
choices based on what is socially and culturally appropriate.
b. the coherence imperatives that motivate retellers to reconstruct a compre-
hensible and ‘listenable’ story, and to represent the narrative information in
a way that reﬂects a felicitous epistemological interpretation of the story.
The ﬁrst of these factors is about the ability of speakers within their own speech
community to know what is an appropriate epistemological stance to adopt in
diﬀerent contexts, and to accurately judge the eﬀects that the adoption of that
epistemological stance will have on the audience’s interpretation of the text.
The nature and role of this type of knowledge, and its eﬀects on the adoption of
reportive epistemological stance in Japanese, Macedonian and English is
explored in Section 6.2.1 below.
The ‘coherence’ factor takes into account the fact that the production of
narrative retellings is constrained by cognitive processes associated with
discourse production in general, and narrative production in particular. The
results from this retellings study indicate that is these pressures which have the
most eﬀect on the particular linguistic strategy chosen to express epistemologi-
cal stance. For example, coherence factors are taken to be a primary motivator
behind the choice between narrative and extranarrative strategies for expressing
a reportive epistemological stance.
Unlike cultural imperatives, discourse coherence pressures are assumed to
be constant across the three languages, since they involve constraints of human
cognition rather than constraints relative to cultural or individual experience.
The discourse pragmatic factors which lie behind choice of reportive strategy
will be discussed in Section 6.2.2.
6.2.1 Motivations for the adoption of a reportive epistemological stance
in retelling
Analyses of the socio-cultural pragmatics of evidentiality have often associated
evidential use with the expression of speaker authority (e.g. DuBois 1986; Hill
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 151
& Irvine 1992). The patterns of epistemological stance adoption in narrative
retellings can also be explained in terms of the kinds of authority retellers
assume over the story they must reconstruct.
In general, our judgment of the veracity of information lies in our belief
that people indicate their degree of authority over what they talk about. In this
context, epistemological stance selection becomes a powerful tool for speakers
to represent their assessment of their authority over information, subsequently
inﬂuencing how hearers will construct their own epistemological assessment of
the information (the degree to which they accept the validity of the utterance
and the degree to which they may then assume authority over the information
when they repeat it to someone else).
The relationship between type of epistemological stance and the degree of
authority reﬂected in the adoption of that epistemological stance is
hypothesised to be reasonably stable across languages. This relationship was
discussed in Chapter 3 in terms of the challengeability of information repre-
sented from diﬀerent epistemological stances. There is an inverse relationship
between the degree of authority and the degree of challengeability of informa-
tion. For example, it is assumed that the greatest amount of authority, and the
lowest degree of challengeability is granted to information expressed from a
personal experience epistemological stance. That is, the best way to represent
information as both ‘authoritative’ and ‘unchallengeable’ is to express it as a
product of one’s own experience.
Adoption of a reportive epistemological stance is associated with less of a
degree of authority on the part of the speaker than information represented
from a personal experience epistemological stance since the adoption of a
reportive epistemological stance makes a positive claim that the information
derives from someone else (not the current speaker). In fact, adoption of a
reportive epistemological stance may be used as a means for speakers to avoid
assessing the degree of their authority over information since the information
derives from the speech act (and therefore the epistemological assessment) of
the original (reported) speaker. Assessment of the validity of such information
by hearers must be made on the basis of the hearer’s knowledge of the informa-
tion source (the original speaker) and the extent to the original source can be
considered an authority with respect to the information. In the context of the
retelling of someone else’s personal experience, authority for the story lies
squarely with the original teller (who directly experienced the events), and not
with the current reteller, when a reportive epistemological stance is adopted.
While the relationships between type of epistemological stance and type of
152 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
authority are assumed to be relatively consistent across cultures, it is expected
that there will be signiﬁcant diﬀerences from speech community to speech
community in the contexts that adoption of particular epistemological stances
are appropriate. Some of these diﬀerences are apparent from the results of the
retelling study, and are considered in more detail below. The discussion focuses in
particularon theJapaneseand Englishdatasincefor neitherofthese languagescan
we claim that the motivation for adopting a reportive epistemological stance
derives from the grammatical structure of their language (cf. Macedonian).
This discussion of the socio-pragmatic factors in the adoption of epistemo-
logical stance in the speciﬁc context of retelling begins with the Japanese corpus
since there is a already a vast literature within the Japanese linguistics tradition
that describes the relationship between Japanese culture and Japanese language.
Despite the lack of a clear grammatical class of evidential forms, the formal,
semantic and pragmatics properties of evidentiality have been of great interest in
Japanese linguistics (e.g. Kuroda 1973; Akatsuka 1985; Aoki 1986; Ohta 1991;
Maynard 1992; Iwasaki 1993; Kamio 1998).20
The notion of speaker authority as a fundamental component in the
pragmatics of Japanese evidentiality has been explored in some detail in
Kamio’s (1979, 1994, 1995, 1998) theory of “Territory of Information”. The
notion of territory of information was developed in particular to explain the
felicity conditions which lie behind the appropriate uses of Japanese sentence
ﬁnal evidential forms (including sentence ﬁnal tte and rashii). The basis of
Kamio’s theory is that,
if a given piece of information … is equal or closer to the speaker/hearer than
a speciﬁed value n, it is considered to fall into the speaker’s and/or the hearer’s
territory to some degree(s). Depending on where it is located, a certain form of
utterance must be used to express it. (Kamio 1995:236)
For every utterance speakers must calculate in whose domain authority for the
information lies. Sentence structure, and in particular the choice of sentence
ﬁnal forms, is dependent on this calculation. For example, information which is in
the speaker’s territory of information, but not the hearer’s, is coded with a ‘direct
form’ of the predicate (typically a bare predicate). In (12), the bare adjective
conveys information about the speaker’s state of mind — her own loneliness —
something the hearer cannot have access to unless the speaker reveals it.
(12) Sabishii (bare adjective)
lonely
‘I am lonely’ (my private experience)
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 153
If the speaker wants to make a statement about someone else’s state of mind
(i.e. information that is in neither the speaker nor the hearer’s territory of
information), they must use an ‘indirect form’ that expresses some information
about how the speaker came to know something that is not in their territory of
information. The verbal derivation garu ‘shows signs of’ in (13) illustrates one
evidential strategy for talking about other people’s internal states by appealing
to some external evidence that allows the speaker to infer the subject’s internal
state. This ‘external evidence’ is often assumed to be visual, but it need not be.
(13) Kare wa sabishi-gatteiru (derived verb)
3sg top lonely-gar-sta:nonpast
‘He is lonely’ (observing signs of his being lonely.)
The nominal yoo and adjective rashii may also be used in this context. Speakers
can also use ‘reportive’ forms (the nominal soo or particle tte) to express that
information is in neither the speaker’s nor the hearer’s territory, but was
acquired from someone else’s utterance.21
Japanese speakers’ territory of information extends beyond the boundary of
their own internal thoughts, perceptions and emotions. Information which is
about people ‘close’ to the speaker (e.g. their children or spouses), their
professional expertise or geographic locations with which they are familiar also
fall into the domain of the speaker’s territory. For example, Kamio claims that
a sentence like (14), which conveys information about a third person’s internal
state but which lacks evidential marking, is appropriate if the speaker is Taroo’s
father or a psychiatrist making a professional diagnosis.
(14) Taroo wa sabishii desu
Taroo top lonely cop
‘Taroo is lonely.’
However there are contexts where neither of two speakers has direct experience
of the state of aﬀairs described in a utterance but only one of those speakers can
speak using a direct form. For example, the example in (15), which is a factual
statement about population growth, is felicitous for someone living close to the
area of Yaizu, but infelicitous for a person living in Tokyo, even if both read the
same newspaper to acquire the information.
(15) Yaizu no zinkoo wa zyuuman o koeta_/-yo/-n da
gen population top 100,000 obj exceed-p direct
‘The population of Yaizu has exceeded one hundred thousand.’
(from Kamio 1979:220)
154 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
Kamio (1979:222) claims that “the speaker’s territory is essentially of the
situational or ‘instantaneous’ nature”. The felicitous uses of sentences like (15)
are therefore a function of whether the information in the sentence is assessed
by speakers in a particular discourse context to fall within their territory, thereby
granting them the authority to speak of it without indirect evidential modiﬁca-
tion. The information in (15) is judged to be within the territory of someone
who lives close to Yaizu but not in the territory of someone who lives in Tokyo.
The assessment of particular utterances with regard to the speaker’s
territory of information is made by the speaker. However, in order to be seen as
appropriate they must follow the conventions of the speech community in
determining what counts as information within the speaker’s territory. Accord-
ing to Kamio, the Japanese speaker’s territory includes private experience, direct
perception, information given as the answer to a direct question, and informa-
tion that is felt to ‘belong’ to the speaker by virtue of their relative spatio-
temporal proximity.
The consistent deployment of reportive strategies in Japanese narrative
retelling is easily explained in terms of territory of information. The retellers in
this study were guided towards talking about information outside of their
territory, by virtue of being asked to retell someone else’s personal experience
story. The degree to which retellers adopted a reportive epistemological stance
is hypothesised to vary according to the relationship between the source of the
story, the reteller and the audience. In this study, all retellers were in relation-
ships which did not typically allow speakers to assume others’ territory of
information. The results might be diﬀerent if the reteller were a close relative of
the original storyteller however.
Japanese speakers are required by convention to explicitly code information
outside of their territory with some kind of ‘indirect’ (evidential) marking.
Japanese retellers are thus constrained by the general pragmatics principles of
information territory to adopt a non-experiential epistemological stance
towards information that they have not personally experienced. Among non-
experiential epistemological stances, the reportive epistemological stance is the
most appropriate to adopt in narrative retelling since it most accurately and
explicitly reﬂects the fact that the story is a retelling based on someone else’s
version — it represents information not only outside of the current reteller’s
territory but also places it within someone else’s territory of information (the
source of the story).
In contrast, the low reportive evidential density found in the English
retelling corpus suggests that English retellers were far less concerned than
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 155
Japanese retellers to represent the story as information ‘outside of their territory
of information’. (There are, of course, contexts in the English speaking world
which do require a careful delineation of information territories — legal
discourse, academic discourse, certain kinds of gossip.) This result was initially
surprising since retellers were clearly aware that they were someone else’s story.
This was evident in the use of an extranarrative explicit mention of the source
of the story at select moments in the retelling. (Only the teller of EMSb1 (and
subsequently the teller of EMSb2) totally avoided any reference to the original
teller as the source of information.)
In (16) and (17), the retellers resort to identiﬁcation of the source of the
story as a means of clarifying the relationships between the story characters.
They appear to be most concerned with the relationship of the original teller to
the other characters in the story. One possible motivation for this break in the
narrative is that at this point in the telling of the story, the character of the
mother is the most ‘active’ character, not the character of the daughter (=
original teller/experiencer). The explicit mention of the daughter-character as
the originator of the story is an indication of the retellers awareness of the
discrepancy between the most active character in the story (the mother) and the
source of the story (the daughter). The retellers appear to be avoiding a con-
fusion concerning who the story is about and who is the source of the story.
(16) as I recall it was a grandmother’s house and now there’s the mother
and the daughter I guess is the one telling the story…
but
okay
so you’ve got this mom
who’s in the kitchen
she’s making chicken soup (EMSa2)
(17) the mother went into the kitchen
put the soup into the refrigerator
then went back into the living room
with the husband and her daughter
the daughter’s telling the story
and they’d hear like a “plop” sound
“What’s that?” (EMSc1)
In both examples the reteller immediately resumed the telling of the story as a
story (vs. as a retelling) as if there had been no interruption. This is evidence
that these retellers were more committed to telling the story as a story and
156 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
resorted to a more reportive mode only when they had a compelling reason to
do so. Furthermore, retellers were faithful in their attempts to retell the story that
was told to them since they did not make up new episodes that were not in the
original, or directly inferable from the original story. So even though they were
clearly aware of their responsibilities as retellers, they were not very concerned
with representing the story as the product of someone else’s experience.
The low reportive evidential density in the English corpus suggests that
unlike the Japanese retelling context, these English retellers were not driven by
a socio-cultural imperative to consistently maintain a reportive epistemological
stance — one that would place the narrative information within someone else’s
territory of information and outside the current reteller’s information territory.
While a reportive epistemological stance was clearly evoked at local points in
most retellings, retellers were clearly unconcerned with consistent indexation of
the retelling to its source.
The lack of reportive coding in the English retelling corpus in fact suggests
that retellers were more concerned with representing the story as a story,
unconnected to any particular source, rather than explicitly as a retelling of
someone else’s story. Retellers were clearly concerned with reporting the story
that they had heard but were less concerned with attributing the information to
some previous teller. Their concern was to maintain their autonomy as the
teller of the story rather than as the conduit through which someone else’s story
could be expressed.
In fact, the evidence from the retelling corpus suggests that English retellers
were generally more committed to adopting an imaginative epistemological
stance towards the story (described in Section 3.2.5), where the source of
information is left unexpressed and the events of the story are presented as
products of the teller’s creative storytelling process. Recall that the imaginative
epistemological stance is expressed by a number of linguistic cues that combine
aspects of the perceptual/personal experience stance and the factual epistemo-
logical stance. Like personal experience epistemological stance, imaginative
stance uses ‘expressive’ language (e.g. language associated with represented
speech and thought). Adoption of an imaginative stance in narration allows the
storyteller to represent the experiences of any character in the storyworld. Like
the factual epistemological stance, adoption of an imaginative stance means that
the information is not deictically linked with any particular source, nor is it
represented as a conclusion based on evidence.
In contrast, a reportive epistemological stance is deictically linked to some
previous teller. The current teller is restricted to taking the perspective of that
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 157
previous teller/experiencer and cannot represent aspects of the story outside of
whattheprevious tellertoldher. Todoso wouldbea departurefromthe reportive
epistemological stance. Table 6.4 summarises the deictic diﬀerences between a
reportive epistemological stance and an imaginative epistemological stance.
The passages in (18) and (19) illustrate the adoption of an imaginative epi-
Table 6.4Deictic properties of reportive and imaginative epistemological stances
Epistemological
stance
Represented source
(evidential coding)
Deictic centre Perspective
shifts?
Knowledge
limitations?
Reportive
Imaginative
Original teller
Unspeciﬁed
Original teller
Variable
No
Yes
Yes
No
‘Deictic centre’ = Who is the conceptualiser?
‘ Knowledge limitations’ = Is the conceptualise omniscient?
stemological stance in retelling. In both passages, all of the information was
explicit or inferable in the previous (original) version of the story yet in neither
example is there any evidence that the story is a retelling. Evidence that an
imaginative epistemological stance has been adopted include: the representation
of characters’ cognitive and perceptual processes through psychonarration (e.g.
she decided X, she starts to hear X); use of present and present progressive forms
(e.g. she walks through the hallway, she’s too scared…); use of ‘expressive’
language (e.g. repetition — she’s waiting waiting waiting, she starts to hear this
‘plop plop plop’ sound).
(18) well X decided that she had to go to the bathroom then
and you know
she decided she could hold it until the next bathroom time
which was about another half hour or so
so she’s waiting waiting waiting
and she really has to go to the bathroom
but she’s too scared to ask Sister Kathy
because Sister Kathy’s really strict (EGS1)
(19) she goes into the kitchen
and after a little while she starts to hear this
*plop plop plop* sound
and she thinks maybe a faucet’s dripping
so she goes back and um
158 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
into the kitchen
she walks through the hallway
gets there
and she checks the faucet
and it’s not dripping
so she’s like
okay (EMSc1)
Adoption of an imaginative epistemological stance towards a story about
someone else’s personal experience, acquired from hearing it second-hand or
third-hand, indicates that English speakers are able to assume authority over
narrative information by virtue of being the storyteller, regardless of the origin
of that information, without apparently violating any cultural conventions. This
is the fundamental diﬀerence between Japanese and English retellers which
results in a high density of reportive evidentiality in the Japanese corpus and a
low density of reportive evidentiality in the English corpus.
Some retellers who primarily adopted an imaginative epistemological stance
in retelling did in fact use reportive coding at certain points in the narrative.
These ‘lapses’ from the ‘default’ imaginative storytelling mode to a more
reportive style are symptomatic of the fact that no matter how much the teller
was trying to tell her own version of the story, she could not escape from the
fact that she only knew what she was talking about from what someone else had
told her. In other words, there were times when she had to ‘own up’ to not
being the original source of the story.
The passages in (16) and (17) above illustrate one context where the teller
was forced to reveal the source of the story in order to avoid a potential con-
fusion concerning who the story was about (the mother or the daughter).
However there were some other contexts where speakers who had primarily
adopted an imaginative epistemological stance towards the narrative informa-
tion assumed a more reportive epistemological stance for rhetorical purposes.
These are illustrated in (20) and (21) below.
(20) and and I guess it’s an old house that~
evidently it must have been handed down from generation
coz~
as I recall it it was a grandmother’s house and now there’s
the mother
and the daughter I guess is the one telling the story (EMSa2)
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 159
In (20) the teller was still trying to reconstruct the relationship between the
house and the people who lived in it from the version of the story she was told
(which was not the original version but a ﬁrst generation retelling). She
modiﬁed the information that it was the grandmother’s house with the infor-
mation that this is how she remembered it. This implies that it may have been
something diﬀerent. The use of the ‘reportive’ adverbial evidently here does not
simply function to evoke reportiveness since it is surrounded by markers of the
reteller’s own inference and deduction (I guess, must have been). These imply
that she was actively constructing her own version of the story based on what
she had heard. The concentrated use of deductive and reportive forms, culmi-
nating in an actual reference to the original teller of the story as source, is a sign
that the current teller was still constructing a conceptual representation of
whose house it is, how old it was etc. She was trying to retell the story as a story
but when she came to a part of the story that did not yet make sense to her, she
fell back to trying to link the information back to the source and by highlighting
the fact that she was retelling a story told to her and not actually making it up.
(21) so she sends the husband in
he’s looking around
and he notices that the cat’s one the stove
and apparently the cat never gets on the stove
so he goes over to the cat and he looks in the pot (EMSa1)
The passage in (21) is another example of the use of reportive marking in a text
that did not ever overtly mention the fact of retelling. The reteller had clearly
adopted an imaginative epistemological stance towards the narrative informa-
tion, evident by the use of present tense forms that vividly evoke the events in
the storyworld. However the second last line in (21), asserting that the cat never
usually got on the stove was coded with apparently, a clear reportive adverbial
in this context.
Why should the teller interrupt her imaginative presentation of the story-
world with a marker that links the information back to some previous teller?
One analysis is that the use of this evidential form where none had been used
previously highlights the information as highly signiﬁcant for the plot of the
story. Note that each clause preceding the use of the evidential marks a discreet
event in the story leading up to the climax of discovering the mouse in the
soup (at this point in the story no character knows who or what is making the
‘plop plop plop’ sound in the kitchen). The information that the cat never gets
up on the stove is important because it explains the father’s motivation for
160 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
going over to look at the pot. (The original teller said that her father thought
that the cat was going to steal some chicken and went to shoo it oﬀ the stove.)
Furthermore, this information is not part of the temporal progression of the
narrative (it describes background information about the cat), nor is it
something that the current teller can infer from events in the narrative.
Labov (1972) claimed that the amount of ‘evaluation’ in narrative increases
closer to the climax. But Labov’s study only examined personal experience
stories where evaluation was associated with speakers’ personal involvement to
the events in the story. In retellings, where the tellers have no personal involve-
ment with the events in the story, evaluation must primarily be about the status
of information with respect to its source and thence its validity. In (21) the
reteller reportively grounds the generalisation about the cat, temporarily
shifting her epistemological stance from imaginative to reportive to heighten
the climactic eﬀect of the episode.
In this light it is interesting to note that one of the most climactic and
memorable parts of the original story, the discovery of the mouse (in (22)), was
the information most consistently coded with some kind of reportive evidential
marking in the retellings of the story, typically some overt reference to the
previous teller ((23)–(28)).
(22) it’s got chicken fat all over it
its hair~
in all of its fur
and its ears are slicked back and its whiskers
it looks like Elvis ¨ (EMS)
(23) th~ th~ the description was that the cat~ ¨
that the mouse~
the poor mouse X~ was just covered in fat
you know I mean
so its hair was all slicked back
and its whiskers
and its~
so the cat looked~
but th~ the mouse looked like Elvis [sniﬀ] ¨ (EMSa1)
(24) the mouse was covered in fat
and the w~
evidently ¨
this is what [previous speaker] said ¨
the woman claimed that the mouse looked like Elvis ¨ (EMSa2)
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 161
(25) its hair’s slicked back
it looked like Elvis (EMSb1)
(26) I guess it’s ears are all slicked back
it’s hair~
[previous speaker] said it looks like Elvis ¨ (EMSb2)
(27) and his ears were all slicked back like Elvis ¨
and @@@@
that’s what she said ¨ (EMSc1)
(28) she said the mouse looked like Elvis ¨
coz it had all grease on it (EMSd1)
The narrative information that the mouse in the soup looked like Elvis not only
signals the climax of the story, it also represents the subjective judgement of the
original speaker — her interpretation of how the mouse looked.
This section has presented a number of factors which motivated the
adoption of a reportive epistemological stance towards narrative retelling. In
Macedonian, the grammaticalised distinction between direct experience and
hearsay strongly motivates retellers to adopt a global reportive epistemological
stance — the relationship between hearsay information and the reportive epi-
stemological stance is conventionalised in this language. In Japanese, the
motivation for adopting a reportive epistemological stance does not come from
the conventionalisation of linguistic structures, but rather from cultural
conventions.
The results from the Japanese retelling corpus completely support the
characterisation of epistemological stance as the representation of knowledge
assessment based on the context of language use and the expectations placed by
cultural values. They show that the grammatical status of forms is not the
primary motivating force behind the use of linguistic strategies to talk about
epistemological assessment. The patterns of epistemological stance adoption in
the English retelling corpus (a preference for adopting an imaginative epistemo-
logical stance rather than the expected reportive epistemological stance)
conﬁrmed that knowledge of the actual source of information was not a
necessary force motivating the selection of epistemological stance.
6.2.2 Motivations for choosing reportive strategies
In the previous section I accounted for the patterns of reportive density in
narrative retelling by appealing to a number of grammatical, cultural and
162 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
discourse factors. These explained why a consistently coded reportive epistemo-
logical stance should be preferred or dispreferred when speakers take on the
task of recounting a story of someone else’s personal experience. In this section
I present some explanations for the distribution of linguistic strategies in the
retelling corpus used to express a reportive epistemological stance — why one
type of reportive strategy might be selected over other types. The discussion in
this section is limited to the Japanese and Macedonian retellings only, since, as
reported above, English retellers made very little use of reportive coding in the
retelling discourse context.
Tables 6.5 and 6.6 present the distribution of evidential strategies in the
Japanese and Macedonian corpuses:
Both Japanese and Macedonian retellers made use of narrative and extra-
Table 6.5Distribution of reportive evidential strategies in the Japanese corpus
Evidential strategy No. of texts
Extranarrative reported speech + tte
Rashii + tte
Extranarrative reported speech, rashii, tte
Rashii + frame
Extranarrative reported speech only
No reportive evidential strategy
Tte only
Rashii only
4
4
2
1
1
1
–
–
Table 6.6Distribution of reportive evidential strategies in the Macedonian corpus
Evidential strategy No. of texts
Reportive Frame + Evidential Reported Speech + L-form
Evidential Reportive Speech + L-form
Evidential Reported speech only
Reportive Frame only
L-form only
No reportive evidential strategy.
Reportive Frame + L-form
Reportive Frame + Evidential Reported Speech
–
3
–
1
8
–
–
–
narrative evidential strategies as alternative means of reﬂecting a reportive epi-
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 163
stemological stance. Japanese retellers made use of a wider range of narrative
reportive evidential strategies — especially sentence ﬁnal tte and rashii — while
Macedonian retellers made use of the simple past/L-form past tense contrast as
the primary means of coding a reportive epistemological stance internal to the
narrative structure.
Of the diﬀerent reportive evidential strategies available to Japanese
speakers, sentence ﬁnal tte was clearly preferred in this retelling context,
although no reteller used sentence ﬁnal tte exclusively as a reportive evidential
cue. The majority of retellers used some combination of sentence ﬁnal tte and
either evidential reported speech or rashii (or a combination of all three
strategies). This is further evidence that retellers were motivated to represent
the story they told as a retelling, consistent with the ‘territory of information’
analysis of Japanese reportive pragmatics.
The choice of reportive strategy here clearly relies on pragmatic factors
which go beyond the simple calculation of information territory. In particular,
it also relies on the degree of retellers ‘psychological distance’ from the narrative
information and the maintenance of a balance between a representation of the
original teller’s ‘voice’ and the reteller’s own voice in her version of the story.
Recall that the main semantic diﬀerence between sentence ﬁnal tte and
rashii is that while tte implies that narrative information was overtly represented
in the previous telling; rashii implies that the narrative information was
inferable from what was said in the previous telling. Of the two types of
narrative evidential strategies, tte represents a greater ‘psychological distance’
(Suzuki 1998) from the narrative information than rashii — a greater emphasis
on the fact that the narrative information lies outside of the speaker’s territory
of information.
Under this analysis, a preferred use of tte in retelling is a sign that the
reteller is focussed on accurately representing the story that they had just heard
in terms of what they heard, a strong commitment to being faithful to the
original source of the story with no implication of their own understanding of
the narrative information. A preferred use of rashii as a narrative evidential
strategy is a sign that the reteller is not only committed to telling the story as a
retelling, but also that she is able to assimilate the narrative information they
heard into her own coherent conceptual model of the story.
The fact that sentence ﬁnal tte occurred three times as frequently in the
retelling corpus as rashii is evidence that when faced with telling a story of
someone else’s personal experience, these Japanese speakers were more con-
cerned with representing narrative information as the product of that person’s
164 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
experience, rather than focusing on themselves as the producer of a coherent
retelling of the story. However, rashii did occur consistently in the retellings and
six of the thirteen narrative retellers used both tte and rashii in their versions of
the story. This suggests that despite the overall preference for distancing oneself
from someone else’s experience through the choice of tte as an reportive
strategy, retellers were still committed to reconstructing a coherent text that
reﬂected their own understanding of what they heard.
I have already outlined some systematic semantic/pragmatics diﬀerences
between the reported speech and reportive evidential functions of sentence ﬁnal
tte. I argued that in retelling contexts, the use of sentence ﬁnal tte (in particular
the construction -n da tte) focused on narrative information as the product of
some previous telling without drawing attention to who the teller was. In
contrast, reported speech overtly represents the narrative information as a
speech event, drawing attention to the process by which the information was
acquired.
The reportive evidential use of sentence ﬁnal tte does not purport to repre-
sent the voice of the original teller — merely the fact that the information
derived from some other teller. Reported speech, on the other hand, does
purport to represent the original teller’s voice. Evidence for the diﬀerence lies
in the use of ‘interactional particles’ ne and wa in (29) and (30) (repeated from
(18) and (19) in Chapter 5), particles that evoke aspects of the relationship
between speaker and hearer, in the representation of speech content.
(29) sore.de yappari Amerikajin wa kechi dakara
and after.all Americans top stingy so
soo.yuu no ga umai ne tte itte-ite
nom subj skilled ip rsp say-prog
And, as we know, Americans are stingy so she[previous teller] was saying that
they are good at that kind of thing. (JCRa1)
(30) moshi kanojo ni tanonda to shite mo soo.yuu fuu na
if 3sg loc ask-p part do-con also like.this ip
koto ni wa nara-na-katta wa tte itte
nom loc top become-neg-p ip rsp say-con
If she[previous teller] had asked her the same thing, she couldn’t have ﬁgured
out what to do, she[previous teller] said. (JCRb1)
These particles cannot cooccur with the reportive evidential function of
sentence ﬁnal tte, as in (31) below.
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 165
(31) *sore.de yappari Amerikajin wa kechi dakara
and after.all Americans top stingy so
soo.yuu no ga umai ne tte
nom subj skilled ip rsp
Evidential reported speech is thus a more ‘expressive’ reportive strategy than
narrative evidential strategies, such as sentence ﬁnal tte and rashii. Its use evokes
the original telling of the story as a ‘live’ event in a way that is not possible with
tte or rashii (cf. the ‘involvement’ function of speech representation –
Wierzbicka 1974).
Earlier it was argued that sentence ﬁnal tte imposed more psychological
distance between original teller and reteller than rashii because the use of rashii
expressed the reteller’s active involvement in reconstructing the narrative. But
the use of sentence ﬁnal tte as an evidential device does still reﬂect something of
the reteller’s presence. Narrative information modiﬁed by sentence ﬁnal tte is
still deictically oriented to the time and place of the retelling and the identity of
the reteller, with little attention paid to the time and place of the original telling
and the identity of the original teller. In extranarrative reported speech the
deictic orientation of the narrative information is (partially) shifted to the
original telling, thereby eﬀacing (or at least partially eﬀacing) the reteller as a
source of the story, thus reducing their involvement in the construction of the
narrative. The proﬁles of the three Japanese reportive evidential strategies are
summarised in Table 6.7.
The evidential uses of reported speech in the retelling corpus clearly take
Table 6.7PragmaticproﬁleofJapanesenarrativeandextranarrativereportiveevidential
strategies
Evidential reported speech Sentence ﬁnal tte rashii
Territory of Information − reteller (actual speaker) − reteller − reteller
Primary Deictic Centre Original Teller Reteller Reteller
Default Evidential Category Hearsay/Report Hearsay/Report Inference
Relative ‘Psychological
Distance’ between reteller
and original teller
High Medium Low
advantage of the expressive and distancing properties described above. The
narrative information represented in the reported speech passages in (29) and
166 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
(30) both refer to evaluations of the original teller towards aspects of the story
world. The passage in (29) refers to the original speaker’s opinion of Americans
(that they are good at ﬁnding the lowest price for things — i.e. stingy). The
passage in (30) represents the original teller’s assessment of a friend of hers
(that she would not be able to do a particular favour if she was asked to by the
original teller).
In both cases, the information described is not only outside of the speak-
er’s territory of information by virtue of being something the original teller
said she experienced, but is also the original teller’s assessment of that experi-
ence. The choice of reported speech as an evidential strategy in this context
helps to reinforce the fact that the evaluation was the original speaker’s and not
that of the reteller because it presents the information in the original teller’s
‘voice’ and by eﬀacing the reteller’s own presence in the representation of the
narrative information.
A similar analysis can be applied to the Macedonian data to account for the
choice of narrative and extranarrative strategies. As for the Japanese data,
evidentialreportedspeechwasthemostdirectandexplicitwaythatretellerscould
representa reportiveepistemological stancethroughouttheir retelling.By retelling
the story as an iconic representation of the previous teller’s act of narration, they
were able to maintain the representation of the previous teller’s epistemological
stance towards the narrative, embedded under a speech act predicate.
Use of L-form pasts in retelling also represents narrative information as the
product of a previous telling by another person. However, use of L-form pasts
does not explicitly evoke the voice of the previous teller. The L-form only
implies in the context of renarration that the narrative information was
acquired from a previous teller. It does not code a shift in epistemological deixis
from current speaker to some other speciﬁc individual. Rather, L-form pasts
maintain the actual teller as centre of deixis by coding them as the ‘non-
experiencer’. Although this doesn’t speciﬁcally make reference to reportiveness,
in the context of narrative retelling, where both teller and audience know that
the story is a retelling, use of the L-form can only be interpreted as expressing
a reportive epistemological stance. Evidence for this claim comes from the
complementary use of the L-form past with evidential reported speech. Retellers
who use evidential reported speech as a strategy also used L-forms in their
versions. The shifts between these strategies is illustrated in (32).
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 167
(32) a. Kazhvashe “Ova e” veli “Ova prava vistina.
tell:3sg.sp dem be:3sg say:3sg dem real truth
Ne e nishto laga”
neg be:3sg nothing lies
b. Kako mu se sluchilo
how 3dat refl happen:l
Koga se mazhila Koga bila mlada nevestata
when refl marry:l when be:l young bride:def
Svekra mu oshla na pazar
M-in-law 3dat go:l loc market
I ja ostajla da mesi leb
and 3acc remain:l to knead:3sg bread
c. I veli “Jas ostanav doma
and say:3sg 1nom remain:1sg.sp home
Go mesiv lebot I izkisna…”
3acc knead:1sg.sp bread:def and rise:3sg.sp
(a) She was saying, “This is,” she says, “This is the living truth. There are
no lies.” (b) What happened to her when she had gotten married. When
she was a young bride. Her mother-in-law had gone to the market. And
had left her to bake bread. (c) And she says, “I was left at home. I
kneaded the bread and it rose…” (MBSc1)
The reteller in (32) begins with a speech act framing clause (a) which introduces
a passage of evidential reported speech. At (b) she shifts to L-form past tense as
part of a total deictic shift from the previous teller as centre of deixis to current
reteller as deictic centre. The shift to L-form signals a move from an expressive
‘direct speech’ mode to a more distant ‘narrative’ mode. The L-form however
maintains the current teller’s epistemological relationship to the narrative as a
non-experiencer/reteller. At (c), the reteller shifts back to evidential reported
speech mode as she begins the sequence of narrative events. Evidential reported
speech is signalled in (c) by both a framing clause veli ‘(she) says’ and by a shift
in personal deixis from third person to ﬁrst person, and a shift in epistemologi-
cal deixis from L-form past to simple past.
It is interesting to observe that despite the existence of a grammatical
system in Macedonian for coding information as reportive, retellers used
additional reportive strategies to achieve a reportive eﬀect. This is indicative of
the fact that there are clearly many discourse pressures involved in the produc-
tion of an appropriate version of a text. For example, the use of evidential
reported speech is a more ‘expressive’, more vivid and interesting way of telling
168 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
a story. It brings the audience ‘closer’ to the action of the story by representing
information from the perspective of the person who experienced the events.
(Mayes (1990) gives a similar account for the use of direct speech in English
discourse.) Note that the reteller of (32) reserved the more ‘distant’ L-form style
of narration for description of background information about the story, rather
than for the events of the story themselves. She reserved the more ‘expressive’
direct speech for the more dynamic parts of the narrative. The reteller’s desire
to be viewed as an interesting and coherent storyteller, one who can represent
the motivations of characters in the story as well as accurately describe the
events as they were told to her, results in competition between the more
‘distant’ L-form past and the less distancing extranarrative reportive strategies.
The pragmatic diﬀerences between the reportive strategies used in the
Macedonian narrative retellings are summarised in Table 6.8 below. The table
mirrors the classiﬁcation of evidential strategies suggested for the Japanese
data. Both evidential reported speech and the use of L-form past tense signal
that the narrative information under their scope is outside of the retellers
‘territory of information’. Evidential reported speech also signals a deictic shift
from the reteller to the original teller as primary deictic centre. In contrast, the
L-form does not signal a deictic shift in any other category other than episte-
mological deixis.
Evidential reported speech by deﬁnition codes information as reportive.
The default evidential meaning in the context of retelling is reportive, although
it may also retain some of its more general ‘non-experiential’ meaning even in
this highly constrained discourse context. Finally, it can be argued that both
evidential direct speech and L-forms signal a high degree of ‘psychological
distance’ between the retellers and the original teller. Evidential direct speech
maintains a high degree of ‘psychological distance’ by virtue of the total deictic
shift between reported speaker (= original teller) and actual speaker (= reteller).
The L-form past maintains a high degree of ‘psychological distance’ by coding
the actual teller as a ‘non-experiencer’ of the narrative events in question.
6.3 Summary
This chapter has focussed on how and why reportive strategies were used in the
narrative retelling study as a way of exploring some of the pragmatic issues
which lie behind the adoption of epistemological stance in actual discourse. The
discussion involved an examination two aspects of language use in the retelling
corpuses: the available evidence that a reportive epistemological stance had
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 169
been adopted at all, reﬂected in the reportive density of the narrative; and then
Table 6.8Pragmatic proﬁle of narrative and extranarrative evidential strategies
in Macedonian
Evidential reported speech L-form
Territory of Information − reteller (actual speaker) − reteller
Primary Deictic Centre Original Teller Reteller
Default Evidential Category Hearsay/Report Hearsay (/Inference)
Relative ‘Psychological
Distance’ between reteller and
original teller
High High
the selection of linguistic strategies chosen to express the adoption of a report-
ive epistemological stance.
The patterns of reportive marking in the narrative retellings provide us with
ways of addressing the questions about choice of epistemological stance raised
at the beginning of the chapter: how universal or language/culture speciﬁc are
these choices? How do they relate to the grammatical status of reportiveness in
each of the languages? What do these results tell us about the relationship
between pragmatics and grammar? What do these results tell us about the
adoption of epistemological stance?
With respect to the universality of epistemological stance adoption, the
retelling data showed that while all speakers globally oriented their discourse to
a ‘default’ epistemological stance, there are clearly diﬀerent approaches to
retelling that resulted in variation between reportive and imaginative epistemo-
logical stances as the preferred epistemological stance adopted towards the
retelling. Macedonian and Japanese retellers consistently preferred to adopt a
reportive epistemological stance, indicated by the high density of reportive
forms in retellings, while English retellers preferred to adopt an imaginative epi-
stemological stance towards the story they retold. This result was taken as
evidence that, to a large degree, selection of epistemological stance is motivated
by some norms of the speech community with respect to the assessment of epi-
stemological status. For Macedonian and Japanese retellers, the norm seems to
be to represent the story as derived from someone else’s experience — in
someone else’s ‘territory of information’. For English retellers, the norm seems
to be to reconstruct a coherent and vivid account of the events in the story, with
less emphasis placed on its origins.
170 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
Given the patterns of epistemological stance adoption observed in the data,
it does not seem a coincidence that speakers of languages like Macedonian and
Japanese, which have developed, or are developing, grammatical reportive
markers, were the ones who most consistently adopted a reportive epistemolog-
ical stance. This is the epistemological stance which most accurately represented
their actual knowledge status with respect to the story they retold. It suggests a
much higher degree of conventional mapping between actual source of infor-
mation and adoption of epistemological stance in languages with grammatical
evidentiality, than in languages which lack such systems.
The patterns of epistemological stance adoption found in the data also
provide some evidence for the pragmatic background that motivates the
grammaticalisation of epistemological stance expression into evidential systems.
The conventionalisation of mapping between type of information and episte-
mological stance adoption can be viewed as providing a context whereby certain
forms attain a grammatical status — becoming more morphologised, more
restricted in distribution, less semantically complex and more hyperextended in
their use.
In the case of Macedonian, we know something of the process by which
certain past tense forms acquired the evidential meanings seen in the simple
past/L-form contrast. One proposed path of semantic change is presented in
Bybee et al. (1995). Under their analysis, the L-form past was originally a
resultative form, which focussed on the end result of some event. Over time, it
has come to focus on the state of knowledge of the person reporting the results,
someone who had not witnessed the event but only knew about it by inference
from results. The acquisition of a reportive ﬂavour of the L-form (also reported
in Friedman 1986) seems to have arisen from its frequent use in reportive
contexts.
Assuming a pragmatic basis for semantico-grammatical change, this path of
semantic change would not have taken place if there had not been some
pragmatic imperative to do so. In this case, the pragmatic basis is the way that
Macedonian speakers talk about the status of their knowledge. It is only because
speakers of the language have conventionalised the relationship between type of
information and epistemological stance that a grammatical form used to
express this relationship has developed. However, from the distribution of
reportive strategies in the retelling corpus, it seems clear that even though
Macedonian speakers have this grammatical means to express a reportive epi-
stemological stance, their goal is to choose the linguistic strategy that best ﬁts
the combination of all of their discourse and pragmatic goals. The epistemological
Reportive strategies in narrative retelling 171
stance remains the same, but the strategy is chosen to accommodate other needs
— like the desire to tell a coherent and interesting story.
The patterns of epistemological stance adoption, and the linguistic means
of expressing them, in the Japanese corpus also provide evidence for the
pragmatic motivations that underpin the grammaticalisation of evidential
meanings. The density of reportiveness in Japanese is much like the density in
Macedonian but the most highly grammaticalised of its reportive strategies,
sentence ﬁnal tte, cannot yet be analysed as a pure grammatical reportive
evidential, since it still retains other non-evidential functions (e.g. as a comple-
ment to reported speech representation). Nevertheless, the distribution of
sentence ﬁnal tte in the retelling corpus does strongly suggest that in reportive
contexts, such as narrative retelling, it is a highly conventional means for
speakers to express the adoption of a reportive epistemological stance. I suggest
that this conventionalisation would not have developed so clearly if there was
not already in place the cultural norms of epistemological stance adoption,
described here in terms of ‘territory of information’.
</TARGET "6">
<TARGET "7" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Deviations from a reportive epistemological stance"
SUBJECT "Pragmatics & Beyond, New Series, Volume 87"
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "220"
WIDTH "150"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 7
Deviations from a reportive
epistemological stance
The values for reportive density for Macedonian, Japanese and English dis-
cussed in the last chapter indicate that even in languages like Macedonian that
have grammaticalised the expression of reportiveness, retellers did not auto-
matically select a reportive epistemological stance to coincide with their actual
method of knowledge acquisition. Nevertheless, it was possible to identify a
‘default’ global epistemological stance for each of the languages — reportive
epistemological stance for Macedonian and Japanese retellings, and imaginative
epistemological stance for English retellings — which reﬂected aspects of the
culture of epistemological assessment for each language group.
However, it is clear from the patterns of epistemological stance adoption
found in the corpus that retellers of all three languages rarely maintained this
‘default’ epistemological stance throughout their entire retelling. Just as English
retellers resorted to sporadic reportive marking in at particular climactic points
in the renarration, so too did Macedonian and Japanese retellers deviate from
a basic reportive epistemological stance to represent parts of the narrative from
other epistemological stances.
In order to gain a well-rounded picture of the pragmatic factors that
motivate speakers to select particular linguistic strategies to express their episte-
mological assessment, we need therefore to understand not only the pragmatics
of epistemological stance adoption at the ‘global’ level (corresponding with
socio-cultural appropriateness), but also the pragmatics of epistemological
stance variation at the ‘local’ level (corresponding with the process of narrative
production).
There are of course many things that may have been consciously or
unconsciously taken into consideration by retellers when they set about the task
of retelling the story they heard: retellers’ relationship to their interlocutor(s);
their relationship with the original teller of the story; the extent to which they
could relate the events of the story to their own experiences of the world, etc. It
is highly probable that each of these aﬀects the way in which retellers approach
the task of retelling the story they have heard. The resolution of these factors
174 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
results in the variations in epistemological stance adoption of the kind observed
in the retelling corpus here.
In this chapter I focus on one aspect of the pragmatics of epistemological
stance adoption in narration, the assignment, maintenance and shift of narra-
tive perspective, as a signiﬁcant factor lying behind the variation of epistemologi-
cal stance adoption at the ‘local’ level. Narrative perspective, or ‘point-of-view’,
is an inherent part of narrative and has recently become a major part of
narrative analysis in linguistics (e.g. Sanders 1994; Duchan et al. 1995; Labov
1997). The analysis of narrative perspective in Section 7.1 below provides a
motivating foundation for the kinds of deviations from a ‘default’ epistemologi-
cal stance found in the retelling corpus.
The observed patterns of localised epistemological stance variation also
provide an excellent illustration of the ways that diﬀerent pragmatic pressures play
oﬀ against each other in the linguistic strategies selected for the process of con-
structing of a discourse. They provide further insight into the competition that
speakersofalllanguagesfacewhenretellingsomeoneelse’sstorybetweendesiring
to produce a faithful rendition of the story, indexed to its source, and desiring
to tell a listenable and coherent story that reﬂects their storytelling prowess.
7.1 Narrative perspective
According to Labov’s (1972) classic model of narration (and subsequent
versions of it — Labov 1997), the telling of a coherent and interesting narrative
requires a clear indication of the ‘point’ of the story — why the story is ‘tellable’
in the ﬁrst place. In the Labovian framework, this is signalled primarily though
the use of evaluation. In personal stories, evaluation expresses the motivations
of the speaker to tell the story in the ﬁrst place. In non-personal stories, it helps
to clarify the motivations of story characters to do the things that they do within
the story world.
As a construal of information in terms of epistemological assessment,
expression of epistemological stance, is clearly a component of evaluation.
Indeed the pressures on storytellers to incorporate high levels of evaluation in
order to produce a coherent and involving story was cited as one of the factors
which motivated the choice of reportive strategies (narrative or extranarrative)
to express a reportive epistemological stance (discussed in Section 6.2.2).
In addition to its evaluative properties, narrative perspective is also deictic
because it indexes narrative information to a particular point of origin, typically
Deviations from a reportive epistemological stance 175
either the here and now of the storytelling context, or within the storyworld
with one of the story characters. With each shift in narrative perspective comes
a shift in epistemological stance, commensurate with whose epistemological
assessment is being represented.
Here I focus on two aspects of narrative perspective which provide evidence
for the perspective structure of narrative information at any point in the
retelling, allowing the storyteller to shift epistemological stances within the
narrative as part of the retelling process:
a. the degree to which the consciousness of characters was represented in their
speech and thoughts, using evidence predominantly from the Macedonian
and Japanese corpuses;
b. the types of referring expressions used to pick out characters in the story,
using evidence predominantly from the English corpus;
Of these two aspects, the representation of characters’ consciousness has
received the most attention in the literature on narrative perspective (e.g. Cohn
1978; Banﬁeld 1982; Sanders 1994). The importance of choice of referring
expressions for indicating narrative perspective has also been recognised
however (Wiebe 1995). Neither of these phenomena are ‘evidential’ as such, but
because of their narrative deictic properties they provide important cues for
understanding whose epistemological stance is being represented (the reteller’s
or the character’s).
7.1.1 Speech and thought representation
Stories aremore easilyunderstood if theaudience alsounderstands whycharacters
behave the way they do in the universe of the story world. One of the strategies that
retellers can use to project information about character motivations is to represent
the perspectives of characters in the story: the representation of their thoughts,
perceptions and feelings; and by representation of their interactions with other
characters in the story — the speech exchanges between characters.
The following discussion of the distribution of reportive coding in the
Macedonian corpus is an illustration of how the perspective structure of
narrative, expressed in the use of speech and thought representation, has a
systematic eﬀect on the distribution of reportive strategies in retelling.
The reportive density of the Macedonian corpus was calculated at 0.49,
indicating that half of all narrative units were under the scope of some reportive
marker. The reportive density of L-form past tenses was 0.35, indicating a
176 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
strong preference for the use of L-forms over other reportive strategies. How-
ever, given the fact that all retellers knew that they were reporting someone
else’s experiences, this density ﬁgure could be seen as low on the surface — at
least lower than what might be expected for a language which has grammatical-
ised the coding of reportiveness to such an extent.
In addition to the relatively low frequency of L-forms in the Macedonian
corpus, there were also a considerable number of tokens of simple past forms —
forms which reﬂect the adoption of a personal experience epistemological
stance and therefore predicted not to occur in narrative retelling.
Table 7.1 presents the percentage frequencies of L-forms, simple pasts and
non-past forms for each individual retelling text. Narrative information that
was under the scope of evidential direct speech was discounted since that
information represents the original teller’s epistemological stance. Although no
text completely lacked simple past or non-past forms, there was a certain
amount of individual variation in the ratio of diﬀerent tense forms to each
other. The proportion of L-form marked clauses ranged from 19% to 68% of
clauses (most texts in the 30–67% range). Simple pasts ranged from 4% to 33%
of clauses (most texts in a 10–27% range). Non-pasts ranged from 10% to 63%
of clauses (most texts in a 32–55% range). Only one text made no use of simple
past forms, but this was a retelling which made extensive use of evidential direct
speech as a reportive strategy, leaving only 4 narrative clauses outside of the
scope of evidential direct speech.
Deviations from a reportive epistemological stance 177
Overall, only about 2/5 of clauses in the retelling corpus were coded with an
Table 7.1Percentage proportion of tenses in narrative retelling
Text Clauses L-form Simple past Non-past
MBSa1
MBSa2
MBSb1
MBSb2
MBSc1
MBSc2
MBSd1
MBSd2
MZS1
MZS2
MNC1
37
35
31
48
9
28
4
46
37
19
33
19 (7)
37 (13)
48 (15)
42 (20)
78 (7)
57 (16)
75 (3)
33 (15)
54 (20)
68 (13)
30 (10)
27 (10)
31 (11)
10 (3)
21 (10)
11 (1)
11 (3)
0 (0)
4 (2)
14 (5)
21 (4)
15 (5)
54 (20)
31 (11)
41 (13)
37 (18)
11 (1)
32 (9)
25 (1)
63 (29)
32 (12)
10 (2)
55 (18)
Total 327 42 (139) 17 (54) 41 (134)
L-form. Of the non-L forms, 18% of clauses were simple pasts (30% of non-L
form clauses) — forms which were predicted not to occur. The high frequency
use of non-past forms, comparable with L-form frequency, is unproblematic
because the evidential contrast that exists between simple pasts and L-forms is
lost in non-past contexts. Only in past tense contexts is the reteller required to
make a choice between representing information as ‘direct experience’ (with a
simple past), or as ‘report’ (with an L-form past). It is therefore useful to ﬁlter
non-past forms from the calculation to achieve a clearer picture of the ratio of
simple pasts to L-forms in the retelling corpus.
Table 7.2 presents the results of this calculation for the individual texts. The
percentages represent the percentage of simple past or L-form past as a propor-
tion of total past tense clauses.
The results show that while there was an overall tendency to select L-forms
as the past tense in narrative retelling, a little over a quarter of narrative units
were coded with a simple past form, a form which signals a shift from the
expected reportive epistemological stance to some type of direct experience epi-
stemological stance. These shifts are particularly signiﬁcant because they have
been isolated in narrative units — i.e. units which were predicted to represent
the epistemological stance of the reteller. One possible solution is that
Macedonian retellers were simply inconsistent in their adoption of a reportive
epistemological stance. However, a close examination of the contexts in which
178 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
simple past forms occurred indicates that the variation in choice of past tense
Table 7.2Percentage proportions of simple pasts and L-forms
Text L-form Simple past Total past
MBSa1
MBSa2
MBSb1
MBSb2
MBSc1
MBSc2
MBSd1
MBSd2
MZS1
MZS2
MNC1
41 (7)
54 (13)
83 (15)
67 (20)
88 (7)
84 (16)
100 (3)
88 (15)
80 (20)
76 (13)
67 (10)
59 (10)
46 (11)
17 (3)
33 (10)
12 (1)
16 (3)
0 (0)
12 (2)
20 (5)
24 (4)
33 (5)
100 (17)
100 (24)
100 (18)
100 (30)
100 (8)
100 (19)
100 (3)
100 (17)
100 (25)
100 (17)
100 (15)
Total 72 (139) 28 (54) 100 (193)
form was not random, but rather constituted an important part of the deictic
proﬁle of narrative information, allowing its perspective structure to be
accurately interpreted.
Recall that narrative units necessarily code both an origin and an object of
perspective. The degree to which the origin and the object of perspective are
located in the same domain (e.g. internal to the storyworld or some ‘location’
external to the storyworld represents the degree to which information is
perspectivised. Degree of perspectivisation is a particularly relevant notion in
narrative study because it allows a succinct way of distinguishing information
that anyone in the storyworld (and perhaps also those external to it) might have
access to from information which is accessible to only one character (e.g. their
thoughts and perceptions).
The model of narrative structure adopted in this study (described in
Sections 1.4 and 4.4) assumes a storytelling event in the real world, where the
teller and audience exist, and a story world, where the characters of the story
exist and interact with each other. Recall that in storytelling, the story world is
always the object of perspective but both worlds may function as the origin of
perspective (i.e. the deictic centre) in the narration. Figure 7.1 is a simple
representation of this model of narration, irrespective of deictic proﬁle.
Tellers can represent narrative information as it relates to the where, when
and who of the real world speech situation, maintaining the ‘real world’ as the
origin of perspective. The result is a report of the characters and events in the
Deviations from a reportive epistemological stance 179
story world that maintains the presence of the speech act participants in the real
Real World
Speech Situation
T
A
Story
World
C
Figure 7.1Model of narration(T=teller, A=audience, C=character)
world speech situation. Alternatively, a teller can represent narrative informa-
tion as it relates to the where, when and who of the story world itself. Under
these circumstances, narrative information is deictically centred somewhere
within the story world, independent of the actual teller and audience. The result
is a representation of characters and events in the story world that diminishes
the presence of the speech act participants in the real world speech situation.
The backgrounding or ‘eﬀacing’ of the speech act participants in the real
world results in a more expressive mode of representation. When narrators
present information as a report that reﬂects the communicative intent of the
current speaker and interaction with the audience, and minimises the experi-
ence itself, the result is a more reportive mode of representation. Use of lan-
guage in narration thus can be characterised as more or less ‘expressive’
according to the degree to which the experience itself is foregrounded as an
iconic representation that diminishes the presence of the actual speaker and
audience. Figures 7.2 and 7.3 model the expressive and reportive framing of
narrative information respectively.
Expressivity is coded with a variety of linguistic phenomena including use
of temporal, spatial and personal deictic terms; use of deﬁniteness to represent
the knowledge state of story characters rather than actual speech act partici-
pants; choice of referring expressions and epithets, long distance reﬂexives
(Cohn 1978; Banﬁeld 1982; Wiebe 1992; Zubin & Hewitt 1995). These devices,
and others, contribute to the interpretation of information as more or less
expressive.
Reportive and expressive language are not in binary opposition. Utterances
can be rated as more or less expressive based on the accumulation of diﬀerent
180 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
types of linguistic cues. The shift from reportive to expressive modes of repre-
Speech Situation
Real World
T
A
Story
World
C
Source of
Linguistic
Coding
Figure 7.2Expressive framing in narrative(T=teller, A=audience, C=character)
Real World
Speech Situation
T
A
Story
World
C
Source of Linguistic
Coding
Figure 7.3Reportive framing in narrative
sentation is illustrated in (1).
(1) a. She glanced towards the door when she heard the noise. Her father
stood in the doorway. She was quite surprised.
b. She glanced towards the door when she heard the noise. Daddy was
standing in the doorway. She was quite surprised.
c. She glanced towards the door when she heard the noise. My good-
ness! What was Daddy doing standing in the doorway?
d. She glanced towards the door when she heard the noise. “My good-
ness! What is Daddy doing standing in the doorway?”, she wondered.
Deviations from a reportive epistemological stance 181
In all four example passages (a)–(d), the ﬁrst sentence is quite reportive.
The object of perspective is the character who observes her father in the
doorway. The origin of perspective however is somewhere external to that
character, signalled by third person reference and past tense forms of the verbs.
These linguistic signs index the narrative information with respect to the time
of narration and to the identity of the narrator. Without further information
(e.g. more speciﬁc deictic expressions), the origin of deixis is typically inter-
preted as centred outside of the storyworld with the external narrator. The
second and third sentences in (a)–(d) illustrate the shift from more reportive to
more expressive modes of representation coinciding with a shift in deictic
centre from external to internal to the story world.
The most expressive type of language use in narration is the direct represen-
tation of a character’s speech or thought, where the words of the character are
presented as the character’s voice as they speak in the story world, or train of
thought as they think (= internal monologue). In direct representation, all
deixis is centred with the speaking character and the actual teller is ostensibly
‘invisible’. Other modes of representation may maintain some presence of an
actual teller by partial deictic shifts (e.g. represented thought, psychonarration,
indirect speech). These modes are less expressive than direct representation, but
they are more expressive than wholly reportive information which maintains
the actual story teller and her audience as the centre of deixis.
It is within this framework of the expressive/reportive continuum that the
alternation between L-forms and simple past in the Macedonian retelling
corpus can be explained. The semantics of these forms has already been
characterised in terms of their deictic properties (Section 5.1.1.): simple past
deictically links information to the experiencer; L-form past delinks informa-
tion from the experiencer. However the earlier characterisation assumed that
the current teller was consistently the origin of deixis and the choice of past
tense form was therefore a function of that teller’s epistemological relationship
to the information.
The discussion in this section has outlined the relativity of the deictic
centre. In narration, the origin of deixis may shift from the actual narrator,
external to the story world, to any number of spatio-temporal points within the
story world. Within this framework, the use of simple past, which links infor-
mation to an experiencer, becomes a positive cue for the representation of
narrative information from the perspective of someone who is in a position to
be an experiencer. In the context of renarration this experiencer can only be a
character in the story world. It cannot be the current teller since she knew of the
182 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
story events only by virtue of it being told to her.
Direct representation of characters’ speech and thought involves a total
deictic shift and a total submersion of the self of the actual teller. Direct speech
is identiﬁed in the narrative because of its pervasive use of ‘expressive’ language,
in conjunction with some kind of framing clause (e.g. veli ‘s/he says’). The
passage in (2) illustrates the total representation of character perspective in
narrative direct speech. The character is talking about some bread which she
baked that turned out badly. The use of simple pasts in the content of speech is
commensurate with the character’s expression of her own experience of the
bread baking episode.
(2) I ama nevestata mu veli pak
and but bride:def 3sg.dat say:3sg again
“Zoshto ne mi se pogodi.
why neg 1sg.dat refl make.well:sp
Koga bev kaj nas, lebot sekoj pat jas
when be:1sg.sp loc 1pl.acc bread:def always time 1sg.nom
leb mesev. Lebot mi se godeshe.
bread knead:1sg.sp bread:def 1sg.dat refl make.well:sp
Beshe ubav.”
be:sp nice
But the bride says to her again, “Why didn’t it turn out for me? When I
was back home, I would always knead the bread. The bread would turn
out for me. It was nice.” (MBSa2)
Direct representation of characters’ speech and thought so predictably repre-
sents the epistemological stance of the speaking/thinking character that it is
aﬀorded an independent narrative status, coded as ‘content units’, and excluded
from the analysis of epistemological stance adoption for the purposes of this
study. However, as Table 7.2 indicates, simple past use within the narrative was
not conﬁned to content units.
The use of simple past forms in narrative units is less problematic if the
overall degree of expressivity of the relevant units is considered. In many cases,
simple past tense forms occurred in conjunction with other expressive devices,
as in (3)
(3) Zoshto lebot da i se napraj taka
why bread:def to 3sg.dat refl make:3sg.sp like.that
Why did her bread turn out like that? (MBSb1)
Deviations from a reportive epistemological stance 183
The passage in (3) is syntactically a direct question, a structure which signals a
high degree of expressivity. The question represents what the character was
thinking at that time in the story (she is looking at the bread which had turned
out badly). Unlike direct representation the actual teller is still a deictic centre
for personal deixis. Thus despite the interpretation of “Why did her bread turn
out like that?” as the thoughts of a particular character in the storyworld, the
actual teller’s presence is (tenuously) maintained by the use of third person
reference. Direct representation would require ﬁrst person reference under these
circumstances.
The passage in (4) is a similar example. Here the shift from a more reportive
to a more expressive stance is signalled at (b) by the temporal deictic adverb sega
‘now’ and by the NP ovoj pat ‘this time’. The now is the now of the story, when
the bread turned out badly, and not the now of the actual storytelling situation.
(4) a. Mnogu se godel lebot kaj majka mu
very refl turn.out:l bread:def loc mother 3sg.dat
b. Sega ama ovoj pat mu se zgreshi lebot
now but dem time 3sg.dat refl be.wrong:sp bread:def
The bread often turned out well at her mother’s house. Now, but this
time the bread had turned out wrong. (MBSb2)
Like direct representation, the use of simple past in (3) and (4) can be explained
in terms of the expressiveness of the passage. Although personal deixis is
centred with the actual narrator (signalled by the consistent use of third person
forms), all other deixis, including epistemological deixis is shifted to somewhere
or someone within the story world and the evidential coding reﬂects the
knowledge status of the story characters and not the actual narrator.
All examples so far have associated the use of simple past with a more
expressive mode of representation, either direct speech or represented thought.
But the expressive frame was established on the basis of clear independent cues
(such as other deictic shifts, use of expressive syntax, etc.) unrelated to the
forms of the past tense themselves. This accounted for the vast majority of
simple past uses in the retelling corpus.
There was however a small residue of simple past tenses that did not seem
to cooccur with other expressive devices. The passage in (5) is an interesting
example of this ‘independent’ use of simple past (boldface and italics).
184 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
(5) Si doshla svekrvata od pazar I prashala
refl come:l M-in-law:def gen market and ask:l
“Kako e lebot”
how be:3sg bread:def
The mother-in-law returned from the market and asked, “How is the
bread?”
Taa mu rekla nevestata “Aren e” reche
3sg.nom 3sg.dat say:l bride:def good be:3sg say:3sg.sp
“Ama vnatre kako zhila postana Ne dopechen”
but inside how vein become:sp neg ﬁnish.cook:part
She said, the bride, “It is good.” She said, “But it became vein-like inside.
Not fully cooked.”
Svekorot mu rekol “Aren e Aren e
F-in-law:def 3sg.dat say:l good be:3sg good be:3sg
Kje go izedime” Reche
will 3sg.acc eat:1pl say:3sg.sp
“Ne e losho Ubavo pechen.”
neg be:3sg bad nice bake:part
The father-in-law said to her, “It’s good. It’s good. We will eat it.” He
said. “It’s not bad. Nicely cooked.” (MBSc2)
The passage in (5) is a sequence of direct speech passages spoken by three
diﬀerent characters: mother-in-law, bride and father-in-law. Up until this point
in the text, all past tense verbs in narrative clauses were L-form pasts, consistent
with the narrator’s experience as a reteller. The use of the simple past form
postana ‘became’ in the second direct speech passage is consistent with the
bride-character’s perspective as an experiencer of the event; it was she who
baked the bread.
The problematic forms are the alternations between simple past and L-form
pasts of the speech act verb reche ‘say’ in the framing clauses of the second and
third direct speech passages. The simple past forms are problematic because
they do not cooccur with other expressive devices within the framing clause
(they are the only word in their respective clauses), and because they are
preceded by L-form versions of the same verb in the immediately preceding
framing clause.
Note however that the L-form of reche (rekol/rekla) introduces the new
speaking character and a new speaking event in the narrative. In contrast, the
simple past form reche occurs medially in the direct speech passage — it does
not introduce a new character nor a new speaking event (the speaking character
Deviations from a reportive epistemological stance 185
does not stop talking at this point). Perfective verbs (like reche) typically signal
a movement forward in narrative time and the designation of a completed
narrative event. The use of simple past reche in (5) has neither of these func-
tions — it anaphorically refers to the previous use of reche (in expected L-form)
that introduces a new reported speaker.
Use of the expected L-form after a passage of direct speech representation
marks a dramatic shift in deictic orientation from the perspective of a speaking
character as they spoke in the story world to the perspective of a current reteller
who is reporting the events of a story she heard from someone else. In contrast,
the use of simple past reche in the middle of direct speech passages is less
disruptive of the ﬂow of represented speech than use of the L-form would be. It
only partially shifts the deictic orientation from character to narrator — the epi-
stemological deixis is still linked with the character.
So although the use of reche in medial framing clauses in (5) cannot be
analysed as fully representing the character’s perspective, its anaphoric medial
position within a direct speech passage does not positively assert that the
current narrator has direct experience of the events.
The next two examples, (6) and (7), illustrate the use of simple past in
narrative clauses which do not contain any other evidence of expressive framing,
and which also seem to signal new narrative events. Though rare in occurrence,
these are the most problematic of the simple past forms in the corpus.
(6) a. Mazhot mu rekol deka
man:def 3sg.dat say:l that
b. “Kje go viknime deverot na ruchek
will 3sg.acc invite:1pl B-in-law loc lunch
c. Kje go viknime vikni~
will 3sg.acc invite:1pl
d. Neka dojdi
let come:3sg
e. kje naprajime zelnik.”
will make:1pl zelnik
f. I ovaa go napraj zelnikot
and dem 3sg.acc make:sp zelnik:def
g. Ali toj zelnikot ne se pogodi
but dem zelnik:def neg refl make.well:sp
h. A inako si pogodila
and diﬀerent refl make.well:l
186 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
(a) Her husband said to her that (b) “We will invite the Brother-in-law
to lunch. (c) We will invite him. (d) Let him come. (e) We’ll make zel-
nik”. (f) And she made the zelnik. (g) But that zelnik did not turn out
well. (h) Otherwise she did everything well. (MZS1)
(7) a. Imala edna zhena shto
have:l one woman what
b. bila mlada nevesta.
be:l young bride
c. I sega svekra mu mu objasnuva kako se mesi leb.
and now M-in-law 3dat 3dat explain:3sg how refl knead bread
d. Ili mu reche da mesi leb.
or 3dat say:sp to knead bread
e. I ovaa snaata zedi da mesi leb.
and dem D-in-law take:sp to knead bread
f. Go probala.
3sg.acc try:l
(a) There was a woman who (b) was a young bride. (c) And now her
mother-in-law is explaining to her (d) how bread is kneaded. (e) Or
(rather) she told her to knead bread. (e) And this daughter-in-law took
to kneading bread. (f) She tried it. (MBSa1)
This problem is resolved if the contexts in which the simple pasts are used are
considered carefully. My native speaker consultant interpreted all three passages
as expressing a higher degree of ‘empathy’ between the current teller and the
story character than in L-form passages in the same texts. That is, although they
do not directly represent the speech or thoughts of story characters, the use of
simple past does signal a partial deictic shift from the perspective of the current
teller to the perspective of the main story character (i.e. the original teller). This
has the eﬀect of making the narrative more ‘vivid’, more involving than if an
L-form, which automatically distances the teller from the events in question,
was used to describe the same event. To this extent, the use of simple past in
retelling can stand alone as an expressive device.
In (6), the teller shifts from consistent use of L-forms in the prior text to
simple past at the climax of the story (when she reports at (f)–(g) that the zelnik
was made but not made well). The teller shifts back to the L-form when she
starts summarising what else happened at (h). Use of expressive language at text
climaxes have been well attested (e.g. Labov 1972; Polanyi 1982; Mayes 1990),
and provides the motivation for the use of simple past in this example.
Deviations from a reportive epistemological stance 187
In (7) the teller begins to tell her version of the story with L-forms to mark
her reportive epistemological stance towards the narrative. At (c) she shifts to
imperfective present tense objasnuva ‘is explaining’ in conjunction with the
temporal adverb sega ‘now’. Both tense and adverbial forms are expressive
devices that shift temporal deixis to the time of the story world. In (d) and (e)
the teller uses simple past forms. In (f) she resumes the L-form to signal the
next narrative events in the retelling (and L-forms are consistently continued in
the text after this passage).
The use of simple past forms in (d) and (e) is problematic because neither
represents the speech nor thought of story characters. In addition, both clauses
represent new events in the narrative — the mother-in-law’s instructions and
the daughter-in-law’s compliance with these instructions. Note also that (d)
and (e) occur at the beginning of the story and cannot be analysed as represent-
ing some kind of ‘climax’.
Despite these shortcomings, the use of simple pasts in clauses (d) and (e) in
(7) continue the more expressive mode of narration established in (c) with the
temporal deictic shift. Here however the shift is one of epistemological deixis
rather than temporal deixis. The use of the proximate demonstrative ovaa ‘this’
in (e) reinforces the interpretation of a deictic origin that lies somewhere within
the story world, thus diminishing the presence of the current teller.
The use of simple past to code narrative events in retelling, illustrated in (6)
and (7) is thus analogous to the use of present tense forms to talk about past
time events. The well-documented ‘historical present’ (e.g. Schiﬀrin 1981; Dry
1983) marks a shift in temporal deictic origin from time of narration to time of
the narrative. Similarly, the use of simple past marks a shift in epistemological
deixis from external to the narrative to somewhere internal to the story world.
The narrative information is thus presented as if the teller and her audience had
direct experience of the events for the rhetorical purpose of telling a more vivid
and interesting story.
Figure 7.4 represents the relationship between the modes of representation
discussed in this section and their degree of expressivity. In retelling narrative,
the more expressive the mode of representation, the less likely an L-form will be
used. The overall low frequency of L-forms, compared with both simple past
and non-past forms, in a narrative retelling context reﬂects the tendency for
storytellers to use more expressive modes of representation, even when the
experience of others is being recounted.
The absence of reportive marking in the Japanese corpus, indicating local
deviations from the default reportive epistemological stance, could also be
188 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
analysed in terms of local shifts to character perspective. Some of the non-
Direct
Speech
Represented
Thought
Framing
Clause
Simple Past
Narrative
Clause
L-form
Narrative
Clause
> > > >
Most
Expressive
Most
Reportive
Figure 7.4Continuum of expressivity
reportively marked narrative sequences in the Japanese corpus on closer
examination expressed the cognitive processes, including the epistemological
stance, of a story character rather than that of the reteller, even if such units did
not signal total deictic shift to the perspective of that character.
(8) a. sore wa kanojo no sono omotte-ta
that top 3sg gen that think-prog-p
basho to zenzen chigau no ne
place and not.at.all diﬀerent nom ip
b. dakara kanojo mo okashii to omotte
therefore 3sg also wrong rsp think-con
and that was very diﬀerent from the place which she was thinking of. So
she thought something was wrong. (JLBb1)
The ﬁrst narrative clause (a) in (8) describes something that was in the charac-
ter’s mind (her comparison of her location at this time in the narrative with
where she wants to be). The use of the interactional sentence ﬁnal particle ne at
the end of this unit signals that the information is not reportively marked (i.e.
it is in complementary distribution with sentence ﬁnal tte). The second narra-
tive clause (b) presents the character’s conclusion following the comparison
(that something was wrong). The narrative information in (b) is clearly an
example of thought representation, embedded under a thought predicate omou
‘think/reason’. Although (a) does in fact represent something that the character
is thinking, it is not overtly marked as represented thought, and third person
pronouns (kanojo) are used to refer to the character, suggestive of a narrative
mode rather than an expressive mode. The lack of the expected reportive
marking in (a) helps to cohere the background information about the character’s
Deviations from a reportive epistemological stance 189
thoughts with her conclusion by presenting both as content of thought - a
representation of the character’s epistemological stance.
(9) de X san wa are demo ano hoteru tte South Campus no
and X top that but hotel rsp South Campus gen
chikaku janakatta ka na tte omotteta no zutto
near cop-neg-p ip ip rsp think-prog-p nom very.much
Wasn’t the hotel the one near the South Campus?, X had been thinking.
(JLBb1)
Recall that information which was syntactically embedded under a verb of
speaking or thinking was automatically coded as a content unit in my corpus.
This accounted for the clear passages of represented thought, like (9), where the
content of thought was syntactically embedded under a verb of thinking and an
expressive hedging particle ka na ‘I wonder’ was used to represent the charac-
ter’s state of mind. Once the reportively marked units were identiﬁed and
separated, it was possible to assess units like (a) in (8), which on the surface
looks like a narrative clause, as represented thought expressing the epistemolog-
ical stance of the character.
(10) a. karera no eigo ga yoku wakara-nakute
3pl gen English subj well understand-neg-con
b. ano shikuhakku shite-ta no
suﬀer do-con-p nom
c. de sore de doo.shiyoo ka na tte omotte-ita toki ni
and that and helpless ip ip rsp think-prog-p cond loc
d. X-san no tomodachi ‘Mark’ ga asobi ni kita node…
X gen friend Mark subj visit loc come-p conj
She couldn’t understand their English very well and she was suﬀering a
lot. And when she was wondering what she should do, X’s friend Mark
came to see her… (JCRb1)
The units (a) and (b) in (10) are examples of narrative clauses since they
represent states of aﬀairs in the story world. They are not directly embedded
under a clause of speaking or thinking, nor are there other clear deictic or
expressive forms in these clauses that would suggest a representation of charac-
ter’s thought. However although the story is a retelling, and the reteller did use
reportive coding in other places in the text (the density of this text was a
relatively high 0.70), neither (a) nor (b) have any overt reportive coding. In
190 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
contrast, (c) is clearly direct represented thought. The information that the
character was wondering what to do is modiﬁed with the expressive hedging
particle combination ka na ‘I wonder’ and the content of thought is followed by
a framing clause tte omotte ita ‘she was thinking’. Although (b) does not present
represented thought, it does express something about the character’s internal
state. The lack of reportive coding in (a) and (b), where information about the
character’s internal state is described, helps to centre the narrative perspective
closer to the character in anticipation of the direct representation of her
thoughts in (c).22
The analysis of Macedonian and Japanese narrative units in terms of their
place in the reportive/expressive continuum accounts for the unexpected
absence of reportive forms (and the presence of forms which are consistent with
a personal experience epistemological stance) in narrative retelling by reference
to the perspective structure of the text — whose viewpoint is being represented
(teller or character) and to what extent is the teller’s presence manifested in the
linguistic signal (the overlap of object and origin of perspective. It is a concrete
illustration of the deictic nature of reportive coding and its role in the establish-
ment and maintenance of diﬀerent discourse perspectives.
The analysis hinges on speakers’ cognitive ability to distance themselves
from their own experience and to adopt the perspective of others while they
talk. Analyses of linguistic form and variation in discourse (and narrative in
particular) that ignore the tendency for speakers to shift in and out of expressive
and reportive modes as they talk, ignore an intrinsic component of discourse
production and comprehension without which the use of certain forms makes
no sense.
7.1.2 Consistency of referring expressions
The discussion of the representation of speech and thought and epistemological
stance assignment focussed on the eﬀects that degree of perspectivisation of
narrative information (as more or less ‘expressive’) had on the interpretation of
epistemological stance. Reportive coding was clearly manipulated to allow the
reteller to represent the perspective of characters’ within the story. This pattern
was evident in the Macedonian and Japanese corpuses where the reportive epi-
stemological stance is the ‘default’ epistemological stance in retelling. It was less
clear in the English corpus, where a reportive epistemological stance was
adopted judiciously for more targeted pragmatic purposes (such as drawing
attention to the climax of the story, or indicating a memory lapse). Did this mean
Deviations from a reportive epistemological stance 191
that English retellers were at other times oblivious to the fact that they were
retelling someone else’s’ story? The evidence from the use of referring express-
ions, the ways that characters were referred to in the story, indicates otherwise.
When a reportive epistemological stance is adopted, narrative information
is conceptually indexed to the original teller, who in this case was the experiencer
of the narrative events. As long as the reportive epistemological stance is main-
tained, it is assumed that the reteller will tell the story from the original teller’s
perspective and her perspective alone. In terms of the deictic centre, a reportive
epistemological stance requires that the original teller be the origin of deixis.
In contrast, an imaginative epistemological stance, the ‘default’ epistemo-
logical stance found in the English retelling corpus, represents the narrative
information as a creative product of the reteller. The story is not grounded with
any particular source other than the reteller as a storyteller. This means that the
reteller can represent narrative information from any perspective she chooses,
and she may even shift between perspectives as the story unfolds. In terms of
narrative deixis, the imaginative epistemological stance does not presuppose
any particular origin of perspective.
Referring expressions have already been identiﬁed as a clear indicator of
narrative perspective (Wiebe 1989, 1995). The form of referring expressions
gives clues about whose knowledge is being represented, and therefore which
character (or no character) functions as origin of perspective. Wiebe (1995)
discusses the role of referring expressions (e.g. speciﬁc references, proper
names, deployment of anaphora) in helping to assign information to diﬀerent
belief spaces (cf. Fauconnier’s (1994) discussion of names and roles).
(9) Perhaps the man understood. Perhaps he did not.
(Cherryh, 1988, p.24)
These sentences are the represented thoughts of the character Vanye about
Chei [another character] Although the reference “the man” does not reﬂect a
false belief of Vanye’s about Chei (Chei really is a man), it does reﬂect Vanye’s
limited knowledge about Chei: At this point in the novel, the reader, but not
Vanye, knows Chei’s name. (from Wiebe 1995:270)
The use of a deﬁnite noun phrase “the man” helps the reader to understand that
the passage is a representation of Vanye’s personal experience of the character,
distinct from the experience of the reader. In the context of the English corpus
of retellings, the ways that the main characters were referred to by the retellers
provided strong clues as to whose epistemological stance is being represented:
the current reteller, the original teller or some other character in the story. The
192 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
following discussion focuses on the only retellings of the ‘Mouse Soup’ story in
the English corpus, to illustrate this phenomenon.
The human characters in ‘Mouse Soup’ are the teller/experiencer, her
mother, her father, and marginal references to the teller/experiencer’s siblings.
The fact that the characters were all relatives of the original teller is useful since
diﬀerent kinship terms may be adopted for the same character depending on
which perspective is taken. For example, if the story is told from the original
teller’s perspective, then the mother character will be ‘mother’ and the father
character will be ‘father’. If the mother character’s perspective is taken, then the
father character will be ‘husband’ and the original teller character will be
‘daughter’, and so on. Table 7.3 summarises the predicted forms of referring
expressions for a personal experience epistemological stance (i.e. the original
tellings) vs. a reportive epistemological stance.
A reteller who globally adopts a reportive epistemological stance will
Table 7.3Predicted forms of referring expressions in personal experience version of
Mouse Soup and retellings of Mouse Soup
Original Retelling
me
my mother
my father
the girl/the woman
her mother/the mother
her father/the father
consistently refer to the story characters as ‘the mother’ and ‘the father’ and ‘the
woman/girl’ (the voice on the tape), indexing the kin relationships exclusively
to the original teller. If the reteller does not consistently maintain a reportive
epistemological stance, or fails to adopt one altogether, it is predicted that there
will be shifts in reference depending on which character is origin of perspective.
It is also predicted that perspective shifts are most likely to occur when a
character other than the original teller is most ‘active’. An active character is
one who instigates or is directly aﬀected by events in the story; one who
motivates the movement of the plot. Although Mouse Soup was the story of an
episode in one woman’s life, much of the plot revolves around what her
mother did (the implication being that the original teller of the story witnessed
her mother’s actions).
The results from the Mouse Soup corpus are consistent with this predic-
tion. Retellers seemed particularly motivated to shift perspective at points in
the story where the character of the original teller was not present and where
Deviations from a reportive epistemological stance 193
another character was active. However there were interesting diﬀerences in the
retellers’ attitude towards this shift in perspective consistent with whether they
were committed or uncommitted to the adoption of a reportive epistemologi-
cal stance.
Recall that only one reteller of ‘Mouse Soup’ (EMSd1) consistently used
reportive coding in her version of the story, signalling her overall commitment to
adoptingareportiveepistemologicalstancetowardsthestory.Thisepistemological
stance was expressed by the relatively concentrated use of evidential reported
speechthat indexedthe narrativeinformationas somethingthe previoustellerhad
said. As predicted, this version represented the characters of the story consistently
as ‘mother’, ‘father’ and ‘woman’ up until the passage in (11).
(11) and her mom was like
“forget it”
and so she got her husband
which is her father
to come check it out
and and when the father went into the kitchen
he saw the cat on top of the stove
and she said that the cat never used to do that right (EMSd1)
The passage in (11) is the only example of a shift in kinship reference in EMSd1.
The reteller refers to the father character as her husband, which signals a shift to
the mother character’s perspective (i.e. the ‘father’ character is the mother’s
husband). The last reference to the original teller as source was over 40 units
prior to this passage, and this was a part of the story where the most of the
events involved the mother character alone (when she went into the kitchen
and was wondering what was causing the noise). The fact that the reteller
represents the speech/thought of the mother character (“forget it”) is also
evidence that the mother is represented as centre of deixis at this point in the
story. It is quite natural for the perspective of the mother to continue when the
father character is mentioned for the ﬁrst time. This accounts for the teller’s use
of husband to refer to the original teller’s father.
Immediately following her reference to the character as husband however,
the reteller self-corrects and identiﬁes him as father, the expected form of the
referring expression under a reportive epistemological stance. This repair is
evidence of her attempt to maintain the original teller as origin of perspective,
which in turn is evidence of her attempt to maintain a reportive epistemological
stance throughout the whole telling. The analysis is further supported by the
194 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
fact that there is explicit reference to the original teller as source (of the infor-
mation that the cat never behaved in that way) only 3 units later.
From the perspective of the reteller in (11), the shift from original teller to the
mother-character’s point of view was an error that was caught and repaired
immediately.Therewereexamplesofperspectiveshiftsfromotherretellingswhich
were not explicitly treated as error. These occurred when the reteller was making
a committed eﬀort to retell the story from an imaginative epistemological stance
rather than a reportive epistemological stance. However, even when it was clear
from the absence of reportive coding that retellers were adopting an imaginative
stance, they did seem to sense the inherent conﬂict that arises when they took
the perspective of someone other than the original teller in a story originally
represented as that teller’s experience. (12) and (13) illustrate this conﬂict.
(12) and went in the living room with her father and the~ and the woman
the woman and the woman’s father (woman’s POV)
and then the mother came into the ki~ (woman’s POV)
into the living room
the mother went into the kitchen (woman’s POV)
put the soup into the refrigerator
(a) then went back into the living room ¨
with the husband and her daughter (Mother’s POV)
(b) the daughter’s telling the story ¨
and they’d hear like a ‘plop’ sound (EMSc1)
In (12), which is from a retelling that lacked reportive coding altogether, the
reteller begins this passage with a reference to the father-character consistent
with original teller’s perspective (her father). Note that the identiﬁcation of the
main character as ‘the woman’ implies only that the other kin terms are based
on relationships to her. It does not imply that she was the source of the story, a
necessary factor if this were to be a reﬂection of a reportive epistemological
stance. This perspective is maintained until (a) where there is a clear shift to the
perspective of the mother (coming back into the living room), by the referring
expressions the husband and her daughter, both of which take the mother
character as point of reference.
The unit at (b) in (12) is an extranarrative comment that clariﬁes who was
originally telling the story. The fact that the reteller continues to refer to this
person as the daughter is evidence that she continues to take the mother
character’s perspective even when she is explicitly expressing that the story she
tells is a retelling. This is an indication that this reteller was more committed to
retelling the story as a story, rather than as a retelling.
Deviations from a reportive epistemological stance 195
(13) so she [the mother] sends
you know
her husband in (mother’s POV)
so um
her father (original teller’s POV)
her husband (mother’s POV)
same person
okay
the girl’s~
the girl’s father (original teller’s POV)
alright
the lady’s husband (mother’s POV)
her mo~
you know (EMSb1)
In (13), like (12), the reteller alternates between the original teller’s perspective
and the mother’s perspective with reference to the character of the father. On
the surface this passage seems incoherent, as if the reteller was not sure of who
she was talking about — she cannot settle of a particular perspective to identify
the character. Rather than analyse this passage as an example of narrative
incoherence, or a breakdown in retelling, it is more useful to view this as a
further illustration of the conﬂict between the fact that the reteller knows she is
retelling someone else’s story and her commitment to adopting an imaginative
epistemological stance towards the story.
This particular passage is about things that the mother did (e.g. sending her
husband in). This motivates the reteller to represent the information from the
mother’s perspective. The fact that she was not completely comfortable with
this representation illustrates her underlying representation of the story as the
report of what the ‘daughter/girl’ character said and what she experienced.
Despite the conﬂict apparent in (13), this reteller was clearly overall
committed to retelling the story from an imaginative epistemological stance.
This is clear both from the lack of reportive coding and from her desire to tell the
story from whatever character is most ‘active’ at any time in the narrative. For
examplein(14),sherepresentstheperspectiveofthefathercharacter(whowould
refer to the mother character as ‘wife’) when he is the most active character.
(14) So he calls you know
His wife into the kitchen (Father’s POV)
And she shrieks and says
“Give it to the dog
196 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
Give it to the dog”
So um
So he gets rid of the mouse
And um
Gets rid of the mouse
And ever since then
He’d like jokingly say to like
You know
Their friend that
um
His wife would try to feed him mouse soup (EMSb1)
In summary, the tracking of referring expressions in narrative is a useful tool
not only for the identiﬁcation of origin of perspective (and hence whether the
information represents the private state of a story character), but it can also be
used to conﬁrm whether a reteller is consistent in her goal to retell a story as a
retelling or as a story. This test was particularly useful for identifying epistemo-
logical stance in English retelling because of the lack of other linguistic cues of
the kinds found in Macedonian and Japanese for indicating epistemological
stance.
7.2 Other factors contributing to the absence of reportive coding
The discussion of the pragmatics of epistemological stance adoption has so far
focused on two general, perhaps universal, factors that motivate choice of epi-
stemological stance adoption: socio-cultural attitudes towards authority over
knowledge (Chapter 6) and the manipulation of narrative perspectives for the
purposes of telling an interesting and coherent story (this chapter). The eﬀects
of individual speaker behaviour in a particular retelling context on both the
choice to explicitly code narrative information as a retelling (cf. as a personal
experience or ﬁctional story), and the consistency with which it is coded, should
not be ignored however.
The ﬂuctuations in evidential density reﬂect diﬀerences in the reportive
‘ﬂavour’ of the text. This corresponds to diﬀerences in the ways that each
reteller approached the task of retelling the story she heard. A high reportive
density index for an individual retelling suggests that the reteller was primarily
concerned with retelling the story as a retelling. For her, maintaining the
original teller as an origin of perspective was a highly salient part of the task of
Deviations from a reportive epistemological stance 197
retelling. In contrast a low reportive density index suggests that the reteller was
less concerned with being explicit about the fact that the story was about
someone else’s experience told to her by someone else. This behaviour does not
mean that such a reteller was unaware or completely unconcerned with her
source of information however.
There are several reasons why retellers may not have felt compelled to
consistently code their version of the story as a retelling. Some of these derive
from the fact that a speaker retelling a story must take into account many
contextual factors, some of which may conﬂict with the use of reportive mark-
ing. For example, retellers may want to adopt an epistemological stance that
ignores source of information and focuses on their own perspective and
evaluation of the narrative events. This is the kind of factor that has been
discussed in most detail here.
Another important factor inﬂuencing the density of reportiveness is the
context created by my methodology — the task of retelling a story recently heard
toasecondperson.Whiletheretellingsalwaysoccurredbetweenpeoplewhoknew
each other, not everyone who participated in this project knew the original teller
well.Furthermore,someretellershadheardthestorydirectlyfromthe experiencer
of the events. Other retellers heard the story played to them on a tape.
These variables clearly aﬀected the way that the retellers viewed the story.
For those whose source of information was a disembodied voice on a tape,
asking them to retell this kind of story was similar to asking them to retell an
anonymously authored written passage. In contrast, the source of information
for other tellers was a friend. When they retold their version of the story, they
were informing their interlocutor about something a mutual acquaintance told
them. One of the main diﬀerences between these scenarios is the extent to
which the reteller can assume shared knowledge with the audience about the
original source of the story, and hence adapt their retelling to suit their assump-
tions of what the audience knows. This may have reduced the number of
reportive forms because they did not have to ‘report’ the story to the audience
as new information, leaving them with more scope to focus on the ‘here and
now’ aspects of the storytelling process (i.e. the interaction itself).
7.3 Summary
In Chapter 6, it was suggested that the adoption of a consistent reportive episte-
mological stance, where retellers constantly reinforce the fact that the story
198 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance
originated in someone else’s telling, is taken to reﬂect the reteller’s desire to
signal her faithfulness to the story’s origins. Reportive strategies are the means
by which retellers communicate their faithfulness to the task of retelling by
explicitly identifying narrative information as the product of someone else’s
telling, and downplaying their own role as the creative producer of the story. In
terms of deixis, the adoption of a reportive epistemological stance indexes the
story to the original teller of the story and not to the reteller. It paints the
current storyteller as merely a ‘passive’ conduit for conveying the narrative
information rather than as an ‘active’ creator of a story.
In this chapter it has been shown how retellers are also highly motivated to
incorporate evaluative devices, especially shifts in narrative perspective, into
their retelling as a way of making the story more coherent and listenable.
Incorporation of evaluative devices — whether they represent attitudes of the
reteller or attitudes of characters in the story — draw attention to the reteller as
the active creator of a ‘three-dimensional’ storyworld, over which she has
integrated her own personal storytelling style. This motivation is in direct
competition with the motivation to retell a verbatim rendition of a story just
heard, in which the reteller has no creative input.
The fact that no retelling in this study represented all narrative information
from a reportive epistemological stance is strong evidence that retellers were not
satisﬁed with simply assessing and expressing the ‘tellability’ of the story as a
‘dry’ report of what someone else had told them, even if they were clearly
committed to being faithful to the original (as indicated by the extreme similar-
ities in plot structure and character between the original narrative and its
retellings). The evidence indicates that retellers were at least equally concerned
with reconstructing a story that reﬂected aspects of their own creative skills as
a story teller — and their active participation in the reconstruction process.
This chapter has also provided an illustration of the importance of incor-
porating narrative perspective into any analysis of linguistic structure in narra-
tive discourse. The framework for viewing narrative perspective in deictic terms
has provided the means to account for the local variations in epistemological
stance signalling, even those that were not predicted, such as the use of simple
past forms in Macedonian narrative clauses. Factoring perspective into the
analysis of epistemological stance highlights its deictic properties, the construal
of information that lies behind the deictic nature of evidential systems ident-
iﬁed at the beginning of this work.
</TARGET "7">
Notes
<TARGET "notes" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Notes"
SUBJECT "Pragmatics & Beyond, New Series, Volume 87"
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "220"
WIDTH "150"
VOFFSET "4">
1.My italics.
2.In context, the (b) utterance also reﬂects a particular speaker subjectivity, but one quite
diﬀerent from that in (a). For example, it can be inferred that the speaker is certain of the fact
that Eric got a job, even if is not clear how she knows about it. The simple assertion of the
fact that Eric got a job implies that the speaker is simply informing the hearer and deliberate-
ly not imposing her opinion, etc.
3.My italics.
4.There are some minor formal diﬀerences between the Bulgarian and Macedonian. In
most Macedonian dialects, the auxiliary has been lost in third person singular contexts. In
Bulgarian, the auxiliary is used for particular pragmatic eﬀects (see Fielder 1995 for some
discussion of auxiliary use in Bulgarian L-form past).
5.I earlier characterised Willett’s analysis as following a ‘source-based’ interpretation of
evidentiality. Under this interpretation, the category of inferring would have to be analysed
as specifying thought process as a type of source of information. This is diﬀerent from
Palmer’s analysis of inferential markers as coding speaker commitment, independent of type
of information source.
6.Sanders (1994) presents experimental evidence which indicates that identiﬁcation of
source and degree of speaker ‘certainty’ are independent variables in the use of Dutch ‘episte-
mic modiﬁers’.
7.My italics
8.This claim does not assume that the types of grammaticalised systems exempliﬁed by
these three languages are all that exists in language. As mentioned earlier, the adequate
presentation of evidential categories in language descriptions is still in its infancy.
9.The Quechua language consists of a wide range of diﬀerent dialects. Evidential properties
do vary from dialect to dialect, although all have a tripartite evidential clitic systems similar
to what I describe here. My knowledge of the system is primarily based on Weber’s (1986,
1989) work on Huanuco Quechua and Floyd’s (1993) work on Wanka Quechua.
10.Recall that direct experience is typically considered the unmarked category in evidential
systems, both formally and semantically (Willett 1988). It is particularly interesting that not
only does Quechua have a form which marks direct experience or witness of events, but also
the form is required even when other strategies for coding direct perceptual experience are
present.
11.A relationship between mirativity and ‘indirect’ evidentiality which has been noted in
many descriptions of evidential systems (e.g. Aksu-Koç and Slobin 1986; Friedman 1986;
Delancey 1997).
200 Notes
12.This does not mean that reported speech representation only functions to express a
reportive epistemological stance. For more information on the functions of reported speech
representation see for example Tannen (1986, 1989), Mayes (1990), McGregor (1994),
Maynard (1996).
13.Both the imaginative epistemological stance and inferential epistemological stances
share the property of being a product of the speaker/conceptualiser’s own cognitive
processes. In the case of inferential epistemological stance, information is represented as the
product of the speaker/conceptualiser’s reasoning processes based on real world evidence.
When an imaginative epistemological stance is adopted, the information is not itself
represented as a product of the speaker’s creative cognitive processes but is represented as
existing independently in its own world.
14. Because of these properties, the analysis of direct speech in the context of discourse
theory has proven rather problematic. For example, Labov’s (1972) model of narrative
structure (and its later incarnations) sidesteps the issue by grouping direct speech in personal
experience stories with other kinds of ‘evaluation’, but without really accounting for non-
evaluative instances of direct speech that are also found in narrative. Mushin’s (1994)
solution was to identify the content of speech as a narrative event, along with any reported
speech framing clause that introduces the speech event in the narrative. Under this interpre-
tation, it is the entire direct speech passage (representing that character’s speech act) that is
the narrative event, and not the individual units of the direct speech passage.
15.Parts of Chapters 5, 6, and 7 have been published as:
Mushin, I. 2000. Evidentiality and Deixis in Narrative Retelling. Journal of Pragmatics 32:
927–957.
Mushin, I. in press. Japanese reportive evidentiality and the pragmatics of retelling. Journal
of Pragmatics (to appear 2001).
16. Avoidence of past tense, a common strategy amongst Macedonians for avoiding
making a decision whether or not to vouch for something. Friedman (p.c.) observes that
historical present is used very frequently in conversational narrative.
17.There is a considerable amount of literature debating whether there is a distinction
between direct and indirect speech in Japanese as is found in most European languages,
including Macedonian (e.g. Coulmas 1986; Maynard 1984, 1986)
18.There is still some ambiguity of function. A few sentence ﬁnal uses of tte represented the
speech of story characters. This is a non evidential function of sentence ﬁnal tte in this
context. The vast majority of instances of sentence ﬁnal tte in the retelling corpus were clearly
functioning to represent narrative information as acquired by hearsay however.
19.The pragmatics of these adverbials is more complex than I have presented here. In this
work, I am only interested in their pragmatics to the degree that they are use to represent a
story as a retelling. See Ifantidou-Trouki (1994), Biber & Finegan (1988, 1989) and Carston
(1998) for overviews of the semantics and pragmatics of English ‘propositional attitude’
adverbials.
20.This continued interest in Japanese evidentiality, and related phenomena, derives from
a long time acknowledgment that many Japanese forms require some notion of ‘speaker
attitude’ or ‘subjectivity’ in order to explain their formal and semantic properties. The
Notes 201
Japanese linguistic tradition going back two centuries divides linguistic signs into two types,
shi (‘objective’ content words) and ji (‘subjective’ words that express voice and emotion),
thus recognising the importance of the speaker’s identity for the explanation of linguistic
structure. See Maynard (1993) for an extensive summary of the Japanese traditional
approach to linguistics and the philosophy of language. This tradition has been inﬂuential in
the development of certain approaches to syntax in the generative school, notably the work
of Kuno (1987 and elsewhere).
21.These ‘indirect forms’ are evidential because they encode ‘external evidence’ as part of
their meaning. Not all indirect forms listed by Kamio are evidential however. For example,
the sentence ﬁnal particle ne, often translated as a tag ‘isn’t it?’, is described as coding
information that is in the hearer’s but not the speaker’s territory. There are no epistemologi-
cal implications in the use of ne however (e.g. whether the information is more or less
reliable, how the speaker knows about information in the hearer’s territory, etc.)
22.An alternative analysis is that the lack of reportive coding at (b) signals that it is not
information in the previous telling. In fact, a comparison of the text in (10) with the original
telling shows that the information in (b) is an inference on the part of the current speaker.
The original teller repeatedly said that her English was not very good and that she was having
diﬃculty understanding the car-rental people. She did not say that she was personally
suﬀering as a result. The lack of reportive marking at (b) thus avoids attributing information
to the original speaker that she did not say.
</TARGET "notes">
References
<TARGET "ref" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "References"
SUBJECT "Pragmatics & Beyond, New Series, Volume 87"
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "220"
WIDTH "150"
VOFFSET "4">
Aikhenvald, Alexandra Y. and Dixon, Robert M.W.
1998 “Evidentials and areal typology: a case study from Amazonia”. Language Sciences.
20 (3): 241–257.
Akatsuka, Noriko
1985 “Conditionals and the epistemic scale”. Language 61 (3): 625–639.
Aksu-Koç. Ayhan A. and Slobin, Dan I.
1986 “A psychological account of the development and use of evidentials in Turkish”.
In Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology. W. Chafe & J. Nichols
(eds), 159–167. Norwood: Ablex.
Anderson, Lloyd B.
1986 “Evidentials, paths of change, and mental maps: typologically regular assyme-
tries”. In Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology. W. Chafe & J.
Nichols (eds), 273–312. Norwood: Ablex.
Anderson, Stephen R. & Keenan, Edward L.
1985 “Deixis”. In Language Typology and Syntactic Description: Grammatial Categories
and the Lexicon. Vol 3. T. Shopen (ed.), 259–309. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Aoki, Haruo
1986 “Evidentials in Japanese”. In Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology.
W. Chafe & J. Nichols (eds), 223–239. Norwood: Ablex
Austin, John L.
1962 How To Do Things With Words. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Banﬁeld, Anne.
1982 Unspeakable Sentences: Narration and Representation in the Language of Fiction.
Boston: Routledge & Kegan Paul.
Barnes, Janet
1984 “Evidentials in the Tuyuca verb”. International Journal of American Linguistics
50: 255–271.
Bartlett, Frederic
1932 Remembering. London: Cambridge Univerisity Press.
Bendix, Edward H.
1992 “The grammaticization of responsibility and evidence: interactional manipula-
tion of evidential categories in Newari”. In Responsibility and Evidence in Oral
Discourse. J.H. Hill & J.T. Irvine (eds), 226–247. Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
204 References
Berman, Ruth A. and Slobin Dan I. (eds).
1994. Relating Events in Narrative: A cross-linguistic develomental study. Hillsdale, N.J.:
L. Erlbaum.
Biber, Douglas. & Finegan, Edward
1988 “Adverbial stance types in English”. Discourse Processes 11: 1–34.
1989 “Styles of stance in English: lexical and grammatical marking of evidentiality and
aﬀect”. Text 9 (1): 93–124.
Bienveniste, Emile
1971 Problems in General Linguistics. Coral Gables: University of Miami Press.
(translated by M.E. Meek)
Bühler, Karl
1934 (Tr.1990) Theory of Language: The Representational Function of Language
Amsterdam: John Benjamins. (translated by D.F. Goodwin)
Bybee, Joan, L.
1985 Morphology: a study of the relationship between meaning and form. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Bybee, Joan L., Perkins, Revere & Pagliuca, William
1995 The Evolution of Grammar: Tense, Aspect and Modality in the Languages of the
World. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Carston, R.
1998 Pragmatics and the Explicit-Implicit Distinction. PhD. Thesis. University College
London.
Chafe, Wallace L. (ed.)
1980 The Pear Stories: Cognitive, Cultural and Linguistic Aspects of Narrative Produc-
tion. Norwood: Ablex.
Chafe, Wallace L.
1986 Evidentiality in English Conversation and Academic Writing. In Evidentiality:
The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology. W. Chafe & J. Nichols (eds), 261–272.
Norwood: Ablex
1995 Discourse, Consciousness and Time. Chicago: Chicago University Press.
Chafe, Wallace L. & Nichols, Joanna (eds)
1986 Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology. Norwood: Ablex
Chun, Soon-Ae and Zubin, David A.
1990 “Experiential vs. agentive constructions in Korean narrative”. BLS 16: 81–93.
Clark, Herbert H.
1992 Arenas of Language Use. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press
1996 Using Language. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press
Clark, Herbert H. & Gerrig, Richard J.
1990 “Quotations as Demonstrations”. Language 66 (4): 764–805.
Cohn, Dorrit
1978 Transparent Minds: Narrative Modes for Representing Consciousness in Fiction.
Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Coulmas, Florian (ed.)
1986a. Direct and Indirect Speech. Berlin: Mouton de Grutyer.
References 205
Coulmas, Florian
1986b “Direct and indirect speech in Japanese”. In Direct and Indirect Speech. F.Coul-
mas (ed.), 161–178. Berlin: Mouton de Grutyer.
De Bray, R.G.A.
1980 Guide to the South Slavonic Languages. Columbus: Slavica Publishers.
DeLancey, Scott
1986. “Evidentiality and volitionality in Tibetan”. In Evidentiality: The Linguistic
Coding of Epistemology. W. Chafe & J. Nichols (eds), 203–213. Norwood: Ablex
1991 “Ergativity and the cognitive model of event structure in Lhasa Tibetan”.
Cognitive Linguistics 1(3): 289–321
1997. “Mirativity: the grammatical marking of unexpected information”. Linguistic
Typology. 1: 33–52
Donaldson, Tamsin
1980 Nyiyambaa: the Language of the Wangaaybuwan. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press
Dry, Helen D.
1983 “The movement of narrative time”. Journal of Literary Semantics 12: 19–53.
DuBois, John W.
1986 “Self-evidence and ritual speech”. In Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epi-
stemology. W. Chafe & J. Nichols (eds), 313–336. Norwood: Ablex
DuBois, John W., Scheutze-Coburn, Stephan, Paolino, D. and Cumming, Susanna
1992 “Discourse transcription”. In Santa Barbara Papers in Linguistics Vol 4.
Duchan, Judith F., Bruder, Gail A. & Hewitt, Lynn E (eds)
1995 Deixis in Narrative: a Cognitive Science Approach. Hillsdale: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Ehrlich, Susan
1990 Point of View: A Linguistic Analysis of Literary Style. London: Routledge.
Fauconnier, Gilles
1994 Mental Spaces: Aspects of Meaning Construction in Natural Language. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press
Field, Margaret
1997 “The role of factive predicates in the indexicalization of stance: a discourse
perspective”. Journal of Pragmatics 27: 799–814.
Fielder, Grace.
1995 “Narrative perspective and the Bulgarian L-participle”. Slavic and East European
Journal 39 (4): 585–600.
Finegan, Edward
1995 “Subjectivity and subjectﬁcation: an introduction” In Subjectivity and Subject-
iﬁcation: Linguistic Perspectives. D. Stein & S. Wright (eds), 1–15. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Finegan, Edward, Besnier, Niko, Blair, David and Collins, Peter
1992 Language: its Structure and Use. Sydney: Harcourt Brace
Fillmore, Charles
1997 Lectures on Deixis. Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Fleischman, Suzanne
1990 Tense and Narrativity. London: Routledge.
206 References
Floyd, Rick R.
1993 The Structure of Wanka Quechua Evidential Categories. Unpublished Ph.D
Thesis: UC San Diego.
Fludernik, Monika
1993 The Fictions of Language and the Languages of Fiction. London: Routledge.
Friedman, Victor A.
1977 The Grammatical Categories of the Macedonian Indicative. Columbus: Slavica.
1986 “Evidentiality in the Balkans: Bulgarian, Macedonian, and Albanian”. In
Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology. W. Chafe & J. Nichols (eds),
168–187. Norwood: Ablex
1988 “Morphological innovation and semantic shift in Macedonian”. Zeitschrift für
Balkanologie Band 24 (1): 34–41.
1995 “Contact and consciousness in the Balkan Sprachbund”. Paper presented at
Language and Consiousness, an International Symposium. Varna: Bulgaria.
Fromkin, Victoria, Blair, David and Collins, Peter
1999 The Structure of Language (4th edition). Sydney: Harcourt Brace
Givon, Talmy
1980 “The binding hierarchy and the typology of complements”. Studies in Language
4 (3): 333–377.
1982 “Evidentiality and epistemic space”. Studies in Language 6 (1): 23–49
Gordon, Lynn
1986 “The development of evidentials in Maricopa”. In Evidentiality: The Linguistic
Coding of Epistemology. W. Chafe & J. Nichols (eds), 75–88. Norwood: Ablex.
Grenoble, Lenore
1998 Deixis and Information Packaging in Russian Discourse. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Grice, H. Paul
1975. “Logic and conversation”. In Syntax and Semantics Vol. 3 (Speech Acts). P. Cole
& J. Morgan (eds). 41–58. New York: Academic Press
Hale, Austin
1980 “Person markers: Finite conjunct and disjunct verb forms in Newari”. In Papers
in South-East Asian linguistics 7 (Paciﬁc Linguistics Series A-53). R. Trail (ed.),
95–106. Canberra: Paciﬁc Linguistics
Hamburger, Kate
1973 The Logic of Literature. Bloomington: Indiana University Press. (translated M.J.
Rose)
Hardman, Martha J.
1986 “Data-source marking in the Jaqi languages”. In Evidentiality: The Linguistic
Coding of Epistemology. W. Chafe & J. Nichols (eds), 113–136. Norwood: Ablex.
Hargreaves, David J.
1991 The Concept of Intentional Action in the Grammar of Kathmandu Newari. PhD
Dissertation: University of Oregon.
Hasegawa, Yoko
1996 A Study of Japanese Clause Linkage: The Connective te in Japanese. Stanford: CSLI.
References 207
Hill, Jane. H. and Irvine, Judith.T. (eds).
1992 Responsibility and Evidence in Oral Discourse. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Hopper, Paul J.
1991 “ Some principles of grammaticalisation”. In Approaches to Grammaticalisation.
Vol.1. E.C. Traugott & B. Heine (eds), 17–35. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hopper, Paul J. and Traugott, Elizabeth. C.
1993 Grammaticalisation. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Ifanditou-Trouki, Elly
1993 Sentential adverbs and relevance. Lingua 90 (1/2): 69–90
Itani, Reiko
1996 Semantics and Pragmatics of Hedges in English and Japanese. Tokyo: Hituzi Syobo.
Iwasaki, Shoichi
1985 “Cohesion, nonchallengeability and the -n desu clause in Japanese spoken
discourse”. Journal of Asian Culture 9: 125–142.
1993 Subjectivity in Grammar and Discourse: Theoretical Considerations and a Case
Study of Japanese Spoken Discourse. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Jacobsen, William. H. Jr.
1986 “The heterogeneity of evidentials in Makah”. In Evidentiality: The Linguistic
Coding of Epistemology. W. Chafe & J. Nichols (eds), 3–28. Norwood: Ablex.
Jakobson, Roman
1957 “Shifters, verbal categories and the Russian verb”. In Selected Writings Vol 2.
Cambridge University (1971). 130–147. The Hague: Mouton.
Janssen, Theo A.J.M. & van der Wurﬀ, Wim (eds)
1996 Reported Speech: Forms and Functions of the Verb. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Jarvella, Robert J. & Klein, Wolfgang (eds)
1982 Speech, Place and Action: Studies in Deixis and Related Topics. Chichester: John
Wiley & Sons Ltd.
Johnson-Laird, Paul N.
1981 “Comprehension as the construction of mental models”. In The Psychological
Mechanisms of Language. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of
London: The Royal Society and the Britich Academy
Kamio, Akio
1979 “On the notion of speaker’s territory of information: a functional analysis of
certain sentence ﬁnal forms in Japanese”. In Explorations in Linguistics: Papers in
Honor of Kazuko Inoue. G. Bedell, E. Kobayashi & M. Muraki, (eds), 213–231.
Tokyo: Kenkyuusha.
1994 “The theory of territory of information: The case of Japanese”. Journal of
Pragmatics 21: 67–100.
1995 “Territory of information in English and Japanese psychological utterances”.
Journal of Pragmatics 24: 235–264.
1998 Territory of Information. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
208 References
Kemmer, Susan
1995 “Emphatic and reﬂexive -self: expectations, viewpoint and subjectivity”. In
Subjectivity and Subjectivisation: Linguistic Perspectives. D. Stein & S. Wright
(eds), 55–82. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Kuno, Susumo
1973 The Structure of the Japanese Language. Cambridge: MIT Press
1987 Functional Syntax: Anaphora, Discourse and Empathy. Chicago: Chicago Univer-
sity Press.
Kuroda, S-Y.
1973 “Where epistemology, style and grammar meet: a case study from Japanese”. In
A Festschrift for Morris Halle. S.R. Anderson. & P. Kiparsky (eds), 377–391. New
York : Holt, Rinehart & Winston.
Labov, William
1972 Language in the InnerCity: studies in the Black English Vernacular. Philadelphia:
University of Pennsylvania Press.
1997 “Some further steps in narrative analysis.” Journal of Narrative and Life History.
7: 395–415
Lampkin, R.L.
1995 Japanese Verbs and Essentials of Grammar: A Practical Guide to the Mastery of
Japanese. Lincolnwood: Passport Books.
Langacker, Ronald
1985 “Observations and speculations in subjectivity”. In Iconicity in Syntax. Typologi-
cal Studies in Language Vol.6. J. Haiman (ed.), 109–150. Amsterdam/Phila-
delphia: John Benjamins.
1987 Foundations of Cognitive Grammar, Vol. 1: Theoretical Prerequisites. Stanford:
Stanford University Press.
1990. “Subjectiﬁcation”. Cognitive Linguistics 1: 5–38
1991 Foundations of Cognitive Grammar, Vol. 2: Descriptive Application. Stanford:
Stanford University Press.
1997 “The contextual basis of cognitive semantics”. In Language and
Conceptualization. J. Nuyts & E. Pederson (eds), 229–252. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press
Lehmann, Christian
1985 “Grammaticalisation: synchronic variation and diachronic change”. Lingua e
Stile 20: 203–218.
Li, Charles
1986 “Direct speech and indirect speech: a functional study”. In Direct and Indirect
Speech. F. Coulmas (ed.). 29–45. Berlin: Mouton de Grutyer.
Li, Naicong
1992 Perspective Taking in Mandarin Discourse. unpublished PhD Thesis: SUNY
Buﬀalo.
Lucy, John. A. (ed.)
1993 Reported Speech and Metapragmatics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lunt, Horace. G.
1952 Grammar of the Macedonian Literary Language. Skopje.
References 209
Lyons, John
1982 “Deixis and subjectivity: Loquor, ergo sum?”. In Speech, Place and Action: Studies
in Deixis and Related Topics. R.J. Jarvella & W. Klein (eds), 101–124. Chichester:
John Wiley & Sons
Mandler, Jean M.
1982 “Some uses and abuses of a story grammar.” Discourse Processes 5: 305–318
Mandler, Jean M. & Johnson, N.S.
1977 “Rememberence of things parsed: story structure and recall”. Cognitive Psychol-
ogy 9: 111–151.
Mayes, Patricia
1990 “Quotation in spoken English”. Studies in Language 14 (2): 325–363.
Maynard, Senko K.
1984 “Functions of to and koto-o in speech and thought representation in Japanese
written discourse”. Lingua 64: 1–24.
1986 “The particle -o and content-oriented indirect speech in Japanese written
discourse”. In Direct and Indirect Speech. F. Coulmas (ed.). 179–200. Berlin:
Mouton de Grutyer.
1993 Discourse Modality: Subjectivity, Emotion and Voice in the Japanese Language.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins
1996 “Multivoicedness in speech and thought representation: the case of self-quota-
tion in Japanese”. Journal of Pragmatics 25: 207–226.
McCawley, Noriko
1978 “Epistemology and Japanese syntax: complementizer choice”. CLS 14: 272–284.
McGregor, William
1994 “The grammar of reported speech and thought in Gooniyandi”. Australian
Journal of Linguistics 14 (1): 63–92
Minsky, Marvin
1975 “A framework for representing knowledge”. In The Psychology of Computer
Vision. P. Winston (ed.), 95–128. New York: McGraw-Hill.
Mithun, Marianne
1986 “Evidential diachrony in Northern Iroquoian”. In Evidentiality: The Linguistic
Coding of Epistemology. W. Chafe & J. Nichols (eds), 89–112. Norwood: Ablex.
Mushin, Ilana
1994 “The function of direct speech in retelling”. CLS 30: 296–308
1997 “Maintaining epistemological stance: direct speech and evidentiality in
Macedonian”. CLS 33: 287–300.
1998 Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance in Macedonian, English and Japanese
Narrative. PhD Dissertation: SUNY at Buﬀalo
Myhill, John and Hibiya, Junko
1988 “The discourse function of clause chaining”. In Clause Combining in Grammar
and Discourse. J. Haiman & S.A. Thompson (eds), 361–398. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Nichols, Johanna
1986 The Bottom Line: Chinese Pidgin Russian. In Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding
of Epistemology. W. Chafe & J. Nichols (eds), 239–260. Norwood: Ablex.
210 References
Ohori, Toshio
1995 “Remarks on suspended clauses: a contribution to Japanese phraseology”. In
Essays in Semantics and Pragmatics (in honour of Charles J. Fillmore). M. Shiba-
tani & S.A. Thompson (eds), 201–218. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Ohta, Amy S.
1991 “Evidentiality and politeness in Japanese”. Issues in Applied Linguistics. 2 (2):
211–238.
Okamoto, Shigeko
1995 “Pragmaticization of meaning in some sentence-ﬁnal particles in Japanese”. In
Essays in Semantics and Pragmatics (in honour of Charles J. Fillmore). M. Shiba-
tani & S.A. Thompson (eds), 219–246. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Palmer, Frank
1986 Mood and Modality. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Polanyi, Livia
1982 “Literary complexity in everyday storytelling”. In Spoken and Written Language:
exploring orality and literacy. D. Tannen (ed.), 155–170. Norwood: Ablex.
1989 Telling the American Story. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Rappaport, William, Segal, Erwin, Shapiro, Stuart, Zubin, David, Bruder, Gail, Duchan,
Judith, and Mark, David
1989 Cognitive and Computer Systems for Understanding Narrative Text (Tech. Report
No. 89–07). Buﬀalo: State University of New York at Buﬀalo, Department of
Computer Science.
Rauh, Gisa (ed.)
1983 Essays on Deixis Gunter Narr Verlag Tübingen
Sanders, Jose
1994 Perspective in Narrative Discourse. Den Haag: CIP-Gegevens Koninklijke Biblio-
theek.
Schank, Roger C.
1984 The Cognitive Computer: On Language, Learning and Artiﬁcial Intelligence. (with
Childers, P.G). Reading, Mass.: Addison-Wesley Publishing Company.
Schiﬀrin, Deborah
1981 “Tense variation in narrative”. Language 57 (1): 45–62.
Schlichter, Alice
1986 “The origin and deictic nature of Wintu evidentials”. In Evidentiality: The Linguistic
Coding of Epistemology. W. Chafe & J. Nichols (eds), 46–59. Norwood: Ablex.
Searle, John
1969 Speech Acts. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Sells, Peter
1987 “Aspects of logophoricity”. Linguistic Inquiry 18 (3): 445–479.
Stein, Dieter & Wright, Susan (eds)
1995 Subjectivity and Subjectivisation: Linguistic Perspectives. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Stirling, Lesley
1993 Switch-Reference and Discourse Representation. Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
References 211
Sun, Jackson T.S.
1993 “Evidentials in Amdo Tibetan”. Bulliten of the Institute of History and Philology
Academia Sinica. 945–1001
Suzuki, Satako
1997 “Japanese complementizers: interactions between basic characteristics and
contextual factors”. Paper presented at the 5th International Cognitive Linguis-
tics Conference, Amsterdam.
1998 “Tte and nante: Markers of psychological distance in Japanese conversation”.
Journal of Pragmatics 29: 429–462.
Sweetser, Eve E.
1990 From Etymology to Pragmatics: Metaphorical and Cultural Aspects of Semantic
Structure. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Tannen, Deborah
1986. “Introducing constructed dialogue in Greek and American conversational and
literary narrative”. In Direct and Indirect Speech. F. Coulmas (ed.), 311–32.
Berlin: Mouton de Grutyer.
1989 Talking Voices: Repetition, Dialogue and Imagery in Conversational Discourse.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Thorndyke, Perry W.
1977 “Cognitive structures in comprehension and memory of narrative discourse”.
Cognitive Psychology 9: 77–110
Thurgood, Graham
1986 “The nature and origins of the Akha evidentials system”. In Evidentiality: The
Linguistic Coding of Epistemology. W. Chafe & J. Nichols (eds), 214–222. Nor-
wood: Ablex.
Traugott, Elizabeth. C.
1989 “On the rise of epistemic meanings in English: an example of subjectiﬁcation in
semantic change”. Language. 65 (1): 31–55
1995 “Subjectiﬁcation in grammaticalisation”. In Subjectivity and Subjectivisation:
Linguistic Perspectives. D. Stein & S. Wright (eds), 31–54. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Watanabe, Yasuko
1984 “A study of complementization in Japanese: to, koto and no”. Papers in Linguistics
17(4): 351–368.
1994 “Clause chaining, switch reference and action/event continuity in Japanese
discourse: the case of te, to and zero-conjunction”. Studies in Language. 18 (1):
127–203.
Weber, David. J.
1986 Information Perspective, Proﬁle, and Patterns in Quechua. In Evidentiality: The
Linguistic Coding of Epistemology. W. Chafe & J. Nichols (eds), 137–158. Nor-
wood: Ablex.
Weissenborn, Jurgen and Klein, Wolfgang (eds)
1982 Here and There: Cross-linguistic Studies on Deixis and Demonstration. Amster-
dam: John Benjamins.
212 References
Wiebe, Janice. M.
1989 Recognizing Subjective Sentences in Narrative: A Computational Investigation
of Narrative Text. unpublished Ph.D Thesis: SUNY Buﬀalo.
1995 “References in narrative text”. In Deixis in Narrative: a Cognitive Science
Approach. J.F. Duchan, G.A. Bruder & L.E. Hewitt (eds), 263–286. Hillsdale:
Lawrence Erlbaum.
Wierzbicka, Anna
1974 “The semantics of direct and indirect discourse”. Papers in Linguistics. 7 (3/4):
267–307
Willett, Tom
1988 “A cross-linguistic survey of the grammaticalisation of evidentiality”. Studies in
Language 12 (1): 51–97
Woodbury, Anthony C.
1986 “Interactions of tense and evidentiality: a study of Sherpa and English”. In
Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology. W. Chafe & J. Nichols (eds),
188–202. Norwood: Ablex.
Wright, Susan
1995 “Subjectivity and experiential syntax”. In Subjectivity and Subjectivisation:
Linguistic Perspectives. D. Stein & S. Wright (eds), 151–172. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Zubin, David A., Chun, Soon Ae, and Li, Naicong
1990 “Misbehaving reﬂexives in Korean and Mandarin”. BLS16: 338–354.
Zubin, David A. and Hewitt, Lynn E.
1995 “The deictic center: a theory of deixis in narrative”. In Deixis in Narrative: a
Cognitive Science Approach. J.F. Duchan, G.A. Bruder & L.E. Hewitt (eds),
129–155. Hillsdale: Lawrence Erlbaum.
</TARGET "ref">
Appendix A
<TARGET "appa" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Appendix A"
SUBJECT "Pragmatics & Beyond, New Series, Volume 87"
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "220"
WIDTH "150"
VOFFSET "4">
In this appendix, I present a brief synopsis of each personal experience story that was used as
the basis for the retelling study. This is followed by a list of all the retellings that were
recorded for each personal story.
Macedonian (Bitola area dialect)
1. Bread Story (MBS) (prerecorded): A newly wed young woman is living with her husband’s
family. Her mother-in-law asks her to bake some bread. She complies, but the bread turns
out bad and the young woman is embarrassed and worried about what her mother-in-law
will say when she returns from the market. Her father-in-law placates her and so does the
mother-in-law when she returns. The young woman is not consoled since she had made
bread well in the past.
Although this story is about the particular personal experience of the storyteller (who
was the young woman in the story), it relates an experience that is common among
Macedonian women of her generation who were raised in a rural village environment. All the
retellers could relate to the story. Mothers-in-law hold a posistion of power over their
daughters-in-law in traditional Macedonian society. This explains the great fear of the young
woman in the story. That the mother-in-law in the story was so nice about the badly made
bread was considered exceptional by the retellers.
Retellings of MBS:
MBSa1, MBSa2
MBSb1, MBSb2
MBSc1, MBSc2
MBSd1, MBSd2
2. Zelnik Story (MZS) (live): A newly married young woman prepares her ﬁrst meal in her
new apartment for her husband and his best man. She tries to make a ‘zelnik’, a type of
savory pastry, but forgets to put oil in it. The result is a cooking disaster. The husband teases
his new wife when his guest arrives by requesting the zelnik, even though he knew that it was
ruined. The young woman was very embarrassed.
Retellings of MZS:
MZS1, MZS2
3. New Car (MNC) (live): A young women desribes how she convinced her parents to get
buy her a car, and how she and her father went to a car auction.
Unlike MBS and MZS, MNC was told by a young woman (in her 20s) who was the
daughter of one of the other participants. All retellers of her story were of her mother’s
generation (not her mother). It seemed that most of the women knew that the teller had
214 Appendix A
recently acquired a new car, although they had not heard all the details of how she acquired
it. (See Chapter 6 for further discussion of the consequences of this knowledge for the
adoption of a consistent reportive epistemological stance.)
Retellings of MNC:
MNC1, MNC2
4. Additional Texts: There were a number of texts collected in pilot studies which were not
considered to be part of the corpus because either the tellers were male or they did not come
from the Bitola area. Some of these texts were used as individual examples in the book. In
particular, “Car Accident” (MCA), told by a young male who came from Prespa (central-
western Macedonia), which was collected during a pilot study.
Japanese
1. Car Rental (JCR) (prerecorded): This story was part of a recorded conversation between
two friends (young women). One of the friends is telling about her attempts to rent a car in
America. She found this particularly diﬃcult because of her poor English and ended up
getting an American friend to help her.
Retellings of JCR:
JCRa1, JCRa2
JCRb1, JCRb2
JCRc1, JCRc2,
JCRd2*
The retellers in the second group (‘b’) knew the original teller and clearly recognised the
voice on the tape. The other retellers either did not know the original teller personally or did
not recognise her voice on the tape.
*JCRd2 is actually a third generation retelling constructed from JCRc2. I coded it as a
second generation retelling because it too was a retelling of a retelling.
2. Film Story (JFS) (live and recorded): This was an account of making a ﬁlm for a class
exercise, focussing on some casting problems.
The retellers knew most of the people mentioned in the story and some had previously
known about the ﬁlm (although not about the details of its production).
The ‘live’ recording of JFS was played to a second retelling group on a diﬀerent occasion.
This person did not know the original teller.
Retellings of JFS:
JFSa1, JFSa2
JFSb1
3. Lost in Buﬀalo (JLB) (live and recorded): This story was the adventure of a young woman
student at SUNY Buﬀalo who was trying to make her way from the airport to meet a friend
at a particular Burger King. It was late at night and she ended up getting a ride with some
policeman who couldn’t ﬁnd the right Burger King. After several misadventures, the teller
found herself walking around by herself with her luggage. Some boys eventually picked her
up and gave her a ride to the right place. Ironically, they scolded her for accepting a ride from
strangers.
Appendix A 215
This story was much longer than the other personal experience stories (over 10
minutes). The ‘live’ tape recording was played to one other speaker group. The reteller who
listened to the taped version knew the identity of the original teller.
Retellings of JLB:
JLBa1, JLBa2
JLBb1
English
1. Mouse Soup (EMS) (Prerecorded): A 40 year old (American) woman is recounting
something that happened to her when she was still a child living at home. Her mother had
made chicken soup and was leaving it out on the stove for the fat to congeal. The family was
in the livingroom when they started to hear a ‘plopping’ sound in the kitchen. The mother
went into the kitchen but could not ﬁnd anything. She sent the father in and with the help of
the cat, eventually looked into the pot of soup and found a mouse that had fallen in.
The teller clearly considered this story to be ‘personal experience’, even though she was
not physically present at the time the mouse was discovered (she was still in the livingroom).
Retellings of EMS:
EMSa1, EMSa2
EMSb1, EMSb2
EMSc1
EMSd1
2. Bed Story (EBS) (live): The teller woke up one morning at 6am to ﬁnd her bed on ﬁre (her
electric blanket had shorted). She woke her roommate and the two of them dragged the
smoldering mattress outside but could not put it out. Eventually they called the ﬁre
department. Ten ﬁremen arrived in two trucks for the smouldering mattress. The teller was
clearly amused by the experience although it had been scary at the time.
Retellings of EBS:
EBS1, EBS2
3. Grade One Story (EGS) (live): The teller recounted an embarrassing episode from ﬁrst
grade. She missed the designated bathroom break and had to go to the toilet during a class.
She ended up wetting her pants and running to the bathroom, leaving a trail behind her. She
was particularly embarrassed because everyone in the class still remembered the incident at
the end of grade school (it made it to the year book).
This particular group were all college roomates and clearly very comfortable with each
other (two were sisters and three of them came from the same town). It was very diﬃcult for
one of them to think of a story that she had never told the others.
Retellings of EGS:
EGS1, EGS2
</TARGET "appa">
Appendix B
<TARGET "appb" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Appendix B"
SUBJECT "Pragmatics & Beyond, New Series, Volume 87"
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "220"
WIDTH "150"
VOFFSET "4">
In this appendix I present a sample of retellings from each corpus. Units are coded for
narrative status : narrative, embedded narrative in evidential direct speech, extranarrative,
content and reportive markers (boldface). Other glossing abbreviations are provided in the
list of abbreviations at the beginning of the book.
Macedonian
The two texts presented here represent the two main strategies for story retelling I found in
my corpus: consistent use of L-form past and use of evidential direct speech.
(i) L-form Strategy (MBSc1)
nar Bila nekoja nevesta mlada
be:l some bride young
There was a young bride.
nar Mesila leb
knead:l bread
She had baked some bread.
nar Svekrvata poshla na pazar
M-in-law:def go:l loc market
The mother-in-law had gone to market.
nar Mesila leb so svekorot doma
knead:l bread with F-in-law:def home
She had baked bread with the father-in-law at home.
nar Go mesila sve
3acc knead:l everything
She had baked it and everything.
nar Stignal za da go opechat
arrive:l ben to 3acc cook:3pl
[The time] arrived for them to cook it.
nar Svekorot dojsol furnata
F-in-law:def bring:l oven:def
The father-in-law brought the oven.
nar ja napalile
3acc light:l
They lit it.
218 Appendix B
nar/ Shto treba da go pechat lebot
ext what should:3sg to 3acc cook:3pl bread:def
Which is needed to cook the bread.
nar Go opekle sve
3acc cook:l everything
They cooked it, and everything.
nar Go izvajle
3acc take.out:l
They took it out.
nar Si doshla svekrvata od pazar
refl come:l M-in-law:def gen market
The mother-in-law returned from the market
nar I prashala
and ask:l
and asked
con Kako e lebot
how be:3sg bread:def
how the bread is.
nar Taa mu rekla nevestata
3nom 3dat say:l bride:def
She said, the bride,
con Aren e
good be:3sg
“It is good.”
nar reche
say:3sg.sp
She said,
con Ama vnatre kako zhila postana
but inside how vein become:3sg.sp
“But it became vein-like inside.
con Ne dopechen
neg ﬁnish.cook:part
Not fully cooked.”
nar Svekorot mu rekol
F-in-law:def 3dat say:l
The father-in-law said to her,
con Aren e
good be:3sg
“It’s good.
con Aren e
good be:3sg
It’s good.
Appendix B 219
con Kje go izedime
will 3acc eat:1pl
We will eat it.”
nar Reche
say:3sg.sp
He said.
con Ne e losho
neg be:3sg bad
“It’s not bad.
con Ubavo pechen
nice bake:part
Nicely cooked.
con Od odzgora odzola sve ubavo
gen top bottom everythng nice
On the top, on the bottom, everything (is) nice.”
con I Aj(de) drug pat kje se nauchish
and come other time will refl learn:2sg
And “Come on, another time you will learn.
con Poubavo kje a prajsh
better will then make:2sg
You will make it better.”
nar Mu rekla svekrvata
3dat say:l M-in-law:def
The mother-in-law said to her,
con Sega za prv pat arno shto
now ben ﬁrst time okay what
“Now as it’s the ﬁrst time, it’s okay. What.”
ext Drugo neznam
other know:1sg.neg
I don’t know anything else.
nar I taka svekorot mu rekol
and like.that F-in-law:def 3dat say:l
And so the father-in-law said to her,
con Ako maltse nie
doesn’t.matter a.little 1pl.nom
It doesn’t matter. A little for us.
con Maltse na gojdata
a.little loc cattle:def
A little to the cattle.
220 Appendix B
con Kje go izedime
will 3acc eat:1pl
We will eat it.
con Nema da go frlime lebot
have:3sg.neg to 3acc throw.away:1pl bread:def
We won’t throw the bread away.
con Nema da ostani
have:3sg.neg to remain:3sg
It won’t be wasted.”
(ii) Evidential Direct Speech Strategy (MBSd1)
ext zhenava shto zborva
woman:def what tell:3sg
What the woman is telling
ext ne e prikaska
neg be:3sg story
is not a story
ext ami e zhiva vistina
but be:3sg live truth
but the living truth
nar koga bila mlada nevesta
when be:l young bride
when she was a young bride
nar svekrva mu rekla da mesat leb
mother-in-law 3dat say:l to knead:3pl bread
her mother-in-law told her to bake bread
nar svekrvata oshla Bitola na pazar
mother-in-law:def go:l Bitola loc market
The mother-in-law went to Bitola to the market
nar i nea i rekla da mesi leb
and ? 3dat say:l to knead:3sg bread
and told her to bake bread
emb i jas veli
and 1nom say:3sg
“And I” she[previous teller] says
emb si namestiv za lebot
refl ﬁx:1sg.sp ben bread:def
“I ﬁxed everything for the bread
emb si prigotiv sve
refl get.ready:1sg.sp everything
I got everything ready
Appendix B 221
emb i go mesiv
and 3acc knead:1sg.sp
and I kneaded it
emb ubav me poraste
good 3dat rise:3sg.sp
and it rose nicely
emb se kvasec mu kladov
everything yeast 3dat put:1sg.sp
everything, I put yeast in it
emb i koga veli
and when say:3sg
“And when” she[previous teller] says
emb od koga go opekovme
gen when 3acc bake:1pl.sp
“After we baked it
emb lebot ne se pogodi so malko zhila
bread:def neg refl make.well:3sg.sp with little sinew
the bread turned out a little bit sinewy
emb sega jas se stramam
now 1nom refl be.ashamed:1sg
Now I am ashamed”
ext veli
say:3sg
she[previous teller] says
emb kako kje go jadat
how will 3acc eat:3pl
“How are they going to eat it!?”
nar sverkor mu mu rekol
father-in-law 3dat 3dat say:l
The father in-law said to her,
con ne se plashi nevesto
neg refl afraid:Imp bride
“Don’t be afraid, bride
con imame kuchinja
have:1pl dogs
We have dogs
con kje mu dajme nekoj somun da kuchinjata
will 3dat give:1pl some loaf to dogs:def
We will give some loaves to the dogs
222 Appendix B
con nekoj somun na volojte
some loaf loc oxen:def
Some loaves to the oxen
con i kje go izedime
and will 3acc eat:1pl
and we’ll eat it”
emb ne mi reche nishto losho
neg 1dat say:3sg.sp nothing bad
he didn’t say anything bad to me”
ext veli
say:3sg
she[previous teller] says
emb i vecherta
and evening:def
“And in the evening
emb koga si dojde svekrva mi od pazar
when refl come:3sg.sp mother-in-law 1dat gen market
when my mother in law came from the market
emb me prasha
1acc ask:3sg.sp
She asked me
con shto naprajvte so lebot go mesivte
what do:2pl.sp with bread:def 3acc knead:2pl.sp
“What did you do with the bread. Did you make it?”
con ja majka go mesivme
yes mother 3acc make:1pl.sp
“Yes mother, we made it
con go opekavme
3acc bake:1pl.sp
we baked it
con ama neshto
but somehow
but somehow,
nar / reche
emb say:3sg.sp
she said,
con ne e pogoden se zgreshi
neg be:3sg make.well:part refl be.bad:3sg.sp
it’s not good. it turned out badly
Appendix B 223
con ima neshto zhila
have:3sg somehow sinew
It’s sinewy.”
nar i taa mu veli
and 3nom 3dat say:3sg
and she says to her
con more ubav e ne se sekiraj
excl good be:3sg neg refl worry
“It’s good. Don’t worry”,
emb reche
say:3sg.sp
she said
con ubav e kje go izedime
good be:3sg will 3acc eat:1pl
“It’s good. We’ll eat it.”
emb ama jas reche kako mlada nevesta
but 1nom say:3sg.sp how young bride
“But I,” she said[previous teller], “as a young bride
emb kako prv pat da mesi
how ﬁrst time to knead:3sg
like making it for the ﬁrst time
emb jas mnogu se ustramiv
1nom very refl be.ashamed:1sg.sp
I got very ashamed
emb oti lebot mi beshe so zhila
because bread:def 1dat be:3sg.sp with sinew
because my bread was sinewy”
ext i veli
and say:3sg
and she[previous teller] says
emb ovaa svekrva mi ni eden zbor losh ne mi reche
dem mother-in-law 1dat neg one word bad neg 1dat say:3sg.sp
This mother-in-law didn’t say one bad word to me.”
ext veli
say:3sg
she[previous teller] says
emb jas se stramev
1nom refl be.ashamed:1sg.sp
“I was ashamed
224 Appendix B
emb da ne mi se razvika
to neg 1dat refl yell:3sg.sp
(because) she didn’t yell at me
emb ama jas se ustramiv
but 1nom refl be.ashamed:1sg.sp
but I was ashamed
emb golem stram toa bev
big shame dem be:1sg.sp
It was a big shame
emb oti prv pat go mesiv lebot
because ﬁrst time 3acc knead:1sg.sp bread:def
because it was the ﬁrst time I baked the bread
ext i toa
and dem
and that’s it.
Japanese
JFSa1: This text illustrates the use of all three of the reportive strategies described in Chap-
ter 5: sentence-ﬁnal tte, rashii and reportive framing.
nar ano ne X-chan ga ‘media study’ no kurasu de
ip X subj media studies gen class loc
eiga o toru koto ni natta rashii no ne
ﬁlm obj make nom loc become-p seem nom ip
It seems X was going to make a ﬁlm for her Media Studies class
nar sore de dene ichiban muzukashikatta no ga ne
that and and most diﬃcult-p nom subj ip
‘casting’ na-n da tte
casting part-nom cop rsp
Apparently the most diﬃcult part was casting.
nar de saishoo Vida to sorekara Ryoichi-kun ni tanonda-n da-kedo
and beginning Vida and then Ryoichi loc ask-p-nom cop-but
First, she asked Vida and Ryoichi
nar Vida-chan wa ii tte itta-n da-kedo
Vida top good rsp say-p-nom cop-but
And Vida said okay
nar Ryoichi-kun ga hora hazukashii-gariya ja.nai
Ryoichi subj like.this shy- cop-neg
dakara moo yadayada toka itte
therefore also no like say-con
But Ryoichi, as we all know, is very shy so he said no.
nar demo goin ni tanonda kedo
but force loc ask-p but
But she asked him forcefully
Appendix B 225
nar kekyoku hora Ryoichi-kun kuruma ikochattari nanka shite
ﬁnally like.this Ryoichi car accident something do-con
Finally since Ryoichi had an accident with his car,
nar sore de mm yappari muri ka.na tte yuu koto de
that and after.all ? ip rsp say nom cop-con
So she gave up
nar sore de iroiro sagashita-n da tte
that and various look.for-nom cop rsp
And apparently she tried many people
nar de mitsuketa no ga Ikuko-chan to Natsumoto-kun
and ﬁnd-p nom subj Ikuko and Natsumoto
And ﬁnally she found Ikuko and Nastumoto
nar de umaku ita rashii no ne
and well -prog-p seem nom ip
And it seem the ﬁlm went well.
nar soo no ne dene eeto soo soo Minato-san ni
ip ip ip and ip ip Minato loc
mo dete mora-tta-n da tte itte
also ? recieve-p-nom cop rsp say-con
And she also asked Minato [to play a character]
unfinished
de sono yaku tte yuu no ga honto wa ano kare
and that role rsp say nom subj really top 3sg
And the character was really~
nar honto wa motto hora shuyaku mitai ni yari-ta-kat-tara
really top more ? main.role seem loc do-want-p-conj
rashii-n da-kedo
seem-nom cop-but
It seems he really he wanted to play a main character
emb tiineejaa muke no eiga datta kara
teenager ? gen ﬁlm cop-p since
chotto sore ja otona da tte yuu koto de
a.bit that ? adult cop rsp say nom cop-con
But since it was a teenager ﬁlm and she said he was too old
ext de sono kuruma kara naze a… yuttake
and that car from why ?
Why from the car, didn’t I talk about this?
nar te o te dake no ne dasu yaku datta no
hand obj arm only nom ip show role cop-p nom
The character was to show his arm from the car
nar kekyoku wa de Minato-kun ga okotta no wa dooshite
ﬁnally top and Minato subj be.mad-p nom top why
kao toka dasanai no ka tte yuu koto na-n da-kedo
face like show-neg nom ip rsp say nom cop-nom cop-but
And the reason Minato was mad is he said that he didn’t show his face (on screen).
226 Appendix B
nar te sono yaku te yuu no wa otoosan no yaku datta
and that role rsp say nom top father gen role cop-p
rashii no ne
seem nom ip
And the character was the main character’s father, that’s what I heard.
nar dakara shikata nakute dake ni natta-n da tte
therefore way become-con only loc become-p-nom cop rsp
So apparently she couldn’t do anything.
nar demo Minato-san saisho okotte-ta-n da-kedo
but Minato ﬁrst be.angry-p-nom cop-but
But Minato was mad at ﬁrst
nar eiga o mite kekko yokatta kara
ﬁlm obj see-con rather good-p conj
But after he saw the movie, since it was good,
nar manzoku shiteta rashii
happy do-prog-p seem
He was happy about that.
ext to yuu hanashi
rsp say story
That’s the story.
English
The two texts represent the two extremes of retelling strategies: consistent reportive stance
and failure to adopt a reportive stance.
(i) Consistent Reportive Coding through Embedding under Evidential Reported
Speech (EMSd1)
ext It was a lady
ext she was telling a story or something and~
ext what was she saying?
ext First she started out talking about her house
emb how like really old~
emb and it had like alot alot of mouse in it~
like mice in it
(XX mouse)
emb how it had a whole bunch of mice in it right
ext and then she was talking about
oh they didn’t have~
ext I don’t know why she was saying this part
ext she was like giving a description of like the house
nar it was um in a hard ﬂoor
nar it was soft ﬂoor or something
nar and they didn’t have a chimney or nothing like that
Appendix B 227
nar and the stove was um
with wood
you know heated up with wood or whatever
ext oh she she said
emb that the person that built the house
I don’t know
emb he built the house in 1800 something like that
emb um the person that built the house
emb they didn’t have an arm
emb and they built the arm~~ the house
ext @@ I don’t know how
ext I don’t know
right
ext So then um
she started talking about um
emb her mother cooking soup
one day
emb and that um her mother would cook the whole chicken
you know
emb put the whole chicken to cook or whatever
emb and then she would leave it out
emb she would take the~
you know
the chicken out when it was like cooked
emb she would take it out
emb and if it was summertime
she would put it in the fridge
emb if it was like winter she would put it outside
emb so that way the fat can rise or something from the soup
emb so the she would put the
the broth
emb she would separate the broth
emb and she’d put that in the fridge or whatever
It’s like~
ext you know what I’m saying?
ext like you know with chicken soup and rice whatever
nar/ she takes~
emb
takes that out
nar/ so then she put the thing
emb
the pot back on the~
on the stove
228 Appendix B
nar and then um~
she started hearing like
plop plop plop noises or whatever
nar and um she thought something was dripping
nar and she was like
oh you know
con “something is happening~”
you know
con “something is dripping”
or whatever
nar and then she thought it was sort of like
nar she thought it was something like serious
like from the roof
nar/ it went through the attic
con
to the house or something
nar so she was like
con “oh whatever”
so she was like oh there~
she had a~
nar and her mom was like
trying to ﬁgure out
nar what was happening
nar and she was just there ch~
ext I don’t know what she was doing
nar so then h~
it stopped
nar the noise stopped
ext I’m like XX remembering slowly
nar the~ um the plopping noise had stopped
nar and then she was like
con “Okay ﬁne”
nar but then she heard it again
nar and her mom was like
con “forget it”
nar and so she got her husband
ext which is her father
nar to come check it out
nar and and when the father went into the kitchen
nar he saw the cat on top of the stove
ext and she said
emb that the cat never used to do that right
nar when the father saw that
he~
you know
Appendix B 229
nar he shushed it away
nar and ﬁgured that the cat was trying to get some meat right
nar but when he looked to see what was happening
nar it was a mouse
nar @@ it was a mouse
ext she said
emb the mouse looked like Elvis
emb coz it had all grease on it
you know
and um
and it was like
emb the mouse was inside the the the the pot
ext and she said
emb it was big
emb so every time it tried to climb out
emb it would plop back in
nar and there still was some broth in there
nar so that was the plopping noise
ext that was a cute story right
ext that was it.
@@@@
(ii) No Reportive Coding (EM Sb1)
okay
anyways
um in about~
nar in 1860 this um girl’s ancestors built this like
seventeen room monstrosity of a house
nar and it was out in the country
nar so they always had a problem with vermin
so um
nar th~ the whole house was like softwood ﬂoors except~
nar well it was softwood ﬂoors
nar but the rest of it was made out of oak
ext and like softwood’s like pine and stuﬀ like that
so um
nar this house is huge and
um when she was y~
nar um when she was younger her mom used to make soup all the time like
these huge like
pots of chicken
you know
soup
nar and it was like interminable
allright
230 Appendix B
nar there’s always tons of it
nar and she used to start oﬀ with whole chickens
and uh
after
you know
nar she used to take all the broth out and stick it~
stick it in the fridge
if it was during the um summertime
nar or out on the porch if it was during the winter time
nar so then it would cool
nar and she could just scoop oﬀ all the fat
you know
nar so it’d conge~
um congeal on the top
ext I think
like gather
ext I think that’s the word
and um
so anyways
nar one time
uh she made this huge
you know
pot of chicken soup
nar and she put the broth in the fridge
and um
nar she goes into the kitchen
nar and after a little while she starts to hear this
nar *plop plop plop* sound
nar and she thinks
con maybe a faucet’s dripping
nar so she goes back and um
into the kitchen
nar she walks through the hallway
nar gets there
nar and she checks the faucet
nar and it’s not dripping
nar so she’s like
con okay
nar so she goes back into the living room
nar and she hears
*plop plop*
again a few minutes later
and you know
I mean like~
Appendix B 231
nar her father doesn’t hear it because you know
he~
his hea~
ext his hearing was you know
not all that great
ext he blames it on like
ext too many like
shells going oﬀ near his ears during World War Two and stuﬀ like that
you know
nar so she goes back down the hallway into the kitchen
nar and she thinks
con “Oh God it’s raining
con maybe you know
the roof is leaking
through the attic
con through the bedroom above the kitchen
con and into maybe a pot in the kitchen sink”
nar but that’s not happening
nar so then you know
nar she goes back into the living room
nar and it happens again a few minutes later
nar well actually she stands in the middle of the kitchen
for a little while
for about
you know
couple of minutes
nar and she doesn’t hear it again
nar so she goes back into the living room
nar and after a few minutes she hears it again
nar *plop plop*
nar so she sends
you know
her husband in
ext so um
her father
her husband
same person
okay
the girl’s~
the girl’s father
allright
the lady’s husband
her mo~
you know
232 Appendix B
nar so
he goes in there
nar and the cat’s sitting in~
in the~
ext no
nar the cat was sitting in the middle of the ﬂoor when the mother went in
the second time
nar and now the cat’s up on the stove.
nar and he’s looking into the pot
nar and you know
um
you know
th~ the father
slash husband
is~
@@@
is you know like
con “why is the cat gonna try to steal some chicken”
nar so
he looks into the pot
nar and amid the chicken
the celery
the onions
is a mouse
covered with chicken fat
nar and its ears are slicked back
nar its hair’s slicked back
nar it looked like Elvis
and uh
@@
nar so he calls you know
his wife into the kitchen
nar and she shrieks and says
con “give it to the dog
con give it to the dog”
nar so um
so he gets rid of the mouse
nar and um
gets rid of the mouse
nar and ever since then
he’d like jokingly say to like
you know
their friend that um
Appendix B 233
con his wife would try to feed him mouse soup
and
@@
ext it was just like crazy that they had a mouse in there
I don’t know
</TARGET "appb">
Language index
<TARGET "li" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Language index"
SUBJECT "Pragmatics & Beyond, New Series, Volume 87"
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "220"
WIDTH "150"
VOFFSET "4">
A
Akha 47
Amdo Tibetan 47
B
Balkan Slavic 19–21, 27, 30, 31, 35, 71, 82,
104, 107
Bulgarian 19–21, 33, 36, 71, 104, 199
C
Cayuga 70
E
English 6, 10, 23, 24, 26, 28, 30–32,38–39,
41, 58, 63–69, 73–79, 85, 86, 96–97,
99, 121, 128–133, 143–144, 147,
154–161, 190- 196, 200, 201
G
German 24
J
Japanese 36, 71, 94, 96, 99–128, 115–118,
137–142, 144, 146, 152–155,
162–166, 187- 190, 200, 201
Jaqi 76
K
Korean 61–64
Kwakiutl 17
L
Lhasa Tibetan 40, 47–49, 48, 107
M
Macedonian 19–21, 38, 71,91, 94, 95, 97,
98, 103, 104–114, 138, 144, 146–149,
161–162, 166–171, 175–178,
182–187, 199,200
Makah 18, 37, 40, 44–46, 45, 46, 45–48,
54, 68, 86,
Mandarin Chinese 39
N
Newari 47, 56, 60–64, 72
Ngiyambaa 44, 70
Q
Quechua 17–19, 23, 25, 30, 32–34, 37, 38,
40–48, 54, 55, 57, 58, 70, 76, 78, 79,
81, 86, 199
R
Russian 6, 33
S
Sherpa 33
T
Tibetan 18, 37, 40, 47–49, 48, 54, 56, 107
Tuyuca xiii, xiv, 18, 19, 25
W
Wintu 33, 68, 70
</TARGET "si">
Name index
<TARGET "ni" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Name index"
SUBJECT "Pragmatics & Beyond, New Series, Volume 87"
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "220"
WIDTH "150"
VOFFSET "4">
A
Akatsuka 152
Aksu-Koç 11, 105, 111, 199
Anderson 5, 6, 11, 35
Aoki xiv, 36, 57, 115, 119, 124, 152
Austin 2, 3
B
Banﬁeld 13, 15, 70, 98, 113, 118, 175, 179
Barnes xiii, 19
Bartlett 95
Bendix 47, 56, 60, 61
Berman 87
Biber xiv, 17, 128, 129, 200
Bienveniste 3
Boas 17
Bühler 2, 3, 5, 11, 12, 33
Bybee 18, 170
C
Chafe xiv, 11, 18, 24, 28–31, 52, 87, 128
Clark 4, 73
Cohn 13, 175, 179
Coulmas 12, 70, 200
D
DeBray 19, 105
DeLancey 35, 46, 47, 56, 111, 199
Dry 187, 198
Duchan 11, 13, 174
E
Ehrlich 13
F
Field 11, 12, 148
Fielder 19, 199
Fillmore 5, 6, 11, 15
Finegan xiv, 1, 12, 17, 128, 129, 200
Fleischman 11
Floyd xvii, 17, 18, 30, 33, 34, 41, 43, 54,
70, 76, 199
Friedman xvii, 11, 19–22, 27, 31, 35, 91,
105, 107, 108, 111, 170, 199, 200
G
Gerrig 73
Givon 11, 21, 35
Gordon 35, 121
Grenoble 6, 33, 71
Grice 2–4
H
Hale 56
Hamburger 13
Hardman 76, 121
Hargreaves 47
Hasegawa 139
Heine 38, 40
Hewitt 13, 14, 99, 179, 205
Hibiya 139
Hill xiv, 22, 29, 150
Hopper 37, 38, 40
I
Irvine xiv, 22, 151
Itani 120, 140
Iwasaki 57, 139, 152
J
Jacobsen 17, 44, 45, 121
Jakobson 3, 6, 11, 18, 19, 21, 33, 71
Janssen 12, 70
Jarvella 6
238 Name index
Jarvella 6
Johnson 68, 87
Johnson-Laird 68
K
Kamio xiv, 57, 115, 152–154, 201
Keenan 5, 6, 11
Kemmer 11
Klein 6
Kuno 3, 139, 201
L
Labov 13, 86, 88, 98, 129, 160, 174, 186,
200
Lampkin 119
Langacker xiv, 7–11, 13, 63, 75
Lehmann 38, 40
Li, Charles 86
Li, Naicong 208
Lucy 70
Lunt 19, 104, 105, 108
Lyons 3, 5, 10, 11
M
Mandler 87
Mayes 73, 168, 186, 200
Maynard 115, 120, 123, 152, 200, 201
McCawley, Noriko 209
Minsky 68
Mithun 35, 70
Mushin ii, iii, iv, xvii, 71, 121, 200
Myhill 139
N
Nichols xiv, 35
O
Ohori 140
Ohta 115, 119, 140, 152
Okamoto 119, 123
P
Palmer xiv, 11, 19, 24–28, 31, 35, 36, 199
Polanyi 13, 86, 186
R
Rappaport 13
Rauh 6
S
Sanders 174, 175, 199
Schank 68
Schiﬀrin ii, 187
Schlichter 33, 35, 68, 70
Searle 2, 3
Sells 3, 11
Slobin 11, 87, 105, 111, 199
Stirling xvii, 3, 11
Sun Jackson 47
Suzuki 119, 120, 163
Sweetser 10
T
Tannen 13, 200
Thorndyke 87
Thurgood 35, 47
Traugott xvii, 9, 10, 35, 38, 40
van der Wurﬀ 12, 70
W
Watanabe 11, 139
Weber 23, 41–43, 54, 199
Wiebe 15, 175, 179, 191
Willett xiv, 19–21, 24, 27, 35, 36, 45, 71,
86, 121, 148, 199
Woodbury 33, 35, 57
Wright 11
Z
Zubin xvii, 11, 13, 14, 61, 62, 99, 179
</TARGET "ni">
Subject index
<TARGET "si" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Subject index"
SUBJECT "Pragmatics & Beyond, New Series, Volume 87"
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "220"
WIDTH "150"
VOFFSET "4">
A
authority 22, 150–152
B
broken telephone 89
C
challengeability 65, 151
clause chaining 139
Cognitive Grammar 7–9
coherence imperatives 150
complementiser 119–123, 148
compounds 38–39
conceptualisation 7–9, 52
conceptualiser 7–9, 13
construal 7–11, 29, 63–64, 74–76, 79–81
content units 98–101
cultural imperatives 150
D
deduction 28–30
degree of speaker commitment 21–24, 32
Deictic Centre Theory 13–15, 99–100
deictic expressions 5, 9
deictic function 5
deixis 5–7, 11, 33
dialect variation (Macedonian) 91
direct experience 57–58, 63–65, 106
direct speech 12, 69–70 , 112–114,
116–118, 182–185
disjunct system 60
E
epistemic 10, 23–27, 66–68
epistemic modality 24, 25
epistemic modals 23, 24, 27
epistemic must 31–32, 66
epistemological assessment 1, 15, 27, 53
epistemological status 58, 115
evaluation 21, 98, 160, 174
evidence 18, 25–31, 66–69, 75, 79, 106
evidential categories 6, 19–20 , 35
evidential clitic 34, 41–46
evidential reported speech 112, 116–119 ,
143, 165–169,
evidential direct speech 112–114
evidential indirect speech 130–131
evidential semantics 18, 28
expressivity see
expressive function 2–3
expressive language 79, 98, 179, 186
expressive mode 179, 183, 187–188
extranarrative units 98, 100–101
G
grammatical status 36–38, 40, 149, 161,
grammatical type 37
I
indexical function 34
indirect speech 12–13, 69, 117
induction 28–29
inference 29–30, 44, 66–69 , 124–128
inferential evidential 23
information source 19–21, 55 see source
of information
J
judgments 24–25, 27, 28
K
kedo 138–142
240 Subject index
L
L-form past 20, 31, 35, 71, 104–108,
110–111, 147–148, 166–168
M
mirativity 46
N
narrative 13–15, 86, 87–89, 95, 97–100 see
storytelling, story world, storyworld
narrative evidential 119, 124, 132, 163,
165
narrative perspective 174–175, 191
narrative units 98, 100–101, 178
O
object of perspective 14, 99, 100
objective utterances 8
origin of perspective 14, 99, 100, 178,
190–193
orthographies 94
P
pragmatic scope 142
private state(s) 59–65
psychological distance 163, 165, 169
R
rashii 123–128, 137, 153, 162–165
reported speech 12, 70–72, 110,
116–123 see direct speech, indirect
speech
reportive evidential 34, 120, 127, 162–165
reportive framing 109, 111, 115, 129,
144–145
reportive mode 179
representative function 3
S
sentence ﬁnal tte 119–123, 163–165
simple past 20–21, 104–108, 110, 111,
176–178, 181–187
source of information 17–23, 53–55,
72–77, 79–82 see information source
spatio-temporal deixis 6
speaker attitude 19, 21–24, 28, 105
speaker imprint 3
speech act theory 2–3
status 21
story world 14, 78–80, 178–179 see
storyworld, narrative
storytelling 78, 174–175 see narrative
storyworld 76–79, 100, 156, 178–181 see
story world, narrative
subjectiﬁcation 9–11
subjective utterances 8
subjectivity 3ﬀ, 80–81
T
tense 20, 38–41, 57, 104, 108, 139, 149,
170, 176–178
territory of information 152–156, 163
U
units 94–95, 98–101
W
witness 41, 47, 105–106
</TARGET "si">
In the PRAGMATICS AND BEYOND NEW SERIES the following titles have been pub-
lished thus far or are scheduled for publication:
1. WALTER, Bettyruth: The Jury Summation as Speech Genre: An Ethnographic Study of
What it Means to Those who Use it. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1988.
2. BARTON, Ellen: Nonsentential Constituents: A Theory of Grammatical Structure and
Pragmatic Interpretation. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1990.
3. OLEKSY, Wieslaw (ed.): Contrastive Pragmatics. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1989.
4. RAFFLER-ENGEL, Walburga von (ed.): Doctor-Patient Interaction. Amsterdam/Phila-
delphia, 1989.
5. THELIN, Nils B. (ed.): Verbal Aspect in Discourse. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1990.
6. VERSCHUEREN, Jef (ed.): Selected Papers from the 1987 International Pragmatics Con-
ference. Vol. I: Pragmatics at Issue. Vol. II: Levels of Linguistic Adaptation. Vol. III: The
Pragmatics of Intercultural and International Communication (ed. with Jan Blommaert).
Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1991.
7. LINDENFELD, Jacqueline: Speech and Sociability at French Urban Market Places. Am-
sterdam/Philadelphia, 1990.
8. YOUNG, Lynne: Language as Behaviour, Language as Code: A Study of Academic English.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1990.
9. LUKE, Kang-Kwong: Utterance Particles in Cantonese Conversation. Amsterdam/Phila-
delphia, 1990.
10. MURRAY, Denise E.: Conversation for Action. The computer terminal as medium of
communication. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1991.
11. LUONG, Hy V.: Discursive Practices and Linguistic Meanings. The Vietnamese system of
person reference. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1990.
12. ABRAHAM, Werner (ed.): Discourse Particles. Descriptive and theoretical investigations
on the logical, syntactic and pragmatic properties of discourse particles in German. Amster-
dam/Philadelphia, 1991.
13. NUYTS, Jan, A. Machtelt BOLKESTEIN and Co VET (eds): Layers and Levels of Repre-
sentation in Language Theory: a functional view. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1990.
14. SCHWARTZ, Ursula: Young Children’s Dyadic Pretend Play. Amsterdam/Philadelphia,
1991.
15. KOMTER, Martha: Conflict and Cooperation in Job Interviews. Amsterdam/Philadel-
phia, 1991.
16. MANN, William C. and Sandra A. THOMPSON (eds): Discourse Description: Diverse
Linguistic Analyses of a Fund-Raising Text. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1992.
17. PIÉRAUT-LE BONNIEC, Gilberte and Marlene DOLITSKY (eds): Language Bases ...
Discourse Bases. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1991.
18. JOHNSTONE, Barbara: Repetition in Arabic Discourse. Paradigms, syntagms and the
ecology of language. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1991.
19. BAKER, Carolyn D. and Allan LUKE (eds): Towards a Critical Sociology of Reading
Pedagogy. Papers of the XII World Congress on Reading. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1991.
20. NUYTS, Jan: Aspects of a Cognitive-Pragmatic Theory of Language. On cognition, func-
tionalism, and grammar. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1992.
21. SEARLE, John R. et al.: (On) Searle on Conversation. Compiled and introduced by
Herman Parret and Jef Verschueren. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1992.
22. AUER, Peter and Aldo Di LUZIO (eds): The Contextualization of Language. Amster-
dam/Philadelphia, 1992.
23. FORTESCUE, Michael, Peter HARDER and Lars KRISTOFFERSEN (eds): Layered
Structure and Reference in a Functional Perspective. Papers from the Functional Grammar
Conference, Copenhagen, 1990. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1992.
24. MAYNARD, Senko K.: Discourse Modality: Subjectivity, Emotion and Voice in the Japa-
nese Language. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1993.
25. COUPER-KUHLEN, Elizabeth: English Speech Rhythm. Form and function in everyday
verbal interaction. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1993.
26. STYGALL, Gail: Trial Language. A study in differential discourse processing. Amsterdam/
Philadelphia, 1994.
27. SUTER, Hans Jürg: The Wedding Report: A Prototypical Approach to the Study of Tradi-
tional Text Types. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1993.
28. VAN DE WALLE, Lieve: Pragmatics and Classical Sanskrit. Amsterdam/Philadelphia,
1993.
29. BARSKY, Robert F.: Constructing a Productive Other: Discourse theory and the convention
refugee hearing. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1994.
30. WORTHAM, Stanton E.F.: Acting Out Participant Examples in the Classroom. Amster-
dam/Philadelphia, 1994.
31. WILDGEN, Wolfgang: Process, Image and Meaning. A realistic model of the meanings of
sentences and narrative texts. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1994.
32. SHIBATANI, Masayoshi and Sandra A. THOMPSON (eds): Essays in Semantics and
Pragmatics. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1995.
33. GOOSSENS, Louis, Paul PAUWELS, Brygida RUDZKA-OSTYN, Anne-Marie SIMON-
VANDENBERGEN and Johan VANPARYS: By Word of Mouth. Metaphor, metonymy and
linguistic action in a cognitive perspective. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1995.
34. BARBE, Katharina: Irony in Context. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1995.
35. JUCKER, Andreas H. (ed.): Historical Pragmatics. Pragmatic developments in the history
of English. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1995.
36. CHILTON, Paul, Mikhail V. ILYIN and Jacob MEY: Political Discourse in Transition in
Eastern and Western Europe (1989-1991). Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1998.
37. CARSTON, Robyn and Seiji UCHIDA (eds): Relevance Theory. Applications and impli-
cations. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1998.
38. FRETHEIM, Thorstein and Jeanette K. GUNDEL (eds): Reference and Referent Accessi-
bility. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1996.
39. HERRING, Susan (ed.): Computer-Mediated Communication. Linguistic, social, and
cross-cultural perspectives. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1996.
40. DIAMOND, Julie: Status and Power in Verbal Interaction. A study of discourse in a close-
knit social network. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1996.
41. VENTOLA, Eija and Anna MAURANEN, (eds): Academic Writing. Intercultural and
textual issues. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1996.
42. WODAK, Ruth and Helga KOTTHOFF (eds): Communicating Gender in Context. Am-
sterdam/Philadelphia, 1997.
43. JANSSEN, Theo A.J.M. and Wim van der WURFF (eds): Reported Speech. Forms and
functions of the verb. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1996.
44. BARGIELA-CHIAPPINI, Francesca and Sandra J. HARRIS: Managing Language. The
discourse of corporate meetings. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1997.
45. PALTRIDGE, Brian: Genre, Frames and Writing in Research Settings. Amsterdam/Phila-
delphia, 1997.
46. GEORGAKOPOULOU, Alexandra: Narrative Performances. A study of Modern Greek
storytelling. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1997.
47. CHESTERMAN, Andrew: Contrastive Functional Analysis. Amsterdam/Philadelphia,
1998.
48. KAMIO, Akio: Territory of Information. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1997.
49. KURZON, Dennis: Discourse of Silence. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1998.
50. GRENOBLE, Lenore: Deixis and Information Packaging in Russian Discourse. Amster-
dam/Philadelphia, 1998.
51. BOULIMA, Jamila: Negotiated Interaction in Target Language Classroom Discourse. Am-
sterdam/Philadelphia, 1999.
52. GILLIS, Steven and Annick DE HOUWER (eds): The Acquisition of Dutch. Amsterdam/
Philadelphia, 1998.
53. MOSEGAARD HANSEN, Maj-Britt: The Function of Discourse Particles. A study with
special reference to spoken standard French. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1998.
54. HYLAND, Ken: Hedging in Scientific Research Articles. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1998.
55. ALLWOOD, Jens and Peter Gärdenfors (eds): Cognitive Semantics. Meaning and cogni-
tion. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1999.
56. TANAKA, Hiroko: Language, Culture and Social Interaction. Turn-taking in Japanese
and Anglo-American English. Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1999.
57 JUCKER, Andreas H. and Yael ZIV (eds): Discourse Markers. Descriptions and theory.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1998.
58. ROUCHOTA, Villy and Andreas H. JUCKER (eds): Current Issues in Relevance Theory.
Amsterdam/Philadelphia, 1998.
59. KAMIO, Akio and Ken-ichi TAKAMI (eds): Function and Structure. In honor of Susumu
Kuno. 1999.
60. JACOBS, Geert: Preformulating the News. An analysis of the metapragmatics of press
releases. 1999.
61. MILLS, Margaret H. (ed.): Slavic Gender Linguistics. 1999.
62. TZANNE, Angeliki: Talking at Cross-Purposes. The dynamics of miscommunication.
2000.
63. BUBLITZ, Wolfram, Uta LENK and Eija VENTOLA (eds.): Coherence in Spoken and
Written Discourse. How to create it and how to describe it.Selected papers from the Interna-
tional Workshop on Coherence, Augsburg, 24-27 April 1997. 1999.
64. SVENNEVIG, Jan: Getting Acquainted in Conversation. A study of initial interactions.
1999.
65. COOREN, François: The Organizing Dimension of Communication. 2000.
66. JUCKER, Andreas H., Gerd FRITZ and Franz LEBSANFT (eds.): Historical Dialogue
Analysis. 1999.
67. TAAVITSAINEN, Irma, Gunnel MELCHERS and Päivi PAHTA (eds.): Dimensions of
Writing in Nonstandard English. 1999.
68. ARNOVICK, Leslie: Diachronic Pragmatics. Seven case studies in English illocutionary
development. 1999.
69. NOH, Eun-Ju: The Semantics and Pragmatics of Metarepresentation in English. A rel-
evance-theoretic account. 2000.
70. SORJONEN, Marja-Leena: Recipient Activities Particles nii(n) and joo as Responses in
Finnish Conversation. n.y.p.
71. GÓMEZ-GONZÁLEZ, María Ángeles: The Theme-Topic Interface. Evidence from Eng-
lish. 2001.
72. MARMARIDOU, Sophia S.A.: Pragmatic Meaning and Cognition. 2000.
73. HESTER, Stephen and David FRANCIS (eds.): Local Educational Order. Ethno-
methodological studies of knowledge in action. 2000.
74. TROSBORG, Anna (ed.): Analysing Professional Genres. 2000.
75. PILKINGTON, Adrian: Poetic Effects. A relevance theory perspective. 2000.
76. MATSUI, Tomoko: Bridging and Relevance. 2000.
77. VANDERVEKEN, Daniel and Susumu KUBO (eds.): Essays in Speech Act Theory. n.y.p.
78. SELL, Roger D. : Literature as Communication. The foundations of mediating criticism.
2000.
79. ANDERSEN, Gisle and Thorstein FRETHEIM (eds.): Pragmatic Markers and Propo-
sitional Attitude. 2000.
80. UNGERER, Friedrich (ed.): English Media Texts – Past and Present. Language and textual
structure. 2000.
81. DILUZIO,Aldo,SusanneGÜNTHNERandFrancaORLETTI(eds.):CultureinCommu-
nication. Analyses of intercultural situations. n.y.p.
82. KHALIL, Esam N.: Grounding in English and Arabic News Discourse. 2000.
83. MÁRQUEZ REITER, Rosina: Linguistic Politeness in Britain and Uruguay. A contrastive
study of requests and apologies. 2000.
84. ANDERSEN,Gisle:PragmaticMarkersandSociolinguisticVariation.Arelevance-theoretic
approach to the language of adolescents. 2001.
85. COLLINS, Daniel E.: Reanimated Voices. Speech reporting in a historical-pragmatic per-
spective. 2001.
86. IFANTIDOU, Elly: Evidentials and Relevance. n.y.p.
87. MUSHIN, Ilana: Evidentiality and Epistemological Stance. Narrative Retelling. 2001.
88. BAYRAKTAROGLU, Arin and Maria SIFIANOU (eds.): Linguistic Politeness Across
Boundaries. Linguistic Politeness Across Boundaries. 2001.
89. ITAKURA, Hiroko: Conversational Dominance and Gender. A study of Japanese speakers
in first and second language contexts. 2001.
90. KENESEI, István and Robert M. HARNISH (eds.): Perspectives on Semantics, Pragmatics,
and Discourse. A Festschrift for Ferenc Kiefer. 2001.
91. GROSS, Joan: Speaking in Other Voices. An ethnography of Walloon puppet theaters. n.y.p.
92. GARDNER, Rod: When Listeners Talk. n.y.p.
93. BARON, Bettina and Helga KOTTHOFF (eds.): Gender in Interaction. Perspectives on
feminity and masculinity in ethnography and discourse. n.y.p.
