Chapter 2
Corpus linguistics and language teaching
and learning
A background
. Language corpora in language pedagogy: The 90s debate
.. Critical viewpoints
Corpus linguistics as a method of text analysis based on electronic tools can be
considered to have started in the 60s–70s with the compilation of the Brown
and the LOB corpora, two collections of 1 million words and 500 sample-texts
each, of American and British English respectively (see Francis & Kucera 1979;
Johannson et al. 1978). While these corpora provided material for pioneer-
ing work in corpus linguistics (Francis 1992:17) and in many ways constituted
the basis of modern corpus linguistics, at the time when they were created,
they raised more doubts than interest in the linguistic community whose dom-
inant paradigm, Chomsky’s paradigm, was of a rationalistic nature and tended
to consider corpus empiricism as “skewed”. Chomsky distinguished between
competence and performance, or internalized and externalized language, and
suggested that the former is the prior object of linguistic inquiry. Chomsky
developed a theory which attempted to outline plausible cognitive models ac-
counting for internalized language. According to Chomsky, performance, or
externalized language, is affected by factors which may inhibit competence and
in this sense it does not provide an adequate mirror of it. Corpora are by their
very nature collections of language performance and as such they were con-
sidered to impede rather than help the description of cognitive, rationalistic
models of language performance (Mc Enery & Wilson 1996:4–8).
At the beginning of the 90s, the situation is very different and corpus
linguistics is very much in the ascendancy. An initial breakthrough was the
Cobuild project led by John Sinclair (see Sinclair 1987). This project was of an
applied nature as its purpose was to produce “more realistic” descriptions of
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
English for teaching purposes, and the materials it produced were intended for
the language classroom.
Although it was aimed at improving English language teaching, however,
the early impact of the Cobuild project seemed to regard language theory and
description more directly than language pedagogy. It brought to the attention
of the scientific community two important facts:
1. technology now permits us to collect and store a corpus large enough to
provide data, and thereby to devise more confident descriptions of English;
2. corpus-derived data clearly reveal the limits of the generativist-Chomskian
paradigm and of language descriptions based solely on the intuition of
the analysts.
While the Cobuild project revived the discussion about the limits of the
generativist paradigm, which basically excluded the possibility of analysing
language performance “scientifically”, within language pedagogy the possibly
over-enthusiastic terms in which the Cobuild project was presented and the
materials launched raised a series of doubts. The Cobuild catch-phrase, “help-
ing students with real English” seemed to imply an equivalence between:
a) a corpus and real language
b) corpus-based descriptions and “more realistic” students’ language produc-
tion.
The reductionism of such potential equivalences greatly alarmed a number
of applied linguists and the debate which developed through the 90s raised
a number of objections (Widdowson 1991, 1998a; Owen 1993, 1996 and see
Seidlhofer 2003:Section 2) which can be summarised under three main points.
First, a corpus, however large, is still only a sample of language production and
though it may provide a fairly accurate representation of it, a corpus is not the
“real language”. One clear limit of both the two largest existing corpora, the
Cobuild and the BNC, is that spoken language is represented only in a very
small percentage. Moreover, as Cook (1998:58) observes, it is very difficult to
convey the importance and salience of texts to include in a corpus, and a pri-
vate conversation with only a few participants risks being counted equally with
a newspaper read by millions.
Second, exposing students to actual instances of language does not mean
that they learn “real language”, nor indeed that they grasp its features better.
Looking at his own work about using a corpus of spoken English, the CAN-
CODE corpus (see http://www.cambridge.org/elt/corpus/cancode. htm) in the
teaching of spoken language (McCarthy & Carter 1995; Carter & McCarthy
Chapter 2. Corpus linguistics and language teaching and learning 
1995), Carter (1998) observes that corpus materials often do not illustrate fea-
tures of the spoken language as clearly as invented examples do and while
corpus data provide the analyst with important information of a descriptive
nature, a problem is posed about how and how far such information should be
filtered and interpreted for teaching purposes.
Third, “language reality” is a complex phenomenon and “reality” cannot
be limited, in language pedagogy, to using texts that actually occurred some-
where and sometime in “real life”. In this respect, Widdowson (1978:79–80)
draws a distinction between genuine language and authentic language: by the
former he means instances of actually produced language (e.g. extracts from
newspapers/books, recorded conversations, etc.); by the latter he means lan-
guage produced in a communicative context. Widdowson (1998a:711) takes
this distinction further and explains that it is the local, contextual value of
language that makes it “real” for its users:
For what makes the language a reality for its users is its local value: the specific
contextual connection and the exclusive appeal to common and communal
knowledge and attitudes. Without the local knowledge, one cannot locate the
meaning. Real language, then, is local language in that it is always associated
with specific contextual realities. It is designed to appeal to particular com-
munities, and this will necessarily exclude people who do not belong. Reality
does not travel with the text.
So, while it has generally been considered worthwhile in language teaching
to expose students to genuine instances of language, providing examples of
“use” rather than “usage” (in the terms of Widdowson 1978), language ped-
agogy is also concerned with ways in which learners can “authenticate” the
foreign language in their local context. As Widdowson (1998a) notes, simply
“exposing” students to corpus-based descriptions, or indeed to “genuine” ma-
terials from corpora, does not imply anything about the learners’ possibility of
“authenticating” the language they are exposed to.
These three objections are important since they raise issues concerning the
relationship between corpora and learners as potential beneficiaries of corpus-
derived information, a relationship which I shall deal with extensively in this
book. While on the one hand the possibility of using corpora for or in the
language classroom seems a powerful potential enrichment, on the other hand,
precisely in what terms corpora are affecting teaching and learning is still a
matter of inquiry. In the following sections, I shall deal with the contribution
of corpus analysis to language pedagogy and I shall focus on some significant
pioneering studies on corpora and teaching and learning.
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
.. The contribution of corpus analysis to language pedagogy
While the 90s’ debate had the importance of highlighting the risks of over-
enthusiastic applications of corpus linguistics and indeed provided food for
thought for other types of applications, it had the limit of concentrating only
on the risks and the drawbacks, without considering with sufficient attention
those aspects of corpus linguistics which were of potential interest for language
pedagogy. As Kennedy notes, such potential interest cannot be ignored:
corpus linguistics has held potential relevance for the teaching of languages be-
cause responsible language teaching involves selecting what it is worth giving
attention to. Since pedagogy attempts to reduce the time that would be nec-
essary to learn a language through exposure alone, potential usefulness and
likelihood of occurrence have been seen as relevant for deciding what to teach
or learn (1992:335).
Kennedy notes that the generativist-Chomskian paradigm has constituted a 30-
year interruption rather than “the tradition” in language teaching and that we
should not forget that modern computerised corpus linguistics can be seen
as a development of those early studies based on quantitative data obtained
through manual counting. He thus suggests looking back at those studies in
order to have a more comprehensive idea of what the implications of corpus
linguistics for language teaching may be. The necessity of deploying quanti-
tative data in language pedagogy emerged long before the Cobuild project,
going back at least to the 1920s (Thorndike 1921, quoted in Kennedy 1992),
when researchers carried out manual counting and classification of “corpora”
of texts to get hints about distribution of words and forms in studies regarding
vocabulary, syntax, semantics and the development of children’s language.
Although he focuses essentially on those contributions of corpus analysis
which affect language description, the merit of Kennedy (1992) is, in my view,
that he shows that language description for language pedagogy is intimately
interrelated with other methodological factors:
if the task of curriculum designers and language teachers is to bring together
motivating learning tasks or situations (including interesting discourse or
text) which provide repeated exposure to salient, useful linguistic and prag-
matic elements of the language, corpus linguistics should be able to provide
information on frequency of use. (Kennedy 1992:365)
What remains rather a fuzzy matter, is, however, exactly in what sense (or
senses) information on frequency of use should influence the pedagogy of
language. The Cobuild project investigated the use of quantitative data to pro-
Chapter 2. Corpus linguistics and language teaching and learning 
duce what were basically reference materials and textbooks. They used corpus
analysis to improve old and produce new descriptions of the English language
which were then included in two main publications, a dictionary (Sinclair et al.
1987, 1990a) and a grammar (Sinclair et al. 1990b). The fact that the Cobuild
research group took into consideration corpus-derived information about lan-
guage use along with the researchers’ intuition (which constituted, to say the
least, a filter in the analysis of the data) resulted in more adequate descriptions
of words and structures (see Krishnamurthy 2002).
Although such materials affected the amount and type of knowledge which
became available to the language classroom, we do not know whether they also
affected the way teachers and students interact with such new information.
Sinclair (1990b:xi) suggests that this might be the case. In introducing the types
of examples that are used in the Cobuild reference material he states that:
There is no justification for inventing examples. To illustrate a simple subject-
verb clause, something like “Birds sing” is not good enough. With the Cobuild
database it is not difficult to find examples even of a fairly rare event like this
structure. “Trains stopped” is a genuine example, and so is “Frey agreed”.
Even in a two-word structure it can be seen that the real examples have a
communicative value that the invented one lacks.
There may be a difference, then, in the communicative interaction of the stu-
dents with corpus-based materials and traditional materials, a difference it
would probably be worthwhile to investigate and know more about.
So while, on the one hand, research on teachers and learners using corpus-
based materials may tell us more about the impact of these materials on the
classroom, on the other hand, there has been some resistance to introduc-
ing corpus work directly in schools and universities. Summarizing Kennedy
(1992), Aston (2001a:1) lists three reasons for such resistance:
1. poor communication between researchers using corpora and classroom
teachers, who should not just be told “that curricula, reference works or
teaching materials are based on corpus analysis”;
2. confusion over the distinction between “what is scientifically interesting
and what is pedagogically useful”;
3. the predominant interest in communicative language teaching in facts
which are not strictly speaking linguistic, so that “teachers tended to show
more interest in the learnerand the learning process than in what was being
learned”.
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
To these, Aston (2001a:3) adds a fourth, namely accessibility to corpora and
computing resources, which, for various reasons, has not been encouraged on
a widescale and organised basis.
These problems will be dealt with throughout this book; for my purposes
here, though, let me just note (following Aston 2001a) that the situation is
somewhat changing owing both to a renewed interest in form-focused teach-
ing1
and to a number of studies, which have now been produced, showing var-
ious aspects of computer-corpus applications to language teaching and learn-
ing. In the next two sections, I focus on some such studies, which seem to me
particularly interesting from a teaching/learning point of view insofar as they
were among the first published ones which were clearly focused (and based)
on classroom or learners’ experiences. I distinguish between those which ex-
plored the use of corpora from the point of view of the language teacher and
those which took the perspective of the learners as potential beneficiaries of
corpus-based pedagogy and/or as corpus users.
. Corpus analysis as a tool for language teachers
The importance of corpus-analysis for language teachers has been empha-
sized in several studies which provide general indications about what types
of linguistic information corpora may supply teachers with (see e.g. Kennedy
1998:Ch. 5; Conrad 1999, 2003; Nation 2001a; Tribble 2001). It is necessary
though to distinguish between studies which look at teaching applications of
corpora from the linguist’s point of view (giving hints and suggestions about
what corpora can do for language teaching) and studies which look at uses of
corpora from the teacher’s point of view (starting from a teaching problem and
looking at how this problem can be tackled with corpus tools). Here I focus on
studies which take the latter perspective, that is studies mainly dealing with a
teaching problem. I concentrate on two in particular, Flowerdew (1993a) and
Partington (1998) as although they deal with the use of concordancing tools
taking a teachers’ rather than a learners’ perspective, it seems to me that they get
“nearer” to the learner in that they provide a way of looking into the problem
of using corpora in interaction with the classroom.
Following a pioneering publication by Tribble and Jones (1990) which sug-
gested ways in which concordances could be used in the classroom for the
design of activities and materials, several studies have looked at the use of
corpora and the concordancer as a resource for teachers. Such works have tra-
ditionally been based on corpora created ad hoc by the teachers/researcher for
Chapter 2. Corpus linguistics and language teaching and learning 
their own teaching or research purposes. Besides being suitable for the lan-
guage classroom, such corpora are easy and cheap to collect and easy to manage
(they require relatively little space on the computer hard disk and the data pro-
duced is not such as to prevent analysis by “non-researchers”). These studies
suggest that corpus analysis can be of great help to the teacher in two main
respects: 1. selecting items to be included in the course syllabus; 2. supporting
the teachers in teaching those items which do not seem adequately dealt with
in traditional teaching materials.
.. Corpus analysis and syllabus design
As Kennedy (1992) notes, one way in which corpus linguistics can contribute to
language teaching is in the selection of those features which seem worth teach-
ing in a given pedagogic context. Following suggestions by Sinclair and Renouf
(1988), one of the first exploitations of corpus analysis was in syllabus design.
The Cobuild Corpus was in fact used as a basis to work out items which were
frequently used in general English and such information constituted guidelines
for the production of an English coursebook (Willis & Willis 1989). While in
the case of a course of general English, designing a syllabus may be a very com-
plex operation and may involve a variety of considerations which cannot be
limited only to corpus work (see McCarthy 2002), within ESP, corpora may
be a practical and very interesting resource. For ESP courses, in fact, working
out basic items to be dealt with is a key teaching problem and is closely related
to single teaching environments. In the case of scientific English for instance
there is a huge variety of teaching situations, and students’ needs vary accord-
ingly. For instance, while reading books and articles in English is probably a
major need for medical students in non-English speaking countries, medical
students in England, the United States or Hong Kong are probably more con-
cerned with oral materials such as lectures. A corpus of specialized texts can be
used to rapidly generate a series of items which may characterize the specialized
texts in question. These items may constitute a basis to select language features
to be included in ESP syllabuses. Flowerdew (1993a) probably constitutes the
most famous and systematic study in this respect (but see also Mparutsa et al.
1991; Ma 1993b).
Flowerdew (1993a) suggests that lists of the most frequent words occur-
ring in a specialized corpus together with their concordances can be used for
selecting and grading items to be included in the ESP syllabus. The corpus he
analyses is a collection of biology texts consisting of transcriptions of lectures
that students attend during their biology course, plus the readings they are
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
Table 3. 20 top nouns in the Cobuild corpus and in a biology corpus (Flowerdew
1993a:236)
Cobuild corpus Biology corpus
time, people, way, man, years, work,
world, thing, day, children, life, men, fact,
house, kind, year, place, home, sort, end
cell, cells, water, membrane, food, plant,
root, molecules, plants, wall, energy, con-
centration, organism, cytoplasm, animal,
stem, structure, body, part, animals
asked to deal with. Flowerdew shows that using data such as type/token ratio,
lists of frequent words from specialised and general corpora and concordances
of words which seem “interesting” by virtue of their frequency, prompts a se-
ries of considerations which can be taken into account in syllabus design. He
suggests that the data allow both quantitative and qualitative considerations.
On the quantitative side, they offer a means of identifying a total number of
items which may possibly be included in the syllabus. Calculating word types
and frequency in his 100,000 word corpus, Flowerdew isolates about 1000 items
occurring more than 10 times in the corpus, which he considers a realistic basis
of inquiry.
Considerations of a qualitative nature, instead, include comparison of fre-
quency lists and concordance analysis. Regarding the former, Flowerdew notes
that comparing the most frequent nouns in specialized and general corpora
provides interesting clues for syllabus design. Table 3 shows the 20 top nouns
in a general corpus (the Cobuild Corpus) and in Flowerdew’s biology corpus
(1993a:236). It can be seen that the comparison is indicative of those nouns
which seem characteristic of the specialist corpus and which may be worth
including in the syllabus.
A list of separate words, such as the one above, suggests possible lexical
items to be included in a syllabus. Concordances of these words show how
they are used in the corpus, which provides further information about the
characteristics, specific to the specialised language that may be dealt with in
the classroom. Concordances of very frequent words in a corpus may sug-
gest typical ways in which these words are used and highlight their frequent
collocations. This obviously does not regard only nouns. Grammatical items
such as connectors may also be used in characteristic ways in specialized cor-
pora and some frequent verbs may be indicative of typical syntactic structures.
Flowerdew for instance notes that then rarely occurs at the beginning of the
sentence, as is often taught, and that it is more frequently found between sub-
ject and verb (“the viruses then do the same”) or between auxiliary and main
verb (“the liquid is then discharged”). Likewise, he notes that while many com-
Chapter 2. Corpus linguistics and language teaching and learning 
mercially available coursebooks teach learners to express definitions by means
of a formula such as “X is/can be defined as . . .”, the biology corpus shows only
one instance of the lexical item “define”, and 417 instances of the lexical item
“called” used in a defining function suggesting that a more frequent structure
used in definitions may include the verb “call” rather than the verb “define”
(Flowerdew 1993a:240).
This study by Flowerdew then shows that corpus and concordancing tools
may assist the teacher in the design of a syllabus for particular teaching needs.
What is interesting in this work, from the teacher’s point of view, is that any
material collected ad hoc for a particular teaching situation can constitute a cor-
pus which can be analysed to produce suitable lexical and grammatical items
to help in the creation of a syllabus. While this meets a major requirement in
many ESP courses such as that illustrated by Flowerdew (1993a), it may also be
helpful in dealing with particular types of specialized or semi-specialized texts
in general English classes.
.. Supporting teachers’ explanations
The possibility of highlighting uses such as those discussed above not only
helps teachers in selecting contents for their courses but also provides more
accurate explanations about particular structures or uses of words. In the
teaching of English, concordance analysis has been found to be of great help
in supporting the teacher in those areas which are traditionally considered
“difficult to deal with” and where descriptions provided by grammars and/or
dictionaries seem inadequate. Such is for instance the case with features of
spoken English such as ellipsis or tails (Carter & Mc Carthy 1995) or with
some discourse markers (Zorzi 2001) which have traditionally received little
attention in pedagogic grammars.
A wide-ranging study by Partington (1998) shows a number of types of
“language teaching problems” which can be usefully dealt with in the classroom
using instruments based on corpora and concordancing tools. He shows exam-
ples of semantic problems, such as synonymy or word translation equivalence,
lexico-syntactic constructions (e.g. conditionals), textual features (cohesion in
particular) and creative uses of language such as the use of metaphors and
the manipulation of various kinds of pre-constructed phrases for rhetorical
effect. For each of these “problematic” areas, Partington shows that concor-
dances generated from a corpus of newspaper texts (5,000,000 words) can
support teachers’ intuitions by integrating descriptions from dictionaries and
grammars to provide more satisfactory explanations.
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
As regards semantic problems, for instance, Partington observes that it is
often difficult for foreign language students to deal with words whose meaning
is similar but not completely the same. Such is the case with quasi-synonyms
or quasi-translation equivalents. As he observes, many learners’ dictionaries
describe “complete”, “absolute”, “pure” and “sheer” as equivalent in meaning,
while these adjectives tend to be very selective in their collocations: e.g. whilst
“complete” tends to occur with words such as “absence”, “change” or “destruc-
tion”, only “absolute” occurs with hyperbolic nouns, such as “chaos”, “genius”
or “horror”; “sheer” is generally attributed to magnitude, force or persistence
and “pure” has a religious-moral semantic content which the others do not
share. As for quasi-translation equivalents, Partington examines the case of
the English-Italian pair “correct” and “corretto/a” where the latter has to do
with behaving according to some standard of ethics and does not simply mean
“right”, whilst “correct” generally means “accurate”, “exact”.
“If”-constructions, also, have traditionally constituted a problem in the
teaching of English. Looking at a concordance of “if”, Partington (1998:80–87)
suggests that less than 40% of the occurrences in his material are accounted for
by any of the traditional three conditional forms, the remaining showing other
mixed conditional or non-conditional uses. Although the three-conditional
model is a useful one for beginners, teachers may well wish to point out
how much richer and more complex the actual usage is. As for text-cohesion,
corpus-based analysis may provide hints to explain for instance how general
nouns such as “people”, “thing”, “matter”, “move” are used or the anaphoric
and cataphoric functions of general verbs such as “happen” and “occur”.
Partington’s study is interesting for two main reasons. First of all, it ex-
plores a varied set of features of language use which can be useful for teachers
for language teaching purposes, going beyond lexico-grammatical constructs
to examine text cohesion and creative uses of language as well. Secondly, while
some of Partington’s analyses involve classic language teaching problems and
have scientific implications, and suggest possible areas where grammatical de-
scriptions may be improved (e.g. conditionals), there are also examples which
seem to be constructed to meet more “local” students’ needs. These include
the issue of translation equivalence and false friends, or the issue of metaphors
in specialized discourse. In the latter cases, Partington is obviously thinking of
particular learners’ problems such as those related to the interaction between
their own mother tongue and the foreign language (in this case Italian and En-
glish) and those related to a possible special interest (e.g. newspaper business
language).
Chapter 2. Corpus linguistics and language teaching and learning 
I have reported extensively on both Flowerdew’s and Partington’s studies
because it seems to me that, at least at the time when they were published, they
provided a step forward in corpus-based language pedagogy. Although basi-
cally descriptive studies, their focus is prevalently on features which constitute
concrete EFL teaching problems. If we recall Kennedy’s (1992) list of reasons
why a smooth marriage between corpus linguistics and language pedagogy has
not yet been celebrated, one of them revolved around the confusion between
what is scientifically interesting and what is pedagogically useful. By focusing
on clear teaching problems, both Flowerdew (1993a) and Partington (1998)
successfully provide practical suggestions on how corpus work is pedagogically
useful in supporting EFL teaching.
. Corpus analysis as a tool for language learners
While the studies above mainly highlight linguistic features which may be use-
fully dealt with using corpora and concordancing tools, here I focus on works
whose primary focus is on analyzing the impact of corpus material on the lan-
guage learners. A pioneering study in this respect was that of Johns (1991a,
1994) who first suggested that concordance data can be analysed by students
and used as learning materials to induce regularities in language use. Other
studies then developed the implications of this proposal. In this section I first
summarize Johns’ approach, and then discuss some of its implications.
.. The Data-Driven Learning approach
Johns (1991a) suggests that concordances derived from electronic corpora can
be used as a source of learning materials for language students. His main point
is that students should have access to concordance materials in order to exam-
ine meaningsand functions of words in their authentic contexts. In Johns’ view,
by looking at data, students can infer the meanings and functions of words in
the foreign language and achieve an awareness of the typical combinations in
which they are used.
This approach is called “Data-Driven Learning” (DDL) and is inspired by
work inside the Cobuild project. As Johns (1994:296) points out, both the
Cobuild and DDL have the purpose “of contextualising and demythologizing
the language and of making available to the learner information about au-
thentic usage”. What distinguishes the two approaches, though, is the use they
make of the linguistic data. While the Cobuild project suggests that corpus
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
analysis helps researchers and material designers in producing more authen-
tic descriptions of language usage which, in their turn, may improve teaching
and reference materials, the DDL approach suggests that corpus work can be
introduced in the classroom and language learners can examine concordance
material to work out features of language use on their own.
Johns’ assumption is that ‘research is too serious to be left to the re-
searchers’ (1991b:2) and that effective language learning is itself a form of
linguistic research. Access to linguistic data may improve students’ analytical
skills and help their inductive ability. Johns’ approach derives from a theory
of CALL approaches which attempts to redefine the role of the computer in
the classroom from that of a surrogate teacher or tutor to that of an infor-
mant (see also Johns 1983; Higgins & Johns 1984). Such approaches suggest
that rather than making the machine more intelligent in answering learner-
generated questions, a pedagogy of the foreign language should be concerned
with making the learner “more intelligent” in posing questions and interpret-
ing responses. In this perspective the machine should be seen as a tool in the
hands of the language learners, rather than a teaching guide.
Johns (1994) experimented the use of concordances with students in
classes of remedial grammar. He used small corpora of texts taken from sci-
entific or technical magazines (e.g. New Scientist, Byte, Nature) and from
newspapers (e.g. The Times or The Guardian) to generate concordances fo-
cusing on grammatical features which seemed problematic for the students,
e.g. the meaning and function of “should”, or the usage of verbs followed by
“that”-clauses vs. verbs followed by infinitive (e.g. “convince” and “persuade”,
which have similar meanings and different constructions in this respect). He
handed the data out to the students and asked them to analyse it. He no-
ticed two major consequences of this work: firstly, by analysing concordances,
students seemed to grasp the meanings and functions of the structures that
were presented to them much better than when they were presented in the
traditional fashion via lists of verbal patternings; secondly, when working to-
gether on the data, teachers and students often discovered linguistic features
that escaped the teachers’ preliminary analysis, which suggested that concor-
dance work seems to prompt students to take a more active role in working out
grammatical features.
Johns’ work was the first real attempt to look at corpus concordancing from
the point of view of the learner, and his change of perspective is radical. Johns
in fact did not focus on an analysis of concordance-based materials, looking
at, say, the impact they might have in a teaching-learning environment (a topic
which studies are still hesitant to engage). Instead he changed the perspective
Chapter 2. Corpus linguistics and language teaching and learning 
completely, shifting the analytical focus from data-based materials (textbooks
or reference books) to the “data” and the methodological process by which they
get analysed and interpreted. According to this view, then, the “tool” in the
hands of the language learners is not the (new, concordance-based) grammar
volume, but the new software, the concordancer itself.
This radical change of perspective opened up a new field of enquiry and
raised new pedagogic questions:
1. if learners are to behave as data analysts, what should be the role of the
teacher?
2. the work of language learners is similar to that of language researchers in-
sofar as “effective language learning is itself a form of linguistic research”
(Johns 1991b:2). So, should we ask the learners to perform linguistic re-
search exactly like researchers?
3. provided that learners adopt the appropriate instruments and methodol-
ogy to actually be able to perform language research, are the results worth
the effort?
.. Question 1: Should the teacher guide the learners?
Johns claims that a distinguishing feature between the Cobuild project and the
DDL approach is that DDL “attempts to cut out the middleman as far as pos-
sible” (1994:297) and gives the learners direct access to the data. In such an
approach, the student becomes a researcher into the language, observing con-
cordance data, forming hypotheses and then testing them out against the same
or more data provided by the computer. Cutting out the middleman com-
pletely, however, poses a series of problems. First, the output of the computer
in the form of a KWIC concordance with the search word in the middle of the
sheet and some five-six words (or bits of words) to the left and right side of
it is not a type of text whose reading and digesting can be taken for granted.
Working with students, I have noted that when they approach concordances
for the first time they need at least to be told what they should be looking at on
the page or on the screen and what types of features they should pay attention
to (e.g. repetition of identical or similar expressions accounting for particular
usages). Second, the type of (linguistic) information a concordance gives to the
student-analyst is not obvious. For instance, the word “bid”, a frequent word in
newspaper business articles, is not easy to grasp for Italian students as it does
not have a straightforward equivalent in Italian. While a concordance of the
word “bid” from a corpus of newspaper business articles makes it clear that
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
there are a variety of expressions (not a single one) which may correspond to
“bid” in Italian, the data do not tell us what “bid” actually means. So, while
students noted the recurrence of expressions such as “make a bid”, “mount a
bid”, “a [amount of money] bid”, they did not understand, solely on the basis
of the concordance, that this thing you can “make” or “mount” and which has
a money value is in fact an offer and a dictionary seems necessary to provide
this piece of information (see also Partington 2001:64–5). Third, the concor-
dancer may overwhelm students with too much data (Barnett 1993). While,
as Flowerdew (1993a) suggests, a search for connectors as used in small spe-
cialized corpora may be interesting for ESP students, they are unlikely to work
out the characteristic features of, for example, “then” or “so” on the basis of
hundreds of examples if they are not supplied with adequate analytic tools.
It seems, then, that to operate effectively and autonomously, students
should be provided with some guidance. This is well recognized nowadays
and Sinclair (2003) provides the first systematic attempt to guide “students,
researchers and workers in the language industry” to read and interpret corpus
data. A pedagogic implication emerging here, then, is not whether “the mid-
dlemen” (i.e. the teachers) should be cut out or not, but rather which type of
“filter” they should exercise and in what way. While Johns’ proposal encourages
students to analyse the data directly, he does not deal with the problem of: a.
helping them identify appropriate types of language problems, b. helping them
develop appropriate analytic methods (I return to this issue in Chapter 5).
.. Question 2: Learners or researchers?
Johns (1991b:2) suggests that “effective language learning is itself a form of
linguistic research” and proposes that learners behave “as researchers” in the
attempt to find out solutions to their own language learning problems. How-
ever, while the analytic process involved in examining concordance data may be
similar in the case of language researchers and of language students, there are
some fundamental differences that have to be taken into account. First of all,
language students are, by definition, non-native speakers of the language they
are looking at, and not necessarily very advanced ones. While concordance data
provide a lot of information about the interaction between the uses of words
and their meanings, analysts should have at least a vague initial idea of the lat-
ter. In other words, as we saw, expressions such as “make/mount a bid” seem
meaningless to students who do not know, at least, that a bid involves a money
offer. In this respect, it seems likely that interaction based on information de-
rived from dictionaries and information derived from concordance data is of
Chapter 2. Corpus linguistics and language teaching and learning 
a different nature if we compare language researchers and language students:
while the former works in the direction of improving e.g. dictionary or gram-
mar organization and definitions, the latter is mainly engaged in combining the
pieces of information derived from either the dictionary and the concordance
data (and maybe other sources such as texts) to make sense out of them.
Second, as Bernardini (2000a:142) notes, the very notion of comparing
learners to researchers has a limit: “it suggests that methods are subordinate to
findings, or that a good research/learning procedure is to be assessed according
to the results it yields.” In a learning environment, we are not concerned with
the results of a linguistic analysis in exactly the same way as we are as linguistic
researchers. Accuracy of results is a major focus in language research but not
necessarily in language learning. In other words, we are not so much interested
in the starting or end point of a learning experience, as we are in what happens
in-between: the choices we make (or do not make), the strategies we adopt, the
experience we gather, incidental learning, etc. Rather than looking at learnersas
researchers, Bernardini suggests that a more appropriate metaphor is probably
that of the traveller:
Learners doing corpus work should be allowed to [. . .] set off in a certain
direction, and correct it as experience piles up; sometimes be tourists, some
others explorers; indulge in detours, observe the landscape, or press on un-
til they find something noteworthy; draw maps of the areas they explore,
keep track of trodden and untrodden paths for future journeys: and back
home, describe their experience to friends and families, show photographs
and exchange impressions. (Bernardini 2000a:143)
While the initial stimulus for starting corpus work may be one of many (e.g.
curiosity about the meaning of an expression, an attempt to find a way to ex-
press a particular concept, etc.), the interest of the analysis itself should not be
conceived in rigorous linguistic-research terms. Students may be attracted by
all sorts of interesting features which may solve the contingent learning prob-
lem as well as any other, or which may pose a different problem and what is
interesting for students and language researchers may well not coincide.
In conclusion, while, as Johns (1991, 1994) suggests, learners can use cor-
pora directly as materials for analysis in the same way as researchers do, this
does not imply that learners’ analyses are carried out or should be carried out in
exactly the same way. While the “power” of concordances in language research
is that of describing interesting or previously unknown features of language
use, the “power” of concordances from a pedagogic point of view is that of
stimulating and enhancing the linguistic intuition of the learners. The former
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
is related to the product of the analysis, the latter to the process. While nei-
ther excludes the other, and it is indeed possible that students’ analyses are also
“scientifically interesting” from the point of view of language research, from a
language learning perspective, we should primarily be concerned with what is
achieved through the process, independently of the “scientific discovery”.
.. Question 3: Is the result worth the effort?
Posing the question here of whether the result is worth the effort may seem
superfluous as it is probably clear from the paragraphs above that my answer
is “yes”, and this book sets out explicitly to provide arguments to support it.
There are however a couple of points that I think are worth introducing here.
The first has to do with the role-relationships in the language classroom in-
volving the teacher, the learners and the materials. As mentioned above, Johns
(1994) suggests that one of the most noticeable features of working with cor-
pora is that students often observe linguistic characteristics or issues which
escaped teachers’ previous analyses. A number of reports dealing with concor-
dance work by students (see e.g. Mparutsa et al. 1991; Jordan 1993; Robinson
1994) underline the challenge that giving the learners direct access to linguistic
evidence poses to traditional interacting roles in grammar teaching/learning
classes. While traditionally reference books and teachers are inevitably the sole
repositories of linguistic-grammatical information, data-based observations
give the students an instrument to contribute to the discussion about features
of the grammar of language and its formal aspects. While such active contri-
bution to classroom discussion has been advocated in language pedagogy since
the late 70s and methods based on a view of language as communication have
consistently underlined the fact that, rather than being considered recipients
of teachers’ knowledge, students should participate actively through discussion
activities and other interactive tasks, this did not seem to affect the teaching of
grammar, which either remained more or less the same as before or was in seri-
ous danger of being swept away by “more efficient” “non-grammar” methods.
Concordances are an interesting type of material: on the one hand, similarly to
dictionaries and grammars, they produce output of a lexico-grammatical type,
on the other, they provide data which are uninterpreted. Being uninterpreted,
the data can be called into question. Questioning and interpreting concor-
dance data involves discussion, by either groups of students or by teachers and
students together and individual (teacher’s or students’) explanations can be
challenged on the basis of others’ readings and understanding of the data.
Chapter 2. Corpus linguistics and language teaching and learning 
My second point has to do with content, in particular the idea of grammar
and formal structures that can be perceived and achieved through concor-
dance analysis. As mentioned above, analysis of concordances largely implies
observing repetition and recurrence of particular combinations of words and
structures. This does not produce “rules” of a rationalist type (like traditional
grammar rules), rather what is noted are “regularities” in the combinations of
a word. This idea of “regularity” is connected to a more general perspective
on language that Sinclair (1991:110) calls the “idiom principle”. I shall discuss
these ideas at greater length in the next chapter; here let me just anticipate that
concordance analyses and the perspective on language they carry with them are
interesting from a pedagogic point of view for two main reasons: first because
they provide a less prescriptive idea of language form (thus potentially more
debatable and adaptable), second because they provide an outlook on how lan-
guage is conventionally used in particular corpora and/or types of texts. It seems
to me that both aspects are traditionally lacking ones in language pedagogy.
Providing access to concordances, then, may affect the grammar class pro-
foundly, both in terms of role relationships and of student participation in the
discussion of formal elements of language and in terms of what is learnt and
taught. These seem to me good reasons why working on concordances in the
classroom is worth the effort.
. Conclusion
The revival of corpus linguistics in the 80s, which was due principally to the
Cobuild project, raised a series of problems and issues involving language
research as well as language teaching. Although the Cobuild project mainly
produced teaching materials, interestingly enough studies on corpora and lan-
guage teaching did not explore the impact of such new teaching materials on
language learners nor did it look into the benefits (or drawbacks) that such
newly organized grammatical information might have in a teaching/learning
environment. The debate concentrated instead on the potential assumptions
of the Cobuild project and (sensibly) on the risks of confusing scientifically
interesting corpus-based findings with pedagogically interesting corpus-based
methodologies. So, investigations into corpora and language teaching mainly
took the form of small-scale experiments where concordance data (generally
derived from “hand-made” small corpora) were used to tackle local teach-
ing/learning problems. These experiments introduced corpus investigation
methodology in the classroom and suggested that corpus work may be in-
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
teresting to look at in a learners’ perspective. In particular, they showed that
corpus work by teachers and learners allowed discussion and possible redefini-
tion of teachers’ and learners’ roles in the classroom as well as the question of
enhancing learners’ autonomy.
While large–scale experiments with corpora and language learning do not
seem to have been organized yet (possibly with the exception of corpus-based
studies of learners’ language, Granger 1998), a series of interesting implications
follow from these small-scale, local ones. In what follows I deal with some of
these implications regarding: a. the theoretical premises that need to be made
more explicit in a teaching/learning environment (Chapter 3), b. ESP and cor-
pus material (Chapter 4), c. the problem of guiding learners to corpus work
(Chapter 5).
Note
. See Spada (1997) and also Carter (1993). Bondi (1999a) discusses this renewed interest in
form-focused teaching and shows ways in which corpus work may provide a useful resource
for (training) teachers to enhance their own language awareness in various respects.
Chapter 3
Theoretical premises for teachers
and learners
. Introduction
In the previous Chapter I have argued that giving learners direct access to cor-
pus data has a series of pedagogic implications. These can probably be divided
into two types. The first have to do with the theoretical premises entailed in
corpus linguistics. Corpus work looks at how words frequently combine in ac-
tual language performance; such combinations can be of a lexical, grammatical
and textual type and are linked to conventions depending on registers, genres
or text-types.1
These conventions are of a different type if compared to tra-
ditional semantic and syntactic rules and may contrast these or add to them.
So a first set of implications of corpus work which probably needs to be made
explicit to novitiate analysts (teachers and learners) has to do with the theoret-
ical view of what language corpus linguistics involves and the types of language
structures it looks at. These in fact may be different from those which are typ-
ically dealt with within a traditional grammatical approach. The second set of
implications involves a practical aspect: the method of analysis used in corpus
work is not something that can be taken for granted and students should be
gradually introduced to it.
Introducing students to corpus methodology, however, also involves, in
many senses, introducing them to corpus theory and indeed it is not easy to
distinguish between the theoretical and the “practical” (and methodological)
aspects. Sinclair (2003:ix) observes that as the analyst gets inside the methodol-
ogy of corpus work, a large number of closely related theoretical points emerge.
Corpus analysis is grounded in some theoretical premises, but performing ac-
tual corpus work helps enrich our knowledge of both such theoretical premises
and of new theoretical implications. This needs to be kept in mind and I hope
will become increasingly evident to the readers of this book, as we go along.
To help the readers follow my argument, though, here I shall distinguish
between, on the one hand, some theoretical premises which, I believe, need to
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
be considered by teachers who want to introduce corpus work in the classroom
and learners who want to perform it, and, on the other hand, methodologi-
cal issues which need to be taken into account when guiding the learners to
perform corpus work. The first will be the object of this chapter.
. Learners looking at concordance data: What do they see?
Corpus analysis is a fairly novel approach for language researchers and defi-
nitely a novel one for teachers and learners. As mentioned above, concordance
data require an appropriate methodology to be analyzed and interpreted. Such
a methodology is based on some theoretical premises which cannot be taken
for granted and need to be made clear to learners trying to grasp the method.
Learners using concordances for the first time usually look for the type of
information they are used to getting from grammars, dictionaries, textbooks
or teachers’ explanations. That is, basically they look for either grammar rules
they can recognise or evidence of word functions they know. Let me take an ex-
ample. A frequentform used by authors in academic texts to attract the readers’
attention to an observation, a claim or an important point in the discussion is
“worth noting /discussing /looking”. This is clearly visible from a concordance
of “worth” in a corpus of academic texts (the MCB corpus, see Appendix 1).
Here, in a total of 79 occurrences, “worth noting” appears 11 times, “worth dis-
cussing” 3 times and “worth looking” or “worth a look” 4 times. Synonyms or
quasi synonyms of these expressions appear in another 35 occurrences. These
include “worth more investigation”, “worth closer scrutiny”, worth empha-
sizing”, “worth mentioning”, “worth pointing out”, “worth reporting”, “worth
singling out”, “worth talking about”, etc.
Students who are shown such data and asked which type of recurrent
language behaviour they notice, generally say that “worth” is followed by an
“-ing” form. That is to say, what they immediately recognize is “the rule they
know” and do not notice the recurrence of “noting” or of semantically simi-
lar forms. Their attempt is (quite obviously) to reconduct the occurrences to
a type of generalization that is familiar to them (in this case “worth” + verb
-ing) without actually exploring the possibility that there may be more. In this
case, and in this corpus of scientific texts, the syntactic combination “worth
+ verb -ing” seems to select a well defined set of lexical choices, forming a
lexico-grammatical pattern that is used in the texts with particular pragmatic
purposes. This type of selection involves a view of language that Sinclair (1991)
Chapter 3. Theoretical premises for teachers and learners 
calls “idiomatic”, which, it seems to me, needs to be made clear to students-
analysts.
Another fundamental issue in corpus linguistics, which similarly needs to
be made familiar to language learners is that usage can deeply affect the mean-
ings of the words. While students are familiar with the idea that a word can
have many meanings which obviously depend on their use in context, they
see these meanings as distinguished units, each attached to a label which can
occasionally be spelt and pronounced in the same way.
Concordances reveal meanings which are based on the usage of words. For
instance, Johns (1991) shows that while “convince” and “persuade” are often
considered synonyms, they are used in different ways: “convince” is recurrently
followed by a “that” – clause (e.g. “media failed to convince observers that the
leadership had significantly softened”), “persuade” is consistently followed by
“to” and the infinitive (e.g. “I’m hoping to persuade you to take a break”). Such
recurrent usages affect the appropriateness of words to context as well as their
meaning (see Louw 1993; Sinclair 1996). Looking at concordance data, stu-
dents tend to focus on grasping the meaning of words without actually paying
attention to their usage and they tend to skip differences that may be related to
the constructions they are involved in. I shall show two examples.
A concordance of the noun “dealing/s” in the MCA corpus provides 52 oc-
currences, which show a tendency of this word to occur in “negative” contexts.
This tendency is sometimes evident in the close collocates of “dealing” (e.g.
“heavy dealing”, “behind-the-scenes dealing”, or occurrences of the expression
“wheeling and dealing”). More often, though, it is the extended context which
reveals that “dealings” is frequently used in connection to irregular or illegal
businesses leading to inquiries or legal proceedings (see, for instance occur-
rences 1 and 2, below) or in reference to difficult dealings or to the necessity to
improve them (e.g. occurrence 10 and 16, below; a longer extract of the con-
cordance of “dealing/s” with an extended context is provided in Appendix 2:
(1) of the bid began to leak out. After the formal announcement by Australian Mutual
Provident yesterday of its bid Pearl’s share price rose a further 87p to 639p. Officials
at the exchange said yesterday that its current investigation was a matter of routine.
If they discovered evidence of share dealing ahead of the takeover by individuals us-
ing confidential information they would institute more formal inquiries. As officials
began their investigations the board of directors of Pearl, led by chairman Einion Hol-
land, said AMP’s takeover bid ‘is unacceptable and totally inadequate because it fails
to reflect the group’s financial strength and prospects”. Pearl advised its shareholders
to take no ac
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
(2) champion Gary Mason after he knocks out Tyrell Biggs in the seventh round of their
Albert Hall bout. THURSDAY: As the Old Trafford soap opera unfolds, Martin Ed-
wards, United’s chief executive, begins legal proceedings against Knighton for alleged
breach of confidentiality in their dealings. Ajax join English clubs in European exile,
as UEFA bans the club for the next two years they qualify for Europe, as punishment
for the previous week’s crowd trouble, when the Austria Vienna goalkeeper was felled
by a metal spike. FRIDAY: The good news of Robson’s call-up to the England squad is
tempered by the withdrawal of Liverpool’s John Barnes with a hamstring injury. Kni
(10) are signs that institutional investors, who stood on the sidelines in 1987, are now so
cash rich they are more prepared to pick up what they regard as cheap stock. Most in-
stitutions are not interested in beta and gamma stocks and once again the two market
system operated with dealings exceedingly difficult in the second liners and prices
often disproportionately down. BET, the services conglomerate, surprised most ob-
servers by hardly stirring. The shares were at one time 2p higher at 267p. They closed
just 2p lower. But BAT Industries, bouyed by ‘unbundling” moves, slumped 60p to
758p. At one time the shares were down 88p. Other takeover candidates
(16) try after the recently re-classified Abbey National. But since privatisation three years
ago, the corporation has watched the ranks of its shareholders almost halve from 4.2
million. Faced with this decline and the fact that it shows no sign of stopping, the
corporation is looking at how to make dealing in its shares more attractive. Ob-
viously, there is an element of self-interest. As a private sector utility with 17 million
customers, British Gas needs every channel of communication with consumers. Since
a quarter of its shares are held by individuals a drift of stock to institutions could also
reflect poorly on the principle of privatisation, and undermine attempts by British
Gas’s new chairman, B
These examples show a tendency of “dealing/s” which is fairly recurrent and
convincing. It is, however, not very evident to learners of English who do not
notice it and when it is pointed out to them they hesitate to believe that it is
a systematic feature of the word; they tend instead to think that the fact that
so many examples occur in a negative context is either pure chance or has
to do with the fact that language is frequently “negative”, as a whole. Because
they are not used to thinking that there may be close relationships between
the meanings of words and their usages, it is hard for them to see such “con-
textual negativeness” of “dealing” as characterizing the meaning and usage of
this word. In this case a comparison with occurrences of the word “deal/deals”
(which does not show such a “negative” tendency) helped the students work
out the aura of meaning suggested by the concordance of “dealing/s”.
This problem is not only related to the fact that students are non-native
speakers of the language they look at. Such difficulty in noting the usages of
words and their influence on the words’ meanings is observable even when
students look at data in their own language. Working with Italian students,
Chapter 3. Theoretical premises for teachers and learners 
I asked them to analyse two Italian “quasi-synonyms”, “mattina” and “mat-
tino”. It is very difficult to explain the difference between these two words
intuitively and when asked to, Italian students are generally not able to do so.
Looking at concordances, the difference is very clear. While “specifiers” oc-
cur before “mattina” (“questa”(this), “ieri” (yesterday), “domani” (tomorrow),
“domenica” (Sunday) or another day of the week), no such specification occurs
before “mattino”, which is instead used in constructions such as “di buon mat-
tino” (early in the morning) or “le 7 del mattino” (seven in the morning). An
extract of the concordances of “mattina” and the full concordance of “mattino”
are shown below.
It seems then that while “mattina” and “mattino” are used to refer to the
period of the day going from dawn to midday, only “mattina” is used to refer
to the morning of a particular day. Even though the occurrences are not many
(127 for “mattina” and 25 for “mattino”) and the corpus is not a large general
corpus (1,000,000 words of newspaper texts), this difference sounds convincing
1 ssione Irpinia? A stabilirlo sara’ , domani mattina alle 11, l’ ufficio di presidenza ch
2 . Bush partira’ per Roma domani mattina all’ alba da Washington, fara’ ta
3 le Raidue sta dedicando, ogni domenica mattina, un importantissimo ciclo. Powe
4 lo e’ . Il guadagno toccava a fine mattina il 6%, ma nella seconda meta’ d
5 ro un massimo del 3,47% toccato a fine mattina. Anche Francoforte ha avuto un
6 A DI MALTEMPO SI E’ ABBATTUTA ieri mattina sul Friuli Venezia Giulia, dalla C
7 li scontrarsi frontalmente, e’ accaduto ieri mattina sull’ autostrada del Pacifico nei
8 ell’ attuale Cina, ha voluto accogliere ieri mattina il presidente sovietico Mikhail G
9 reso, con molti impiegati che ancora ieri mattina si facevano luce con torce o addi
10 rante l’ incontro con Giulio Andreotti, ieri mattina a Villa Madama. // Racconta di
11 // ((ROMA.)) Il Senato ha approvato ieri mattina, con il voto contrario del pci, del
12 ben poco”. // Appuntamento ieri mattina nelle ((sic)) sede della Cisl citta
13 presidente della Repubblica ha avuto ieri mattina con Giulio Andreotti. Ma e’ al fut
14 ll’ interlocutore non e’ stata casuale. Ieri mattina infatti, mentre tutte le organizza
15 // Il processo che si e’ celebrato ieri mattina in Corte di Assise, a Castel
16 ano, ha convocato i sindacati per questa mattina. (Servizio a pag. 13) . RISERV
17 are. // Pertanto, verra’ presentato questa mattina presso l’ Hotel Britannique un pr
18 inaugurazione saranno presenti, questa mattina, l’ assessore regionale alla cultu
19 della Royal Air Force, e’ previsto questa mattina dalla base di Gioia del Colle. (Se
20 . Questa mattina, dal podio delle Nazioni Unite l’ i
21 . Questa mattina, dal podio delle Nazioni Unite l’ i
22 nuto pagamento delle tasse. // ‘Questa mattina sono andato al Distretto Militare
23 all’ insegnante sotto accusa. // Questa mattina il ministro della Pubblica istruzio
24 RENTO - Cerimonia di riapertura, questa mattina alle 10:30, del Museo Correale
25 ha spiegato Materazzi, ma se questa mattina si presentasse in buone condizi
26 i compiuti i collaudi. Ruffolo terra’ questa mattina al Consiglio dei ministri una rela
27 in questi giorni a Roma, e si tiene questa mattina alle 10:30 al Palazzetto di viale
28 anza ha rinviato ogni decisione a sabato mattina. E i tifosi mugugnano, rischiano
29 nedi’, potrebbero restare aperte il sabato mattina. Sia pure per svolgere esclusiva
30 tari, normalmente per praticita’ il sabato mattina, accorrono ai posti di incontro e
31 , tel. 011-6192641, mercoledi’ e venerdi’ mattina.
Concordance 2. “mattina” in a 1 million word corpus of newspaper texts (extract, left
sorted)
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
1 ente nuvoloso. Visibilita’ : buona con riduzioni al mattino per foschie dense e nebbie in pianura.
2 ente nuvoloso. Visibilita’ : buona con riduzioni al mattino per foschie dense e nebbie in pianura.
3 erita’ gli e’ stata sbattuta in faccia di buon mattino, sotto gli occhi torvi di Trifuoggi e
4 e’ stata proprio incoraggiante. Recatosi di buon mattino nella fabbrica di macchinari ‘Sette o
5 tta di potere minore // Domani, di buon mattino, i segretari dei cinque partiti si inc
6 trasporti sono inesistenti. o lavoravo e lavoro dal mattino alla sera per far fronte ai debiti. E’
7 he era stato prelevato dagli agenti alle 05}30 del mattino nella sua abitazione e’ stato rimesso
8 ro inviato CARLO MARINCOVICH)) Alle 4:45 del mattino di domani (tv2, diretta) la penultima
9 che era stato prelevato dagli agenti alle 5}30 del mattino nella sua abitazione, veniva rimesso
10 mo turno di qualificazione alle 14 locali (le 6 del mattino nel nostro Paese). Fra le novita’ la s
11 partiti ieri da Kuwait City per Baghdad alle 6 del mattino per poi arrivare nella capitale gior
12 e con il doppio lavoro. Si e’ impegnati dalle 7 del mattino alle 3 del pomeriggio, o dalle 2 dopo m
13 uasi tutte donne, e’ stato catturato verso le 7 del mattino. Tre ore dopo, in un’ azione durata un
14 o le autorita’ a cancellare anche la cerimonia del mattino, in cui Gorbaciov avrebbe dovuto depo
15 tte tra martedi’ e mercoledi’ scorsi. Alle dieci del mattino la vittoria: il pirata si e’ ritirato.
16 ria espositiva, una struttura aperta dalle nove del mattino a mezzanotte nel cuore della citta’ a
17 i migliori. Il cielo coperto fin dalle prime ore del mattino sembrava voler rovinare il grande rad
18 e amanti o gli amanti nella palestra tra le sei del mattino e le dieci di sera... Per attivita’ ses
19 a: a parte l’ atmosfera brumosa del primo mattino, su tutte le regioni prevarra’ il cie
20 ntro, limitatamente alle ore notturne e del primo mattino. // Nei giorni successivi l’ Italia r
21 a: a parte l’ atmosfera brumosa del primo mattino, su tutte le regioni prevarra’ il cie
22 ntro, limitatamente alle ore notturne e del primo mattino. // Nei giorni successivi l’ Italia r
23 eridionali. Foschie e banchi di nebbia nel primo mattino sulle pianure del nord e del centro, i
24 eridionali. Foschie e banchi di nebbia nel primo mattino sulle pianure del nord e del centro,
25 steriali che, come le rose, vivono lo spazio di un mattino; non solo perche’ fra il parto govern
Concordance 3. “mattino” in a 1 million word corpus of newspaper texts, left sorted
to any native speaker of Italian, who would recognize the combination [speci-
fier] + [male form “mattino”] (e.g “questo/ieri mattino”) as an odd expression.
When shown this data and asked what the difference is between “mattino” and
“mattina”, most Italian students do not see it, and when told that specifiers
such as “questa” or “ieri” are only used before “mattina”, they reply that this
does not affect the “meaning” of “mattino” and “mattina” which they perceive
as “referring to the same thing in any case”. While students are right in saying
that “mattino” and “mattina” share a common meaning, the difference in the
usage of these words, where the presence of a specifying expression excludes
“mattino” as a choice, is not something that they see immediately.
It seems to me that these examples illustrate that learners looking at con-
cordances for the first time are not only faced with new materials but also
with a whole new range of things to observe as well as a new way to observe
them. In particular, they are asked to look at characteristics of language which
do not have a central position in traditional language teaching, such as the
fact that there may be close relationships between grammatical and lexical
choices and that meanings and usages are more intrinsically connected than
we used to think.
In order to enable students to appreciate the type of information they may
get from a concordance, they need to be familiarized with a different view of
language and in particular with the fact that logical combinations account only
in part for language use. Language use is also massively based on combinations
Chapter 3. Theoretical premises for teachers and learners 
which are of an idiomatic rather than a logical nature and as such cannot be
explained rationally. In the next sections, I introduce such a view of language
and explain why it is relevant in a language learning context.
. Language as idiom vs. language as a logical system
While the Chomskian approach has favoured the rationalist idea that language
can be reduced to a logical system and can be accounted for in terms of cogni-
tive plausibility, there is another psycholinguistic approach which criticizes this
view. Bolinger (1976) for instance criticizes the idea that language is generated
by applying rules to combine words and morphemes into sentences, noting
that many rule-based combinations do not seem to occur in practice. Thus we
say “a long time ago” and “a short time ago”, but only “long ago” not “short
ago”; we say “he looked at me suspiciously” and “he regarded me suspiciously”,
but only “he looked at me”, not “he regarded me”. Bolinger suggests that we
do not produce certain forms because we have no memory of them, “we have
not heard it done” (1976:4). Instead of using rules to combine words and mor-
phemes, he suggests that we produce most utterances using multi-word chunks
which we have stored as wholes and only subsequentlydo we process and divide
them up into smaller units.
Other researchers have criticized logical approaches because these fail to
account for the rather pervasive phenomenon called “idioms”. Johnson-Laird
(1993), for instance, has pointed out that while the logical approach relegates
idioms to the sidelines, idioms are absolutely pervasive and this is one of the
principal reasons for their importance in language:
Yet it is difficult to speak spontaneously without lapsing into idiomatic usage.
Try it with a foreigner, and you will see that you are often aware of using an
idiom only after the event. Even in explaining an idiom, you can find to your
expense that you are using another (1993:ix).
One of the main problems of the logical-rationalist theories of language has
to do with the reductive view of idioms that they imply. The problem does
not consist in the fact that the rationalist approach ignores idioms or relegates
them to exceptions, but in the fact that it regards idioms only as “fixed” units.
Stock et al. (1993:229) refer to this view as the “idioms-are-big-words” view
and underlines that such a view has the effect of depriving the question of how
idioms are understood (and produced) of any really interesting or problem-
atic properties. Glucksberg (1993) argues that one of the main reasons why
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
idioms are interesting is not their fixedness but their compositionality. The
fact that idioms are memorized as single units does not mean that they can
only be treated as such. He claims that the literal meaning of the constituents
must make a contribution and this is demonstrated by the fact that they can
be exploited in creative modifications of the conventional idiom. Glucksberg
quotes the following as plausible and acceptable examples of modifications of
“by and large”:
Tom: By and large, the economy seems to be doing well.
Ned: Not so by and large: Have you seen the latest unemployment figures?
Or
Ned: By but not so large! Have you considered . . . . (1993:7)
So while on the one hand, we have the rationalist theories which support the
idea that language is generated by combining bits according to logical rules, on
the other, we have studies on idioms which claim that while idioms are proba-
bly memorized and stored as units, they can be subsequently chopped up and
re-combined to form new chunks. So, what derives from the discussion above is
that both the idea that language is purely or mainly a logical system and the idea
that it is instead made up of fixed multi-word chunks that can barely be altered
in their composition are reductive. Studies of idioms in the psycholinguistic
area (of which a nice collection is provided by Cacciari & Tabossi 1993) seem
instead to suggest that these are probably just the two ends of a continuum go-
ing from maximum to minimum compositionality with a range of degrees in
the middle. Corpus work provides evidence that language is produced in dis-
parate ways along a cline going from fixed, barely-separable chunks to phrases
and sentences which are more clearly of a compositional nature. I suggest that
such evidence, deriving from corpus work, can be used with language learners
to make such a continuum clearer and to organize tasks which help students to
produce language not only on the basis of the rational rules they are familiar
with, but to consider also other types of units and factors which contribute to
composing language chunks.
. The contribution of corpus work to a “new” idea of language
compositionality
The link between the evidence provided by corpus work and the idea that lan-
guage could be conceived as a continuum going from maximum fixedness to
Chapter 3. Theoretical premises for teachers and learners 
maximum compositionality has not escaped notice in corpus linguistics. Cor-
pus linguistics in fact posed the problem of re-defining principles for interpret-
ing language occurrences. Such re-definition has developed through a series of
studies and researches. Here I focus on three issues which seem to me of central
importance for language teaching and learning. The first regards the distinc-
tion between two ways of looking at language, which Sinclair (1991, 1996)
calls the “open-choice principle” and the “idiom principle”. This constitutes
the frame in which the second and the third issues are probably to be viewed.
The second issue, introduced by Sinclair (1996), concerns a problematization
of the concept of “unit of meaning”. The third issue was introduced by Louw
(1993) and can be connected to the compositional property of collocations and
idioms. In this section, I shall illustrate and discuss these three issues.
.. The open-choice principle and the idiom principle
Sinclair (1991:109–110) suggests that in order to explain the way in which
meaning arises from language texts one should operate with two distinct in-
terpretative principles: the open-choice principle and the idiom principle. The
open-choice principle entails a view of texts as the result of a series of com-
plex choices. Once a unit is completed (a morpheme, a word, a phrase), a large
range of grammatical choices opens up to combine that unit with other units
and build the text up:
This is probably the normal way of seeing and describing language. It is often
called “slot-and-filler” model, envisaging texts as a series of slots which have
to be filled from a lexicon which satisfies local restraints. At each slot, virtually
any word can occur. (Sinclair 1991:109)
Rationalist theories of language see it as a logical system which relies on the
open-choice principle. For instance, Chomskian generative grammar is based
on open choices relying on a system of morpho-syntactic rules. The open-
choice principle is the principle on which most grammars depend.
The idiom principle, instead, is based on the view that the language user
has available to her or him a number of semi-preconstructed chunks which
constitute single choices and are generally used as such or with slight modifi-
cation. The expression “bear in mind” for instance is generally used as such
or with limited variations like “take/keep/hold in mind” and many choices
which might be plausible according to the open-choice principle (e.g. “carry
in mind”) simply sound odd. Traditionally the idiom principle has been put
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
forward to account for those instances the open-choice principle could not
account for.
Corpus work has shown that language is much more a matter of “idiom”
than was traditionally thought and that many words have a striking tendency to
occur together or in each other’s vicinity. Concordances in fact highlight that
choice is not so open in word combinations and this does not only concern
expressions like “by and large” or “all of a sudden” which are “fixed” even in-
tuitively.2
A search for “a pretty” in the written component of the BNC found
1161 occurrences. Analysis of a hundred of these, randomly selected, revealed
that although collocates were considerably varied, there were still clear recur-
rent features of a semantic nature. Leaving aside fixed idioms such as “a pretty
penny” or “a pretty pass”, four main semantic categories of words seem to
follow “a pretty”: a “girl/woman” category (“lady”, “maid”, “face”, etc.: about
30%); a “place” category (“village”, “garden”, etc.: 20%); a “picture/sight” cat-
egory (15%), and a “dress/furniture” category (10%). Examples like this one
show that even in those cases where no “fixed” or figurative expressions are
involved, choices in word combinations may still be restricted.
This seems to me an important point for language learners in general and
ESP learners in particular, which they can be made familiar with by corpus
work or be explained explicitly. In the case of the usage of “worth” in scien-
tific texts that we saw in 3.1, above, not only does “worth” select an “-ing” verb
form, in a corpus of academic writing, it also selects verbs from a particular se-
mantic area (“noting”, “looking”,“pointing out”, etc.) which contribute to make
the pattern “worth noting” a conventional, idiomatic one in scientific writing.
.. The search for units of meaning
The idiom principle suggests that words tend to combine according to a limited
set of choices and that language production is much more a matter of colloca-
tion than was traditionally expected. Sinclair (1996) observes that one of the
limits of language perspectives based on traditional grammars is that they tend
to reinforce the idea that units of grammar coincide with units of meaning.
Sinclair argues that words’ usages and meanings are very closely interrelated,
but that such interrelation is not evident in traditional grammar descriptions:
Words enter into meaningful relations with other words around them, and yet
all our current descriptions marginalize this massive contribution to meaning.
The main reason for the marginalization is that grammars are always given
priority, and grammars barricade themselves against the individual patterns
of words (1996:76).
Chapter 3. Theoretical premises for teachers and learners 
Compounds are the typical example. Compounds are formed by two words,
each of which has its own meaning. When associated, however, they create a
third, new meaning, which is partly or totally independent from the first two
ones. As an example, Sinclair quotes the compound “blackbird”.
This phenomenon is not however restricted to compounds. Think of ex-
pressions like “of course” (where “of” and “course” lose their individual mean-
ings completely) or “black and white” (where “black” and “white” take on the
more extensive meaning of “black, white, gray and their nuances” and refers
to “non colour film or TV”). Thus, the relation between “of” and “course”
in the expression “of course” and that between “black”, “and” and “white” in
the expression “black and white” does not simply add up the meanings of the
two/three words that form the expression, but it creates a novel unit of mean-
ing different from the preceding ones. In the Italian example we considered
above, showing occurrences of “mattina” and “mattino”, the fact that our cur-
rent grammar descriptions marginalize the contribution of words to meaning
in Sinclair’s terms is particularly clear. “Questa mattina”, indicates a specific
point in time and is obviously a different concept as compared to “il mattino”
which is used more frequently in time duration expressions. Though, when we
(as well as the students) come to describe “mattino” and “mattina” we tend to
dis-associate these words from their collocates and consider them mainly (or
only) as synonyms.
Relations between words are such that it is often difficult to define the
exact limits of a unit of meaning. Sinclair (1996) shows that corpus work ac-
counts for at least four types of meaningful relations that words entertain with
other words around them. In corpus linguistics, these are called: collocation,
colligation, semantic preference and semantic prosody. The first three (colloca-
tion, colligation and semantic prosody) are based on “vicinity” between words
and/or expressions. Collocation is the best-known and is defined as “the oc-
currence of two or more words within a short space of each other” (Sinclair
1991:170). The relationship between “of” and “course” and “black”, “and” and
“white” is of a collocational type. Other collocations are “a pretty penny” and
“a pretty pass”, which can be observed as frequent combinations involving the
word “pretty”, as noted above. Colligation is, instead, the relationship between
a word and a grammatical class of words. This may occasionally coincide with
traditional syntactic rules: for instance the relationship between “worth” and
an “-ing” verb, which we saw above. Colligation, however, also includes and
accounts for other “new” patterns. For instance the relationship between “mat-
tina” and a “specifier” (questa/ieri/domenica . . .), which excludes “mattino” as
a possible choice to translate “this morning”. Semantic preference is a concept
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
similar to that of colligation. Indeed it is again the relationship between a word
and a class of words. The class of words, in this case, is not a grammatical
class of words but a semantic class of words. The example we looked at above
where, in academic writing, “worth” tended to occur with verbs such as “not-
ing”, “highlighting”, “observing” is an example of semantic preference, where
the “ing”-verbs following “worth” share the meaning of “making evident”. An-
other example of semantic preference, taken from Sinclair (1996), is that of the
expression “to/with the naked eye” which shows a striking tendency to occur
with expressions of “visibility” (e.g. “visible to the naked eye”, “you can see with
the naked eye”, “look at with the naked eye”, etc.).
The first three types of relationships are based on a tendency of particular
words and/or expressions to come together, creating collocational or colliga-
tional patterns. The fourth type of relationship mentioned above, semantic
prosody, is a slightly different concept. Semantic prosody does not only have
to do with the relationship between words, but it also involves the way words
affect each other with their meanings. The term “prosody”, which is generally
used in linguistics to refer to the sound or rhythm of words, is applied here
to the sound of meanings rather than phonemes and particularly to the way
in which words or expressions create an aura of meaning capable of affecting
words around them. With reference to the expression “to/with the naked eye”,
which we saw above, Sinclair (1996) notes that not only is there quite a clear
semantic preference for expressions indicating “visibility” (“visible”, “look”,
“see”), but also that words occurring in the vicinity of the expressions indi-
cating “visibility” consistently suggest “difficulty in visibility”. Some examples
taken from Sinclair’s concordance of “naked eye” are: “too small to see with the
naked eye”, “it is not really visible to the naked eye”, “cannot always be perceived
by the naked eye”, “even though nothing is visible to the naked eye”, “human
ovum is barely visible to the naked eye”, etc. (Sinclair 1996:103). The fact of oc-
curring consistently in a context indicating low visibility affects the expression
“to/with the naked eye” permeating it with a negative meaning and the fact of
consistently occurring in contexts where such difficulty is expressed gives it an
aura which probably makes it “sound better” in these types of contexts rather
than in others.
Independently of how we want to call these types of relationships in the
classroom (these concepts may not be so clear-cut and easy to grasp, see also
Partington 2004), once they are pointed out to the students, it is much clearer
to them what they may want to look at in a concordance. It becomes much
easier, for instance, to see the significance of the relationship between a specifier
and the word “mattina” and the negative aura of meaning connected with the
Chapter 3. Theoretical premises for teachers and learners 
usage of the word “dealing”. In Chapter 5, I shall suggest some activities to
familiarize students with corpus methodology and help them see these types
of relationships between words. Simple, plain explanations of basic concepts
like those dealt with here may sometimes, however, be helpful in classroom
interaction to guide the students to read and interpret the data.
.. “Unusuality” and creativity
It is probably clear from the discussion above that both the idiom principle
and the relationships that words seem to entertain with each other are based
on a description of recurrent, conventional language behaviour. As well as
demonstrating the predictability of language by revealing conventional usage,
observing recurrences can also help cast light on unconventional, unusual lin-
guistic behaviour, or “unusuality” as Partington (1998:121) calls it. “Creative”
uses of language, in fact, often exploit expectations raised by conventional lan-
guage use and “create effect” by not fulfilling them. An example illustrating
this, can be found in Bolinger (1976), who quotes the following title of a poem
by Dylan Thomas:3
A grief ago
Bolinger notes that this line owes much of its effect to its failure to fulfil the
expectation that “ago” generally co-occurs with an expression of time. Precisely
because “ago” generally refers to time, time is evoked and attributed to “grief”.
Makkai (1993) refers to the failure to fulfil readers’ expectations as logopoeia,
which he calls “the dance of intellect among words”. Quoting Ezra Pound he
describes logopoeia as follows:
[Logopoeia] employs words not only for their direct meaning, but it takes
count in a special way of habits of usage, of the context we expect to find with
the word, its usual concomitants, of its known acceptances, and of ironical
play. (Makkai 1993:305)
By highlighting semantic prosodies, concordances can sometimes throw light
on such creative uses achieved with logopoeia. Louw (1993) looks at poems by
the poet Philip Larkin and shows that semantic prosody as revealed through
concordances can, in some cases, account for Larkin’s use of logopoeia. In
particular, Louw (1993) notes that a concordance of “utterly” in the origi-
nal 18- million-word Cobuild corpus shows a consistently “negative” semantic
prosody, occurring with words like “arid”, “burned”, “demolished”, “destroy-
ing”, “insensible”, “meaningless”, etc. With respect to this, the last line of Philip
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
Larkin’s “First Sight” seems particularly evocative, maintaining the negative
aura of its conventional usage:
First Sight
Lambs that learn to walk in snow
When their bleating clouds the air
Meet a vast unwelcome, know
Nothing but a sunless glare.
Newly stumbling to and fro
All they find outside the fold,
Is a wretched width of cold
As they wait beside the ewe,
Her fleeces wetly caked, there lies
Hidden round them, waiting too,
Earth’s immeasurable surprise.
They could not grasp if they knew,
What so soon will wake and grow
Utterly unlike the snow.
While this evokes a series of suggestions for using concordances for the teach-
ing of literature, which I shall not go into here (but see e.g. Louw 1993, 1997;
Kettemann 1997; Kettemann & Marko 2004), concordances also help to ac-
count for creative usages in non-poetical, non-literary texts. Again looking at
the concordance of “utterly”, Louw (1993) notes that although the context it
occurs in is recurrently negative, there are 4 instances out of 99 where “utterly”
co-occurs with “positive” adjectives (“dedicated”, “good”, “grand” and “ven-
erable”). Reading the extended context of all of these four examples, one can
notice that they carry a fairly obvious ironic intention and irony here seems
to be achieved by playing precisely on the effect created by combining words
with a positive connotation and the “negative” expectation raised by the use of
“utterly”, or its semantic prosody. It is probably clear from the examples above
that creativity is often achieved by playing on conventional, recurrent word be-
haviour. So highlighting what is conventional and usual in word combinations
also offers a chance to account for unusual language behaviour.
Manipulating conventional meaning to achieve particular effects is a fairly
widespread phenomenon and conventional relationships between words are
often “played around with” to generate novel and creative meaning or to attract
the readers’ attention. Partington (1998), for instance, notes that many news-
paper headlines particularly in the arts and sports sections create such effects
Chapter 3. Theoretical premises for teachers and learners 
by manipulating proverbs, quotations, sayings, idioms or collocations. Such
“fixed” expressions are quoted only in part to raise an expectation (for the fol-
lowing conventional part) which is then left unfulfilled. See, for instance, the
five headlines below (taken from Partington 1998:122–3). The italicized text
recalls well-known titles of plays (Look Back in Anger and Murder in the Cathe-
dral) in the first two cases, a line of a popular Pink Floyd song (The Wall) in
the third example, a popular character in fairy tales (“Prince Charming”) and
a proverb (“A bridge too far”), in the fourth and fifth examples respectively:
1. Defiant Saddam looks back in anger and pride
2. TELEVISION: Murder of the cathedral
3. Another brick at the wall: Della Couling reports on the attempts of Ger-
man playwrights to cross the East-West divide
4. Prints charming: This week, you can visit the Royal Academy and take
an Old Master home with you
5. DANCE: A fridge too far
Manipulation of conventional language patterns then may lead to the achieve-
ment of novel text, which may be either very effective and original, as in the
case of good poetry, or a bit less so, as in the case of newspaper titles where
such “playing around” seem to be rather recurrent and systematic. What is in-
teresting in this creative usage of recurrent word combinations from a learners’
point of view is the very fact that creating novel text can be done by manip-
ulating usual, conventional text. Such a possibility, which is not familiar in
language pedagogy and indeed often inhibited, as it may lead to plagiarism,
can instead be very usefully exploited in ESP writing and translation, as we
shall see in Chapter 6 (on this topic see also Pecorari 2003).
. Learners, “idioms” and corpus work
While learners may initially fail to appreciate the type of information that can
be derived from concordance data, as non-native users of a language, they
are very much aware of the obstacles posed by idiomatic uses of the foreign
language for their understanding and participating in their foreign language
interactions. Some of my undergraduate students, for instance, used to thank
their (English-mother-tongue) teachers using the expression “thank you for
your availability”, which is a literal translation of the Italian expression “grazie
per la sua disponibilità”. In the Italian expression, “disponibilità” is used in an
idiomatic combination which is uncommon in using the English match “avail-
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
ability”. Having received “strange smiles” in response to their thanks, students
asked me if there was anything wrong with such expression. We generated a
concordance of “thank you for” and “thanks for” from the BNC Sampler (the
only concordance tool at hand at that moment). We found no occurrence of
“thanks for/thank you for your availability” but we found several occurrences
of “thanks for/thank you for your help”, which the students immediately rec-
ognized as “that’s what I wanted” and realized that in using “availability” they
were probably affected by the Italian idiomatic usage. So, after thanking me
“for my availability” (in Italian), my English native speaker colleagues noted
that students started thanking them “for their help”.
Such examples are quite common in language teaching and learning and
Johnson-Laird (1993:vii) underlines this “effect of immediate recognition” of
idioms when considering another language:
a simple litmus, though not an infallible one, for whether a sense is idiomatic is
to consider its expression in another language. An Italian speaker, for example,
does not say, ‘mi stai tirando la gamba’ (literally, “you are pulling my leg”) to
express the idea of a joke, but rather ‘mi prendi in giro’.
“Mi prendi in giro” in its turn loses its idiomatic sense when translated literally
into English (“you take me around/on a tour”). Corpus work provides a tool
by which students can explore such “idiomatic” areas of language, which, as
foreign speakers, they often perceive as an obstacle in their interactions. It pro-
vides students with the means to highlight conventionalcombinations of words
and they may eventually achieve awareness of the pervasiveness, complexity
and potential productivity of such language conventions as described above.
Learning to perform corpus work and performing it, then, provides students
with an opportunity to observe language from an “idiomatic” point of view
and eventually to take this point of view into account in their foreign language
production.
. Conclusion
The “idiom-principle” proposes a new way of looking at language which high-
lights the fact that words tend to combine not only on the basis of logico-
rationalistic rules, but, to a large extent, also on the basis of stipulated sociolin-
guistic conventions. Such conventions account for the semantic and pragmatic
meanings that words contribute to achieve in texts. These conventions also
provide a basis to interpret “non-convention”, deviant or creative usages of
Chapter 3. Theoretical premises for teachers and learners 
language which are produced and recognized as deliberate manipulations of
conventional patterns. This also opens a new way to look at language creativity
which is not probably a familiar one to teachers and learners and which seems
an interesting object of consideration in language pedagogy.
In the sections above, my discussion focused mainly on what the students
can achieve through corpus work both in terms of process and results. These
could be summarized as:
a. a less reductive idea of language (as compared to that involved in the
traditional rationalist paradigm) including both idiomatic and rationalist
aspects of language as two poles of a continuum;
b. information about idiomatic aspects of language behaviour such as inter-
actional routines (“thanks for your help” vs. “thanks for your availability”)
and fixed or semi-fixed expressions in general (“worth noting”, “heavy
dealing”).
This seems to me a starting point in demonstrating why it may be worthwhile
to ask students to perform corpus work.
Some suggestions about guiding the students to achieve methodological
instruments to perform corpus work and, also, familiarise themselves with the
concepts illustrated here are provided in Chapter 5. Before that, though, there
are considerations to be made regarding the type of text-corpora we want to
analyse in the classroom. This leads me to another key topic in this book, that
is corpora and ESP.
Notes
. The notion of genre I use here is derived from Swales 1990. For a discussion of the notions
of register, genre and text-type see Bondi (1999b:7–26).
. “By and large” and “all of a sudden” occur respectively 485 and 393 in the BNC. A look
at 100 randomly selected occurrences of “by and” showed that it is followed by “large” in
half of the instances, the remaining ones revealing no productive use of the pattern “by
and large” (when “by” is followed by “and”, the latter generally introduces a new sentence,
e.g. “the thunder had passed them by and the voice of the seas changed”). A look at 100
randomly selected occurrences of “all of a” showed that in 72 cases it is in fact followed by
“sudden”. The pattern “all of a” seems, though, a productive one forming combinations such
as “all of a piece” and more interestingly “all of a” + a time expression (“a week”, “a month”,
“a fortnight”).
. Dylan Thomas’ title “A grief ago” is also discussed by Leech (1969:29–31) as an example
of deviation from common usage for the purpose of achieving creative effect.
Chapter 4
Corpus work, ESP and language learners
. Introduction: From small to specialized corpora
As mentioned in the first chapter, most studies regarding corpus use in a lan-
guage teaching and learning environment have traditionally been based on
corpora roughly put together by teachers-researchers to meet some specific
teaching purpose (see Tribble & Jones 1990; Johns & King 1991; Ma 1993a).
These preliminary studies consistently (Johns 1994; Miller 1994; Robinson
1994; and see also Tan 2002a) observed that using corpus work with lan-
guage students seemed to stimulate an “investigative”, explorative approach to
language learning. While this seemed an attractive teaching/learning point in
corpus work, through the nineties such pioneering projects shifted their focus
from such pedagogic issues to more technical, descriptive ones. In particular,
studies in corpus design and representativeness (Atkins et al. 1992; Biber 1993;
Oaks 1998) made it increasingly clear that corpus construction needed to be
based on sampling criteria that made the corpus reliable as a language sample.
Those “home-made” corpora which were used in preliminary teaching expe-
riments, needed somehow to be re-thought to make the design criteria clearer
and the size adequate to their purposes in order to render them more reliable
instruments on the whole.
Studies in corpus design made it clear that corpus size depended a lot on
both the corpus’s content and on its sampling criteria. While hundred-million
word collections were necessary to sample, for instance, contemporary British
English, a much smaller and specialized set of texts was needed to sample, for
instance, medical research papers. Indeed, large as it might be, a corpus of
general English often failed to capture features of very specialized language,
and a smaller, specialized corpus was often found more suitable. As Tribble
(1997) notes:
If one wishes to investigate the lexis of a particular current domain (e.g.
health) a specialist micro-corpus can often be more useful than a much larger
general corpus. For example, in the written component of the BNC Sampler
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
(1,000,000 words) there are no instances of “cancers”. An Encarta® micro-
corpus of health articles (24,805 words) gives 33 usefully contextualised ex-
amples. (Tribble 1997:112–3)
These considerations underlined the limit of the traditional distinction be-
tween large and small corpora making it clear that a more convincing one
could be drawn between general corpora like the BNC, representing e.g. British
English, and specialized corpora such as those concentrating on medical or
business language (see also Bernardini & Gavioli 1999).
While the shift from the idea of “small” corpora to that of “specialized”
corpora was necessary and useful and it is probably nowadays impossible to
talk about a small corpus that is not, in some way, also specialized, such a shift
had a number of implications which I shall discuss in this chapter. The first
concerns ESP proper. Focusing on a more restricted range of topics and text-
types, specialized corpora became a more reliable descriptive tool for specific
language (sub)domains (e.g. medical writing; see Gavioli 2000): this opened up
new descriptive potentials of corpora for ESP teaching and suggested ways to
solve traditional ESP teaching problems, such as that of specialised lexis. I shall
discuss this issue in the next section of this chapter. While the first point has to
do with suggestions that corpus analysis can provide for working out ESP con-
tents, the second point has to do with a methodological problem. In particular,
there may be a potential confusion between what we mean by “specialized”
language and what we mean with “specialized” teaching/learning purposes,
and, consequently, what we mean by a “specialized” corpus for teaching and
learning. In Section 2 of this chapter I attempt to distinguish between these
concepts and I complete the definition I provided in the introduction to this
book of what should be intended by “specialised corpora” here. A third impli-
cation regards the distinction between specialized and general corpora. While
the two labels help to identify different types of corpora, constructed with dif-
ferent criteria, the distinction should not be taken as completely clear-cut as
one risks overlooking the continuum that links up specialized and general
language and the fact that “specialized” is defined in reference to “general”
(Section 3). In the fourth section of this chapter, I discuss the issue of spe-
cialised corpora in a learning perspective and I point out some of the reasons
why specialised corpora can be used as effective learning tools in both ESP and
non-ESP environments.
Chapter 4. Corpus work, ESP and language learners 
. ESP and specialised corpora: A happy marriage
.. ESP, quantitative data and corpus analysis: A natural development
As mentioned above, studies in corpus representativeness made it increasingly
clear that, given their size, small corpora could not provide adequate sam-
ples of a general language population and a smaller, more limited population
was probably a more suitable target. Thus small corpora increasingly became
“specialized” corpora, namely collections of texts similar in topic (e.g. medical
texts) and type (e.g. academic articles). Obviously such a shift attracted great
interest in ESP circles, where such small, easy-to-collect specialized language
samples were in many senses considered precisely what was needed.
Following Kennedy (1992), in Chapter 2, I have observed that quantita-
tive data has been taken as relevant in the description and teaching of the
English language since at least the 1920s and that many researchers, over this
period, have engaged in the manual analysis of “corpora” of language to deter-
mine the frequency of the use of words, expressions and other features. While
Kennedy’s observation regarded the description and teaching of general En-
glish, the relevance of quantitative data seems to be even more important in
ESP. The quantitative nature of certain characteristic aspects of ESP has tra-
ditionally been recognised in, for instance, the recurrence of particular lexical
items or grammatical structures, such as noun phrases in the language of med-
ical science (e.g. Gotti 1991). In a paper entitled ”On the language of physical
science”, Halliday (1988:162) defines scientific English as a functional variety,
or register, and describes it in terms that are essentially quantitative:
A register is a cluster of associated features having a greater-than-random (or
rather, greater than predicted by their unconditioned probabilities) tendency
to co-occur
Probably because the expertise of a linguist may often not be enough to de-
scribe features of ESP and either collaboration with “experts” (Johns & Dudley-
Evans 1980/1988) or analysis of specialised texts seemed inevitable, the neces-
sity to focus on actual language occurrence and analyse it has traditionally been
considered a main issue in ESP descriptions. A 1962 paper by Barber, which has
subsequently been very influential in the foundation and development of ESP
studies (see Swales 1988:1–2; Dudley-Evans & St. John 1998:20), is based on
a “corpus” of about 23,000 words, formed by three research articles in differ-
ent scientific domains (engineering, chemistry and astronomy) of which the
author manually calculates data such as average sentence length, number of
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
clauses per sentence, occurrence of most frequent modal verbs and occurrences
of different verbal tenses and aspects. As Swales (1988:1) notes, this paper was
also used as an argument for not teaching the progressive tense in courses of
scientific English, as the frequency of this form emerged as strikingly low. It
can be seen that both the method of analysis and the thesis supported by Bar-
ber (1962) are very close to methods and theses in modern ”corpus-analysis”.
So, while methods based on corpus linguistics have represented a challenge
in descriptions of general English, because ESP descriptions and teaching rely
heavily on collections of “specialized” texts, it seems to me that such methods
represent a sort of natural development in this field.
.. ESP and corpus work
The potential relevance of corpus analysis for ESP teaching is well acknowl-
edged these days (Dudley-Evans & St. Johns 1998:31) and from a teacher’s
point of view there are many potential applications of corpus work to ESP.
Some of these are studies of variation across different genres (see Hyland 2002a
for an overview), teaching genre conventions (Tribble 2000; Thompson 2000,
2001) or the analysis of the students’ needs (for EAP, see e.g. Thompson 2002).
In this section, I focus, in particular, on two more areas of interest that seem to
be on the one hand especially fruitful for ESP description and teaching, and on
the other, particularly relevant for learners using corpora as learning tools – as
we shall see in Chapter 6. The first area regards the use of specialised corpora
to complement genre studies; the second regards the selection and teaching of
specialized lexis.
... Corpus work and genre
Referring in particular to EAP, Hunston (2002:198) notes that for ESP teachers
the issue of “what to teach” as opposed to “how to teach” may be of particu-
lar significance. Students who need to be guided to writing academic papers
or essays may need to be made aware of those salient features which charac-
terize such genres. Borrowing the Hallidayan notions of ideational and inter-
personal, Hunston (2002) observes that corpus work may complement genre
studies in either of these two respects. Some corpus studies focus on the typical
phraseologies used in certain academic genres, thus leading to a discussion of
ideational meaning, while others, instead, focus on the way that the writers in
different disciplines create their relationship with their readers.
Chapter 4. Corpus work, ESP and language learners 
To the first type belong studies such as Gledhill (1995, 2000) or Luzon
Marco (2000). Gledhill (1995) suggests that typical phraseology (intended as
recurrent combinations of words) can reflect rhetorical choices:
Thus phraseology merges collocation as ‘the preferred way of saying things’
with rhetoric as ‘the dress of thought’ (as Dickens worded it) (1995:11).
Gledhill (1995, 2000) uses a corpus of academic articles on cancer research.
His corpus is organized in sub-corpora each containing a type of headed sub-
section (Introductions, Methods, Results, Discussions, Conclusions). Gled-
hill compares the various sub-corpora using Wordsmith’s keywords feature
and finds out that there are words that are significant in the different sub-
sections. For instance, some significant words in the introduction sub-sections
are “such”, “can” and “we”. “Such” plays an important role in reformulating
biochemical processes (e.g. “antitumour agents such as NMU”), “can” is used
to expresses potential clinical processes (e.g. “methods can be considered”, “al-
terations can be prepared”) or to explain a biochemical’s “ability to” operate
in a novel way, “we” is used in reference to the papers’ authors and primar-
ily to express the rhetorical move “occupy the research gap” (Swales 1990).
Gledhill then shows that rhetorical patterns are often “lexicalised” through re-
current phraseological patterns. This can be particularly useful in the teaching
of writing. Weber (2001) discusses a teaching experiment where students iso-
lated generic features of legal essays and used the concordancer to find out
the most frequent lexical patterns which seemed to lexicalise such generic fea-
tures. These patterns were then adopted and adapted by students in their own
writing of legal essays (see also Flowerdew 1993b; Henry & Roseberry 2001;
Bondi 2001).
As mentioned above, the second type of studies focuses on language fea-
tures that indicate ways in which writers build up a relationship with their
readers. One such study is, for instance, Hyland (1998). It concentrates on the
semantic category of “hedging” in a corpus of biology research articles. Hyland
identifies a number of “hedgers” (modal auxiliaries, verbs such as “suggest”
or “indicate”, epistemic adjectives or adverbs, e.g “possible”, “possibly”) which
are used in academic paper writing to perform either of the following main
functions (abridged from Hunston 2002: 203):
a. They indicate the relation between what is said and what happened during
the actual empirical work or experiment,
b. they indicate or limit the comittment of writers in their claims or criticism,
c. they construct the identity of both writers and readers as individuals con-
forming to the norms of the scientific community
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
In a teaching perspective, Hyland (2002b) shows that while students often see
academic writing as a “very impersonal” and factual type of writing, there is
instead large scope for writer-reader negotiation of identity and such negotia-
tion may differ in type across disciplines. He suggests that corpus work such as
analyzing concordances of personal pronouns generated from corpora of aca-
demic paper texts in different fields may help students achieve awareness of
ways in which such writer-reader relationships are negotiated and created.
Both Gledhill (1995, 2000) and Hyland (1998, 2002b) indicate ESP issues
that corpus work may help to highlight or define. While Gledhill works in the
direction of identifying recurrent lexicalizations of rhetorical moves, Hyland
proposes a series of lexical items performing recurrent interpersonal func-
tions in academic writing. Both features provide a characterization of academic
writing which seems to attract ESP students’ interest.
... Corpus work and lexis
The fact that corpus linguistics opens up a new way of looking at lexis and
gives it a more important and “serious” position in language description is
well argued in the literature on corpus linguistics (Sinclair 1996; Hoey 2004
in particular). Parallely, in language teaching, this has been accompanied by a
re-consideration of the centrality of the problem of teaching lexical and collo-
cational phenomena (that was put forward particularly strongly by Lewis 1993,
2000 and was discussed at great length in e.g. Nattinger and De Carrico 1992).
A particularly interesting potential of specialized corpora in ESP description
and teaching is that concerning vocabulary. The use of technical lexis (and the
concepts related to it) has in fact constituted a traditional “burning issue” in
ESP teaching and learning. Since their beginning, ESP studies have tackled the
problem with some uneasiness, arguing that teaching technical lexis “was not
the job of the language teacher” (see e.g. Higgins 1967 or Trimble 1985) in the
attempt to give others (“expert” colleagues or presumably “expert” students)
the responsibility of making sense of texts as a whole. As Trimble observes:
It seems rather pointless for a teacher not trained in science to ”teach” techni-
cal vocabulary to students who have already learned or are learning this highly
specialised lexis in their subject-matter courses (1985:128).
Barber’s attempt (1962) to calculate items to teach in a course of English for
science was an important step in the direction of producing an ESP syllabus,
but Barber too, focused primarily on grammar structures, overlooking lexis
proper. ESP exploratory studies seemed to be looking for ways to by-pass rather
than solve the problem of teaching lexis and while authors seemed to agree
Chapter 4. Corpus work, ESP and language learners 
on the idea that some “semi-technical” vocabulary should be dealt with in the
ESP language classroom, their ideas about what could be considered “semi” di-
verged a lot, ranging from Higgins’s category of “frame words” (1967), which
included rather general words such as “heal” to Trimble’s (1985:30) category of
“sub-technical” words including “dog”, a mechanical engineering term mean-
ing “an adjustable stop used in gears”, which seems, instead, pretty technical to
the lay person.
The majority of computer programs developed for corpus analysis permit
one to perform automatically those operations which Barber (1962) performed
manually. This helps ESP “practitioners” (as defined by Robinson 19911
) to
rapidly get an idea of which recurrent lexical items are used in a given col-
lection of texts (medical, physical or otherwise). To take just one example, an
early study by Higgins (1967) about teaching English to science students un-
derlines the necessity of providing students with some “frame words” which
caused difficulty in comprehension and production and which were frequent
in the language of science. For the medical science, he suggests that some of
these might be: “symptom/s”, “diagnose”/“diagnosis”, “treatment/s” and the
verbs “treat”, “relapse”, “heal”, and “cure”. A look at a list of keywords from
a medical corpus of research articles dealing with hepatitis C, shows that while
the nouns “symptom” and “treatment” (singular and plural), and the verb “di-
agnose” are in fact frequentwords, the verb “relapse” occurs just once and there
are no occurrences of forms of the verbs “cure” and “heal”. This list also shows
that there are other very frequent words which might be included in the list
of “frame words”, notably “patient/s” and “disease/s”. Such a list, then, quickly
provides quantitative data which suggest: a. a pool of frequent words which
may be taken into consideration by the teacher (e.g. “patient/s”, “disease/s”), b.
that some words which seem intuitively frequent (even to the discipline’s ex-
pert) are not, and it may be the case that their frequency depends on the type
of text or the situation involved, as is the case of the verbs “relapse”, “heal” and
“cure” which are quite rare in medical research articles, making it necessary to
check whether they are frequent in other types of texts, such as patient-doctor
conversations or popular medical literature.
Corpus work provided criteria to generate “specialized word lists” by, for
example, analyzing corpora of academic English. Nation (2001b:191) notes
that there are several ways of making lists of academic vocabulary. Here, I men-
tion three: first, if the domain is very very specialized (as in the case of some
electronic or medical sub-fields) a simple calculation of word frequency may
highlight most important specialized words; second, corpora of texts in differ-
ent specialized domains can be compared to show key lexical characteristics
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
in each corpus; third, corpora of texts in different specialized domains can be
compared with corpora of non-academic texts to reveal specialized vs. gen-
eral lexical features. While Nation suggests that the criteria to calculate word
frequency and derive characterizing words depend on the type of corpus and
on its level of specialization, corpus tools seems to provide useful means to
generate such word lists. The Academic Word List (a list of recurrent words in
general academic English, Coxhead 2000), for instance, has been drawn up on
the basis of a comparison between a 3,500,000-word corpus of academic En-
glish (composed of various sub-domains) and a corpus of fiction writing of the
same size to extract those words which seemed common to a wide range of aca-
demic texts as compared to fiction writing. Vocabulary was then sub-divided
according to range and frequency in the different sub-domains.
The contribution of corpus work in dealing with specialized vocabulary
should not, I think, be underestimated. Such lists of academic words have in
fact been profitably used in teaching specialized vocabulary (see Ward 1999).
The traditional difficulty encountered by language teachers in dealing with
technical lexis and concepts created a sort of gap between: a. the text with
its rhetorical and stylistic choices, which it was the job of the linguist or the
language teacher to teach and b. its “meaning”, with technical lexis and con-
cepts, which were instead the job of the “technical discipline experts”. Although
attempts have been made to make the two sides interact (with e.g. the “team-
teaching” program, Johns & Dudley-Evans 1980, or by comparisons of popu-
larized and scientific literature, Robinson 1989), this issue still seems a burning
one (see Nation 2001b:203–5). It seems to me that corpus work offers a “lin-
guistic” means to explore “technical” concepts and a way to bridge the gap. I
will consider some learning implications of this in Chapter 6 below.
. Specialised language and specialized teaching purposes
While the problem of distinguishing between specialized language and spe-
cialized purposes in ESP is not a new one (see Widdowson 1983, 1998a),
it is worthwhile to recall what one means by “specialized” corpora in ESP
with reference to both language and teaching and learning purposes. First,
when we talk about specialized corpora, we mean a corpus designed in such
a way as to collect a sample of a sub-language. Depending on the research
or teaching purposes, sub-languages can be of many types from the less to
the more “specialized”: academic language, research papers’ medical language,
the language of hepatitis research papers, the language of hepatitis C research
Chapter 4. Corpus work, ESP and language learners 
papers and the like. Biber (1993:245) suggests a simple grid for designing
corpora according to some pre-specified purpose. This grid includes con-
siderations of textual features such as channel (written, spoken or scripted),
format (published/not published, setting (institutional/other public/private-
personal), addressee (how many, other or self, present or absent, degree of
interactiveness, degree of shared knowledge), addressor (sex, age, occupation,
acknowledged individual/institution), factuality (factual-informational, imag-
inative, etc.), purposes (persuade, entertain, edify; inform, instruct, explain,
narrate, describe, keep records, reveal self, express attitudes, opinions or emo-
tions, enhance interpersonal relationship) and topics. A specialized corpus of
academic language should probably consider written and spoken language,
published, institutional, a plurality of addressees either present and absent,
both in interactive and non interactive settings, and with a minimum special-
ized shared knowledge; addressors should probably represent both sexes, and
the topics’ should range over various academic disciplines. A specialized cor-
pus of research articles about hepatitis C should more simply collect a number
of articles dealing with a single topic (hepatitis C), by different authors ac-
knowledged as experts in the field and possibly of both sexes. So while these
corpora are both specialized samples of academic language, the latter is much
more “specialized” and restricted than the former.
At the same time, the category “specialized corpora” does not coincide
with more traditional ESP categories. For instance, Dudley-Evans and St. John
(1998) use categories such as EAP (English for academic purposes) or EBP
(English for business purposes) or EMP (English for medical purposes), al-
luding to the world of language and language interaction that may be relevant
to communicate in an academic business or medical environment. Specialised
corpora simply contain texts and while such corpora of texts may provide a
crucial contribution in both describing and teaching and learning EAP, EBP,
EMP and the like, they constitute only instruments for achieving descriptive or
pedagogic goals in ESP. They do not constitute the whole of academic language,
business language or medical language. While specialized corpora may be con-
ceived or constructed to represent a category such as Academic English (and
the Micase corpus provides an example of academic spoken English), most of-
ten, specialized corpora representa much more restricted portion of specialised
texts (e.g. biology lectures, medical research papers).
Specialized corpora, indeed corpora in general, do not only reflect the aim
of representing a sub-language (very restricted or less so), they also reflect the
research or teaching purpose they were produced for. The Micase corpus, for
instance, is a specialized corpus of academic spoken English containing class-
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
room events such as lectures or discussion sessions and non classroom events
such as advising sessions, interviews or meetings. The corpus was designed and
made available with the purpose of studying characteristics of contemporary
academic speech. Many specialized corpora are instead created for teaching
rather than for research purposes and, being constructed for very ad hoc pur-
poses, they are generally more restricted in the variety of texts they contain.
Several studies in specialised corpus work quote corpora made for such ad hoc
teaching purposes. Flowerdew (1993a; see Section 2.2.1), for instance, uses a
corpus of 100,000 words containing transcriptions of lectures and texts deal-
ing with biology. These are those (and only those) lectures and texts students
have to deal with in their biology course. Similarly, Gledhill (1995, 2000) uses
a 500,000 word corpus of medical papers about cancer as his teaching set-
ting involves students who are researchers in the field of cancer therapy, while
Beeching uses a 40-minute transcription of talk recorded at a horticultural sta-
tion which was felt “to be most ‘central’ to students’ concern” (1997:379, and
see also Tribble 2001). In all of these cases, then, the design and construction of
corpora took into consideration criteria which were based on teaching rather
than descriptive purposes, that is to say, the main aim was not to represent the
ESP domain (biology, medicine, horticulture), but rather to sample which was
considered of central concern to the students’ needs, and the two do not always
coincide.
As mentioned in the introduction, specialised corpora used in the activi-
ties described in this book are of the latter type. From a teaching perspective,
this has a series of advantages. An obvious one is that corpora designed in this
way are highly “controlled” both in quantitative and qualitative terms. From
the quantitative point of view, all of the corpora used here contain less than a
million words. Such a restricted quantity of words is easily manageable from
both a technical and an analytical point of view and work with such corpora
will probably prevent students being overwhelmed by too much material (see
ch.1). From the qualitative point of view, such corpora show characteristics
of language which are probably of immediate concern to students and which
they may see as relevant ones; this gives teachers the opportunity to focus on a
limited number of items ad hoc for the teaching setting.
On the other hand, such corpora have some obvious notable limits. These
are of a descriptive as well as of a teaching nature. From a descriptive point of
view, such corpora are not large enough to say to what extent features which
emerge as very frequent are in fact characterizing features of the specialised
language under study and/or are generalizable inside (or beyond) the ESP field.
From a teaching point of view, what is considered of central concern to the stu-
Chapter 4. Corpus work, ESP and language learners 
dents’ needs by teachers does not always coincide with what emerges as actual
learning needs in the teaching/learning environment. So while corpora de-
signed for teaching purposes may cover some learners’ questions, they may not
contain enough material to cover all of them and more material (and perhaps
of a different type) will probably be necessary. This leads me to my next point,
the continuum that links up specialized and general corpora, constructed with
either teaching or descriptive aims.
. The continuum between specialized and general corpora
.. Register variation across genres
As mentioned above, it seems now to be generally acknowledged that spe-
cialized corpora “capture” local characteristics of language such as features of
genre or register better that general corpora. This is due to a consideration
of a quantitative nature. Specialized corpora in fact often provide more oc-
currences of “specialized” words than large corpora do. For instance the word
“transaminase” occurs 61 times in a small corpus of research articles dealing
with hepatitis and 17 in the BNC (all in one text). However, although they
provide more instances of technical words or expressions, specialised corpora
alone cannot tell us whether that word or expression in fact characterizes the
language represented in the corpus (see Aston 1997b).
The reason why this is so is that a genre or a register and general language
are not discrete categories. Even though we collect a huge number of texts rep-
resenting a genre, frequent characteristics emerging from the analysis of such
a corpus may not be characteristic features of that genre: they may well be fea-
tures related to a “hyper-genre” containing the genre we are examining or to
the language in general. In order to be able to “see” what characterises a corpus
containing texts belonging to a genre or a register, it is necessary to compare
frequent features derived from that corpus with frequent features of other reg-
isters or genres and with those of the language in general. Biber (1988, Biber &
Finegan 1993; Biber et al. 1998) argues that comparison of data from different
types of corpora is necessary to be able to say whether a feature is typical of a
corpus or not:
Register analyses require a comparative approach: we need a baseline for com-
parison to know whether the use of a linguistic feature in a register is rare or
common. (Biber et al. 1998:136–7)
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
Biber et al. (1998) suggest that characteristics of register varieties represented
in a large, general corpus can emerge by a comparison of the occurrences of
particular features in particular texts and in the whole corpus. In other words,
there are linguistic features which tend to appear significantly more or less
frequently than the average in particular text-types. Groups of such features
frequently found together in particular text-types are considered to be charac-
teristic of those text-types. For example, linguistic features such as contractions
(e.g. “ve”, “ll”), false starts (e.g. “okay”, “so we need to put –“, “I’m confused
now”) and generalised content words (e.g. “thing”) tend to co-occur in con-
versation. Biber et al. suggest that ”linguistic features co-occur in texts because
they function in similar ways” (1998:147), that is to say, in the example of con-
versation, contractions, false starts and the use of general content words are
all related to the constraints of real-time production, thus their co-occurrence
provides indication of real-time produced-discourse (Biber et al. 1999:10–11).
On the basis of the co-occurrence of linguistic features it is possible to de-
fine “dimensions of variation”. For instance, a dimension can be given by a
set of co-occurring features such as nouns, long words, prepositional phrases
and attributive adjectives. A dimension can then be attributed a function: thus
nouns, long words, prepositional phrases etc. are co-occurring features of texts
with an informational focus. Looking at which features co-occur in the various
text-types, it is then possible to draw a line going from e.g. maximally infor-
mative production (texts sharing features such as nouns, prepositional phrases,
long words, etc.) to maximally involved production (texts sharing features such
as contractions, present tense verbs, private verbs like “feel” or “think”, etc;
see Biber et al. 1998:145–152). According to the features they share, registers
can be put on a line indicating the dimension. For instance, for the dimension
“involved vs. informational production”, we can see that registers such as tele-
phone conversations or face-to-face conversation have scores which place them
in the direction of involved production, while academic prose has scores which
place it more in the direction of informational production.
The interesting fact emerging from Biber’s work is that registers can be
placed on each dimension in a continuum. So while the extremes (very in-
volved = conversation; very informational = academic prose) may sound obvi-
ous, there are much more interesting intermediate cases: for instance, personal
letters score as less involved than conversation while prepared speeches are
more involved than general fiction. The analysis can then help to characterize
more specific registers. For instance, inside academic prose, a distinction can be
drawn between history research articles and ecology research articles, the for-
mer being more narrative than the latter and in fact quite similar in scores to
Chapter 4. Corpus work, ESP and language learners 
face-to-face conversation. While research articles as a whole score rather high
along the line of the impersonal style dimension, it is possible to distinguish
between the various sections, those which are more impersonal (methods and
discussion) and those which are less (results, introduction), and unexpectedly
we can see that the discussion, not the methods, is the most impersonal section,
on the basis of this analysis (see Biber et al. 1998:167).
Biber’s scores are attributed on purely statistical and computational meth-
ods and, in this sense, they constitute data to be examined in the characteri-
sation of registers rather than results to be used as characteristics of registers.
What is interesting, however, in Biber’s study is that placing the various regis-
ters on a continuum line permits us to look at them in relationship to each
other rather than as separate entities. Thus while academic prose and tele-
phone conversations are seen as rather different registers along the dimension
of “involved vs. informational production”, they are much nearer along the “di-
mension of narrative vs. non-narrative discourse”. What Biber shows then is
that registers can be better characterized against a “normal” distribution of
linguistic characteristics provided by a general corpus and that “a register” and
“the whole” are units with very hazy borders and that they tend to merge into
one another. What Biber (1998) suggests then is that comparison is crucial to
interpret specificity and that characteristic features of registers emerge when a
sub-corpus representing such registers are compared to some reference mate-
rial, in this case the whole corpus, which is treated here as a reference corpus.
.. Identifying specificity
While Biber’s studies focus on register variation inside a large corpus of English
language and, in this respect, he looks at the continuum between sub-corpora
and the whole, rather than specialized and general corpora, the principle that
features of a specialized corpus can be better characterized against a normal
distribution of linguistic characteristics provided by a large corpus seems to
hold even when the specialized corpus is not part of the general one (see Biber
et al. 1998:Ch. 6).
The importance of interpreting data from a specialized sample against the
background of comparative data from a more general one is well argued by
Stubbs (1993, 1994, 1996). Stubbs’ “specialized” samples are in fact not corpora
such as those we have been dealing with so far, but single long specialized texts
(books). He compares uses of language in such long texts with that emerging
from large and varied corpora. His research is directed at seeing ways in which
texts encode ideological positions, by particular language uses.
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
The following, deals with the analysis of two geography schoolbooks, one
general, the other overtly environmentalist in purpose. Stubbs focuses on erga-
tive verbs, i.e. those verbs which can be found in either the transitive, intran-
sitive or passive form. One such verb, as exemplified by Stubbs (1994:205) is
“close”:
several firms have closed their factories (transitive)
factories have been closed (passive)
factories have closed (intransitive)
He argues that insofar as these verbs can be constructed in various ways they
may play a key role in the attribution of agency and may thus be used to attach
(or not attach) responsibility to subjects. The purpose of his analysis is to see
whether ergative verbs are used in the environmentalist schoolbook to attach
responsibility to subjects. He finds that in this work, ergative verbs are con-
structed in the transitive form much more frequently than in the general book
(52% vs 23%) and that this proportion is reversed for intransitive forms (38%
in the environmentalist book, 51% in the general book). This data suggest that
the transitive construction of ergative verbs may not be casual in the environ-
mentalist book and may suggest that ergative verbs are constructed in such a
way as to attach responsibility to subjects.
Comparing the data above with figures derived from a larger corpus con-
taining a variety of written texts (the Lob corpus), however, Stubbs derives a
rather different picture. The use of ergatives in the Lob is in fact found to be
rather similar to that in the environmentalist book, totaling 49% ergative verbs
used in the transitive and 31% in the intransitive form. Stubbs (1994) suggests
that this leads the analyst to reinterpret the difference between the two school-
books: if the use of ergative verbs in the environmentalist book is similar to
that in general writing, then it is not the environmentalist book which makes
larger use of transitive forms, rather the general book which makes larger use
of intransitive forms. Stubbs (1994) highlights very clearly that the data from
the Lob are fundamental here in interpreting the specificities of the two texts:
1. the general geography book differs from a corpus of general writing and is
characterized by a larger use of intransitive ergative verbal forms, 2. the envi-
ronmentalist geography book is different from the general book, but similar
to a corpus of general writing in the use of transitive vs. intransitive ergative
verb forms.
This also leads to further questions, such as whether the use of ergative
verbs in the general geography schoolbook is specific to this particular book
or whether the difference between the general and the environmentalist books
Chapter 4. Corpus work, ESP and language learners 
are interpretable in terms of a (deliberate?) deviance of the latter from the con-
ventional use within the genre of geography schoolbook writing. However, for
our purposes here, the analysis reported above makes it clear that comparison
with a general corpus like the Lob (Stubbs 1994) or the Cobuild (Stubbs 1996)
allows the analyst to interpret occurrence of data in single texts in relation to
occurrence of data in a variety of texts and provides a parameter against which
to check specific usages in small corpora like those made up by these two ge-
ography books. So the suggestion we can derive from Stubbs (1994) as well
as from Biber et al. (1998) is that comparison of a specialized corpus with a
general reference corpus helps understanding and interpreting specificity.
. Specialized language corpora and language learning
At the beginning of this chapter, I observed that pioneering experiments using
corpora in language teaching consistently underlined that corpus work tends to
favour an explorative investigative approach on the part of the students. I then
noted that although such teaching/learning issues sounded interesting from an
applied perspective, they were temporarily put aside as corpus studies tended
to focus on topics which seemed to be more urgent as they regarded problems
which were undermining the actual reliability of corpora as instruments for
research as well as for teaching and learning. Such topics had to do with defin-
ing clearer criteria for corpus design and representativeness and brought about
a profound change in the nature of the corpora which were at the disposal
of researchers and teachers and learners. In particular, a new dichotomy was
created between specialized and general corpora and new methods of analysis
were suggested which considered comparisons between corpora as constitu-
tive of corpus work. The increasing availability of large general corpora like the
BNC and the Cobuild Direct made it possible to compare features of special-
ized corpora restricted in text-types and domains with “normal” distribution
of language characteristics.
It is evident that what is available to teachers and learners now is rather
different if we compare it to what was available at the beginning of the nineties.
Now, the question I pose here is whether in this new situation, with more reli-
able instruments and more efficient methods, we can actually get back to issues
of a more explicit teaching and learning nature. Or, in other words, can corpus
work, now, be even more interesting for (ESP) teachers and learners?
In a 1998 paper written in honour of John Swales and Ann Johns, Wid-
dowson (1998b) discusses some issues involved in ESP learning. He develops
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
his argument in three main points. The first has to do with lexical compe-
tence. One of the defining characteristics of a discourse community according
to Swales (1990:26) is that “a discourse community has acquired some spe-
cific lexis”. Such specific lexis then has to be acquired by would-be members,
such as ESP students. Indeed, it is not just a matter of knowing the seman-
tic meanings of the words as the words are “schematically connected to form
conceptualizations of reality which define the culture of a particular discourse
community” (1998b:7). What outsiders lack is the insiders’ experience of a
whole new way of conceptualizing things and talking about them. Quoting a
poem by Craig Raine, Widdowson compares the status of the outsider to that of
a Martian observing a telephone. From the Martian’s point a view, a telephone
is an apparatus that snores if you pick it up and is woken up by tickling it with a
finger. It does not help the Martian to know that the apparatus he encounters is
called a telephone, what s/he needs is the conceptual framework, the culturally
determined ideational and interpersonal schemata.
Widdowson’s second point has to do with genre. A further defining char-
acteristic of a discourse community according to Swales is that a “discourse
community utilizes and hence possesses one or more genres in the commu-
nicative furtherance of its aims”. “Possessing” genres, however, does not simply
mean looking at structural characteristics or exposing students to genuine
texts, it means introducing students to knowledge of belief, values, conven-
tions of behaviour which characterize discourse communities. “Genre analysis
is, therefore, not principally about the English of Engineering, of Medicine,
of Business or Banking, but about the conventions of thought and communi-
cation which define these areas of professional activity, and how, incidentally,
these are given expression, or textualised, in English” (Widdowson 1998b:9).
The third point has to do with discourse authenticity. Genres show typical
features of language use in certain domains. They are abstracted out of actual
occurrences by the expertise of discourse analysts. If students of English for
such domains are to learn such generic structures as points of reference, they
must also be able to abstract from actual linguistic data. If you simply expose
them to the actual data in the form of authentic texts, you give them no guid-
ance as to how to do this. The crucial pedagogic question is, instead, how to
guide students to an authentication of actually occurring language by a process
of gradual initiation into the conventions of communication accepted in the
discourse community for which they are bidding for membership.
As shown above, specialised corpora are simply collections of texts, natu-
rally produced, and selected according to some common features (regarding
genre and topic). They are limited in that from a descriptive point of view they
Chapter 4. Corpus work, ESP and language learners 
do not represent a language domain (for which comparison with different or
general corpora is necessary) and from a pedagogic point of view they simply
provide actual data in the form of genuine texts. As mentioned in the previ-
ous chapters, concordances highlight recurrent usage of words and phrases. In
the case of specialized corpora, concordances provide a way to look at typical
(or atypical), conventional (or non-conventional) usage of lexis and textual or
genre structures or, in other words, they provide a way to look at how language
is used “idiomatically” inside specialized texts.
Pedagogically speaking, corpus work is interesting not only insofar as it
provides texts, but also insofar as it provides a methodology to investigate
these texts. Concordances derived from corpora provide uninterpreted mate-
rial which needs to be given a sense. The attempt to give a sense to the data
provokes what Widdowson (1998a:713) calls a “pragmatic reaction” by the
analysts who examine their data to see if it answers their questions. So the
limit of producing uninterpreted material is what makes concordance mate-
rial interesting. Likewise, specialised corpora provide material which is hardly
generalizable and comparison with material derived from other types of cor-
pora (e.g. general ones) is necessary. The necessity to compare the material,
again, produces an investigative approach that is exactly what makes the work
interesting.
. Conclusion
While language teaching studies have concentrated on corpora and concor-
dances as products (placing major emphasis on corpus representativeness and
on the generalizability of the results of corpus analysis), they have overlooked
the potential which was entailed in corpus work methodology. Investigations
involved in identifying the conventions which determine features of genre and
shape concepts in specialized text corpora may provide learners with a way
to see “how words are schematically connected to form conceptualizations
of reality which define the culture of a discourse community” (Widdowson
1998b:7) and to interact with such specialized text in an authentic commu-
nicative process by which they become gradually initiated in the conventions
of the discourse community they are interested in.
In this chapter I have focused on some conventions related to lexis and
genre which seem to be fruitfully explored with corpus tools and I have dealt
with some problems in corpus-work methodology for analyzing specialised
language. In the next chapters I illustrate and discuss issues about introduc-
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
ing learners to the actual methodology of corpus work (Chapter 5) and present
a number of searches carried out by students as well as the approach they take
in investigating corpora for ESP learning (Chapter 6).
Note
. Robinson (1991) observes that as ESP is often inspired by needs which are hardly gener-
alizable, many ESP teachers are also researchers, in that they have to provide descriptions of
the specialised language they are concerned with, and material and curriculum designers.
Acknowledging the multiple roles ESP researchers often cover, Robinson (1991:1) proposes
to call them “practitioners”. In her own words: “ESP practitioners need training in ways
of describing language, training in teaching language and training in designing language
courses. In addition, and unlike those involved in EGP (English for general purposes), they
need some knowledge of, or at least access to information on, whatever it is that students
are professionally involved with, for example economics, physics, nursing, catering”.
Chapter 5
Guiding the learners to work with corpora
and corpus data
. Introduction
The main instrument of corpus analysis is the concordancer. Guiding students
to use a concordancer, however, does not merely involve familiarizing them
with technical issues such as generating concordances and sorting the lines out.
These are quite easy operations and, in most cases, they pose little problem to
any computer-literate student. Like any other software, the concordancer is just
a tool. As a computer tool, it simply improves data by generatingand classifying
it more quickly and in an error-free fashion.
The crucial problem in a language learning perspective, then, does not have
to do with operating the tool technically, but rather with getting appropriate
data and carrying out correct interpretations of it. In other words, the main
issue consists in enabling students to ask appropriate questions and to “read”
and interpret the data to get sensible answers. Processing a corpus of authen-
tic texts, in this way, involves a range of levels of linguistic and metalinguistic
knowledge, which can enable students to categorize occurrences, identify reg-
ularities and generalize from them. In this respect, students need to be guided
in corpus work, at least at the initial stages. Such guidance, as I shall discuss it
here, has the function of introducing learners to interpret corpus materials and
the main aim to promote students’ participation in corpus work.
It seems to me that there are at least three problems to be taken into con-
sideration in guiding students to interpreting corpus data: first, the students
need to be made familiar with the type of material a concordance provides, in
particular the fact that it shows genuine occurrences from texts rather than pre-
selected examples; second, “what to look for” in a concordance and the type of
information it provides; third, the relationship between the occurrences pro-
vided in the concordance material and the corpus they derive from. In this
chapter, I shall deal with these three issues and suggest some tasks to guide
the students through them. These tasks simply provide examples and many
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
more can be thought of and constructed on the basis of the problems discussed
here. A series of tasks and examples to gradually introduce novitiate analysts to
“read” corpus data is provided by Sinclair (2003). While these are not con-
structed specifically for the classroom context and involve a larger audience,
they provide a rich and useful source of suggestions.
. Type of material: Samples vs. examples
Although it permits us to deal with actual occurrences of language, a corpus
is not “the real language”. Large as it may be, and even when selected in order
to be as representative of a language, or a language variety, as possible, a cor-
pus does not include all the possible occurrences of language and inevitably
includes patterns which might not be recurrent at all and which might sound
odd to a native speaker (Edwards 1993). When we look for information about
a pattern of language through the concordancer we get only the collocations in
which the search word appears in the corpus.
This makes concordances a very different type of material from those tra-
ditionally used in the classroom. Unlike dictionaries, grammars and textbooks,
a concordance does not offer explanations; as noted above (Section 2.3 in par-
ticular), it merely provides data which it is the user’s task or responsibility to
explain. Inductive work is not new in language pedagogy: the practices of many
teachers and materials writers involve presenting a series of similar instances to
help learners induce generalizations. Analysing a concordance, however, is not
necessarily the same thing as analysing five or six sentences on the blackboard
or in a textbook. Elsewhere (Gavioli 2001:110–112), I have argued that one
should at least consider the following differences:
1. A concordance may contain many more instances. A search for the words
“deal/deals” in a 200,000-word corpus of business newspaper articles
(MCA corpus, business section) found 222 occurrences – hardly a number
for learners to manage rapidly.
2. A concordance will often show more than one pattern of use. In the case
just mentioned, occurrences of “deal/deals” provides verb as well as noun
forms. In order to focus on nouns, careful reading and manual catego-
rization of the concordance lines was required to exclude the (admittedly
limited number of) 11 occurrences of the verb “deal”, as well as 6 instances
of the fixed phrase “a good/great deal of”.
Chapter 5. Guiding the learners to work with corpora and corpus data 
3. Even when a concordance provides instances of only one pattern of use,
considerable analysis may still be necessary to identify this. A concor-
dance of “comply with” (and its forms “complied”, “complying”, etc.) was
generated to check whether this verb is used only with animate subjects,
following the teacher’s intuitive explanation. While this is basically true
(but see more on this below, 5.2), a somewhat lengthy reading of the ex-
tended context and classification of the examples was necessary to confirm
the hypothesis.
In order to clarify what is involved in interpreting corpus data, it is useful to
make a conceptual distinction between samples and examples. The instances
which teachers write on the blackboard and which materials writers include in
textbooks are generally chosen to illustrate some abstract formal or functional
feature – the meaning of a word, a rule of grammar, or a convention of use.
All that is necessarily shared by the instances in a concordance, on the other
hand, is a common orthographic form – the sequence of characters we have
asked the computer to find. The blackboard and textbook provide examples,
in the sense that they are intended to exemplify a particular linguistic feature.
The concordance, by contrast, provides samples, selected for the sole reason
that they contain a particular combination of characters. While samples can of
course be used as a source of examples, this transformation requires human
intervention via analysis and selection.
Even the texts in textbooks, authentic or otherwise, can generally be seen as
examples which have been chosen to illustrate particular features of language
in use (and to exclude features thought likely to be difficult or distracting).
The texts constituting corpora, on the other hand, are generally included to
provide samples of particular text-types, without any prior analysis of their
linguistic characteristics (Atkins et al. 1992). Whether sentences or texts, ex-
amples are thus likely to suggest certain generalizations quite explicitly and
unambiguously (see Cook 2001); samples, on the other hand, merely provide
occurrences of varying tractability from which possible generalizations have to
be worked out. If learners treat corpus data as examples rather than samples,
and assume that these will coherently illustrate a generalized principle of the
type they are accustomed to find provided by teachers and textbooks, they are
likely to misunderstand and misuse the data in question.
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
.. Task 1: Looking at the concordance lines as samples
It is a common experience that those who use a concordancer for the first
time to check the meaning of a word or a pattern of words, find that many
of the examples occurring in the list of concordances are not very illuminat-
ing. Concordance-derived data may not provide immediate evidence for the
question posed and as Sinclair notes (1991:99) “the most actual examples are
unrepresentative of the pattern of the word or the phrase for which they are
chosen”. It is likely, then, that the different nature of sample occurrences will
be evident to the students in virtually any concordance sheet. For initial stages,
then, it may be useful to provide tasks that simply focus on the discussion of
this issue. Below, we can see a concordance of the words “asset/assets” gen-
erated from a corpus of speeches on marketing and business management
(220,000 words). The meaning of this word may not be familiar to the students
(in Italian it is also a false friend of the word “assetto”, meaning “structure”,
“organization”) and it cannot easily be deduced from the concordance lines.
The concordance has been reduced to half of the items found (randomly se-
lected deleting one on two lines) to restrict the amount of material to propose
to the students.
The concordance can be introduced to students by telling them what it
actually is, i.e. a number of lines from authentic texts about marketing, includ-
ing the word “asset”, singular or plural. The students could then be asked to
compare these lines to the examples they are normally presented with in the
classroom. Students may notice that the lines do not provide complete sen-
tences and that some of them are not comprehensible. The possible presence
of typos may also be made evident to them (“requirment” in l. 5 and “between-
minorities” written as a single word in l. 9). Attention may also be brought on
l. 3 where “asset” appears as a proper noun as part of a brand name.
After this preliminary encounter, students can then be guided to actually
“read” the concordance. In this respect, it is useful for them to know that they
do not have to read the entire lines, but simply scroll across the search word,
looking, for instance, for adjectives and verbs preceding it. In the concordance
of “asset/s” they may notice occurrences of adjectives in “financial asset” (l. 6),
“future asset” (l. 7), “marketing assets” (l. 11), “valuable national assets” (l. 12),
“physical assets” (l. 18) (as well as “divested assets” (ll. 4-5) which may initiate
a new query for “divest”), and occurrences of verbs in “trading assets” (l. 1),
“rationalize assets” (l. 22), “grow the assets” (l. 24), “selling the assets” (l. 25).
An outline of the task, in two parts, is provided below.
Chapter 5. Guiding the learners to work with corpora and corpus data 
Task 1: Introducing learners to concordance material – first part
Below, you can see a list of lines containing the word “asset”, singular and plural. These
lines were automatically selected by a computer searching a collection of texts dealing with
marketing and business management. They probably look different from the examples you
are used to looking at. In what respect are they different?
1 sed of lots of markets, each market trading an asset, in this case a financial asset. Now, wha
2 lacks tend to be smaller (whether measured by assets, sales, or employment), newer, and mo
3 Meade Instruments’ Purchase of All, or Certain Assets, of Tasco Holdings, Inc.’s Celestron Int
4 of the buyer; and (3) many buyers of divested assets do not have access to sufficient inform
5 rm locate an ”up-front buyer” for the divested assets. I believe that this requirment has bee
6 ket trading an asset, in this case a financial asset. Now, what you have in the financial mar
7 hrough this process to perhaps create a future asset? Let me take some time here to give y
8 e products, and certain natural gas gathering assets. (39) Food - The food industry is of ob
9 No doubt, a large part of the differences in asset holdings betweenminorities and other fa
10 ties, like purchasing decision making or like asset management, is for proliferation to speci
11 divest two refineries and related marketing assets, terminal facilities for light petroleum an
12 ery remains one of our most valuable national assets, and one that we can certainly all be pr
13 ise of online intermediaries. But the cost of asset carrying, the cost of inventory carrying is
14 A consent agreement requiring divestiture of assets and licensing of intellectual property rig
15 opening multiple accounts. Such spreading of asset holdings is perfectly consistent with the
16 one side of the transaction to have sales or assets in excess of $100 million and the other
17 ncial operating balance sheet - a list of our assets and liabilities - and analyze each one a
18 cases. In the past, divestitures of physical assets in areas of competitive overlap have be
19 competitive. The acquisition of gas pipeline assets by an electric generating company or a
20 to look at some of our long standing presumed assets and ask the question whether in the fut
21 ount of opportunity there to help rationalize assets. You know, it was interesting, when w
22 e funded, serviced, and traded as securitized assets in national markets. But the evidence
23 self-defeating in the sense that assets have been sent abroad and n
24 f companies are there to protect and grow the assets of their companies. Can any Board ma
25 Then there is realising, i.e. selling the asset. Brands like Bombay Sapphire which ge
26 always given to investors to diversify their assets-be they stocks, bonds, mutual funds,
27 mercial banks in the United States with total assets under $100 million (in 1994 dollars) fell
28 der is: a brand is a valuable asset Certainly if you get everything right
Concordance 4. “asset/assets” in the marketing speeches corpus (220,000 words), left
sorted (extract)
While the students may understand, at this point, that an “asset” has to do with
something of value, the actual meaning of this word may not be clear enough
from the concordance lines and comparison with a dictionary entry may be
very useful. In the second part of Task 1, below, students are guided to note
that the information provided in the concordance is different from both the in-
formation and the examples provided in dictionary entries (see steps 2 and 3):
Task 1 – second part
While looking at concordance data like those shown above, you do not need to read the
full lines: in fact you probably need to skip many, as they are not comprehensible or do
not illustrate the word you are looking for. In l. 3, for instance, “Certain Assets” is a brand
proper name.
1. Read the concordance vertically, following the search word column and the word to the
left of it. Underline the words to the left of “asset/s” in the text.
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
2. Do these words give you an idea of what “asset/s” are? Discuss your idea with your
colleagues and teacher.
3. The following are the definitions of “asset/s” provided in the Cobuild Dictionary, are
they helpful in clarifying the meaning of this word?
a. Something or someone that is an asset is considered useful or helps a person or
organization to be successful.
b. The assets of a company or a person are all the things that they own.
4. On the basis of the dictionary explanation, look at the concordance again and identify
examples illustrating meaning a. or b. Insert “a” or “b” next to the lines you selected.
5. Look at the examples provided by the Cobuild Dictionary for meaning a. and b. of
“asset/s”; do they illustrate the two meanings clearly?
a. Her leadership qualities were the greatest asset of the Conservative Party
b. By the end of 1989 the group had assets of 3.5 billion francs
Select some examples in the concordance of “asset/s” which you think illustrate ei-
ther meaning a. or meaning b. clearly. You can widen the text of each line to get
more context.
6. Which meaning is more frequent in the concordance of “asset/s”, a or b.? Why, do you
think?
In steps 4 and 5 in Task 1 above, students are guided to compare the mate-
rial provided in the concordance with that provided in the dictionary, looking
at both the definition and the examples. The purpose is to make it clear to
the students that a concordance, unlike dictionary entries, does not provide a
ready-made explanation and the concordance lines may not be “good exam-
ples”, though some of them could. The purpose of the task, though, is also to
show the students that using a dictionary and a concordance jointly may be
helpful to get a better idea of the search word’s meaning and usage and, in
the case above, to get more examples of the more specialized meaning of the
word (meaning b.) which is generally used in business (but see more on this in
6.4, below).
. “What to look for” in a concordance: Recurrence and typicality
Since we cannot assume that a single generalization will necessarily account
for all the data, analyzing a concordance involves looking for linguistic features
which recur in at least some instances in the sample provided. As shown in
Section 3.3.2, recurrent features may be of many kinds. We may find recurrent
word combinations, or collocations, such as “deal” preceded by “a good/great”,
in the following extract from a concordance of “deal/deals” (ll. 60–65):
Chapter 5. Guiding the learners to work with corpora and corpus data 
58 Standard in 150m pound German deal By PATRICK HOSKING
59 rallying point for investors opposed to a GM deal, among them New York arbitrageurs w
60 ng to do with the toll. At œ55, it is a good deal more expensive than a ticket on the hi
61 ee one eighth per cent (and that on a good deal) once discounts had been allowed to
62 rs or French francs, where rates are a good deal lower.” Interest cover is eight times.
63 the telephones can be built to need a great deal less power. This in turn makes them c
64 ing in projects on time, and there is a great deal of faith in the Eurodisney managemen
65 machina of North Sea oil. A very great deal hangs, of course, on the difference bet
66 891010 View from City Road: ICI deal makes strategic sense
67 ers had expected that the fees for the Italy deal would be the standard 0.325 per cent.
Concordance 5. Extract of “deal” in the MCA corpus (Murison-Bowie 1993b)
Or we may find recurrent syntactic categories, as is the case of the verb
“stare” in the following concordance (from MCA corpus), which is systemati-
cally followed by a preposition or adverb (“at”, “down”, “out”):
1 once you have ‘got it” you are left staring at an object that has engi
2 al are wholly redundant when you stare at this subtopian, A-road ar
3 gle-perspective Hitchens, has you staring down a murky, tree-lined
4 of their way to move close in and stare down at anyone writing.
5 standably shocked to find himself staring down from a billboard adve
6 lladium: there are that many eyes staring out at you. All four ra
7 e-up, three South London women stared transfixed at a Spanish da
Concordance 6. “star*” in the MCA corpus (Murison-Bowie 1993b)
Looking for recurrences generally involves looking for other lines which
are in some way similar in form or meaning, in order to see if they can be fitted
into the same or a similar category.
Recurrent features may be more or less evident. The collocation “a
good/great deal” and the colligation of the verb“stare” with a preposition are
clear enough in the concordance data above. Yet, even when they are clear it
may not be easy to get students to “see” recurrences, and, as noticed in 3.1, they
tend to search for “the rule they know”. It seems sensible then, at initial stages,
to ask them to look at easier (possibly teacher-edited) materials and discuss
their interpretations with them - which is also a worthwhile language task.
Most analyses may require more time and effort than those shown above.
For instance, after noting that students mis-used the verb “comply with”, a con-
cordance was generated (see Concordance 7 below) to help learners investigate
what was wrong in their understanding of the meaning of this verb. Here, there
is no recurrent (lexical or syntactic) word form preceding or following forms
of “comply with”. Following the teacher’s intuitive explanation that the verb
“comply with” is generally used with animate subjects, students first looked at
which subjects were used. In lines 2 and 3 these are clearly persons (“practition-
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
1 suitable sites or have not complied with the ruling. <p> Recently residents of s
2 thorised practitioners who complied with a statutory code of conduct to charge f
3 ossible for the husband to comply with or would cripple his business. <p> On joi
4 Austria in May 1945 was to comply with the Yalta agreement ordering repatriation
5 f Agriculture, ‘failing to comply with natural justice”. <p> Until yesterday mor
6 ) ICR 371. <p> In order to comply with Community law, it was now necessary to ag
7 ‘an assurance that it will comply with its obligations in relation to the use of
8 represented class without complying with the requirements of the county court r
Concordance 7. “compl*” + “with” in the MCA corpus (Murison-Bowie 1993b)
ers” and “the husband”), but in the remaining lines the context is too restricted
to deduce the subject exactly.
It was then necessary to look at wider contexts to see that in several of
these other cases the subjects are authorities or organizations – “many author-
ities” (1), “the Minister of Agriculture” (5), and “Deloitte US” (a branch of
a multinational firm: 7). In other cases, the construction is impersonal, but a
person or organization is still the implied subject – “the British Army” (4), “a
named representative defendant” (8), and, we may guess, some governmental
authority in (6)
1. But many authorities have either not been able to find suitable sites or
have not complied with the ruling.
5. The nuns’ request for a judicial review of the order to slaughter the flock
had been based upon John Gummer, the Minister of Agriculture, ‘failing
to comply with natural justice”.
4. But the Cossacks had been fighting for the Germans and the British
Army’s main concern in Austria in May 1945 was to comply with the Yalta
agreement ordering repatriation
6. In order to comply with Community law, it was now necessary to agree
the same date of retirement for both sexes.
7. John Bullock, senior partner of Deloitte (UK), said: ‘We have been unable
to gain satisfactory assurances from Touche Ross.” Neither had Deloitte
US given ‘an assurance that it will comply with its obligations in relation
to the use of the name”
8. There was no reason to suppose that in proceedings under Order 5, rule
5, it was intended to enable a named representative defendant to claim
against a member of the represented class without complying with the
requirements of the county court rules.
Analysis of the “comply with” concordance, then, required classifying subjects
(explicit or implicit) as persons (“husband”, “practitioner”), authorities (“the
Chapter 5. Guiding the learners to work with corpora and corpus data 
Minister of Agriculture”), and companies (“Deloitte US”) and subsequently as-
cribing them to the single more general category of “people and organizations”,
which partially coincided with, and partially augmented the teacher’s intuitive
explanation.
Looking at the words following forms of “comply with”, then, the students
noted that the “statutory Code” (l. 2), “the Yalta agreement” (l. 4) and “the
Community law” (l. 6) were all sets of laws and then also that “ruling” (l. 1),
“obligations” (l. 7) and “requirements” (l. 8) could be interpreted as “rules” the
subjects had to “comply with”. Reading the extended contexts of the remaining
lines confirmed that “the husband” in l. 2 also had to comply with some rul-
ing, and “natural justice” (l. 5) could also be interpreted as “the rules of natural
justice”:
2. The judge considered this aspect very carefully. There was no suggestion
that this order would be impossible for the husband to comply with or
would cripple his business. On joint assets of £4m he would retain £2.7m
or so. The award was not excessively generous.
5. The nuns’ request for a judicial review of the order to slaughter the flock
had been based upon John Gummer, the Minister of Agriculture, ‘failing
to comply with natural justice”. Until yesterday morning, the Ministry had
not given the nuns any information on the tests they had made or what.
So while these concordance lines did share common features, such features
were less evident and more effort as well as specific skills were required. This
time, students had to think in terms of common semantic features, rather than
lexical or syntactic ones, which may be less obvious or more hidden. Learn-
ers brought up on input filtered by the teacher and textbook are unlikely to
be familiar with the processes of classification and generalization involved in
making sense of concordance lines and need to be made aware of the types of
things (recurrent words, syntactic/semantic classes) they may want to look for
in the data.
.. Task 2: Focusing the students’ attention on recurrent patterns
Most concordances are “read” by looking at what is recurrent and repetitive on
either side of the search word, so presumably any concordance is suitable for
this task. Particularly in corpora of specialised texts, top frequent words are of-
ten those which make the role of recurrence immediately visible. Very frequent
words in specialised corpora in fact often tend to aggregate in recurrent chunks
to form more specialised meanings. A concordance of “market” (singular) in
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
a corpus of marketing research articles (550,000 words) provides 1025 oc-
currences, immediately revealing frequent combinations of “market”; witness
for example: “market orientation” (over 100 occurrences), “established market
economies” (16 occurrences), “perceptions of market (15 occ.), “market-based
assets” (14 occ.). It can also be noticed that in most cases “market” is used as
an adjective rather than a noun.
While these “big groups” of similar occurrences are highly visible to the
students, 1025 occurrences are not a number which can be analysed item by
item. To help students perform analysis, when the lines are so many, it may be
worthwhile to focus on a single group of instances.1
For example, the combi-
nation “a market” occurs 81 times, a large but manageable number. Students
can be asked to sort the concordance on the right or on the left. In the case of
“a market”, right sorting seems more effective to identify recurrent items (see
concordance of “a market” in Appendix 3). On the right of “a market”, some
recurrent words can easily be identified forming recurrent collocations such as:
“a market economy” (7 occurrences), “a market orientation” (29 occurrences),
and the chunk “a market-oriented” (12 occurrences). Such collocations can be
easily identified by students. While an automatic clustering tool may also be
used to extract them, it is probably helpful for the students, initially, to identify
these recurrences “manually”, to accustom themselves to “reading” the concor-
dance text. Once students have identified these larger groups of collocations,
they can focus on one, more in particular. In this case, they can be asked to fo-
cus on “market-oriented” providing a limited number of occurrences (12) and
some interesting features.
Looking at this short concordance, right sorted (see concordance 8 below),
students can see that very recurrent, evident groups of collocates are no longer
visible, but the material is restricted enough to allow closer analysis. In ll. 7–9,
for instance, they will notice the repetition of “firm”. This, together with “com-
pany” (l. 2) forms a group of 4 collocates which are similar in meaning. Other
repetitions are that of “culture”, forming the chunk “market-oriented culture”
(ll. 3–4) as well as “market-oriented business culture” (l. 1). Even “market-
oriented policy” (l. 12) and “market-oriented fashion” (l. 6) can probably be
seen here as very close in meaning to “market-oriented culture”:
Looking at the extended context of this concordance (see Appendix 3), stu-
dents can see that “market-oriented” is generally attributed to a firm or to the
“business culture” of that firm. Looking more closely, being “market-oriented”
seems to be a very positive attitude for a firm. The occurrences in fact systemat-
ically reveal the advantages of firms and cultures which are “market-oriented”.
This is visible in the concordance above, in ll. 3 (“benefits”), 4 (“successful in-
Chapter 5. Guiding the learners to work with corpora and corpus data 
1 to identifying the steps that fall between a market-oriented business culture and performance ou
2 market sensing by the firm, a capability of a market-oriented company (Day 1994). As a result it
3 he ability to communicate the benefits of a market-oriented culture across functional areas with
4 . successful innovation is the product of a market-oriented culture coupled with entrepreneurial
5 w standards and values more consistent with a market-oriented economy.” In recent years, for exam
6 rketing approach requires that firms act in a market-oriented fashion, i.e. understand what custom
7 based assets and other asset types. First, a market-oriented firm may uncover through its intelli
8 s, the competitor intelligence gathered by a market-oriented firm can be used to improve the posit
9 ng and sales costs enhance the cash flow of a market-oriented firm. This may be recognised in high
10 sets, justification for efforts to develop a market-oriented organisation, and framework that can
11 tput: it is the outcome of the creation of a market-oriented organisation. This makes for a virtu
12 men’s advocate. This failure to implement a market-oriented policy in midwifery can be explained
Concordance 8. “a market-oriented” in the marketing research articles corpus
(550,000 words)
novation”), 9 (“sales costs enhance the cash flow of a market-oriented firm).
More evidence is shown in the extended context (underlined; the search word
is in bold face):
7. t orientation influences the way in which a firm interacts with its cus-
tomers. There is also a relationship between market-based assets and
other asset types. First, a market-oriented firm may uncover through its
intelligence about customers or a competitor that investment is required
in a non-market asset to achieve or m
11. riguing for linking customer satisfaction and employee satisfaction. The
strategic marketing literature views value more as an output: it is the
outcome of the creation of a market-oriented organisation. This makes
for a virtuous circle, but the circle is often incomplete, since employees’
views are often less well-known than custo
Performing tasks and exercises such as the one shown above conducts students
to gradually familiarize themselves with the types of features to look for in
concordance data. These are shown as recurrent behaviour, either in the form
of repetition of collocates (“market economy”, “market orientation”, “market-
oriented”) or repetition of classes of collocates (“firm”, “company”), or repe-
tition of types of contexts (e.g. the specification of advantages and benefits of
market-oriented economy).
. Correlating output data and corpus texts
In the sections above, I discussed the problem of training students to iden-
tify possibly “interesting” features in concordances. In corpus linguistics, these
are generally shown through repetition. This, in its turn, highlights recur-
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
rent lexico-syntactic or pragmatic patterns which are associated with the
search word.
Simply looking at recurrence, though, may not be enough and, as seen
in Chapter 4, concordance data need to be interpreted taking into account
the corpus they actually come from. Some ideas for achieving this purpose
with students can be derived from Section 4.3 above, where I pointed out that
comparing corpora of specialized language and general corpora may suggest
or highlight features of the specialized corpus, and more are provided in Sec-
tion 6.3 below. Here, though, I suggest a task which seemed to me very useful
to help students achieve awareness of correlations between a (specialised) cor-
pus and the output it produces. I also describe a follow-up to this task, which
eventually led the students to create their own (specialised) corpora.
.. Task 3: Corpus data and corpus content
The task I illustrate here was proposed to a group of students in my Euro-
pean studies university course to help them become familiar with the corpus
of market research articles (a discussion of this task was included in a presenta-
tion by Comastri & Gavioli 2004). This corpus collects 70 papers from 5 major
marketing journals. It was divided into 5 sub-corpora each containing papers
from a single journal. Lists of keywords were then generated for each of the five
corpora.2
A description of each journal’s scientific purposes and interests was then
downloaded from the journals’ websites. Print-outs of the journals’ descrip-
tions and the keywords were handed out to the students, who were asked to
compare each list of keywords to the corresponding journal description (see
Table 4, below, showing material from 1 out of the 5 sub-corpora; a more
complete worksheet appears in Appendix 4). The frequency of many words
in the lists can be easily accounted for in terms of the journal description. In
the case of the European Journal of Marketing (see Table 4, below), for instance,
the occurrence of the top keywords can probably be justified by the fact that
the journal deals with several marketing topics (“marketing”, 1), includes com-
parative studies and studies in developing countries (“internationalisation”, 2),
deals with product development (“brands”, 4, “brand”, 6, “branding”, 15) and
distribution (“sales”, 5).
On the basis of this comparison, students can be asked to generate concor-
dances of those words which seem to be accounted for in the description and
those which do not. This provides further material for discussion about the
correlation between the corpus and its output.
Chapter 5. Guiding the learners to work with corpora and corpus data 
Table 4. Description of European Journal of Marketing vs. corpus keywords
JOURNAL DESCRIPTION: JOURNAL KEYWORD LIST
EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF MARKETING 1. marketing 26. supporters
2. internationalisation 27. football
Key Journal Audiences 3. training 28. system
– Academics and corporate/education 4. brands 29. midwives
libraries 5. sales 30. gap
– Senior and middle marketing 6. brand 31. activities
management 7. crm 32. retailers
– Senior executives in distribution, 8. sponsorship 33. per
market research and advertising 9. characteristics 34. quantitative
10. pioneer 35. what
Coverage 11. market 36. leveraging
– Comparative studies 12. corporate 37. theory
– Customer policy and service 13. orientation 38. club
– Implications of import and export 14. customer 39. retail
legislation 15. branding 40. program
– Marketing abstracts 16. critical 41. campaign
– Marketing experiences 17. services 42. figure
– Marketing in developing countries 18. you 43. uk
– Marketing of services 19. behaviour 44. balmer
– Marketing planning 20. cent 45. satisfaction
– Product development 21. organisation 46. consultant
– Social, cultural and economic effects of 22. customers 47. polls
marketing 23. planning 48. it
24. staff 49. identity
25. com 50. fans
Tasks similar to this can be proposed using single texts (general or spe-
cialised) as corpora. In Gavioli (1997), I suggested a task where students were
asked to use: a. the list of the most frequent words and b. the concordance of
the most frequent noun occurring in a newspaper article, as clues to making
hypotheses about the main news topic. They were also asked to use these clues
and their hypotheses to write an article that was supposed to be most similar
to the one that was “hidden” in the data. They then compared their article to
the original one and both texts to the frequency list and the concordance data.
Besides making it evident what type of link exists between the corpus and its
output, this task also constituted an interesting kind of language exercise as
well as an opportunity for observing text structures.
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
.. Follow-up of Task 3: Leading students to create corpora
Working with the corpus of marketing research papers, students compared the
keyword lists of the 5 sub-corpora. This made it increasingly evident to them
that each sub-corpus was somewhat different from the others in terms of lexis
and topics represented. For instance, while “brand/s” was a very frequent word
in the sub-corpus of papers from the European Journal of Marketing, “envi-
ronmental” was very frequent in the Journal of World Business while neither of
the two was very frequent in other sub-corpora. This led them to think that
searches need to be carried out on appropriate corpora and that, in the case
of a fuzzy area such as marketing, one probably needs to have more than one
corpus at hand to find occurrences of specialised items.
The discussion that emerged from the comparison of keyword lists led the
students to a better understanding of the type of material they were dealing
with and gradually to understand whether it was actually useful for the type
of language they wished to acquaint themselves with. Discussing the features
of the sub-corpora, many students came to realise that this was not “what
they meant by “the language of marketing” and that these corpora only con-
tained some of the language information they wanted to grasp (for instance,
information about the usage of “brand” and “corporate” was appreciated).
Some, in particular, said that what they wanted to do was to be able to
write texts which advertised products and services, present companies or dis-
cuss issues about trade in the EU. This eventually led to students’ collaboration
in making up specialised corpora of texts they were interested in: a corpus
of tourists’ guides, corpora collecting descriptions of museums, of public re-
lations companies and of wines, a corpus of websites of companies offering
banner and e-mail advertising, a corpus of texts about trade in the EU (Pear-
son 2000 provides some useful hints to guide students to choose texts for
their corpora). All of these corpora were put in a directory on the university
department’s server and left at students’ disposal.
What was interesting in this follow-up was that discussion about the link-
up between the corpus material and its output was not only useful in guiding
the students to interpret the data, but also provided them with ideas to build
their own corpora. From the teacher’s point of view, this seemed to me very
interesting because it also implied a change of perspective in the teacher’s role.
While this task was started with the idea of introducing students to a corpus
that was prepared for them (according to what the teachers thought the stu-
dents’ needs might be), students contributed to the task by also making clear
Chapter 5. Guiding the learners to work with corpora and corpus data 
what they thought they actually needed and collected corpora that provide a
larger view of what the language of marketing may be understood to be.
. Conclusion
As I have shown above, unlike the examples provided by textbooks and dic-
tionaries, the samples of language provided by concordance materials do not
immediately illustrate particular linguistic patterns and may not provide the
type of information that is expected by the students. Students, then, need to be
provided with linguistic and metalinguistic knowledge that helps them carry
out less frustrating searches and interpret the material correctly. Interpretative
work, though, is largely a matter of students’ local or general interests and such
interests are very difficult to predict. Students analyzing concordances seem to
be attracted by all sorts of things, which may all, in some way, be considered
“interesting” for their language or cultural learning.
In the next chapter, I illustrate and discuss a series of tasks performed by
the students focusing on the learners’ rather than the teachers’ point of view.
Observing students working with the data, it seems that concordances attract
their attention and involve them. In particular, concordances seem to pro-
vide puzzles to those who look at them and require an action to solve them.
As mentioned in 4.4, a concordance can be viewed as a text that provokes “a
pragmatic reaction” in the observer. This pragmatic reaction can constitute
a starting point for involving students in authentic discourse. Aston (1988)
identifies two ways in which learners can authenticate discourse, taking the
role of a. a participant or b. an observer. While the participant interacts with
the text as an intended recipient, the observer views the interaction from the
outside, adopting a critical, analytic perspective. Observer as well as partici-
pant roles can facilitate learning: observation allows strategies of interaction
to be noticed, while participation allows such strategies to be tested. “Reacting
to” concordance data through analysis and interpretation provides opportu-
nities for learners to participate as observers and participants in discourse by
analyzing the occurrences and eventually choosing patterns to textualise the
meanings students want to express. In what follows I shall look at such oppor-
tunities and how they are created and developed interactively in the classroom
or in self-access activities.
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
Notes
. The complete worksheet of the task discussed here is provided in Appendix 3.
. The keyword lists were generated comparing frequency lists from each of the sub-corpora
to the BNC list (written component).
Chapter 6
Learners exploring corpora to observe
and produce texts
Spies in action
. Introduction
In the previous chapters, I discussed the relevance of introducing concor-
dance analysis to learners, and suggested that corpus work helps them look
at language through a more “idiomatic” perspective which may be particularly
useful in ESP learning. I also discussed the problem of guiding the students to
perform corpus analysis and to “read” concordance data.
What “may be” interesting for students (from the teacher’s or researcher’s
point of view) however, does not necessarily coincide with what “is” interest-
ing (from their own point of view). Finding something interesting in whatever
type of text is a matter of personal interpretation and depends on the individ-
ual interaction of the analyst (student, teacher or researcher) with that text.
In this chapter, I show some students’ searches and attempt to focus on the
students’ interaction with corpus material, their “discoveries” and what they
found interesting.
Here, I report some learners’ searches which seem to me clear in illustrat-
ing the type of work which is stimulated by concordance analysis. Some of
the activities which produced the searches follow the line proposed in Chap-
ter 5 to guide the learners to perform corpus work and, in this respect, I hope
they also provide more material for teachers to organize their own activities
in the classroom. The activities are introduced here in a sort of “escalating”
order, from simplest (involving little instrumental and metalinguistic ability)
to more and more complex ones. In Section 6.1, I describe the type of ap-
proach the students take when working with specialized corpora; in Section
6.2, I present some work aimed at grasping technical lexis and concepts. In
Section 6.3 I deal with data comparison from different (specialized and gen-
eral or bilingual) corpora and focus on: a) determining the generalizability of
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
use of a seemingly specialized word; b) contrasting conventions in the usage
of specialized words in English and Italian. In Section 6.4, I look at students’
comparisons of their own findings with “authoritative” language explanations
such as those provided by reference materials and/or the teachers, and I focus
on the case of the progressive tense in medical research articles. In Section 6.5,
I illustrate the work of students producing texts – a translation of a medical
abstract and a political speech.
. Corpora and ESP learners: “Spies”
In proposing her perspective on learners as corpus users, Bernardini (2000a:
142) argues that comparing learners to researchers has the limit of subordi-
nating processes to findings and to obscuring those occasions of learning that
emerge from the process itself of corpus use. To the “researcher” metaphor,
Bernardini counterposes that of the “traveller”, where the experience of trav-
elling through the corpus takes priority over the results, in the learning en-
vironment.
As regards ESP, however, the metaphor of the traveler does have this limit:
it emphasizes too little the aims and purposes of the traveller’s journey. While
people take travels for pleasure, relaxation or vacation, corpus work may be
neither pleasant nor relaxing and even “cultural aims” which may character-
ize both travelling and corpus work may be far from evident, at least at the
point of departure. So, while it is true that the process of analysis and dis-
covery is at least as important as the result itself of the analysis, we should
also think of what may entice learners to engage in the journey. In the ESP
environment, what often leads students to investigate corpora of specialized
language is the attempt to work out characteristic aspects of such language.
As Bernardini observes, however, the learners’ aim is not to provide systematic
descriptions of linguistic characteristics, but rather to “understand” specialized
language by collecting clues about values, ideas, concepts and conventions that
are implicit in the text. To explain this approach, it seems to me that neither the
“researcher” nor the “traveller” metaphor is quite suitable. Here, I propose to
use a new metaphor again: that of the “spy”, developed from an idea introduced
by Swales (1990:29–32).
In his well-known and often debated (see Berkenkotter & Huckin 1995;
Askehave & Swales 2001; Starfield 2002; Bondi 2004) introduction to the con-
cept of “discourse community”, Swales (1990:30) discusses whether participat-
ing in a discourse community entails assimilation of its world’s view. Swales
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
maintains that while the answer is, generally speaking, “yes”, there are some
“borderline” cases of people who participate in a discourse community with-
out having (totally or even partially) assimilated its world view. These he calls
“spies”. Swales takes, for instance, the example of a prospective son-in-law who
may pretend to be a participating member of a bridge-playing community to
make a favourable impression on his prospective parents-in-law, or that of
journalists who may participate in a discourse community in order to be able
to report on issues and problems dealt with inside. Swales is critical of “spies”
because, he argues, such lack of assimilation may lead them to poor under-
standing of the issues and problems involved in the discourse of the discourse
community.
It seems to me that the very concept of “spy” is, in any case, interesting
in a language learning perspective because, in a sense, it provides a “bridge”
between insiders and outsiders of the discourse community. As Swales argues:
Spies are only successful if they participate successfully in the relevant speech
and discourse communities of the domain which they have infiltrated; how-
ever if they also assimilate they cease to be single spies but become double-
agents. (Swales 1990:30)
Like spies, ESP language learners infiltrate the relevant speech and discourse
community and in order to participate successfully they need at least to “un-
derstand” or become familiar with its views and conventions, which they can
eventually go on to assimilate.
Corpora of specialized language offer an instrument which students can
explore, like “spies”, to collect indicative clues about the discourse community
which produced the texts and to become familiar with its discourse conven-
tions. Like spies, ESP learners can employ discourse conventions in a detached,
instrumental way or they can eventually become “double-agents”. While the
search process of spies is important to collect the clues, both the starting and
the end points are important as well. The starting point generally consisting in
a puzzle which becomes clearer or is solved in the end. Small corpora provide
information about discourse conventions. As using a telephone is a puzzle for
a Martian, such discourse conventions may be puzzles for outsiders. Corpus
work offers an instrument to make sense out of such discourse conventions
and in this way may favour the process of infiltration inside the discourse
community and eventually the achievement of membership.
In this chapter, I show and discuss what exactly the approach I am propos-
ing here involves. Aston (2002) illustrates an experience where, by doing corpus
work, students developed their ability to analyse language, to exploit compu-
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
tational resources and develop their autonomy as language learners, “getting
their own teeth into the corpus”. Here, I illustrate a similar series of examples
of language activities engaging students in corpus work. The activities typically
start from a puzzle (e.g. grasping the meaning of a technical word, under-
standing particular features of discourse or writing out or translating a piece
of specialized text) posed by the students or by the teacher, and students then
work with corpora (and occasionally other materials) in the attempt to pro-
vide a solution to it. These searches favour an exploration of the corpus which
highlights the “idiom” of the corpus in terms of recurrent combinations, typi-
cal structures (e.g. text-openings and closings) and other types of conventions.
Such conventions reflect the “world of knowledge” that the corpus texts entail.
Through concordance exploration, learners are led into such a world of knowl-
edge as observers (by finding typical language patterns) and as participants (by
adapting and manipulating such typical language patterns to their own needs
in, e.g., writing or translation).
As mentioned above, the corpora the inquiries start from are specialised
corpora constructed ad hoc by either the students or the teacher. Results from
such initial searches are then compared with results from publicly available
medium-size corpora and the BNC. The inquiries I illustrate start from rather
simple searches and rather simple learning problems (e.g. getting the meaning
of a technical word) and then move on to searches with increasing degrees of
complexity involving more and more autonomy on the part of the students. Ex-
ploring conventionsof an idiomatic type and recurrent combinations of words,
students are gradually introduced to more general conventions which char-
acterize the “world of knowledge” of the discourse community that is being
“spied” upon.
. Using a small corpus of specialized texts to discover
technical concepts
As many ESP studies observe (see Nation 2001b:Ch. 6 for a discussion) and as
Widdowson (1998b) also points out, specific lexis is one of the key problems
in teaching and learning ESP. As Widdowson (1998b:9) states, then, specific
lexis can be a problem for ESP language learners not because they do not know
the correct words, but because they lack experience of a “whole new way of
conceptualizing” that is characteristic of the discourse community using that
word, as in the case of the Martian and the telephone.1
Similarly, ESP lexis
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
constitutes a puzzle for ESP learners because it involves values and conventions
shared by a discourse community, which are not familiar to outsiders.
In the following two sections, I illustrate two experiences of students work-
ing with corpora of specialized language to discover the concept entailed in two
specialized words, one from the field of medicine, the other from the field of
economics. The puzzle, which constitutes the starting point of the research,
is the actual meaning of the words: the students found them several times in
texts they were trying to translate or read and were not able to attribute any
sense to them. The two experiences, though, are different in two main re-
spects: first they emerge from different teaching contexts (a translation class
in the first case and a reading class in the second), second they involve differ-
ent types of “specialized” words. The medical word, the acronym RIBA, is rare
in English (13 occurrences in the BNC, all in one text2
) and, at the time the
research was carried out, was not included in medical dictionaries; the eco-
nomic word “bid” is much more common, (2379 occurrences in the BNC)
and is included in, e.g., the Cobuild Dictionary. In both cases, though, the
students were not able to grasp the concept connected to the word by sim-
ply looking at its definition (either in the dictionary, the encyclopedia or in the
specialised text) and corpus work was useful in enabling them to conceptualize
the medical/economic world.
.. A medical word: The case of the acronym “RIBA”
The first word I deal with is the medical word “RIBA”. Like many medical
words, it is in fact an acronym abbreviating a combination of three words.
The students found this word during an exercise in which they were trans-
lating a medical text about hepatitis C from English into Italian. The puzzle
was not actually constituted by the translation of this word into Italian (having
some experience in medical translation, students could well imagine that these
acronyms are usually the same in the two languages), but rather it seemed to
the students that lacking the conceptual information this word entailed con-
stituted a major obstacle for their understanding the text in general. Having
checked the meaning of RIBA in the medical dictionaries which were available
at the local university library, the students found that this word was not in-
cluded. We then decided to look at a small corpus of medical research articles
dealing with hepatitis C, which we had previously put together.
A concordance of “RIBA” immediately showed the extended meaning of
the acronym. As can be seen in the concordance below (concordance 9, ll. 2,
4, 6), “Riba” means “recombinant immunoblot assay”, which meant absolutely
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
1 ary tests, a LIA (Innogenetics) and a RIBA (Chiron). The results obtained by all
2 eration recombinant immunoblot assay (RIBA) (Chiron) were used. HBV Mar
3 as detected by PCR (Table I). LIA and RIBA could be performed in only 2 of these
4 ith the recombinant immunoblot assay (RIBA-Chiron, Emeryville and Ortho, Raritan
5 regions of the HCV sequence. PCR and RIBA II immunoblot assays were done on sel
6 he multiple epitope immunoblot assay (RIBA II) is an attractive solution to the
7 ). ELISA-II results were confirmed by RIBA in 48 out of 51 (94,1%) cases tested,
8 . In 3 patients not tested by LIA and RIBA, serum samples drawn at earlier times
9 esults, 2 confirmatory tests (LIA and RIBA) were carried out with a part of the
Concordance 9. “riba” in the hepatitis medical corpus (41,000 words).
nothing to the students and offers a nice example of one of the many cases
where knowing the name of the object does not entail being able to make sense
out of it.
Other clues, however, attracted the attention of the students in this con-
cordance, in particular the occurrence of “confirmatory tests” in line 9 and
of the verb “confirm” in line 7. These suggested to the students that “RIBA”
was a confirmatory test of some kind and encouraged them to look at the ex-
tended context of the occurrences in concordance 9. The extended context (see
concordance 10 below) revealed a recurrence of the words “confirm” and “con-
firmatory” in the vicinity of “RIBA” (underlined in the concordance). When
“confirm”/“confirmatory” were not used, we could see occurrences of words
such as “supplementary” (ex. (1)), “were then tested” (ex. (4)), “were also
tested” (ex. (5)) suggesting that “RIBA” was in fact an additional test probably
performed to confirm results from other tests. The concordance also provided
more information. It was noted, for instance, that RIBA is a test performed on
blood serum (and the form “to perform a test” was noted also), that it is similar
to another test called LIA, that it is used to confirm hepatitis C virus infection
and to confirm results from other tests called ELISA and PCR.
(1) identified as antibody positive. Enough serum was available from 42 patients to carry
out 2 supplementary tests, a LIA (Innogenetics) and a RIBA (Chiron). The results
obtained by all the tests are shown in Table II. All 4 antibody detection systems yielded
consistent results in 28
(2) d in duplicate. As confirmatory tests, the INNO-line immunoassay (LIA) (Innogenet-
ics) and a second-generation recombinant immunoblot assay (RIBA) (Chiron) were
used. HBV Markers Hepatitis B surface and e antigens and their antibodies were
measured using ELISA (Abbott
(3) n 6 patients. Of the 68 patients, 15 were antibody negative using both ELISAs. In 8
(53%) viral RNA was detected by PCR (Table I). LIA and RIBA could be performed
in only 2 of these cases (Table II). In one case both confirmatory tests yielded positive
results, thus confirming
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
(4) considered the anti-HCV titer. Certain serum samples which were positiv in ELISA-II
were then tested with the recombinant immunoblot assay (RIBA-Chiron, Emeryville
and Ortho, Raritan, NJ, U.S.A.). This assay uses all 4 recombinant HCV antigens (C-
100; 5-1-1; C-33c
(5) 3 and capsid polypeptides; selected cases were also tested against synthetic peptides
derived from different regions of the HCV sequence. PCR and RIBA II immunoblot
assays were done on selected sera. Each of 55 probable and 5 of 11 possible hepatitis
cases who were seronegative before transfusio
(6) ral causes of transaminase elevation by our clinical review committee may also have
played a role. The multiple epitope immunoblot assay (RIBA II) is an attractive solu-
tion to the problem of multivalent testing; however, this assay is too expensive for large
scale research use and is
(7) of anti-HCV positive cases than ELISA-I in both resolved (21/22, 95%) and chronic
cases (91/92, 100%).ELISA-II results were confirmed by RIBA in 48 out of 51 (94,1%)
cases tested, and were indeterminate in the remaining 3 (5.9%). When certain sera
which had been obtained
(8) own in Figure 3, HCV RNA was detected by PCR in 4 different serum samples drawn
previously from this patient. In 3 patients not tested by LIA and RIBA, serum samples
drawn at earlier times were investigated and in 2 of these patients, virus was already
detectable in all of the earlier samples
(9) the second generation ELISA clearly had a higher detection rate. To control the relia-
bility of the ELISA results, 2 confirmatory tests (LIA and RIBA) were carried out with a
part of the serum samples. However, clear discrepancies between the 4 antibody assays
were observed in 33% of the cases
Concordance 10. “riba” in the hepatitis medical corpus (41,000 words), extended con-
text.
While single students collected different clues, they discussed their “read-
ings” together to try and make sense out of the acronym RIBA. In doing so, they
recreated a whole new frame of reference characterizing issues and problems
of the hepatitis C medical community, for instance the problem of diagnosing
hepatitis C, which is not an easy task and involves exploitation and evaluation
of many different tests (ELISA, PCR, LIA and the RIBA itself). Example (6)
also showed students that there may be a range of problems to be dealt with
in choosing which tests to perform, for instance that of available funds, which
also explains why the RIBA is used as a confirmatory test rather than a large
scale screening:
The multiple epitope immunoblot assay (RIBA) is an attractive solution to the
problem of multivalent testing; however this assay is too expensive for large
scale research use and is also somewhat insensitive.
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
The search for the meaning of “RIBA” and the exploration of its recurrent us-
age, then, involved the reconstruction of a world of problems connected with
the diagnosis of hepatitis C. This reconstruction was based on clues derived
from the first concordance that were then checked against the second concor-
dance which provided extended contexts for the various occurrences and were
finally discussed by students in groups. Because the concordances did not pro-
vide a full, comprehensive explanation of RIBA, but only some details, they
were used by students as clues to solve their initial puzzle of understanding
what RIBA actually meant. Through the discussion, students formulated their
own definition of RIBA and grew familiar with a range of both ideational issues
(involved in hepatitis C research) and linguistic features, such as the differ-
ence between two apparently similar words “assay” and “test”, where the former
refers specifically to biochemical tests and the latter seems to be used as a more
general term. Hypotheses raised in the discussion were then checked through
more reading of medical papers (in English and Italian), encyclopedia entries
and medical handbooks.
Students then worked with the concordances “as spies” to obtain clues
which provided them with a path to enter the world of this medical dis-
course community. Incidentally, such work promoted reading of specialized
texts (hepatitis C papers), use of reference works (encyclopedias, handbooks)
and group discussion.
.. A word from economics: The case of “bid”
As mentioned above, the case of “bid” emerged out of a rather different teach-
ing context. The students here were undergraduates in languages and European
studies, a university course training them to deal with international business
and politics within the European community. One of the activities of these
students is that of reading (or listening to) and discussing business news in En-
glish in order to become familiar with the language and issues involved. “Bid”
emerged as a reading comprehension problem (“What does “bid” mean?”).
“Bid” is obviously not a “rare” and specific word like “RIBA” (whose mean-
ing is probably unfamiliar to many native speakers of English) and it was then
addressed by checking a bilingual dictionary and the Cobuild dictionary. Both
provided two main meanings for the noun “bid”: first, “an attempt to obtain
or do something”; second, “an offer to pay a particular amount of money for
something that is being sold”. While this partially solved the local understand-
ing problem, the students did not seem to be completely satisfied with the
definitions. On the one hand, they noticed that their example was probably
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
best explained by merging the two definitions of the dictionaries, rather than
choosing just one; on the other hand, they failed to find Italian equivalents to
make the concept clear and were not able to explain what “bid” meant in their
own words.
To investigate the concept better in the attempt to attach it to an Italian
form (and presumably a more familiar reality), a concordance of “bid” was
produced out of a small corpus of business newspaper articles (MCA – business
section, about 200,000 words). The concordance found 249 occurrences, which
the students analyzed, working together in small groups (the concordance is
shown in Appendix 5). Looking at the concordance, left sorted, students no-
ticed recurrent combinations of the word “bid”, for instance that a bid is often
qualified by the amount of money it involves; thus we have examples such as
“the £1.1bn bid”, “a £13bn bid”, “a $1.5bn bid”. A frequent pattern with “bid”
(20 occurrences) is “a takeover bid” which led the students to investigate what a
“takeover bid” might be. They looked at the extended context of the “takeover
bid” occurrences (see concordance 11, below) and noted that it involved a lot
of money (“mega takeover bid”, l.13) and big companies (“a £1.1bn takeover
bid for the group by Australian Mutual Provident, Australia’s largest life insur-
ance group” l.18). Working with the examples, using their knowledge of the
meaning of “takeover” and the “takeover” entry from the Cobuild dictionary,
the students quickly understood that “a takeover bid” is a huge offer made with
the purpose of gaining the control of a company.
(1) ed by a spate of bid rumours, the most sensational of which was that Adia, the big
Swiss-based recruitment consultant, was about to launch a takeover bid. By lunchtime
the tongues were really wagging and talk of LBOs, MBOs, an imminent sale of the
management consultancy b
(2) Group, the British life insurance company, are meeting over the next few days amid
speculation that the Australian group is poised to mount a takeover bid for Pearl worth
at least œ1bn. Australian Mutual Provident executives were yesterday believed to be
mounting plans for a ta
(3) osals from British, US and Continental companies,” the source said. GEC, Ferranti’s
main British rival in radar, is also keen to mount a takeover bid but would encounter
fierce Ministry of Defence opposition on the grounds that it would damage competi-
tion in electronics procur
(4) r its profits growth. Charles Saatchi is a director of the main board. Market spec-
ulation that Saatchi &and; Saatchi could be the target of a takeover bid has been
intensified by South Eastern Asset Management, a Tennessee- based fund manager,
which recently amassed a 1
(5) m of the outstanding 50 per cent of Carat. Page 31 PERRIER BUBBLES: Perrier’s
shares surged on the Paris bourse on speculation of a takeover bid for the French
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
mineral water group. The shares rose Fr212, or 11.2 per cent, to Fr1,962. Food group
BSN, widely mentioned as a
(6) a sweeping re-think about the group’s direction. It comes at a time of growing fear
that Saatchi &and; Saatchi may become the subject of a takeover bid as a result of
recent business problems. Mr Saatchi will continue as chairman but is being replaced
as chief executive
(7) in door-to-door collection of insurance premiums from customers. Following legisla-
tive reforms, it has red as a move designed to ward off a takeover bid. If Pearl decided
to resist the overtures of AMP it will be the second major takeover battle in the British
life assurance sector
(8) oldrums since late 1987. Mr Louis-Dreyfus will have to work hard to recover the
company’s standing. He may also have to fight off a takeover bid _ Fininvest, the
Milan-based media company controlled by Silvio Berlusconi revealed a 1 per cent
holding last week. Elsewhe
(9) more formal inquiries. As officials began their investigations the board of directors
of Pearl, led by chairman Einion Holland, said AMP’s takeover bid ‘is unacceptable
and totally inadequate because it fails to reflect the group’s financial strength and
prospects”. Pearl advis
(10) _ to help the Coventry-based firm to fend off Ford, which has already announced it
plans to take a 15 per cent holding as a prelude to a full takeover bid. Jaguar’s shares
soared again on the stock market, closing 62p up at 731p – valuing the company at
œ1.323bn. As an
(11) degree of autonomy”, BAe said yesterday. The news comes as BAe and Thomson begin
talks with Ferranti on the possibility of a joint takeover bid for the beleaguered UK
defence electronic company. Ferranti, which recently announced it would have to
write off œ185m as t
(12) aid: ‘We maintain a good contact with SHV and are relaxed about their shareholding.”
Two years ago the two companies made a joint takeover bid worth œ820m for Calor,
the bottled gas company. The offer, conditional on a recommendation from the Calor
board, was withdraw
(13) PAIN SCOTTISH &and; Newcastle Breweries starred again yesterday as the stock
market was gripped by rumours that a mega takeover bid was imminent. In often
busy trading Scottish shares frothed up 20p to 389p with stories flowing that the
French BSN foods
(14) 014 Market Report: Rothmans lights up at close of uneasy account By DEREK PAIN
IS THE much rumoured takeover bid for Rothmans International, the tobacco and
luxury goods group, about to materialise at long, long last? As the stock ma
(15) st crash standards, busy trading. However, interest rate fears remain in the back-
ground and the undertone is still fragile. A œ1.9bn US takeover bid, by McCaw for
Mteromedia, excited telecommunication shares. The Racal ‘twins”, British Telecom,
which has 24 per cent of McC
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
(16) on into the steep rise in the share price of Pearl Group, the British life insurer, last
Friday ahead of the announcement yesterday of a œ1.1bn takeover bid for the group
by Australian Mutual Provident, Australia’s largest life insurance group. On Friday
the share price of Pearl Gro
(17) s probe: The Stock Exchange is investigating Friday’s steep rise in the share price of
Pearl Group, the life insurer, ahead of a œ1.1bn takeover bid by Australian Mutual
Provident. This page and View from City Road, page 27 Exchange change: The end of
the alpha, beta, g
(18) set but Sir Geoffrey has been asked to make specific recommendations ‘as soon as
possible”. Threat to insurers AS THE œ1.1bn takeover bid by Australian Mutual Prov-
ident, Australia’s largest life insurer, gets underway for the Pearl Group, a new survey
suggests that
(19) tor could be seriously eroded in the next few weeks. Missed Pearl PEARL, the be-
leagured British insurer facing an unwelcome œ1.1bn takeover bid from Australian
Mutual Provident, Australia’s largest life insurer, appears intent on valuing the good-
will associated with business
(20) stock prices in New York gave the controversial developer Donald Trump the pretext
he needed to drop an ill-fated dollars 7.5bn ( œ4.8bn) takeover bid for American
Airlines yesterday. Citing ‘recent changes in market conditions”, he withdrew a dollars
120-a-share bid for the
Concordance 11. “takeover bid” in MCA business section (200,000 words), extended
context
Analysing the “takeover bid” concordance, though, students also noted other
features of the text anticipating and following “bid”. First, these “takeover bids”
are talked about as possibly forthcoming, not as having taken place (as students
might expect from reading the news) and we have several examples involving
future possibility or probability: “speculation of a takeover bid” (l.5), “GEC,
Ferranti’s main British rival in radar, is also keen to mount a takeover bid”
(l.3), “This was quickly followed by a spate of bid rumours, the most sen-
sational of which was that Adia, the big Swiss-based recruitment consultant,
was about to launch a takeover bid” (l.1). Second, students noted that such
“bids” seemed to involve a battle or a competition, e.g. “fight off a takeover
bid” (l.8), “a move designed to ward off a takeover bid” (l.7), “Saatchi &and;
Saatchi could be the target of a takeover bid” (l.4). It was noted that both fea-
tures, that bids were talked about in terms of speculation and rumours and
that they involved competition, were not limited to the “takeover bid” pat-
tern, but seemed to affect the occurrences of “bid” more in general. Students
noted the recurrence of “bid rumours” (5 occurrences), “bid speculation” (7
occurrences), as well as many other occurrences involving planning and strat-
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
egy: “Tomkins’ shares fell 7p to 276p on fears it is planning to mount a bid”,
“The transatlantic gossip of a bid battle for Jaguar between Ford and General
Motors”, “But the likelihood of a bid would still appear dependent on his abil-
ity to find a third partner”. Forms of “fight” and “battle”(used as nouns, verbs
or adjectives), were also noted to be frequently mentioned, forming recurrent
collocations, e.g. “fighting bid”, “defending a bid”, “hostile bid”, or in the more
extended context “British Aerospace, possibly in partnership with Thomson
CSF of France, has emerged as the leading British contender to mount a bid
but could face Ministry of Defence objections”.
Such observations led the students to delve more deeply into the texts they
were exploring, asking themselves why papers should talk of bids in terms of
fighting and strategy and getting them to discuss the way in which bids (and
other acquisitions) affect the stock market. Understanding the conventions of
usage related to the word “bid”, then, involved familiarizing oneself with a
whole series of concepts connected with the world of the stock market busi-
ness. Although the dictionary definitions were good and indeed corresponded
in the end to the students’ idea of “bid”, they were not enough to introduce
students into the “world of bid” initially. Exploring the concordance, students
collected clues which, step by step, introduced them to the discourse of busi-
ness that the word “bid” involved – a strategic competition carried out in order
to obtain participation in or control of a company.
.. Conclusion
Both “RIBA” and “bid” represented interesting cases because, even though they
are different in many ways (“RIBA” is really a technical-scientific concept, is
not included in general dictionaries and rarely so even in specialized ones;
“bid” is more widespread and is found in most monolingual and bilingual
dictionaries of English), they represented concepts which were not familiar to
the students’ world and reality. While definitions of these words, both from
the encyclopedia and the dictionary, partially helped the students to under-
stand what kind of object they represented, they were not enough to lead the
students’ inside the world that made use of these objects. Concordance lines
were not good (particularly in the case of “bid”) at explaining the concepts
directly, but they provided clues about the recurrent, conventional behaviour
of such words which the students explored and discussed and which gradually
drew them inside the reality of the text and promoted discourse. Repetition
of patterns, which is highlighted in the concordance format (the repetition of
“confirm” in the RIBA concordance, or of “takeover” or “speculation” in the
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
“bid” concordance), attracted the students’ attention and encouraged them
in their attempt to attribute a sense to such repetition. To explore their hy-
potheses (“is “Riba” a confirmatory test?”, “does a bid involve competition?”)
students classified the occurrences and were occasionally attracted by instances
which seemed to best answer their questions. By asking questions and look-
ing for answers (which were eventually found) students promoted their own
participation in the community’s discourse.
. From a single corpus to more corpora: Comparing data
Studies in corpus linguistics (e.g. Biber et al. 1998, see Section 4.3) have noted
that concordance analysis is inherently comparative and that concordance sets
are generally much better explained when seen in contrast. Such comparisons
and contrasts often involve data from different corpora, e.g. specialized and
general or corpora in different languages. The comparative nature of corpus
work is interesting also in an ESP learning perspective.
The concordances of “RIBA” and “bid” offered intriguing material for the
students who analysed and discussed it and eventually found out the meanings
and concepts these words referred to. However, not all concordances (indeed
not many of them) provide material to answer the students’ questions in a suffi-
ciently immediate way. As mentioned in Chapter 5 (Section 5.1), concordances
are just samples of usage of words, not examples. For this reason they do not
“exemplify” a concept as a dictionary might do, but simply provide material to
construct one’s own exemplification. Indeed, they may provide no occurrence
at all or not enough of them. In Chapter 3, I noted that the very fact that con-
cordances do not provide “exemplifications” is what, in my view, provokes a
pragmatic reaction from the students who are encouraged to make sense out
of seemingly senseless material. Even in those cases when a search does not
produce any occurrence or enough evidence to build up hypotheses, such lack
of material provokes a reaction from the students who generally ask why this is
so. This “limit” of concordance material, then, prompts the students to inter-
act with more materials, either from different corpora (e.g. larger corpora) or
from corpora in different languages (e.g. the foreign language and their own),
thus carrying out comparative work.
In this section, I show some examples of students’ searches involving com-
parison and contrast of data from corpora of different sizes, built with different
criteria and/or in differentlanguages. In these cases too, the exploratory process
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
involved in comparing the data led the students to discussion and participation
in what was in this case the medical discourse.
.. How specialized is a specialized word? The case of the word
“disorder”
Analysis of specialized words like the ones shown above not only provides stu-
dents with information about the meanings and concepts entailed in the texts,
it also introduces them to the method of corpus work and leads them to ap-
preciate it more and more. The students who carried out translation work with
medical texts and were involved in the search for “RIBA” found corpus work
of great use for their translation activity: indeed, asked whether more medical
corpora, including topics other than Hepatitis C might be available for their
own work as translators. This led to a project where students were involved in
making up their own small corpora of texts similar to those they had to trans-
late. In groups, they built up most of the small, specialized corpora which are
listed in Chapter 1 (Section 1.4.2). This provided the whole group of students
with more material to compare.
The search I am dealing with in this section started from a translation
task where students were involved in translating a medical article about child
epilepsy from Italian into English while working with a 70,000 word corpus of
medical articles on the same subject in English. They noted that the word “dis-
order” was used to refer to the illness they were dealing with and though this
did not cause them any problems in understanding, someone asked whether
there was any difference between the words “illness”, “disease” and “disorder”.
A check in the Cobuild Dictionary provided rather similar definitions:
Illness: 1. is the fact or experience of being ill, 2. is a particular disease
such as measles or pneumonia
Disease: is an illness which affects people, animals or plants, for ex-
ample one which is caused by bacteria or infection
Disorder: is a problem or illness which affects someone’s mind or body
The students then decided to generate a concordance and have a look at the
instances. They found 26 occurrences, shown in Concordance 12, below. As
can be seen, in this concordance 13 occurrences out of 26 are instances of a
single collocation “seizure disorder”, 12 of them coming from a single text. The
remaining 13 occurrences show more varied uses, suggesting that “disorder”
might in fact be considered more or less a synonym of “illness” and “disease”.
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
1 cond, knowledge of the incidence of a disorder helps project local needs for pro
2 in infancy, cerebral palsy , autistic disorder, cortical blindness. Mentality: F
3 years). Four children had behavioral disorders but no history of seizures, and
4 umor, infarction, trauma, or bleeding disorder within a week of the illness beca
5 ervices. The prevalence of a chronic disorder such as epilepsy may be even more
6 p and another 77 (16%) had a learning disorder. The first seizure type was g
7 rologist. Many epilepsy ”look-alike” disorders that are common in childhood wer
8 lready had iden tifiable neurological disorders and, in several of those who did
9 f children who had other neurological disorders and not seizures. All informati
10 t syndrome or in certain neurological disorders, e.g., tuberous sclerosis.
11 ding influence of duration of seizure disorder and drug therapy, we performed a
12 nificantly longer duration of seizure disorder and drug therapy (Table 6). Beca
13 s not only the existence of a seizure disorder but also the severity of the diso
14 on between IQ and duration of seizure disorder in children with epilepsy. Resul
15 re (9% variance), duration of seizure disorder (6% variance), and sex of the chi
16 icus (r = -0.38), duration of seizure disorder (r = - 0.3l ), and total number o
17 ables (SES score, duration of seizure disorder, and sex of the child) explained
18 atus epilepticus, duration of seizure disorder, and SES score (Table 5). The me
19 et of epilepsy 2. Duration of seizure disorder, i.e., time period since the firs
20 d at various times during the seizure disorder, generally after a pattern of int
21 w IQ, followed by duration of seizure disorder. Determination of whether a gene
22 e reported that children with seizure disorders with onset at earlier age have l
23 ave been made of children with severe disorders. The effects of currently avail
24 disorder but also the severity of the disorder. Perhaps the severity of the und
25 some point in the evolution of their disorder. The inclusion and exclusion
26 nfantile spasms in this study. These disorders virtually always present with se
Concordance 12. “disorder*” in the epilepsy medical corpus (70,000 words), sorted by
the first word to the left
There were not in fact very many occurrences of “disorder”. To get a more
varied range of collocations and presumably a larger number, it was suggested
to the students that they checked a larger corpus of medical articles of varied
subjects. To their surprise (and mine), they found just one more occurrence of
“disorder” in the full 250,000 word corpus. This finding prompted the stu-
dents to “go on” with their search and to understand more about this odd
distribution. They checked data from yet another corpus, the medical com-
ponent of the MCB corpus (200,000 words). There, they found 29 occurrences
from various files, which suggested that the use of “disorder/s” was actually
rather widespread. Nevertheless, even this corpus did not provide as many oc-
currences as the students had expected, and this raised the hypothesis that there
might in fact be a difference between the use of “disorder/s” and that of other
words with a similar meaning such as “disease/s” or “illness/es” – for instance
“disorder” might simply be less commonly used. A search for “illness/illnesses”
and “disease/diseases” in the medical component of the MCB corpus provided
41 occurrences of the former and 210 of the latter. Students abandoned the
analysis of “illness” at this point and concentrated on the more frequent “dis-
ease”. Comparing concordances of “disease” and “disorder”, they noted that the
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
1 patients with recurrent affective disorders are currently under investigation.
2 with recurrent unipolar affective disorders. <p> The use of <i> electroconvulsi
3 lf-ideas that perpetuate affective disorders. <hd3> Setting limits to treatment
4 mstances. In certain serious blood disorders it can invade other parts of the bo
5 r the sign of a generalized bodily disorder? <item> <label> 8. </label> Is it pr
6 not be a coincidence that cardiac disorders are most frequent at the time of wa
7 pallingly high rate of circulatory disorders (including stroke and heart attack)
8 will now consider severe clinical disorders which bear this out. <hd3> Patients
9 ure may be the result of an eating disorder). There is dispute as to whether cut
10 rted by Simpson (1975). The eating disorders include compulsive overeating and
11 o exist between cutting and eating disorders, which were found in 15 (65 per
12 male infertility and other genital disorders. There are 25 university and 25 mun
13 t observed in some renal and heart disorders; then the rate of urine flow on lyi
14 , and because there are rare human disorders in which selfmutilation may be a fe
15 II </hd1> <hd3> YOUR BODY CLOCK IN DISORDER </hd3> <p> We have
16 titis simply means an inflammatory disorder of the liver and it can be caused by
17 r, high blood pressure, and mental disorders will serve to illustrate the ways i
18 chance of having some neurological disorder, ranging from deafness and blind
19 f ordering our affairs, it is only disorder. It is arbitrary, irrational, and do
20 applied diagnosis is ‘personality disorder”. Unfortunately this diagnosis is of
21 agnosis of ‘borderline personality disorder” (p. 35) would often be used for suc
22 ctive illnesses and/or personality disorders (Copas and Robin 1982). A history o
23 ed. If a patient has a psychiatric disorder this must be included in his list of
24 idence of her having a psychiatric disorder, although it was clear that she had
25 y was suffering from a psychiatric disorder, or that there was a risk of suicide
26 ffering from any other psychiatric disorder. There appeared no reason to suspect
27 ies are suffering from psychiatric disorders and are usually at high risk of mak
28 el> Those with serious psychiatric disorders, especially depression with serious
29 tate will include treatment of the disorder that has led to the disturbance and
Concordance 13. “disorder*” in the MCB medical component (200,000 words; see
Murison-Bowie 1993c), left sorted
two sets of examples were markedly different. In particular “disorder/s” seemed
to be more selective than “disease” in its combinations, showing a preference
to collocate with words belonging to a “mental” semantic area. As shown
in Concordance 13 above, in 14 cases “affective”, “psychiatric”, “personality”,
“neurological”, “mental” appear as left-collocates of “disorder/s”. Furthermore
“eating disorder/s” (ll. 9–11) refers to anorexia as a psychiatric illness, and in at
least 3 other cases (12, 14 and 29) the extended context clearly refers to illnesses
of a psychological or psychiatric nature.
Given the size and the composition of the corpus (the MCB medical com-
ponent totals 200,000 words taken from a mere 7 chapters), this data were
obviously not conclusive, but the suggested selectivity of “disorder” for neuro-
logical illnesses seemed also to explain its distribution in the medical research
papers corpus, where “disorder/s” occurred almost exclusively in articles deal-
ing with epilepsy, a neurological illness. Concordances of “disease/s” in the
corpus of medical articles confirmed that “disease” is more frequent than “dis-
order” and suggested a more general use. Interestingly enough, then, there
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
were no occurrences of “disease/s” with “mental”, “neurological”, “personal-
ity” or “psychiatric” in either the research paper corpus or the MCB medical
component, a finding which supported the hypothesis of a “preference” for
“disorder/s” to occur in such contexts.
At this point, the students went back to the (corpus-based) Cobuild Dictio-
nary entry and noted that such association of “disorder/s” with mental illnesses
was suggested both in the definition (where “mind” comes before “body”) and,
more clearly, in the examples, which are all occurrences where “disorder/s”
refers to mental, neurological or psychiatric illnesses. A check in the BNC also
seems to confirm this preference: of 125 examples where “disorder/s” means
“illness” (manually selected from 200 randomly selected ones), about 70 col-
locate with words belonging to the mental/neurological area (“mental”, “per-
sonality”, “psychiatric”, “nervous”) and another 15 occur in what are clearly
mental/ psychological contexts.
Checking different and larger sets of data, then, threw light on the us-
age of “disorder” and on the very concept it embodies, a finding which the
single epilepsy corpus could not make evident (see also Gavioli 2002). While
checking other corpora and data (e.g. the BNC) was suggested or performed by
the teacher to confirm the students’ hypothesis, the construction and discus-
sion of the hypothesis itself was extremely interesting. In comparing different
sets of data, either concordances of the same word from different corpora or
concordances of similar words (e.g. “disease”/“disorder”) from the same cor-
pus, students discussed the various instances, trying to establish whether the
illnesses they referred to were of a psychiatric nature or not, and noted for ex-
ample that “eating disorders” were in fact anorexia and bulimia. By the way,
looking at the concordance of “disease/s” in the MCB medical component stu-
dents noticed an association of this word with sexually transmitted illnesses, a
finding which was not confirmed by the combined medical corpus and which
was probably motivated by the presence of a chapter (1 out of 7) about sexu-
ally transmitted diseases in the MCB medical component. This, however, led to
further text reading and discoveries concerning the medical discourse. As with
“RIBA” and “Bid” above, even in this case, students’ discussion involved their
attempt to grasp a whole new way of conceptualizing and understanding the
“world” of the medical community.
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
.. Exploring corpora in different languages: Contrasting English and
Italian data
Wichmann (1995) notes that using concordances with learners of English may
be very useful to help them interact more skilfully with reference materials such
as dictionaries and grammars, a point that is evident also in the “disorder”
case, above. In particular, she suggests that concordances may help promote
students’ semantic awareness of both the foreign language and their own. In
the activity she illustrates in her paper (1995:62) she asks students to look at
concordances of English words (e.g. “ask*”, “accident*”) and to find possible
equivalents in the students’ mother tongue (German). This raised awareness of
shades of meaning of both English and German, of context variation and of the
fact that there was rarely total overlap between two words and, for example, the
verb “ask” might correpond to “fragen”, “eine Frage stellen” or “bitten”.
Comparing the foreign language with their own seems in fact to be highly
motivating for students, even when translation is not involved. Working with
concordances and learners, I noted that one of the most challenging ways for
students to compare different sets of data is that of contrasting concordances in
the foreign language and their own. This does not only highlight differences(or
similarities) between the two languages, but may also be helpful in fully under-
standing the meaning of a concept and its conventional usage. Comparing data
in their own language, students see differences and similarities, improve their
awareness of their own language (as Wichmann 1995 observes), and under-
stand the data in the foreign language better. In the case of “RIBA” for instance,
a concordance from a similar size corpus of hepatitis research articles in Italian
made it very clear that the Riba is in fact a confirmatory test and gave the stu-
dents a sort of guarantee that they understood the English data well. Notice the
recurrence of the words “conferma”/“confermato”on the left side of the search
word in the following Italian concordance:
1 ienti presentavano un test di conferma in RIBA indeterminato. Si trattava di una gi
2 ’HCVAb (determinazione e/o conferma in RIBA); d) “C+ pregressa B”: ove Š
3 positivit. . . per anti-HCV, confermata con RIBA, nelle epatobiopsie con segni istol
4 positivi all’ELISA sono stati confermati al RIBA, tranne 2, che sono risultati indeter
5 t HCV EIA) e nei positivi confermato con RIBA di II generazione (Ortho-Chiron Ri
6 on RIBA di II generazione (Ortho-Chiron Riba HCV), sul siero di 88 pazienti in dia
7 o poi sui sieri conservati, lo screening in RIBA-Ortho. I controlli ematologici prev
Concordance 14. “riba” in a medical corpus of texts about hepatitis (40,000 words)
In this section, I show an example where students compare corpora in En-
glish and Italian. In the first part (6.3.2.1), they contrast the use of the word
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
“history” and “storia” in medical research papers in the two languages. In the
following one (6.3.2.2) students take the search for “history” and “storia” a step
further to include more data from larger and more general corpora.
... The case of “history” and “storia” in medical research papers
The search for “history” was prompted by an Italian-English translation prob-
lem in medical texts. As the Italian word “storia” may correspond to both
“story” and “history” in English, in the attempt to translate “pazienti con storia
di epatite” (patients with a history of hepatitis), students asked which of the two
was used in this context. Being now rather well-trained in the use of corpora,
they searched both words in the combined corpus of medical research papers
(250,000 words). Results provided 131 occurrences of “history” and none of
“story”, immediately answering the students’ question. They also found a more
extended recurrent pattern corresponding to what they wanted to translate:
“patients with a history of [+ disease]”.
Comparing the Italian chunk with the English data, students noticed that,
while in Italian they had “pazienti con storia”, without any article preceding
“storia”, the English occurrences were characterized by the indefinite article
preceding “history”. As “pazienti con una storia” (the indefinite article pre-
ceding “storia”) sounded intuitively acceptable to the students, they decided
to look at more data from an Italian medical corpus, similar in composition
to the English one, to check whether the omission of the article was typical
in Italian medical writing or a stylistic feature of their text. The Italian concor-
dance of “storia” provided 35 occurrences. In 5 cases, the article “una” preceded
“storia”, but in the remaining ones either no article or the definite article were
used. Interestingly enough, there were 4 cases where “pazienti/soggetti con”
(patients/subjects with) preceded “storia”, all with no article. To get more data,
1 ildren without seizures or with only a history of febrile seizures. Patients i
2 ree studies excluded patients with a history of alcoholism. All enrolled su
3 e first group includes patients with a history of CNS insult (e.g., cerebral t
4 e present only patients with a family history of breast cancer should be off
5 Disease Risk Women with a family history of breast cancer (generally o
6 less than 40 years old with a family history of cancer are more in need of
7 hic screening of women with a family history of breast cancer. We questi
8 e present, only patients with a family history of breast cancer should be off
9 radiated tumours. Natural history of unresected primary tumour
10 nclusion since 2 of 9 patients with no history of seizures or only febrile sei
11 mean FSIQ of 16 children with a past history of status epilepticus was 9 p
12 mean FSIQ of 16 children with a past history of status epilepticus was 9 p
Concordance 15. “history” in the combined corpus of medical research papers
(250,000 words)
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
students also checked a further corpus of Italian research articles (130,000
words) about stomach diseases which provided two more occurrences of “con
storia” without any article preceding “storia”.
Getting back to the English concordance of “history”, students noted that
“a” seemed to precede “history” in most cases. They noted several occurrences
of “a history” (38) forming two main collocations, “patient/s had a history”
(11 occurrences) and “patients with/without a history” (5 occurrences), and
many more of the construction “a + adjective + history” forming recurrent
collocations such as: “a family history” (38), “a past/previous history” (6), “a
medical/clinical history” (5). The single exception to this seemed to be pro-
vided by the adjective “natural”, which was in all cases anticipated by “the”,
forming the collocation: “the natural history”.
Moving from the English to the Italian corpora and backwards, then, the
students observed the following:
a. In English medical research papers, “a (adj) history” of an illness was the
most frequent pattern;
b. In Italian, “storia” was more frequently preceded by either the definite or
no article, with a few occurrences of “una storia”;
c. The Italian pattern “una storia” came in constructions like “avere una sto-
ria” (have a history), “presentare una storia” (show a history) and “essere
caratterizati/contrassegnati da una storia (to be characterized by a history)
d. The pattern “have a history” was common in the English concordance
(11 occurrences), thus forming a match with the Italian pattern “avere
una storia” (5 occurrences over 11 from both the combined and the
stomach corpus)
e. When “patients”/“pazienti” were mentioned, though, the English pattern
“patients with a history” seemed to correspond to the Italian “pazienti con
storia”, where English seemed to be characterized by the presence of the
indefinite article “a” preceding “history” and Italian seemed to be charac-
terized by the absence of any article;
f. The single case when “the” was used preceding “history” in English, was
“the natural history” (10 occurrences), possibly corresponding to the pat-
tern “la storia naturale” which was recurrent in the Italian corpus (11 in
the combined corpus and 21 in the stomach diseases corpus)
g. “storia familiare” (family history) e “storia clinica” (clinical history) were
rather common in Italian too (6 occurrences of “familiare” and 9 of “clin-
ica” in the two Italian corpora put together), but they were often preceded
by the definite, not the indefinte article.
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
While observing the data from the corpora, students looked at the extended
context of the concordances in the attempt to account for the linguistic dif-
ferences and similarities between the two languages. Looking at “the natural
history”/la storia naturale”, they noted that understanding “the natural his-
tory” of a disease is important for medical treatment and indeed a major point
in medical research, see e.g.:
(97) 9 years, respectively. Clearly, continued evaluation of the living subjects in this
study is essential to determine the natural history of non-A, non-B hepatitis more
completely. Efforts in this study to identify factors that might predict progressi
(98) l tests became available to distinguish hepatitis A and B from other forms of hepati-
tis (1,2). Early studies of the natural history of NANB hepatitis suggested that the
illness generally followed a prolonged, indolent course that only rarely resulted I
(99) ion (one patient), and other potential causes of chronic hepatitis (two patients)),
which made it difficult to determine the natural history of the transfusion- as-
sociated disease. We therefore evaluated the remaining 90 patients. Serologic tests
for ant
(100) ew had advanced disease-a finding that supports our conclusion. Recent reports
have more clearly defined the natural history of chronic hepatitis C. Alter et al. (30)
reported that HCV viremia persists in most individuals with community-acquired
(101) nce of retinopathy. The findings can be used to estimate the actual onset of NIDDM.
Better understanding of the natural history of diabetes may facilitate the develop-
ment of diabetes control strategies. A recent study estimated that the onset
The English “a history” seemed instead to be used when discussing the history
of the illness of a single patient or a group of patients, and the students noticed
that such descriptions are interesting in medical research articles in that they
contribute to an improved description of the illness’s “natural history”. To talk
about the single patients’ or groups of patients’ cases, in Italian, there seemed
to be a more varied range of constructions. While in English structures includ-
ing “history” seemed to be introduced by “patients” in most cases, (“patients
with a history”, “patients who had a history”), in Italian, “storia” was also used
to begin a sentence, (“La storia familiare e personale è del tutto normale” –
the family and personal history is perfectly normal), as a title (“Storia ripro-
duttiva” – Reproductive history) or in other introductive patterns (“si è inoltre
vagliata la storia familiare” – the family history was also evaluated).
The exploration of the two corpora, then, provided students with a lot of
information about both medical contents and issues and language construc-
tions. Contrasting patterns in English with patterns in their own language,
students were encouraged to look better into concepts which seemed similar
(and recurrent) in both sets of data (“the natural history” – “la storia natu-
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
rale”) and those which seemed different (“a history” – “la storia”). To check
which were the matches in the two languages, the students explored those con-
cepts and features of discourse that “a history” and “la storia” seemed to be
related to.
... Comparing bilingual, small, medium and large corpora: More
explorations involving “history” and “storia”
In their search for “history” and “storia”, students noted two patterns which
seemed odd or unfamiliar to their language intuition. The first was the Italian
“con storia”, without an article, the second was the English “a history”, in partic-
ular “a” instead of “the”. They then decided to check whether these usages were
common in general Italian /English or, as they thought, were characteristics of
medical texts.
To do this, they needed data from large corpora of general Italian/English.
Unfortunately, while both the BNC sampler and the BNC world edition
sounded suitable for research in English, no such general corpus of Italian
language exists for the moment, and the students simply looked at two small-
medium corpora, one of Italian newspapers (500,000 words) and the other of
Italian oral texts (the LIP corpus, De Mauro et al. 1993). They checked the word
“storia” with “con” in a context of 3 words to the left. The search produced just
8 occurrences on the whole (4 from each corpus), 6 of “con la storia”, 1 of “con
la nostra storia” and 1 of “con una storia”.3
None of “con storia”. While this
suggested that the pattern “con storia” was probably not very widespread in
the Italian language, the search could not be carried any further because of the
lack of material.4
For English, by contrast, the BNC sampler produced 222 occurrences of
“history”. Frequent left collocates were “in” (“one of the things that we learn
very early in history is the Great Fire”, “In Germany most doctoral students in
history make use of computers”), “the” (“the history of architecture”, “part of
the history”) and possessives (“these fossils don’t rewrite our history but they
do illustrate it usefully”). “A history” was not a frequent pattern, occurring 9
times altogether. In three cases (two from the same text), we have occurrences
of “a long history” (“this union’s got a long history of amalgamations”). The re-
maining 6 are not easily classifiable, but one of them refers to a medical history:
“his wife, aged 26, who had a history of mental illness”.
A search in the entire BNC shows that history occurs 18,431 times. Analysis
of 100 of them randomly selected basically confirms the results from the BNC
sampler. Here also, occurrences of “a history” are rare (4). These four examples,
however, help classify those from the BNC sampler. In particular, “a history”
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
seems to be used in two main patterns. The first has to do with descriptions of
places (as in tourist guides):
Price has a rich history
The University of Edinburgh has a long and fascinating history
The harbour town of Watchet has a history going back over a thousand
years
The second with a patient’s history of some illness:
his wife, aged 26, who had a history of mental illness
seen in the context of a ten-year history of disturbed behaviour, these
incidents could have been prevented
A check for the expression “a history” provided 820 occurrences in 481 texts.
Analysis of 100 of them randomly selected showed that 30 of these referred to
illnesses (e.g. “a history of diabetes mellitus”). In 14 cases, “a history” referred
to descriptions of institutions or places, as in the examples above, 12 are inside
book titles (e.g. “50th Cricket Week 1992: a history”), 16 are uses of history
as an adjective (e.g. “a history degree”, “a history department”). In another 10
cases or so “a history” is used in legal contexts to refer to the history of crim-
inals or convicts, in a very similar way to the one we noticed for the medical
context, e.g.
Some of the doormen had criminal convictions and a history of violence
In conclusion, “history” is not a word specific to one domain, whereas “a
history” is much more restricted in its use, in this sense. Though not only
a medical expression, and being found also in different contexts, its use sug-
gests that it may have a preference for restricted contexts (tourist descriptions,
medical descriptions of patients’ illnesses, criminal law descriptions).
. Interacting with “the authorities”: Completing or contrasting
explanations from reference materials and the teacher
The contrastive nature of corpus analysis is not limited to comparing different
corpora and sets of concordances. It has probably been noticed, in the sections
above, that an interesting feature of concordance data is that they are often
profitably used by the students to contrast information derived form reference
materials such as dictionaries or encyclopedias. This was noted in the case of
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
“Riba”, where the encyclopedia definition was compared and completed with
information coming from the data, in the case of “bid”, where the dictionary
entry was then re-interpreted in the light of concordance lines, and also in the
case of “disorder”, where the dictionary’s suggestion about the semantic pref-
erence of “disorder” for mental/psychlogical contexts was made evident only
after checking and comparing different sets of data. Wichmann (1995) too,
notes that concordance analysis improves students’ semantic awareness, thus
helping them deal with dictionary information better.
In Chapter 2 (Section 2.4.4), quoting Johns (1994), I mentioned that one
of the most interesting features of learner corpus work is that students observe
things which often pass unnoticed to the teachers’ attention and that this fact
promotes discussion of language features and conventions in the classroom,
placing students and teacher “on an equal footing”. It seems that in deriving
“their own” observations from concordance analysis, students are provided
with something to compare or contrast with observations from different points
of view, their classmates’, the teacher’s and also those given in reference mate-
rials. This is an important point because while language pedagogy in the 80s
argued for the involvement of students in tasks where “authentic” communi-
cation could be somehow achieved, grammar classes remained a reality apart,
with the teacher and/or the reference materials (books, cassettes, videoclips,
dictionaries or whatever) inevitably playing the role of “the authority”.
Concordances are interesting in this respect because, while they produce
lexico-grammatical data, they produce data which are uninterpreted and await-
ing interpretation. And while the data are (more or less) objective, interpreta-
tion (particularly by students who may not use scientifically rigorous methods)
is subjective and can be profitably compared with other interpretations, data
and reference. In this section, I discuss another example of a students’ ex-
ploration of corpora, this time involving a grammatical rather than a lexical
problem: the use of the progressive form in medical research articles. Looking
at the concordances, students produced data which not only made the teacher’s
explanation clearer but also added something to it.
.. The case of the progressive tense in medical research articles
A feature of scientific writing that has been noticed in the literature (see
Dudley-Evans & St. John 1998:77–8 for a discussion) is a high lexical density
due to the frequent use of noun phrases and other nominal forms. A particular
case has been made with “-ing” forms which, have been found by Barber (1962,
in Swales 1988) as rarely occurring as forms of continuous tense, and seem
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
to be more frequently used as constituents of noun phrases or of non-finite
clauses (see Swales 1988:12).
In courses of technical-scientific translation, students are often introduced
to the main features of academic texts as described in the literature. Hav-
ing been told that medical texts are characterized by high lexical density and
that “-ing” forms generally embody nominal forms rather than the progressive
tense, students asked what that exactly meant. Some students also typed in a
search for -ing forms in the concordancer and found several instances, raising
curiosity about the problem.
We then decided to look for “*ing” forms in the combined medical corpus
and found 4411 occurrences. To answer the students’ question, as the corpora
are untagged, occurrences had to be classified manually. The concordance was
immediately edited to remove those occurrences which did not seem relevant
for the analysis, such as “anything/nothing/something”, “morning”, “during”
and other adverbial or connecting forms such as “according to”, “depend-
ing on”, “including/excluding”, “assuming”, “concerning”, “regarding”. This cut
more than a thousand occurrences. The remaining occurrences were classified
by the students and the teacher in three groups: nouns or noun phrases, non-
finite forms and progressive forms. On the whole, classification of the lines
provided 1488 occurrences of nouns or noun phrases, 1728 of non-finite forms
and 51 of progressive forms.
While progressive forms were less frequent than the other forms (basically
supporting the teacher’s initial explanation), there were, however, 51 occur-
rences, and students immediately focused on these. The occurrences suggested
that the progressive form is actually not used frequently in this corpus and
recurrent patterns often revealed idiosyncratic rather than more general med-
ical uses, generally coming from a single text (e.g. “women were willing to pay
more – 10 occurrences – all coming from a text dealing with the adequacy
for public services in the treatment of breast cancer). Two patterns seemed
to reveal more widespread use and attracted the students’ attention: “pa-
tients/subjects are/were awaiting (transplant/surgery/treatment)” (10 occur-
rences) and “patients/subjects were taking/receiving (drug)” (13 occurrences).
None of them was however found to be recurrent in the other medical cor-
pora at our disposal (the MCB medical book chapters and the research articles
about stomach disease). The students then decided to leave the analysis aside
for the moment.
Noun forms, on the other hand, were found to be more interesting. While
classifying three thousand items manually seemed a daunting task at first, stu-
dents immediately realized that there were large blocks where lexical forms
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
were strongly associated with a single grammatical category. This, on the one
hand, made classification easier and prevented the students from abandoning
the task, and, on the other hand, it made them curious about the various pat-
terns which seemed “interesting” in acquainting them better with the language
of medicine. For instance, “finding” and “bleeding” appeared 43 and 42 times
respectively in the corpus and in all cases as nouns. They also seemed to form
pretty fixed collocations. In 27 out of 43 occurrences “finding” is preceded by
“our”, “the” or “this”. In 15 cases “our/the/this finding” comes after a full stop,
indicating the beginning of a new sentence and indeed suggesting a way to in-
troduce what the finding was about. Other words which occurred only as nouns
were “sampling” (forming the collocation “blood sampling”, 15 occ.), “wors-
ening” (“worsening of (disease)” 7 occ.), and “writing” (“at this writing” in all
7 occurrences5
). A variety of “-ing” words were then used as adjectives. Such
are “underlying” (“underlying disease”, “underlying cause of death”, 21 occur-
rences), “threatening” (18 occurrences, 6 of which “life-threatening”), “exist-
ing” (16 occ., 11 of which “pre-existing”, generally collocating with therapy or
disease), “ongoing” (10 occurrences).
Among “-ing” words that appear in the corpus only as non-finite verbal
forms, the most frequent was “using” (225) obviously collocating with meth-
ods (“using bootstrap methods”, “using an increment threshold technique”,
“using multivariate analysis”) and “materials” (“using a Zeiss fundus camera”,
“using a moving needle injector”); types of drugs and data also followed “us-
ing” in some cases (less than 5 each). A look on the left side of “using” also
revealed a highly recurrent pattern, namely the colligation with the verb form
“was/were analysed” (with variant forms for “analyse”: “assessed”, “estimated”,
“calculated”, “compared”, “determined”, “evaluated”, “identified”, “measured”,
“performed”, “carried out”). This made up more than 50 occurrences of “X
was/were analysed (or a variant verb) using...”. Besides “using”, non-finite
forms also included “undergoing” (57 occurrences most of which in the col-
location “[patients] undergoing [(type of) surgery]) and a variety of verbs that
had to do with describing the experiment/the data: “determining”, “compar-
ing”, “detecting”, “identifying”, “occurring”, “resulting” and with paper writing:
“suggesting”, “showing”, “indicating”.
A very interesting observation by the students regarded the verb “hav-
ing” (121 occurrences, all non-finite verb forms). While students expected
that the main pattern formed by the verb “having” was probably “(patients)
having (disease)”, they rapidly discovered that a very frequent left collocate of
“having” was not “patients” or “subjects”, but the preposition “as” (36 occur-
rences). A very frequent pattern with “having” was in fact “(patients) were
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
classified/diagnosed as having”. Indeed when a type of illness followed “hav-
ing”, “were/was classified/diagnosed as” seemed to be systematically on the left
of it. The collocation “patients/subjects having” was present in 25 cases and it
was frequently followed by a symptom of the illness (6 occurrences; e.g. “hav-
ing seizures”), a test (5 occurrences; e.g. “having mammography”), a surgery
(5 occurrences; e.g. “having resection”). The remaining ones were not easily
classifiable, but an illness (“tumour”) occurred in one instance only.6
Though rather complex and long, the search for “*ing” forms made the
teacher’s explanation concrete for the students and it was then possible for
them to discuss it. First, classifying the examples, they understood more pre-
cisely what was intended with nominal forms and non-finite verbs. Second,
they added something to the teacher’s explanation, which was the fact that
particular lexical forms often seemed to be attached to a single grammatical
form (e.g. “finding” and “bleeding” which were only used as nouns or “using”
and “having” which were only used in non-finite verb forms). Thirdly, they
also partly contradicted it because, while it was true that progressive forms
were less frequent than the other two and did not reveal any systematic pat-
tern of usage, several progressive forms were found and some even suggested
to the students ways to describe patients’ features (“were taking drugs”, “were
awaiting surgery”). The classification of the examples had the aided value of
telling the students a lot about tests, materials, drugs, illnesses and surgeries.
Classifying the occurrences of both “using” and “having” where the colligating
category seemed to be types of tests or types of illnesses, students learned to dis-
tinguish between them: indeed occasionally they decided they wanted to know
more (for instance in the case of the “bootstrap methods”, which required read-
ing a full section in a research paper about retinopathy, this was found to be a
method for approximately estimating the duration of diabetes prior to clinical
diagnosis).
. Exploring corpora to produce texts
In the sections above, we looked at students interacting with concordance ma-
terials to explore and discuss problems of a lexico-grammatical nature, mainly
in the attempt to grasp concepts and issues that seemed to be recurrent in
the specialized texts collected in the corpora. Those explorations emerged out
of reading/writing activities such as summarizing, reformulating, editing or
translating texts, especially in the foreign language. For these types of activities,
in particular, concordance analysis seems to be an extremely useful resource
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
and there are a number of studies dealing with the usefulness of using corpus
work with trainee translators or in reading/writing activities (see, e.g. Bowker
& Pearson 2002: Chapters 10 and 11; Thompson 2002; Zanettin 2001; Maia
2000; Brodine 2001).
As many of these studies demonstrate, corpus work helps students produce
texts which sound natural in the foreign language and appropriate to the ESP
register. So while on the one hand, corpus work has been considered a useful
tool to produce good/better texts/translations in the foreign language and is
interesting (and motivating for the students) in this respect, on the other, the
process that is involved in producing such texts seems to me at least as inter-
esting (see also Aston & Bertaccini 2001; Bernardini 2002b). In this section I
show two examples of students’ activity which seem to me indicative of the
type of work they get involved in. The two examples come from two different
settings. The first concerns a student from a trainee translators’ course who is
producing a translation of a medical abstract from Italian into English. The sec-
ond involves a student from a European studies course producing a (written)
speech about the European Monetary Union. As we shall see, the two examples
are different in many respects, but they are both indicative of the way students
explore the material, actually “getting their teeth” into it (Aston 2002).
.. Translating a medical abstract7
While students generally carry out translations starting from the first sentence
and then moving on, on a sentence-by-sentence basis, corpus-based findings
often prompt them to “remanipulate” or edit the text in such a way that the
structure of the original text gets heavily changed. This was the case of a student
who translated an Italian abstract of a paper about hepatitis C using (mainly)
a corpus of research papers about hepatitis C in English. His translation shows
this attempt to re-formulate and clarify the concepts to make them fit for the
English text. While his re-formulation may seem very “unfaithful” seen in a
strictly translational perspective, from an ESP learning point of view it looks
quite interesting. In Table 5 we can see the first two sentences of the Italian text,
with a literal translation next to it. These two sentences introduce the purpose
of the research and the data which were evaluated.
As the first sentence seemed more difficult to understand and then trans-
late, I suggested the student start from the second one. Having difficulty in
dealing with the whole sentence altogether, the student began by translating
the first part quite literally:
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
In this paper 183 hepatic biopsies of alcoholics with or without HBV
markers were examined
He then decided to compare his sentence with the English corpus of hepatitis
research papers. One of the key points in using a corpus of texts in English here
is that the students have to know (or be able to guess) the potential English
equivalent words or also use a dictionary to find them.
Table 5. First sentences of the Italian source text and its literal translation
Data la rilevanza epidemiologica
dell’etilismo e delle infezioni da virus
epatici è facile trovare pazienti in cui
entrambe le etiologie sono presenti: in
questa situazione è probabile che il rischio
di evoluzione cirrogena sia maggiore.
Given the epidemiologic relevance of alco-
holism and of infections due to hepatic
viruses, it is common to see patients in whom
both illnesses are present: in this situation it is
likely that the risk of evolution into cirrhosis
increases.
In questo lavoro sono state esaminate 183
biopsie epatiche di etilisti con o senza
marcatori HBV e 104 etilisti (di cui 50
biopsiati) con o senza anti-HCV.
In this work, 183 hepatic biopsies of alcoholics
with or without HBV markers were examined
as well as 104 alcoholics (50 of which had liver
biopsy) with or without HCV markers.
So a corpus (or at least this type of corpus) is not useful in the very first steps
when the students are looking for word-to-word equivalents (e.g. “etilisti” –
“alcoholics”); it does, however, help them see the way in which these words are
constructed and contextualised. So our student first searched two specialized
words in the sentence above, “biopsy” and “marker” to have a look at their con-
text. For “biopsy*”, he noted that there were 47 occurrences of “liver biopsy”
and none of “hepatic biopsy”. While “hepatic” occurred in other combinations
as an adjective (mainly “hepatic failure” 14 out of 27 occurrences), as “liver”
systematically occurred with “biopsy”, the student decided to change his “hep-
atic biopsy” chunk into “liver biopsy”. For “marker*”, he found one occurrence
of “patients without hepatitis C markers” which attested the construction he
chose for his translation. Through the concordance of “marker*”, though, he
noted the repetition of the pattern “(to be) positive/negative for HBV/HCV
markers”, an expression which, seemed to him, much better for clarifying his
concept in the translation of the Italian text. On the basis of these observations,
the student’s translation was then changed into:
In this paper 183 liver biopsies of alcoholics who were positive or negative
for HBV markers were examined
As this sentence comes early in the abstract text, being the second sentence, the
student decided to have a look at the beginnings of the abstracts in his English
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
corpus, to see whether he could improve his text still further. Searching the
word “abstract”, which is generally used as a title of the abstract text, he found
just 3 abstract openings. In all of these 3 occurrences, the abstract started very
abruptly immediately specifying the number of patients who were examined in
the study, and providing no occurrences of “in this paper” as a starting phrase
(as was the case in the students’ translation):
1. A series of 248 consecutive patients undergoing cardiac surgery were ex-
amined
2. Thirty patients who had not previous received treatment with factor VIII
concentrate or who had been treated only infrequently with factor VIII
[. . .] were studied
3. Five hundred and seventy-six consecutive patients from the surgical, ob-
stetrical, and medical services who had received transfusions of volunteer
blood were followed up
As three occurrences were not many, the student searched the bigger corpus of
research papers, finding 28 occurrences of the word “abstract” used as the title
of the abstract section. Here too, “in this paper” did not occur as an opening
phrase though there was an occurrence of “this report describes” and one of
“this study was designed to test”. More frequent patterns in first sentences of
abstracts could basically be classified into two groups:
1. those starting with an infinitive, e.g. “To clarify the viral factor . . .”
2. those starting with personal pronoun “we” followed by a verb such as
“study” or “investigate”
The first pattern was much more frequent and was used to introduce the
purpose of the research (in 9 cases there was also a sub-title like “aims” or
“objectives” introducing the first sentence of the abstract). The second pattern,
introduced by “we”, occurred in a couple of cases in the first sentence of the
abstract and once in the second sentence. However, as the sentence our student
was concerned with did not seem to deal with the research purpose, he decided
to use the latter pattern to introduce the number of patients examined in the
study (“we analysed/examined + patients” accounted for 31 out of 480 occur-
rences of “we” in the 200,000 word medical corpus). The sentence was then
changed into:
We examined 183 liver biopsies of alcoholics who were positive or negative
for HBV markers.
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
Findings about how abstracts begin led the student to look back at the first sen-
tence in his source text. Having noted that abstracts often open by introducing
the purpose of the medical research, the student used this information to es-
tablish a (not yet) clear connection between the first and the second sentence
in his source text. The first sentence looked like a simple de-facto observation:
Data la rilevanza epidemiologica dell’etilismo e delle infezioni da virus
epatici è facile trovare pazienti in cui entrambe le etiologie sono presenti:
in questa situazione è probabile che il rischio di evoluzione cirrogena
sia maggiore.
Given the epidemiologic relevance of alcoholism and of infections due to hep-
atic viruses, it is common to see patients in whom both illnesses are present:
in this situation it is likely that the risk of evolution into cirrhosis increases.
The student, however, thought that this observation was probably there to in-
troduce and explain the purpose of the research. He then re-interpreted the
connection between the first two sentences of his source text as follows: as
patients who are both alcoholics and have hepatitis seem more likely to get
cirrhosis, this study checks whether this is true.
In the light of this, he started interacting with concordances in the attempt
to confirm his hypothesis about the text meaning and to reformulate it into
English. A search of the word “alcoholism” in the hepatitis corpus provided 7
occurrences, two of which reassured the student that he had understood well.
The second also suggested the expression “chronic alcoholism” which seemed
to translate “etilismo” better:
1. The four patients in the IVDU group with high HAI scores (Fig. 1) had
histories of alcohol abuse, and hepatitis C is worse when complicated by
alcoholism (28, 29). Had we excluded these four cases from our study, the
difference between the two groups would have been greater.
2. Another possibility is that chronic alcoholism may have augmented the
deleterious effects of chronic non-A, non-B hepatitis in this study or, in-
deed, may have been entirely responsible for some of the deaths
A search of the word “cirrhosis” provided 70 entries, 15 of which were occur-
rences of “development of/progress to cirrhosis”, suggesting that the topic of
cirrhosis development may be a rather important one. The instance which at-
tracted the student’s attention, though, was one of “risk factors for evolution
to cirrhosis”, used as a title for a section in one of the papers included in the
corpus. Reading such paper sections, the student found a confirmation that
alcoholism was one.
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
Table 6. Comparison of Italian source text, literal translation and student’s translation
Italian source text English literal translation Student’s translation
Data la rilevanza epidemi-
ologica dell’etilismo e delle
infezioni da virus epatici
è facile trovare pazienti in
cui entrambe le etiologie
sono presenti: in questa
situazione è probabile che
il rischio di evoluzione
cirrogena sia maggiore.
In questo lavoro sono state
esaminate 183 biopsie
epatiche di etilisti con o
senza marcatori HBV e 104
etilisti (di cui 50 biopsiati)
con o senza anti-HCV.
Given the epidemiologic rel-
evance of alcoholism and
of infections due to hepatic
viruses, it is common to see
patients in whom both ill-
nesses are present: in this sit-
uation it is likely that the risk
of evolution into cirrhosis in-
creases.
In this work, 183 hepatic
biopsies of alcoholics with or
without HBV markers were
examined as well as 104 alco-
holics (50 of which had liver
biopsy) with or without HCV
markers.
We have evaluated 104
patients with chronic alco-
holism to assess the incidence
of evolution to cirrhosis in
the presence of both alcohol
abuse and viral hepatitis.
Anti HCV antibodies were
not present in all cases and
liver biopsies were performed
in 50 patients (48%).
In addition, we have exam-
ined 183 liver biopsies of
alcoholics who were positive
or negative for HBV markers.
In the light of this new data, the student produced a novel translation. It
can be seen (Table 6) that in the attempt to make the link between the various
bits of information and to create a coherent and cohesive text, the student “ma-
nipulated” it a lot: he changed the position of the various pieces of information
and created three sentences instead of two. While these changes may probably
raise doubts in a translation perspective,8
they seem to me interesting in an
ESP learning one. The student’s text is, in my view, very clear in describing the
contents and it is correct from the language point of view.
In an attempt to produce an appropriate translation for this text, then,
this student explored corpora not only to catch language patterns which could
suitably be used in translation, but also to tease out concepts, meanings and
information related to research on hepatitis. Looking at patterns which were
frequent or recurrent, he constructed his own idea about which issues were
relevant in order to understand the source text better.
.. Writing out a political speech
The second exploration I show here comes from a different teaching context,
that of undergraduates in European languages and cultures, a university degree
aimed at training students to deal with economics, business and politics inside
the European institutions. A task these students are often asked to perform
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
in their language courses is that of preparing oral presentations dealing with
issues related to European economics and politics. The course was first taken
in academic year 2000–2001, a period of major European debate about the
introduction of the common currency. The topic of the Euro seemed to meet
the interest of my students in this course so I collected a corpus of speeches
about the introduction of the Euro as a single European currency (120,000
words, 41 texts).
As we did not know beforehand exactly which might be interesting fea-
tures in these texts, I first gave them three printed speeches, randomly chosen,
and asked them in groups to compare the texts and look for common features.
The students noted that there were very similar ways to open and close the
speeches, namely by using the phrase “Ladies and gentlemen” (e.g. “ladies and
gentlemen, it’s a great honour for me to be invited” or “ladies and gentlemen,
thank you for your attention”). They also noted a widespread use of percent-
ages and quantitative data referring to banknotes and coins. As there seemed
not much else the students noticed in these texts, I gave them a list of words
generated from a comparison between the speeches corpus and the BNC oral
component, using Wordsmith’s keywords feature. This feature allows you to
compare two corpora and generates a list of those words which show up as oc-
curring in statistically significant quantities in the first corpus (see Section 1.5).
To give an idea of the type of data we got, in Table 7 below, I show the list of
the 20 most significant words in the speeches corpus, as compared to the BNC
oral component.
I asked the students to look at the first 100 words in the list (two printed
pages) and to group them according to any semantic similarity they noted. The
students observed that the majority of words had to do with European econ-
omy and policy (Euro, Monetary, Economic, Currency, ECB (European Central
Table 7. Keywords of EMU speeches corpus (88,000 words)
1 EURO 11 EUROPEAN
2 MONETARY 12 POLICY
3 THE 13 MARKETS
4 ECONOMIC 14 COUNTRIES
5 STABILITY 15 FINANCIAL
6 OF 16 PRICE
7 GROWTH 17 INFLATION
8 CURRENCY 18 IN
9 ECB 19 BIS
10 AREA 20 EMU
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
Bank), Area, European, Policy, Markets, Countries, Financial, Price, Inflation,
EMU (European Monetary Union), etc.). Others seemed to form a group of
words “with a positive meaning”, namely: Stability, Growth, Developments,
Integration, Convergence.
Students noted that while there was a group of “positive” words, “nega-
tive” ones did not seem to show up in this list, the most negative being “risks”.
This observation gave a group of students the input to check whether “nega-
tive” words were used at all in this corpus. Here, I deal particularly with the
searches and explorations performed by this group and I discuss the speech
they eventually produced. As in Section 6.5.1, above, this is however just one
example; other groups of students produced speeches following different paths
and performing different types of explorations.
Together, the students in this group made their own list of “negative words”
from the corpus frequency word list; these included “problem”, “threat” (verb
and noun), “danger”, “difficulty” and “failure”. “Threat”, “Danger”, “difficulty”
and “failure” showed a very small number of occurrences, 12 of “threat*”, 9 of
“danger*”, 4 of “difficulty” and 4 of “failure”. It was noted that not only were
these words rare, but the context in which they appeared seemed to somehow
mitigate their negative meaning. This is evident in the following 6 instances
from the “danger*” concordance:
(1) create conditions for the international economy that minimise misalignments in as-
set prices, excessive volatility, purely speculative phenomena and dangerous herd be-
haviour. This is the underlying message in central banks’ repeated calls for prudence
and caution. Nothing is more conducive to eco
(2) ned prospects for strong economic growth in the euro area, the protracted rise in im-
port price inflation in the past few months clearly gave rise to a greater danger of a
spillover to domestic sources of inflation, such as, for instance, firms aiming at raising
or restoring profit margins. These risks had to be counteracted
(3) interest rate moves are providing a clear signal to market participants, social partners
and policymakers that the ECB is determined to counter inflationary dangers in a
timely fashion, and that the prospects for price stability in the euro area remain good.
This is also of great importance for the longer-term pot
(4) macroeconomic outcome, still less a benchmark for expectations. It should be ab-
solutely clear, in fact, that the Council is always ready to act to fend off dangers to
price stability that might emerge from whatever source of evidence, be it model-based
econometric exercises or more specific assessments
(5) Central Bank is acutely conscious of this threat and it has in place arrangements to
respond effectively and in a co-ordinated manner to any such danger, should counter-
feiters seek to take advantage of the unique situation. As a precaution, the information
campaign on the security features
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
(6) al integration will have to be founded on a stable currency and sound, successful econ-
omy. Hence, the quest for more integration will have to eschew the danger of creating
“political cartels,” which would be as detrimental to Europe’s economy and society, as
business cartels are to market activities. Heal
A search for “problem*” instead provided 49 occurrences. Even here, “prob-
lem” occurred in contexts which seemed to mitigate its negative meaning:. For
instance, in 8 cases, it was found in negative constructions (“not a problem”)
and in 6 cases in constructions referring to possibility (“potential problem”,
“if this problem arose”). Looking at the extended context of the concordance
of “problem*”, then, students noted that in 20 cases or so “problems” were
“solved” or “resolved”, “addressed”, “managed”, “dealt with” or “identified”. By
looking at these instances, students had the impression that a common topic
in these speeches was that of reassuring the hearers that “problems were under
control”. This is particularly clear in the following instance, taken as an example
of the types of occurrences the students found:
All the problems and risks I have mentioned were essentially well-
recognised and thoroughly discussed before the EMU was formed. Var-
ious rules were therefore constructed to prevent what is called destructive
diversity.
To confirm this hypothesis, they also checked the concordance of what intu-
itively seemed to them the “most negative” word they found in the keywords
list, the word “risk”, singular and plural.9
Similarly to “problems”, “risk/s”
seemed to be systematically mitigated. Of 157 occurrences of “risk*”, we have
20 of the patterns “risk managementtools/techniques” (15) and “value-at-risk”
(5), two strategies to manage and control risk. In about 10 cases, “risk” oc-
curs in a negative or comparative pattern of the type “no risk” or “less risk”.
In 95 cases “risk*” co-occurs with verbs that belong to the semantic field of
assessment, control and counteraction of risks, e.g. “analyse”, “signal”, “as-
sess”, “monitor”, “evaluate”, “diversify”, “hedge”, “contain”, “bear”, “minimize”,
“remove”, “reduce”, “react”, “counteract”, “avoid”.
By exploring recurrent patterns connected with the mitigation of risks
and problems, the students gained awareness of some recurrent issues in such
speeches, which they isolated as:
– descriptions of the changeover period (from national currencies to the
EURO)
– response of citizens in the various countries to the changeover
– risks, primarily related to inflation
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
Table 8. Comparison between student’s first draft and edited text
Students’ first draft Students’ edited text
Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and Gentlemen,
It is a great pleasure for me to be invited to the
annual conference of the European Central Bank
and to speak to such a distinguished audience. The
subject of the Euro changeover has been the cen-
tral problem to face during the last year but now
the changeover period has finised and we should
confess that it went better than hoped: 90% of na-
tional banknotes and 75% of national coins have
been replaced by the Euro, our new unique cur-
rency.
It is a great pleasure for me to be invited to the
annual conference of the European Central Bank
and to speak to such a distinguished audience.
The subject of the Euro-cash changeover has been
the central problem to face during the last year
but now that it has been accomplished I must say
that it went better than hoped: 90% of national
banknotes and 75% of national coins have been
replaced by the Euro, our new unique currency.
The material production of the currency and its
distribution in the twelve countries of the EMU
might have been considered as potential risk for
the changeover but now we can say that all the Eu-
ropean countries have overcome this problem in
an effective way. Moreover, let me say that the citi-
zens of the Union have responded enthusiastically
to the new currency, expressing their trust in the
European and national authorities to solve all the
future problems.
The material production of the currency and its
distribution in the twelve countries of the EMU
might have been considered as potential risks
for the changeover, from an organizational and
logistical point of view, but now we must say
that all the European countries have overcome this
difficulty in an effective way. Moreover, let me say
that the citizens of the Union have responded very
positively to the new currency, expressing their
trust in the European and national authorities to
solve all the future problems.
Another subject that must be taken into account
is the fact that there could be some inflationary
risks due to the conversion of the prices. On this
point we should remember that it might represent
a threat for economic stability only in the short
period, because after an initial period of transi-
tion the prices will start to decrease thanks to the
easiness to compare the prices all over the EMU
countries.
Another subject that must be taken into account is
the fact that there could be some inflationary risks
due to the conversion of the prices. On this point
we should remember that it might represent a
threat for economic stability only over a relatively
short period of time. After an initial period of
transition the prices will start to lower, because we
will beable tocompare the prices allover the EMU
countries easily.
These factors could become threatening only if the
national governments fail to fulfil the Maastricht
convergence criteria: as a consequence, they would
put at risk the entire European Monetary Union
and create problems on an international plan.
Therefore, all the coutries should try to reduce
the inflation risks but also to face the problem
of speculation due to the Euro-conversion. This
would be the only way to create a stable Union that
could be competitive with the Dollar and the Yen.
Furthermore, let me remind you of the brilliant
siccesses that we have achieved up to now, starting
from the general satisfaction of the European citi-
zens with the new currency but also the increasing
competitive power that our money is gaining all
over the world.
These factors could become threatening only if the
national governments fail to fulfil the Maastricht
convergence criteria: as a consequence, they would
put at risk the entire European Monetary Union
and create problems on an international plan.
Therefore, all the coutries should try to reduce the
inflation risks but also to face the problem of spec-
ulation due to the Euro-conversion. This would be
the only way to create a stable Union that could be
competitive with the Dollar and the Yen. Further-
more, let me remind you of the brilliant siccesses
that we have achieved up to now, starting from the
general satisfaction of the European citizens with
the new currency but also the increasing compet-
itive power that our money is gaining all over the
world.
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
On the basis of this list of issues, they wrote a draft for a speech about the
introduction of the European currency. They then checked their draft against
the corpus of speeches in the attempt to see whether some language constructs
they used were in fact found (and maybe expressed in more convincing ways)
in the corpus. This led to re-editing the text and to more exploration.
In Table 8 I show the speech produced by the students in the draft and in
the edited form (changes operated during editing are underlined). While the
text produced by the students is not particularly dense in contents and probably
not “perfect” from the language point of view, it does show some familiarity
the students achieved with lexis, topics and functions connected with this type
of specialized text. What seems particularly interesting in the students’ text is
the promotional, “consoling” function which emerged quite strikingly in the
analysis of the corpus and which the students succeeded in reproducing.
Looking at and interpreting the recurrent combinations of some keywords
(such as “risk”) or non-keywords (such as “problem” or “danger”), students
were involved in an exploration of the way these speeches conventionally
achieve meaning and, using these conventions, were able to reproduce a new
meaningful text.
. Conclusion: From spies to “double-agents”?
It seems to me that the examples of learners’ work shown above provide a pretty
clear idea about how students interact with concordance material from special-
ized text corpora to grasp meanings and issues related to the specialized world
of knowledge and how they manipulate it to produce novel texts. As discussed
in Chapter 2, the corpus methodological approach reveals that language com-
binations are very frequently based on conventionsof usage rather than rules of
a logico-rationalistic type. This, as we have seen, provokes a change of perspec-
tive in the approach to the study of language, which Sinclair (1991, 1996) calls
“the idiom principle”. The idiom principle, or the idiom perspective affects the
way we conceive and interpret how meaning is produced and understood (see
Tognini Bonelli 2001:157–164 and also Tognini Bonelli 2000).
Learners performing corpus work establish contact with the idiom per-
spective and develop an increasing sensitivity to observing patterns of language
which are of a conventional type, patterns that are such because they are
“socially-stipulated”, as Glucksberg (1993) puts it, rather than rationalistically
generated, and identifying and learning recurrent patterns becomes central
to the entire language learning process (Aston 1995). By exploring corpora
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
of specialized texts the students are led to observe those conventions which
are stipulated inside the discourse community producing those texts. Concor-
dances, however, do not “describe” such conventions, they just provide clues
to them. By interpreting concordancing materials, then, students match those
clues and attribute a sense to them. By this process they are introduced to the
world of meaning and knowledge entailed in the specialized texts and they
become participants in the discourse of the specialized community.
In this way the “spy” process may eventually lead the students to assimi-
late the specialized community’s issues, problems and discourse conventions.
Quoting Swales again (1990:29–32) if spies assimilate the issues and conven-
tions of the discourse community they have infiltrated, they cease to be single
spies and become “double-agents”. This “double-agent” action is, I believe,
clearly visible in both the medical translation and the political speech written
by the students with the aid of corpora and shown in Sections 6.5.1 and 6.5.2.
above. By observing recurrent structures and patterns in the specialized texts
they were analyzing, students became aware of relevant issues and ways to con-
struct meaning in such texts. In other words they combined what is typically
said with how it is said, and this allowed them to re-structure their knowledge
of the specialized discipline “world” (Bernardini 2000a:17–18).
Such re-structuring allowed the students to become participants, manipu-
late the texts and produce new ones. In this sense, corpus work favours stu-
dents’ self-expression in the framework of the schematic convention of the
discourse community. For these reasons, I believe that work with corpora fa-
cilitates the students’ achievement of the discourse community membership. A
completely open issue, however, would be how far the achievement of discourse
community membership leads the learner to “assimilate” the discourse com-
munity knowledge and conventions or, in other words, how far the “double-
agent” can remain “double” rather than becoming a “fully” assimilated new
individual. While it seems to me that grasping the concepts and conventions of
a discourse community is essential if one is to participate in its communicative
activity, it is not easy to say whether this gives more constraints or more auton-
omy to language learners and whether their re-structuring actually allows them
to view their process of assimilation critically. I shall come back to this issue in
Chapter 7 below; for the moment let me just point out that this is, I think, a
pedagogic problem worth considering for potential corpus-work contributions
to language learning.
Chapter 6. Learners exploring corpora to observe and produce texts 
Notes
. This partly depends on the ESP teaching context and a class involving e.g. business pro-
fessionals may be interested in very different types of items as compared to e.g. a class of
undergraduates.
. On the whole, the occurrences of RIBA in the BNC are in fact 243 in 39 texts; only in
these 13 cases, however, does it refer to the medical acronym, the remaining ones being
abbreviations of the “Royal Institute of British Architects”.
. These are the instances:
1. Questa sociologia astratta ha una relazione intrinsecamente precaria con la storia.
(This abstract sociology has an intrinsically precarious relationship with the history).
2. Il mito [. . .] passa a convivere con le vicende, con la storia (Myth gets to co-exist with
real events, with the history).
3. Frantisek Cerny si trova a dover fare i conti con la storia (F.C. has to come to terms
with history).
4. Un organismo agonizzante [. . .] con una storia tutt’ altro che commendevole. (An
agonising organism, with anything but a praiseworthy history).
5. Volevo proprio cominciare con la storia (I wanted to start precisely from history).
6. Una costruzione totalmente fantastica che non vuole avere non ha nulla a che vedere
con la storia reale (A totally imaginary narrative which has nothing to do with the
real story).
7. Per collegare questi testi con la la storia della letteratura (In order to connect these texts
with the history of literature).
8. Come movimento operaio con la nostra storia dobbiamo dare un contributo fon-
damentale (As a working union, with our history, we have to provide our fundamental
contribution).
. A search in a large corpus of Italian newspaper texts (over 100 million words from La
Repubblica, see Baroni et al. 2004) seemed to confirm the data from the small corpora. The
pattern “con storia” occurs only 16 times: 10 are occurrences where a book or a film title is
introduced (e.g. “Il cinema Italia è stato inaugurato mercoledì con Storia di ragazzi e ragazze
di Pupi Avati” / “Cinema Italia was inaugurated last Wednesday with Storia di ragazzi e
ragazze, director Pupi Avati”). In 4 instances “con storia” occurs as the first item of a series
of characteristics peculiar to a country or culture (e.g. “paesi con storia e cultura differenti
da quella russa” / “nations with a history and a culture different from the Russian one”). The
remaining two are: “le casistiche vaste e frantumate discusse con storia e filosofia su molti
giornali” and “Staatsgesichte che noi traduciamo con storia politica” (“huge and puzzling
data which are discussed with an amount of historical and philosophical details in many
newspapers”; “Staatsgesichte which we translate as political history”).
. Though in the case of “writing” distribution is on just 3 articles (from different domains).
. The findings about “having” were not confirmed by the MCB medical corpus (book
chapters), but they were very much so in the stomach disease corpus (research articles)
where of 24 occurrences of “having”, 15 were “as having” and 9 “diagnosed as having”, sug-
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
gesting that this pattern may be frequent in research articles where evaluation of patients’
illnesses is a research problem.
. The students I wish to thank: Alessio Armandi, Silvia Rossi, Elena Ruozzi.
. This example has been discussed from a closer translational perspective in Gavioli and
Zanettin (2000).
. “Risks” occurring at position 68, “risk” at position 124, with 77 and 75 instances respec-
tively.
Chapter 7
Concluding remarks
. Three answers?
In the second chapter of this book (2.4.1), I discussed the Data-Driven Learn-
ing approach, highlighting the change of perspective that it introduced in
corpus work with/in the classroom. Johns (1994) made it clear that students
could actually have a direct access to corpus data, concordances in particu-
lar, and that they could be invited to carry out their own language researches
autonomously. I noted that this opened up a new series of enquiries and ques-
tions and I focused on three main ones. Here, I get back to these questions in
an attempt to provide, at least, some preliminary answers.
.. If learners are to behave as data analysts, what should be the role
of the teacher?
This first question has to do with one of Johns’ (1994:297) claims, namely that
the Data Driven Learning attempts to cut out the “middlemen” as far as possi-
ble. Data Driven Learning in fact pursued the aim of leading students to analyse
the data directly, with little filtering from materials designers or teachers. This
opened up questions about the role of the teacher in the classroom. On the
one hand, there is a problem of introducing the students gradually to the ma-
terial in such a way that they can actually “see something in it” while avoid
being overwhelmed by too much information; on the other, we also want them
to achieve more and more autonomy as this is crucial if actual learning is to
take place.
The problem of leading students from maximum guidance to maximum
independence is not a new one in language teaching/learning (see e.g. Breen
1987; Prabhu 1987; Nunan 1992; Benson & Voller 1997) and many issues raised
in the debate about autonomy in language learning could equally be discussed
in reference to corpus work and learners’ guidance/autonomy. As mentioned
at various points in this book, what seems interesting to me in corpus work is
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
that concordance data provide a source of uninterpreted material, on the basis
of which teachers and/or learners (and/or researchers) can carry out their own
interpretations. The “puzzle” that the data create puts teachers and learners on
essentially “the same ground”. This provides teachers and learners with an oc-
casion to collaborate in identifying information emergingfrom the data, as well
as to negotiate the output. The function of negotiation in teacher-learner inter-
action (also including learner-resource and learner-learner interaction) is con-
sidered central in the developmentof learners’ autonomy (Voller 1997:109). As
seen in Chapter 6, concordance-based interaction involves discussion within
groups of learners and with the teacher; such discussion involves negotiation
both in interpreting the meanings and usages of words and structures high-
lighted in the concordance and in making it clear in what way these words and
structures “matter to me (the analyst) here”.
Quoting Boud (1988), Voller (1997) distinguishes between three types of
approaches in achieving teacher-learner negotiation: the individual one focus-
ing on individual learners and their needs; the group-centered one character-
ized by group interaction and decision-making; and the project-centred one
requiring collaboration and negotiation to attain to a common outcome. Hav-
ing direct access to concordance data, learners can either negotiate their own
individual, group or project requirements in, for instance, defining a suitable
corpus for their own writing/translating/professional activity (see 5.3), find-
ing words or patterns expressing what they want to say or write (see 6.5), or
grasping the meaning of (technical) concepts (see 6.2).
While it seems to me that teacher-learner (as well as learner-learner) nego-
tiation can hardly be pre-defined and pre-directed in any way and it is then up
to the teacher to design the way in which such negotiations may be enhanced
in their own settings, what I have attempted to do in this book was to focus on
issues that may be interesting for teachers to take into account in their own de-
signs and projects. In Chapters 3 and 4, in particular, I pointed out theoretical
issues such as the idiomatic view of language that corpus work entails and the
types of conventions that are highlighted in specialized corpus-work as well as
methods of exploring specialized corpora, and, in Chapters 5 and 6, I showed
ways in which learners can be made familiar with such issues and tackle them
in their own work.
Work on corpora as presented in Chapter 6 shows that the “middleman” is
not very much in the middle and that learners carry out their own searches
quite independently. The teacher, however, takes the role of a guide in in-
troducing the data to the learners, in showing ways to “read” the data and
make sense out of them, in suggesting comparisons with more data, and in
Chapter 7. Concluding remarks 
providing interpretations which the students can discuss and contrast. This
leads to teacher-student discussion and negotiation and promotes students’
participation in the interaction.
.. Learners or researchers?
A second suggestion by Johns (1994) which follows from the one above is that
learners can perform corpus work as language researchers and can be treated
as such. His argument is that language research is too serious to be left to re-
searchers and that the language learning process is itself a research process.
There are obviously differences between learners and researchers in mastery
of the language they are dealing with, in their meta-linguistic knowledge and,
last but not least, in the purposes they want to achieve with their searches.
For these reasons many metaphors, such as that of the traveller or the spy, have
been used here and elsewhere (e.g. Bernardini 2000a; Tan 2002a) to distinguish
between the search work of learners and that of researchers. Here (Section 6.1),
I suggested that the “spy” metaphor seems particularly suitable to describe the
exploration of corpora for ESP learning as it takes the aims and purposes of
the exploration into closer account and because it seems to provide a “bridge”
between discourse community insiders and outsiders, thus indicating a direc-
tion through which students may be conducted if they want to become familiar
with the discourse community’s knowledge and conventions.
It is true, though, that all metaphors seem somehow reductive when it
comes to describing the analytic processes of learners, researchers or (possi-
bly) other categories of analysts. While comparing the work of learners and
researchers performing corpus work (as well as comparing that of native and
non-native speakers, Sripicharn 2004) is useful in helping one understand
better the process the learners go through in carrying out their analyses, in-
dividuals follow their own interpretative paths in reading the data and we can
probably imagine that they can all have occasions to be “researchers”, “trav-
ellers”, “spies” or “explorers”. The shift suggested in Johns’ metaphor (1991)
was that of focusing the applied linguist’s attention on the process of learners
using corpora rather than the product of corpus research. This process is of an
interpretative nature and can be extremely rich and fruitful; precisely for this
reason, it can hardly be depicted by a single metaphor.
While analytic processes are probably too fuzzy to be clear-cut, learners’
and researchers’ premises and goals are obviously distinct and this is proba-
bly where the “researcher” metaphor created confusion. Comparing learners
to researchers in fact may suggest that students get burdened with the weight
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
of language description and leads one to ask why students should bother with
long and risky searches when grammars and dictionaries (to quote just two
examples of descriptive learner materials) provide results more quickly and re-
liably (Kennedy 2004). In this respect, creating a close link between the work
of learners and that of researchers probably contributed to increasing the con-
fusion between what, in corpus linguistics, can be considered scientifically
interesting, on the one hand, and what can be considered pedagogically useful,
on the other (Kennedy 1992, see 2.2 above).
I hope that the learners’ searches that I showed in Chapter 6 make it clear
that the types of enquiries made by the students have very different goals as
compared to those of researchers and while (similarly to researchers’ queries)
they sometimes emerge out of a lack in the reference materials (e.g. in the
case of grasping the meanings of particular words) they are carried out to the
extent to which they answer a local (individual, group or project) problem.
Cases where students compare their analyses of concordances with, e.g., dictio-
nary descriptions are very clear in this respect. Dictionaries (even corpus-based
ones) attempt to provide comprehensive descriptions of words’ meanings and
usages and precisely because the description has to be comprehensive to fit
multiple needs, it may fail to provide that (possibly little) information which
is relevant for the individual to attach it to her/his own reality (see for instance
the example of “bid” in 6.2.2 above or Gavioli & Aston 2001:241). It seems
necessary, then, to distinguish clearly between the goals of learners (such as
those shown in Chapter 6 above) and the goals of researchers (such as that of
producing reference materials, as in the example above).
The difference in the goals of researchers and learners is important because
it affects the outcomes they achieve. In the case of researchers this is clearly in
terms of their “jobs”, which may be that of contributing to linguistic debates
or to the work of the language industry (e.g. materials’ design). In the case of
learners the outcome is of a completely different kind. Here (Section 6.6), I
described it by using (again) a metaphor, that of the “double-agent”, suggested
by Swales (1990:30).
In his discussion of the potential relevance of fabricated examples in lan-
guage teaching/learning, Cook (2001) suggests that examples take on a com-
municative value insofar as they are part of teacher-learner interaction. They
are “real” in the classroom context as they communicate a point that is be-
ing made by the participants in the interaction. Similarly, interpretations of
concordance lines lead the students to interact with the material making lan-
guage patterns (recurrent or “deviant” ones) real or memorable to them. In
this way, (ESP) learners interpret text produced inside the (English speaking)
Chapter 7. Concluding remarks 
discourse community. Learners are then led to interact with the main concepts
and conventions which are revealed in the texts. The interaction process makes
the students familiar with such concepts and conventions, which they can
eventually assimilate. The gradual process of assimilation may turn them into
“double-agents”,capable of participating in the communicative processes of the
discourse community. This seems to me a distinctive outcome characterizing
language learners, ESP learners in particular.
Here I have repeatedly suggested that the process of learning through
corpus work can probably be extended to EGP as well, at least in that EGP
can also include “semi-specialised” texts and settings (e.g. writing purchase
messages/letters, listening to the business news and the like). It would be in-
teresting, though, to see whether corpus-work in EGP settings helps favour
a “double-agent” attitude not only across discourse communities but also
across speech communities. This, I suggest, is a matter very much worth
enquiring into.
.. Is the effort a worthwhile one?
The answer to this question is probably the hardest one to give. In this book
I have suggested that corpus work can enrich the language learning environ-
ment in many ways. Working with corpora, ESP students become familiar with
a productive idea of idiomatic language features, they learn to use and adapt
language patterns to their own needs, they interact with the material to make
meanings “real” to them (as well as the world of knowledge that such meanings
and concepts may entail) and they interact with teachers and peers in debat-
ing different interpretations of the data. All this, I believe, makes the effort a
worthwhile one.
The effort, though, is still great and, paradoxically, the progresses and ex-
pansions of corpus linguistics in recent years have made it still greater. If corpus
linguistics has avoided overwhelming students with too much material, for
the time being, the risk of its overwhelming teachers is an equally serious one
(Aston 2004). As mentioned at the beginning of this book, in the teaching en-
vironment, suggestions have included, among others, uses of corpora for EGP
or ESP syllabus design, enquiries into the features of learner English, design of
corpus-based teaching materials (reference or otherwise), the use of the con-
cordancer as a teacher or learner or teacher-and-learner tool; while Hunston
(2002:Chs. 6–8), for instance, contains a very interesting overview of the many
possibilities that corpora offer. All of these fields, however, open up new ques-
tions and implications for language pedagogy and it is not easy for language
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
teachers to see precisely how all this regards them (and, in this respect, I find
that suggestions contained in Renouf 1997 are still pertinent).
As fields of research have opened up and developed, more and more
corpora have been made available to fit their requirements and together
with the general and specialised corpora I have mentioned in this book,
we now have corpora representing varieties of English (e.g. ICE project,
http://www.ucl.ac.uk/english-usage/ice/), corpora of teen-agerlanguage (COLT,
http://torvald.aksis.uib.no/colt/) and the above cited Micase (http://www.lsa.
umich.edu/eli/micase/micase.htm), a corpus of academic spoken English, to
quote just a few which may be interesting to deal with in a teaching/learning
environment. In addition to the bulk and variety of corpora, we also have a
variety of concordancing software, so that, at the time of writing, it is hardly
possible to compare concordance lines from a specialized and a general cor-
pus without using two different tools. While all this obviously constitutes an
enrichment in the possibilities that open up to teachers and learners, finding
the path to actually understand what might be useful in their local teaching
environments may be a daunting task for individual teachers.
One thing that I have noted (Section 5.3.2) working with students, was that
it is much easier, if not essential to them, to have their own corpus to analyze.
This is probably true for most analysts and thus for teachers as well. In order
to be able to create a corpus, though, analysts need first to be fairly closely
acquainted with what a corpus is, and second to understand precisely which
type of corpus may fit their needs. In Section 5.3, I suggested that “propos-
ing” a corpus of business language and working with it made students aware
of both the advantages and limits of that corpus, which, in its turn, made clear
to them which type of corpus they actually needed and eventually built up.
This task suggested that the classroom itself can be a very rich source of corpus
production, both in terms of actually assembling the material and in terms of
suggestions that can be provided for corpora implementation for the class-
room. First, the corpora that the students assembled contained texts which
were immediately relevant for their own writing or translation projects. More-
over, these corpora could be combined to form larger data-sets or compared
to contrast results from texts produced in different types of business settings.
Second, if “suitable” ad hoc corpora are actually produced inside the classroom,
materials’ production outside the classroom should probably concentrate more
on “reference corpora” to use as comparative data rather than attempting to
create ad hoc corpora for each individual occasion.
So using corpora with learners can actually provide more precise direc-
tions for the implementation of the (types of) tools that may be required in the
Chapter 7. Concluding remarks 
classroom context. However, as learners’ corpus work is not so widespread few
suggestions can be collected. To break this vicious circle and make the effort of
teachers and learners less burdening and more attractive, it seems to me that
a cheap, small and easy package may well be a preliminary solution. For ESP,
this might simply include some specialized corpora (e.g. of the type constitut-
ing MicroConcord Corpus B) and a general reference medium size corpus (e.g.
10 million words, half spoken, half written), both searchable with the same
software. To the best of my knowledge, an attempt in this direction has only
been made by Scott and Johns (1993; see Murison-Bowie 1993a), and with the
ICAME corpus collection, a CD containing a concordancer (Wordsmith Tools,
Scott 1998) and some available corpora of English language, none specialized
(see http://nora.hd.uib.no/icame/newcd.htm).
. Corpus work and pedagogy: Old or new questions?
In Chapter 2 (Section 2.1.2), I summarized Kennedy (1992) and Aston (2001a),
providing a series of reasons which have prevented corpus work from getting
smoothly introduced in language pedagogy: poor communication between
teachers and researchers; a confusion between what is scientifically interesting
and what is pedagogically useful; a focus of language pedagogy on the learning
process rather than the learning product and lack of materials’ accessibility. At
this point, we are probably in a position to add one more, namely a confusion
between what are “old” and “new” pedagogic questions. In other words, while
corpus work has obviously introduced new issues that should be dealt with by
teachers and learners, these new issues are probably to be seen in relation to
old issues and a way should be found to integrate the two. Guiding the learners
to achieve autonomy in language learning, for instance, is certainly not a new
issue in language pedagogy; the question is how this can be done with corpus
work and, at the same time, how corpus work may give a contribution in this
direction.
In the years I worked with corpora and students I often found myself
caught in this dilemma as it was not always easy to distinguish whether students
failed to appreciate corpus work because it was technically or conceptually dif-
ficult or because I failed to create conditions to make it relevant for them.
In this book, I have suggested types of searches which were found useful by
the students and which led to ample discussion of and interaction with the
data. These, I think, provide examples for “new” issues to be brought to the
class. Creating conditions to start these searches, though, was largely a mat-
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
ter of “old” pedagogic questions. Teacher’s decisions included grading items,
choosing the materials, managing classroom interaction and the problem of
achieving learners’ autonomy as mentioned above.
All these problems deserve, I believe, closer discussion and experiential
or experimental research. As regards grading, for instance, here I have sug-
gested that a small corpus of similar texts makes the data easier to interpret
because concordance lines are not excessive and repetition may be easier to
observe. While this is obviously true in an ESP approach, it may be that non-
ESP approaches favour other ways to “facilitate” the reading of the data, such
as pre-editing or selecting concordance lines, or teaching students to edit and
select the data.
Working with specialized corpora, the choice of a “suitable” corpus for or
by the students was carried out considering the students’ potential interests
and then negotiating that choice with them, as shown in 5.3. This, however, in-
volved (and may involve) a series of issues which are generalizable to the whole
problem of the choice of teaching/learning materials. These involved decisions
made on the topics selected, on the inclusion of native, non-native or other
varieties of English language, of “hard” specialized texts (such as texts from
research journals) vs. “softer” ones (such as popularized literature).
These “old” questions, then, need to be addressed when proposing corpus-
work to the learners. In this book I have suggested some ways in which corpora
contribute to traditional ESP (and sometimes EGP) teaching/learning prob-
lems, but obviously much more remains to be done. While recent research has
focused on the identification of a large number of settings that may take profit
from corpus work with a subsequent implementation of more and more ma-
terials to meet their requirements, it seems to me that the time is ripe to get
back to questions which probably emerged too early in the debate on corpora
and language pedagogy and which have to do with the contribution of corpus
work to this research field. I suggest that the distinction between such “old”
and “new” questions, as it emerged from the work of learners discussed in this
book, may indicate a path in this direction.
. Future developments
Given the wealth of pedagogic issues that corpus linguistics has raised for
language teaching and learning, imaginable future developments are certainly
many more than those I can summarize here. In this section I shall limit myself
to dealing with some points which, it seems to me, have emerged as more and
Chapter 7. Concluding remarks 
more relevant through the years I have carried out corpus work with learners. I
shall focus on those problems which have more directly to do with ESP, rather
than general English teaching and learning, even though some are inevitably
shared by both ESP and EGP.
.. Tools and teaching materials
In Section 7.1.3, above, I have been dealing with the problem of mak-
ing corpora and concordancing software available for teachers and learn-
ers and, in particular, I have argued for the need to organize the informa-
tion about the materials’ availability in a way that is accessible to teach-
ers (and learners) without overwhelming them. In this respect, some web
pages have constituted a very useful resource of papers and materials to
start with. Two of these were Tim Johns’ and Michael Barlow’s respective
web pages (now available at http://www.eisu.bham.ac.uk/johnstf/index.html
and http://www.athel.com/corpus.html; see also David Lee’s http://devoted.to/
corpora). No such resource has, to the best of my knowledge, been devel-
oped for the teaching and learning of ESP, at the moment, and this may well
constitute a task for the future.
As far as corpora are concerned, as shown above, teachers and learners can
produce their own ad hoc corpora without which it is hard for them to “get
into” corpus work. This has two potential implications for tools and materials’
achievement. The first is that production of corpora for teaching/learning set-
tings should probably concentrate on reference corpora. In the ESP area, the
Micase probably constitutes the only available specialized reference corpus and
representative corpora of medical and business English may constitute useful
reference material for the ESP classroom (see also Laviosa 2001). A recent im-
plementation which seems to constitute a contribution in this direction is that
of the BNC-baby. This is a four million subset of the British National Corpus
developed at Oxford (Berglund et al. 2004). It consists of four 1-million sets,
containing unscripted conversation, newspapers, written fiction and, notably,
academic prose.
The second implication is that as the World Wide Web is becoming larger
and larger, on the one hand it offers learners and teachers more and more pos-
sibilities to create their own ad hoc corpora, on the other searching the Web
for ad hoc texts has become an increasingly difficult and time consuming task,
with the consequence that students (and teachers) get discouraged throughout
the operation and may eventually give up. Work on helping students search the
web for specialized ad hoc texts would be, in my opinion, extremely useful to
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
improve corpus use in the classroom. At the moment of this writing and to
the best of my knowledge, the only tool implemented to facilitate the creation
of corpora by searching the Web is BootCaT (Baroni & Bernardini 2004) and
while corpus building has been recognized to be a potentially important learn-
ing activity for students, there is still little systematic work on how to guide
them through this task (but see Fletcher 2004 and also Pearson 2000).
.. Corpus-based dictionaries and learners
One simple and interesting way in which students can compare their own
corpus-based findings with larger and more general data, is by using a corpus-
based dictionary as reference.Corpus-based dictionary entries constitute a very
useful reference material as they provide data that have been interpreted by
“specialists” (linguists) working on a much larger amount of data than can
be expected of any student (or teacher) and using more sophisticated tools
and methods.
In my teaching activity I have used the Cobuild Dictionary (Sinclair et al.
1990a) since it was the first produced corpus-based dictionary for learners of
English and it revealed itself to be an extremely interesting point of reference
for students working with concordance lines. I noted two main characteristics
that made the information contained in it relevant for students’ work. First, the
Cobuild dictionary provides organized explanations of multiple occurrences.
In the case of “bid” (Section 6.2.2), for instance, students recognized the cat-
egories of meaning that were listed in the dictionary entry, but neither the
entry alone nor the concordance samples alone helped them grasp the meaning
of this word. Work on concordance data led them to “suspect” possible pat-
terns accounting for the usage of “bid”, while the dictionary entry confirmed
their suspects, at least partially, and also helped them distinguish between the
specialized “business” meaning of “bid” and the more general one.
Second, the examples the dictionary contains. Within ESP work, it often
happened that the dictionary description was not “good enough”. The fact that
the examples were authentic ones, provided comparative material to work on.
In the case of “disorder” (Section 6.2.1), for instance, the entry descriptions
did not make a clear distinction between the usage of “disorder” and “disease”
or “illness”. The examples quoted, instead, were helpful to back the students’
hypothesis. Comparing the examples provided in the “disease” entry with those
in the “disorder” one, it was clear that “disorder” was probably used in a more
specialized psychiatric setting.
Chapter 7. Concluding remarks 
While there are many more corpus-based dictionaries now, for the mo-
ment they have been restricted to general English. Working with business
language, I noted that many of these dictionaries provided comparative infor-
mation which was not easily found in other reference material. In the case of
“gyration/s” for instance, comparative information was found in neither tradi-
tional dictionaries nor the BNC. The latter provided 12 entries for the singular
form and 22 for the plural, none of which showed the business meaning. The
Cobuild as well as the (corpus-based) Cambridge International Dictionary of
English, the Oxford Advanced Learner’s Dictionary and the Longman Dictionary
of Contemporary English all provided the meaning of “gyration” in the stock
market setting.
Although many business terms can probably be considered of a wide gen-
eral interest and are included in general dictionaries, this is probably not true
for the language of medicine or of more technical disciplines, such as engi-
neering or chemistry. For medicine, I often wondered whether a corpus-based
specialized dictionary might have provided “the missing clue” for learners’
searches. The description of “disorder”, for instance, was obviously far less “ad-
equate” than the description of “bid” but both provided interesting material for
the students’ work. However, while the limits in the dictionary description of
“disorder” probably made the students’ search more interesting, a better expla-
nation of “assay” was required (and found in an encyclopedia) to interpret the
meaning of the medical acronym “RIBA”, where “A” means “assay”(see 6.2.1).
It seems to me that work about the way in which learners interact with corpus-
based dictionaries, alone or contrasting them with traditional dictionaries (see
Li 2004) or concordance data, should be encouraged. And the time is ripe for
starting work on corpus-based specialized dictionaries.
.. Corpus work and teaching/learning skills
It has probably been noticed that, in my discussion of concordance work and
students’ skills, writing occupied pride of place. Writing seemed in fact the
skill which most evidently “gains” from concordance analysis. While carrying
on writing (or translation) activities, students have time to check reference
materials and compare them. It seemed then worthwhile to introduce the
concordancer as a reference tool in writing tasks.
I noted, however, that using concordances helps the students grasp lexis,
concepts and usages of language that may well be relevant in activities requir-
ing other skills. Brodine (2001), for instance, suggests ways in which corpus
work may facilitate reading comprehension. An interesting question, in ESP,
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
is how far corpus work may facilitate listening comprehension (e.g. of lectures
and speeches as suggested by Flowerdew 1993a). Work with speeches about the
European Monetary Union (see 6.5.2) suggested that highlighting recurrent
patterns used in these texts may guide the learners to listen to and understand
similar texts. Working with learners’ comprehension of news from the 2003
Iraq war, I noted that being familiar with lexical patterns involving the word
“siege” might have been helpful for students’ listening.
It is not clear to me, though, how exactly interaction between listening and
corpus work activities can be carried out and how lexical patterns may become
relevant and memorable for students. One obvious way would probably be
that of using corpus work in editing speech transcription (in e.g. blank-filling
exercises). But this is, I believe, an interesting open question.
.. Serendipity
Serendipitous learning has been noted (Higgins 1991; Partington 1998) and
described (Bernardini 2000b, 2002a) in the literature as one of the most fas-
cinating issues in exploring concordances with students. It has been observed
that while analyzing concordance lines on the screen, students are attracted by a
variety of potentially interesting issues related to form or content and that such
issues often lead them to pursue new searches. While in search of a solution
to a language problem, they may note occurrences of expressions they did not
note before or they may read pieces of information provided in the analysed
texts which seemed curious to them. Bernardini (2002a), in particular noted
that incidental or serendipitous learning entailed in such a process should not
be underestimated in corpus work and indeed its potential should be carefully
considered.
Encouraging students to work with corpora “travelling” during their
searches may favour serendipitous learning. The risk, though, is that students
can lose sight of the query they started with and while sometimes this may
become irrelevant to them, there are occasions when it is felt as a frustra-
tion in respect to their expectations. While the problem of helping students
to systematize their learning process has been posed by Bernardini (2000b) for
large-general corpus use, with specialised corpora in ESP settings, it should
probably be slightly redefined.
One way in which small-specialised corpora filter and control the learn-
ing environment is precisely in their being “small” and “specialized”. Corpora
of the type I have discussed in this book provide multiple samples of just one
text-type and genre about a very restricted topic. This inevitably prevents stu-
Chapter 7. Concluding remarks 
dents getting “too far away” with their searches. As a student once observed
about a project where she used a small-specialised corpus to translate a text
about the European Union: “There were things I found by chance while car-
rying out my searches which did not have to do directly with them. But those
things became useful later on in my text writing as the corpus is so specialized
that almost all the texts included in it are relevant”. While preventing students
from getting “too far away” obviously has its drawbacks, and restricts the range
of “interesting features” they may encounter (so that comparison with larger,
more general sets of data is relevant – see 6.2), small, specialised corpora may
favour the appreciation of serendipitous learning by students, as “incidental”
learning may be perceived more directly in relation with their objectives.
With the exception of the studies by Bernardini which I mentioned
above, though, for the moment observations of the learners’ process involving
serendipitous or incidental learning are more in the form of teachers’ impres-
sions or occasional students’ comments than systematic studies. It seems to me
that some classroom research with more systematic collections of data (inter-
views with or comments from learners) may be helpful to observe processes
connected to incidental learning more closely, both in relation to ESP and
general corpora.
.. Understanding “deviance”
A feature I have mentioned at various points in this book is that corpus work
favours observation of both recurrent conventional features of language and
(consequently) of “deviant” patterns. I introduced this point in Section 3.3.3
above. There I noted that observing recurrent, typical language patterns may
also help the analyst understand what is “deviant” and the effect it creates: for
example joking or irony or emphasis of some type. Another way in which de-
viance can be noted in concordances is when expressions are used which are
recognizably of/from a different register or text-type. Working with corpora,
it can sometimes be noted that particular expressions are very strongly tied to
particular registers. For instance, working with corpora and the language of the
weather forecasts, learners of Italian as a foreign language once noticed that a
concordance of “venti deboli” (gentle/light wind) in a million words of news-
paper texts produces basically only instances from weather forecasts. There was
one single case (in 15 instances) where “venti deboli” was found in a different
text-type. This was a sports news article dealing with sailing. The local con-
text in which “venti deboli” occurred was an implicit quotation of the weather
forecasts for the day on which the sailing race was taking place. This concor-
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
dance, then, helped the students understand the “quotation” or the intertextual
reference to weather forecasts.
This example recalls the concept of “priming” introduced by Hoey (2004)
by which he suggests that there are some expressions which are so closely tied to
particular text-types or registers that when used in different texts they maintain
some connection with that text. Comparing specialized and general corpora,
students realize that an expression can be closely tied to a particular register
by looking at its “deviant” behaviour across registers. An interesting example
was found in medical corpora with the expression “flu-like”. This was a rare
expression in the medical combined corpus, showing only one occurrence over
250,000 words. This single occurrence, though, attracted the students’ atten-
tion as it seemed appropriate for their own translation task. They, then, were
prompted to search in more medical and non-medical corpora to check the
appropriateness of such expression to the text they were constructing. First of
all, they checked the pattern “flu*” in the medical component of the MCB cor-
pus (200,000 words of medical book chapters). Here, they found 1 instance of
“flu-like illness” suggesting that “flu-like” was probably not an idiosyncratic
expression by an individual author, nor, probably, a translated expression. The
fact that the expression was rare, though attested, in medical textbooks, raised
the hypothesis that its use might belong to a different register, more “informal”
or “colloquial”. To check this hypothesis, students looked for “flu*” in the BNC
sampler and found one instance of “fluey-like symptoms”. This occurred in
a conversation, “confirming” the colloquial use. Having found this instance in
the BNC sampler we decided to have a look in the whole BNC corpus. There we
found 17 occurrences. Of these, the only conversational example was the one
previously found in the BNC sampler. The others all came from medical liter-
ature, mostly popularized medical literature (at least judging from the context
and the texts’ titles). Interestingly enough, the conversation where “fluey-like”
occurred was a conversation involving a nurse.
Such an expression then seemed to be “primed” as a medical expression,
though not a strictly technical one. Comparing specialized and medical cor-
pora may help students define deviances and recurrences in respect to the
registers they are associated with. This helps them understand more about the
various textual shades that words and expressions might have. Here too it seems
to me, is a potentially fruitful topic to be explored in work with ESP (and non
ESP) learners.
Chapter 7. Concluding remarks 
.. Recurrence, deviance and language awareness
One of the greatest feelings that corpus work gave to me as a non-native speaker
of English was to be able to say “as we say in Italian” before introducing a
piece of word-for-word Italian-English translation which was absolutely odd
in English but “perfect” to convey the idea I wanted to express. This may seem
a fancy achievement but one which I found common among my students too
and seems interesting in a language learning perspective.
Observing recurrent language patterns gives the analyst an idea of what
is recurrently and conventionally produced in that language or register and
also what is “not” typical and conventional. Language learners (and non-native
teachers, as well as permanent language learners) generally search corpora with
an hypothesis in mind and they may either find material to support that hy-
pothesis or not. If they should find supporting material, they may encounter
instances of the expression they were looking for, of a similar suitable expres-
sion or they may understand that what they wanted to say was not so clear and
that text corpora provide clearer ways to say it. When they do not find mate-
rial to support their hypothesis, they have still often collected enough evidence
to be able to say that that hypothesis is probably non-viable in the register or
in the language represented in the corpus. This may suggest to the learners: a)
that they need to create their own original way to express their idea, b) that
what they want to say is “different” or “more complex” than usual and as such
requires some type of negotiation. Introducing an odd, untypical, fabricated or
complex item with any expression signalling the fact that the speaker/writer is
aware of that possible “untypicality” may work as a remedy and be functional
to achieving communication.
Thus, awareness of what is typical may provide the learner with more au-
tonomy to be untypical. This is an interesting achievement, in my opinion,
particularly insofar as some initial debate on corpus use and language peda-
gogy highlighted a risk of quite the opposite nature, namely that proposing
samples of native speakers’ language to learners may induce them to think that
native speakers’ language is the only “model” to conform to. Indeed it seems
to me that the question of language models is, again, an “old” pedagogic ques-
tion, which needs to be taken into account in language teaching and learning
involving corpora as well as any other material. Indeed corpus work may well
induce an opposite reaction to models, that of rejecting them consciously.
While, as shown in 6.5.1 and 6.5.2, students often adopt the textual and
lexico-grammatical patterns suggested by corpus analysis and conform their
translations and writings to these patterns, they do not absorb these writing
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
conventions uncritically. Rather, their attitude in carrying out their writing
and translation activity is sometimes that of “playing a game”, filling in the
various slots that may conventionally characterize a text of the type they want
to produce. While they do not reveal this attitude much in the actual pieces of
writing they produce (though some of this can probably be seen in the speech
produced in 6.5.2 above), students sometimes make fun of the conventions
they encounter and manipulate them in ways which recall parody, rather than
full compliance. This seems to me potentially suggestive of a type of autonomy
that can be favoured through corpus work, namely that language conventions
can be manipulated, once you know them. But this, too, is a suggestion for
further inquiry.
. A concluding wish
The controversy about corpora and language teaching and learning has been
very useful in many respects but is now running the risk of dividing researchers
between overenthusiastic supporters and diffident or overcautious analysts, for
ever. It seems to me that this “bi-pole” attitude prevents teachers from taking a
real interest in the applied aspects of corpora in language teaching and learning.
I hope I have made it clear in this book that I share neither of these positions.
My own position is one of a researcher and a teacher who experimented the
material in the classroom with her own students and attempted to outline what
she found good or promising in it from the learners’ point of view.
Over these years I have often heard researchers comparing the enthusiasm
for language corpora to the enthusiasm that characterised research about lan-
guage laboratories a couple of decades ago. They bitterly considered that the
enthusiasm that accompanied teaching and language labs ended up in what
was ultimately a soap ball and anything that a lab allows you to do can equally
be done with simpler technical materials like tape recorders. My reply to these
considerations is that, while they are partially true, they underestimate the her-
itage of language labs. What labs brought heavily into attention was the fact
that language teaching was traditionally essentially based on the reading and
writing mode and that oral modes had little space in it. Nowadays, there is
hardly any language teaching environment which does not take oral language
into consideration and this I think is probably a very important heritage we
owe to research on and around language labs.
For corpora and teaching, probably in the future we will have a similar de-
emphasising of the technological aspects. But research on and around corpora
Chapter 7. Concluding remarks 
has allowed us to uncover aspects which will be hardly dismissable in the fu-
ture. One of these may be that of showing that language forms and structures
are more a matter of conventional “idiomatic” regularity than rational rules
and that as such they are, at least to a certain extent, interpretable and debat-
able. Another one is the fact that performing corpus work gives the learners the
opportunity to participate in discussion about language forms and structures
and contribute to the debate critically. The possibility of enhancing debate
about structures and forms emerged strongly with concordance data and in-
volves various aspects of teaching and learning as well as the view of language
structure that most teachers and learners share. In the future, this may not be
the only data provoking debate about forms and functions in the classroom and
we may well see that students will debate on language contrasting information
from different types of material. It was corpus work which brought this issue
to attention and this may be its enriching heritage. And my concluding wish to
the readers of this book.
Appendix 1
Concordance of “worth” in the MCB corpus (1,000,000 words), left sorted
1 rpret. There is one apposite text which may be worth a closer look. If somethin
2 ly touch on here, but which seems to me to be worth a great deal more investigation and discu
3 hich each person is accepted as of equal moral worth and has equal opportunity to enjoy an eq
4 rstanding. In contrast, the autobiography, to be worth anything at all, is not only a rememberin
5 d about the biological problems which might be worth approaching, and biologists lacked the b
6 efore spelling out exactly what this means, it is worth asking whether translating machinery is
7 ughbred? I reckoned about two thousand quid’s worth at least.” ‘Well,” said Nutty. The col
8 the trade point of view, this area was probably worth between one and one and a half million e
9 reassurance. Nelson’s detailed account is well worth close scrutiny for it illustrates many asp
10 a ‘sticking point”, and for that reason it seems worth confronting his critique rather than buryin
11 ne-eighth of the entire biome. So its situation is worth dealing with in as much detail as is feasi
12 going on to ask what happens in area 17, it is worth digressing to point out that things are rat
13 e resolution of this problem is interesting and is worth discussing in detail. I can do this best in
14 e resolution of this problem is interesting and is worth discussing in detail. I can do this best in
15 doubtful for other reasons. As a result it is not worth discussing them fully here. One example
16 . You sometimes hear people say that it is not worth eating differently, or getting to the right w
17 knowledge and opinion. This last comparison is worth elaborating. Just as, for the Aristotel
18 imits of its rightful power. This point is worth emphasizing not only because of its imp
19 of the lot, got good legs. The only one that has. Worth enough to get you started.” ‘And s
20 er responsible for the prolonging of the war, it is worth enquiring why the ‘Hitler myth” did not c
21 ism arising by chance. Although fallacious, it is worth giving in more detail. Consider a small pr
22 egation seems to be regarded as a terrible fate, worth going to great efforts to avoid. May
23 Like Gassendi, however, Locke thinks ‘opinion” worth having and searching after. Observation a
24 at we have on the basis of sense-experience is worth having, and worthy of the name of knowle
25 would amount to a quality of life which was not worth having. There is strong support for the id
26 r life on the island. His words about kissing are worth hearing. The airmail letters which he exc
27 t be joking.” ‘No. He would, if you make it worth his while.” ‘What are you getting at
28 s issue, by mortgaging it for as much as it was worth: innumerable latent entails were produce
29 a reporter from the local newspaper thought me worth interviewing about my impressions of the
30 n. My own, much attenuated view, for what it is worth, is as follows. Fundamentally the whole
31 : if the trustee was insolvent, they would be worth little. So far discussion has been li
32 insects, but there is really no need for this. It is worth looking in some detail at how the selfish
33 ido of sufferers, but I conjecture that it would be worth looking into. Certainly at least one allege
34 age reflects the law at Neratius’ time. It is worth looking more closely at the expressions
35 o constitute the core of modern biology, so it is worth making an effort to master them. Th
36 worse and will affect the quality of life. So it is worth making changes, but it is essential that i
37 hing new”, and there was ‘hardly any credibility worth mentioning” left for his last broadcast sp
38 as possible, has implicit in it two propositions worth noticing. First, medical treatment other t
39 rk of ‘genuine art” with ‘elite art”. It is, however, worth noting some symptomatic cracks in the
40 z’s is allegorical and Lu Hsun’s is satirical. It is worth noting that Naipaul, using the more spaci
41 es for assaults on the police, and it is therefore worth noting that this offence is committed eve
42 rried as electrical impulses in nerve fibres. It is worth noting that the property of ‘gratuity”, disc
43 ich fall within each category. To start with, it is worth noting that the list is not exhaus
44 uates Conservatism with the new right. Yet it is worth noting that one of the most influential wor
45 recombination, refunctioning, pastiche. But it is worth noting that at least for the criticism of po
46 owner absolutely. The first is more difficult. It is worth noting too that it can arise in different typ
47 ht rather than by undertaking an obligation. It is worth noting, however, that consent to a politic
48 wever, there has been one case in English law worth noting. In R. v. Tan , one Gloria Gr
49 ommitto is not listed. Two other oddities are worth noting: first, the list does not confine itse
50 as been repeated, with over &dollar;600 million worth of assistance from the Bank. The Indone
51 t. It is impossible. Even a normal 2000calories-worth of meals in a day would need to be suppl
52 nough material had to be made to establish the worth of penicillin in man. Somehow, it was ma
53 ontribution” raises again the issue of the social worth of sport, recreation and dangerous exhibi
54 ueue up to deliver their twenty thousand words worth on the latest nuance of postmodernism,
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
55 dience will do more harm than good. It is worth pausing here momentarily to observe tha
56 beyond what can be established without it. It is worth pointing out that it does so in accordanc
57 more conveniently, . (13.7) It is worth pointing out that, if the initial Killing vecto
58 ’t the reportage that makes Cabbagetown worth re-reading but the strength and depth of t
59 one flight of stairs to visit the lavatory is not worth recording as exercise for the average per
60 ous way. Some incidents at local level are worth recording. The parish priest of Brackenst
61 n of a simpler doctrine, political welfarism. It is worth remembering that this division of chapter
62 cised very little during their life. Finally, it is worth remembering that exercise to increase st
63 principle is so infinitesimal, that the case is not worth reporting, and therefore, for practical
64 describing the current guidelines in detail, it is worth reviewing the policy changes that have ta
65 vention, but it is none the less unhistorical. It is worth seeing whether a historical development
66 remainder of the examples cited. Of those it is worth singling out D. 32.95 and D. 33.2.34.1, in
67 re teeth smiling in triumph. Sam knew she was worth six of him. ‘Very well, Deirdre. We’ll
68 acquisition of some hard-won knowledge is ‘not worth so much pains as the study of Philosoph
69 however, is a fairly disciplined pursuit, and it is worth stressing David Morley’s recent warning t
70 debates about the future of the inner cities. It is worth stressing that in each year since 1
71 y. The pattern is so simple that it hardly seems worth studying. If, however, part of the interseg
72 million years, DNA has been the only replicator worth talking about in the world. But it does not
73 ring as it was, was too far off coming true to be worth thinking about yet, if ever. Getting Hoom
74 payment of a (no doubt inflated) valuation of its worth to the legatee. Yet often it cannot have b
75 appraise her feelings of worthlessness may be worth trying (Beck et al . 1979). This invo
76 ifficult and challenging, but in many cases well worth trying. This should include an attitude of
77 y. This seems to me to make parody and irony worth understanding more precisely. But,
78 vealed by the concluding remark that ‘it is only worth while waging war if the enemy can be de
79 cterial substance did not make further attempts worth while. Raistrick’s prime interest was in th
Appendix 2
Concordance of “dealing/dealings”(noun forms selected manually), in
the MCA corpus (1,000,000 words), left sorted, extended context – first
20 instances
(1) of the bid began to leak out. After the formal announcement by Australian Mutual
Provident yesterday of its bid Pearl’s share price rose a further 87p to 639p. Officials
at the exchange said yesterday that its current investigation was a matter of routine.
If they discovered evidence of share dealing ahead of the takeover by individuals us-
ing confidential information they would institute more formal inquiries. As officials
began their investigations the board of directors of Pearl, led by chairman Einion Hol-
land, said AMP’s takeover bid ‘is unacceptable and totally inadequate because it fails
to reflect the group’s financial strength and prospects”. Pearl advised its shareholders
to take no ac
(2) champion Gary Mason after he knocks out Tyrell Biggs in the seventh round of their
Albert Hall bout. THURSDAY: As the Old Trafford soap opera unfolds, Martin Ed-
wards, United’s chief executive, begins legal proceedings against Knighton for alleged
breach of confidentiality in their dealings. Ajax join English clubs in European exile,
as UEFA bans the club for the next two years they qualify for Europe, as punishment
for the previous week’s crowd trouble, when the Austria Vienna goalkeeper was felled
by a metal spike. FRIDAY: The good news of Robson’s call-up to the England squad is
tempered by the withdrawal of Liverpool’s John Barnes with a hamstring injury. Kni
(3) e main index, the CAC40, because more than half of the shares were not able to be
traded. The Bourse allows the suspension of a stock when it shows a fall of more than
7 per cent in a day. Dealings are halted until brokers agree on a price, and then re-list it.
The Bourse can also halt dealings altogether when the indices show a movement of 20
per cent or more, but this has never happened. The system prevents wild gyrations in
share prices seen in London and New York, but are criticised by some French financiers
as leading to illiquidity in share prices. WEST GERMANY: Trading in Frankfurt started
late as a flood of sell orders threatened to overwhelm the market. The bour
(4) ‘I’m amazed at how professional some of our clients obviously are,” observed
Mr Jones. ‘They reacted very quickly to Wall Street after it opened.” By the end of
the day he estimated that ShareLink was handling more buyers than sellers. Deben-
hams’ over-the-counter share dealing and advice service in London’s Oxford Street
also recorded a blitz of enquiries from private sellers first thing in the morning, with
business ‘extremely brisk”. ‘Our advice not to sell into the opening prices unless
you absolutely had to paid off,” said Debenhams’ Graeme Morrison. Debenhams
also saw some buyers, though not to the same extent as ShareLink, which tends to
handle the mor
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
(5) ed this way? Partly it is because of the growing conviction that the Prince’s taste is
indeed reactionary, however much it may be used to support occasional liberal causes
such as community architecture and ecology. The other issue which has been clari-
fied is his behind-the-scenes dealings and his very visible assault on democratic public
inquiries. He has attacked the results of one competition and planning inquiry af-
ter another, and coined an inflammatory metaphor with each assault. Phrases such as
‘monstrous carbuncle” or comparisons to an ‘old Thirties wireless” are meant to sting,
meant to influence a planning decision and can often seem undemocratic. The surpris
(6) to deregulate the British securities market, announced in 1983, which were to lead
to Big Bang. There were then more pressing priorities. But since 1987 there has been
added impetus to the development of the Taurus programme, triggered largely by the
post-Big Bang boom in share dealing and the subsequent crash in 1987. Huge backlogs
of work built up in the securities dealers’ back offices as deals could not be completed
within the exchange’s usual accounts periods. According to Anthony Preece, director
of operations at investment group Citicorp Scrimgeour Vickers, speaking at last week’s
conference, there were at least 13 different design concepts for the future Taurus
(7) swap challenge By CHRISTIAN WOLMAR A High Court case starting today
pits local authorities and the City’s financial institutions against each other. Millions
of pounds are at stake and one side is certain to receive a bloody nose. The legality of
money market dealings by Hammersmith and Fulham Council in west London, which
once amounted to exposure of œ5bn is being challenged by its auditor, Anthony Hazell,
a partner in Deloitte Haskins and Sells, with the support of the Audit Commission, the
local authority financial watchdog. The council embarked on a series of complex and
sophisticated manoeuvres, including interest rate swaps, swap optio
(8) nderwriters. A total of 169.2 million shares were offered at 105p each through
Schroders, the sponsoring merchant bank. But the issue closed yesterday with only 13.7
million shares being taken up. This means the shares will almost certainly open at
a discount to the offer price when dealings commence on 26 October. Some analysts
suggested the shares would open at below 100p, but a dramatic fall is likely to be coun-
tered by bargain hunters. The flotation, valuing Hays at œ393m at the issue price,
was shunned by investors partly because of the recent fall in share prices around the
world. In a better market, some of the underwriters, who guarantee to take up any un
(9) to privatisation have expired, the costs of remaining a holder of small numbers of
shares are often uneconomic. Nor are the problems confined to share dealing. Trans-
fers, running dividends together, and other services could be provided. There is the
danger for British Gas that making dealing easier will prove self-defeating: investors
can sell as well as buy. But the Stock Exchange and many of its members have failed
consistently to address small shareholders’ difficulties. British Gas’s initiative should
be welcomed and supported, and other big companies should pay it close attention.
Business and City Page 29 891018 Column Eight: On a wing w
Appendix 2 
(10) are signs that institutional investors, who stood on the sidelines in 1987, are
now so cash rich they are more prepared to pick up what they regard as cheap stock.
Most institutions are not interested in beta and gamma stocks and once again the two
market system operated with dealings exceedingly difficult in the second liners and
prices often disproportionately down. BET, the services conglomerate, surprised
most observers by hardly stirring. The shares were at one time 2p higher at 267p. They
closed just 2p lower. But BAT Industries, bouyed by ‘unbundling” moves, slumped
60p to 758p. At one time the shares were down 88p. Other takeover candidates
(11) hatever genuine part elements of naivety, good nature and simple piety played
in the formation of his character, by his years of fame these had become aspects of
a rather carefully projected persona to keep the world at bay. Behind the mask we
may discern traits of craftiness in his business dealings, frustration in his professional
isolation at Esterhaza and deep loneliness in his personal life. But behind these? The
mind that could elaborate such novelties of structural precision and daring as the
great quartets must have been, at some level, of staggering speculative capacity. And
while he may have consciously considered it was his faith or desire to please that kept
(12) to a tabloid, began publicly as recently as 18 August when it became known
that he was buying the controlling interest in Manchester United from Martin Ed-
wards. Knighton, Derbyshire-born and a professional for a year with Coventry
City, was a teacher until 1984 when he took up property dealing. He was largely un-
known to football when last June he was introduced to Edwards, the chairman and
majority shareholder of United. In the ensuing month he persuaded Edwards to
sell, accepting the stipulation that Edwards should retain his œ80,000-a-year job as
chief executive for three years. The terms were staggering to anyone naive enough to
think football was only a game.
(13) e legislation for a ‘particular category of major shareholders. Mr Yuen maintains
that the legislation’s dangers are clear. ‘We Chinese have a saying for this: ‘If you walk
on a beach and there are some bugs biting your toes, you just cut off your toes to
solve the problem”. There will not be insider dealing if you shut the stock market but
does that solve the problems?” he asks. Mr Yuen’s critical stand has not only been
moulded by the new draft insider trading legislation, which in principle he considers
an essential part of upgrading the reputation of the Hong Kong market. His concern
is a practical one, based on a perception _ which is shared by others _ that the market
is lurching toward
(14) pply of arms captured by Chad during the war with Libya to be sold to the
Lebanese Christians, through intermediaries in Tunis and Iraq. He had a colourful
past. In the 1970s, when he was known as ‘Jacky des Halles”, he was prominent in
the world of organised crime. He turned to arms dealing in Africa and claimed, with
some plausibility, to be an unofficial emissary of the French secret service. The
presence of Pentrite in the wreckage, especially in the remains of the forward hold,
does not necessarily mean it was destroyed by a bomb. It apparently blew apart when
the Pentrite formed a fireball of 3,000C and 10 ft in diameter. But the investigators
said yesterday that the explosive co
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
(15) ok fright at indications that the spiralling costs of the Channel tunnel would
not be offset by increased traffic estimates. By the close, the shares had fallen a
further 40p on the London market to close at 560p while they ended the day on the
French bourse Fr3.6 lower at Fr59.9 amid heavy dealing in both markets. As the shares
continued to fall in the wake of Eurotunnel’s estimate that the project would cost at
least œ2.2bn more than forecast, Alastair Morton, co-chairman of the Anglo-French
consortium was in Paris trying to persuade the French banks of the need for new
financing. Despite the jitters the cost escalation has caused in the City, the French
appear to be taking
(16) try after the recently re-classified Abbey National. But since privatisation three
years ago, the corporation has watched the ranks of its shareholders almost halve from
4.2 million. Faced with this decline and the fact that it shows no sign of stopping, the
corporation is looking at how to make dealing in its shares more attractive. Ob-
viously, there is an element of self-interest. As a private sector utility with 17 million
customers, British Gas needs every channel of communication with consumers. Since
a quarter of its shares are held by individuals a drift of stock to institutions could also
reflect poorly on the principle of privatisation, and undermine attempts by British
Gas’s new chairman, B
(17) s and Sells has pulled out of its merger with Touche Ross and is expected to
join up with Coopers &and; Lybrand. This page and View from City Road, page 31
Mitsubishi listing: Mitsubishi has became the first Japanese general trading company
to be listed on the London Stock Exchange. Dealings in its shares begin today. BAT
distortion: Seven out of the 10 leading merchant banks in the Acquistions Monthly
league table of corporate finance activity were involved in the Hoylake bid for BAT
Industries. Page 31 Decline encouraging: The dollars 142m deline in Britain’s reserves
of gold and foreign exchange to dollars 42.88bn was less than many had been fearing.
Page 30 Dow recor
(18) e a financial buyer, looking at the company as an investment rather than an ad-
dition to existing operations. James Neill has attracted the unwelcome attentions of
several predators in the past, including Suter, the conglomerate run by David Abell,
and BM Group, run by Roger Shute. Suter’s dealings in Neill and other companies
are the subject of a Department of Trade and Industry inquiry. The company re-
cently valued its brand names, which as well as Spear &and; Jackson include Eclipse
hacksaws, in readiness for a hostile takeover. It has not disclosed how much it thought
these brands were worth. Despite worse than expected profits reported last month,
Neill’s shares lost only 6p
(19) rt. The statement said the arrests were made by the force’s organised crime
task force, headed by Det Chief Supt Graham Melvin, after several months’ inquiries.
The task force was set up after detectives discovered that some of the money had been
used to finance drugs and property dealing in the United States and even invested in
London’s Docklands, realising millions of pounds in profits. About œ20m of the
original money is believed to have been accounted for, although about another œ6m
is still missing. A number of people have already been sentenced to long prison terms
Appendix 2 
in connection with the robbery. Gordon Parry, 44, is in detention in Spain awaiting
extradition pr
(20) e to reconcile them to his ownership of the club. Insiders also say the presence
of his wife at the meetings contributed to his decision to pull out. The bid attracted
intense media attention, most of it critical of Mr Knighton, an Isle of Man tax exile
who became a millionaire through property dealings in Yorkshire and Scotland. ‘He
wanted to develop his business on a private basis, and if he came into the glare of
publicity as owner of Manchester United he would not be able to do that,” one of the
negotiators said.
Appendix 3
Task 2
1. Look at the concordance below. Read it vertically (as if it was a column) scrolling
through the search word. Which words occur more frequently on the right of “a
market”?
1 nging in outside equity, but have not found a market able to meet their needs. For se
2 foreign partners, their ability to dominate a market becomes even stronger. Often b
3 extension of the ‘law of one price’ across a market comprising 300 million consume
4 l staff to have a stronger knowledge of how a market economy operates. One concern
5 dramatic steps to move their nation toward a market economy than the other four nati
6 encing the societal transformation towards a market economy is that of developing a
7 es to such things as the understanding of a market economy, the latest functional e
8 seeking to become commercially viable in a market economy. Economic reforms, in
9 ions with new ones that are appropriate for a market economy. The dismantling of lon
10 inational was to expose the local staff to a market economy; to instill world standar
11 ed behaviour. The alternative is a form of a market enforcement mechanism, achieve
12 n, 1996) and effects on consumers new to a market (Heilman et al., 2000). A study b
13 ence in complementary activities closer to a market in which those activities applied.
14 was large). This situation can approximate a market in which there are two segments
15 has been described as: The subdividing of a market into distinct subsets of customer
16 n which the true segmentation structure in a market is unobserved, and hence the tru
17 ld offer a different, and welcomed view in a market of complacent players. A market
18 he firm to efficiently/effectively provide a market offering of value to a market seg
19 es by the extent to which they can provide a market offering of value to a market seg
20 ers and customers, makes the adoption of a market orientation particularly appropriat
21 e literature that test hypotheses relating a market orientation to firm performance a
22 ohli, 1993). The established logic is that a market orientation provides the basis for
23 1990), any translated benefits of adopting a market orientation should also be recog
24 ate variables, or steps, that fall between a market orientation and eventual perform
25 d Kohli, 1993). The model postulates that a market orientation helps a firm to both c
26 ncreased firm value. The model posits that a market orientation guides investment in
27 tation literature. Early considerations of a market orientation in the services indust
28 nt literature is that understanding of how a market orientation influences performanc
29 es an explanation of the process, whereby a market orientation is transformed into cu
30 The results support the hypothesis that a market orientation can assist firms to ac
31 mpacts also clarifies that the benefits of a market orientation are not realised in the
32 litics. In adapting to such an environment a market orientation is vital. As a conseq
33 proposition in marketing strategy is that a market orientation is positively related to
34 (or, indeed, the complementary effect of a market orientation on other asset forms)
35 at makes explicit the processes, whereby a market orientation and emphasis on cus
36 important intermediate variables between a market orientation and increased firm val
37 s. These perceptual differences constitute a market orientation gap that relates to a
38 tcomes? We propose that the presence of a market orientation gap affects the servic
39 h flow. The model also acknowledges that a market orientation may improve the perf
40 tion of interest is, what is the impact of a market orientation gap between busines
41 r empirical studies that seek to correlate a market orientation with traditional meas
42 ework for firms to compare the benefits of a market orientation with alternative intern
43 ay, 1994). As a result it is possible that a market orientation is even more central t
44 erest to us as this is the method by which a market orientation influences the way in
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
45 e relationships between the dimensions of a market orientation, the creation of value
46 ing sectors. However, there is evidence of a market orientation-performance link in th
47 ist analysis of the costs and benefits of a market orientation. The cost-per-custom
48 rial action, which is in turn motivated by a market orientation. However, we perceiv
49 h relationships are logically fostered by a market orientation. As an active particip
50 onsistent perceptions among consumers. A market research consultant spoke abou
51 tioned by some as important, although as a market research consultant stated: ”but
52 the services brand and staff behaviour. As a market research consultant stated: The
53 can provide a market offering of value to a market segment(s) in both efficient and
54 vely provide a market offering of value to a market segment(s). Because many reso
55 research to develop an effective model of a market that describes the four previousl
56 egory from which a purchase is made. For a market with S segments, the probability
57 ecause financial services firms compete in a market with generally undifferentiated pr
58 ice. 3.1. Single-category analysis For a market with S segments, the probability
59 re of these types of differences exists in a market, but is not accounted for in the s
60 hen consumer interaction effects exist in a market, firms cannot view the marketing
61 onstruct is embedded within our model as a market-based asset, competitive advant
62 al changes that propelled Hungary toward a market-based economy took place very
63 disputing parties to buy or sell shares at a market-determined price; and (3) voting
64 ent mechanism, achieved by establishing a market-orientated sanction similar to the
65 keting approach requires that firms act in a market-oriented fashion, i.e. understand
66 s, the competitor intelligence gathered by a market-oriented firm can be used to imp
67 ased assets and other asset types. First, a market-oriented firm may uncover throug
68 tput: it is the outcome of the creation of a market-oriented organisation. This make
69 sets, justification for efforts to develop a market-oriented organisation, and frame
70 and sales costs enhance the cash flow of a market-oriented firm. This may be recog
71 men’s advocate. This failure to implement a market-oriented policy in midwifery can
72 to identifying the steps that fall between a market-oriented business culture and pe
73 the ability to communicate the benefits of a market-oriented culture across functiona
74 tandards and values more consistent with a market-oriented economy.” In recent ye
75 arket sensing by the firm, a capability of a market-oriented company (Day, 1994).
76 .. successful innovation is the product of a market-oriented culture coupled with ent
77 s, therefore, seen as being the outcome of a market-shaping approach, which is highl
78 the 5th percentile of leverage) will have a market-to-book ratio almost 50 percent
79 onship between producer and consumer is a market. The market is the gap which se
80 n attempting to determine how to segment a market. We believe this should be of us
81 pportunities by fostering the extension of a market’s products and/or services to exi
2. You have probably observed that “a market-oriented” is a recurrent combination of
words in the concordance above. Focus on the concordance of “a market-oriented” and
look at words on the right of it. Are there words that are repeated? Are there words
sharing a similar meaning?
1 to identifying the steps that fall between a market-oriented business culture and performance ou
2 market sensing by the firm, a capability of a market-oriented company (Day, 1994). As a result it
3 he ability to communicate the benefits of a market-oriented culture across functional areas with
4 . successful innovation is the product of a market-oriented culture coupled with entrepreneurial
5 w standards and values more consistent with a market-oriented economy.” In recent years, for exam
6 rketing approach requires that firms act in a market-oriented fashion, i.e. understand what custom
7 based assets and other asset types. First, a market-oriented firm may uncover through its intelli
8 s, the competitor intelligence gathered by a market-oriented firm can be used to improve the posi
9 ng and sales costs enhance the cash flow of a market-oriented firm. This may be recognised in high
10 sets, justification for efforts to develop a market-oriented organisation, and framework that can
11 tput: it is the outcome of the creation of a market-oriented organisation. This makes for a virtu
12 men’s advocate. This failure to implement a market-oriented policy in midwifery can be explained
Appendix 3 
3. In the concordance above, you have probably noticed that “a market-oriented” is
attributed to a firm or to the “business culture” of that firm. Now look at “market-
oriented” with a larger bit of context. Is a “market-oriented” attitude a positive or a
negative one, for a firm? How many examples make this clear?
(1) ction and employee satisfaction. The strategic marketing literature views value more
as an output: it is the outcome of the creation of a market-oriented organisation. This
makes for a virtuous circle, but the circle is often incomplete, since employees’ views
are often less well-known than customers’ views. Therefore
(2) carried out, despite the midwives’ shared value of meeting women’s needs and of being
the women’s advocate. This failure to implement a market-oriented policy in mid-
wifery can be explained by the power in a shared myth, and its function in justifying a
group to itself and its peers. Conclusions Implications of these findings for
(3) g to satisfy their customers and thereby achieve ongoing profitability. In effect, a re-
lationship marketing approach requires that firms act in a market-oriented fashion,
i.e. understand what customers need and deliver the customer value expected (Dalgic,
2000; Grönroos, 1995). This is especially true for business services contexts,
(4) g customer value. Equally the interaction that occurs with service personnel enables
enhanced market sensing by the firm, a capability of a market-oriented company (Day,
1994). As a result it is possible that a market orientation is even more central to the
performance of services firms. The papers in this special issue are I
(5) Quicker and more extensive market penetration, shorter sales cycles, and decreased
marketing and sales costs enhance the cash flow of a market-oriented firm. This may
be recognised in higher valuations, which ultimately translate into higher share prices
and wealth creation for the owners of the firm. Article type: Wholly theoretic
(6) tion are becoming more apparent within the literature. For example, Slater (1997, p.
165) argues: ... successful innovation is the product of a market-oriented culture cou-
pled with entrepreneurial values. In practical terms this means the willingness to take
risks and learn from mistakes. For this scenario, innovation is central but
(7) s to management practice by providing a logical rationale for investments in market-
based assets, justification for efforts to develop a market-oriented organisation, and
framework that can be used to both guide and analyse the strategies of market-oriented
firms. Market orientation and service firm performance
(8) stomer value-based business strategy. Chang and Chen (1998) make an important
contribution to identifying the steps that fall between a market-oriented business cul-
ture and performance outcomes. These authors developed a conceptual model that
postulates both a direct effect for market orientation on business perfor
(9) he way in which a firm interacts with its customers. There is also a relationship between
market-based assets and other asset types. First, a market-oriented firm may uncover
through its intelligence about customers or a competitor that investment is required in
a non-market asset to achieve or maintain their competitive position.
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
(10) r perceived value is also influenced by comparisons made with offerings by competi-
tors. Thus, the competitor intelligence gathered by a market-oriented firm can be
used to improve the positioning of the offering (or the firm itself). Market orienta-
tion thus influences both the numerator and the denominator of this equation. To co
(11) According to [Puffer ], generational shifts have created a desire for change and have
created ”new standards and values more consistent with a market-oriented economy.”
In recent years, for example, employee layoffs have gained greater acceptance. The
winds of change are being so profoundly felt in Russia that a US ambassad
(12) This model emphasises cash flow, which has three clear benefits. First, it provides the
ability to communicate the benefits of a market-oriented culture across functional
areas within a firm. The language of cash flow is universal. Second, it emphasises that
market-based assets are an important investment type
Appendix 4
Task 3
The corpus we are going to analyze contains research papers from marketing academic jour-
nals. In the left column in the table below, you can read a description of the journal’s main
purposes and interests. In the right column, you can see a list of words which are very
frequently used in the papers collected in the corpus.
Can the frequency of these words be justified on the basis of the topics listed in the
journal’s description?
JOURNAL DESCRIPTION: JOURNAL KEYWORD LIST
EUROPEAN JOURNAL OF MARKETING 1. marketing 26. supporters
2. internationalisation 27. football
Key Journal Audiences 3. training 28. system
– Academics and corporate/education 4. brands 29. midwives
libraries 5. sales 30. gap
– Senior and middle marketing 6. brand 31. activities
management 7. crm 32. retailers
– Senior executives in distribution, 8. sponsorship 33. per
market research and advertising 9. characteristics 34. quantitative
10. pioneer 35. what
Coverage 11. market 36. leveraging
– Comparative studies 12. corporate 37. theory
– Customer policy and service 13. orientation 38. club
– Implications of import and export 14. customer 39. retail
legislation 15. branding 40. program
– Marketing abstracts 16. critical 41. campaign
– Marketing experiences 17. services 42. figure
– Marketing in developing countries 18. you 43. uk
– Marketing of services 19. behaviour 44. balmer
– Marketing planning 20. cent 45. satisfaction
– Product development 21. organisation 46. consultant
– Social, cultural and economic effects of 22. customers 47. polls
of marketing 23. planning 48. it
24. staff 49. identity
25. com 50. fans
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
JOURNAL DESCRIPTION JOURNAL KEYWORD LIST
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF 1. disconfirmation 26. for
RESEARCH IN MARKETING 2. characteristics 27. group
3. interdependence 28. generalizability
The International Journal of Research in 4. choice 29. error
Marketing covers the entire area of marketing: 5. items 30. scores
profit as well as non-profit marketing, 6. preference 31. object
consumer behaviour, product decisions, 7. attribute 32. c
pricing marketing communication, marketing 8. price 33. is
channels, strategic marketing planning, 9. category 34. spe
industrial marketing, international marketing 10. segments 35. item
etc. Methodological subject areas to be 11. categories 36. across
covered are, for example, the philosophical 12. scale 37. models
basis of marketing theory and research, the 13. household 38. gen
confrontation of different research traditions, 14. distributor 39. discussion
and theoretical reflections on the nature, 15. consumers 40. brand
scope, and boundaries of marketing. Special 16. preferences 41. mean
attention will be paid to topics such as 17. dependence 42. panel
comparative marketing, cross-cultural aspects 18. segment 43. e
of marketing, the relationship between 19. pc 44. b
government and marketing, and marketing 20. purchase 45. service
and society. 21. vacation 46. data
22. markstrat 47. measurement
23. model 48. characteristic
24. segmentation 49. approach
25. consumer 50. for
You can see that some words seem to be very much in line with the journal’s topics and
issues; some more words, instead, do not seem so. Choose one of these words and generate
a concordance. Does the concordance suggest why that word is a keyword in the corpus?
Appendix 5
Concordance of “bid”in the MCA corpus (business section: 200,000
words), left sorted
1 abandoned its dollars 1.5bn bid for MGM-United Artists, t
2 intex launched a dollars 1bn bid for MGM-UA in March bu
3 nched a revised dollars 2.9bn bid for LIN Broadcasting, the
4 nched a revised dollars 2.9bn bid for LIN Broadcasting. McC
5 nths ago with a dollars 5.4bn bid. The bid was later topped
6 ing an unsolicited dollars 7bn bid for American Airlines, the
7 891004 Bid for Eagle Trust withdrawn
8 ntinuing speculation about a bid helped the shares improve
9 ltancy business as well as a bid featuring Bob Jacobi, form
10 ctive bidders, is convinced a bid for a society is on the wa
11 ould normally be defending a bid, will be able to surrender
12 used as the springboard for a bid. An offer within the n
13 -one is really immune from a bid approach.” Business
14 Company yesterday put in a bid for a ‘substantial rise” _ t
15 lectronic Data Systems in a bid to improve computer servi
16 n and other subsidiaries in a bid to slash debt. The di
17 ebruary flew to New York in a bid to convince him that her
18 . But anyone who launches a bid for Ferranti will want to b
19 s earnings. We have made a bid of nearly œ700m for a co
20 stralians should have made a bid for a building society.
21 n bank Unity Trust to make a bid via an employee share o
22 British contender to mount a bid but could face Ministry of
23 ears it is planning to mount a bid. Jaguar was inspired
24 oved. But the likelihood of a bid would still appear depend
25 The transatlantic gossip of a bid battle for Jaguar between
26 3.7 per cent stake ahead of a bid. The rest of the stoc
27 t to change hands ahead of a bid have fuelled the progress.
28 week some were talking of a bid today from BSN, the Fre
29 lthough SAM has ruled out a bid, it might participate in a r
30 t of Neill, might be planning a bid. Williams declined to co
31 p 10p at 873p, is preparing a bid. Imperial Chemical In
32 trong Equipment, resisting a bid from Caparo, fell 1p to 18
33 ostile takeover offers, says a bid within the next 18 month
34 in talks which could lead to a bid. Its share price closed on
35 the recent buyout fever with a bid for Northwest Airlines last
36 in S&and;N after its abortive bid this year. Elders has unti
37 a lot of the speculation about bid approaches is overdone. ‘
38 891010 Agreed bid likely after James Neill s
39 g speculation that an agreed bid will be launched today. P
40 g speculation that an agreed bid will be launched today.
41 any, has launched an agreed bid for ITL Information Technol
42 closed at 269p on the agreed bid. The shares were suspen
43 e failure of the United Airlines bid deal was thought to have
44 meet Australian Mutual amid bid rumours By JOH
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
45 Paris: Corporate news and bid speculation dominated a s
46 jurisdiction to the EC on any bid above the Ecu2bn thresho
47 life insurer sector. ‘Any bid which has not been discu
48 02p”. This suggests that any bid would be pitched well ab
49 ay early next year.” Any bid would probably be with th
50 hares lost only 6p to 191p as bid speculation limited the fall
51 891004 BAT bid boosts merchant banks
52 which had a role in the BAT bid. The most notable inclusi
53 om played no role in the BAT bid, were also in the top 10.
54 ntly lapsed its œ13.5bn BAT bid to concentrate on securin
55 ed forward to 369p with BSN bid rumours continuing to circ
56 891018 UAL buyout bid still grounded Fro
57 market had been buoyed by bid speculation _ by junk fina
58 the retailing group dogged by bid speculation and dull tradin
59 d manager, launched a cash bid valuing the company at
60 the dollars 110-a-share cash bid for LIN by McCaw, which
61 fter launching a œ78m cash bid. World Markets New
62 ken dollars 6.8bn consortium bid for United Airlines of the
63 nnection with its consortium bid for United Airlines of the
64 as withdrawn the consortium bid he was preparing for Eagl
65 sts and upset of a contested bid. We would be happy to d
66 up 9p at 469p. A Continental bid was rumoured. Sun L
67 y concerned the Sime Derby bid for Guthrie and TSB’s thr
68 ter authorities in a desperate bid to get December’s privatis
69 uggles to rescue 6.8bn dollar bid for UAL From LA
70 y Road, page 33 Fitton drops bid: Andrew Fitton, the chief
71 891017 Trump drops bid for US airline
72 Pembridge extends bid for DRG by a week
73 , suffered the fate of a fading bid stock, falling 5p to 174p.
74 ted with the possible Ferranti bid. The new joint venture, sa
75 senses another big financial bid following the œ1.1bn offer
76 erical Union, the favourite for bid attention, recovered to clo
77 Jaguar in preparation for a full bid. In a joint statement
78 as stories of a West German bid were revived. Saatchi
79 ounty NatWest. The highest bid is likely to be the winner.
80 Mr Knighton announced his bid, the Panel says, he did n
81 ent, which is subsidising his bid attempt. Mr Ethringto
82 are which can block a hostile bid for Jaguar and does not e
83 sment than an unruly hostile bid. However, it will not provi
84 th launched an eleventh hour bid to wrest MGM-UA from C
85 were involved in the Hoylake bid for BAT Industries. Page
86 t to withdraw. Hoylake’s bid has lapsed but it could re
87 ith rumours of an impending bid coming daily. Elders
88 the ‘Part A” document for its bid for Bell Resources, the fir
89 as been calculated that if its bid succeeds Morgan’s comm
90 business, and for GEC in its bid for electronics group Ples
91 ut was forced to increase its bid dramatically when Rupert
92 rs since Meggitt launched its bid five and a half weeks ago
93 eds a new challenge now its bid for BAT Industries has eff
94 , with about 40 per cent of its bid, which values Pearl at œ
95 ual Provident yesterday of its bid Pearl’s share price rose a
96 ts had expected it to raise its bid in wake of the merger agr
97 enging their right to review its bid for BAT Industries. It acte
98 ng away if Jaguar made itself bid-proof by tying up a deal
99 hich is thinking about a joint bid for Ferranti, did not have t
Appendix 5 
100 th the management. LIN bid: US-based McCaw Com
101 he right to return with a lower bid. Industry analysts ha
102 BAe-Thomson may bid for Ferranti By JE
103 Cities may block MBB bid HAMBURG (
104 n it advised on another mega-bid, by Hanson for Imperial G
105 ited Scientific blasts Meggitt bid United Scien
106 ific Holdings said the Meggitt bid had no industrial logic an
107 891003 Grand Met bid for Whyte &and; Mackay
108 looks as though Grand Met’s bid is going to be beaten by
109 half performance. If Millwall’s bid to go public is hit by the
110 portant holding, when Nestle bid for Rowntree. Appropriatel
111 ong,” he added. If a new bid can be put together it is
112 France is one of a number of bid options which the board
113 uickly followed by a spate of bid rumours, the most sensati
114 erchant banks in demand on bid expectations By
115 B and Caradon stay quiet on bid rumours By JERR
116 summer Leisure, which once bid for Boddies. Shorn of the
117 ry and increase its stake _ or bid. Jaguar retreated 32p
118 keover group, whose original bid fell on Friday prompting a
119 would rather mount their own bid. This leaves only on
120 n the verge of a œ300m-plus bid for Caradon, the building
121 radon announced a possible bid on 31 August. While
122 ntrol at Neill with 78m pound bid By CLARE DOBI
123 radon agree on 338m pounds bid By TERENCE WI
124 for licences. A previous bid of dollars 110m per share
125 The dollars 2.9bn renewed bid by McCaw would leave 2
126 it could return with a renewed bid if it secures regulatory cl
127 p for sale. The renewed bid for LIN further complicates
128 1013 Market Report: Bid speculation puts some fiz
129 ontenders to mount a rescue bid for Ferranti, a vital subco
130 View from City Road: Bid fates in hand of market
131 ffer was accepted, the same bid would be extended to Bel
132 ntention to mount a full-scale bid when the Government’s go
133 ake, is involved in a separate bid. Business and City
134 ithdrew a dollars 120-a-share bid for the nation’s largest air
135 atch the dollars 300-a-share bid if it failed. But United’s st
136 Pearl for the 605p per share bid that it has made. Pearl’s
137 to 599p on talk the signalled bid or deal with Ford or Gene
138 cessfully to finance a similar bid a year ago when the airli
139 per cent. The move sparked bid speculation the market.
140 The rush into speculative bid candidates was seen by
141 cent of the company’s stock. Bid hopes buoyed the price
142 s about to launch a takeover bid. By lunchtime the tongue
143 ld be the target of a takeover bid has been intensified by S
144 on speculation of a takeover bid for the French mineral wa
145 me the subject of a takeover bid as a result of recent busi
146 lso keen to mount a takeover bid but would encounter fierce
147 signed to ward off a takeover bid. If Pearl decided to r
148 s poised to mount a takeover bid for Pearl worth at least œ
149 so have to fight off a takeover bid _ Fininvest, the Milan-ba
150 olland, said AMP’s takeover bid ‘is unacceptable and totall
151 as a prelude to a full takeover bid. Jaguar’s shares soar
152 panies made a joint takeover bid worth œ820m for Calor, t
153 possibility of a joint takeover bid for the beleaguered UK d
154 umours that a mega takeover bid was imminent. In ofte
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
155 HE much rumoured takeover bid for Rothmans International
156 . A œ1.9bn US takeover bid, by McCaw for Mteromed
157 sterday of a œ1.1bn takeover bid for the group by Australia
158 unwelcome œ1.1bn takeover bid from Australian Mutual Pr
159 rs AS THE œ1.1bn takeover bid by Australian Mutual Provi
160 , ahead of a œ1.1bn takeover bid by Australian Mutual Provi
161 ars 7.5bn ( œ4.8bn) takeover bid for American Airlines yest
162 r-old company as a long-term bid target. Business and
163 They may prefer short term bid speculation to long term r
164 igh dividend cover rather than bid stocks identified by their
165 . There are suggestions that bid action is about to break o
166 llars as scepticism about the bid widened. Delta Airlin
167 e company . . . only after the bid is successful will we hav
168 on and Paris, announced the bid, after securing the suppor
169 with a dollars 5.4bn bid. The bid was later topped by a ma
170 posted yesterday claims the bid has no industrial logic an
171 continental Europe. The bid is being resisted by Pearl
172 g off their jackets to fight the bid so the British insurer’s sh
173 earl. The Pearl is fighting the bid and the Australian group,
174 e Pearl, which is fighting the bid, is not entirely clear to th
175 g regulatory clearance for the bid in the US which he sugg
176 day’s first closing date for the bid looming, the faith of DRG
177 as secured its finance for the bid, the management and uni
178 raw encouragement from the bid were Britannic, up 27p to
179 s I’ve taken on board from the bid. I’ve talked to 40 major sh
180 finance, taken on to fund the bid,” said Mr McErlain.
181 ‘At a critical point in the bid process Ward was instru
182 gard to the need to keep the bid confidential prior to the a
183 then. It decided to launch the bid sooner than planned after
184 harge that he is mounting the bid to enrich himself and his
185 ich led to the collapse of the bid on Tuesday night. Source
186 rty developer pulled out of the bid, despite having a funding
187 torted by the inclusion of the bid for Gateway, the stores c
188 e 44p to 552p as news of the bid began to leak out. After t
189 decision to pull out. The bid attracted intense media at
190 st and has been planning the bid since then. It decided to l
191 as about to pounce. The bid rumours, which also embr
192 n whether he should refer the bid to the Monopolies and M
193 ice of Fair Trading to refer the bid because of the high borro
194 ince Friday to restructure the bid and find new investors, wi
195 r 22 million shares. The bid price is equivalent to doll
196 s, prompting speculation the bid could yet be rescued.
197 e the events surrounding the bid to acquire Distillers and t
198 after the break up. When the bid was launched last week,
199 estments, through which the bid is being mounted says, ‘r
200 equity. Withdrawing the bid yesterday, Mr Fitton said
201 uthrie and TSB’s threatened bid for Hogg Robinson. In
202 an obligation on the buyer to bid. Elsewhere Amstrad
203 iged to allow any company to bid for Jaguar. Busines
204 tyre maker, will be forced to bid for Kwik-Fit, the tyres an
205 T chairman, thinks is ideal to bid for the franchise. Mr
206 ny announced its intention to bid for one of two or three lic
207 s making Caird less likely to bid for Leigh Interests, a rival
208 would trigger an obligation to bid for the rest of the shares.
209 stake, it would be obliged to bid for the rest of the capital.
Appendix 5 
210 anagers and staff planning to bid for the core business, the
211 whether GM was prepared to bid at the inflated share price
212 eral Motors was preparing to bid. The shares roared ahead
213 olled group, was preparing to bid. Richemont and Phili
214 CRC, could be preparing to bid. WPP, the communi
215 reign predators queuing up to bid for a large British society
216 Davis withdraws rival UAL bid From LARRY BL
217 n its participation in the UAL bid. Even if the takeover did
218 ing ahead, it is clear the UAL bid, as at present structured,
219 Failed Manchester United bid draws reprimand from Pan
220 be hoping that the unsettling bid talk will die down so they
221 ociated with its unsuccessful bid would go a long way to el
222 ration of his œ697m break-up bid for stationery and packagi
223 ding a 697m pound break-up bid for DRG, talks to Frank K
224 s not mean the company will bid for Macallan-Glenlivet, in
225 mid speculation that it would bid for Caradon, recovered to
226 investigation into the œ1.1bn bid for Pearl Group by Austra
227 to 646p following the œ1.1bn bid from Australian Mutual Pr
228 ially during January’s œ1.6bn bid for Hammerson by Dutch
229 12.4 per cent for its œ110m bid. Taken together with
230 12.4 per cent for its œ110m bid for United Scientific Holdin
231 MEGGITT’S œ110m bid for United Scientific Holdin
232 tries, threatened by a œ13bn bid from the Hoylake consorti
233 igned to pre-empt the œ13bn bid from Sir James Goldsmith
234 igned to pre-empt the œ13bn bid from Sir James Goldsmith
235 igned to pre-empt the œ13bn bid from Sir James Goldsmith
236 s group, has put in a œ150m bid for the Whyte &and; Mac
237 r his failure to see his œ20m bid for Manchester United foot
238 s for pulling out of his œ20m bid for Manchester United. Pa
239 new dollars 6.1bn ( œ3.9bn) bid. But on Wall Street,
240 s made an agreed œ337.6m bid for Caradon, the Twyfords
241 esterday’s agreed œ337.6m bid by MB Group for Caradon
242 ll leaked: The agreed œ338m bid for Caradon by MB Group
243 rt on Coats Viyella’s œ395m bid. View from City Road pag
244 ised dollars 6.8bn ( œ4.3bn) bid for United Airlines. M
245 ITED, which won its œ478m bid for Coalite in July, has pu
246 nd Roland Franklin’s œ697m bid for DRG, the stationery a
247 ents is extending its œ697m bid for DRG, the packaging a
248 support against the œ697m bid from Pembridge Investme
249 support against the œ697m bid from Roland Franklin’s Pe
References
Askehave, I., & J. Swales (2001). Genre identification and communicative purpose: A
problem and a possible solution. Applied Linguistics 22 (2), 195–212.
Aston. G. (1988). Learning Comity. Bologna: Cooperativa Libraria Universitaria Editrice.
Aston, G. (1995). Corpora in language pedagogy: Matching theory and practice. In Cook
& Seidlehofer (Eds.), Principles and Practice in Applied Linguistics (pp. 257–270).
Oxford: OUP.
Aston, G. (1997a). Involving learners in developing learning methods: Exploiting text
corpora in self-access. In Benson & Voller (Eds.), 204–214.
Aston, G. (1997b). Small and large corpora in language learning. In Lewandowska-
Tomaszczyk & Melia (Eds.), Palc ’97: Practical applications in language corpora (pp. 51–
62). Łódź: Łódź University Press (reprinted by Peter Lang).
Aston, G. (2001a). Learning with corpora: An overview. In Aston (Ed.), 7–45.
Aston, G. (Ed.). (2001b). Learning with Corpora. Bologna: Cooperativa Libraria Univer-
sitaria Editrice and Houston TX: Athelstan.
Aston, G. (2002). Getting one’s teeth into a corpus. In Tan (Ed.), 131–144.
Aston, G. (2004). Corpus upon corpus: A bout of indigestion? Paper presented at the 6th
Talc Conference, Granada.
Aston, G., & L. Burnard (1998). The BNC Handbook: Exploring the British National Corpus
with SARA. Edinburgh: EUP.
Aston, G., & F. Bertaccini (2001). Going to the Clochemerle: Exploring cultural conno-
tations through ad hoc corpora. In Aston (Ed.), 198–219
Aston, G., S. Bernardini, & D. Stewart (Eds.). (2004). Corpora and Language Learners.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Atkins, S., J. Clear, & N. Ostler (1992). Corpus design criteria. Literary and Linguistic
Computing, 7, 1–16.
Baker, M., G. Francis, & E. Tognini-Bonelli (Eds.). (1993). Text and Technology. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Barber, C. L. (1962/1988). Some measurable characteristics of modern scientific prose. In
Swales (Ed.), 3–14.
Barlow, M. (2000). MonoConc Pro 2.0. Houston, TX: Athelstan.
Barlow, M. (2004). Software for corpus access and analysis. In Sinclair (Ed.), 205–221.
Barnett, L. (1993). Teacher off: Computer technology, guidance and self-access. System, 21
(3), 295–304.
Baroni, M., & S. Bernardini (2004). BootCaT: Bootstrapping corpora and terms from the
web. Proceedings of the LREC 2004, Lisbon 26–28 May 2004. (pp. 1313–1316).
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
Baroni, M., S. Bernardini, F. Comastri, L. Piccioni, A Volpi, G. Aston, & M. Mazzoleni
(2004). Introducing the La Repubblica corpus: A large, annotated, TEI (XML)-
compliant corpus of newspaper Italian. Proceedings of LREC 2004, Lisbon 26–28 May
2004 (pp. 1771–4).
Beeching, K. (1997). French for specific purposes: The case for spoken corpora. Applied
Linguistics, 18 (3), 374–394.
Benson, P., & P. Voller (1997). Autonomy and Independence in Language Learning. London:
Longman.
Berglund, Y., L. Burnard, & M. Wynne (2004). BNC-baby: Using corpora in the virtual
classroom. Paper presented at the 6th Talc Conference, Granada.
Berkenkotter, C., & T. Huckin (1995). Genre Knowledge in Disciplinary Communication.
Cognition / Culture / Power. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Bernardini, S. (2000a). Competence, Capacity, Corpora. Bologna: Cooperativa Libraria
Universitaria Editrice.
Bernardini, S. (2000b). Systematizing serendipity: Proposals for concordancing large
corpora with language learners. In Burnard & McEnery (Eds.), 225–234.
Bernardini, S. (2002a). Exploring new directions for discovery learning. In Kettemann
& Marko (Eds.), Teaching and Learning by Doing Corpus Analysis (pp. 165–182).
Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Bernardini, S. (2002b). Educating translators for the challenges of the new millennium.
The potential of parallel bi-directional corpora. In Maia, Haller, & Ulrych (Eds.),
Training the Language Service Provider for the New Millennium (pp. 173–186). Porto:
Universidade do Porto.
Bernardini, S., & L. Gavioli (1999). L’analisi di piccoli e grandi corpora. In Haarman
(Ed.), Ricerche linguistiche: Strumenti e riflessioni metodologiche (pp. 83–111). Pescara:
Libreria dell’Università Editrice.
Bernardini, S., & F. Zanettin (Eds.). (2000). I corpora nella didattica della traduzione.
Bologna: Cooperativa Libraria Universitaria Editrice.
Berns, M. et al. (1998). (Re)experiencing hegemony: The linguistic imperialism of Robert
Phillipson. In Seidlhofer (Ed.), 2003, 33–44.
Biber, D. (1988). Variation across Speech and Writing. Cambridge: CUP.
Biber, D. (1993). Representativeness in corpus design. Literary and Linguistic Computing, 8,
243–257.
Biber, D., & Finegan (1993). Intra-textual variation within medical research articles. In
Oostdijk & De Haan, 201–221.
Biber, D., S. Conrad, & R. Reppen (1998). Corpus Linguistics: Investigating language structure
and use. Cambridge: CUP.
Biber, D., S. Johansson, G. Leech, S. Conrad, & E. Finegan (1999). Grammar of Spoken and
Written English. London: Longman.
Bolinger, D. (1976). Meaning and memory. Forum Linguisticum, 1, 1–14.
Bondi, M. (1999a). Language awareness and EFL teacher education. In Faber, Gewehr,
Jiménez Raya, & Peck (Eds.), English Teacher Education in Europe (pp. 91–107). Bern:
Peter Lang.
Bondi, M. (1999b). English across Genres. Modena: Il Fiorino.
References 
Bondi, M. (2001). Small corpora and language variation: Reflexivity across genres. In
Ghadessy, Henry, & Roseberry (Eds.), Small Corpus Studies and ELT (pp. 135–174).
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Bondi, M. (2004). ‘If you think this sounds very complicated, you are correct’: Awareness
of cultural difference in specialized discourse. In Gotti & Candlin (Eds.), Intercultural
Aspects of Specialized Communication (pp. 53–78). Bern: Peter Lang.
Bowker, L., & J. Pearson (2002). Working with Specialised Language. London: Routledge.
Burnard, L., & T. McEnery (Eds.). (2000). Rethinking Language Pedagogy from a Corpus
Perspective. Bern: Peter Lang.
Breen, M. (1987). Contemporary paradigms in syllabus design. Language Teaching, 20, 81–
92; 157–174.
Brodine, R. (2001). Integrating corpus work into an academic reading course. In Aston
(Ed.), 138–176.
Cacciari, C., & P. Tabossi (Eds.). (1993). Idioms: Processing, structure and interpretation.
Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Carter, R. (1993). Language awareness and language learning. In Hoey (Ed.) Data,
Description, Discourse (pp. 115–139). London: HarperCollins.
Carter, R. (1998). Orders of reality: CANCODE, communication and culture. ELT Journal,
52, 43–56.
Carter. R., & M. McCarthy (1995). Grammar and the spoken language. Applied Linguistics,
16, 141–158.
Comastri, F., & L. Gavioli (2004). Designing a specialised corpus of English for students of
business management. Paper presented at the 6th Talc Conference, Granada.
Conrad, S. (1999). The importance of corpus-based research for language teachers. System,
27, 1–18.
Conrad, S. (Ed.). (2003). TESOL Quarterly Special Issue on Corpus Linguistics. TESOL
Quarterly, 37 (3).
Cook, G. (1998). The uses of reality: A reply to Ronald Carter. ELT Journa, 52, 57–63.
Cook, G. (2001). The philosopher pulled the lower jaw of the hen: Ludicrous invented
sentences in language. Applied Linguistics, 22 (3).
Coxhead, A. (2000). A new academic word list. Tesol Quarterly, 34 (2), 213–238.
Damascelli, A. T. (2004). The role of corpora in the teaching/learning of advanced English.
Building a bilingual glossary of ESP terms: A case study. Unpublished PhD Thesis,
University of Turin.
De Mauro, T., F. Mancini, M. Vedovelli, & M. Voghera (1993). LIP: Lessico di frequenza
dell’italiano parlato. Milan: Etaslibri.
Dudley-Evans, T., & M. St. John (1998). Developments in English for Special Purposes.
Cambridge: CUP.
Edwards, J. (1993). Principles and contrasting systems of discourse transcription. In
Edwards & Lampert (Eds.), Talking Data (pp. 3–32). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Fanning, P. (1993). Broadening the ESP umbrella. English for Specific Purposes, 12, 159–170.
Fillmore, C. (1992). ‘Corpus-linguistics’ or ‘computer-aided armchair linguistics’. In
Svartvik (Ed.), 35–60.
Fletcher, W. H. (2004). Facilitating the compilation and dissemination of ad-hoc web
corpora. In Aston, Bernardini, & Stewart (Eds.), 271–300.
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
Flowerdew, J. (1993a). Concordancing as a tool in course design. System, 21, 231–243.
Flowerdew (1993b). An educational, or process, approach to the teaching of professional
genres). ELT Journal, 47 (4), 305–316.
Francis, W. N. (1992). Language corpora B.C. In Svartvik (Ed.), 17–32.
Francis, W. N., & H. Kucera (1979). Manual of Information to Accompany a Standard Corpus
of Present-day Edited American English, for Use with Digital Computers. Providence, RI:
Brown University.
Gavioli, L. (1997). Exploring texts through the concordancer: Guiding the learner. In
Wichmann et al. (Eds.), 83–99.
Gavioli, L. (2000). Concordancing and ESP: Scientific English. In Baldry (Ed.),
Multimodality and Multimediality in the Distance Learning Age (pp. 151–166).
Campobasso: Palladino Edizioni.
Gavioli, L. (2001). The learner as researcher: Introducing corpus-concordancing in the
classroom. In Aston (Ed.), 108–137.
Gavioli, L. (2002). Some thoughts on the problem of representing ESP through small
corpora. In Kettemann & Marko (Eds.), Teaching and Learning by Doing Corpus Analysis
(pp. 293–303). Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Gavioli, L., & G. Aston (2001). Enriching reality: Language corpora in language pedagogy.
ELT Journal, 55 (3), 238–246.
Gavioli, L., & F. Zanettin (2000). I corpora bilingui nell’apprendimento della traduzione.
Riflessioni su un’esperienza pedagogica. In Bernardini & Zanettin (Eds.), 61–80.
Ghadessy, M. (Ed.). (1988). Registers of Written English. London: Pinter.
Ghadessy, M., A. Henry, & R. Roseberry (Eds.). (2001). Small Corpus Studies and ELT: Theory
and practice. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Gledhill, C. (1995). Collocation and genre analysis: The phraseology of grammatical items
in cancer research abstracts and articles. Zeitschrift für Anglistik und Amerikanistik: A
quarterly of language, literature and culture, 1 (1), 11–29.
Gledhill, C. (2000). The discourse function of collocation in research article introductions.
English for Specific Purposes, 19, 115–135.
Glucksberg, S. (1993). Idioms meaning and allusional content. In Cacciari & Tabossi (Eds.),
3–26.
Gotti, M. (1991). I linguaggi specialistici. Firenze: La Nuova Italia.
Granger, S. (1998). Learner English on Computer. London: Addison-Wesley.
Halliday, M. A. K. (1988). On the language of physical science. In Ghadessy (Ed.), 162–167.
Henry, A., & R. L. Roseberry (2001). Using a small corpus to obtain data for teaching a genre.
In Ghadessy, Henry, & Roseberry (Eds.), Small Corpus Studies and ELT (pp. 93–133).
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Higgins, J. J. (1967/1988). Hard facts (Notes on teaching English to science students). In
Swales (Ed.), 28–36.
Higgins, J. J. (1991). Looking for patterns. In Johns & King (Eds.), 63–70.
Higgins, J. J., & T. Johns (1984). Computers and Language Learning. London: Collins.
Hoey, M. (2004). Lexical priming and the properties of text. In Partington, Morley, &
Haarman (Eds.), Corpora and Discourse (pp. 385–412). Bern: Peter Lang.
Hunston, S. (2002). Corpora in Applied Linguistics. Cambridge: CUP.
Hyland, K. (1998). Hedging in Scientific Research Articles. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
References 
Hyland, K. (2002a). Genre: Language, context and literacy. Annual Review of Applied
Linguistics, 22, 113–135.
Hyland, K. (2002b). Options of identity in academic writing. ELT Journal, 56 (4), 351–358.
Johannson, S., G. Leech, & H. Goodluck (1978). Manual of Information to Accompany the
Lancaster-Oslo/Bergen Corpus of British English, for Use with Digital Computers. Oslo:
University of Oslo.
Johns, T. (1983). Generating alternatives. In D. Chandler (Ed.), Exploring English
with Microcomputers [MEP Readers 1] (pp. 89–115). Philadelphia: Trans–Atlantic
Publications.
Johns, T. (1986). Micro-concord: A language-learners research tool. System, 14 (2), 151–162.
Johns, T. (1991a). From printout to handout: Grammar and vocabulary teaching in
the context of data-driven learning. In Johns & King (Eds.), 27–46. (Reprinted as
Johns 1994).
Johns (1991b). Should you be persuaded: Two examples of data-driven learning. In Johns &
King (Eds.), 1–16.
Johns, T. (1994). From printout to handout: Grammar and vocabulary teaching in the
context of data-driven learning. In Odlin (Ed.), Perspectives on Pedagogical Grammar
(pp. 293–313). Cambridge: CUP.
Johns, T., & T. Dudley Evans (1980/1988). An experiment in team-teaching of overseas
postgraduate students of transportation and plant biology. In Swales (Ed.), 137–155.
Johns, T., & P. King (Eds.). (1991). Classroom Concordancing. ELR Journal, 4 (Special issue).
Johnson-Laird, P. N. (1993). Foreword. In Cacciari & Tabossi (Eds.), vii–x.
Jordan, G. (1993). Concordancers: Research findings and learner processes. Unpublished
MA dissertation: University of London Institute of Education.
Kachru, B. B. (1991). Liberation linguistics and the Quirk concern. In Seidlhofer (Ed.), 19–
33.
Kennedy, G. (1992). Preferred ways of putting things with implications for language
teaching. In Svartvik (Ed.), 335–373.
Kennedy, G. (1998). An Introduction to Corpus Linguistics. London: Longman.
Kennedy, G. (2004). The contribution of corpus linguistics to language teaching: Three
decades of promise. Paper presented at the 25th Icame Conference. Verona.
Kettemann, B. (1997). Concordancing as input enhancement in ELT. In Lewandowska-
Tomaszczyk & Melia (Eds.), Palc ’97: Practical applications in language corpora (pp. 63–
73). Łódź: Łódź University Press (reprinted by Peter Lang).
Kettemann, B., & G. Marko (2004). Can the L in TaLC stand for literature? In Aston,
Bernardini, & Stewart (Eds.), 169–193.
Kettemann, B., & G. Marko (2002). Teaching and Learning by Doing Corpus Analysis.
Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Krishnamurthy, R. (2002). Classroom cornucopia: The new COBUILD dictionary and the
Bank of English corpus. In Tan (Ed.), 121–130.
Laviosa, S. (2002). Corpus-based Translation Studies. Theory, findings, applications.
Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Laviosa, S. (2001). The commercial Italian corpus: A child prodigy. Tuttitalia, 23, 15–18.
Leech, G. (1969). A Linguistic Guide to English Poetry. London: Longman.
Lewis, M. (1993). The Lexical Approach. London: Language Teaching Publications.
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
Lewis, M. (2000). Teaching Collocation. London: Language Teaching Publications.
Li, S. (2004). Corpus-based critical comparison of three bilingual Chinese English
dictionaries: LDOCE, OALD and English Chinese dictionary. Paper presented at the
25th Icame Conference. Verona.
Louw, B. (1993). Irony in the text or insincerity in the writer? The diagnostic potential of
semantic prosodies. In Baker et al., 157–176.
Louw, B. (1997). The role of corpora in critical literary appreciation. In Wichmann et al.
(Eds.), 240–251.
Luzon Marco, M. (2000). Collocational frameworks in medical research papers: A genre-
based study. English for specific Purposes, 19, 63–86.
Ma, B. K. C. (1993a). Small corpora concordancing in ESL teaching and learning. Hong Kong
Papers in Linguistics and Language Teaching, 16, 11–30.
Ma, B. K. C. (1993b). Text analysis of direct mail sales letters. In Boswood, Hoffman, &
Tung (Eds.), Prospectives on English for Professional Communication. Hong Kong: City
Polytechnic of Hong Kong.
Maia, B. (2000). Making corpora: A learning process. In Bernardini & Zanettin (Eds.), 47–
60.
Makkai, A. (1993). Idiomaticity as a reaction to L’arbitraire du signe in the universal process
of semeio-genesis. In Cacciari & Tabossi (Eds.), 297–324.
McEnery, T., & H. Wilson (1996). Corpus Linguistics. Edinburgh: EUP.
McCarthy, M. (2002). What is an advanced level vocabulary? In Tan (Ed.), 15–30.
McCarthy, M., & R. Carter (1995). Spoken grammar: What is it and how do we teach it? ELT
Journal, 49, 207–218.
Miller, A. (1994). Concordancing and ESP: Medical English. Muesli News, March, 8–10.
Mparutsa, C., A. Love, & A. Morrison (1991). Bringing concord to the ESP classroom. In
Johns & King (Eds.), 115–134.
Mukherjee, J. (Forthcoming). The native speaker is alive and kicking – Linguistic and
language-pedagogical perspectives. Anglistik 16.
Murison-Bowie, S. (1993). MicroConcord Handbook. Oxford: OUP.
Murison-Bowie, S. (Ed.). (1993b). MicroConcord Corpus A – The Independent. Oxford: OUP.
Murison-Bowie, S. (Ed.) (1993c). MicroConcord Corpus B. Oxford: OUP.
Nation, P. (2001a). Using small corpora to investigate learners’ needs: Two vocabulary
research tools. In Ghadessy, Henry, & Roseberry (Eds.), 31–46.
Nation, P. (2001b). Learning Vocabulary in Another Language. Cambridge: CUP.
Nattinger, J. R., & J. S. DeCarrico (1992). Lexical Phrases and Language Teaching. Oxford:
OUP.
Nunan, D. (Ed.). (1992). Collaborative Language Learning and Teaching. Cambridge: CUP.
Oaks, M. P. (1998). Statistics for Corpus Linguistics. Edinburgh: EUP.
Olohan, M. (2004). Introducing Corpora in Translation Studies. London: Routledge.
Oostdijk, N., & P. de Haan (Eds.), (1993). Corpus-based Research into Language. Amsterdam:
Rodopi.
Owen, C. (1993). Corpus-based grammar and the Heineken effect: Lexico-grammatical
description for language learners. Applied Linguistics, 14 (2), 167–187.
Owen, C. (1996). Do concordances require to be consulted? ELT Journal, 50, 219–224.
Partington, A. (1998). Patterns and Meanings. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
References 
Partington, A. (2001). Corpus-based description in teaching and learning. In Aston (Ed.),
63–84.
Partington, A. (2004). Utterly content in each other’s company: Semantic prosody and
semantic preference. International Journal of Corpus Linguistics, 9 (1), 131–156.
Pearson, J. (2000). Surfing the Internet: Teaching students to choose their texts wisely. In
Burnard and McEnery (Eds.), 235–239.
Pecorari, D. (2003). Good and original: Plagiarism and patchwriting in academic second-
language writing. Journal of second language writing, 12, 317–345.
Phillipson, R. (1999). Linguistic imperialism re-visited – or re-invented. A rejoinder to a
review essay. In Seidlehofer (Ed.), 2003, 44–46.
Prabhu, N. S. (1987). Second Language Pedagogy. Oxford: OUP.
Prodromou, L. (1996). Correspondence. In Seidlehofer (Ed.), 2003, 82–84.
Quirk, R. (1990). Language varieties and standard language In Seidlhofer (Ed.), 2003, 9–19.
Renouf, A. (1997). Teaching corpus linguistics to teachers of English. In Wichmann et al.
(Eds.), 255–266.
Robinson, P. (1991). ESP Today: A Practitioner’s Guide. Hemel Hempstead: Prentice Hall.
Robinson, P. (1989). A rich view of lexical competence. ELT Journal, 43 (4), 274–281.
Robinson, P. (1994). Computers, corpora and language teaching. The teacher trainer 8 ,(3),
3–8.
Scott, M. (1998). Wordsmith Tools ver.3.0. Oxford: OUP.
Scott, M., & T. Johns (1993). MicroConcord. Oxford: OUP.
Sealey, A., & P. Thompson (2004). What do you call the dull words? Primary school
children using corpus-based approaches to learn about language. English in Education,
38 (1), 80–91.
Seidlhofer, B. (Ed.). (2003). Controversies in Applied Linguistics. Oxford: OUP.
Sinclair, J. (Ed.). (1987). Looking up: An account of the COBUILD project in lexical computing.
London: Collins.
Sinclair, J. (1991). Corpus, Concordance, Collocation. Oxford: OUP.
Sinclair, J. (1996). The search for units of meaning. Textus, 9, 75–106.
Sinclair, J. (2003). Reading Concordances. London: Longman.
Sinclair, J. (Ed.) (2004). How to Use Corpora in Language Teaching. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Sinclair, J., & A. Renouf (1988). A lexical syllabus for language learning. In Carter &
McCarthy (Eds.), Vocabulary in Language Teaching. London: Longman.
Sinclair et al. (1987). Collins Cobuild English Dictionary. London: HarperCollins,
Sinclair et al. (1990a). Collins Cobuild English Dictionary – New edition. London:
HarperCollins.
Sinclair et al. (1990b). Collins Cobuild English Grammar. London: Collins.
Spada, N. (1997). Form-focussed instruction and second language acquisition: A review of
classroom and laboratory research. Language Teaching, 30, 73–87.
Sripicharn, P. (2004). Examining native speakers’ and learners’ investigation of the same
concordance data and its implications for classroom concordancing with ELF learners.
In Aston, Bernardini, & Stewart (Eds.), 235–247.
 Exploring corpora for ESP learning
Starfield, S. (2002). ‘I’ll go with the group’: Rethinking discourse community in EAP. In
Flowerdew & Peacock (Eds.), Research Perspectives on English for Academic Purposes
(pp. 132–147). Cambridge: CUP.
Stevens, V. (1988). Studying vocabulary using concordancing on microcomputers. TESOL
Newsletter, 22 (3), 27.
St. John, E. (2001). A case for using a parallel corpus and concordancer for beginners of a
foreign language. In Tribble & Barlow (Eds.), 185–203.
Stock, O., J. Slack, & A. Ortony (1993). Building castles in the air: Some computational and
theoretical issues in idiom comprehension. In Cacciari & Tabossi (Eds.), 229–248.
Stubbs, M., & A. Gerbig (1993). Human and inhuman geography: On the computer-
assisted analysis of long texts. In Hoey (Ed.) Data, Description, Discourse (pp. 115–138).
London: HarperCollins.
Stubbs, M. (1994). Grammar, text and ideology: Computer-assisted methods in the
linguistics of representation. Applied Linguistics, 15, 201–233.
Stubbs, M. (1996). Text and Corpus Analysis. Oxford: Blackwell.
Svartvik, J. (Ed.). (1992). Directions in Corpus Linguistics. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Swales, J. (Ed.). (1988). Episodes in ESP. Hertfordshire: Prentice Hall.
Swales, J. (1990). Genre Analysis. Cambridge: CUP.
Tan, M. (2002a). Introduction. In Tan (Ed.), 1–12.
Tan, M. (Ed.). (2002b). Corpus Studies in Language Education. Bangkok: IELE Press.
Thurstun, J., & C. Candlin (1998). Concordancing and the teaching of the vocabulary of
academic English. English for Specific Purposes, 17 (3), 267–280.
Thompson, P. (2000). Citation practices in PhD theses. In Burnard & McEnery (Eds.), 91–
101.
Thompson, P. (2001). Looking at citations: Using corpora in English for Academic Purposes.
In Tribble & Barlow (Eds.), 91–105.
Thompson, P. (2002). Modal verbs in academic writing. In Kettemann & Marko (Eds.),
305–325.
Thompson, P., & A. Sealey (2004). Through children’s eyes? Corpus evidence of the features
of children’s literature. Paper given at the 25th Icame Conference. Verona.
Thompson, P., A. Sealey, & M. Scott (2004). Kids, corpora and concordancing. Paper
presented at the 6th Talc Conference. Granada.
Tognini Bonelli, E. (2000). Unità funzionali complete in inglese e in italiano: Verso un
approccio ‘corpus driven’. In Bernardini & Zanettin (Eds.), 153–176.
Tognini Bonelli, E. (2001). Corpus Linguistics at Work. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Tribble, C. (1997). Improvising corpora for ELT: Quick and dirty ways of developing corpora
for language teaching. In Lewandowska-Tomaszczyk & Melia (Eds.), Palc ’97: Practical
applications in language corpora (pp. 106–118). Łódź: Łódź University Press (reprinted
by Peter Lang).
Tribble, C. (2000). Genre, keywords, teaching: Towards a pedagogic account of the language
of project proposals. In Burnard & McEnery (Eds.), 75–90.
Tribble, C. (2001). Small corpora and teaching writing. In M. Ghadessy, A. Henry, & R. L.
Roseberry (Eds.), Small Corpus Studies and ELT (pp. 381–406). Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
References 
Tribble, C., & G. Jones (1990). Concordances in the classroom: A resource book for teachers.
London: Longman (2nd edition 1998. Houston, TX: Athelstan).
Tribble, C., & M. Barlow (Eds.). (2001). Using Corpora in Language Teaching and Learning.
Language learning and technology, 5 (3) (Special issue).
Trimble, L. (1985). English for Science and Technology. Cambridge: CUP.
Voller, P. (1997). Does the teacher have a role in autonomous language learning? In Benson
& Voller (Eds.), Autonomy and Independence in Language Learning (pp. 98–113).
London: Longman.
Van Rij-Heiligers, J. (Forthcoming). To weep perilously or W.EAP critically: The case of
a corpus-based critical EAP. In Hidalgo, Quereda, & Santana (Eds.), Corpora in the
Foreign Language Classroom. Selected papers from the Sixth International Conference on
Teaching and Language Corpora (TaLC), University of Granada, Spain, 4–7 July, 2004.
Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Ward, J. (1999). How large a vocabulary do EAP Engineering students need? Reading in a
Foreign Language, 12, 309–323.
Weber, J. J. (2001). A concordance- and genre-informed approach to ESP essay writing.
English Language Teaching Journal, 55 (1), 14–20.
Wichmann, A. (1995). Using concordances for the teaching of modern languages in higher
education. Language Learning Journal, 11, 61–63.
Wichmann, A., S. Fliegelstone, T. McEnery, & G. Knowles (1997). Teaching and Language
Corpora. London: Longman.
Widdowson, H. G. (1978). Teaching Language as Communication. Oxford: OUP.
Widdowson, H. G. (1983). Language Purpose and Learning Use. Oxford: OUP.
Widdowson, H. G. (1991. The description and prescription of language. In G. Alatis (Ed.),
Linguistics and Language Pedagogy: The state of the art (pp. 11–24). Washington, DC:
Georgetown University Press.
Widdowson, H. G. (1998a). Context, community and authentic language. TESOL Quarterly,
32 (4), 705–716.
Widdowson, H. G. (1998b). Communication and community: The pragmatics of ESP.
English for Specific Purposes, 17 (1), 3–14.
Willis, J., & D. Willis (1989). Collins-Cobuild English Course. London: Collins.
Zanettin, F. (2001). Swimming in words: Corpora, translation and language learning. In
Aston (Ed.), 177–197.
Zanettin, F., S. Bernardini, & D. Stewart (Eds.). (2003). Corpora in Translator Education.
Manchester: St. Jerome.
Zorzi, D. (2001). The pedagogic use of spoken corpora: Learning discourse markers in
Italian. In Aston (Ed.), 85–107.
Index
A
academic –, , , ,
–, , , , , , 
asset/assets 
Aston, G. , , , , , , ,
, , , , , , 
authentic/authenticity , ,
, –, , , , , 
autonomy , , , , ,
, , , , , 
(language) awareness , , ,
, , , , , , 
B
Bernardini, S. , , , , ,
, , , , , 
Biber, D. , , –, , 
British National Corpus (BNC)
, , , , , , , , ,
, , , , 
BNC-baby 
BNC sampler , , , ,

Brown corpus , 
business
corpora , , , –,
, , 
discourse , , , , , ,
, , 
students , , 
texts , , , , 
C
Computer Assisted Language
Learning (CALL) , , ,

Carter, R. , , , , 
Chomsky, N. (Chomskian) ,
, 
Cobuild
corpus , , , , , ,

dictionary , , , ,
, 
research project , , ,
, , 
colligation , , , 
collocation , , , , ,
, , 
COLT corpus 
comply –
concordance (definition) 
concordancer , , , , ,
, , , , , , , 
(language) conventions , ,
, , –, –, , ,
, , , , , 
Cook, G. , , , 
corpora
large , , , 
small –, , , , , ,
, , 
specialized , –, –,
, , , , , , ,

used here (list of) 
corpus design , 
creative/creativity , , ,
, –
D
data comparison 
Data-Driven Learning (DDL)
–, 
deal/s 
disorder/s 
E
English for Academic Purposes
(EAP) , 
English for business purposes
(EBP) , 
English as a Foreign Language
(EFL) , , , 
English for General Purposes
(EGP) , , , , 
English Language Teaching
(ELT) 
(translation) equivalence ,

English for Specific Purposes
(ESP)
learning , , , , ,
, 
settings , , , 
syllabus , , 
teaching , , , 
F
Flowerdew, J. , –, , ,
, , 
G
genre , , , , –, 
genuine –, , , 
Gledhill, C. , , , 
H
history 
Hoey, M. , 
I
Icame 
idiom principle , , , ,

 Index
idiomatic , , , , –,
, , , , 
perspective 
usage , 
intertextual 
J
Johns, T. , –, –, , ,
, , , , , , ,
, 
K
Kennedy, G. , –, , ,
, 
Key Word in Context (KWIC)
, 
Keywords , , , , ,
, 
L
Language for Specific Purposes
(LSP) , 
learner , , , , , , ,
, , , , , 
learning
activity , , –, , ,
, 
process , , , , ,

task , –, , –,
, 
Lob corpus , , , 
Louw, B. , , , 
M
market-oriented 
mattina 
mattino 
Microconcord Corpus A
(MCA) , , , , , ,

Microconcord Corpus B
(MCB) , , –, ,
, 
medical
corpora –, , , , ,
, –, , , 
discourse , , –
students , , , 
texts , , , , , , ,
, –, , 
translation , , , 
Micase corpus , , , , ,

N
needs
students’ , , , , ,
, , 
teachers’ 
learning , , , , 
O
observer 
open-choice principle , 
P
participant 
Partington, A. , –, ,
–, 
plagiarism 
(lexical) priming 
R
register , , –, ,
–
researcher , , , , , ,

respect 
RIBA –, –, , ,
, , 
S
semantic preference , , 
semantic prosody –
serendipity/serendipitous ,

Sinclair, J. , , , , , ,
, –, –, , , ,
, 
skills , , , 
spy , , , 
stare 
syllabus –, , 
T
takeover bid , –
text-type , , , 
Thompson, P. , , 
traveller , , 
U
Unit of meaning , 
unusuality 
W
Widdowson, H. G. , , ,
, –, 
Wordlist 
Wordsmith Tools , , ,

In the series Studies in Corpus Linguistics (SCL) the following titles have been published thus far
or are scheduled for publication:
22 SCOTT, Mike and Christopher TRIBBLE: Textual Patterns. Key words and corpus analysis in language
education. Expected April 2006
21 GAVIOLI, Laura: Exploring Corpora for ESP Learning. 2005. xi, 176 pp.
20 MAHLBERG, Michaela: English General Nouns. A corpus theoretical approach. 2005. x, 206 pp.
19 TOGNINI-BONELLI, Elena and Gabriella DEL LUNGO CAMICIOTTI (eds.): Strategies in Academic
Discourse. 2005. xii, 212 pp.
18 RÖMER, Ute: Progressives, Patterns, Pedagogy. A corpus-driven approach to English progressive forms,
functions, contexts and didactics. 2005. xiv + 328 pp.
17 ASTON, Guy, Silvia BERNARDINI and Dominic STEWART (eds.): Corpora and Language Learners. 2004.
vi, 312 pp.
16 CONNOR, Ulla and Thomas A. UPTON (eds.): Discourse in the Professions. Perspectives from corpus
linguistics. 2004. vi, 334 pp.
15 CRESTI, Emanuela and Massimo MONEGLIA (eds.): C-ORAL-ROM. Integrated Reference Corpora for
Spoken Romance Languages. 2005. xviii, 304 pp. (incl. DVD).
14 NESSELHAUF, Nadja: Collocations in a Learner Corpus. 2005. xii, 332 pp.
13 LINDQUIST, Hans and Christian MAIR (eds.): Corpus Approaches to Grammaticalization in English. 2004.
xiv, 265 pp.
12 SINCLAIR, John McH. (ed.): How to Use Corpora in Language Teaching. 2004. viii, 308 pp.
11 BARNBROOK, Geoﬀ: Deﬁning Language. A local grammar of deﬁnition sentences. 2002. xvi, 281 pp.
10 AIJMER, Karin: English Discourse Particles. Evidence from a corpus. 2002. xvi, 299 pp.
9 REPPEN, Randi, Susan M. FITZMAURICE and Douglas BIBER (eds.): Using Corpora to Explore Linguistic
Variation. 2002. xii, 275 pp.
8 STENSTRÖM, Anna-Brita, Gisle ANDERSEN and Ingrid Kristine HASUND: Trends in Teenage Talk.
Corpus compilation, analysis and ﬁndings. 2002. xii, 229 pp.
7 ALTENBERG, Bengt and Sylviane GRANGER (eds.): Lexis in Contrast. Corpus-based approaches. 2002.
x, 339 pp.
6 TOGNINI-BONELLI, Elena: Corpus Linguistics at Work. 2001. xii, 224 pp.
5 GHADESSY, Mohsen, Alex HENRY and Robert L. ROSEBERRY (eds.): Small Corpus Studies and ELT. Theory
and practice. 2001. xxiv, 420 pp.
4 HUNSTON, Susan and Gill FRANCIS: Pattern Grammar. A corpus-driven approach to the lexical grammar of
English. 2000. xiv, 288 pp.
3 BOTLEY, Simon Philip and Tony McENERY (eds.): Corpus-based and Computational Approaches to
Discourse Anaphora. 2000. vi, 258 pp.
2 PARTINGTON, Alan: Patterns and Meanings. Using corpora for English language research and teaching. 1998.
x, 158 pp.
1 PEARSON, Jennifer: Terms in Context. 1998. xii, 246 pp.
