12 Herbert W. Seliger and Robert M. Vago
4 Theoretical aspects of first language attrition
The phenomenon of first language attrition can be seen as a
natural continuation of a general language acquisition or learning
strategy in which some rules are transferred between the existing gram-
mars available to the speaker, while others appear to derive from innate
or universal principles of language acquisition. The import of first
language attrition for theories of language acquisition, both first and
second, is of interest to several researchers in this volume: Sharwood
Smith & van Buren; de Bot & Weltens; Maher; Turian & Altenberg; and
Seliger. Here we would like to address two issues raised by first language
attrition that impinge on current concerns in general linguistic theory.
Sharwood Smith & van Buren (this volume) elaborate further on these,
and other theoretically relevant attributes of the first language attrition
process.
It is currently accepted in Chomskyan linguistic models (e.g. Chomsky
1981) that language abilities follow innate UG principles, which are then
modified to suit the data to which the language learner, first or second, is
exposed. Based on these modifications or parameter settings, a grammar
for a specific language develops. Given the natural tendency of human
language grammars to seek the most parsimonious system of rules, we
are specifically interested in two questions: (a) What occurs when two
languages with different arrays of parameter settings coexist in the same
mind?; and (b) How are conflicts between language specific constraints
and more universal rules resolved?
Within the Chomskyan model, a language grammar is comprised of
two parts: a core, which consists of the rules a particular language has
selected from UG, and a periphery, which consists of rules specific to
that particular language and not to others. Since the core rules for any
particular language are a subset of the UG, these rules are shared with
other languages which may contain parts of the subset within their own
core. The rules contained in the periphery part of the grammar are not
shared since they are not part of the UG.
One definition of a theory of markedness in light of the core/periphery
distinction is that rules from the core are considered unmarked (u) while
rules in the periphery are considered marked (m). For example, in
English verbs such as give, send, make allow either the prepositional
phrase construction or the direct object + indirect object construction to
express dative relationships; in contrast, verbs such as donate, explain,
construct allow only prepositional phrase datives. Since of the two variant
dative expressions only the prepositional phrase construction is found
The study of first language attrition: an overview 13
universally, verbs such as give, make, send are marked in the periphery
grammar of English for allowing the language specific other option.
Within the parameter setting theoretical framework the following
linguistic relationships might be hypothesized for cases of bilingualism
that evidence some form of first language attrition:
(12) a. L2U and Llu -> Llu
b. L2m and Llu -> Llu
c. L2m and Llm -* Llm
d. L2U and Llm - Llu
In the first relationship, (12a), both L2 and LI contain the unmarked form
of a rule, i.e. they share the same universal rule. An example of this
relationship would be when both LI and L2 express the dative through
prepositional phrases. In a case such as this, first language attrition is not
expected to obtain.3
In relationship (12b) we have the case of a marked form in L2 and an
unmarked form in LI. Since the tendency is normally toward simplifica-
tion, it would be predicted that a marked form in L2 would not displace an
unmarked form in LI. As an example, consider the fact that pronoun copy
is more common in relative clause constructions than pronoun deletion. If
L2 contains a pronoun deletion rule, it is predicted that this rule will not
displace a pronoun copy rule in LI.4
In relationship (12c) both L2 and LI are matched for marked forms in a
construction. It would be predicted that each language would maintain
autonomy with regard to these rules so that the LI construction would
not be attrited. Of course, it is recognized that "equally marked" is a
problematic collocation since markedness may be understood in the con-
text of language attrition as both an interlingual and an intralingual de-
signation. That is, while a form may be marked or unmarked within LI or
L2, the form or degree of markedness may be different across languages.
Relationship (12d) is the most likely to produce language attrition. In
this case, an unmarked form will replace a marked form. Taking dative
formation as an example, LI attrition would be predicted if LI, but not L2,
contained rules for dative alternation. In particular, the unmarked prepo-
sitional phrase construction is expected to be preferred over the marked
double object construction. That is, simplification would tend toward the
elimination of marked forms in favor of unmarked forms.
5 Conclusion
The scope of the contributions in this volume is both deep and
wide. Each article is oriented toward relating the facts of LI attrition to
14 Herbert W. Seliger and Robert M. Vago
other areas of linguistic inquiry, such as L2 attrition, nrst and second
language acquisition, language change, language use, language vari-
ation, and language organization. In Figure 1.2 we tabulate the language
contact situations for which original LI attrition data are presented,
analyzed, and explained in Parts II and III of this text.
LI
Dutch
Breton
Dyirbal
Pennsylvania German
Spanish
Hebrew
German
Russian
English
Hungarian
L2
French
French
English
English
English
English
English
English
Hebrew
Hebrew
Author(s)
de Bot, Rossing & Gommans
Dressier
Schmidt
Huffmes
Silva-Corvalan
Kaufman & Aronoff
Altenberg
Turian & Altenberg
Olshtain & Barzilay; Seliger
Vago
1.2 Group and case studies of this volume
It is sincerely hoped that this volume will be judged as a modest contri-
bution toward providing an answer to the question: What is first
language attrition, and why is it important to understand it?
Notes
1 Olshtain & Barzilay (this volume) show that attrition may affect a highly
prestigious LI as well.
2 We are indebted to George Bollag for information on the German data.
3 Of course, it must be kept in mind that if the same rule is involved in both
languages, it might appear that when the speaker is using LI he is
utilizing the LI rule, when in fact he may be utilizing the L2 rule. There
would be no way of knowing which is the case from the performance of
the speaker.
4 There may be other explanations for the retention of surface elements
such as pronoun copy which are related to questions of psycholinguistic
saliency or semantic transparency.
References
Chomsky, N. 1981. Lectures on government and binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
Cook, V. 1984. ''Chomsky's universal grammar and second language learning/'
Applied Linguistics 6: 1-18.
The study of first language attrition: an overview 15
Corder, S. P. 1978. "Language learner language/' in J. Richards (ed.), Under-
standing second and foreign language learning. Rowley, MA: Newbury
House Publishers, 71-93.
Dorian, N. 1981. Language death: The life cycle of a Scottish Gaelic dialect. Philadel-
phia: University of Pennsylvania Press.
Fishman, J. 1972. The sociology of language. Rowley, MA: Newbury House Pub-
lishers.
Flynn, S. 1987. A parameter-setting model of L2 acquisition. Dordrecht: D. Reidel
Publishing Company.
Gass, S. 1979. "Language transfer and universal grammatical relations,"
Language Learning 29: 327-344.
Hyltenstam, K. 1987. "Markedness, language universals, language typology,
and second language acquisition," in C. Pfaff (ed.), First and second
language acquisition processes. New York: Harper and Row, 55-80.
Schmidt, A. 1985. Young people's Dyirbal: An example of language death from Aus-
tralia. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Vago, R. M. 1976. "Theoretical implications of Hungarian vowel harmony,"
Linguistic Inquiry 7: 243-263.
1980. The sound pattern ofHungarian. Washington, DC: Georgetown University
Press.
First language attrition and the parameter
setting model
MICHAEL SHARWOOD SMITH AND PAUL VAN BUREN
1 Introduction
The focus of this paper, which is based on a reading of investiga-
tions into attrition reported in the literature, will be theoretical. It will
consider the relevance of recent ideas in the learnability literature in-
cluding the notions of ''input7
' and ''evidence" and their potential rele-
vance for the analysis and explanation of attrition data. This means that
the central concern will be the usefulness of such concepts as Universal
Grammar (UG) as discussed within a Chomskyan framework, and re-
lated concepts such as markedness and parameter setting. In other
words, the examples presented in the course of the discussion will serve
to illustrate the appropriate theoretical problems raised by these con-
cepts. It is, therefore, necessary to consider what kinds of questions an
application of more recent versions of the Chomskyan perspective to
attrition studies would raise with regard to the interpretation of attrition
data.1
It is also necessary to see what kinds of implication could be drawn
as far as data elicitation techniques are concerned. Data reported in the
literature will be used to illustrate both questions of interpretation raised
by the theory as well as the need for special testing techniques for col-
lecting data.
2 Competence and performance attrition
In Sharwood Smith (1983a and 1983b), attrition problems were
examined in the light of, amongst other things, the basic Chomskyan
distinction between competence and performance (see also Sharwood
Smith 1989). It was suggested that, however satisfactorily situated attri-
tion data were within current sociolinguistic models, they could not be
properly understood without considering their psycholinguistic status.
In particular, it seemed important to know whether a given subject has lost
or is even able to lose those kinds of underlying mental representations of
his or her nrst language that may be referred to as LI competence.
18 Michael Sharwood Smith and Paul van Buren
It should be emphasized here that the notion of competence can be
treated in two senses. The first, more specific sense, familiar from the
Chomskyan literature, is grammatical competence, whose instantiation in
a given mother tongue acquirer will be constrained by principles of Uni-
versal Grammar. The second, more extended sense includes pragmatic
knowledge, also allowed for (but not discussed in any detail) by Chomsky
(see Chomsky 1982). The important difference for the discussion that
follows is not so much between grammatical competence and pragmatic
competence (see Foster 1985), but rather between knowledge and the
on-line processing of knowledge. In this case, it is the distinction that
holds between linguistic knowledge of whatever kind resident in the mind
of the language learner/loser2
and those mechanisms which the learner/
loser recruits to deploy that knowledge in given instances of language use,
i.e. on-line performance mechanisms that are responsible for accessing
and manipulating that knowledge millisecond by millisecond. In this
way, language users may be said to know (or "cognize") something (see
Chomsky 1975:165), without this statement giving any information on the
facility with which that knowledge may be deployed in the various mental
operations necessary for speech production and speech recognition.
To rephrase the basic question to be asked of a language "loser" under
investigation in terms of Bialystok & Sharwood Smith (1986), one may ask
whether there has been a change in the subject's LI "knowledge" or
whether there has been a change in the subject's "control" of that knowl-
edge. In this perspective, control has specifically to do with the nature of
the on-line access (retrieval and integration) mechanisms and not with the
available knowledge itself, be it syntactic, phonological, pragmatic or
whatever. Hence a subject's intuitions about the first language (LI) may
have remained intact even though the data show clear deviance from the
native norms. One may note, in this context, Seliger's initial definition of
attrition as "erosion in the linguistic performance [author's emphasis] of a
first or primary language" (Seliger 1985).3
If the subject's LI intuitions
were intact, then tests designed to probe LI knowledge (typically via
acceptability judgement tests) would indicate that the deviance was due
to performance ("control") factors: in other words, the subject was no
longer as fluent in LI as we would expect a native speaker to be. This
would also show up if the subject occasionally still produced the standard
forms/structures in question (in the appropriate contexts with the same
meaning intentions) in such a way as to allow us to conclude that neither
the syntactic properties of the forms concerned nor their pragmatic
properties had in fact been lost in any way, only the facility with which
they were manipulated on-line.
First language attrition and the parameter setting model 19
One might, for example, propose as a working hypothesis that, in
normal situations, that is, where there has been no physical damage to
the brain, it is impossible to lose LI competence. This would mean that all
attrition amongst normals can be accounted for as loss of (fluent) access.4
This, however, would seem to be an undesirable starting point since one
can never probe competence without involving performance mechan-
isms, however light the processing load involved in the given experimen-
tal task. The hypothesis in question would reduce the status of "perma-
nent competence" to a belief, and would place it beyond scientific
enquiry (that is, until such time as physical correlates of competence are
discovered and become accessible without recourse to elicitation tests).
Hence it seems sensible to assume that attrition may occur at both levels,
competence and performance. Furthermore, we should adopt the line
that certain elicitation techniques can, in fact, make competence rela-
tively transparent for language attrition research.
The elicitation of data probing competence may be effected in a manner
uncomplicated by factors such as time pressure or the requirement to do
many different things at once. As a consequence of this, theoretical ques-
tions such as the following may be asked: (a) Can competence change
independently of changes in access and retrieval ability ("control
changes")? (b) Does competence change typically follow a first stage
characterized by a loss of accessibility and stagnate due to lack of use?
These questions relate to all types of competence, grammatical or other-
wise. One might discover eventually that the various types of knowledge
investigated, say grammatical and pragmatic competence, or subsystems
within these competences, behaved differently such that one type was
typically more permeable. That is to say, a certain type of knowledge
might be more liable to attrition than another. Massive lexical loss might
be accompanied by minor syntactic loss, surface morphology might
change faster than more basic grammatical features, pragmatically con-
ditioned aspects of word order may change before more purely syntactic
aspects (see findings reported in Olshtain 1986), and so forth; these all
seem to be interesting empirical questions.
If one looks at acquisition, it is certainly the case, given the framework
appealed to here, that competence may, in principle, change for what are
essentially competence reasons: if the language learner undergoes a shift
in perception such that there is a restructuring of his or her current
grammar, this does not have to be because Grammar 2 (or some sub-
system of Grammar 2) is more "processible" than (an equivalent
subsystem in) Grammar 1. For example, Japanese learners acquiring
English may come to restructure their current developmental grammar
20 Michael Sharwood Smith and Paul van Buren
("interlanguage") from one in which English is treated as though it
allows interruptions of verb and direct object, as in example (1), into one
that observes strict adjacency in given contexts, as in (2) and (3), respec-
tively (see, for example, Zobl 1988).
(1) *He drove slowly the car.
(2) He drove the car slowly.
(3) Slowly, he drove the car.
Looking at this from an attrition point of view, one might consider an
English speaking immigrant immersed in a Japanese speaking com-
munity and apparently unable to maintain his or her LI competence.
Then one might predict that, under the pervasive influence of L2, the
immigrant would begin to perceive the LI in a new light and the result of
this shift in perception at the level of competence is that the requirement
for strict adjacency as exemplified above is relaxed and the L2 brought
more into line with the LI. The immigrant would then accept sentences
like the one illustrated (above) in (1) as "good" English. In actual fact, to
establish clearly that such a shift in LI was motivated by competence
factors rather than processing ones, it would have to be shown how the
move away from strict adjacency actually created complications at the
processing level. If the psycholinguistic evidence were available that
allowed the rating of a construction for ease of processibility then one
could test out whether perception of the basic structural make-up of a
grammar outweighed processing considerations. To sum up, it does
seem reasonable to suggest, at least as a working hypothesis, that the
attrition of competence may be triggered by changes in the learner's
perception of the basic structure of his or her LI grammar and not just by a
tendency to ease the processing burden of an underused LI.
It has to be stressed that, until we have refined theories of processing,
we will not be able to tell how important the processibility of the LI is: at
face value it would indeed seem convenient, now looking at things from a
processing point of view, if the loser can bring his or her LI into line with
L2 so that LI in some sense becomes a dialect of L2. In this case the move
from an LI of type T{ to an L2 of type Tj will be epiphenomenal and hence
not, as was suggested above, triggered by a change in perception.
The fact that a given construction in L2, the influencing system, turns
out to require more complex on-line processing than its equivalent in LI,
the influenced system, does not of course imply that the LI loser is ignor-
ing processing considerations: even if LI became more complex in this
sense, it would still be a convenience to use the same processing routines
for both languages. For example, it would be convenient when assemb-
First language attrition and the parameter setting model 21
ling an utterance for production to always employ the same routines for
the linear placement of the main verb or adverbials in surface structure
irrespective of whether LI or L2 was being used.5
If LI requires, say, 7
processing operations for assembling a given construction where L2
would normally require 10, it will still be convenient to use 10 for both
languages, especially as the loser may be more motivated to model every-
thing along the lines of the dominant language (L2) in his or her immedi-
ate environment rather than the underused or unused LI system.
3 Eliciting competence and control
It is important to keep in mind the fact that the competence/
control distinction implies elicitation tests that probe mainly competence
facts, the results of which can be matched against tests that focus on the
tapping of fluency, i.e. control ability. The tests that probe competence
have to be given a clear theoretical underpinning and this includes the
question of whether metalinguistic knowledge, that is, explicit knowl-
edge about language structure, is understood to have a different epis-
temological status than the status accorded to tacit knowledge in the
Chomskyan sense.
If a test can be done using both modes of knowledge (tacit or explicit)
then clearly the test results are going to be hard to interpret. Researchers
can get around this obstacle by making the crucial experiments in the
more subtle areas of language structure where the subject is not likely to
have any explicit notions of what should or should not be the "correct"
(native) solution. Also the use of various different techniques to probe
intuitions can provide some kind of security against the application of
irrelevant linguistic "prejudices" obscuring the subjects' gut feelings
about forms offered for their judgement. In a language loss study carried
out in Utrecht by Van Vlerken & Galbraith (see, for example, Van Vlerken
1980: 59ff), young English speaking immigrants were given words on
cards to sort in order to make acceptable sentences as well as a straight
acceptability judgement test. The results were compared with a struc-
tured spontaneous speech task in which they had to talk about a pair of
pictures. In Van Buren & Sharwood Smith (1985), which reported an
investigation into acquisition but this time using the Chomsky perspec-
tive to frame research questions, elicitation techniques were used that
involved subjects selecting acceptable positions for prepositions that
were placed in boxes above the test utterance. There was another test
where they were asked to reconstruct the questions of a deaf man who
missed a vital piece of information in a statement addressed to him and
22 Michael Sharwood Smith and Paul van Buren
also a judgement test of sentences not taken in isolation but set inside a
wider frame of discourse (see discussion in Bialystok & Sharwood Smith
1986).
Clearly, there has tobe a great dealofcare and further research connected
with probing competence in order that processing control effects can be
isolated and the right conclusions canbe drawn about the theoretical status
of the attrition (or acquisition) data.
4 "Input" in attrition and the notion of "evidence"
In attempting to align ideas and findings in acquisition research
with those that are now appearing in the field of language attrition, one of
the first theoretical problems that arises is what to make of the relevance of
"input" in attrition studies. At first glance, it would seem that, in this
respect, acquisition and attrition cannot be compared. An acquirer builds
grammars, lexical systems, and so forth, on the basis of input data. The
changes that occur in language attrition would seem rather to be ac-
companied by the lack of relevant data. This is interesting because it is
usually assumed that mature native languages are typically stable as
opposed to interlanguages or developing LI systems, which are charac-
terized as typically unstable (see Adjemian 1976, for example). It would
appear from this assumption that once attained, the mature LI is "fixed"
and needs no further input either to disconfirm faulty learner hypotheses
or to maintain its final state. The LI data that served once as input is
therefore no longer input except to the receptive system as a whole (cf.
Sharwood Smith 1986 for a discussion of two types of input). Why then
should attrition occur? There are two obvious candidates:
(a) LI deprivation
(b) crosslinguistic influence from another language being acquired.
The purest attrition situation one can conceive of is clearly the "desert
island" one: left alone with no opportunity to read or hear the LI, no
opportunity to use it to communicate with other (present) native speakers,
and finally, making no effort to write or speak aloud, the native speaker
might or might not undergo some further development in his or her LI
which would diverge from the norms. The implied empirical question here
could, as suggested above, be split up into two, namely, would the ship-
wrecked sailor:
(a) progressively lose control over an unchanged LI competence?
(b) develop a new LI competence?
First language attrition and the parameter setting model 23
The first possibility (a) - progressive loss of control - immediately
seems feasible: on analogy with what happens with the motor skills due
to lack of use (muscular weakness), one may conceive of that part of
on-line processing ability which does not actually involve any actual
muscular activity (as, for example, when using language while thinking
and without any subvocalization) also to be prone to atrophy through
disuse. The second possibility (b) - the development of a new compe-
tence - suggests that not only the on-line aspects of performance but also
the relevant knowledge structures themselves do atrophy through lack
of use. In this case, one would expect (a) as a first stage to be followed by
(b) with a structurally and functionally reduced (possibly pidginized)
system.
Another theoretical possibility is that the native speaker not only needs
evidence for developing an LI system but also needs evidence to main-
tain his or her LI: the LI changes not because of lack of use but because of
a lack of confirming evidence that the LI is the way it is in a community of
native speakers. As was mentioned above, this would make natural
languages appear to be less fixed than they are normally assumed to be
and less distinct from developing systems such as early versions of LI
or interlanguages created by second language learners (cf. Adjemian
1976).
The standard kind of situation discussed in the literature is more com-
plex than is the case in the simple desert island situation outlined above,
and it involves both lack of continuous exposure to LI as well as
exposure to L2 input, which is generally understood to have a marked
effect on LI behavior. It might seem that one could neatly mark off L2
influenced changes from LI internal changes and attribute the first type
to exposure of L2 and the second type to changes that would occur in the
desert island situation and hence are peculiar to attrition. However there
is a problem in this neat interpretation of language loss data since, in
acquisition studies, people have often observed developmental pro-
cesses that do not seem to be attributable to crosslinguistic influence.6
Hence, if attrition data suggest changes which are not due to cross-
linguistic influence (CLI),7
we cannot earmark that data as evidence for
processes that occur only in attrition. However, if these changes can be
attributed to some process observed in acquisition research where
learners simply cease to pay attention to the L2 and create their own
structures, then the parallel with attrition becomes more evident. The
difference between acquisition and attrition is then a fairly superficial
one: in the one case the LI is environmentally present but ignored (not
treated as input) and in the other case the relevant LI is simply environ-
24 Michael Sharwood Smith and Paul van Buren
mentally absent. This in turn means that theories about acquisitional
change that is not triggered by CLI may, after all, be applied to parallel
changes in attrition.
Despite the fact that findings and theories in acquisition research have a
close bearing on our understanding of attrition phenomena and that we
can therefore consider applications of the Chomskyan approach to
diverging competences (Sharwood Smith 1983b), there is a conceptual
problem arising out of the term "evidence" when used to characterize
input. While we may speak of the L2 affecting LI as a kind of input from
within, to what extent may we see L2 "input" in term of "evidence," an
important concept in the Chomskyan approach? According to most re-
searchers, negative evidence in the sense of overt corrections of syntactic
errors and the detailing of what is not possible in the LI is not normally
available to the child and is typically ignored when it is available. In L2
acquisition, the question is more complicated and this may be the case for
LI attrition in the sense that it is happening in the context of another
language being acquired. The L2 acquirer may have available much more
negative evidence of the type discussed above; it is however another
question as to whether he or she actually uses this evidence to reshape the
current IL grammar. The L2 research pointing to similar patterns of de-
velopment in LI and L2 acquisition would suggest that this negative
evidence, consciously perceived by the learner or not, does not filter
through to the underlying developmental grammar. The onus thus falls
on to:
(a) the positive evidence in the input showing simply what is poss-
ible in LI
(b) the constraints on possible natural grammars provided by UG.
What, however, is the "evidence" that would induce an LI loser to
shift from a current grammar (or area of grammar) to a new one? Cer-
tainly, it cannot be native speaker LI input: this is no longer available. It
could conceivably be exposure to LI speakers who were already speaking
an altered (attrited) LI, but the question then arises as to how they came
to change their grammar. It might also (conceivably) be the L2 input
which is by some "sleight of the brain" taken to be quasi-Ll input; but
this gives us a rather convoluted notion of what is entailed by the concept
of evidence. The only reasonable option remaining is to say that one
might talk of "input" (in the sense of L2 input to the LI) but that there is
no such thing as "evidence" in language attrition since there is no such
thing as "hypothesizing."
First language attrition and the parameter setting model 25
5 Parameter resetting via input
If there is no such thing as evidence in language attrition, can one
then say that the Chomskyan model in which this notion plays a crucial
role is not applicable? To answer this, one needs to consider the basic idea
of parameter setting and parameter resetting. LI language learners8
are
supposed to infer from the evidence what grammatical parameters from
the repertoire provided by UG, so to speak, are relevant for a particular LI
that they are exposed to. For example, there must be evidence in the input
which signals that the grammar has to be configurational and contain
movement rules for "move alpha'' to be applied and bounding nodes to
be set. This is in order that movement may be constrained according to
UG. Furthermore, a characteristic of particular parameters is that they
carry with them a certain preference structure: this is the domain of the
theory of markedness, which says that some values will be preferred
over others unless the evidence shows otherwise.
One implication that may be drawn from the theory of markedness in
UG with regard to parameters that have different possible values is that if
learners have evidence for certain parameters being relevant and if
counter-evidence is not immediately available or if they are not immedi-
ately sensitive to evidence that actually is available, then the "un-
marked" value is assumed. The reason for this, arguing from considera-
tions of learnability, is that the learner only makes assumptions that can
be disconfirmedby the input, i.e. does not require "negative evidence."9
White has suggested (for example White, in press) that second language
learners initially assume LI settings for parameters such that they copy
over any LI marked values that exist for particular parameters leading to,
for example, preposition stranding (see for example Liceras 1986; Van
Buren & Sharwood Smith 1985) and, depending on the theoretical
account used, null subjects (see White 1985; Hilles 1986), which would
not automatically be the case for LI learners. This means that Spanish
learners of English will initially use and accept (4) as English, where (5)
would be appropriate:
(4) Is beautiful.
(5) It is beautiful.
and they will not use, and reject, sentences like (6), where the preposition
"to" has been stranded instead of "following" the wh-word to the initial
position in the sentence:
(6) Who are you talking to?
26 Michael Sharwood Smith and Paul van Buren
Kean has pointed out (Kean 1986) that L2 learners, if they have access to
UG while developing their new grammar, have access to a different kind
of UG, an already parameterized UG. She suggests further (Kean 1988)
that this altered nature of the language capacity may have a clear neuro-
linguistic status. That is to say, the neural architecture will have physi-
cally developed in this way making it impossible for L2 learners to have
recourse to the early stages of the language capacity (UG) which they
experienced in mother tongue development. This means that they cannot
learn the L2 in the same way as they would have learned it had it been
their LI.10
This also means that the resetting of parameters in L2 acquisi-
tion must follow various indirect routes (see Zobl 1988; Rutherford &
Sharwood Smith 1986).
What, however, are the parameter setting implications for language
attrition? If relevant evidence is lacking from primary language data, as
was claimed above, then what might be called the ' 'realignment" of LI
along, say, L2 lines, such that LI parameters are reset to match any
existing relevant equivalents in L211
is even more unlikely than in L2
acquisition. This implies, ceteris paribus, that the marked parameters of LI
will stay marked during attrition and that prepositions will continue to be
stranded, and null subject will continue to occur (or be absent, depending
on the theoretical interpretation of pro-drop).
It is instructive to look at examples from Seliger's (1989) data on prepo-
sition stranding. Seliger's subject, a child immigrant to Israel from the
United States, demonstrates the loss of stranding in attrited LI English
apparently by aligning English with Hebrew which is unmarked in this
respect and therefore does not tolerate stranding (see also Sharwood
Smith 1989). The same observations were made by Berman, who reports
typical constructions such as (7), which are correct, albeit formal standard
English, but for the missing "m" (marking oblique case), as well as con-
structions such as (8), which are actually incorrect in English (Berman &
Olshtain 1982):
(7) He doesn't know to who it belongs.
(8) He's thinking about with what they can play.
Finally, Seliger (1989) reports the reverse situation where attrited
Hebrew contains normally unacceptable stranded prepositions as in (9)
(see also the discussion in Sharwood Smith 1989):
(9) Ma at midaberet al ?
Taken at face value, this looks like the resetting of an LI parameter via a
crosslinguistic alignment of relevant parameters, i.e. without any evi-
First language attrition and the parameter setting model 27
dence to trigger it but rather as a result of crosslinguistic input activating
an //
L2-to-Ll//
copying procedure. This would certainly seem to be the
case if there were supporting evidence from acceptability judgement
tests that showed a change in the child's perception of LI. Otherwise,
apparent parameter setting would have to be recategorized as, for in-
stance, the effect of preferred real time processing routines: an alignment
of control mechanisms, in other words, rather than of grammatical com-
petences.12
Alternatively, it could be seen as the effect of change in the
learner's perception not of the underlying grammar but rather of the
pragmatic effects of stranding such that the responses in the metalinguis-
tic tests excluded stranding for stylistic reasons alone.13
This should
underscore the necessity of using a battery of theoretically motivated tests
rather than relying on production alone.
Finally, as has been pointed out elsewhere (see Kean 1988), if resetting
during attrition occurs, it is important to find out whether this takes place
within the confines of UG and whether this adherence to options pro-
vided by UG is simply the result of copying over L2 settings of LI, thus
creating the possibilities of odd mixtures of parameter settings which,
when taken together, could not occur in fully fledged, unattrited native
languages, even though, when taken separately they could occur in one
language or another.
6 Conclusion
Apart from the usefulness of applying a precise linguistic frame-
work to attrition data, in this case Chomsky's Government and Binding
theory, a number of interesting questions arise as a result of using this
learnability oriented approach. These questions bear on the relationships
between attrited systems on the one hand and non-attrited languages on
the other. The questions actually parallel questions in acquisition studies
concerning the theoretical status of learners' interlanguages, at least
those parts of them that are relevant to Chomskyan accounts.14
In par-
ticular, one may ask whether the attrited grammatical system is a
"natural system" in that it can be classed as a possible human language
within the constraints defined by UG. Clearly, whatever can be attributed
to on-line borrowings can be discounted as relevant data to decide these
issues. Carefully constructed acceptability judgements, however, may
provide vital clues as to whether language losers undergo shifts in their
underlying grammatical competence and whether the results demon-
strate the ongoing applications of constraints on possible languages. At
any event, the basic claim here is that, although applying the parameter
28 Michael Sharwood Smith and Paul van Buren
setting model and its associated metatheory to attrition research may
seem at first glance to release a Pandora's box of methodological prob-
lems, the gains in terms of linguistic precision and promised insights into
the processes of attrition will far outweigh the disadvantages.
Notes
1 This in no way changes the approach adopted to such data in an earlier
paper by Sharwood Smith (1983b) where it was claimed that a whole
number of conspiring (for example) typological, semantic and process-
ing effects would have to be taken into account.
2 Despite the misleading nature of the terms "loss" and "loser," they will
be used here together with "attrition," for stylistic reasons.
3 In the paper cited here Seliger later refers to interlanguage (IL) grammars
in attrition and would therefore appear to accept a competence dimen-
sion in attrition as well as a control dimension.
4 Loftus & Loftus (1980) critically discuss the "fallacy" that many people
seem to have, namely the idea that everything is remembered deep
down and that all memory problems are actually ones of recall. The
evidence suggests that there is much more creativity in recall than sub-
jects would care to admit to.
5 Note that convenience of processing here is a speaker oriented affair
since it will be presumably more difficult for (non-attrited) native
speakers to receptively process the new version of their LI as produced
by an LI loser.
6 This is true whether the hypothesized processes are "general cognitive"
in nature like simplification, overgeneralization, regularization or what-
ever one chooses to call it, or are specifically linguistic in nature such as
the move to "demark" linguistic systems irrespective of the nature of the
LI.
7 The term "crosslinguistic" was selected (see Sharwood Smith 1983a) to
avoid implications of a behavioristic perspective implicit in "transfer"
and also implications of monodirectionality (LI to L2) to facilitate discus-
sion of language attrition where the influence goes the other way (L2 to
LI). See also Kellerman and Sharwood Smith (1986).
8 The term "learn" is used here in its informal sense without any impli-
cations concerning the information that is actually internalized and that
which is innately given.
9 Negative evidence is explicit information that certain forms not in the
input (and that the learner may have created for him or herself) are not
permissible. This evidence is understood not to be regularly available to
LI learners (see Berwick 1985).
10 Few in fact have claimed such a very close parallel between LI and L2
development (cf. Mazurkewich 1984).
11 L2 may, of course, have parameters selected from possible options
First language attrition and the parameter setting model 29
offered by UG that do not exist in LI and can therefore provide no source
of influence in developing other grammatical systems.
12 This effectively means it could be classified, following Seliger (1985), as
code switching.
13 Stylistic effects can also occur in normal native-speaker behavior if it is
the belief of the native speaker that the test is testing some prestige
version of LI in which stranded prepositions are taboo.
14 This of course means that a large area of what many would like to include
under the terms ''language'' and "interlanguage" is still unaccounted
for.
References
Adjemian, C. 1976. "On the nature of interlanguage systems," Language Learning
26: 297-320.
Berman, R., andE. Olshtain. 1982. "Language patterns affecting L2 attrition: data
from Hebrew-English bilingual children." Paper presented at the Fifth
International Conference on Contrastive Projects at the University of
Jyvaskyla, Finland.
Berwick, R. 1985. The acquisition of syntactic knowledge. Cambridge: MIT Press.
Bialystok, E., and M. Sharwood Smith. 1986. "Interlanguage is not a state of
mind: an evaluation of the construct for second language acquisition,"
Applied Linguistics 6: 101-117.
Chomsky, N. 1975. Reflections on language. New York: Pantheon.
Chomsky, N. 1982. Rules and representations. Oxford: Blackwell.
Felix, S., and H. Wode (eds.). 1983. Language development at the crossroads. Tub-
ingen: Gunter Narr.
Foster, S. 1985. "Divide and rule: taking a modular approach to universals of
language acquisition." Paper presented at SLRF, Los Angeles, February
1985.
Gass, S., and L. Selinker (eds.). 1983. Language transfer in language learning.
Rowley, MA: Newbury House Publishers.
Hilles, S. 1986. "Interlanguage and the pro-drop parameter," Second Language
Research 2,1: 33-52.
Hyltenstam, K., and L. Obler (eds.). 1989. Bilingualism across the lifespan. Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press.
Kean, M.-L. 1986. "Core issues in transfer," in Kellerman and Sharwood Smith
(eds.).
Kean, M.-L. 1988. The shifting structural basis of second language acquisition. In
Pankhurst, Sharwood Smith and Van Buren (eds.).
Kellerman, E., and M. Sharwood Smith (eds.). 1986. Crosslinguistic influence in
second language acquisition. Oxford: Pergamon.
Liceras, J. 1986. Linguistic theory and second language acquisition: The Spanish non-
native grammar of English speakers. Tubingen: Gunter Narr.
Loftus, E., and G. Loftus. 1980. "On the permanence of stored information in the
human brain," American Psychologist 35: 409-40.
30 Michael Sharwood Smith and Paul van Buren
Mazurkewich, I. 1984. 'The acquisition of the dative alternation by second
language learners and linguistic theory/' Language Learning 34: 91-110.
Olshtain, E. 1986. "The attrition of English as a second language: a case of
Hebrew speaking children/' MS, Tel-Aviv University.
Pankhurst, J., M. Sharwood Smith, and P. Van Buren (eds.) 1988. Learnability and
second languages. Dordrecht: Foris.
Rutherford, W., and M. Sharwood Smith. 1986. "Consciousness-raising and
universal grammar/7
Applied Linguistics 6: 274-282.
Seliger, H. 1985. "Primary language attrition in the context of other language loss
and mixing," MS, Queens College.
Seliger, H. 1989. "Deterioration and creativity in childhood bilingualism," in
Hyltenstam and Obler (eds.).
Sharwood Smith, M. 1983a. "On hrst language loss in the second language
acquirer," in Gass and Selinker (eds.), 222-231.
Sharwood Smith, M. 1983b. "On explaining language loss," in Felix and Wode
(eds.), 49-69.
Sharwood Smith, M. 1989. "Crosslinguistic influence in language loss," in Hyl-
tenstam and Obler (eds.).
Van Buren, P., and M. Sharwood Smith. 1985. "The acquisition of preposition-
stranding by Dutch learners of English," Second Language Research 1: 2.
18-46.
Van Vlerken, M. 1980. "Adverbial placement: a study of first language loss,"
unpublished MA dissertation, English Department, University of
Utrecht.
White, L. 1985. "The pro-drop parameter in adult second language acquisition,"
Language Learning 35: 1. 47-62.
White, L. 1988. "Universal grammar and language transfer," in Pankhurst et al.
(eds.).
Zobl, H. 1988. "Conngurationality in Japanese-English interlanguage," in Pank-
hurst et al. (eds.).
Recapitulation, regression, and language loss
KEES DE BOT AND BERT WELTENS
1 Introduction
Roman Jakobson opens his monograph Kindersprache, Aphasie
und allgemeine Lautgesetze with a quotation from Karl Biihler: "Die ein-
zige Gelegenheit die wir haben, die menschliche Sprache in statu
nascendi zu beobachten, bietet das Kind," and he himself adds: "Die
einzige Gelegenheit die wir haben, die menschliche Sprache im Abbau
zu beobachten, bieten die pathologischen Sprachstorungen zentraler
Natur" (Jakobson 1941: 348).1
In his article Jakobson sketches parellels between three processes of
language change: diachronic language change, first language acquisi-
tion, and language loss as a result of brain damage. He argues that
parallels between these three processes suggest that there are universal
mechanisms in language. He provides evidence to show that
phonemes should be looked upon as bundles of features, and that in
all three processes distinctive features rather than individual phonemes
play a role. In his view, those features that are acquired late are also
relatively uncommon in natural language, and early candidates for
attrition. Although his evidence is largely phonological, Jakobson
assumes that there are universals at other linguistic levels as
well.
The supposed parallels between language history and first language
acquisition (or second language acquisition, for that matter) are usually
labelled as the recapitulation hypothesis; the supposed parallelism
between language acquisition and language loss as the regression hy-
pothesis.
Both hypotheses have been the object of some linguistic research. In
this paper we will examine whether parallels between language ac-
quisition and diachronic language change can indeed be interpreted as
recapitulation. Furthermore, we will investigate the tenability of the
regression hypothesis in Jakobson's sense, in particular for other types
of language loss - i.e. with causes other than brain damage.
32 Kees de Bot and Bert Weltens
2 Ontogeny, phylogeny, and recapitulation
It is probably not fair to call Jakobson an avowed recapitulist. His
main goal was to show parallels in language development, not to provide
supportive evidence for the original recapitulation hypothesis. This hy-
pothesis is based on Haeckel's biogenetic law of 1868: "Ontogeny is a
concise recapitulation of phylogeny/' According to this law, the in-
dividual in its development from an embryo to a fully grown organism
goes through the same stages as the species in the course of evolution.
Genetically determined traces of evolutionary stages can be identified
particularly in the prenatal stages. Haeckel (1874: 5) saw this develop-
ment as determining the development of the individual: "Die Phy-
logenese ist die mechanische Ursache der Ontogenese."2
Haeckel's biogenetic law was considered to be applicable in different
scientific fields, but actual research into the comparability of stages in
ontogeny and phylogeny was not carried out until much later. The results
of these investigations show that a strict interpretation of the biogenetic
law is untenable. Lamendella (1976: 397) outlines the main problems in
the recapitulation hypothesis:
(1) The supposition that ontogenetic stages would be a recapitul-
ation of stages in the development of adult predecessors
(2) The supposition that, as far as the course of development is con-
cerned, the correspondence between ontogeny and phylogeny
would be perfect
(3) The supposition that recapitulation occurs at the highest level,
i.e. at the level of the entire organism. It seems more plausible to
look at functional subsystems in which recapitulation may or may
not occur.
The strict version of the recapitulation hypothesis presupposes a con-
tinuous and gradual development of both individual and species, a de-
velopment that is always headed in the same direction, namely from
simple to complex and more specialized. Here, the Darwinistic character
of Haeckel's opinions emerges. "Natum nonfacit saltus,'' the dogma of the
gradual development, is the foundation of the hypothesis. A second
presupposition was that any stage at any given moment in evolution was
an optimal adaptation to the environment, and therefore functional.
More recent evolution research has shown both dogmas to be untenable:
evolutionary jumps do occur, and so do non-adaptive changes, or at least
changes that cannot be explained as adaptations. For a survey of the
development of evolutionary theories, we refer to Leakey's (1979) intro-
duction to a recent edition of Darwin's On the origin of species.
Recapitulation, regression, and language loss 33
Applying the recapitulation hypothesis in the strict sense to language is
less simple than people thought at the end of the nineteenth century
(Stam 1976). Apart from the question whether language can be compared
with a biological organism - although someone like Paul (1888) had no
problem whatsoever with that - there are several aspects that are prob-
lematic. Validity of the recapitulation hypothesis would imply that both
language acquisition and diachronic language change are continuous,
gradual processes which are governed by the principle "from simplicity
to increasing complexity/' Whether or not the process of first language
acquisition is continuous is one of the main matters of debate. Clark &
Clark (1977: 298) opt for continuity as the main rule: "In language ac-
quisition, it is continuity rather than discontinuity that appears to be the
rule/' but other child language researchers have struck a different note
(Gleitman & Wanner 1982; Shatz 1982).
For diachronic change, there is no certainty either that continuity,
gradualness and unidirectionality are the rule. In diachronic language
research, the definitions of "complexity" and changes in complexity in
the course of time are problematic. In this respect, morphological com-
plexity seems to be relatively clear-cut, compared with syntactic or lexical
complexity.
Givon (1979: 303-304) suggests a number of factors that might explain
why man's linguistic communication system has become more complex,
or - to use his own words - more syntacticized. Increasing diversity in
physical environment and in sociocultural structure and context play an
important role: the increasing diversity would call for a more detailed
linguistic system with less ambiguity.
Kiparsky (1976: 98), on the other hand, argues that the position of a
gradual development from a simple to a more complex language is not
tenable. He makes the interesting suggestion that the degree of com-
plexity of a linguistic system, in particular its morphology, is dependent
on the nature of the speech community. He suggests a tendency towards
complexity in smaller, closed communities, on the assumption that in
closed communities language is a suitable means for individuals or
groups of individuals to distinguish themselves from others. When
speech communities are larger and especially when they frequently come
into contact with others, this would, according to Kiparsky, lead to
simplification and uniformity, because the speech community would
want to demonstrate unity.3
The limitations that Lamendella (1976) set to the applicability of the
recapitulation hypothesis have the following consequences as far as
language change is concerned:
34 Kees de Bot and Bert Weltens
(1) Not all stages found in child language are recapitulations of
stages in adult predecessors. In other words, some stages may
have occurred in the past, but were, in fact, never part of the
adults' repertoire (e.g. expressions fashionable in subcultures)
(2) Not all stages identifiable in language acquisition have occurred
in the diachronic development, and vice versa
(3) Recapitulation does not necessarily occur at the highest level of
the hierarchy, and not in the same way within different subsys-
tems. This means that, for example, finding a parallellism on the
phonological level does not imply the existence of something
similar on the syntactic or lexical levels.
Several investigators who have dealt with the relation between ontogeny
and phylogeny are not very clear about what exactly they mean by "the"
phylogeny that they want to compare with ontogeny. Jakobson (1941)
and Baron (1977), for example, have limited their discussions to the more
recent eras in the development of the Indo-European languages. Their
diachronic data mainly come from older writings, rather than being
reconstructions of proto-languages. This means that they only look for
parallels in the last part of phylogeny; the many hundreds of thousands
of years of development before that remain out of sight. However, as
early as 1876, Friedrich Engels claimed that comparisons should indeed
be made with this relatively short, later period: "The mental develop-
ment of the human child is only a[n] ... abbreviated repetition of the
intellectual development of [its] ancestors, at least the later ones" (Engels
1876/1954: 241).
By contrast, some of the contributors to the 1976 conference on "Ori-
gins and evolution of language and speech," organized by the New York
Academy of Sciences (Harnad, Steklis & Lancaster 1976), do deal with the
earliest, hypothetical forms of language. On the basis of (neuro-)
anatomical reconstructions and comparisons with communication sys-
tems in other primates, they try to gain some insight into these early
stages of language. The latter group of people might be regarded as most
faithful to Darwinism: only the great changes in nature are important, not
the minimal changes that occur in, say, a thousand years.
It seems useful here to distinguish between two episodes in the phyl-
ogeny of language: one in which the transition from primitive forms of
communication as sexual signals and expressions of emotions into a
syntacticized language system occurred, and a second episode in which
this minimally syntacticized form developed into the languages as we
know them today. Research into parallels between language acquisition
Recapitulation, regression, and language loss 35
and the first episode has in fact more right to be qualified as recapitul-
ation research, given the fact that the major changes that took place
during the earlier stages are more likely to be reflected in incipient
language behavior of infants than the comparatively small changes that
occurred more recently. Unfortunately, data from these earlier stages
are beyond reach, so parallels - if found at all - will in general have to be
largely hypothetical.
Researchers who compare language acquisition with the second epi-
sode in the phylogeny of language are looking for possible explanations
for language change, rather than for fossils of a distant past (Baron 1977).
At the moment, parallels between ontogeny and phylogeny are ac-
knowledged by most researchers. Theories on language change (Ander-
son 1973; Sturtevant 1917; Weinreich, Labov & Herzog 1968) in fact often
regard the child as an important initiator of language change, and there-
fore as an important factor in diachronic language change. This does not
mean that the idea that both processes progress gradually and unidirec-
tionally is generally accepted, too. As indicated by Kiparsky (1976), it is
most plausible that languages go through periods of becoming more
complex and less complex, depending on the sociolinguistic context. As a
consequence, a language may have gone through different periods in
which it became more complex, rather than just one. In that case, parallels
with language acquisition would apply to historically distant periods
which do not form a continuum.
Language acquisition and diachronic language development are not
two continuous processes in which the order and timing of the compar-
able stages run parallel, because the relation between successive stages
can be radically different in phylogeny and ontogeny respectively. Child
language can provide important indications of potential changes, and
explain some of the diachronic data. It is obvious, however, that this kind
of parallellism is essentially different from the one implied in Haeckel's
original ideas about recapitulation, namely that the ontogenetic stages are
hereditary, genetically conditioned remnants of earlier phylogenic mani-
festations.
Researchers who concentrate on the more recent episode of diachronic
change adopt a point of view that is diametrically opposed to that of the
researchers with a Darwinistic orientation: for the former, ontogeny is a
determining factor in phylogeny; for the latter, phylogeny determines
ontogeny. This brings us to the heart of the matter: the directionality of
the causal relation between ontogeny and phylogeny. Lamendella (1976)
proves himself a real recapitulist: "Most recently encoded genetic in-
formation tends to unfold later in ontogeny so as to preserve the temporal
36 Kees de Bot and Bert Weltens
sequence in which the new components of the genetic information code
were laid down" (398). By saying this he opts for a position that biologists
gave up some fifty years ago. In his brilliant Ontogeny and phytogeny,
Gould clearly shows that the recapitulation hypothesis in its strict sense is
untenable: "The biogenetic law finally collapsed as Mendelian genetics
repudiated the generality of its two necessary principles - terminal addi-
tion and condensation" (1977: 8). If biologists have given up the hypoth-
esis for good reasons, there does not seem to be very much ground for
preserving it in linguistics.
Abandoning the recapitulation hypothesis does not imply ruling out
parallels between ontogeny and phylogeny. Koffka (1928, cited by Gould
1977: 144) rejected the recapitulation hypothesis and put forward a
"correspondence theory," according to which ontogeny seems to paral-
lel phylogeny because external constraints impose a similar order on both
processes. In fact, the same ideas can be found in Piaget's work on epi-
stemology.
For Jakobson (1941), a comparison of phylogeny and ontogeny was just
a means to show the possibility of universal characteristics of language. If
one rejects the determination of ontogeny by phylogeny, that does not
imply the rejection of a genetically determined language ability: appar-
ently children form the same hypotheses about language when acquiring
it, some of which lead to permanent changes and some of which do not.
In this respect, evidence for parallels between ontogeny and phylogeny is
at the same time supportive evidence for the idea of universals, particu-
larly for language acquisition universals, which have also been confirmed
by crosslinguistic investigations (Slobin 1982).
Parallels between language change in individuals and changes in the
language itself have only very recently attracted renewed interest in the
context of language attrition research. Boyd & Andersson (1988) report on
the loss of clitic elements in Finnish speakers in Finland and Sweden, and
their pilot data seem to suggest that the tendency to drop clitic elements in
possessive constructions is accelerated in immigrant Finns in Sweden as
compared to a control group in Finland. In a sense, this can be interpreted
as an "attrition variant" of recapitulation: language attrition as a conden-
sed form of change processes in the language itself. Comparable findings
are reported by Geelen & De Bot (1986) on individual dialect loss. They
showed that processes of change that have been going on in the dialect for
several decades are speeded up and finalized in dialect speakers that have
left their region of origin and have, accordingly, had little contact with the
dialect for a number of years.
The empirical research done so far is still too scarce to draw final con-
Recapitulation, regression, and language loss 37
elusions, but it may be the case that with (first) language loss research
the recapitulation hypothesis is given new life in linguistics, be it in a
reversed version.
3 Regression and language loss
3.1 Regression and language pathology
As already mentioned, Jakobson also tried to find indications for
the existence of universals in the language of aphasics, particularly in
comparison with first language acquisition. The idea of loss as the mirror
image of acquisition was not new when Jakobson proposed it in 1941.
John Hughlings Jackson used the term "dissolution" to denote the
course of certain diseases of the central nervous system: "It is a process of
undevelopment, it is a 'taking to pieces' in order from the least organ-
ized, from the most complex and most voluntary, towards the most
organized, most simple, and most automatic ... Hence the statement 'to
undergo dissolution', is rigidly the equivalent of the statement 'to be
reduced to a lower level of evolution'" (Jackson 1958: 46). Dissolution in
Hughlings Jackson's sense not only referred to aphasia, but also to mus-
cular atrophy, hemiplegia and dementia causing diseases such as Hunt-
ington's chorea.
Kussmaul (1910) was the first to try and test the regression hypothesis
on aphasic phenomena. As Spreen (1968: 467ff.) writes in his historical
sketch, the interest in the regression hypothesis - as well as in the re-
capitulation hypothesis, for that matter - was typical of the "Zeitgeist"
around 1880, in which the integration of different disciplines into one
great concept formed an ideal. Ribot (1883) applied the hypothesis to
aphasic multilinguals and on it he based his law that in aphasia the
language learned last is affected most heavily and recovers slowest, while
languages learned earlier are less subject to damage. Originally, Freud
(1891) also used the term regression in connection with aphasia; it was not
until later that he used it in connection with his psychoanalytic work.
In those days, the usefulness, especially the explanatory power of the
regression hypothesis was not questioned. Parallels between acquisition,
history and loss were readily accepted as proofs for universal mechan-
isms operative in language. Apparently, the existence of universals did
not have to be explained.
Comrie (1981: 23-26) gives three possible explanations for their exist-
ence: monogeny, the development of all languages from one proto-
language; innate language ability; and functional/pragmatic causes. The
38 Kees de Bot and Bert Weltens
choice one makes in explanations for language universals has immediate
consequences for the value one attaches to the regression hypothesis.
Obler (1981: 385) thinks that "elegance of symmetry" is in fact all it has to
offer, but that appears to us to be too rash a rejection. Again, the question
of causality arises: is loss a mirror image of acquisition because of external
constraints, or does the process of acquisition determine the process of
loss? For obvious reasons (species do not die out backwards) biology is
not going to solve this dilemma as it did for recapitulation.
Symmetry in the construction and dissolution of language may tell us
more about the structure and storage of language. In language acquisi-
tion, particularly in second language acquisition, the way something is
acquired or learned can influence the way it is stored in memory (cf.
Lambert & Fillenbaum 1959 for the compound-coordinate distinction;
and Kerkman & de Bot 1989 for a similar effect at the lexical level).4
Also from a Chomskyan point of view, regression research can provide
useful information. If one starts from the assumption that there is a neural
substratum of language ability in the brain, as the Chomskyan tradition
does, then parallels between phylogeny and ontogeny are feasible, but
the likelihood of regression is very low: arbitrary damage done to the
language associated parts of the brain will also affect the neural sub-
stratum just mentioned, which makes the occurrence of regression un-
likely. The situation is different for diffuse brain damage as it occurs in
dementia; in that case, we are dealing with a process of "dissolution" in
Hughlings Jackson's sense, much more so than is the case in aphasia.
On the other hand, if one does not take the neural substratum too
literally, a hierarchy of the rule system as proposed by Jakobson for the
phonological component is not dissimilar to the hierarchical organization
of sentence structure according to Transformational Grammar (TG). The
psychological reality of this hierarchy would be much more founded if it
could be shown to play a role in acquisition and loss processes. One of the
few studies that did this is Myerson & Goodglass (1972).
The tenability of the regression hypothesis also depends on the hier-
archical level at which it is applied:
(1) between languages: with respect to the order of acquisition and
loss of languages in multilinguals (Ribot's law)
(2) within languages: in acquisition, perception precedes pro-
duction, and spoken language precedes written language, in
language loss, the sequence is reversed
(3) within skills: as far as phonology, morphosyntax and lexicon are
concerned.
Recapitulation, regression, and language loss 39
Not so long ago, Wepman & Jones (1962) tried to add an extra dimension
to the regression hypothesis: they tried to link up different kinds of
aphasia with stages in child language development. The pointlessness of
this enterprise may be demonstrated by the fact that the babbling phase in
children was "equated" with jargon aphasia, in which patients have only
a limited number of set expressions at their disposal.5
The tenability of the regression hypothesis as a basic principle for the
processes mentioned under (1) and (2) above has not been really ques-
tioned until now, but things are quite different for the third level. As
already mentioned, Jakobson's evidence was largely phonological. In
addition, he himself admits that there were relatively few data available.
The most important attempt at actually testing the tenability of the re-
gression hypothesis is Caramazza & Zurif 's (1978) collection of papers,
Language acquisition and language breakdown: parallels and divergencies. They
invited a number of - in their own words, all - researchers who had dealt
with aphasia as well as child language to present their data on the relation
between the two. Their general conclusion is that, except for segmental
speech perception, the regression hypothesis is untenable. This outcome
is, however, not surprising in our view. The situation in aphasia is funda-
mentally different from that of language acquisition or diachronic
language change. In the first place, local brain damage does in general not
lead to global deterioration of cognitive and linguistic skills, but to specific
deficits of parts of the language system. Secondly the brain damage
causes, in most cases, an immediate rather than a gradual deterioration.
A somewhat crude analogy would be that one would, in investigating
the phenomenon of walking on two legs, compare children learning to
walk, man's development from quadruped to homo erectus, and the way
people walk who have suddenly lost the use of their right foot. The
comparison of the first two processes is justifiable, that with the third is
not. Yet some have tried to confirm or reject the regression hypothesis as
formulated by Jakobson in such a way.
There are two elements in the quotation from Jackson (1958) given at the
beginning of this section that deserve further discussion. Firstly, his
reference to dissolution as making a step backwards in evolution. In
doing so, he follows the Darwinistic tradition of a gradual transition to
increasing complexity of the organism: in his view, aphasia is regarded as
a gradual recurrence of earlier stages. This is interesting in the light of the
second remarkable point in the quotation: in summing up the diseases
of the central nervous system that are subject to "dissolution," he
also includes Huntington's chorea. This disease, like the diseases of
Alzheimer and Parkinson, involves dementia-like phenomena in its more
40 Kees de Bot and Bert Weltens
progressive stages. Dementia is a general term for a number of behavioral
characteristics occurring in combination, leading to a deterioration of
personality, especially a gradual deterioration of memory and cognitive
abilities. It is assumed that this behavior is caused by diffuse brain dam-
age, e.g. by arteriosclerosis. Aphasia, in contrast, is usually caused by
local brain damage.
Research into the language of the demented is relatively scarce. The
most important study is the one by Irigaray (1973), but the fact that it is
written in French has kept it from attracting the attention it deserves. In
her review of the study, Obler (1981) points out that the regression hy-
pothesis is probably much more valid for dementia than for aphasia. The
results of Ajuriaguerra & Tissot (1975), Lahey & Feier (1982) and Martin &
Fedio (1983) point in the same direction. Particularly in the area of the
dissociation of word meaning, the parallels between demented persons
and children are striking. In dementia the number of semantic features
attached to a given concept gradually decreases, while in children the
number of features increases over time. Both groups also tend to con-
struct their language from an egocentric perspective in the Piagetian
sense: a lot of knowledge is presupposed, also in front of strangers. Obler
(1983) suggests that such similarities may be attributable to attention and
memory processes, which are less efficient for both groups compared
with healthy adults. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that the
demented exhibit some types of behavior that do not occur in child
speech, such as the tendency to use endless paraphrases ("circum-
locution"), and vice versa: the morphosyntactic component appears to
remain remarkably intact in dementia, and child-like overgeneralizations
do not occur in the speech of the demented. Language in dementia may
become an important test field for the regression hypothesis, but then the
collection of more specific data is needed.
3.2 Regression and non-pathological language loss
3.2.1 The language of the elderly
While language loss in dementia can be subsumed under Jakob-
son's "pathologischen Sprachstorungen zentraler Art" (cf. Section 1
above), several other forms of language loss certainly cannot. Non-
pathological forms of language loss are in fact more suitable for testing
the regression hypothesis than pathological ones, because one cannot
rule out the possibility that the pathology influences the organization of
language in the brain; in other words, the organization that resulted from
the acquisition process may be changed by the brain damage.
Recapitulation, regression, and language loss 41
Recently, the language of the elderly and loss phenomena in it have
attracted some attention (Beasley & Davis 1981; Clyne 1981; Obler &
Albert 1982; De Bot & Lintsen 1986). Language loss in the elderly might be
regarded as intermediate between pathological and non-pathological
language loss - to aim at a real demarcation between the two would, of
course, be futile.
In old age, certain behavioral changes occur that may be related to
physiological changes, but a causal and necessary relation between the
two is not certain: old age, even very old age, does not necessarily lead to
language loss in all individuals, although one can observe a deterioration
of certain aspects of language when measuring across larger groups.
Signs of regression in elderly speech have been mentioned by Warren &
Warren (1966), Clyne (1981), and Emery (1986). In her research, Emery
showed that elderly informants exhibit problems in interpreting sen-
tences like "He told his son what to do" versus "He asked his son what to
do." The misinterpretations of the elderly showed remarkable simi-
larities with those of young children (Chomsky 1969).
Caporael & Culbertson (1986) suggest an explanation for the occurrence
of regression in the elderly that is quite different from the traditional,
neurological one: their research showed close parallels between the
language spoken to children and to elderly people, especially when the
latter are hospitalized. Sentences appear to be significantly shorter and
less complex than in the language spoken to middle-aged adults. Ryan,
Giles, Bartolucci & Henwood (1986) even suggest that language loss in
the hospitalized elderly may be (partly) caused by the impoverished lin-
guistic environment they are in. Parallels between acquisition and loss
are thus explained by parallels in linguistic input. Such a functional/
pragmatic explanation for regression is of course totally different from
explanations that are based on the working of innate mechanisms.
Regression on the level of languages (see Section 3.1 above) is sug-
gested in research by Clyne (1981), who describes a number of Dutch and
German immigrants in Australia, who show a tendency to revert to their
first language and to lose their second language (English). In a recent
follow-up study, De Bot & Clyne (1989) hypothesize that language
reversion is not a simple regression phenomenon occurring in every in-
dividual, but is dependent on the level of proficiency acquired in L2.
According to Neisser (1984), reaching a "critical threshold" makes
language proficiency relatively immune to attrition. Apparently some of
the informants tested by De Bot & Clyne did reach this level of proficiency
in L2, making their skills immune to attrition, while others did not,
making their skills much more vulnerable.
42 Kees de Bot and Bert Weltens
3.2.2 Mother tongue shift
A very common situation is that in which a group of speakers
exhibit "mother tongue shift." Usually, this occurs in a situation with
competing languages or language varieties, in a bilingual community in
which the relative position of either language (variety) is unstable. In-
itially, a so-called domain shift occurs: language B is introduced into dom-
ains that were previously reserved for language A, with the ultimate result
that, in subsequent generations, language B becomes dominant over
language A. This development takes place with indigenous minorities
(see e.g. Van Hout & Miinstermann 1988; Trudgill 1983), but a comparable
phenomenon also occurs with non-indigenous minorities, i.e. immi-
grants. Their original mother tongue (LI) is gradually replaced by the
language of the host country in the course of two to three generations (see
e.g. Gonzo & Saltarelli 1983). The domain shift, also called "functional
loss," ultimately leads to "structural loss," i.e. changes in the structure of
thelinguistic system (Miinstermann & Hagen 1986). This type ofloss, how-
ever, does not occur so much with individuals as across generations of
speakers. Therefore, we are also dealing with the phenomenon of
"imperfect learning" (Trudgill 1983:124-126): the mother tongue is trans-
ferred to the second generation in a mutilated form; to the third and
following generations in an even more mutilated form, if transferred at all.
Research in this field is usually of the survey type: by means of ques-
tionnaires or interviews, different generations are questioned about their
language preference in certain situations or domains, and sometimes glo-
bal self-assessments are obtained with respect to the degree of proficiency
in the "threatened" language. Research into the consequences of mother
tongue shift for the structure of the language system of individual
speakers is not very frequent (Geelen & De Bot 1986); investigations of the
possibility of regression in this connection are scarce. Brewer-Bomar
(1981) investigated the possibility of regression in two second generation
Spanish immigrants in the United States. She found no regression, but
rather the opposite: "Some of the most basic syntactic patterns were the
most interfered with, while semantically and grammatically more compli-
cated models were not only left untouched in the LI [i.e. Spanish], they
were still being perfected" (5105-A). This finding strongly suggests that
loss patterns depend on the (limited) opportunities for using LI; a possible
explanation for finding the reverse of regression could be that the "most
basic syntactic patterns" are used daily in the second language (L2), the
new mother tongue, replacing the original LI structures, while more com-
plex structures have not yet been formed in it, and are therefore still left
intact in LI.
Recapitulation, regression, and language loss 43
The phenomenon of imperfect learning has far-reaching consequences
for the methodology of research into LI loss. In order to be able to test the
regression hypothesis, one needs acquisition data from the same, or at
least highly comparable individuals; it is inadequate to compare, for
example, loss data from second generation immigrants with acquisition
data from monolingual children in the country of origin. However, if
acquisition data from the "losing" informants are not available, the
language of fully competent native speakers of comparable age and
socioeconomic status will have to do as the point of reference for measur-
ing language loss (cf. Jaspaert, Kroon & Van Hout 1986).
In a current project at the University of Nijmegen (Jordens, De Bot,
Van Os & Schumans 1986) the regression hypothesis is investigated.
The hypothesis is tested by comparing first language acquisition with
first language loss and foreign language learning with foreign language
loss. Case marking in German has been chosen as the linguistic variable,
because it meets the conditions of gradualness and a more-or less fixed
order of acquisition. Jordens (1983) has shown that factors such as cogni-
tive load appear to play a role in the use and acquisition of the case
marking system. Regression is expected to occur because these same
factors may also play a role in language loss. In order to test the hypoth-
esis, a closely defined linguistic element has been chosen, rather than a
large set of phenomena on different linguistic levels.
In the case of LI acquisition and loss, three groups of informants were
compared: a group of monolingual German primary school children
(mean age 8.5) and two groups of German emigrants. One group had
been in the Netherlands for at least ten years and the other had been in
Australia for at least twenty years. The results show that, in the first place,
remarkably little is lost: the emigrants made very few case marking errors
in their German. Furthermore, the factors that appear to play a role in
their case marking behavior and, more importantly,explain their errors
only partially overlap with those applying to the children acquiring
German as LI. Apparently, cognitive factors are more important for the
adult migrants, while these factors are still only developing in the
children.
3.2.3 Second/foreign language loss
Second language loss may occur with people who have been
staying in a foreign country for some time, have learned or perfected L2
there, but start losing it again after their return to the LI community.
Foreign language loss occurs with people who have learned a foreign
language (FL) in an instructional setting, but use the FL to an insufficient
44 Kees de Bot and Bert Weltens
degree after the course has finished, and consequently lose it again (for a
survey of the literature, see Oxford 1982 and Weltens 1987).
Some research has already been carried out in both areas, but the atten-
tion paid to the possibility of regression has been minimal. Only Cohen
(1975) explicitly looked for regression patterns in his data on the spon-
taneous speech of three English speaking learners of Spanish. He found
that a period of non-use of three months leads to regression in some
areas: two of the three informants clearly regressed to incorrect patterns
they had used in the learning stages. Cohen adds, however, that at least
two other phenomena occur: "residual learning/' the elimination of in-
correct hypotheses about the language, and "new incorrect patterns,"
i.e. incorrect patterns that had not occurred at some point in the learning
process.
Godsall-Myers (1981) also claims some evidence for regression in her
investigation of FL loss with American students of German, but this
appears to be based on the fact that tests that measure simple phenom-
ena, which were taught relatively early, show less loss than tests that
measure more complex phenomena, which were taught relatively late.
We feel, however, that actual learning data about the degree of mastery of
these phenomena in the course of the learning period would be needed
in order to be able to decide whether this indeed reflects regression (cf.
note 4 below). An additional complication is that establishing the point of
reference is problematic in this kind of research, too.
An interesting contribution in this respect is the one by Andersen
(1982). He claims that linguistic factors to a certain extent determine the
process of language loss.6
On the lexical level, for example, frequency and
degree of similarity between LI and FL words would be relevant factors:
high frequency elements would be retained better than low frequency
ones; words which are closely related to their LI equivalents, so-called
cognates, would be retained better than non-related words.
Interestingly enough, some of these "linguistic attributes" run parallel
to the order of presentation in FL teaching: usually, words of high
frequency are presented first, and the frequency of the subsequent
words gradually decreases. On the grammatical level we also find a clear
parallel: the simplest structures are taught first, and gradually they
become more complex and less functional (in the sense of "functional
load"). As far as these linguistic attributes indeed run parallel to orders of
presentation, they do not lead to predictions different from the regression
hypothesis, but in some cases the two can predict conflicting results. We
will try to demonstrate this by means of a concrete example. Let us
consider the case of English speaking learners of French. They will most
Recapitulation, regression, and language loss 45
probably learn the common French words first; their English equivalents
typically are Germanic in origin, and therefore not related to the French
words. Later on the less frequent French words are taught, but they are, in
many cases, English-French cognates, because about 50 percent of the
words in the English lexicon are of Romance origin, namely the less usual,
more formal words. When we apply Andersen's hypothesis to this case,
the result might be an interaction between the two, e.g. in the sense that
low-frequency words are only lost earlier if they are non-cognates, or even
a result opposite to one of the two, e.g. in the sense that similarity between
LI and FL overrules the effect of frequency.
Another interfering variable is the fact that certain phrases and sets of
words are overlearned, and therefore enjoy a special status in terms of
memory storage. One could think of greeting routines and closed set items
such as the days of the week, the months of the year and the numbers one
to ten. Berko-Gleason (1982: 21) adds, rightly so, "songs and emotionally
laden words like curses and body parts," but she notes that there are
important differences between LI and L2/FL learners, especially on this
point. She gives the example of the use of registers, stylistic variation in
speech dependent on the listener(s): four-year-old children already exhi-
bit characteristics of baby talk when addressing two-year-olds, while
many L2/FL learners never get to the point where they can productively
distinguish between registers. Berko-Gleason (1982: 21-22) therefore
concludes that, if we accept Pitres' (1895) interpretation of regression
("Those things learned best will be retained longest"), method of instruc-
tion and "what one tends to rehearse" become essential factors (Berko-
Gleason 1982: 21-22). Data from studies by Berman & Olshtain (1983) and
one of our own pilot studies (Aertssen, Van de Berg, Buursen & Claassen
1985) on the loss of a second language in children seem to support this
suggestion. Inboth studies, considerable loss on the lexical and grammati-
cal levels was found, but some pragmatic elements appeared to be well
retained. In particular, idiomatic expressions ("it's kinda hot") and social
fillers ("let me see," "for that matter") are used fluently. Berman & Olsh-
tain's (1983:233) explanation is in line with Berko-Gleason's conclusions:
"With respect to the special kind of interlanguage that emerges in the
course of language attrition, we found, then, that there are certain types of
knowledge which are deeply entrenched through the original learning
experience, where English was acquired to the point of native-like pro-
ficiency in a naturalistic setting at school, with friends, in the neighbour-
hood, and often at home with siblings even though not with parents. Such
knowledge seems very resistant to loss, especially among the older
children."
46 Kees de Bot and Bert Weltens
4 Conclusion
Surprisingly little research has been carried out in order to actu-
ally test a hypothesis that has attracted the attention of many (psycho-)
linguists over the last forty years. Caramazza & Zurif's (1978) book is a
compilation of research notes on the comparison of child language data
and data from aphasic patients. Their conclusion is that, for aphasia, the
regression hypothesis does not bear close scrutiny. For reasons men-
tioned earlier, this rinding is not really surprising. Furthermore, it does
not mean that therefore the idea of regression should be rejected.
The tenability of the hypothesis for other types of language loss has not
been investigated thoroughly so far. Several researchers (Cohen 1975;
Ervin-Tripp 1974; Godsall-Myers 1981; Knapp 1980) found some attrac-
tion in it for the explanation of their data, but their research was not aimed
at testing the regression hypothesis as such.
One of the problems that has not been solved satisfactorily in LI and L2
acquisition research, and that is also of major importance in research into
language loss, is how to establish actual orders of acquisition. There are
no objective criteria for deciding when something has been acquired (or
lost). What is considered to be an "order of acquisition/7
may depend on
the percentage correct that is chosen as a yardstick (Van Els, Bongaerts,
Extra, Van Os & Janssen-van Dieten 1984:89), or on the aspects under
investigation. Like Jakobson's distinctive features in phonology, it may
be features of linguistic elements, rather than the elements proper, that
are central in the explanation of acquisition and loss.
Research aiming at either corroboration or falsification of the regression
hypothesis has to meet certain conditions. Regression presupposes grad-
ualness and a more or less fixed sequence/order in acquisition and loss.
Therefore, only those linguistic phenomena that appear to develop
gradually and in a fixed sequence can be used. Accordingly, the number
of suitable linguistic phenomena is rather small. Only those phenomena
that are clearly rule governed in the sense that we know what the rules
look like and how they develop over time are in fact relevant. This means
that the lexicon is much less suitable than morphosyntax or phonology.
There are a number of other conditions that have to be met. Extra-
linguistic factors may influence the patterns of loss considerably. The
influence of factors such as frequency of use or differences between in-
formants in acquisitional setting and use patterns has to be eliminated as
much as possible; this is particularly relevant in the investigation of FL
loss: FL learners use the FL in a way which is radically different from the
way LI acquirers do; already during the learning period, selective rehear-
Recapitulation, regression, and language loss 47
sal and, as a consequence, selective retention occur, and they most prob-
ably will not follow the "natural'' patterns of LI acquisition. Finally, in
research on L2/FL loss, interference has to be taken into account.
To conclude, it may not be possible to settle the discussion about the
regression hypothesis once and for all. At the same time, it has become
important enough to warrant research in which regression is more than
just a digression.
Notes
This research was partly sponsored by the Dutch Linguistics Foundation,
which is funded by the Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research (NWO).
The authors would like to thank Theo Bongaerts and Theo van Els for their
inspiring comments.
1 'The only opportunity we have for observing human language in statu
nascendi is offered by the child"; "The only opportunity we have for
observing human language in a state of dissolution is offered by patho-
logical speech defects of a central nature" (our translation).
2 "Phylogeny is the mechanical cause of ontogeny'' (our translation).
3 An interesting aspect here is that functional explanations can confirm
two totally contradictory opinions.
4 Of course, we do not wish to imply here or anywhere else that a teaching
strategy automatically leads to a corresponding learning strategy.
5 Incidentally, this is a nice example of how one can score high on a citation
index by means of questionable research.
6 Note that Andersen's "linguistic attributes" can be looked upon as
"features" in Jakobson's sense, i.e. they can be applied not only to
phonology but also to other linguistic levels.
References
Aertssen, J., M. van de Berg, R. Buursen, and T. Claassen. 1985. "Tweedetaal-
verlies. Verlies van het Engels bij Nederlandse kinderen," MA thesis,
Department of Applied Linguistics, Nijmegen.
Ajuriaguerra, J., and R. Tissot. 1975. "Some aspects of language in various forms
of senile dementia," in E. H. Lenneberg and E. Lenneberg (eds.), Found-
ations of language development, 1. New York: Academic Press, 323-329.
Andersen, R. 1982. "Determining the linguistic attributes of language attrition,"
in Lambert and Freed (eds.), 83-118.
Anderson, J. 1973. Structural aspects of language change. London: Longman.
Baron, N. 1977. Language acquisition and historical change. Amsterdam: North-
Holland.
Beasley, D., and G. Davis. 1981. Aging, communication processes and disorders. New
York: Grune & Stratton.
48 Kees de Bot and Bert Weltens
Berko-Gleason, J. 1982. ''Insights from child language acquisition for second
language loss/7
in Lambert and Freed (eds.), 13-23.
Berman, R., and E. Olshtain. 1983. ''Features of first language transfer in second
language attrition/7
Applied Linguistics 4: 222-234.
Boyd, S., and P. Andersson. 1988. ''Linguistic change among bilingual speakers
of Finnish and American English in Sweden - background and some ten-
tative findings/7
Paper presented at the Workshop on Maintenance and
Loss of Ethnic Minority Languages, Noordwijkerhout, the Netherlands,
August 28-30, 1988.
Brewer-Bomar, K. 1981. "Second language lexical and syntactical interference in
the first language of two four year old Spanish speakers,77
Dissertation
Abstracts International 42: 5105-A.
Caporael, L., and G. Culbertson. 1986. "Verbal response modes of baby talk and
other speech at institutions for the aged,77
Language and Communication 6:
99-112.
Caramazza, A., and E. Zurif. 1978 (eds.). Language acquisition and language
breakdown: parallels and divergencies. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins
University Press.
Chomsky, C. (1969) The acquisition of syntax in children from 5 to 10. Cambridge,
MA: MIT Press.
Clark, H., andE. Clark. 1977. Psychology and language. New York: Harcourt, Brace,
Jovanovich.
Clyne, M. 1981. "Second language attrition and first language reversion among
elderly bilinguals in Australia,77
in W. Meid and K. Heller (eds.), Sprach-
kontakt als Ursache von Verdnderungen der Sprach- und Bewufitseinsstruktur:
eine Sammlung von Studien zur sprachlichen Interferenz. Innsbruck: Institut
fur Sprachwissenschaft, 25-32.
Cohen, A. 1975. "Forgetting a second language,77
Language Learning 25:127-138.
Comrie, B. 1981. Language universals and linguistic typology, syntax and morphology.
Oxford: Blackwell.
De Bot, K., and M. Clyne. 1989. "Language reversion revisited,77
Studies in Second
Language Acquisition 11: 167-177.
De Bot, K., and T. Lintsen. 1986. "Foreign-language proficiency in the elderly,77
in Weltens et al. (eds.), 131-141.
Emery, 0.1986. "Linguistic decrement in normal aging,77
Language and Communi-
cation 6: 47-64.
Engels, F. 1954. Dialectics of nature. Moscow: Foreign Languages Publishing
House (originally published in 1876).
Ervin-Tripp, S. 1974. "Is second language learning like the first?77
Tesol Quarterly
8: 111-127.
Freud, S. 1891. On aphasia, a critical study. New York: International University
Press (reprinted 1953).
Geelen, E., and K. De Bot. 1986. "Dialectverlies op individueel niveau,77
Taal en
Tongval 38: 172-184.
Givon, T. 1979. On understanding grammar. New York: Academic Press.
Gleitman, L., andE. Wanner. 1982. "Language acquisition: the state of the art,77
in Wanner and Gleitman (eds.), 3-48.
Godsall-Myers, J. 1981. "The attrition of language skills in German classroom
bilinguals - a case study,77
Dissertation Abstracts International 43: 157-A.
Recapitulation, regression, and language loss 49
Gonzo, S., and ]Vf. Saltarelli. 1983. "Pidginization and linguistic change in
emigrant languages/' in R. Andersen (ed.), Pidginization and creolization
as language acquisition. Rowley, MA: Newbury House Publishers,
181-197.
Gould, S. 1977. Ontogeny and phylogeny. Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press.
Haeckel, E. 1868. Natiirliche Schbpfungsgeschichte. Berlin: Georg Reimer.
Haeckel, E. 1874. Anthropogenie: Keimes- und Stammes-Geschichte des Menschen.
Leipzig: Engelmann.
Harnad, S., H. Steklis, and J. Lancaster. 1976 (eds.). Origins and evolution of
language and speech. New York: New York Academy of Sciences.
Irigaray, L. 1973. he langage des dements. Den Haag: Mouton.
Jackson, J. H. 1958. Selected writings of John Hughlings Jackson. London: Staples
Press.
Jakobson, R. 1941. Kindersprache, Aphasie und allgemeine Lautgesetze. Uppsala:
Almqvist & Wiksell. (Also in R. Jakobson, Selected writings, 1,
phonological studies. Den Haag: Mouton, 1962.)
Jaspaert, K., S. Kroon, and R. Van Hout. 1986. ''Points of reference in first-
language loss research," in Weltens et al. (eds.), 91-100.
Jordens, P. 1983. Das deutsche Kasussystem im Fremdspracherwerb. Tubingen:
Gunter Narr.
Jordens, P., K. De Bot, Ch. Van Os, and J. Schumans. 1986. ''Regression in
German case marking," in Weltens et al. (eds.), 159-176.
Kerkman, H., and K. de Bot. 1989. "De organisatie van het tweetalige lexicon,"
Toegeposte Taalwetenschap in Artikelen 34: 115-121.
Kiparsky, P. 1976. "Historical linguistics and the origin of language," in Har-
nad et al. (eds.), 97-103.
Knapp, K. 1980. Lehrsequenzen fur den Zweitsprachenerwerb. Ein komparatives
Experiment. Braunschweig: Vieweg.
Kussmaul, A. 1910. Die Storungen der Sprache. Versuch einer Pathologie der Spra-
che. Leipzig: Vogel.
Lahey, M., and C. Feier. 1982. "The semantics of verbs in the dissolution and
development of language," Journal of Speech and Hearing Research 25:
81-95.
Lambert, R., and B. Freed. 1982 (eds.). The loss of language skills. Rowley, MA:
Newbury House Publishers.
Lambert, W., and S. Fillenbaum. 1959. "A pilot study of aphasia among bi-
linguals," Canadian Journal of Psychology 13: 28-34.
Lamendella, J. 1976. "Relations between the ontogeny and phylogeny of
language: a neorecapitulationist view," in Harnad et al. (eds.), 396-412.
Leakey, R. 1979. Introduction to Darwin's The origin of species. London:
Rainbird.
Martin, A., and P. Fedio. 1983. "Word production and comprehension in
Alzheimer's disease: the breakdown of semantic knowledge," Brain
and Language 19: 124-141.
Miinstermann, H., and A. Hagen. 1986. "Functional and structural aspects of
dialect loss: A research plan and some first results," in Weltens et al.
(eds.), 75-96.
Myerson, R., and H. Goodglass. 1972. "Transformational grammars of three
agrammatic patients," Language and Speech 15: 40-50.
50 Kees de Bot and Bert Weltens
Neisser, U. 1984. ''Interpreting Harry Bahrick's discovery: what confers immun-
ity against forgetting?'' Journal of Experimental Psychology: General 113:
32-35.
Obler, L. 1981. "Review of: L. Irigaray, Le langage des dements," Brain and Language
12: 375-386.
Obler, L. 1983. "Language and brain dysfunction in dementia," in S. Segalowitz
(ed.), Language functions and brain organization. New York: Academic
Press, 267-281.
Obler, L., and M. Albert. 1982. "Language in aging," in M. Albert (ed.), Clinical
neurology of aging. New York: Oxford University Press, 245-253.
Oxford, R. 1982. "Research on language loss - a review with implications for
foreign-language teaching," Modern Language Journal 66: 160-169.
Paul, H. 1888. PrinzipienderSprachgeschichte. Halle: MaxNiemeyer (reprinted 1920).
Pitres, A. 1895. "Etude sur l'aphasie chez les polyglottes," Revue de Medecine 15:
873-899.
Ribot, T. 1883. Les maladies de la memoire. Paris: Librairie Germer Bailliere.
Ryan, E., H. Giles, G. Bartolucci, and K. Henwood. 1986. "Psycholinguistic
and social psychological components of communication by and with the
elderly," Language and Communication 6: 1-24.
Shatz, M. 1982. "On mechanisms of language acquisition: can features of the
communicative environment account for development?" in Wanner and
Gleitman (eds.), 102-127.
Slobin, D. (1982) "Universal and particular in the acquisition of language," in
Wanner and Gleitman (eds.), 128-170.
Spreen, 0.1968. "Psycholinguistic aspects of aphasia," Journal ofSpeech and Hear-
ing Research 11: 453-466.
Stam, J. 1976. Inquiries into the origin of language. The fate of a question. New York:
Harper & Row.
Sturtevant, E. (1917) Linguistic change. An introduction to the historical study of
language. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press (Reprinted 1965).
Trudgill, P. 1983. On dialect. Social and geographical perspectives. Oxford: Blackwell.
Van Els, T., T. Bongaerts, G. Extra, Ch. van Os, and A. Janssen-van Dieten. 1984.
Applied linguistics and the learning and teaching offoreign languages. London:
Arnold.
Van Hout, R., and H. Munstermann. 1988. "The multidimensionality of domain
configurations," International Journal of the Sociology of Language 74:
107-124.
Wanner, E., andL. Gleitman. 1982 (eds.). Language acquisition. The state of the art.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Warren, R. M., and R. P. Warren. 1966. "A comparison of speech perception in
childhood, maturity and old age by means of the verbal transformation
effect," Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior 5: 142-146.
Weinreich, U., W. Labov, and W. Herzog. 1968. "Empirical foundations for a
theory of language change," in W. Lehman and Y. Malkiel (eds.), Direc-
tions for historical linguistics. London: Austin, 95-195.
Weltens, B. 1987. "The attrition of foreign-language skills: a literature review,"
Applied Linguistics 8: 22-38.
Weltens, B., K. De Bot, and T. Van Els. 1986 (eds.). Language attrition in progress.
Dordrecht/Providence: Foris.
Recapitulation, regression, and language loss 51
Wepman, ]., and L. Jones. 1962. "Five aphasias: a commentary on aphasia as
a regressive linguistic phenomenon/' in D. Rioch and E. Weinstein
(eds.), Disorders ofcommunication. Vol. 17. Baltimore: Williams &Wilkins,
190-203.
First language loss in bilingual and polyglot
aphasics
LORAINE K. OBLER AND NANCY R. MAHECHA
1 Introduction
It is generally understood that one will lose facility even in one's
first language if it is not used for a long enough period. As the Russian-
French bilingual writer Triolet1
puts it vividly, "You cannot keep
[a language] safe deep within you, it must get some exercise. You must use
it, or else it gets rusty, atrophies and dies/7
To complement the growing
literature on second language (L2) attrition, a literature on first language
(LI) attrition is developing. Several populations are of interest in con-
sidering the question of first language loss or diminishment: healthy
bilingual individuals with reduced practice in their LI (e.g. the study of
Olshtain & Barzilay 1987), demented bilinguals (as in Hyltenstam
& Stroud 1989; DeSanti, Obler, Abramson, & Goldberger 1989) and
aphasics.
Indeed, the primary source of data in neurolinguistics has been the
study of aphasics, individuals with brain damage resulting in language
disturbance. Thus it is to bilingual and polyglot aphasics that we turn for
converging evidence on loss of the first language. In previous work we
have discussed the phenomena that predict various of the differential
recovery patterns in aphasia (Albert & Obler 1978; Obler & Albert 1977;
also see Paradis 1977 for a classification of differential recovery patterns).
In particular we determined that for the group of polyglot aphasics as a
whole, it is the rule proposed by Pitres in 1895 that holds: in the event that
only one language returns, it is most likely to be the language that was
being used around the time of the accident, rather than, for example,
always being the first learned language. Of course for a substantial num-
ber of individual bilingual aphasics, the language used around the time of
the aphasia producing incident is the same as the first language. In this
paper we focus particularly on those patients for whom the first language
does not return after the aphasia. Our primary question, then, is: What
characterizes this group, as compared with those for whom the first
language does return first, or at the same time as the second language?
54 Loraine K. Obler and Nancy R. Mahecha
This question is closely linked to the question of what factors influence
the brain in learning and maintaining both first and later languages. For
the neurolinguist, the questions of interest are determining the neuro-
physiological systems that are involved in this real or apparent loss, and
the neuroanatomical and neurophysiological ramifications resulting
from learning a language in different ways, or from ceasing to use it at
different ages. It is conceivable, for example, that being literate in one's
first language makes a difference in how an L2 is registered in the brain,
and it is even conceivable that how one learns a second language influ-
ences how the first one is organized within the brain. For example, there
have been some hints in the literature to suggest that bilinguals are more
bilaterally organized for both their first and second language than are
monolinguals for their only language (e.g. Albanese 1985; Albert & Obler
1978; Gordon 1980; Silverberg et ah, 1979; Sussman et ah 1982).
In the current study, we are limited by the data provided in the case
histories of polyglot aphasics with differential recovery published over
the past century. Thus we can ask questions about gross type of aphasia,
etiology of the aphasia, and gender, but we cannot, strictly speaking, ask
questions about literacy per se, or about the specific age and manner of
acquisition or learning of the second language. We can, however, in-
directly estimate education levels. With the material that Paradis' (1987)
major study promises, we should be able to return to these questions
again in some years, since the bilingual language history questionnaire he
has developed will provide markedly more detailed information than has
been available for the subjects included in this study. What follows is
intended to provide the first approximation to what we can learn from
aphasia studies about the apparent sudden loss of a first language.
2 Methodology
The corpus of 156 cases used for the present first language attri-
tion study in aphasics was drawn from two main sources: Albert & Obler
1978, and Paradis 1983. Whenever possible, any conflicts of information
were checked against the original source or its translation. In a few cases,
when neither the original nor a translation could be obtained, several
sources which described the case in question were used to clarify specific
points (e.g. age of subject). In addition, articles concerning this study
published within the last five years were added to the corpus. Case
studies for which a recovery pattern could not be assigned, that were
vague, and/or had little information were not included (e.g. Trousseau,
cited in Paradis 1983).
First language loss in bilingual and polyglot aphasias 55
3 Coding of information
3.1 Recovery patterns
All types of recovery patterns were based on the individual's
verbal production skills. A total of seven recovery patterns were deter-
mined. They were:
+ Ribot ( + R): recovery followed the rule of Ribot, that is, the
first language (mother tongue) was recovered first or was the
only one recovered
+ Ribot +Pitres ( + R + P): recovery followed both the rule of
Ribot and the rule of Pitres, that is, the language recovered
was both the mother tongue and the one used most at the
time preceding the onset of aphasia
+ Ribot -Pitres ( + R-P): recovery followed the rule of Ribot
but the mother tongue was not the one used most frequently
prior to the onset of aphasia
-Ribot (-R): recovery did not follow the rule of Ribot, that is,
the first language was not recovered first or was lost entirely
-Ribot + Pitres (-R + P): recovery followed the rule of Pitres,
that is, the language recovered was not the mother tongue
but the one most used during the period prior to the onset of
aphasia
-Ribot -Pitres (-R-P): recovery did not follow either rule,
that is, the language recovered was neither the mother
tongue nor the one most used, yet it was differential re-
covery
Equal/Parallel: all languages were lost and recovered to a similar
extent.
3.2 Criteria established
The following criteria were established:
Gender
If gender was not mentioned it was classified as male based on
the assumption that the author(s) usually mention whether an individual
is female as it is the marked case (fewer female aphasics). Gender was
thus determined for all 156 cases.
Age
If the age was stated to be within a specific decade (e.g. "in the
30s"), a midpoint was used (i.e. 35). If age was stated as being towards
56 Loraim K. Obler and Nancy R. Mahecha
the end of a specific decade (e.g. in the "late 50s"), then the digit 7 was
used (i.e. 57). If the term "approximately" preceded a stated age, just the
age was coded (e.g. "approximately 40" was coded as 40). If an in-
dividual suffered several instances of brain damage at different ages then
only the age concerning the aphasia and recovery being discussed was
used (usually the age of the first etiology). No age was recorded for
analysis if vague terms, such as "old," "middle aged," were used. Age
was determined for 139 cases.
Other languages
Languages were coded as either being used proficiently or being
partially known. Individuals were classified as "polyglot" if they were
proficient in more than two languages (i.e. able to understand, speak,
and use the other languages), or if they were proficient in two languages
and had considerable knowledge of one or two additional languages. In-
dividuals were classified as "bilingual" if they were proficient in two
languages or if their knowledge of additional languages was minimal.
This category was determined for all 156 cases.
Manner of acquisition
This was classified in three ways:
Compound: if two or more languages were learned simul-
taneously before the age of five years (McLaughlin 1984).
Coordinate: if language(s) were learned after the age of five
years.
Compound/coordinate: this was assigned if the languages were
learned simultaneously before the age of five years but later
were used in different situations, if two languages were
learned simultaneously before the age of five years and other
languages were added after this age and were used in
different situations (this category included primarily adult
immigrants), and finally, if languages that were learned in a
coordinate fashion were used in a compound way, that is,
used with the same frequency within the same daily con-
texts.
Manner of acquisition could be determined for 145 cases.
Etiology
This was classified as cerebral vascular accident (CVA), trauma,
tumor, and miscellaneous. The term "apoplectic attack" was classified as
First language loss in bilingual and polyglot aphasics 57
a CVA. A CVA etiology was assumed for one case (De Menasce 1962)
who had a left sided injury, right hand dominance, and an expressive
aphasia. A total of 112 cases were classified as either CVA, trauma, or
tumor. The miscellaneous category included encephalitis, seizures,
meningitis, sickness, syphilis, aging, softening of brain tissue, atrophy
of brain tissue, severe recurrent migraine headaches, terminal illnesses,
removal of epileptogenic tissue, cerebral vascular disease, subdural
hematoma, surgery of Heschl's gyri, and unreported etiology. Forty-
four cases were classified as miscellaneous.
Handedness
This was classified as dextral, sinistral, or ambidextrous. The
ambidextrous category included a few individuals who were forced to
become dextral during their childhood. If handedness was not reported
it was coded as "dextral" only if there was also a left hemispheric lesion
which caused a significant aphasia, on the assumption that the case
represented the prototypical right handed, left sided dominant in-
dividual. A total of 85 cases were assigned right handedness based on
this criterion. No assumptions were made as to left handedness or ambi-
dextrality even when the evidence was strong (e.g. expressive aphasia
following a right hemispheric lesion) since an unreported crossed
aphasia could have existed. Handedness could be determined for 122
cases.
Hemispheric involvement
The hemispheric damage was classified as being left, right, or
bilateral. If hemispheric damage was not reported it was assumed to be
left if the person was right handed, had incurred a CVA resulting in
aphasia, and exhibited some form of right sided paresis or paralysis. If
the patient had a CVA resulting in left sided paralysis, and no right
sided signs, the patient was included in the right hemisphere damaged
group. It was assumed to be bilateral for all aphasics who had incurred a
severe head injury and thus must have had contrecoup damage. Hemi-
spheric damage could be determined for 127 cases.
Aphasia
Aphasia was classified as being either expressive, receptive,
mixed (i.e. expressive and receptive), or miscellaneous (e.g. anomia,
conduction aphasia, etc.). The terms "dysphasia" and "executive
aphasia" were classified as expressive aphasias. The term "central
aphasia" was classified as conduction aphasia. Type of aphasia could
58 Loraine K. Obler and Nancy R. Mahecha
not be determined for only one case in our corpus. This involved a
twenty-one-year-old male who suffered a trauma (Smirnov & Faktorovich
1949) who was placed in the miscellaneous category. Thus, type of aphasia
was classified for all 156 cases.
Education
After much consideration, the category of education was divided
into the following levels: minimum, minimum-to-moderate, moderate,
and advanced. Each individual was categorized according to the in-
formation that was provided or that could be reliably inferred from the
case history. Criteria used were as follows:
Minimum education: a grade school education or less was reported. If it
was not reported, the subject was placed within this level if she/he held a
job requiring little education (e.g. maid, baker, gardener), if the subject
was a female born in the 1800s of whom nothing else was known, if the
individual resided in a country where education was not obligatory (e.g.
some South American countries), and if there was no mention of
reading/writing abilities during the recovery process.
Minimum-to-moderate education: a subject was placed at this level if
"schooling", however vague, was mentioned, if it was strongly sus-
pected that the subject had more than a grade school education but the
extent was unclear, if the person's knowledge of a set of languages
indicated a population that as a rule is educated (e.g. knowledge of
Hebrew besides Yiddish), and if difficulties with reading/writing skills
were mentioned within the recovery history.
Moderate education: at least some high school education was reported. If
unreported, subjects were classified as moderate if they had a white
collar job (e.g. stenographer, travel agent, merchant), belonged to a
religious order, especially towards the end of the last century and the
beginning of this one, and if reading/writing disturbances were men-
tioned within the recovery history.
Advanced education: a subject was placed in the advanced level if a
profession was reported (e.g. physician, professor, lawyer), and/or if
some college education was mentioned. It was inferred for those in-
dividuals described as being "educated" if they also had a considerable
knowledge of classical languages such as Greek and Latin.
In order to explore the effects of education further, the above
categories were also grouped into low (minimum), medium (minimum-
to-moderate and moderate), and high (advanced), low versus non-low
(medium and high), and non-advanced (minimum and minimum-to-
moderate) versus advanced.
First language loss in bilingual and polyglot aphasics 59
Note
A more in-depth study was not done on the following observed
factors due to insufficient number of cases: inability to translate at all or
on command, inability to switch at all or on command, presence of in-
appropriate mixing of languages during recovery, regression of one lan-
guage as other(s) recovered, influence of the written knowledge of a
language on its recovery, affective factors influencing recovery, amount
of speech therapy provided, and the influence of environmental factors
on the recovery process (e.g. language used at the hospital). In addition,
the category of mother tongue could not be analyzed as it contained too
much variation.
4 Statistical analyses
All data (recovery type, gender, age, manner of acquisition,
etiology, hemispheric damage, handedness, aphasia type, level of edu-
cation, and whether the individual was a polyglot or a bilingual) were
treated categorically except for age, which was also treated as a continu-
ous variable (i.e. specific age was coded for each subject).
Pearson Chi-squares were performed on each of the categories. Signifi-
cance is reported if the Chi-square probability value (p) or the Yates
corrected Chi-square value (p*) was < .05. All cases in the "Equal/
Parallel" recovery category were eliminated since they did not directly
address the question of this study. In addition, all of the cases where
information was not specified (e.g. unknown handedness, miscellaneous
etiology, etc.) were eliminated from those specific analyses. A com-
parison was then made within the -Ribot group to see if any factors
differentiated the - Ribot + Pitres group (N = 35) from the - Ribot - Pit-
res group (N = 12), and, within the + Ribot group to see if any factors
differentiated the + Ribot + Pitres group (N = 24) from the + Ribot -Pit-
res group (N = 8). Both analyses were significant for the presence/
absence of polyglotism. An increased incidence of polyglotism was to
have been expected for the - Ribot group as it contains - R - P, which by
definition implies polyglotism. It is unclear at this time why the + R + P
group also has an increased number of polyglots. In addition, the -R
group obtained a significant age effect (p = .005) whereas the + Ribot did
not (p = .75). Since all of the other factors were non-significant (p > .05),
and since the age category would be subjected to a series of analyses, we
collapsed the two -Ribot categories to form a single -Ribot group
(N = 63) and the two + Ribot categories to form a single + Ribot group
(N = 64). Comparisons between these two categories (i.e. + R versus -R)
60 Loraim K. Obler and Nancy R. Mahecha
more directly addressed the principal question of this study, that is, what
factors are related to individuals who do not recover their native/first
language (i.e. -R) following a brain insult as compared with those in-
dividuals who do recover it (i.e. + R). This total of 127 cases was used for
all remaining Pearson Chi-square analyses involving recovery (i.e. -R
versus + R). In addition, a discriminant analysis of the age factor was
performed.
5 Results
Two factors were found to be significant in predicting whether or
not the first language is lost completely or recovered after other languages
have been recovering. These were: hemispheric damage (p = .03) and
handedness (p = .05). In terms of hemisphere damaged (see Table 4.1),
many more individuals with a unilateral right hemispheric lesion did not
recover their first language than did (10/1), whereas for individuals with
left sided or bilateral lesions, equal numbers of subjects either recovered
their LI or did not.
Table 4.1
Left
Right
Bilateral
Totals
p = .03
Table 4.2
Hemispheric
+ Ribot
%
81.2
2.1
16.7
100
Handedness
+ Ribot
%
Dextral 92.2
Sinistral 0.0
Ambidextrous 7.8
Totals
p = .05
100
lesion x
(N)
(39)
(1)
(8)
(48)
recovery type
-Ribot
%
69.6
17.9
12.5
100
x recovery type
(N)
(47)
(0)
(4)
(51)
-Ribot
%
90.0
8.0
2.0
100
(N)
(39)
(10)
(7)
(56)
(N)
(45)
(4)
(1)
(50)
First language loss in bilingual and polyglot aphasics 61
As to handedness, all four left handers in this study exhibited a - Ribot
recovery pattern, hence left handedness would seem to predict the loss of
the mother tongue following a brain insult2
(see Table 4.2).
Trends for predicting the loss of the mother tongue fell within the
categories of education and etiology. Individuals with minimum or
minimum-to-moderate education (i.e. those with less than a high school
education) are more likely not to recover the first language than to recover
it; those with moderate to advanced levels of education, by contrast, were
more likely to follow the rule of Ribot than not (see Table 4.3). Other
groupings of education, however, revealed no significant differences.
In terms of etiology, it appears that individuals suffering traumatic
lesions would less likely recover their mother tongue. This is noted, for
example, when the two largest groups, CVAs and trauma cases, are
compared (see Table 4.4).
The following categories were non-significant in predicting the loss
of the mother tongue: gender (p* = .87), degree of bilingualism or
polyglotism (p* = .53), whether or not languages were learned in a co-
ordinate, compound, or coordinate/compound manner (p = .29), age
Table 4.3 Four educational levels x
+ Ribot
%
Minimum 13.7
Min.-to-mod. 19.6
Moderate 25.5
Advanced 41.2
Totals
p = .14
Table 4.4
CVA
Trauma
Totals
p* = .12
100
Etiology x
+ Ribot
%
74.3
25.7
100
(N)
(7)
(10)
(13)
(21)
(51)
recovery type
(N)
(26)
(9)
(35)
recovery
-Ribot
%
23.2
32.1
14.3
30.4
100
-Ribot
%
55.3
44.7
100
type
(N)
(13)
(18)
(8)
(17)
(56)
(N)
(26)
(21)
(47)
62 Loraine K. Obler and Nancy R. Mahecha
whether divided into four (p = .21) or three (p = .28) categories, and type
of aphasia (p = .44). Interactions found to be non-significant were those of
manner (coordinate versus compound) x education (p = .46), gender x
aphasia (p = .21), gender x etiology (p = .27), and gender x education.
This last interaction was non-significant regardless of whether there were
four levels of education (p = .45), three (p = .37), or two, non-advanced
versus advanced (p* = .25), and low versus non-low (p* = .81).
Additional analyses were performed on the age factor as it was con-
sidered a potentially significant variable involved with the recovery or
loss of the first language. Although a discriminant analysis was non-
significant, some clustering effects were obtained. Specifically, aphasics
who recovered their first language tended to cluster between the ages of
fifty-four and sixty-four years (N = 27 out of 51) whereas less of a clus-
tering within this age region was noted for those who did not recover
or were delayed in recovering their first language (N = 16 out of 60).
Hence, aphasics who do not recover their first language can be of any age.
6 Discussion
Despite beliefs that type of bilingualism can influence organiz-
ation of both the LI and the L2, this study suggests that it does not make a
difference in whether LI is recoverable or not after aphasia. In particular,
the manner of acquisition of the L2 was seen not to influence access after
brain damage.
It appears, rather, that lateral organization for language, apparently
apart from manner or mode of learning the L2, interacts with the recovery
of LI post-morbidly. The evidence from this study suggests that in-
dividuals with reversed dominance are most likely not to recover their
LI - shown by the loss of the LI by all of the left handers in this study and
by the majority of individuals who were aphasic with a right unilateral
lesion. These individuals could fall within the familial clusters that Ges-
chwind has reported (1983; Geschwind & Galaburda 1985), which in-
clude relatively poor verbal abilities from early in life. This could be
linked to the trend that individuals with less than a high school education
were more likely not to recover their LI than individuals with a high
school education or more. It seems clear, however, from studies of mono-
linguals, that literacy per se does not affect lateral dominance for language
(see, for example, Castro & Morais 1987). Thus we assume that within the
low education population there exists a subpopulation which was unable
to achieve a higher education because of existing minimal language defi-
cits to begin with.
First language loss in bilingual and polyglot aphasics 63
7 Conclusion
To summarize our results, the permanent or temporary loss
of a first language following a brain insult was significantly predicted
by a unilateral right hemispheric lesion and left handedness. In fact,
all left handers in the corpus (N = 4) had unilateral right hemi-
spheric lesions but 5 out of 6 additional cases with right sided lesions
contradicted the rule of Ribot as well. Less than a high school edu-
cation and the presence of a traumatic lesion also point to the rela-
tive likelihood of a -Ribot recovery pattern. Age was not a significant
factor regardless of how it was grouped or analyzed.
The other major trend, that individuals with trauma would most
likely not recover their first language, provides weak converging evi-
dence on the question of laterality. Even though 19 lesions labelled
bilateral did not tend to result in lack of recovery of LI, this may be
because they were relatively underreported. Trauma was reported
for 30 lesions; even if it was reported as resulting in unilateral
lesions, we should suspect that some bilateral damage was present.
So rather than factors of bilingual history per se, it would appear to
be brain based factors that determine recovery from aphasia in the
LI. In particular, it would seem that individuals with an unusual
brain organization are most likely to lose their LI. Such a pheno-
menon might also be expected to similarly affect language attrition in
individuals who are not brain damaged.
One question we cannot address, but that should be brought up,
is whether the first language is truly lost in the -Ribot cases, or
simply difficult to access. What is unclear from much of the litera-
ture is the extent to which it was determined that the LI was lost
because the patient did not respond to LI in conversation and/or
when she/he was tested in the LI. Of course it is possible that the
patient understood the tests or questions well, but did not have
access to the LI for production, only for comprehension. In a num-
ber of the early reported cases this possibility simply was not con-
sidered.
One further point that bears relevance, but cannot be resolved, is the
extent to which the individuals who lost their LI had been using it before
their aphasia producing incident. It is certainly possible that as a group
they were more likely to have been transplanted to an area where they
had not been using it, hence, some attrition may have already been in
process. It is simply impossible, however, to glean this information from
the case histories reviewed for this study.
64 Loraine K. Obler and Nancy R. Mahecha
Notes
1 Elsa Triolet's Collected Works, volume 1, page 26, cited in Beaujour (1989).
2 These results should be replicated with a larger sample because they
become non-significant when the non-dominant categories are col-
lapsed. Specifically, non-significant results were obtained when
non-dextrals (sinistral + ambidextrous) were compared with dextrals
(p* = .97) and when non-left hemispheric lesions (right + bilateral) were
compared with left-sided lesions (p* = .26). Note that out of the 5 ambi-
dextrous subjects, 4 recovered their LI hrst.
References
Albanese, J.-F. 1985. "Language lateralization in English-French bilinguals,"
Brain and Language 24: 284-296.
Albert, M. L., and L. K. Obler. 1978. The bilingual brain: neuropsychological aspects of
bilingualism. New York: Academic Press.
Beaujour, E. K. 1989. Alien tongues: bilingual Russian writers ofthe "first" emigration.
Ithaca: Cornell.
Castro, S., and J. Morais. 1987. "Ear differences in illiterates/' Neuropsychologia
25: 409-418.
DeSanti, S., L. K. Obler, H. Abramson, and J. Goldberger. 1989. "Discourse
abilities and deficits in multilingual dementia," in Y. Joanette and
H. Brownell (eds.), Discourse abilities in brain damage. New York: Springer
Verlag.
Geschwind, N. 1983. "Genetics: fate, chance, and environmental control," in
C. Ludlow and J. Cooper (eds.), Genetic aspects of speech and language
disorder. New York: Academic Press, 21-36.
Geschwind, N., and A. Galaburda. 1985. "Cerebral lateralization: biological
mechanisms, associations and pathology: a hypothesis and a program
for research," Archives of Neurology 42: 428-459, 521-552, 634-654.
Gordon, H. W. 1980. "Cerebral organization in bilinguals: I. Lateralization,"
Brain and Language 9: 255-268.
Hyltenstam, K., andC. Stroud. 1989. "Bilingualism in Alzheimer's dementia," in
K. Hyltenstam and L. K. Obler (eds), Bilingualism across the lifespan.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
McLaughlin, B. 1984. "Individual differences in language learning strategies," in
B. McLaughlin, Second language acquisition in childhood, Vol. 1. Hillsdale,
NJ: Erlbaum Associates, 136-176.
Menasce, J. de (translation in Paradis, 1983). "Observations d'un dysarthrique
sur ses moyens de communication," journal de Psychologie, 70, 209-220.
Obler, L. K., and M. L. Albert. 1977. "Influence of aging on recovery from
aphasia in polyglots," Brain and Language 4: 460-463.
Olshtain, E., and M. Barzilay. 1987. "Attrition of English in adult native speakers
of English living in a Hebrew speaking environment in Israel." Paper
presented at the Variation in Second Language Acquisition Conference,
held at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
First language loss in bilingual and polyglot aphasics 65
Paradis, M. 1977. "Bilingualism and aphasia/' in H. Whitaker and H. Whitaker
(eds.), Studies in neurolinguistics, Vol. 3. New York: Academic Press.
Paradis, M. 1983 (ed.). Readings on aphasia in bilinguals and polyglots. Canada:
Didier.
Paradis, M. 1987. The assessment of bilingual aphasia. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Pitres, A. 1895. "Etude sur Taphasie chez les polyglottes/' Revue de Medecine 15:
873-899.
Ribot, T. 1882. Diseases of memory: an essay in the positive psychology. London: Paul.
Silverberg, R., S. Bentin, T. Gaziel, L. Obler, and M. L. Albert. 1979. "Shift of
visual field preference for English words in native Hebrew speakers/7
Brain and Language 8: 184-190.
Smirnov, B. L., and N. Y. Faktorovich. 1949. "Kvoprosu ob afazii u poliglotov,"
Neuropatologiia Psikhiatria 18: 26-28 (translation in Paradis 1983).
Sussman, H. M., F. Franklin, and T. Simon. 1982. "Bilingual speech: bilateral
control?/7
Brain and Language 15: 125-142.
A crosslinguistic study of language contact
and language attrition
JULIANNE MAHER
1 Introduction
Most treatments of language contact presuppose one or more of
the following conceptual models: (1) language contact as borrowing, or
an additive model, such as Bloomfield (1933); (2) contact as opposing
forces, or a resistance-to-mixture model, such as Sapir (1921); or (3) con-
tact as selective blending, or the interference model, such as Weinreich
(1953). Recent studies, however, provide empirical data which contradict
the neat logic of these concepts. While it is clear that borrowing, inter-
ference, and autonomous change may and do occur in language contact
situations, other linguistic effects are discernible as well. And these
effects, in many cases, overshadow both borrowing and interference in
shaping the language forms which result from the contact situation.
As Einar Haugen (1978: 37) points out:
As the learner builds new systems in the language he acquires, he dis-
mantles and reorders the systems of the language he already knows.
It is this dismantling and reordering process which is the subject of this
article. One of the best places to study this process is in the enclave speech
community. Enclaves, for this purpose, are communities where speakers
of one language, A, are surrounded and/or dominated by speakers of a
different language, B, in a defined political or geographic area. The
essential characteristics of the enclave community are: (1) that it is multi-
lingual in the broadest sense; (2) that language A is natively spoken by a
significant number of speakers; (3) speakers of A constitute a minority of
the polity, either numerically or politically/socially; and (4) the A
speaking community has generally existed in relative isolation from other
A speakers for approximately one hundred to four hundred years.
An illustrative but not exhaustive list of enclave speech communities
comprises two general categories. The first are immigrant, or trans-
planted, communities such as the Finnish in Minnesota (as described in
Larmouth 1974); Slavic communities in the American midwest (as in
Henzl 1981); French communities in Louisiana (Conwell & Juilland 1963;
68 Julianne Maker
Whatley and Jannise 1982), Missouri (Dorrance 1935; Thogmartin 1970),
New England (Locke 1949; Valdman 1979), and the Virgin Islands (High-
field 1979); Albanian in Greece (Trudgill 1983); Hindi in Trinidad (Bhatia
1982, Mohan 1978), Guyana (Gambhir 1983), Fiji (Moag 1984) and Maur-
itius (Domingue 1980); German in Iowa (Kehlenbeck 1948), Texas (Eikel
1949), and Pennsylvania (Haag 1982). The second general category is
indigenous communities where the encroachment of B speakers, though
more gradual, is no less real: Scots Gaelic in northern Scotland (Dorian
1973,1978,1981); Breton in France (Dressier 1972; Timm 1980); numerous
Amerindian communities (Hill 1973; Miller 1971; Voeglin & Voeglin
1977); Nahuatl in Mexico (Hill & Hill 1978, 1980); Urdu in Kupwar,
India (Gumperz & Wilson 1971); Konkani (Nadkarni 1975); and Hun-
garian in Austria (Gal 1979, 1984).
Despite their diversity and despite the various B languages with which
they are in contact, languages spoken in these sociolinguistic circum-
stances reveal a restructuring or reconfiguration of morphological and
syntactic structures which display the following characteristics:
(a) Reduction in the number of allomorphs (i.e. more invariable
forms, or fewer context sensitive rules). Increased paradigmatic
regularity.
(b) Replacement of synthetic forms by analytic ones or by periphras-
tic constructions.
(c) Progressive reduction in inflectional morphology, entailing less
flexible word order.
(d) Preference for coordinate rather than embedded constructions.
(e) Distinctive aspectual constructions in verbal systems.
Data reflecting these general trends from three immigrant (Finnish,
Hindi, and French) and three indigenous communities (Scots Gaelic,
Dyirbal, and Urdu) are presented in the following two sections. (For more
extensive examples from a larger number of enclaves, see Maher 1985.)
While the sociolinguistic character of immigrant communities may differ
from those indigenous ones, it will become evident that the restructuring
process evident in the A language in both communities is substantially
the same. Possible explanations for this restructuring are discussed in the
final section.
2 Immigrant enclave communities
Larmouth (1974) studies immigrant Finnish speakers in northern
Minnesota across four generations, focusing particularly upon the
A crosslinguistic study of language contact and language attrition 69
change in the use of case endings and concord devices from Gl (the first
generation of immigrants) through G4 (fourth generation) speakers. In
general, he finds that case endings are close to standard among first
generation speakers, optional in the second and third generation and
inconsistently evident in the fourth. As in (1) below, the accusative
marked -n is obligatory on the noun huone, optional on the determiner, se,
sen, in Gl; both are optional in G2, and disappear completely in G3 and
G4. (Determiners themselves become optional in G3 and G4.)
(1) Gl: Mies osti se(n) huonen
G2: Se mies osti se(n) huone(n)
G3: Se mies osti (se) huone
G4: Mies osti (se) huone
"(The) man bought (the) house"
(1974: 357)
Predictably, word order becomes fixed in G4, as the result of the loss
of inflections. Thus in (2) Gl maintains two variants, while G4 has only
one.
(2) Gl: Mieheltd kuoli diti
"From (the) man (ablative) died (the) mother"
OR
Miehan diti kuoli
"(The) man's (genitive) mother died"
G2: Mieheltd kuoli diti. Miehen aiti kuoli
G3: Miehen diti kuoli
G4: Miehen diti kuoli (genitive construction only)
(1974: 359)
In addition, adjective-noun concord disappears in G4, such that case and
number, when they are marked at all, are marked only on the noun: in (3)
vanha "old" in G3 and G4 no longer carries ablative case ending -Ha.
(Accusative ending on kirjeen also disappears.)
(3) Gl: Mind sain kirjeen vanhalta mieheltd
"I got (a) letter (accusative) from (the) old man (abla-
tive)"
G2: Mind sain kirjee siltd vanhalta mieheltd
"I got (a) letter from that old man (ablative)"
G3 & G4: Mind sain kirjee vanha mieheltd
"I got (a) letter from old (no inflection) man (ablative)"
70 Julianne Maker
Number agreement endings on the adjective and verb disappear, or
become optional (-t and -vat):
(4) Gl: Vanhat miehet sydvat omenia
"(The) old men are eating (plural) apples (partitive)"
G2: Vanha(t) miehet sydvat omenia
"(The) old men are eating apples"
G3 & G4: Vanha miehet syo(vat) omenat
"(The) old (no inflection) men is (are) eating (the)
apples" (note that partitive is replaced by accusative
in G3 and G4)
Another change evident in this generational study is the replacement of
case endings by periphrastic forms, as in (5).
(5) Gl: Jussi ajaa kaupungista
"John is driving out of town (elative case)"
G2: Jussi ajaa kaupungista ulos
"John is driving town (elative) out"
G3: Jussi ajaa taunia ulos
"John is driving town (partitive) out" (note English loan)
G4: Jussi ajaa ulos tauni
"John is driving out town"
(1974: 360)
In (5) the postposition ulos gradually replaces the elative case ending and
becomes, finally, a preposition. The influence from the English model is
evident. However, English influence does not explain all developments.
For example, in enclave Finnish the genitive case is quite weak overall,
while the genitive is the only remaining case ending in English, the B
language. Thus, English influence would predict genitive case tenacity.
In fact, of all cases in American Finnish, the ablative is the most resistant
to loss; the partitive and accusative are the least resistant. Interference
from English does not explain these developments.
Larmouth (1974: 363) describes another morphological change: "the
interrogative pronouns in later-generation American Finnish have
broadened their range at the expense of the relative pronouns", as in (6):
(6) Gl: Mind ndin (sen) miehen joka osti se(n) huone(n)
"I saw (the) man who bought the house"
G2: Mind ndin se mies joka osti (sen) huone(n)
G3: Mind ndin se mies kuku osti (se) huone
G4: Mind ndin (se) mies kuka osti (se) huone
A crosslinguistic study of language contact and language attrition 71
The interrogative pronoun kuka replaces the relative pronoun joka. Case
marking remains strong on interrogative pronouns throughout the
fourth generation, but the substitution of interrogative for relative forms
is "system-wide," according to Larmouth. The replacement of inter-
rogative for relative pronoun forms is a very common pattern in enclave
languages.
The structures noted in enclave Finnish are similar to those found in
transplanted South Asian languages. Gambhir's (1983) analysis of the
Bhojpuri of Guyana notes the loss of inflectional categories in com-
parison with standard forms. These observations are echoed by Bhatia
(1982) in reference to Trinidad Hindi. Bhatia conducted a three-
generational analysis of Hindi speakers in Trinidad which revealed a loss
of gender, number and case distinctions in the NP among younger
speakers. Example (7) illustrates the loss of adjective-noun gender
agreement:
(7) a. bara xarab ciz
big (masc. sing.) bad thing (fern, sing.)
"a very bad thing"
b. chota chori
little (masc. sing.) girl (fern, sing.)
"a little girl"
(Bhatia 1982)
In addition, he notes loss of the oblique case, regularization of irregu-
lar verbs, and loss of pronominal forms. He cites, as an example, the
future of the verb "to come," which in Trinidad Bhojpuri has only three
forms, stating:
When we compare this paradigm with the Indian Bhojpuri paradigm
which has eighteen inflexional forms, it becomes clear that there has
been a substantial reduction. This reduction involves factors such as
elimination of honorific inflection in the 2nd and 3rd person, loss of the
singular vs. plural distinction and loss of feminine inflexional forms
(1982: 143).
Durbin (1973) notes similar reductions in morphology in Trinidad
Bhojpuri and remarks upon a development in syntax as well. Where
traditional Bhojpuri has embedded constructions for causatives, relatives
and antitheticals, Trinidad Hindi tends to juxtapose independent
clauses, avoiding the embedded structures.
In Mauritius, where the contact is now with French Creole, Bhojpuri
72 Julianne Maker
speakers follow similar patterns. Domingue (1980, 1981) compares Tra-
ditional Bhojpuri speakers (those who use Bhojpuri primarily) with In-
novative Bhojpuri speakers (those who use Creole primarily). Her find-
ings indicate a tendency among Innovative Bhojpuri speakers to erase
distinctions and to generalize optional rules. Allomorphs are reduced in
nominal case endings, for plural markers and copular verbs; these
changes, she claims, are independent of the contact with Creole. Dom-
ingue contrasts the morphological alternations in the verbal system of
Mauritian Bhojpuri (MB) with the source language, Continental Bhojpuri
(CB), with respect to honorifics:
(8) "See," past, plural
Continental Bhojpuri (CB) Mauritian Bhojpuri (MB)
1st dekhalija (unmarked) dekhalisa (ordinary)
dekhalija (honorific)
2nd dekhalasa (contemptuous) dekhalasa (ordinary)
dekhala (ordinary) dekhalija (honorific)
dekhalT (honorific)
3rd dekhalesa (contemptuous) dekhalansa (ordinary)
dekhal (ordinary) dekhalanjd (honorific)
dekhalT (honorific)
(Domingue 1981: 156)
The paradigm in (8) reveals: (a) that the traditional rather asymmet-
rical system becomes symmetrical, (b) that the six distinctive CB forms
are reduced to five in MB and the three honorific levels are reduced
to two; (c) that the CB "contemptuous" -sa weakens to MB "ordi-
nary" and (d) that the CB unmarked first person suffix -jd is
extended to all MB honorific environments. Certain of these develop-
ments may be sociolinguistically motivated (a general leveling of caste
distinctions, for example) but the change is interesting from a purely
linguistic perspective as well. MB gradually eliminates distinctions
and creates a more regular paradigm.
Numerous examples of French speaking enclave communities are
found in North America. Without detailing the differences among
such communities in Louisiana (LaF), Missouri (MiF), the Virgin
Islands (VIF), New England and parts of Canada (CaF), one can
observe certain common characteristics. Generally speaking, French
enclaves, as compared with Standard French (SF), tend to avoid allo-
morphic variation in verb paradigms. The linguistic strategies used,
however, vary from one enclave to another.
A crosslinguistic study of language contact and language attrition 73
In LaF there is a trend to invariant verb forms by eliminating inflectional
endings. The indefinite pronoun on with a third singular verb form re-
places first person plural subject nous with -ons. The second plural -ez
suffix is rarely used; the second singular subject pronoun tu is strongly
favored over formal vous, and when plurality is stressed the vous-autre(s)
form is used with the third person singular form of the verb. Thus:
(9) LaF: On a nuzot ...
SF: Nous avons .. .
"We have ..."
(Morgan 1970)
(10) LaF: Vous-autres, ca va a Vecole
SF: Vous allez a Vecole
"You go to school"
(Conwell & Juilland 1963: 143)
On the other hand, Missouri French has maintained inflectional end-
ings but has affixed these endings to regularized stems, usually formed
from the present, as in (11):
(11) MiF Fut./Imp.
vadrai
ontais
sontais
fontais
(Dorrance 1935)
Suppletive SF forms
irai
avals
etais
faisais
Gloss
"I will go
"I had"
"I was"
"I made"
This tendency to regularize on the basis of present stems extends to past
participles as well:
(12) MiF present MiF past part. SF past part. Gloss
Us
responds
suis
tais
vis
IW
/repo/
/syi/
Itel
Ivil
lu
repondu
suivi
tu
vecu
"read"
"answered'
"followed"
"quieted"
"lived"
(Thogmartin 1970: 35)
Thus, some French enclaves regularize verb stems; others regularize by
eliminating verbal endings. In addition, most French enclaves use a
single auxiliary verb, avoir, for transitive, intransitive and reflexive verbs,
avoiding the SF avoir/etre alternation. The inflected future tense is
74: Julianne Maker
moribund, replaced by the use of the periphrastic alter "to go" plus
infinitive. Hull (1956) reports this periphrastic form replacing the inflec-
ted present tense as well in certain Canadian French dialects.
Reduced numbers of allomorphs and paradigmatic uniformity are evi-
dent not only in the verb but also in pronominal systems. Generally, the
Standard French gender distinctions are not maintained and the Stan-
dard distinctive pronoun forms for subject, object, indirect object and
disjunctive are collapsed to two. In addition there is a tendency to
collapse relative and interrogative pronoun forms as well. Hull (1956: 51),
for example, states "Quoi is widely used in both relative and interrogative
situations." Locke (1949: 159) finds a substitution of interrogative
qu'est-ce qui for relative ce qui in the French of Brunswick, Maine:
(13) Tout qu r
est-ce qui monte, il faut descendre
SF: Tout ce qui monte doit redescendre
"Everything that goes up must come down"
As in transplanted Finnish and Bhojpuri, adjective-noun concord
gradually disappears in French enclaves. Determiners become either in-
variant or phonetically determined; forms of the demonstrative adjective
for example become st before a vowel and sta before a consonant:
(14) Standard French Enclave varieties Gloss
ce
ces "this/these"
cette [st]/ _V
cettes
cet [sta]/ _C
(Valdman 1979)
While the loss of concord processes varies in degree from enclave to
enclave, the tendency to invariable forms, or to phonologically rather
than grammatically determined variants, is common to all of them.
The movement away from inflectional devices and allomorphic alter-
nation toward more regularized or analytic forms is accompanied by a
preference for periphrastic constructions over synthetic ones and for
lexemes over bound morphemes to express grammatical relations. One
finds in enclave varieties numerous examples of distinct lexical entities
expressing genitive, negation, sequencing of events, interrogatives, and,
particularly, aspect in the verbal system. We have already noted the
virtual loss of inflected futures, replaced by the periphrastic va. In addi-
tion, French enclaves report novel aspectual constructions. In MiF, LaF,
A crosslinguistic study of language contact and language attrition 75
and CaF progressive or continuous aspect is expressed by etre "to be"
plus the preposition apres "after" plus the infinitive.
(15) II est apres travailler
"He is after to work = He is working"
II etait apres travailler
"He was working"
In Virgin Islands French the same semantic effect is achieved with a
different device: etre plus a relative pronoun (qui) plus a finite verb.
(16) VIF: t'ekivey
SF: tu regardes (veilles)
"you are watching"
(Highneld 1979: 95)
Although the form looks like a SF relative clause, it has apparently lost
the force of a relative and is used to indicate progressive aspect. In these
instances the B language (English) has a highly productive progressive
form, -ing. One might suppose that contact motivates these novel pro-
gressives. However, these forms are not bound morphemes like the
English inflected progressive. Moreover, the past forms with apres and ki
are difficult to explain from a functional perspective since they overlap
with the SF imperfect which has the same semantic value. However, if
we recall that the SF imperfect combines both past tense and continuous
aspect, it is clear that SF provides no means for distinguishing progress-
ive aspect in the verb. Thus, we might conclude that in these enclave
structures, the internal resources of the language have been exploited to
factor aspect out of the verbal morphology and render it a more distinct
and salient feature of the predicate phrase. This factoring process results
in morphology that, as in Creole languages, expresses tense and aspect
separately.
It is this factoring process or decomposition of complex structures that
is the most striking feature of the enclave language. As Highneld (1979:
92) puts it:
In general the simple and the periphrastic tenses are the most frequently
and consistently used. St. Thomas French [VIF] Dialect speakers show a
disinclination towards using composite structures, replacing them most
usually with periphrastic devices.
Enclave languages rely on coordinating elements, simple juxtaposi-
tion, and contextual clues to express complex syntactic relations and to
avoid embedded constructions. Conwell & Juilland (1963), for instance,
76 Julianne Maker
comment frequently on the LaF tendency to reduce or eliminate connec-
tives.
(17) LaF: J'ai longtemps j'ai pas passe
I have long time I have not passed
"It's been a long time since I passed by"
SF: II y a longtemps que je n'ai pas passe
Likewise Valdman (1979: 172) reports "relativization by parataxis" and
possession by juxtaposition in Missouri French:
(18) MiF: la fille roue-la
SF: la fille de ce roi
"the daughter of this king"
MiF: Vportrait princesse-la
SF: le portrait de cette princesse
"the picture of this princess"
Note that while ellipsis is common in English, the B language, elimination
of connectives in these cases produces ungrammatical results in English.
To project English models for these French forms does not, therefore,
seem reasonable. As Thogmartin (1970: 71) states:
The influence of English on phonology and morphology of OMF [Old
Mines French, here MiF] has been negligible, despite almost 150 years of
constant contact between the two languages and the overwhelming
dominance of English in matters of prestige and utility.
3 Indigenous enclaves
Thus far we have been looking at examples of transplanted
enclave communities. The indigenous enclave community demonstrates
many of the same features, albeit to a lesser degree. Dorian's (1973,1978,
1981) studies of Scots Gaelic speakers, bilingual in Gaelic and English, in
northern Scotland provide good examples of this latter type of enclave.
Since Gaelic has been ceding to English in this area over a period of
centuries, it is possible to study an erosion process through the gradual
loss of fluency among its last speakers, the categories she terms Young
Fluent Speakers (YFS) and Semi-speakers (SS), compared with older,
more fluent Conservative Speakers.
Scottish Gaelic has two morphemes with an exceptionally large number
of allomorphs, the noun plural and the gerund. The highly complex
system of older speakers, which involves eleven different inflectional
A crosslinguistic study of language contact and language attrition 77
devices, both mutational and suffixed, is modified by less fluent
speakers to one strongly productive allomorph, the suffix -an for plurals
and -al for gerunds. Dorian notes also that where there are competing
structures that have the same semantic value, there is movement toward
a single favored structure. Thus, for example, older speakers use two
different structures to indicate personal possession: a preposed possess-
ive pronoun used with inalienables, and postposed forms of the con-
jugating preposition aig "at" for all other contexts. Semi-speakers use the
latter form in almost all contexts. Semi-speakers also avoid complex verb
morphology and eliminate synthetic forms by substituting transparent
analytic forms as in (19), where the Gaelic so-called "conjugating" prepo-
sitions are replaced by free-standing prepositions and pronouns.
(19) Conservative
dhomh
riutn
bhuatha
speaker Semi-speaker
orn mis'
ri mis'
bho aid
Gloss
"for me"
"to me"
"from them"
Dorian (1981: 15) is careful to point out that many complex aspects of
the language are not lost by the SS or YFS, that mutational patterns are
surprisingly consistent with conservative norms, and that complex mor-
phology is retained better in certain categories. Thus, while simplification
is not generalized in the language:
One of the more suggestive findings of my Gaelic language death studies
... is that the imperfect speakers in my sample show certain kinds of
reductive phenomena in common in their Gaelic, regardless of acquisi-
tional history. For example, a greater or lesser use of analogically
regularized allomorphs in place of irregular allomorphs; complete loss of
morphemes that are already showing weakness in the fully fluent popu-
lation's Gaelic; loss of ''inventory'' ... and also in loss of vocabulary
from both open and closed classes.
(1982:56)
Another example of morphological change in an indigenous com-
munity is Gumperz and Wilson's (1971) study of three languages used in
Kupwar Village near Karnataka, India. Kannada, Marathi and Urdu are
the primary languages in this traditionally multilingual community, with
Kannada the majority language in the village and Marathi the dominant
language of the district. Not surprisingly, it is Kupwar Urdu, the non-
dominant language, which demonstrates the greatest variation from
standard forms. Gumperz and Wilson's study describes changes as
syntactic convergence among the three languages, but in fact their data
78 Julianne Maker
reveal fewer examples of convergence than of the restructuring of Kup-
war Urdu in a number of ways.
In terms of noun gender, Hindi/Urdu (HU) nouns display two gender
classes, M and F, with animates classed by sex, inanimates assigned to
either category. In Kupwar Urdu (KuU) all non-human nouns are merged
into the masculine such that only human females remain as a special
gender category, as in (20).
(20) "There was a flood"
HU: wdhd tiddii a-ii (fern.)
KuU: hwa nodi ay-a (unmarked masc.)
there river came
(Gumperz & Wilson 1971: 156)
Verbal agreement markers are greatly reduced in Kupwar Urdu. Where
HU has agreement markers on V and AUX, Kupwar Urdu has only one at
the end of the VP. Where HU has two instances of gender agreement
marking in the VP, Kupwar Urdu has only one form which agrees for
person not gender as in (21).
(21) "Where did you go?"
HU: koha Z^~Va
^ri
~a
^u
(m a s c
-)
gd-ii th-ii tu (fern.)
KuU: kha gde te tu
where gone were you
(Gumperz & Wilson 1971: 157)
NP-VP agreement in HU is complex: in the structure NP1NP2 VP, when
NP2 is not human the VP shows agreement with NP2. In Kupwar Urdu
the VP agrees uniformly with NP1. Where HU has a paradigm for the
future tense marker varying with person/number/gender, Kupwar Urdu
has one invariable future marker -eg-.
Word order differences are evident as well. While HU has the normal
order subject-complement-VP, Kupwar Urdu has normal order sub-
ject-VP-complement. HU allows the interrogative marker kya to appear
in several places in the verb construction, in Kupwar kya can only appear
in final position.
Gumperz and Wilson (1971: 162) conclude about Kupwar Urdu:
It has adapted its gender system and radically restructured its system of
agreement markers, in some cases even to the point of reshaping gender
agreement markers. It has further given up such typical HU features as
verb compounding and has also undergone a number of semantic
changes including the creation of a new distinction between exclusive
and inclusive personal pronouns.
A crosslinguistic study of language contact and language attrition 79
The last development is probably influenced by the contact languages,
Kannada and Marathi, which both make that distinction. While the influ-
ence of the B language(s) makes itself felt in certain constructions,
borrowing cannot account for the evolution of all divergent forms.
Lest we assume that these patterns of morphological change reflect
forces that lie hidden in Indo-European languages, it is helpful to look
briefly at the data presented by Schmidt (1985a, b) from enclave Dyirbal
speakers in North Queensland, Australia. Schmidt studies the speech of
a 100-member aboriginal tribal community assembled on federally
donated land at Jambun, the last of an original 3,000 Dyirbal speakers. In
this relic community only those over the age of thirty-five speak tra-
ditional Dyirbal (TD): fifteen- to thirty-nve-year-olds speak "imperfect"
Dyirbal (YD) and those under fifteen have no fluency in the language at
all, having become monolingual English speakers. Schmidt (1985b: 381)
states:
At first my impression of "imperfect" Dyirbal was of a dismal patchwork
of inconsistencies and (from the point of view of TD) mistakes, haphaz-
ardly distributed over speakers and situations. It was easy to suppose
that such a picture reflected a sporadically disrupted stage in the decay of
TD. However, I gradually became aware that the apparent "mistakes" of
the YD speakers were not random errors: rather, each individual had his
own grammatical system for Dyirbal communication, involving simplifi-
cation of the traditional grammatical norm to a greater or lesser degree.
The patterns evident in this simplification are remarkably similar to what
we have already seen: allomorphic reduction; radical simplification and
regularization of certain paradigms; generalization of a single case affix
to cover various peripheral case functions; a tendency to eliminate verbal
inflectional affixes; a breakdown in agreement rules; and diminished
frequency of clause subordination; change from free to rigid word order
(1985a: 229-232).
In addition, Schmidt's detailed analysis of the allomorphic reduction in
ergative case marking, preceding complete loss of the category, reveals
five distinct stages of change, reflected in the speech of a continuum of YD
speakers. According to Schmidt, the six phonologically conditioned
allomorphs of TD are gradually reduced to four, then to two, and then to
one, before, for the youngest speakers, disappearing altogether. The
process begins with the use of two allomorphs, -gu and -ygu, in free
variation; continues with the extension of this -(y)gu allomorph into new
environments; then with the loss of morphophonemic rules operating
over morpheme boundaries, creating more agglutinative morphological
structures with each morpheme retaining its own form; and finally, the
80 Julianne Maker
emergence of a single morpheme -gu for ergative case in all stems. Ulti-
mately, the ergative case ending is eliminated altogether and syntactic
function is marked by word order alone. Schmidt's very close analysis
provides a unique insight into the attrition process as it unfolds.
4 Conclusion
It is clear from the preceding examples that the development
noted in enclave Indo-European languages is paralleled in non-
Indo-European languages such as Dyirbal and Finnish; the phenomenon
is evidently not, as Sapir and others have suggested, a characteristic
development of the Indo-European language family. Moreover, while
English may be seen as exerting an influence in some cases, the examples
from Kupwar Urdu and Mauritian Bhopjuri reflect similar tendencies
with differing contact languages. The restructuring cannot be explained
wholly in terms of borrowing or interference. The question, therefore,
remains: If neither borrowing nor internal change can account for these
effects, how can we explain this "dismantling and reordering" process,
to use Haugen's term?
One is tempted to look to the discussions of the so-called "language
death" phenomenon for explanations of these types of change. The re-
structuring that occurs in "language death" has been explained in func-
tional terms. As language A dies out, speakers use it in fewer and fewer
sociolinguistic contexts; it is suggested, therefore, that the need for stylis-
tic variants in language A is reduced. Moreover, among intimates, con-
text predetermines much of the message. The need for more formal,
elaborated or context-independent speech varieties is, therefore, limited.
It is supposed that elaborate language forms gradually die out, leaving
only those informal variants used in the intimate setting. While this
description oversimplifies the actual situation, there is no question that
functional diglossia characterizes many "language death" situations.
However, "language death" is not the overriding process in every
enclave situation; there are stable diglossic communities, such as Kupwar
Urdu, where the restructuring process is nonetheless evident. Moreover,
morphosyntactic restructuring is also evident in other bilingual situations
which do not involve attrition: second language Swahili as spoken in
Nairobi and Kumpala (Scotton 1979); Bozal (Africanized) Spanish (Lipski
1986); Nagamese (Ferguson 1983); Afrikaans and other "creoloids" or
creole-like languages. It is not clear, therefore, that the phenomena under
review are unique to "language death" or to the language attrition
process.
A crosslinguistic study of language contact and language attrition 81
An alternative explanation based on bilingualism can be proposed as
follows: bilingualism creates a need for communicative efficiency which
promotes certain reduced linguistic forms over other more complex ones.
Mohan and Zador (1986) suggest that it is the optional or redundant
elements that are lost in these situations. Vago (this volume) and Maher
(1985) describe the process as an elimination of opaque constructions in
favor of greater morphosyntactic transparency. In both cases bilingualism
is seen as favoring strategies which render communication in the less
frequently used language more efficient and less ambiguous. Bi- or tri-
lingualism is a factor in all the enclave communities under review here.
However, it would be impossible to maintain that multilingual situations
generally produce morphosyntactic restructuring in the less dominant
language; thus multilingualism cannot be taken as an explanatory factor
in and of itself.
An alternative explanation disregards issues concerning language use
in the adult community, and focuses rather on how language A is
acquired in the multilingual setting. Intergenerational language change
in bilingual communities is seen in these terms as the result of inadequate
exposure to language A for latter-generation children. While these
children are exposed to language B and learn it easily, exposure to A
gradually diminishes, resulting in "partially replicated grammars." The
regularized forms typical in child language seem sufficiently similar to
restructured forms to suggest, as in Jakobson (1972), a strong relationship
between acquisition and loss. (A review of relevant crosslinguistic data on
partially replicated grammars and their theoretical implications is found
in Maher 1985: 229-277.) This explanation has an additional appeal in that
it may provide a principled relationship between the restructuring in
enclaves and pidgin/creole languages. If restructuring occurs in enclaves
due to inadequate exposure to language A, then the similar structures in
pidgins and Creoles may also be explained in terms of inadequate exposure
to the target language. However, since no detailed studies of language
acquisition in an enclave community have been done, all theories about
language acquisition in these situations are mere conjecture. Such studies
are feasible, however, and would yield interesting results.
It would be difficult at this point to rule out any of these possible
explanations. Language use, language acquisition, and bilingualism may
all play a role in determining the evolution of language A structures.
Haugen's suggestion that the learner of a new language dismantles and
reorders the language he already knows seems to be born out in enclave
situations in the larger community context. In extending Haugen's obser-
vation, we can see that this reordering process is far more systematic and
82 Julianne Maker
more general than earlier studies of bilingualism and language contact
have indicated. A broader and more thorough analysis of these sys-
tematic reordering processes, as evidenced in individuals as well as in
speech communities, will enrich our understanding of fundamental
human linguistic processes and may also provide evidence for the struc-
ture of Universal Grammar.
References
Andersen, Roger W. 1982. ''Determining the linguistic attributes of language
attrition/' in Richard D. Lambert et al. (eds.), The loss of language skills.
Rowley, MA: Newbury House Publishers, 83-118.
Bhatia, Tej K. 1982. ''Trinidad Hindi: three generations of a transplanted vari-
ety," Studies in the Linguistic Sciences 11: 135-150.
Bloomfield, Leonard. 1933. Language. New York: Holt, Rinehart and Winston.
Conwell, Marily J., and Alphonse Juilland. 1963. Louisiana French grammar. The
Hague: Mouton.
Domingue, Nicole. 1980. "Syntactic innovations in Mauritian Bhojpuri," MS,
McGill University.
1981. "Internal change in a transplanted language," Studies in Linguistic Sciences
4: 151-159.
Dorian, Nancy. 1973. "Grammatical change in a dying dialect," Language 49:
411-438.
1978. "The fate of morphological complexity in language death: evidence from
East Sutherland Gaelic," Language 54: 590-609.
1981. Language death. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press.
Dorrance, W. A. 1935. The survival of French in the old district of Sainte Genevieve.
Columbia, MO: University of Missouri.
Dressier, Wolfgang. 1972. "On the phonology of language death," Chicago Lin-
guistic Society 8: 448-457.
Durbin, Mridula Adenwala. 1973. "Formal changes in Trinidad Hindi as a result
of language adaptation," American Anthropologist 75: 1290-1304.
Eikel, Jr., Fred. 1949. "The use of cases in New Braunfels German," American
Speech 24: 278-281.
Ferguson, Charles A. 1983. "Is Nagamese a creoloid?" MS, Stanford University.
Gal, Susan. 1979. Language shift. New York: Academic Press.
1984. "Phonological style in bilingualism: the interaction of structure and use,"
in D. Schiffrin (ed.), Meaning, form and use in context. GURT 84,
Georgetown University Press, Washington, DC.
Gambhir, Surendra K. 1983. "Diglossia in dying languages: a case study of
Guyanese Bhojpuri and Standard Hindi," Anthropological Linguistics
25: 25-28.
Givon, Talmy. 1979. "Prolegomena to any same creology," in Ian Hancock (ed.),
Readings in Creole studies. Ghent: Story-Scientia, 3-36.
Gumperz, John J., and Robert Wilson. 1971. "Convergence and creolization," in
A crosslinguistic study of language contact and language attrition 83
Dell Hymes (ed.), Pidginization and creolization of languages. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 151-168.
Haag, Earl C. 1982. A Pennsylvania German reader and grammar. University Park,
PA: Penn State University Press.
Haugen, Einar. 1978. "Bilingualism, language contact, and immigrant languages
in the United States: a research report 1956-1970/' in Joshua Fishman
(ed.), Advances in the study ofsocietal multilingualism. The Hague: Mouton,
1-112.
Henzl, Vera. 1981. "Slavic languages in the new environment/' in Charles A.
Ferguson and Shirley B. Heath (eds.), Language in the USA. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 293-321.
Highneld, Arnold R. 1979. The French dialect of St. Thomas, US Virgin Islands. Ann
Arbor: Karoma.
Hill, Jane H. 1973. "Subordinate clause density and language function/7
in
Corun, Smith-Stark and Geiser (eds.), You take the high node and I'll take
the low node. Chicago Linguistic Society, 33-52.
and Kenneth C. Hill. 1978. "Honorific usage in Modern Nahuatl," Language
54: 123-155.
and Kenneth C. Hill. 1980. "Mixed grammar, purist grammar, and language
attitudes in Modern Nahuatl," Language and Society 9: 321-348.
Hull, Alexlander. 1956. "The Franco-Canadian dialect of Windsor, Ontario: a
preliminary study," Orbis 5: 35-60.
Jakobson, R. 1972. Child language, aphasia and phonological universals. The Hague:
Mouton.
Kehlenbeck, Alfred P. 1948. "An Iowa Low German dialect," American Dialect
Society 10. Greensboro, NC.
Larmouth, Donald W. 1974. "Differential interference in American Finnish
cases," Language 50: 356-366.
Lipski, John M. 1986. "Convergence and divergence in Bozal Spanish: a com-
parative study," Journal of Pidgin and Creole Languages 1:2.
Locke, William N. 1949. "Pronunciation of the French spoken at Brunswick,
Maine," American Dialect Society 12. Greensboro, NC.
Maher, Julianne. 1985. Contact linguistics: The language enclave phenomena. PhD
dissertation, New York University.
Miller, Wick R. 1971. "The death of language or serendipity among the Shosh-
oni," Anthropological Linguistics 13: 114-120.
Moag, Rodney. 1984. "Factors in language attrition: Taniel in Fiji, 1945-75."
Paper at Sixth SALA Roundtable. Austin, TX.
Mohan, Peggy R. 1978. "Trinidad Bhojpuri: a morphological study," PhD disser-
tation, University of Michigan,
and Paul Zador. 1986. "Discontinuity in a life cycle: The death of Trinidad
Bhojpuri," Language 62: 291-319.
Morgan, Jr, Raleigh. 1970. "Dialect leveling in non-English speech of Southwest
Louisiana," in Glenn G. Gilbert (ed.), Texas Studies in Bilingualism.
Berlin: Walter de Gruyter, 50-62.
Nadkarni, Mangesh V. 1975. "Bilingualism and syntactic change in Konkani,"
Language 51: 672-683.
Rickford, John R. 1986. "The need for new approaches to social class analysis in
sociolinguistics," Language and Communication 6:3.
84 Julianne Maker
Rickford, John R. 1986. "Social contact and linguistic diffusion/' Language 62:
245-289.
Sapir, Edward. 1921. Language. New York: Harcourt Brace.
Schmidt, Annette. 1985a. Young people's Dyirbal. Cambridge: Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
1985b. "The fate of ergativity in dying Dyirbal/' Language 61: 378-396.
Scotton, Carol Myers. 1979. "The context is the message: morphological, syntac-
tic and semantic reduction and deletion in Nairobi and Kampala varieties
of Swahili/' in Ian Hancock (ed.), Readings in Creole studies. Ghent:
Story-Scientia, 111-128.
Thogmartin, Jr, Clyde O. 1970. "The French dialect of Old Mines, Missouri,"
PhD dissertation, University of Michigan.
Timm, Lenora A. 1980. "Bilingualism, diglossia and language shift in Brittany,"
International Journal of Sociology of Language 25: 29-49.
Trudgill, Peter. 1983. On dialect. New York: New York University Press.
Valdman, Albert. 1979. "Creolisation, Francais populaire et le parler des isolats
francophones d'Amerique du Nord," in A. Valdman (ed.), Le Francais
hors de France. Paris: Honore Champion, 181-197.
Voegelin, C. F., and F. M. Voegelin. 1977. "Is Tubatulabal de-acquisition relevant
to theories of language acquisition?" International Journal of American
Linguistics 43: 333-338.
Weinreich, Uriel. 1953. Languages in contact (reprinted 1964). The Hague: Mouton.
Whatley, Randall P., and Harry Jannise. 1982. Conversational Cajun French I.
Gretna, LA: Pelican Publishing Co.
Part II
Group studies
LI loss in an L2 environment: Dutch
immigrants in France
KEES DE BOT, PAUL GOMMANS, AND CAROLA ROSSING
1 Introduction
In his typology of non-pathological language attrition, Van Els
(1986) distinguishes four different types, taking as points of reference
what is lost - either the first or the second language - and the environ-
ment in which it is lost - either in an LI environment or an L2 en-
vironment:
(1) Loss of LI in an LI environment, e.g. first language loss by
aging people;
(2) Loss of LI in an L2 environment, e.g. loss of native languages by
immigrants;
(3) Loss of L2 in an LI environment, e.g. foreign language loss;
(4) Loss of L2 in an L2 environment, e.g. second language loss by
aging migrants.
An overview of research in this area is to be found in Weltens (1987).
The present investigation falls within the second category: LI loss in an
L2 environment. Most research in this category has been concerned with
migrant groups rather than with individuals (see for instance Fishman
1966; Jamieson 1980; Clyne 1980). In the migrant studies sociological
characteristics of the different ethnic groups are compared with each
other in order to find the cluster of factors that determine either language
maintenance or loss. Excellent examples of this approach are Clyne (1982)
and Fishman et al. (1985).
Empirical research on individual LI loss in an L2 environment has
started only recently. In the investigation described below we tried to find
within-group characteristics that might influence language maintenance
and loss in such a setting. The focus was on two factors that tend to be
mentioned in the language loss literature: amount of contact with LI and
time elapsed since emigration. The design was such that these two factors
could be treated independently.
Another aspect we were interested in was the maintenance or loss of
88 Kees de Bot, Paul Gommans, and Carola Rossing
metalinguistic abilities. It could be hypothesized that metalinguistic skills
are the first skills to be endangered in the attrition process. On the other
hand, it is not inconceivable that these skills are well maintained because
they have a monitoring function in the language production process.
2 Set-up of the investigation
2.1 Informants
Dutch immigrants in France were contacted using various
methods: through embassies and consulates in France and in the Nether-
lands, Dutch emigration services, and advertisements in a number of
Dutch and (regional) French newspapers. The response was sufficiently
high to allow the application of a number of selection criteria:
(1) Emigration after age seventeen. At this age the acquisition of the
first language has been completed both through formal and in-
formal input.
(2) Lived in France for at least ten years.
(3) Variation in the amount of contact with the Dutch language since
emigration.
For the third criterion it appeared to be very difficult to define and quan-
tify more than two levels: many contacts versus few contacts. Informants
in the former group had a Dutch partner and had contact with other
Dutchmen at least once a week, while informants in the latter group had a
French partner or no partner, and had contact with other Dutchmen less
than once a week. Accordingly, the factor "amount of contact" (hence-
forth: "contact") had two levels: many and few.
The factor "time elapsed since emigration" (henceforth: "time") had
seven levels: 11-15/16-20/21-25/26-30/31-35/36+ years.
The number of informants in each category is listed in Table 6.1.
Table 6.1 Number of informants
Time in years
11-15
Many contacts 3
Few contacts 3
16-20
3
4
per category
21-25 26-30
3 2
2 0
31-35
4
2
36 +
3
1
LI loss in an L2 environment: Dutch immigrants in France 89
2.2 The tests
In order to test general proficiency in Dutch, two tests were
administered: an editing test and the Foreign Service Interview (FSI). The
editing test consisted of a short story in which words were added at
random. The task here is to find the words added. The test we used was
developed by the Dutch Central Institute for Test Development (CITO
1981) as a global proficiency test for learners of Dutch as a second
language of different ages. The editing test can be described as a global/
indirect test. Since this test had not been used previously in this kind of
research, we had no data on its validity and reliability. Therefore it was
decided not to rely on this test only.
The FSI was chosen because its reliability and validity have been estab-
lished sufficiently (Clark 1979; Jones 1979). A major advantage of the FSI
is that it is an informal interview in which a well trained interviewer can
disguise even the impression that language proficiency is being tested.
The interview consists of three parts or stages. In the first stage, the
interviewer establishes the global level of proficiency (low, medium,
high). In the second stage the interviewer accommodates his language
and the topics to the level of proficiency of the interviewee. In the third
stage, the interviewer increases the complexity of language and topics to
the point that the upper limit of the interviewee's proficiency becomes
perceptible. The interview forms the basis for a scaling of the interviewee
on a ten-point scale (0, 1, 1 + , 2, 2 + .. .4 + , 5) on five different aspects of
language proficiency: pronunciation, grammar, vocabulary, fluency, and
comprehension. The five aspects are used to establish the general level of
proficiency (for a detailed description of this procedure, see Jones 1979:
111). In order to assess interjudge reliability scores, the interviews were
recorded on tape and scored independently by two trained judges. The
FSI can be described as a direct/discrete point test.
The grammaticality judgement test used was an adapted version of a
test developed by Koster et al. (1985) for the assessment of metalinguistic
abilities in different types of aphasic patients. Thirty-six non-aphasic in-
formants served as controls in the Koster et al. study, and, accordingly, in
the present study. The test consists of seventy sentences covering ten
different types of grammatical constructions that appear to be difficult
for both aphasic and, to a lesser degree, non-aphasic speakers of Dutch.
(See the Appendix at the end of this chapter for a list of the types of
constructions used.) The task is to indicate for each sentence whether it is
grammatical or not. The test is structured in such a way that the combined
reactions to the set of sentences for a given construction reveal the nature
90 Kees de Bot, Paul Gommans, and Carola Rossing
of the problem an informant may have with this construction. Through
this test the 'Vulnerability" of different grammatical structures could be
assessed. A comparison between different types of pathological loss and
non-pathological loss could not be made, since Koster et al. didn't find a
difference between types of aphasia.
2.3 Procedure
All informants were tested at home in May 1986. The test sessions
lasted about two hours. After a short introduction, the cassette recorder
was started for the first and second part of the FSI. Then the two formal
tests were administered, the editing test always preceding the judgement
test. As will become clear in the next paragraph, the editing test appeared
to be (too) easy for most informants. This was a problem from a statistical
point of view, but it certainly increased the informants' linguistic self-
confidence. The third part of the FSI concluded the test session. All
interviews and tests took place within the first two hours of the visit in
order to avoid differential retraining effects for proficiency on Dutch. In
the third part of the FSI, it appeared to be difficult to get some of the
informants to discuss more abstract and difficult topics, which often had
to do with private opinions. This was due to the limited time available for
the tests and to the fact that the interviewers were strangers to the in-
formants.
3 Results
3.1 The editing test
The maximum score, i.e. the total number of words added/to be
found was 49. The mean score was 46.4 with a SD of 2.2 and a range of
42-49. The split half reliability (Spearman-Brown) was .68, KR-20 was .65.
The low reliability scores are probably accounted for by the apparent
ceiling effect.
Analyses of variance showed no significant effects of "time" and "con-
tact" factors, nor a significant interaction.
3.2 The FSI
The taped interviews were rated by two trained judges. Signifi-
cant interrater correlations (Spearman, p < 0.10) for overall score and
subscores are presented overleaf in Table 6.2.
LI loss in an L2 environment: Dutch immigrants in France 91
Table 6.2 FSI interrater reliability
Pronunciation
Grammar
Vocabulary
Fluency
Comprehension
Overall score
.77
.58
.80
ns
.52
.72
The correlations between the two judges are fair for pronunciation,
vocabulary and overall score, but on the low side for grammar and com-
prehension. Apparently, the judges' concept of fluency differed con-
siderably. Judge l's scores for fluency correlated .94 with the (shared)
overall score, while judge 2's scores correlated only .45 with this overall
score. After extensive discussions the judges decided on joint scores,
both overall and for the different aspects mentioned in Table 6.2. It is
these scores that were used in the rest of the investigation.
Although the range of scores on the FSI was not very large (between 3
and 5), the analyses of variance showed significant effects for ''contact''
(F = 23.26, p < .01), "time" (F = 4.16, p < .02), and a significant
interaction between these two factors (F = 3.99, p < .02). Further
analyses showed that for both "contact" groups "time" was a significant
factor. The correlation between the FSI scores and the "contact" factor
was .50 (p < .10), while the correlation between FSI scores and the
"time" factor was not significant. Partial correlations between FSI scores
and "time," eliminating the effect of "contact", were significant for the
"few contacts" group (r = .84, p < .01), but not for the "many contacts"
group. In other words: proficiency in Dutch does not change over time
when there are many contacts with Dutch, but it deteriorates linearly over
time in the case of few contacts.
3.3 The grammaticality judgement test
The data from the judgement test were compared with both the
aphasic and the non-aphasic groups in the Koster et al. (1985) study.
Given the fact that their non-aphasic control group did not differ too
much from ours on age, education and social class stratification, it seemed
justified to use this group as a reference for our data as well. These
reference data can be used in two ways: as an absolute norm and as a
relative norm. In the former case, those sentences that were judged
correct by the majority of the reference group were labelled "correct,"
92 Kees de Bot, Paul Gommans, and Carola Rossing
Table 6.3 Significant correlations with sentence types (p < .10)
Sentence types "time" "contact"
Statives - .33
Middles .40
Subcat. plus extra argument .30
Anaphora/definite .31
Anaphora/disjoint reference - .35
Table 6.4 Percentages correct for control group and emigrant group
per sentence type
Sentence type
I
II
III
IV
V
VI
Vila
Vllb
VII (x)
Villa
VHIb
VIIIc
VHId
VIII (x)
IX
Xa
Xb
Xc
Xd
Xe
Xf
X(x)
Control group
0
61.1
72.2
72.2
27.8
47.2
50.7
41.2
45.0
44.4
31.3
59.7
50.7
46.5
29.2
61.1
80.6
90.3
60.4
62.5
91.7
71.0
Emigrant group
0
60.0
75.0
66.7
26.7
25.0
53.3
45.6
48.7
43.3
30.8
57.5
47.5
44.8
32.5
62.5
95.0
90.0
68.3
61.7
98.3
75.8
Difference
0
1.1
2.8
5.5
1.1
22.2
2.6
4.4
3.7
1.1
0.5
2.2
3.2
1.7
3.3
1.4
14.4
0.3
7.9
0.8
6.6
4.8
Note: x indicates the mean of the scores on all sentences and
subtypes of sentences.
while sentences judged incorrect by the majority were labelled ''incor-
rect." In the latter case the percentage correct of the reference group is
used for the comparison with our data. Here, a given sentence is not
labelled "correct" or "incorrect," but placed somewhere on a continuum,
between these two extremes.
LI loss in an L2 environment: Dutch immigrants in France 93
Table 6.5 Significant F ratios for sentence types
Sentence type
II
IV
X(x)
Xc
Xd
'Time'
F
4.03
3.54
2.97
2.65
P<
0.01
0.02
0.04
0.06
"Contact
F
10.62
3.11
P<
0.01
0.09
3.3.1 Comparison with an absolute norm
An analysis of variance with percentage correct as the depend-
ent variable showed no significant effects of the "time" and/'contact"
factors, nor a significant interaction. Further analysis showed that the
scores for certain sentence types correlated with the two main factors,
as shown on the previous page in Table 6.3.
It should be noted, however, that the number of sentences per type
was small and not equal for all types. Therefore it is hard to draw firm
conclusions from the correlations in Table 6.3.
3.3.2 Comparison with a relative norm
By comparing the percentages of correct scores of both the
control group and our emigrant group we would get some more
detailed information about changes in acceptability of sentence types.
Table 6.4 on the previous page lists these percentages for each sentence
type. (See the Appendix at the end of this chapter for the sentence
types corresponding to the figures.)
Overall, the control group accepted 50.8 percent of the sentences
presented, and the emigrant group 50.6 percent, the difference not
being significant. The correlation between the two groups is .97
(p < .01). Not surprisingly, no significant effects were found in the
analysis of variance over all sentence types. Further analyses, however,
produced significant F ratios for the sentence types listed in Table 6.5.
The data in Table 6.5 should be interpreted as follows: a significant F
ratio for "time" means that the deviation from the control group in-
creases with the amount of time elapsed since emigration, and for
"contact" that the "few contacts" group deviated more from the
control group than the "many contacts" group.
94 Kees de Bot, Paul Gommans, and Carola Rossing
4 Conclusion
The present investigation was set up to provide data on two
different questions:
(a) What is the role of amount of contact and time elapsed since
emigration in the maintenance or loss of a first language in a
second language environment?
(b) To what extent does the loss of metalinguistic skills precede or
follow the loss of linguistic skills?
As to the first question, significant effects were found on the FSI only.
The data show a significant effect of both ''amount of contact" and "time
elapsed since emigration," and a significant interaction. Further analyses
showed that the relation between FSI scores, "contact," and "time" is a
complex one: there is only a linear relation between "time" and attrition
when there are few contacts with the first language. This effect is not
extremely strong, but significant. An implication from this finding is that
in measures of language contact as used in language loss research, "time
elapsed since emigration" and "amount of contact" should not be used
as independent measures: "time" only becomes relevant when there is
not much contact with the language.
Our data show no significant relations between metalinguistic skills
and "time" or "contact." This may be due to the fact that there is hardly
any attrition of this type of skills.
As mentioned in Section 1, there are two contrasting hypotheses about
metalinguistic and linguistic skills in the attrition process: metalinguistic
skills are lost earlier because they are less automatized and the tests deal
with "sensitive" areas that are avoided in normal language use, or the
linguistic skills are lost first because without adequate metalinguistic
"monitoring" language use as such is hampered. Our data suggest that
the latter is the case: hardly any attrition of metalinguistic skills could be
evidenced, while there was significant attrition of linguistic skills as
measured in the FSI. We see no reason to doubt the validity of the test
used: the data on non-attrited controls show that the sentence types used
really are in sensitive areas.
Some types of sentences appear to be influenced by "time" and "con-
tact," but it is not clear which general underlying principle can explain
the attrition of these types only. For one of the sentence types, "Middles"
(Sportwagens verkopen snel, "Sportcars sell quickly"), the difference
between the control group and the emigrant group can be explained as a
cohort effect: this type of sentence is fairly new in Dutch, and the inform-
LI loss in an L2 environment: Dutch immigrants in France 95
ants who emigrated thirty years earlier simply missed this development
in the Dutch language.
The present data can hardly be compared with other, more socio-
linguistic, research on Dutch emigrants (Clyne 1980; Pauwels 1987;
De Bot etal., in preparation), since the Dutch in France do not in any sense
constitute an ethnic group: they are not organized, do not act as one
group and do not consider themselves as part of such a group. From a
linguistic point of view such a comparison might be more fruitful: it will
give us an opportunity to compare a language in attrition in L2 environ-
ments that differ considerably. It may provide us with some insight into
the role of interference in the attrition process.
96 Kees de Bot, Paul Gommans, and Carola Rossing
Appendix: Types of sentences in the Koster
et at. (1985) grammaticality judgement test
I Syntactic prose (2 sentences)
De late fietsen zongen bijna in waterige stenen.
"The late bicycles sang almost in watery stones/'
II Statives (4 sentences)
Ik ben mijn broer aan het kennen.
"I am knowing my brother."
III Nesting (2 sentences)
De dochter van de buurvrouw van de boerin ging naar Amersfoort.
"The daughter of the neighbour of the farmer's wife went to
Amersfoort."
IV Middles (4 sentences)
Sportwagens verkopen snel.
"Sportcars sell quickly."
V Prepositions (4 sentences)
Deze koekjes waren gemaakt aan kleine kinderen.
"These biscuits were made on small children."
VI Defmiteness (4 sentences)
Er wacht man bij het tuinhek.
"There waits man by the garden gate."
VII (a) Selection restrictions/semantic category (4 sentences)
Ik denk dat mijn broer tennis speelt.
"I think that my brother tennis plays."
(b) Selection restrictions/particles (6 sentences)
De inbreker gluurde het sleutelgat door.
"The burglar pierced the keyhole through."
VIII (a) Subcategorization/extra argument (4 sentences)
Wat denkt Pieter dat Anna is?
"What thinks Pieter that Anna is?"
(b) Subcategorization/missing argument (4 sentences)
Gerard legde het boek.
"Gerard put the book."
(c) Subcategorization/missing embedded argument (4 sen-
tences)
Wie dacht je dat zou uitnodigen?
"Who did you think would invite?"
(d) Subcategorization/missing reflexive argument (4 sentences)
Het kleine meisje verkleedde voor het verjaardagspartijtje.
"The little girl changed clothes for the birthday party."
LI loss in an L2 environment: Dutch immigrants in France 97
IX Complements (8 sentences)
Zij zegt dat mevrouw Janssen vanmiddag op bezoek te komen.
"She says that Mrs. Janssen to come and visit this afternoon/'
X (a) Anaphora/definite (4 sentences)
Ik zag meneer Smit en jij zag er een.
"I saw Mr. Smit and you saw one."
(b) Anaphora/control and reflexives (2 sentences)
Hans beloofde Thomas niet over zichzelf te praten.
"Hans promised Thomas not to talk about himself."
(c) Anaphora/reflexives (2 sentences)
De zus van Mieke kleedt zich aan's ochtends voor het ontbijt.
"Mieke's sister dresses in the morning before breakfast."
(d) Anaphora/control (4 sentences)
Joost vroeg Sylvia de deur te sluiten en hij deed het.
"Joost asked Sylvia to close the door and he did it."
(e) Anaphora/disjoint reference (2 sentences)
Mijn zus houdt van mijn zus.
"My sister loves my sister."
(f) Anaphora/scope (2 sentences)
ledereen zag zijn leraar.
"Everyone saw his teacher."
Note
The authors wish to thank Jane Bennett for her comments on an
earlier version of this article.
References
CITO (Centraal Instituut voor Toetsontwikkeling). 1981. Instaptoets Anderstaligen.
Arnhem.
Clark, J. 1979. "Direct vs. semi-direct tests of speaking ability/' in E. Briere and F.
Hinofotis (eds.), Concepts of language testing. Some recent studies. Wash-
ington: TESOL, 35-49.
Clyne, M. 1980. ''Typology and grammatical convergence among related
languages in contact/' ITL-Review of Applied Linguistics, 43; 23-36.
Clyne, M. 1982. Multilingual Australia: Resources, needs, policies. Melbourne: River
Seine Publishers.
De Bot, K., M. Clyne, and I. Naber (in preparation). "Language maintenance and
language loss among Dutch immigrants in Australia: a 15 year longitud-
inal study/7
98 Kees de Bot, Paul Gommans, and Carola Rossing
Fishman, J. (Ed.) 1966. Language loyalty in the United States. The Hague: Mouton.
Fishman, J., M. H. Gertner, E. G. Lowry, and W. G. Milan. 1985. The rise and
fall of the ethnic revival: perspectives on language and ethnicity. The Hague:
Mouton.
Jamieson, P. 1980. "The pattern of urban language loss/7
Australian and New Zeal-
and Journal of Sociology 16: 102-109.
Jones, R. 1979. "Performance testing of second language proficiency/' in
E. Briere and F. Hinofotis (eds.), Concepts in language testing. Some recent
studies. Washington: TESOL.
Koster, C , L. Blomert, H. vanMier, andM. L. Kean. 1985. "Taalstoornissen bij
corticale and subcorticale letsels/' Paper conference Ned. Ver. voor
Neuropsychologie, December 1985, Nijmegen.
Pauwels, A. 1987. Immigrant dialects and language maintenance in Australia. Dor-
drecht: Foris.
Van Els, T. 1986. "An overview of European research on language attrition," in
B. Weltens, K. de Bot and T. van Els (eds.), Language attrition in progress.
Dordrecht: Foris, 3-18.
Weltens, B. 1987. "The attrition of foreign-language skills. A literature review,"
Applied Linguistics 8: 22-38.
The sociolinguistic and patholinguistic
attrition of Breton phonology, morphology,
and morphonology
WOLFGANG U. DRESSLER
1 Introduction
This contribution is based on empirical field research in two areas
of Celtic Lower Britanny in western France:
(1) in the local Tregorrois (Treg.) dialect of Buhulien south-east of
Lannion (western fringe of the Departement Cotes du Nord), cf.
Dressier (1972a, b),
(2) in the South Bigouden (Big.) subdialect of the Cornouaillais dia-
lect, south-west of Quimper (southwesternmost part of the De-
partement Finistere), cf. Dressier & Hufgard (1980).
Similar to Dorian (1981), I distinguish six groups of speakers according
to qualitative and quantitative criteria of their competence in Breton (birth
dates are only approximative):
(I) Healthy Breton speakers corresponding to Dorian's "older fluent
speakers," born between 1892 and 1932 (with clusters around
1896-1900 and 1912-1920). My descriptions of dialects (Dressier
1972a; Dressier & Hufgard 1980) are based on these speakers.
(II) Weaker Breton speakers, approximately corresponding to
Dorian's "younger fluent speakers," born between 1911 and
1942. The only reduction they show are consequences of a certain
shrinkage of their Breton lexicon.
(III) Preterminal speakers, born between 1938 and 1951, show reduc-
tions and generalizations also in grammar.
(IV) Better terminal speakers, born between 1936 and 1952, exhibit
even more reductions and generalizations.
(V) Worse terminal speakers, born between 1933 and 1962, have a
severely reduced lexicon and a still more reduced grammar.
(VI) Rememberers recall only isolated items (they are not considered
in the present study).
In Sections 2-4 I am going to deal with sociolinguistic attrition in the
phonology, morphology, and morphonology of the two dialects of Breton
100 Wolfgang U. Dressier
mentioned above - not with literary Breton, which has experienced a
certain renaissance since the early 1970s - and in Section 5 with patho-
linguistic, i.e. aphasic, attrition.
2 Phonology
2.1 Interference
As to phonology, the decay of recessive Breton is partially influ-
enced by dominant French in the pronunciation of terminal speakers:
(1) They may take over French final stress instead of Breton pre-fmal
stress similar to secondary speakers of Breton, which is derided
as roazhonek [rwazo'nek] (from Roazhon, the Breton name of Ren-
nes, the former capital and main city of francophone Upper
Brittany).
(2) Many use French allophones instead of Breton ones, e.g. the
French uvular vibrant instead of the apical vibrant of Treg. and
the majority of Breton dialects.
(3) If there are similar and diverse allophones, then allophones
which are similar to French ones are maintained, those which are
diverse are lost within terminal speakers, e.g. Big. terminal
speakers maintain the allophones [a(:), a(:)], but not [ae(i), e(:),Di,
DIW, DWI, aw:] of /a(i)/ (cf. Dressier and Hufgard 1980: 48ff).
(4) The Breton phoneme /h/ may be pronounced unsystematically or
not at all.
Older healthy speakers who have incomplete French competence did
exactly the reverse. Thus their Breton "accent" of French contrasts with
the French "accent" in the Breton of terminal speakers. This asymmetric
interference in terminal speakers reflects the sociological asymmetry
between French and Breton. That is, economic, cultural, and social subor-
dination of the Breton speech community results in subordination of
Breton to French and thus in structural realignment of the recessive
language to structures of the dominant language.
However, other phenomena of phonological decay cannot be attributed
to French interference. Two general cases are discussed below.
2.2 Innovation
Terminal speakers (especially worse terminal speakers) may use
new allophones which are neither Breton nor French. Thus, in terminal
Treg., the vibrant phoneme has, in addition to the Breton apical and to the
The sociolinguistic and patholinguistic attrition of Breton 101
French uvular trill, apical tap and approximant allophones in free vari-
ation, and fricative [rj after (aspirated) stops, e.g. in [p^a] as fast speech
variant of [ps'ra:] "what." Great variation among free allophones has
been observed in other decaying languages as well (Jackson 1955; Miller
1971; Dressier 1972b: 454, 1982a: 326; Dressier and Wodak-Leodolter
1977a: 9, 1977b: 37; Kieffer 1977: 75f; Denison 1979; Dorian 1982b: 56f,
1982c: 44; Giacalone Ramat 1983). Cf. Trudgill's (1977: 35) general state-
ment about Greek Albanian: "Arvanitika ... is in a state of considerable
flux, with no real norms of language" (cf. Dorian 1982c: 46). This insecur-
ity is due to (1) decreasing use of the recessive language (i.e. lack of
performance, cf. Section 6); (2) decay or, first, relaxation of sociolinguistic
norms in general.
This means, in terms of Natural Phonology (cf. Stampe 1969; Donegan
& Stampe 1979; Dressier 1984), that all these natural allophonic processes
are at the disposal of small children, who in the normal course of language
acquisition usually suppress all processes which are not used by adults.
However, future terminal speakers are not subjected to enough socio-
linguistic control in the recessive language during language acquisition so
that they do not suppress all "deviant" processes.
2.3 Monostylism
Terminal language decay shows a tendency towards mono-
stylism (Dressier 1972b: 454ff; Dressier & Wodak-Leodolter 1977a: 8,
1977b: 36ff; Dorian 1977: 27; Giacalone Ramat 1983), i.e. recessive
languages are more and more used in casual styles, those which are appro-
priate for intimate routine interactions at home among close friends, etc.
Thus the whole style repertoire shrinks to a very narrow one of casual
styles both in phonology and in syntax. For example, in Breton the
present "I sing/I'm singing" is normally expressed by kan + an a ra + n
"sing + inf. /particle/ do + I," if the subject is stressed/emphasized, by
me a gan "I /particle/ sing" (with lenition after the particle a). In casual
speech the particle is dropped (but lenition still applies): ['kains ra = 'kan
ra, 'me: gan]. Most terminal speakers use only the second construction
and always drop the particle a.
Or in very casual speech the final t of the nominal plural and the past
participle suffix [at] is dropped. This deletion is generalized by terminal
speakers, e.g. Treg. f'gweita] "seen" = gwel + et.
This stylistic shrinkage is a dysfunctional change insofar as the recess-
ive language becomes inadequate for certain speech situations, domains,
and functions. Moreover it implies loss of sociolinguistic norms govern-
102 Wolfgang U. Dressier
ing stylistic choice (for Breton phonology cf. Dressier 1974, in general
Dressier & Wodak-Leodolter 1982).
Monostylism is also a property of pidgin languages, as is reduced gram-
mar (including inflectional and derivational morphology, and mor-
phonology; see Sections 3.2, 3.3, 4). Moreover, pidgins are clearly dys-
functional languages insofar as they are only adequate for certain speech
situations, domains and functions. Can one therefore say that language
death is the reverse of language birth in the sense of the genesis of
"normal" languages originating in pidgins? Despite many parallels it
must be noted (cf. Dressier 1981: 13; Schmidt 1985: 391ff) that (1) the
speech situations, domains and functions of dying languages are not
identical with those of pidgins, neither are the attitudes of speakers; (2)
the acquisition of pidgins is most often quite different from the modes of
acquisition of dying languages (cf. Trudgill 1977: 49; Dorian 1981; 1982b:
51ff; Szemerenyi 1981: 294; Dressier 1981: 6, 32; Williamson et al. 1983:
71f, 83); (3) pidgins do not show free allophonic variation, as discussed in
Section 2.2.
3 Morphology
An early symptom of language attrition is represented by word
formation rules ceasing to be productive (cf. Dressier 1977b). The main
function of word formation rules, lexical enrichment, has been given up
within Breton dialects and transferred to massive borrowing from French.
3.1 Borrowing
For any purist, massive interference by another language is a sure
sign of language decay. But this is a reversible phenomenon because
borrowing (e.g. loanwords) is a means of enrichment of language. For
example, English, the most dominant language of today, even now freely
borrows words from other languages, although many more words are
loaned in the other direction. But there are properties of interference
which are probably symptoms of moribundity:
(1) Massive lexical loans from the dominant into the recessive
language, when loans in the other direction are sporadic (at best, cf.
Dorian 1982b: 56; Fasold 1984: 241) and comprise only "folklore" words,
i.e. words designating cultural items of folkloric interest which do not
exist outside the culture identified with the recessive minority language.
Examples are Fr. menhir, dolmen, from Br. maen hir "long stone," taol mein
The sociolinguistic and patholinguistic attrition of Breton 103
"table of stones" (or rather with definite article: an daol mein). This asym-
metry of interference reflects the hierarchical social, sociopsychological
and (generally) socioeconomic and political difference between the two
speech communities, i.e. the recessive speech community is subordin-
ated to the dominant speech community, cf. Calvet's (1974) notion of
linguistic colonialism.
(2) Borrowed lexical material tends not to be integrated mor-
phologically and phonologically. Of course this is sometimes not easy to
distinguish in running text from code switching (cf. Trudgill 1977: 38; Gal
1979: 173; Dorian 1981: 96ff; Williamson et al. 1983: 81ff).
(3) These borrowed words do not enrich the recessive language
(and how could they, if they are not integrated?), but simply replace
indigenous words. This substitution has been called relexification by Hill
& Hill (1977; cf. Giacalone Ramat 1979; 137; Tsitsipis 1984) and reflects
another property of linguistic colonialism: substitution of indigenous by
non-indigenous concepts. In Breton, this has occurred e.g. with most
names of diseases even among today's healthy speakers; none are left
among the other categories of speakers.
(4) Another symptom of the terminal decay is the lack of puristic
reactions against this massive interference (cf. Denison 1982: 11, 14).
(Pre)terminal speakers fail to notice such "corruptions," and healthy
speakers seem to have given up correcting them. This reflects a change in
language attitude (cf. Ryan 1979): the recessive, decaying language is
considered as worthless, not worthy of being properly transmitted. Such
attitudinal change produces a relaxation of social, sociolinguistic and
linguistic norms and thus permits non-integration of loans (cf. (2) above).
(5) An early sign of language decay is the cessation of giving and
using proper names in the recessive language (Dressier & Wodak-
Leodolter 1977b: 41 n. 16; Dressier 1982a: 325; Williamson et al 1983: 78).
Here several qualifications are in order.
First, Priestly (1984: 3.5) "wonder[s] how easy it is to distinguish the
two layers in the Carinthian context" (of a recessive Slovene dialect and
dominant German) and cites names of Latin origin. This objection con-
fuses the prehistory of single proper names with systematic or at least
massive replacement a few generations before language death.
Second, central political authorities and/or laws may prescribe proper
names of the dominant language and proscribe those of the recessive
language in domains of official documents etc. Therefore my claim con-
cerns only oral in-group interactions in the recessive language, and thus
particularly first names (or their equivalents). For example, Bretons who
were officially named Francois earlier were still called Fanch or Treg. [felf]
104 Wolfgang U. Dressier
in oral in-group interactions; however, nowadays, even low class Bretons
may be always called Frangois.
Third, my claim does not hold for upper classes, where foreign fashions
of naming may easily penetrate and where revivalists may easily resus-
citate indigenous proper names. Both can be observed in Breton.
3.2 Word formation
Lexical creativity as represented by word formation rules (WFRs)
also passed over from receding Breton to dominant French (see Dressier
1977b, 1981: 10, 1982a: 325; cf. Schlieben-Lange 1977: 103; Hill & Hill
1978; Knab & Hasson de Knab 1979: 474f; Williamson et al. 1983: 74). The
two main functions of WFRs are (1) lexical enrichment (creation of neo-
logisms), serving (via the lexicon) the communicative and cognitive
functions of language, (2) morphosemantic and morphotactic motivation
of existing complex word forms (cf. Dressier 1985: 315ff), thus econ-
omizing memory load.
In the nineteenth century, Bretons translated literally the newly in-
vented Fr. batt + euse "threshing machine" with dorn + erez from dorn + an
"battre." However, in the twentieth century the newly invented Fr.
moissoneuse batteuse "combined harvester" was taken over as such. Or in
the nineteenth century "bicycle" was rendered as marc'h-houarn, literally
"horse (of) iron," besides belo, definite ar velo from Fr. velo. In contrast,
after the Second World War, the popular car make Deux Chevaux, literally
"two horses," was taken over as such whereas its literal translation daou a
gezek is derided similar to other neologisms of standard literary Breton
such as the loan translations pellwel "television" (lit. "far see") and
pellgomz "telephone" (lit. "far speak"). These are examples for the shift
from indigenous neologisms (via word formation rules) of the recessive
language to systematic loaning of all neologisms from the dominant
language (cf. Section 3.1). This is a consequence of the following changes:
(1) communication in domains of progress (in technology, culture,
fashions, etc.) has shifted from the recessive to the dominant language, at
least in the vanguard of speakers who are most likely to be responsible for
creating, adapting and sanctioning neologisms (according to sociological
diffusion theory, cf. Cooper 1982b). So much for the communicative
function. (2) As to the cognitive function, it is clear that at least with
semi-speakers, thinking about the areas of progress is supported by the
dominant language, and not by the recessive language (cf. Denison 1982).
In this way form follows function.
In Lower Brittany this turning point seems to have occurred in the wake
The sociolinguistic and patholinguistic attrition of Breton 105
of the First World War when Breton men returned from service among
non-Breton speaking Frenchmen. For example, a popular agricultural
pamphlet (Lerot-Becot 1932) for Breton peasants contains very few Breton
neologisms, but many French neologisms printed in italics as citation
forms.
Thus today creative production of morphological neologisms is lost
even with healthy dialect speakers. However, they have retained the
passive competence of processing neologisms and understanding
morphosemantically transparent ones as well as the competence of evalu-
ating neologisms. On the other hand, in a test (see Dressier 1977b: 65ff),
terminal and pre-terminal speakers were unable to evaluate complex
words unknown to them. For example, worse terminal speakers did not
recognize the rare deverbal instrument noun dis + kell + er "cradle" as a
noun. Or no terminal and only three pre-terminal speakers recognized
the difference between kalz "much" and its diminutive kalz + ig (with the
productive diminutive suffix -ig). Thus terminal speakers lost the ability
to motivate complex word forms from their bases/roots via word forma-
tion rules, i.e. the second function of word formation, morphosemantic
and morphotactic motivation, was affected by language attrition.
Priestly's (1984: 4.4) counter-evidence from the Slovene Carinthian
dialect of Sele Fara/Zell Pfarre cannot falsify our claims on the importance
of lost productivity of word formation rules: (1) his data consist of existing
complex words gathered in field work and do not include productivity
tests (based on neologisms or nonce words); (2) the Slovene dialect of Sele
Fara is clearly a recessive one, but Sele Fara is known as the most consis-
tently Slovene speaking community of Carinthia. Thus its local dialect
can hardly be called a dying dialect (in our sense), and there is no evi-
dence of this in his material.
3.3 Inflection
There are reductions of Breton inflectional morphology which
can be accounted for by assuming acculturation to French morphology.
For example, the Breton verb has, in addition to the usual Indo-European
three person endings of singular and plural, an impersonal form which
has no correspondence in French, e.g. bez + er "one is." Terminal
speakers never used such forms, pre-terminal speakers only sometimes
in the present, but not in other tenses.
Or Breton has preserved some special responsive forms (cf. Dressier
1971: 190f) such as N'eo ket brav? - Geo! "Isn't it beautiful? - It is!," (Ne)
zvel + ez ket an dra-ze? - Gwel + an "Don't you see that? - Oh yes, I see it!"
106 Wolfgang U. Dressier
French has nothing comparable (except responsive sil), and pre-terminal
speakers used only forms of the verb bez+an "to be," such as Geol, Geus!
(mostly in the present); worse terminal speakers have lost them com-
pletely.
However, often here as well the direction and hierarchy of decay cannot
be attributed directly to interfering structures of the dominant language
(cf. a striking Gaelic example in Dorian 1981: 148). A case in point is the
decay of Breton plural formation (see Dressier 1981: 7-9). Whereas French
always has article inflection (definite article le, la - les) and very rarely
modification (cheval "horse" -> chevaux), Breton generally has suffixation
in the noun but uninflected articles. Thus French influence might result in
greater decay of suffixation than in umlaut modifications such as in rnaen
"stone" -> mein. However, in terms of Natural Morphology (cf. Dressier,
Mayerthaler, Panagl, & Wurzel 1987), the category of plural adds the
meaning ofplurality to the singular in the case ofcountable nouns, and this
semantic addition is diagrammatically best reflected in the addition of a
plural suffix; umlaut is less diagrammatic. Diagrammaticity as a para-
meter of morphological naturalness explains why suffixation is better
preserved than umlaut among pre-terminal and terminal speakers, and
why umlaut is often replaced by suffixation but never vice versa, e.g. Big.
[mim] "stone" - [mixnu] (with the plural suffix -oil).
On another naturalness parameter, universal preference for bi-
uniqueness (one meaning - one form) explains reduction of plural suffix
allomorphy: -(i)ou, -ed, -(i)er, -(i)en, -i, -on. Pre-terminal and terminal
speakers of Breton come closer to this natural solution insofar as they
replace many instances of other suffixes with suffixation by only two
suffixes: -ed, -(i)ou.
4 Morphonology
Passing over to morphonology and morphophonemics (cf.
Dressier 1985) we find the interesting case of the decay and loss of Breton
initial consonant mutations (cf. Jackson 1967: 308ff; Oftedal 1985) which
have no counterpart in French. Now if we claimed that dying Breton
dialects acculturated to French, we could account for the decay and loss of
these mutations, but not for the hierarchy and order of decay. Let us
briefly compare the fate of the three mutations in terminal speakers:
spirantization, fortition, lenition (cf. Dressier 1972b):
(i) Spirantization changes - after certain grammatical words -
word-initial /p,t,k/ to /f,z,h/, e.g. penn "head" -* va/mafenn "my
head."
The sociolinguistic and patholinguistic attrition of Breton 107
(ii) Fortition changes /b,d,g/ to /p,t,k/, e.g. belo "bike" -> o pelo
"your bike."
(iii) Lenition changes /p,t,k,b,d,g,m/ to /b,d,g,v,z,h,v/, e.g. e benn, e
velo "his head/bike."
The main direction of decay is (a) decay of spirantization precedes
decay of fortition or lenition, and spirantization is largely replaced by
lenition, e.g. vafenn > va benn; (b) the consonants subject to lenition are
reduced to /p,t,k/ thus e benn, e belo; (c) fortition is lost before and largely
replaced by lenition, thus o benn, o belo; (d) the number of grammatical and
lexical words triggering mutations is slowly reduced (called "lexical fad-
ing" by Dressier 1972b).
I interpret this hierarchy of decay in the following way:
(1) Lenition is best preserved (as it was in closely cognate Cornish
right before its death), because it is triggered by the largest num-
ber of grammatical words, by compounding, and by syntactic
conditions, and applies to the largest number of consonants. It is,
so to speak, the "default" mutation on which semi-speakers fall
back. The notion "default" has found its place in Natural Mor-
phology (cf. Dressier 1981: 16, 1985: 137ff).
(2) The phonologically most natural (parts of) mutation rules are
best preserved, i.e. the most regular ones which change only
one phonological feature: (ii) fortition: /b,d,g - p,t,k/ and
(iii) reduced lenition: /p,t,k - b,d,g/ (cf. Dressier 1985: 65ff,
120ff).
(3) Of course, (cf. Dressier 1985: 67, 81f, 85f, 90f, etc., with refer-
ences) such morphophonemic rules are simplified and subject to
"lexical fading" in "normal change" as well (Priestly 1980, 1984
4.2 versus Dorian 1981:121ff), but there is the question whether
this is a simplification or a reduction (loss without compensation,
cf. Trudgill 1977; Dorian 1981: 153ff, 1982c: 44; Dressier 1982a:
315f; Giacalone Ramat 1983: 38). In normal language change,
simplifications (however these are defined within the respective
linguistic model) in some part of a linguistic system are compen-
sated by complications/elaborations/enrichments in other parts.
In contrast, reduction means simplification by structural loss
without compensation. This point can be illustrated with case
systems: in the development of Latin/Protoromance and English
the case systems of Latin and Old English were simplified by loss
of case forms, case categories and finally of the whole case
systems, but in compensation prepositional constructions
108 Wolfgang U. Dressier
flourished, word order became more rigid, and obligatory articles
were introduced.
However, here as in morphology we have examples of structural loss
without compensation, and the recessive language has become partially
dysfunctional, because lack of compensation through structural enrich-
ment etc. of the recessive language was compensated by functional shifts
towards the dominant language. Clearly there is an interdependency (not
a unidirectional causation) between gradual functional shift and gradual
structural decay - a gradual interdependent change which could be
cybernetically modeled as a self-regulating system. Such a model would
also fit the mutually feeding factors of functional shift and structural
decay.
5 Aphasia
As an appendix I want to compare aphasic data from two male
Wernicke patients (L.T., sixty-five years, South Eastern Cornouaille;
J.G., sixty-one years, Leon dialect, close to standard Breton). Both were
healthy Breton speakers before their stroke, according to their neigh-
bours.
Initial consonant mutations (see Dressier 1977a), on the one hand, were
disturbed in the same way as in language decay (Section 4). On the other
hand, mutations were produced where no mutation should have occur-
red at all, e.g. ['labm 'visn] (L.T.) "small rabbit" with wrong lenition b -
v instead of lapin bihan (lapin is masculine; only a feminine singular
triggers initial consonant lenition in the following adjective).
In phonology, disturbances were not similar to phonological decay
(Section 2) but to aphasic disturbances in other languages (cf. Nespoulous
et al. 1984; Dressier 1982b). As to morphology, the patients were unable to
perform word formation tests, but showed no erroneous forms in spon-
taneous speech (similar to other languages). Plural formation tests were
run together with naming tests: a single object was shown; after identify-
ing it, the patients had to form the plural. The main results were:
(1) The more severely disturbed patient L.T. (as well as three other
severe cases not considered here) was rarely capable of forming a
plural, i.e. the morphosemantically unmarked singular was
easier to retrieve.
(2) If the object normally does not occur as a single unit, all patients
preferred to produce the plural in the naming test. This occurred
typically with words denoting leaf, potato, pear, cow, horse, shoe,
The sociolinguistic and patholinguistic attrition of Breton 109
tooth, lip, finger (but not thumb). This is a case of markedness
reversal, i.e. the plural is cognitively unmarked (cf. Shapiro
1983).
(3) Breton has a set of "dual" forms used for body parts (originating
from fusions with prefixed daou (masc), diw (fern.) "two"). Here
markedness reversal occurred as well in naming tests. For
example, I pointed to my left ear, but the response was almost
invariably the respective dialect form of divskouarn "ears" (dual),
instead of sing, skouarn (similar for "hand" and "eye").
(4) Patient J.G. produced a few wrong plurals: similar to what has
been observed in language decay (Section 3.3), he formed four
wrong plurals in -oil, three in -et, but only one in -ien.
(5) Similar to worse terminal speakers (Section 3.3), patients pro-
duced some bizarre forms which are totally deviant from the
point of view of Breton morphology, e.g. pi. skournen "ears."
6 Conclusion
If we try to compare sociolinguistic language decay (Sections 2-4)
with aphasic disturbances (Section 5), then we can find the following
common points:
(1) Both types of attrition present examples of reduction but not of
simplification (compensated by elaboration elsewhere).
(2) Unmarked categories are better preserved than marked ones and
unmarked ones may substitute marked ones rather than the
reverse. (This has been a major concern of Natural Phonology
and Natural Morphology.)
(3) Both types of attrition present dysfunctional language pro-
duction.
(4) Both types of attrition show signs of insecurity in performance.
This is a well known phenomenon in aphasia. As to sociolinguistic
language attrition I want to add the following concept to the model pre-
sented in Dressier (1981, 1982a). Language decay accompanies a shift
from compact to diffuse performance of a recessive minority language. In
the Breton case the following steps can be distinguished: geographically,
the Breton speaking area became less compact through debretonization of
towns such as Brest, Vannes, Douarnenez, etc. until it became a frag-
mented rural area. Massive emigration to Paris increased diffuseness,
and then debretonized emigrants returned; socially, compact Breton
speaking communities were reduced to lower classes, then rural lower
110 Wolfgang U. Dressier
classes, etc; sociolinguistically, compact domains of Breton became more
and more "diffuse" due to always more subjective factors determining
language choice (including code switching). Now, loss of compactness
diminished the quantity and quality of Breton performance and thus
resulted in insecurity of performance with all its negative consequences
for language attitudes and thus language choice.
References
Calvet, L.-J. 1974. Linguistique et colonialisme. Paris: Payot.
Cooper, R. (ed.). 1982a. Language spread. New York: Academic Press.
1982b. "A framework for the study of language spread/' in Cooper (ed.), 5-36.
Denison, N. 1979. "Zur Triglossie in der Zahre," in P. Ureland (ed.), Standard-
sprache und Dialekte in mehrsprachigen Gebieten Europas. Tubingen:
Niemeyer, 27-36.
1982. "A linguistic ecology for Europe?/7
Folia Linguistica 16: 5-16.
Donegan, P. and D. Stampe. 1979. "The study of Natural Phonology," in
D. A. Dinnsen (ed.), Current approaches to phonological theory. Blooming-
ton: Indiana University Press, 126-173.
Dorian, N. 1977. "The problem of the semi-speaker in language death," Inter-
national Journal of the Sociology of Language 12: 23-32.
1981. Language death: the life cycle ofa Scottish Gaelic dialect. Philadelphia: Univer-
sity of Philadelphia Press.
1982a. "Denning the speech community to include its working margins," in
S. Romaine (ed.), Sociolinguistic variation in speech communities. London:
Arnold, 25-33.
1982b. "Language loss and maintenance in language contact situations," in
R. Lambert and B. Freed (eds.), The loss of language skills. Rowley, MA:
Newbury House Publishers, 44-59.
1982c. "Linguistic models and language death evidence," in L. Obler and
L. Menn (eds.), Exceptional language and linguistics. New York: Academic
Press, 31-48.
Dressier, W. 1971. "Skizze einer bretonischen Textsyntax," in Donum Indoger-
manicum, Fs. A. Scherer. Heidelberg: Winter, 187-197.
1972a. Allegroregeln rechtfertigen Lentoregeln: sekunddre Phoneme des Bretoni-
schen. Innsbruck: Institut fur Sprachwissenschaft.
1972b. "On the phonology of language death," Proceedings of the Chicago
Linguistic Society 8: 448-457.
1974a. "Minderheitssprachen als Spannungsfaktoren," Wissenschaft und Welt-
bild 27, 4: 234-252.
1974b. "Essai sur la stylistique phonologique du breton: les debits rapides,"
Etudes Celtiques 14: 99-120.
1977a. "Morphonological disturbances in aphasia," Wiener linguistische Gazette
14: 3-11.
1977b. "Wortbildung bei Sprachverfall," in H. Brekle and D. Kastovsky
(eds.), Perspektiven der Wortbildungsforschung. Bonn: Bouvier, 62-69.
The sociolinguistic and patholinguistic attrition of Breton 111
Dressier, W. 1981. ''Language shift and language death - a Protean challenge
for the linguist/' Folia Linguistica 15: 5-28.
1982a. ''Acceleration, retardation and reversal in language decay?/' in Cooper
(1982a), 321-336.
1982b. "A classification of phonological paraphasias/' Wiener linguistische
Gazette 29: 3-16.
1984. "Explaining Natural Phonology/7
Phonology Yearbook 1: 29-51.
1985. Morphonology. Ann Arbor: Karoma Press.
Dressier, W., and J. Hufgard. 1980. Etudes phonologiques sur le breton sudbigouden.
Vienna: Akademie der Wissenschaften.
Dressier, W., W. Mayerthaler, O. Panagl, and W. Wurzel. 1987. Leitmotifs in
natural morphology. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Dressier, W., and R. Wodak-Leodolter (eds.). 1977a. "Language death/' Inter-
national Journal of the Sociology of Language 12 (= Linguistics 19, 1).
1977b. "Language preservation and language death in Brittany," in Dressier
and Wodak-Leodolter (1977a), 33-44.
1982. "Sociophonological methods in the study of sociolinguistic variation in
Viennese German," Language in Society 11: 339-370.
Fasold, R. 1984. The sociolinguistics of society. Oxford: Blackwell.
Gal, S. 1979. Language shift. New York: Academic Press.
Giacalone Ramat, A. 1979. Lingua, dialetto e comportamento linguistico: La situazione
di Gressoney. Florence: Licosa.
1983. "Language shift and language death," Folia Linguistica 17: 495-507.
Hill, J., and K. Hill. 1977. "Language death and relexification in Tlaxcalan
Nahuatl," International Journal of the Sociology of Language 12: 55-69.
1978. "Honorific usage in Modern Nahuatl," Language 54: 123-155.
Jackson, K. 1955. Contributions to the study of Manx phonology. Edinburgh:
Nelson.
1967. A historical phonology of Breton. Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies.
Kieffer, Ch. 1977. "The approaching end of the relict Southeast Iranian
languages Ormuri and Paraci in Afghanistan," International Journal of
the Sociology of Language 12: 71-100.
Knab, T., and L. Hasson de Knab. 1979. "Language death in the valley of
Puebla: a socio-geographic approach," Proceedings Berkeley Linguistic
Society 5: 471-483.
Lerot-Becot, Y. 1932. Kenteliou war al Labour-Douar. Landerne.
Miller, W. 1971. "The death of language or serendipity among the Shoshoni,"
Anthropological Linguistics 13: 114-120.
Nespoulous, J.-L. et al. 1984. "Phonologic disturbances in aphasia: is there a
'markedness effect in phonemic errors'?," in Rose (ed.), Advances in
neurology 42: 203-214.
Oftedal, M. 1985. Lenition in Celtic and in Insular Spanish. Oslo: Universitetsfor-
laget.
Priestly, T. M. S. 1980. "Variation on an alternation: the fate of the kasna pala-
talizacija in Sele Fara, Carinthia," Slovene Studies 2: 62-77.
1984. "Symptoms of 'language death' in Carinthian Slovene," MS, South
Slavic Linguistic Conference, University of Chicago.
Ryan, E. B. 1979. "Why do low-prestige language varieties persist?," in H. Giles
and R. St. Clair (eds.), Language and social psychology. Oxford: Blackwell.
112 Wolfgang U. Dressier
Schlieben-Lange, B. 1977. 'The language situation in southern France/' Inter-
national Journal of the Sociology of Language 12: 101-108.
Schmidt, A. 1985. "The fate of ergativity in dying Dyirbal," Language 61: 378-396.
Shapiro, M. 1983. The sense of grammar. Bloomington: Indiana University Press.
Stampe, D. 1969. 'The acquisition of phonetic representation/' Proceedings of the
Chicago Linguistic Society 5: 443-454.
Szemerenyi, O. 1981. "Sprachverfall und Sprachtod besonders im Lichte indo-
germanischer Sprachen," in Y. Arbeitman and A. Bomhard (eds.), Bono
homini donum: essays in historical linguistics, in memory of J. A. Kerns,
281-310.
Trudgill, P. 1977. "Creolization in reverse: reduction and simplification in the
Albanian dialects of Greece/7
Transactions of the Philological Society
1976/77: 32-50.
Tsitsipis, L. 1984. ''Functional restriction and grammatical reduction in Albanian
language in Greece/' Zeitschrift fiir Balkanologie 20: 122-131.
Williamson, R. C, J. van Erde, and V. Williamson. 1983. "Language mainten-
ance and shift in a Breton and Welsh sample/' Word 34, 2: 67-88.
8 Language attrition in Boumaa Fijian and
Dyirbal
ANNETTE SCHMIDT
1 Introduction
Language attrition is a common linguistic phenomenon evident
in virtually every part of the world, as languages of great cultural and
political potency spread at the expense of less prestigious indigenous
codes. While language/dialect death is a global process, there is striking
diversity in the types of language situation included in this general
category. For example, in the Australian continent alone, where approxi-
mately only fifty of an estimated two hundred languages will survive the
decade, one can recognize at least three distinct types of language death
situation. Aboriginal languages are being replaced by:
(1) a variety of English (e.g. Guugu Yimidhirr language of North
Queensland);
(2) one of the two newly evolved Creole languages which function as
lingua francas within and between Aboriginal communities:
Kriol (spoken in northern Western Australia and the Northern
Territory), and Cape York Creole (spoken in Cape York peninsula
and Torres Strait islands);
(3) another Aboriginal language. In multitribal communities, there
is a tendency for one Aboriginal language to emerge as lingua
franca at the expense of other Aboriginal languages in the region,
e.g. Wik-Mungkan in Queensland, Murrinh Patha in Northern
Territory.
In light of the diversity of the language loss phenomenon, the aim of
this paper is to compare two very different cases of language attrition:
dialect leveling in Boumaa Fijian, and language death of Dyirbal, a North
Australian language.
First I will give a brief sketch of each sociolinguistic situation, the factors
causing language attrition, and a summary of the linguistic changes
occurring in each. Then, focusing on the resultant linguistic codes, it is
shown that although contrasting in various respects, both Dyirbal and
114 Annette Schmidt
Boumaa Fijian communities illustrate a sociolinguistic principle common
to many cases of language attrition, namely the economy of distinctions,
i.e. in the final stages of the language leveling process in Dyirbal and
Boumaa Fijian, speakers do not adopt the encroaching form of Standard
Australian English and Standard Fijian (although they have mastered
these codes). Rather, they retain just a few salient markers of the tra-
ditional language/dialect in order to mark their language as distinct
from the encroaching code. Finally, the semi-speaker perception of
''language'' is dealt with, with focus on how a modicum of features is
used to symbolize the declining language variety.
2 Dialect leveling in Boumaa Fijian
In the Fijian village of Waitabu, Taveuni Island, dialect leveling is
apparent as the local dialect, Boumaa Fijian, is gradually infiltrated by
Standard Fijian, lingua franca of the archipelago. As a language variety of
great political and social prestige, Standard Fijian is constantly promoted
at the expense of local linguistic varieties. Consequently, Boumaa Fijian,
as observed in Waitabu village, is under threat. Many distinguishing
features of the Boumaa dialect are being lost as speakers replace them
with forms from the more prestigious code of Standard Fijian.
2.1 Factors conducive to dialect leveling in Boumaa Fijian
Major factors linked with dialect mixing and loss of Boumaa dia-
lect features are:
(1) Intermarriage. The Fijian marriage system, like many other
aspects of Fijian social organization, is patrilineal. Marriage is
usually exogamous and the social norm is for the woman, once
married, to shift and assimilate into the village of her husband.
Such an institutionalized norm has far-reaching implications for
the sociolinguistic situation at Waitabu, for it defines the female
population as the group which instigates much of the linguistic
diffusion and change. Women, when marrying into Waitabu,
bring with them the speech habits of their birth village. These
linguistic habits are often transmitted to their children, i.e. by
speaking either a different dialect or Standard Fijian to their
children, the parental generation ceases to transmit pure Boumaa
Fijian. (Note that this is not a new factor; intermarriage was an
institutionalized norm prior to white contact.)
Language attrition in Boumaa Fijian and Dyirbal 115
(2) Compulsory education. Education provides a destructive force
for the Boumaa dialect on various levels:
(a) schools provide another context for communication in Stan-
dard Fijian;
(b) by an all Standard Fijian curriculum, the Waitabu students
are denied the opportunity of learning their Boumaa dialect at
school;
(c) education promotes Standard Fijian, and, in doing so, casts
the Boumaa dialect as a less prestigious code.
(3) The Church is a major catalyst in the dialect leveling phenom-
enon, through promoting Standard Fijian forms, and not the
local Boumaa dialect, in the Bible, prayer books and church ser-
vices.
(4) Media. None of the media forces employs Boumaa Fijian. For
example, the radio programmes listened to in Waitabu are in
Standard Fijian. Videos are in English. (These have the additional
effect of creating desires, images, and expectations that conflict
with traditional culture.) Newspapers are in Standard Fijian and
English, and books are mainly in English, except for the Bible,
which is written in a special style of Standard Fijian (see Schmidt
1987). Such media promotion of Standard Fijian and English
creates the impression of Boumaa Fijian as a less prestigious
code.
(5) Increased communication with other dialect regions has led to
the usage and acceptance of Standard Fijian as a lingua franca.
Standard Fijian is now commonly employed as code of communi-
cation in interaction with people outside the Boumaa area.
(6) Centralization in Suva. There is a high urbanization trend
throughout Fiji (Lodhia 1977, 1982), and many young people
leave their village for education and/or employment in Suva. Due
to high unemployment and pressure of kin ties, they may return
to their village, bringing with them Standard Fijian and aspir-
ations of westernization.
Focusing now on language change, we will first observe differences
between Standard Fijian and Boumaa Fijian dialects, followed by a
summary of changes occurring in Boumaa Fijian.
As dialect varieties of the same language, Boumaa Fijian and Standard
Fijian are mutually complementary. Most of the differences between the
two are formal rather than categorical. The main distinguishing features
of the Boumaa dialect include the phonological feature of glottal stop ['],
116 Annette Schmidt
which corresponds to the voiceless velar stop [k] in Standard Fijian. (For
Boumaa Fijian speakers, this is the most salient distinguishing Boumaa
feature.) Morphologically, the non-monosyllabic transitive affix form of
Boumaa Fijian is -Ca'ina (where C is a consonant), corresponding to -Caka
in Standard Fijian. There is some variation in the forms of the following
grammatical items: pronouns; classifiers, demonstratives, nominal
article; discourse marker; and negative marker. Lexically, traditional
Boumaa Fijian probably had about 80 percent of its vocabulary either
identical or closely cognate (substituting k for glottal stop) with Standard
Fijian.
In the speech of contemporary Waitabu villagers, there is evidence of
the loss or weakening of various Boumaa dialect features. In order to
systematically gauge this linguistic attrition, a sample of twenty in-
dividuals from a cross-section of the community was selected, ages
ranging from 10 to 65 years. Each speaker was presented with a uniform
set of 25 Standard Fijian sentences for translation into Boumaa Fijian.
These sentences contained a total of 67 opportunities to switch to the
Boumaa dialect. (Quantified features consisted of 53 lexical and 14 gram-
matical items: 5 pronouns; 2 negative morphemes; 5 demonstratives; and
2 non-monosyllabic transitive affixes.)
Individual scores were correlated with age, and speakers ranked on a
continuum accordingly. The results are summarized in Figure 8.1.
% score
75 93 70 78 79 76 43 78 60 52 63 48 36 34 52 43 55 28 33 15
( i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i >
65 62 60 59 50 49 45 41 30 27 24 22 22 18 17 16 15 14 12 10
age
8.1 Age and test score correlations in Boumaa Fijian
As the continuum indicates, there is a general tendency for scores
gradually to decline with age, indicating a decline in traditional Boumaa
features. For example, the highest score was 93 percent by an older
speaker of 62 years. The lowest score was 15 percent by the youngest
speaker of 10 years.
Having demonstrated that Boumaa dialect features tend to weaken
among younger speakers, it is necessary to investigate the relative re-
silience of Boumaa dialect features to change. The standardized tests
described above revealed that there was considerable variation in the
tendency of Boumaa linguistic features to weaken. Certain features dis-
played a strong resilience to loss (e.g. the salient phonological feature of
Language attrition in Boumaa Fijian and Dyirbal 117
glottal stop, the transitive affix form -Ca'ina, and a small percentage of
lexical items such as loga "mat," dai "joke/lie"). These features were used
by all of 20 speakers in 100 percent of opportunities. Even the youngest,
least fluent Boumaa speakers retain these "strong" features in their
everyday speech.
Many of the other Boumaa dialect features showed a gradual weak-
ening among younger speakers (e.g. peripheral and core lexical items,
pronouns, nominal article a, possessive marker wei, and demonstratives).
In contrast, other Boumaa forms appear to have been lost completely.
These features include negative marker can, certain possessive pronouns,
and various lexical items, e.g. purelulu "Wednesday." (For further details
of language change in Boumaa Fijian, see Schmidt 1987.)
In short, due to a complex network of sociocultural factors (including
education, mass media, societal trends such as westernization, and
features of the social organization such as intermarriage), the Boumaa
dialect is weakening. Younger speakers are dropping various distinctive
features of Boumaa Fijian and replacing them with more prestigious Stan-
dard Fijian forms. It is not, however, a case of dialect death. Boumaa
Fijian speech (which manifests identification with the Boumaa region) is
marked as distinct from Standard Fijian by the retention of a small set of
Boumaa features. These include: the salient phonological feature of
glottal stop; a small percentage of lexical items, e.g. loga "mat," dai
"joke/lie," and the transitive affix form -Ca'ina.
3 Dyirbal
The Dyirbal language is nearing extinction. Originally, this
language of at least ten dialects was spoken over more than 8,000 square
kilometres in the North Queensland rainforest area. Today, Dyirbal is
virtually limited to isolated pockets of the Jambun Aboriginal com-
munity. Even within this closed group, Dyirbal is currently being re-
placed by a variety of English. As a result of the intense contact with
English, radical changes are occurring in the grammar of Traditional Dyir-
bal (TD), this change in progress being manifested in Young Dyirbal (YD).
3.1 Factors conducive to Dyirbal decline
Major factors linked with the replacement of Dyirbal by English
are:
(1) Introduction of radio and colour television. Many of the houses
at Jambun have stereo sets, colour TV and radio. Watching TV is
118 Annette Schmidt
the main pastime for the family at night and for those not working
during the day.
(2) Absence of Dyirbal literature. All-English literature not only
confirms English as a prestigious language, but also glossy maga-
zines and books create desires, images and expectations that con-
flict with the traditional culture.
(3) Increased contact with white people upon fragmentation of the
tribe resulted in English as code for communication in the domain
of interaction with Europeans.
(4) Compulsory education in English schools. By an all-English cur-
riculum oriented only towards white society and its values, the
school provides a negative force for Dyirbal. Rather than edu-
cation enhancing/enriching Aboriginal cultural identity, it re-
places Dyirbal with English and creates an impression that Dyir-
bal is unimportant.
In line with the diminishing social function of Dyirbal, widespread
changes have taken place in the structure of YD. These changes were
systematically gauged by a similar method described for Boumaa Fijian
(see Section 2 above). A standard set of stimulus sentences was presented
to twelve semi-speakers for translation, and speakers were ranked on a
continuum according to their retention of TD features. Changes were
then traced along a continuum.
Linguistic change is apparent on every linguistic level, affecting
phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, lexicon, and sociolinguistic
styles. On the phonological level, changes are comparatively minor, with
only slight evidence of English interference. There are signs of phonetic
insecurity as the rhotic contrast weakens in non-minimal pairs; YD
speakers waver in their realization of the TD phonemes /rr/ and /r/. Also,
intrusion of English fricative HI is apparent in certain YD pidgin-type
pronouns, e.g. wifela "we plural," yufela "you plural."
Changes on the morphological level are much greater. Innovations in
the YD case system include:
(1) Less fluent YD speakers abandon TD morphological ergativity
and regroup core elements on an S-V-O (nominative-accusative
type) pattern shown by word order as in English.
(2) There is allomorphic reduction of ergative-instrumental, locative-
aversive, and genitive affixes.
(3) The TD distinction between alienable and inalienable possession
is neutralized. YD speakers extend the alienable possession affix
-gu, making it a general genitive affix.
Language attrition in Boumaa Fijian and Dyirbal 119
(4) Peripheral case distinctions are collapsed by less proficient YD
speakers. They often generalize a single case affix to cover vari-
ous peripheral case functions.
(5) Sometimes, less proficient individuals abandon suffocation alto-
gether as a means of marking peripheral case. Alternative role
marking devices are English prepositions, or lack of marking.
There is a similar tendency to drop verbal inflectional affixes. The
functions of these dying verb inflections are sometimes transferred to
alternative linguistic devices, e.g. less-fluent speakers lose future tense
-ny and negative imperative -m affixes, but the notion of future and
negative imperative is conveyed by other words in the sentence, but in
other cases not, e.g. bila "lest," murja participal. (This exemplifies a dis-
tinctive feature of the language death process, i.e. reduction in the struc-
ture of a decaying language is not always compensated for by structural
expansion and elaboration elsewhere in the system.)
YD speakers show a tendency to eliminate areas of unnecessary (i.e.
non-functional) complication in the TD language system. Verb conjug-
ation membership is rearranged so that conjugation corresponds to tran-
sitivity value to a greater degree. The irregular verb yanu "go" undergoes
analogic remodeling to become like regular verbs. In these two areas, YD
seems to be shifting in the direction of greater regularity.
Widespread changes occur on the syntactic level:
(1) There is a breakdown in agreement rules operating in the noun
phrase and verb complex.
(2) The exceptionally free TD word order is rigidified in YD on an
S-V-O pattern as in English.
(3) The TD clause linkage device, S-O pivot, is frequently aban-
doned in clause subordination and coordination. It survives pre-
dominantly in purposive clause conjunctions in the speech of all
YD speakers.
(4) There is a weakening of case-marking on the verb of a relative
clause.
(5) The overall frequency of clause subordination also diminishes in
YD.
Lexically, there is a reduction in vocabulary, correlating roughly with
YD grammatical proficiency. Some items appear more resistant to drop-
ping than others, e.g. islands of lexemes referring to body parts, human
classification, and well-known animates form zones of resistance.
220 Annette Schmidt
Semantic change is evident in the noun classification system. Most YD
speakers radically simplify the complex TD noun class system by re-
allocating noun class membership along a system based simply on the
principles of animacy and sex.
On the level of sociolinguistic style, Jalrjuy ''mother-in-law" speech
style (used traditionally in the presence of taboo relatives such as parent-
in-law of opposite sex or cross-cousin of opposite sex) has ceased to be
used due to severe disruptions in the sociocultural sphere. Similarly, a
variety of distinct Dyirbal song styles are lost by all but a handful of
Traditional Dyirbal speakers.
In short, a complex network of social and psychological factors is con-
tributing to linguistic attrition in Dyirbal and Boumaa Fijian. While the
two communities are very different in many aspects of sociocultural
organization, both display a common "core" set of features which are
conducive to the demise of the local indigenous language variety: edu-
cation and media promotion of the encroaching code; absence of vernacu-
lar literature; and increasing communication links outside of the com-
munity. These factors promote the encroaching language variety by
instilling a negative impression of the utility and value of the indigenous
code; increasing the numbers of contexts for communication in the en-
croaching code; and importantly, by creating desires, images and expec-
tations that form social identities incongruous with the use of the indigen-
ous language variety.
In terms of language change, the Boumaa Fijian and Dyirbal situations
contrast radically. In Boumaa Fijian, the change involved in dialect
leveling is predominantly formal as speakers switch to Standard Fijian
lexical and grammatical items. Dyirbal, on the other hand, has a much
greater range of language change (e.g. allomorphic reduction, collapsing
of grammatical categories, and semantic change in noun classification).
Despite the obvious contrasts in the Boumaa Fijian and Dyirbal language
loss, both communities illustrate a sociolinguistic principle which is com-
mon to many cases of language attrition, namely the economy of distinc-
tions.
4 The result of language loss - economy of distinctions
As an integral factor in social interaction, language performs two
basic functions: (1) a communication device for transmitting information;
(2) a vehicle of identity.
In a dying language variety, the communicative function may diminish
as speakers become increasingly reliant on the replacing language/
Language attrition in Boumaa Fijian and Dyirbal 121
dialect, its forms and categories, as a means of communication. The
identity function, however, is often more resilient, remaining long after
the communicative function has decreased.
In Boumaa Fijian and Dyirbal, the importance of language as a vehicle
of identity is evident. This is well expressed in the principle of economy of
distinctions: in a contact situation where an indigenous language variety
is being infiltrated by a more prestigious language variety, speakers of the
indigenous code will maintain a reduced number of distinguishing
features if they wish to mark their language as distinct from the replacing
language.
In other words, speakers of both Boumaa Fijian and Dyirbal do not
surrender all features of their dying tongue. Rather, speakers maintain a
small set of distinguishing features in order to mark that code as distinct
from the replacing language variety.
For example, in Boumaa Fijian, standardized tests indicate that many
distinguishing grammatical and lexical features have weakened or been
lost (see Section 2). It is not the case, however, that as a consequence of
the dialect leveling process, speakers in Waitabu village automatically
adopt the dominant encroaching code, Standard Fijian, in their everyday
interaction. Rather, they maintain just a few distinguishing Boumaa dia-
lect features (see Section 2) in order to mark their speech as distinct from
the replacing language variety. In other words, speakers simply econ-
omize on the number of distinguishing features which mark their
Boumaa speech as distinct by reducing the range of Boumaa dialect
features to a minimal number.
Similarly, in the terminal stages of the Dyirbal language, speakers do
not adopt Standard Australian English. Instead, Jambun English, a non-
standard variety of English, is used as a common code of communication
within the community. Jambun English bears various phonological,
grammatical and lexical features of TD, thus distinguishing it from Stan-
dard Australian English. On the phonological level, there is replacement
of fricatives by stops, reduction of consonant clusters, and deletion of
word-initial vowels. TD grammatical influence includes: omission of
plural markers -s, absence of number agreement on the verb, deletion of
copula and auxiliaries, and absence of prepositions and articles. Lexically,
Jambun English is characterized by high intrusion of Dyirbal forms.
These differences, though they be minimal, serve to mark the speech of
the Jambun Aborigines as distinct from the encroaching white English
language. For Jambun people, Jambun English is thus an important
vehicle of identity, symbolizing membership in a closed Aboriginal com-
munity.
122 Annette Schmidt
The important point is that speakers of both Boumaa Fijian and Dyirbal
maintain a small set of distinguishing features of their dying code, and
use these as shibboleths to mark their identity.
5 Speaker perception: modicum of features as symbols of
language
The speaker's perception of language loss often differs markedly
from that of the linguist analyzing the same phenomenon. While linguis-
tic analysis may reveal that widespread changes are occurring on many
levels of a language system, speakers frequently perceive that their
language is "healthy," non-threatened as long as certain formal markers
of the language (be they lexical, morphological, or phonological) are used.
In other words, to the speaker, various salient linguistic markers
(forms) act as symbols of the language. While forms function as symbols
of the language, the grammatical and semantic categories which these
forms denote, do not. Thus, in observing language loss, speakers tend
not to focus on collapse of grammatical categories or semantic change, but
on the formal salient symbols of the language variety. Hence, use of
various salient linguistic markers which symbolize the language variety
are often considered as synonymous with "speaking the language."
Even a non-fluent semi-speaker, who has lost many distinguishing
features of traditional language variety X and who has minimal pro-
ficiency in the code, will be regarded as a "speaker of X" by virtue of the
fact that he employs a few salient symbols of the language.
This is well exemplified in Boumaa Fijian and Dyirbal data. Younger
members of Waitabu village continue to recognize their speech as vosa
va'a-Bouma "Boumaa Fijian" depsite the loss of most distinguishing
Boumaa dialect features. To these speakers, the phonological feature of
glottal stop, transitive affix -Ca'ina and a few lexical items function as
symbols of Boumaa Fijian.
Similarly, in the Dyirbal language, even the least-proficient individuals
tend to regard themselves as "Dyirbal speakers." Individuals in the Jam-
bun community may be ranked on a continuum according to their reten-
tion of traditional Dyirbal features. For ease of explanation, we will isolate
three continuum stages, graphically displayed opposite in Figure 8.2.
Stage 1: at the TD polar extreme are those fully proficient
speakers who command the full complex grammar and lexi-
con of the traditional code (i.e. as described by Dixon 1972).
Stage 2: mid-way along the continuum are ranked less-fluent
Language attrition in Boumaa Fijian and Dyirbal 123
speakers who have an imperfect command of Dyirbal gram-
mar and lexicon. A typical speaker of this stage retains some
200-300 lexical items and various grammatical forms, but is
reliant on English grammar (e.g. S-V-O word order) in com-
posing utterances.
Stage 3: towards the right polar extreme, ''light-weight"
speakers (fifteen years and under) recall only some 20-30
Dyirbal lexical items. TD grammar, morphology and other
lexical items are lost.
TD 1 2 3 English
< 1 1 1 >
 TD grammar & lexicon  some 200 Dyirbal words  20-30 Dyirbal words
 a few Dyirbal grammatical  English grammar
items
 basic English grammar
e.g. S-V-O order
non-linguist's perception of "Dyirbal speaker"
8.2 Attrition stages in Traditional Dyirbal
Despite the range of formal and categorical change occurring along the
continuum, individuals at all three stages continue to regard themselves
as "Dyirbal speakers." Even least-fluent individuals at Stage 3 take pride
in talkin' guwal "language," though they retain only some thirty lexical
items plugged into an English S-V-O word order.
This not to say that speakers cannot pinpoint change in language
attrition. Quite the contrary: in the Dyirbal and Boumaa Fijian investiga-
tions, speakers often remarked that younger people's speech was
different, describing it as "not so heavy" or "mixed up." In some
cases, certain linguistically sensitive traditional speakers could pinpoint
actual linguistic differences, e.g. dropping of ergative affix -gu in YD
speech.
Nevertheless, despite such recognition of linguistic change, the ten-
dency is to regard even least-fluent individuals as Dyirbal or Boumaa
Fijian speakers by virtue of the fact that they retain a "lowest common
denominator" of distinguishing features, which marks the language vari-
ety as distinct from the encroaching code.
124 Annette Schmidt
6 Conclusion
Despite obvious differences in Boumaa Fijian and Dyirbal
language attrition (e.g. Dyirbal has a much greater range of language
change than does Boumaa Fijian, such as allomorphic reduction, and
collapsing of grammatical and semantic categories), both communities
illustrate a sociolinguistic principle which is common to many cases of
language loss, namely the "economy of distinctions."
The semi-speaker's perception of language vitality contrasts with that
of the linguist. Speakers frequently perceive their language to be healthy
and non-threatened as long as a small set of formal linguistic markers,
functioning as symbols of the language, continue to be used. Thus, de-
spite the range of changes occurring in the language systems, individuals
regard themselves as Dyirbal or Boumaa Fijian speakers by virtue of the
fact that they retain a "lowest common denominator" set of dis-
tinguishing features, which marks the language variety as distinct from
the encroaching code.
References
Dixon, R. M. W. 1972. The Dyirbal language ofNorth Queensland. Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Lodhia, R. W. 1977. Report on the census of the population 1976. Parliamentary Paper
No. 13 of 1977, Suva, Fiji.
1982. Current economic statistics, April 1982. Suva: Bureau of Statistics.
Schmidt, A. 1987. Language in a Fijian village: an ethnolinguistic study, PhD thesis,
Australian National University.
9 Pennsylvania German: convergence and
change as strategies of discourse
MARION LOIS HUFFINES
1 Introduction
In most immigrant communities across the United States,
English eventually fulfills communicative functions once allocated to im-
migrants' native languages. The immigrant language falls into disuse,
and subsequent generations attain only faulty mastery of its rules if they
learn it at all. Of interest in this study is the linguistic integrity of the
language as it falls into disuse. If speakers no longer use their native
language for daily discourse, does the reduction of function result in a
corresponding reduction of linguistic form? Linguistic change due to dis-
use is only one aspect of first language attrition. Attrition may also occur
even while the language continues to fulfill daily discourse functions. In
intimate contact with a dominant language, minority languages often
exhibit changes which suggest attrition in spite of their maintenance.
Linguistic change due to disuse and linguistic convergence toward a
dominant language due to contact represent two kinds of attrition, and
both may be realized as individual or communal language behaviors.
The purpose of this study is to describe instances of language change
and convergence as processes of attrition. First language attrition occurs
in individuals whose lives have changed in such a way that they have
little or no opportunity to use their native language, perhaps for most of
their adult years. The language of such individuals exhibits evidence of
faulty application of their native language rules. The speech of whole
bilingual communities in which a minority language is spoken for daily
discourse may also exhibit evidence of native language displacement.
Such evidence reflects the intimate contact with a more dominant
language surrounding the community and is realized by the presence of
non-native linguistic features which indicate convergence toward the
other language model. Individual native language loss and societal native
language loss are illustrated by an investigation of linguistic features in
Pennsylvania German as it is spoken in sectarian and non-sectarian com-
munities.
126 Marion Lois Huffines
2 Background
Of all immigrant groups in the United States, the Pennsylvania
Germans are often cited as unusual because they have maintained their
culture and language across three centuries. Although studies have long
predicted its imminent demise, Pennsylvania German continues to be
spoken natively in Amish and Old Order Mennonite communities and
can still be heard among those of older generations in non-sectarian
enclaves, both rural and urban, in central and eastern Pennsylvania. For
the Amish and Mennonites, English and Pennsylvania German fulfill
non-overlapping functions: generally, Pennsylvania German is spoken at
home and in the sectarian community, English is spoken in school and
with all outsiders. This diglossic situation usually obtains, although one
cancite individual and communal exceptions. Amongnon-sectarian Penn-
sylvania Germans, the switch to English is pervasive. In virtually all
non-sectarian Pennsylvania German communities, if Pennsylvania Ger-
man is spoken, it is spoken only by the elderly. Younger speakers are
non-native and non-fluent.
In the following discussion the Pennsylvania German of sectarian
groups is compared with the Pennsylvania German of non-sectarian
native speakers. The extent of linguistic change and convergence in any
specific Pennsylvania German variety can be ascertained only by com-
paring it with other varieties of Pennsylvania German. Comparisons with
modern Standard German or with today's Pfalzisch, from which Pen-
nsylvania German separated two hundred and fifty years ago, are in-
appropriate. Arguments for or against linguistic change and convergence
must be based on norms derived from the Pennsylvania German com-
munity itself.
3 Procedures
The observations below are based on data from interviews with
32 native speakers of Pennsylvania German, 13 non-sectarian, 10 Men-
nonites and 9 Amish. All informants are bilingual. The three main groups
are described as followed:
Group N: Non-sectarian speakers of Pennsylvania German. The non-
sectarian native speakers of Pennsylvania German range in age from 35
to 75; all but four are 60 years old or older. They live in the farm valleys of
southern Northumberland, northern Dauphin, and western Schuylkill
counties, where they were born and have spent their adult lives. All but
the two youngest (35 and 47 years old), who have monolingual English-
Pennsylvania German: convergence and change as strategies of discourse 127
speaking spouses, speak Pennsylvania German with their spouses and
peers; all speak English to their children. The two youngest informants
in Group N will be referred to jointly as YN and individually as YN1 and
YN2 in the lists below.
The sectarian native speakers of Pennsylvania German range from 24 to
65 years of age. All but one were born and raised in Lancaster County but
currently reside in Union County, Pennsylvania. All speak Pennsylvania
German for daily discourse within the family and community:
Group M: The Mennonites. The Mennonite group consists of members
of an Old Order Mennonite community, also called 'Team Men-
nonites/' The group is characterized by horse and buggy transportation,
distinctive dress, and limited education to the eighth grade.
Group A: The Amish. The Amish group consists of eight members of a
conservative wing of the New Order Amish and one member of an Old
Order Amish community. As do the Old Order Mennonites, members of
the New Order Amish group have electricity in their homes, and the
group is also characterized by horse and buggy transportation, distinct-
ive dress, and limited education to the eighth grade. The Old Order
Amish informant has no electricity in his home.
The interview consisted of three parts: free conversation, translation of
English sentences into Pennsylvania German, and description of pic-
tures. The topics of conversation centered on activities which commonly
take place on the farm and at school: daily chores, butchering, weather
events, home remedies. The sentences used in the translation task and
the pictures used to elicit comparable descriptions without overt refer-
ence to English likewise reflect the activities and vocabulary items closely
associated with rural family life. The interviewer spoke English, the in-
formants responded in Pennsylvania German, a type of discourse
behavior which is common in communities where one language is re-
ceding (Dorian 1981). Data based on the translation task are reported
separately from those based on the picture descriptions and free conver-
sation.
While speakers often comment on the frequency of lexical borrowings
to the point of despairing over the integrity of the language, they fail to
notice other changes and convergent behaviors, especially in the area of
syntax. Because Pennsylvania German and English derive historically
from a common Germanic source, evidence of convergence toward
English due to contact with English must be sought in structures which
contrast sharply. Three areas of syntactic variation in Pennsylvania Ger-
man are discussed below, areas where Pennsylvania German structures
128 Marion Lois Huffines
contrast with English structures in form and/or function: (1) case usage,
specifically the status of dative pronouns; (2) verbal aspect, specifically
the use of the auxiliary du; and (3) word order, specifically the position of
the past participle in independent clauses.
4 Results
4.1 Case usage
The Pennsylvania German pronoun system consists of three
cases: the nominative, accusative, and dative. Distinctive dative pro-
nouns, stressed and unstressed forms, exist for the first, second, and
third persons singular and for the third person plural. All other forms are
identical to the accusative. See Table 9.1. The nominative/accusative dis-
tinction does not exist for nouns; both nominative and accusative func-
tions are expressed by the common case. Although all prescriptive gram-
mars carefully distinguish dative forms and functions, variability in the
use of the dative is reported by Anderson and Martin (1976) for the
Pennsylvania German spoken by the Old Order Mennonites in Pennsyl-
vania and Ontario, by Enninger (1980) for the Pennsylvania German
spoken by the Old Order Amish in Delaware, and by Costello (1985). All
three indicate a trend toward the use of the common case for nouns and
the accusative case for pronouns to fulfill dative functions.
In the Pennsylvania German spoken in the communities under con-
sideration, the sectarian and non-sectarian informants diverge sharply in
their use of the dative, a divergence which obtains across interview tasks.
Table 9.2 opposite reports the case of personal pronouns in dative func-
tions in the translation task. Although speakers in Group N show vari-
ation, they also show firm control of dative case usage. Much of the
Table 9.1 Pennsylvania German pronouns
l s g
2sg
3 sg masc/neut
3 sg fem
i P i
2 pi
3 pi
nom.
I?
du
ar/ss
si
mir/mar
dir/dar
si
dat. str.
mir
dir
im
ira
Uns
aic
in
dat. unstr.
mar
dar
sm
rs
ace.
ml^
<n?
in
si
Uns
aic
si
Pennsylvania German: convergence and change as strategies of discourse 129
Table 9.2 Case of personal pronouns in dative
functions (translation task)
Group
N
M
A
dat.
83
1
2
ace.
22
86
90
Table 9.3 Dative personal pronouns (free conversation and
picture descriptions)
Group
N
M
A
lsg
14
0
0
2sg
5
1
0
3m sg
9
0
0
3fsg
8
0
0
3 pi
3
0
0
Total
39
1
0
variation in Group N can be attributed to the two youngest speakers of
that group, who do not speak Pennsylvania German in their homes as the
others in the group regularly do. Among the sectarians, the dative is virtu-
ally non-existent. Examples from the translation task appear in List 1.
List 1: Examples of pronouns in dative functions (translation
task)
N: ic hap ind gEsdsr gholfd
M: ic hap si gEsdsr gholfs
A: ic hap si gholfo gEsdar
YN: ic hap si gholfs gEsdsr
"I helped them yesterday."
N: ds ghErt nEt tsu dir
M: 3S ghErt nEt tsu die
A: 5S hErt nEt tsu die
YN1: sEl bilarjt nEt tsu dir
YN2: sEl bilarjt nEt tsu dir I tsu die I sEl bilarjt nEt tsu die
"It doesn't belong to you." (/ = sentence pause)
N: sai dadi gEpt mir oft gEld
M: sai deed gEpt mlc oft gEld
A: sai dddd gEpt mlc als gEld
YN: sai dadi gEpt mar als gEld
"His daddy often gives me money."
130 Marion Lois Huffines
The occurrence of dative pronouns in free conversation and picture
descriptions supports the results of the translation data. See Table 9.3
(previous page). List 2 shows one example of comparable structures from
the picture description task:
List 2: Examples of pronouns in dative functions (picture
description)
N: si smaist tsu im ar smaist tsu iro
"She throws to him. He throws to her."
M: s medli smaist tsu dor bu
"The little girl throws to the boy."
A: s medli smaist dor bah tsu dor bu
"The little girl throws the ball to the boy."
YN1: si smaist dor bal tsu dor I tsu sEl attars yurjo
"She throws the ball to the / to that other boy."
ar wll on farjo I ar hat nox nEt
"He wants to catch it / he has not yet."
YN2: s medl smaist tsu dor bu
"The little girl throws to the boy."
List 3 gives examples of dative functions from the free conversation
data. Group N uses the dative case to express those functions; Groups M
and A use the accusative case. The YN informants alternate between
dative and accusative forms.
List 3: Examples of pronouns in dative functions (free
conversation)
N: os get mor wllndorbar hart
"It is awfully hard for me."
N: iq kan dir nEt says
"I can't tell you."
M: iq wll ml$ nox on frak maxo
"I still want to make myself a dress."
M: wEn mor dig Epos lEts gsat hEn
"If we said something wrong to you."
A: as nEkst war tsu mlq
"Who was next to me."
A: iq kan os dig nEt sayo
"I can't tell you that."
YN2: si hEn mor on gle kzef gsikt e mol
"They gave me a little calf one time."
YN2: mir hEn in als on rAfi tsait gEvo
"We used to give him a rough time."
Pennsylvania German: convergence and change as strategies of discourse 131
Group N maintains a vigorous dative case which fulfills dative func-
tions. Variation exists within Group N, where the two youngest members
resort to accusative forms, but even their speech has evidence of opera-
tive dative rules. They maintain the first person dative pronoun and
alternate between accusative and dative forms for other pronouns. These
speakers also resort to repairs and elaborate paraphrasings in order to
maintain discourse in Pennsylvania German.
In the Pennsylvania German of Groups M and A, the merger of the
dative and accusative cases is complete (see also Huffmes 1989). These
speakers have a one case system for nouns and a two case system for
pronouns. One must note that this case merger need not necessarily be
caused by the close contact with English; northern European German
dialects and the dialect of Berlin have also merged the dative and accusa-
tive cases and done so without intimate contact with English. However,
in contrast to non-sectarian Pennsylvania German, the sectarian Pennsyl-
vania German case system now parallels the English case system.
4.2 The auxiliary du
The Pennsylvania German verb du "to do" serves a limited
function in the Pennsylvania German verb aspect system as an auxiliary.
It is the obligatory auxiliary in the formation of the present subjunctive for
most Pennsylvania German verbs, a usage which is not under considera-
tion in this discussion. The use of the auxiliary du with the infinitive of the
main verb expresses present tense iteration (Huffmes 1986); it occurs
most frequently in discussions describing repeated activities, such as
those which regularly take place during annual family butcherings: no
dlld ddr bUtsor as mlksd "then the butcher mixes it"; del lait duns sperlbs
snaidd "some people cut up spareribs." Data from this sample do not
support the description of the auxiliary du by Buffmgton and Barba
(1965) as an emphatic form used most frequently to ask questions and to
make negative statements. See Table 9.4. YN speakers account for the
use of the auxiliary du in two questions and two negatives. Sectarian
Table 9.4
Group
N
M
A
Use of the auxiliary
Total
30
23
24
Quest.
10
2
11
du (translation task)
Neg.
7
6
4
Emphasis
1
1
1
132 Marion Lois Huffines
Table 9.5 Use of the auxilliary du - scored* {free conversation)
Group # occ. aux /du/ Av. # words per speaker Score
N 24 1303 18
M 32 1520 21
A 40 1255 31
*The number of occurrences of the auxiliary du divided by the
average number of words per speaker for each group, multiplied by
103
.
informants, especially the Amish, tend to use the auxiliary du more fre-
quently than do non-sectarian informants in free conversation although
the use of auxiliary du forms is not particularly frequent for any group.
See Table 9.5. In free conversation no more than three instances of du
occur in negative statements for each group. No instance of du occurs to
formulate questions.
Three significant differences in the use of the auxiliary du emerge from
the speech of the sectarian informants when it is compared with that of
the non-sectarians (see List 4):
List 4: Use of the auxiliary du by Groups M and A
(1) Sectarian informants frequently use the auxiliary du in collocation
with adverbs and temporal clauses which indicate repeated time:
Ig du alssmol yogUrt maxd
"Sometimes I make yogurt."
wan mir bUtsara dun Ig fles kzena
"When we butcher, I can meat."
mdr dlld s ahgsbot stars
"One stirs it once in a while."
(2) Sectarian informants employ the auxiliary du in pro-form func-
tions, i.e. the auxiliary stands alone in place of the main verb:
si dun als nox
"They still do."
Ic wes as SAtn lait dun
"I know that some people do."
nau dun mir a
"Now we do too."
(3) Sectarian informants extend the use of the auxiliary du to verbs
which cannot be iterative:
Er dlld ates WISQ wi sEl
"He knows everything like that."
Pennsylvania German: convergence and change as strategies of discourse 133
9S dlld mlc glaico
"It likes me."
bluniQ wu gut smaks dun
"flowers which smell good"
This evidence indicates that in the Pennsylvania German of the sectarian
community constructions with du no longer have a semantic force strong
enough to express present iteration; that function is being carried out by
adverbs and other temporal phrases. This observation is supported by the
use of du in pro-form function and by the extension of the construction to
verbs which cannot be iterative.
The use of du exhibits convergent behavior which is more complex than
was seen in the use of the dative: Pennsylvania German du does not
parallel functions or assume the role of English do. All groups provide
uniform and unambiguous evidence of that fact. Pennsylvania German
du is not used with any special frequency in the formation of questions or
negatives, and it is not used emphatically. In sectarian communities a
subtle semantic shift is occurring. The loss of iterative meaning results in
the increased availability of du to perform functions more similar to the
English model. The use of du as a pro-form is such a function.
4.3 Word order
Pennsylvania German and English contrast sharply in rules
governing word order. A frequently cited characteristic of all varieties of
American German is the trend toward word order patterns which parallel
those in English. The question arises to what extent these trends actually
reflect contact with English and to what extent the word order variation
was already present in German dialects. Published Pennsylvania Ger-
man writings are of little help. Early writers of Pennsylvania German had
often been trained in standard varieties of German, and the relationship
of written Pennsylvania German to spoken Pennsylvania German is
unclear.
In order to determine whether convergence obtains, this study investi-
gates one distinctive word order pattern of Pennsylvania German which
contrasts with English placement rules: the position of the past participle
in independent clauses.
In independent clauses, the prescribed position for the past participle is
at the end of the clause. Although Frey (1981) and Haag (1982) state
categorically that in independent clauses the past participle comes at the
end, Buffmgton & Barba (1965) suggest that variation exists in the appli-
cation of this rule: "[I]t is not uncommon to place adverbial modifiers
134 Marion Lots
Table 9.6
(translation
Group
N
M
A
YN
Huffines
Position
i data)
Total
110
91
96
25
of the past participle in independent
# participles # non-final
39
59
62
14
clauses
% non-final
35
65
65
56
Table 9.7 Position of the past participle in independent clauses
(free conversation)
Group Total # participles # non-final % non-final
N 678 94 14
M 496 117 24
A 357 111 31
YN 39 11 28
after the past participle" (63). The data from the communities under
investigation suggest that variation does, indeed, characterize Pennsyl-
vania German. See Tables 9.6 and 9.7. In the translation task Groups M
and A place past participles in non-final position almost twice as fre-
quently as Group N. All groups place past participles in non-final pos-
ition more frequently in the translation task than in free conversation, and
this placement may be a function of a strategy to translate a sentence
linearly, as it is presented in English. In both interview tasks Group N
places past participles in non-final position less frequently than do the
sectarian groups. The YN informants show substantially more non-final
participles in independent clauses than do the other speakers in Group
N. Their percentages approach those of the sectarians in the translation
task and surpass the Mennonites in free conversation. For all groups, if the
past participle is not in final position, typically one prepositional phrase
or one adverb follows it. See examples from the translation task in List 5.
List 5: Word order in independent clauses (translation task)
N,YN1: 3S hat gEsdor gor
YN2,M,A: ds hat gorEdrt gEsdar
"It rained yesterday."
Pennsylvania German: convergence and change as strategies of discourse 135
N: si hEn s im no spetor gslkt
M,A: si hEn s tsu on gslkt spetor
YN1: si hEn os nox gslkt tsu am spetor
YN2: si hEn as spetor slkt
"They sent it to him later."
Observations based on translation data alone would consistently overrate
the trend which suggests convergence toward English.
5 Conclusion
The speech of the non-sectarian native speakers of Pennsylvania
German (Group N) shows evidence of a more conservative norm, a norm
which more closely reflects prescribed usage: the dative case fulfills da-
tive functions; the auxiliary use of du is limited and expresses present
iteration; Group N clearly prefers past participles in final position. Group
N also exhibits variation which indicates the presence of other language
patterns, especially in the speech of younger speakers: the use of the
common case to fulfill dative functions; one instance of the auxiliary du
used emphatically, and the use of the final position in independent
clauses for adverbial material. The speech of the YN speakers is charac-
terized by more variation and faulty application of Pennsylvania German
rules than is found in the speech of other Group N speakers. Construc-
tions based on an apparent English model occur, but Pennsylvania Ger-
man linguistic rules are clearly still operative even if their application is
faulty.
The variation within the non-sectarian community and its frequent
occurrence in the speech of younger speakers suggest the incipient loss of
a community norm. Individuals accommodate their linguistic environ-
ment as best they can - by using Pennsylvania German rules when
speaking Pennsylvania German and by switching to English when those
rules fail them. The essential accommodation to the English speaking
environment by Group N is the switching behavior. As Pennsylvania
German falls into disuse, the resultant variation and the lack of a clear
norm within the community are characteristic features of impending lan-
guage death. Group N is the last of the native speakers of Pennsylvania
German in their community, but they still exhibit firm control of Pennsyl-
vania German rules. The language is dying, but it is dying relatively
intact, and it shows little evidence of convergence to English.
The Mennonites and the Amish (Groups M and A) contrast in their
language behavior with Group N: the dative and the common case have
136 Marion Lois Huffines
merged; the auxiliary du has shifted semantically and is beginning to
assume English-like functions; the past participle in independent clauses
occurs significantly more frequently in non-final position than the more
conservative Group N norm suggests as typical. Each of the resulting
language patterns parallels an English model.
Particularly striking in the language behavior of the sectarian communi-
ties is its uniformity. Accommodation to English is communal, and the
community maintains a norm. Individuals do not accommodate their
linguistic environment, the community accommodates the environment,
not by switching to English but by making their Pennsylvania German
more like English. The sociolinguistic norms for language behavior in
sectarian communities prescribe usage not form, and convergence is the
means by which Pennsylvania German is maintained. The displacement
of native language forms, functions, and constructions by non-native
language formulations also represents instances of language attrition. In
the case of sectarian Pennsylvania German, language attrition does not
proceed into language death but is a strategy of language maintenance.
The lifestyle associated with the sectarians would not have led one to
predict the greater convergence in their variety of Pennsylvania German.
Sectarians live as a people separate "from the world" and generally
associate with outsiders only in transactional settings. Non-sectarians, on
the other hand, live in mainstream American society, associating with
monolingual English speakers socially and otherwise. The explanation
for the observed linguistic pattern seems to lie in the different switching
behaviors of each group. Non-sectarians speak Pennsylvania German
with their linguistic peers when appropriate. If their Pennsylvania Ger-
man fails them and cannot efficiently fulfill the communicative function
at hand, the non-sectarians switch languages. Switching to English is
inappropriate within sectarian communities. No productive relationship
exists between Pennsylvania German and varieties of modern European
German, and most sectarians have only a limited passive knowledge of
Standard German in liturgical contexts. If Pennsylvania German is to
continue to meet the changing needs of their community, the sectarians
must elaborate and develop it by using linguistic resources from English.
The lack of switching to English exposes sectarian Pennsylvania German
to influence from English. This dependence on English in a context which
does not allow switching accounts for the greater convergence in the
Pennsylvania German spoken by the sectarians. For non-sectarians the
frequent switching almost paradoxically protects their Pennsylvania Ger-
man from innovations based on English while at the same time it increas-
ingly contributes to the disuse and death of Pennsylvania German.
Pennsylvania German: convergence and change as strategies of discourse 137
References
Anderson, K. O., and W. Martin. 1976. ''Language loyalty among the Pennsyl-
vania Germans: a status report on Old Order Mennonites in Pennsyl-
vania and Ontario/' inE. A. Albrecht and J. A. Burzle (eds.), Germanica-
Americana 1976. Lawrence, Kansas: University of Kansas.
Buffington, A. F., and P. A. Barba. 1954, revised 1965. A Pennsylvania German
grammar. Allentown, PA: Schlechter.
Costello, J. R. 1985. ''Pennsylvania German and English: languages in contact/'
in H. Kloss (ed.), Deutsch als Muttersprache in den Vereinigten Staaten
Teil II. Wiesbaden: Franz Steiner.
Dorian, N. C. 1981. Language death: the life cycle ofa Scottish Gaelic dialect. Philadel-
phia: University of Pennsylvania Press.
Enninger, W. 1980. "Syntactic convergence in a stable triglossia plus trilingualism
situation in Kent County, Delaware, USA," in H. P. Nelde (ed.), Sprach-
kontakt und Sprachkonflikt, Zeitschrift fur Dialektologie und Linguistik,
Beiheft 32. Wiesbaden: Franz Steiner.
Frey, J. W. 1942, reprinted 1981. A simplegrammar ofPennsylvania German, reissued
with a new preface by C. R. Beam, Lancaster, PA: Brookshire Publica-
tions.
Haag, E. C. 1982. A Pennsylvania German reader and grammar. University Park, PA:
The Pennsylvania State University Press.
Huffines, M. L. 1986. "The function of aspect in Pennsylvania German and the
impact of English," Yearbook of German-American Studies 21: 137-154.
Huffines, M. L. 1989. "Case usage among the Pennsylvania German sectarians
and nonsectarians," in N.C. Dorian (ed.), Investigating obsolescence:
Studies in language contraction and death. Cambridge: Cambridge Uni-
versity Press.
10 Lexical retrieval difficulties in adult language
attrition
ELITE OLSHTAIN AND MARGARET BARZILAY
1 Introduction
Primary language attrition in adults is likely to occur when the
subjects have been uprooted from their natural mother tongue context
and transferred to a new language environment. From the point of
view of the speakers, a second language is now the dominant language in
the new context while their first language has become a restricted mode of
communication. The degree of such restriction, the prestige of the first
language in the new environment, the level of social distance between the
immigrant community and the host community, and the individual
degree of acculturation into the new speech community may all have an
impact on the degree of erosion which takes place in the subjects' level of
competence in their first language.
This chapter will attempt to describe some features of attrition in a
context least conducive to primary language erosion and yet exhibiting
interesting changes in linguistic competence. The subjects in our study
are American speaking immigrants to Israel who continue to maintain
English as their dominant language even ten and twenty years after im-
migration. Although some of the subjects have attained near native pro-
ficiency in Hebrew, most have only acquired the language to an extent
that fulfills their immediate needs. All subjects continue to use English for
reading, entertainment and professional functions.
An important feature of the new environment is the fact that English,
the primary language of the attriters, happens to be considered a lan-
guage of high prestige and utilitarian value in the new community. Con-
sequently, the knowledge of English is regarded as an asset worth keep-
ing. Thus, we are concerned with attrition of LI (English) in an L2
(Hebrew) environment according to Van Els' (1986) definition, but in a
unique language setting where least attrition is to be expected.
Under the special circumstances described above, we noticed in inter-
personal interactions and during informal observation that word retrieval
processes seemed to be slightly impaired in the primary language of
140 Elite Olshtain and Margaret Barzilay
American immigrants living in Israel for longer periods of time. We were
motivated, therefore, to find out more about the type of changes which
take place in the English of such subjects. In this chapter we will focus on
the facility of lexical retrieval of specific English words as our criterion
variable (Lambert 1982; Lambert & Moore 1986), and on extended stay
(over eight years) in a Hebrew speaking environment as our predictor
variable.
2 Lexical retrieval and language attrition
Vocabulary accessibility in one's LI and its susceptibility to attri-
tion is quite different from attrition in L2 vocabulary. Cohen (1986) lists
the various features that can be forgotten with respect to a word in the
language suffering from attrition: form, position, function and meaning
(146). We have noticed vocabulary attrition among adult native speakers
mostly in the limited area of specificity in meaning. Thus, in accordance
with Obler (1982), the most susceptible items to suffer from language
attrition are infrequent, specific, nouns. In the data that we collected six
such specific nouns stand out as a test case for retrieval difficulties, and
they will each be analyzed in detail. It will be our contention that what
Sharwood Smith (1983) calls "reduction in accessibility" of lexical items
which are attrition prone is one of the outstanding features of attrition
among adult attriters who continue to maintain their primary language as
their own dominant language while living in an L2 dominant linguistic
environment.
The main assumption underlying the notion "reduction in accessibil-
ity" is that the subjects participating in this study were at some point in
the past fully capable of using the specific lexical items focused on here,
both in production and reception. In this respect, our study bears some
similarity to studies which have focused on semantic priming and object
naming with aging subjects and with cases suffering from various types
of dementia (Bayles & Kaszniak 1987). Thus, patients with mild dementia
exhibit some slight disorder of their semantic memory and take more time
to respond on semantic naming tasks. Studies of such difficulties of
lexical accessibility may shed light on retrieval processes in general, and
the study presented here attempts to add an additional perspective to
these processes, based on the qualitative analysis of the data collected
from our attriter subjects.
Our main objective was to try and describe features of language attri-
tion as exhibited by the subjects' systematic and consciously directed
search of their semantic memory for lexical items which prior to the onset
Lexical retrieval difficulties in adult language attrition 141
of attrition were easily accessible. While in natural interactions attriters
may find ways to avoid such a conscious retrieval process, either by
paraphrasing in English the meaning of the inaccessible word or by
mixing codes and using words from L2, the task designed for this study
urged them to use a direct retrieval process. Our analysis of this process
follows.
3 The study
3.1 Subjects
Fifteen Americans living in Israel for an extended period of time
(henceforth referred to as American Israelis) and six Americans living in
the USA who have never lived in Israel (henceforth referred to as Ameri-
cans) participated in this study. The six Americans ranged in age from
twenty-eight to fifty-six. They had no knowledge of Hebrew and had
continually lived in an American English speaking environment. The
fifteen American Israelis ranged in age from twenty-three to fifty-five.
They had all been native speakers of American English with full compe-
tence in their first language, before immigrating to Israel. At the time
when the study was conducted, they had been living in the second lan-
guage environment for a minimum of eight years to a maximum of
twenty-five years. They came from different geographical areas within
the United States and thirteen out of the fifteen were women. The Ameri-
can Israelis all speak Hebrew at various levels of proficiency but most of
them have difficulty reading Hebrew.
3.2 Data collection
The data for this study were collected by having subjects tell two
frog stories based on two booklets, Frog, where are you? and A boy, a dog and
afrog, both by Mercer Mayer (New York, The Dial Press, 1969). The first of
these two books provided the bulk of the data analyzed here while then
second served more as additional back-up for the examples identified in
the first story.
The frog booklets are very useful instruments for data collection of the
type we were interested in, since the story line is conveyed through a
series of detailed pictures without any written text. The subjects were
asked to leaf through the whole booklet for a while and then tell the story.
Such an elicitation technique provides a rather free and open framework
enabling each subject to be as detailed or general as they like and to
142 Elite Olshtain and Margaret Barzilay
produce language without any necessary interference from the re-
searcher. Each subject was interviewed individually and all sessions were
tape recorded and then transcribed. The transcriptions of the data col-
lected from the American Israelis were analyzed for language attrition
features. Identical data, using the frog stories, were collected from the six
Americans and provided the "native speaker'' sample.
Eliciting data with the frog stories should result in a natural flow of
speech, which focuses on the content represented in the pictures. Thus, it
is difficult for the subjects to ignore key elements in the pictures, especi-
ally if they are repeated throughout the story. Very few subjects tried to
practice "avoidance" strategy. In fact, an object naming task is em-
bedded in the global task of story telling and this object naming task
enabled us to focus on a group of nouns which are needed for the story,
carry a specific meaning and are not necessarily frequent in the speech of
our subjects: jar, cliff, pond, gopher, and deer.
3.3 Findings
On the whole, the American Israelis had no difficulty telling the
frog stories and they acted as fully competent speakers of the language.
However, they did have difficulty with the specific words chosen for
analysis. Being faced with the task of fluent story telling, they could not
ignore these key words in the story and had in fact a number of options
available: (a) the use of circumlocution or paraphrase; (b) the replacement
of the word with a word with similar meaning which is more accessible in
their semantic memory and which is triggered by the word in the picture
(Saffron, Schwartz, & Marin 1976); or (c) the activation of a conscious and
systematic retrieval process of the specific word. Our subjects employed
all three options but word replacement and a systematic word retrieval
process were definitely their preferred strategies. This is evidenced by the
variety of substitutions they provided for the nouns in question (see
Tables 10.1-10.5) and by the fact that they often commented that they
forgot their English or that they forgot the particular item and insisted on
finding the proper word by further probing their semantic memory.
The subjects who provided the native data stock and whom we have
identified as the Americans had, obviously, no difficulty with any of the
five words analyzed here. From the data presented in Tables 10.1-10.5, it
is clear that the native speakers had some variability in their responses but
considerably less that the attriters. All the Americans used the word jar
whenever a picture of this object appeared in the booklet and had no
hesitations about it. They used either gopher or groundhog, which share
Lexical retrieval difficulties in adult language attrition 143
Table 10.1 Responses given on the first encounter of
the picture of a "pond"
Word
pond
swamp
water
body of water
pond of water
puddle of water
riverbed
ocean
puddle
American Israelis
N = 15
3
1
4
1
2
1
1
1
1
15
Americans
N = 6
5
1
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
6
Table 10.2 Responses given on the first encounter of
the picture of a "deer"
American Israelis Americans
Word N = 15 N = 6
deer
stag
antelope
elk
little animal
8
1
4
1
1
4
2
-
-
_
15
Table 10.3 Responses given on the first encounter of
the picture of a "gopher"
Word
gopher
groundhog
skunk
chipmunk
mole
hedgehog
muskrat
rabbit
squirrel
American Israelis
N = 15
1
1
2
1
4
1
1
1
3
15
Americans
N = 5
2
3
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
5
144 Elite Olshtain and Margaret Barzilay
Table 10.4 Responses given on the first encounter of
the picture of a ''cliff"
Word
cliff
precipice
mountain
little hill
American Israelis
N = 15
12
1
1
1
15
Americans
N = 5
4
1
5
Table 10.5 Responses given on the first encounter of
the picture of a "jar"
Word
jar
bottle
bowl
Ju
g
American Israelis
N = 15
10
3
1
1
15
Americans
N = 6
6
-
6
the same semantic features, for the animal depicted in the pictures. Four
out of six used the word deer, while the remaining two used the word stag,
which includes the additional semantic feature of "male." Five out of the
six used the word pond, while one used the word swamp, which resulted
from a certain ambiguity in the drawing. Four out of the five subjects used
the word cliff, one used precipice. In spite of this limited variability, the
native speakers' data exhibit a certain uniformity and seem to indicate
that specific semantic features of such words are easily available in their
semantic memory. When deviation occurs, it is in the area of added
specificity or in the inclusion of additional semantic features. This stands
in sharp contrast to the difficulties encountered by the American Israelis
in supplying suitable nouns for the five cases selected for analysis. The
actual choices made by both groups, on their first encounter of these
words, are given in the Tables 10.1-10.5.
For the American Israelis, the most difficult items for retrieval proved
to be the words pond and gopher. Only four out of the fifteen subjects used
Lexical retrieval difficulties in adult language attrition 145
the word pond or swamp, while five out of the fifteen used either water or
body of water, retaining only the most general (inherently neutral speci-
ficity) semantic features. In other cases subjects used such words as puddle
or ocean, while some spoke of pond of water as if the feature ''water" was
not already included in the word pond. This phenomenon was even more
pronounced with the word gopher. Only two of the fifteen subjects used
the word gopher or groundhog, while most of the subjects chose specifica-
tions which included the addition of incorrect semantic features, such as
chipmunk, rabbit, and others.
The word deer was used only by eight out of the fifteen subjects, while
one subject chose the word stag. In their place, subjects substituted such
words as antelope and elk, or simply used the most general term, little ani-
mal. For the word cliff, appropriate responses were made by twelve out of
the fifteen subjects, although one subject used cliff and mountain inter-
changeably. Where difficulty of retrieval was evident, subjects used little
hill or mountain, again retaining only a very general feature of the word.
The word jar presented relatively less difficulty of retrieval for most
American Israelis. Ten out of the fifteen responded initially with the use
of the appropriate term, while the others used bottle, bowl, orjug. Eventu-
ally all the subjects managed to retrieve the word jar, which would not be
considered an infrequent or unique item in the household. It is possible
that the subjects who had difficulty with the initial retrieval of this word
usually use the Hebrew word cincenet rather than jar. Such code mixing of
household items might be quite common in an English speaking family in
Israel where many daily expressions are replaced by Hebrew words
(Blum-Kulka & Olshtain 1987).
4 Discussion: Features of the retrieval process
From the data analyzed in this chapter it becomes apparent that
all the American Israelis participating in this study exhibit some reduction
of lexical accessibility in English when they are placed in a situation where
certain lexical specification is necessary (the picture booklets). They also
happen to be fully aware of the fact that there is an appropriate word
which they used to know but which suddenly requires an intensified
search of their semantic memory. They often express their frustration by
saying "I forgot the word" or "I forgot my English." In a general sense
we might summarize the following features as representative of overall
first language attrition within the lexical domain:
(1) A more restricted stock of items is available to the attriter and
therefore some items are less accessible for retrieval in active
146 Elite Olshtain and Margaret Barzilay
production of language although they are most probably avail-
able for interpretation.
(2) Less specificity is maintained in an attriter's language. Basic
meanings are retained but sensitivity to specific selectional re-
strictions is reduced.
These features of attrition are often overcome by the attriters by work-
ing their way along (what we would like to call) the ''lexical retrieval
path." We are proposing, therefore, a description of this retrieval pro-
cess, which can be viewed as a series of options which the attriter might
go through while activating the "retrieval path/7
The potential retrieval
process, which will usually be activated for highly specific items, presents
the speaker with a hierarchical sequence of points at each of which at least
two options are possible (Figure 10.1), the first leading to the correct or
anticipated selection and the other to a less appropriate word from the
Inaccessible
Word
Correct Incorrect
Selection Selection
General Wrong
Term Specification
Correct Qualified Correct General Wrong
Selection General  Specification
 
Correct Wrong
Selection Specification
10.1 Lexical retrieval options in language attrition
Lexical retrieval difficulties in adult language attrition 147
same semantic field. The first decision making point (1) is when the
speaker is faced with the need for an inaccessible word and s/he makes a
conscious effort to remember that word. The possibilities are that either
the correct selection will be made already at this early node (all the correct
responses in the tables presenting the data for the five analyzed words) or
that an incorrect item will be selected. If the correct selection is made, the
process stops here, at the first point of departure, and to the hearer it may
not even be obvious that there was some difficulty of retrieval in the
speaker's language. If however the speaker makes an incorrect selection
(2), this incorrect selection can be expected to be either a reference to the
most general semantic specification of the inaccessible word (2a) or
another lexeme which, although it belongs to the same overall semantic
domain, carries a different set of specifications than the anticipated item
(2b). Thus, when faced with the need to retrieve the word pond, some of
our subjects offered a very general lexeme within the domain such as body
ofwater, while others suggested specific types of' 'bodies of water," such
as lake or ocean, which had different specifications from the required
lexeme pond (see Table 10.1).
According to the two options described above, the speaker might either
abandon the search or continue along the path to additional option
nodes. If his/her selection was a general term such as water for pond, the
two new possibilities available are either the correct or anticipated selec-
tion, or a qualification of the previously selected general term (3). Some
subjects therefore followed the word water with the qualification a small
body ofwater (3), which is still not the expected word but it is much closer in
meaning. If at the next point along the path the speaker manages to
retrieve the correct form the search will end successfully but there is also a
possibility that following the qualified general term the next step will be
another incorrect specification (4), such as lake for instance, in the
example above, in which case the search was not fully successful but came
close.
Let us now return to node (2b), where the wrong specification of a
member of the semantic class was made. From this point on there are
three options open: the correct item, the use of the general item or an
alternatively wrong specification such as ocean or river. If the general
term is chosen by the speaker the search might continue through a
qualification, as before, on the left hand branching. The subjects may
opt for another attempt leading to an unsuccessful completion of the
task (such as choosing muskrat or gopher). In such cases subjects may be
fully aware of their inappropriate choices yet decide to terminate the
search.
148 Elite Olshtain and Margaret Barzilay
It is obvious then, that the retrieval process is sometimes short and
painless, when the attriter manages to come upon the proper word early
on, but it can also be very long and painful if the speaker insists on
continuing the search until s/he finds the right word. The retrieval path
suggested here is the result of an attempt to describe what attriters might
do in order to overcome the reduction in word accessibility when they
force themselves into a conscious effort to search for the accurate term in
their memory. The retrieval path presents the options available to the
speaker when this natural, self-prompted effort takes place. It is very
possible that in "think aloud protocols" of the retrieval process we might
get a similar procedural path; in our case, however, the retrieval path
represents the natural self-induced sequence evidenced in the data we
collected.
In general, the lexical retrieval process as carried out by adult attriters in
the particular context which we are concerned with can be viewed as a
continuous series of efforts made by the speaker to find the anticipated
word. The strategies for this search are however quite different from the
associative devices described by Cohen (1986), where L2 attriters seem to
be mostly concerned with the phonetic shape of the word. In our case the
speaker focuses on meaning and on the semantic features of the word and
thus s/he may either cling to what Cruse (1977) identifies as Inherently
Neutral Specificity (INS) and use, in our example, just the word water (for
the word pond) or attempt overspecification such as lake and do so in-
appropriately, or use underspecification and come up with the general
term a body ofwater. In our study subjects exhibited such strategies of over-
and underspecification when making the wrong choices while following
the retrieval path. In all examples they stayed within the semantic
category and failed only with respect to more specific selectional rules. In
the following examples we can see how subjects maintained some of the
main features and altered others:
(1) For the word pond, which is specifically a small, enclosed and
shallow body of water, the replacements were more frequent and
general words which share the semantic feature of "body of
water", such as lake, river, ocean. Specificity here was lost in the
sense that the replacements did not provide the features of
shallowness, and in the case of river specifications of "static" and
"enclosed" were replaced by the feature "flowing water."
(2) The word cliff retained the meaning of "a high place" but lost its
specific shape and texture when it was replaced by precipice, hill,
mountain.
Lexical retrieval difficulties in adult language attrition 149
(3) The word jar retained the meaning of "a round container'' but
lost its unique shape when it was replaced with items such as
bottle, glass bowl, container, jug.
When faced with the need to retrieve the item quickly, under the strain
of face to face communication, attriters will use more general terms which
share some of the features of meaning of the intended word, or they will
make use of paraphrase or circumlocution. Thus, they might avoid the
painful retrieval process. Our subjects often used paraphrases or circum-
locution when on the one hand they felt the full search might be too
difficult and on the other hand they could make themselves perfectly
well understood via paraphrase. The following are examples from one of
the subjects:
(a) ground of the living room was used instead of floor
(b) The dog goes into this little river, body of water, whatever it is, but it's
very shallow, and they're safe.
The second example follows the retrieval path where an incorrect selec-
tion at node (2) leads to the wrong specification (2b) littleriverand then
moves to the general term (2a) body of water following some qualifications
(3) very shallow, and finally the process is discontinued at this point.
In some cases the retrieval path is initiated and followed through within
the same sentence, with the subject finally coming up with the correct
lexical item. The following example exhibits such a case from another
subject in our study:
(c) They 're looking at a frog who's sitting in a round glass, bowl.. . and the
frog is tip-toeing out of the jar.
5 Conclusion
This chapter presented a study of a rather unique type of primary
language attrition - reduction in specific lexical accessibility as evidenced
by adult speakers of English living in a Hebrew dominant environment.
The special context of English speakers in Israel is such that primary
language maintenance is highly valued and all the American Israelis in
our study exhibited frustration when they realized that they had
developed retrieval difficulties in their dominant language. This is per-
haps a unique context in which language attrition has the least chance to
develop and yet we found an obvious feature of reduction in vocabulary
retrieval.
150 Elite Olshtain and Margaret Barzilay
References
Bayles, K., and A. Kaszniak. 1987. Communication and cognition in normal aging and
dementia. Boston: Little, Brown and Company - College Hill.
Blum-Kulka, S., andE. Olshtain. 1987. ''Code-switching and code-mixing within
the family: Hebrew-English bilinguals living in Israel/' Paper presented
at the conference on Variation in Second Language Acquisition, held at
the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
Cohen, A. 1986. "Forgetting foreign-language vocabulary," in Weltens, de Bot,
and Van Els (eds.).
Cruse, D. A. 1977. "The pragmatics of lexical specificity," Journal ofLinguistics 13.
Lambert, R. 1982. "Setting the agenda," in Lambert and Freed (eds.).
Lambert, R., and B. Freed, (eds.). 1982. The loss of language skills. Rowley, MA:
Newbury House Publishers.
Lambert, R., and S. Moore. 1986. "Problem areas in the study of language attri-
tion," in Weltens, de Bot, and Van Els (eds.).
Obler, K. L. 1982. "Neurolinguistic aspects of language loss as they pertain to
second language attrition," in Lambert and Freed (eds.).
Saffran, E. M., M. F. Schwartz, and O. S. M. Marin, 1976. "Semantic mechanisms
in paralexia," Brain and Language 3: 255-265.
Sharwood Smith, M. 1983. "On first language loss in the second language
acquirer: problems of transfer," in Gass and Selinker (eds.), Language
transfer in language learning, Rowley, MA: Newbury House Publishers.
Van Els, T. 1986. "An overview of European research on language attrition," in
Weltens, de Bot, and Van Els (eds.).
Weltens, B., K. de Bot, and T. Van Els (eds.). 1986. Language attrition in progress.
Dordrecht: Foris.
11 Spanish language attrition in a contact
situation with English
CARMEN SILVA-CORVALAN
1 Introduction
This chapter examines processes of simplification and loss of
tense-mood-aspect morphology in the Spanish spoken by adult
Spanish-English bilinguals living in the eastern section of Los Angeles,
California. It is part of a larger project which investigates the speech of
fifty Mexican-American bilinguals who represent three different immi-
grant groups according to length of stay in the US. A subset sample of
fourteen speakers is included in the study of verbal morphology: six
speakers from group 1, and four each from groups 2 and 3.
Group 1 includes only speakers born in Mexico who immigrated to the
US after the age of eleven. Group 2 encompasses speakers either born in
Los Angeles or who have immigrated from Mexico before the age of six.
Group 3 also comprises speakers born in Los Angeles; in addition, at least
one parent must respond to the definition of those in group 2.
The complexity of this community accounts for the existence of what I
call a bilingual continuum, similar to a Creole continuum in that one may
identify a series of lects ranging from full-fledged to emblematic Spanish
and, vice versa, from full-fledged to emblematic English depending on
whether the bilingual is more or less dominant in Spanish or English.
Even further, these individual lects do not correspond to fixed dichoto-
mies of the type ''compound-coordinate", or ''balanced-unbalanced".
Rather, at the individual level they represent a wide range of dynamic
levels of proficiency in the subordinate language, i.e. it is in principle
possible for an individual to move or be moving toward one or the other
end of the continuum at any given synchronic stage of his life.
The data for this study were obtained through recordings of conversa-
tions between the author1
and the Mexican-American speakers.
Analyzed here are, in group 1 (also referred to as first generation immi-
grants): Eli (f20), Lou (f23), Sil (f24), Ali (f62), Eva (f,44, married to Phil),
and Phil (m54). Group 2: Lau (f22, Eva and Phil's daughter), Rra (m20,
Eva and Phil's nephew), Alb (m60, married to Ali), and Vir (fl8).
152 Carmen Silva-Corvaldn
Group 3: Son (fl9) and Rro (m46), daughter and father (Son qualifies for
this group because her mother qualifies as a member of group 2); the
other two are Aal (f31), Ali and Alb's daughter, and Dan (m45).
2 Theoretical Considerations
Given attested simplification in other areas of the grammar
across the continuum (cf. Silva-Corvalan 1986), as well as in other contact
languages in similar sociolinguistic situations (Dorian 1981; Gal 1984;
Mougeon, Beniak, & Valois 1985; etc.), I hypothesized that intensive and
prolonged contact with a superordinate language, and consequent reduc-
tion of domains of use, would have consequences on the Spanish verb
system of bilinguals such that it would evidence processes of simplifica-
tion resulting in loss of tense forms2
and restructuring of the system, with
possible transfer from and consequent convergence with English.
Such theoretical notions as simplification, transfer, and convergence
need to be defined in the context of this study, especially since researchers
in fields related to that oflanguage contact are not infrequently in disagree-
ment about the meaning of these terms, as well as about what constitutes
unarguable evidence in support ofthe existence ofthese phenomena in the
relevant sociolinguistic situations (cf., among others, several contri-
butions in Andersen 1983; Kellerman 1979; Meisel 1977,1983; Mougeon,
Beniak, & Valois 1985; Mtihlhausler 1981; Traugott 1976; Trudgill 1983).
I consider simplification a complex process which implies also rule
generalization in the sense that a given form is being expanded to a larger
number of contexts. Simplification, then, involves the higher frequency
of use of a form X in context Y (i.e. generalization) at the expense of a form
Z, usually in competition with and semantically closely related to X,
where both X and Z existed in the language prior to the initiation of
simplification. Thus, X is an expanding form, while Z is a shrinking/
contracting form. The final outcome of simplification is loss of forms,
i.e. a simplified system with fewer forms, and possibly, though not
necessarily, loss of meanings. In the context of my research, I further
speak of loss of a form when this form is not attested in the data, without
necessarily claiming that it has undergone a process of simplification.
Transfer is defined as a process which may involve either one or more
of the following (cf. Weinreich 1974: 30): (a) the replacement of a form in
language S with a form from language F, or the incorporation from lan-
guage F into language S of a form (with or without its associated meaning)
previously absent in S (this is usually referred to in the literature as
"borrowing"); (b) the incorporation of the meaning of a form R from
Spanish language attrition in a contact situation with English 153
language F, which may be part of the meaning of a form P in S, into
another form, structurally similar to R, in the system of S (cf. Weinreich's
extension or reduction of function); (c) the higher frequency of use of a
form in language S, determined on the basis of a comparison with more
conservative internal community norms (cf. Klein-Andreu 1986;
Mougeon et al 1985; Silva-Corvalan 1986), in contexts where a partially
corresponding form in the system of F is used either categorically or
preferentially; and (d) the loss of a form in language S which does not
exist in the system of F (cf.Weinreich's' 'neglect'' or "elimination'' of obli-
gatory categories). Transfer leads to, but is not the single case of, conver-
gence, defined as the achievement of structural similarity in a given
aspect of the grammar of two or more languages, assumed to be different
at the onset of contact. Indeed, convergence may result as well from
internally motivated changes in one of the languages, most likely
accelerated by contact, rather than as a consequence of direct interlingual
influence (Silva-Corvalan 1986).
A change in a language L is considered to have accelerated in the speech
of a group X when both the number of context types (as opposed to tokens
of the same context), and the frequency of use of the innovation in a token
count in the various contexts are higher as compared with an older age
group Y in the same speech community as X, and this increase is in turn
higher than any possible increase identified in the speech of a group P, as
compared with an older-age group Q in the same speech community as P.
This definition follows from the assumption that change-related variation
observed in apparent time (i.e. across generations) may reflect stages of
diffusion in real time (cf. Labov 1972).
Hypothesizing the possibility of transfer from English implies making
predictions about the permeability of the Spanish verb system to change
and to influence from another language. At the same time, however,
there exist other factors which have been shown to play a role in situ-
ations of contact and change, which must be taken into account and
which may or may not predict similar results. Indeed, although these
distinct factors are related to phenomena of a different nature - on the
one hand, cognitive (e.g. higher cognitive complexity of certain types of
discourse (see, Levelt 1979; Silva-Corvalan 1987) and social (e.g. absence
of normative pressures, specific communicative needs), and on the
other, intra- and interlinguistic - it is usually the case that more than
one, or even all, may be motivating and constraining a specific process
of change.
Thus, consideration of socially motivated circumstances3
makes it
reasonable to expect that simplification and loss would affect first those
154 Carmen Silva-Corvaldn
forms used in contexts of higher hypotheticality or weaker assertiveness,
i.e. conditional and subjunctive forms. However, hypothetical texts are
cognitively more complex to produce,4
a fact which makes a cognitive
explanation for the occurrence of the phenomenon quite plausible. Even
further, at least simplification of conditional morphology could also have
intralinguistic motivation since it is attested both in first generation immi-
grants' speech and in non-immigrant varieties in Mexico. Finally, given
that English lacks subjunctive tenses and the conditional is not marked by
bound morphology, it seems justifiable to invoke the impact of inter-
linguistic factors as well.
Conversely, cognitive and interlinguistic factors appear to predict con-
tradictory results in the case of the preterite-imperfect opposition. In-
deed, the cognitively motivated principle of semantic transparency, de-
fined by Slobin (1977: 186) as a tendency "to maintain a one-to-one
mapping between underlying semantic structures and surface forms,
with the goal of making messages easily retrievable for listeners", held to
be responsible for a number of linguistic phenomena characteristic of
language acquisition, attrition, loss, development, and change, predicts
the retention of the preterite-imperfect opposition. By contrast, direct
transfer from English leads us to expect the neutralization of an opposi-
tion not marked by bound morphology in this language.
The complexity of the question of permeability to change and the
factors which both motivate and constrain it is undeniable. Given a situ-
ation of this sort, it seems to me appropriate to propose that those forms
whose loss or simplification may be motivated by a higher number of
factors (of the four discussed above) will be more permeable and thus
affected first. If these factors predict contradictory results, it is likely that
cognitive considerations will take precedence. Indeed, one may assume
as correct the generally accepted hypothesis that in intensive language
contact situations, bilinguals tend to develop a simplified variety of the
less used language, as well as to approximate the systems of the languages
involved, both unconscious strategies aimed at achieving a cognitively
lighter linguistic load.
In this respect, what Seuren & Wekker (1986: 66) refer to as the strategy
of universality may play an important role. According to this strategy,
those grammatical processes and rule systems which are least language
specific will be preferred, while language-particular morphological sys-
tems and so-called "secondary constructions," for instance, will be
avoided. In my interpretation of this strategy, universality must involve
the consideration of Universal Grammar, where universal grammar is
defined as what crosslinguistic studies have shown to be grammatically
Spanish language attrition in a contact situation with English 155
possible in natural languages. For our specific purposes, then, we are
interested in what tense systems have been shown to be possible, and
preferred - inasmuch as they exist in a greater number of languages.
3 The Verb System: Analysis
At this point, it becomes necessary to present the verb system
examined. Note that in addition to the tenses traditionally postulated for
most varieties of Hispanoamerican Spanish, I have included the so-called
periphrastic future, on the basis that (a) "morphological boundness is not
in itself a necessary criterion" (Comrie 1985:11) to decide whether a given
category is grammaticalized; and (b) it is by far the most frequent form
used to locate situations in the future. I also examine two uses of the
simple future and conditional forms, but this should not be interpreted to
mean that these uses are considered part of the system of forms.5
The perfect present participle, the past perfect and the future perfect are
in parentheses in Table 11.1 (overleaf) to indicate that they are never used
by any of the speakers in the sample. In fact, the past perfect is not used in
any variety of spoken Spanish and is quite rare in written Spanish, and
the perfect participle appears to be restricted to the written mode; their
absence in spoken Mexican American Spanish is not surprising, there-
fore. The future perfect is still in use in spoken and written Spanish to
refer to past hypothetical situations6
(as shown in example 1 below), as
well as to future situations viewed as completed after a reference point
also located in the future.
(1) A: Los Castro se han ido ya.
B: Habrdn vendido su casa entonces.
A: "The Castros have already left."
B: "(They) must have sold their house then."
Furthermore, the morphological future (-rd) is used to refer to future
time only in a restricted number of registers in Hispanoamerican Spanish.
Likewise, the conditional is extremely rare in its tense function, i.e. when
it is used to refer to future in the past, as in reported speech (2b):
(2) a. Lo mirare manana.
"I'll look at it tomorrow."
b. Dijo que lo miraria manana.
"He said he'd look at it tomorrow."
In examples of the type of (2a-b), the form used is almost exclusively
the periphrastic construction with ir a "go to" + infinitive. In the
156 Carmen Silva-Corvaldn
Table 11.1 Verb forms examined across the continuum
Non-finite forms:
inf. mirar "look at"
pres. part, mirando
past part, mirado
perf. inf. haber mirado
(perf. pres. part, habiendo mirado)
Finite forms:
Indicative
pres. (el) mira "(he) looks at"
pres. perf. ha mirado
pret. miro (past perf. hubo mirado)
imperf. miraba pluperf. habia mirado
future va a mirar (future perf. habrd mirado)
mirara
[functions: fut. "tense"; pres. hypothetical reference]
condit. miraria condit. perf. habria mirado
[functions: fut. hypothetical reference; past hypoth. ref.]
Subjunctive
pres. mire pres. perf. haya mirado
imperf. mirara pluperf. hubiera mirado
Imperative
pres. (tu) mira "(you) look"
(usted) mire "(you-polite) look"
Mexican American Spanish data, the morphological conditional is never
used in its tense function, and the morphological future occurs with a
very low frequency in the speech of first generation immigrants, especi-
ally so in its tense function. Given the acceleration of change in contact
languages, the early loss of these forms in the other two groups is pre-
dictable.
To identify patterns of simplification and loss I have compared the
linguistic behaviour of second and third generation speakers, groups 2
and 3, with that of those in group 1, i.e. with the speech of members of the
same bilingual cotnmunity. This was done taking a number of different
contexts into account, as explained below:
(i) Firstly, obligatory syntactic contexts, i.e. those requiring one or
another verb form, were considered, e.g. contexts which impose consecu-
tio temporum constraints in a number of subordinate clauses. Thus, the
pluperfect subjunctive provided by the researcher in the protasis of ex. 3A
constrains the choice ofverb form in the apodosis to pluperfect subjunctive
Spanish language attrition in a contact situation with English 157
or indicative or to conditional perfect. The choice of other verb forms (as
in 3B) was considered to indicate simplification or loss of these perfect
forms. Likewise, failure to use subjunctive in certain subordinate clauses
(ex. 4) which require it in group 1 was ascribed to simplification or loss.
(3) A: jY que me dices de tu education si tus padres se hubieran quedado
en Mexico?
B: No estudiaba (imperf.) mucho, yo creo.
(H, m21, 2, ELA11A275)7
A: "So what can you tell me about your education if your
parents had stayed in Mexico?"
B: "I didn't study much, I think."
(4) Lo voy a guardar antes que llega (pres. indie).
"I'm going to put it away before he comes home."
(Son, fl9, 3, ELA66B490)
(ii) Secondly, obligatory contexts created either by intrasentential
linguistic material (e.g. an adverbial expression) or by the verb form used
in the preceding sentence were taken into account to determine whether
the form under examination was correct. Accordingly, the use of im-
perfect in (5), and of preterite in (6b-7b) were regarded as signs of
simplification of the preterite-imperfect opposition.This is because the
complement un accidente "an accident" in (5) forces an interpretation of
the situation as singular and perfective so that the preterite is required.
Examples (6a-7a), on the other hand, have created an imperfective frame
which (6b-7b), being part of the same temporal-aspectual sequence,
should, but fail to, maintain.
(5) Iba a ser profesional, pero creo que tenia (imperf.) un accidente.
(Rra, m20, 2, ELA5OA320)
"He was going to become professional, but I think he had an
accident."
(6) a. Despues mi hermano era (imperf.) el que iba (imperf.) a misa
b. y entrego (pret.) el sobre.
(Son, fl9, 3, ELA66B540).
a. "Afterwards my brother was the one who went to church
b. and handed in the envelope."
(7) a. Porque este mejicano no sabia (imperf.) el ingles,
b. no mas hablo (pret.) espanol,
c. pero era (imperf.) muy bravo y muy macho.
(Dan, m45, 3, ELA43B455)
158 Carmen Silva-Corvaldn
a. "Because this Mexican didn't know English,
b. he only spoke Spanish,
c. but he was very tough and very macho."
(iii) Thirdly, discourse contraints on the occurrence of a form in a given
context provided information needed to evaluate the correctness of the
form used. For instance, narrative abstracts and statements which orient
or evaluate the narrative events as a whole must be coded in the preterite
in Spanish (Silva-Corvalan, 1983, 1988). This rule, never broken by first
generation immigrants (8-9), is frequently violated by speakers in groups
2 and 3, who use the imperfect form instead, (10-11, both from group 2,
are illustrative).
(8) Fue (pret.) una manifestation muy grande. Fue (pret.) como desde la
cuarta hasta como a la sexta o septima avenida.
(Lou, f23, 1, ELA45A635).
"It was a big demonstration. It was from about fourth to sixth
or seventh avenue."
(9) Dicen quefue (pret.) muy trdgico. Yo no alcance a ver lo demas. Pero
estuvo (pret.) muy feo eso.
(Lou, f23, 1, ELA45A550).
"They say it was really tragic. I didn't have a chance to see the
rest. But that was real ugly."
(10) [Produced at the end of a narrative about the speaker's prom.]
Y estaba (imperf.) muy bonito el prom.
(Rra, m20, 2, ELA50B395)
"And the prom was real nice."
(11) [R: lY la otra vez, que paso?] Era (imperf.) en el seventh grade, con un
muchacho del sixth grade.
(H, m21, 2, ELA11A240)
[R: "And the other time, what happened?] It was in seventh
grade, with a guy from sixth grade."
(iv) Finally, favoring discourse-pragmatic contexts for the occurrence of
a form were identified in the speech of first generation immigrants. If the
same favoring contexts failed to elicit the expected forms in the speech of
those in groups 2 and 3, the forms in question were considered to be
undergoing simplification or to be lost, depending on whether they did or
did not appear in other contexts. This methodology is illustrated through
Spanish language attrition in a contact situation with English 159
a comparison of (12) and (13) from a speaker in group 1 and in group 3,
respectively. Both passages are selected from conversations dealing with
racial discrimination and prejudices.
(12) C: Si, si viniera un dia y te dijera, "Mxra, me voy a casar con un
negro/'
S: Con un negro, ah, bueno, yo pienso que yo si aceptaria (cond.).
porque claro mi hermana no va - no se va a casar con cualquier negro
simplemente. Pues tomarlo como cualquier persona que sea (pres.
subj.). Yyo pienso que tan solo por - por, cuando vengan (pres.
subj.) los hijos, por ser hijo de mi hermana, pos yo lo querria
(cond.) bastante tambien, aunque sea (pres. subj.) negrito, no le
hace.
(Sil, f25, 1, ELA76B70)
C: "Yes, if one day she told you, 'Look here, I'm going to marry
a black V
S: "A black ah, well, I think that I would accept it, because of
course my sister is not - is not going to marry just any black.
So take him like I would any other person. And I think that
just because - because - when children come, because he's
my sister's son, well I would love him well, even if he were
black, it doesn't matter."
(13) C: iQue crees tu que dirias en este caso, que, cudl reaccion, cudl seria
tu reaccion, verdad, que - ?
D: Antes que me dice (pres.) eso, yo creo (pres.) que va a ir, vamos a
tener (perf. fut.) mucho mas oportunidades para yo conocer el
hombre, de cualquier color, negro, bianco, cafeyyopuedo (pres.)
decir algo de esa persona, si es bueno o no es bueno. Y mismo tiempo
ella va a hacer (perf. fut.) que ella quiere (pres.).
(Dan, m45, 3, ELA9OA135)
C: "What do you think you'd say in this case, what, what
reaction, what would your reaction be, right, what - ?"
D: "Before she says that to me, I think there's going to, we're
going to have much more opportunity for me to know the
man, of any color, black, white, brown, and I can say some-
thing about that person, if he's good or if he's not good. And
at the same time she's going to do what she wants."
Note that (12-13) are samples of hypothetical texts, i.e. texts which
convey imaginary, conjectural information, rather than facts stemming
from perception and memory (Klein, Stutterheim n. d.: 31). In texts of this
260 Carmen Silva-Corvaldn
Table 11.2 Stages of loss of "tense-mood-aspect" morphemes
Group 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 3 2 2 3 3 3
Eli Sil Eva Phi Ali Lou Lau Alb Rro Vir Rra Son Dan Aal
NON-FIN.
Inf. + + + + + + + + + + + + + +
Pres. part. + + + + + + + + + + + + + +
Past part. + + + + + + + + + + + + + +
INDIC.
Pres. + + + + + + + + + + + + + +
Fut. (ir a) + + + + + + + + + + + + + +
Pret. + + + + + + ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
Imperf. + + + + + + + + X + @ @ @ @
I M P .
P r e s . + + + + + + + + + 0 0 0 0 ]
SUBJ.
P r e s . + + + + + + + + + 0 x 0 0 ]
I N D I C .
P r e s . Perf. + + + + + + + + + + + 0 - -
SUBJ.
I m p e r f . + + + + + + x x x o _ _ _ _
I N D I C .
C o n d i t . (fut. ref.)8
+ + + + + + + + { - ] - - -
C o n d i t . ( p a s t ref.) + + + + + + + + - - - - - -
N O N F I N .
Perf. inf. + + + + + + + + _ _ _ _ _ _
SUBJ.
P r e s . perf. + + + + + + + + - - - - - -
Pluperf. + + + + + + x x _ _ _ _ _ _
I N D I C .
P l u p e r f . + + + + + + x - _ _ _ _ - _
F u t u r e ( p r e s . ref.) + + + + + + - ] _ _ _ _ _ _
F u t u r e (fut. ref.) + + + + { { - - ] - - ] ~ ~
C o n d i t . perf. + + _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
type, one would expect frequent use of weak assertive verb morphology,
e.g. conditional and subjunctive. As expected, (12) (from group 1) con-
tains two conditional and three subjunctive forms. By contrast, every
finite form in (13) (from group 3) is either present indicative or periphrastic
future. Given a situation of this sort, one may postulate that the speaker
who produces (13) has failed to produce a conditional and/or a subjunctive
form. Furthermore, if no favouring context (in two to three hours of
transcribed conversation) prompts the use of these forms, it seems safe to
conclude that they are non-existent in this speaker's verbal system.
Spanish language attrition in a contact situation with English 161
4 The Continuum
The analysis allowed us to identify a clear-cut qualitative
difference between first generation immigrants and the rest of the
speakers,9
as displayed on the previous page in Table 11.2. Those in the
former group use the verb system in the manner predicted for a full-fled-
ged variety of spoken Spanish. Speakers in groups 2 and 3 evidence a
range of systems which may be ordered according to whether they are
more or less different from that of those in group 1. Table 11.2. displays
visually the variation characteristic of the continuum.
The symbols in Table 11.2 mean the following: sign " + '' stands for a
tense form which is used according to the norms of general spoken Span-
ish, regardless of whether it has acquired expanded uses as other forms
are simplified and lost; " - " indicates that the form is not part of the
speaker's verb system; a tilde """is used to indicate that the preterite-
imperfect opposition has become neutralized in a closed list of verbs
which appear with imperfect morphology in both perfective and imper-
fective contexts; "@" signals that a speaker has used a number of pre-
terites instead of imperfects; "x" reflects a high but not categorical occur-
rence of a form in an obligatory context; "o" signals a shrinking form, i.e.
one which fails to occur in a high percentage of required contexts; " { "
signals that the form appears to be lexicalized, i.e. it is used with just one
or two verbs; " ] " indicates that the form occurs in one or a maximum of
three different frozen expressions.
The two extreme ends of the continuum, from most developed to most
simplified, are represented by Eli and Sil (group 1), and by Aal (group 3).
The most developed system used by group 1 does not differ from the
norms of general spoken Spanish.
The absence of future morphology clearly differentiates groups 2 and 3
from the first generation immigrants. Further qualitative differences
between them are established by processes of simplification affecting the
preterite, the imperfect subjunctive, and the pluperfect indicative and
subjunctive. The pluperfect indicative is in fact used, albeit not in all
required contexts, by one speaker beyond group 1, Lau.
With only minor exceptions, then, the progression10
of simplification
(S) and loss (L) falls into eight stages, implicationally ordered as shown
overleaf in Table 11.3, such that if an individual uses the forms in (i), it may
be assumed that the forms listed in (ii)-(viii) will form part of his verb
system and will not be affected by processes of simplification. Conversely,
loss of present subjunctive and imperative (stage viii) implies as well the
absence of the forms listed in (i) through (vii), and the simplification of the
preterite-imperfect opposition, as indicated in (ii) and (iv):
162 Carmen Silva-Corvaldn
Table 11.3 Stages of simplification and loss
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)
(vii)
(viii)
L:
S:
L:
S:
L:
L:
S:
L:
S:
L:
L:
morphological conditional (tense function)
conditional perfect
morphological future
morphological future
pluperfect indicative
imperfect subjunctive
pluperfect subjunctive
preterite (with closed list of stative verbs)
pluperfect indicative
pluperfect subjunctive
present perfect subjunctive
perfect infinitive
morphological conditional (hypothetical function)
imperfect indicative
present and imperfect subjunctive
imperative
imperfect subjunctive
present perfect indicative
present perfect indicative
present subjunctive
imperative
Note: L = loss; S = simplification.
Table 11.4 Tense systems across the bilingual
I
continuum
US
II III
born bilinguals
IV V
Relative tenses
Inf.
Pres. part.
Past part.
Absolute tenses: indicative
Pres. (pres.)
Pret. (past)
Imperf. (past, imperf.)
Future-periphr. (future)
Pres. perf. (past with pres. relev.)
Absolute-relative tenses
Condit.-periphr.11
(fut. in the past)
Pres. subj. (fut. in the past/pres.)
Imperf. subj. (fut. in the past)
Pluperf. subj. (fut. perf. in the past)
Pluperf. indie, (past of past)
Condit. perf. (fut. perf. in the past)
Fut. perf. (fut. of fut.)
Spanish language attrition in a contact situation with English 163
What is remarkable about the manner in which the system changes is its
regularity. Patterns of simplification and loss are never random but at all
stages conform to a predictable trend to develop a least grammaticalized
system within the constraints of universal grammar possibilities and
preferences. Disregarding a few frozen expressions, and a small residue
of forms undergoing advanced simplification, it is possible to single out
five different systems which represent a steady progression toward a less
grammaticalized one. These systems are presented onthe previous page in
Table 11.4 following Comrie's (1985) framework for the analysis of tense.12
In Spanish, absolute tenses include present, preterite, imperfect,
future, and present perfect indicative (semantically "past with present
relevance", Comrie 1985: 77-82). Absolute-relative tenses encompass
the conditional (as future in the past), the present and imperfect subjunc-
tive, and indicative and subjunctive compound forms. Relative tenses
comprise the non-finite forms.
Fig 11.1 represents system I diagrammatically.
past / past with present future
pres. relevance
I
past of fut. in the fut. in the
past past present
fut. perf. in
the past
11.1 Representation of tense distinctions in system I.
Observe that systems I and II have five grammatical distinctions in the
past and only one in the future, "in accordance with the general tendency
of languages to have a better developed past than future system'' (Comrie
1985: 85). System III, the most developed one attested among US born
bilinguals, has lost two of the past distinctions, pluperfect indicative and
conditional perfect, and retains four absolute-relative forms, two for
future in the past (periphrastic conditional and imperfect subjunctive);
one for future in the past or present (present subjunctive) and one for
future perfect in the past (pluperfect subjunctive). Of these, system IV
retains the present subjunctive and the periphrastic conditional, and sys-
tem V preserves only the periphrastic conditional for future in the past.
System V consists of only four absolute and one absolute-relative tense
plus two pure relative forms. The last distinctions to disappear are past
with present relevance and future in the past/present. System V is repre-
sented overleaf inFigure 11.2for an easiervisualcomparison with systemI.
164 Carmen Silva-Corvaldn
past present future
fut. in the
past
11.2 Representation of tense distinctions in system V.
Given widespread acceptance of the fact that simplified languages (e.g.
child language, pidgins, early stages of second language acquisition) rely
heavily on the context, it seems safe to assume that the most simplified
tense system could consist of basically non-finite forms with perhaps a
small number of auxiliary verbs, but this stage is not attested in the data
analyzed here.
5 Conclusion
Having established patterns of simplification and loss in the verb
system, one can ask at least two questions: (1) What is the universality of
the systems and processes identified?; and (2) What accounts for the type
and stages of simplification and loss?
With respect to the first question, we note certain parallels with
simplification and loss in other contact languages, such as those descri-
bed by Dorian (1981) for East Sutherland Gaelic, by Gal (1984) for Aus-
trian Hungarian, by Mougeon, Beniak & Valois (1985) for Canadian
French, and by Trudgill (1983) for Arvanitika. For instance, the early loss
of one of two "same meaning" structures (or "stylistic shrinkage") has
been documented as well in every one of these bilingual communities (cf.
loss of conditional perfect, in competition with imperfect subjunctive, in
Los Angeles Spanish).
Specifically in regard to tense in Gaelic, Dorian (1981: 141) notes early
simplification of future and conditional in the larger part of the less pro-
ficient speakers of Gaelic, and, even further, loss of these tenses in the
lower levels of the proficiency contiuum. Thus, the system of three
morphophonologically marked tenses,13
past, future, and conditional, is
reduced to one, past. Similar observations are made by Trudgill regarding
Arvanitika. Trudgill notices that "of the forms that remain in full use,
only the present and past definite are inflected." (1983: 117)
It is arresting, furthermore, to note that language loss is to a large extent
the mirror image of development in creolization, and in first and second
language acquisition. That is to say, in acquiring the verb system of Span-
ish (see Andersen, n.d.; Jacobsen 1986), and indeed of various other
Spanish language attrition in a contact situation with English 165
languages (see Klein 1985; Meisel 1985), learners go through stages of
development which are the reverse of loss: the earliest tense forms to be
acquired are present and past (both perfective and imperfective), while
future, conditional and compound tenses are acquired much in the same
order in which they are lost across the bilingual continuum. This corre-
spondence may in fact reflect the freezing, at different levels of develop-
ment of grammatical proficiency, of the bilingual's secondary language.
However, the possibility of loss at the individual level, though not docu-
mented in this study, could not be dismissed a priori.
In regard to creolization, Muysken (1981) claims that the emergence of
tense, mood, and aspect (TMA) categories in Creole languages is in each
case governed by a theory of markedness. For the category tense, which
we are interested in comparing with the bilingual continuum, a marked-
ness index based on dissociation versus association of three points
(moment of speech, moment of the event, theoretical reference point)
justifies the hierarchy from least to most marked in Table 11.5. This mark-
edness hierarchy, proposed to account for order of appearance of tense
morphemes in Creole languages, seems to be valid as well as a predictor
of order of disappearance in subordinate contact languages, such that the
most marked tense disappears first. Within my view of language as a
system of human communication, however, a theory of markedness des-
cribes, but does not explain, the facts observed. To be explanatory, a
markedness hierarchy needs to be justified with reference to factors
which lie outside the linguistic system (e.g. interactive, cognitive).
One may further ask why languages develop such grammaticalized
systems as those in Table 11.4 to the exclusion of other logical possibili-
ties. The answer, it seems to me, must be sought in relation to the same
four general factors proposed to play a role in contact languages, namely
cognitive, social, intra- and interlinguistic.
In regards to interlinguistic considerations, examination of the pro-
Table 11.5 Hierarchy of markedness
Markedness index
Simple present
Simple past
Present perfect
Simple future
Past perfect
Future perfect
0
1
1
2
2
3
166 Carmen Silva-Corvaldn
gression of simplification and loss, summarized in Tables 11.2-11.4 leads
us to conclude that the impact from English is only indirect. That is,
evidence does not seem to be sufficient to conclude that contact with a
typologically different language would have resulted in a system
different from system V. Note that direct influence from English does not
justify (a) the early simplification and loss of pluperfect indicative;14
(b) the loss of perfect infinitive (at stage iv); (c) the loss of present perfect
(at stage vii) as compared with the later loss of present and imperfect
subjunctive; nor, finally, (d) the retention of imperfect indicative down to
very low points in the continuum. Thus, as previous studies have shown
(Dorian 1978, 1981; Silva-Corvalan 1986, among others), some changes
occur rather as a result of reduction of both exposure to and use of a
full-fledged variety of a subordinate language in contact with a super-
ordinate one. Nonetheless, it seems to me that transfer may play a role
once forms have become lost. At this stage, and under pressure to com-
municate a given message, bilinguals make use of the forms available to
them in the recessive language, and tend to distribute them according to
the syntactic and semantic rules of the dominant language.
Earlier studies have given evidence that internal processes of change
are accelerated in contact situations. This observation is supported by the
early loss of conditional perfect and simple future. On the other hand,
although simplification of present perfect and pluperfect indicative, and
of subjunctive forms, is attested in a number of Spanish varieties spoken
in Argentina, Paraguay and Venezuela, for instance, it is doubtful that
internal causation may be adduced for the changes in Mexican-Ameri-
can Spanish. One may identify both intra- and interlinguistic favoring
factors such as the cross dialectal facts mentioned, and the lack of sub-
junctive in English, but these factors alone predict neither the order nor
the type of loss evidenced in the data examined.
Simplification and loss appear to be more appropriately accounted for
by cognitive and social considerations. Note that the simplest system of
grammaticalized tense, system V, appears to be cognitively less complex
and interactionally most justified. With respect to cognitive complexity,
there seems to be widespread agreement that grammaticalized distinc-
tions marked by bound morphology are dispreferred in situations of lin-
guistic stress (e.g. language acquisition, pidginization, cf. Givon 1979)
because of their low semantic transparency, as compared with more or
less corresponding lexical and periphrastic constructions. In addition,
absolute-relative tenses are cognitively more complex. They are in a sense
like secondary constructions since their meaning combines two points of
reference: location of a reference point in relation to the present with
Spanish language attrition in a contact situation with English 167
relative time location of a situation. Furthermore, interactional factors do
not favour the retention of absolute-relative tenses in a contact situation
where the domains to which the subordinate language is restricted call
much more frequently for reference to immediate concrete worlds. By
contrast, interactional factors favor the retention of preterite-imperfect
morphology, an opposition which plays a crucial communicative role in
reference to past situations (Silva-Corvalan 1983), which constitute a
favorite topic of conversation.
As we have seen, all four factors contribute to the simplification and
loss of forms in the various stages of restructuring of the verb system.
Moreover, our hypothesis regarding the higher importance of cognitive
factors, reflected in universal grammar, appears to be upheld. Miilhau-
sler (1981: 120) has stated that in the creolization phase of a pidgin "the
increase in overall complexity is as it were preprogrammed in a way
similar to the developmental continuum of a child learning a first lan-
guage or the inter-language of a second language learner/' Our study has
shown that the same statement is true in the case of language simplifica-
tion and loss. The various verb systems identified in the data from
Mexican-American bilinguals conform to universal principles of, as it
were, language development in reverse. Thus, as also observed by Miihl-
hausler in regard to the impact of the languages which contribute to the
development of a pidgin, a language is permeable to interlinguistic influ-
ence only within the constraints imposed by cognitive factors which
underline possible and preferred linguistic systems as attested in natural
languages.
Finally, turning to the question of convergence with English, it seems
clear that despite the rather drastic changes that Spanish has gone
through, there is only one which approximates it to English, the loss of
the subjunctive mood. There is no doubt that the Spanish verb system is
permeable to change, but transfer and convergence appear to operate at
more "superficial" and idiosyncratic levels, such as preferential use of
certain forms in contexts where the more or less corresponding English
form would also be preferred, and certainly at the purely lexical level as
well.
Notes
This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation
under Grant BNS-8214733. Part of the research was carried out while the author
was a guest researcher at the Max-Planck-Institiit fur Psycholinguistik, Nijmegen
168 Carmen Silva-Corvaldn
(1986). The hospitality and support of the Max-Planck-Institiit are gratefully
acknowledged.
(1) Two exceptions are Sil and Lou, who were recorded by a friend of theirs
who is one of the author's students at the University of Southern
California.
(2) After Comrie (1985), we consider tense to be "the grammaticalization of
location in time" (see, in particular, Ch. 1) and include as such those
forms discussed under the labels of preterite, pluperfect, future, non-
finite forms, etc. It must be kept in mind, however, that these forms are
usually used to convey mood and aspect distinctions rather than strictly
tense.
(3) For instance the principle of distance proposed in Silva-Corvalan (1985:
565). According to this principle, if a language system has several closely
related forms in the same syntactic-semantic sphere, the form which is
farthest away from the speaker, in the sense that it refers to objects or
events which are the farthest from him in his objective (e.g. actual dis-
tance) or subjective (e.g. possibility of actualization) world, will tend to
be lost. Interactional, and perhaps also memory factors underlie this
principle; since speakers tend to speak about themselves and their
immediate objective world rather than about distant and hypothetical
situations, the infrequently used forms, if any, will disappear first.
(4) The source of this complexity seems to be the question of linearization of
information, which does not stem from perception and memory. In
regard to this issue, see Klein & von Stutterheim (n.d.), and Levelt
(1979).
(5) Statements about uses of this verbal system do not necessarily apply to
varieties of Iberian Spanish.
(6) After Comrie (1976), who proposes situation as a technical term to refer
inclusively and indistinctly to actions, processes, events, states, etc.
(7) The information given in parentheses corresponds to speaker's name
(code or initial), sex and age, group (1, 2, 3), cassette-tape identification
and place of example in the tape. Dashes in the examples stand for
language material left out because it is not relevant to the discussion.
(8) No occurrences of the conditional in its tense function (future in the past)
are attested in the data. Future reference and past reference stand for
modal uses in future and past contexts. Note that the tense versus modal
or aspectual function of tenses has been investigated exclusively for
future and conditional. In all other cases, the term tense may subsume
tense, mood, and aspect meanings.
(9) This qualitative difference appears to contradict the notion of the bi-
lingual continuum. More second generation speakers need to be
examined, however, before a definite conclusion may be reached.
(10) It must be specified that progressive loss is a group phenomenon
because, given the fact that data were collected with only a maximum of
eight months between the two recording sessions with each person,
there is no empirical evidence to support a claim of loss at the individual
level, i.e. forms absent in the speech of any given individual may have
never been part of his linguistic repertoire at earlier stages. In addition, it
should be made clear that this study examines the use of a system, i.e.
Spanish language attrition in a contact situation with English 169
language production. It will be obvious to any observer of the com-
munity studied, that speakers' comprehension of the receding language
(Spanish in our case) is much more highly developed. As is the case in
other sociolinguistic situations of this type, some members of the com-
munity are able to participate in conversations held mainly in Spanish,
though they themselves use English almost exclusively. This clearly
indicates that comprehension is a different skill from production, and
that these bilinguals are more proficient in the former skill.
(11) Though not current practice, I have included the periphrastic conditional
(formed with the imperfect of ir "to go" + infinitive) in Table 11.4 for the
same reasons which justify the inclusion of the periphrastic future (see
section 3).
(12) Comrie incorporates the notions of relative, absolute, and absolute-
relative tenses in his cross linguistic study. Absolute tenses locate a
situation in time relative to the present moment; absolute-relative tenses
locate a situation in time relative to a reference point which is in turn
established (absolutely) to be before or after the present moment; with
pure relative tense the reference point is some point in time given by the
context, not necessarily the present moment.
(13) In Gaelic, only the verb for to be has a present tense. The present of all
other verbs, including the "habitual" meaning, is formed with the
present of to be plus the corresponding gerund.
(14) In English these speakers use the pluperfect indicative as expected.
References
Andersen, Roger W., (ed.). 1983. Pidginization and creolization as language acquisi-
tion, Rowley, MA: Newbury House Publishers.
(n.d.). "Interpreting data: second language acquisition of verbal aspect," MS,
University of California at Los Angeles.
Comrie, Bernard. 1976. Aspect. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
1985. Tense. Cambridge; Cambridge University Press.
Corder, S. P., andE. Roulet(eds.). 1976. The notions ofsimplification, interlanguages
and pidgins and their relation to second language pedagogy (Actes du 5eme
Colloque de Linguistique Appliquee de Neuchatel), Universite de Neu-
chatel, Faculte des Lettres.
Dorian, Nancy. 1978. "The fate of morphological complexity in language death,"
Language 54, 590-609.
1980. "Maintenance and loss of same-meaning structures in language death,"
Word 31: 39-45.
1981. Language death. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press.
Fisiak, Jacek (ed.). 1985. Historical semantics - Historical word formation. Berlin:
Mouton.
Fleischman, Suzanne. 1982. The future in thought and language: diachronic evidence
from Romance. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Gal, Susan. 1984. "Phonological style inbilingualism: the interaction of structure
and use," in Schiffrin (1984), 290-302.
170 Carmen Silva-Corvaldn
Givon, Talmy. 1979. On understanding grammar. New York: Academic Press.
Jacobsen, Teresa. 1986. "^Aspecto antes que tiempo? Una mirada a la
adquisicion temprana del espanol," in Meisel (ed.), 97-114.
Kellerman, Eric. 1979. "Transfer and non-transfer: where are we now?/' Studies
in second language acquisition. 2: 37-58.
Klein, Wolfgang. 1985. Second language acquisition, Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Klein, Wolfgang and C. von Stutterheim. (n.d.). "Text structure and referential
movement/' MS, Nijmegen: Max-Planck-Institiit fur Psycholinguistik.
Klein-Andreu, Flora. 1986. "La cuestion del anglicismo: apriorismos y meto-
dos," Thesaurus, Boletin del Instituto Caro y Cuervo, Tomo XL, 1-16.
Labov, William. 1972. Sociolinguistic patterns, Philadelphia: University of
Pennsylvania Press.
Levelt, Willem. 1979. "Linearization in discourse," MS, Nijmegen: Max-Planck-
Institiit fur Psycholinguistik.
Macnamara, J. (ed.). 1977. Language learning and thought, New York: Academic
Press.
Meisel, Jiirgen M. (ed.). 1977. Langues en contact: pidgins, Creoles. Languages in
contact. Tubingen: TBL Verlag Narr.
1983. "Transfer as second-language strategy," Language & communication 3:
11-46.
1985. "Les phases intiales du developpement de notions temporelles, aspec-
tuelles et de modes d'action," Lingua 66: 321-374.
(ed.). 1986. Adquisicion de lenguaje. Adquisicdo da linguagem, Frankfurt: Ver-
vuert.
Mougeon, Raymond, E. Beniak, and D. Valois. 1985. "A sociolinguistic study of
language contact, shift, and change." Linguistics 23: 455-487.
Miihlhausler, P. 1981. Pidginization and simplification of language, Pacific Linguis-
tics, Series B, No. 26.
Muysken, Pieter. 1981. "Creole tense/mood/aspect systems: the unmarked
case?," in Muysken (ed.), 181-199.
(ed.). 1981. Generative studies on Creole languages, Dordrecht: Foris.
Muysken, Pieter and N. Smith (eds.). 1986. Substrata versus universals in Creole
genesis. Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Schiffrin D. (ed.). 1984. Meaning, form and use in context. Washington, D.C.:
Georgetown University Press.
Seuren, Pieter and Herman Wekker. 1986. "Semantic transparency as a factor in
Creole genesis," in Muysken and Smith (eds.), 57-70.
Silva-Corvalan, Carmen. 1983. "Tense and aspect in oral Spanish narrative:
Context and meaning," Language 59: 60-80.
1985. "Modality and semantic change," in Fisiak (ed.), 547-572.
1986. "Bilingualism and language change: the extension of estar in Los
Angeles Spanish," Language 62: 587-608.
1987. "Tense-mood-aspect across the Spanish-English bilingual con-
tinuum," in Keith Denning et al. (eds.), Variation in language: NWAV-XV
at Stanford. Stanford: Department of Linguistics, 394-410.
1988. "Oral narrative along the Spanish-English bilingual continuum," in
John Staczek (ed.), On Spanish, Portuguese, and Catalan Linguistics.
Washington, D.C.: Georgetown University Press.
Spanish language attrition in a contact situation with English 171
Slobin, D. 1977. ''Language change in childhood and in history/' in Macnamara
(ed.), 185-214.
Traugott, Elizabeth C. 1976. "Natural semantax: its role in the study of second
language acquisition/' in Corder and Roulet (eds.).
Trudgill, Peter. 1983. On dialect. Oxford: Blackwell.
Weinreich, U. 1974. Languages in contact (eighth printing). The Hague: Mouton.
Part III
Case studies
12 Morphological disintegration and
reconstruction in first language attrition
DORIT KAUFMAN AND MARK ARONOFF
1 Introduction
The need for long term longitudinal studies of attrition within
individuals has long been recognized in attrition (Obler 1982; Weltens
1987). Such longitudinal studies allow insight into the cumulative effects
of attrition on the linguistic features of the language involved. This chapter
is devoted to one such study. The developmental attrition of LI (Hebrew)
in a young child placed in an L2 (English) dominant environment has
been monitored longitudinally through naturalistic observations and sys-
tematic probes to study the effect of attrition on the lexicon, syntax,
morphology, and phonology of LI. The present contribution highlights
one aspect of this study - the disintegration and reconstruction of the LI
verbal system. The study is based on daily notes and bi-weekly record-
ings of primarily naturalistic observations as well as on occasional elicit-
ation activities and probes designed to ascertain the child's competence
in LI. The data were collected primarily in the home environment where
the use of LI dominated.
The study focuses on instances of code mixing, where linguistic units
(words, phrases, clauses) of one language are juxtaposed with units of
another language within a single sentence (Sridhar & Sridhar 1980), and
code blending, where morphemes from one language are combined
with morphemes of another language within a single word while the
phonological features of the respective source languages are retained
(Kaufman & Sridhar 1986). Given that code blended words are neces-
sarily of the child's own creation, it follows that code blending provides a
window into the child's morphological competence (Aronoff 1983,1976).
In particular , code blending allows us to gain some insight, through the
productive morphology, into the simultaneous process of LI loss and L2
acquisition in the young child.
Our subject, Michal, a native speaker of Hebrew, entered the United
States in July 1985. At 2;6 she was a fluent speaker of Hebrew, whose
fluency paralleled that of her Hebrew speaking peers. Her initial
176 Dorit Kaufman and Mark Aronoff
exposure to English, which was occasional and not intensive, was in-
creased when at 2;7 she attended nursery school for three hours a day
three times a week. At 2;8 the exposure was further increased when she
attended a different school for seven hours a day five days a week. At
home Hebrew was the exclusive language used by both parents and
sisters (seven and eleven years old) for within-family discourse.
The study highlights four stages in the child's linguistic journey from
fluency to non-production. First, the onset of attrition (2;9-3;l), three
months after initial contact with English. This stage is characterized by
L2 nominal and, later, verbal insertions in an LI morphosyntactic con-
text. (Our focus in this chapter will be on the verbal insertions.) Second,
the bilingual stage, which overlaps the first and third periods (3;1-3;2),
exhibits native-like fluency in both languages, appropriate for this age
level. Developmental errors in LI, at this stage, attest to productivity in
the language. The third stage (3;2-3;5) marks the disintegration of the LI
verbal system, accelerated by the child's increasing unwillingness to
speak Hebrew. The fourth stage (3;5-4;6) involves the reconstruction
process and the development of an idiosyncratic LI template. This
template is based in part on the morphology and syntax of L2 and is
incorporated in L2 discourse. These stages are summarized in Table
12.1.
2 The outset
At the outset of the study, prior to the onset of attrition, the
child's language at 2;6 exhibits good command of morphology and syntax
in keeping with the language of her native speaker peers.1
The following
is a representative sample, selected to illustrate the child's versatile ver-
bal system at 2;6-2;8.2
Table 12.1 Stages in the attrition ofthe LI verbal system
Stage
Onset of attrition
Bilingual period
Disintegration of LI
Idiosyncratic template
Age
2;9-3;l
3;l-3;2
3;2-3;5
3;5-4;6
Months in US
4-7
7-8
8-11
12-24
Morphological disintegration and reconstruction in first language attrition 177
(1) Hi lo yexol-a li-tfos et ha-kadur sel-a.
she no can.PRES-fs to-catch OM the-ball of-her
"She cannot catch her ball."
(2) Ani roc-a se-te-lx-i it-i li-son.
I want-fs that-2.FUT-go-fs with-me to-sleep
"I want you to go to sleep with me."
(3) .. .aval ani roc-a axsav masu la-sot, t-avi-i
. . . but I want-fs now something to-do, 2.FUT-brings-fs
li et ze
to-me OM this
" . . . but I want to do something now, bring it to me"
(4) Ma sam-nu al ha-madreg-ot?
what put-lpl.PAST on the-stairs-fpl?
"What did we put on the stairs?"
(5) Lo, kodem ne-saxek axar-kax na-sir, tov?
no, first lpl.FUT-play then lpl.FUT-sing good?
"No, first let's play and then let's sing, OK?"
(6) At te-sapr-i . . .axsav ta-dlik-i.
you 2.FUT-tell story-fs . . . now 2.FUT-switch on-fs
"You tell the story . . . now switch on."
The child's language at this stage exhibits mastery of the linguistic
features typically acquired by monolingual Hebrew speaking children in
their third year as discussed in Berman (1985). Note that the child's
speech manifests diverse use of verbs and mastery of appropriate inflec-
tional markings to express tense, number, person and gender.
Linguistic features that are characteristic of children her age include
pervasive use of infinitives (1,2,3,); ability to construct present, past and
future verb forms (1,2,3,4,5,6); assignment of the case marker et before
definite noun phrase direct objects (1,3); use of bound prefixal preposi-
tion le "to" used to express dative relation li "to me" (3); the use of the
definite marker ha to mark defmiteness in nouns (1,4); genitive or poss-
essive marker sel (1) and the subordinator se (2). The infinitival prefix le,
which may also take the form of la or li according to the phonological
properties of the verb it precedes, is appropriately used (li-tfos, li-son,
la-sot in 1,2,3).
Other features of her early speech include the use of the negative mar-
ker lo, which precedes the predicate (1); the third feminine singular
suffix -a, which is used with both the predicate and the genitive particle
sel to agree with the subject pronoun hi "she"; the preposition im "with"
when used with the first singular pronoun becomes it-i (2). This usually
178 Dorit Kaufman and Mark Aronoff
appears in children's language at a later age (Berman 1985), and a com-
mon developmental error in younger children is the use of im ani {ani
being the subject form of the pronoun). The discourse conjunction aval (3)
"but," is appropriately used to contrast this utterance with the previous
one. The use of axsav (3,6) is common in children's language to mark
immediate future, consequently the future tense immediately follows.
3 Onset of attrition
The attrition process initially affected the lexicon. At this stage
(2;9-3;l), which started three months after initial contact with L2, L2
nominals were inserted at an increasing rate into an LI syntactic environ-
ment. All the features of LI morphology and syntax acquired by the child
and discussed at greater length in the previous section are still present.
Typical utterances of this stage that include nominal insertions are illus-
trated below (7,8). For an analysis of the implications of the nominal
insertions for the attrition of the nominal system see Kaufman & Aronoff
(1989).
(7)
(8)
3.1. L2 verbal insertions
Semitic morphology, especially verb morphology, is charac-
terized by the combination of consonantal verb roots with a small number
of fixed derivational templates in which vowels and syllable structure are
specified. There are seven such templates in Modern Hebrew, of which
five are most common in children's language (Berman 1978, 1985). For
example, the root k-t-v may occur in the following forms: katav, "wrote,"
nixtav, "was written," (h)ixtiv, "dictated," (h)itkatev, "corresponded."
The semantics of the individual templates is a complex matter, which we
will not address here. In addition to the templates, there are also affixes,
both derivational and inflectional. Verbs in Hebrew are marked for
tense - present, past or future - and agree with the subject noun in
person, number and gender. Children initially produce the imperative
form followed by the infinitive, which requires no person, gender or
number marking and is preceded by the infinitival prefix le, li, or la "to,"
2;9
3;0
Ima
mommy
"Mommy,
Sama-t
t-oxl-i et
2.FUT-eat-2fs OM
eat my apple."
et ha-noise
hear.PAST-2fs OM the-noise
"Did you hear this noise?"
/zfl-apple
the-apple
ha-zel
the-this?
sel-i.
of-me
Morphological disintegration and reconstruction in first language attrition 179
depending on morphophonological considerations. For example: le-kapel
"to fold/' li-vdok, "to check," la-zuz "to move." The infinitive is widely
used in children's early language possibly because it is uninflected and is
salient in the input (Berman 1985).
Code blended insertions of L2 verbs into LI began just prior to and con-
tinued through the bilingual period:
(9) 3;0 Im ze it-laxlex ani a-kliyn ot-am.
if this 3s.FUT-get.dirty I ls.FUT-clean OM-they
"If this gets dirty. Til clean them."
(10) 3;0 Ani bala-ti et ze xazak.
I blow.PAST-ls OM this hard
(English verb blow inflected as a Hebrew verb)
"I blew this [candle] out hard."
(11) 3;0 Lo la-Has.
no to-flush
"Don't flush."
(12) 3)1 ... az lo yexol-im Ze-step al ha-seleg
... then no can-mpl to-step on the-snow
" . . . then people can't step on the snow"
The examples above show three different types of L2 verbal insertions.
First, (9), an uninflected form of the verb "clean" is blended with the LI
bound morpheme of the first person singular future prefix a. Second,
(10), the English verb "blow" is treated as a two consonantal Hebrew
verb CVCV (like the verbs kara, "read," bala, "swallow") and is inflected
accordingly. These examples suggest that, at this stage, the child still has
control of LI verbal inflection and verb formation rules. The third, and
most pervasive type of L2 verbal insertions involves the code blending of
the LI infinitival bound prefix le, li, or la with the stem form of the L2 verb
(11, 12). It is unclear how the decision to use one form or another of the
infinitival prefix is made by children (to the best of our knowledge, no
research has been published on children's acquisition and use of
the various forms of the infinitival prefix). In this case of la-Has and Ze-step
(11, 12) standard Hebrew phonological rules are violated as the use of li-
would be required in both cases (cf. li-flos "invade," li-stor "contradict,
slap"). This may suggest that children's use of the infinitival prefix is not
motivated by phonological rules but is probably acquired with the verb as
one unit. The code blending of the bound infinitival prefix with the
English verb, however, suggests that the analysis of the verbal unit as
prefix + verb has been made.
180 Dorit Kaufman and Mark Aronoff
Table 12.2 L2 verbal insertions
L2 verb
clean
blow
flush
step
Child's form
fl-kliyn
bala-z
Za-flaS
/e-step
Child's L2 verb root
k-l-n
b-l-
f-l-s
s-t-p
Table 12.2 illustrates the child's incorporation of L2 verbs into LI
morphosyntactic contexts. The L2 verbs are possibly treated as deriv-
ations CVCVC or CVCV and are inflected accordingly.
4 The bilingual period
By the age of 3;1, seven months after initial exposure to L2, the
child was what could be termed a balanced bilingual - at ease with the use
of both LI and L2. The period of balanced bilingualism was extremely
short and occurred between 3; 1 and 3;2. This period was characterized by
fluency in both languages. Instances of code switching - intersentential
switching from one language to another - were frequent and were made
irrespective of the input, which was exclusively Hebrew (in the home
environment). Code mixing - intrasentential switching - consisted
almost exclusively of L2 words inserted in an LI environment. This is
consistent with the process that had begun during the first stage of attri-
tion. The following is a sample of typical utterances of this period. These
are generally longer and reflect the code switching, which is characteristic
of this stage in our sample.
(13) 3;1 First I want to bring the paper and then I bring two papers.
Where my other papers?3
ulay ani e-ese al ze. ani rak e-mca iparon
ue-crayon ani rak roc-a li-rot efo. ani crix-a iparon, ulay crayons
maybe I Is. FUT-do on this. I just lsFUT-fmd pencil and-
crayon, I just want-fs to-see where. I need-fs pencil, perhaps
crayons
"Maybe I will do it on this. I'll just find a pencil and a crayon,
I just want to see where. I need a pencil, perhaps crayons"
(14) 3;1 I can do myself, and you know what? I can open that.
. . . ve-ani yexol-a li-sgor et ze gam
... and-I can.PRES-fs to-close OM this also
"... and I can also close this"
Morphological disintegration and reconstruction in first language attrition 181
(15) 3;1 At yexol-a la-kaxat some papers off?
you can.PRES-fs to-take some papers off?
"Can you take some papers off?"
LI syntax is still intact. Features that are still present in the child's speech
include: the infinitival prefix, correctly realized as li (13, 14) and la (15)
according to the verb stem; the preposition al "on" (13); the object marker
et (14) and appropriate verbal inflections (13, 14, 15).
LI developmental errors due to overgeneralization, and paradigmatic
factors typical in children of up to the age of 4;0 are now featured in the
child's speech, attesting to productivity in LI morphology:
(16) 3;1 Ani *sata-ti et ze all up. (correct form: sati-ti)
I drink.3msPAST-ls OM this all up
"I drank it all up."
(17) 3;2 Ze ma se-*raca~ti. (correct form: raci-ti)
this what that-want.3msPAST-ls
"This is what I wanted."
(18) 3;2 Hu *irbac li. (correct form: irbic)
he hit.*ms me
"He hit me."
In examples (16 and (17), the CC-verb roots s-t- "drink" and r-c- "want,"
which should be inflected as satiti and raciti, are modeled on the mor-
phologically unmarked third person masculine singular PAST form sata,
raca, and on regular tri-consonantal roots, rendering satati and racati (see
Table 12.3).
In (18), the correct form irbic is unique for the third masculine singular
PAST form; all other forms of the past tense for this verb are irbac +
suffix, hence the paradigmatic error. For a comprehensive and detailed
analysis of children's developmental errors see Bar-Adon (1959).
Table 12.3 Child's 2-C defective verbs modeled on the canonical 3-C
pattern
Normative form Child's form
Canonical 3-C verb 2-C verb 2-C verb
3ms.PAST CaCaC CaCa CaCa
katav sata sata
IS.PAST CaCaC-ti CaCi-ti CaCa-ti
katav-ti sati-ti sata-ti
182 Dorit Kaufman and Mark Aronoff
5 The disintegration of LI
The stage which follows the brief period of balanced bilingualism
shows the initial signs of the disintegration of LI morphology and syntax.
This is coupled with the child's evident diminishing interest in speaking
Hebrew, an unwillingness that was often explicitly expressed during this
period in utterances such as "I don't like to speak Hebrew," "I don't like to
speak Hebrew" (3;4). Linguistically, the child's utterances are becoming
increasingly L2 dominant, even though her parents and siblings continue
to use LI exclusively.
5.1 LI verbal insertions
Verbal insertions at this stage consist of LI verbs inserted in
L2 morphosyntatic contexts, and the disintegration of the LI system
accelerates. The prolific number of LI verbal insertions made at this stage
dramatically demonstrates this disintegration. The verbal insertions con-
sist of deviant but recognizable forms of LI verbs, devoid of appropriate
morphological inflections. These verbs reveal traces of the LI system:
(19) 3;5 Don't a-xofef me ros.
don't ls.FUT-wash.ms.PRES me head
"Don't wash my head [hair]."
(20) 3;6 I didn't i-zuz.
I didn't /-move
"I didn't move."
(21) 3;6 I sader-et my chair.
I arrange-fs.PRES (OM) my chair
"I am arranging my chair."
(22) 3;6 I'm me-nagev-mg myself. I want to i-nagev myself. Can you
it-labes me?
I'm PRES-dry-ing myself. I want to /-dry myself. Can you
dress (reflexive) me?
"I'm drying myself. I want to dry myself. Can you dress me?"
Because of the code mixing in these utterances, we cannot be certain what
Hebrew forms should have occurred here. The important point is that the
actual forms that the child used would occur in neither normative, nor
colloquial Hebrew, and are different from developmental forms used by
younger children in the process of acquisition. In order to illustrate the
extent to which these verbal forms deviate from normative use; Table 12.4
Morphological disintegration and reconstruction in first language attrition 183
Table 12.4 Child's LI deviant forms
Child's form Normative form (predicted from context)
a-xofef ta-xfef-i
2.FUT-wash-2fs
i-zuz zaz-ti
move.PAST-ls
sader-et me-sader-et
PRES-arrange-fs.PRES
me-nagev-ing me-nagev-et
PRES-wipe-fs.PRES
i-nagev le-nagev
to-wipe
it-labes (reflexive) le-(h)albis
to-dress (causative)
presents possible normative forms the child could have used in these
contexts, as compared with the forms that were actually used.
The child's LI inflectional and derivational morphology is disinte-
grating. Traces of the system are occasionally attested to in prefixes (19,
22) and suffixes (21) that mark tense, person and gender, although it is
unclear whether the affixes play a functional role in the utterances. The
use of me- in the code blended me-nagev-ing (22), for example, is redundant
when the L2 suffix "-ing" marks the present progressive. It is, however,
possible that, as Hebrew has no present progressive, the L2 suffix is
juxtaposed to mark the progressive nature of the action, and the LI me- is
still functional in marking the present, as is the -et (21) in marking person
and gender. Her misuse of the derivational templates (22) attests to loss of
their morphosemantic distinctions. (For further discussion of children's
knowledge of the morphology and semantics of the Hebrew verb system
see Berman (1980 and 1982).) It is important to note, however, that her
knowledge of the Semitic verb root has not been affected. Although the
templates and the inflections are inappropriately used, the verb root is
present and is recognizable. This knowledge is retained even in later
stages of attrition, as will be illustrated in the next sections.
In sum, the transition period between the use of correctly inflected LI
verbs and the emergence of the idiosyncratic template (see Section 6) is
characterized by the use of a multitude of verbal forms which contain
traces of LI verbal morphology that have remained in the system.
184 Dorit Kaufman and Mark Aronoff
6 Reconstruction of LI: the idiosyncratic template
The variety of verbal forms used soon gives way to a single idio-
syncratic verbal template, similar to an actual LI form, adopted by the
child and overgeneralized to all LI verbs. This template is iCaCe(C); for
example, inagev "wipe." The last consonant maybe eliminated if the root
is bi-consonantal; for example, inake "clean." This idiosyncratic stem has
the same form as the colloquial third person masculine singular Future
form of the verb template which is called Piel in traditional Hebrew gram-
mar. Since Piel is one of the most productive templates in children's
speech and in the colloquial language, the choice of this particular stem
form is reasonable. It may also be important to note that in colloquial
informal speech, of the kind the child is mostly exposed to as spoken by
her sisters, and to a lesser extent by her parents, the prefix i- is quite
pervasive. The standard Hebrew prefixes hi-, yi- and ye- appear as i- in
colloquial speech (see Table 12.5). In addition, in the colloquial speech of
preschoolers and school age children, the first person singular Future
form of five of the seven templates are also pronounced with an initial i-
rather than standard e- or a- (a form which probably originated because of
phonetic assimilation with the immediately preceding i- of ani "I" (Bar-
Adon 1959). It is quite possible, then, that the child has selected the one
form she found most dominant in the speech of those around her and has
overgeneralized it across different verb patterns.
Table 12.5 shows the correspondences between the colloquial prefix i-
and various standard prefixes. We have omitted obscure forms that are
not common in Modern Hebrew, although they may be found in gram-
mars. It is interesting to note that there is no prefix of the form i- in the
standard language.
Table 12.5 Saliency of the prefix i in colloquial Hebrew
Prefix
hi
yi
e
a
Occurrence
PAST Hif'il
3m.FUT Kal,
Nifal
3m.FUT Piel,
Pual
ls.FUT Kal,
Nifal
ls.FUT Piel
Normative form
hixtiv
yixtov
yikatev
yesader
yesudar
extov
esatef
asader
Colloquial form
ixtiv
ixtov
ikatev
isader
isudar
ixtov*
isatef*
isader*
* The asterisked forms are common only in the language of pre-
schoolers and school children.
Morphological disintegration and reconstruction in first language attrition 185
The child has, thus, lit on one particular form of the verb which she uses
to the exclusion of others, regardless of the context, and regardless of the
verbal forms she is exposed to through the input. This form is treated as
an L2 stem and conforms to the morphosyntactic L2 environment, while
retaining LI phonetic form. This template becomes very productive in the
child's reconstruction of LI. Evidence for this productivity lies in the fact
that the template is used even with roots that are uncommonly used in
this form in LI (for example, at 3;9, isatef) and, moreover, with roots that
never occur in this form in the Hebrew language (for example, at 3; 11,
idapes). Table 12.6 shows the first occurrence of each verb used in the
iCaCe(C) form. These forms are shown here without the L2 bound mor-
phemes pervasively used as suffixes to mark person and tense on the
idiosyncratic LI predicate. The most prolific use of these forms occurred
between 3;5 and 3; 11.
Table 12.6 The first occurrence of each verb used in the iCaCe(C) form
(shown here without L2 suffixation)
3 ;1
3;5
3;6
3;7
3;8
ikapel
isaref
ikarer
isader
inagev
igared
isarek
inagen
ikalef
ixabet
isaben
isaber
igamer
ixamem
ixaten
ixatex
ixasot
fold
burn
cool
arrange
dry, wipe
itch
comb
play (instrument)
peel
turn off
soap
break
end
warm
marry
cut
cover
3;9
3;11
4;1
4;5
4;6
ikaset
inake
ixabes
icalcel
isatef
ixaded
igalgel
itate
isaxek
itafer
idapes
ikalkel
ivarex
icalem
ibalbel
decorate
clean
wash
ring
rinse
sharpen
roll
sweep
play
sew
type
spoil
bless
take photos
be confused
In order to get an insight into the emergence of this form, one verb has
been selected. The verb root k-p-l, "fold" (transitive) and its occurrence in
the data are illustrated and discussed here.
(23) 3;1 Hey can you i-kapelet zel at ye-xol-a le-kapelet ze?
Hey can you fold OM this? you PRES-can-fs to-fold OM this?
(24) 3;4 Can you kapel this?
186 Dorit Kaufman and Mark Aronoff
(25) 3;6 Can you ikapel this?
(26) 3;6 I don't want you to ikapelet.
(27) 3;8 Look I ikapel-ed it nice, right?
(28) 3;8 Can you ikapel the blintz for me?
(29) 3;8 No, first ikapel it for me.
(30) 3;8 Look at how I ikapel it.
(31) 3;9 I want to ikapel one.
(32) 3;9 I'm ikapel-ing yours and mine, right?
(33) 3;9 I was just ikapel-ing them.
(34) 3; 11 Look I can ikapel this.
(35) 4;4 I'm ikapel-ing my shirt. That's how I ikapel my shirt.
The first occurrence of this form took place during the bilingual period.
The request (23) was initiated in L2 but a switch to LI occurred at the verb.
L2 syntactic rules concerning modals exclude the use of "to" or le before
the verb. Hence, it is unclear whether the i preceding the verb is a com-
promise between LI and L2 syntactic rules or whether the third person
masculine singular colloquial Piel form was selected here as a stem. The
sentence was then repeated in correct LI form. More productive and fre-
quent use of this form occurred as of 3;4. In (24) the i was eliminated.
Based on other examples in the data, one explanation that seems plau-
sible is that the i was perceived as an infinitive form equivalent to "to"
+ verb stem, and according to L2 rules its use was inappropriate, as in
(24), where the i was dropped. Other such examples were the bound stems
sarek "comb," xasot "cover," sader "arrange," mostly in use up to age
3;6. As of 3;7 however, the iCaCe(C) form was used almost exclusively.
In the form ikapelet (26) it is unclear whether ikapel-et represents "verb-
fs.PRES," (as in me-kapel-et "PRES-fold-fs.") or an unanalyzed verb +
object marker with a missing object (as in kapel et ha-mapit "fold OM
the-napkin"). In either case, traces of the LI morphosyntactic system are
attested. From the age of 3;8 ikapel is treated as a realization of the idiosyn-
cratic verb template and is used with appropriate L2 suffixes to convey
past tense (27), present tense (30,35) present progressive (32,35), past
progressive (33), imperative (29), and infinitive (31).
The following is a sample of typical utterances of this period. The single
template of the LI predicate is now used as an L2 verb and is juxtaposed
with L2 suffixes to mark person, number and tense.
(36) 3;7 Look my legs are dry without inagev-ing.
dry-ing
(37) 3;7 My room is isader-ed.
arrange-ed
Morphological disintegration and reconstruction in first language attrition 187
(38) 3;8 When the light ixabe-z I'm going to fall asleep.
turn, off-s
(39) 3;9 Lytal finished inagen-ing and you didn't inagen yet.
play-ing (an instrument) play
(40) 3;9 I ikalef-ed them Ornat.
peel-ed
(41) 4;0 Daddy, ixamem this for me.
warm
(42) 4;1 Why does it igaredl It igared-z me.
itch itch-es
(43) 4;4 When it icalcel-z I will turn it off.
ring-s
The rich LI derivational and inflectional system has been reduced to a
single form. This form, however, is very productive and is pervasively
used in the child's system. The form attests to the child's knowledge of
the Semitic verb system at this stage of attrition.
7 Conclusion
The longitudinal study of attrition in the fertile mind of a young
child has revealed a remarkable ability to accommodate. In the early LI
dominant period, L2 verbs are quite effortlessly adapted to the LI
template system. In the later L2 dominant period, this template system is
modified idiosyncratically and without benefit of a direct model, so that
LI verbs may be accommodated in turn to the L2 system. The resulting
system, which, while perfectly intelligible to all those in the child's family
environment, is entirely her own, is a powerful reminder of the fact that
languages are individual creations constrained only by the social need to
communicate. Attrition in this circumstance is the incorporation of LI
into L2.
Notes
We would like to thank Ellen Broselow, Robert Hoberman, Elite Olshtain, S.N.
Sridhar, and especially Ruth Berman for comments on an earlier version of this
paper.
1 The examples selected for this chapter all illustrate utterances that were
not elicited directly.
2 We use the following abbreviations PRES - present; FUT - future; OM -
object marker; fs - feminine singular; ms - masculine singular; Is - first
person singular; 2fs - second person feminine singular; 3s - third per-
188 Dorit Kaufman and Mark Aronoff
son singular; 3ms - third person masculine singular; fpl - feminine
plural; mpl - masculine plural; lpl - first person plural.
3 We cannot tell whether the absence of the copula here is due to Hebrew
interference, English phonology or universal factors (Ferguson 1971;
Berman & Grosu 1976).
References
Aronoff, M. 1976. Word formation in generative grammar. Linguistic Inquiry mono-
graph No 1. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Aronoff, M. 1983. "A decade of morphology and word formation/7
Annual Review
of Anthropology 12: 355-75.
Bar-Adon, A. 1959. "Children's Hebrew in Israel (leshonam hameduberet shel
hayladim beisrael),77
doctoral dissertation, Hebrew University, Jeru-
salem, Israel.
Berman, R. A. 1978. Modern Hebrew Structure. Tel Aviv, Israel: University Pub-
lishing Projects.
1980. ''Child language as evidence for grammatical description: preschoolers'
construal of transitivity in the verb system of Hebrew/' Linguistics 18:
677-701.
1982. ''Verb-pattern alternation: the interface of morpholgy, syntax, and sem-
antics in Hebrew child language/7
Journal of Child Language 9,1:169-191.
1985. "The acquisition of Hebrew.77
in D.I. Slobin (ed.), The crosslinguistic study
of language acquisition. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates,
255-371.
Berman, R. A., and A. Grosu. 1976. "Aspects of the copula in Modern Hebrew,77
in P. Cole, (ed.), Studies in Modern Hebrew syntax and semantics.
Amsterdam: North Holland, 261-285.
Ferguson, C. 1971. "Absence of copula and the notion of simplicity: a study of
normal speech, baby talk and pidgins,77
in Dell Hymes, (ed.), Pidginiz-
ation and creolization of languages. London: Cambridge University Press.
Kaufman, D., andM. Aronoff, 1989. "Morphological interaction between LI and
L2 in language attrition,77
in S. Gass and C. Madden, (eds.), Variations in
second language acquisition: Psycholinguistic issues. Avon, England: Multi-
lingual Matters Limited, 202-215.
Kaufman, D., and S. N. Sridhar. 1986. "The process of becoming a bilingual:
simultaneous language loss and language acquisition.77
Paper presented
at LSA/AAAL Annual Conference, New York, NY.
Obler, L. K. 1982. "Neurological aspects of language loss as they pertain to
second language attrition,77
in R.D. Lambert and B.F. Freed, (eds.), The
loss of language skills. Rowley, MA: Newbury House Publishers, 60-79.
Sridhar, S. N., and K. K. Sridhar. 1980 "The syntax and psycholinguistics of
bilingual code mixing,77
Canadian Journal of Psycholinguistics 34, 4:
407-416.
Weltens, B. 1987. "The attrition of foreign language sklls: A literature review,77
Applied Linguistics 8, 1: 22-36.
13 Assessing first language vulnerability to
attrition
EVELYN P. ALTENBERG
1 Introduction
This chapter addresses the issue of which aspects of first
language grammar are most vulnerable to attrition. Three untimed tasks
are used to examine the first language knowledge of two proficient
German-English bilinguals for the purpose of outlining methodological
approaches to the investigation of this issue. The first experiment is an
untimed sentence judgement task which investigates the vulnerability of
first language (German) surface word order under the influence of second
language (English) word order. The second task, also an untimed sen-
tence judgement task, examines the vulnerability of first language selec-
tional restrictions under the influence of second language idiomatic verb
usage. The third task is an untimed fill-in task which assesses the vul-
nerability of first language gender and pluralization information and the
relationship of this information to the factors of frequency and predict-
ability. The experimental data will be useful in drawing preliminary
conclusions regarding first language vulnerability to attrition as well as
highlighting potentially fruitful areas for future research. Some of the
issues for which these types of tasks and their findings have relevance
will first be briefly outlined.
The competence/performance issue, of central importance in all
psycholinguistic research, is of special significance in research on pro-
ficient bilingualism. This is because, on the one hand, the proficient
bilingual must have a knowledge of two distinct sets of grammatical rules
and forms, one for each of his/her languages, since no two languages are
so similar that they can be described by the same descriptively adequate
grammar. On the other hand, while the proficient bilingual can certainly
function exclusively in one of his/her languages at will, a number of
studies have shown that it is difficult, if not impossible, for one language
to be completely deactivated while the other is being used. (See, for
example, Blair & Harris 1981; Sridhar & Sridhar 1980; and Altenberg
& Cairns 1983 for evidence of language interaction in the areas of the
190 Evelyn P. Altenberg
bilingual's lexicon, syntax, and phonology, respectively.) Consequently,
any bilingual data must be assessed to determine if they result primarily
from the bilingual's knowledge of one language, or from the interaction
of two systems during on-line language processing.
While processing effects can never be ruled out entirely, some tasks are
less prone to show interaction effects than others. Thus, Altenberg &
Cairns (1983) found no evidence of language interaction in an untimed,
metalinguistic judgement task, but did find evidence of interaction in
lexical decision reaction times. They propose that, while the bilingual
automatically activates two linguistic systems during processing, a ''lan-
guage check mechanism'' is used to ensure that only the output of the
contextually appropriate processing system plays a role in the final con-
ceptual representation of input. (See Sridhar & Sridhar 1980 for further
support for such a mechanism, as well as research on transfer in second
language acquisition, where similar comparison mechanisms have been
proposed, e.g. Sharwood Smith 1983.) In the untimed judgement task,
subjects presumably had time to interrogate the output of the language
check mechanism; in the lexical decision task, they did not. Thus, an
untimed judgement task is particularly suited to an investigation of first
language rules and forms, as it appears to minimize the effects of lan-
guage interaction during processing. Further, untimed tasks are likely to
minimize performance slips of the tongue (or pen) and, unlike production
tasks, judgement tasks have the advantage of telling the researcher not
only which structures are possible, but also which are not (Gundel &
Tarone 1983). They also allow one to establish degrees of grammaticality.
Such a task, with highly proficient bilingual subjects who are given time
to think about the well-formedness of stimuli and need not produce
sentences but merely evaluate them, decreases the likelihood of finding
L1-L2 interaction effects, or, indeed, of rinding any incorrect LI re-
sponses at all. Any inappropriate LI responses that do appear, then, are
of particular interest.
Since the two judgement tasks described below were designed to in-
vestigate transfer from L2 to LI, two questions dealing with transfer need
to be considered: (1) How does the process of transfer operate? and (2)
Which aspects of a language are most likely to be transferable?
Both Schachter (1983) and Andersen (1983),rt dealing with second lan-
guage acquisition, view LI information as imposing on the learner's L2
acquisition process. That is, they incorporate transfer into a model of
learning. As such, their notions of transfer do not extend readily to the
area of LI loss. Corder (1983), on the other hand, suggests that inad-
equacies in the second language lead to learners borrowing from their first
Assessing first language vulnerability to attrition 191
language when necessary, and successful, probably frequent, borrow-
ings ultimately affect the learner's L2 grammar. While Schachter, Ander-
sen, and Corder all limit their claims to second language acquisition,
Corder's model can be extended most readily to the domain of first lan-
guage loss. That is, if one assumes that there is no hypothesis testing in
first language attrition because no active learning is taking place, then
evidence of the existence of transfer in first language loss provides
support for Corder's view of transfer as successful borrowing.
In recent years, researchers have begun exploring the issue of what
determines transferability from one language to another, and a number of
relevant factors have been proposed. For example, Kellerman (1983)
suggests that transfer is more likely to occur if LI and L2 are perceived as
being close (say, Italian and Spanish) than if they are perceived as being
distant (for example, English and Chinese). Similarity between specific
LI and L2 structures is apparently a necessary condition for transfer, as
shown by a variety of studies (e.g. Cowan 1986; Gass 1983; Weinreich
1953; Wode 1978; and Zobl 1980a). It is important to note that any require-
ment of similarity between LI and L2 structures implies that there is a
stage during which a comparison of aspects of LI and L2 is made (Shar-
wood Smith 1983).
Eckman (1977) discusses the factor of linguistic markedness, while Jor-
dens & Kellerman (1978) and Kellerman (1983) propose that psycho-
linguistic markedness plays a role in determining transferability. Along
these lines, Zobl (1980b) and Sharwood Smith (1983) suggest that those
structures which lead to overall processing simplicity will be transferred
most readily. Unfortunately, as Sharwood Smith points out, "Without
good theories of markedness, we have to resort to ad hoc definitions to
suit our current empirical findings" (229). Andersen (1982) further
suggests that frequency is a factor which plays a role in transfer. While
these constraints on transfer have been proposed primarily to account for
the influence of the first language on the second language, they are likely
to be equally significant in an investigation of the influence of the second
language on the first language. The experiments described below investi-
gate the roles of predictability, frequency, and transfer from L2 in first
language attrition.
2 Syntactic judgement task
The purpose of the untimed syntactic judgement task is to deter-
mine if the fluent bilingual's knowledge of first language syntactic rules
can be altered under the influence of a second language. While Haugen
192 Evelyn P. Altenberg
(1953) suggests that syntax is least likely to be borrowed, Sharwood Smith
(1983) reports that the Utrecht Project found syntactic loss in the area of
adverbial placement among English speaking children residing in Hol-
land. Similarly, Costello (1978) reports on the partial assimilation to
English of three syntactic rules in Southeastern Pennsylvania German.
His subjects were adults who acquired English as a second language in
school when they were between the ages of approximately five and ten.
In the present study, the question is whether any first language syntactic
loss can be demonstrated among adults who learned the second language
after the critical period and who have maintained high levels of first
language proficiency, and, if loss is found, to determine which structures
prove to be most vulnerable to transfer from the second language. Note
that Gass (1983), Kellerman (1983), and Sharwood Smith (1983) all
observe that surface features are involved in syntactic transfer.
2.1 Subjects
Two subjects who were expected to show mild attrition were
selected, so that those aspects of grammar which they have lost are likely
to be those that are most vulnerable. The subjects are a married couple,
both native speakers of German, born in Germany, who have been living
in the United States for over forty years. Though they continue to use
German with one another on a daily basis, and in informal situations with
family and friends, they have not been part of a German-dominant lan-
guage community for more than forty years. Therefore, their German
may be expected to have suffered some attrition. Both subjects demon-
strate fluent though non-native use of English, which is used daily in both
formal and informal situations, and they are literate in both German and
English. Subject A learned English upon her arrival in the United States at
age twenty-nve. Subject B studied English in school in Germany between
the ages of fifteen and sixteen; his English improved upon his arrival in
the US at age twenty-nine. Both subjects participated in all three of the
tasks described in the paper.
2.2 Materials and procedure
For the syntax task, subjects were asked to evaluate four types of
German sentences and four types of English sentences: sentences whose
surface word order is the same in English and German (EG) (e.g. Das ist
leicht zu machen, That is easy to do); sentences whose word order is gram-
matical in English but ungrammatical in German (E*G) (e.g. ^Barbara kann
Assessing first language vulnerability to attrition 193
lesen hindi, Barbara can read Hindi); sentences whose word order is gram-
matical in German but ungrammatical in English (*EG) (e.g. Barbara kann
hindi lesen, ^Barbara can Hindi read); and sentences whose word order is
ungrammatical in both English and German (*E*G) (e.g. *Sie wohnt in
einem Haus blauen, *She lives in a house blue). The last group was con-
structed using Spanish word order so that the sentences, while ungram-
matical, would still be linguistically plausible structures. An English
version of the syntactic judgement task was included in order to be certain
that the relevant English structures are in fact perceived by subjects to be
grammatical in English.
An example of each type of structure used in the task is presented
overleaf in Table 13.1. There were three tokens for each structure type
listed. English sentences were changed slightly (e.g. by using a different
noun) so as not to be exact translations of the German sentences. Filler
sentences were included to ensure equal numbers of grammatical and
ungrammatical sentences in each task. German and English sentences
were presented to subjects in a random order, in written form, with at
least thirty sentences separating grammatical and ungrammatical ver-
sions of the same sentence. Subjects were instructed to indicate each
sentence's acceptability on a scale ranging from one (vollkommen
annehmbar, completely acceptable) to five (vollkommen unannehmbar,
completely unacceptable). The German sentences were judged first and
the English sentences were judged a few days later. In order to establish
English norms, two monolingual English subjects were also given the
English judgement task. German norms for all tasks were established by
reference to literature on German syntax (e.g. Hawkins 1985; Kufner
1962; Lederer 1969) and to German speakers and linguists. Two E*G
structures (#4 and #21) are moderately acceptable in German.
2.3 Results and discussion
The overall results for each subject are indicated in Table 13.2 on
p. 195. The overall scores reveal that subjects have a firm grasp of syntax
in both languages. That is, in each language, grammatical sentences were
judged, on the whole, as better than ungrammatical sentences. This
finding is not surprising, as one expects syntax to remain largely intact
when a language is used on a daily basis.
Scores for the E*G and *EG groups on the German task are of particular
interest, as these are the structures with the potential to show English
influence. It is clear, by comparing EG and *EG scores, that the ungram-
maticality of a structure in English did not affect its status as grammatical
194 Evelyn P. Altenberg
Table 13.1 Examples of each structure used in the syntactic judgement task
EG E*G *EG
6.
7. Das ist leicht zu machen.
This is easy to do.
8. Die Leute sind nicht da.
The boy is not here.
9. Komm mit!
Come along!
10.
11. Ich lese nicht gerne
solchelangen Biicher.
He doesn't like to read
such long articles.
12. Ich gab der Frau das Buch.
He gave the man the letter.
13. Der Film, den wir gestern
Abend gesehen haben,
war grossartig.
The show that we saw last
week was great.
14. Ich weiss nicht, was ich
sagen soil.
He does not know what
he should say.
15. Er weckt die Kinder auf.
She wakes the children up.
16.
17. Auf was wartest du?
For what are we waiting?
18.
19. Was fur Biicher lesen Sie?
What novels do you read?
20. Es ist leicht, den Jungen
zu sehen.
It is easy to see the girl.
21. Wilhelm sah den Konig
und dankte dem Konig.
William saw the king and
thanked the king.
Barbara kann lesen hindi.
Mary can read Spanish.
Ich bleibe zu Hause weil es ist kalt.
She is staying home because it is hot.
Does he go to the theater?
Die Rolle wurde gesungen von einem
Tenor.
The role was sung by a baritone.
Der Mann, dessen Gepack steht da,
kommt gleich zuriick
The woman whose suitcase is standing
there, will come right back.
Es ist zu spat, zu gehen ins Kino.
It is too early to go to the theater.
Er nicht arbeitet zu Hause.
She does not work at home.
Dieser Anzug tragt gut.
This dress wears well.
Barbara kann hindi lesen.
Mary can Spanish read.
Ich bleibe zu Hause weil es kalt ist.
She is staying home because it hot is.
Geht sie ins Kino?
Goes he to the theater?
Die Rolle wurde von einem Tenor
gesungen.
The role was by a baritone sung.
Der Mann, dessen Gepack da steht,
kommt gleich zuriick
The woman whose suitcase there
standing is, will come right back.
Es ist zu spat, ins Kino zu gehen.
It is too early to the theater to go.
Das ist in jedem Laden zu finden.
This is to find in every supermarket.
Er arbeitet nicht zu Hause.
She works not at home.
Komm du doch mit!
Come you along!
Dieser Anzug tragt sich gut.
This dress wears itself well.
Solche langen Biicher lese ich night
gerne.
Such long articles he doesn't like to
read.
Ich gab das Buch zu der Frau.
He gave the letter to the man.
Der Film wir gestern Abend gesehen
haben, war grossartig.
The show we saw last week was great.
Ich weiss nicht, was zu sagen.
He does not know what to say.
Er weckt auf die Kinder.
She wakes up the children.
Wen glaubst du, dass ich gesehen habe? Was glaubst du, wen ich gesehen habe?
Whom do you think that we have seen? What do you think whom we have seen?
Was wartest du auf?
What are we waiting for?
Das Madchen wurde ein Buch gegeben. Dem Madchen wurde ein Buch gegeben
The boy was given a book.
Was fur Biicher sind Sie lesend?
What novels are you reading?
Der Junge ist leicht zu sehen.
The girl is easy to see.
Wilhelm sah und dankte dem Konig.
William saw and thanked the king.
Table continued opposite.
Assessing first language vulnerability to attrition 195
Table 13.1 (continued)
E*G*
22. Das Spanisch ist leicht.
The French is easy.
23. Sie fahren durch das
Japan.
They're traveling in the
France.
24. Sie nicht arbeiten schwer.
She not works hard.
25. Sie wohnt in einem Haus
blauen.
She lives in a house pink.
26. Studieren viel.
Studies a lot.
27. Sie mich kennen.
He me knows.
28. Paul mir gab das Geld.
Paul me gave the book.
29. Den Dienstag gehe ich ins
Kino.
The Wednesday I am
going to the store.
30. Ich kenne nicht zu jemand.
I don't know to anyone.
31. Die Studenten sind in der
Klasse von Geschichte.
The students are in the
class of mathematics.
32. Ich brauche sechzig und
sieben Pfennig.
I need eighty and seven
cents.
Table 13.2 Average responses ofeach subject in the syntactic judgement
task
Bilingual subjects
German
Subject A
Subject B
English
Subject A
Subject B
Monolingual subjects
English
Subject C
Subject D
EG
1.06
1.00
1.26
1.06
1.40
1.34
E*G
2.57
3.24
1.11
1.26
1.53
1.49
*EG
1.10
1.10
2.37
3.42
4.67
4.67
*E*G
2.88
4.12
3.06
4.51
4.91
4.30
196 Evelyn P. Altenberg
in German. Subjects' knowledge of what is grammatical in LI is firm.
However, subjects' knowledge of what is ungrammatical in LI is some-
what less secure: both subjects rated E*G sentences as slightly better than
*E*G sentences, suggesting the influence of English. Their judgements
on the English task similarly suggest the influence of German, with
English *EG structures rated as more acceptable than *E*G structures.
Further, a comparison of bilingual and monolingual English judgements
reveals a greater difference between monolingual and bilingual scores for
*EG structures than for *E*G structures. These findings all suggest the
influence of English and German on one another. (Note that children
acquiring a first language also reveal correct knowledge of grammatical
sentences but uncertainty regarding ungrammatical sentences (Hakes
1980).) More specifically, a few E*G structures were judged by subjects to
be fairly acceptable in German. Acceptability was determined here both
by the structure's average rating and by the difference in score between
the ungrammatical E*G structure and its EG or *EG grammatical counter-
part. Other E*G structures are of special interest because they were
judged as strongly unacceptable in German. These two groups of struc-
tures, at the extreme ends of the acceptability continuum, are worth
noting here, as they provide data on which aspects of syntax are most and
least vulnerable to attrition.
Both subjects judged E*G structure # 16, which involves the grammati-
cally of w/z-questions with embedding, as fairly acceptable in German.
Subject A also judged structure #5, which involves verb position in a
relative clause, and # 18, which deals with case in a passive sentence, as
acceptable. Subject B judged structure #4, involving verb position in a
passive sentence, as acceptable. (Structure #4 is acceptable in colloquial
German.) Similarly, # 21, which involves the grammaticality of conjoined
sentences with deletion of identical noun phrases, was judged as accept-
able by both subjects, and is considered to be moderately acceptable in
German in short sentences. In all these cases, subjects' ratings of the
English sentences indicate that they know the E*G structures are gram-
matical in English. Further, in interviews conducted a few weeks after
testing, both subjects stated that all of these E*G structures except #16
were fairly unacceptable in German and expressed surprise at their own
responses on the judgement task regarding these structures.
Both subjects rated the following E*G sentences as highly unacceptable
in German: #8, involving negative placement; #13, involving sentences
where the German relative pronoun is deleted; # 17, involving preposi-
tion stranding; and # 19, which involves the progressive tense. Subject B
also judged #12, sentences with fo-datives, as highly unacceptable.
Assessing first language vulnerability to attrition 197
In the ungrammatical version of # 18, the object in a passive sentence is
put in the nominative case; that is, it is treated as a surface subject, as it
would be in English, whereas in German the object retains its accusative
case in passive structures. The fact that one of the subjects found the E*G
sentences of # 18 to be fairly acceptable suggests either that case informa-
tion in general is vulnerable to attrition (which possibility is supported by
the acceptability of #21, where case information is lost in conjoined
sentences), or that surface grammatical relations are vulnerable to attri-
tion. The acceptability of structures #4 and #21 may be due to the fact
that they are somewhat acceptable in German. Their acceptability also
suggests that a marginally acceptable LI structure may become more
acceptable if it coincides with an L2 structure. It is important to note here
that the constraints on transfer described earlier are not very specific.
While one might argue that German structures # 4, 5,16, and 18 are more
marked, linguistically and/or psycholinguistically, than their English
counterparts, and that the English and German structures are similar to
one another in those cases where rule changes occurred, this is nonethe-
less an ad hoc, after-the-fact description, not an explanation. It leaves
unexplained, for example, the fact that Subject A found a change in verb
position in relative clauses (# 5) acceptable, but not a change in verb
position in infinitive clauses (#6).
The data also reveal a great deal of variability from subject to subject.
For example, Subject A found fo-datives (#12) fairly acceptable, while
Subject B found them completely unacceptable; Subject B found a
change in verb position in passives (# 4) more acceptable than did subject
A. However, one subject did not show more overall attrition than the
other subject. Rather, judgements varied depending upon which struc-
ture was being rated. This variability is found here even with subjects
whose communication in LI is predominantly with one another.
It is important to consider two further questions. First, is it the case that
the relevant German rule, such as that of verb position in a relative
clause, is particularly vulnerable to attrition, or is it the case that the
English verb position rule is particularly intrusive? Researchers have
taken different stands on this issue: Kellerman (1983), discussing second
language acquisition, makes the strong claim that only the guest lan-
guage (LI), not the host language (L2), plays a role in determining trans-
ferability, while Zobl (1980a) suggests that formal features of L2 (the host
language) control the activation of transfer from a first language. The
second question is: do the relevant E*G structures show the effects of
transfer from English, or are the structures showing the effects of uni-
versal changes, say of simplification? Future research can address both of
198 Evelyn P. Altenberg
these questions, using the sentence judgement task, by including appro-
priate control groups. In this case, German LI, English L2 speakers could
be compared with German LI speakers with different L2s.
The findings suggest that future research focusing on structures #4,
# 5, # 16, and # 18 is likely to be most fruitful. Another possible direction
for future research to take is to examine the vulnerability of marginally
acceptable LI structures, perhaps by comparing judgements of mar-
ginally acceptable LI structures that have L2 counterparts with judge-
ments of marginal LI structures that do not have L2 counterparts.
The experiment described next uses the sentence judgement task to
examine the effects of L2 on LI verb usage.
3 Verb usage task
3.1 Materials and procedure
Jordens & Kellerman (1978) investigate the transfer of idiomatic
verb uses from the first language to the second language. Ostyn (1972)
similarly finds changes in selectional restrictions in American Flemish. In
the present experiment, the uses of two verbs were investigated using a
variation of a Jordens & Kellerman task. The verbs nehmen "take" and
brechen "break" were selected as these verbs were used by Jordens &
Kellerman. Eighteen sentences using brechen were constructed, half with
the verb used in ways that are acceptable in German (e.g. Sie brechen ihr
Versprechenjedesmal "They are always breaking promises"), and half with
the verb used in ways that are likely to be unacceptable in German (e.g.
*Wann wird das Wetter brechen? "When will the weather break?"). Sixteen
sentences with nehmen were also constructed, half of them with accept-
able uses of the verb (e.g. Der Schneider nahm sein Ma$ "The tailor took his
measurements") and half with uses likely to be unacceptable in German
(e.g. *Nimm Herz! "Take heart!"). Subjects were asked to rate the accept-
ability of each German sentence on the same acceptability scale used in
the syntax task, with instructions to pay particular attention to the ques-
tion of whether the verb can be used this way in German. Sentences with
brechen and nehmen were rated separately. Subjects were also asked to
indicate, on a three point scale, how certain they were that they under-
stood the English translation of each sentence, and post-test interviews
were used to determine whether or not subjects knew the meaning of
each English translation. In addition, subjects indicated whether or not
English and German translations of the same sentence have the same
meaning. The sentences and results are listed in Table 13.3 opposite.
Assessing first language vulnerability to attrition 199
Table 13.3 Stimuli, verb usage task
Sentences with brechen
Unacceptable German sentences
1. Sein Fall wurde von einem Baum gebrochen. "His fall was broken by a tree.'7
(A)
2. Sie bracken ihm die Neuigkeit. "They broke the news to him." (A, B)
3. Er hat seine Verlobung gebrochen. "He broke off the engagement." (A, B)
4. Er ist der Mann, der in Monte Carlo die Bank gebrochen hat. "He is the man who
broke the bank at Monte Carlo." (A, B)
5. Der Elektriker hat den Stromkreis gebrochen. "The electrician broke the electrical
circuit." (A, B)
6. Wann wird das Wetter brechen? "When will the weather break?" (A, B)
7. Sie brachen ihr Fasten. "They broke their fast."
8. Endlich wurde die feindliche Geheimschrift gebrochen. "At last they broke the
enemy code." (A, B)
9. Die Concorde hat die Schallmauer gebrochen. "The Concorde broke the sound
barrier." (B)
Acceptable German sentences
10. Er brach sich das Bein. "He broke his leg."
11. Sie brechen ihr Versprechen jedesmal. "They are always breaking promises."
12. Einiges Alkohol war notig, um das Eis zu brechen. "A few drinks were needed to
break the ice."
13. Er brach das Schweigen, als er zu sprechen begann. "He broke the silence when
he began speaking."
14. Ellen brach sein Herz. "Ellen broke his heart."
15. Sie brachen das Gesetz. "They broke the law."
16. Der Tag brach an. "Dawn broke."
17. Bei den Olympischen Spielen brachen die Ostdeutschen einen Rekord. "At the
Olympics, the East Germans broke a record."
18. Der Sturm brach los. "The storm broke."
Sentences with nehmen
Unacceptable German sentences
1. Die Idee hat ihn mit Uberraschung genommen. "The idea took him by surprise."
(A)
2. Dieser Roman nimmt in Washington platz. "This novel takes place in
Washington."
3. Die Kinder nahmen Wechseln. "The children took turns."
4. Er nahm einen Eid vor Gericht. "He took an oath in court." (A)
5. Nimm Herz! "Take heart!"
6. Kannst du einen Wink nehmen? "Can you take a hint?"
7. Nimm Mutl "Take courage!"
8. Es wird mir zu lange nehmen, das zu tun. "It will take me too long to do that."
(B)
Acceptable German sentences
9. Er nahm sich die Miihe, ihnen zu helfen. "He took the trouble to help them."
10. Er nahm sich ein Zimmer fur die Nacht. "He took a room for the night."
11. Er nahm ein Bad. "He took a bath."
12. Bitte nehmen Sie Platz. "Please take a seat."
13. Er nahm das Geld. "He took the money."
14. Er nahm sich Zeit, die Arbeit fachgerecht zu machen. "He took the time to do the
job right."
15. Er nahm einen tiefen Atemzug. "He took a deep breath."
16. Der Schneider nahm sein Map. "The tailor took his measurements."
Note: Parentheses following translations of unacceptable German sentences
indicate which subject, if any, judged that sentence as acceptable in
German.
200 Evelyn P. Altenberg
3.2 Results and discussion
The results indicate that some unacceptable German verb uses
have come to be accepted by the subjects. A verb usage was considered
accepted by a subject if it met all three of the following criteria: (1) the
sentence was rated as completely acceptable in German; (2) the German
and English sentences were judged as meaning the same thing; and
(3) subjects indicated, on the questionnaire and in follow-up oral inter-
views, that they understood the idiomatic meaning of the English sen-
tences. Under these conditions, both subjects judged seven out of the
nine ungrammatical German sentences with brechen as acceptable in
German (though not the same seven sentences). With nehmen, however,
Subject A judged only two of the eight unacceptable sentences as accept-
able in German while Subject B accepted only one.
Thus, there are two findings of interest here. First, the results indicate
that verb usage is vulnerable to attrition. Here, uses of verbs which violate
German selectional restrictions were considered to be acceptable in
German. One direction for future research to take, then, is to examine the
vulnerability of selectional restrictions in greater detail. One can
speculate that certain restrictions, say abstractness, might be more or
less vulnerable than other restrictions, such as animacy. Sentence
judgement tasks lend themselves readily to the testing of such hy-
potheses.
The second rinding of interest is that brechen was far more vulnerable to
attrition than nehmen. A possible explanation for this is the greater
phonetic similarity between break and brechen than between take and neh-
men. Haugen (1953) states that "if a native word is similar in sound to a
desired foreign word, it is often given meanings of the foreign word"
(380). Zobl too (1980a) indicates the importance of morphological simi-
larity in transfer. This explanation assumes that transfer from L2 to LI is
taking place, and, coupled with the findings of the syntax task, supports
Corder's view of transfer as simply borrowing.
The third task was used to investigate subjects' knowledge of aspects of
first language morphology, with particular attention to the roles of fre-
quency and predictability in attrition.
4 Gender and plural tasks
Word frequency is a well known variable affecting lexical pro-
cessing. Both Forster's (1976) search model of lexical retrieval and Mor-
ton's (1970) logogen model incorporate elements designed to account for
Assessing first language vulnerability to attrition 201
the effects of frequency on lexical retrieval. Further, Andersen (1982)
suggests that low frequency items will be lost in language before high
frequency items. It is reasonable, then, to hypothesize that word fre-
quency plays a role in the retention of information about a word's gender
and plural form. (Note, though, that Brown (1973) found that the fre-
quency of morphemes in speech had no effect on the order in which
morphemes were acquired by the child during the process of first
language acquisition.)
Predictability of form is another factor which may be of relevance to
attrition. German has a variety of ways to pluralize nouns. For example,
the -(e)n suffix is used to form the plural for all nouns ending with the
suffix -keit (e.g. Kleinigkeit, Kleinigkeiten), while most one syllable mas-
culine nouns have -e plurals (e.g. Hund, Hunde). While some nouns follow
rule governed patterns of this type, others do not. Since overgeneraliz-
ation of regular rules to irregular forms is well documented for both first
and second language acquisition (e.g.Dale 1976; Richards 1974), it seems
reasonable to predict that irregular plural forms are more likely to be
forgotten than regular, predictable plural forms. Thus, the expectation
here is that idiosyncratic information regarding pluralization, which in-
formation must be part of an individual noun's lexical representation, will
be lost earlier than pluralization information involving morphological
rules.
4.1 Materials and procedure
A list of high frequency words and a list of low frequency words
were constructed. Each list was further subdivided into nouns with pre-
dictable plural forms and nouns with unpredictable plural forms. Word
frequency was established using Meier's (1964) word frequency count for
German. Meier lists, in order of frequency, the eight thousand most
frequent words in the corpus of over ten million words. Both the high and
low frequency words used in this task were selected from this list in order
to ensure that even the low frequency test items were likely to be known
to the subjects. There were 56 high frequency words, ranging in fre-
quency from 14,529 to 700 occurrences in the corpus, and 56 low fre-
quency words, ranging in frequency from 162 to 101 occurrences. There
were 20 feminine, 16 masculine, and 20 neuter high frequency words, and
19 feminine, 16 masculine, and 21 neuter low frequency words. Words
whose gender is predictable (e.g. by meaning or by suffix) were not
used. As far as possible, equal numbers of concrete and abstract words
were included in each category.
202 Evelyn P. Altenberg
The nouns fall into two groups with regard to the formation of the
plural: 34 high frequency words (e.g. Tag "day") and 22 low frequency
words (e.g. Pfeil "arrow") have predictable plural forms, and 22 high
frequency words (e.g. Gesicht "face") and 34 low frequency words (e.g.
Beitrag "contribution") have unpredictable plural forms. Predictability
was based on Lederer (1969) and Bauer & Bauer (1967). Subjects were
presented, in a random order, with the singular form of each noun, and
asked to fill in, in the spaces provided, each noun's gender (der, die, or das)
and its plural form. Post-test interviews with subjects indicated that they
knew the meanings of all but one of the nouns on which they made errors;
this noun was eliminated from the analysis and the scores adjusted
accordingly.
4.2 Results
The results are indicated on Table 13.4. What is immediately
striking is that far fewer errors were made regarding gender than plural
information, even though gender was unpredictable in all cases. While
the small number of overall gender errors makes it difficult to draw
further conclusions regarding frequency, the number of gender errors for
Table 13.4 Percentage of inccorect responses, gender and plural task
Gender (all forms were unpredictable)
High frequency words Low frequency words
Subject A
Subject B
Plural
High frequency words Low frequency words
Predictable Unpredictable Predictable Unpredictable
Subject A
Subject B
Predictable
Unpredictable
CO
CO
Mean
High
14
5
Plural Scores, Subjects
frequency words
3
9.5
14
5
A and
Low
B
frequency
9.5
15
21
9
words
Assessing first language vulnerability to attrition 203
Subject A is greater for low than for high frequency words. (Subject B had
only one error on gender.)
Turning now to the plural forms, one finds more errors among low
frequency than among high frequency words. Further, there are more
errors for unpredictable nouns than for nouns whose forms are rule
governed. The most errors were found among low frequency, unpredict-
able plural forms.
The findings lead to a number of tentative conclusions. First, frequency
appears to be a factor in the vulnerability of lexical information to attri-
tion. Second, unpredictability appears to be an additional factor leading
to loss. In this case, an unpredictable plural form is presumed to be part of
the lexical representation of an individual word, while a predictable
plural form follows from the application of morphological rules. Thus,
idiosyncratic lexical information may be more prone to attrition than
morphological rules. What is surprising is that even predictable forms
were subject to error. The further investigation of frequency and predict-
ability as factors in language loss appears to be a fruitful direction for
future research to take.
The findings also indicate that the attrition process is selective. Not all
lexical information is equally susceptible to loss, as evidenced by the
greater number of plural over gender errors. Since, as discussed above,
researchers have suggested that LI and L2 similarity is a necessary con-
dition for transfer, one can speculate that German gender may be less
vulnerable to attrition under the influence of English because English
nouns have no gender (H. S. Cairns, personal communication).
Selectivity is further apparent with individual words as well as overall:
some words showed loss only of gender information (e.g. Prozent "per-
cent", Subject A); many showed loss only of plural information (e.g.
Paradies "paradise", Subject B).
5 Discussion and conclusion
Since these three tasks were preliminary studies, their findings
must be interpreted cautiously and their limitations are obvious: future
research of this type will require more subjects, more tokens, and poss-
ibly a monolingual German control group (although, in this case, one
could not be certain that the judgements of monolingual German
speakers today would parallel those that would have been made by these
subjects forty years ago). Nonetheless, some tentative conclusions are
possible.
It is clear that judgement tasks are useful in discovering areas of first
204 Evelyn P. Altenberg
language loss. For these subjects, while the tasks revealed that most LI
knowledge remained intact, there were changes in some syntactic rules
which may be due to transfer from the second language. However, no
proposed constraints on transfer are specific enough to account for these
changes. The tasks also revealed changes in LI verb usage under the
influence of L2, and support the notion that such changes are more likely
to occur in cases where LI and L2 verbs are phonetically similar. The
occurrence of such transfer in LI loss lends support to Corder's view of
transfer as borrowing, and does not support any model in which transfer
is incorporated solely into the language learning process. The fill-in task
reveals the loss of plural information and the possible loss of gender
information. The suggestion that LI and L2 similarity is a necessary con-
dition for transfer is supported by the greater vulnerability of plural over
gender information to attrition. Frequency and unpredictability of forms
appear to play an important role in the loss of such information. Finally,
all three tasks reveal variability of loss among subjects, tasks, forms, and
structures.
Note
My thanks to Edward G. Fichtner, Harry Lederer, and Dana McDaniel
for essential information regarding the facts of German, as well as for many
helpful comments. Thanks also to Helen Smith Cairns and Carolyn Sobel for
many helpful comments and suggestions. Special thanks to my subjects for their
participation in this study.
References
Altenberg, E. P., and H. S. Cairns. 1983. "The effects of phonotactic constraints
on lexical processing in bilingual and monolingual subjects/' Journal of
Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior 22: 174-188.
Andersen, R. W. 1982. "Determining the linguistic attributes of language attri-
tion/7
in R. D. Lambert and B. F. Freed (eds.), The loss of language skills.
Rowley, MA: Newbury House Publishers.
Andersen, R. W. 1983. "Transfer to somewhere," in Gass and Selinker (eds.),
177-204.
Bauer, E. W., and B. Bauer. 1967. Lebendiges Deutsch. New York: Holt, Rinehart
and Winston.
Blair, D., and R. J. Harris. 1981. "A test of interlingual interaction in comprehen-
sion by bilinguals," Journal of Psycholinguistic Research 10: 457-467.
Assessing first language vulnerability to attrition 205
Brown, R. 1973. A first language: the early stages. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.
Corder, S. P. 1983. "A role for the mother tongue," in Gass and Selinker
(eds.), 85-97.
Costello, J. 1978. "Syntactic change and second language acquisition: the case
for Pennsylvania German/' Linguistics 213: 29-50.
Cowan, J. R. 1986. "Toward a psychological theory of interference in second
language learning," in B. W. Robinett and J. Schachter (eds.), Second
language learning. Ann Arbor: The University of Michigan Press.
Dale, P. S. 1976. Language development. New York: Holt, Rinehart and
Winston.
Eckman, F. R. 1977. "Markedness and the contrastive analysis hypothesis,"
Language Learning 27(2): 315-330.
Forster, K. I. 1976. "Accessing the mental lexicon," in R. J. Wales and E. C. T.
Walker (eds.), New approaches to language mechanisms. Amsterdam:
North-Holland.
Gass, S. 1983. "Language transfer and universal grammatical relations," in
Gass and Selinker (eds.), 69-84.
Gass, S., and L. Selinker (eds.). 1983. Language transfer in language learning.
Rowley, MA: Newbury House Publishers.
Gundel, J. K., and E. E. Tarone. 1983. "'Language transfer' and the acquisi-
tion of pronominal anaphora," in Gass and Selinker (eds.), 281-296.
Hakes, D. 1980. The development of metalinguistic abilities in children. New York:
Springer Verlag.
Haugen, E. 1953. The Norwegian language in America. Philadelphia, PA: Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania Press.
Hawkins, J. A. 1985. A comparative typology of English and German. Austin:
University of Texas Press.
Jordens, P., and E. Kellerman. 1978. "Investigations into the strategy of trans-
fer in second language learning," AILA Congress, August 1978.
Kellerman, E. 1983. "Now you see it, now you don't," in Gass and Selinker
(eds.), 112-134.
Kufner, H. L. 1962. The grammatical structures of English and German. Chicago:
The University of Chicago Press.
Lederer, H. 1969. Reference grammar of the German language. New York: Charles
Scribner's Sons.
Meier, H. 1964. Deutsche Sprachstatistik. Hildesheim: Georg Olms Verlags-
buchhandlung.
Morton, J. 1970. "A functional model for memory," in D. A. Norman (ed.),
Models of human memory. New York: Academic Press.
Ostyn, P. 1972. "American Flemish: a study in language loss and linguistic
interference," doctoral dissertation, University of Rochester, Disserta-
tion Abstracts International 33/05: 2356-A.
Richards, J. C. 1974. "A non-contrastive approach to error analysis," in J. C.
Richards (ed.), Error analysis. London: Longman.
Schachter, J. 1983. "A new account of language transfer," in Gass and Selin-
ker (eds.), 98-111.
Sharwood Smith, M. 1983. "On first language loss in the second language
acquirer: problems of transfer," in Gass and Selinker (eds.), 222-231.
206 Evelyn P. Altenberg
Sridhar, S. H., and K. K. Sridhar. 1980. 'The syntax and psycholinguistics of
bilingual code mixing/' Canadian Journal of Psychology 34: 407-416.
Weinreich, U. 1953. Languages in contact. The Hague: Mouton.
Wode, H. 1978. "Developmental sequences in naturalistic L2 acquisition/' in
E. Hatch (ed.), Second language acquisition. Rowley, MA: Newbury
House.
Zobl, H. 1980a. "The formal and developmental selectivity of LI influence on L2
acquisition," Language Learning 30(1): 43-57.
Zobl, H. 1980b. "Developmental and transfer errors: their common bases and
(possibly) differential effects on subsequent learning," TESOL Quarterly
14(4): 469-479.
14 Compensatory strategies of child first
language attrition
DONNA TURIAN AND EVELYN P. ALTENBERG
1 Introduction
A growing interest in the area of language loss or attrition has
been seen in recent years (e.g. Lambert & Freed 1982; Seliger 1984).
However, relatively little research has been devoted to the phenomenon
of first language loss in young children. In this chapter, we describe the
attrition of a young child's first language, focusing in particular on the
question: How does the child first language attriter compensate for native
language deficiencies? Our data will also be used to address a number of
pertinent ancillary questions: (1) Does the use of certain compensatory
strategies indicate that the child has a conscious awareness of language
loss? (2) Are the compensatory strategies used by first and second lan-
guage attriters culture and language bound?, and, especially, (3) Are the
compensatory strategies used by the child first language attriter the same
as those used by child and adult second language learners? If children are
found to use the same compensatory strategies as adults, then this fact
would suggest that the use of these strategies is not dependent upon
advanced cognitive development. Further, if the same compensatory
strategies are used in coping with language loss as with language ac-
quisition, the implication is that the cause of incomplete linguistic knowl-
edge (here, the process of acquisition versus attrition) is not a factor in
selecting the strategies that are used to cope with it.
Compensatory strategies are described by Tarone (1981) as those strat-
egies used by the second language speaker when he/she desires to com-
municate a particular meaning to a listener but believes there is a lack in
his/her second language linguistic system. We expand this definition to
include a lack in the speaker's first language linguistic system.
A number of typologies of the compensatory strategies used by child
and adult second language acquirers have been devised (e.g. Tarone
1981; Bialystok 1983; Faerch & Kasper 1980). We will briefly describe here
a few relevant studies and some of the pertinent compensatory strategies
which these studies observed. (The interested reader is referred to
208 Donna Turian and Evelyn P. Altenberg
Poulisse, Bongaerts & Kellerman 1984 for a comprehensive review of
typologies of compensatory strategies.)
Bialystok (1983) distinguishes between LI and L2 based strategies. Her
high school and adult subjects, speaking in L2, resorted to the LI based
strategies of language switching, foreignizing (applying L2 morphology
and/or phonology to LI lexical items), and transliteration ("the use of L2
lexicon and structure to create a usually non-existent literal translation of
an LI item or phrase"; Bialystok 1983; 106). They resorted to the L2 based
strategies of word coinage, description (i.e. circumlocution), and sem-
antic contiguity (use of a similar but inexact L2 lexical item when the
correct item is not known to the speaker).
Haastrup and Phillipson (1983) investigated the compensatory strat-
egies used by Danish high school students who were studying English.
They found the LI based strategies of borrowing, anglicizing, and literal
translation, and the L2 based strategies of generalization, paraphrase,
and word coinage. The cooperative strategy of appealing for assistance
was used to different degrees by learners.
Galvan and Campbell (1979) studied two children in the Culver City
immersion program. They found that a non-native Spanish speaking
child, who was acting as an interpreter for a monolingual English
speaking adult, heavily used circumlocution and paraphrasing (L2
based strategies). They also found syntactic constructions in L2 based
on the stronger language: *Ahom mi mama traeme a la escuela "Now my
mom brings me to school." Here the Spanish pre-verbal placement of
the pronoun, me trae, is replaced by the English word order, "brings
me."
Schachter (1974), in her study of English relative clause usage in adult
ESL students, found that avoidance was used to deal with a difficult L2
structure. And Grosjean (1982) concludes that the avoidance of difficult
words and constructions in the weaker language is found repeatedly in
bilingual children. Strictly speaking, as Poulisse et al. point out,
avoidance is not a compensatory strategy since it does not, in fact, com-
pensate for a linguistic deficiency. We would also not wish to include it
under the umbrella term "communication strategy," as has been pro-
posed by Poulisse et al., since it is not a strategy used to enhance com-
munication, although their use of the term "message adjustment
strategy" seems reasonable. Nonetheless, avoidance is not unlike the
strategies outlined above in that it is used by individuals to cope with
incomplete linguistic knowledge. For this reason and for the sake of
simplicity, we will continue to refer to all of our subject's strategies,
including avoidance, as compensatory strategies.
Compensatory strategies of child first language attrition 209
2 Subject
The subject is the first author's son Joseph. Joseph simul-
taneously acquired Russian and English from birth, the parents using
Ronjat's (1913) "une personne, une langue" strategy. The father spoke
exclusively Russian inside and outside the home to Joseph and the
monolingual mother spoke English. When Joseph was six months old,
the mother returned to work full time, and a monolingual Russian
babysitter cared for him. By the age of three and one half, Joseph had
acquired Russian as his preferred and dominant language. During his
solitary play, he would speak aloud to himself in Russian. When he was
overheard talking in his sleep, it was in Russian. Russian speaking peers
were chosen to interact with him, and the language used was Russian.
Thus, by age three, Joseph was a non-balanced bilingual: his English was
halting; his Russian was proficient.
The mother went on sabbatical from her work when Joseph was 3:6,
and consequently the Russian speaking primary caretaker was replaced
by Joseph's English-speaking mother. There were additional abrupt
changes in Joseph's life causing restriction in the use of LI: a family move
to a more monolingual English suburban area; half-day attendance five
days a week by Joseph at a nursery school in which L2 (English) was
used; activities such as weekly gymnastics classes, puppet shows, plays,
interacting with new friends, and seeing videotapes daily in which L2
was exclusively used. Factors remaining the same were that the father
continued to speak only Russian to Joseph within and outside the home,
and also read nightly from Russian books to Joseph. Thus, LI input and
exposure decreased from eight hours a day to one hour, when the father
returned home from work. On weekends, the input and exposure to
Russian remained the same. The child's attitude towards Russian con-
tinued to be positive. He expressed the following remarks to a new
acquaintance: "My father's name is Gresha." "My father was born in
Russia." "My father speaks Russian." "I speak Russian and English."
Joseph also commented, "Mommy, I wish you spoke Russian. Then you
could teach other people how to speak Russian" (age 3:9).
3 Methods
The underlying assumption upon which this study is based is
that restriction in language input and use "leads to reduction in linguistic
form and the creation of gaps in the individual's linguistic repertoire"
(Andersen 1982: 87). Clark (1982) appropriately suggests that, for
the purpose of studying language change, at least two measurement
210 Donna Turian and Evelyn P. Altenberg
occasions are needed to establish the nature, direction, and extent of any
change in performance. Gardner (1982) further emphasizes the need for
multiple measures of language competence. He refers to achievement
assessment of two different times, with an incubation period between
them; the incubation period is that time during which previously
acquired language is either strengthened or reduced.
Time 1 in this longitudinal study involved a period during which
Joseph's linguistic proficiency in Russian prior to attrition could be
assessed. It is important to note that such an assessment of language
abilities is more essential for the child LI attriter than for the adult LI
attriter, since for the typical adult a certain level of first language pro-
ficiency can be assumed. The Time 1 data were obtained by videotaping
Joseph in a variety of natural situations, when he was 3:0 to 3:7 years of
age. The videotaping took place in both his and his grandparents' home,
with family members and friends present and participating. Time 2 data
were obtained when Joseph was 4.3 and 4.4 years of age. The data serve a
dual purpose: to document his attrition in Russian, and to reveal the
compensatory strategies that he used to overcome LI deficits. Time 2 data
were obtained in a number of ways. First, the interaction between Joseph
and a sixty-year-old native Russian monolingual speaker was tape
recorded. Joseph was brought to the speaker's home and was told that
she would watch him for a short time. The mother then left for one half
hour and during that time, Joseph, if he wanted to communicate, had to
use Russian. Additional Time 2 data were obtained by observations of
Joseph communicating with his father. Unexpected data were elicited
when Joseph spontaneously created a game in which the mother was to
ask him in English how to say something in Russian.
Researchers have used a variety of procedures to identify the use of a
compensatory strategy. For example, Ervin (1979) compares a learner's
attempts to convey the same meaning in both LI and L2. Others, for
example Tarone (1977) and Poulisse et al. (1984), use introspective tech-
niques such as asking the learner where he/she experienced a problem.
These two techniques are not possible here due to the subject's young age
and to the natural approach used to collect the data. Consequently, we rely
primarily on two methods in identifying compensatory strategies: (1) a
comparison ofTime 1 and Time 2 data, and (2) an analysis ofthe Time 2 data
themselves, as the data are characterized by cues such as false starts,
hesitations, and overt comments. Furthermore, given the limited nature of
our data, we are assuming for both Time 1 and Time 2 data that Joseph's
correct use of an item or structure signifies his acquisition of that item. That
is, we are assuming that there are no covert errors (Corder 1971).
Compensatory strategies of child first language attrition 211
4 Results
4.1 Russian language abilities prior to attrition
The Time 1 data appear in the Appendix at the end of this
chapter. Briefly, the data at Time 1 are characterized by correct use of
infinitives and correct use of present tense forms. Negatives are used
correctly. Nouns are appropriately declined in the nominative, genitive,
accusative, and dative cases, and adjectives are appropriately declined
in the masculine nominative case. (Only these cases are used by Joseph
in the Time 1 data.) The few occurrences of conjunctions, prepositions,
and adverbs are all used correctly. One sentence (Time 1 #37), while
technically grammatical, is nonetheless almost unintelligible, probably
because of the difficult concept which Joseph wanted to express. (He
wanted to say, "Can you make me look into the camera and see my-
self?," thinking that he could simultaneously be behind the camera and
in front of it while having his picture taken.) Thus, Time 1 data reveal
fluent, fluid, and grammatical use of Russian.
4.2 Russian language abilities after attrition
The Time 2 data also appear in the Appendix. Before dealing
with the central issue of compensatory strategies, it is necessary to
establish that by Time 2, language loss had indeed occurred. Attrition is
seen, for example, in the loss of nominative-accusative control. Com-
pare Time 1 # 21 and # 63, where the accusative suffix correctly appears
in Joseph's speech, with Time 2 #12, #18, #34, and #55, where the
accusative suffix is incorrectly replaced by the nominative singular
form. Attrition can also be seen in a comparison of verb forms at Time 1
and Time 2. At Time 1, the present tense form is correctly supplied in
#5, #21, #25, #31, and #37, while an incorrect form is used for the
present tense at Time 2 # 28 and # 55 (although a correct present tense
suffix is seen at Time 2 #32).
Further evidence of attrition is seen in Time 2 #14, #16, #18, and
#102. Here Joseph responds "I forgot" when asked to say particular
items in Russian. This indicates that Joseph believes he previously knew
these Russian items.
Finally, what is most salient in even a brief comparison of Joseph's Time
1 and Time 2 data is that the Time 2 data are characterized by a reduced
ability to be quick and easy and expressive. There are "more frequent
hesitations, pauses, repairs, false starts, etc. than an LC [language
competent] of the same language" would have (Andersen 1982: 112).
212 Donna Turian and Evelyn P. Altenberg
See, for example, the use of fillers in Time 2 # 65 and # 71, and a false start
in Time 2 #110.
We turn now to an examination of those strategies which Joseph used
to compensate for his language loss.
4.3 Compensatory strategies
We found compensatory strategies of three general types: inter-
lingual strategies, intralingual strategies, and discourse strategies. While
Bialystok (1983), as indicated above, distinguishes between LI and L2
based strategies, we prefer the terms interlingual and intralingual
strategy, as used by Poulisse et al. (1984), because in the acquisition litera-
ture, LI is the stronger and L2 the weaker language, whereas in this study
of first language attrition, LI is the weaker and L2 the stronger language.
On the other hand, the terms inter- and intralingual strategy, as defined
below, are more general, and hence more useful in allowing us to com-
pare attrition strategies to acquisition strategies.
In the discussion which follows, each type of strategy will be denned.
Unfortunately, as Poulisse et al. (1984) point out, a plethora of clear and
unclear definitions, synonyms, and near synonyms exists in the literature
dealing with compensatory strategies. Consequently, wherever relevant
and appropriate, we shall use those terms and definitions already pro-
posed in the literature.
4.3.1 Interlingual strategy
"A strategy which results in the interpolation of another lan-
guage, either the learner's native language or another foreign language"
(Poulisse et al. 1984). We would omit the word "foreign" from the defini-
tion above, to allow for the inclusion of other second or native languages.
(a) Code switching: The alternation of two languages (Fallis 1976).
Joseph code switches in both the Time 1 and Time 2 data. There are,
however, important differences between the switches before and the
switches after attrition. At Time 1, #7, #14, #51, and #63, Joseph appro-
priately code switches in order to address the listener in his/her native
language. He occasionally, though rarely, switches to English when
speaking with his bilingual father (Time 1 #1, #31, and #63). In these
cases, code switching is apparently used for emphasis, a rhetorical device
for which code switching is commonly used by proficient bilingual
speakers. (See, for example, Fallis 1976.) Note that out of Joseph's
twenty-six Time 1 utterances, there are only seven instances of code
switching, all of them appropriate.
Compensatory strategies of child first language attrition 213
A different picture emerges with code switching at Time 2. What is
most striking is that Joseph continuously switches into English when
addressing a monolingual Russian speaker. In fact, out of Joseph's
thirty-two utterances in this particular conversation, there are nineteen
utterances which contain at least one switch from Russian to English,
and many of these contain numerous switches. The switches described
here are unrelated to topic, interlocutor, or environment, and appear to
be manifestations of language loss. Seliger (1984) suggests that language
attrited speakers code switch even in the presence of a monolingual
speaker who is unable to understand the switched elements. The
switches in additional Time 2 data further indicate that they are qualita-
tively different from the Time 1 switches. There are two switches which
occur when Joseph is speaking to his father. The first, Time 2 #3,
appears to be motivated solely by linguistic need. The second, Time 2
#8, is used to request assistance in saying baked apple in Russian.
Thus, code switching at Time 1 is used by Joseph in order to address
an individual in his/her LI, or for emphasis. Further, it is rarely used. At
Time 2, code switching is basically used as a strategy for coping with an
inability to say something in Russian. As such, it is used frequently and
relied upon heavily.
(b) Lexical borrowing: Borrowing ''lexical items from another lan-
guage, usually adapting the lexical item to the phonological, lexical,
semantic, and morphosyntactic structure of the borrowing language"
(Andersen 1982).
It is important to note that not all the lexical items to be discussed here
and below appear both in Joseph's Time 1 and Time 2 data. Conse-
quently, we cannot be certain whether the lexical strategies noted are
triggered by Time 2 attrition or lack of acquisition at Time 1.
Joseph used basement and name as Russian words, adapting their pro-
nunciation as follows: /besmlnter/ (Time 2 #9) and /namA/ (Time 2
#24).
(c) Syntactic transfer: Syntactic constructions based on the syntax of
another language.
Prescriptively, in English, That is I is correct and not That is me. How-
ever, Joseph, as many other English speakers do, says That is me. In
Russian, this option is not available and only "That is I," the nomina-
tive, is used. Joseph, nonetheless, said in Russian "That is me" (Time 2
#67). This error clearly suggests transfer from English. His incorrect use
of the accusative in place of the nominative is particularly striking here,
since the Time 2 data, as noted above, are characterized elsewhere by
incorrect use of the nominative case rather than the accusative.
214 Donna Turian and Evelyn P. Altenberg
Transfer from English is also seen in Time 2 # 24, where Joseph, instead
of using the Russian idiom ''How are you called?," uses English syntax
and says in Russian "What is your name?"
4.3.2 Intralingual strategies
"A strategy occurring in LI and L2 speech, the use of which is not
bound to the particular linguistic form of a given language, but reflects
general approaches to solving linguistic problems" (Poulisse et al. 1984).
(a) Analogical leveling: "A highly regular form or construction will be
chosen to replace an irregular form or construction" (Andersen 1982:
103).
Analogical leveling is seen in Joseph's incorrect usage of the infinitive
form with the verbs "to shave" (Time 2 # 3) and "to sleep" (Time 2 # 28).
Both of these are irregular verbs which should have been in their present
tense forms.
(b) Lexical innovation: The creation of new lexical items (Andersen
1982).
Lexical innovation occurred when Joseph combined medvedi "bears"
and deti "children" to create medvedeti "bear children," meaning "baby
bears" (Time 2 #78).
(c) Approximation: "The use of a single target language vocabulary
item or structure, which the learner knows is not correct, but which
shares enough semantic features in common with the desired item to
satisfy the learner" (Poulisse et al. 1984).
In Time 2 #71, Joseph used a related but incorrect word, smotrish "to
look" instead of vidish "to see." Joseph also replaced babushka /babA ska/
"old woman" with babochka /babs tska/ "butterfly" (Time 2 #90). This,
however, is probably not a lexical error so much as it is a pronunciation
error, since incorrectly inserting the Itl in "old woman" will change the
word to sound like "butterfly."
4.3.3 Discourse strategies
We suggest the following definition: language based strategies
which are not intralingual or interlingual. The speaker steps away from a
manipulation of linguistic structure and towards a strategy that is focused
on the speaker/listener interaction.
(a) Overt comments: A comment made by the speaker regarding a
linguistic deficiency.
Joseph often overtly commented on his linguistic inadequacies at Time
2:1 forgot what you call him (Time 2 #102); Iforgot (Time 2 #14, #16, and
#18); Only morkovka I can say (Time 2 #34).
Compensatory strategies of child first language attrition 215
(b) Appeal for assistance: "The learner asks for the correct term"
(Poulisse et al. 1984).
There were several occasions on which Joseph appealed for assistance:
Papa, how do you say baked apple in Russian? (Time 2 # 8); How do you say tape
in Russian? (Time 2 #88); and Papa, how do you say toothbrush in Russian?
(Time 2 #56).
(c) Deliberate wrong answer: Interestingly, there were three occasions
when Joseph clearly did not know a particular word in Russian but de-
liberately gave a wrong answer by using English (Time 2 # 30, # 44, and
#52). Donna: How do you say how in Russian? Joseph: How, the same way
you say it in English. D: Tooth. J: Tooth, the same way you say it in English. D:
Foot. J: Foot, the same way you say it in English. It is important to note that
Joseph was not treating these words as lexical borrowings, because the
phonology used here was English, not Russian.
(d) Avoidance: "A strategy of getting around target language rules or
forms which are not yet an established part of the learner's competence"
(Poulisse et al. 1984). (We would delete the word yet here, in order to make
the definition applicable to language attrition.)
Joseph used a variety of avoidance techniques, ranging from changing
the topic to no verbal response at all. For example, Joseph changed the
topic in Time 2 #118, when he asked, "Where is my mother?" This
question did not naturally follow from the preceding utterance, in which
he had commented that he had the same clock at home. Joseph appears to
be entirely abandoning any attempts to produce Russian utterances in
Time 2 #118, when he asks, "Will you read to me?" and then begins
singing. Here, Joseph expects the answer to be affirmative, and in-
dicates not only by his question but also by his singing a desire to distance
himself from any further prospective conversation. He wants the woman
to read to him, and he wants to listen. Similarly, Joseph indicates, in Time
2 # 106, that he is tired of playing the Russian question and answer game
by saying, in English, I think I'm tired ofdoing this. Finally, Joseph uses an
extreme avoidance strategy in Time 2 # 75, where he does not respond at
all to questions addressed to him in Russian.
5 Conclusion
We began this paper by raising the question: How does the child
first language attriter compensate for native language deficiencies? We
found compensatory strategies of three types: interlingual strategies,
intralingual strategies, and discourse strategies. The interlingual strat-
egies are code switching, lexical borrowing, and syntactic transfer. The
216 Donna Turian and Evelyn P. Altenberg
intralingual strategies are analogical leveling, lexical innovation, and
approximation. Finally, the discourse strategies are overt comment, ap-
peal for assistance, deliberate wrong answer, and avoidance.
The ancillary questions raised at the beginning of this paper can also
now be addressed. First, the data indicate that the three-year-old child
can have a conscious awareness of language loss. Joseph's desire to avoid
continued conversation in Russian indicates his awareness of discomfort
with the situation (though this does not necessarily imply that he was
conscious of what was causing his discomfort). However, Joseph does
respond I forgot when asked to say particular items in Russian. It is clear
here that Joseph believes that loss has occurred.
Second, the compensatory strategies observed in this and other studies
do not appear to be language bound and may not be culturally bound,
since they have been observed with speakers of a variety of first
languages, e.g. Danish (Faerch & Kasper 1980), Russian (Joseph), Hun-
garian (Varadi 1973, as cited in Poulisse et al. 1984), English (Bialystok &
Frohlich 1980).
Third, we were particularly interested in observing whether the same
strategies are used in child first language loss as in child and adult second
language acquisition. Table 14.1 (opposite) lists all the strategies used by
Joseph and cites child and adult L2 acquisition studies which have
observed the same strategies. It is clear from Table 14.1 that L2 acquirers
use the same intralingual and interlingual strategies as does Joseph.
(Note that the strategies used by Joseph are a subset of the strategies
which have been reported in the L2 literature.) With respect to the dis-
course strategies, we find appeals for assistance and avoidance used in
second language acquisition. However, it should be noted that in the
Schachter study, subjects were avoiding a specific syntactic construction
in the weaker language, while Joseph was avoiding the use of the weaker
language altogether. We have informally noted numerous occasions in
which adult second language acquirers have made overt comments
regarding their L2 linguistic deficiencies, and speculate that occasionally,
though rarely, deliberate wrong answers may be given by adult learners
to compensate for a lack of L2 knowledge.
Thus, on the whole, the data support the conclusion that the same
compensatory strategies are used in first language attrition as in second
language acquisition, and that children use basically the same compen-
satory strategies as do adults. Therefore, these findings suggest that the
cause of incomplete linguistic knowledge (process of acquisition versus
attrition) is not a factor in selecting the strategies that are used to cope
with the deficiency. The findings also imply that the cognitive immaturity
Compensatory strategies of child first language attrition 217
Table 14.1 Compensatory strategies used by Joseph
I INTRALINGUAL STRATEGIES
1 Code switching
Bialystok 1983 - adults
Faerch & Kasper 1980 - ages 12 to adult
2 Borrowing
Bialystok 1983 - adults
Faerch and Kasper 1980 - ages 12 to adult
Haastrup & Phillipson 1983 - adults
3 Syntactic transfer
Bialystok 1983 - adults
Haastrup & Phillipson 1983 - adults
Galvan & Campbell 1979 - ages 11 and 12
II INTERLINGUAL STRATEGIES
1 Analogical leveling
Anderson 1982 - adults
2 Lexical innovation
Bialystok 1983 - adults
Tarone 1981 - adults
Faerch & Kasper 1980 - ages 12 to adult
3 Approximation
Tarone 1981 - adults
Bialystok 1983 - adults
III DISCOURSE STRATEGIES
1 Overt comment
2 Appeal for assistance
Haastrup & Phillipson 1983 - adults
Tarone 1981 - adults
Galvan & Campbell 1979 - ages 11 and 12
3 Deliberate wrong answer
4 Avoidance
Tarone 1981 - adults
Schachter 1974 - adults
Grosjean 1982 - children
Faerch & Kasper 1980 - ages 12 to adult
Note: Each strategy is followed by references, where available, to
child and/or adult L2 acquisition studies which have observed the
same strategy.
218 Donna Turian and Evelyn P. Altenberg
of children does not result in their using qualitatively different strategies
from adults; that is, the cognitive development of a three-year-old child is
sufficient for use of the same compensatory strategies as are used by the
adult. Thus, this finding, coupled with the suggestion that strategies are
not language bound, suggests that all individuals may rely on a universal
set of coping strategies.
Finally, it is important to note that none of the already existing
typologies of compensatory strategies is completely adequate in describ-
ing Joseph's strategies. For example, while we found the Poulisse et al.
distinction between intralingual and interlingual strategies to be more
general and useful than the Bialystok LI based and L2 based distinction,
we found Andersen's definition of borrowing to be more helpful than
Poulisse et al.'s. We conclude that a single typology, useful in describing
the strategies that speakers use in compensating for linguistic deficits of
all types, does not yet exist, and we suggest that the strategies used by
first language attriters provide a fruitful arena in which to test the uni-
versality of typologies as they continue to be developed.
Appendix
Appendix transcription key
J Joseph (bilingual, Russian and English)
G Gresha, subject's father (bilingual, Russian and English)
D Donna, subject's mother (monolingual, English)
GP Grandpa, subject's maternal grandfather (monolingual, English)
GM Grandma, subject's maternal grandmother (monolingual, English)
A Alia (monolingual, Russian)
Jaime Jaime (monolingual, English)
Note 1: Each Time 1 and Time 2 Russian utterance is followed, in parentheses, by
its English translation.
Note 2: Russian transliterations are based on the United States government printing
office style manual 1984.
Time 1 data, age 3
January 1984
1. J: No you. Ty prinesi. (You bring it.)
2. G: Ty khochesh' chtob ya prinesi (Do you want me to bring it?)
3. J: Da. (Yes.)
4. G: Okey. Ya prinesu. (Okay, I will bring it in.)
5. J: Chto ty skazal tak? Ya delayu domik... i nuzhno.. .(What did you say?
I am making a house.. .and I need...)
6. D: Beautiful, Joseph.
7. J: Look at the picture. It has to be only one. It has to be.
8. D: Only one roof. That's right. Only one. You should put your little
television there so you can see what you're checking, or you can
tell by looking, I guess. OK.
9. G: Come on Joseph.
10. D: OK Joseph. Mommy's going to bring you money. Here.
11. J: That's gonna be for you mommy.
12. D: OK. Take a penny. Find a penny. That's not a penny. The pennies
are copper. This is a penny.
13. J: That's my.. .mama two pennies. This one's for daddy.
14. J: Odin goluboy .. .Ya skushal belyy.. .Ty budesh' skushat'l Ty skushay
etot. (One is blue. I ate the white one. Will you eat it? You eat this
one.)
15. G: Mozhet my ikh nazad polozhim. Ty brosish' monetku. U tebya yest mon-
etka yeshche? (Maybe we'll put them back. You put money in. Do
you have any money left?)
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
J:
G:
J:
G:
J:
G:
J:
G:
J:
220 Donna Turian and Evelyn P. Altenberg
16. G: Net my tak ne mozhem polozhit'. Nado zdes otkryt'. Smotri. Vot zdes'
otkryt'. (No we can not do it like this. It has to be open. Look. It
opens here.)
Ya-Ya- Ya!!! I - I - I!)
Ty otkroesh'? (You will open?)
Podymi menya. (Pick me up.)
Ne... Otvertku nado prinesti. (No .. .We have to use a screwdriver.)
Ya khochu otvertku. (I want a screwdriver.)
Otvertku khochesh'al (Do you want a screwdriver?)
Tvoy. (Yours.)
Moyu? Okey. (Mine? Okay.)
Papa, ya khochu smotret' v kameru. (Daddy, I want to look in the
camera.)
26. D: Hurry up Joseph so we have a nice picture tonight. Come on. I
want a nice picture.
Ya khochu posmotret'... (I want to see...)
Tarn nichego net. (There's nothing there.)
Pochemu? (Why?)
Ya ne znau pochemu. (I don't know why.)
Tarn yest chto-to. Ty posmotrel i tarn yest chto-to .. .Stop! Seychas' ty
vidish' chto-to? (There is something. You looked there and there is
something.. .Stop! Now do you see something?)
Seychas' ya vizhu losika. (Now I see Joseph.)
Ya khochu posmotret' sam!.. .Ya khochu posmotret' sam. (I want to
see it myself... I want to see it myself.)
34. G: Kak zhe ty uvidish' losika, kogda ya delayu tvoyu fotografiyu. (How can
you see Joseph when I take your picture?)
Ya ne khochu chtoby ty delal. (I don't want you to take it.)
Pochemu? (Why?)
Ya khochu sdelat' sam. Ty mozhesh' menya sdelat' sam? (I want to do it
myself. Can you make me there make myself?)
Da. (Yes.)
Pozhaluysta, sdelay. (Please make it.)
Obozhdi minutku. (Wait a moment.)
We're going to take pictures now.
Want to remove all of this?
GM: All right. Give me that thing back honey.
Ya khochu posmotret'. (I want to see.)
Tishe. Poydi syad' k dedushke na koleni. Potom tebya po televizoru.
(Quiet. Go to grandpa and sit on his lap. Then I'll show you
yourself on TV)
46. J: Papa, yesli ya syadu na mamu, budet eto? (Daddy, if I sit on mommy
will it be on that?)
47. G: He wants to look in camera.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
J:
G
J:
G
J:
G
J:
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
J:
G:
J:
G:
J:
G:
D:
GP:
GM
J:
G:
Compensatory strategies of child first language attrition 221
Oh.
I've got some little beach chairs.
GM: No you don't. The sand chairs she doesn't want. She doesn't go to
the beach.
Mommy.
What is it darling?
I want to look in the camera.
Daddy will let you look in the television like you did last night and
saw all the pictures. Remember?
OK.
So if you sit with grandpa, you'll see Joseph and grandpa to-
gether, OK?
No. I want to be by myself.
What is the name of the dust remover?
Endust.
Posmotrish'', kogda budesh' smotret' sebya na videolente. (You'll see it
when we are going to watch ourselves on the videotape.)
Net! Seychas' khochu posmotret'! (No! Now I want to see it!)
Yeshche raz nazhmi. (Push one more time.)
Ya ne khochu muzyku. Mne ne nuzhno ... [To Jaime] Turn it off. Ya
vyklyuchil eto, ya vyklyuchil.. .Big volk ne kushay menya. Velosiped ne
kushay menya! Ne kushay menya! A-a-a! Krichi na pomoshch'! Papa
krichi na pomoshch'! (I don't want music. I don't need it... I turn it
off. I turn it off .. .wolf .. .don't eat me. Bicycle don't eat me!
Don't eat me! Ah. Ah. Ah. Call for help! Daddy, call for help!)
Time 2 data, age 4.2
March 20, 1985
1. Ya khochu sobachku, papa. (I want a doggie, daddy.)
2. Ya ne znayu. (I don't know.)
3. See how you britsya. (.. .shave.)
4. Mommy, wait. I'm going to see daddy britsya. (.. .shave.)
5. Tyznaesh' how many babies I'm going to have? Raz, dva, tri, chetyre, pyat',
shest', sem', vosem'. Net ne vse mal' chiki. Chetyre mal' chika i chetyre devo-
chki. (Do you know ...? One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
No, not all boys. Four boys and four girls.)
March 21, 1985
6. Ya spryatal tvoi botinki. (I hid your shoes.)
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
IO
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
GM
GP:
GM
J:
D:
J:
D:
G:
D:
J:
GP:
D:
G:
J:
G:
J:
222 Donna Turian and Evelyn P. Altenberg
March 22, 1985
7. Papa, ya khochu molochko. (Papa, I want milk.)
8. Papa, how do you say baked apple in Russian?
March 23, 1985
9. A ty na beysmente? (Are you in the basement?)
March 25, 1985
10. D: How do you say I like apples in Russian?
11. J: Ya lyublyu yablochki. (I like apples.)
12. J: On lubit knizhka. Ona lubit knizhka. (He likes books. She likes books.)
13. D: How do you say we love books?
14. J: I forgot.
15. D: How do you say they love books?
16. J: I forgot.
17. D: How do you say I love the blue book in Russian?
18. J: I forgot. [He thinks] Ya lyublyu goluboy knizhka. Ya lyublyu goluboy
domik. Ya lyublyu goluboy mama. (I love the blue book. I love the blue
house. I love the blue mama.)
19. D: How do you say I will go to school tomorrow?
20. J: Ya poydu v school tomorrow. (I will go to...)
21. D: Where is daddy?
22. J: Gde papa? (Where is daddy?)
23. D: What is your name?
24. J: Chto tvoy nama? (What is your name?)
25. D: When will daddy come home?
26. J: Kogda papa pridet doma? (When will daddy come home?)
27. D: Why are you sleeping?
28. J: Pochemu ty spat'? (Why are you sleeping?)
29. D: How do you say how in Russian?
30. J: How, the same way you say it in English.
31. D: Give me a lot.
32. J: Ya khochu mnogo. (I want a lot.)
33. D: Give me a carrot.
34. J: Morkovka. Only morkovka I can say. (Carrot... carrot...)
35. D: Mouth.
36. J: Rotik. (Mouth.)
37. D: Ears.
38. J: Ushki. (Ears.)
39. D: Hand.
40. J: Urn. Ruchki. (Hand.)
41. D: Teeth.
Compensatory strategies of child first language attrition 223
42. J: Zubki. (Teeth.)
43. D: Tooth.
44. J: Tooth, the same way you say it in English.
45. D: Eyes.
46. J: Glazki. (Eyes.)
47. D: Hair.
48. J: Volosiki. (Hair.)
49. D: Leg.
50. J: Nozhka. (Leg.)
51. D: Foot.
52. J: Foot, the same way you say it in English.
53. D: I want a toothbrush.
54. J: Ya khochu. I don't know how to say toothbrush in Russian. (I want...)
55. J: Ya khochu moy knizhka. Ya khochu tvoy knizhka. Ya khochu on knizhka. Ya
khochuonaknizhka. Yapoyduvbiblioteku. Typoydetvbiblioteku. Onpoydet
v biblioteku. Ona poydet v biblioteku. (I want my book. I want your book.
I want his book. I want her book. I am going to the library. You are
going to the library. He is going to the library. She is going to the
library.)
March 26, 1985
56. J: Papa, how do you say toothbrush in Russian?
Time 2 data, age 4.3
April 5, 1985
57. J: Moy name is Iosik. Posmotri. (My... Joseph. Look.)
58. A: Pokazhi mne. Chto eto takoye u tebya? Chto eto? Foto? A kto zhe zdes'l Eto
chto takoye? Eto imeniny? (Show it to me. What is it you have? What is
it? A picture? And who is it? What is it? Is it a birthday party?)
59. J: Eto was kogda moy birthday. (It... when my...)
60. A: Den' rozhdeniya. (Birthday.)
61. J: And look at this.
62. A: Posmotri. Skazhi mne a chto eto takoye? Chto zdes'? (Look. Tell me what it
is? What's here?)
63. J: It's same as this.
64. A: Net podozhdi. Ty mne po-russki skazhi. Kto eto? (No wait. You tell me in
Russian. Who is it?)
65. J: Moy ah ah grandmother. Kogda ya byl vo Floride ah ah kogda ya byl
teplenko. (My... When I was in Florida... when I was warmish.)
66. A: A eto kto? (Who is this?)
67. J: Grandpa. Eto menya. Hey look, posmotri. This is alligators. (... That's
me. .. .look ...)
224 Donna Turian and Evelyn P. Altenberg
68. A: A eto chto? (And what is this?)
69. J: Eto bird. I like that bird. Ya lyublyu. (This is a.. .1 love.)
70. A: A eto gde? (And where is it?)
71. J: Wherever you see a shirt on. Kogda ty smotrish. Ah ni kurtochka. Tarn ya
in Florida. Posmotri. Eto moy mama. And look at this. Ty skazala mne chto
budet mne podarok. (.. .When you look .. .no jacket. There I .. .Look.
It is my mother .. .You told me that there will be a gift for me.)
72. A: Konechno. Ya prigotovila tebe podarok. Ty popey kompot. Ya sama sdelala.
(Of course. I prepared you a gift. You drink compote. I made it
myself.)
73. J: Eto too much. (This is...)
74. A: Vot tebe malen' kaya chashechka. Skazhi eto mnogo? (Here is a smaller cup
for you. Say, it is too much?)
75. J: Eto mnogo. (It is too much.)
[Alia asks a few questions. No answers are given.]
76. J: Oranzhevaya. (Orange.)
77. A: Chto zdes' narisovano? (What is drawn here?)
78. J: Tri medvedeti. (Three bear children.)
79. A: A eto? (And what's that?)
80. J: Eto look like a volk. (It.. .wolf.)
81. A: A mozhet eto mama medved? (And maybe it's a mama bear.)
82. J: Or papa eto. (.. .father.)
83. A: Chto ty delayesh? (What are you doing?)
84. J: I go to dot. Oy. I made an accident. By accident from trinadtsat' to
pyatnadtsat'. (.. .thirteen.. .fifteen.)
85. A: A kuda tebe nado? (And where were you supposed to go?)
86. J: From trinadtsat' to chetymadtsat'. Do you know I have a tape? (.. .thir-
teen. . .fourteen...)
87. A: Ya ne ponimayu. (I don't understand.)
88. J: How do you say tape in Russian?
89. A: Ya ne ponimayu tebya. Davay posmotrim knizhku. Znaesh' chto eto? (I
don't understand you. Let's look at the book. Do you know what it
is?)
90. J: Eto babochka. (This is an old woman.)
91. A: Chto ona delayet? (What is she doing?)
92. J: Brosit. (She will throw.)
93. A: Da, ona brosila tarelki. A eto chto? (Yes, she threw plates. And what is
this?)
94. J: Teacup.
95. A: Eto chaynik. (This is a teapot.)
96. J: Chaynik. (Teapot.)
97. A: A eto chto? (And what is this?)
98. J: Tarelki. (Plates.)
99. A: A eto? (And that?)
Compensatory strategies of child first language attrition 225
100. J: Kotiki. (Kittens.)
101. A: A eto? (And that?)
102. J: I forgot what you call him.
103. A: Krokodil. (Crocodile.)
104. J: Da, krokodil. (Yes, crocodile.)
105. A: A eto chto? (And what's that?)
106. J: I think I'm tired of doing this.
107. A: Mozhet poprobuyesh eto? (Maybe you'll taste it.)
108. J: Eto have sakhar? (Does it.. .sugar?)
109. A: Da, eto konfety. (Yes, it's candy.)
110. J: Da, but they have shu. sakhar. I don't want they. Ya ne khochu eto. Ya
don't like the one that has sakhar. Ya ne lyublyu to. Ya. Ya ne khochu my
teeth to rotten. (Yes.. .sugar.. .1 don't want it. I.. .sugar. I don't
like it. I. I don't want ...)
111. A: Skazhi eto po-russki. (Say it in Russian.)
112. J: Zubki. I don't want. They make my teeth fall out. Ya ne lyublyu kogda
moy zubki vypadayut. Can I see all the candies do you have? Ya khochu
posmotret' all the konfety. (Teeth.. .1 don't like when my teeth fall
out.. .1 want to see.. .candies.)
113. A: U menya bolshe netu. (This is all.)
114. J: Tol'ko these? Tol f
ko eti. Is this the podarok? (Only...? Only these?
.. .gift?)
115. A: Net. Wot tebe podarok. [Presents the gift, a shirt.] Tebe nravitsya? Poydem
v druguyu komnatu. (No. Here is your gift. Do you like .it? Let's go to
the other room.)
116. J: Oh. I have that clock at home.
117. A: Chto? (What?)
118. J: Eti chasy dotna. Kogda moy mama. Gde moy mama?. Ty pochitaesh' mne?
[Joseph begins to sing.] (This clock at home. When my mother. Where
is my mother? Will you read to me?)
Note
The authors wish to thank Gregory Turian for help in translating, transliterating,
and analyzing the Russian data; Barry Rubin for his assistance in analyzing the
Russian data; Walter Petrovitz for his assistance in transliterating the data; and
Carolyn Sobel for helpful comments and suggestions.
References
Andersen, Roger W. 1982. "Determining the linguistic attributes of language
attrition," in Lambert and Freed (eds.), 83-118.
226 Donna Turian and Evelyn P. Altenberg
Bialystok, Ellen. 1983. "Some factors in the selection and implementation of
communication strategies/' in Faerch and Kasper (eds.), 100-118.
Bialystok, Ellen, and M. Frohlich. 1980. "Oral communication strategies for lexi-
cal difficulties/7
Interlanguage Studies Bulletin 5: 3-30.
Clark, John L. D. 1982. "Measurement considerations in language attrition re-
search/' in Lambert and Freed (eds.), 138-152.
Corder, Pit. 1971. "Idiosyncratic dialects and error analysis," in Jack C. Richards
(ed.), Error analysis. London: Longman, 158-171.
Ervin, S. 1979. "Communiciation strategies employed by American students of
Russian," Modern Language Journal 63: 329-334.
Faerch, Claus and Gabriele Kasper. 1980. "Processes and strategies in foreign
language learning and communication," Interlanguage Studies Bulletin
5: 47-118.
Faerch, Claus, and Gabriele Kasper (eds.). 1983. Strategies in interlanguage com-
munication. London and New York: Longman.
Fallis, Guadalupe Valdes. 1976. "Social interaction and code-switching patterns:
a case study of Spanish/English alternation," in Gary D. Keller, Richard
V. Teschner, and Silvia Viera (eds.), Bilingualism in the bicentennial and
beyond. New York: Bilingual Press, 53-83.
Galvan, J., and R. N. Campbell. 1979. "An examination of the communication
strategies of two children in the Culver City Spanish immersion pro-
gram," in Roger Andersen (ed.), The acquisition and use of Spanish and
English as first and second languages. Washington, DC: Tesol, 133-150.
Gardner, Robert. 1982. "Social factors in language retention," in Lambert and
Freed (eds.), 24-39.
Grosjean, Francois. 1982. Life with two languages. Cambridge, MA: Harvard
University Press.
Haastrup, Kirsten, and Robert Phillipson. 1983. "Achievement strategies in
learner-native speaker interaction," in Faerch and Kasper (eds.),
140-150.
Lambert, Richard D., and Barbara F. Freed (eds.). 1982. The loss of language skills.
Rowley, MA: Newbury House Publishers.
Poulisse, Nanda, Theo Bongaerts, and Eric Kellerman. 1984. "On the use of
compensatory strategies in second language performance," Interlan-
guage Studies Bulletin 8: 70-105.
Ronjat, J. 1913. Le Developpement du language observe chez un enfant bilingue. Paris:
Champion.
Schachter, Jacquelyn. 1974. "An error in error analysis," Language Learning 24 (2):
205-14.
Seliger, Herbert W. 1984. "Primary language attrition in the context of other
language loss and mixing." Unpublished paper, Queens College,
CUNY.
Tarone, Elaine. 1977. "Conscious communication strategies in interlanguage: a
progress report," in H. Brown, C. Yorio, and R. Crymes (eds.), Teaching
and learning English as a second language. Washington, DC, 194-203.
Tarone, Elaine. 1981. "Some thoughts on the notion of communication strategy,"
in Faerch and Kasper (eds.), 61-74.
Varadi, Tamas. 1983. "Strategies of target language learner communication:
message adjustment," in Faerch and Kasper (eds.), 79-99.
15 Language attrition, reduced redundancy, and
creativity
HERBERT W. SELIGER
1 Introduction
First language attrition is a ubiquitous phenomenon found
wherever there is bilingualism. The phenomenon raises a number of inter-
esting questions for the linguist and the psycholinguist. For the linguist,
language attrition, like second language acquisition, provides interesting
evidence about the relationships ofgrammars incontact, be it phonological
(Vago, this volume), morphological (Kaufman & Aronoff, this volume),
morphosyntactic (Seliger 1986) or syntactic, as in the study to be discussed
in this chapter. The phenomenon of language attrition also allows
hypotheses about putative language universals and markedness con-
ditions to be tested across languages (Seliger & Vago, this volume).
For the psycholinguist, language attrition raises questions about the
relative permanence of acquisition itself, about the cognitive conditions
necessary to maintain language in the context of bilingualism, and about
the conditions whichleadto the dissolution orattrition oflanguage abilities
within normal populations of mature speakers as opposed to polyglot
aphasics.
Both language attrition and language acquisition must explain how
generalizations and overgeneralizations are learned and then unlearned in
the gradual evolution of grammars. Inboth situations, rule constraints and
categorization features may be underextended or overextended until the
process of acquisition or loss has reached its maximum level of develop-
ment. In the one case, LI acquisition, that evolution is supposed to lead to
the final state grammar used by the adult native speaker. In the case of first
language attrition in the context ofbilingualism, that process of unlearning
and evolution can lead to reduction in some areas of the grammar and the
creation of new forms in others in the first language while the second
language may continue to develop. Eventually, as in the case of language
death, most of the first language is replaced or absorbed by the second.
In the case of LI acquisition, the grammar is often too powerful and
produces utterances which are the result of overgeneralizing rules. The
228 Herbert W. Seliger
puzzle for learnability theory is how the child succeeds in unlearning
incorrect hypotheses given the paucity of language data which can be
regarded as corrective. Language attrition can be seen as a similar puzzle.
What linguistic or psycholinguistic mechanisms can explain the ' 'un-
learning" or replacement of previously grammatically acceptable rules
with those which are not grammatically acceptable in LI?
2 Sources of knowledge for the creation and dissolution of
language grammars
Language attrition is selective, affecting some aspects of the
grammar more than others. However, it is not haphazard and may be
characterized as the unlearning of an LI grammar through a rule
governed process. It may be assumed that this process is affected by the
kinds of data or sources of knowledge which are available to the language
user and which may be used as evidence in judging the fitness of
hypotheses in his grammar. For example, the data available to the first
language acquirer are the utterances of language users around him as well
as the acquirer's own utterances. He uses the evidence extracted from
these data to judge the nt of his grammar with those grammars to which
he is exposed.
In this sense, it may be useful to distinguish between data in the form of
actual utterances and language knowledge in the form of abstract rules
already existing in the grammar of a speaker. The abstract rules of gram-
mar which have already been acquired may be said to be a source of
knowledge while the actual utterances of the speaker and those around
him may be said to constitute the raw data. It would be illogical to claim
that only externally provided language data or the speaker's own utter-
ances would be the sole sources of evidence when other sources of
language knowledge such as an incipient grammar, in the case of first
language acquisition, or a fully developed grammar, as in the case of
second language acquisition or first language attrition, is also available as
an evaluative mechanism for judging data.
In the case of first language acquisition, the use of these sources of
evidence is thought to be responsible for the rejection of overgeneralized
rules and the gradual acquisition of rule restrictions as well as sub-
categorical constraints on the kinds of data to which rules apply. In the
case of first language attrition, evidence may include not only data from
the first language, which is usually limited, but all other types of language
knowledge such as that developed for the second language.
While in second language acquisition research, the hypothesis testing
Language attrition, reduced redundancy, and creativity 229
model seems to be pre-eminent, hypothesis testing requires as a con-
dition that the hypothesis be tested against negative feedback or what has
been termed ''negative evidence" (Pinker 1984; Chomsky 1981) or
"negative input" (Schachter 1984). What these terms basically mean is
that some form of correction or evidence is supposed to be present in the
context in which the language is used to cue the child or language learner
to the deviancy of his utterance and thus lead to a revision of the hypoth-
esis about the underlying grammar.
But suppose the learner, child or adult, does not produce errors and
does not hear incorrect utterances but begins to produce correct forms
from the very beginning. This is argued to be the case, for example, for the
acquisition of the rule for dative alternation such as in the following
sentences:
(1) I gave the apple to John.
(2) I gave John the apple.
BUT
(3) I donated the apple to John.
(4) *I donated John the apple.
Studies in first language acquisition seem to indicate that very little
direct negative evidence or correction is present in the language environ-
ment of the child which could function as negative feedback and, even
when that is present, children seem to be oblivious to correction (Braine
1971). (There is some disagreement as to whether children produce over-
generalizations themselves; cf. Mazurkewich & White 1984). This has led
to proposals that the child may be utilizing indirect negative evidence,
which according to Chomsky (1981) would be simply the absence or
relatively low frequency of ungrammatical forms. The language acquirer
therefore has access primarily to direct positive evidence which would be
the preponderance of grammatical forms. For the bilingual, however, the
type of evidence available is complicated by the fact that the speaker
possesses two grammars. Since the speaker is exposed to the second
language grammar and to second language "positive evidence" at a
higher frequency than he is to first language data, it is only natural that
the second language grammar be regarded as a source of knowledge for
evaluating forms in the first language.
Schachter (1984) has proposed a different definition of indirect negative
evidence from that suggested by Chomsky. Her proposal derives from
the context of second language acquisition and assumes that the under-
lying mechanisim for language development in this context is hypothesis
230 Herbert W. Seliger
testing. As presented by Schachter (1984), indirect negative evidence is a
form of feedback from which the language learner extracts evidence that
something is amiss with his utterance. This would then lead, it is hoped,
to a revision of the hypothesis upon which the utterance is based. Indirect
negative evidence according to this second definition would be a request
for clarification or a confirmation check by the interlocutor indicating to
the language acquirer that something is amiss without specifying what is
amiss. It would be up to the language learner to infer what is wrong with
the utterance and revise it accordingly.
One of the problems with arguing for indirect negative evidence
according to Schachter's definition is that the learner must deal with three
levels of hypotheses at the same time. While creating utterances based on
an initial hypothesis, he must then create a second and third level hy-
pothesis which hypothesizes about whether there is indirect negative
feedback and what that negative evidence might be about. It would seem
a very complicated and uneconomical model given the speed at which
conversations take place, the focus on content and not on form, and the
need to hold in short term memory a number of hypotheses about several
different levels of language at the same time!
Level 1 hypothesis: I think the grammar of this sentence goes like this ...
Level 2 hypothesis: Is that negative evidence or is that positive evidence out
there?
Level 3 hypothesis: What is the negative evidence referring to - what I said or
how I said it (content or form?)
15.1 The problem with indirect negative evidence
As stated above, the definition of indirect negative evidence as pro-
posed by Chomsky is basically the absence of data which would be
incorrectly predicted by the developing grammar. What this means is
that the learner is exposed primarily to positive instances of a form. In
other words, it is the absence of anything that would support an over-
generalization of a rule that constitutes for Chomsky (1981) what he calls
"a kind of negative evidence." That is, "if certain structures or rules fail
to be exemplified in relatively simple expressions where they would be
expected to be found, then a (possibly marked) option is selected ex-
cluding them from the grammar." Since the emphasis in this kind of
evidence is on what is rather than on what is not, this type of evidence
may also be referred to as "positive evidence." It will be argued that
positive evidence can be direct or indirect and that a type of positive
evidence is responsible for the changes which we term language
attrition.
Language attrition, reduced redundancy, and creativity 231
Positive evidence can, in the case of the bilingual, logically come from
two sources: one is the same external language data to which the mono-
lingual child is exposed. For example, the child is exposed to adults
speaking the grammatical form of the language he will eventually
acquire, and the bilingual is exposed to the external data of speakers of the
second language.
However, in the case of the bilingual, there is a second source of posi-
tive evidence which will be referred to as indirect positive evidence. This
is the abstract grammar of the second language which the learner has
acquired. In this case, it will be argued that when there is a problem in
retrieving or accessing information (structures or rules) stored in the first
language grammar, the second language grammar becomes an internal
source of indirect positive evidence.1
In a sense, what is taking place is that both grammars become a source
for generating utterances in the first language. Figure 15.2 summarizes
the various types of evidence which have been discussed to explain first
and second language acquisition as well as first language attrition.
Direct negative external correction
Indirect negative (a) external absence of deviant data
Indirect negative (b) external clarification/miscommunication
Direct positive external grammatical data
Indirect positive internal inferences from L2 grammar
(a) Chomsky's (1981) definition
(b) Schachter's (1984) definition
15.2 Possible types of evidence for developing grammars
Based on the data in the current study, it will be argued that the bi-
lingual uses both his grammars as potential sources for evidence about
the grammaticality of his utterances, and when faced with the need to
make a decision about the grammaticality of an utterance in LI, will, if
necessary, resort to rules in L2 as a source of indirect positive evidence.
3 The case of word order in dative sentences: English and Hebrew
According to the views expressed previously about language ac-
quisition (Braine 1971; Chomsky 1981; Pinker 1984 and 1987; Fodor 1985;
Randall 1987), children get little or no direct negative evidence while de-
veloping grammars of their first language. That is, the language learner
develops rulesbased on positive instances and does not hear enough nega-
tive or deviant instances or utilize external correction in order for such data
to act as a significant source of evidence for grammar development.
232 Herbert W. Seliger
An argument to support the positive evidence claim is the fact that
children supposedly do not produce dative sentences such as (5) but do
produce sentences such as (6).
(5) *John made Susan the choice, (i.e. John made the choice for
Susan.)
(6) John made Susan the table.
The argument is that adults in the environment of the language acquirer
do not produce sentences such as (5) but do produce sentences such as
(6). In order to arrive at a rule which will produce (6) but not (5), the
learner has to acquire with each verb, the lexical subcategories or "verb
arguments" that will allow the double object construction sentence with
one meaning of "made" but not with the other. (See Mazurkewich &
White 1984; and Randall 1987 for discussions of this issue.)
In the case of language attrition, an additional complicating factor in the
evidence question is the fact that the bilingual has access to two language
systems interacting within the same mind. In the case before us we are
concerned with the language attrition of a bilingual English-Hebrew
speaker.
Since the language attrition data we will discuss concerns the dative
construction, it is necessary to provide some background discussion of (1)
the word order of the constituents of dative sentences, and (2) preposition
stranding or binding in English and Hebrew.
In the case of dative sentences, English contains what is referred to as
the "alternation rule," which allows for sentences such as (1) and (2)
above. English speakers must also acquire knowledge of when the verb
will allow this alternation in the NP NP arrangement and when not. It is
clear that the rules involved in the dative in English consist of much more
than syntactic rearrangement and deletion of the preposition.
Whereas the English rule is lexically governed, the Hebrew dative is
syntactic and does not contain the double object alternation as in (2) or (6)
above. Hebrew prepositions are bound to their objects and move with
them, as we see in sentences (7) through (10):
(7) Dan natan sefer le-Sarah.
"Dan gave (a) book to Sarah"
(8) Dan natan le-Sarah sefer.
"Dan gave to-Sarah (a) book"
(9) Dan natan la sefer.
"Dan gave to-her (a) book"
(10) *Dan natan sefer la.
"Dan gave (a) book to-her"
Language attrition, reduced redundancy, and creativity 233
Note that all of the variants except (10) are acceptable. We may conclude
the following about Hebrew datives:
(a) Direct and indirect object constituents may alternate in position
after the verb unless the indirect object is pronominalized. In that
event, it may not occur as the final constituent.
(b) The preposition, le/la, which can mean "to" or "for," is always
bound to the head noun of the prepositional phrase (PP).
In summary, English dative and the restrictions on alternations are
primarily lexical with syntactic implications from the lexical selectional
restrictions, while Hebrew dative is primarily syntactic with mor-
phological restrictions carrying syntactic implications. In Figure 15.3 this
is shown as Stage I.
4 Data from the dative performance of O
The data to be reported were collected from a bilingual subject
(identified as O), female, who immigrated to Israel at age six. At the time
of immigration, according to reports from the child's mother, English was
the home language and the language used by the child. However, soon
after arriving in Israel, the home language switched to Hebrew in order to
facilitate the child's adjustment. One must assume that a stage of code
mixing preceded that switch to exclusive use of the second language.
According to the mother, the child did not speak Hebrew at the time of
arrival in Israel.
The child was studied from the beginning of her ninth year, during
which tape recorded samples of her speech and random transcriptions
were collected approximately every three to four weeks. At these taped
sessions, the child related stories and school experiences. During the
second year of the study, the subject was then approximately ten and a
half, metalinguistic tests were constructed on the basis of an analysis of
the discourse protocols.
The metalinguistic tests were also administered to a group of eight
monolingual children living in the United States, ranging in age from six
to nine years, in order to establish norms for language performance on the
tests since the subject immigrated at age six and the data collection began
at age nine.
The tests consisted of six parts, which were administered separately
and focused on different aspects of the subject's grammar. This discus-
sion will be limited to the findings on a thirty-two item test of acceptability
of dative sentences.
234 Herbert W. Seliger
4.1 Free discourse sentences
Sentences (11) through (15) are examples from the free discourse
data recorded during the first year of the study. They indicate that the
subject was able to produce both forms of the dative sentence.
(11) I'm gonna tell you a few nother things. (NPpro NP)
(12) I'm gonna tell you a different thing that everyone likes it. (NPpro
NP)
(13) The school gives the girl that she has the birthday a present. (NP
NP)
(14) So she telled it to another girl. (NPpro PP)
(15) I told it to the girl thats [sic] was sitting next to me. (NPpro PP)
It is clear from these examples that the subject was able to produce dative
sentences. The errors that occur in these sentences are not due to not
observing restrictions pertaining to datives but rather to other aspects of
the grammar such as relative clause formation. (For a discussion of the
subject's relative clause grammar see Seliger 1989.) What the limited free
discourse data on datives does not show, is whether she was able to
control for other restrictions on the datives such as the restriction on the
movement of the PP and the lexical restrictions on the double object NP
construction.
In the metalinguistic tests not all aspects of datives were investigated.
Sentences were constructed in the following two categories:
Twenty-one sentences which tested the placement of the PP before or
after the direct object or the use of the correct preposition (Hebrew can
use one (le-) for both possessor or benefactor). Of these, eleven were
ungrammatical and of this set two were ungrammatical because the word
order was correct but the wrong preposition was inserted (to for for or for
for to). Example (16) is a case of correct preposition but incorrect word
order, while in (17) the word order is correct but the wrong preposition is
used.
(16) *Dick handed to Sally the book.
(17) *Eric cooked the soup to Ann.
Eleven sentences (six grammatical, five ungrammatical) with the NP
NP construction, as in sentences (18) through (22).
(18) *David made Susan the choice.
(19) *Ariella answered the teacher the question.
(20) *Harry made Tom the decision.
(21) She read the baby the story.
(22) Dick handed Sally the book.
Language attrition, reduced redundancy, and creativity 235
Of the total of thirty-two sentences to which the subject and the native
speakers responded, there were sixteen grammatical and sixteen
ungrammatical sentences.
4.2 Findings
Table 15.1 summarizes the performance of the subject and the
eight native speakers on the metalinguistic test of grammaticality judge-
ment. For the native speakers, the average number of errors is reported.
The native speaker group has been further subdivided into different age
ranges, five to seven and eight to nine, since it is possible that grammati-
cality judgements might differ across such a wide age range. The perfor-
mance of the first group of native speakers (ages 5-7) may be thought to
represent the performance of the subject before the onset of bilingualism
and language attrition.
Table 15.1 Word orderand prepositionjudgements: responses ofsubject
and native speaker (NS) children
subject
NS (n = 8)
NS (n = 4) (ages 5-7)
NS (n = 4) (ages 8-9)
Table 15.2 The double
subject
NS (n = 8)
NS (n = 4) (ages 5-7)
NS (n = 4) (ages 8-9)
False positive
(11 ungrammatical)
9(4)
1.25
1.75
.75
object judgements
False positive
(5 ungrammatical)
4(1)
1.0
1.5
.5
False negative
(10 grammatical)
1(0)
0
0
.25
False negative
(6 grammatical)
2(0)
.5
.75
.25
False positive = ungrammatical sentences which were accepted as
grammatical.
False negative = grammatical sentences which were rejected as
ungrammatical.
236 Herbert W. Seliger
5 Discussion
5.1 Word order judgements
We can see from the results of the judgement test in Table 15.1
that O accepts ungrammatical sentences such as those exemplified by (16)
above more than she rejects them (nine out of eleven possible ungram-
matical sentences) as well as accepting grammatical sentences. Her per-
formance is compared with the native speakers, who overwhelmingly
rejected ungrammatical sentences because of word order problems. In
fact, the difference between the five- to seven-year-olds and eight- to
nine-year-olds is not great and it is clear that word order grammaticality
ability is present in the younger group.
What is interesting for our purposes is to consider why both word
orders are acceptable by the subject. In other words, O's grammar accepts
a syntactic arrangement in which the PP is the final constituent as well as
an arrangement where the PP is placed immediately after the main verb.
The native speakers in both age groups did not generally accept this
second arrangement, which is considered ungrammatical in English but
grammatical in Hebrew.
It is not unreasonable to postulate on the basis of this evidence and
what we know about the subject that she is relying on the Hebrew rule for
unrestricted placement of the PP. This can be explained by the fact that
the subject had experienced increasing difficulty in accessing evidence
from English. Her exposure to English language data either as direct
positive evidence, negative evidence or indirect negative evidence is very
limited but at this point her own second language grammar (Hebrew)
becomes the source of indirect positive evidence for making grammati-
cality judgements about the first language (English).
The progression of this development is shown opposite in Figure 15.3.
In the initial stages of bilingualism, autonomy is maintained between the
two languages. Dative alternation in Hebrew remains syntactically based
while the alternation in English is lexically determined with syntactic
implications.
At the intermediate stage (see Figure 15.3, Stage II), the subject utilizes
indirect positive evidence from Hebrew. When the speaker experiences
increasing difficulty retrieving English and has increasingly limited
access to positive or negative evidence in English, she turns to Hebrew as
a source. At this point, an equivalency relationship is established
between the rules in the two languages. In a sense, the learner has estab-
lished a syllogism which states that if A is equal to B and B is equal to C
then A must also be equal to C. In this case, if one form of dative alter-
Language attrition, reduced redundancy, and creativity 237
Stage I. Autonomous rules in a coordinate system
HEBREW (syntactic) ENGLISH (lexical-syntactic)
[NPVNPDOPP] <> [NPVPPNPDO][NPVNPDOPP] <> [NPVNPIONPDO]
Stage II. Intermediate stage: Indirect positive evidence from Hebrew
[NP V PP NP] <-> [NP V NP PP] <=> [NP V NP PP] <-> [NP V NP NP]
Stage III. Final stage: Redundancy reduction and attrition
Some rules in H and E are fused.
[NP V PP NP] => [NP V NP PP] < > [NP V NP NP]
Stage I. Rules retain autonomy in each language. Hebrew rules for dative are
syntactic with some morphological constraints. English rules are controlled by
lexical subcategorization with syntactic implications.
Stage II. Because of inaccessibility of LI data, L2 grammar becomes a source of
indirect positive evidence affecting grammaticality abilities in LI. (Word order
and lexical subcategorization rules affected.)
Stage HI. Where near equivalencies are found for LI and L2 rules, rules are
collapsed or fused into one in the direction of less marked in a crosslinguistic
sense. Since datives in both languages can be expressed using a PP and since
movement of PP with bound preposition is less marked, it is more economical to
maintain that version of the rule which requires fewer rule restrictions on move-
ment (i.e. the Hebrew rule).
15.3 Redundancy reduction for the dative in language attrition
nation is equal in the two languages (the final placement of the PP), then
the other must be as well, especially since there is no LI (English) evi-
dence to indicate the contrary. That is, the equivalency relationship
between the rules in English and Hebrew is established because of the
absence of contradictory positive evidence from English.
This brings us to the final stage in the attrition development (Stage III in
Figure 15.2). The Hebrew rule for PP placement includes within it the
more restrictive rule for English PP placement. The separate English rule
now becomes redundant and the grammar rule for datives with PP is
reduced to that rule which covers both cases. This outcome might also be
explained on the basis of a variant of the Uniqueness Principle (Chomsky
& Lasnik 1977) which states that when two forms have the same meaning,
that which is supported by the data is maintained. In the case of first
238 Herbert W. Seliger
language attrition, most of the supporting data come from the second
language. PP movement is accepted into English as part of the dative
alternation rule. That is, in the process of reducing the redundancy
between the two languages, the speaker has created a new rule which
combines elements from both languages.
5.2 Double object sentences
What remains to be examined is whether the lexical sub-
categorization restrictions on the dative NP NP construction have been
affected by language attrition. It is difficult to tell from O's free discourse
utterances. Upon close examination of her sentences ((11) through (15))
we see that in none of them was it necessary for her to deal with a problem
which causes difficulties in first language acquisition, the combined
problem of animacy and word order. For example, we may assume that
the child understands that in order for a noun to function as an indirect
object it must have the quality of being a possessor or benefactor of the
direct object. Roeper et al. (1981) found this to be a factor in the com-
prehension of sentences such as
The cow gave the dog the pig.
In such sentences, children who have not yet acquired the dative alter-
nation rule and have no contrasting cues will use a linear strategy to
interpret the first object as the direct object and second as the indirect
object instead of the opposite. In this sentence, since both objects are
animate and capable of filling the role of "possessor/' the child assigns
grammatical role according to word order.2
An examination of O's responses on the metalinguistic test indicates
that she accepted sentences such as (18), (19) and (20). These sentences
are ungrammatical for different reasons. In (18) and (20), the use of made
ignores the restriction that the object must be capable of being possessed
by the indirect object. In the case of abstract words such as choice and
decision, that requirement is not observed. It is possible that the subject is
interpreting these sentences as predicate objective sentences.
At the same time, the subject rejected grammatical sentences such as
(21) and (22) while both the younger and older monolingual children had
an average error rate of less than one error for five sentences. We might
explain the rejection of sentences (21) and (22) on the basis of the linear
strategy described by Roeper et al. In the case of sentence (21), it is likely
that the subject understands that the verb read requires an inanimate
object. If the sentence is interpreted in a linear order then this sentence
Language attrition, reduced redundancy, and creativity 239
cannot make sense because the role of direct object is assigned to the first
noun following the transitive verb. It is possible that sentence (22) seems
strange to her as well for the same reason. This interpretation of the data
was supported to some degree by one of the monolingual children in the
younger group who rejected sentence (21) and laughed saying, "How
can you read a baby?"
6 Conclusion
An analysis of a bilingual child's performance in free discourse
and on metalinguistic judgement tasks indicates that the processes in-
volved in language attrition are not unlike processes found in first
language acquisition, where the learner must adjust rules in order to limit
the overgeneralization of learning. That is, in first language acquisition it
is necessary for the acquirer to "unlearn" rules which are too inclusive
or overgeneralized in order to arrive at the final state grammar. This un-
learning process is triggered by the acquirer's contact with positive evi-
dence from LI.
In the case of first language attrition in the context of bilingualism, the
unlearning process is initiated by a lack of access to LI data and the
growing dominance of L2. Unlearning here is triggered by indirect posi-
tive evidence from L2 projected onto LI. In this particular case, Hebrew
word order rules for the placement of the PP are combined with and
partially replace the English rules involved in dative alternation through a
process which reduces the redundant rule in one of the languages
(English).
Notes
Indirect positive evidence can become direct positive evidence when the
process is externalized and enough speakers of an attrited form of LI
reinforce the new grammar of LI which results from the attrition pro-
cess. This we recognize as the beginning of an immigrant dialect of an
overseas language, as in the case of Finnish speakers in the US, and
eventually as the source of language death.
Roeper et al. (1981) claim that this construction is learned at a much later
stage. However, it would be necessary to consider which aspects of the
dative alternation restrictions are acquired and at what ages. It would
seem that more concrete sentences such as (2) or (6) would be acquired
earlier than the grammatical ability necessary to judge sentences (18)
through (22).
240 Herbert W. Seliger
References
Braine, M. 1971. "On two types of models of the internalization of grammars/' in
D. Slobin (ed.), The ontogenesis ofgrammar. New York: Academic Press.
Chomsky, Noam. 1981. Lectures on government and binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
Chomsky, N., and H. Lasnik. 1977. "Filters and control/' Linguistic Inquiry 8:
425-504.
Fodor, J. D. 1985. "Why learn lexical rules?" Paper presented at the 10th Annual
Boston University Conference on Language Development, October
25-27.
MacWhinney, Brian. 1987. "Applying the competition model to bilingualism,"
Applied Psycholinguistics 8, 4: 315-328.
Mazurkewich, Irene. 1984. "Dative questions and markedness," in F. Eckman,
L. H. Bell, and D. Nelson (eds.), Universals of second language acquisition.
Rowley, MA: Newbury House Publishers, 119-131.
Mazurkewich, Irene, and Lydia White. 1984. "The acquisition of the dative alter-
nation: unlearning overgeneralizations," Cognition 16: 261-283.
Pinker, Steven. 1984. Language learnability and language development. Cambridge,
MA: Harvard University Press.
1987. "Resolving a learnability paradox in the acquisition of the verb lexicon,"
Lexicon Project Working Papers 17. Center for Cognitive Science, MIT.
Randall, Janet. 1987. "The catapult hypothesis: grammars as machines for
unlearning." Unpublished paper presented at the Max-Planck-Institut
fur Psycholinguistik, Nimegen: Conference on the Structure of the
Simple Clause in Language Acquisition, Parasession on Verb-Argument
Structure.
Roeper, Thomas, Steven Lapointe, Janet Bing, and Susan L. Tavakolian. 1981.
"A lexical approach to language acquisition," in Susan L. Tavakolian
(ed.), Language acquisition and linguistic theory. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press, 35-58.
Schachter, Jacquelyn. 1984. "A universal input condition," in William E. Ruther-
ford (ed.), Language universals and second language acquisition. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins Publishing Co., 167-183.
Seliger, Herbert W. 1986. "Deterioration and creativity in childhood bi-
lingualism". Paper presented at symposium on Bilingualism across the
life span. Linguistic Society of America Summer Institute, New York.
1989. "Deterioration and creativity in childhood bilingualism," in L. Obler and
K. Hyltenstam (eds.), Bilingualism across the life span. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 173-184.
16 Paradigmatic regularity in first language
attrition
ROBERT M. VAGO
1 Introduction
This chapter is concerned with the role of paradigmatic coherence
in the attrition of a first language morphophonemic system in the context
of bilingualism. It aims to characterize paradigm-internally induced
changes in formal terms, specifically, as instances of rule simplification,
rule reordering, rule loss, and lexical restructuring. The primary motiva-
tion underlying these structural innovations is claimed to be derived from
two basic principles: reducing allomorphic variation and minimizing rule
opacity. Both strategies maximize paradigmatic regularity.
The empirical data for this study were obtained from a thirty-six-year-
old Hungarian-Hebrew bilingual Israeli woman who was born in Hun-
gary and immigrated with her parents to Israel at age 5;10. The subject's
primary language was Hebrew (L2); her usage of Hungarian (LI) was
severely limited, confined almost exclusively to conversations (several
times a week) with her parents, for whom Hungarian remained the pre-
ferred and dominant language of communication.
The Hungarian attrition data were gathered and analyzed in two stages.
The methodology employed in the first stage was paradigm elicitation. In
tape recorded interviews conducted in Hungarian by the present investi-
gator, the subject was supplied individual nominal and verbal stems and
was instructed to provide the various inflections that constitute paradig-
matic sets in Hungarian. The information thus obtained was then
analyzed and compared with the respective facts in the standard dialect of
Hungarian. Independent investigation confirmed that there were no
significant differences between the Hungarian spoken by the subject's
parents and the standard dialect of Hungarian as concerns the inflectional
phonology and morphology. On the assumption that the subject's first
language dialect agreed in essential detail with her parents' dialect from
the period of initial acquisition in Hungary through the onset of attrition
in Israel, the standard dialect of Hungarian may reasonably be identified
as the base-line grammar with which the subject's grammar may be com-
242 Robert M. Vago
pared. On this basis, any structural deviation from the standard may be
identified as an attrition phenomenon.1
There are both advantages and disadvantages to collecting data by
means of paradigm elicitation. On the positive side is the systematic
nature of the methodology: homing in on the paradigmatically related
forms carves out a more complete testing ground and paints a more
accurate picture of morphophonemic disintegration. As a result,
potential problem areas may be brought to the fore that otherwise might
escape the attention of the investigator. On the negative side is a serious
limitation: paradigm elicitation leaves unresolved the crucial question of
whether the prompted deviations, if found, constitute only performance
problems relating to retrieval, production, and exclusively intraparadigm
influences, or whether they are characteristic of the deeper system of
competence as well.
In recognition of the possibility that the attrition data obtained by
means of paradigm elicitation might be indicative of problems at the level
of performance but not of competence, a second stage of data collection
and analysis was devised. In subsequent interviews the subject was
asked for grammaticality judgements on individual word tokens - not in
the context of paradigms - that she had previously produced in response
to paradigm elicitation. The subject's own data that were presented to her
at this phase consisted of a target group, i.e. those forms that had pre-
viously been identified as deviations from standard Hungarian, as well as
a control group, i.e. those forms that had been judged as ''correct'' in
relation to standard Hungarian.
The results of the second phase were in line with expectations: some of
the target forms were judged to be grammatical, others ungrammatical.
The subject's attrition data reported here are exclusively those that were
judged by the subject to be grammatical. We may therefore be reasonably
assured that the subject's imputed grammar has undergone attrition at
the level of competence. The ensuing sections lay out the formal details of
attrition in this individual morphophonemic system.2
2 Rule simplification
Consider the singular possessive paradigms of standard Hun-
garian given in (1), where the first noun represents consonant final stems,
the second vowel final stems:
(1)
lsg
2sg
Iml
Idl
Ibotl "stick"
bot-o-m
bot-o-d
/haza/
hazd-m
hazd-d
"home"
Paradigmatic regularity in first language attrition 243
3sg
lpl
2pl
3pl
/a/
/unk/
/atok/
/u + k/
bot-j-a
bot-unk
bot-otok
bot-j-u-k
hazd-j-a
hazd-nk
hazd-tok
hazd-j-u-k
Throughout this work, Hungarian examples are cited orthographically;
vowel length, in particular, is indicated with diacritic marks. The morpho-
phonemic analyses are expressed in terms of the generative phonology
theoretical framework and are based on Vago (1980).3
The surface representations in (1) evidence a number of morpho-
phonemic changes, of which the following is of interest here: in the third
person singular and plural forms an epenthetic glide shows up between
the stem and the vowel initial suffix. It will be noted that only in these
two contexts does the initial suffix vowel constitute a separate mor-
pheme. On this basis, it is possible to predict the appearance of the glide
1)1 by the following rule:
(2) 0/-* j / [STEM] + V +
The subject's version of the singular possessive paradigms of the two
representative stems is presented in (3):
(3) lsg bot-o-m hazd-m
2sg bot-o-d hazd-d
3sg bot-j-a hazd-j-a
lpl bot-j-unk hazd-j-unk
2pl bot-j-otok hazd-j-dtok
3pl bot-j-u-k hazd-j-u-k
It is readily observed that a glide is inserted before any vowel initial
suffix. In particular, epenthesis obtains even before the first person
plural and second person plural suffixes. The obvious explanation is that
the subject applied a more general version of rule (2), that given in (4):
(4) 0 / - j / [STEM] + V
Rule (4) is applied before another rule which inserts lol in the first and
second person singular forms following consonant final stems. This se-
quencing explains the fact that /j/ does not appear in lsg bot-o-m and 2sg
bot-o-d.
In sum, the rule of /j/ epenthesis is represented in the subject's gram-
mar of attrited Hungarian in a simplified form, leading to overappli-
cation. The principal motivation appears to be paradigmatic uniformity/
regularity: in singular possessive forms, /j/ precedes all vowel initial
morphemes following a nominal stem.
244 Robert M. Vago
3 Rule reordering
Standard Hungarian contains the following two rules:
(5) [V, + low] - [ + long] / + [ +segment]
(6) h->0// { # , Q
Rule (5) states essentially that low vowels become long at the end of a
morpheme, except word finally; thus, /a/ is lengthened to /a/ and lei
(phonologically [ + low]) is lengthened to lei. For example, the under-
lying final /a/ of the stem for "home" (cf. nominative haza) appears as HI
in the inflected forms given previously in (1); for the lengthening of lei, cf.
nominative kefe "brush," singular possessives kefe-m, kefe-d, kefe-j-e, kefe-
nk, kefe-tek, kefe-j-uk.4
Rule (6) accounts for the fact that, with some exceptions, nouns ending
in /h/ at the underlying level lose their /h/ in word final position and
before a consonant initial suffix, that is syllable finally. Thus, for
example, the final /h/ of the stem for "bee" does not show up in the
nominative and dative cases, but is retained before a vowel initial suffix:
(7) Nominative: meh [me:] "bee"
Dative: meh-nek [meinek]
3sg poss.: meh-e [meifie]
As seen, Ihl is indicated in the spelling, whether or not it is pronounced. It
should also be noted that it is not possible to insert Ihl prevocalically by
general rule; cf. Vago (1980).
In standard Hungarian, rule (5) precedes rule (6). Thus, in the deriv-
ation given in (8), the vowel lengthening rule (5) cannot apply to the
underlying representation, since the low vowel is not in morpheme final
position. Rather, Ihl is deleted by rule (6), yielding a morpheme final
short low vowel:
(8) Underlying /cseh + nek/ "Czech, dative"
Rule (5)  (non-applicable)
Rule (6) cse + nek
Surface [cenek]
The relevant alternations of the above stem are as follows:
(9) Nominative: cseh [ce] "Czech"
Dative: cse-nek [cenek]
3sg poss.: cseh-e [eerie]
Data elicited from the subject reveal that the subject's grammar con-
tains both rules (5) and (6): she produced alternations like haza "home,
Paradigmatic regularity in first language attrition 245
nominative," hazd-m "home, lsg poss.," etc. - cf. (1) above - as well as
the alternations given in (7). But significantly, she had deviant forms in
those cases where the two rules potentially interact:
(10) Nominative: /cseh/ - [ce]
Dative: /cseh + nek/ - [cemek]
3sgposs.: /cseh + el -> [cefie]
The above attrition facts follow on the view that the ordering of the two
rules (5) and (6) is reversed from the sequencing that obtains in the stan-
dard dialect. First, rule (6) deletes syllable final /h/; note that setting up
final Ihl is justified by the fact that Ihl alternates with 101 in (10). As a
consequence, a context is created in which the low vowel lengthening
rule (5) is applicable. For example:
(11) Underlying /cseh + nek/
Rule (6) cse + nek
Rule (5) cse + nek
Surface [cexnek]
In sum, rule reordering is another formal attribute of attriting first
language grammars, for which the reduction of opacity/maximization of
transparency appears to be the primary motivating force. Thus, with
respect to the case above, in the standard language the rules apply in
counter-feeding order, the result of which is that the low vowel length-
ening rule is opaque, since a short low vowel appears in positions where it
should have been lengthened. In contrast, in the attrited system the rules
apply in feeding order, bringing about a transparent low vowel length-
ening rule.5
Note that this is accomplished at the expense of introducing
morphophonemic variation into paradigms, i.e. the length alternation of
low vowels. In other words, at least for the case under discussion, the
minimization of opacity/maximization of transparency principle super-
sedes the paradigmatic uniformity principle.
4 Rule loss
Another type of attrition phenomenon that affected the morpho-
phonemic rule system of the subject's grammar may be characterized as
rule loss. Three relevant examples follow.
Consider first the alternation between the relative sequencing of the
consonants /r/ and Ihl in the following standard forms:
(12) a. /tehr/ "load"
b. Nominative: teher
246 Robert M. Vago
c. Dative: teher-nek
d. 3sg poss.: terh-e
(12a) gives the underlying representation of a stem that represents the
class ending in Ihl plus a liquid consonant. In the nominative case (12b), a
general rule (cf. below) inserts a vowel to break up the otherwise imposs-
ible syllable coda cluster /hr/; this rule also applies before a consonant
initial suffix, as in the dative inflection (12c). However, in prevocalic
position, as in example (12d), where epenthesis is not motivated since the
stem final consonant can be gathered into the onset position of the follow-
ing syllable, a metathesis process applies that switches the Ihl and the
liquid:
(13) h L -> L h / + V (L = liquid)
The above rule saves syllable final Ihl from undergoing deletion; cf. rule
(6) above.
The subject's data evidenced no trace of the metathesis process:
(14) a. /teher/
b. Nominative: teher
c. Dative: teher-nek
d. 3sg poss.: teher-e
It will further be noted that the epenthetic (second) vowel appears in all
contexts, in particular before vowel initial suffixes as well. It seems
reasonable to assume that the attrited grammar lost metathesis rule (13)
and restructured the underlying form of the stem for' 'load,'' as indicated
in (14a).6
As a consequence, the stem acquired a uniform paradigmatic
shape.
Rule loss need not necessarily lead to the restructuring of underlying
representations. As a case in point, consider the palatalization of verb
stem final /t/ before the imperative/subjunctive morpheme l]l in the stan-
dard dialect of Hungarian:
(15) t - c / + j (in verb stems)
Cf. for example /fut + j + m/ -> futsem [fuiccem] "I should heat it" and
/szepit+j + m/ -> szepitsem [seipnccem] "I should beautify it." Indepen-
dent evidence establishes that the stems in these forms are fut and szepit
(derived from the adjectival root szep "beautiful") and that the impera-
tive/subjunctive morpheme is /j/ (e.g. ved "protect," vedjem "I should
protect it").
The palatalization process is followed by an independently motivated
Paradigmatic regularity in first language attrition 247
rule which assimilates 1)1 to a preceding strident consonant (e.g. nez
"see," nezzem "I should see it"). The joint application of/t/-palatalization
and I)/-assimilation derives the geminate strident consonants in the
phonetic interpretation of the orthographic examples futsem and
szepitsem cited above.
Paradigms elicited from the subject reveal no traces of the palatalization
rule formalized in (15). The definite subjunctive paradigms of the verbal
stems fut and szepit are reproduced in (16).
(16) futjem
fiitjed
futje
futjilk
futjetek
futjek
szepitjem
szepitjed
szepitje
szepitjiik
szepitjetek
szepitjek
In contrast, the It]I cluster is pronounced as [cc] in standard Hungarian by
virtue of /t/-palatalization and /j/-assimilation.
The attrition data contain no evidence whatsoever for the palatalization
of Itl in verb stem final position. The unambiguous conclusion is that the
/t/-palatalization rule has been eliminated from the subject's attrited
grammar.
A third instantiation of rule loss comes from the behavior of the instru-
mental suffix. In the standard dialect of Hungarian the initial consonant
of the instrumental suffix fully assimilates to a preceding consonant; in
postvocalic position it shows up as Ivl. For example:
(17) Instrumental
fal "wall" fal-lal
hdz "house" hdz-zal
haza "home" hazd-val
On the assumption that the underlying representation of the instru-
mental suffix begins with Ivl, the postconsonantal assimilations are pro-
duced by a rule something like the following:
(18) C + v
1 2 3 ^ 1 2 1
The above rule is missing in the subject's grammar, as suggested by the
fact that the initial consonant of the instrumental suffix stays Ivl even
after consonant final stems: cf. for example hdz-val, fal-val in place of the
standard forms in (17). In this case, as in the previous one, rule loss is not
accompanied by lexical restructuring.
248 Robert M. Vago
In sum, a number of morphophonemic innovations in the attrition data
are due to rule loss. In a subset of the cases reanalysis at the lexical level
results as well. In each of the samples considered here, rule loss has
reduced or eliminated allomorphic variation.
5 Lexical restructuring
Lexical restructuring, that is modifying the underlying repre-
sentations of individual morphemes, is perhaps the most common
attribute of the attrition of morphophonemic systems. Alternations that
are unproductive, lexically conditioned, or otherwise marked are particu-
larly prone to reanalysis, whose overall effect is a more regular alternation
pattern. Several cases of these types are examined below.
In standard Hungarian, nominal stems participate in a number of
morphophonemic alternation patterns, based in part on whether the
following suffix, if any, begins with a consonant or vowel. Three such
patterns are exemplified in (19).
(19)
Nominative
Dative
Inessive
Plural
Accusative
3sg poss.
' 'horse''
16
16-nak
16-ban
lov-ak
lov-at
lov-a
"sky"
eg
eg-nek
eg-ben
eg-ek
eg-et
eg-e
ox
bkbr
bkbr-nek
bkbr-ben
bkr-bk
bkr-bt
bkr-e
The stem shapes in (19b) obtain before vowel initial suffixes, i.e. in case
the stem final consonant can be gathered into the onset of a following
syllable. The stem shapes in (19a), on the other hand, obtain word finally
and before consonant initial suffixes, i.e. in contexts where the stem final
consonant cannot be syllabified into onset position. With respect to the
paradigmatic shapes of the three representative stems, we may note that
in the first case 1161 alternates with /lov-/, in the second /eg/ alternates
with /eg-/, and in the third /okor/ alternates with /okr-/. Independent
evidence leads to the conclusion that the first and second alternation
types are to be described in terms of lengthening, the third one in terms of
epenthesis; cf. Vago (1980) for details.
The alternations found in (19) are leveled out in the attrition data ob-
tained from the subject. The equivalent forms are presented in (20).
(20) "horse" "sky" "ox"
a. Nominative 16 eg okor
Dative 16-nak eg-nek bkbr-nek
Inessive 16-ban eg-ben bkbr-ben
Paradigmatic regularity in first language attrition 249
b. Plural lov-ak eg-ek okor-ok
Accusative lov-at eg-et okor-ot
3sg poss. lov-a eg-e okor-e
On the view that in the standard dialect the alternation of the represent-
ative stems for "horse" and "sky" are derived by lengthening and that of
the stem for "ox" by epenthesis, the attrition data in (20) involve the
following adjustments in the underlying representations of the pertinent
stems:7
(21) a. /lov/ -> /lov/
b. /eg/ - /eg/
c. /okr/ -> /okor/
Although the attrition corpus elicited from the subject contains other
stems that pattern on a par with those in (20) - over a dozen examples for
each of the three classes - it also contains several stems for which the
alternations evident in the standard dialect are retained. This fact strongly
suggests that the sporadic allomorphy reduction in the attrited grammar
is due to restructuring on a case by case basis rather than to the outright
loss of morphophonemic rules.
6 Conclusion
Rule simplification, rule reordering, rule loss, and lexical restruc-
turing have been claimed to characterize attrition in a first language
morphophonemic system. These formal mechanisms are well-known to
be operative in the course of normal linguistic change (cf. for example
Kiparsky 1968; King 1969) and may best be seen as desired strategies to
increase paradigmatic uniformity and rule transparency, both contribu-
tory agents of paradigm regularity.
As a final and particularly poignant piece of evidence for the reality of
paradigms as coherent linguistic units which may define the domain of
attrition processes, consider the fact that the subject of the present study
was repeatedly unable to produce the third person singular forms of
Hungarian plural possessive paradigms, e.g. the form botjai in the rep-
resentative paradigm adduced in (22); she had no trouble with the other
inflections.
(22) Stem + PI + Poss.
hot - jai - m "my sticks"
hot - jai - d "your (sg) sticks"
hot - jai "his/her/its sticks"
250 Robert M. Vago
hot - jai - nk "our sticks"
hot - jai - tok "your (pi) sticks"
hot - jai - k "their sticks"
The subject's stumbling is explained as an attempt to generalize from the
paradigmatically related forms: she was groping for an overt possessive
marker where in point of fact there was none.
Notes
This work is a substantial revision of a preliminary draft which appeared as
Vago (1986) and was read at the 1987 Annual Meeting of the Linguistic Society of
America in New York. Many thanks to Miklos Kontra for comments.
1 It should be pointed out that none of the deviant forms which are
claimed here to be due to attrition can be attributed to transfer from the
L2 system. Furthermore, the fact that these forms did not occur in the
dialect spoken by the subject's parents effectively argues against gram-
matical change through imitation. Imperfect acquisition may rather
safely be ruled out as well: the morphophonemic alternations discussed
in the present study are in general under control by monolingual Hun-
garian children by the time they reach first grade, the approximate age of
the subject when she emigrated from Hungary. See for instance the
studies of MacWhinney (1978) and Gosy (1984) and their references.
2 Previous investigations of attrition involving Hungarian as the first
language in a bilingual setting are concerned with structural changes (as
well as sociopsychological factors) at the societal level. See in particular
Gal's (1979) detailed study of a Hungarian-German bilingual com-
munity and Kontra's (1985) excellent review of the extensive literature
dealing with Hungarian-American English bilingualism.
3 The analytical points are cast within the assumptions of linear generative
phonology solely because of the general familiarity of this theoretical
model. Clearly, the conclusions concerning the attrition of the formal
aspects of Hungarian morphophonemics must be reinterpreted if non-
linear phonological theory is used as the basis of description. Also, some
of the descriptive statements about the standard dialect of Hungarian
given here are oversimplified; the reader is referred to Vago (1980) and
references cited there for a more thorough discussion.
4 For arguments against analyzing the /a/ ~ /a/ and lei ~ lei alternations
in terms of shortening, cf. Vago (1978).
5 For a discussion of feeding and bleeding rule interactions cf. Kiparsky
(1968), of opacity and transparency Kiparsky (1971).
6 Hungarian has only two other stems that are subject to metathesis:
/pehly/ pehely "fluff" and /kehly/ kehely "chalice." In the subject's gram-
mar the behavior of these stems paralleled that of the stem for "load" as
indicated above in (14).
Paradigmatic regularity in first language attrition 251
The underlying representation of the consonant Ivl that appears in the
instrumental suffix discussed in the preceding section and in the stem
class exemplified in (21a) is controversial, but not at issue here. It is
claimed to be abstract /w/ in the linear analysis of Vago (1980,1982), as an
empty C timing unit in the non-linear analysis of Vago (to appear).
References
Gal, Susan. 1979. Language shift: social determinants of linguistic change in bilingual
Austria. New York: Academic Press.
Gosy, Maria. 1984. Hangtani es szotani vizsgdlatok hdromeves gyermekek nyelveben.
Budapest: Akademiai Kiado.
King, Robert D. 1969. Historical linguistics and generative grammar. Englewood
Cliffs: Prentice-Hall.
Kiparsky, Paul. 1968. "Linguistic universals and linguistic change/' in Emmon
Bach and Robert Harms (eds.), Universals in linguistic theory. New York:
Holt, 171-202.
1971. "Historical linguistics," in William Dingwall (ed.), A survey of linguistic
science. College Park: Linguistics Program, University of Maryland,
577-642.
Kontra, Miklos. 1985. "Hungarian-American bilingualism: a bibliographic
essay," Hungarian Studies 1/2: 257-282.
MacWhinney, Brian. 1978. The acquisition ofmorphophonology. Chicago: University
of Chicago Press.
Vago, Robert M. 1978. "The lengthening of final low vowels in Hungarian," Ural-
Altaische Jahrbiicher 50: 144-148.
1980. The sound pattern ofHungarian. Washington, DC: Georgetown University
Press.
1982. "Abstract /w/ in Hungarian," in Ferenc Kiefer (ed.), Hungarian general
linguistics. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, 589-599.
1986. "Paradigmatic errors in first language attrition," CUNYForum 12:
204-214.
(to appear). "Empty consonants in the moraic phonology of Hungarian," Ada
Linguistica Hungarica, vol. 38.
Index
ability, innate language 37, 38
Aboriginal languages, death of 113
acceptability judgement tests 18, 21, 27
access, loss of fluent 19, 140, 145, 149
accommodation 187
acculturation, degrees of 4, 105-6
acquisition
compared with attrition 22-4, 164,
207-8, 217-18
hypothesis testing in 228-31
manner of 56, 81
orders of 46
relative permanence of 227-40
research 22-7
second language: recreation stage 5;
restructuring stage 5; transfer in
190-1
theories of language 12
adult language attrition, lexical retrieval
difficulties 139-50
adult second language learners,
compensatory strategies 207-8, 217
Afrikaans 80
agreement rules, breakdown in 8, 79
Albanian, in Greece 68, 101
allomorphic reduction 11, 68, 79-80, 241,
248, 249
American English
and Hebrew 26-7, 139-50, 175-88
and Hungarian 250
and Spanish 151-71
Amerindian communities 68
Amish 126-36
analogical leveling 10-11, 214
analytic forms, preferred to synthetic 68,
74
anglicizing 208
aphasia 3, 37, 40
bilinguals and 53-65
classification of 57-8
compared with sociolinguistic language
decay 109-10
etiology of 56-7, 61
language in 37-40
polyglots and 53-65, 227
recovery patterns 55, 60-2
and stages in child language
development 39, 46
approximation 214
Arvanitika 164
aspect 68, 74-5
assimilation, partial 192
assistance, appeals for 208, 215
attitude, change in 103; see also motivation
attrition
adult language 139-50
first language, overview 3-15
onset of 178-80
see also loss
Australian English, Standard 121
autonomy, degree of 6
avoidance 208, 215
Bhojpuri
Continental 72
of Guyana 71
in Mauritius 71-2, 80
of Trinidad 71
Bigouden, South, subdialect 99-109
bilingual continuum 151, 161-4
bilingual development, and role of
Universal Grammar (UG) 4-6
bilingual language history questionnaire 54
bilingual period 180-2
bilingualism 3
and communicative efficiency thesis 81
compound and coordinate, and attrition
5-6, Fig. 1.1
and performance/competence issue
17-21, 189-90
biogenetic law (Haeckel) 32, 36
biuniqueness 106
borrowing 80, 102-4, 153, 204
contact as 67; see also lexical borrowing
Boumaa Fijian 113-24
dialect leveling in 114-17
Bozal Spanish 80
brain
damage and language loss 31, 39, 40; see
also aphasia
learning and maintenance factors 54
254 Index
brain (cont.)
organization and loss of LI in
aphasia 63
Breton
aphasia 108-9
in France 68, 99-112
literary 99-100
loss of initial consonant mutations 106-7
morphology 102-6
morphophonology 106-8
phonology 100-2
calquing, see loan translation
Cape York Creole 113
category leveling 11
category switch 11
change
acceleration of 153
and attrition 115-17, 118-20, 249
diachronic language 31; and
acquisition 33
as discourse strategy 125-37
externally induced 7-10
intergenerational language 81
internally induced 10-11
permeability to 153-4
studies of child language 209-10
child
conscious awareness of language loss,
and use of compensatory strategies
207, 217
developmental errors of 181-2
first language attrition 175-88;
compensatory strategies of 207-26
child language 31, 34, 35, 81, 164, 177-8
compared with aphasics 39, 46
learning continuum 167
studies of change 209-10
choice, language 110
Chomskyan linguistic model 12, 17-30
Church, and dialect leveling 115
circumlocution 208
clause subordination, diminished
frequency 79
code blending 175
code mixing 6, 10, 175, 180
code switching 6, 10, 110, 212-13
cognitive development, and compensatory
strategies 207, 218
cognitive factors, in change due to contact
153, 154, 166-7
cognitive load 43
colonialism, linguistic 103
communication extension, and dialect
leveling 115
communication function 120-1
communication efficiency thesis, in
bilingualism 81
compensatory strategies 212-15
of child first language attrition 207-26
and child's conscious awareness of
language loss 207, 217
cognitive development and 207, 218
culture and language relativity 207, 217
discourse 214-15
interlingual 212-14
intralingual 214
same for LI attrition and L2 acquisition
217-18
typologies 207-8
competence 7
and bilingualism 189-90
and control, eliciting 21-2
criteria 99
degree of erosion in 7, 139
grammatical 18
multiple measures of 210
and performance attrition 17-21, 189-90
permanent 19
pragmatic 18
competences, diverging 24
complexity 33
contact
additive model of 67
and attrition 67-84, 151-71
and change, factors in 153-4
interference model 67
with LI in an L2 environment 87, 94
resistance-to-mixture model 67
situations 14, Fig. 1.2
control 18, 21
alignment of mechanisms 27
eliciting competence and 21-2
convergence 7, 167
definition 153
as discourse strategy 125-37
coordinate constructions, preferred to
embedded 68, 75
Cornish 107
Cornouaillais dialect 99-109
correspondence theory (Koffka) 36
creativity 187, 227-40
Creole languages 113
creolization, and theory of markedness
164-5, 167
'creoloids' 80
crosslinguistic influence 7, 22, 23-4
studies 67-84
Culver City immersion program 208
Danish 208, 217
Darwinism 32, 34, 39
dative alternation rule 229, 232
death, language 3, 102, 113, 227
of Dyirbal 113, 117-20
factors in 117-20
and functional diglossia 80
Index 255
decay
direction and hierarchy of 105-10
and giving of proper names in recessive
language 103-4
and monostylism 101
decomposition of complex structures 75
deliberate wrong answers 215
dementia 37, 38, 40
language in compared with child
language development 40
and lexical retrieval 140
senile 3
deprivation, LI 22, 81, 209-18
'desert island' scenario 22-3
diagrammaticity, as a parameter of
morphological naturalness 106
dialect
factors in mixing 114-15
leveling 113, 114-17
loss 36
diglossia, functional in language death 80
discourse strategies, convergence and
change as 125-37
disintegration of LI 182-4
dismantling and reordering process 67-82
dissociation of word meaning 40
dissolution 37, 38, 39
distance, principle of 168
domains
affective 4
of progress, shift to dominant language
104
shift 42
Dutch immigrants
in Australia 41
in France 87-98
Dyirbal 79-80, 113, 117-24
ergative case marking 9, 79-80
Traditional, attrition stages in 122-3,
Fig. 8.2
Traditional and Young 117-20
dysfunction, partial 101, 108, 109
dysphasia 57
economy of distinctions 114, 120-2, 124
editing test 89, 90
education
and aphasia 58, 61-2
compulsory and dialect leveling 115
compulsory English and language death
118
elderly, language of the, and regression
40-1
elicitation tests 17, 19, 21-2, 141-3
emigration, time elapsed since 87, 94
English 7-11
Aboriginal 113
and French 44-5
and German 189-206
and Hebrew, word order in dative
sentences 231-3; see also American
English
and Japanese 19-20
and Pennsylvania German 126-36
and Russian 209-25
and Spanish 25
use of relative clause in adult ESL
students 208
variety of 113; see also American
English; Australian English; Old
English
epistemology 36
ergative case markings, allomorphic
reduction in 79-80
erosion process, at level of competence 7,
76, 139
evidence
indirect negative 229-30
negative 24, 28
positive 230-1
problem of input in attrition 22-4
evolution 32
of grammars 81, 227-40
exposure, inadequate 81, 209-18
factoring process 75
feeding rule 245, 250
Fijian
Boumaa 114-17
Standard 114-17
Finnish 36, 80
in Minnesota 67, 68-71, 239
Flemish, American 198
Foreign Service Interview (FSI) 89, 90-1
foreignizing 208
forms
contracting/shrinking 152, 161
expanding 152
loss of 152, 162-3, 166
fragmentation of ethnic group, and
language death 118
free discourse sentences 234-5
French 44-5
and Breton 100, 105
Canadian 72, 164
in Louisiana 67, 72-6
in Missouri 68, 72-6
in New England 68, 72-6
Standard 72-6
in Virgin Islands 68, 72-6
French Creole, in Mauritius 71
frequency
and transfer 191, 201
and vulnerability to attrition 203, 204;
see also word frequency count
function, extension or reduction of 153
functional loss, and structural loss 42
256 Index
functional shift, and structural decay
108-10
functions of language 120-2
Gaelic, see Scots Gaelic
gender and plural tasks 201-3
generalization 10, 79, 152, 208
generalizations, learning and unlearning
of, 227-40
geographic factors 109
German 7-11, 44
in Australia 41
case marking 43
and English 189-206
and Hungarian 250
in Iowa 68
Pennsylvania 68, 125-37, 192; the
auxiliary du 131-3; case usage 128-31;
in Delaware 129; in Ontario 128;
word order 133-5
Standard 126
in Texas 68
Government and Binding Theory
(Chomsky) 27
grammar
core and periphery 12-13
reduced 102
shift 24; see also Transformational
Grammar; Universal Grammar
grammars
in contact 227-39
evolution of 227-40
'partially replicated' 81
possible types of evidence for
developing 231, Fig. 15.2
sources for creation and dissolution of
228-3
grammaticality
degrees of 190, 195-7
judgement 235-9, 242-9
judgement test (Koster) 89, 91-3, 96-7
group studies 85-171
Guugu Yimidhirr 113
Hungarian 7-11, 217, 241-51
and American English 250
in Austria 68, 164
and German 250
and Hebrew 241-9
Huntington's chorea 37, 39-40
hypothesis testing, in language
acquisition 228-31
hypothetical texts, 159-60
identity function 120-2
idiosyncratic template 184-7
immigrant communities 3, 4, 42-3, 67-8
contact and attrition 68-76
immigrant languages 125-37
indigenous communities 3, 68
contact and attrition 76-80
minority 42
individuals, attrition within 165, 168,
175-88
Indo-European languages 34, 79, 80
inflection, reductions in 68, 105-6
innovation
lexical 214
phonological 100-1
input
in attrition 22-4
'negative' 229-30
and parameter resetting 25-7
interaction effects 189-90
interference 7, 47, 80, 95, 100
asymmetry of 102-3
model of contact 67
interlanguage 5, 19-20, 22, 45
interlinguistic factors
in change due to contact 153, 154
in contact 7, 165-6
intermarriage, and dialect leveling 114
interpretation, of attrition data 17-30
intralinguistic factors
in change due to contact 153, 154
in contact 10, 166
invariable forms 74
handedness, in aphasia 57, 60-1, 62, 63
Hebrew
and American English 26-7, 139-50,
175-88
and English, word order in dative
sentences 231-3
and Hungarian 241-9
hemiplegia 37
hemispheric damage, in aphasia 57, 60, 63
Hindi
in Fiji 68
in Guyana 68, 71
in Mauritius 68
in Trinidad 68, 71
Jambun English 117, 121
Japanese 19-20
jargon aphasia 39
Kannada 77
knowledge 7, 18, 21
Konkani 68
Kriol 113
'language check mechanism' 190
lateral dominance for language 62
Latin 107
learnability, and attrition 17-30, 227-40
Index 257
learning factors
imperfect 43
and language loss 12, 44-5
'residual7
44
lexical borrowing 10, 102, 213
lexical creativity 104-5, 214
lexical decision reaction times 148, 190
lexical enrichment 102, 104
lexical fading7
107
lexical hybridization 10
lexical restructuring 248-9
lexical retrieval
difficulties in adult language attrition
139-50
features of the process 145-9
Inherently Neutral Specificity (INS) 148
and language attrition 140-1, 178
logogen model (Morton) 201
options 145-7, Fig. 10.1
reduction in accessibility 140, 145, 149
search model (Forster) 201
lexical similarity, and language loss 44
lexicon, externally induced change 10
linguistic aspects, of first language
attrition 6-11, 44-5
linguistic environment, impoverished 41
literature, language death and absence of
LI 88
loan translation 8-9
loss 31-51
across generations of speakers 42
in aphasics 53-63
at the individual level 165, 168
functional and structural 42
LI in an L2 environment 87-98
regression and language 37-45
as a result of brain damage 31
result of: economy of distinctions 120-2
rule 245-8
second language/foreign language 43-5,
46
'lowest common denominator' of
distinguishing features 123, 124
maintenance, language in bilingual
context 136, 227-40
Marathi 77
markedness
and attrition 10, 227
hierarchy of 165, Table 11.5
linguistic 191
psycholinguistic 191
theory of: and core/periphery
distinction 12-13; and creolization
164-5, 167; in UG 12-13, 25-6; see also
analogical leveling
markers, as symbols of the language 114,
122-3, 124
meaning extension 8
media, and dialect leveling 115; see also
radio; television
memory load, economizing 104
Mendelian genetics 36
Mennonites 127
Old Order 126-36
'message adjustment strategy' 208
metalinguistic abilities, assessment of 6,
21, 88, 89, 94, 233-6
metathesis process 246, 250
methodologies 3
monogeny 37
monostylism 101-2
morphemes, frequency and order of
acquisition 201
morphological complexity 33
morphological disintegration and
reconstruction 175-88
morphological similarity in transfer 200
morphology
externally induced change 9
internally induced change 10-11
morphophonemic system, paradigmatic
regularity in attrition 241-51
mother tongue shift 42-3
motivation, morphosemantic and
morphotactic 104, 105
multilingualism 3, 81
Murrinh Patha 113
muscular atrophy 37
mutations, 'default' 107
Nagamese 80
Nahuatl, in Mexico 68
natural languages, fixedness questioned
23
Natural Morphology 106, 107, 109
Natural Phonology 101, 109
naturalistic observations 175
naturalness parameters 10, 106
neologisms, processing of 104-5
neurolinguistics 26, 53-63
Nijmegen, University of, regression
studies 43
non-pathological language attrition, types
87
non-sectarian communities 125-37
null subjects 25
object naming tasks 143, 144-5
Old English 107
ontogeny, and phylogeny of language
32-7, 38
opacity, reduction of 241-9
overgeneralizations, learning and
unlearning of 201, 227-40
overlearning 45
overt comments 214
258 Index
palatalization 246-7
paradigmatic leveling 11; see also
allomorphic reduction
paradigmatic regularity, in first language
attrition 241-51
paradigms
elicitation of 241-2
evidence for reality of 249-50
parameter setting model 12-13, 17-30
resetting via input 25-7
paraphrase 208
pathology, regression and language 31,
37-40, 108-9
Pennsylvania German, see German,
Pennsylvania
perception, shift in at level of competence
19-20, 27
performance
attrition and competence 7, 17-21,
189-90
insecurity 109, 110
periphrastic constructions 68, 74
Pfalzisch 126
phonemes 31
phonetic similarity, and vulnerability to
attrition 200, 204
phonology
externally induced change 9
linear generative assumption 250
phylogeny, and ontogeny of language
32-7, 38
pidgin languages 164
and monostylism 102
restructuring in 81
Piel 184
Pitres, rule of 55
predictability, and vulnerability to
attrition 191, 201, 203, 204
prepositions, stranding 8, 25, 26-7, 232,
237
processing theories 20-1, 189-91
production, language 168-9
proper names, giving of in recessive
language 103-4
psycholinguistics 4-6, 14, 17-30, 227
purism, lack of 103
radio, and language death 117
recall, creativity in 28
recapitulation 31-51
'attrition variant' 36
hypothesis 31; problems in 32-7
reconstruction
of LI 184-7
morphological disintegration and 175-88
reduction 109
restriction in language input and use
and 209-25; see also allomorphic
reduction
redundancy, reduced 227-40
for dative in attrition 233-6
registers, distinguishing between 45
regression
hypothesis 31, 46: and aphasia 46
and language loss 37-45:
non-pathological 40-5
regularization 10, 79
relative clauses, pronouns in 13
relexification 103
reordering, rule 244-5
restriction in language output and use,
and reduction 209-25
restructuring
of grammar 19-20, 68, 80-2
lexical 248-9
reversion 41
Ribot, rule of 55
rule
generalization 7-8
loss 245-8
reordering 244-5
simplification 242-3
Russian, and English 209-25
Scots Gaelic, in East Sutherland 68, 76-7,
164, 169
search model of lexical retrieval (Forster)
201
second language acquisition, see
acquisition, second language
sectarian communities 125-37
Sele Fara/Zell Pfarre 105
selective blending contact 67
selectivity, in attrition 203, 228-31
semantic contiguity 208
semantic memory search 140-1
semantic transparency 154, 166
semantics, externally induced change 8-9
senile dementia 3
sentences
double object 238-9
free discourse 234-5
simplification 33, 79, 151-71
and attrition 6, 10, 13
definition 152
in normal language change 107-8
rule 242-3
stages in verb system 162, Fig. 11.3
simplified languages 164
situation (Comrie) 155-9, 168
Slovene Carinthian dialect 103, 105
social factors
in change due to contact 153-4
in contact 109-10, 166-7
sociolinguistic aspects, of first language
attrition 4-6, 17, 99-112
sociolinguistic context, and complexity 35
Index 259
sociolinguistic language decay, compared
with aphasic disturbances 109-10
sociolinguistic norms 136
South Asian languages 71
Spanish 25, 44, 194, 208
Bozal 80
Hispanoamerican 42, 151-71; verb
system 155-64
speaker perception of language 114, 122-3
speech community
dominant and recessive 103
enclave 67
and morphological complexity 33
speech task, structured spontaneous 21
structural decay, functional shift and 100,
108-10
structural loss, without compensation
107-8
stylistic effects 27, 29, 164
subordinate clause 8, 74-6, 119
Swahili 80
switching, language 135-6, 208
see also code switching
symbols of language, features as 122-3
symmetry, in construction and dissolution
of a language 38
syntactic judgement task 191-8
syntactic loss 192
syntactic transfer 213-14
syntax, externally induced change 7-8
synthetic forms, replaced by analytic 68,
74
tacit knowledge 7, 21
television, and language death 117
tense 152, 165, 168-9
testing techniques 17, 21-2
transfer 5, 7, 166
as borrowing 204
definition 152-3
in second language acquisition 190-1
Transformational Grammar (TG),
hierarchy of sentence structure 38
transliteration 208
transparency
maximization of 241-9
morphosyntactic 81
semantic 14, 154, 166
Tregorrois dialect 99-109
Umlaut 106
uniformity 33, 249, see also paradigmatic
regularity
Universal Grammar (UG) 12, 17, 25-7, 82
and cognitive factors 167
constraints on natural grammars 24-7
definition 154-5
innate principles 12
markedness in 25-6
role in bilingual development 4-6
universality, strategy of 154-5
universals in language 31, 36, 37-8, 227
unlearning process 227-40
unmarked forms 10, 12-13, 109
attrition of, see markedness
urbanization, and dialect leveling 115
Urdu, in Kupwar 68, 77-9, 80
Utrecht language loss study 21, 192
verb system
distinctive aspectual constructions 68,
74-5
tense-mood-aspect loss 151, 155-60, 165
verb usage task 198-200
verbal insertions
LI in L2 182-4
L2 178-80
vulnerability to attrition
assessment of first language 189-206
of grammatical structures 90
and level of proficiency 41
Waitabu, Taveuni Island, Fiji 114-17
Wik-Mungkan 113
word
coinage 208
formation rules 102, 104-5
frequency count (Meier) 201
replacement 144
retrieval, see lexical retrieval
stress 9, 105-6
word order 8, 68, 79
in dative sentences: English and
Hebrew 231-3
German 189, 192-8
judgements 236-8
