Language attrition 
attrition attributed to L2 influence has been documented. More recently, based
on findings which fail to detect such influence from L2 (e.g. Håkansson 1995),
approaches within the Minimalist Program have speculated on the possible
influence of another factor, namely that of [± interpretable], on language at-
trition (Montrul 2002, this volume; Platzack 1996; Sorace 2000). Such studies
predict that features at the interface between syntax and semantics (+inter-
pretable) will be affected by attrition, while ‘mere’ morpho-syntactic features
(–interpretable) will remain stable.
At the present stage of research, it seems likely that each of the linguistic hy-
potheses discussed above plays some role in L1 attrition. Kaufman (2001:186)
claims the coexistence of “(. . .) autonomous (language internal) processes
[that] trigger regression to earlier developmental forms and integrative pro-
cesses [that] generate forms that result from contact and interplay between the
native language and the dominant language of the environment.” In her study
on L1 attrition in Israeli children in the US, Kaufman identifies several areas
prone to attrition that can be qualified as an autonomous process, while other
areas appear more susceptible to integrative processes.12
. Psycholinguistic aspects
From a psycholinguistic point of view, it is hypothesised that insights into the
internal reasons for language attrition might help gain a better understanding
of the mechanisms underlying language processing and their interaction with
respect to two languages that can be considered to be in competition.13
These
aspects of L1 attrition have received little attention until now, despite the fact
that the evidence available suggests that attrition may be psycholinguistic in
nature (de Bot 2002).
One of the most important factors to be considered from a psycholinguis-
tic point of view is age. As Kaufman (2001:185) points out: “Attrition of L1
among older children and adults differs from the L1 attrition process among
pre-puberty children.” If there is one thing for which there seems to be ample
converging evidence, it is that L1 attrition in children is much more severe than
in adults (see above Section 2.1).
To explain the influence of this variable, two possibilities must be consid-
ered. The first of these is that attrition might be influenced by the same factors
which have led to the postulation of the critical period hypothesis, which as-
sumes that, due to brain maturation constraints, L2 learning becomes more
difficult past a certain age. With respect to L2 learningthere still is no consensus
on the existence of this critical period (see Harley & Wang 1997; Long 1993),
 Barbara Köpke and Monika S. Schmid
the end of which Lenneberg (1967) initially assumed to coincide with the be-
ginning of puberty (around age 12). It has since repeatedly been proposed that
the line should be drawn earlier at least with respect to some linguistic lev-
els. For phonology the critical period is generally assumed to end first, then
for syntax and morphology, whereas the lexicon appears least prone to these
restrictions. Since no consensus has been reached so far with respect to the ex-
istence and age limit of the critical period, Harley & Wang (1997) suggest that
a more appropriate concept would be a “sensitive period” which declines grad-
ually after the age of 6 or 7 years. With respect to attrition, the sensitive period
hypothesis would imply that the easier it is for the child to learn L2, the more
likely is it that she will forget her L1. The findings of empirical research so far
strongly suggest that it takes a certain number of years for the L1 to be com-
pletely established in the human mind/brain, and that before this moment, the
L1 can be easily replaced by another language (e.g. Nicoladis & Grabois 2002;
Pallier et al. 2003; Ventureyra & Pallier this volume). It is not clear at what
age the L1 can be considered to be fixed. Studies which comprise subjects for
whom the onset of attrition can be situated before and after puberty (Ammer-
laan 1996; Hakuta & d’Andrea 1992; Pelc 2001) have found age to be one of the
most important factors, whereas other studies that include only subjects who
immigrated beyond puberty (e.g. Jaspaert & Kroon 1989; Köpke 1999) do not
find age effects (see Section 2.1 above).
The second possibility is that literacy plays some role in the resistance to at-
trition, as has been suggested by Olshtain (1986), possibly in interaction with
age. The age limit up to which a very severe attrition process can set in for
children – until approximately 8 or 9 years – coincides with the time at which
most children can be considered to have acquired reading and writing skills in
at least one language (L1 or L2). Not only do these skills allow further contact
with the language in case of migration (via books, written correspondence,
etc.), it is also possible that they facilitate ‘fixing’ the language in the brain,
adding another network (see Köpke 2004 for a more detailed discussion). In-
deed, psycholinguistic models of the lexicon generally assume the written code
to constitute a supplementary set of linguistic representations in the lexicon, be
it in the form of independent modules (Caramazza 1988; Caramazza & Miceli
1990; Morton 1969) or in the form of new connections added to the existing
oral representations (e.g. Grainger 1993).
In addition to these complexities, it seems likely that the ‘fixing’ of the
language in the brain is not purely dependent on biological factors like brain
maturation and a sensitive period (if such a period could be established), but is
Language attrition 
also determined in interaction with factors of identification and emotion (see
Section 2.2 above).
Another question to be asked within the psycholinguistic perspective is
whether a language (and a fortiori an L1) can be truly lost (i.e. erased from
memory), or only become more and more inaccessible (cf. Sharwood Smith
& van Buren 1991:17). Fromm (1970) reports the case of a 20-year old man
who rediscovered a forgotten childhood language under hypnosis – and was
no longer able to understand what he just said in that language once awake.14
Such cases would suggest that there is no true forgetting (in the sense of the
disappearance of knowledge): things (and languages) only become inaccessible
once they are no longer needed.15
The first scholar to look at attrition from that point of view was Sharwood
Smith, who drew attention to the necessity of taking into account the distinc-
tion between competence and performance with respect to attrition data as early
as 1983 (Sharwood Smith 1983a). Attrition at the level of competence con-
cerns underlying linguistic competence and entails a restructuring of what is
known about the language (cf. Seliger 1989; Grosjean & Py 1991). At the level
of performance (or processes), attrition results in difficulties in control of that
knowledge (which may remain intact) (Ammerlaan 1996:18). Performance
attrition can be supposed to yield two types of phenomena.
The most common manifestations are word finding difficulties,16
docu-
mented extensively by virtually any attrition study addressing this question
(Ammerlaan 1996; Köpke 1999; Olshtain & Barzilay 1991; Waas 1996; Yağmur
1997). The clearest demonstrations of this ‘disorder’ can be found in Ammer-
laan (1996) and Hulsen (2000) whose studies are based on a psycholinguistic
design allowing a differentiation between productive and receptive language
skills with respect to the lexicon: both use a picture naming task to test lexical
retrieval (active retrieval of a lexical item from memory) and a picture-word-
matching task for testing lexical access (‘passive’ activation of an item by an
external stimulation). The results show that accessibility of the lexicon is clearly
reduced, as evidenced by difficulties in the picture naming task (which are quite
extensive in the case of the Ammerlaan study), whereas receptive skills mea-
sured in the matching task are less impaired (or even perfect in the case of the
Hulsen study with respect to first generation immigrants).
However, lexical retrieval problems are not the only manifestation of per-
formance attrition. Processing difficulties can be expected in close relation with
the cognitive demands of the tasks used for data collection (cf. Dussias 2002).
Due to changing dominance patterns between the two languages, subjects may
find it more and more difficult to inhibit the L2 while using the L1 in order
 Barbara Köpke and Monika S. Schmid
to prevent interference. This inhibition will then consume resources (Green
1986) which will be withdrawn from other levels of processing. At this point,
nothing is known about this kind of mechanism in relation to attrition, but
the few studies that do allow a comparison of performance across tasks find
variability in performance across all linguistic levels. For lexical retrieval, such
variability was found in the studies described above (Ammerlaan 1996; Hulsen
2000), but similar findings have been reported with respect to phonetic mea-
sures (Major 1992) and morpho-syntactic processing (Köpke 1999). Köpke’s
findings on this last point indicate that structures which are prone to errors in a
sentence generation task generate even more errors in a grammaticality judge-
ment task. The issue of performance variability is in obvious need of further
investigation, variability in performance suggesting strongly that L1 attrition
among adults is, in most cases, an issue of processing difficulties (see also de
Bot 2002).
Sharwood Smith further suggests that the competence/performance dis-
tinction he assumes for attrition may evidence itself in three distinct stages
(Sharwood Smith 1983b:51). The first stage would be characterised by sys-
tematic deviations in performance while competence remains stable. Stage II
is described as a transitional period where the bilingual is in possession of a
new (contact) variety, but preserves the ability to switch back to the old vari-
ety when required by the circumstances. Stage III would involve the emergence
of a new competence – possibly a reduced one, characterised by a decrease in
structures available to the speaker, but conceivably also an enriched one, where
the repertoire has been changed in line with universal grammar.
While there is as yet no evidence for such a restructured linguistic system
among adult speakers, Stage II can be illustrated by data from Major (1992), the
only attrition study focussing on phonetics. Major reports that in spontaneous
speech, some subjects in this multiple case study produce Voice Onset Times
(VOTs) in L1 (English) which are no longer native-like and clearly influenced
by L2 (Brazilian). However, in a more formal read-aloud task, the same subjects
produce more native-like VOTs. Further studies combining formal and casual
speech are clearly called for to establish whether such a co-existence of varieties
is confined to phonetics, or whether it can be observed in a similarly systematic
way on other linguistic levels.
A third psycholinguistic framework that attrition research has to take into
account concerns the notions of activation and inhibition, which are directly
related to the frequency of use or reinforcement of a linguistic system or of a
particular linguistic item/structure. An early proposal (Andersen 1982) was
that low-frequency items would be more vulnerable to attrition, and this as-
Language attrition 
sumption has been validated by experimental data since, at least with respect
to lexical retrieval (cf. Ammerlaan 1996; Hulsen 2000; Schmid forthc. b). From
a psycholinguistic point of view, this phenomenon can be explained within the
concept of activation, which has become very popular with the development of
connectionist models since the beginning of the eighties. Activation and inhi-
bition mechanisms, on one view, appear to account for the control of multiple
languages in the brain (Green 1986; Paradis 1993) as well as for changing dom-
inance patterns. The Activation Threshold Hypothesis assumes that items (or
languages) that are more frequently activated need less stimulation to be re-
activated than items (or languages) that are less frequently activated (Paradis
1985, 1993, 2001). Within this framework, attrition is thus predicted in the
form of reduced accessibility as a natural consequence of lack of language use.
However, it is only recently that the Activation Threshold Hypothesis has been
applied to language attrition data (Köpke 1999, 2002; Gürel 2004).
Further psycholinguistic approaches to language attrition are clearly called
for, in order to shed some light upon important methodological issues, such
as a more comprehensive understanding of the implication of age at attrition
onset,17
a better knowledge of task demands and their implications for the
study of attrition (see below, Section 4), or a better understanding of frequency
effects in the context of attrition.
It is nevertheless striking that all sociolinguistic factors which have so far
been established as bearing on the attrition process seem to have psycholin-
guistic consequences:
a. Education level: A higher education level can be supposed to lead to more
explicit knowledge of a language, which will make interference with im-
plicit competence less likely.18
b. Age of departure: In accordance with the sensitive period hypothesis, attri-
tion data suggest that the younger a child is when she changes her linguistic
environment, the higher the probability that the L2 will replace the L1.
c. Contact with L1: the amount of contact has direct consequences on fre-
quency of activation of L1, and thus influences the psycholinguistic balance
between the two languages.
. Conclusion
The outline of the predominant models applied in language attrition studies
presented above suggests a recursiveness in theoretical considerations. These
started from cognitive aspects with the regression framework, then moved to-
 Barbara Köpke and Monika S. Schmid
100
80
60
40
20
0
1982–1986 1987–1991 1992–1996 1997–2002
UG
Simplification
4M
Regression
Psycholing
Interlanguage
Figure 3. Theoretical frameworks
wards increasingly more rigorous assumptions based on various aspects of the
linguistic systems themselves, only to eventually arrive back at cognition and
psycholinguistic aspects of language processing.
This development in theoretical approaches is also evident in the inter-
est curves associated with these various frameworks within applied language
attrition studies.
The picture presented by this overview is a heartening one, since it suggests
a growing tendency to apply theoretically more rigorous models (evident, for
example, in the move from ‘simplification’ to the 4M-model), and also an in-
terest in psycholinguistic aspects. Based on this, our prediction is that language
attrition will be an interesting field to watch as it develops over the coming
decade(s).
. Practical concerns: Research designs
An important explanatory factor in the context of the wide variety of results
reported in language attrition studies is the nature of the data on the basis
of which ‘loss’ was assessed. This is a factor with two-fold importance, one
concerning the way in which the data was elicited and the other the phenomena
within these data which were selected for analysis.
A clear differentiation between elicitation designs seems all the more im-
portant for attrition research, since the evidence found in research on patho-
logical populations – among which the deficits can be expected to be much
Language attrition 
more severe – showed that performance is dependent on task demands (e.g.
Waters, Rochon & Caplan 1998). There is abundant evidence that the way a
specific linguistic structure is elicited may impact very heavily on the amount
of ‘errors’ an individual produces, particularly in linguistic situations that are
in some way ‘problematic’ (aphasia, agrammatism, dementia, etc., cf. Penke
1998; Waters et al. 1998). However, none of the existing studies on language
attrition have discussed the methods of elicitation used or considered the suit-
ability of the task to detect problems in language production which are the
outcome of the attritional process. There furthermore is a great amount of
variation in the research designs and elicitation techniques. This variation is
to a large degree conditioned by the discipline within which the individual re-
search is conducted. This split is most evident in the differences between L1
and L2 attrition research which, as was noted above, drifted apart in the 1990s.
Since that time, L2 attrition research has predominantly focussed on tests typ-
ically used for L2 acquisition studies, whereas L1 attrition has often tended
towards the broader survey techniques as applied by sociolinguistic approaches
on multilingualism and minority languages.
There appear to be three larger categories of data elicitation techniques in
L1 attrition research. The first one is to invite self-assessments (typically Can-
Do-Scales), the second involves ‘formal’ tasks targeted at eliciting the linguistic
structure or phenomenon of interest, and the third attempts to stimulate data
that are as close as possible to ‘natural’, i.e. unobserved, spoken data.
Self-assessments have to be considered a rather slippery factor in measur-
ing language attrition (for a discussion see Hulsen 2000:24), although there
does appear to be increasing evidence that they can be a relatively good pre-
dictor of L1 attrition as measured by more formal tasks. Various studies,
using Can-Do scales similar to the ones originally devised by Clark (1981)
find that self-assessments correlate with the linguistic scores achieved (Hulsen
2000; Yağmur 199719
) – it has to be added, however, that self-assessments have
also been found to be influenced by attitudinal factors (Hakuta & D’Andrea
1992:90). We would maintain that the usefulness of this type of data for stud-
ies investigating the (psycho)linguistic processes governing language attrition
is doubtful – the insights (if any) to be gained from this kind of test being
purely sociolinguistic.
In the category of formal elicitation techniques we find a wide variety of
tasks, the most frequent type being some kind of judgment task on semantic
or morphosyntactic features (Altenberg 1991; de Bot et al. 1991; Gürel 2002;
Grosjean & Py 1991; Jordens et al. 1989; Köpke 1999; McCormack this volume;
Münstermann & Hagen 1986; Pelc 1998; Polinsky 1994; Seliger 1991). The cor-
 Barbara Köpke and Monika S. Schmid
rection tasks employed in some studies (Jaspaert & Kroon 1989; Schoenmakers
1998) can be considered a variant of the judgment task, since subjects have to
judge the correctness of the linguistic material in order to correct errors. More
recently, truth-value judgments (described further in Gürel, this volume, and
Montrul, this volume) have been used within the generative approach. In order
to test general comprehension, editing tests (Jaspaert & Kroon 1989; de Bot et
al 1991) as well as sentence matching tests (Jaspaert & Kroon 1989) have been
employed. Other tasks attempt to tap more specifically into the production
skills on some linguistic feature, testing e.g. lexical retrieval via naming tasks to
elicit isolated words (Ammerlaan 1996; Dugas 2000; Isurin 2000; Schoenmak-
ers 1998; Hulsen et al. 1999) or words in context (Olshtain & Barzilay 1991), via
matching tasks (Ammerlaan 1996; Hulsen et al. 1999; Schoenmakers 1998), or
via fluency in controlled association tasks (Waas 1996; Yağmur et al. 1999). Pro-
ductive morphosyntactic skills are generally tested through the instruction of
inflecting a given word (or providing the relevant free morpheme) (Altenberg
1991; Bode 1996) or generating a certain kind of syntactic structure (Köpke
1999; Yağmur 1997).
This great variety makes overall observations about language attrition al-
most impossible, since findings from other fields of applied linguistics suggest
variance for at least some tests. While, for example, the validity of fluency tests
in assessing verbal retrieval difficulties (a test used frequently in attrition stud-
ies) has been demonstrated in adult aphasics (Goodglass & Kaplan 1983) and
healthy elderly speakers (see Goral 2004), these tests were shown not to be
an adequate tool to assess such difficulties in normal vs. language-disordered
children by Hall & Jordan (1987), who conclude that “word-finding prob-
lems may be symptoms of a variety of language problems and therefore elude
any single identification technique” (Hall & Jordan 1987:109). Verbal fluency
tests can thus not a priori be assumed to be a valid instrument in assessing
adult non-pathological language loss. It is furthermore important to remem-
ber that this test is a performance measure (not allowing for conclusions about
non-pathological language loss, only about accessibility) restricted to specific
lexical domains. As such, it certainly is a valid measure for lexical retrieval abil-
ities; but it has not been demonstrated whether the results of this and other
tests correlate with difficulties the attriter encounters in the production of un-
guided discourse. L1 acquisition studies suggest that elicited data often contain
a number of errors which dramatically exceeds that found in free discourse
(e.g. Clahsen et al. 1990:112; Penke 1998).
The most controversial task in this context is certainly translation – a
paradigm often used to assess language skills in shift/death studies (Dorian
Language attrition 
1982; Dal Negro 2001; De Kadt 2001; Elordui 2001; Smits 1996) but recently
also applied in language attrition (Ben Rafael 2001; Cuza 2002; Hirvonen 1995;
Macevichius 2001; Polinsky 1994; Schoenmakers 1998). It is unclear what skills
such tests attempt to measure, the activity of translation being a highly spe-
cialised one and not necessarily comparable to other kinds of linguistic ac-
tivities (see also Yağmur, this volume). Furthermore, there are three practical
reasons why we consider translation tasks at the very least highly problematic:
– translations have been shown to contain far more variation, and a far
higher number of unacceptable structures than spontaneous conversation
(Smits 2001:315)
– the nature of the task makes it difficult to compare findings against an
unattrited control group, since the distinction between attriters and active
bilinguals is a complex one
– translation tasks oblige the subject to activate the two languages simul-
taneously which may lead to interference (cf. also Grosjean 1998, for a
discussion of the role of monolingual and bilingual modes on bilingual
processing)
We would therefore suggest that controversies and debates on the validity of
specific research designs have to be pointed out and reflected in any study
using them.
Finally, a large number of attrition studies have attempted to stimulate
their subjects into producing data that resemble spontaneous speech as closely
as possible. This has been done by interviews of varying degrees of formal-
ity, or by eliciting a narrative on the basis of some kind of visual stimulus
(pictures or films). This method of data elicitation seems compelling, since it
attempts to measure attrition at the level at which it actually occurs, as against
the largely abstract skills that formal tests aim at tapping into. However, the
methodological concerns in working with free data are formidable, as the ques-
tion of how to quantify any of the findings in such a setting remains yet to be
settled (Schmid forthc. b), as does the question of how to address the issue of
avoidance strategies.
Obviously the manner of data elicitation can only ever be evaluated along-
side a fair consideration of the goals pursued, since they permit very different
conclusions. Naturalistic methods are ideal for global approaches, aimed at
measuring all aspects of performance, or for preliminary research in order to
identify sensitive areas. More formal tasks, on the other hand, allow for better
control of linguistic and psycholinguistic factors and should thus be applied
in the investigation of specific domains. It should nevertheless be kept in mind
 Barbara Köpke and Monika S. Schmid
100
80
60
40
20
0
1982–1986 1987–1991 1992–1996 1997–2002
Can-Do scales/self
reports
Lexical task
Grammatical task
Naturalistic data
Figure 4. Elicitation techniques
that the means of data elicitation should be carefully chosen in accordance with
the hypothesis to be tested.
That said, the application of the different tasks over the past two decades
appears to have remained relatively constant, with one exception: recently, self-
reports have been all but abandoned (Fig. 4).
The second issue raised above with respect to research designs concerns
the features of the data under observation which are actually used in the analy-
sis. The study of language attrition has always been the study of deviance. The
underlying and unquestioned assumption in practically any given study is that
to measure ‘mistakes’ in attrited language – mistakes of production, mistaken
grammaticality judgments, mistakes of grammar, mistakes of naming – is to
measure the degree of an individual speaker’s attrition. Furthermore, in many
cases no unattrited control group is used, so that the baseline for compari-
son is the tacit assumption of error-free homogenous native speech. The issue
of ‘mistakes’ is discussed in detail in Schmid (forthc. b, this volume). Suffice
it to say here that – methodologically or even fundamentally – this is a very
problematic concept for (at least) three reasons:
– establishing if a certain structure is a mistake or not is highly difficult –
‘right’ or ‘wrong’ being anything but discrete
– establishing a base-line for comparison in unattrited speech is equally
problematic
– the distribution of mistakes has to be correlated with the obligatory con-
texts, a comparison of the number of mistakes on two features is, in itself,
meaningless
Language attrition 
We would thus strongly advocate that future studies on language attrition
combine the analysis of ‘what went wrong’ with data on ‘what went right’ –
while using data from all three categories described above in order to make
correlations possible.
Conclusion and outlook
All of these considerations motivated us to attempt to initiate a ‘next phase’ in
language attrition research. We therefore published a call for papers for a three-
day symposium, inviting participants to explicitly address one or more of the
following questions:
Concerning data:
1. What is a ‘mistake’? How many judges do you need in order to establish
whether something is a mistake or not?
2. What are the differences in the occurrence of ‘mistakes’ in elicited vs. spon-
taneous data? What methods are there available to generate elicited data
that is more like spontaneous data?
3. Can a study of language attrition be confined to analysing interference
data, or is it necessary to also include an analysis of ‘proficiency data’ (e.g.
type-token frequencies, syntactic and morphological complexity etc.)?
Concerning data collection:
4. What are the possibilities and limitations of different tests, i.e. what are the
processing demands involved in a specific test and what kind of observa-
tions does it allow?
5. How does the procedure of data collection influence the results? (lan-
guage choice, bilingual vs. unilingual interviewers, codeswitching during
the test, etc.)
6. Is a control group necessary, and, if so, how do we establish one? (metho-
dological differences here include the fact that a control group should,
ideally, be unilingual – but that very often, choosing a unilingual group
of subjects will produce an average level of education that is much lower
than that of the group of attriters)
Concerning sociolinguistic factors:
7. What extralinguistic factors (age, education, gender etc.) do we have to take
into account?
 Barbara Köpke and Monika S. Schmid
8. To what degree do we have to allow for dialectal and sociolectal variation
among our attriters, and how do we control for that?
9. How do we account for variation in the socio-cultural environment and/or
history of the subjects and of its consequences on attitudes or motivation?
And finally:
10. If I could do the research all over again from the start, what would I do
differently?
These were the central issues dominating the structure of the conference. The
first day focused on issues concerned with theoretical frameworks, the sec-
ond day on issues of data collection, and the last day on data analysis. A large
number of issues and problems in connection with these overall topics were
raised, while at the same time many researchers had the chance to present their
research and findings to the community for the first time.
The purposes that we intended to achieve with this congress can be
summed up as follows:
1. To arrive at a clearer, and more explicit, picture of the theoretical models
that have been used to account for the findings in language attrition studies
than is usually presented
2. To achieve a better communication between researchers engaged in lan-
guage attrition studies, in order to make it unnecessary for everyone to
‘re-invent the wheel’ at the outset of their study
3. To achieve a level of consciousness about the benefits and disadvantages of
particular research designs and data elicitation methods
4. To begin forming an international network of attrition researchers
5. To achieve communication between ‘established’ scientists and young re-
searchers who are starting out in language attrition studies
We are pleased to state that, on all of these topics, great progress appears to
have been made during the symposium. Specifically,
1. In the course of the presentations, issues in connection with theoreti-
cal models such as the regression hypothesis and the Basic Variety in
L2 acquisition (Jordens), Universal Grammar (Montrul), language con-
tact (Muysken), dialectology (van Hout), psycholinguistics (Ventureyra),
sociolinguistics (Jääskeläinen), social networks (Kipp) – among others –
were raised.
Language attrition 
2. The presentations and discussions, both formal and informal, as well as the
connections formed and friendships struck at the conference gave all of the
participants a good overview of the state-of-the-art in current research.
3. Both presentations that explicitly focused on the merits and disadvantages
of specific elicitation methods (Altenberg & Vago, Schmid) and presenta-
tions and discussions about individual research projects (Hutz, Latkowska,
among others) greatly contributed to the overall understanding of prob-
lems concerned with specific research designs.
4. It was unanimously considered desirable to have follow-up events, such
as further conferences, an internet discussion list (which has since been in-
stalled, and to which many of the conference delegates as well as researchers
who were unable to attend have already subscribed), and a language attri-
tion website (in development on the server of the Vrije Universiteit).
5. As a follow-up, a graduate workshop took place at the Vrije Universiteit in
January 2003, under the auspices of Kees de Bot and Monika S. Schmid.
Overall, the strong presence of young researchers working on an MA (Lep-
panen, Weilemar), just starting a Ph.D. (Dostert, Jääskeläinen, Keijzer,
Opitz, Prescher, Thuss), or just having finished a Ph.D. (Gross, Gürel, Pelc,
Schmitt) as well as that of established scientists (de Bot, Dewaele, Dussias,
Jordens, van Hout, Muysken, Pavlenko, Vago) was one of the strongest and
most beneficial aspects of the conference.
The papers included in this volume fall into several groups. The first part fo-
cuses on theoretical and methodological issues of data collection and analysis,
beginning with Pavlenko’s contribution on the difference between L2 influence
on L1 on the one hand and L1 attrition on the other. This issue is a crucial
one, since it is generally assumed in attrition studies that all cases of inter-
ference are due to attrition, without taking into account that interference may
occur in ‘normal’ bilinguals as well. Jiménez Jiménez and Dewaele both present
innovative approaches to the study and analysis of attrition from the point
of view of attitudes, Jiménez Jiménez’ approach being located within a theo-
retical framework (Vygotskian Sociocultural Theory), while Dewaele chooses
a corpus-based approach. The methodological perspective is also reflected in
Altenberg & Vago’s article on the advantages and disadvantages of (and con-
clusions to be drawn from) grammaticality judgments. This reflection is im-
portant, as grammaticality judgments are still one of the most popular data
elicitation methods.
The second section contains a number of studies observing and describing
the process of attrition in a range of languages and settings. It is introduced
 Barbara Köpke and Monika S. Schmid
by Yağmur’s reflection and reassessment of his 1997 study on Turkish in Syd-
ney, followed by Ben Rafael’s large-scale study of ‘Franbreu’, the spoken French
of Israeli Francophones, presenting a qualitative analysis of language contact
phenomena (codeswitching, borrowing, interference) in different discourse
situations among Francophones in Israel. The interest of this approach is that
attrition is not seen as the only reason for modifications in language perfor-
mance. Instead, it attempts to investigate the difference between ‘contributions
and enrichments’ of Franbreu due to the language contact situation on the one
hand and what should be considered attrition on the other. Especially inter-
esting within this respect is the fact that the author takes her examples from
different informants involved in different communication situations varying
with respect to degree of formality. A rather different research design is chosen
by Hutz, who presents a detailed investigation of a written corpus spanning six
decades: a collection of letters written by a German speaker in emigration in
the US, the findings of which suggest that even after such a long emigration
span, attrition phenomena can be very minor indeed. The very opposite case
is documented in the last study in this section: Ventureyra & Pallier present an
investigation of the ‘lost language’ of Korean adoptees in France from a neu-
rolinguistic perspective, suggesting far more radical patterns of attrition than
documented by any other study so far.
The last section represents studies which interpret their data within the
range of a clearly defined theoretical framework, with a view to finding evidence
substantiating the model. First of all, there is a cluster of papers reporting on
studies carried out from the point of view of Universal Grammar, with very
suggestive findings. Gürel’s data on the L1 attrition of Turkish in an L2 English
context suggest that, as had been speculated (see above), similarity of languages
is a “necessary condition for transfer” (Altenberg 1991:203); i.e. that L1 forms
that have no analogue in L2 are more easily preserved than those which do have
an L2 equivalent. McCormack looks at a linguistic feature that is very similar to
that analysed by Gürel – constraints on reflexive binding – but investigates this
in the context of the L2 attrition of English in a Japanese context, concluding
that the attriting L2 system is still sanctioned by UG. Based on a very similar
approach, Montrul completes these findings with data from a study comparing
L2 learning and L1 attrition in the case of Spanish heritage speakers in the USA
who are furthermore confronted with the problem of incomplete learning.
Two further papers in this section report on studies carried out within
Myers Scotton & Jake’s Abstract Level and 4-M models. Gross investigates the
attrition of L1 German in late bilinguals, while Schmitt gives an account of the
attrition of L1 Russian in children (both studies are carried out in an L2 English
Language attrition 
environment). These papers suggest that attrition might not be a process the
effect of which is apparent across the entire morphological system, but that it
is selective, affecting some levels of abstract lexical structure before others. The
conclusions drawn from these studies can only be tentative, but the theoretical
framework presented here does look promising.
This selection of recent research and reflections on L1 attrition thus con-
stitutes a broad overview of the current state of the art and shows that attrition
research is indeed entering a new phase. While the definition of attrition is be-
coming more concrete and viable, aspects from various other disciplines are
permitting a broader view of the subject in all of its fascinating facets. At this
point, there is one thing that we can predict with absolute certainty for the
future of the discipline: the coming ten years will be exciting.
Acknowledgment
We would like to thank the following people for their useful comments on
earlier versions of this article, as well as for sharing their insights and expe-
riences with us during the writing process: Kees de Bot, Barbara Freed, Ayşe
Gürel, Merel Keijzer, Sjaak Kroon, Richard D. Lambert, Chris McCully, Aneta
Pavlenko, Robert Vago, Theo van Els, Bert Weltens.
Notes
. A large amount of the information on the background history of language attrition re-
search presented in this section comes from personal conversations and emails exchanged
with researchers who played ‘key roles’ in the first decade or so of the research. We are very
grateful to Kees de Bot, Sjaak Kroon, Richard D. Lambert, Robert Vago, Theo van Els, and
Bert Weltens for sharing their recollections.
. This remark was made in a keynote address at the 3rd International Conference on main-
tenance and loss of minority languages, Veldhoven, The Netherlands, Nov. 1998.
. These observations are based on an analysis of some 160 publications on attrition, i.e.
on non-pathological, intragenerational language loss (see also the annotated bibliography,
this volume). Where more than one publication exists about the same study, only the most
extensive one was counted (except in the case of pilot studies with a clear difference in the
data), leaving a body of some 100 publications. We tried to be very thorough in our in-
vestigation, but in this type of overview, the possibility of overlooking some studies can,
of course, never be totally excluded, so the figures presented here are to be considered
approximations, not the gospel truth.
 Barbara Köpke and Monika S. Schmid
. This problem is aggravated by the fact that Tilburg University Press, which published
many PhD studies and other works on language attrition – such as El Aissati 1997, Klatter-
Folmer & Kroon (eds.) 1997; Yağmur 1997 – went out of business, making it nearly impos-
sible to obtain copies of these important studies and collections.
. At least within the field of attrition research.
. In Ammerlaan’s study, age at departure varied from 6 to 29 years, and Pelc’s subjects
were between 8 and 32 years old when they left Greece, with 50 % of the subjects having
been between 12 and 17 years of age. Note however that Köpke (1999) found no age effect
among her subjects, all of whom were beyond puberty when they emigrated (14–36 years,
mean = 24 years), and neither did Schmid (2002) between her younger (11–16 years, mean
13.17) and her older (17–29 years, mean 22.53) group of emigrants.
. Note that there was a correlation between level of education and length of stay in Yağ-
mur’s attriting groups, which may have distorted findings here (Yağmur 1997:89).
. Note that in this study, it could not be prevented that the control group had a lower
education level than the experimental groups. This might well be the case for other attrition
studies too, since ‘unilinguals’ frequently have a lower education level than bilinguals or
polyglots.
. This approach is convincing, since most of her subjects were children or teenagers at the
moment of immigration and completed schooling in L2.
. Note that Jakobson modified his initial (1940) position later on (see Nespoulous 1997,
for more details).
. Unless embedded in a larger explanatory framework, as in the case of Seliger’s ‘Redun-
dancy Reduction Principle’ (see below).
. It is not clear from this research whether the coexistence of the two types of processes is
specific to attrition in children or if it can be observed to the same extent in adults.
. “The languages spoken by the bilingual may be said, metaphorically, to coexist in a state
of competition for a finite amount of memory and processing space in the mind of the
speaker.” (Seliger & Vago 1991:4)
. Note, however, that this finding has not been confirmed by another hypnosis study with
a similar case (As 1963).
. For a discussion of psychological theories of forgetting and their implications for attri-
tion, see Ammerlaan (1996:10–19).
. Note that word finding difficulties are also the most common disorder in all types of
aphasia, in healthy aging (see Goral 2004), as well as one of the most frequent performance
problems observed in young healthy unilinguals (particularly in case of fatigue, stress, etc.),
suggesting that lexical retrieval is one of the most vulnerable aspects of language processing.
. Note that there are no attrition studies of early bilinguals for whom the onset of attrition
is situated in adulthood after having passed through a period of balanced bilingualism. If
such a case exists, it should be added to the puzzle!
. For a discussion of explicit vs. implicit memory for bilingualism and second language
learning, see Paradis (1994, 1997).
Language attrition 
. We consider the self-report scale used by Ammerlaan (1996), which only allows for the
answers ‘yes’ and ‘no’ to questions such as “Can you speak Dutch?” or “Can you write in
Dutch?” to be too unspecific to yield interpretable results, and will not discuss it here.
References
Altenberg, E. P. (1991). “Assessing first language vulnerability to attrition”. In H. W. Seliger
& R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 174–188). Cambridge: CUP.
Ammerlaan, T. (1996). “You Get a bit Wobbly...” – Exploring bilingual lexical retrieval
processes in the context of first language attrition. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation,
Katholieke Universiteit Nijmegen.
Ammerlaan, T., Hulsen, M., Strating, H., & Yağmur, K. (Eds.). (2001). Sociolinguistic and
Psycholinguistic Perspectives on Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages. Münster:
Waxmann.
Andersen, R. W. (1982). “Determining the linguistic attributes of language attrition”. In
R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 83–117). Rowley,
MA: Newbury House.
Armon Lotem, S. (2000). “Language attrition: Why are resumptive pronouns so sus-
ceptible?” In S. C. Howell, S. Fish & K. Thea (Eds.), Proceedings of the 24th Annual
Boston University Conference on Language Development (pp. 58–67). Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla.
As, A. (1963). “The recovery of a forgotten language knowledge through hypnotic age
regression: A case report”. American Journal of Clinical Hypnosis, 5, 24–29.
Ben-Rafael, M. (2001). Contact de Langues: le français parlé des francophones israéliens.
Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, University of Tel Aviv.
Berman, R. A., & Olshtain, E. (1983). “Features of first language transfer in second language
attrition”. Applied Linguistics, 4(3), 222–234.
Bettoni, C. (1986). “Italian language attrition in Sydney: The role of birth order”. In
C. Bettoni, T. de Mauro, P. Crino, & J. J. Kinder (Eds.), Italian Abroad: Studies on
language contact in English-speaking countries (pp. 61–85). Sydney: Camilla Frederick
May Fndtn. for It. Studies.
Bettoni, C. (1989). “Language loss among Italians in Australia: A summary of current
research”. I.T.L. Review of Applied Linguistics, 83/84, 37–50.
Bode, S. de (1996). First Language Attrition: Productive Morphology Disintegration and
Neurobiological Support. A case study. Unpublished MA Thesis, Ponoma, CA: California
State Polytechnic University.
Bolonyai, A. (1999). The Hidden Dimension of Language Contact: The case of Hungarian-
English bilingual children. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Columbia, SC:
University of South Carolina.
Bonch-Bruevich, X., Crawford, W. J., Hellermann, J., Higgins, C., & Nguyen, H. (Eds.).
(2001). The Past, Present, and Future of Second Language Research: Selected Proceedings
of the 2000 Second Language Research Forum. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla.
 Barbara Köpke and Monika S. Schmid
Bot, K. de (2001). “Language use as an interface between sociolinguistic and psycholinguistic
processes in language attrition and language shift”. In J. Klatter-Folmer & P. Van
Avermaet (Eds.), Theories on Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages. Towards a
more integrated explanatory framework (pp. 65–81). Münster: Waxmann.
Bot, K. de (2002). “Language attrition – where are we and where are we going?” International
Conference on First Language Attrition. Amsterdam: 22–24 August 2002.
Bot, K. de, & Clyne, M. (1989). “Language reversion revisited”. Studies in Second Language
Acquistion, 11, 167–177.
Bot, K. de, & Clyne, M. (1994). “A 16-year longitudinal study of language attrition in Dutch
immigrants in Australia”. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development, 15 (1),
17–28.
Bot, K. de, & Fase, W. (Eds.). (1991). Migrant languages in Europe (=International Journal
of the Sociology of Language, 90). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Bot, K. de, Gommans, P., & Rossing, C. (1991). “L1 loss in an L2 environment: Dutch
immigrants in France”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition
(pp. 87–98). Cambridge: CUP.
Bot, K. de, & Weltens, B. (1985). “Taalverlies: Beschrijven versus verklaren”. Handelingen van
het 38e Nederlands Filologencongres, 51–61.
Bot, K. de, & Weltens, B. (1991). “Regression, recapitulation, and language loss”. In H. W.
Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 31–52). Cambridge: CUP.
Bouba, M., Filiaci, F., Heycock, C., Sorace, A., & Tsimpli, I. (2002). “Syntactic attrition in
Greek and Italian near-native speakers of English”. International Conference on First
Language Attrition. Amsterdam, 22–24 August 2002.
Brewer Bomar, K. E. (1982). “Second language lexical and syntactical interference on the first
language of two four year-old Spanish speakers”. Dissertation Abstracts International
(DAI). Ann Arbor, MI, 42(12), 5105A.
Brons-Albert, R. (1992). “Verlust der Muttersprache in fremdsprachiger Umgebung”. Info
DaF, 19 (3), 315–325.
Brons-Albert, R. (1994). “Interferenzfehler in der Muttersprache von in den Niederlanden
lebenden Deutschen”. In B. Spillner (Ed.), Nachbarsprachen in Europa (pp. 96–104).
Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Brown, J. C. (2001). L1 Attrition Among Native Speakers of English Residents Abroad: A
sociolinguistic case study from Foggia, Italy. Unpublished MA Thesis: University of
Surrey.
Caramazza, A. (1988). “Some aspects of language processing revealed through the analysis
of acquired aphasia: The lexical system”. Annual Review of Neuroscience, 11, 395–521.
Caramazza, A., & Miceli, G. (1990). “The structure of graphemic representations”.
Cognition, 27, 243–297.
Clahsen, H., & Muysken, P. (1989). “The UG paradox in L2 acquisition”. Second Language
Research, 5, (1), 1–29.
Clahsen, H., Rothweiler, M., & Woest, A. (1990). “Lexikalische Ebenen und morphologische
Entwicklung: Eine Untersuchung zum Erwerb des deutschen Pluralsystems im Rahmen
der Lexikalischen Morphologie.” Linguistische Berichte (Supp. 3), 105–126.
Language attrition 
Clark, J. L. D. (1981). “Language”. In T. S. Barrows (Ed.), College Students’ Knowledge
and Beliefs: A survey of global understanding (pp. 25–35; 87–100). New Rochelle, NY:
Change Magazine Press.
Clark, J. L. D. (1982). “Measurement considerations in language attrition research”. In R. D.
Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 138–152). Rowley, MA:
Newbury House.
Cuza, A. (2002). “Attrition and the ‘compounding parameter’: L1 Spanish in a con-
tact situation with English”. International Conference on First Language Attrition,
Amsterdam: 22–24 August 2002.
Dal Negro, S. (2001). “Language shift and change in a Walser dialect in Italy”. In
T. Ammerlaan, M. Hulsen, H. Strating, & K. Yağmur (Eds.), Sociolinguistic and
Psycholinguistic Perspectives on Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages (pp. 47–60).
Münster: Waxmann.
Dorian, N. C. (1982). “Language loss and maintenance in language contact situations”. In
R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 44–59). Rowley, MA:
Newbury House.
Dugas, L. G. (2000). “Attrition of pronunciation accuracy among advanced American
learners of French”. Dissertation Abstracts International, Section A: The Humanities and
Social Sciences (DAIA), 60(11), 3986.
Dussias, P. E. (2002). “What you see is not always what you get: Cognitive load disguised as
L1 attrition”. International Conference on First Language Attrition. Amsterdam, 22–24
August 2002.
Elordui, A. (2001). “Processes of language shift and loss: Evidence from Basque”. In
T. Ammerlaan, M. Hulsen, H. Strating, & K. Yağmur (Eds.), Sociolinguistic and
Psycholinguistic Perspectives on Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages (pp. 77–92).
Münster: Waxmann.
Els, T. van (1986). “An overview of European research on language attrition”. In B. Weltens,
K. de Bot & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress (pp. 3–18). Dordrecht:
Foris.
Fase, W., Jaspaert, K., & Kroon, S. (Eds.). (1992). Maintenance and Loss of Minority
Languages. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Fase, W., Jaspaert, K., & Kroon, S. (Eds.). (1995). The State of Minority Languages.
International perspectives on survival and decline (= European Studies on Multilin-
gualism 5). Lisse: Swets & Zeitlinger.
Frenck-Mestre, C. (1993). “Use of orthographic redundancies and word identification speed
in bilinguals”. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, 22 (4), 397–410.
Fromm, E. (1970). “Age regression with unexpected reappearence of a repressed childhood
language”. International Journal of Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis, 18, 79–88.
Fujita, M. (2002). “Second language English attrition of Japanese bilingual children”.
Dissertation Abstracts International, Section A: The Humanities and Social Sciences
(DAIA), 63 (1), 59–60.
Gardner, R. C., & Lambert, W. E. (1972). Attitudes and Motivation in Second Language
Learning. Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
 Barbara Köpke and Monika S. Schmid
Giles, H., Bourhis, R. Y., & Taylor, D. M. (1977). “Towards a theory of language in
ethnic group relations”. In H. Giles (Ed.), Language, Ethnicity and Intergroup Relations
(pp. 307–348). New York, NY: Academic Press.
Ginsberg, R. B. (1986). “Issues in the analysis of language loss: Methdolology of the
Language Skills Attrition Project”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language
Attrition in Progress (pp. 19–36). Dordrecht: Foris.
Goodglass, H., & Kaplan, E. (1983). The Assessment of Aphasia and Related Disorders.
Philadelphia, PE: Lea & Febiger.
Goral, M. (2004). “First-language decline in healthy aging: Implications for attrition in
bilingualism”. Journal of Neurolinguistics, 17 (1), 31–52.
Grainger, J. (1993). “Visual word recognition in bilinguals”. In R. Schreuder & B.
Weltens (Eds.), The Bilingual Lexicon (pp. 11–25). Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Green, D. W. (1986). “Control, activation, and resource: A framework and a model for the
control of speech in bilinguals”. Brain and Language, 27, 210–223.
Grosjean, F. (1998). “Studying bilinguals: Methodological and conceptual issues”. Bilin-
gualism: Language and Cognition, 1, 131–149.
Grosjean, F., & Py, B. (1991). “La restructuration d’une première langue: l’intégration de
variantes de contact dans la compétence de migrants bilingues”. La Linguistique, 27,
35–60.
Gross, S. (2000). The Role of Abstract Lexical Structure in First Language Attrition: Germans
in America. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Columbia SC: University of South
Carolina.
Gürel, A. (2002). Linguistic Characteristics of Second Language Acquisition and First Language
Attrition. Turkish overt versus null pronouns. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation,
Montreal: McGill University.
Gürel, A. (2004). “Selectivity in L2-induced L1 attrition: A psycholinguistic account.”
Journal of Neurolinguistics, 17 (1), 53–78.
Håkansson, G. (1995). “Syntax and morphology in language attrition: A study of five
bilingual expatriate Swedes”. International Journal of Applied Linguistics, 5 (2), 153–171.
Hakuta, K., & d’Andrea, D. (1992). “Some properties of bilingual maintenance and loss in
Mexican background high-school students”. Applied Linguistics, 13 (1), 72–99.
Hall, P. K., & Jordan, L. S. (1987). “An assessment of a controlled association task to identify
word-finding problems in children”. Language, Speech, and Hearing Services in Schools,
18, 99–111.
Hansen, L. (Ed.). (1999). Second Language Attrition in Japanese Contexts. New York, NY:
Oxford University Press.
Harley, B., & Wang, W. (1997). “The critical period hypothesis: Where are we now?”
In A. M. B. de Groot & J. F. Kroll (Eds.), Tutorials in Bilingualism. Psycholinguistic
Perspectives (pp. 19–52). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Hedgcock, J. (1991). “Foreign language retention and attrition: A study of regression
models”. Foreign Language Annals, 24, 43–55.
Hiller-Foti, I. (1985). “Erhebung über den Verlust der Muttersprache Deutscher Immig-
ranten in Sizilien). Rassegna Italiana di Linguistica Applicata, 17 (1), 107–110.
Language attrition 
Hirvonen, P. A. (1995). “Phonological and morphological aspects of Finnish language
attrition in the United States”. In W. Viereck (Ed.), Soziolinguistische Variation (pp. 181–
193). Stuttgart: Steiner.
Huls, E., & van der Mond, A. (1992). “Some aspects of language attrition in Turkish families
in The Netherlands”. In W. Fase, K. Jaspaert, & S. Kroon (Eds.), Maintenance and Loss
of Minority Languages (pp. 99–115). Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Hulsen, M. (2000). Language Loss and Language Processing. Three generations of Dutch
migrants in New Zealand. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Nijmegen: Katholieke
Universiteit Nijmegen.
Hulsen, M., de Bot, K., & Weltens, B. (1999). “Language shift, language loss and language
processing: An investigation of three generations of Dutch immigrants in New
Zealand”. In E. Huls & B. Weltens (Eds.), Artikelen van de Derde Sociolinguïstische
Conferentie (pp. 221–232). Delft: Eburon.
Isurin, L. (2000a). “Deserted islands or a child’s first language forgetting”. Bilingualism:
Language and Cognition, 3, 151–166.
Isurin, L. (2000b). “Mechanisms of First Language Forgetting”. Dissertation Abstracts
International, Section A: The Humanities and Social Sciences (DAIA) 60 (9), 3342.
Jakobson, R. (1941). Kindersprache, Aphasie und allgemeine Lautgesetze. Uppsala: Almqvist
& Wiksell.
Jaspaert, K., & Kroon, S. (1989). “Social determinants of language loss”. I.T.L.: Review of
Applied Linguistics, 83/84, 75–98.
Jaspaert, K., & Kroon, S. (1992). “From the typewriter of A.L.: A case study in language loss”.
In W. Fase, K. Jaspaert, & S. Kroon (Eds.), Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages
(pp. 137–147). Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Jaspaert, K., Kroon, S., & van Hout, R. (1986). “Points of reference in first-language loss
research”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress
(pp. 37–49). Dordrecht: Foris.
Jordens, P., de Bot, K., van Os, C., & Schumans, J. (1986). “Regression in German case
marking”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress
(pp. 159–176). Dordrecht: Foris.
Jordens, P., de Bot, K., & Trapman, H. (1989). “Linguistic aspects of regression in German
case marking”. Studies of Second Language Acquisition, 11, 179–204.
Kadt, E. de. (2001). “You still speak German? Teenage language skills in a German-
speaking community”. In T. Ammerlaan, M. Hulsen, H. Strating. & K. Yağmur (Eds.),
Sociolinguistic and Psycholinguistic Perspectives on Maintenance and Loss of Minority
Languages (pp. 61–76). Münster: Waxmann.
Kaufman, D. (1998). “Children’s assimilatory patterns and L1 attrition”. In A. Greenhill,
M. Hugehes, H. Littlefield, & H. Walsh (Eds.), Proceedings of the 22nd Annual Boston
University Conference on Language Development, I, II (pp. 409–420). Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla.
Kaufman, D. (2001). “Tales of L1 attrition – Evidence from pre-puberty children”. In
T. Ammerlaan, M. Hulsen, H. Strating, & K. Yağmur (Eds.), Sociolinguistic and
Psycholinguistic Perspectives on Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages (pp. 185–
202). Münster: Waxmann.
 Barbara Köpke and Monika S. Schmid
Kaufman, D., & Aronoff, M. (1991). “Morphological disintegration and reconstruction in
first language attrition”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition
(pp. 175–188). Cambridge: CUP.
Keijzer, M. (In preparation). First Language Attrition: A Crosslinguistic Investigation of
Jakobson’s regression hypothesis. Doctoral Dissertation, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam.
Kipp, S. (1999). “Networks and language use in an historical context”. Monash University
Linguistic Papers, 2 (1), 25–32.
Klatter-Folmer, J., & van Avermaet, P. (Eds.). (2001). Theories on Maintenance and Loss
of Minority Languages. Towards a more integrated explanatory framework. Münster:
Waxmann.
Köpke, B. (1999). L’attrition de la première langue chez le bilingue tardif: Implications pour
l’étude psycholinguistique du bilinguisme. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Toulouse:
Université de Toulouse-Le Mirail.
Köpke, B. (2000). “Effet du pays d’accueil sur le maintien de la langue. Le cas des
immigrés d’origine allemande”. Éducation et Sociétés Plurilingues/Educazione e Societa’
Plurilingue, 9, 59–65.
Köpke, B. (2001). “Quels changements linguistiques dans l’attrition de la L1 chez le bilingue
tardif?” TRANEL, 34/35, 355–368.
Köpke, B. (2002). “Activation thresholds and non-pathological L1 attrition”. In F. Fabbro
(Ed.), Advances in the Neurolinguistics of Bilingualism. Essays in honor of Michel Paradis
(pp. 119–142). Undine: Forum.
Köpke, B. (2004). “Neurolinguistic aspects of attrition” Journal of Neurolinguistics, 17 (1),
3–30.
Kuhberg, H. (1992). “Longitudinal L2-attrition versus L2-acquisition, in three Turkish
children – empirical findings”. Second Language Research, 8, 138–153.
Lachman, R., & Mistler-Lachman, J. (1976). “Dominance lexicale chez le bilingue”. Bulletin
de Psychologie, 15, 281–288.
Lambert, R. D., & Freed, B. (1982). The Loss of Language Skills. Rowley, MA: Newbury
House.
Lambert R. D., & Moore, S. J. (1984). “Recent research on language skill attrition”. ERIC/CLL
News Bulletin, 8, 1–8.
Lambert, R. D., & Moore, S. J. (1986). “Problem areas in the study of language attrition”. In
B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress (pp. 177–186).
Dordrecht: Foris.
Leisiö, L. (2001). Morphosyntactic Convergence and Integration in Finland Russian.
Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, University of Tampere.
Lenneberg, E. H. (1967). Biological Foundations of Language. New York, NY: Wiley.
Long, M. H. (1993). “Second language acquisition as a function of age: Research findings
and methodological issues”. In K. Hyltenstam & A. Viberg (Eds.), Progression and
Regression in Language: Sociocultural, neuropsychological and linguistic perspectives
(pp. 196–221). Cambridge: CUP.
Macevichius, J. (2001). “The beginnings of language loss in discourse: A case study of
referentiality in American Lithuanian”. In T. Ammerlaan, M. Hulsen, H. Strating, &
K. Yağmur (Eds.), Sociolinguistic and Psycholinguistic Perspectives on Maintenance and
Loss of Minority Languages (pp. 235–248). Münster: Waxmann.
Language attrition 
Mägiste, E. (1979). “The competing language systems of the multilingual: A developmental
study of decoding and encoding processes”. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal
Behavior, 18, 79–89.
Maher, J. (1991). “A crosslinguistic study of language contact and language attrition”. In
H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 66–86). Cambridge:
CUP.
Major, R. C. (1992). “Losing English as a first language”. The Modern Language Journal, 76
(2), 190–208.
McCormack, B. (2001). The Maintenance and Loss of Reflexive Anaphors in L2 English.
Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, University of Durham, UK.
Milroy, L. (1987). Language and Social Networks. Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
Minkowski, M. (1928). “Sur un cas d’aphasie chez un polyglotte”. Revue Neurologique, 49,
361–366.
Montrul, S. (2002). “Incomplete acquisition and attrition of Spanish tense/aspect
distinctions in adult bilinguals”. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 5, 39–68.
Morton, J. (1969). “Interaction of information in word recognition”. Psychological Review,
76, 165–178.
Münstermann, H., & Hagen, T. (1986). “Functional and structural aspects of dialect loss:
A research plan and some first results”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.),
Language Attrition in Progress (pp. 75–96). Dordrecht: Foris.
Myers-Scotton, C., & Jake, J. (2000). “Four types of morphemes: Evidence from aphasia,
codeswitching, and second language acquisition”. Linguistics, 8 (6), 1053–1100.
Nespoulous, J.-L. (1997). “L’aphasie progressive: un modèle pathologique ideal (?) pour
tester la validité de la théorie linguistique ou ‘si Jakobson avait connu l’aphasie
progressive”’. Revue de Neuropsychologie, 7 (1), 95–100.
Nicoladis, E., & Grabois, H. (2002). “Learning English and losing Chinese: A case study of a
child adopted from China”. International Journal of Bilingualism, 6 (4), 441–454.
Olshtain, E. (1986). “The attrition of English as a second language with speakers of Hebrew”.
In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress (pp. 187–
204). Dordrecht: Foris.
Olshtain, E. (1989). “Is second language attrition the reversal of second language
acquisition?” Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 11 (2), 151–165.
Olshtain, E., & Barzilay, M. (1991). “Lexical retrieval difficulties in adult language attrition”.
In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 139–150).
Cambridge: CUP.
Oxford, R. (1982). “Research on language loss – A review with implications for foreign-
language teaching”. Modern Language Journal, 66, 160–169.
Pallier, C., Dehaene, S., Poline, J.-B., LeBihan, D., Argenti, A.-M., Dupoux, E., & Mehler, J.
(2003). “Brain imaging of language plasticity in adopted adults: Can a second language
replace the first?” Cerebral Cortex, 13, 155–161.
Paradis, M. (1985). “On the representation of two languages in the brain”. Language Sciences,
7 (1), 1–39.
Paradis, M. (1993). “Linguistic, psycholinguistic, and neurolinguistic aspects of ‘inter-
ference’ in bilingual speakers: The Activation Threshold Hypothesis”. International
Journal of Psycholinguistics, 9 (2), 133–145.
 Barbara Köpke and Monika S. Schmid
Paradis, M. (1994). “Neurolinguistic aspects of implicit and explicit memory: Implications
for bilingualism and SLA”. In N. Ellis (Ed.), Implicit and Explicit Learning of Languages
(pp. 393–419). London: Academic Press.
Paradis, M. (1997). “The cognitive neuropsychology of bilingualism”. In A. M. B. de Groot
& J. F. Kroll (Eds.), Tutorials in Bilingualism: Psycholinguistic perspectives (pp. 331–354).
Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Earlbaum Associates.
Paradis, M. (2001). “An integrated neurolinguistic theory of bilingualism (1976–2000)”. In
R. M. Brend, A. K. Melby, & A. R. Lommel (Eds.), LACUS Forum XXVII. Speaking and
Comprehending (pp. 5–15). Fullerton, CA: LACUS.
Pavlenko, A. (2000). “L2 influence on L1 in late bilingualism”. Issues in Applied Linguistics,
11 (2), 175–205.
Pavlenko, A. (2002). “Bilingualism and Emotions”. Multilingua, 21 (1), 45–78.
Pelc, L. (2001). L1 Lexical, Morphological and Morphosyntactic Attrition in Greek-English
Bilinguals. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, New York: CUNY.
Penke, M. (1998). Die Grammatik des Agrammatismus: eine linguistische Untersuchung zu
Wortstellung und Flexion bei Broca-Aphasie. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Platzack, C. (1998). “The initial hypothesis of syntax: A minimalist perspective on language
acquisition and attrition”. In H. Clahsen (Ed.), Generative Perspectives on Language
Acquisition (pp. 369–414). Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Polinsky, M. (1994). “Strucutral dimensions of first language loss”. Chicago Linguistic Society,
30, 257–276.
Py, B. (1986). “Native language attrition amongst migrant workers: Towards an extension
of the concept of interlanguage”. In E. Kellerman & M. Sharwood Smith (Eds.),
Crosslinguistic Influence in Second Language Acquisition (pp. 163–172). New York, NY:
Pergamon.
Raidt, E. (1997). “Interference, shift and loss of Dutch in South Africa”. In J. Klatter-Folmer
& S. Kroon (Eds.), Dutch Overseas: Studies in maintenance and loss of Dutch as an
immigrant language (pp. 215–236). Tilburg: Tilburg University Press.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use, and Maintenance. The case of German
Jews in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam/Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Schmid, M. S. (Forthcoming a). “Identity and attrition: A historical approach”. To appear in
A. Pavlenko & J.-M. Dewaele (Eds.), Bilingualism and Emotions. Special issue of Estudios
de Sociolinguistica.
Schmid, M. S. (Forthcoming b). “Measuring language attrition in free speech: What’s in a
mistake?”. International Journal of Bilingualism.
Schmitt, E. (2001). Beneath the Surface: Signs of language attrition in immigrant children from
Russia. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, University of South Carolina.
Schoenmakers-Klein Gunnewiek, M. (1998). Taalverlies door Taalcontact? Een onderzoek bij
Portugese migranten. Tilburg: Tilburg University Press.
Seliger, H. W. (1989). “Deterioration and creativity in childhood bilingualism”. In
K. Hyltenstam & L. K. Obler (Eds.), Bilingualism Across the Lifespan (pp. 173–184).
Cambridge: CUP.
Seliger, H. W. (1991). “Language attrition, reduced redundancy, and creativity”. In H. W.
Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 227–240). Cambridge: CUP.
Seliger, H. W., & Vago, R. M. (Eds.). (1991). First Language Attrition. Cambridge: CUP.
Language attrition 
Sharwood Smith, M. A. (1983a). “On explaining language loss”. In S. Felix & H. Wode (Eds.),
Language Development at the Crossroads (pp. 49–69). Tübingen: Gunter Narr.
Sharwood Smith, M. A. (1983b). “On first language loss in the second language acquirer:
Problems of transfer”. In S. Gass & L. Selinker (Eds.), Language Transfer in Language
Learning (pp. 222–231). Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Sharwood Smith, M. A., & van Buren, P. (1991). “First language attrition and the parameter
setting model”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition, (pp. 17–
30). Cambridge: CUP.
Smits, C. (1996). Disintegration of Inflection: The case of Iowa Dutch. Unpublished Doctoral
Dissertation. Amsterdam: Vrije Universiteit.
Soesman, A. (1997). “An experimental study on native language attrition in Dutch adult
immigrants in Israel”. In J. Klatter-Folmer & S. Kroon (Eds.), Dutch Overseas: Studies in
maintenance and loss of Dutch as an immigrant language (pp. 181–194). Tilburg: Tilburg
University Press.
Sorace, A. (2000). “Differential effects of attrition in the L1-syntax of near-native L2
speakers”. In C. Howell, S. Fish, & T. Keith-Lucas (Eds.), Proceedings of the 24th
Boston University Conference on Language Development (pp. 719–725). Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Press.
Toribio, A. J. (2000). “Code Switching and minority language attrition: Papers from the 1999
Conference on the L1 and L2 acquisition of Spanish and Portuguese”. In R. P. Leow &
C. Sanz (Eds.), Spanish Applied Linguistics at the Turn of the Millennium (pp. 174–193).
Somerville, MA: Cascadilla.
Turian, D., & Altenberg, E. P. (1991). “Compensatory strategies of child first language
attrition”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 207–226).
Cambridge: CUP.
Vago, R. M. (1991). “Paradigmatic regularity in first language attrition”. In H. W. Seliger &
R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 241–252). Cambridge: CUP.
Waas, M. (1996). Language Attrition Downunder. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Waters, G. S., Rochon, E., & Caplan, D. (1998). “Task demands and sentence comprehension
in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer’s type”. Brain and Language, 62, 361–397.
Weltens, B., de Bot, K., & van Els, T. (Eds.). (1986).Language Attrition in Progress. Dordrecht:
Foris.
Weinreich, U. (1953). Languages in Contact: Findings and problems. New York, NY: Linguistic
Circle of New York.
Yağmur, K. (1997). First language Attrition Among Turkish Speakers in Sydney. Tilburg:
Tilburg University Press.
Yağmur, K., de Bot, K., & Korzilius, H. (1999. “Language attrition, language shift and
ethnolinguistic vitality of Turkish in Australia”. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural
Development, 20 (1), 51–69.
Yoshitomi, A. (1994). “The attrition of English as a second language of Japanese returnee
children”. Dissertation Abstracts International (DAI) 55(3), 553A.
P I
Theoretical models
and methodological aspects
L2 influence and L1 attrition
in adult bilingualism
Aneta Pavlenko
Temple University
Introduction
The goal of this paper is to examine the relationship between first language
(L1) attrition and second language (L2) influence on the first in individual
adults. I will argue that L2 influence on L1 is a phenomenon in its own right
and cannot always be taken as evidence of L1 attrition (for an up-to-date treat-
ment see Cook 2003). My discussion will be organised around a classificatory
Crosslinguistic Influence (CI) framework, proposed earlier (Pavlenko 2000).
This framework differentiatesbetween five processes in the interaction between
two languages:
1. borrowing, or addition of L2 elements to the L1 (e.g., lexical borrowing);
2. restructuring, or deletion or incorporation of L2 elements into L1 resulting
in some changes, substitutions, or simplifications (e.g., syntactic restruc-
turing or semantic extensions);
3. convergence, or creation of a unitary system, distinct from both L1 and L2
(e.g., production of consonants that are situated at a mid point between
the L1 and L2 values);
4. shift, or a move away from L1 structures or values to approximate L2
structures or values (e.g., a shift in typicality, category boundaries, or
consonant values);
5. attrition, i.e. loss of some L1 elements, seen in inability to produce, per-
ceive, or recognise particular rules, lexical items, concepts, or categorical
distinctions due to L2 influence.
 Aneta Pavlenko
This list does not aim to be final nor exhaustive, rather I propose this frame-
work in the spirit of scholarly discussion and discovery. In illustrating the pro-
cesses, I will draw on my research with Russian L2 users of English (Pavlenko
2002, 2003a, b), on other scholarly investigations, and on personal narratives of
adult bilinguals. The discussion below will be limited to L2 influence on L1 in
adults and will leave out childhood bilinguals, as well as interactions between
three or more languages. It is theoretically grounded in Grosjean’s (1998) and
Cook’s (1991) view of bilinguals or L2 users as people with unique linguis-
tic competence, which Cook (1991) terms multicompetence. This perspective
emphasises the dynamic nature of bilingual competence whereby speakers’
use of their linguistic and conceptual repertoires is influenced both by their
interlocutors and the linguistic and social context of the interaction.
. Borrowing
The first process in the CI framework is borrowing of new elements, which is
most visible in the lexicon, but can also surface in pragmatics or in rhetoric.
Oftentimes, lexical borrowing is used as one of the indicators of L1 attrition.
Sometimes this indeed could be the case, yet I want to bring up two caveats
with regard to borrowing as a sign of L1 attrition.
Firstly, research indicates that some – although clearly not all – lexical bor-
rowing in the L2 context stems from the need to name new objects and new
types of relationships, or recognise new conceptual distinctions (cf. Andrews
1999). For instance, Russian L2 users of English in the US use phonologi-
cally and morphologically assimilated lexical borrowings, such as intruzivnost’
‘intrusiveness’, dauntaun ‘downtown’, lendlord ‘landlord’, apointment ‘appoint-
ment’, or boifrend ‘boyfriend’, all of which correspond to concepts non-existent
in Russian culture (Andrews 1999; Pavlenko 2003a; Pavlenko & Jarvis 2002).
While this is not the only kind of borrowing possible, I argue that if the lexical
item does not have an L1 translation equivalent, we cannot take the use of the
item as a sign of L1 attrition – rather, from a multicompetence perspective, it
signifies an enrichment of the bilingual’s linguistic and conceptual repertoire.
This enrichment is also visible in cases of loan translation, or literal trans-
lation of compound words, idioms, and lexical collocations from the L2, such
as ones produced by the Russian L2 users of English in my studies (Pavlenko
2003a, b):
L2 influence and L1 attrition in adult bilingualism 
(1) a. он... мм... вторгается в её одиночество
‘ he... uhm... invades her solitude’
b. он вторгается в её эмоции, чувства
‘he invades her emotions, feelings’
Russian lacks the notion of privacy, and thus in order to describe what they see
as an invasion of privacy the participants have to appeal to its closest equiva-
lents in Russian, such as odinochestvo ‘solitude’, and at times violate semantic
and morphosyntactic constraints of standard Russian. The participants’ self-
corrections, hesitations, pauses, and metalinguistic comments indicate that
they are aware of lexical retrieval difficulties in on-line speech. Some explic-
itly admit difficulties in expressing their thoughts in Russian when particular
concepts, such as privacy, are involved. The participants are also aware of the
fact that in cases like this it is the conceptual differences between their two
speech communities, rather than L1 attrition, that lead to difficulties in word
choice and self-expression in the first language:
(2) a. Или, например, privacy... какая privacy?.. по-русски этого нету,
я не могу сказать по-русски, знаешь, ну я могу сказать ‘‘Я
хочу побыть одна’’, но это звучит слишком драматично, да?..
когда ты говоришь по-английски “I need my privacy” это более
как ежедневная вещь и никто, никого это не волнует...
‘Or take, for instance, privacy... what privacy?.. in Russian this doesn’t
exist, I cannot say in Russian, you know, well, I can say “I want to be
alone”, but this sounds too dramatic, yes?.. when you say in English
“I need my privacy” this is more like an everyday thing and no one, it
doesn’t bother anyone...
b. мне пришло в голову понятие, но я не нашел слов в русском
языке, чтобы это описать... в общем, пришлось бы достаточно
долго и неточно как-то описывать
‘A notion came to me, but I didn’t find Russian words to describe it...
I would have had to describe it for a long time and inexactly’
Secondly, even if there appears to be an L1 translation equivalent, lexical bor-
rowing may take place to emphasise particular conceptual distinctions and the
two lexical items may co-exist to signify distinct conceptual entities. In stud-
ies conducted with Cuban immigrants in the US, Otheguy and Garcia (1988,
1993) found that these Spanish-English bilinguals do not always find tradi-
tional Spanish terms congruent with their new circumstances. For instance,
the informants indicated that the rather informal and easy-going solicitud ‘job
 Aneta Pavlenko
application’ is not really a translation equivalent of the bureaucratic ‘applica-
tion’ and so they adopted the form aplicacion. The researchers have found that
translation equivalents, such as ‘Easter’ and Semana Santa, el lunchroom and el
comedor escolar, el bildin and el edificio, involve different visual images and con-
ceptualisations for the study participants. They showed that both sets of words
are active in the bilinguals’ repertoires and their use is entirely determined by
the context of the interaction.
Consequently, I argue that the use of lexical borrowing should not nec-
essarily be taken as a sign of L1 attrition without a close examination of the
type of borrowing and the reasons for which particular lexical items have been
borrowed. Lexical borrowing is evidence of L1 attrition only in cases where
an exact L1 equivalent exists but is no longer available to the speaker in either
production or comprehension, even when tested in a monolingual L1 context
(or at least, when a retrieval of such an item causes significant difficulty and
delay). In all other cases, the use of a borrowed lexical item – especially in an
L2 context or with a bilingual interlocutor – should not be taken as a sign of
L1 attrition, since it is quite possible that the same bilingual may appeal to the
L1 translation equivalent in a different setting. When L1 translation equiva-
lents do not exist, as in the case of privacy in Russian, the disfluency in the L2
users’ speech is not a sign of L1 attrition but evidence of conceptual/cultural
differences between the two speech communities, while lexical borrowings are
evidence of expansion of L2 users’ conceptual repertoires. Jarvis (2003) makes
a similar argument about incorporation of morphosyntactic rules suggesting
that in the speech of a Finnish L2 user of English in his study, L1 rules and
structures have remained intact, and were augmented rather than replaced by
L2 rules, structures, and meanings.
. Restructuring
The next process, restructuring, typically involves a deletion of certain L1 ele-
ments and/or addition of L2 elementsinto L1. It often occurs in morphosyntax,
whereby the L2 rules may be incorporated – perhaps temporarily – into the L1
grammar. To date, morphosyntactic restructuring has been documented in the
areas of case-, gender-, and number-marking (Håkansson 1995; Schmid 2002),
preposition choice (Jarvis 2003; Py 1986; Schmid 2002), and word-order rules
and subcategorisation (Boyd & Andersson 1991; de Bot & Clyne 1994; Py 1986;
Schmid 2002; Seliger & Vago 1991; Waas 1996).
L2 influence and L1 attrition in adult bilingualism 
Restructuring has also been documented in the study of the lexicon, where,
on the one hand, meanings of L2 translation equivalents may be incorporated
into the L1 word in semantic extension, and, on the other, certain L1 mean-
ings may be subject to attrition in semantic narrowing. An example of semantic
extension is the use of the verb correr ‘to run’ in the speech of Cuban immi-
grants in the US, where, under the influence of English, the verb has acquired
the metaphoric meaning of running for office, e.g. correr para gobernador ‘to
run for governor’ (Otheguy & Garcia 1988). An example of semantic narrow-
ing is seen in the use of emotion adjectives by Russian L2 users of English in
my studies (Pavlenko 2002, 2003a):
(3) a. но ещё была очень как бы... зла на кого-то
‘and also [she] was very somehow... angry at someone’ (an appropri-
ate lexical choice would be сердита ‘cross, angry at the moment’)
b. она видит, что её дочь не очень такая... счастливая
‘she sees that her daughter is not that... happy’ (an appropriate lexical
choice would be недовольная ‘dissatisfied’ or грустная ‘sad’)
Russian has three translation equivalents of angry – serdityi ‘cross’, ‘angry at
the moment’, zloi ‘malicious’, ‘very angry’, ‘mean’ (typically used as a personal-
ity characteristic), and gnevnyi ‘irate’, ‘in wrath’ – each more intense than the
preceding one. An analysis of stories elicited by the same stimuli from Russian
monolinguals and Russian L2 users of English showed that in descriptions of
the same woman, monolinguals favoured the term serditaia ‘cross/Fem’, while
some bilinguals inappropriately used the short adjective zla ‘malicious’, ‘mean/
Fem’ (the closest formal translation equivalent of ‘angry’).
In the second example, the participant similarly misused the adjective
(ne)schastlivaia ‘unhappy’ which would have been appropriate in English but
not in Russian. While in English ‘unhappy’ could mean ‘temporarily dis-
pleased’ or ‘dissatisfied’, the Russian translation equivalent typically refers to
a more permanent state of unhappiness, sadness, or continuous lack of luck. In
both cases, the speakers appear to have collapsed the distinctions between two
Russian translation equivalents of an English word and used literal translations
of the English terms, inappropriate semantically in these contexts.
Intriguing evidence of restructuring in collocational knowledge is offered
by Laufer (2003). In 40% of the cases her study participants, Russian immi-
grants in Israel, were unable to identify collocations based on the L2 patterns
as incorrect. For instance, they now linked the words telefon ‘telephone’ or tele-
vizor ‘TV’ to the word ‘close’, since in Hebrew one ‘closes the telephone or TV’
 Aneta Pavlenko
while in Russian you put the receiver down (polozhit’ trubku) and turn off the
TV (vykluchit’ televizor).
To date restructuring has been documented mostly in on-line production
and, in a few cases, in metalinguistic judgments. Jarvis’ (2003) study offers
strong evidence in favour of triangulation of elicitation methods. The Finnish
L2 user of English in his study was found to judge some of the structures and
uses as inappropriate for conventional Finnish – yet she was heard using the
same structures later the same day. Consequently, I suggest that to count as evi-
dence of L1 attrition, restructuring has to be demonstrated in both production
and perception/comprehension in at least two ways: (a) through grammati-
cality or semantic judgments distinct from those offered by monolingual L1
speakers; (b) through processing delays in production and comprehension dif-
ficulties. It is also important to examine whether restructuring, and in particu-
lar semantic narrowing and extension, are limited to bilingual and L2 contexts
or if the L2 users would resort to these rules and items in monolingual L1
contexts as well.
. Convergence
The third process identified in the CI framework is convergence. Convergence
of L1 and L2 values, distinctions, or boundaries, has been best documented in
the areas of phonology and conceptual representation. The research paradigm
most commonly employed in the studies of bilinguals’ phonology is perception
and production of stop voice onset time (VOT), which is a sufficient acoustic
cue for distinguishing between initial stop consonants in many languages. Even
though VOT is just one feature characterising one’s production and percep-
tion, several studies have confirmed that VOT values are closely correlated with
overall judgments on the ‘nativeness’ or ‘accentedness’ of one’s speech (Flege &
Eefting 1987; Major 1992). Convergence of L1 and L2 VOT values was docu-
mented by Major (1992, 1993) in the speech of English-Portuguese bilinguals
and by Flege (1987) in the speech of French-English bilinguals.
Where concepts are concerned, convergence entails a creation of a uni-
tary concept, domain, or system, distinct from both the L1- and L2-based.
For instance, Ervin-Tripp (1961) found that colour categories used by Navaho-
English bilinguals differed systematically from the monolingual norms in the
respective languages. Her findings were confirmed in a study by Caskey-
Sirmons and Hickerson (1977) which showed that speakers of several lan-
guages who learned English in adulthood mapped larger total colour areas,
L2 influence and L1 attrition in adult bilingualism 
had less stable colour category boundaries and more variable category foci than
monolingual speakers.
At present, more information is needed to decide whether convergence is a
temporary or permanent phenomenon, exhibited only in L2 contexts, or also
in the L1 environment. If the effects are stable and exhibited systematically in
a variety of contexts, they may indeed be evidence of L1 attrition.
. Shift
The fourth process specified by the CI framework is a shift which is seen as
a move away from L1 structures, boundaries or values toward those specified
by the L2. This phenomenon is most often evidenced in phonology and in the
mental lexicon. In the study of phonology it has been documented by Williams
(1979, 1980) who found L2 influence on L1 in both production and perception.
In her studies Spanish teenagers shifted from a Spanish-like to an English-like
manner in producing both English and Spanish word-initial tokens. What is
particularly interesting and important here is that these teenagers also exhib-
ited a gradual shift from a Spanish-like to an English-like pattern in perception,
evident in their labelling the VOT series: all discrimination peaks were found
close to the area of the English contrast.
In the mental lexicon, studies found evidence of shift in typicality judg-
ments of Spanish L2 users of Hebrew (Shimron & Chernitsky 1995), lexical
associations of English L2 users of Spanish (Grabois 1999), and linguistic fram-
ing of emotions by Russian L2 users of English (Pavlenko 2002, 2003a; Pavlenko
& Jarvis 2002). And in the study of pragmatics, Tao and Thompson (1991)
documented a shift in the backchanneling behaviour of Mandarin L2 users of
English who made extensive use of American English backchannel strategies in
conversations with Mandarin-speaking interlocutors.
Once again, however, these studies were conducted in the L2 context. To
decide whether they offer evidence of a temporary shift or of L1 attrition, we
need to examine metalinguistic judgments of the bilingual participants and
their verbal behaviour in a monolingual L1 context.
. Attrition
Since I have argued that none of the four processes above could be unprob-
lematically considered evidence of L1 attrition, it is reasonable to ask: what
 Aneta Pavlenko
could be taken as evidence? In the view adopted here, L2 influence on L1 is
seen as an either temporary or permanent phenomenon which is exhibited
predominantly in the L2 or bilingual contexts or in the presence of bilingual
interlocutors, but does not signify that corresponding L1 lexical items, rules, or
distinctions have been permanently lost. In turn, L1 attrition involves a more
or less permanent restructuring, convergence, or loss of previously available
phonological and morphosyntactic rules, lexical items, concepts, classification
schemas, categorical distinctions, and conversational and narrative conven-
tions, exhibited not only in the L2 but also in a monolingual L1 context, and
not only in production but also in perception and comprehension.
In phonology, this means, first of all, that the L2 user would no longer be
perceived as a native speaker of his or her L1 when interacting with monolin-
gual speakers of the L1. Anecdotal evidence suggests that this may indeed be
the case for some adult bilinguals. For instance, in Latomaa’s (1998) study of
English L2 users of Finnish, one of the American informants complained: “Af-
ter five years here in Finland I went back to the States and the neighbours asked
which country I am from” (p. 65). Similarly, in my study (Pavlenko 2003a), an
18 year old Russian L2 user of English who had arrived in the US four years
previously, mentioned that during his annual summer visits to Moscow peo-
ple tease him about his Russian: “they say that I have an accent in Russian
(laughs)... no, I don’t make mistakes, but... I have a bit of an accent...” Hypo-
thetically, attrition in phonology should also imply that some bilinguals – just
like foreign language learners – will exhibit perception/decoding delays and
problems interpreting L1 intonation patterns.
Since L1 attrition of morphosyntactic competence is widely addressed else-
where in this volume, I will only mention it briefly, stating once again that
convincing evidence of such attrition should include studies of L2 users’ spon-
taneous and elicited production in monolingual L1 contexts and studies of L2
users’ perception, comprehension, and metalinguistic judgments of L1 rules
and constraints. In the mental lexicon, evidence of attrition, as mentioned
earlier, would encompass L2-influenced use of L1 words and expressions in
monolingual L1 contexts (given availability of L1 translation equivalents) and
difficulties in perception, comprehension, and metalinguistic judgments of the
use of L1 lexical items.
Finally, in pragmatics, L1 attrition would involve a loss of pragmatic com-
petence, that is, the inability to interpret particular illocutionary intentions.
Anecdotal evidence suggests that this may be the case for some bilinguals. For
instance, Kyoko Mori (1997), a Japanese woman who has lived in the US for
20 years since the age of 20, complains that while in the Midwest she can per-
L2 influence and L1 attrition in adult bilingualism 
fectly well distinguish symbolic invitations from the real ones, this is not the
case in Japan:
(4) In Japan, there are no clear-cut signs to tell me which invitations are real
and which are not. People can give all kinds of details and still not expect
me to show up at their door or call them from the train station. I cannot
tell when I am about to make a fool of myself or hurt someone’s feelings
by taking them at their word or by failing to do so. (p. 10)
Another area of loss in pragmatic competence, identified by Mori (1997), con-
cerns the level of politeness in conversation:
(5) I can only fall silent because thirty seconds into the conversation, I have
already failed at an important task: while I was bowing and saying hello,
I was supposed to have been calculating the other person’s age, rank, and
position in order to determine how polite I should be for the rest of the
conversation. (p. 11)
Similar personal insights are available on the subject of L2 influence on L1 in
rhetoric. These insights come from two distinguished linguists, Ulla Connor
(1999), a renowned expert on L1 transfer in L2 rhetoric, and Suresh Canagara-
jah (2001), a well-known scholar working on acquisition of second language
and literacy. Connor (1999) tells how she went back to Finland, her native
country, after having spent several years in the United States, writing in En-
glish. In Finland, she was supposed to co-author a Finnish language manual
on writing grant proposals in English. She found the process of collabora-
tion extremely difficult, as her views on organisation of the material differed
from those of her Finnish co-authors. When the first draft of the manual ap-
peared incoherent to her, Connor attempted to argue with her colleagues that
the main point should be in the beginning of the paragraph, followed by ex-
amples supporting the point. At the end, however, the researcher realised the
extent of her own Americanisation: the changes she suggested were inappro-
priate for Finnish rhetoric style. Not surprisingly, no major changes based on
her suggestions were included in the final version of the Finnish booklet.
Similarly, Canagarajah (2001) recalls that when he returned to Sri Lanka
and attempted to write articles in the local vernacular Tamil, his native lan-
guage, his papers, structured in the manner of an American expository essay –
announcing the thesis, delineating the steps of his argument, and proving
the points – disappointed and angered his colleagues. Even some of his own
students told him that “the introductory paragraph had sounded a bit too
pompous and over-confident” (Canagarajah 2001:31) and reminded him that
 Aneta Pavlenko
in the vernacular tradition one opens the paper with a brief confession of one’s
limitations and a praise for the knowledge of the audience.
Finally, my own studies documented conceptual attrition that is slowly tak-
ing place in the mental lexicon of Russian-English bilinguals (Pavlenko 2002,
2003a, b). In the interview below, Julia, a 25 year old female study participant
who arrived in the US 5 years earlier, complains that her Russian is no longer
adequate to describe some of her thoughts and feelings:
(6) Что я хочу сказать? Что я чувствую себя все более и более clumsy,
неловко, когда я говорю по-русски, мне трудно подбирать слова, и
очень часто мне кажется, что мне легче выразить это по-английски,
даже не потому что я не знаю слов по-русски, а потому что
выражение, которое я хочу употребить в данной ситуации, оно
настолько английское, и оно настолько... например... что-то очень
трудно сделать, да?.. и я не знаю получится у меня или нет, я
говорю себе сама по-английски “I can make it”... почему – потому
что по-русски это не звучит, это не то же самое, и нету такой...
уверенности, что ты, да, ты сможешь это сделать, нет такой бравады,
нет такого спокойствия, ещё чего-то такого, нет вот этого, нету...
‘What do I want to say? That I feel more and more clumsy, uncomfortable,
when I speak Russian, it is difficult for me to choose words, and very often
it seems to me that it is easier for me to express something in English, not
even because I do not know Russian words, but because the expression
I want to use in a particular situation, it is so English, and it is so... for
example... something is very difficult to accomplish, yes? ... and I do not
know if I will be able to succeed or not, and I say to myself in English “I
can make it”... why – because in Russian it doesn’t sound right, it is not the
same, and there is no such... confidence, that you, yes, you will be able to
do this, there is no such bravado, no such calm, and something else, it is
not there, no... ’
For me, this quote functions as a reminder that the inability to express par-
ticular meanings in one’s native language is not purely a psycholinguistic phe-
nomenon, rooted in the disuse of the L1 or the overuse of the L2. It is not
attrition that prevents Julia from expressing herself in Russian, but the fact that
certain nuances and shades of meaning are not translatable. This neoWhorfian
view of bilingualism and thought (Pavlenko, in press) sees the interaction be-
tween two or more languages as a complex phenomenon where linguistic and
conceptual enrichment and transformation may be present side by side with at-
L2 influence and L1 attrition in adult bilingualism 
trition. It is up to future inquiry to see if the two phenomena can be sufficiently
disambiguated.
References
Andrews, D. (1999). Sociocultural Perspectives on Language Change in Diaspora: Soviet
Immigrants in the United States. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Bot, K. de, & Clyne, M. (1994). “A 16-year longitudinal study of language attrition in Dutch
immigrants in Australia”. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development, 15 (1),
17–28.
Boyd, S., & Andersson, P. (1991). “Linguistic change among bilingual speakers of
Finnish and American English in Sweden: Background and some tentative findings”.
International Journal of the Sociology of Language, 90, 13–35.
Canagarajah, S. (2001). “The fortunate traveler: Shuttling between communities and
literacies by economy class”. In D. Belcher & U. Connor (Eds.), Reflections on
Multiliterate Lives (pp. 23–37). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Caskey-Sirmons, L., & Hickerson, N. (1977). “Semantic shift and bilingualism: Variation in
color terms of five languages”. Anthropological Linguistics, 19, 358–367.
Connor, U. (1999). “Learning to write academic prose in a second language: A literacy
autobiography”. In G. Braine (Ed.), Non-native Educators in English Language Teaching
(pp. 29–42). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Cook, V. (1991). “The poverty of the stimulus argument and multicompetence”. Second
Language Research, 7, 103–117.
Cook, V. (Ed.). (2003). Effects of the Second Language on the First. Clevedon: Multilingual
Matters.
Ervin-Tripp, S. (1961). “Semantic shift in bilingualism.” American Journal of Psychology, 74,
233–241.
Flege, J. (1987). “The production of “new” and “similar” phones in a foreign language:
Evidence for the effect of equivalence classification.” Journal of Phonetics, 15, 47–65.
Flege, J., & Eefting, W. (1987). “Cross-language switching in stop consonant perception and
production by Dutch speakers of English.” Speech Communication, 6, 185–202.
Grabois, H. (1999). “The convergence of sociocultural theory and cognitive linguistics:
Lexical semantics and the L2 acquisition of love, fear and happiness”. In G. Palmer &
D. Occhi (Eds.), Languages of Sentiment: Cultural constructions of emotional substrates
(pp. 201–233). Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Grosjean, F. (1998). “Studying bilinguals: Methodological and conceptual issues.”
Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 1, 131–149.
Håkansson, G. (1995). “Syntax and morphology in language attrition: A study of five
bilingual expatriate Swedes.” International Journal of Applied Linguistics, 5 (2), 153–171.
Jarvis, S. (2003). “Probing the effects of the L2 on the L1: A case study”. In V. Cook (Ed.),
Effects of the Second Language on the First (pp. 81–102). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
 Aneta Pavlenko
Latomaa, S. (1998). “English in contact with “the most difficult language in the world”:
The linguistic situation of Americans living in Finland.” International Journal of the
Sociology of Language, 133, 51–71.
Laufer, B. (2003). “The influence of L2 on L1 collocational knowledge and on L1 lexical
diversity in free written expression”. In V. Cook (Ed.), Effects of the Second Language on
the First (pp. 19–31). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Major, R. (1992). “Losing English as a first language.” The Modern Language Journal, 76,
190–208.
Major, R. (1993). “Sociolinguistic factors in loss and acquisition of phonology”. In
K. Hyltenstam & A. Viberg (Eds.), Progression and Regression in Language: Sociocultural,
neuropsychological and linguistic perspectives (pp. 463–478). Cambridge: CUP.
Mori, K. (1997). Polite Lies: On being a woman caught between two cultures. New York, NY:
Henry Holt.
Otheguy, R., & Garcia, O. (1988). “Diffusion of lexical innovations in the Spanish of Cuban
Americans”. In J. L. Ornstein-Galicia, G. K. Green, & D. Bixler-Marquez (Eds.), Research
Issues and Problems in U.S. Spanish: Latin American and Southwestern varieties (pp. 203–
242). Brownsville, TX: University of Texas.
Otheguy, R., & Garcia, O. (1993). “Convergent conceptualisations as predictors of degree of
contact in U.S. Spanish”. In A. Roca & J. Lipski (Eds.), Spanish in the U.S.: Linguistic
contact and diversity (pp. 135–154). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Pavlenko, A. (2000). “L2 influence on L1 in late bilingualism.” Issues in Applied Linguistics,
11 (2), 175–205.
Pavlenko, A. (2002). “Bilingualism and emotions.” Multilingua, 21 (1), 45–78.
Pavlenko, A. (2003a). “I feel clumsy speaking Russian”: L2 influence on L1 in narratives of
Russian L2 users of English”. In V. Cook (Ed.), Effects of the Second Language on the First
(pp. 32–61). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Pavlenko, A. (2003b). “Eyewitness memory in late bilinguals: Evidence for discursive
relativity.” International Journal of Bilingualism, 7 (3), 257–287.
Pavlenko, A. (In press). “Bilingualism and thought.” In A. De Groot & J. Kroll (Eds.),
Handbook of Bilingualism: Psycholinguistic Approaches. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Pavlenko, A., & Jarvis, S. (2002). “Bidirectional transfer.” Applied Linguistics, 23 (2), 190–
214.
Py, B. (1986). “Competence and attrition in the native language of immigrants”. In
E. Kellerman & M. Sharwood Smith (Eds.), Crosslinguistic Influence in Second Language
Acquisition (pp. 163–172). Oxford: Pergamon Press.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use, and Maintenance: The case of German
Jews in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Seliger, H. W., & Vago, R. M. (1991). “The study of first language attrition: An overview”.
In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 3–15). Cambridge:
CUP.
Shimron, J., & Chernitsky, R. (1995). “Typicality shift in semantic categories as a result of
cultural transition: Evidence from Jewish Argentine immigrants in Israel”. Discourse
Processes, 19, 265–278.
L2 influence and L1 attrition in adult bilingualism 
Tao, H., & Thompson, S. (1991). “English backchannels in Mandarin conversations: A case
study of superstratum pragmatic ‘interference.’ ” Journal of Pragmatics, 16, 209–223.
Waas, M. (1996). Language Attrition Downunder: German Speakers in Australia. Frankfurt:
Peter Lang.
Williams, L. (1979). “The modification of speech perception and production in second-
language learning.” Perception and Psychophysics, 26, 95–104.
Williams, L. (1980). “Phonetic variation as a function of second-language learning”. In
G. Yeni-Komshian, J. Kavanagh, & C. Ferguson (Eds.), Child Phonology. Volume 2.
Perception (pp. 185–215). New York, NY: Academic Press.
A sociocultural approach
to language attrition
Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
California State University, Channel Islands
Introduction
Traditionally, the field of applied linguistics, borrowing from work in linguis-
tics and psychology, has tended to set up dichotomies as a way of defining its
scope of study and its research methodologies. Among the most pervasive are
langue/parole, competence/performance, input/output, form/meaning, acqui-
sition/use etc. One of the prevailing dichotomies in the field is constituted by
the dualism between the Internal (or the self, the individual, the cognitive. . .)
and the External (or the other, the society, the community. . .). Research on lan-
guage attrition has followed this bicephalous tradition: on the one hand, a large
number of studies has concentrated on investigating the internal side of the
dichotomy, be it from a psycholinguistic (e.g. de Bot 1999; Hansen 1999; Hedg-
cock 1991; Olshtain 1989), neurolinguistic (e.g. Berko-Gleason 1993; Obler
1982; Yoshitomi 1992), or Universal Grammar approach (e.g. Håkansson 1995;
Platzack 1998; Sharwood Smith & van Buren 1991; Sorace 2000; Toribio 2001).
On the other hand, other researchers have focused on examining the external
factors, such as Hulsen (2000), Schmid (2002), Waas (1996), Yağmur (1997).
This article explores an innovative way of approaching attrition based on
Sociocultural Theory (SCT) by linking social participation (the external side of
the coin) to linguistic production and psychological functioning (the internal
side). Its primary objective is to provide an overview of the main tenets of the
theory and how it accounts for the phenomenon of language attrition through
its particular lenses. In order to do this, the present paper has been divided into
three parts. The first one introduces some of the theoretical foundations of So-
ciocultural Theory while the second one explores the role of language under
 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
this perspective and provides a new interpretation and definition of language
attrition based on, and consistent with, its theoretical roots. The third part dis-
cusses how language attrition can be assessed following this reinterpretation of
the phenomenon. A special emphasis is placed on the analysis of communica-
tive strategies as a way of evaluating language attrition from this theoretical
perspective.
. Sociocultural Theory
Even though Sociocultural Theory (SCT) was not born as a linguistic theory
but as a theory of cognitive development, for the last twenty years, an increas-
ing number of linguists such as Ahmed (1994), De Guerrero (1990), Donato
(1994), Frawley (1985, 1997), McCafferty (1994, 1998), or Ushakova (1994), to
mention just a few, have been applying the tenets of this theory to the study of
L2 acquisition. Although it is not the main objective of this paper to provide
a thorough characterisation of Sociocultural Theory, a discussion of language
attrition under this perspective requires a preliminary understanding of some
of the main tenets that SCT is based on.
The work of Vygotsky, founder of Sociocultural Theory, started to develop
in response to Piaget’s theory of cognitive development.Piaget argued that chil-
dren possess an innate and inherent ability to progressively construct a more
logically complex and abstract cognitive system as they grow older. Conversely,
Vygotsky (1978), together with his colleagues A. R. Luria, and A. N. Leont’ev,
maintained that this innate component does not itself determine the child’s
mental development. Instead, they maintained that higher forms of cognitive
development first originate in the social world, in interaction between individ-
uals (interpsychological level) before they are internalised (intrapsychological
level). In other words, there is a process of internalisation by which the in-
dividual incorporates, in a transformative process, the higher psychological
functions that already exist socially into his own developing cognitive system.
These higher cognitive functions include voluntary attention, logical memory,
conceptual thought, problem solving, learning, voluntary inhibitory and dis-
inhibitory faculties, and the planning, execution, and monitoring of mental
processes. Each individual’s functional system is shaped essentially by his ex-
periences and interactions with the surrounding community so it should be
expected, then, that different communities provide different functional system
to their members.
A sociocultural approach to language attrition 
Mediating artefact
Subject Object
Figure 1. Artefact-mediated object-oriented activity system
It is important to specify at this point that the process of internalisation does
not imply a direct transfer of these higher cognitive functions from the com-
munity to the individual. Instead, this process is mediated by the use of tools.
These tools or artefacts establish an indirect relationship between the individ-
ual and the social environment. Tools can have a physical or symbolic nature.
Physical tools comprise those material artefacts that mediate our relation-
ship with the external physical world and they include hammers, comput-
ers, pencils, bulldozers, books, etc. In the same way as human beings make
use of these material tools to interact with the physical environment, sym-
bolic tools are employed to mediate and regulate our relationships with others
and with ourselves. Among all the symbolic tools, such as numbers, schemes,
arithmetic systems, diagrams, graphs, mnemonic devices, music, and art, lan-
guage is considered as the main mediating artefact through which speakers
engage in social interaction. Figure 1 graphically represents Vygotsky’s model
of mediated action.
Both physical and symbolic tools have been culturally constructed over
time. They are passed on from generation to generation, and in this process,
they are constantly modified. Change, then, is a social process and our rela-
tionship with the external world, with others and with ourselves changes as
physical and symbolic tools are transformed over time. Language, as any other
tool, also stands between the subject and the reality. Language is appropriated
in the process of social interaction and as it is being internalised, it shapes the
way we think about the world and our relationship to it. According to Vygotsky,
language activity (which may also entail written as well as spoken communica-
tion) does not serve the function of transmitting information from one speaker
to the other. Instead, it is the tool through which individuals regulate each other
and ourselves as we engage in different types of social and psychological activ-
ities. Thus, the concept of “activity” becomes pivotal for the understanding
of the theory and its notion has been expanded since its original conception
by Vygotsky. Initially, activity developed around the idea of mediation (as de-
 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
picted in Figure 1), that is, human activity is mediated by culturally constructed
artefacts. Vygotky’s interpretation of activity is undertaken by a human agent
(subject) who is motivated to intentionally move toward a particular goal or
object and does so in conjunction with mediational tools or artefacts.
Leont’ev (1981) differentiates between collective and individual activity. In
his own words, “only through a relation with other people does man relate to
nature itself, which means that labour appears from the very beginning as a
process mediated by tools (in the broad sense) and at the same time mediated
socially” (Leont’ev 1981:208). He incorporated the idea of division of labour
into the picture, with his famous example of the primeval collective hunt, in
which he distinguishes between individual action and a collective activity:
A beater, for example, taking part in a primeval collective hunt, was stimu-
lated by a need for food or, perhaps, a need for clothing, which the skin of
the dead animal would meet for him. At what, however, was his activity di-
rectly aimed? It may have been directed, for example, at frightening a herd of
animals and sending them toward other hunters, hiding in an ambush. That,
properly speaking, is what should be the result of the activity of this man. And
the activity of this individual member of the hunt ends with that. The rest
is completed by the other members. This result, i.e. the frightening of game,
etc., understandably does not in itself, and may not, lead to satisfaction of the
beater’s need for food, or the skin of the animal. What the processes of his
activity were directed to did not, consequently, coincide with what stimulated
them, i.e., did not coincide with a motive of his activity; the two are divided
from one another in this instance. Processes, the object and motive of which
do not coincide with one another, we shall call “actions”. We can say, for ex-
ample, that the beater’s activity is the hunt, and the frightening of the game
his action. (Leont’ev 1981:210)
This excerpt also depicts Leont’ev’s distinction between activity, action and
operation, which became the basis of his three-level model of activity. Accord-
ing to this model, activities are based on three levels, the first being the level
of motives. This level, also referred to as the level of activity, is driven by an
object-related motive and explains why something is done. Individuals engage
in different types of activities motivated by either biological or culturally con-
structed needs. The second level, the level of action, is driven by a conscious
goal and accounts for what is done. The third level is the level of operations.
It explains how something is done and it comprises the physical and temporal
circumstances under which activities take place. These three levels of activity
are outlined in Figure 2.
A sociocultural approach to language attrition 
Activity level: Motives
Action level: Goals
Operation level: Conditions
Figure 2. Three levels of activity
Instruments
Subject Object Outcome
Division of Labor
Community
Rules
Figure 3. Extended version of activity system
Leont’ev’s ideas of activity was graphically depicted by Engeström (1987), who,
taking Vygotsky’s original model, expanded the triangle in its basis includ-
ing three new elements, namely the community, the rules, and the division of
labour (see Figure 3). Rules regulate actions and interactions within the activ-
ity system. The division of labour discusses how tasks are divided horizontally
between community members as well as referring to any vertical division of
power and status and the community is comprised by one or more people who
collaboratively participate in the activity.
Most recent interpretations of the concept of ‘activity’ are aiming to in-
corporate cultural diversity into the picture (Cole 1988). Previous models of
activity did not take into account interactions and activities between indi-
viduals from different cultures and traditions. However, in recent decades,
intercultural interchanges have exploded with new means of communication
(satellite systems, email, internet, etc.) and transportation. Thus, the notion of
“activity” needs to be expanded again to integrate multiculturalism and new
forms of dialogue, cooperation, and interaction into the system.
 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
. A Sociocultural account for language attrition
. The role of “language”
As mentioned before, under Sociocultural Theory, language is the tool through
which the individual engages in different types of social and psychological ac-
tivities. In the theory, language is intrinsically related to the process of thinking.
Vygotsky (1986) argues that thought and language have different roots in hu-
mankind. As he puts it, “in the speech development of the child, we can with
certainty establish a preintellectual stage, and in his thought development, a
prelinguistic stage” (1986:83). That is, thinking and speaking follow their own
developmentallines. In Vygotsky’s view, “[p]rogress in thought and progress in
speech are not parallel. Their two growth curves cross and recross. They may
straighten out and run side by side, even merge for a time, but they always di-
verge again” (ibid.:68). However, at a certain moment during the ontogenesis
of the child, these lines meet and merge together initiating a new form of be-
haviour. This is the crucial moment that differentiates apes from humans, i.e.,
when thought becomes verbal and speech becomes rational. At first, the child
uses language in superficial social interaction. However, at some point, social
speech moves towards egocentric speech and becomes silent, representing the
essence of conscious mental activity, that is, inner speech.
Through internalisation children gain increasing control over their own
behaviour and mental processes, becoming, in sociocultural terms, self-
regulated. As mentioned before, this internalisation process does not occur
from the social to the individual plane in a direct way, but it is mediated by
artefacts, language (or more specifically speaking activity) being the most im-
portant one. Thus, when speaking and thinking start to merge in terms of
one providing resource to the other, thought becomes verbal, speech becomes
rational, and speech becomes essential in forming thought.
Thus, children in the process of acquiring their L1, as well as individuals
in the process of acquiring an L2 “gain increasing control over the media-
tional means made available by [the surrounding culture], including language,
for interpersonal (social interaction) and intrapersonal (thinking) purposes”
(Lantolf 2000:6). This process involves a series of stages (applicable to both L1
and L2 learners) that are described in the following paragraph.
During the language acquisition process, both L1 and L2 novices experi-
ence communicative challenges due to the learners’ incomplete knowledge of
the language (i.e., in sociocultural terms, novices are object-regulated by the
language). In order to gain control over the language (and over the commu-
A sociocultural approach to language attrition 
nicative task they are engaged in), novices may rely on the help of others (i.e.,
becoming other-regulated). This assistance needs to take place within the learn-
ers’ zone of proximal development. This is a key element in the theory and it
is defined as the “distance between the actual developmental level as deter-
mined by independent problem solving and the level of potential development
as determined through problem solving under adult guidance or in collab-
oration with more capable peers” (Vygotsky 1978:86). Through interaction,
novices start to develop into more knowledgeable and independent users of
the language (i.e. achieving self-regulation). Thus, acquiring a language means
to move from object- and other-regulation to self-regulation.
Self-regulation is a relative phenomenon and its full understanding needs
some sharpening. On the one hand, self-regulation is activity-dependent, that
is, a novice learner can achieve self-regulation in a certain type of task and
this does not necessarily mean that the learner has gained self-regulation in all
types of tasks (Lantolf & Appel 1994:12). On the other hand, the fact that a
learner has achieved self-regulation in a certain task does not imply that self-
regulation can be maintained in the task at all times. At certain points, if a
task becomes particularly difficult, even experts may turn to previous stages
of development and become other-regulated (seeking help from other more
knowledgeable individuals) or even object-regulated (by using other artefacts
available in the culture, such as a computer, a dictionary, a calculator, a book,
etc.). This quality of mental activity has been coined by Frawley and Lantolf
(1985) as the principle of continuous access.1
In summary, it can be concluded that, in sociocultural terms, language ac-
quisition is based on the idea of control, which is about movementfrom object-
and other-regulation to self-regulation. Self-regulation then is the ultimate ob-
jective of the individual engaged in a given communicative task. However, if the
task becomes sufficiently difficult, self-regulation can be lost and the speaker
will need to go back to previous stages of development (that is, becoming
other- or object-regulated).
. Language attrition
Consequently, taking into account the above information, language attrition,
under Sociocultural Theory, entails the loss of the once attained level of self-
regulation in a language (L1 or L2) in a particular activity and the momentary
return to a previous stage of object- and/or other-regulation. As in the case of
language acquisition, language attrition should be also regarded as task spe-
cific. Thus, language attrition occurs when a speaker experiences an increasing
 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
loss of self-regulation in a given task over time. Or, in other words, the speaker
experiences an increasing need to reaccess previous levels of development
(object- or other-regulation).
There are only two studies, to the best of my knowledge, that address the
attrition phenomenon from a sociocultural perspective. One of these studies
(Coughlan 1995) examines the acquisition and the attrition of a child’s L2
within the framework of Activity Theory. The study examines a number of
phone calls between a child, named Vovó, and his grandmother in Portuguese,
the child’s L2. During these interactions, the grandmother scaffolds the child,
enabling him to express himself in a way he would not be able to do alone.
During the time these phone calls were taking place, Vovó experienced linguis-
tic development in terms of lengthened conversations and less frequent use of
English (the child’s L1). However, this trend was interrupted for a month, dur-
ing which period the grandmother left the country to visit Portugal. After this
break, when the grandmother returned, the phone calls continued, but both
Vovó and the grandmother abandoned the use of Portuguese and, with the
exception of greetings and leave-takings, the calls were conducted in English.
This change in the activity system led to L2 attrition. However, at the same
time, this change had a dramatic impact on Vovó’s role in the conversations,
as he now could engage more independently in the communicative activity,
that is, without the assistance of the parents or the grandmother, taking more
responsibility in the activity. Coughlan maintains that the loss of Portuguese
is beneficial for the child as it allows him to participate more meaningfully in
the conversations with his grandmother and, similarly, it benefits the grand-
mother as well as they can discuss other substantive issues without paying that
much attention to the language barriers. The author maintains that changes in
learners’ production over time may be manifestations of changes in the activity
systems. These changes at the linguistic level may not find an explanation if the
focus of the study is L2 interaction alone. Lastly, Coughlan concludes that lan-
guage acquisition and loss should be regarded as by-products of participation
in a given social group’s range of activities. Only by investigating these activities
will we understand how language change operates.
The other study that looks at language attrition from a Vygotskyan per-
spective is McCreary (1985) who examines both the L2 acquisition and the
attrition of Japanese in two children in terms of regulation before, during,
and after a two-month stay in Japan. The author examines the use of other-
regulation and object-regulation when the children do not know or cannot
express their own ‘self’ in Japanese. During the acquisition period, that is, when
the children were in Japan, they improved their ability to speak Japanese, which
A sociocultural approach to language attrition 
is explained by the change of context and the children’s use of (other-, object-,
and self-regulatory) strategies in the process of gaining control over their new
linguistic environment. During the incubation period, that is, upon the chil-
dren’s return to their home environment in the United States, the children’s
control over Japanese decreased as they had to adjust to the new social and
strategic environment. The author maintains that “self-regulation is lost first
because it requires cognitive ability in the language that calls for a syntactic ac-
cess to many forms, questions, commands, cohesive markers, and a variety of
verbs and predicates, to name just a few” (1985:168). Then, this loss of self-
regulations is followed by a loss of object-regulation (i.e. names of objects) and
other regulatory forms that are rarely needed in the USA. However, the au-
thor notices that there are certain remains of both object- and other-regulated
speech that are maintained and that probably will not be lost.2
. Assessing language attrition under SCT
Language attrition, in this paper, has been defined as the loss of the once
attained level of self-regulation of a language (L1 or L2) in a particular ac-
tivity and the momentary return to a previous stage of object- and/or other-
regulation. However, how can we assess this shift of regulation? The following
paragraphs outline some basic elements needed in order to be able to assess
language attrition in terms of regulation across time.
First of all, the attainment of self-regulation is task dependent. That is, a
speaker who achieves a high level of control of a certain communicative activ-
ity does not necessarily translate into a control of other types of activities. Thus,
a study that assesses change at the regulatory level needs to have a longitudinal
pretest-posttest research design, in which the task is constant across time. The
type of task that is especially appropriate for this type of analysis is the elicita-
tion of free speech in the framework of a meaningful and goal-oriented task. If
we want to access the control that a certain individual has about the language in
question, we have to think in terms of activity and design a task that can relate
to the types of activities that this individual usually undertakes in his inter-
actions with the community. These tasks should be as concrete and meaningful
to the participant as possible. Some examples of tasks may include the writing
of a letter to a relative, friend, boss, etc., a role-play activity imitating a situation
that the individual may have lived when immersed in the community, leaving a
message on a friend’s answering-machine, a picture/video-based story telling,
a reading recall, a listening recall, etc. The use of the same type of task over time
 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
will provide a comparative paradigm that allows the researcher to establish the
level of self-regulation achieved by each participant across time. However, how
can it be determined that there has been a loss of self-regulation in a given task?
Loss of self-regulation can be clearly observed in the analysis of the com-
municative breakdowns experienced by any given speaker and his use of com-
pensatory strategies in order to solve these communicative problems. Break-
downs may be motivated either by the individual’s novelty in completing the
task (or, in other terms, because the task is too difficulty for the speaker), by
a problem with the language used, or by a conceptual misunderstanding/error
in the speaking activity. For example, a novice speaker defending a paper at
a conference in his L1 may lose self-regulation due to reasons such as lack of
knowledge about the appropriate script followed in this type of medium, ner-
vousness, uncertainty in the exposition of ideas, etc. This lack of control over
the task can surface in his speech through hesitations, unfinished sentences,
repetitions, rephrasings, etc. On the other hand, the same speaker presenting
a paper in his non-dominant (L2) language may not only encounter problems
with the difficulty of the task, but also with his incomplete knowledge of the
language of communication. Consequently, the frequency of use of strategies
in order to solve these communicative problems is likely to increase.
Thus, the study of strategies as indicators of language attrition should
take into account the origin of the communicative breakdown. As mentioned,
there are three possibilities: task difficulty, language problem, or conceptual
problem. If the focus is on the linguistic difficulties of the speaker during the
communicative activity, the researcher has to control that task difficulty and
conceptual misunderstandings are not going to contribute to a higher produc-
tion of compensatory strategies. In other words, a study on language attrition
under this perspective has to make sure that task difficulty remains constant in
the different measurements over time and that the speaker completely under-
stands the conceptual representations involved in the completion of the task.
If the researcher keeps the difficulty of the task stable and makes sure that the
speaker has a full conceptual understanding of the communicative task, the
communicative production of the speaker can be compared across time being
certain that any change observed in the speaker’s use of communicative strate-
gies will be due to problems at the linguistic level. In language attrition studies,
a higher frequency in the use of communicative strategies indicates an increase
in communicative breakdowns.
The use of communicative strategies is an indication of the cognitive pro-
cesses that are taking place in the speaker’s head and they have been largely
studied as such indicators in L1 and L2 acquisition literature (Faerch & Kasper
A sociocultural approach to language attrition 
1983; Kasper & Kellerman 1997; Poulisse 1999; Tarone 1977, 1980). There has
been extensive debate on the topic of communication strategies, especially on
its definition and on the taxonomies created of its multiple manifestations (for
a critical review of CS see Lantolf & Frawley 1985).
A large number of strategies has been identified as being used by speak-
ers when trying to overcome a communication problem and equally large is
the number of taxonomies that have been created in the process of categorising
these strategies. The constant reformulation of categories has resulted in a clear
divergence in the way researchers approach data analysis. I believe that this
permanent recategorisation of communicative strategies shows that strategies
are not rigid identities that pertain to a single and exclusive category. Instead,
they are fluid manifestations that surface in the speech differently depending
not only on linguistic factors (i.e. inability to produce the desired linguistic el-
ements) but also on other contextual concomitant factors (such as the type
and the difficulty of the task, the kind of relationship created between the
interlocutors, the rules that govern the task, etc.).
Lantolf and Frawley (1985) propose a functional typology of communica-
tive strategies in reaction to more orthodox taxonomies. This typology is based
on the notion of regulation and on the idea that speakers tend to achieve
linguistically-based self-regulation at all times during the communicative act.
However, this is not always achievable in an efficient and timely manner (taking
into account the rules of communication). Thus, a speaker, faced with a com-
municative problem, can choose three different forms of regulatory strategies
in order to regain control of the activity. These strategies are presented in the
following paragraphs. It should be remarked here that even though strategies
have been associated with a main regulatory function, these associations are
by no means rigid. They solely indicate that these strategies usually serve the
regulatory function to which they have been associated. Strategies constitute
fluid identities, and the use of one of these strategies may have indeed different
regulatory functions.
Self-regulatory strategies are attempts to maintain the self during the com-
municative breakdown or, in other words, “when maintaining self in com-
municative act regulates choice of strategy” (Lantolf & Frawley 1985:153).
That is, the speaker employs intrapsychological strategies intended to solve the
communicative breakdown. Within this category, we find three types of self-
regulatory strategies. Firstly, there are certain strategies that indicate that the
speaker is engaged in intrapersonal activity in search for self-regulation. They
do not surface in fully extended linguistic appearance during speech activity,
but instead in the form of filled (1), unfilled (or silent) pauses (2), as well as in
 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
the segmental lengthening of some words (3).3
These strategies result in a slow-
ing down of the speech rate that reveals an increase of metacognitive activity
and processing time. The first three strategies have been frequently nominated
in the literature as stalling or buying-time strategies, while the fourth could be
considered more as a consequence of the use of the other three.
(1) Um al principio um um, los amigos um empieza whistle (laugh) um y um
cerrar los las cartas para um mandar y um Phoebe tiene un papercut (laugh)
y um Joey um le da un un copa de agua sucio.
‘Um at the beginning um um the friends um start whistle (laugh) um and
um close the the letters to um send and um Phoebe has a papercut (laugh)
and um Joey um gives her a a glass of dirty water)
(2) Ross perdió el (2,64 seconds) (laugh) el (laugh) (4,68 secs.) um ◦
yo me sé◦
(3,50 secs.) um Ross necesitó (5,63 secs.) um um shoot!
‘Ross lost the (2,64 seconds) (laugh) the (laugh) (4,68 secs) um ◦
I know it◦
(3,50 secs.) um Ross needed (5,63 secs) um um shoot!’
(3) Los chicos um no están contentos porque la comida necesita tiene necesita
tener nombres sssssimplimo- simples no nombres muy largos
‘The guys um are not happy because the food needs to needs to have
sssssimp- simple names not long names’
The second form of self-regulatory strategies consists of linguistically shaped
(overt) externalisations of the problem-solving thinking process, such as dis-
course fillers (4), and self-repetitions (5). These strategies serve at least two
different functions: on the one hand, they have the private purpose of keep-
ing focused attention on the problem, and on the other, they possess the social
function of maintaining the floor in the speech event.
(4) Y luego ellos están en la clase de de las mujeres embarazadas y: pero la la
chica que está embarazada no está allí.
‘And then they are at Lamaze class and but the the girl who is pregnant is
not there’
(5) Y uh el fin del del del juego del juego Ra- Rachel no tiene la moneda uh para
paga
‘And at the end of of of the game of the game Ra- Rachel does not have
the coin uh to pay’
The last cohort of self-regulatory strategies is comprised by self-corrections
(6), self-recast (7), and self-retrieval (8) procedures, and they represent con-
crete solutions to the communicative problem for which the speaker has to
lean exclusively on himself. These strategies also have a double function: first,
A sociocultural approach to language attrition 
they fulfill the communicative need created by the social environment as they
represent articulated elements that are conveyed in order to continue the com-
municative activity; and second, they also serve a private function as they are
ways that help the individual to plan and restructure their intrapsychological
activity. It is important to note that the use of self-regulatory strategies does
not necessarily lead to a successful (non-attriting native speaker’s preferred)
outcome. Instead, it generates the best alternative possible that the speaker can
come up with at that particular moment, given the time and social constraints
established by the communicative activity.
(6) Y es una situación un poco incómodo incómoda
‘And is a situation a little bit uncomfortable’
(7) Ella resumen es muy mal or no es muy mal pero hay un un mistakes
‘Her resume is very bad or it’s not bad but there is a a mistake’
(8) Pero um hizo un equi- ¿equívico? mistake con su resume.
‘But um made a mis- mistake? Mistake with her resume’
Analysis of these manifestations in relation to the speaker dominant or non-
dominant language can offer very valuable insights into the speaker’s cognitive
functional system and the extent to which the speaker has appropriated and
internalised the language, not only to communicate with others, but to com-
municate with the self. An individual may carry out intrapersonalactivity in his
L1 while his interpersonal communication may be grammatically appropriate
in his L2.
Other-regulatory strategies. When self-regulation cannot be maintained and
self-regulatory strategies are not available at the time of the breakdown, the
speaker can rely on other-regulatory strategies to regain control over the task.
Other-regulation takes place when the “presence of other(s) in the commu-
nicative act regulates choice of strategy” (Lantolf & Frawley 1985:153). Other-
regulatory strategies are based on collaborative interaction with the interlocu-
tor/s. These types of strategies clearly bring upfront the type of problem the
speaker is facing at that moment. Speakers engaged in a meaningful com-
municative activity stop the argumentative line of conversation to momen-
tarily focus on metalinguistic activity. As soon as a common agreement has
been reached, they renew the course of the communication. Other-regulatory
strategies comprise repetition requests (9), clarification requests (10), confir-
mation requests (11), comprehension checks (12), and expressions of non- or
mis-understanding (13).
 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
(9) ¿Puedes repetir, por favor?
‘Can you repeat, please?’
(10) ¿Cómo se dice...en español?
‘How do you say. . . in Spanish?’
(11) Puedo cambiar mi carta para tuya y ¿es carta? Creo que sí.
‘I can change my car with yours and is it car? I think so’
(12) ¿Dices que te gusta o no te gusta?
‘Are you saying that you like it or that you don’t like it?’
(13) No comprendo.
‘I don’t understand’
It is important to note here that, even though the speaker appeals to the inter-
locutor in order to overcome the communicative problem, the final objective
of this strategy is to regain self-regulation and continue the discourse. Also, the
rules and the conditions of the communicative activity have to allow collabo-
rative interaction so that the speaker can use these interactional strategies. In
some situations, appeal for help is not an option, especially in asynchronous
activities, that is when the interlocutor is not present and is not readily avail-
able to provide the needed assistance, such as in e-mail interchanges, leaving a
message on an answering machine, etc.
Object-regulatory strategies. These types of strategies are employed when the
speaker can not rely on himself or on the interlocutor to solve the commu-
nicative problem or, in other terms, “when interlanguage as object regulates
choice of strategy” (Lantolf & Frawley 1985:153). When this happens, two
outcomes are possible: formulate a compensatory strategy that is not the
original intended solution to the problem but that satisfies, to some extent,
the communicative need, or avoid the problem altogether, restructuring the
speaker’s course of action, and choosing an alternative perspective on the topic.
In the first scenario, we find circumlocutions (14), approximations/all-purpose
words (15), word-coinage (16), literal translations (17), onomatopoeias (18) and,
code-switching (19). In the second scenario, the dominant strategy is message
abandonment (20).
(14) Máquina que tú haces para ap- que tú haces para cambiar el canal en la
televisión (= remote control)
‘machine that you do to tu- that you do to change channels in the televi-
sion’
A sociocultural approach to language attrition 
(15) Mónica viene con comida como salmon y cosas así
‘Monica comes with food like salmon and things like this’
(16) Rachel se relició* se que hay algo no es correcto4
‘Rachel realised that there is something that is not correct’
(17) Rachel está buscando para un empleo
‘Rachel is looking for a job= “Rachel está buscando un empleo”’
(18) Los chicos están bailando y es ha ha ha ha ha (laugh)
‘The guys are dancing and it’s ha ha ha ha ha (laugh)’
(19) The setting is in el café y um Jennifer quiere uh saber
‘The setting is in the café and um Jennifer wants um to know’
(20) El mono de Ross es- um está un poquito mal y (laugh) el el mono está um
took um (laugh) el mono uh hay una canción
‘the monkey of Ross is um is a little bad and (laugh) the the monkey is um
took um the monkey uh there is a song’
Lastly, I would like to make special mention of the use of metacomments dur-
ing the communication breakdown. Metacomments may have all three regula-
tory functions. Metacomments may be addressed to the self (about one’s own
ability or inability to solve the situation) (21), to the other (about the other’s in-
fluence on his own in/ability to overcome the breakdown) (22), or to the object
(i.e. the difficulty of the task, or the difficulty to control the language) (23).
(21) Y mientras uh Marcel tiene el remote, no sé, la la cosa de televisión
‘And in the meantime uh Marcel has the remote, I don’t know, the the
thing for the television’
(22) Lo siento
‘I’m sorry’
(23) Pero Ross quiere quedarse y Susan tembién (with English pronunciation).
Tembién (repeating the English pronunciation) that´s good!
‘But Ross wants to stay and Susan also (Engl. Pronunciation). Also (re-
peating the English pronunciation) That’s good!’
Metacomments can also be interpreted differently according to the context. A
sympathetic listener may catch a self-addressed metacomment as an appeal for
help. On the other hand, an other-oriented metacomment may trigger suffi-
cient cognitive assistance for the speaker to regain self-regulation before the
interlocutor’s participation. Again, all possible factors should be taken into
consideration in order to carry out the analysis of regulatory strategies and
metacomments.
 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
. Conclusion
As derived from the discussion in this paper, the analysis of regulatory strate-
gies needs to take into account three important elements:
1. the origin of the communicative breakdown (be it due to task difficulty,
to a problem with the language of communication, or to a conceptual
misunderstanding);
2. the activity system in which communication takes place (considering the
characteristics of the elements that take part in the activity, such as the
subject, the object, the mediational artefact, the rules of communication,
etc.); and
3. the particular regulatory function that strategies fulfil in the communica-
tive activity.5
Based on these elements, an alternative framework for the study of commu-
nicative strategies in relation to language attrition is presented in Figure 4
below. This framework is intended for both L1 and L2 attrition and any study
on language development in general. The association of particular strategies
with a main regulatory function is just indicative of the function they have
been found to usually fulfil. However, strategies are fluid entities and the same
strategy can serve different regulatory functions depending on the intention of
the speaker.
Language attrition reveals itself to be a very complex phenomenon that can
take place under very different circumstances and at different levels. The type
of analysis proposed in this paper aims to offer a more comprehensive account
for language attrition by not only focusing on the linguistic elements, but also
bringing upfront the individual and the activity as they can not be separated
from the speaking activity. The language, the individual, and the activity form
a system that makes sense only if contemplated as a whole. For this reason, the
omission of one of these elements will necessarily provide a partial and, maybe,
misleading picture of the language attrition phenomenon.
A significant aspect that emerges from the present discussion is the possi-
bility of attriting psychologically (at the regulatory level) but not linguistically.
In fact, this is what may be happening in some studies on language attrition
where no ‘apparent’ sign of attrition is observed (linguistically speaking) but
in which a general slowing down of the communicative process is observed
(see e.g. Verkaik & van der Wijst 1986; Cohen 1989). This, in psycholinguis-
tic terms, may be explained by indicating that there is an accessibility diffi-
culty that requires, consequently, more processing time but that eventually
A sociocultural approach to language attrition 
Instruments
Subject Object Outcome
Division of labor
Community
Rules
in relation to a particular ACTIVITY SYSTEM
it
influences
regulatory strategy selection
- - -
1
2
3
COMMUNICATIVE PROBLEM DUE TO:
Task difficulty/Conceptual problem
Problem with the language
– filled pauses
– unfilled pauses
– segmental
lengthnening
– slower speech rate
– discourse fillers
– self-repetitions
– self-recasts
– self-corrections
– self-retrieval
– private speech
–
– clarifications
– confirmations
– comprehension
requests
– expressions of
non-or-mis
understanding
repetitions – circumlocutions
– approximations
– word-coinage
– literal translations
– code-switching/
code-mixing
– onomatopoeias
– message
abandonment
Figure 4. A framework for communicative strategies in relation to language attrition
may result in the production of a normatively correct linguistic form. How-
ever, through the lenses of Sociocultural Theory, this ‘processing time’ may be
the temporal manifestation of the search of regulatory strategies in which the
speaker engages in order to maintain self-regulation in the activity.
Even though the application of this cognitive theory in the field of ap-
plied linguistics is relatively recent, studies under this framework are making
very valuable contributions to the field. I anticipate that this theory will also
be able to uncover important new information on the attrition phenomenon
 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
and I hope that the theoretical and practical considerations portrayed in this
paper trigger future research on language attrition from this sociocultural
perspective.
Notes
. The principle of continuous access has been supported by Appel (1986), De Guerrero
(1990), and McCafferty (1992).
. The author comments that there are certain lexical items that the children always produce
in Japanese, such as rice and beans (natto gohan) and please (chodai).
. The examples shown for the strategies provided in this article have been selected from
a video-based recall protocol for which native speakers of English had to retell in their L2,
that is, in Spanish, the story conveyed in a video-clip extracted from a very famous TV
series. Even though these strategies have been produced by L2 learners, they are also very
commonly found in L1 speakers. Translations in English are provided for all the examples.
However, it should be noticed that these translations try to maintain the structure of the
Spanish example without considering their grammatical correctness in English.
. Relició (= to realise) instead of darse cuenta
. It is argued, as in Lantolf and Frawley (1985), that speakers may manifest any of the three
regulatory strategies in different and unpredictable ways for which it becomes fundamental
to analyse strategy use taking into consideration these three elements.
References
Ahmed, M. K. (1994). “Speaking as cognitive regulation: A Vygotskian perspective on
dialogic communication”. In J. P. Lantolf & G. Appel (Eds.), Vygotskian Approaches to
Second Language Research (pp. 157–171). Norwood, NJ: Ablex Press.
Appel, G. (1986). L1 and L2 Narrative and Expository Discourse Production: A Vygotskian
analysis. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, University of Delaware, Newark, DE.
Berko-Gleason, J. (1993). “Neurolinguistic aspects of first language acquisition and loss”.
In K. Hylstenstam & A. Viberg (Eds.), Progression and Regression in Language:
Sociocultural, neuropsychological, and linguistic perspectives (pp. 147–177). Cambridge:
CUP.
Bot, K. de (1999). “The psycholinguistics of language loss”. In G. Extra & L. Verhoeven
(Eds.), Bilingualism and Migration (pp. 345–361). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Cohen, A. D. (1989). “Attrition in the productive lexicon of two Portuguese third language
speakers”. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 11, 135–149.
Cole, M. (1988). “Cross-cultural research in the sociohistorical tradition”. Human Deve-
lopment, 31, 137–151.
A sociocultural approach to language attrition 
Coughlan, P. J. (1995). “Conversations with Vovó: A case study of child second language
acquisition and loss”. Issues in Applied Linguistics, 6 (2), 123–136.
De Guerrero, M. C. M. (1990). Nature of Inner Speech in Mental Rehearsal of the Second
Language. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Inter-American University of Puerto
Rico, San German.
Donato, R. (1994). “Collective scaffolding in second language learning”. In J. P. Lantolf
& G. Appel (Eds.), Vygotskian Approaches to Second Language Research (pp. 33–56).
Norwood, NJ: Ablex Press.
Engeström, Y. (1987). Learning by Expanding: An activity-theoretical approach to deve-
lopmental research. Helsinki: Orienta-Konsultit.
Faerch, C., & Kasper, G. (Eds.). (1983). Strategies in Interlanguage Communication. London:
Longman.
Frawley, W., & Lantolf, J. P. (1985). “Second language discourse: A Vygotskian perspective”.
Applied Linguistics, 6, 19–44.
Håkansson, G. (1995). “Syntax and morphology in language attrition: A study of five
bilingual expatriate Swedes”. International Journal of Applied Linguistics, 5 (2), 153–171.
Hansen, L. (1999). “Not a total loss: The attrition of Japanese negation over three decades”.
In L. Hansen (Ed.), Second Language Attrition in Japanese Contexts (pp. 142–153). New
York, NY: Oxford University Press.
Hedgcock, J. (1991). “Foreign language retention and attrition: A study of regression
models”. Foreign Language Annuals, 24, 43–55.
Hulsen, M. (2000). Language Loss and Language Processing. Three generations of Dutch
migrants in New Zealand. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Nijmegen: Katholieke
Universiteit Nijmegen.
Kasper, G., & Kellerman, E. (Eds.). (1997). Communication Strategies: Psycholinguistic and
sociolinguistic perspectives. London: Longman.
Lantolf, J. P. (1994). “Sociocultural theory and second language learning: Introduction to
the special issue”. The Modern Language Journal, 78, 418–420.
Lantolf, J. P. (2000). “Introducing sociocultural theory”. In J. P. Lantolf (Ed.), Sociocultural
Theory and Second Language Learning (pp. 1–26). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Lantolf, J. P., & Appel, G. (1994). “Theoretical framework: An introduction to Vygotskian
approaches to second language research”. In J. P. Lantolf & G. Appel (Eds.), Vygotskian
Approaches to Second Language Research (pp. 1–32). Norwood, NJ: Ablex Press.
Lantolf, J. P., & Frawley, W. (1985). “On communication strategies: A functional
perspective”. Rassegna Italiana di Linguistica Applicata, 17 (2–3), 143–157.
Leont’ev, A. N. (1981). Problems of the Development of the Mind. Moscow: Progress
Publishers.
McCafferty, S. (1992). “The use of private speech by adult second language learners: A cross-
cultural study”. Modern Language Journal, 76, 179–189.
McCafferty, S. (1994). “Adult second language learners’ use of private speech: A review of
studies”. The Modern Language Journal, 78, 421–436.
McCafferty, S. (1998). “Nonverbal expression and L2 private speech”. Applied Linguistics, 19,
73–96.
McCreary, D. R. (1985). “A Vygotskyan psycholinguistic perspective on the acqui-
sition and loss of Japanese”. Rassegna Italiana di Linguistica Applicata, 17, 159–171.
 Antonio F. Jiménez Jiménez
Obler, L. K. (1982). “Neurolinguistic aspects of language loss as they pertain to second
language attrition”. In R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills
(pp. 60–79). Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Olshtain, E. (1989). “Is second language attrition the reversal of second language acqui-
sition?” Second Language Acquisition, 11, 151–165.
Platzack, C. (1998). “The initial hypothesis of syntax: A minimalist perspective on language
acquisition and attrition”. In H. Clahsen (Ed.), Generative Perspectives on Language
Acquisition (pp. 369–414). Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Poulisse, N. (1999). Slips of the Tongue: Speech errors in first and second language production.
Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance: The case of German
Jews in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Sharwood Smith, M., & van Buren, P. (1991). “First language attrition and the parameter
setting model”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 17–
30). Cambridge: CUP.
Sorace, A. (2000). “Differential effects of attrition in the L1 syntax of near-native L2
speakers”. In C. Howell, S. Fish, & T. Ketih-Lucas (Eds.), Proceedings of the 24th
Boston University Conference on Language Development (pp. 719–725). Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla Press.
Tarone, E. (1977). “Conscious communication strategies in interlanguage”. In H. D. Bown,
C. A. Yorio, & R. C. Crymes (Eds.), On TESOL ’77 (pp. 194–203). Washington, DC:
TESOL.
Tarone, E. (1980). “Communication strategies, foreigner talk and repair in interlanguage”.
Language Learning, 30, 417–431.
Toribio, A. J. (2001). “On Spanish language decline”. In A. H.-J. Do, L. Domínguez, &
A. Johansen (Eds.), Proceedings of the 25th Boston University Conference on Language
Development (pp. 768–779). Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
Ushakova, T. (1994). “Inner speech and second language acquisition: An experimental-
theoretical approach”. In J. P. Lantolf & G. Appel (Eds.), Vygotskian Approaches to Second
Language Research (pp. 135–156). Norwood, NJ: Ablex Press.
Verkaik, P., & van der Wijst, P. (1986). Language Attrition and Word Recognition in French as
a Foreign Language. Unpublished MA Thesis, Nijmegen: University of Nijmegen.
Vygotsky, L. S. (1978). Mind in Society: The development of higher psychological processes.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Vygotsky, L. S. (1986). Thought and Language. (Alex Kozulin, Rev. and ed.). Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Waas, M. (1996). Language Attrition Downunder. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Yağmur, K. (1997). First Language Attrition among Turkish Speakers in Sydney. Tilburg:
Tilburg University Press.
Yoshitomi, A. (1992). “Towards a model of language attrition: Neurobiological and
psychological contributions”. Issues in Applied Linguistics, 3 (2), 293–318.
Perceived language dominance and language
preference for emotional speech
The implications for attrition research
Jean-Marc Dewaele
Birkbeck College, University of London
Introduction
Ana Söter, born in Austria but transplanted to Australia at the age of 6, notes
in her contribution to the book Reflections on Multiliterate Lives (Belcher &
Connor 2002), that her native attrited German occasionally flashes back to her
when writing about emotions:
Although my second language has long been the sole language of my pro-
fessional life, I find that I still occasionally resort to my L1 when seeking a
phrase that aptly describes an emotion I want to capture in my creative writ-
ing (prose or poetry). I may not use the L1 term for that emotion or experience
but discover a better English alternative during the process. (Söter 2002:72)
Söter’s activation of her L1 shows that bilinguals may resort to a weaker or par-
tially attrited language to express emotion. This phenomenon has been amply
documented in previous research on the language choice of bilinguals. The
L1 is often preferred to express personal involvement while the L2 is the lan-
guage of distance and detachment (Bond & Lai 1986; Javier & Marcos 1989;
Gonzalez-Reigosa 1976). Bilinguals’ language choices have been analysed using
very different approaches and methodologies. Linguistic autobiographies and
narratives of multilinguals represent one particularly rich source of evidence
(Pavlenko 1998, 2001, 2002b; Besemeres 2003). Multilingual writers and lin-
guists with a keen meta-linguistic awareness provide valuable insights on the
subjective and psychological dimensions of their language use. Julia Alvarez,
for example, a Dominican-American writer, describes her Spanish self as the
 Jean-Marc Dewaele
core of her being although she uses the language infrequently. A single word
with a Spanish pronunciation “resuscitates” her Spanish persona:
Spanish certainly was the language of storytelling, the language of the body
and the senses and of the emotional wiring of the child, so that still, when
someone addresses me as “Hoolia” (Spanish pronunciation of Julia), I feel my
emotional self come to the fore. I answer Si, and lean forward to kiss a cheek
rather than answer Yes, and extend my hand for a handshake. Some deeper or
first Julia is being summoned.
(Alvarez, in Novakovich & Shapard 2000:218)
The originality of Söter’s and Alvarez’ testimonies resides in the fact that even
for an L1 attriter the first words that spring to mind to describe emotions be-
long to the L1 and that, inversely, one word in the L1 can trigger an emotional
reaction and a switch in body language. L1 attrition and the resulting language
choices are an extremely variable phenomenon. Not only does L1 attrition and
L1 use vary between groups according to the type of experience each group had
in the L1 (cf. Schmid 2002; forthc.), there is also within-group variation (de
Bot & Hulsen 2002), and even a certain amount of conscious or unconscious
intra-individual variation.
Some bilingual authors consciously decided not to write in their L1 (which
does not necessarily mean that their L1 had become attrited). This is the case
for the above mentioned Julia Alvarez, and also for the Polish American Eva
Hofmann, the Israeli Arab Anton Shammas, the émigré Spaniard Felipe Al-
fau, the Mexican American Ilan Stavans and the Irish prodigy Samuel Beckett
(Kellman 2000). The case of Samuel Beckett is particularly interesting. Many
critics see the reason for his decision, after World War II, to write exclusively in
French, the language he learned as a schoolboy and studied at university, as a
way to avoid the pathos and emotionality he associated with his L1 English and
gain a greater simplicity and objectivity. Writing in French, he was able to “re-
strain his native verbal profligacy” (Kellman 2000:28). Knowlson (1996) adds
that for Beckett: “Writing poetry in French allowed him to get away (...) from
the dense allusiveness, wide erudition and ‘intimate at arms length’ quality of
his English poems” (pp. 293–294). Using French enabled him “to cut away the
excess, to strip away the colour” (p. 357).
The Croatian author Josip Novakovich advances similar argument to ex-
plain his decision to write in English:
In my own case, English words didn’t carry the political and emotional bag-
gage of repressive upbringing, so I could say whatever I wanted without pro-
Language dominance and language preference for emotional speech 
voking childhood demons, to which Croatian words were still chained, to tug
at me and to make me cringe.
(Josip Novakovich, in Novakovich & Shapard 2000:16)
The decision not to write in one’s L1 can also be dictated by more pragmatic
concerns, namely the intended readership. Ilan Stavans (2001) relates how his
grandmother, Bobbe Bela, a Polish Jew who emigrated to Mexico to escape
persecution, sent him her diary “Mi Diario (...) in broken Spanish” (Stavans
2001:50). She dedicated it to him in Spanish:
‘Dedico mi (diario) (o un chico relato) de mi juventud a mis queridos nietos,
Ilan, Alison y Josh, como recuerdo de Bobe [sic] Bela.’1
(. . .) And not only is the
dedication in Spanish but also the entire narrative. This, in fact, is the most
urgent question I have, the one I would love to discuss with Bela. Why not
in Yiddish, her mother tongue, the tongue in which she sobs and screams? I
know the answer of course: she wants to be read, understood and appreciated;
she is eager to reach not only me but my wife and, at some point in the future,
my children as well. (2001:51)
Cognitive psychologists have developed a completely different – and yet com-
plimentary – approach to the issue of emotional resonance of multiple lan-
guages. Their aim is to match bilingual’s reports of feeling stronger emotions
when speaking and hearing the L1 with psychophysiological assessments in a
laboratory setting. The work of Cathy Harris and her collaborators at Boston
University is particularly relevant for the present study because the bilinguals
involved in the experiments also included L1 attriters. The researchers mon-
itored autonomic arousal via fingertip electrodes while participants read or
heard words and phrases in their L1 or L2 (defined by order of acquisition).
Participants in a first study (Harris et al. 2003) included Turkish-English bilin-
guals which were late learners of English. Participants in a second study in-
cluded a group of Spanish-English bilinguals who had acquired English early
(average age: 3.7) and a group of Spanish L1 speakers who had learned English
later (average age: 7.9 (Harris forthc.). The former group reported feeling more
proficient in English. Stimuli in the two studies included taboo words, child-
hood reprimands (Don’t do that!), insults (you suck!), terms of endearment (I
love you) and single words varying in emotional valence (cancer, joy, table). The
researchers found that emotional expressions heard in the L1 elicited larger
skin conductance amplitudes than comparable expressions in the L2 for the
Turkish-English bilinguals (Harris et al. 2003). In the second study, electroder-
mal responsiveness in English was smaller than in Spanish for those who had
learned English in middle childhood, while no such difference was obtained
 Jean-Marc Dewaele
for those who learned English in early childhood (Harris forthc.). It thus seems
that when two languages are learnt early, emotional expressions activate the au-
tonomic system equally. Harris points out that her data are inconsistent with
the strong variant of the “L1 is more emotional” thesis: “the first language is
more emotional when it is the more proficient language” (p. 3).
In other words, the emotional resonance of the L1 is deeply anchored
within the individual, as the testimonies collected by Novakovich and Sha-
pard (2000) and Belcher and Connor (2002) suggested, but it is mediated by
proficiency.
In sum, what this short review suggests is that the relationship between
mother tongue use and emotion is a very complex one. It seems clear that the
L1 retains very strong emotional connotations even if that language is not used
regularly.
The present paper will address these issues by adopting a bird’s-eye per-
spective on data obtained from a large group of adult multilinguals.
. Method
. Rationale for the present study
Language learning memoirs, linguistic autobiographies and laboratory experi-
ments provide valuable insights in the processes of language loss and language
acquisition. Patterns emerge, but limited sample sizes make it difficult to draw
more general conclusions. Ideally one needs a sufficient amount of comparable
data (by putting the same questions to many people) that could be analysed
both quantitatively and qualitatively. The use of a web questionnaire allows
the collection of self-reported data from a very large sample of multilinguals –
and L1 attriters – from all possible linguistic backgrounds. The combination
of quantitative data through Likert-scale type responses and qualitative data
through open questions makes it possible to draw a fairly detailed picture
of multilinguals’ self-reported speech behaviour and perceptions. The ques-
tionnaire was not designed with attrition in mind but this potential drawback
turned out to be an unexpected bonus as it allowed a comparison between mul-
tilinguals who reported to be still dominant in their L1 and those who reported
shared dominance of the L1 and one or more other languages (aptly described
by Stavans (2001) as the “mother versus father tongue”2
) and finally those in-
dividuals who had become dominant in another language. The latter category
consists – by implication – of people whose L1 is more likely to be attrited.
Language dominance and language preference for emotional speech 
. Research questions
In the present study we will firstly investigate which of the four skills in the L1
(speaking, understanding, reading, writing) suffers most from perceived attri-
tion. Secondly, we will look at the effect of perceived attrition on perceptions
of the L1 (useful, colourful, rich, poetic, emotional). Thirdly, we will analyse
how perceived L1 attrition affects the use of the L1 for expression of anger and
feelings; for inner speech and mental calculation; and finally for swearing in
the L1 and perceived emotional force of swearwords.
Finally, we will check for inter- and intra-group differences (especially
within the group of perceived L1 attriters).
. Participants
A total of 1039 multilinguals contributed to the database (731 females, 308
males). The participants spoke a total of 75 different L1s. English native speak-
ers represent the largest group: n = 303; followed by native speakers of Spanish:
n = 123; French: n = 101; German: n = 97; Dutch: n = 76; Italian: n = 52;
Catalan: n = 32; Russian: n = 29; Finnish n = 28; Portuguese: n = 20; Greek:
n = 15; Swedish: n = 15; Japanese: n = 11; Welsh: n = 10... The 127 remaining
participants share another 61 L1s among themselves. Our population could be
described as highly polyglot with 144 bilinguals, 269 trilinguals, 289 quadrilin-
guals and 337 pentalinguals. The L2 was defined as the second language to have
been acquired by the individual, the L3 as the third language etc. A closer look
at the ages of onset for learning the L2, L3 revealed that 157 L2 users are in fact
“bilingual L1” users, having learned the L2 from birth. This represents 15% of
the L2 group. Similarly, 19 L3 users are “trilingual L1” users (representing 1.8%
of the L3 group). There are no “quadrilingual L1” users. Our participants are
generally highly educated with 115 having a high school diploma or less, 273
with a Bachelors degree, 308 with a Master, and 338 with a Ph D. Age ranged
from 16 to 70 (Mean: 35.6; SD: 11.3). A majority (n = 837) reported working
in a language-related area, a minority (n = 200) had professions that were not
linked to languages. The strong proportion of highly educated female partici-
pants means that it is impossible to claim that the sample is representative of
the general population. This potential pitfall (cf. Dörnyei 2003:75) is inevitable
with web-based questionnaires and it needs to be kept in mind when interpret-
ing the patterns, as results might be different for a sample of – for example –
mainly uneducated males. To partially remedy this problem data were collected
through a printed version of the questionnaire from about 50 multilinguals in
 Jean-Marc Dewaele
the London area who did not finish high school. Statistical analysis revealed
no significant differences between this group and the rest of the sample for the
dependent variables under consideration in the present study.3
. Research instrument and methodological considerations
The following sociobiographical information was collected: sex, age, education
level, ethnic group, occupation, languages known to the participant, dominant
language(s), chronological order of language acquisition, context of acquisi-
tion, age of onset of learning a language, frequency of use and typical interlocu-
tors. Self-rated proficiency scores for speaking, comprehending, reading and
writing in the different languages were obtained. The first part of the question-
naire consists of closed questions with 5-point Likert scales, the second consists
of open questions where the participants were asked to write a response. Lan-
guage choice was determined for self- and other-directed speech, for emotional
and non-emotional speech. For the latter we enquired about mental calculation
and inner speech, for the former we asked about the expression of anger and
feelings to different interlocutors including the self, as well as the expression of
emotion in letters. We also enquired about language choice for swearing and
perceived emotional weight of swear words (see also Dewaele forthc. a, b).
Attitudes towards the different languages were measured with 5-point Lik-
ert scales. We focussed on perceived usefulness, colourfulness, richness, poetic
and emotional character of the languages.
The open questions enquired about the emotional weight of the sentence
I love you in the different languages, about their emotional significance, about
the preferred language for writing a personal diary, for recalling bad or difficult
memories, for arguments. We also asked whether using a different language
made one feel a different person, and whether it was easier or more difficult to
talk about emotions in the different languages.
A comparison of answers given on the L1 to have been acquired, and the
dominant language at the time of filling out the questionnaire, made it pos-
sible to distinguish 3 categories of participants: Firstly, those who were still
dominant in the L1 (n = 561); secondly those who reported dominance in two
or more languages including the L1 (n = 373); and thirdly those reported dom-
inance in language(s) not including the L1 (n = 105). The latter category could
contain perceived L1 attriters.4
Schmid (2002) pointed out that overcoming methodological problems
was one of the major challenges in the field of L1 attrition. Different elicita-
tion techniques yield different results, and the results themselves are drawn
Language dominance and language preference for emotional speech 
from different theoretical approaches, considering various domains of linguis-
tic competence such as accuracy in phonology, morphology, syntax, lexis, as
well as concepts that are harder to define such as fluency. The fragmentation of
the results and the language-specific concepts make ulterior comparisons very
difficult. While the problem in itself is probably unsolvable, it is possible, as
was done in the study to be discussed, to choose a very general level of analysis,
such as frequency of choice of the L1 for specific speech acts and perception of
the L1 on a number of specific dimensions, and to compare these results with
the data for the same variable in other languages known to the participant.
Another problem in attrition studies concerns the selection of the exper-
imental group and the control group, or, as Jaspaert, Kroon and van Hout
(1986) put it: what is the point of reference? There is a danger for example
that a comparison of potentially attrited multilinguals and monolingual con-
trols becomes in fact a comparison between monolinguals and multilinguals,
rather than a comparison between attriters and non-attriters. Moreover, it has
been pointed out regularly in the SLA literature that it is not satisfactory to
compare a monolingual’s competence in a language with a bilingual’s com-
petence in that language (cf. Cook 2002). One could therefore argue that the
only valid comparisons in attrition research would be between multilinguals
with similar languages of which one may be attrited. The present study at-
tempts at overcoming this problem by doing just that, i.e. by only considering
multilinguals.
The other problem concerns research designs with only two groups (i.e.
experimental versus control group). The researcher will obviously use a set
of strict criteria to assign a participant to either group and then carry out a
comparison between group A and B. But is such a dichotomy theoretically ac-
ceptable? Researchers report wide variation within groups of attriters, so much
so that a researcher might have wished after an analysis of the data to exclude
some of the participants in the experimental group. There is no reason either
to believe that a (multilingual) control group would be completely homoge-
neous. Levels of activation of languages in the multilingual mind fluctuate (cf.
Green 1986). In other words, the nature of attrition is continuous rather than
dichotomic. A lower level of activation of a language could be interpreted as
the onset of an attrition process. People who spend two weeks immersed in
the L2 might show their first signs of L1 attrition upon their return to their
home. In the present study this problem was largely avoided. Firstly, because
the words “language loss” or “attrition” were absent in the questions, with only
one of many questions enquiring about dominant language(s). This formula-
tion does not have the dramatic negative connotations of attrition, perceived
 Jean-Marc Dewaele
as non-desirable and possibly skewing the responses. Secondly, the categori-
sation was carried out post-hoc by the researchers, after a comparison of the
L1(s) and the reported dominant language(s). The choice of three levels (dom-
inance in L1, L1+LX and LX) meant that more sophisticated statistical analyses
(M/ANOVA) could be used rather than simple t-tests which are typically used
for comparisons between two levels. The advantage with analyses of variance
is that that effect sizes can be calculated and that post-hoc tests can be car-
ried out to see the ranking order of the three groups, including reports on
possible significant differences between them. As it happened, it turned out
that, despite considerable intra-group variation, the rank order remained con-
stant. This finding has important theoretical implications about the nature of
perceived L1 attrition.
The final methodological point concerns the size of the samples and the
variety of languages under consideration. Any research based on production
data is extremely time-consuming, researchers therefore consider that a group
of 50 participants constitutes a very good sample. The question remains how-
ever to what extent results on such a sample for one specific language are
generalisable? One way to overcome this problem is by concentrating not on
production data but on self-reported data. We created an on-line web ques-
tionnaire on multilingualism and emotions (Dewaele and Pavlenko 2001) that
allowed us to gather data from a very large sample of learners and long-time
users of multiple languages from across the world and from a wide age range,
i.e. not only the 18–22 years-old which are predominantly used in empirical
research in applied linguistics and psychology. This approach is not without its
own methodological limitations (cf. Pavlenko 2002a). The problem of respon-
dent self-selection has been mentioned before. To fill out the questionnaire,
participants needed access to internet and a certain degree of metalinguistic
awareness. Other methodological objections could be raised, for example, how
strongly are self-evaluations about L1 loss correlated with objective measures?
There seems to be some variation but overall researchers did find significant
positive relations (Hulsen 2000; Waas 1996; Yağmur 1997). Doubts about the
validity of our research instrument can easily be assuaged as questionnaires
with Likert scales responses have been tried and tested extensively in sociopsy-
chological research (cf. Dörnyei 2003). These quantitative data can provide
an excellent baseline, provided they are backed up by different types of data.
We argued in favour of triangulation in bilingualism research in Dewaele and
Pavlenko (2002). This is the reason why we also gathered short narratives
through our web questionnaire, using open questions inquiring into emotion
and communicative behaviour. The use of self-reports through web question-
Language dominance and language preference for emotional speech 
naires may be an innovative and useful complement to existing methodologies
in attrition research but we are certainly not claiming that it could substitute
actual production and comprehension data.
. Dependent variables
Dependent variables are primarily of a quantitative nature (scores on 5-point
Likert scales). Qualitative data from the open questions have been used to
illustrate how the perceived L1 attriters felt about their L1.
The closed questions considered in the present study were formulated as
follows:
On the scale from 1 (least proficient) to 5 (fully fluent) how do you rate
yourself in speaking, understanding, reading, writing?
Self-perceived proficiency reflects the individuals’ perception of their compe-
tence in a language. Similar self-report measures have been proved to correlate
highly with performance measures of proficiency (e.g. Dufour & Kroll 1995;
Kroll, Michael, Tokowicz & Dufour 2002). Dewaele (2002) found that self-
perceived competence in French L2 and English L3 from 100 Dutch L1 learners
had a strong inverted relation with communicative anxiety in these languages.
Self-perceived competence in English appeared to be linked to the degree of
extraversion which confirmed earlier findings, i.e. that introvert and anxious
foreign language students tend to underestimate their competence relative to
more extravert and less anxious students, who tend to overestimate their com-
petence. This has no consequences for the present study, as it can be assumed
that the population is normally distributed in terms of extraversion scores.
The second series of closed questions were stated as follows:
Here are some subjective statements about the languages you know. Please
mark to what extent they correspond to your own perceptions. There are no
right/wrong answers. (My L1/L2/L3/L4/L5 is....useful, colorful, rich, poetic,
emotional).
The third series of questions sought to elicit information about self- and other-
directed speech, both emotional and non-emotional. Participants were asked
to circle the appropriate number.
– If you are angry, what language do you typically use to express your anger?
(never=1, rarely=2, sometimes=3, frequently=4, all the time=5)
 Jean-Marc Dewaele
This question was repeated for the expression of anger when alone, in letters
and e-mail, when talking to friends, family or partners, and strangers.
– What language do you express your deepest feelings in?
This question was also repeated for the expression of feelings when alone, in
letters and e-mail, when talking to friends and family or partners.
The last four questions were formulated as follows:
– If you perform mental calculation, what language do you typically use?
– If you form sentences silently (inner speech), what language do you typically
use?
– If you swear in general, what language do you typically swear in?
– Do swear and taboo words in your different languages have the same emo-
tional weight for you? (1=does not feel strong, 2=fairly weak, 3=fairly strong,
4=strong, 5=very strong).
One might object that this type of questionnaire cannot capture the richness,
the inherent variability and the complexity of the phenomenon under con-
sideration. Indeed some participants commented: “it depends!”. It is true that
questionnaires are but one of many possible methods to focus on variation in
non/emotional communication. Questionnaires may not be the linguists’ pre-
ferred method of data collection but it is the most popular instrument in per-
sonality and social psychology. Participants fill out questionnaires with closed
questions relating to their usual behaviour in prototypical situations. One of
the most robust questionnaires in psychology, the Eysenck Personality Inven-
tory (Eysenck & Eysenck 1968), contains questions like “Would you describe
yourself as a nervous person?” where the participant is asked to tick either YES
or NO. These answers constitute the first level of abstraction. Factor analyses
allow researchers to compare factor scores for these questions on various di-
mensions, allowing them to pick out the questions that have the best predictive
power in order to locate an individual on a personality dimension (cf. Digman
1990). Our multi-item scales on language choice for specific speech acts and
perception of languages constitute a second level of abstraction.
. Research design
Our main independent variable is the type of language dominance (either L1
only, shared L1+LX, or LX only). Internal consistency, which “refers to the ho-
mogeneity of the items making up the various multi-item scales within the
Language dominance and language preference for emotional speech 
questionnaire” (Dörnyei 2003) was measured by the Cronbach alpha coeffi-
cient.5
Multivariate analyses of variance (MANOVA) and Scheffé post-hoc tests
were used to check for inter-group differences. The number of participants
may vary across the analyses because some did not provide data for all the
in/dependent variables and were therefore excluded from a specific calculation.
Paired t-tests allowed us to check for intra-group differences between fre-
quency of use of L1 for emotional (expression of anger) and non-emotional
speech (mental calculation).
. Results
The analyses revealed that type of language dominance had a significant ef-
fect overall, although there was some variation in the between-subjects effects.
Results almost always appeared in the same order: the L1 dominant group ob-
taining the highest scores, followed by the L1+LX group, and finally the LX
dominant group.
. Self-rated proficiency scores in the L1
Internal consistency reliability was extremely high (alpha = .92). A MANOVA
with language dominance as main independent effect and proficiency in the
four language skills as dependent variable shows a significant effect (Wilks
lambda = .80, F (12, 2725) = 20.4, p < .0001, eta2
= .07). Not surprisingly the
LX dominant group reported significantly lower proficiency for the four skills
in their L1 compared to the L1 and the L1+LX groups. Post-hoc tests showed
that the LX dominants reported significantly lower proficiency for the four
skills than the 2 other groups. The difference between the L1 and the L1+LX
groups is not significant however. The analysis of between-subjects effects sug-
Table 1. Between-subjects effects for self-rated proficiency scores in the L1 (df =
3,1036)
Skill F eta2 Scheffé post-hoc tests
Writing 66.2*** .16 LX/L1***, LX/LX+L1***, L1/L1+LX
Reading 29.4*** .08 LX/L1***, LX/LX+L1***, L1/L1+LX
Speaking 26.8*** .07 LX/L1***, LX/LX+L1***, L1/L1+LX
Comprehension 7.6*** .02 LX/L1***, LX/LX+L1***, L1/L1+LX
*p < .05, **p < .001, ***p < .0001
 Jean-Marc Dewaele
(L1: n=558; L1+LX: n=371; LX: n=107)
Proficiency
score
5
4.5
4
3.5
3
Speak Comprehend Read Write
L1
L1+LX
LX
Figure 1. Self-rated proficiency in the L1 for the L1 dominant group, the L1+LX dom-
inant group and the LX dominant group
gests that the effect of language dominance was strongest for writing, followed
by reading, speaking and finally comprehension (see Table 1).
It thus seems that self-reported proficiency in writing the L1 suffers more
from attrition than oral L1, and that reception is less affected than production.
The LX group thus presents clear indications of L1 attrition, according to de
Bot and Hulsen’s (2002) definition, “language attrition reflects a decrease in
language proficiency at the individual level” (p. 255).
Means for the three groups are presented in Figure 1.
. Expression of feelings in the L1 (frequency of use)
The Cronbach alpha coefficient revealed a low degree of internal consistency
(alpha = .46) because of the presence of the item “communication of feelings
in letters and email”. When this item was removed, the Cronbach alpha coeffi-
Table 2. Between-subjects effects for expression of feelings in the L1 (frequency of use)
(df = 2,970)
Expression of feelings F eta2 Scheffé post-hoc analyses
When alone 98.3*** .17 LX/L1***, LX/L1+LX***, L1/L1+LX***
To friends 77.5*** .14 LX/L1***, LX/L1+LX***, L1/L1+LX**
To parents 42.3*** .08 LX/L1***, LX/L1+LX***, L1/L1+LX
*p < .05, **p < .001, ***p < .0001
Language dominance and language preference for emotional speech 
(L1: n=528; L1+LX: n=337; LX: n=93)
Frequency
of
use
5
4.5
4
3.5
3
2.5
2
Alone Friends Family
L1
L1+LX
LX
Figure 2. The expression of feelings in the L1 for the L1 dominant group, the L1+LX
dominant group and the LX dominant group
cient increased for the three remaining items (alpha = .83). This suggests that
there is a clear effect of modality for language choice in expression of feelings.
The item “communication of feelings in letters and email” was left out of the
subsequent analyses.
The overall effect of type of language dominance is highly significant
(Wilks lambda = .82, F(6, 1936) = 33.9, p < .0001, eta2
= .095). All the between-
subjects effects are highly significant. The effect is strongest for the expression
of feelings alone, followed by expression of feelings to friends and finally ex-
pression of feelings to parents (see Table 2). A Scheffé post-hoc test revealed
that the L1 dominant group use their L1 significantly more to express their
feelings, the L1+LX group does so significantly less and the LX group uses the
L1 less still to talk about feelings. The only exception was for the expression of
emotion to parents where the difference between the L1 and the L1+LX group
was non-significant (see Figure 2).
. Expression of anger in the L1 (frequency of use)
The Cronbach alpha coefficient revealed a high degree of internal consistency
for this 6-item scale (alpha = .87). The item “communication of anger in letters
and email” was therefore included in the analyses.
 Jean-Marc Dewaele
The MANOVA shows the same pattern as for the expression of feelings.
The overall effect of type of language dominance is highly significant (Wilks
Lambda = .77, F (12, 1772) = 20.1, p < .0001, eta2
= .12). All the between-
subjects effects are highly significant. In other words, L1 attrition is linked to
a similar reduction in the use of the L1 to swear, to express anger alone, to
friends, to family, and to strangers. The effect is strongest for the expression of
anger in letters / emails and to friends. It decreased gradually for the expression
of anger alone, to strangers, to parents and for swearing (see Table 3).
Table 3. Between-subjects effects for expression of anger in the L1 (frequency of use)
(df = 2,891)
Expression of anger F eta2
Scheffé post-hoc analyses
In letters/ emails 92.8*** .17 LX/L1***, LX/L1+LX***, L1/LX/L1***
To friends 85.1*** .16 LX/L1***, LX/L1+LX***, L1/LX/L1***
When alone 78.8*** .15 LX/L1***, LX/L1+LX***, L1/LX/L1***
To strangers 60.3*** .12 LX/L1***, LX/L1+LX***, L1/LX/L1***
To parents 46.1*** .09 LX/L1***, LX/L1+LX***, L1/LX/L1*
Swearing 39.8*** .08 LX/L1***, LX/L1+LX***, L1/LX/L1***
*p < .05, **p < .001, ***p < .0001
(L1: n=517; L1+LX: n=348; LX: n=98)
Useful Colorful Rich Poetic Emotional Swearwords
Strength
of
perception
5
4.5
4
3.5
3
L1 L1+LX LX
Figure 3. The expression of anger in the L1 for the L1 dominant group, the L1+LX
dominant group and the LX dominant group
Language dominance and language preference for emotional speech 
A Scheffé post-hoc test (see Table 3) revealed that the L1 dominant group
use their L1 significantly more to express anger in the different situations, the
L1+LX group does so significantly less and the LX group comes out at the
bottom (see Figure 3).
. Inner speech and mental calculation in L1 (frequency of use)
The Cronbach alpha coefficient revealed a relatively low degree of internal con-
sistency (alpha = .65), suggesting that these two items may, to a certain degree,
reflect different aspects of silent speech.
The overall effect of language dominance is highly significant (Wilks
Lambda = .75, F(4, 1982) = 76.3, p < .0001, eta2
= .13). Between-subjects ef-
fects are highly significant: the effect is strongest for mental calculation (F(2,
992) = 145.6, p < .0001, eta2
= .227) followed by inner speech (F(2, 992) =
72.1, p < .0001, eta2
= .127). A Scheffé post-hoc test showed significant dif-
ferences (p < .0001) between the 3 groups for both variables. This suggests
that language dominance also strongly affects self-directed, silent speech, and
especially mental calculation.
(L1: n=544; L1+LX: n=354; LX: n=97)
L1
L1+LX
LX
Frequency
of
use
5
4.5
4
3.5
3
Inner speech Mental calculations
Figure 4. Inner speech and mental calculation in L1 (frequency of use) for the L1
dominant group, the L1+LX dominant group and the LX dominant group
 Jean-Marc Dewaele
. Perceptions of the L1
The Cronbach alpha coefficient revealed a relatively high degree of internal
consistency (alpha = .76).
Here again a highly significant overall effect of language dominance
emerges (Wilks lambda = .92, F(12, 1868) = 7.7, p < .0001, eta2
= .047). The
analysis of between-subjects effects confirms the existence of strong differences
between the dependent variables: the effect of language dominance is strongest
for perceived usefulness, followed by perceived richness and perceived colour-
Table 4. Between-subjects effects and post-hoc results for perception in the L1 (fre-
quency of use) (df = 2,939)
Perception of the language F eta2 Scheffé post-hoc tests
Useful 20.7*** .08 LX/L1***, LX/L1+LX***, L1/L1+LX*
Rich 5.1*** .02 LX/L1***, LX/L1+LX**, L1/L1+LX
Colorful 4.9** .01 LX/L1**, LX/L1+LX*, L1/L1+LX
Emotional 1.8 0 LX/L1, LX/L1+LX, L1/L1+LX
Poetic 1.2 0 LX/L1, LX/L1+LX, L1/L1+LX
Perception of emotional force 3.3* .01 LX/L1, LX/L1+LX*, L1/L1+LX
of swearwords
*p < .05, **p < .001, ***p < .0001
(L1: n=517; L1+LX: n=348; LX: n=98)
Strength
of
perception
5
4.5
4
3.5
3
Useful Colorful Rich Poetic Emotional Swearwords
L1 L1+LX LX
Figure 5. Perceptions of the L1, including swearwords, for the L1 dominant group, the
L1+LX dominant group and the LX dominant group
Language dominance and language preference for emotional speech 
fulness. The effect sizes are very small however. The effect is not significant for
perceived emotionality of the language nor for its poetic character. The effect is
significant for perception of emotional force of swearwords but the effect size
is very limited (see Table 4).
The Scheffé post-hoc test revealed that the differences between the three
groups are not consistently significant for the different variables: significant
inter-group differences emerged for perceived usefulness, perceived richness,
perceived colourfulness and perception of the emotional/locutionary force of
swearwords but none appeared for perceived poetic character and emotionality
of the language.
. Intra-group differences
The last part of the quantitative analysis focuses on intra-group differences in
L1 use, in other words, do people belonging to one of the three groups (L1
dominant, L1+LX or LX) differ significantly in their L1 use according to the
emotional content of the speech act? Paired t-tests suggest that there is no sig-
nificant difference between L1 use for the expression of anger alone and mental
calculation for the LX group: (t = –1.3, p = ns). The LX group thus uses the
L1 equally for the expression of anger alone and mental calculation. There
were highly significant differences however within the L1+LX group: (t = 7.1,
p < .0001) and the L1 group: (t = 7.6, p < .0001). In these two groups, L1 was
used much more often for mental calculation that for the expression of anger.
. Testimonies from LX dominant participants
Reading through the comments written by the LX dominant participants, one
realises that their relation to their L1 varies enormously. Some feel completely
detached from the L1, as is the case for Gertrud (German L1, English L2,
French L3, Spanish L4, Italian L5):
English is the language in which I can express my emotions most directly.
French the language I enjoy playing about with. German is the language from
which I probably feel most distant (apart from Spanish and Italian which I do
not speak well enough to make any difference).
Others like David (Sindhi L1, English L2, Malay L3) express a certain nostalgia
when talking about their L1:
Malay I see as my working language used as medium of instruction and with
colleagues in code switched utterances to signify friendship English as a prac-
 Jean-Marc Dewaele
tical language –to indicate status. Sindhi as the language of my forefathers and
I wish I had more people to speak it with, I miss the language.
Virhe (Estonian L1, English L2) also associates his L1 with a mythical past:
Perhaps my association of Estonian as a precious language of a lost world has
more to do with my view of my father as a tragic exiled figure than my own
associations with any lost land but those feeling must have been very pro-
foundly passed on to me and my brother for the language to carry the sort of
significance it does: I believe it goes beyond the history and the culture it is
attached to.
Another sentiment expressed by participants is that the L1 no longer fits their
personality. Eric (German L1, English L2) notes that his L1 belongs to some
distant former self:
When speaking German I feel either immature or unprofessional to a cer-
tain extent. I feel like my German has been frozen at the age of 18. When
speaking German I feel as if I should be expressing myself more maturely
though I’m not sure exactly in what way. I feel less confident when using Ger-
man than English now never having had to function professionally completely
in German.
Others, like Martina (German L1, English L2, French L3), observe that they
assume different roles or identities when speaking the L1:
When I use my L1 (German) I am often the daughter, the friend and until
recently ‘the teacher’. French is nowadays a ‘social’ language used for chat,
gossip and light-hearted discussion. Against this English is now my ‘language
of habitual use’.
The environment might also hinder or favour the use of the L1. Kristina (Ger-
man L1, English L2) notices that when German expatriates meet where she lives
in the UK they often speak English, which could be an indication of a gradual
shift (cf. de Bot & Hulsen 2002):
I am intrigued that when meeting other German L1 speakers the conversation
will often continue in English.
Some participants resent standing out linguistically and avoid the use of the L1
in places where they can be overheard. This is a well-documented phenomenon
among multilingual schoolchildren (cf. Yamamoto 2001). The following par-
ticipant, Nathan (French L1, Greek L2, English L3) is an adult however, with a
similar social uneasiness:
I do not feel comfortable when my wife speaks L1 to me in public places, in
order not to attract attention I answer in L2.
Language dominance and language preference for emotional speech 
One participant, who belongs to the L1+LX group, observes that she is no
longer able to be angry in her L1 after spending several years in her L3 en-
vironment (Johanna: English L1, French L2, Italian L3, Spanish L4):
I’m more likely to express anger in Italian. Mainly because I’ve only really
learned how to in the last few years and since I’ve spent my young adulthood
here I’ve gotten more practice raging at the government or the landlord in my
adopted language. I still end up feeling ridiculous when I get worked up about
things in English.
. Discussion
One of the striking results in the present study is the emergence of the same
order for the three groups, and this for every dependent variable: the L1 domi-
nant group almost always comes first, followed by the L1+LX dominant group,
with the LX dominant group coming in last. Two observations can be drawn
from this pattern. Firstly, it is a clear indication that self-reported L1 attrition
similarly affects self-reported proficiency, self-reported emotional as well as
non-emotional L1 use, and self-reported silent as well as articulated speech
in the L1. Secondly, it suggests that shared L1+LX dominance corresponds to
weak perceived L1 attrition for emotional as well as non-emotional L1 use.
However, shared L1+LX dominance does not affect self-rated proficiency in
the L1 nor perceptions of the L1.
Perceived LX dominance was also found to affect self-reported oral and
written skills in the L1 to varying degrees. Written proficiency appears to be
affected more strongly than oral proficiency, and writing more so than reading.
Oral production suffers more than auditory reception. It thus seems that the
LX dominant participants feel they retained their capacity to decode the L1
better than the capacity to encode it.
A closer look at the perceptions of different types of emotional and non-
emotional speech revealed that both are similarly affected by LX dominance.
L1 use for silent speech (inner speech and mental calculations) is affected as
much by perceived L1 attrition as articulated speech.
Perceived L1 attrition has a strong effect on perceived usefulness, less on
perceived colourfulness, perceived richness, perception of the emotional force
of swearwords and no effect on poetic and emotional properties of the L1.
This is interesting because it suggests that the emotional resonance of the L1
remains largely unaffected by perceived L1 attrition. Just as L1 swearwords tend
 Jean-Marc Dewaele
%
of
respondants 45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
inner speech mental calculation anger alone feelings alone
never rarely sometimes frequently all the time
Figure 6. Distribution of use of the L1 in the LX dominant group for inner speech,
mental calculations, expression of anger and feelings alone (percentage of respondants)
to retain their force, despite being rarely – if ever – used, the whole L1 does
retain emotional connotations.
Söter’s testimony which opened the present chapter offers another intrigu-
ing perspective on the role of the L1. When writing in the dominant L2, she
reports that emotions activate emotion words in the L1, which in turn activate
a further lexical search in the L2. This means that no L1 words survive in the
end-product, despite the fact that the L1 did play a significant role in the psy-
cholinguistic genesis of the production. It is possible however that the L1 did
affect lexical choice in the L2 (cf. Pavlenko 2002b). Our analysis showed that
compared to the L1 dominant and the L1+LX dominant groups, the LX dom-
inant group used the L1 significantly less for inner speech, but even a lower
average shows that some LX dominant participants do use their L1 regularly. A
closer look at the distribution (Figure 6) reveals that only 14% of LX dominant
participants declare to never or rarely use their L1 for inner speech, a majority
uses the L1 sometimes, frequently or all the time. A larger proportion of LX
dominant participants (30%) never or rarely uses the L1 for mental calcula-
tion. Feelings and anger are never or rarely expressed in the L1 by respectively
32% and 23% of L1 attriters. What this demonstrates is that a majority of LX
dominant participants in the sample do use their L1 at least occasionally, and
most frequently so for inner speech.
Language dominance and language preference for emotional speech 
. Conclusion
The results of the quantitative part of study that emerged through multivariate
analyses show that language dominance / perceived L1 attrition has a signifi-
cant effect on self-related proficiency in the L1, on frequency of use of the L1
for the expression of feelings, anger and swearing to different interlocutors and
in different modalities, for silent and articulated speech. Language dominance
also affects perceptions of certain characteristics of the L1, but not the per-
ception of its emotional and poetic character, and the perception of emotional
force of swearwords. These patterns were confirmed by the narrative evidence
provided by the participants and strengthened the views expressed by bilingual
writers (cf. Besemeres forthc.; Kinginger forthc.; Pavlenko 2002b). The attrited
L1 retains powerful emotional connotations, which can be either positive or
negative. One possible explanation is that because of the number of neural
connections established in early and middle childhood, the whole L1 is linked
to systems for emotional arousal (Harris et al. 2003). L1 attriters adopt new
languages to express themselves in and to project their adult personalities. The
L1 recedes to the deepest layers of the self (cf. Alvarez: “Some deeper or first
Julia”; in Novakovich and Shapard 2000:218), and maintains an unseen / un-
heard presence in the inner speech of the individual. Metaphorically one could
compare the use of the attrited native tongue as an activity, like cycling, that
hasn’t been performed for a long time. The memory of what the performance
feels like remains intact, the emotional image hasn’t deteriorated, but the actual
procedures needed to execute the action are dormant and, at least temporarily,
inaccessible because of lack of exposure (cf. de Bot 1999).
This study shows that the bird’s-eye perspective on quantitative and qual-
itative data from a large sample of multilinguals can provide useful and novel
information about perception and self-reported use of the L1. The comparison
of the (self-reported) L1 dominant group with the L1+LX dominant group
and, finally with the LX dominant group (potential L1 attriters) shows the
dynamic nature of language dominance and L1 attrition. It raises a question
about the exact definition of attrition: from what point on the continuum can
one be labelled an “attriter”? A person’s self-perception is a subjective statement
and it cannot be verified without production data. One of the most interesting
findings is that the mere presence of a second dominant language is linked
to an almost imperceptible decrease in self-reported proficiency in the L1. As
frequency of use of the L1 diminishes so does the perception of usefulness,
colourfulness, richness, poetic and emotional character of the L1. These pat-
terns are merely more pronounced among the participants who did no longer
 Jean-Marc Dewaele
include the L1 among their dominant languages. The latter did report sig-
nificantly lower proficiency levels in the L1 and lower levels of use of the L1,
suggesting that they belong in the category of perceived “L1 attriters”, but even
within that category there is a large amount of inter-individual variation. In
sum, we are certainly not claiming that self-reported data obtained via ques-
tionnaires suffice for the analysis of the complex phenomenon of attrition. It
merely offers a possible third triangulation point, in addition to production
data and in-depth face-to-face interviews.
Acknowledgment
We would like to thank Aneta Pavlenko, Catherine Harris and the four
anonymous reviewers for their excellent feedback on a previous version of
this chapter.
Notes
. “I dedicate the diary of my youth (or a brief tale) to my beloved nephews Ilan, Alison and
Josh as a souvenir from Bobe Bela” [my translation].
. “Yiddish, for me, was truly the mother tongue, whereas Spanish, the street language, the
one I most often used, was the father tongue” (Stavans 2001:83).
. The danger of respondent self-selection is more acute if the dependent variable under
consideration has a perceived “desirable” end as it might discourage a sizable proportion
of potential participants. Dörnyei notes: “volunteers may be different from non-volunteers
in their aptitude, motivation, or some other basic characteristic, and drop-outs may also
share some common features that will be underrepresented in the sample with their de-
parture (e.g., drop-outs may be more unmotivated than their peers and therefore their
departure might make the remaining participants’ general level of motivation unnaturally
high)” (2003:75). As the main dependent variables in the present study are relatively value-
neutral: ”how often do you use language X to express Y...”, it seems less likely that respondent
self-selection would unduly skew the results.
. I will use the term “LX dominants” and “perceived L1 attriters” interchangeably, with the
understanding that this is a subjective, self-reported fact, and impossible to verify without
production data.
. Dörnyei observes that: “L2 researchers typically want to measure many different areas in
one questionnaire, and therefore cannot use very long scales (...). This means that somewhat
lower Cronbach Alpha coefficients are to be expected, but even with short scales of 3–4 items
we should aim at reliability coefficients in excess of .70; if the Cronbach alpha of a scale does
not reach .60, this should sound warning bells” (2003:112).
Language dominance and language preference for emotional speech 
References
Belcher, D., & Connor, U. (2001). Reflections on Multiliterate Lives. Clevedon: Multilingual
Matters.
Besemeres, M. (Forthcoming). “Different languages, different emotions? Perspectives
from autobiographical literature”. Special issue of the Journal of Multilingual and
Multicultural Development (2004).
Bond, M., & Lai, T.-M. (1986). “Embarrassment and code-switching into a second lan-
guage”. The Journal of Social Psychology, 126, 179–186.
Bot, K. de, & Hulsen, M. (2002). “Language Attrition: Tests, self-assessments and
perceptions”. In V. Cook (Ed.), Portraits of the L2 User (pp. 253–274). Clevedon:
Multilingual Matters.
Bot, K. de (1998). “The psycholinguistics of language loss”. In G. Extra & L. Verhoeven
(Eds.), Bilingualism and Migration (pp. 345–361). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Cook, V. (2002). “Background to the L2 user”. In V. Cook (Ed.), Portraits of the L2 User
(pp. 1–28). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Dewaele, J.-M. (2002). “Psychological and sociodemographic correlates of communicative
anxiety in L2 and L3 production”. The International Journal of Bilingualism, 6 (1), 23–
39.
Dewaele, J.-M. (Forthcoming a). “Blistering Barnacles! What language do multilinguals
swear in?! ” Estudios de Sociolinguistica, 5 (2004).
Dewaele, J.-M. (Forthcoming b). “The emotional force of swearwords and taboo words
in the speech of multilinguals”. Special issue of the Journal of Multilingual and
Multicultural Development (2004).
Dewaele, J.-M., & Pavlenko, A. (2001). Web questionnaire Bilingualism and Emotions
(http://www.bbk.ac.uk/llc/biling+emotions/).
Dewaele, J.-M., & Pavlenko, A. (2002). “Emotion vocabulary in interlanguage”. Language
Learning, 52 (2), 265–324.
Digman, J. M. (1990). “Personality Structure: Emergence of the Five-factor Model”. Annual
Review of Psychology, 41, 417–440.
Dörnyei, Z. (2003). Questionnaires in Second Language Research: Construction, adminis-
tration, and processing. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Dufour, R., & Kroll, J. (1995). “Matching words to concepts in two languages: A test of
the concept mediation model of bilingual representation”. Memory and Cognition, 23,
166–180.
Eysenck, H. J., & Eysenck, S. B. G. (1968). Manual for the Eysenck Personality Inventory. San
Diego, CA: Educational and Industrial Testing Service.
Green, D. W. (1986). “Control, activation and resource: A framework and a model for the
control of speech in bilinguals”. Brain and Language, 27, 210–223.
Gonzalez-Reigosa, F. (1976). “The anxiety arousing effect of taboo words in bilinguals”.
In C. D. Spielberger & R. Diaz-Guerrero (Eds.), Cross-cultural Anxiety (pp. 89–105).
Washington, D.C.: Hemisphere.
Harris, C. L. (Forthcoming). “Bilingual speakers in the lab: Psychophysiological measures
of emotional reactivity”. Special issue of the Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural
Development (2004).
 Jean-Marc Dewaele
Harris, C. L., Ayçiçegi, A., & Berko-Gleason, J. (2003). “Taboo words and reprimands
elicit greater autonomic reactivity in a first than in a second language”. Applied
Psycholinguistics, 24, 561–579.
Hulsen, M. (2000). Language Loss and Language Processing: Three generations of Dutch
migrants in New Zealand. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation: University of Nijmegen.
Jaspaert, K., Kroon, S., & van Hout, R. (1986). “Points of reference in first-language loss
research”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress
(pp. 37–49). Dordrecht: Foris.
Javier, R., & Marcos, L. (1989). “The role of stress on the language-independence and code-
switching phenomena”. Journal of Psycholinguistic Research, 18, 449–472.
Kellman, S. (2000). The Translingual Imagination. Lincoln, NB: University of Nebraska Press.
Kinginger, C. (Forthcoming). “Bilingualism and emotion in the autobiographical works
of Nancy Huston”. Special issue of the Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural
Development (2004).
Knowlson, J. (1996). Damned to Fame. The life of Samuel Beckett. London: Bloomsbury.
Kroll, J., Michael, E., Tokowicz, N., & Dufour, R. (2002). “The development of lexical fluency
in a second language”. Second Language Research, 18, 141–175.
Novakovich, J., & Shapard, R. (Eds.). (2000). Stories in the Stepmother Tongue. Buffalo, NY:
White Pine Press.
Pavlenko, A. (1998). “Second language learning by adults: Testimonies of bilingual writers”.
Issues in Applied Linguistics, 9 (1), 3–19.
Pavlenko, A. (2001). “Language learning memoirs as a gendered genre”. Applied Linguistics,
22 (2), 213–240.
Pavlenko, A. (2002a). “Poststructuralist approaches to the study of social factors in L2”. In
V. Cook (Ed.), Portraits of the L2 User (pp. 277–302). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Pavlenko, A. (2002b). “Bilingualism and emotions”. Multilingua, 21 (1), 45–78.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance: The case of German
Jews in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Schmid, M. S. (Forthcoming). “Identity and first language attrition: A historical approach”.
Special issue of Estudios de Sociolinguistica, 5 (2004).
Söter, A. (2001). “Straddling three worlds”. In D. Belcher & U. Connor (Eds.), Reflections on
Multiliterate Lives (pp. 67–73). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Stavans, I. (2001). On Borrowed Words. A memoir of language. New York, NY: Viking
Penguin.
Waas, M. (1996). Language Attrition Downunder. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Yağmur, K. (1997). First Language Attrition among Turkish Immigrants in Sydney. Tilburg:
Tilburg University Press.
Yamamoto, M. (2001). Language Use in Interlingual Families: A Japanese-English socio-
linguistic study. Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
The role of grammaticality judgments
in investigating first language attrition
A cross-disciplinary perspective
Evelyn P. Altenberg and Robert M. Vago
Hofstra University / Queens College and The Graduate Center, City
University of New York
Introduction
The grammaticality judgment task has been widely used in a variety of re-
lated areas of inquiry, including theoretical linguistics, first language (L1)
acquisition, second language (L2) acquisition, and communicative disorders.
More recently, the grammaticality judgment task has been included among
the methodologies used in the emerging field of L1 attrition; see Altenberg
(1991), de Bot et al. (1991), Grosjean and Py (1991), Köpke (1999), Polinsky
(1994), Seliger (1991), and Sharwood Smith (1983). We will use the term L1
attrition (roughly equivalent to primary language attrition; see Seliger 1996)
to refer to the loss of language abilities of nondisordered individuals in an L2
environment.
The popularity of the grammaticality judgment task is understandable.
First, it can access structural attributes which occur infrequently in actual
speech production. Second, it can tell researchers not only which structures
are possible, but also which ones are not, reaching into a domain that is not
overtly observed.As Schmid (2002:37) points out, “the overwhelming majority
of language attrition studies have concentrated on ‘what is lost’ to the exclu-
sion of ‘what is retained”’. The grammaticality judgment task can potentially
tell us both. Third, it addresses the problem of avoidance (see Schachter 1974),
whereby speakers stay clear of structures whose grammaticality they are not
sure of. Finally, it can typically be carried out without special equipment, in a
 Evelyn P. Altenberg and Robert M. Vago
short amount of time, and with groups of subjects at once. While the grammat-
icality judgment task has most commonly been conducted to examine aspects
of syntax, it can, and has, on occasion been used in other domains, for example,
phonology (e.g., Altenberg & Cairns 1983; Greenberg 1987).
The grammaticality judgment task has come under a great deal of scrutiny,
with questions raised about both its validity and its methodological implemen-
tation. Issues related to the task have been widely discussed and reviewed in
the literature. In this regard, we want to bring special attention to the works of,
among others, Chaudron (1983), for an extensive review of experimental psy-
cholinguistic studies concerning grammaticality judgments; Birdsong (1989),
for examining the role of grammaticality judgments in L2 learning, and Cow-
art (1996) and Schütze (1996) for detailed examinations of issues relating to
the syntactic grammaticality judgments of nondisordered adult L1 speakers.
Our goal here is to review the issues related to the grammaticality judgment
task, and to determine what we do and do not know about it, in particular with
regard to those issues which seem to be most relevant to assessing the potential
role the grammaticality judgment task might play in investigating L1 attrition.
Our discussion is organised around four central questions: (1) What is
the relationship between grammaticality judgments and competence? (2) Do
grammaticality judgments rely on knowledge and processes that are different
from those used in normal sentence processing? (3) What is the significance
of possible inter-subject and intra-subject inconsistency? (4) How can one best
set up a grammaticality judgment task? We will conclude that grammaticality
judgment tasks are worth pursuing in L1 attrition studies, subject to significant
controls.
. The relationship between grammaticality judgments and competence
An issue which has received attention in the L1 attrition literature is that of
whether L1 attrition is a loss of competence, or performance, or both, with
researchers taking a variety of positions (see for example Köpke & Schmid, this
volume; Polinsky 1997; Seliger 1996; Schmid 2002; Sharwood Smith 1983). The
relationship between grammaticality judgments and competence is therefore of
particular relevance here.
Much of the early research using grammaticality judgment tasks, for ex-
ample Arthur (1980) and Kellerman (1986), was conducted on the assumption
that such tasks directly tap into competence; for a more recent exposition of
this view, see Seliger (1996). However, there is generally agreement today that
Grammaticality judgments in first language attrition 
grammaticality judgment tasks do not provide a direct window into an in-
dividual’s competence alone, but rather other factors play a role as well. We
present here just a few quotations out of a potentially much longer list. Chom-
sky (1986:36): “In general, informant judgments do not reflect the structure
of the language directly; judgments of acceptability, for example, may fail to
provide direct evidence as to grammatical status because of the intrusions of
numerous other factors”. Chaudron (1983:345, Footnote 2): “Judgments must
be recognised as a secondary form of access to underlying competence, pri-
marily because of the mediation of possibly conflicting knowledge, attitude,
or performance variables in the expression of a judgment response”. Gass
(1994:306): grammaticality judgments “are not a direct reflection of com-
petence for competence is an abstraction”. Han (2000:180): “grammaticality
judgment tasks, like any other data collection instrument, provide a kind of
performance data. They are no longer assumed to have undisputed validity as
an index of linguistic competence, as was claimed in the past”. Finally, consider
Schachter and Yip (1990:381): grammaticality judgment tasks “reflect a com-
plex interaction between competence and performance variables inherent in
the judgment task”.
There are, in fact, good reasons to assume that judgments involve perfor-
mance. After all, in order to assess a sentence, one presumably has to first pro-
cess it, or attempt to process it; thus, at least some of the performance factors
involved in normal sentence processing ought to play a role in grammaticality
judgment tasks.
If our judgments provided a direct window into competence and only
competence, then speakers should consistently be able to recognise all the
meanings of an ambiguous sentence that are allowed by their grammar. Chom-
sky (1965) and others have pointed out that this is not the case: speakers do not
necessarily recognise all the meanings of an ambiguous sentence.
A similar argument can be made for garden-path sentences. A sentence
such as the well-known The horse raced past the barn fell may be judged as
ungrammatical even though it is grammatical. However, as Pinker (1994:211)
demonstrates, the very same sentence may be judged grammatical if placed in a
different context: “The horse that was walked past the fence proceeded steadily,
but the horse raced past the barn fell”. Again, sentences of this sort ought to be
consistently judged as grammatical in a grammaticality judgment task if such
a task directly accessed competence and only competence.
While it would certainly be convenient to have a task that directly tapped
competence, it is important to make clear that it is not necessarily our goal
to understand only competence, or to somehow value an understanding of
 Evelyn P. Altenberg and Robert M. Vago
competence over an understanding of performance. Eckman (1994:6) points
out that “the boundary between linguistic competence and performance is not
fixed but instead is adjusted as the field advances”. He argues (ibid.:9) that “a
linguist establishes empirically, not a priori, what is included under that com-
petence”, and suggests (ibid.:10) that one cannot “give a compelling argument
that a given theory must restrict itself to the study of some idealised construct”.
Our concern here is simply to know what we are getting when we conduct a
grammaticality judgment task, in particular with L1 attriters.
. Do grammaticality judgments rely on knowledge and processes that
are different from those used in normal sentence processing?
It seems reasonable, then, to proceed on the understandingthat grammaticality
judgment data are performance data, which may incorporate aspects of com-
petence, rather than solely a direct reflection of competence. The question is,
what aspects of performance do they reflect? In particular, do grammaticality
judgment tasks rely on knowledge and processes that are different from those
used in on-line, normal sentence processing? This question has been raised, for
example, by Bever (1970, 1974). Our discussion will focus on four issues that
bear significantly on this question.
. Similarities between grammaticality judgment tasks and normal
language use
As we think through the role of grammaticality judgment tasks, it is impor-
tant to note that events similar to making grammaticality judgments occur
in normal language use. When a native speaker hears an utterance and says
That sounds weird, or Huh? we need to account for how that response is ar-
rived at. That is, there has to be a mechanism, during on-line processing, for
recognising an ungrammatical sentence and also for recognising one that needs
to be re-parsed, i.e., that is ambiguous. Meng and Bader (2000:646), using a
timed grammaticality judgment task, claim that “the same mechanisms are
involved in response to a local syntactic violation, no matter whether the sen-
tence is ambiguous, i.e., revisable, or ungrammatical”. Are these mechanisms
and the knowledge base they utilise the same as, or different from, that used in
detecting ungrammaticality in a grammaticality judgment task?
Similarly, in production, speakers self-correct as they speak. They must in
some way be monitoring their speech to do this. While speakers are clearly
Grammaticality judgments in first language attrition 
monitoring for features other than grammaticality (e.g., content and clarity),
they are at times correcting grammaticality. Cowart (p.c.) points out that in
order for a community to maintain its grammatical coherence in light of the
forces of language change, individuals would seem to need some sort of cross
check between a representation of current grammatical norms in the commu-
nity and their own speech. Is monitoring part of on-line processing or does it
rely on a separate process and knowledge base?
We see then that there are a variety of activities that speakers engage in that
require at least a similar knowledge base: the recognition of ungrammatical-
ity and revision of ambiguity during normal perception, monitoring during
normal production, and making grammaticality judgments. The most parsi-
monious system is one in which the knowledge source is the same for each of
these activities. In fact, Allen and Seidenberg (1999:121), operating from a con-
nectionist perspective, suggest that “the capacity to make...judgments emerges
out of the ability to process language normally”. Note, however, that Bever
(1975) suggests that there is a representation of grammatical knowledge that
is separate from production and comprehension mechanisms in adults. The
fact that one knowledge base is the most parsimonious proposal does not nec-
essarily make it correct. The point here is simply that the knowledge used in
grammaticality judgment tasks may not be far removed from that used in more
typical on-line activities.
. Explicit and implicit memory
A distinction that is crucial to our discussion here is that between explicit
and implicit knowledge. According to Berry (1994:147), implicit memory “is
shown on tasks that do not require deliberate recollection of a past event
although the event influences performance”. Paradis (1994), linking implicit
knowledge and competence, views implicit competence as knowledge that indi-
viduals themselves are not aware of. It “is acquired incidentally, is stored in the
form of procedural know-how, without conscious knowledge of its contents,
and is used automatically” (Paradis 1995:6). Winter and Reber (1994:118) say
that implicit knowledge “typically remains resistant to conscious inspection”.
Explicit knowledge, according to Paradis (1994:394), refers to “the knowl-
edge of which individuals are aware and that they are capable of representing to
themselves and of verbalizing on demand”. He suggests that it is usually learned
in school. For Bialystok (1986:499), explicitness is a matter of degree: “Analysis
of linguistic knowledge is the skill component responsible for making explicit
those representations that had previously been implicit or intuitive”. Note that
 Evelyn P. Altenberg and Robert M. Vago
while Paradis (1994) includes the ability to verbalise knowledge as a typical
characteristic of explicit knowledge, not all researchers agree. It is generally as-
sumed that implicit learning leads to implicit knowledge, explicit learning to
explicit knowledge.
Stanovich (1990:91) warns that the use of terms like conscious and aware-
ness have led to confusion in the research on reading, and that it would there-
fore be wise to attempt to avoid such confusion in other disciplines. Durkin
(1994:524–525), points out that “it is difficult to find a robust statement of
exactly what implicit memory is or does”, and that “the very definition of the
implicit/explicit distinction is by no means settled”.
Nonetheless, those of us who have taught an L2 are well aware that there
are students who can write a rule out perfectly on an examination, do exercises
in class in which the rule is perfectly adhered to, and yet, in conversation, not
follow the rule at all. Of course, it is precisely experiences such as these that
lend support to Krashen’s (1982) distinction between the acquisition and the
learning of an L2, where acquisition is an implicit process and learning is an
explicit one.
While recognising the different ways that the terms implicit and explicit
have been used, we will assume, for the moment, that implicit knowledge is not
conscious and is used automatically, and that explicit knowledge of language is
conscious knowledge that has been learned, as Paradis suggests, primarily in
school. For present purposes, we will assume that implicit and explicit knowl-
edge do not lie on a continuum. Further, we recognise the possibility of specific
knowledge being both explicit and implicit. This is the case, for instance, when
a native speaker obtains explicit knowledge of a rule, say, through taking a
linguistics course.
Does a metalinguistic task such as the grammaticality judgment task nec-
essarily rely on explicit knowledge? A metalinguistic task is one that requires
subjects to do something to language, rather than to do language; it is off-
line rather than on-line. Birdsong (1989:1, Footnote 1) states that “the term
[metalinguistic performance] requires a rather vague interpretation, some-
thing on the order of attention to linguistic form rather than content”. Accord-
ing to Chaudron (1983:344), things are metalinguistic that “treat language as
an object”.
Metalinguistic tasks come in many varieties: for example, tasks in which
speakers decide if two sentences mean the same thing, tasks in which speakers
segment words into syllables, or they can be grammaticality judgment tasks.
There is no way of knowing, a priori, whether or not a metalinguistic task is
dependent, either fully or partially, on explicit knowledge. Certain metalin-
Grammaticality judgments in first language attrition 
guistic tasks, such as counting the number of syllables in a word or judging the
synonymy of two sentences in someone’s L1, may rely largely on information
that has never been explicitly learned, while others, such as proofreading for
spelling errors, may rely almost entirely on explicit knowledge. Thus, a met-
alinguistic task may rely on metalinguistic, explicit knowledge, or it may not.
This fits in with Birdsong’s (1989:50) position that metalinguistic ability is un-
likely to rely on a single set of skills, and “should not be regarded as a unitary
concept”. Ideally, for each metalinguistic task one needs to determine the kinds
of knowledge and processes involved.
Let us return now to the specific metalinguistic task with which we are
concerned here, namely the grammaticality judgment task. Do grammaticality
judgment tasks tap explicit knowledge, implicit knowledge, or both? Before ad-
dressing this question, we need to make clear that it rests on somewhat shifting
sands. First, it assumes that researchers are in agreement on the definition of
the terms explicit and implicit. But as we have just seen, this is not the case. And
second, it assumes that the implicit/explicit distinction is a valid one. Given the
problem with the first assumption, it is difficult to assess the second. Still, there
is a large body of literature supporting the notion of these two kinds of memory
stores (see Berry 1994, for example, for references).
With these concerns in mind, let us proceed to the question we just posed,
namely the type of knowledge grammaticality judgment tasks utilise. The an-
swer may vary, depending on the population we are considering. Let us focus,
for the moment, on children acquiring their L1. Various versions of grammat-
icality judgment tasks have been conducted with this group of speakers. Some
ask children whether a sentence sounds right or wrong to say; this approach
can be used to elicit well-formedness judgments from children as young as two
years old (Hiramatsu 2001; McDaniel & Cairns 1996).
Early L1 acquisition must be a case of implicit learning. Presumably, it thus
leads to implicit knowledge. For example, Sharwood Smith (1994:33) states:
“Little children acquiring their mother tongue clearly do not have recourse to
rules in this conscious, explicit sense”. And Paradis (1994:403) claims that “ex-
plicit representations are nonexistent in children”. Therefore, young children,
who have primarily implicit knowledge of language, must be using implicit
knowledge in their responses in grammaticality judgment tasks. This is not
to say that performance factors (some obvious examples being fatigue and
inattention) cannot play a role in children’s judgments; clearly, they can. But
what we can say is that explicit knowledge cannot be the sole source of chil-
dren’s judgments. Therefore, if we want to say that they are a source of adults’
 Evelyn P. Altenberg and Robert M. Vago
judgments, we need to claim that children use primarily implicit knowledge in
making grammaticality judgments, but adults do not.
Do adults making judgments in their native languages rely only on im-
plicit knowledge, only on explicit knowledge, or on both? Perhaps the most
important argument for the claim that grammaticality judgment tasks cannot
rely entirely on explicit knowledge is the fact that native speakers are able to
make judgments about structures with no explicit knowledge about them. If
grammaticality judgment tasks relied only on explicit information, then na-
tive speakers would not be able to make correct judgments about any structure
which had not explicitly been taught to them and/or whose structure they did
not explicitly understand. Native English speaking college students can tell, for
example, that the tag question *John isn’t leaving early, can he? is ungrammat-
ical without being able to say why. Linguists use their intuitions to help them
figure out rules; they do not use their rules to tell them what their intuitions
are. The very fact that linguists base their analysis of a syntactic rule on native
speaker intuitions means that the judgment, or intuition, comes first, before
explicit knowledge of the rule. Hence the judgment cannot be based on explicit
knowledge.
De Bot et al. (1991), examining L1 attrition, compare the loss of metalin-
guistic skills in a grammaticality judgment task and the loss of skills using
an interview task. They find less loss in metalinguistic skills. Their explana-
tion (p. 94) is that “the linguistic skills are lost first because without adequate
metalinguistic ‘monitoring’ language use as such is hampered”. That is, their
explanation assumes that normal language use requires metalinguistic moni-
toring. Under this scenario, at least for production, metalinguistic monitoring
is a part of the normal process of speech and as such cannot rely exclusively on
explicit knowledge.
Do adult responses on grammaticality judgment tasks rely only on implicit
knowledge, or can they rely at least in part on explicit, particularly, prescrip-
tive notions held by the subjects? Paradis (1994) indicates that one may know
an utterance is wrong because of either implicit competence or explicit knowl-
edge. He suggests (p.c.) that in L1 grammaticality judgments people tend to go
by prescriptive grammar rather than by what they actually say. Sorace (1988)
and Munnich, et al. (1994) note as well the possible influence of prescriptive
knowledge on judgments. According to Paradis (p.c.), the same may be true for
the L1 attriter, who is, after all, a native speaker.
It thus seems reasonable to suggest that grammaticality judgment tasks rely
on implicit knowledge which, for adults, though not for young children, can be
supplemented by explicit, in particular prescriptive, knowledge. If that is the
Grammaticality judgments in first language attrition 
case, how can one interpret the results of grammaticality judgment tasks? For
L1 attriters, we need to ask the same sorts of questions as for non-attrited native
speakers in order to determine what their responses are based on. At the very
least, we need to determine the extent of their education and how likely they
are to have been taught the structures we are interested in. We can also check
textbooks and curricula from the time and place they went to school to see if
the structures of interest are discussed. The extent of explicit knowledge would
be expected to vary, depending on the circumstances of L1 use: for instance,
if someone has gone back to school to brush up on his or her L1, if someone
is extremely uncertain about his or her L1 proficiency, or if someone is, say,
teaching his or her L1, in which case he or she would be expected to have more
explicit knowledge.
One might also have subjects rate sentences about which they are likely
to have prescriptive ideas, as well as those about which they probably do not
have prescriptive ideas. For example, in English, one could compare judgments
for sentences such as Who did you see?, Whom did you see?, and *See you did
who?. Techniques such as these would help researchers determine the effect of
prescriptive notions on native speakers’ ratings and to tease these apart from
implicit knowledge.
Along these lines, a number of researchers have conducted think-aloud
tasks, in which subjects discuss their judgments as they are making them. R.
Ellis (1991:179), using such a task, reports that “the learners appeared to rely
extensively on ‘feel’ in making their judgments”. Similar results were found
by Goss et al. (1994). While Cowan and Hatasa (1994) are rightly concerned
about the potential subjectivity involved in assessing responses in think-aloud
grammaticality judgment tasks, the findings of think-aloud tasks thus far sug-
gest that implicit knowledge is the primary basis for native speaker decisions.
Attempts to develop such tasks so that their responses are assessed less subjec-
tively may be worthwhile avenues for future research, although Cowart (p.c.)
points out that the relation of these tasks to the ordinary course of language
comprehension is another complex issue.
. Findings of grammaticality judgment tasks and other tasks
If grammaticality judgment tasks tap, at least to some extent, the knowledge
and processing used in on-line processing, should we then expect associations
between the findings of grammaticality judgment tasks and those of other
tasks? A number of studies have found such associations. Rice et al. (1999)
performed a grammaticality judgment task with children with specific lan-
 Evelyn P. Altenberg and Robert M. Vago
guage impairment (SLI), along with a normal control group. They concluded
(p. 959) that “children with SLI, and younger unaffected children, are likely
to interpret simple clausal structures, under simple input conditions, accord-
ing to the same principles that guide their productions”. Blackwell et al. (1996)
conducted a word-by-word grammaticality judgment task, a cloze task, and
an on-line judgment task with native speakers and found high correlations
among the three tasks. They suggest (p. 337) that “the incremental tasks were
tapping into the same decision-making process as is found on-line”. Similarly,
Greidanus and van der Linden (1986) conclude that the findings of a gram-
maticality judgment task and a translation task are essentially the same. Finally,
consider Munnich et al.’s (1994:228) conclusion:
[The results with L2 learners] indicate a certain convergence and comparabil-
ity between the elicited imitation and the grammaticality judgment tasks with
respect to the linguistic phenomena investigated. This finding suggests that
both of these tasks evaluate developing language abilities in a similar manner
while reflecting task-specific differences.
Other studies have found dissociations between grammaticality judgment tasks
and other tasks. For example, Tomioka (2002) reports, in a study with L2
learners of English, that subjects who did well on a grammaticality judgment
task did extremely poorly on a repetition task. And Linebarger et al. (1983)
found that agrammatic subjects were able to make highly accurate judgments
but could not comprehend sentences. Wulfeck (1988) corroborated this find-
ing independently. In L1 attrition, de Bot et al. (1991) found evidence of
attrition using an interview task, but little evidence using a grammaticality
judgment task.
As discussed by R. Ellis (1991), some studies have found that beginning
L2 learners did worse on grammaticality judgment tasks than on other tasks
and that differences disappeared with advanced learners. According to R. Ellis
(1991:166): “These studies suggest that for beginning learners, at least, judg-
ing the grammaticality of sentences and producing L2 structures constitute
different and unrelated types of behaviour”. Note that this difference between
beginning and advanced learners is, in fact, in the opposite direction from what
one would expect if one assumes that beginning L2 learners rely largely on
explicit knowledge in making judgments.
What conclusion can we draw from dissociations between grammaticality
judgment tasks and other tasks? Unfortunately, there is no way of knowing, a
priori, whether the dissociation is due to the fact that the tasks tap into dif-
ferent kinds of knowledge or simply because of factors related to participating
Grammaticality judgments in first language attrition 
in the tasks themselves. Some studies, for example, have found dissociations
among tasks that all appear to tap implicit memory (e.g., Roediger et al. 1989).
Should we conclude that they necessarily access different memory stores? What
if we ask subjects to imitate sentences under two conditions: while sitting com-
fortably on a chair and while being distracted, say by a menacing dog? While
performance in the distraction condition may be assumed to be less accu-
rate, this does not mean that the tasks necessarily draw on different sources
of knowledge.
If we are reluctant to draw conclusions based on dissociations between
tasks, should we be equally reluctant to draw conclusions based on associa-
tions between tasks? The possibility always exists, if two tasks converge on a
pattern, that the tasks use entirely differentprocesses and sources of knowledge,
and that their convergence is simply coincidental. However, the likelihood
of this happening by chance, especially with multiple tasks, seems slim, and
the question is one that may well be amenable, depending on the design, to
statistical analysis.
Along these lines, a variety of investigators have suggested that if multiple
tasks converge on a core of knowledge, we can have some confidence that we
have identified knowledge rather than task effects. See, for example, Birdsong
(1989), Chaudron (1983), Flynn (1986), Jaspaert et al. (1986), Klein and Mar-
tohardjono (1999), Martohardjono (1998), and Schütze (1996). Thus, Klein
and Martohardjono (1999:16) suggest that “performance effects are likely to
be different for different tasks, whereas knowledge should remain constant
across tasks. By using a multiplicity of tasks on both L2 learners and na-
tive speaker controls, it might be possible to tease apart knowledge from task
effects”. Schütze (1996:196) states:
...if the same results show up reliably across additional types of tasks, such
as unwarned judgments, ...short-term memory measures, ...sentence comple-
tion tasks, or naturalistic observation of speech and writing, then the odds are
much higher that the evidence does represent a convergence on fundamental
underlying knowledge.
Flynn (1986:155) cautions, however, that “we need converging evidence from
a wide range of experimental tests in which the methodology is precisely con-
trolled and we must be informed about how differenttasks relate to each other”.
One difficulty is that, in order to understand how tasks work, we need to in-
vestigate them; in order to investigate them, we often use the tasks themselves
as tools. Nonetheless, these arguments suggest that using a variety of tasks with
L1 attriters, including grammaticality judgment tasks, may bring us closer to
understanding the attriter’s underlying knowledge.
 Evelyn P. Altenberg and Robert M. Vago
. Judgment factors other than grammaticality
Are there factors other than grammaticality on which subjects may be basing
their decisions? Schütze (1996) proposes a model in which a variety of fac-
tors play a role in making grammaticality judgments. These factors are: parsing
strategies, general knowledge of the world, production strategies, competence
(the same competence used in perception and production), analysed linguistic
knowledge (i.e. explicit knowledge), nonlinguistic control strategies, and met-
alinguistic strategies. The last three are used primarily for making judgments;
the first four are also used in on-line production and comprehension.
Other researchers have suggested a variety of criteria as well. Accord-
ing to Birdsong (1989:33), “among children, non-structural considerations
(plausibility, truth value) appear to be criteria for judgments of acceptabil-
ity”. Yet the experiments discussed by McDaniel and Cairns (1996) do not
support this. Scholes and Willis (1987) suggest that illiterates use semantic
rather than syntactic criteria in judging sentences. However, Schütze (1996),
after examining the relevant evidence, concludes that although their explicit
grammatical knowledge is affected, illiterate individuals are able to identify
ungrammaticality.
With regard to L2 learners, Jordens (1991:201) suggests that “grammati-
cality judgments are the outcome of a production task in which all kinds of lin-
guistic information may interact”. These include L1 intuitions, L2 knowledge,
and the strategy of rejecting unfamiliar structures. And Bard et al. (1996:33)
state: “Impressions of acceptability may be based, for example, on estimated
frequency of usage, on conformity to a prescriptive norm or a prestigious
register, or on degree of semantic or pragmatic plausibility”.
Kellerman (1985) and Birdsong (1989) suggest that we also need to de-
termine which aspect of the stimulus (e.g., vocabulary, pronunciation, syntax)
subjects focus on, as well as the locus of their attention. How can researchers
handle these issues? Birdsong (1989:110) states:
We have seen that when a researcher is unable to direct subjects’ attention
toward certain types of errors, there is the risk of falling into the trap identified
by Kellerman, i.e., assuming that subjects have spotted just the deviance the
researcher has in mind. On the other hand, if ... the procedure were to be
successful in priming respondents to look for this or that type of error, the
results would not be reflective of their normal disposition toward the stimuli,
but rather of an experimentally induced perceptual set.
Note that other tasks, e.g., elicited imitation, may be subject to the same ques-
tions. However, carefully selected stimuli can help to control some of these
Grammaticality judgments in first language attrition 
variables, for example, by having pairs of stimuli that differ only in the vari-
able under consideration (see Birdsong 1989; Cowart 1996, for discussions).
R. Ellis (1990) suggests that having subjects make corrections to stimuli they
judge as ungrammatical can help show what it is that they are focusing on,
while Schütze (1996) recommends having a think-aloud component during
practice trials to determine if subjects are using the criteria one wants.
Along these lines, if a structure is given a relatively low grammaticality rat-
ing, does that indicate that it is not a possible structure for that individual, or
simply a less preferred structure (Cairns 1999; Lakshmanan & Teranishi 1994)?
That is, a sentence might be less preferred, due to, for example, frequency or
pragmatic factors. The role of preference can perhaps be investigated by con-
structing sentences equal in grammaticality but different in preferentiality and
testing them with different instructions. The goal would be to identify instruc-
tions that elicit grammaticality, but not preference, judgments. For example,
for English, one could compare the ratings for sentences such as John bought
the book with The book was bought by John, assuming that an objective measure
had already determined that actives are preferred to passives.
What is the role of parsing? Various relationships between the grammar
and parser have been proposed (see for example Pritchet 1992). The most rea-
sonable conclusion at this point is probably, as Schachter and Yip (1990:380)
state: “While it is uncontroversial that grammar and parser must bear some
kind of relationship since they have to assign compatible structures, it is not
clear exactly how they are related”. Similarly, according to McDaniel and Cairns
(1996:252) “little is actually known about the interaction of parsing and judg-
ments”. Until more is known about parsing, it is difficult to assess its effect on
grammaticality judgments, which must remain, at this point, an open ques-
tion. Still, it would be wise to avoid constructions known to involve pars-
ing difficulty, such as center embeddings, when constructing grammaticality
judgment tasks.
. Inter-subject and intra-subject inconsistency
We turn now to another issue which has been of concern in investigations of
grammaticality judgment tasks. Various researchers (e.g. Birdsong 1989; Ellis
2002; Sorace 1988) have noted the lack of consistency in subjects’ responses
on grammaticality judgment tasks, observing both inter-subject and intra-
subject variability. Inter-subject variability is perhaps not problematic, since
it has never been claimed that all individuals have the identical knowledge base
 Evelyn P. Altenberg and Robert M. Vago
for a given language. It is also a fact of psycholinguistic testing in general. And
with proper methodology, we may find that inter-subject variability is less of an
issue than has been thought. Indeed, Cowart (1996), in a series of experiments,
reports statistically stable responses from subjects across sentence types. And
Fernández (2000) finds greater variability with bilinguals than with monolin-
guals, suggesting that one might be able to isolate some factors contributing to
inter-subject variability where it does exist.
We concern ourselves here with intra-subject variability, the fact that the
same subject may respond differently to the same or similar structures at dif-
ferent times. Given that grammaticality judgment tasks do not directly tap into
competence, it is not surprising that the judgments of individuals are not nec-
essarily consistent. On the other hand, Cowart (1996) reports on a test-retest
in which he found a strong relation between judgments in the two sessions.
However, we are still left with the question of how to account for intra-
subject inconsistency when it does occur. First, we need to determine whether
there are structures for which subjects’ responses are consistent vs. structures
for which responses are not consistent. If some structures are more stable than
others, it may be that we can use the grammaticality judgment task to learn
something about the status of a particular structure in competence. Along these
lines, Snyder (2000) induced satiation in his subjects, i.e., getting sentences ini-
tially judged as ungrammatical to be judged as grammatical upon repeated
exposure; he found that satiation occurred only for some sentence types. De
Bot (1999:348) suggests:
linguistic skill or linguistic knowledge is not an either/or phenomenon: some
parts of this knowledge are more stable than other parts, and elements may
show various shades of knowing rather than a clear distinction between what
is known and what not.
In particular, with regard to L2 learners, Alanen (1999), Han (2000), Schachter
et al. (1976) and Sorace (1996) suggest that inconsistency may indicate
a lack of complete knowledge rather than a problem with grammaticality
judgment tasks.
In fact, why would people who are in the midst of learning or forgetting
something not be uncertain? If this is the case, then L1 attriters’ judgments
should vary in consistency, depending on the degree of attrition, and there
should be correlations between their consistency of judgments and degree of
attrition.
It may also be that grammaticality judgment tasks are more reliable and
stable in some domains (e.g., morphology, phonology) than in others. De Bot
Grammaticality judgments in first language attrition 
(1999:358) suggests, with regard to phonology, that “the high degree of au-
tomatisation of procedures on this level restricts the possibilities of speakers to
consciously pay attention to their pronunciation”. Perhaps extending metalin-
guistic tasks to other domains, such as phonology, will shed some light on the
nature of these tasks, as Schütze (1996) suggests, although we will need to be
cautious about generalising from one domain to another.
If inconsistency is not limited to specific structures, then other factors
need to be taken into consideration. Schütze (1996:98) suggests that intra-
subject inconsistencies “are liable to be the result of factors having nothing
to do with subjects’ linguistic representations, e.g., whether they are fresh or
fatigued, uncooperative, attentive or distracted, etc”. Cowart (1996) makes an
interesting comparison with psychophysics which may help give us some per-
spective on inconsistency. (Psychophysics is concerned, among other things,
with responses to flashes of light, brief tones, touches of the skin.) He points
out (ibid.:6) that in this domain, “subjects routinely give variable responses to
different presentations of a single stimulus” and therefore subjects are typically
asked to “judge dozens or even hundreds of instances of the same stimulus”.
We need to be careful, when we retest subjects in order to investigate reli-
ability, that we are not influencing their responses by satiating them. One way
to get around this might be to wait a period of time, say a few weeks, between
testing sessions. Further, as Schütze (1996) suggests, we need to be certain that
their judgment process in general has not changed as a result of their prior ex-
perience with the task. Thus, subjects with prior experience might be compared
to subjects without prior experience. At this point, the cause of inconsistencies,
when they do occur, remains an open, though empirical, question.
Perhaps it is most appropriate to conclude this portion of our discussion
with the following quote from Birdsong (1989:69): “Metalinguistic data are like
25-cent hot dogs: They contain meat, but a lot of other ingredients, too”. What,
then, do we need to do to get as much “meat” as possible in a grammaticality
judgment task? To address this question, we turn to some of the issues that
affect the way a grammaticality judgment task is set up.
. Methodological issues in setting up a grammaticality judgment task
. The role of time
What is the role of time in grammaticality judgment tasks? This is a partic-
ularly relevant question in L1 attrition, where de Bot (1990:64) suggests that
 Evelyn P. Altenberg and Robert M. Vago
the L1 attriter may have a “slowed-down system”. Some investigators have as-
sumed that grammaticality judgment tasks in which speed of response is a
factor tap on-line processes (Meng & Bader 2000) and/or rely on only im-
plicit knowledge (Han 2000). Others (e.g. Blackwell et al. 1996; Kail & Bassano
1997) use word-by-word judgment tasks, in which subjects see or hear a sen-
tence one word at a time and indicate its grammatical status as soon as they
feel they know. The researchers here also assume that these tasks tap on-line
processing. However, “limitations on time may detract from the fullest use
of knowledge resources”, whatever that knowledge base may be, according to
Chaudron (1983:367). From that perspective, limitations on time may im-
pose performance limitations that interfere with the full utilisation of implicit
knowledge, assuming, of course, that one is accessing implicit knowledge in the
grammaticality judgment task in the first place.
Köpke and Nespoulous (2002) seem to be making the interesting point that
errors may be found in areas that are not necessarily problems but from which
resources have been withdrawn in order to focus on problem areas during pro-
cessing. A timed grammaticality judgment task, then, may force subjects to
withdraw resources from accessing knowledge to other areas, resulting in a less
accurate assessment of knowledge.
Giving subjects more time does not necessarily mean they are not respond-
ing intuitively, i.e., based on implicit knowledge. As R. Ellis (1991:180) points
out, subjects may be “repeating” a sentence, which “reintroduces the sentence
into immediate memory, thus enabling the learner to produce an intuitive re-
sponse”. But if this is the case, then responses for individual subjects should
be the same, regardless of whether the grammaticality judgment task is timed
or untimed. While Han (2000) found that responses of L2 learners on timed
and untimed versions of the task were not the same overall, there was no native
speaker control group. Therefore, we cannot judge whether the same finding
would be true for other populations.
It may be that a timed grammaticality judgment task is more likely to ac-
cess implicit knowledge than explicit knowledge, but at the same time increase
the likelihood of performance factors interacting with implicit knowledge. So
if one had other ways of limiting or identifying explicit knowledge, as dis-
cussed earlier, it might be more profitable, though perhaps counter-intuitive,
to use untimed grammaticality judgment tasks if one is interested primarily in
implicit competence.
Grammaticality judgments in first language attrition 
. Magnitude estimation
Bard et al. (1996) and Sorace (1996) discuss the advantages of using magnitude
estimation with grammaticality judgments. That is, subjects make propor-
tional judgments, for example, by assigning a number to a sentence to indicate
how acceptable it seems. This is similar to techniques that have been used to
assess subjects’ ratings of factors such as brightness and loudness.
. Analysing the results of individuals as well as groups
Cairns (1999), R. Ellis (1990), Klein and Martohardjono (1999) and Schachter
(1989), all make the point that we need to analyse the results of individuals
to see if they are behaving consistently. While group tendencies can be use-
ful in establishing general developmental trends, as Cairns (1999) points out,
they can obliterate individual consistencies. This point is particularly relevant
with L1 attriters, given the variability of attrition from person to person (see
Altenberg 1991, for example).
. Response bias
As Birdsong (1989) and others have discussed, a number of studies show a re-
sponse bias on the part of subjects. Response bias can be due to a number of
factors, including the instructions given to subjects and the scale used in the
task. Some studies (e.g. Bley-Vroman et al. 1988) show a response bias on the
part of subjects towards responding not grammatical; in other studies, subjects
show a response bias towards responding grammatical (e.g. Birdsong 1989; Han
2000; cf. also Wulfeck 1988; Wulfeck et al. 1991 for agrammatic aphasia pa-
tients). Paolillo (2000:225) suggests that using a logistic regression statistical
model allows us to “discriminate accuracy effects from an over-all response
bias”. A non-attrited native speaker control group can also be helpful here,
depending on the design of the experiment. In fact, having a non-attrited con-
trol group is important in many studies utilising the grammaticality judgment
task, though defining such a group raises its own questions; see Jaspaert et al.
(1986), Schoenmakers-Klein Gunnewiek (1989), and Seliger (1996). But since
the problem of an appropriate control group for L1 attriters is true for many
studies, not just grammaticality judgment tasks, we will not address it here.
Next we turn to the important methodological details, additional factors
which should be controlled in order to enhance the soundness of a grammati-
 Evelyn P. Altenberg and Robert M. Vago
cality judgment task. While these factors are too numerous to discuss in detail
or to list exhaustively, we present a selection here.
. Subject characteristics
The following subject characteristics are culled from Bradac et al. (1980), de
Bot et al. (1991), Köpke and Nespoulous (2002), Schütze (1996), and Sorace
(1988). These characteristics, among others, have been hypothesised to play a
role in making judgments: field dependence or independence, linguistic back-
ground, handedness, age, gender, creativity, working memory capacity, the
ability to reason by analogy, education, amount of language experience in both
L1 and L2, social background, and attitudes towards bilingualism and language
maintenance. We recognise, however, that assessing and controlling these vari-
ables is not necessarily a simple and straightforward task; see Cowart (2002).
. Additional task characteristics
The following non-exhaustive list of task characteristics, in addition to the role
of time discussed earlier in Section 4.1, is culled from Birdsong (1989), Cowart
(1996), N. C. Ellis (2002), R. Ellis (1991), Murphy (1997), Nagata (1990), and
Schütze (1996): the truth of the sentence, sentence order, sentence complex-
ity, the distribution of grammatical vs. ungrammatical sentences, subjective or
objective self-awareness, modality (i.e., visual or spoken stimuli), pragmatic
context, meaningfulness, position of error in a sentence, frequency of occur-
rence of the stimulus materials, including the frequency of the lexical items as
well as the frequency of the structures themselves, linguistic complexity, nature
of response requested, language of instruction and of interaction, imagery, dis-
tractor items, and degree of ungrammaticality. Note that many of the factors
we have mentioned are relevant to the construction of any task, not just the
grammaticality judgment task.
Two factors deserve special mention for their significance. One is the kind
and number of levels of rating scale used. For a discussion of the pros and cons
of various rating scales, see especially Cowart (1996), Schütze (1996) and So-
race (1996). The second factor is the important role of instructions to subjects,
an issue to which we have returned a number of times throughout our discus-
sion. Cowart (1996) tested two sets of instructions, one focusing on intuitions,
one focusing on prescriptive notions. He found no difference in the pattern of
subject responses. Schütze (1996) suggests giving subjects specific instructions
Grammaticality judgments in first language attrition 
with examples of good and bad sentences and explanations of why they are
good or bad.
. Conclusion
It is tempting, in light of all the serious concerns which have been raised re-
garding grammaticality judgment tasks, to avoid using them. However, one
needs to be wary here of throwing the baby out with the bathwater. Grammat-
icality judgment tasks are showing something; they are measuring some kind
of proficiency, i.e., they still provide data that need to be accounted for, but
what that something is may be different for different populations, different
task designs, and different materials. Schütze (1996:212) states that “relatively
few experiments have shown that the pattern of results is changed by the var-
ious manipulations that have been tried. This should increase our confidence
that judgments do tell us about something real and important”. And Tarone
(1994:326), referring to off- and on-line methods, notes that “each provides a
different kind of information about the learner’s interlanguage”.
Certainly, grammaticality judgment tasks can be made more reliable, along
the lines outlined here and elsewhere. Perhaps the most productive approach is
to further explore what exactly it is that grammaticality judgment tasks do and
how to get them to do what we want them to do. This is the conclusion reached
by Blackwell et al. (1996) and Schütze (1996), among others. For example, test-
ing different kinds of instructions, as in Cowart’s (1996) study, is crucial, as well
as testing different kinds of stimuli with different instructions. A closer exam-
ination of native speakers’ response consistency, analysed by individual and by
structure, over more than one testing sessions, also seems to be a fruitful avenue
to pursue. That is, researchers need to focus on the grammaticality judgment
task per se in order to understand this task more fully.
Why bother even exploring a task associated with so much controversy?
Note in this regard that other tasks, such as the elicited imitation task, are
controversial, too. Still others may not be controversial, but only because they
have not yet been as closely scrutinised. Birdsong (1989:208) claims that “our
understanding of metalinguistic performance is, at present, limited. What we
know is that it is complex. But so too are all other higher-order activities in-
volving a translation of knowledge into behavior”. Or as Schütze (1996:10)
aptly puts it: “While the psychology of grammaticality judgments might hold
as many complexities and mysteries as language itself, that is no reason for
 Evelyn P. Altenberg and Robert M. Vago
despair or dismissal – it is all the more reason for us to begin the task of
unravelling them”.
As we consider applying the grammaticality judgment task to the investi-
gation of L1 attrition, there are a number of points to keep in mind. While
recognising that grammaticality judgment tasks do not directly reflect only
competence, we can reasonably assume that L1 attriters are likely, in most cases,
to rely heavily on implicit knowledge in judging grammaticality. Furthermore,
we can devise procedures to help us elucidate the role that any explicit knowl-
edge may be playing in L1 attrition judgments. Given that making judgments
relies on a knowledge base that may not be far removed from that used in
on-line activities, it will be interesting to see, as research continues, where L1
attriters’ judgments diverge from those of non-attrited controls. For L1 attrit-
ers, the degree of intra-subject consistency may be particularly significant, as
inconsistency may at least partially reflect degree of attrition. Perhaps our most
productive approach is to conduct carefully constructed grammaticality judg-
ment tasks and administer them in conjunction with multiple other tasks to L1
attriters, while recognising the limitations in our understanding of the gram-
maticality judgment task itself. Our discussion highlights the fact that those of
us who pursue the use of grammaticality judgments with L1 attriters need to
be cautious as we face the rather daunting task of controlling the subject and
task variables involved.
If we can make grammaticality judgment tasks work for us in investigat-
ing L1 attrition, the advantages we mentioned at the outset of our discussion
remain. Ultimately, the close scrutiny under which grammaticality judgment
tasks have come, and one hopes will continue to come, can only lead to a
greater understanding of their usefulness and of what they can tell us about
many issues, including the abilities of L1 attriters.
Note
Authors’ names are listed in alphabetical order. We are indebted to Ronald L. Bloom, Helen
Smith Cairns, Wayne Cowart, James J. Drieves, Eva Fernández, Gita Martohardjono, Monika
S. Schmid, and Carolyn Sobel for comments and suggestions.
Grammaticality judgments in first language attrition 
References
Alanen, R. (1999). “Grammaticality judgments and reaction time measurement: A tool for
analyzing the use of second language knowledge”. Dissertation Abstracts International,
Section C: Worldwide, 60 (1), Item-20.
Allen, J., & Seidenberg, M. S. (1999). “The emergence of grammaticality in connectionist
networks”. In B. MacWhinney (Ed.), The Emergence of Language: 28th Carnegie Mellon
Symposium on Cognition (pp. 115–151). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Altenberg, E. P. (1991). “Assessing first language vulnerability to attrition”. In H. W. Seliger
& R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 189–206). Cambridge: CUP.
Altenberg, E. P., & Cairns, H. S. (1983). “The effects of phonotactic constraints on lexical
processing in bilingual and monolingualsubjects”. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal
Behavior, 22, 174–188.
Arthur, B. (1980). “Gauging the boundaries of second language boundaries: A study of
learner judgments”. Language Learning, 30, 177–194.
Bard, E. G., Robertson, D., & Sorace, A. (1996). “A magnitude estimation of linguistic
acceptability”. Language, 72, 32–68.
Berry, D.C . (1994). “Implicit and explicit learning of complex tasks”. In N. C. Ellis (Ed.),
Implicit and Explicit Learning of Languages (pp. 147–164). London: Academic Press.
Bever, T. G. (1970). “The cognitive basis for linguistic structures”. In J. R. Hayes (Ed.),
Cognition and the Development of Language (pp. 279–362). New York, NY: John Wiley.
Bever, T. G. (1974). “The ascent of the specious, or There’s a lot we don’t know about
mirrors”. In D. Cohen (Ed.), Explaining Linguistic Phenomena (pp. 173–200). New York,
NY: John Wiley.
Bever, T. G. (1975). “Psychologically real grammar emerges because of its role in language
acquisition”. In C. A. Ferguson & D. P. Dato (Eds.), Sound Patterns in Language
Acquisition [Georgetown University Round Table in Languages and Linguistics]
(pp. 63–75). Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press.
Bialystok, E. (1986). “Factors in the growth of linguistic awareness”. Child Development, 57,
498–510.
Birdsong, D. (1989). Metalinguistic Performance and Interlinguistic Competence. Berlin:
Springer.
Blackwell, A., Bates, E., & Fisher, D. (1996). “The time course of grammaticality judgment”.
Language and Cognitive Processes, 11, 337–406.
Bley-Vroman, R., Felix, S., & Ioup, G.L. (1988). “The accessibility of universal grammar in
adult language learning”. Second Language Research, 4, 1–32.
Bot, K. de (1990). “Language attrition: Competence loss or performance loss?”. In B. Spillner
(Ed.), Sprache und Politik (pp. 63–65). Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Bot, K. de (1999). “The psycholinguistics of language loss”. In G. Extra & L. Verhoeven
(Eds.), Bilingualism and Migration (pp. 345–361). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Bot, K. de, Gommans, P., & Rossing, C. (1991). “L1 loss in an L2 environment: Dutch
immigrants in France”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition
(pp. 87–98). Cambridge: CUP.
Bradac, J. J., Martin, L. W., Elliott, N. D., & Tardy, C. H. (1980). “On the neglected side of
linguistic science: Multivariate studies of sentence judgment”. Linguistics, 18, 967–995.
 Evelyn P. Altenberg and Robert M. Vago
Cairns, H. S. (1999). “Common methodological issues in L1 and L2 research”. In E. C.
Klein & G. Martohardjono (Eds.), The Development of Second Language Grammars: A
generative approach (pp. 37–44). Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Chaudron, C. (1983). “Research on metalinguistic judgments: A review of theory, methods,
and results”. Language Learning, 33, 343–377.
Chomsky, N. (1965). Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. (1986). Knowledge of Language: Its nature, origin and use. New York, NY:
Praeger.
Cowan, R., & Hatasa, Y. A. (1994). “Investigating the validity and reliability of native speaker
and second-language learner judgments about sentences”. In E. Tarone, S. M. Gass, &
A. D. Cohen (Eds.), Research Methodologies in Second-Language Acquisition (pp. 287–
302). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Cowart, W. (1996). Experimental Syntax: Applying objective methods to sentence judgments.
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
Cowart, W. (2002). “Dialects in that-trace”. Paper presented at the Conference on Gradedness,
University of Potsdam, Germany, October 21–23.
Durkin, K. (1994). “The lure and language of implicit memory: A developmental
perspective”. In N. C. Ellis (Ed.), Implicit and Explicit Learning of Languages (pp. 523–
548). London: Academic Press.
Eckman, F. R. (1994). “The competence-performance issue in second-language acquisition
theory: A debate”. In E. Tarone, S. M. Gass, & A. D. Cohen (Eds.), Research Metho-
dologies in Second-Language Acquisition (pp. 3–15). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Ellis, N. C. (2002). “Frequency effects in language processing: A review with implications
for theories of implicit and explicit language acquisition”. Studies in Second Language
Acquisition, 24, 143–188.
Ellis, R. (1990). “Grammaticality judgments and learner variability”. In H. Burmeister &
P. L. Rounds (Eds.), Variability in Second Language Acquisition: Proceedings of the Tenth
Meeting of the Second Language Research Forum (pp. 25–60). Eugene, OR: University of
Oregon.
Ellis, R. (1991). “Grammaticality judgments and second language acquisition”. Studies in
Second Language Acquisition, 13, 161–186.
Fernández, E. M. (2000). Bilingual Sentence Processing: Relative clause attachment in English
and Spanish. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, New York: CUNY Graduate Center.
Flynn, S. (1986). “Production vs. comprehension: Differences in underlying competence”.
Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 8, 135–164.
Gass, S. M. (1994). “The reliability of second-language grammaticality judgments”. In
E. Tarone, S. M. Gass, & A. D. Cohen (Eds.), Research Methodologies in Second-Language
Acquisition (pp. 304–321). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Goss, N., Ying-Hua, Z., & Lantolf, J. P. (1994). “Two heads may be better than one: Mental
activity in second-language grammaticality judgments”. In E. Tarone, S. M. Gass, &
A. D. Cohen (Eds.), Research Methodologies in Second-Language Acquisition (pp. 263–
285). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Greenberg, C. A. (1987). “Metalinguistic awareness and adult literacy”. Dissertation Abstracts
International, 47 (12-A, Pt.1), 4376–4377.
Grammaticality judgments in first language attrition 
Greidanus, T., & van der Linden, E. (1986). “Relations between FL grammaticality
judgments and FL production”. I.T.L.: Review of Applied Linguistics, 73, 51–82.
Grosjean, F., & Py, B. (1991). “La restructuration d’une première langue: L’intégration de
variantes de contact dans la compétence de migrants bilingues”. La Linguistique, 27,
35–60.
Han, Y. (2000). “Grammaticality judgment tests: How reliable and valid are they?” Applied
Language Learning, 11, 177–204.
Hiramatsu, K. (2001). “Accessing linguistic competence: Evidence from children’s and
adults’ acceptability judgments”. Dissertation Abstracts International, Section A: The
Humanities and Social Sciences, 61 (10), 3974.
Jaspaert, K., Kroon, S., & van Hout, R. (1986). “Points of reference in first-language loss
research”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress
(pp. 37–49). Dordrecht: Foris.
Jordens, P. (1991). “Linguistic knowledge in second language acquisition”. In L. Eubank
(Ed.), Point Counterpoint: Universal Grammar in the second language (pp. 199–218).
Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Kail, M., & Bassano, D. (1997). “Verb agreement processing in French: A study of on-line
grammaticality judgments”. Language and Speech, 40, 25–46.
Kellerman, E. (1985). “Dative alternation and the analysis of data: A reply to Mazurkewich”.
Language Learning, 35, 91–101.
Kellerman, E. (1986). “An eye for an eye: Crosslinguistic constraints on the development of
the L2 lexicon”. In E. Kellerman & M. Sharwood Smith (Eds.), Crosslinguistic Influence
in Second Language Acquisition (pp. 35–48). Oxford: Pergamon.
Klein, E. C., & Martohardjono, G. (1999). “Investigating second language grammars: Some
conceptual and methodological issues in generative SLA research”. In E. C. Klein &
G. Martohardjono (Eds.), The Development of Second Language Grammars: A generative
approach (pp. 3–34). Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Köpke, B. (1999). “L’attrition de la première langue chez deux groupes de bilingues tardifs”.
Revue Parole, 11–12, 199–219.
Köpke, B., & Nespoulous, J-L. (2002). Task Dependency in First Language Attrition. Ms.,
Université de Toulouse-Le Mirail, France.
Krashen, S. (1982). Principles and Practice in Second Language Acquisition. Oxford:
Pergamon.
Lakshmanan, U., & Teranishi, K. (1994). “Preferences versus grammaticality judgments:
Some methodological issues concerning the governing category parameter in second-
language acquisition”. In E. Tarone, S. M. Gass, & A. D. Cohen (Eds.), Research
Methodologies in Second-Language Acquisition (pp. 185–206). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence
Erlbaum.
Linebarger, M., Schwartz, M., & Saffran, E. (1983). “Sensitivity to grammatical structure in
so-called agrammatic aphasics”. Cognition, 13, 361–392.
Martohardjono, G. (1998). “Measuring competence in L2 acquisition: Commentary on Part
II”. In S. Flynn, G. Martohardjono, & W. O’Neil (Eds.), The Generative Study of Second
Language Acquisition (pp. 151–157). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
 Evelyn P. Altenberg and Robert M. Vago
McDaniel, D., & Cairns, H. S. (1996). “Eliciting judgments of grammaticality and reference”.
In D. McDaniel, C. McKee, & H. S. Cairns (Eds.), Methods for Assessing Children’s Syntax
(pp. 233–254). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Meng, M., & Bader, M. (2000). “Ungrammaticality detection and garden path strength:
Evidence for serial parsing”. Language and Cognitive Processes, 15, 615–666.
Munnich, E., Flynn, S., & Martohardjono, G. (1994). “Elicited imitation and grammaticality
judgment tasks: What they measure and how they relate to each other”. In E. Tarone,
S. M. Gass, & A. D. Cohen (Eds.), Research Methodologies in Second-Language Acqui-
sition (pp. 227–243). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Murphy, V. A. (1997). “The effect of modality on a grammaticality judgment task”. Second
Language Research, 13, 34–65.
Nagata, H. (1990). “On-line judgments of grammaticality of sentences”. Perceptual and
Motor Skills, 70 (3, pt.1), 987–994.
Paolillo, J. C. (2000). “Asymmetries in universal grammar: The role of method and statistics”.
Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 22, 209–228.
Paradis, M. (1994). “Neurolinguistic aspects of implicit and explicit memory: Implications
for bilingualism and SLA”. In N.C. Ellis (Ed.), Implicit and Explicit Learning of
Languages (pp. 393–419). London: Academic Press.
Paradis, M. (1995). “Introduction: The need for distinctions”. In M. Paradis (Ed.), Aspects of
Bilingual Aphasia (pp. 1–9). Oxford: Pergamon.
Pinker, S. (1994). The Language Instinct. New York, NY: Harper Collins.
Polinsky, M. (1994). “Structural dimensions of first language loss”. Chicago Linguistic Society,
30, 257–276.
Polinsky, M. (1997). “American Russian: Language loss meets language acquisition”. In
W. Browne, E. Wornisch, N. Kondrashova, & D. Zec (Eds.), Annual Workshop of Formal
Approaches to Slavic Linguistics: The Cornell Meeting 1995 (pp. 370–406). Ann Arbor,
MI: Michigan Slavic.
Pritchet, B. L. (1992). Grammatical Competence and Parsing Performance. Chicago, IL: Uni-
versity of Chicago Press.
Rice, M., Wexler, K., & Redmond, S. M. (1999). “Grammaticality judgments of an extended
optional infinitive grammar: Evidence from English-speaking children with specific
language impairment”. Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research, 42, 943–961.
Roediger, H. L., Srinivas, K., & Weldon, M. S. (1989). “Dissociations between implicit
measures of retention”. In S. Lewandowsky, J. C. Dunn, & K. Kirsner (Eds.), Implicit
Memory: Theoretical issues (pp. 67–85). Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Schachter, J. (1974). “An error in error analysis”. Language Learning, 24, 205–214.
Schachter, J. (1989). “A new look at an old classic”. Second Language Research, 5, 3–42.
Schachter, J., Tyson, A. F., & Diffley, F. J. (1976). “Learners’ intuitions of grammaticality”.
Language Learning, 26, 67–76.
Schachter, J., & Yip, V. (1990). “Why does anyone object to subject extraction?” Studies in
Second Language Acquisition, 12, 379–392.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance: The case of German
jews in Anglophone Countries. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Grammaticality judgments in first language attrition 
Schoenmakers-Klein Gunnewiek, M. (1989). “Structural aspects of the loss of Portuguese
among migrants: A research outline”. I.T.L.: Review of Applied Linguistics, 83–84, 99–
124.
Scholes, R. J., & Willis, B. J. (1987). “Language and literacy”. Journal of Literary Semantics,
16, 3–11.
Schütze, C. T. (1996). The Empirical Base of Linguistics: Grammaticality judgments and
linguistic methodology. Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press.
Seliger, H. W. (1991). “Language attrition, reduced redundancies, and creativity”. In H. W.
Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 227–240). Cambridge: CUP.
Seliger, H. W. (1996). “Primary language attrition in the context of bilingualism”. In W. C.
Ritchie & T. K. Bhatia (Eds.), Handbook of Second Language Acquisition (pp. 605–626).
San Diego, CA: Academic Press.
Sharwood Smith, M. A. (1983). “On first language loss in the second language acquirer”. In
S. Gass & L. Selinker (Eds.), Language Transfer in Language Learning, (pp. 222–231).
Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Sharwood Smith, M. A. (1994). “The unruly world of language”. In N. C. Ellis (Ed.), Implicit
and Explicit Learning of Languages (pp. 33–43). London: Academic Press.
Snyder, W. (2000). “An experimental investigation of syntactic satiation effects”. Linguistic
Inquiry, 31, 575–582.
Sorace, A. (1988). “Linguistic intuitions in interlanguage development: The problem
of indeterminacy”. In J. Pankhurst, M. Sharwood Smith, & P. van Buren (Eds.),
Learnability in Second Languages: A book of readings (pp. 167–207). Dordrecht: Foris.
Sorace, A. (1996). “The use of acceptability judgments in second language acquisition
research”. In W. C. Ritchie & T. K. Bhatia (Eds.), Handbook of Second Language
Acquisition (pp. 375–409). San Diego, CA: Academic Press.
Stanovich, K. E. (1990). “Concepts in developmental theories of reading skill: Cognitive
resources, automaticity, and modularity”. Developmental Review, 10, 72–100.
Tarone, E. E. (1994). “A summary: Research approaches in studying second-language
acquisition or ‘If the shoe fits..’ ” In E. Tarone, S. M. Gass, & A. D. Cohen (Eds.),
Research Methodologies in Second Language Acquisition (pp. 323–336). Hillsdale, NJ:
Lawrence Erlbaum.
Tomioka, N. (2002). “How to distinguish procedural and declarative memory use in L2:
Processing with a behavioral test”. Paper presented at the International Linguistics
Association 47th Annual Conference, York University, Toronto, Canada.
Winter, B., & Reber, A. S. (1994). “Implicit learning and the acquisition of natural
languages”. In N. C. Ellis (Ed.), Implicit and Explicit Learning of Languages (pp. 115–
145). London: Academic Press.
Wulfeck, B. B. (1988). “Grammaticality judgments and sentence comprehension in
agrammatic aphasia”. Journal of Speech and Hearing Research, 31, 72–81.
Wulfeck, B., Bates, E., & Capasso, R. (1991). “A cross-linguistic study of grammaticality
judgments in Broca’s aphasia”. Brain and Language, 41, 311–336.
P II
Attrition in progress – observations
and descriptions
Issues in finding the appropriate
methodology in language attrition research
Kutlay Yağmur
Tilburg University
Introduction
This paper on methodological issues in language attrition research will begin
by briefly recapitulating the past research in the field. In the second part, the
emphasis will be on methodological issues such as sampling, instrumentation,
point of reference for testing, and a criticism of the ‘bold’ generalisations com-
monly made in research on language attrition on the basis of research findings.
The question ‘If I could do the research all over again, what would I do dif-
ferently’ posed in the call for papers for the Amsterdam conference presented
me with the opportunity and motivation to re-evaluate my earlier research on
language attrition. In line with the objectives of the conference, a critical eval-
uation of my own research on L1 attrition among Turkish speakers in Australia
will be presented. Examined will be the motivations for the study, choosing the
appropriate methodology in accordance with the relevant theories, issues in-
volved in subject selection, point of reference, instrumentation, and so on. In
the last section of this paper, I will present the changes that I would make to
my earlier research design, given the chance.
. Language attrition: An incomplete puzzle
There have been several major international conferences on the topic of lan-
guage maintenance, shift and loss. Language attrition has attracted the atten-
tion of language researchers in the late 70s and research in this field truly
gained momentum after the inaugural conference on ‘Attrition of Language
 Kutlay Yağmur
Skills,’ at the University of Pennsylvania in 1980. Before that conference, lan-
guage loss was considered to be a clinical incident such as aphasia or other
language disorders caused by tumours, strokes, or traumas to the head (Smith
& Wilson 1979). After the UPenn conference, a number of conferences were or-
ganised in the Netherlands (see also Köpke and Schmid, this volume). The first
and second Noordwijkerhout conferences (1988, 1992) concentrated mainly
on issues of structural and linguistic loss as well as on the sociological and
social-psychological explanatory factors of language loss. The third conference
in Veldhoven (1998) focused on the sociolinguistic background of ‘why’ lan-
guages are lost and ‘how’ a language is lost. In addition to these sociolinguistic
and psycholinguistic perspectives, one major aim of this gathering was the at-
tempt to arrive at an integrated framework synthesising the sociolinguistic and
psycholinguistic paradigms.
The contributions to this last conference, as well as the final workshops
and round table discussions on the development of an integrated theoretical
framework of negative language developmentand revitalisation, were expected
to serve as a renewed starting point for continued research into language shift
and loss in a multidisciplinary context. Whether such a paradigm integration
has been achieved or not is to be seen in future research on language attri-
tion, but the plenary addresses by Kees de Bot (2001) and Joel Walters (2001)
took a major step towards the intended integration between the sociolinguis-
tic language shift paradigm and the psycholinguistic language loss paradigm.
Nevertheless, as expressed by Walters (2001) the contradictory dimensions and
entrenched conflicting methodologies of sociolinguistics and psycholinguistics
makes the integration of ‘loss’ and ‘shift’ a difficult task. In spite of this diffi-
culty, studies investigating both dimensions are necessary, since language use is
never divorced from its social context. It is not possible to investigate language
attrition or maintenance on the basis of a number of linguistic tests alone,
without a careful description of the social context, the attitudes of speakers,
ethnolinguistic vitality of the group and so on.
An examination of the earlier conference proceedings and a number of dis-
sertations written on language loss shows that there are more questions than
answers concerning the theoretical framework and research methodology of
language attrition. Depending on the approach to attrition within which re-
searchers work, different theories and hypotheses concerning language loss
have been postulated. Taking a contact linguistics, sociolinguistic, language
change or acquisition perspective bring about varying hypotheses about the
causes and the effects of language loss. Accordingly, the methodology used in
such studies varies as well. Due to this inconsistency there are no commonly
Issues in finding the appropriate methodology 
agreed definitions of language attrition, language loss or shift as yet (see also
Köpke and Schmid, this volume). This variety of approaches, analysesand find-
ings was also apparent in the papers presented at the Amsterdam conference as
is evidenced by the present collection of papers.
. Definitions
In the 1980 conference, Lambert and Freed (1982) defined language attrition
as follows:
... language attrition may refer to the loss of any language or any portion of a
language by an individual or a speech community. It may refer to the declining
use of mother tongue skills by those in bilingual situations or among eth-
nic minorities in (some) language contact situations where one language, for
political or social reasons, comes to replace another.(Lambert & Freed 1982:1)
Although this definition recognised the interface between linguistic and so-
ciolinguistic aspects of language attrition, no distinction was made between
‘societal loss’ (which is more commonly identified as language shift rather
than language loss), and individual loss (which is identified as language at-
trition over time in language contact situations). In the same vein, Andersen
(1982:85) suggests that language attrition is the loss of a language by succes-
sive generations in immigrant or minority communities, and that individual
language attrition refers to forgetting a language due to lack of use.
On the other hand, Richards et al. (1985) define language shift as a change
from the use of one language to the use of another. Drawing a distinction
between language attrition and language shift thus seems to be highly prob-
lematic. It can generally be argued, however, that language attrition is an in-
tragenerational phenomenon while language shift is an intergenerational one.
The term intragenerational implies that the loss of linguistic skills takes place
within individuals over a more or less extended period of time mainly because
of a break in the linguistic tradition. With respect to intergenerational and in-
tragenerational language loss, an examination of Gonzo and Saltarelli’s (1983)
well-established model is helpful for the differentiation between ‘language at-
trition’ and ‘language shift’. In relation to the linguistic situation in immigrant
families, Gonzo and Saltarelli suggested that, because of non-use of the L1 and
interference from the L2, first generation immigrants experience language at-
trition over the years. The children of these immigrants acquire the already
attenuated L1; even this reduced system is, however, not entirely passed on to
the second generation for a number of linguistic and sociolinguistic reasons.
 Kutlay Yağmur
Following this incomplete L1 acquisition, there is again L1 attrition among
second-generation immigrants, and even further ‘reduced’ forms are transmit-
ted to the third generation. This cascade model thus predicts that within three
or four generations, immigrant languages in contact with a majority language
are doomed to be lost (Gonzo & Saltarelli 1983).
In this paper, L1 attrition is defined as the gradual loss of competence in
a given language. It is generally agreed that ‘changes in language use’ are iden-
tified as language shift, and ‘changes in language proficiency’ as language loss
(Fase, Jaspaert, & Kroon 1992:4) and that, furthermore, language shift is lo-
cated between generations (intergenerational), while attrition occurs within
individuals (intragenerational). In the 1998 Veldhoven language loss confer-
ence, Kees de Bot (2001) suggested ‘language loss’ to be a generic term denoting
a decline in language skills in both individuals and groups. This approach
assumes attrition and shift to be individual and societal aspects of loss, respec-
tively: attrition suggesting the loss of skills in individuals and shift implicating
a decline in language use on the community level. It can be argued that in this
approach, ‘shift’ becomes a sub-branch of language loss studies; however, in de
Bot’s treatment of the matter, ‘shift’ can be intra- or intergenerational, whereas
talking about intergenerational attrition is highly problematic due to points of
reference in measurement. This issue will be discussed in more detail below in
the section on sampling.
. Extralinguistic factors
It is important to point out that language attrition is not an isolated phe-
nomenon, rather it is a special case of variation in the acquisition and use
of language/s and can best be studied, described, documented and explained
within a large framework which includes all other phenomena of L1/L2 ac-
quisition, bilingualism, language use/choice, code-switching/mixing, and lan-
guage attitudes (Andersen 1982:86; Yağmur 1997). In order to systematically
investigate ethnic minority language contexts, various language use typologies
have been proposed, among them the well-known and frequently cited works
of Ferguson (1975), Giles, Bourhis, and Taylor (1977), Haarmann (1986), Hau-
gen (1972), and Edwards (1992). Each of these frameworks considers some lin-
guistic and social factors to be essential for an accurate description of language
contact situations. However, as they have been discussed in detail elsewhere
(Yağmur 1997; see also Schmid 2002; Köpke & Schmid, this volume), sociolin-
guistic factors involved in language attrition will not be further discussed here.
Issues in finding the appropriate methodology 
. Methodology in language attrition studies
The organisers of this conference have pointed out that many studies on lan-
guage attrition report to have found substantial loss, but do not present con-
vincing evidence. This argument seems compelling, given the fact that the
collections of various conference proceedings, collected volumes and special
issues of journals published so far do not present a uniform approach to lan-
guage attrition research. Divergent methods of data collection, sampling and
instrumentation are still major problem areas in this field (Köpke and Schmid,
this volume), which will have to be identified in order to prevent exagger-
ated descriptions of attrition in future studies. This section will present a
critical evaluation of methodological issues on the basis of the collection of
papers from the Veldhoven conference (Ammerlaan, Hulsen, Strating and Yağ-
mur 2001) and further past research. In order to achieve this, firstly, a short
overview of methodological issues in language attrition will be presented. Sec-
ondly, some problem areas in such studies will be pointed out on the basis
of past research, and finally, a number of proposals with respect to research
designs will be made.
. What type of design is appropriate?
The decision for an appropriate methodology for any given research project is
usually taken on the basis of relevant research questions, to which the issue of
choosing the appropriate data collection methods, instrumentsand informants
are crucial. A close examination of past language attrition research reveals se-
rious flaws in this respect. The biggest consequence of such methodological
problems is large variation in the amount of language attrition reported in
different studies.
Most of the earlier language attrition conferences contained sections
specifically devoted to the research methodology of language attrition. In the
Pennsylvania conference, the papers by Andersen (1982), Oxford (1982), and
Clark (1982) have set the ground for future research. Andersen called his own
paper ‘a tentative blueprint’ for choosing linguistic features to be incorporated
in any research design. The strength of Andersen’s hypotheses is that, since they
are not language-specific, they can be adapted and modified for a large variety
of languages and contexts. In addition, they are mostly testable (see below).
Unfortunately, there are as yet not many studies testing Andersen’s hypotheses,
which is why we are not in a position to compare findings across studies to
identify common patterns observed in language attrition.
 Kutlay Yağmur
Oxford’s paper (1982) on designing and conducting research in language
skill attrition illustrates the considerable confusion over the types of tests that
can be used in language attrition studies. Oxford discusses proficiency and
achievement testing, pointing out that the types of testing instruments de-
scribed can be adapted to language attrition studies. However, the general
language proficiency measures she discusses have been developed for student
populations and are not suitable for L1 attrition studies, since level of edu-
cation and familiarity with such tests play an important role in the response
level. Past experience with proficiency tests, the feeling of being tested and so
on are all factors that can have an effect on the results. Such tests can thus be
predicted to be invalid or unreliable for informants who are less educated or
less familiar with formal testing procedures. Obtaining a fail or a pass mark
from a proficiency test would thus not mean much in the context of language
attrition. Furthermore, even students themselves often fail such tests for the
reasons given above, which obviously does not license the conclusion that they
are suffering from ‘language loss’.
As opposed to Oxford, Clark (1982) suggests designing specific diagnostic
testing instruments for the measurement of language attrition on the basis of
Andersen’s hypotheses. Clark’s suggestion concerning diagnostic feedback test-
ing instruments, specifically designed for language attrition research, is highly
relevant, since such tests are constructed on different principles and goals than
proficiency testing instruments. Nevertheless, the methods proposed by Clark
do not distinguish the investigation L1 versus L2 loss, let alone intra- versus
intergenerational loss.
Subsequent volumes on language attrition (Weltens, de Bot and van Els
1986) still testify to the preoccupation with methodological issues. Ginsberg’s
(1986) sophisticated paper on statistical data analysis procedures provided re-
searchers with insights into the differences between logistic models analysing
one parameter and those which allow to investigate two or three parameters,
illustrating what tests can reveal possible correlations between predictive and
criterion variables. We need to point out, however, that all those so-called
diagnostic tests were again designed for student populations (mostly college
students), and are thus unsuitable for less educated immigrants. A further
drawback is that all of the structural and logistic models outlined in Gins-
berg’s paper require a minimum of several hundred informants in order to
allow reliable estimates, which again makes them impractical for small-scale
studies. That notwithstanding, the quantitative data analysis procedures used
by Ginsberg are highly valuable guidelines for the standardisation of language
attrition tests.
Issues in finding the appropriate methodology 
Before Jaspaert, Kroon and van Hout (1986), no study had explicitly dealt
with methodological problems involved in research on L1 loss. Their paper
suggests that the most appropriate way of establishing language attrition would
be a carefully implemented longitudinal design, in which informants are tested
before the onset of attrition (e.g. shortly after arriving in the new country),
and again after some years by using a pre- and post-test to identify changes
in language proficiency. However, such research is not always possible due to
problems of logistics, finance, and feasibility. In order to allow for the time
factor in a research design, Jaspaert, Kroon and van Hout (1986) proposed to
solve this problem by static group comparison. In a quasi-experimental de-
sign, the immigrant group can be compared to a control group living in the
country of origin. This is a valid approach in testing first generation infor-
mants, but it cannot be applied with second or third generation informants
(due to their reduced proficiency according to Gonzo and Saltarelli’s cascade
model, see above). Another problem is the issue of language change. In the
case of Turkish, for example, the majority of potential L1 attriters emigrated
to other countries around 1960, and they thus maintain the variety of Turkish
spoken in the 60’s in Turkey. Turkish immigrants in Western Europe have fre-
quent contacts with the homeland, which brings their language use closer to
the present-day standard, but speakers who emigrated to more distant coun-
tries, such as Australia, have limited exposure to Turkish spoken in Turkey,
where the purification movement of language reform has led to considerable
change in the Turkish lexicon. Due to frequent contacts, immigrants in West-
ern Europe are thus more up to date with such changes than immigrants in
Australia. On a more general level, language change is a natural process for all
living languages, and during that process the change experienced in a mono-
lingual speech community will be different from that which takes place in a
language contact situation, where two or more languages are in interaction.
Therefore, when we measure the differences between the two contexts, what
we claim as lost might simply be an artefact of varying degree of change in two
different contexts.
. Causes of claiming ‘massive’ loss
As seen in the previous section, even the best practice is not without problems.
In the process of editing the most recent language loss conference proceedings
(Ammerlaan, Hulsen, Strating & Yağmur 2001), it was observed that in some
papers information on the type of language test used, the types of linguistic
features investigated, the nature of the sample, the control group characteris-
 Kutlay Yağmur
tics, and so on were missing (Ammerlaan et al. 2001). In addition, there were
bold generalisations declaring large losses on the basis of data obtained from
single case studies or very young speakers of a language.
In most studies on language attrition the relationship between data, re-
search questions, and informant characteristics seem to be rather obscure. It is
evident that claims of massive L1 attrition simply on the basis of self-reported
data or survey information data is bound to lead to an account that is not rep-
resentative of the actual situation. Accordingly, simply conducting a number of
isolated linguistic tests and claiming loss on the basis of the results without any
relevant background information on the speaker characteristics is also prob-
lematic. Researchers need to consider that if they wish to make claims about a
specific community, the selection of representatives of this community should
be randomly chosen; otherwise, the scope of the research is restricted. Such a
‘random choice’ can often be compromised by the methods used to find in-
formants, as in the case of Waas (1993), who had to place advertisements in
German-language journals in Sydney. Ethnic group affiliation was one of her
predictor variable to account for L1 maintenance or loss. In terms of subject
selection procedures, one would assume that those informants who read Ger-
man papers or journals are already maintenance-oriented speakers, which is
why the representativeness of the sample for the given hypothesis might not be
well founded.
Furthermore, language attrition studies are often characterised by rather
broad conclusions drawn about the extent of attrition observed. It should be
obvious that generalisations are not permissible across linguistic levels. If the
study has been confined to the investigation of a number of lexical features, for
example, valid conclusions can only be drawn concerning that domain. Also,
if groups are compared in different contexts, it has to be taken into account
that aspects other than linguistic ones may account for different patterns in
language usage. The two most problematic areas in this respect, as became evi-
dent during both the Veldhoven and the Amsterdam conferences, are sampling
and instrumentation. Along with empirical designs, there are single-subject
case studies such as the one suggesting syntactic loss on the basis of a very
young child’s use of pronouns in a given language (Ammerlaan et al. 2001).
The problems involved with such a presentation are obvious: it is not possible
to come to bold generalisations on the basis of findings from a single infor-
mant; and furthermore, it is generally agreed in language attrition studies that
for something to be lost, it should have been there in the first place. Given the
age factor of young informants, some structures might not have been acquired
yet, thus what is shown as ‘lost’ might not have been acquired in the first place,
Issues in finding the appropriate methodology 
and studies investigating structural loss or lexical attrition among very young
children are not persuasive (Kaufman 2001; De Kadt 2001). These problems
are compounded if research on L1 attrition is combined and compared with
findings from second or third generation informants, which is an extremely
difficult area of study, since it is impossible to determine whether all of the
forms were available to the speakers in the acquisition process (See Yağmur
1997 for details).
The age factor can be a problematic issue not only in studies involving very
young informants, but also in those investigating the elderly, since even na-
tive speakers who live in a monolingual environment may experience L1 loss
due to old age. In that respect, investigating L1 loss (in an L2 environment)
among elderly informants may not provide representative findings either. In
order to investigate structural change in the verb inflection system of some
Basque dialects, for instance, Elordui (2001) asked 10 Basque-English bilin-
guals, the youngest of whom was 50 years old, to translate 500 sentences from
English into Basque. The validity of this research design is highly questionable,
not only because of the age of the informants, but also because of the nature of
the task, the latter of which will be more elaborately discussed below.
Indeed, data collection instrumentsseem to be another serious area of con-
cern in language attrition studies. Most of the papers presented at both the
Veldhoven and the Amsterdam conference report the use of questionnaires,
interviews, linguistic tests, translation tasks and language proficiency tests for
their data collection. The concern about the suitability of language proficiency
tests in language attrition studies was expressed in the preceding sections (2.1,
see also Köpke and Schmid, this volume). In assessing the suitability of an in-
strument, the research questions and the characteristics of the informants (in
particular, the age of the informant) as well as the design turn out to be highly
important. None of these dimensions should be evaluated in isolation. How-
ever, special attention will be paid here to the suitability of translation tasks
in assessing language attrition, since they appear to have become rather fre-
quent (Dal Negro 2001; De Kadt 2001; Elordui 2001; Macevichius 2001; Smits
2001). In all of these studies, considerable language attrition has been reported.
Table 1 summarises the tasks, informants, and the age of the informants in
these studies.
In all of the above studies, varying degrees of attrition are reported. As is
evident from the overview presented in Table 1, the generalisability of the find-
ings may be complicated by factors such as the types of informants and their
age. However, the most serious methodological problem is the data collection
instrument, namely a translation task. Translation is a special skill that requires
 Kutlay Yağmur
Table 1. Overview of data collection instruments in some recent language attrition
studies
Study Task No of informants Age span
Dal Negro 2001 Translation of 21
sentences, Interviews
23 informants, Ages 6–85
De Kadt 2001 End of school
examination,
Translation from
English to German
25 pupils Ages 12–13 and
17–18
Elordui 2001 Translation,
interviews
16 Basque-Spanish
bilinguals and 10
Basque-English
bilinguals
Youngest informant
is 50 years old (the
rest is not specified)
Kaufman 2001 Oral narration task 30 pupils Ages 6–13
Macevichius 2001 Word translation
task, written
document analysis
6 second-generation
adult informants
Born in the 1950’s
Smits 2001 Translation tasks,
free conversations
10 second to fourth
generation
informants
Average age is 65
training and expertise. Even educated speakers who are proficient bilinguals
may not be able to translate or interpret effectively. Language loss generali-
sations based on translation tasks and proficiency testing can thus be highly
questionable. These problems are compounded by the fact that in a translation
task, the competence in both the target language and the source language is
very important. For example, if I had used translation tasks for my earlier re-
search on language attrition among Turkish speakers in Sydney (Yağmur 1997),
massive attrition of Turkish would have been reported on all points of testing,
due to a lower degree of English proficiency among the less educated infor-
mants. As a matter of fact, the ineffectiveness of the translation task is expressed
by Smits (2001) herself, who acknowledges that “from a comparison of the
percentage of Standard Dutch forms it becomes clear that inflection for noun,
adjective and verb is preserved better in conversations than in translations”
(2001:315). In other words, the translation task did not yield representative
results in that particular study. The inappropriateness of the task was, in this
case, revealed by a crosscheck against data elicited by other means, namely an
interview technique, preventing bold generalisations.
Issues in finding the appropriate methodology 
In short, these examples illustrate that reports of ‘massive loss’ are often
caused by insufficient consideration of methodological issues. If a research
project is not carefully designed, the findings may obviously be inaccurate or
distorted. Many studies thus report massive loss, not because they have actually
detected substantial attrition, but due to:
– Flaws in the research design
– A lack of relationship between the conceptual framework and the data
collected
– Inappropriate or irrelevant data collection instruments
– A non- representative choice of informants
– Use of either very young or very old informants
– Problems in the data analysis (inappropriate statistical analyses)
All of these factors will produce exaggerated or distorted results. In order to
overcome most of the methodological difficulties presented in this section, re-
searchers need to have a clear research focus by means of research questions
and hypotheses. The working hypotheses offered by Andersen (1982) are still
highly valuable for researching linguistic aspects of language attrition. Natu-
rally, the extralinguistic predictor variables and the relationship between the
linguistic (individual) and social factors (group) need to be examined. Collect-
ing data on both aspects in a single research design is always possible. The main
issue is the accurate operationalisation of the constructs that we want to mea-
sure. In the next section, the research design on language attrition of Turkish
immigrants in Sydney (Yağmur 1997) will be presented.
. A research design of language attrition
. Preliminary observation
The two most basic guiding questions in developing any research design on
language attrition are:
– What type of evidence is needed as proof that attrition has occurred?
– On what grounds have we as researchers been persuaded that this topic is
worthy of investigation?
In order to provide some answers to these questions and to present a method-
ological framework in which to study them, I will reflect on my earlier research
of language attrition among Turkish speakers in Sydney.
 Kutlay Yağmur
I first became interested in this phenomenon when, in the late 1980s, I
observed a distinctive variety of Turkish spoken in Australia, different in many
respects from Turkish as it was spoken elsewhere. This variety was most often
used among first generation Turkish immigrants, who usually used their L1
among each other, but frequently inserted English lexical items in their Turkish
discourse, as is illustrated by the following examples:
Group I examples:
(1) Türk
Turkish
şopuna
shop-dir
gittim.
go-past-1sg
‘I went to the Turkish shop.’
(2) İnşuransı
Insurance-gen
yokmuş
not-past-infer
klaym yapamadı.
claim make –mod-neg-past
‘As he didn’t have insurance he couldn’t make a claim.’
(3) Kompaya
Compensation-dir
çıktı.
go out-past
‘He went out to compensation.’ (he applied for compensation)
(4) Maflırı
Muffler-poss-acc
delinmiş.
pierce-pass-yinfer
‘His (car’s) muffler is (reported to be) pierced.’
Structures such as these are very frequent; words such as “shop – şop” and
“compensation – kompa” are commonly used especially across generations,
although the amount of code-mixing among second generation and better-
educated Turkish immigrants is much higher than among first generation and
less-educated immigrants. On the basis of the code copying exemplified above,
could it be claimed that the words, which have the same meaning as “shop, in-
surance, compensation” and so on, have been lost in Turkish? Can it be seen
as an initial stage of language attrition? Or is there simply a new form of Turk-
ish emerging (in which case it would imply language change)? These questions
have not yet been answered conclusively. There are equivalent forms of all the
above words in Turkish; thus, it is possible that this copying occurs because
the speakers cannot access the Turkish forms in their mental lexicon. It may,
however, also be the case that these English copies are simply more active in
the speakers’ mental lexicon and are just inserted into a Turkish frame.
Like many other studies of language attrition, mine was initially conceived
on the assumption that this kind of copying could be taken as an indication of
language attrition in progress. The most relevant question in this respect was
whether these speakers would use the same kind of strategies with monolingual
Issues in finding the appropriate methodology 
Turkish speakers. Without such data it would have been premature to suggest
language attrition on the basis of code-mixing data. That notwithstanding, a
further interesting observation about the lexical copies illustrated above is that
in the speech of working class people, the copies are phonologically adjusted to
fit the phonological and morphological structure of Turkish, whereas better-
educated bilinguals tend to copy without any phonological transformation.
The type of lexical copies presented in (I) are very common, and it is
doubtful whether they indeed suggest language attrition; the examples in (II),
however, observed among second-generation immigrants, may be considered
as a clear indication of attrition.
Group II examples:
(5) Küpemi
Earring-pos-acc
giydim.
put on-past-1sg
(giymek vs. takmak)
(wear vs. put on)
‘I put on my earring.’
(6) Gitar
Guitar
oynamayı
play-nom-acc
öğreniyor. (gitar çalmak vs. futbol oynamak)
learn-prog-3sg
‘He learns how to play the guitar.’
(7) Çok
Many
kitaplar
book-pl
aldı.
buy-past-3sg
(Çok kitap aldı )
‘He bought many books.’
(8) Öğretmen
Teacher
bunu
this-acc
sen
you
bana
me-dir
anlatın(?)
explain-int-2sg
‘Teacher you explain this to me (?)’
As opposed to the examples in group I above, which simply involve a lexical
copy, these utterances are illustrative of processes, which might be interpreted
as language attrition. The speakers here apparently apply not only lexical but
also semantic copying, with structural consequences for the utterances, ren-
dering them ungrammatical. (5) and (6) involve the violation of semantic
restrictions – the English verb ‘to put on’ can be used both with reference to
clothes (‘I put on my shirt’, meaning ‘I wore my shirt’) and to jewellery (‘I put
on my earring’). In Turkish, however, two different verbs are used: giymek (to
wear clothes) and takmak (to put on jewellery). Apparently, the specificity in
meaning has been lost for this distinction. Similarly, as seen in example (6),
there are two different verbs to express the actions indicated by the verb ‘to
play’ in Turkish: ‘to play the guitar’ (gitar çalmak) and ‘to play football’ (futbol
oynamak). Ex. (7) illustrates a more grammatical violation: Turkish does not
allow double plurals, but especially younger speakers use such structures with
 Kutlay Yağmur
English as a model. In English, the noun following ‘many’ requires pluralisa-
tion; in Turkish, however, the modifier ‘many’ already announces the plural
nature of the noun that follows, which is why no plural suffix is added. Vio-
lations of the L1 Turkish norm can also extend to pragmatic features, as seen
in (8), where politeness norms of Turkish are not obeyed and prosodic charac-
teristics of English are copied to turn a statement into a question. In Turkish
culture, there is a certain hierarchy between a teacher and a student, which is
also explicit in address forms. Thus, a student cannot address his teacher with
her profession name alone. The first person possessive suffix -im needs to be
added to the word öğretmen (resulting form is öğretmenim = my teacher, indi-
cating authority of the addressee) so that it complies with the politeness norms
of Turkish.
However, these numerous instances of lexical and even semantic code-
copying observed are not conclusive evidence for L1 attrition. More evidence
is needed in line with a conceptual framework and a research design suitable
for investigating language attrition. Moreover, it is equally important to doc-
ument not only linguistic evidence, but also social, psychological and other
extralinguistic factors.
. Setting the design
As discussed in detail in much of the literature available on language attrition,
the major problem area of language attrition research is the methodology in-
volved. This includes designing appropriate tests, finding suitable informants
and deciding on the type of design to be adopted. In order to make valid and re-
liable generalisations, quantitative data and well-defined categories are needed.
The research design for the study discussed here was chosen on the basis of
claims concerning the regularity of Turkish language structure, ethnolinguistic
vitality theory studies, previous findings on the topic, and a number of initial
observations. These include the fact that compared to Turkish speakers living
in an L1 environment, Turkish immigrants in Australia often speak at a much
slower rate when using Turkish. I had also observed that many Turkish immi-
grants in Australia seem to prefer simple, analytic structures in their spoken
Turkish discourse over more complex, synthetic forms. Many immigrants re-
ported that they felt they had ‘lost’ a great deal of their mother tongue. Some
of these people were not fluent in their L2, English, either. The aim of the study
was to investigate ‘what is lost’ and ‘why it is lost’. In order to identify what is
lost, a number of linguistic tests were used. In line with my initial observations
Issues in finding the appropriate methodology 
and the relevant findings in the literature, I devised and also adapted already
available tests for this purpose.
The first aspect, ‘what is lost?’ is looked at within a linguistic framework,
whereas the second aspect focuses on the sociolinguistic causes of language at-
trition within the social psychological framework of Ethnolinguistic Vitality
Theory (EVT). As pointed out earlier, language attrition is a gradual process,
occurring slowly over a long period of time. Longitudinal studies or pre- and
post-test designs therefore do not seem appropriate in this kind of research,
as many factors would be unaccounted for. The design that seemed most ap-
propriate for my own research was therefore ‘static group comparison’ (Jaspaert
et al. 1986:38). In this research design, the amount of attrition is established
by comparing the attriters’ language test results with those of a monolingual
reference group. In Yağmur (1997), informants in Australia were matched with
informants in Turkey in terms of age, social background, sex, and education in
order to provide the optimum point of reference.
The study investigates the loss of Turkish (L1) in an English (L2) environ-
ment. The studies previously conducted in an Australian context all investigate
L1 attrition among typologically related languages such as Dutch (Ammerlaan
1996; de Bot 1990; de Bot & Clyne 1994) German (Clyne 1967; Harres 1989;
Waas 1993), and Italian (Bettoni 1989). There are thus similarities between
both the host language (English) and the attriting languages in terms of lin-
guistic structure, socio-historical factors, cultural values, religion, and social
customs. In terms of language structure, these languages are all typologically
related; Turkish, however, belonging to the Altaic group and being typologi-
cally unrelated to English, is a typical SOV language, exhibiting features such
as agglutination, vowel harmony and the lack of grammatical gender.
The linguistic component of the present investigation spans several lev-
els. In order to trace syntactic attrition, the first question is whether there are
any differences between first generation Turkish immigrants and monolingual
Turkish speakers living in Turkey in the production of the late acquired com-
plex Turkish forms of relative clauses. The second question is to what extent the
immigrant Turkish speakers use analytic versus synthetic structures and what
the implications for language maintenance or loss would be. In order to trace
lexical attrition, the extent of any gaps in the lexicon of Turkish immigrants is
investigated by means of verbal fluency tasks and a narration task. Finally, it is
hypothesised that even if there is no extensive use of L2, Turkish immigrants
might exhibit lexical and syntactic attrition because of a very limited number
of domains for L1 use. These issues of syntactic and lexical loss are investigated
 Kutlay Yağmur
through a comparison of the test results of the Turkish-Australian groups to
those of the reference groups in Turkey.
.. Focus of the investigation
Clearly, one of the most important aspects in the selection of an appropriate
research design is the formulation of relevant research questions, on the basis
of which the appropriate data collection instruments are designed and repre-
sentative informants are selected. The study reported here was guided by four
such research questions, namely:
1. Is there any lexical and syntactic loss evidenced among Turkish migrants
in Sydney as compared to Turkish speakers living in Turkey?
2. Do narrative skills in the L1 of Turkish migrants erode over a long period
of time in a language contact situation?
3. What are the factors or reasons behind L1 attrition?
4. Is there a relationship between ethnolinguistic vitality perceptions and L1
attrition of Turkish migrants?
In order to answer the first question, data were collected by means of tests mea-
suring lexical and syntactic proficiency, namely a lexical naming task and a rel-
ativisation production task (RPT). The latter is a special diagnostic test that was
developed to assess whether the production of Turkish relative clauses showed
any evidence of attrition. These tests were applied both to the immigrant
groups in Sydney and to the monolingual Turkish control groups in Turkey.
In this way, comparative evidence was obtained on the lexical and syntactic
aspects of L1 use of Turkish immigrants in Sydney. The migrant groups were
also asked to assess their L1 proficiency by means of a self-rating scale in order
to show possible correlations between the results of the linguistic tests and the
subjective self-ratings. The correlations between these linguistic tests and the
extralinguistic factors obtained using other instruments were examined.
These formal test-based data on the maintenance of linguistic skills were
compounded by spontaneous speech data collected by means of a retelling
task, using the picture-based story book Frog where are you? (Mayer 1969),
commonly known as ‘the frog story’. This story has been used in a num-
ber of cross-linguistic language development and attrition studies (Berman
& Slobin 1994; Cohen 1986, 1989; Olshtain & Barzilay 1991) and has proven
to be highly appropriate for linguistic analyses. For the present study, lexical
and textual analyses were carried out to see whether any evidence for lexical
and/or pragmatic attrition could be found, using Aksu-Koç’s (1994) Turkish
data on re-tellings of the ‘frog story’ data as a reference. The two immigrant
Issues in finding the appropriate methodology 
groups’ scores on spontaneous speech were compared, particularly focusing
on narrative skills and lexical attrition.
In order to shed some light on the extralinguistic factors that potentially
influence and determine language attrition, data was collected on the language
use and – choice of Turkish immigrants in Sydney. For this investigation, a
survey instrument,the ‘Language Use-Choice Questionnaire’, was developed in
order to gather information concerning background characteristics, language
use/choice, and language attitudes. This data was then used to detect possible
causes of L1 attrition. Findings obtained on the basis of this instrument were
correlated to other findings in order to establish possible relationships between
attitudinal and linguistic aspects of L1 attrition.
Finally, data was collected on ethnolinguistic vitality perceptions of Turk-
ish speakers living in Sydney by means of a ‘Subjective Ethnolinguistic Vitality
Questionnaire’ (Bourhis et al. 1981). In order to identify the relationship be-
tween ethnolinguistic vitality perceptions and erosion of L1 skills, the findings
derived from the two sets of data – linguistic and extralinguistic – were cor-
related. An attempt was thus made to relate societal factors impinging upon
individuals to the degree of L1 attrition. Ethnolinguistic vitality data from
two Turkish migrant groups in Sydney was analysed to see whether variables
such as education and social background had any effect on subjective vitality
perceptions of the informants.
.. Specific hypotheses on the linguistic aspects of language attrition
In addition to the general research questions outlined above, a number of spe-
cific hypotheses were tested, namely Andersen’s (1982:83–118) general linguis-
tic hypotheses with regard to syntax and lexicon and Slobin’s (1977) hypotheses
with regard to specific Turkish structures.
Slobin’s (1977) argument concerning the structure of Turkish lays the
foundation for the structural aspect of the study described here. Slobin argues
that the Turkish system of agglutinative inflectional morphology is remarkably
transparent, or in other words entirely regular. There are almost no exceptions
to general rules, and there are no arbitrary sub-classes on the basis of features
such as grammatical gender or phonological shape of the stem. Each inflec-
tional morpheme is syllabic and acoustically salient. The nominal inflectional
paradigm is so analytic that the entire system is mastered well before the age of
two. Slobin also suggests that
Indo-European languages tend to collapse and simplify their inflectional sys-
tems over time or in bilingual contact situations, whereas the Turkish system
 Kutlay Yağmur
of agglutinative inflectional morphology has remained stable across a great
range of time and contact situations. (Slobin 1977: 191)
Drawing on evidence from L1 acquisition data, Slobin also argues that com-
plex structures like relative clauses in Turkish are hard to acquire, and difficult
to replicate in comparable structures in the English language. He provides ev-
idence from child language acquisition studies, showing that children from
Indo-European language groups are able to form relative clauses at around age
two, while Turkish children do not produce relative clauses until around age
five. The explanation given for this is that in Indo-European languages, when
forming a relative clause the underlying semantics can easily be mapped onto
the surface structure, so that minimal adjustment is needed. The child sim-
ply inserts a relative pronoun between two underlying sentences. In the case of
Turkish, however, this procedure is much more complex: the predicate of the
embedded sentence must be preposed, turned into a participle and possessed
by its agent, making Turkish relative clause formation highly opaque. Slobin
(1977) further proposes that late acquired and complex constructions such
as relative clauses and verb complement constructions are most vulnerable
to change in bilingual contact situations. Andersen’s Morphological Reduction
hypothesis (1982:97) complements Slobin’s argument in claiming that “those
grammatical morphemes acquired earliest will be retained the longest by an
LA1
and those acquired latest will be lost earliest by the LA”. Thus, it can be
hypothesised that the late acquired Turkish relative clauses may be vulnerable
to attrition.
In the same vein, Slobin (1977:190–191) proposes that the underlying
characteristic of Turkish is its semantic transparency. The complex structures
are acquired last and there seems to be a general tendency among Turkish
children towards analytic structures rather than complex synthetic ones. Simi-
larly, Andersen’s Syntactic Reduction hypothesis states that “the LA will preserve
and overuse syntactic constructions that more transparently reflect the under-
lying semantic and syntactic relations” (Andersen 1982:99). Following these
hypotheses, it was argued that an investigation of analytic versus synthetic
structures in Turkish might yield noteworthy findings with regard to the pro-
cess of language attrition. It was thus decided to investigate structural loss with
regard to these linguistic aspects.
Andersen (1982:92) states that
the lexicon depends greatly on the linguistic experience of the speakers of a
language and [that] the lexical store of an individual language user depends on
Issues in finding the appropriate methodology 
the frequency, utility, and adequacy of the contents of that store for linguistic
communication.
Accordingly, it can be hypothesised that even among first generation monolin-
gual Turkish speakers living in Sydney there will be lexical attrition due to the
functional restrictions of L1 use. In the same vein, Andersen’s Lexical Reduc-
tion hypothesis is highly relevant for the purpose of investigating the extent of
attrition in the lexical repertoire of Turkish immigrants: “What lexicon the LA
has retained will be of common, highly-frequent, unmarked lexical items; the
gaps will be of less-common, low-frequency, highly marked items” (Andersen
1982:94). In complementing the controlled lexical naming tasks, I thus investi-
gated lexical attrition following Andersen’s Lexical Reduction hypothesis, using
a re-telling task involving the ‘frog story’ (Yağmur 1997).
According to Andersen, in addition to structural and lexical language attri-
tion, there are also paralinguistic consequences of linguistic erosion. He claims
that “an LA will speak at a slower rate with more frequent hesitations, pauses,
repairs, false starts, etc. than an LC of the same language” (Hypothesis 12a;
1982:112). This hypothesis was also tested on the basis of narrations of the
‘frog story’.
.. Testing the hypotheses
Based on the hypothesis that Turkish immigrants would exhibit lexical and syn-
tactic attrition in their L1, irrespective of the extended use of the L2, two groups
of Turkish immigrants in Australia were included in the present study. Group
A consisted of informants who had lived in Australia for fifteen or more years,
but have a limited proficiency in English; the informants in Group B had also
spent fifteen or more years in Australia and were well-educated and proficient
in English. In order to match these two groups of immigrants, reference groups
with similar background characteristics from Turkey were needed. Prior to
migration, the informants of Group A had been living in Central Anatolian
towns, whereas Group B had mainly lived in urban areas of Turkey. Applying
the ‘static group comparison’ framework to this study, 40 Turkish immigrants
in Australia were matched with 40 Turkish informants in Turkey.
.. Informants
In relation to the design of the study and the research questions posed, particu-
lar care was taken with regard to informant selection, based on those variables
that in previous literature on language maintenance and loss have been re-
ported to be most relevant. These include place of birth (to check whether
 Kutlay Yağmur
they were first generation migrants or not), age (at the time of investigation as
well as at the time of migration), period of residence in the L2 environment,
gender, education, marriage patterns, prior knowledge of the L2, the reason
for migration, and the language variety used (standard L1 or a dialect of L1).
Questions concerning these variables on an individual level were included in
the questionnaires used in this study.
The target groups for this study comprised 40 Turkish speakers living in the
Sydney metropolitan area. As the study focuses on intragenerational aspects of
L1 attrition, all the subjects were adult speakers of Turkish. In order to control
for some of the above variables, all subjects were chosen among first generation
Turkish migrants. They were all born in Turkey and all of them emigrated to
Australia as adults, where they had been living for at least 15 years at the time
of the investigation. Informants who were married all had a spouse of the same
ethnolinguistic background.
Education has been reported to be a highly significant variable in studies
on language maintenance and loss, but has not very often been controlled for.
In this study, education was used as a control variable for all aspects measured.
On the basis of the educational level of the informants, the subjects were di-
vided into two groups of 20 subjects each, Group A and Group B; Group A
comprising less educated speakers while Group B included the better-educated
informants. In order to control for the factor ‘gender’, an almost equal number
of male and female subjects were included. There were 9 female and 11 male
informants in Group A with a mean age of 50.5; in Group B there were 11
female and 9 male informants with a mean age of 42.3.
The Turkish community in Australia consists of centralised groups concen-
trated in certain suburbs of the urban area of Sydney. The subjects of Group A
were chosen from two different ‘working-class’ suburbs: Auburn, which is one
of the areas with a high concentration of Turkish immigrants, and Mascot. The
subjects of Group B came from different suburbs that are known to be ‘middle-
class’. The Group A informants were mostly labourers and housewives, whereas
the Group B informants had various occupations such as teacher, engineer,
clerk, accountant, etc.
Thus, the criteria for inclusion in the empirical study were that the subjects
should have been in the L2 environmentfor at least fifteen years; they should be
first generation immigrants; and they should all be native speakers of Turkish.
The time span was decided upon because it was assumed that after 15 years of
residence in the L2 environment, the subjects would feel ‘settled’. It was also
assumed that in terms of language behaviour, they would have had certain set
choices concerning domains of language use. The informants of Group A had
Issues in finding the appropriate methodology 
Table 2. Informants in Yağmur (1997) (2×2×20 = 80)
Immigrant groups in Australia Reference groups in Turkey
Low level of schooling Group A (n = 20) RA (n = 20)
Sydney Suburbs Kayseri
High level of schooling Group B (n = 20) RB (n = 20)
Sydney Suburbs Ankara
been in Australia for an average of 23.8 years, the informants in Group B for
an average of 18.9 years. Five Group A informants reported that they had not
visited their homeland for more than 10 years; one male informant had not
been to Turkey for 22 years. In Group B, however, only 10 informants reported
that they had not been back to their homeland for more than 10 years.
The method of sampling can be identified as ‘snowball sampling’. Suitable
persons already known to the researcher were contacted and encouraged to
nominate further candidates for participation in the study. In total, at least
a hundred persons were contacted; some of whom, however, refused to par-
ticipate for various reasons. Some female subjects of Group A were reluctant
to meet with the male researcher; a trained female assistant then conducted
the tests and questionnaires. Finding suitable subjects to be included in Group
B was particularly difficult, since few well-educated first generation Turkish
immigrants meet the criterion of having spent at least 15 years in Australia.
The two reference groups matched the immigrant groups’ educational level
and regional background in Turkey. In order to match Group A, reference
group informants were chosen from a central Anatolian city, Kayseri. This
seemed appropriate since most of the immigrant subjects in Group A had also
immigrated from central Anatolian towns and thus had a similar social and cul-
tural background. As Group A immigrant subjects in Sydney mainly worked as
labourers, the reference group was accordingly chosen from working class sub-
urbs in Kayseri. In order to match Group B immigrant informants with mono-
lingual speakers, twenty well-educated informants from Ankara were chosen
as a reference group. The mean age was 47.6 years for reference group A (RA)
and 42.2 years for reference group B (RB). In both Australia and Turkey, edu-
cation was the main criterion for the grouping of the informants. The subject
information presented above is summarised in Table 2.
Finally, all other factors reported to be significant in studies on language
maintenance and loss, both on the group level and on the individual level, were
taken into consideration in the research design.
 Kutlay Yağmur
.. Instruments
The following tests and questionnaires were used as data collection instruments
and presented to the informants in the order as presented here:
1. Language Use-Choice Questionnaire
2. Subjective Ethnolinguistic Vitality Questionnaire
3. Self-rating Scale (Can-Do Scale)
4. Controlled Lexical Naming Task
5. Relativisation Production Task
6. Picture-based Story Telling Task (‘the frog story’)
For further details on instruments and data collection procedures, see Yağmur
1997.
.. Representativeness of the sample
In order to meet some key criteria such as the informants’ length of stay in
the L2 environment and being first generation immigrants the study by de-
sign was not representative but purposive. As a result of the constraints of the
sampling, the informants’ selection was limited to the eligibility criteria. The
proportion of males and females was representative with almost equal numbers
of males and females. The sample was also representative for the distribution
of the Turkish-born population in Australia. According to the Bureau of Im-
migration Multicultural and Population Research (BIMPR) (1995:4), 96 per
cent of the “Turkey-born population was very heavily concentrated within a
major urban location”; all the informants in this study came from the Sydney
urban area. However, to have obtained results as representative as possible, the
informant selection should ideally have been completely random.
. Measuring attrition
The purpose of the present paper, in keeping with the aims of the conference,
is a critical evaluation of methodology in language attrition research, which is
why the main focus here is on issues of formulating research questions, stating
relevant hypotheses, constructing effective data collection instruments and in-
formant selection. The details of identifying relevant extralinguistic variables
will not be further discussed here; neither will I give any background on Eth-
nolinguistic Vitality Theory and its accompanying instrument, the ‘Subjective
Ethnolinguistic Vitality Questionnaire’ or details of collecting discourse data
and analyses procedures (for further details, see Yağmur 1997). In the next
section, I will instead concentrate on the relativisation production task to ex-
Issues in finding the appropriate methodology 
emplify test development, operationalisation and analysis procedures. Finally,
I will reflect on the crucial question posed by the conference organisers: ‘If I
were to do my research all over again, what would I do differently?’
Measuring syntactic loss
In this section, only one aspect of structural attrition will be discussed, namely
relative clause production. The focus is on two commonly known types of rel-
ative clause used in Turkish, the dık and -en types, traditionally referred to as
object and subject clauses (for details see Yağmur 1997).
Hypothesis: As a result of the language contact situation, Turkish speakers in
an immigration context will experience language attrition in the use of late
acquired complex Turkish forms of relative clauses.
The first question in this respect was whether there are any differences between
first-generation Turkish immigrants in Australia and monolingual Turkish
speakers living in Turkey in the production of relative clauses.
The relativisation production task
As outlined earlier, Turkish relative clauses are acquired relatively late and in
language contact situations are predicted to be lost relatively soon. In order to
test this claim, a relative clause production test was designed, keeping in mind
that in a test context it may be very hard to make informants produce the struc-
tures one wants to investigate. Even by providing a context or situation that
would normally require multiple uses of relative clauses, informants might not
produce the desired structures, but instead opt for simpler, analytic structures.
However, it was assumed that if the informant was provided with the words of
a sentence involving a relative structure in scrambled order and asked to repeat
it in its correct form, they would process the words and provide the appropriate
form; if they experience attrition concerning this particular structure, however,
they would not be able to produce it correctly.
On the basis of this assumption, ten Turkish sentences, each including a
relative clause, were constructed. Particular attention was paid to issues of vo-
cabulary by not including words used in specialised or technical fields. Words
and contexts from everyday communication were selected in order not to
cause extra memory strains. The order of words was then changed. In order
to eliminate a recency effect, the positions of subject, verb, object, and relative
clause were changed to prevent informants from following a pattern. To make
memory processing easier, some words were presented in phrases, whereas key
words were presented in isolation. In order to do the piloting for this task, the
 Kutlay Yağmur
sentences were read in scrambled order to five Turkish immigrants who had
recently arrived in Australia and to six immigrants who had been in Australia
for more than 17 years. The former group did not have much difficulty pro-
ducing the sentences in the correct order; the latter group, however, showed
considerable difficulties in processing the sentences in which the words had
been scrambled. Instead of including the relative clauses, they simplified the
structures.
During the piloting of the relativisation production task, it was noted that
after the sixth sentence, the informants started repeating the words in the or-
der they had been read to them. Therefore, it was decided to include only five
sentences in the task. In order to eliminate the memory factor, all words and
phrases in the scrambled form were repeated to the informant two or three
times and if requested, more than three times. Particular attention was paid to
this aspect, since it was not our aim to test memory skill. Before initiating the
task, the nature and procedure of the task was explained to the informant. By
means of two example sentences, the informant was asked to complete a prac-
tice session in order to show that they had fully understood the task. If a subject
sounded unsure, a second and – where necessary – third practice sentence was
provided. The following is an example of a sentence in its scrambled form. The
informant was expected to produce a structurally correct sentence.
yedi (1) / babasının (2) / Ali (3) / kıpkırmızı elmaları(4) / getirdiği (5).
Ali babasının getirdiği kıpkırmızı elmaları yedi.
Ali father-poss-gen bring-part carmine apple-pl-acc eat-past
Ali ate the carmine apples which his father brought.
The following five-point-scale was regarded to be methodical in terms of grad-
ing the sentences produced by the respondents, providing generalisable ratings
for similar studies of relativisation in Turkish.
5. All components placed correctly, the emphasis is on relativisation
4. Incomplete relativisation as of “reduction”
3. No relativisation but cause-effect relationship / conjoined clauses
2. Coordinate structure (and)
1. No target structure and post-relativisation (as in English)
Procedure
Before implementing the task, the procedure was carefully explained to the
informants. To save time, a tape recorder was used to record the informants’
utterances to be transcribed after the task. Prior to the actual task, the words
and phrases were read to the informants twice or thrice in a mixed order; the
Issues in finding the appropriate methodology 
informants were then asked to put them in the order that they are usually spo-
ken. After the first reading, there was an interval of 2–3 seconds; the researcher
then repeated the same words and phrases in the same scrambled order. The in-
formants were asked whether they needed another repetition and if so, a third
or even a fourth reading was provided in order to eliminate memory effects.
The informants then put the words and phrases in a particular order of use.
After the production of two, in a few cases three examples, the actual test was
carried out. On average, the monolingual informants needed eight minutes to
complete the task, whereas the immigrant group needed much longer.
Results of the relativisation task and discussion
Before detailing the statistical analyses carried out on the data, I would like to
present some observations concerning the sentences produced by the immi-
grant informants, some of whom concentrated on the meaning of the words
presented to them and formed their own sentences. In these cases, they pro-
duced rather transparent structures. In other cases, informants opted for in-
complete relativisation or the use of ‘ki’, which is a Persian loan indicating
relativisation. Among the reference groups, this strategy was only found among
the less educated informants in the RA group, none of the better-educated sub-
jects opted for ‘ki’. Five informants out of the 20 RA group subjects chose the
‘ki’-strategy for the first sentence, only one using ‘ki’ and -en together. Leaving
out certain words or inserting their own words was a common strategy among
the immigrant informants. All reference group subjects, however, rigorously
used the words provided to them. On the basis of the five-point scale described
above the scores obtained from each group were computed. The mean scores
of immigrant and reference groups are presented in Table 3.
The overall results of the relativisation production task were turned into a
scale resulting in a total score for each group. With respect to the differences
between the immigrant groups (A and B) and reference groups (RA and RB),
analyses of variances were done. The findings are summarised in Table 4.
Table 3. Mean scores for immigrant and reference groups on relativisation
Group Sentence 1 Sentence 2 Sentence 3 Sentence 4 Sentence 5
Immigrant A 3,15 2,72 3,57 3,27 3,52
Immigrant B 3,90 3,95 3,84 4,25 4,00
Reference A 4,55 4,55 4,65 4,95 4,85
Reference B 4,90 5,00 4,95 4,95 4,70
 Kutlay Yağmur
Table 4. Analysis of variance between groups
Group Mean SD
Immigrant A 15.30 6,56
Immigrant B 19.75 3,86
F = 2.61
p = 0.013
Reference A 23.55 1,63
Reference B 24.50 .95
F = 5.047
p = 0.30
Table 5. ANOVA results on Australian and Turkish groups (n = 80)
RelativisationTask
Country Mean SD
Australia 17.52 5.77
Turkey 24.02 1.40
F = 47.87
p < .001
Eta = .62
As is clearly seen from the above figures, the group score of even the less
educated reference group A is significantly higher than the better-educated
immigrant group B. Therefore, we are not in a position to suggest that the
differences are a result of education received in the L1.
Furthermore, in order to test our hypothesis, the data from the relativisa-
tion production task for the groups in Australia and Turkey were compared.
The analysis of variance (ANOVA) between the immigrant Turkish groups
A and B in Sydney and the reference groups RA and RB in Turkey indicates
clear differences between the groups. Table 5 summarises the ANOVA results
of the groups.
These findings strongly suggest that the reference groups in Turkey per-
form much better with respect to the relativisation task. The differences be-
tween the groups in Australia and Turkey suggest a marked decrease in lan-
guage processing skills of Turkish immigrants with respect to the above task.
Between the groups in Australia and in Turkey, there are main effects both
for group and for country, but there is no two-way interaction between the
groups in Australia and Turkey: Groups A and B behave in the same way in both
countries. However, with regard to the relativisation task, there is also an inter-
Issues in finding the appropriate methodology 
Table 6. ANOVA’s for main effects by groups for the relativisation task
Country 54.894 .000
Group 9.472 .003
Aust-Turkey Group (2-way) 3.979 .050
action effect. There appears to be an interaction between country and groups.
In particular, the difference between group RA (M = 23.55, SD = 1.64) and
RB (M = 24.50, SD = 0.95) in Turkey is much smaller than that between their
counterparts in Australia (group A M = 15.30, SD = 6.56; group B M = 19.75,
SD = 3.86). Furthermore, the standard deviations show that the groups in
Turkey are much more homogeneous in the production of correct realisations
of relativisation.
Some remarks on the results of the relativisation task
These findings clearly support our initial hypothesis that, as a result of the lan-
guage contact situation, the informants in the migration context would not be
able to perform equally well on the production of relative clauses as the infor-
mants in Turkey. Most of the immigrant subjects needed more time to produce
the sentences, whereas the monolingual subjects in Turkey were generally swift
and spontaneous in their productions of these sentences, irrespective of their
educational background.
It was assumed that the Turkish immigrants in Australia would have expe-
rienced L1 processing difficulties due to their extended stay in the L2 environ-
ment. Accordingly, it was assumed that irrespective of the extent of their use
of L2 English, Turkish immigrants exhibited lexical and structural attrition as
compared to Turkish speakers living in Turkey.
It seems convenient to suggest that bilingualism of the immigrant groups
plays a role in the differences observed between the performance of the im-
migrant and the reference groups. However, most of the immigrant Group A
subjects have a rather low proficiency in English. The only viable explanation
seems to be the restriction of domains for L1 use, Turkish being mainly limited
to the domestic domain and active use of the mother tongue not being exten-
sive. In line with these assumptions, the results suggest that Turkish immigrants
experience language-processing difficulties and language attrition irrespective
of their L2 skills.
The findings of this study support Slobin’s (1977) claim that Turkish im-
migrants who have been in an L2 environment for a long period of time have
difficulties in producing relative clauses in Turkish. A number of immigrant in-
 Kutlay Yağmur
formants opted for transparent structures by combining two dependentclauses
in a coordinate structure or in a cause-effect relationship. However, in the
collection of spontaneous speech data the same informants’ narrations of the
Frog Story contained well-formed relative clauses. This implies processing dif-
ficulties rather than the loss of relative clause structures. Thus, L1 processing
difficulties are apparent among the immigrant subjects, and this may have im-
plications for language shift observed among the second and third generations.
The difficulties in L1 use among the first generation subjects lead to more re-
strictions in the use of Turkish for second and third generations and a gradual
shift towards the dominant language from generation to generation.
. Recommendations for future research
If I were to re-design my research, I would maintain most of the instruments
with some revision and additions. However, concerning the informant selec-
tion, I would certainly adopt a random selection structure. Even though there
are certain difficulties involved in selecting informants randomly, the study
would in this way be rendered highly representative.
In terms of research focus and data collection instruments, I would cer-
tainly like to add new dimensions and diagnostic testing instruments. In my
earlier research, pragmalinguistic and functional aspects of language use have
not been taken into account. Future work should concentrate not only on
syntactic, but also socio-pragmatic aspects of language attrition. A functional
language use perspective might contribute to our understanding of language
attrition because of the emphasis on using language effectively and appropri-
ately in different contexts.
The study described in this paper was limited to the first generation Turk-
ish immigrants in Sydney that the sample represents. The findings of this study
cannot be generalised for language shift in the second generation, but only
for the aspects measured within the population represented. With regard to
lexical attrition, it is necessary to note that lexical production tests were lim-
ited to two categories of naming: animals and fruit and vegetables. In order
to obtain further evidence, more lexical dimensions as well as lexical recogni-
tion tests should be included. In this study, the results of spontaneous speech
data provided evidence for naming certain entities in the process of story
telling but inclusion of specifically designed recognition tasks might provide
firmer evidence.
In this study, relative clause formation in Turkish was tested with only five
sentences, for the reasons given above. Even though the results of the rela-
Issues in finding the appropriate methodology 
tivisation production task support Slobin’s (1977) claims concerning relative
clauses in Turkish, further evidence should be obtained by designing different
tests. Considering the present linguistic situation among Turkish speakers in
Sydney, it is highly recommended that Gonzo and Saltarelli’s (1983) predic-
tions on inter- as well as intragenerational loss be tested. The findings of the
present study clearly suggest that there are lexical retrieval difficulties as well
as syntactic loss among Turkish immigrants. Following Gonzo and Saltarelli’s
hypothesis, it can be suggested that second generation immigrants have already
acquired those attenuated forms. In order to determine the extent of ‘incom-
plete transfer’, a detailed examination of L1 use among second generations in
Australia might yield important findings with respect to language shift phe-
nomena. This study has shown that the synthetic structures of Turkish relative
clauses are especially vulnerable to language attrition. Investigation of the use
of relative clauses among second-generation Turkish immigrants might yield
relevant information concerning incomplete transfer.
Finally, compared to Turkish immigrants in a European context, Turk-
ish immigrants in Australia have much less contact with their homeland. A
comparative study between these two contexts would shed light on the role
of extralinguistic factors that are said to be influential in language attrition
and – shift.
Note
. LA stands for a person whose competence in a language has eroded as a result of language
attrition. On the other hand, LC stands for a linguistically competent individual (Andersen
1982:83–84).
References
Aksu-Koç, A. (1994). “Development of linguistic forms: Turkish”. In R. Berman & D.I.
Slobin (Eds.), Relating Events in Narrative: A crosslinguistic developmental study
(pp. 329–385). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Ammerlaan, T., Hulsen, M., Strating, H., & Yağmur, K. (Eds.). (2001). Sociolinguistic and
Psycholinguistic Perspectives on Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages. Münster:
Waxmann.
 Kutlay Yağmur
Ammerlaan, T., Hulsen, M., Strating, H., & Yağmur, K. (2001). “Language maintenance,
shift, and loss: Work in progress”. In T. Ammerlaan, M. Hulsen, H. Strating, &
K. Yağmur (Eds.), Sociolinguistic and Psycholinguistic Perspectives on Maintenance and
Loss of Minority Languages (pp. 1–13). Münster: Waxmann.
Ammerlaan, A. (1996). ‘You Get a bit Wobbly...’ exploring bilingual lexical retrieval in
the context of first language attrition. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Nijmegen:
Katholieke Universiteit Nijmegen.
Andersen, R. W. (1982). “Determining the linguistic attributes of language attrition”. In R.
D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 83–118). Rowley, MA:
Newbury House.
Berman, R. A., & Slobin, D. I. (Eds.). (1994). Relating Events in Narrative: A cross-linguistic
developmental study. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Bettoni, C. (1989). “Language loss among Italians in Australia: A summary of current
research”. I.T.L.: Review of Applied Linguistics, 83–84, 37–50.
Bureau of Immigration Multicultural and Population Research (BIMPR) (1995).
Community Profiles: 1991 Census Turkey Born. Canberra: Australian Government
Publishing Service.
Bot, K. de (1990). “Metalinguistic awareness in Dutch immigrants in Australia”.
Paper presented at the Combined ALAA/ALS Conference, September 1990, Sydney
Macquarie University.
Bot, K. de (2001). “Language use as an interface between sociolinguistic and psycholinguistic
processes in language attrition and language shift”. In J. Klatter-Folmer & P. van
Avermaat (Eds.), Theories on Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages (pp. 65–81).
Münster: Waxmann.
Bot, K. de, & Clyne, M. (1994). “A 16-year longitudinal study of language attrition in Dutch
immigrants in Australia”. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development, 15 (1),
17–28.
Bourhis, R. Y., Giles, H., & Rosenthal, D. (1981). “Notes on the Construction of a
‘subjective vitality questionnaire’ for Ethnolinguistic Groups”. Journal of Multilingual
and Multicultural Development, 2 (2), 145–155.
Clark, J. L. (1982). “Measurement considerations in language attrition research”. In R. D.
Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 138–152). Rowley, MA:
Newbury House.
Clyne, M. (1967). Transference and Triggering. The Hague: Martinus Nijhoff.
Edwards, J. (1992). “Sociopolitical aspects of language maintenance and loss: Towards a
typology of minority language situations”. In Fase et al. (Eds.), Maintenance and Loss of
Minority Languages (pp. 37–54). Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Cohen, A. (1986). “Forgetting foreign-language vocabulary”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot,
& T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress (pp. 143–158). Dordrecht: Foris
Publications.
Cohen, A. D. (1989). “Attrition in the productive lexicon of two Portuguese third language
speakers”. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 11, 135–149.
Issues in finding the appropriate methodology 
Dal Negro, S. (2001). “Language shift and change in a Walser dialect in Italy”. In
T. Ammerlaan, M. Hulsen, H. Strating, & K. Yağmur (Eds.), Sociolinguistic and
Psycholinguistic Perspectives on Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages (pp. 47–60).
Münster: Waxmann.
De Kadt, E. (2001). “You still speak German?” Teenage language skills in a German-
speaking community. In T. Ammerlaan, M. Hulsen, H. Strating, & K. Yağmur (Eds.),
Sociolinguistic and Psycholinguistic Perspectives on Maintenance and Loss of Minority
Languages (pp. 61–76). Münster: Waxmann.
Elordui, A. (2001). “Processes of Language Shift and Loss: Evidence from Basque”. In
T. Ammerlaan, M. Hulsen, H. Strating, & K. Yağmur (Eds.), Sociolinguistic and
Psycholinguistic Perspectives on Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages (pp. 77–92).
Münster: Waxmann.
Fase, W., Jaspaert, K., & Kroon, S. (Eds.). (1992). Maintenance and Loss of Minority
Languages. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Ferguson, C. (1975). “National sociolinguistic profile formulas”. In W. Bright (Ed.),
Sociolinguistics (pp. 309–324). The Hague: Mouton.
Giles, H., Bourhis, R. Y., & Taylor, D. M. (1977). “Towards a theory of language in
ethnic group relations”. In H. Giles (Ed.), Language, Ethnicity and Intergroup Relations
(pp. 307–348). London: Academic Press.
Ginsberg, R. B. (1982). “Issues in the analysis of language loss methodology of the Language
Skills Project”. In R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 19–
36). Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Gonzo, S., & Saltarelli, M. (1983). “Pidginization and linguistic change in emigrant
languages”. In R. W. Andersen (Ed.), Pidginization and Creolization as Language
Acquisition (pp. 181–197). Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Haarmann, H. (1986). Language in Ethnicity: A view of basic ecological relations. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Harres, A. (1989). “Being a good German: A case study analysis of language retention
and loss among German migrants in North Queensland”. Journal of Multilingual and
Multicultural Development, 10 (5), 383–399.
Haugen, E. (1972). “Language and immigration”. In A. S. Dil (Ed.), The Ecology of Language:
Essays by Einar Haugen (pp. 1–36). Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press.
Jaspaert, K., Kroon, S., & van Hout, R. (1986). “Points of reference in first language loss
research”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress
(pp. 37–49). Dordrecht: Foris.
Kaufman, D. (2001). “Tales of L1 attrition – Evidence from pre-puberty children”. In
T. Ammerlaan, M. Hulsen, H. Strating, & K. Yağmur (Eds.), Sociolinguistic and
Psycholinguistic Perspectives on Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages (pp. 185–
202). Münster: Waxmann.
Lambert, R. D., & Freed, B. F. (Eds.). (1982). The Loss of Language Skills. Rowley, MA:
Newbury House.
Macevichius, J. (2001). “The beginnings of language loss in discourse: A case study of
referentiality in American Lithuanian”. In T. Ammerlaan, M. Hulsen, H. Strating, &
K. Yağmur (Eds.), Sociolinguistic and Psycholinguistic Perspectives on Maintenance and
Loss of Minority Languages (pp. 235–247). Münster: Waxmann.
 Kutlay Yağmur
Mayer, M. (1969). Frog Where Are You? New York, NY: The Dial Press.
Olshtain, E., & Barzilay, M. (1991). “Lexical retrieval difficulties in adult language attrition”.
In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 139–150).
Cambridge: CUP.
Oxford, R. L. (1982). “Technical issues in designing and conducting research on language
skills attrition”. In R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills
(pp. 119–137). Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Richards, J. C., Platt, J., & Platt, H. (1985). Longman Dictionary of Applied Linguistics.
London: Longman.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance: The case of German
Jews in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Slobin, D. I. (1977). “Language change in childhood and in history”. In J. Macnamara (Ed.),
Language Learning and Thought (pp. 185–214). New York, NY: Academic Press.
Smith, N., & Wilson, D. (1979). Modern Linguistics: The results of Chomsky’s revolution.
Bloomington, IN: Indiana University Press.
Smits, C. (2001). “Iowa Dutch inflection: Translations versus conversations”. In T.
Ammerlaan, M. Hulsen, H. Strating, & K. Yağmur (Eds.), Sociolinguistic and
Psycholinguistic Perspectives on Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages (pp. 299–
318). Münster: Waxmann.
Van Els, T. (1986). “An overview of European research on language attrition”. In B. Weltens,
K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress (pp. 3–18). Dordrecht:
Foris.
Waas, M. (1993). Language Attrition among German Speakers in Australia: A sociolinguistic
inquiry. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Sydney: Macquarie University.
Walters, J. (2001). “Socio-pragmatic processing in bilingual production and attrition”. In
J. Klatter-Folmer & P. van Avermaat (Eds.), Theories on Maintenance and Loss of
Minority Languages (pp. 83–140). Münster: Waxmann.
Weltens, B., de Bot, K., & van Els, T. (Eds.). (1986).Language Attrition in Progress. Dordrecht:
Foris.
Yağmur, K. (1997). First Language Attrition among Turkish Speakers in Sydney. Tilburg:
Tilburg University Press.
Language contact and attrition
The spoken French of Israeli Francophones
Miriam Ben-Rafael
Tel Aviv University
Introduction
In recent decades, L1 attrition has been considered one of the typical processes
of change that occur among languages in situations of contact. Researchers,
however, do not unanimously regard L1 changes as indications of attrition.
Basic issues in this context concern when codeswitchings (CS) and borrow-
ings or interferences, confusions, and neologisms should be viewed as fulfilling
specific functions and when they should be construed as compensation for
forgetting and manifestations of attrition. As Köpke & Schmid show in the
introduction to this volume, even after twenty years of “diligent investigation
in L1 attrition,” theoretical and methodological questions “still by far outweigh
the answers.” Definitions and methods of collecting and analysing data, as well
as the parameters that are taken into account, often differ from one study to
another. Terms such as ‘change’, ‘shift’, and ‘loss’ may overlap, notwithstanding
numerous attempts at clarification (Waas 1996:17–26).
For Hiller-Foti (1985:108), attrition does not necessarily indicate an inabil-
ity to retain the use of L1 for communication. Instead, it may be the expression
of a loss of L1 spontaneity and of the formation of a gap between active and
passive command of the mother tongue. In a similar vein, Seliger (1985:4) de-
fines attrition as the “erosion of the linguistic performance of a first, or primary
language which has been fully acquired and used before the onset of bilin-
gualism.” Other researchers define the process of attrition ex negatio, i.e., by
explaining “what language attrition is not” (Pavlenko 2002) or “what it cannot
be” (Waas 1996:26–30). In fact, attrition is a highly complex process that, in
the view of some analysts, depends essentially on the particular circumstances
 Miriam Ben-Rafael
of each speech community. Moreover, it should be construed differently when
observed from intergenerational or intragenerationalperspectives. Beyond this
diversity, according to Hagège, a general profile of attrition and the way at-
trition impacts on the various components of the language will have to be
developed (Hagège 2000:109–110). In most cases, he states, the lexicon would
be the first area affected, while grammar and phonology would show stronger
resistance to erosion. A strong destabilisation of the latter components and the
substitution of typical systems pertaining to a given language by other systems
would, in extreme cases, announce the decline and loss of the language, if not
its death (ibid.:108).
Various studies also illustrate different methods of investigation – exper-
imental and quantitative, non-experimental and qualitative (see overview in
Schmid 2003:39–43). A few use several methods within a single research en-
deavour, e.g., self-reported data, can-do scales, fluency tests etc. (Waas 1996;
Yağmur 1997). Köpke & Schmid, in their comprehensive introduction to this
volume, show that each method has its difficulties and focuses on diverse as-
pects of the attrition process. It is in this context that this chapter uses a number
of methods in order to make out the different sides of the attrition process in
spoken Israeli French or Franbreu (FrB).
This “in-between” language or “interlanguage” has developed among
Francophones in Israel, whom we shall call “Franbréophones” in the follow-
ing. As they acquire Hebrew as an L2 and use it fluently in their daily lives,
their French changes under Hebrew influence. Our question is whether these
changes should be considered forms of attrition of French in contact with
Hebrew. Our point of departure is the assumption that L1 attrition should
be viewed not only as a psychological process but also as a sociolinguistic
phenomenon, i.e., one that takes place in, and is accounted for by, speech sit-
uations. In different contexts speakers may variously “deviate” from standard
forms and use L2 elements in various ways. Hence, the attrition of speakers’
linguistic competence in language-contact situations cannot be the only expla-
nation of occurrences such as CS, calques, and innovations, and often may not
even be the most important one.
It is from this perspective that the study reported below focuses on a di-
versity of speech situations that differ in their degree of formality, employing
different methods of data collection.
Language contact and attrition 
. Methodology
Our main group of subjects consists of Francophones who emigrated to Israel
at the age of 18–30 and were between 45 and 60 years of age at the time of
data collection. Their cultural and social context is relatively homogeneous:
secondary education or higher, and middle socioeconomic class. Pursuant to
the goal of the study, we collected our data by means of several methods and
different samples. This methodology would elicit a general FrB profile, i.e., a
set of speech activities typical of different speech situations.
Each informant was investigated only once, and the number of subjects in
the various phases totalled 83. The experimental group consisted of 65 Fran-
cophones living in Israel, and a control group of 18 non-Hebrew-speaking
Francophones living in France.1
Furthermore, in this chapter we focus on qual-
itative analysis and do not consider statistical correlations. This approach, as a
whole, allowed us to study the changes that occurred in the subjects’ French
(Fr/L1) from a broad perspective.
The sets of data include:
1. 13 Franbréophone narratives of the “Frog-Where-Are-You” story (Mayer
1969) (hereinafter, corpus 1 or C1); this is the less spontaneous phase be-
cause the subjects are openly requested to participate in a test of linguistic
competence.
2. Recordings of discussions among French teachers at professional meetings
(C2) – 5 meetings of 8 to 10 subjects (in total, 10 subjects who participated
in at least one meeting). This phase is less formal than (1), since it involves
colleagues who interact on an equal footing. However, these meetings took
place at the Institut Français in Tel Aviv, in the presence of an official from
the French Embassy, a circumstance that may have imposed constraints on
the discursive activity.
3. 9 semi-structured interviews of Franbréophones conducted by L1 Hebrew-
speakers who happened to be students of French (C3). These interviews
were less formal than the previous phase since the subjects were in the po-
sition of interviewees. Moreover, since they were interacting with students
of French, they felt committed to behave in a somewhat “didactic” manner.
4. 13 semi-structured interviews of Franbréophones by an interviewer who is
a Franbréophone herself (C4). In this case, the atmosphere was less tense
than in Phase 3, since the interviewer and the subjects belonged to the same
milieu. Still, the semi-structured nature of the interviews was itself a factor
of constraint.
 Miriam Ben-Rafael
5. 9 spontaneous conversations of three or four Franbréophone participants
in each case – 20 subjects in all (C5). The discourse at this stage was
completely free because it took place among friends.
This range of speech settings is widely representative of linguistic activity in
generaland allows us to sketch a profile of Israeli French as a whole. The various
corpora complement each other and allow us to reveal the changing nature of
Franbreu as determined both by processes of attrition and by sociolinguistic
situations.
The French speakers in our control group (CG) were from a similar back-
ground to our Israeli subjects but had never had any contact with Hebrew.
The data for this group were collected in France. 12 of the 18 subjects in this
group were asked to tell the “Frog Story” and 6 were asked to answer questions
that paralleled those asked in Israel in Phases 3 and 4. The data elicited in this
manner gave us an additional opportunity to assess the impact of the contact
with Hebrew, to draw the contours of attrition, and to judge the pertinence of
alternate hypotheses of linguistic change.
We now present data from our diverse corpora, focusing on selected as-
pects of codeswitching, lexicon, and syntax. These aspects, elucidated below,
sustain the contention that speakers in different speech situations diverge from
standard L1 in different ways, revealing thereby that L1 attrition is not a suffi-
cient explanation for occurrences that are characteristic in L1–L2 contact.
. Codeswitchings (CS)
CS manifestations have been interpreted in various ways2
(Poplack 1980, 1982,
1988; Poplack et al. 1989; Clyne 1986; Jacobson, ed. 1998, 2001; Field 2002;
Myers-Scotton 2002). For some (Dorian 1989; Hamers & Blanc 1983), they
reflect attrition or some loss of L1; for others, they make up for a deficiency
in L1 and provide lexical and semantic enrichment. Some researchers (Auer
1984, 1995, 1996; Lüdi 1990; Myers-Scotton 1993) consider them new discur-
sive tools at a speaker’s disposal that eventually convey self-identity. For still
others, CS and, in particular, borrowings essentially fulfil pragmatic, ludic, or
mystic functions (Pergnier 1989). Pavlenko (this volume) emphasises that one
should differentiate between L2 influence on L1 and L1 attrition. This issue, as
Köpke & Schmid (this volume) report “. . .is a crucial one, since it is generally
assumed in attrition studies that all cases of interference are due to attrition,
Language contact and attrition 
without taking into account that interference may occur in ‘normal’ bilinguals
as well.”
What, then, has happened in the case of Franbreu?
. CS without L1 Attrition
French–Hebrew CS is the most remarkable feature in our data. CS may vary
from the insertion of a single Hebrew element to the insertion of entire Hebrew
sequences.
(1) Mo (I began) le projet de construire une école régionale
‘the project of building a regional school’
M une école élémentaire régionale
‘a regional elementary school’
Mo ‘ad vav
‘up to sixth grade’
M même alef? où elle doit être cette école?
‘even first grade? where it should be this school?’
c’est un truc important
‘it’s important stuff’
Mo tov ... proyekt shel shesh milyon ...ve-bet sefer shel shtem ‘esre kitot
‘well . . . a project of six million . . . and a school oftwelve grades’
M (to E.) tu as entendu ce que Mo fait? un truc terrible
‘you heard what Mo does? big stuff’
oui . . . il crée un bet sefer
‘yes . . . he’s creating a school’ (C5)
The large majority of single-elementCS or borrowings involve nouns; they may
be collective borrowings as well as personal ones. Many of them replace French
equivalents; others compensate for the absence of appropriate French terms
(gar’in = Israeli settlement core group) or for terms that exist in French but
carry special connotations in their Hebrew versions (aliya vs. immigration).
Some borrowings may alternate with their French equivalents but others are
fixed and never switch with French terms, lest they lose their inherent mean-
ing. Thus, there is a clear distinction between what is said in French and in
Hebrew. Both French “mariage” (wedding) and Hebrew hatuna occur, for ex-
ample, but a hupa (the Jewish nuptial ceremony) is referred to only in Hebrew.
Similarly, both the terms “gouvernement” (government) and memshala occur,
but no French equivalent of the knesset (the Israeli parliament) is used.
 Miriam Ben-Rafael
Most borrowed nouns relate to the Israeli public sphere, e.g., immigration,
education, work, economy, health, religion, or the army:
(2) a. immigration: aliya/immigration, gar’in/settlement core group, hani-
khim/trainees or youth-movement members, ‘olim hadashim/new
immigrants, shaliah/emissary, ‘ayarat pituah/development town
b. education: hinukh/education, morim/teachers, ganenet/kindergarten
teacher, bet sefer/school, sifriya/library, yo’ets/adviser, miqtso’ot be-
hira/elective subjects, bagrut/matriculation at the end of high school,
mefaqe’ah/school inspector, tsarfatit meduberet/spoken French
c. work: avoda/work, parnasa/livelihood, kalkala/economy, qablan/build-
ing contractor, shutaf /associate, musakh/garage, misim/taxes (C4)
Most often, Franbréophone speakers prefer these Hebrew terms even when
French equivalents are available, since the Hebrew terms better reflect Israeli
cultural values that are taken for granted. Therefore, in Franbreu memshala
(government) denotes the Israeli government and none other and mitun (eco-
nomic slump or recession) refers primarily to Israel’s economic difficulties. The
same is true for shevita (strike), tsava (army), and mikhlala (college). In profes-
sional conversations among Franbréophone French teachers, for instance, the
speakers use borrowings relating to education which express their experience.
In one of the meetings, for example, a non-Israeli Francophone who has no
knowledge of Hebrew (Mut) was present. Even then, the speakers did not re-
frain from inserting Hebrew terms into their discourse and were oblivious to
the fact that Mut had no idea what they meant. Only when Mut asked for the
explanation of yo’ets (counsellor) was he given the French equivalent:
(3) T1 qu’est-ce-qu’il a comme tafqid?
‘what is his function?’
T2 il est yo’ets tokhniyot limudim
‘he is a curriculum advisor’
T1 non non yo’ets c’est un autre
‘no no advisor this is another one’
T2 alors il est yo’ets de ...
‘so he’s a counsellor of’
Mutyo’ets c’est quoi?
‘yo’ets what’s that?
T2 yo’ets c’est conseiller
‘advisor it’s an advisor’
An additional example is:
Language contact and attrition 
(4) T3 ce garçon il était rosh bet ha-sefer le-hinukh
‘this guy was the head of the school ofeducation’
Then, turning to Mut, T3 translates into French:
T3 il était directeur de l’école d’éducation
‘he was the director of the school of education’ (C2)
It turns out that CS fulfils various functions in Franbréophone discourse, es-
pecially in spontaneous conversation (Ben-Rafael 2001a). It may point to the
development of a discursive sequence or a rhetorical juxtaposition:
(5) R ils parlent très peu le français (in Prague)...l’hébreu bevaday she-lo ve
...ça suffit amplement ...deux jours
‘they speak very little French (in Prague). . . Hebrew of course not and
. . .two days . . . is plenty’ (C4)
(6) H il adore le chocolat u-mamash makhur le-ze
‘he loves chocolate he is really addicted to it’ (C4)
Speech shifts or reported speech are nearly always expressed in Hebrew:
(7) la dernière fois qu’il est venu il a dit . . . at yoda’at ma ...ze yofi kakha az
amarti lo ze etgar bishvilkha
‘the last time he came he said . . . you know what . . . it’s nice that way so I
told him it’s a challenge for you’ (C4)
CS also occurs in the forms of ready-made expressions, idioms of religious
nature, greetings, and congratulations:
(8) toda la-el ‘thank God’, zikhrono livrakha ‘may his memory be blessed’,
barukh ha-shem ‘bless God’, halevay ‘may it only be’, mazal tov ‘good luck’,
kol ha-kavod ‘congratulations’ (C3)
In other cases, CS structures the conversation by signalling the end of a se-
quence and the transition to a new one:
(9) M il voulait étudier à l’époque ...il a fait un petit morceau de mekhina
vraiment tout petit ...après il est revenu ...Rivka tagidi ma im Pnina?
‘he wanted to study at that time. . .he did a small bit of a preparatory
course. . . after he came back. . . Rivka, tell me what’s going on
with Pnina?’
R Pnina I nesu’a
‘Pnina is married’
 Miriam Ben-Rafael
M ah oui elle s’est mariée! quand?
‘ah yes she got married! when?’
R im amerika’i she-haya po
‘with an American who was here’ (C5)
CS also defines the relationship among different speakers and provides a way of
structuring the constellation of the conversation. In example (10), S speaks in
French with her two interlocutors, switches to Hebrew when she turns specifi-
cally to E, and reverts to French when she addresses M:
(10) S (addressing E and M) j’ai appelé Avi pour analyser avec lui la situa-
tion. . . (to E.) hu hakham non? ...(to M.) tu sais qui c’est Avi?
‘I called Avi to analyse the situation with him . . . (To E.) he’s clever
isn’t he? (To M.) you know who Avi is?’ (C4)
In the following example, the same process appears. Hu tells her friends, M
and E, what happened to her son when he went to register in the university.
Although she speaks almost exclusively in Hebrew, when she addresses only M
and asks her to repeat E’s question, which she did not grasp, she codeswitches
to French:
(11) Hu az hu nirsham la-mekhina ve. . .
‘so he signed up for a preparatory course and...’
M hmm. . .
Hu alors en un mois il a fait deux bagruts moins qu’un mois je crois non? hu
asa gam tanakh
‘so in a month he did two matriculation exams less than a month I
think isn’t that right? he also did Bible’
gam lashon be-pakhot me-hodesh ki hu haya gam be-miluim
‘also grammar in less than a month because he was also called up for
reserve duty’
E hmm. . .
Hu az hu hitqabel la-universita bli mekhina ve -shum davar
‘so he was accepted at the university without a preparatory course or
anything’
E il est content à l’univ?
‘is he happy at the univ(ersity)?’
Hu. (addressing only M) qu’est-ce-qu’il dit, E.?
‘what does he say, E.?’ (C5)
CS is also often used for subjective and expressive support. Segmental CS and
borrowings become means of judgmental and personal expression. In (12), for
Language contact and attrition 
example, the speaker becomes agitated when speaking about a friend who has
just lost her husband:
(12) oh bein elle est vaillante ...c’est lui qui faisait tout et ...elle est beseder at
yoda’at ...hi mamash beseder ...ze haya nora ve-ayom ...on lui dit ton
mari est mort ...at yoda’at ma ze efshar lehishtolel
‘oh yeah she is courageous . . .. he’s the one who did everything and . . . she’s
OK you know . . . she’s really OK . . . it was awful and terrible . . .you’re told
that your husband is dead . . . you know what it is you can go crazy’ (C5)
Another speaker uses a similar strategy in reference to the present situation in
Israel:
(13) oh j’en ai assez j’en ai marre mamash nimas li
‘oh I have had enough I’m sick of it I’ve really had enough’ (C4)
In these cases, the switch from one language to the other takes place in a very
natural way. Borrowings and segmental CS are generally unflagged and are in-
serted in a Franbreu discourse that remains fluid and uninterrupted, both in
spontaneous and professional conversations as well as in interviews. In all these
settings, casual CS can be evaluated according to discursive efficiency and evoke
no special reaction from interlocutors (see examples (1), (9), (12)).
. CS with L1 attrition
On the other hand, there are also the cases where speakers encounterdifficulties
in retrieving specific French terms. Aware of their problems, they themselves
may speak of oblivion and loss of memory, and express embarrassment:
(14) y a certains mots que je retrouve pas ...je commence une phrase et je m’arrête
parce que ce mot j’ arrive pas à le retrouver
‘there are words I can’t find. . . . I begin a sentence and I stop because I
can’t manage to find this word’ (C4)
(15) je cherche mes mots je sens que je perds la langue ...des mots m’ échappent
...je sais pas les nouveaux mots
‘I grope for my words I feel that I’m losing the language . . . words escape
me . . . I don’t know the new words’ (C4)
In such cases, CS appears as a stratagem of last resort for overcoming lexical
inaccessibility. This, however, takes place mostly in regard to items that are
rather infrequent in daily life:
 Miriam Ben-Rafael
(16) mon père est venu avec plein de ...un tas de livres ...avec des choses comment
on appelle ça ...une krikha ...une krikha en cuir
‘my father came with a lot of . . .plenty of books . . .with things . . . how do
you say it . . . a binder . . . a leather binder’ (C4)
One strategy for dealing with an inaccessible French term is to switch to He-
brew and then back to French (17); another strategy is to attempt to express
oneself in French before switching to Hebrew and eventually finding the ap-
propriate French word (18). Sometimes, however, the reconstruction remains
unsuccessful. In (19), for instance, the speaker feels that the word “dettes”
(debts) is not appropriate, but since she cannot remember “emprunt” (loans),
she switches to the Hebrew equivalent halva’ot.
(17) dans la hevra des français ...dans la société française
‘in the society of French people . . . in the French society’ (C3)
(18) c’est mon pays ...moledet ...patrie
‘it’s my country. . . homeland. . . homeland’ (C3)
(19) nous avons fait des *dettes . . .halva’ot
we have taken *debts . . . loans’ (C3)
Briefly stated, lexical attrition appears when speakers need precise terms. This
phenomenon is evident in the interviews, as the previous examples show, and
in the narratives, when speakers are asked to tell a story on the basis of a
set of pictures.3
In the latter case, respondents manage to retell the story but
some of them, finding it difficult to pinpoint key words, use paraphrases or
other strategies and, failing these, codeswitch to H. Thus, “ruche” (beehive) be-
comes kaveret (20), “hibou” (owl) becomes tinshemet (21), and “falaise” (cliff)
becomes tsuq (22):
(20) qu’est-ce-que c’est . . .
‘what’s that . . .
kaveret
a hive . . .
lo yoda’at
I don’t know’ (C1)
(21) tinshemet . . .
‘an owl . . .
oiseau . . .
a bird . . .
lo yoda’at
I don’t know’ (C1)
(22) tsuq . . .
‘a cliff . . .
lo yoda’at
I don’t know’ (C1)
When narrators grope for terms unsuccessfully, they may prefer to avoid the
concept or ignore the specific sequence. In the following example, the narrator,
failing to recall both “essaim” (swarm) and “ruche” (hive), goes on with the
narrative but avoids these terms, thereby signalling her inability to do so:
Language contact and attrition 
(23) le chien a trouvé ...
‘the dog found . . .
ze ani lo yoda’at ...
I don’t know this . . .
des abeilles
bees’ (C1)
Later, when she does not find the word “hibou” (owl), she uses a generic term,
“oiseau” (bird):
(24) Philippe s’est effrayé de du oiseau . . .
‘Philippe was scared by a a bird . . .
ani lo yoda’at ekh qor’im le-ze
I don’t know what it’s called’ (C1)
. Lexicon
In the lexicon, too, our corpora show wide deviations from standard French.
In particular, we encounter a large number of lexical interferences. Many ex-
pressions are Hebrew calques and almost literal translations from Hebrew:
(25) hier j’ai fermé vingt-huit kgs /cf. etmol sagarti ‘esrim kilo –
meaning: hier je suis arrivée à mon vingtième kg. d’amaigrissement
‘yesterday I lost my twentieth kilo’ (C4)
Confusion, groping for words, and self-questioningabout the accuracy of given
terms are evident. The speakers also stumble over certain words and distort
ready-made expressions:
(26) je suis né * le 1937 – instead of: je suis née le (date and month) 1937 or:
. . . en 1937
‘I was born in 1937’ (C3)
(27) j’ai mis des prunes * à table – instead of: j’ai mis des prunes sur la table
‘I put prunes on the table’ (C4)
(28) les hommes sont plus brutaux ...
‘men are more brutal ...
*brutals ...
*brutals ...
brutaux ...
brutal ...
oh bein je sais plus
oh I don’t know anymore’ (C5)
All-purpose words like “truc,” “machin,” and “chose” (stuff, thing) are sub-
stitutes for problematic terms, the verb “faire” (to do) is used frequently,
and lexical repetitions are abundant while numerous French lexical variants
are ignored:
(29) c’est vrai que chacun a ses raisons pour lesquelles il décide d’ aller vivre au
kibuts . . . des raisons ...des raisons ...chacun a ses raisons ...des raisons qui
sont liées avec des raisons économiques peut-être quelquefois des raisons ....
 Miriam Ben-Rafael
elles sont * habillées de d’idéal
‘it’s true that everybody has his reasons for deciding to go and live on
a kibbutz . . . reasons . . . reasons . . . each one has his reasons . . . reasons
that are connected with economic reasons, perhaps sometimes reasons . . .
idealistic ones’ (C4)
Lexical confusions, calques, and oblivion mingle and intersect. The Franbréo-
phone speakers make themselves understood but non-Franbréophones would
express things differently, as our control group (CG) clearly shows. Members
of the control group make richer and more varied lexical choices and exhibit
lexical accuracy that Franbréophone narrators fail to attain. When they tell
the “Frog story”, for example, CG narrators use the most appropriate verb,
“coincer” (30), to describe the dog getting his head stuck in the jar:
(30) Snoopy se coince la tête (‘Snoopy jammed its head’)
le chien s’est coincé le museau(‘the dog’s muzzle got jammed’)
mon chien (. . .) se coinça la tête (‘my dog jammed his head’)
le chien resta coincé (‘the dog remained jammed’)
en étant coincé il tomba par la fenêtre (‘jammed, he fell through the win-
dow’) (CG)
In contrast, in Franbréophone narratives the narrators invoke numerous –
more or less precise – lexical variants to describe the same event (31), and only
one narrator uses the accurate term, “coincé”:
(31) le chien introduit sa tête dans le bocal (‘the dog placed its head in the jar’)
le chien a mis la tête dans la jarre (‘the dog put its head in the jar’)
le chien a toujours la tête enfoncé dans le bocal (‘the dog still has the head
stuck in the jar’)
le chien peut pas enlever sa tête du bocal (‘the dog cannot take its head out
of the jar’)
le chien a sa tête flanquée dans le bocal (‘the dog flung its head into the jar’)
(C1)
This recurs when the narrators describe feelings; the lexicon of Francophone
narratives is much more differentiated and precise (32) than that in the Fran-
bréophone ones, which mostly express less feelings. Moreover, when the narra-
tors do express emotion, they use a more general and limited vocabulary, e.g.,
“triste,” “heureux,” and “content” (33):
(32) ça le perturbe (‘it upsets him’)
le hibou est perturbé (‘the owl is upset’)
Language contact and attrition 
Tom le console (‘Tom consoles him’)
le chien souffre (‘the dog suffers’)
ils partent rassurés (‘they go back reassured’)
le chien est épuisé (‘the dog is exhausted’)
la chouette est effrayée (‘the owl is afraid’)
tout le monde regrette d’avoir entrepris cette course (‘everybody regrets this
race’)
la grenouille va être bien traitée (‘the frog will be treated well’) (CG)
(33) I sont tristes (‘they are sad’)
la petite grenouille est heureuse (‘the little frog is happy’)
I sont très contents Toto et le chien (‘Toto and the dog are very pleased’)
alors tout le monde était très content (‘everybody was very pleased’)
il est assez content (‘he was quite pleased’) (C1)
The Franbréophone speakers sometimes struggle to find precise terms:
(34) y avait un cerf ... comment on appelle ça .. un cerf... ça s’ appelle pas le
bambi ...le bambi...c’est un cerf plutôt
‘there was a deer . . . what do you call that . . . a deer . . .it’s not called a
bambi . . . the bambi . . . no it’s a deer’ (C1)
When they do not succeed, they try other strategies such as CS, French substi-
tutes or others, as already mentioned (ex. (22)–(24)).
Another typical Franbreu feature in the lexical domain is the tendency to
simplify, i.e., to subject French items to a semantic reduction that reflects the
semantic scope of Hebrew equivalents:
(35) *chanson (‘song’) instead of: poème (‘poem’) / cf. shir (= ‘song, poem’) (C3)
(36) *métier (‘profession’) instead of: matière scolaire / cf. miqtso’a (= ‘school
subject, profession’) (C3)
(37) *apporter (‘to bring something’) instead of: amener (‘to bring somebody’)
/ cf. lehavi (= ‘to bring somebody or something’) (C4)
(38) il me *donne pas à travailler, instead of: il me laisse pas travailler / cf. hu lo
noten li la-’avod ...(= ‘he doesn’t let me work’) (C4)
(39) le docteur * invite tous les gens à la même heure, instead of: le docteur con-
voque . . . / cf. ha-rofe mazmin et kol ha-anashim be-ota ha-sha’a (= ‘the
doctor calls all the people [to come for their appointments] at the same
time’) (C4)
 Miriam Ben-Rafael
In addition to such cases, which are probably evidence of attrition, there is also
a tendency to lexical innovation in this context of “oblivion and confusion”, a
pattern that applies primarily to verbs:
(40) *profaniser (‘to profane’) instead of: profaner; * légitimiser (‘to legitimise’)
instead of: légitimer; * activiser (‘to activate’) instead of: activer (C5)
Generally speaking, however, new Franbreu verbs are combinations of Hebrew
radicals and French verbal suffixes, with priority given to the French first verbal
group -er:4
(41) tsilumer (tsilum + er) (‘to make a photo’); sidurer (sidur + er)(‘to organ-
ise’); zazer (zaz+er) (to move); tikhnuner (tikhnun+er) (‘to plan’) (C5)
(42) peut-être qu’on a fisfusé le concert
‘we may have missed the concert’ (C5)
Importantly, however, these Franbreu neologisms are not necessarily indica-
tions of attrition; they may more simply be new lexical Franbreu variants that
are semantically convenient for Franbréophone discourse. This feature is quite
common and evidenced in all our corpora.
. Syntax
As for the syntax, the language-in-contact literature mentions changes as well
as phenomena of attrition (Appel & Muysken 1987; Dorian 1989; Schmid
2002). Regarding Acadian and Ontario Canadian French, for instance, a ten-
dency to omit some verbal forms and to alter the word order is evident (King
1989; Mougeon & Beniak 1989, 1991). In American Spanish, one finds a ten-
dency to simplify the verbal system and to favour morphological innovations
(Silva Corvalan 1986). Speakers of “Québécois” French underuse the subjunc-
tive form (Chantefort 1976) and tend to omit que in relative and circumstantial
phrases (Martineau 1985). Some scholars, however, focus primarily on lexical
changes, claiming that grammatical ones are relatively infrequent. For them,
syntax belongs to the hard core of the language and is relatively resistant
to the influence of other languages and new social or cultural circumstances
(Hagège 1987, 2000), and grammatical changes in general, and particularly in
language-contact situations, progress very slowly in any case (Leeman Bouix
1994; Walter 1988).
Language contact and attrition 
In Franbreu, grammatical deviations from standard French are frequent
indeed, and since they never appeared in our control group, we may consider
them as marks of attrition. Most of these deviations result from the contact of
Hebrew and French. One example among many is the tendency to simplify the
verbal system. Hence, verbal agreement (concordance des temps) is not strictly
respected. The distinction between past tenses – passé-composé and imparfait –
which does not exist in H is not always retained while the conditional form is
expressed by the future tense – also like in Hebrew:
(43) si I * seront au tikhon si je * vivrai je leur dirai d’apprendre le français
‘if they * will be at high school if I * will live I will tell them to study French’
(C4)
(44) on va voir si la cassette * marchera
‘we will see if the cassette *will work’ (C4)
The subjunctive mode is often disregarded – under the influence of Hebrew,
which lacks this verbal form:
(45) je pense pas que les gens * sont heureux, instead of: soient
‘I don’ t think people are happy’ (C3)
(46) je veux que vous * saviez, instead of: sachiez
‘I want you to know’ (C3)
Verbal valencies differ from standard French and are often calques of Hebrew
equivalents:
(47) elle aide * à sa mère, cf. I ‘ozeret le-ima, instead of: elle aide ( ) sa mère
‘she helps her mother’ (C3)
Speakers also experience difficulties with the pronominal system. The relative
pronoun que, for instance, is used instead of qui and dont:
(48) tu me donnes ce * que j’ai besoin, cf. ata noten li ma she-ani tsarikh, instead
of: . . .ce dont . . .
‘you give me what I need’ (C5)
This corresponds to the Hebrew grammatical system, in which only one el-
ement, ‘she’, expresses the French relative pronouns qui, que, dont, and où.
Speakers also omit adverbial pronouns, such as y and en, that have no Hebrew
equivalents. Where this occurs, French adverbs such as là and là-bas (“there”)
are used as y substitutes:
 Miriam Ben-Rafael
(49) je vais souvent là, instead of: j’ y vais souvent, cf.: ani holekhet le’itim qerovot
le-sham
‘I often go there’ (C3)
Finally, indefinite determinants are sometimes omitted, again like in Hebrew
which does not have indefinite articles:
(50) le français est * Ø jolie langue, cf. tsarfatit Ø safa yafa, instead of: le français
est une jolie langue
‘French is * Ø( ) nice language’ (C3)
In view of these examples, we can speak of grammatical attrition. The gram-
matical changes illustrated here may be construed as Hebrew grammatical
interferences. Yet, in order to better understand this attrition pattern, it is
also necessary to point out that some Franbreu grammatical variants – espe-
cially those that concern the conditional and subjunctive modes and relative
pronouns (see ex. (43)–(46), (48)) – are also recurrent in some discursive reg-
isters of native spoken French. Though, it is to signal that such variants did
not occur in the data from our own Francophone control group. They have
been identified as typical syntax variation tendencies even outside any con-
tact situation and have often been related to lower education, though, in fact,
they were identified by researchers in the French of popular milieus as well
as that of cultivated circles (Ager 1990:138; Blanche-Benveniste 1997:53–54;
Gadet 1989:148). These features are slips, confusions and variants which be-
long to the reality of a spoken language (Leeman-Bouix 1994:101–104) and
depend, among other factors, on the variety of discursive situations. Blanche-
Benveniste (1990, 1997) and Gadet (1989) signal a simplification of the ver-
bal system and a tendency to misuse or omit the subjunctive mode. In the
same vein, Frei (1971:200) speaks of the problematic of the conditional while
Leeman-Bouix (1994:101, 102) reports confusions between the preterit and the
compound past (il *disa vs dit) and regularised forms of the present tense (vous
*disez vs. dîtes). Numerous researchers (Blanche-Benveniste 1997:42; Gadet
1989:147–159; Leeman-Bouix 1994; Walter 1988:296–297) show that the rela-
tive pronoun que tends to replace qui and dont and that the compound relatives
(lequel, laquelle etc.) tend to disappear. There is also a tendency to extend and
generalise the use of que as a link word (Ager 1990:138; Gadet 1989:161–168).
These tendencies which are endemic to spoken French and characterise
specific discursive situations thus converge with those tendencies that we found
in our own corpora. We could then argue that this is the very reason of their
presence in Franbreu. However, how could we explain that these tendencies
Language contact and attrition 
do not appear among our control group? The hypothesis which I suggest here
refers to the convergence of features of spoken French and Hebrew grammar.
More precisely, it is when typical features of spoken French converge with
equivalent grammatical features in Hebrew that their emergence in Franbreu
is accelerated through the contact of French with Hebrew. This hypothesis, if
validated, could explain both the presence of those features in Franbreu and
their absence from the control group who had no contact with Hebrew. On the
other hand, when French grammatical features have no equivalent in Hebrew,
they tend to resist its influence – as shown below, for the French negative, the
gender of nouns and the prepositional system.
a. The French negative can take on two forms in spoken language – the sim-
ple form (pas) following the verb, and the compound form (ne . . .pas) on
both sides of the verb or the auxiliary (je (ne) parle pas, je (n’) ai pas parlé).
Pas is by far the most frequent in informal spoken French, while ne...pas ap-
pears in more formal contexts (Coveney 1990, 1996; Gadet 1989; Moreau
1986; Posner 1997; Sanders 1993). The Hebrew negative system, on the
other hand, consists of the only pre-verbal negator (lo). Hence, the differ-
ence between the French and the Hebrew negative systems concerns both
the word order and the number of eventual negators. When it comes to
our findings, it appears that French is not influenced by Hebrew. In the
spontaneous conversations, like in spoken French, the simple negator pas
overcomes the bipartite negation ne..pas, and in the interviews, which are
more formal, the two models are used interchangeably. The resistance of
the French system is such that even when the negator itself is borrowed,
the French negative word-order remains intact:
(51) le yayin était lo tov; cf. le vin était pas bon vs. hayayin lo haya tov
‘the wine was not good’ (C5)
A possible explanation for these results is the fact that the French and He-
brew negative systems do not converge, and therefore do not influence each
other (see Ben-Rafael 2001b, 2003).
b. As for the gender of nouns, both French and Hebrew have two genders –
masculine and feminine; however, the gender of individual nouns does not
necessarily correspond in the two languages. Our findings show that wher-
ever differences exist between French and Hebrew words, it is the French
gender which prevails. The Hebrew gender only influences the French ar-
ticle in borrowed words which are adopted en bloc together with their
gender- thus “le fromage” (cheese) or “le parti politique” (political party)
 Miriam Ben-Rafael
remain masculine in Franbreu like in French, while the Hebrew borrowings
la gvina and la miflaga are feminine like in Hebrew. Another interesting ob-
servation is that when French adjectives are paired with borrowed nouns
they also often agree with the gender of those Hebrew borrowed terms:
(52) il y a toujours des choses que tu peux acheter à des tnayim (m.) spéciaux
(m.) vs. il y a toujours des chose que tu peux acheter à des conditions (f.)
spéciales (f)
‘there are always things you can buy on special terms’ (C4)
c. The prepositional system is another area where French shows resistance to
Hebrew influence in the context of a lack of equivalence. Yet, some typical
French forms do not appear in Franbreu (such as: je vais sur Paris) while
one may find confusions (53) and Hebrew interferences (54):
(53) *à la fin de compte il fait tomber le nid, instead of: en fin de compte. . .
‘at the end he drops the nest’
(54) on voit bien là *dans cette photo, cf. . . .ba-tmuna haz’ot, vs. . . . sur
cette photo
‘it is quite clear here in the picture’
All in all, most prepositional changes in Franbreu concern the verbal valen-
cies which are Hebrew calques, as was demonstrated in (47) above. However,
despite these Franbreu variations, French prepositions remain relatively sta-
ble and even Hebrew borrowings do not lead to incorrect usages of French
prepositions (55) (see also Ben-Rafael 2002a):
(55) je vais essayer de faire mimuner, cf. je vais essayer de faire financer
‘I will try to get some financial help’
In conclusion, we may say that some attrition is in progress, due to two es-
sential factors: the effect of Hebrew on the one hand, and the acceleration
of natural tendencies in French grammar in the Hebrew-French contact sit-
uation on the other. The Hebrew syntax influences French mainly when it
concurs with syntax variation tendencies of certain discursive registers in spo-
ken French. When other characteristic tendenciesof French differ from Hebrew
grammar, French shows a stronger ability to resist the influence of Hebrew;
when, moreover, a discrepancy appears between the two systems, it is French
which generally prevails.
Language contact and attrition 
. Conclusion
This study investigated Francophone immigrants to Israel who have acquired
Hebrew, the country’s principal language. French is now of secondary impor-
tance in their daily lives and, as a spoken language, is open to new influences.
It has evolved into the vernacular that we call Franbreu. This medium of ex-
pression is quite remote from French speech in France today and has strayed
far from the preferred expressions and idioms of the mainstream vernacular.
In many respects, it reflects a “Hébréophone” mood.
Throughout the phases studied – interviews, spontaneous conversations,
professional discussions, and narratives – we uncovered a general Franbréo-
phone profile. All these phases have common lexical and grammatical ten-
dencies that fluctuate according to the degree of formality of the discursive
situation. In more formal situations – narratives, professional meetings, and
interviews conducted by “Hébréophones” – the speakers’ efforts to maintain
a coherent French discourse show signs of some lexical attrition. In contrast,
in informal contexts – spontaneous conversations and interviews conducted
by a Franbréophone – lexical changes are less obvious while codeswitchings
and lexical innovations do not seem to be compensatory elements for lexical
insufficiencies. They are, instead, new vehicles that, among other functions,
(1) enrich discursive resources, (2) characterise specific social realities, and (3)
express subjective feelings and self-identities.
Grammatical changes – this is stated with respect to all our corpora – may
be viewed as reflections of the Hebrew grammatical system and, thus, be in-
terpreted as attrition. However, they are often similar to some other registers
of spoken French. From this perspective, these changes may be construed as
manifestations of inherent tendencies of French that are accelerated by the con-
tact with Hebrew. Moreover, as a rule, French grammar displays resilience and
remains predominant in the structuring of the Franbreu discourse wherever
there is a discrepancy between Hebrew and French systems.
In conclusion, we maintain that the changes we find in Franbreu should
not be viewed entirely as attrition phenomena. Some undoubtedly result from
linguistic erosion but others are genuine contributions to French when it comes
into contact with Hebrew. This “in-between” language – or interlanguage –
varies in its discursive practices according to speech contexts, as different de-
grees of attrition as well as lexical and grammatical enrichment and innova-
tions build up the French-Hebrew bilingual discourse.
Aware of the complexity that characterises the definitions and methods of
research on linguistic attrition, we chose in this study to combine several meth-
 Miriam Ben-Rafael
Nature of changes Attrition Non-Attrition
Lexicon Lexical confusions
Hebrew interferences
Semantic reductions
Repetitions
All-purpose terms
Thereof: neologisms Fr substitutes New variants
Codeswitching Lexical voids 1. New discursive means
2. Refer to the Israeli public scene
3. Express feelings, self, and identity
Syntax Verbal simplification
Pronominal reduction
Pronoun and determinant
omission
Verbal valence variations
Grammatical neologisms Grammatical neologisms connected
to lexical innovation
H grammatical influence Fr grammatical resistance
↓ ↓
Fr attrition in progress Contributions and enrichment
 
The emergence of Franbreu
Figure 1. Fr/L1 and H/L2 in contact and the emergence of Franbreu
ods to obtain a comprehensive dynamic picture of Franbreu (Figure 1). We
hope that by so doing we have made a contribution to the search for an inter-
pretation of the concept of attrition by drawing a distinction between changes
that we may define as attrition and others that we may view as contribution.
At this stage, we may envisage further work that would add a new dimen-
sion of comparison by juxtaposing our Franbreu speakers with their offspring
who acquired Hebrew as the language of their environment but grew up hear-
ing their parents speaking Franbreu. The interest of such research may reside
in the question of whether or not this second generation retains French – or,
more accurately, Franbreu – and carries it in new directions. Such a compari-
son would presumably help us to define the notion of attrition and its linguistic
derivatives with greater precision and in a new empirical context.
Language contact and attrition 
Notes
. Two-thirds of the subjects were women and one-third men, but this variable is not
analysed any further in this work.
. See for an overview Ben-Rafael 2001a and 2001b.
. These proceedings have been used by numerous researchers, and a major example is
Olshtain & Barzilay’s (1991) work with American subjects living in Israel.
. The examples of lexical neologism presented here are also examples of lexical morphol-
ogy; though, we prefer, in the restricted frame of this chapter, to discuss them under the
heading of lexical issues in language contact.
References
Ager, D. (1990). Sociolinguistics and Contemporary French. Cambridge: CUP.
Appel, R., & Muysken, P. (1987). Language Contact and Bilingualism. London: Edward
Arnold.
Auer, P. (1984). Bilingual Conversation. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Auer, P. (1995). Code-Switching in Conversation, Language, Interaction and Identity. London:
Routledge.
Auer, P. (1996). “Bilingual conversation, dix ans après”. Aile, 7, 9–34.
Ben-Rafael, M. (1994). “Contact de langue et simplification”. Cahier du français contem-
porain, I, 77–87.
Ben-Rafael, M. (1999). “Emigration et contact de langues: emprunts et configurations
sémantiques en Franbreu.” In F. S. Martinez & C. H. Gonzalez (Eds.), Las lengas en
la Europa Communitaria III (pp. 423–438). Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Ben-Rafael, M. (2001a). “Codeswitching in the immigrants’language: The case of Franbreu”.
In R. Jacobson (Ed.), Codeswitching Worldwide II (pp. 251–307). Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Ben-Rafael, M. (2001b). Contact de Langues: le français parlé des francophones israéliens.
Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Université de Tel-Aviv.
Ben-Rafael, M. (2002a). “The French preposition in contact with Hebrew”. In S. Feigenbaum
& D. Kurzon (Eds.), Prepositions in their Syntactic, Semantic and Pragmatic Context
(pp. 194–209). Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Ben-Rafael, M. (2002b). “Le franbreu: les traits essentiels”. In D. Mendelson (Ed.), La culture
francophone en Israel (Vol. I, pp. 79–96). Paris: l’Harmattan.
Ben-Rafael, M. (2003). “Pratique discursive et mise en place grammaticale”. Marges
Linguistiques, 5 (2), 168–180.
Blanche-Benveniste, C. (1990). Le français parlé, études grammaticales. Paris: CNRS.
Blanche-Benveniste, C. (1997). Approche de la langue parlée en français. Paris: Ophrys.
Chantefort, P. (1976). “Diglossie au Québec, limites et tendances actuelles.” Langue
Française, 31, 91–104.
 Miriam Ben-Rafael
Clyne, M.C. (1986). “Towards a systematisation of language contact dynamics”. In J. A.
Fishman et al. (Eds.), The Furgusonian Impact (pp. 483–492). Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter.
Coveney, A. (1990). “The omission of ‘ne’ in spoken French”. Francophonie, 1, 38–43.
Coveney, A. (1996). Variability in Spoken French: A sociolinguistic study of interrogation and
negation. Exeter: Elm Bank.
Dorian, N. C. (Ed.). (1989). Investigating Obsolescence – Studies in language contraction and
death. Cambridge: CUP.
Field, F. W. (2002). Linguistic Borrowings in Bilingual Contexts. Amsterdam and Phila-
delphia: John Benjamins.
Frei, H. (1971). La grammaire des fautes. Genève: Slatkine Reprints (first edition: 1929).
Gadet, F. (1989). Le Français ordinaire. Paris: Armand Colin.
Hagège, C. (1987). Le Français et les siècles. Paris: Odile Jacob.
Hagège, C. (2000). Halte à la mort des langues. Paris: Odile Jacob.
Hamers, J. F., & Blanc, M. (1983). Bilingualité et Bilinguisme. Bruxelles: Pierre Margada.
Hiller-Foti, I. (1985). “Erhebung über den Verlust der Muttersprache Deutscher Immig-
ranten in Sizilien”. Rassegna Italiana di Linguistica Applicata, 17 (1), 107–110.
Jacobson, R. (Ed.). (1998). Codeswitching Worldwide. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Jacobson, R. (Ed.). (2001). Codeswitching Worldwide II. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
King, R. (1989). “On the social meaning of linguistic variability in language death situations:
Variations in Newfoundland French”. In N. C. Dorian (Ed.), Investigating Obsolescence
– Studies in language contraction and death (pp. 139–148). Cambridge: CUP.
Leeman Bouix, D. (1994). Les fautes de français existent-elles? Paris: Armand Collin.
Lüdi, G. (1990). “Les migrants comme minorité linguistique en Europe”. Sociolinguistica, 4,
113–135.
Martineau, F. (1985). “L’élision de variable ‘que’ dans le parler d’ Ottawa-Hull”. Cahiers
linguistiques d’ Ottawa, 14, 53–70.
Mayer, M. (1960). Frog where are you? New York, NY: The Dogal Press.
Moreau, M. L. (1986). “Les séquences préformées: entre les combinations libres et les
idiomatismes-le cas de la négation avec ou sans ‘ne’”. Le Français Moderne, 137–160.
Mougeon, R., & Beniak, E. (1989). “Language contraction and linguistic change: The case of
Welland French”. In N. C. Dorian (Ed.), Investigating Obsolescence – Studies in language
contraction and death (pp. 287–313). Cambridge: CUP.
Mougeon, R., & Beniak, E. (1991). Linguistic Consequences of Language Contact and
Restriction. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Myers-Scotton, C. (1993). Social Motivations for Code-Switching. Oxford: Clarendon.
Myers-Scotton, C. (2002). Contact Linguistics – Bilingual encounters and grammatical
outcomes. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Olshtain, E., & Barzilay, M. (1991). “Lexical retrieval difficulties in adult language attrition”.
In H. W. Seliger and R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 139–150).
Cambridge: CUP.
Pavlenko, A. (2002). “‘I feel clumsy speaking Russian’: L2 influence on L1 in adult
bilingualism”. Plenary speech held at the International Conference on First Language
Attrition, Aug. 22–24 2002. Amsterdam: Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam.
Pergnier, M. (1989). Les anglicismes. Paris: PUF.
Language contact and attrition 
Poplack, S. (1980). “Sometimes I’ll start a sentence in Spanish y termino en Espagnol:
Toward a typology of code-Switching”. Linguistics, 18, 581–618.
Poplack, S. (1983). “Intergenerational variation in language use and structure in a bilingual
context”. In C. Rivera (Ed.), An Ethnographic Sociolinguistic Approach to Language
Proficiency Assessment (pp. 42–70). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Poplack, S. (1988). “Conséquences linguistiques du contact de langues, un modèle d’ analyse
variationniste”. Langages et société, 43, 23–48.
Poplack, S., Wheeler, S., & Westwood, A. (1989). “Distinguishing language contact
phenomena: Evidence from Finnish-English bilingualism”. In K. Hyltenstam & L.
Obler (Eds.), Bilingualism across the Life-Span: Aspects of acquisition, maturity and loss
(pp. 132–154). Cambridge: CUP.
Posner, R. (1997). Linguistic Change in French. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Sanders, C. (1993). “Sociosituational variation”. In C. Sanders (Ed.), French Today –
Language in its social context (pp. 27–53). Cambridge: CUP.
Schmid, M.S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance – The case of German
Jews in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Seliger, H. W. (1985). Primary Language Attrition in the Context of Other Language Loss and
Mixing. New York, NY: Depart of Linguistics, City University, mimeo: 1–53.
Silva Corvalan, C. (1986). “Bilingualism and language change: The extension of ‘estar’ in
Los Angeles Spanish.” Language, 62 (3), 587–608.
Waas, M. (1996). Language Attrition Downunder. Berlin: Peter Lang.
Walter, H. (1988). Le Français dans tous les sens. Paris: Edition Robert Laffont.
Yağmur, K. (1997). First Language Attrition among Turkish Speakers in Sydney. Tilburg:
Tilburg University Press.
Is there a natural process of decay?
A longitudinal study of language attrition
Matthias Hutz
Justus-Liebig-Universität Giessen
. Longitudinal studies in language attrition
It has often been claimed (e.g. Lambert 1989:15; Soesman 1997:19) that studies
of language loss ideally should be longitudinal in order to determine the precise
development of attrition. However, to this date there are only very few longi-
tudinal studies in the field of language attrition. This fact is hardly astonishing
since L1 attrition appears to be a very slow process and informants would have
to be tested at various points in time, possibly over a period of several decades.
However, most research designs cannot afford to allow for such long intervals
as a result of financial constraints or mortality effects among the informants
(cf. Jaspaert, Kroon, & van Hout 1986; de Bot & Clyne 1994:21). Such studies
also require a high life-expectancy among the linguists investigating the process
of language decline.
Thus, most studies in language attrition tend to be cross-sectional in na-
ture, measuring the L1 competence of individuals at one particular point of
time and implicitly comparing the speaker’s present competence and the com-
petence this person once had (Lambert 1989:15; Jaspaert & Kroon 1989:81).
However, it is often extremely difficult to establish a clear point of reference
for attrition (de Bot & Clyne 1994:19) just as it is to reconstruct the original
proficiency of a language user before the process of language loss sets in (e.g.
Pan & Berko-Gleason 1986:198; Fase, Jaspaert, & Kroon 1992:8). Since it is
very difficult to incorporate the dimension of time, it is usually necessary – as
Clyne has pointed out (2001:143) – to employ surrogates to compensate for the
lack of information about the individual’s former skills, such as cross-sectional
or inter-generational comparisons, data from a control group in the country
 Matthias Hutz
of origin or a speaker’s retrospective self-evaluation. A further methodological
problem might be that the amount of time that has elapsed since emigration
often varies among the individuals within the sample (Lambert 1989:15).
Apart from the problem of making tacit assumptions about a language
user’s formercompetence an additional methodological problem lies in the fact
that cross-sectional research can just present information about the linguistic
skills at one particular point in time, but does not provide an opportunity to
study the development of attrition.
Longitudinal research designs, on the other hand, have the general ad-
vantage of allowing assessments of the development of language attrition by
comparing specific assessments of the proficiency of individuals at different
moments in time resulting in a more reliable measurement of the process of
attrition (Jaspaert & Kroon 1989:82). In particular, a longitudinal research de-
sign may serve to study changes in an individual’s L1 proficiency by examining
– changing degrees of attrition in specific linguistic domains (e.g. lexical,
morphological or syntactic phenomena),
– the impact of cross-linguistic influence at various moments in time (e.g.
the amount of lexical borrowing or transfer of syntactic structures),
– intralinguistic developments at various intervals as a result of prolonged
periods of non-use (e.g. simplifications, generalisationsof structures or the
use of communication strategies).
In addition, longitudinal studies allow us to make more objective assumptions
about the control of specific structures prior to the onset of attrition by pro-
viding us with a reference point with which to compare the speaker’s present
competence. Thus, it becomes easier to establish whether the speaker was fully
competent in the language.
It is evident, however, that longitudinal studies also have several drawbacks
apart from the obvious ones, such as mortality effects and financial restrictions.
As emigrants are often separated from the natural linguistic evolution of their
country of origin for a long period of time, some of the differences between
them and control groups in the country of origin may not be the result of attri-
tion after all, but rather the result of linguistic change within the L1 community
(cf. Jaspaert & Kroon 1989:80).
A further problem relates to the selection of intervals for the longitudinal
measurements. Attrition may not be a process linear in time, i.e. language pro-
ficiency may deteriorate or improve based on factors such as maintenance ef-
Is there a natural process of decay? 
forts, age or language contact. Points of reference which are randomly selected
may therefore not necessarily reflect the true process of attrition.
Despite these constraints longitudinal studies can help us to gain insight
into the process of language attrition and provide us with an objective measure
to establish linguistic competence prior to the onset of attrition and to evaluate
control of specific structures.
. The factor ‘time’ and attrition
Extralinguistic factors often reported to be crucial predictor variables concern-
ing language attrition include factors such as age, education, time since onset of
attrition, identity, amount of L1 contact as well as attitudinal and motivational
factors. Longitudinal studies which incorporate several points of reference al-
low for an investigation of the relationship between the onset of attrition and
the degree of attrition. At first glance it may seem obvious that there is an im-
portant link between the time that an immigrant has been exposed to another
language and the degree of erosion in the L1, eventually leading even to a re-
versal of language dominance. However, the results of research into the effect
of time on attrition have been inconclusive so far. Some studies in the con-
text of emigration have shown that the time elapsed since emigration can have
a strong influence on language competence (e.g. Waas 1996; Soesman 1997)
while others indicated that this factor may only have a limited effect (e.g. de
Bot & Clyne 1994; de Bot, Gommans, & Rossing 1991; Jaspaert & Kroon 1992;
Giesbers 1997).
In her study on language attrition in Dutch adult immigrants in Israel,
Soesman (1997) found that increased loss had occurred after the first 5–13
years of emigration. The study also demonstrated that immigrants who had
emigrated a relatively short time ago had shorter response times than those
who had done so a long time ago.
In their longitudinal study of language attrition in Dutch migrants in Aus-
tralia, de Bot and Clyne (1994) tested their informants, who had already lived
in Australia for a longer period of time, in 1970 and re-tested them in 1987.
They found no clear evidence of additional attrition over this 17-year period.
The emigrants were reported to still have a very good command of Dutch even
15 to 20 years after their arrival in Australia, leading to the conclusion that lan-
guage skills may deteriorate in the first decade, but then remain fairly stable
after this period.
 Matthias Hutz
Schmid (2002) also found a high degree of stability in the L1 system of her
informants demonstrating that it is, in fact, possible to maintain a language
over an extremely long period of emigration. Her informants, German Jews,
had lived in the country of emigration for a minimum of sixty years and had
in many cases very limited contact with their native language. Schmid showed
that the morphological competence and syntax remained largely unaffected
even after a prolonged period of restricted contact with the L1.
Jaspaert and Kroon (1992) studied attrition in an 83-year-old Dutch emi-
grant who had lived in the United States for over sixty years. They analysed the
main verbs he used on the basis of 29 letters he wrote to the Netherlands over
a period of seven years (1981–1987). They conclude that linguistic erosion, at
least at the lexical level, may not be as important as is sometimes suggested,
since only 5 per cent of the verbs appeared to be markedly affected by loss.
It seems that the variance in the amount of attrition found in these studies
is probably due to several factors, including methodological differences (e.g.
free vs. elicited data) as well as great variation in the time elapsed since emi-
gration and in the amount of contact the informants still had with other L1
speakers. For those immigrants who manage to maintain a high degree of con-
tact with other L1 speakers in their new environment the time factor may
become less relevant (de Bot, Gommans, & Rossing 1991). However, there is
a linear relation between ‘time’ and attrition when there are few contacts with
the L1 (de Bot, Gommans, & Rossing 1991:94).
A general problem with longitudinal studies so far is that they cover rela-
tively short time spans, but the selection of points of reference is decisive for
the interpretation of the amount of language loss (Jaspaert & Kroon 1989:81).
Longitudinal studies stretching over several decades may indicate different
developmental patterns from those covering just a few years, especially with
regard to changing degrees of attrition in specific linguistic domains.
. A natural process of decay?
De Bot (2001:68) raised the question of whether there is a natural process of
linguistic decay, comparing the process of losing a language to the gradual pro-
cess of deterioration in an abandoned house. At first there may just be a few
‘leaks’ in the competence of a native speaker which are hardly visible, but, as
time passes by, more and more of the fundamental structures of the language
are affected.
Is there a natural process of decay? 
An interesting issue in this context is the question which of those lin-
guistic structures are more susceptible to loss and which linguistic structures
show more resistance as a result of a continuing language contact situation (cf.
Andersen 1982:91). Are there some units of discourse that enjoy a particularly
invulnerable status when attrition occurs?
It has been generally argued that language attrition will first affect the level
of the lexicon, and only later does it manifest itself in morphological and syn-
tactic categories as well (e.g. Andersen 1982:114; Romaine 1995:64; Schmid
2002:31; Sharwood Smith & van Buren 1991:19), since lexical features appear
to be less well integrated in the structural system of a language. It has also been
assumed that most L2 transfer will be found in the lexicon as a result of lexical
adaptation to the L2 conceptual system, whereas the transfer of morphological
or syntactic categories seems less likely (Giesbers 1997; Haugen 1953; Romaine
1995:64).
The objective of the following longitudinal case study is to analyse the
process of attrition over a long period of time based on written material, in
this case personal letters. In particular, the study aims at investigating the re-
lationship between the factor ‘time elapsed since emigration’ and the extent
of attrition found in specific linguistic domains based on the numbers of in-
terferences found in these domains. The main focus will be on the question
which parts of the linguistic system tend to be more resistant to attrition over a
long period and which categories show less resistance to the intrusion of L2 el-
ements. For this purpose, lexical borrowing from L2, semantic transfer, as well
as morphological and syntactic interferences will be analysed.
. Set-up of the investigation
The case study is based upon a corpus consisting of 75 letters written by a
German emigrant to members of her family in Germany between 1939 and
1994 (see Table 1). In 1937, at the age of 33, she emigrated to the US without
any knowledge of the English language. 57 years later, at the age of 90, she refers
to writing letters in German as being a very strenuous process.
While most of the letters are from the late 1970s and the 1980s when the
process of language attrition was well advanced, there are a few letters written
relatively shortly after she had left Germany which very closely reflect her actual
competence in German. There are also several letters from the 1950s which
have been saved. Unfortunately, however, there are no letters from the 1960s,
thus creating a considerable, but inevitable, gap in the following analysis.
 Matthias Hutz
Table 1. Corpus
Interval Period Number of letters Number of words
1 1939 2 1,709
2 1949–1956 5 3,016
3 1974–1978 18 12,852
4 1979–1983 18 9,189
5 1984–1988 20 13,590
6 1989–1994 12 5,925
Total 75 46,281
Six intervals were chosen for the analysis based upon the availability of
letters. Starting in 1974, five-year-intervals were selected as points of reference
for establishing the extent of language attrition based on the consideration that
attrition is a very slow and gradual process. However, since there are periods
where no data are available (from 1940 to 1948 and from 1957 to 1973) and
since the data are not equally distributed, the analysis can only give a rough
indication of the extent and development of attrition. Thus the results have to
be interpreted very cautiously in terms of linearity.
There are two general constraints which have to be taken into account
concerning the discussion of the results. First, the corpus consists entirely of
written material. In writing, there is obviously much more focus on form and
accuracy and therefore a higher degree of monitoring compared to the spoken
channel (cf. Hughes 1996; Jaspaert & Kroon 1992:140). The letters were appar-
ently all proof-read by the sender and, if necessary, corrections were made. In
other words, the corpus reflects a true picture of the speaker’s linguistic com-
petence at various stages, but it does not necessarily reflect her competence in
speaking. Judging from some remarks in her letters, it is quite clear that she
becomes increasingly aware of her linguistic problems.
Second, when she wrote her last letters she was almost 90 years old and
obviously some of the mistakes she made were due to fatigue or lack of con-
centration. When analysing data from elderly people, we cannot rule out the
possibility that specific retrieval problems might be caused by age-related pro-
cessing difficulties. However, a clear demarcation between language loss as a
result of non-use and language loss as a result of age is doomed to fail (de Bot
& Weltens 1991:41).
Is there a natural process of decay? 
. Analysis
For the purpose of this study, interferences, i.e. deviations from an assumed
norm (Weinreich 1953:1; Schmid 2002:79), were categorised and analysed.
The analysis included interferences in the lexical domain, semantic transfers
as well as morphological and syntactic interferences. The interferences found
in the corpus were then related to the time elapsed since emigration.
. Lexical borrowing
When speakers in language contact situations find that their lexical repertoire
is inadequate to convey certain concepts or notions, they often resort to lex-
ical borrowing or to lexical innovations (e.g. Brons-Albert 1994). Andersen
(1982:106) hypothesised that a language attriter will not only borrow lexical
items from another language and adapt the lexical item to the phonological,
lexical, semantic, and morphosyntactic structure of the borrowing language,
but will also be likely to create new lexical items.
The analysis of lexical borrowing is based on Haugen’s distinction (1953)
between necessary loanwords which fill lexical gaps and unnecessary ones,
which are essentially gratuitous because of the existence of an equivalent item.
For the purpose of this study, a third category was added, ‘strategic loanwords’,
i.e. the conscious use of loanwords as a communicative strategy.
a. Necessary loanwords
Sometimes lexical items from the L2 are used when the speaker feels that there
is no equivalent to express the same concept in the L1 (e.g. terms for spe-
cific institutions or certain phenomena which are inextricably linked to the
other culture). Therefore, those parts in the letters which are closely related
to the American way of life are more likely to contain lexical borrowing from
English, for instance, work or leisure activities. However, since speakers have
little choice but to use these words, this kind of code-switching can hardly be
considered attrition. In fact, it may even be regarded as a form of language gain.
(1) Die Kinder sind dieses Jahr alle 3 in der Junior High-School. (1954)
‘All three children are in Junior High School this year.’
(2) Die Expressways sind ja so voll. (1977)
‘The expressways are so crowded.’
 Matthias Hutz
b. Strategic Borrowing
In this case the attriter also uses the L2 word to fill lexical gaps, but here
the borrowing might be considered a lexical communication strategy (Odlin
1989:146) or lexical ‘repair’ (Jaspaert & Kroon 1992:139). Attriters often expe-
rience lexical access problems, i.e. a discrepancy between what they would like
to say, their communicative intention, and what they still know how to say in
their L1. In order to bridge the gap between their communicative needs and the
limited communicative resources, attriters may make deliberate use of borrow-
ing. In this case the speaker assumes or at least hopes that the listener or reader
shares with him the language from which the word is borrowed. Strategic bor-
rowing may also occur when the speaker is aware of the fact that he or she is not
familiar with the lexical item, perhaps because the concept or the object sim-
ply did not exist at the time of emigration. The fact that borrowing can be an
intentional process or a strategy involving some conscious effort becomes clear
in the corpus because a specific expression is often used with inverted commas
to signal that an English word is being used or there is some lexical indication
which makes it clear that the loanword is used strategically (e.g. the loanword
is introduced by “so-called” or a phrase like “here people call it”).
(3) Als “Senior Citizen” kostet es mich nichts. (1977)
‘As a senior citizen it doesn’t cost me anything.’
(4) Ich benutze jetzt einen “Walker”. (1993)
‘I’m using a walker now.’
c. Transference of single lexical items/code-switching
In this case lexical items are borrowed despite the fact that there is a cor-
responding L1 item, but the attriter uses the L2 item subconsciously either
because he cannot access the L1 item or he is not familiar with it (e.g. techno-
logical innovations) or because there are structural or phonological similarities
(e.g. cognates). In this case a single constituent is inserted into a frame provided
for by the matrix language (Muysken 1994:14).
This kind of code-switching occurs, of course, frequently in speech, but it
is very interesting that it may also occur in written texts where a speaker has
more opportunities to monitor his or her language:
(5) die idea der jungen Leute (1982)
‘the idea of the young people’
(6) Das ist 70 Meilen outside of Denver. (1994)
‘That’s 70 miles outside of Denver.’
Is there a natural process of decay? 
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
Frequency
per
1000
words
1939 1949–1956 1974–1978 1979–1983 1984–1988 1989–1994
Necessary loanwords Strategic loanwords Code-switching
Figure 1. Lexical borrowings
From the data analysed (see Figure 1) it becomes clear that there is a great
deal of inconsistency in the frequency of necessary loanwords since the use of
those lexical items depends highly on the specific context and topic, i.e. their
occurrence is relatively independent of the linguistic competence of a speaker.
As far as the strategic loanwords are concerned, an increase in frequency
can be observed in the first 10–15 years after emigration, followed by a decrease
in the mid 1970s. This was a period characterised by an increasing amount of
contact between the writer and the L1 culture which manifests itself not only in
a high number of letters during this period, but also by a short visit to Germany.
Approximately 50 years after emigration there is an increase in loanwords again
reflecting a widening gap between the writer’s communicative intentions and
her proficiency. More and more often she has to resort to the strategic use of
English loanwords to convey particular concepts. This tendency is even more
evident in the case of code-switching where a steady rise in English items can
be observed culminating in the final period from 1989 to 1994.
The total number of lexical borrowings (see Figure 2) increases gradually
as time elapses since emigration, interrupted only by a period approximately
37–45 years after emigration during which the number of loanwords decreases
again. Since this was a period of frequent L1 contact, this would suggest that
 Matthias Hutz
‘amount of contact’ is another key factor in the process of lexical attrition.
However, after this period the number of lexical borrowings increases again
significantly, indicating that the retrievability of lexical items becomes increas-
ingly difficult as a result of strong L2 impact and a lack of contact with L1
speakers.
. Semantic transfer
The second domain to be examined was the area of loanshifts (Haugen 1953)
or semantic transfer (de Bot & Clyne 1994:20), i.e. the overextension of word
meanings. In this type of interference, the meaning of a word from German
is extended so that it corresponds to that of English, which leads to semantic
overgeneralisations.
(7) Er *geht mit dem Flugzeug zurück. (1984)
‘He goes back by plane.’
In this case the meaning of the German verb gehen (‘to walk’) is extended by
analogy to the English verb to cover the concept of ‘flying’ as well.
A special kind of transfer occurs when the meaning of an English lexical
item which is phonologically similar and which has a partial semantic iden-
tity is transferred to a German word. Such a “homophonous borrowing” (cf.
Schmid 2002:80) or “false friend” can be found in the following two examples
from the corpus:
(8) Ich bin *gültig. (1985)
‘I am guilty.’
(9) Es war aber ein sehr *schmaler Sturm. (1979)
‘But it was a very small storm.’
In the first example, the German word gültig (‘valid’) adopts an additional
meaning influenced by the phonological similarity with the English word
‘guilty’. In the second example, schmal (‘narrow’) is used as a result of its sim-
ilarity with ‘small’. These examples of meaning extensions show that there is a
constant and very complex interaction between L1 and L2 use.
In some cases semantic transfer extends to longer constructions, yield-
ing what has been called a loan-translation or a calque, i.e. a morpheme-by-
morpheme translation. Calques are errors that reflect very closely a native
language structure (Odlin 1989:37), e.g. literal translations of idiomatic ex-
pressions.
Is there a natural process of decay? 
(10) *Ich renne kurz an Briefpapier. (1978) (instead of: mein Briefpapier wird
knapp)
‘I am running short of letter-paper.’
(11) *Das ist feine mit mir. (1988) (instead of: damit bin ich einverstanden)
‘That’s fine with me.’
The results show that semantic transfer occurs very early in the corpus, al-
though there are relatively few examples in the first years (see Figure 2). The
number of semantic overextensions increases dramatically during the first
three decades after emigration, reaching a climax in the late 1970s. After that,
the semantic transfers decrease slightly, but the total number remains on a very
high level. Compared to the other linguistic subsystems, these findings suggest
that this domain is indeed very susceptible to language attrition, being strongly
affected especially in the first decades after the process of attrition has set in.
The dramatic increase of semantic transfers may be explained by the fact
that the process of semantic transfer can be viewed as a speaker’s gradual pro-
cess of adaptation of conceptual systems to that of the L2 speakers around him
(cf. Jaspaert & Kroon 1992:144). The reality constructed by the interaction
partners is adopted, which becomes very obvious in those areas where lexical
gaps exist. If there are phonological or semantic similarities between the word
in L1 and in L2, this process of semantic transfer may even be accelerated cre-
ating a merged concept in the speaker’s mind. Additionally, word meanings in
general are often subjected to language change.
. Morphological and morphosyntactic domain
Another linguistic subsystem that may be affected by language attrition is the
morphological domain. Some of the features that have been cited in studies are
a reduction in allomorphic variation, including, for example, plural marking
(Schmid 2002). It has also been hypothesised that the loss of morphological
features may eventually result in a move from synthetic structures to more
regularised or analytical ones (cf. Schmid 2002:34).
In many respects the German morphosyntactic system appears to be more
complex than the English one, thus making a simplification or regularisation of
certain structures quite likely in the process of language attrition. Some mor-
phological areas which may be affected by morphological reduction are case
marking, plural marking and gender assignment.
 Matthias Hutz
a. Case marking
In comparison with the relatively simple nature of English case marking, Ger-
man appears to be very complex in this respect since all the constituents within
a noun phrase have to be marked for one of the four cases (nominative, gen-
itive, accusative, and dative). In the following example, the dative would be
required instead of the accusative:
(12) *Deinen Vater habe ich schon geschrieben. (1984)
‘I wrote to your father already.’
b. Plural marking
Plural marking may also be affected by attrition as a result of the discrepancy
between the highly regular nature of English plural morphology and the great
variety of German plural allomorphs depending on grammatical gender or
word ending (Altenberg 1991:200; Schmid 2002:113). In addition, determiners
and adjectives require plural marking as well.
The following example from the corpus, which would require the plural
morpheme -en in German, has been obviously influenced by English plural-
formation:
(13) mit Ausnahme *Bananas (1987)
‘except bananas’
c. Gender assignment
A third very complex morphological system in German is gender assignment.
The assignment of one of the three grammatical genders (masculine, feminine
or neuter) to nouns is not only characterised by a high degree of arbitrari-
ness, but also determines the endings of articles, adjectives or participles. In
the following example, the noun would require the feminine gender instead of
the neuter:
(14) *das Sehkraft (1986)
‘the vision’
The analysis also included other morphosyntactic categories, such as negation,
passive voice, verb morphology and the deviant use of tenses.
In general, the morphosyntactic domain does not seem to be largely af-
fected by language loss compared to lexical borrowing or semantic transfer (see
Figure 2). Most of the features analysed appear to be negligible in terms of fre-
quency – only a few examples occurred in the corpus. It is only in case-marking
that there seems to be a certain tendency to simplify the morphological system
as a result of English influence – 56 per cent of all morphological interferences
Is there a natural process of decay? 
were found in this area. All other features analysed do not seem to be partic-
ularly vulnerable to L1 attrition. Misapplications in plural marking accounted
for only 7 per cent of the morphological interferences and errors in gender
assignment only for 5 per cent. Other categories accounted for the remaining
32 per cent.
The results largely confirm Schmid’s findings in her study of the L1 attri-
tion among German Jews who emigrated to Anglophone countries. Schmid
(2002) showed that interlanguage effects of German morphology under L2 in-
fluence of English are hard to establish since there were only a small number of
interferences, for instance, in plural allomorphy and agreement.
As far as the development of language attrition in the morphological do-
main is concerned in the corpus under investigation here, there seems to be a
slight increase in interferences in relation to the length of time that has elapsed
since emigration. The findings suggest that morphological attrition is a very
slow process and that L2 influence does not appear to be very strong in this
domain. This may be due to the fact that morphological rules are acquired as
a finite set of rules and that the process of morphological acquisition is often
completed before emigration. In contrast, the lexicon represents an infinite set,
i.e. it is not totally acquired, even if a person is fully proficient. Thus, the lexicon
appears to be much more vulnerable to language attrition.
. Syntax: Word order
From a contrastive perspective, word order may appear to be vulnerable to lan-
guage attrition, too. The assumption that word order in one’s native language
is adapted as a result of cross-linguistic influence seems to be quite wide-spread
(Odlin 1989:85). Waas (1996:165), for instance, reported that her subjects,
German immigrants in Australia, frequently showed word order difficulties
and often followed the L2 patterns.
Deviations from standard German word order might be expected espe-
cially in those areas where German and English syntactic structures differ,
for example, in the placement of verbs in subordinate clauses (for a detailed
discussion of syntactic interferences see Schmid 2002). In the following ex-
ample, the finite part of the verb is required to appear in final position in
subordinate clauses:
(15) . . ., dass E. *wollte mit L. in Briefwechsel treten. (1954)
‘that E. wanted to correspond with L.’
 Matthias Hutz
1939 1949–1956 1974–1978 1979–1983 1984–1988 1989–1994
Total number of lexical borrowings Semantic transfer Morphosyntax Syntax
16
14
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
Frequency
in
1000
words
Figure 2. Overview of results
Schmid (2002:168) also found a trend towards the overproduction of L2 En-
glish SVO structures in German L1 attriters which suggests that word order
patterns in L2 may lead to syntactic overgeneralisations in the L1. Such over-
generalisation may, for instance, occur concerning the order of adverbials,
where English requires putting place adverbials before time adverbials, e.g.
(16) Sie waren hier einige Tage. (1978)
‘They were here for several days.’
The corpus contained relatively few deviations from basic German syntactic
patterns (see Figure 2), possibly as a result of the fact that German is rather
flexible in its word order, but possibly also because this feature may be more re-
sistant to loss than other domains. This finding, however, does not rule out the
overproduction of particular syntactic features, e.g. placing time adverbials be-
hind place adverbials or a higher frequency of SVO word order in main clauses.
With regard to the development of syntactic interferences it can be stated that
the number of syntactic deviations increases only very slowly as more time
Is there a natural process of decay? 
elapses since emigration. In fact, this increase is barely noticeable compared to
the other linguistic subsystems analysed.
. Conclusion
The study confirms that among all the linguistic levels analysed it is the lexicon
which is first and most severely affected by language attrition, whereas mor-
phological and syntactic structures seem to be more resistant to language loss.
The factor ‘time since emigration’ appears to have less influence with regard to
the latter linguistic levels. The stability found in these two areas 57 years after
emigration is remarkable. Attrition in morphology and syntax proves to be a
very slow and gradual process, whereas the lexical domain undergoes a much
more rapid change. Resuming de Bot’s analogy between the linguistic decay
and the process of deterioration of an abandoned house, we may compare the
lexical domain to those parts of a house which are more susceptible to decay,
like the roof or the windows – syntax and morphology, on the other hand, can
be compared to the more fundamental parts of the house, i.e. the walls and the
foundation.
Based on the data in this case study, a considerable amount of attrition,
especially in the lexicon, seems to occur during the first 10 to 15 years. But the
data available also suggests that attrition seems to continue, albeit more slowly,
in all linguistic domains during the following decades. It is necessary, however,
to differentiate between the linguistic domains. With regard to morphological
and syntactic categories it might take much longer than just a decade to observe
significant erosion of L1 structures.
In addition to this, the amount of contact with L1 seems to be another
crucial factor to explain the degree of attrition (cf. de Bot, Gommans & Rossing
1991). A temporary increase in L1 contact (in this case, approximately 40 years
after immigration) may slow down the process of attrition and serve to stabilise
the L1 system.
Several limitations of the data set, however, have to be taken into account
when interpreting the results of this longitudinal case study. The higher degree
of monitoring involved in writing is very likely to lead to a lower frequency
of interferences compared with free spoken discourse. Furthermore, it is not
always possible to draw a clear line between age-related loss and loss as a re-
sult of non-use. The lack of data for the first years after emigration obviously
poses some problems concerning the interpretation of the findings since attri-
tion is often assumed to occur very early after emigration (e.g. de Bot & Clyne
 Matthias Hutz
1994:27). Thus, the results found in this study can give only a rough indication
of the development of attrition. For a precise analysis of the degree of linear-
ity involved in this case the ideal data set would require an equal distribution
of letters.
In order to verify whether lexical attrition does indeed outweigh attrition
on morphological and syntactic levels, it appears to be necessary to investigate a
greater number of informants over a long period of time and to move from the
analysis of interferences to a general performance analysis of L1 attriters. Only
a few studies (e.g. Schmid 2002) have attempted to present an overall descrip-
tion of an individual’s competence, including not only interferences between
L1 and L2, but also linguistic structures which are still intact. Only empirical
data about the correct and incorrect use of L1 allow us to evaluate the overall
degree of attrition.
Despite these restrictions, longitudinal studies, in general, can help us gain
insight into the changing degrees of attrition in specific linguistic domains and
into the proficiency of an individual at different moments in time. In this way,
they can provide us with a more accurate and holistic picture of the language
user’s former competence and the impact of cross-linguistic influence and thus
contribute to our understanding of the complex process of attrition.
References
Altenberg, E. P. (1991). “Assessing first language vulnerability to attrition.” In H. W. Seliger
& R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 189–206). Cambridge: CUP.
Andersen, R. W. (1982). “Determining the linguistic attributes of language attrition”. In
R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 83–118). Rowley,
MA: Newbury House.
Bot, K. de (2001). “Language use as an interface between sociolinguistic and psycholinguistic
processes in language attrition and language shift”. In J. Klatter-Folmer & P. van
Avermaet (Eds.), Theories on Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages (pp. 65–81).
Münster: Waxmann.
Bot, K. de, & Clyne, M. (1994). “A 16 year longitudinal study of language attrition in Dutch
immigrants in Australia”. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development, 15 (1),
17–28.
Bot, K. de, & Weltens, B. (1991). “Recapitulation, regression, and language loss”. In
H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 31–51). Cambridge:
CUP.
Bot, K. de, Gommans, P., & Rossing, C. (1991). “L1 loss in an L2 environment: Dutch
immigrants in France”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition
(pp. 87–98). Cambridge: CUP.
Is there a natural process of decay? 
Brons-Albert, R. (1994). “Interferenzfehler in der Muttersprache von in den Niederlanden
lebenden Deutschen”. In B. Spillner (Ed.), Nachbarsprachen in Europa [Kongreßbeiträge
zur Jahrestagung der Gesellschaft für Angewandte Linguistik 23] (pp. 96–105).
Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Clyne, M. (2001). “Paradigm hopping and other feats of Veldhoven”. In J. Klatter-Folmer
& P. van Avermaet (Eds.), Theories on Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages
(pp. 141–151). Münster: Waxmann.
Fase, W., Jaspaert, K., & Kroon, S. (1992). “Maintenance and loss of minority languages:
Introductory remarks”. In W. Fase, K. Jaspaert, & S. Kroon (Eds.), Maintenance and
Loss of Minority Languages (pp. 3–13). Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Giesbers, H. (1997). “Dutch in Indonesia: Language attrition or language contact?” In
J. Klatter-Folmer & S. Kroon (Eds.), Dutch Overseas: Studies in maintenance and loss
of Dutch as an immigrant language (pp. 163–180). Tilburg: Tilburg University Press.
Haugen, E. (1953). The Norwegian Language in America: A study in bilingual behaviour.
Philadelphia, PA: University of Pennsylvania Press.
Hughes, R. (1996). English in Speech and Writing: Investigating language and literature.
London and New York: Routledge.
Jaspaert, K., & Kroon, S. (1992). “From the typewriter of A.L.: A case study in language loss”.
In W. Fase, K. Jaspaert, & S. Kroon (Eds.), Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages
(pp. 137–147). Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Jaspaert, K., & Kroon, S. (1989). “Social determinants of language loss”. I.T.L.: Review of
Applied Linguistics, 83–84, 75–98.
Jaspaert, K., Kroon, S., & van Hout, R. (1986). “Points of reference in first-language loss
research”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress
(pp. 37–49). Dordrecht: Foris.
Lambert, R. D. (1989). “Language attrition”. Review of Applied Linguistics, 83–84, 1–18.
Major, R. C. (1992). “Losing English as a first language”. The Modern Language Journal, 76,
190–208.
Muysken, P. (1994). “The typology of code-switching”. In F. Sierra-Martinez, M. Pujol-
Berche, & H. den Boer (Eds.), Las Lenguas en la Europa Comunitaria (pp. 11–21).
Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Odlin, T. (1989). Language Transfer: Cross-linguistic influence in language learning.
Cambridge: CUP.
Pan-Alexander, B., & Berko-Gleason, J. (1986). “The study of language loss: Models and
hypotheses for an emerging discipline”. Applied Psycholinguistics, 7, 193–206.
Romaine, S. (1995). Bilingualism. Oxford: Blackwell.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance: The case of German
Jews in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Sharwood Smith, M. A., & van Buren, P. (1991). “First language attrition and the parameter
setting model.” In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition, (pp. 17–
30). Cambridge: CUP.
Soesman, A. (1997). “An experimental study on native language attrition in Dutch adult
immigrants in Israel”. In J. Klatter-Folmer & S. Kroon (Eds.), Dutch Overseas: Studies in
maintenance and loss of Dutch as an immigrant language (pp. 181–194). Tilburg: Tilburg
University Press.
 Matthias Hutz
Waas, M. (1996). Language Attrition Downunder: German speakers in Australia. Frankfurt:
Peter Lang.
Weinreich, U. (1953). Languages in Contact. The Hague: Mouton.
In search of the lost language
The case of adopted Koreans in France
Valérie A. G. Ventureyra and Christophe Pallier
Laboratoire de Sciences Cognitives et Psycholinguistique,
EHESS-CNRS, Paris / Unité de Neuroimagerie Cognitive,
Inserm U562, SHFJ & IFR49, Orsay
Introduction
Studies of language attrition have often focused on language loss and interfer-
ence in a contact situation and hence involve individuals who at some point
could have been considered as ‘bilingual’. Under such circumstances it is diffi-
cult to determine the degree of ‘attrition’ due to erosion from disuse and that
resulting from interference from another language. These confounding factors
complicate the understanding of mechanisms leading to language attrition.
Many of these studies are also primarily aimed at evaluating morphosyntac-
tic and lexical modifications in the attrited language, excluding phonology, an
aspect of language known to be acquired within the first year of life (Werker &
Tees 1983), and therefore quite relevant to the study of L1 attrition.
The present study addresses these two issues. Firstly, it considers individ-
uals who, at a relatively early age, were extracted from their native linguistic
and cultural environment only to be immersed in a radically different mi-
lieu, requiring the acquisition of a new language and rapid adaptation, to the
detriment of the native language which had become obsolete. These individu-
als were then not fluent in both languages, or at least not for very long, thus
minimising the interference factor.
In this particular case, attrition may result from ‘brain plasticity’: the
brain’s capacity to adapt to a changing environment, which is believed to de-
cline with age and brain maturation. The decline in the brain’s ability to adapt
and to learn is described by the ‘critical period hypothesis’ as it pertains to
 Valérie A. G. Ventureyra and Christophe Pallier
language acquisition (Lenneberg 1967). According to this author, a ‘critical pe-
riod’, or a time-frame during which the learning of a given cognitive ability is
optimal, applies to language and extends from age two years to puberty. Nu-
merous studies ranging from brain-damaged / hemispherectomised children
(Basser 1962) to the extraordinary cases of ‘wild-children’ deprived of language
until relatively late in development (Curtiss 1977), and congenitally deaf in-
dividuals having been exposed to sign language at different ages (Mayberry
& Eichen 1991; Newport & Supalla 1987), support the claim of maturational
mechanisms involved in L1 acquisition.
On the other hand, the maturational hypothesis also suggests that exposure
to L1 may leave long-lasting traces in the neural circuits involved in language
processing, and thereby prevent total L1 loss. Thus, according to this hypoth-
esis, we should expect to find traces of the Korean language at some linguistic
level in our population of Korean adoptees, who were exclusively exposed to
Korean during the first 3 to 9 years of life, and subsequently isolated from
their L1 during 15 to 30 years. Conversely, the absence of remnants of L1
would indicate an overwhelming plasticity and replacement of L1 (Korean) by
L2 (French).
Secondly, an important part of this study is devoted to phonology, as it
is the first linguistic level acquired by infants, and perhaps one of the last to
be lost. Several studies aimed at determining the benefits of exposure to a
language in childhood, followed by a long period of disuse and then by re-
learning several years later, have shown a pronounced advantage in perception
and production in the attrited language (Au, Knightly, Jun, & Oh 2002; Oh,
Jun, Knightly, & Au 2003; Tees & Werker 1984) relative to unexposed learners.
The study by Au et al., however, did not reveal any advantage of early expo-
sure versus late exposure in morphosyntax, suggesting that the mechanisms of
language loss, as for acquisition, may be different for diverse linguistic aspects,
and that phonology may be particularly resistant to attrition.
Part I: The first behavioural tests and the fMRI study
The study by Pallier, Dehaene, Poline, LeBihan, Argenti, Dupoux, & Mehler
(2003) involved eight individuals of Korean origin adopted by French fami-
lies between the ages of 3 and 8 (mean age at adoption: 5.5 years; 2 women
and 6 men ranging in age from 20 to 32 years, mean = 26.8). They were re-
cruited with the help of an adoption agency in France. These subjects had not
been re-exposed to Korean since their arrival in France, and all claimed to have
In search of the lost language 
completely forgotten their native language. Eight native monolingual French
speakers (2 women, 6 men ranging in age from 22 to 28 years, mean = 23.5)
and unexposed to Asian languages, composed the control group.
These subjects participated in three behavioural tests. The first was a “lan-
guage identification” test: sixty sentences from five differentlanguages (Korean,
Japanese, Polish, Swedish, Wolof) were presented one at a time and subjects
were required to give a confidence score between 1 and 7 indicating their de-
gree of certainty that the sentence was Korean. The second test was a “word
recognition” test: on each of 24 trials, the subject was required to choose one of
two spoken Korean words as the translation of a given French word. The third
test used a “speech fragment detection”: a sentence was presented followed by
a 400 ms speech segment and the subject had to decide whether this fragment
appeared in the sentence or not. One-hundred and twenty-eight sentences were
presented in four different languages: Korean, French, Japanese and Polish.
This task was performed while the subjects were scanned with functional MRI
(Magnetic Resonance Imaging).
The results from the behavioural tests appear on Figure 1. In the Language
Identification task, the Korean adoptees did not recognise the Korean sen-
tences. They tended to confound the Korean sentences with those in Japanese,
by giving these higher confidence ratings than the Polish, Swedish and Wolof
sentences. The French control subjects’ performance on this task followed the
same pattern and did not differ significantly from that of the Korean adoptees.
In the Word Recognition task, requiring the identification of the Korean word
corresponding to a given French word, the performance of the Koreans (56%)
and that of the French subjects (52%) did not differ significantly. In the Frag-
ment Detection task, both the Korean and French subjects showed better per-
formance on the French sentences than on those in the other three languages.
Once again no significant differences were observed between the two groups.
Two main results emerged from the brain imaging data acquired while sub-
jects listened to sentences and performed the Fragment Detection task. The
first result concerned the processing of Korean: no activation specific to Korean
was found in the Korean adoptees and thus, there was no detectable difference
between the activations elicited by the Polish, Japanese or Korean sentences (see
Figure 2). The second result indicated that the brain areas activated by French
were comparable in both the Korean adoptees and the French control groups.
Activations were mainly found in the left superior temporal sulcus (Wernicke’s
area) and in the left inferior frontal gyrus (Broca’s area), as is expected for L1
processing.
 Valérie A. G. Ventureyra and Christophe Pallier
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
100
80
60
40
20
0
100
80
60
40
20
0
Korean
Korean
Japanese
Japanese
Polish
Polish
Swedish Wolof
French
K F
Group Stimuli
Stimuli
b. Korean word recognition c. Speech segment detection (performed during fMRI)
Korean subjects
French subjects
a. Korean sentences identification
Rating
as
a
Korean
sentence
%
correct
recognition
%
correct
detections
Figure 1. Performance of the Korean adoptees and native French subjects on three
behavioural tests.
In general, the results of this first study seem to imply that French has over-
ridden Korean in the brains of the Korean adoptees. However, fMRI technology
has its limits and may not be able to reveal subtle traces of Korean left in the mi-
crocircuitry of the language processing areas, and the behavioural techniques
used in this study may not have been capable of tapping into subthreshold,
implicit knowledge that requires other methodologies. The second part of this
study is aimed at addressing these issues and further assessing the degree of L1
attrition in our population of Korean adoptees.
In search of the lost language 
Figure 2. Brain activation patterns of Korean adoptees while listening to Korean (left),
Japanese (middle) and Polish (right). All languages activated the superior temporal gyri
and there is no statistical difference according to the language of stimulation.
Part II: The new behavioural tests
Five experiments seeking to reveal any possible traces of Korean were designed
and are presented here. These behavioural tests concern phonology and lexical
knowledge: they include Phonetic Perception, Phonetic Retraining, Sensitivity
to Korean Phonotactics, Word and Number Recognition, and Implicit Memory
for Series. These experiments are presently being tested and results are reported
here only for the Number Series Recognition Task. All experiments took place
on a computer which displayed the task instructions, played the stimuli and
recorded the responses.
The participants in these studies comprised eighteen Korean adoptees, in-
cluding some who had participated in the fMRI experiment. The new subjects
were either recruited for the first study via the adoption agency or via a cultural
association for Korean adoptees, Racines Coréennes, assembling adoptees from
France, Switzerland and Belgium. Some of the recruits from this latter source
have been re-exposed to Korean, either by formal instruction or by a trip or a
stay in Korea, or both.
There were two control groups. The first group consisted of twelve na-
tive Korean speakers who have been residing in France for several months or
years and still regularly speak Korean. They were matched for age and edu-
cational level to our group of adoptees. The second control group consisted
of twelve native French speakers matched for age and educational level to the
Korean adoptees.
 Valérie A. G. Ventureyra and Christophe Pallier
Experiment 1: Series of numbers in different languages
Number series are learned early in life and are memorised by rehearsal. More-
over, number words are quite frequent in everyday language. Thus, numbers
may be expected to be more resistant to attrition than other types of words. The
following experiment specifically tests for the recognition of Korean number
series among series from several languages.
Stimuli: Twelve series of numbers (one in each of ten different languages and
two in Korean, which has two different counting systems) of the numbers 1
to 10 spoken by native speakers were either recorded or downloaded from the
Internet. Korean has one counting system proper used mainly for counting ob-
jects. The other system used in Korean is derived from Chinese (Sino-Korean)
and is used for years, months, days, minutes, money and telephone numbers.
As both of these systems are essential to daily life, we can safely assume that
young children acquire both. The other languages used were chosen on the
basis of their unfamiliarity for average French speakers (most series were non-
Indo-European). Some Asian languages had to be excluded as some of our
Korean adoptees had been in contact with these (Japanese, Vietnamese, Man-
darin). The other ten series of numbers were in: Greek, Turkish, Hungarian,
Finnish, Hebrew, Farsi, Quechua, Tagalog, Thai and Cantonese.
Procedure: Each series was presented once for familiarisation. Three blocks,
each containing all series in random order, were then presented to the subjects,
who were required to rate each series on a continuum from 1 to 7 indicating
their certainty that the series in question was or was not in Korean (1 = sure
that series was not Korean, 4 = no idea whether series was Korean and 7 = sure
that series was Korean. Intermediate ratings were also accepted).
The results of 9 adoptees and 10 French speakers who performed this task
are shown in Figures 3 and 4. An analysis of variance with the factors Group
(Adoptees vs. French controls) and Languages revealed a significant main effect
of language (F(11,187) = 14.7; p<0.00001), and an interaction (F(11,187) =
2.03; p = 0.03). Welch two sample t-tests comparing the groups for each lan-
guage showed no significant difference on the Korean (t(13.7) = 1.3; p = 0.20)
and Sino-Korean series (t(16.6) = 0.7; p = 0.48); however the French group
gave significantly higher ratings on the Cantonese (t(15.4) = 2.18; p = 0.04)
and Thai series (t(16.2) = 2.9; p = 0.009) than the adoptees group. The groups
did not differ significantly on any other language. Within the Korean adoptees
group, paired t-tests were used to compare pairs of languages; these tests re-
In search of the lost language 
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
Fr
Kor
Cantonese
Korean
Farsi
Finnish
Greek
Hebrew
Hungarian
Quechua
Sino-Kor
Tagalog
Thai
Turkish
Figure 3. Mean confidence ratings for Number Series in Different Languages (Exper-
iment 5) for the adoptees and for a control group of native French speakers. (1 = sure
that series not Korean, 4 = no idea whether Korean, 7 = sure that series is Korean).
Error bars indicate s.e.m.
vealed that the ratings on the Korean, Sino-Korean, Quechua, Thai, Cantonese
and Farsi series did not differ at the p<.05 significance level.
Though the adoptees attributed the highest score to the Korean number
series, there is no explicit recognition of the number series by this group (see
Figure 4). Yet, the difference between the two groups on the Cantonese and
Thai number series suggests that the representation of Korean is not exactly
the same in both groups. Interestingly, Cantonese and Thai are both tone lan-
guages, contrary to Korean. Hence, the Korean adoptees may have been more
aware that Korean does not use tones than naive French speakers. Thus, these
data suggest that the adoptees have a somewhat more precise notion of the
sound pattern of Korean than native French speakers.
 Valérie A. G. Ventureyra and Christophe Pallier
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
7
6
5
4
3
2
1
Fr Fr Fr Fr
Kor Kor Kor Kor
Cantonese Korean Farsi Finnish
Greek Hebrew Hungarian Quechua
Sino-Kor Tagalog Thai Turkish
Figure 4. Individual confidence ratings for the recognition of number series
(Experiment 5).
Experiment 2: Phonetic discrimination
The phonetic/phonemic categories of L1 are acquired in the first years of life.
It is also known that adults have difficulties perceiving some non-native con-
trasts. Korean voiceless stop consonants use contrasts which are particularly
difficult for monolingual speakers of French. In this experiment, we test the
adoptees’ ability to perceive such contrasts.
Stimuli: Twenty-four CVCV pseudowords of Korean were recorded by each of
two native speakers of the Seoul dialect of Korean (one female and one male).
The first syllable always started with a consonant characteristic of Korean: lenis,
fortis or aspirated [k], [p], or a lenis or fortis [s], and was followed by [a], [i] or
In search of the lost language 
[u]. The second syllable was constant: ‘ma’. (Examples of pseudowords: pima,
kama, suma).
Procedure: The stimuli were presented through headphones and responses
made on keys on the keyboard. A training session with twelve pairs of pseu-
dowords of French occurred first. The first member of the pair was always
pronounced by a male speaker and the second by a female speaker. Then, the
138 pairs of Korean pseudowords were presented. As in the training session, the
male speaker appeared first followed by the female speaker. The second stimu-
lus of the pair appeared 500 ms after the first. The following pair was presented
1000 ms after the subject’s response. Subjects were required to indicate whether
the two words of the pair were the same or different by pressing a given button
on the keyboard as quickly and accurately as possible. There were five condi-
tions: Same, and four types of Different, according to the consonant or vowel
contrast in question. They were distributed as follows: (1) 48 pairs of Same
(P); (2) 48 pairs of Different Vowel (DV); (3) 18 pairs of Different Consonant
lenis-fortis contrast (DC1); (4) 12 pairs of Different Consonant lenis-aspirated
(DC2) and (5) 12 pairs of Different Consonant fortis-aspirated (DC3).
0
20
40
60
80
100
F.DC1 K.DC1 F.DC2 K.DC2 F.DC3 F.DV K.DV F.P K.P
K.DC3
%
correct
resp.
Figure 5. Percentage correct responses in the Phonetic Discrimination task (Experi-
ment 1) in two control groups (native Koreans (K), native French (F) speakers) and
the different types of contrasts. (P = Same, DV = different vowel, DC1 = lenis-fortis,
DC2 = lenis-aspirated, DC3 = fortis-aspirated)
 Valérie A. G. Ventureyra and Christophe Pallier
Results of the two control groups: As shown in Figure 5, both the P and DV
categories were easily identified by both native Korean speakers (n = 12) and
native French speakers (n = 12). All three DC contrasts were well discriminated
by the native Korean subjects and poorly discriminated by the native French
speakers with no overlap between groups, thus showing that the DC contrasts
are indeed difficult for native French speakers with no previous exposure to
Korean. The DC1 contrast (lenis-fortis) is apparently the most difficult for the
French subjects.
Experiment 3: Phonetic retraining
Assuming that the results of the previous experiment show that the adoptees
are not better than native French speakers at perceiving the Korean contrasts, it
may still be possible that the adoptees will learn such contrasts faster than the
native French speakers with an intensive phonetic training program.
Stimuli: Four minimal triplets of Korean words and four minimal triplets of
Korean pseudowords, all commencing with either a lenis, fortis or aspirated
[p], were chosen as the stimuli for this experiment. Each of the 8 words/pseu-
dowords was recorded by 6 native speakers of Korean (3 female and 3 male).
There were 4 tokens of each stimulus per speaker. Thus, a total of 96 different
stimuli were recorded by each speaker (8 words x 3 types x 4 tokens). The vowel
following the [p] was variable.
Procedure: There are 15 training sessions in total. Each session lasts approxi-
mately 30 minutes. The sessions are spread over 3 weeks, totalling 5 sessions per
week. During the course of each session subjects are presented with 6 blocks of
64 stimuli each. Each block trains the subject to identify one of two types of [p],
presented at the beginning of the block. Hence, only one consonant contrast
(lenis-fortis, lenis-aspirated or aspirated-fortis) is presented in a given block in
order to facilitate the learning of these different types of [p]. There are thus 3
different blocks per session, each repeated once: a total of six blocks per ses-
sion. The first six sessions are all single speaker sessions. The following sessions
become progressively more difficult by a gradual mixing of stimuli by different
speakers: two speakers for Session 7 and all six speakers by Session 15.
In each block and session, the subject’s task is the identification of the type
of [p] heard, by pressing the corresponding key on the keyboard. Feedback is
given after each trial in order to enhance the learning process.
Three tests of generalisation to other words using the Korean [p]’s as well
as to other consonants sharing the same characteristics are administered after
In search of the lost language 
the 15 training sessions. The first test involves new real words of Korean be-
ginning with the different types of [p] and is composed of two blocks. One
block is composed of words spoken by one of the speakers heard in the train-
ing sessions and the other is composed of words pronounced by a new speaker.
The second test is the Phonetic Discrimination described above and the third
involves words and pseudowords of lenis/fortis/aspirated [t].
Experiment 4: Sensitivity to phonotactics
Consonant clusters (e.g. pr, sl. . .) such as those existing in English or French
do not exist in Korean or in Japanese. It has been demonstrated that Japanese
speakers perceive an illusory vowel within foreign consonant clusters (Dupoux,
Kakehi, Hirose, Pallier, & Mehler 1999). This phenomenon is known as vowel
epenthesis. It is due to the fact that the human speech decoding system uses the
phonotactic constraints imposed by L1 to decode utterances. The properties of
Korean phonology lead us to expect that native speakers of Korean will perceive
an illusory vowel ([Y]) within consonant clusters of French words. If such is
the case, it would be interesting to see whether the adoptees perceive French
consonant clusters like native Koreans or like native French speakers.
Stimuli: Four pseudowords of Korean were recorded by two native Korean
speakers (one female and one male). Two pseudowords involving a change in
vowel (ibaki/ibuki) are used in the control condition and two pseudowords pre-
senting a consonant cluster and the epenthetic vowel (asta/asYta) are used in
the experimental condition. Each word was modified giving rise to six tokens
varying in pitch and speed.
Procedure: Each condition is composed of a training session for familiarisa-
tion with each stimulus, presented one at a time, and its corresponding button
on the keyboard. Following the training session, series of four consecutive stim-
uli are presented aurally. There are twenty-four such series in each condition.
The subject’s task is the identification of the sequence heard during each trial
(ex. asta, asYta, asYta, asta). Feedback is given after each trial in order to
encourage learning.
Experiment 5: Word recognition
The previous study (Pallier et al. 2003) implemented a word recognition test
in which the participants had to choose the translation of a given French word
among pairs of spoken Korean words. The participants performed at chance
level, suggesting a radical loss of lexical knowledge. To test this hypothesis
 Valérie A. G. Ventureyra and Christophe Pallier
further, we implemented a new test with more trials and words taken from
a corpus of Korean children’s productions (see Appendix). In this new task the
subject was presented with one Korean word per trial and had to choose the
correct translation among two French words.
Stimuli: Sixty common Korean words, thought to be known by children (52
of which were taken from a corpus compiled by Choi & Gopnik 1995) and
recorded by a native speaker of Korean, were presented aurally. One-hundred
and twenty common French words, sixty of which were the translations of
the Korean words and sixty of which were matched for written lexical fre-
quency (New, Pallier, Ferrand, & Matos 2001) were presented visually on the
computer screen.
Procedure: In a given trial, subjects first heard a Korean word twice and then
were presented with two French words simultaneously on the screen. The task
was a forced choice recognition whereby the subjects indicated which of the
two French words was the translation of the Korean word.
Experiment 6: Implicit memory for series of days of the week, months and
numbers
Experiment 1 and 5 used recognition tests which assess explicit memory for
Korean words. We tried to devise a test that would tap into implicit memory
for series learned in early childhood: days of the week, months and numbers.
The test is based on the “Mere Exposure Effect” which reveals a preference for
familiar items vs. unfamiliar items (Kunst-Wilson & Zajonc 1980).
Stimuli: Recordings of days of the week in Korean were made. Each day was
isolated and later combined with two other days. Series of three days were cre-
ated. Half of the series were regular (Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday) and the
other half were irregular (Monday, Thursday, Sunday).
The same procedure was used for months of the year and numbers in
Korean.
Procedure: In each experiment, (days, months and numbers each gave rise to
one experiment), a regular series was matched with an irregular series. On
a given trial, the subject hears a pair of regular-irregular series and indicates
which one he/she prefers by pressing on a button on the keyboard. (The regu-
lar series appear first on half of the trials and last on the other half.) There are
14 trials for days, 24 trials for months and 14 trials for numbers.
In search of the lost language 
Conclusion
The study of Korean adoptees having been completely cut-off from their native
language and immersed in an L2 environmentrelatively early in life presents an
interesting case to the field of language attrition. A possible mechanism for lan-
guage attrition due to erosion of an unused language is brain plasticity, and is
supported by the experiments described in the first part of this paper. However,
fMRI technology has its shortcomings and thus, the behavioural tests presented
in the second part of this article, and presently being tested, are aimed at a more
detailed assessment of L1 attrition in our population of Korean adoptees. So
far, the data obtained on the recognition of the number series suggest that the
adoptees have a somewhat more precise notion of the sound pattern of Korean
than the native French, but no explicit access to knowledge of Korean lexical
items.
References
Au, T. K., Knightly, L. M., Jun, S-A., & Oh, J. S. (2002). “Overhearing a language during
childhood”. Psychological Science, 13 (3), 238–243.
Basser, L. S. (1962). “Hemiplegia of early onset and the faculty of speech with special
reference to the effects of hemispherectomy”. Brain, 75, 427–460.
Choi, S., & Gopnik, A. (1995). “Early acquisition of verbs in Korean: A cross-linguistic
study”. Journal of Child Language, 22, 497–529.
Curtiss, S. (1977). Genie: A psycholinguistic study of a modern-day ‘wild child’. New York, NY:
Academic Press.
Dupoux, E., Kakehi, K., Hirose, Y., Pallier, C., & Mehler, J. (1999). “Epenthetic vowels in
Japanese: A perceptual illusion”. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception
and Performance, 5, 1568–1578.
Kunst-Wilson, W. R., & Zajonc R. B. (1980). “Affective discrimination of stimuli that cannot
be recognized”. Science, 207, 557–558.
Lenneberg, E. H. (1967). Biological Foundations of Language. New York, NY: John Wiley.
Mayberry, R., & Eichen, E. B. (1991). “The long-lasting advantage of learning sign language
in childhood: Another look at the critical period for language acquisition”. Journal of
Memory and Language, 30, 486–512.
New, B., Pallier, C., Ferrand, L., & Matos, R. (2001). “Une base de données lexicales du
français contemporain sur internet: Lexique”. L’Année psychologique, 101, 447–462.
Newport, E. L., & Supalla, T. (1987). A Critical Period Effect in the Acquisition of a Primary
Language. Unpublished ms.
Oh, J., Jun, S-A., Knightly, L., & Au, T. K. (2003). “Holding on to childhood language
memory”. Cognition, 86, 53–64.
 Valérie A. G. Ventureyra and Christophe Pallier
Pallier, C., Dehaene, S., Poline, J-B., LeBihan, D., Argenti, A-M., Dupoux, E., & Mehler, J.
(2003). “Brain imaging of language plasticity in adopted adults: Can a second language
replace the first?” Cerebral Cortex, 13, 155–161.
Tees, R. C., & Werker, J. F. (1984). “Perceptual flexibility: Maintenance or recovery of the
ability to discriminate non-native speech sounds”. Canadian Journal of Psychology, 38,
579–590.
Werker, J. K., & Tees, R. C. (1983). “Developmental changes across childhood in the
perception of non-native speech sounds.” Canadian Journal of Psychology, 37, 278–286.
Appendix
List 1 French translations of the words that were aurally presented in Korean
in the Word Recognition Task (Exp. 4)
List 2 French words matched in written frequency to the words in List 1
List 1 List 2
1 chapeau (hat) fauteuil (couch)
2 lumière (light) matin (morning)
3 eau (water) jour (day)
4 oeil (eye ) jeu (game)
5 train (train) cheveux (hair)
6 poisson (fish) rideau (curtain)
7 médicament (medication) fourmi (ant)
8 lait (milk) doigt (finger)
9 baguettes (chopsticks) chaussettes (socks)
10 biscuit (cookie) sauterelle (grasshopper)
11 c’est bon (it is good) c’est nouveau (it is new)
12 c’est petit (it is small) c’est vrai (it is true)
13 c’est piquant (it is spicy) c’est gelé (it is frozen)
14 c’est lourd (it is heavy) c’est triste (it is sad)
15 c’est pareil (it is the same) c’est plat (it is flat)
16 ouvre la porte! (open the door! ) lave tes mains (wash your hands!)
17 réveille-toi! (wake-up!) emporte-le! (take it!)
18 descend! (come down!) tourne! (turn around!)
19 va-t’en! (go away!) laisse-le! (leave it!)
20 sors! (go out!) devine! (guess!)
21 j’ai soif (I am thirsty) je suis fier (I am proud)
22 j’ai faim (I am hungry) je suis tombé (I fell)
23 école (school) famille (family)
24 livre (book) argent (money)
25 oreille (ear) sac (bag)
26 couteau (knife) bain (bath)
In search of the lost language 
27 chaussures (shoes) parc (park)
28 clef (key) fruit (fruit)
29 nez (nose) mur (wall)
30 horloge (clock) bol (bowl)
31 balle (ball) manche (sleeve)
32 bonbons (candy) puzzles (puzzles)
33 c’est bruyant (it is noisy) c’est fatigant (it is tiring)
34 c’est beau (it is beautiful) c’est noir (it is black)
35 c’est beaucoup (it is a lot) je suis seul (I am alone)
36 c’est n’est pas bon (it is not good) c’est le premier (it is the first)
37 c’est peu (it is not a lot) encore (again)
38 regarde ici ! (look here!) tu peux! (you can!)
39 habille-toi (get dressed!) coiffe-toi (comb your hair!)
40 ferme la porte! (close the door!) calme-toi! (calm down!)
41 range! (put your things away!) on va te punir! (we will punish you!)
42 pousse! (push!) prends-le! (take it!)
43 je joue (I play) je veux entrer (I want to come inside)
44 j’ai peur (I am scared) je veux le prix (I want the prize)
45 je ne veux pas! (I do not want to!) je l’ai pris! (I took it!)
46 je frappe (I hit) je souris (I smile)
47 je ne sais pas (I do not know) je le sens (I feel it)
48 jette! (throw!) essaie! (try!)
49 donne! (give!) silence! (quiet!)
50 j’ai mal! (I am hurting!) je suis le premier! (I am the first!)
51 je bois (I drink) je compte (I count)
52 lève-toi! (get up!) tire! (pull!)
53 viens! (come!) tiens! (hold!)
54 assieds-toi! (sit down!) avale! (swallow!)
55 c’est grand (it is big) quelques uns (some)
56 jamais (never) moins (less)
57 toujours (always) et alors (and so)
58 j’ai froid (I am cold) j’ai compris (I understood)
59 j’ai chaud (I am hot) c’est rapide (it is quick)
60 c’est rouge (it is red) c’est plein (it is full)
P III
How the study of attrition can contribute
to the understanding of language
Attrition in L1 competence
The case of Turkish
Ayşe Gürel
Boğaziçi University
Introduction
This paper investigates the impact of a dominant L2 English as a possible cause
of loss or restructuring in the L1 Turkish grammar of adults who have lived in
the L2 setting for an extended period of time.
Some methodological issues such as participant selection criteria (e.g.
length of stay in an L2 setting, frequency of L1 use and L2 proficiency) and the
need for the analysis of individual results along with group results will become
relevant in the discussion of the present data.
. Background
. L1 attrition in L2 settings
The scope of L1 attrition in L2 settings is rather wide (see Köpke and Schmid,
this volume). However, the present study is limited to L1 attrition in adults.
I am interested in individual data from first-generation immigrants, who are
assumed to have had a fully developed, mature native grammar, before they
first came to an L2 setting. I believe that data from this population will enable
us to gain insight into the question of restructuring of the mature L1 grammar
under L2 exposure.
From this standpoint, the following definition of L1 attrition is adopted: L1
attrition is the restructuring of and incorporation of L2 elements/rules into the
 Ayşe Gürel
L1 grammar as reflected in a speaker’s acceptance of syntactically deviant L1
sentences under the influence of L2 rules and constraints (Pavlenko 2000:179).
. Competence change in language attrition
Language attrition can manifest itself at different levels of language competence
and performance such as lack of fluency and inability or difficulty in retrieving
items from the lexicon, deviation from native pronunciation, and also diver-
gence from native syntax (e.g. Seliger 1996; Sharwood-Smith 1989). It is this
last point that I concentrate on in this investigation, i.e. whether or not some
aspects of L1 syntactic competence will undergo change (i.e. restructuring) un-
der extensive L2 input. In order to examine this, I focus on transfereffects in the
domain of Binding Principles (Chomsky 1981, 1982) in general and binding
of overt and null pronominals in particular, because, they represent Universal
Grammar (UG)-governed, unconscious knowledge that constitutes an impor-
tant part of native competence (Thomas 1993; White 1989). Any divergence
from native norms in this aspect of grammar would then suggest alterability of
the L1 grammar at the syntactic competence level. Another motivation for con-
centrating on Binding Principles is that certain binding properties are subject
to language-specific constraints (cf. Manzini & Wexler 1987), and this is con-
ducive to the study of cross-linguistic transfer effects in language attrition (see
McCormack, this volume for an L2 attrition study designed to test a similar
phenomenon within the same theoretical approach).
. Syntactic property under investigation
The specific aim of the present study is to examine possible attrition effects in
binding conditions of overt and null pronouns in pro-drop L1 Turkish under
the influence of non-pro-drop L2 English. The syntactic focus is Binding Prin-
ciple B. The theory of Binding formulated in Chomsky (1986) is adopted in
this investigation:
Binding Principle B: A pronominal is free (not bound) in its governingcategory
(GC).
Binding is A-binding, i.e., the c-commanding antecedent of the bound
element is in an argument (A) position:
a. α is A-bound by β iff α and β are co-indexed, β c-commands α, and β is in
an A-position.
b. α is A-free iff it is not A-bound.
Attrition in L1 competence 
In this version of Binding Theory, the GC is defined as:
The GC for a pronoun or an anaphor α is the minimal complete functional
complex (CFC) that contains α and a governor of α and in which α
s binding
condition could, in principle, be satisfied. (Chomsky & Lasnik 1995:102)
.. Binding of pronouns
... English
(1) Briani believes that [hei/j is intelligent]
(2) Briani ate [hisi/j cake]
(3) Nobodyi believes that [hei/j is intelligent]
As illustrated above, pronouns may take referential (1)–(2) or quantified an-
tecedents (3). In the former case, the pronoun is used in coreference with its
referential antecedent (Brian), in the latter, it is interpreted as a variable bound
by the quantified subject, Determiner Phrase (DP) (nobody). In both cases,
pronominals are subject to Principle B, which requires pronouns be free in
their GC. The GC for the pronoun in (1 and 3) is the embedded clause. Thus,
the overt embedded subject he can be coreferential (1) or be bound (3) by the
matrix subject that is outside this domain. Similarly, in (2), the possessive pro-
noun his can be coreferential with the matrix subject Brian.1
In these examples,
the embedded pronoun can also have a disjoint reference (i.e., pick up a free
referent in the discourse). The distinction between bound and disjoint inter-
pretation can be formally explained as follows (consider the example in (3)):
Bound variable interpretation:
(No x: x is a person) x believes that x is intelligent.
Disjoint interpretation:
(No x: x is a person) x believes that y is intelligent.
... Turkish
Let us now look at binding facts in Turkish. Turkish has two overt pronominal
forms: o and kendisi, which can be translated as ‘s/he’ and ‘self’, respectively.
Being a pro-drop language,2
Turkish also has a null pronoun (pro). Examples
in (4) and (5) illustrate sentential positions that these pronouns can occupy and
binding possibilities they allow.3
In a sentence like (4), the subject position can
be occupied by the overt pronoun o, kendisi and pro.4
Similarly, these pronouns
 Ayşe Gürel
can also appear in object positions where the pronoun o strictly obeys Principle
B, while pro and kendisi are unconstrained (5).
(4) O /
S/he
kendi-si /
self-3sg
pro
pro
ev-e
house-dat
git-ti.
go-pst
‘S/he went home.’
(5) Murati
Murat
o-nu*i/j
s/he-acc
kendi-si-nii/j
self-3sg-acc
proi/j
pro
beğen-iyor.
like-prg
‘Murati likes him*i/j / selfi/j / proi/j.’
The following examples illustrate binding possibilities of overt and null pro-
nouns in embedded subject positions.
(6) a. Murati
Murat
[o-nun*i/j
s/he-gen
zeki
intelligent
ol-duğ-u]-nu
be-nom-3sgposs-acc
düşün-üyor.
think-prg
b. Murati
Murat
[kendi-si-nini/j
self-3sg-gen
zeki
intelligent
ol-duğ-u]-nu
be-nom-3sgposs-acc
düşün-üyor.
think-prg
c. Murati
Murat
[proi/j
pro
zeki
intelligent
ol-duğ-u]-nu
be-nom-3sgposs-acc
düşün-üyor.
think-prg
‘Murati thinks that he*i/j / selfi/j / proi/j is intelligent.’
(7) a. Murati
Murat
[o-nun*i/j
s/he-gen
kek-i]-ni
cake-3sgposs-acc
ye-di.
eat-pst
b. Murati
Murat
[kendi-si-nini/j
self-3sg-gen
kek-i]-ni
cake-3sgposs-acc
ye-di.
eat-pst
c. Murati
Murat
[proi/j
pro
kek-i]-ni
cake-3sgposs-acc
ye-di.
eat-pst
‘Murat ate his*i/j /self’si/j /proi/j cake.’
(8) a. Kimsei
Nobody
[o-nun*i/j
s/he-gen
zeki
intelligent
ol-duğ-u]-nu
be-nom-3sgposs-acc
düşün-m-üyor.
think-neg-prg
b. Kimsei
Nobody
[kendi-si-nini/j
self-3sg-gen
zeki
intelligent
ol-duğ-u]-nu
be-nom-3sgposs-acc
düşün-m-üyor.
think-neg-prg
c. Kimsei
Nobody
[proi/j
pro
zeki
intelligent
ol-duğ-u]-nu
be-nom-3sgposs-acc
düşün-m-üyor.
think-neg-prg
‘Nobodyi thinks (that) s/he*i/j /selfi/j / proi/j is intelligent.’
Attrition in L1 competence 
As can be seen from the coindexations above, in Turkish, the overt pronoun
o can never be bound by the matrix subject. It only allows a disjoint reading.
In contrast, the overt pronoun kendisi and pro can be bound by the matrix
subject or have disjoint readings (see b and c examples above). Crucially, these
observations hold in both referential (6)–(7) and quantified contexts (8). This
observation is important as it suggests that the Overt Pronoun Constraint
(OPC), postulated as a universal property of pro-drop languages (Montalbetti
1984), is not exemplified in Turkish (cf. Kanno 1997).5
The examples above demonstrate clear contrasts between Turkish and En-
glish pronominal binding. Besides the presence of null pronouns and an overt
reflexive pronominal like kendisi in Turkish, the Turkish overt pronoun o does
not pattern similarly with its English counterpart s/he in embedded subject
positions (compare e.g. (1) to (6)). I suggest that the difference between these
pronouns stems from the differences in governing categories in two languages.
.. Governing categories in English and Turkish
The difference between English and Turkish overt pronoun binding is illus-
trated once again in the following examples where the embedded subject pro-
noun can refer to the sentential subject Brian in English but cannot in Turkish:
(9) a. Briani said IP[hei/j would come].
b. Briani
Brian
DP[o-nun*i/j
he-gen
gel-eceğ-i]-ni
come-nom-acc
söyle-di.
tell-pst
(10) a. Briani ate DP[hisi/j cake].
b. Briani
Brian
DP[o-nun*i/j
he-gen
kek-i-ni
cake-3sgposs-acc
ye-di].
eat-pst
According to the version of Binding Theory adopted here, the embedded in-
flectional phrase (IP) in (9a) and the bracketed DP in (10a) are GCs in which
the pronoun is free. This explains the grammaticality of coindexation between
the subject antecedent Brian and he/his in (9a) and (10a). In contrast, the Turk-
ish pronoun o in ((9b) and (10b)) is obligatorily disjoint from the antecedent
outside the DP. In order to understand why this would be so, we have to look
closely at the structure of complement clauses in Turkish.
Most complement clauses are nominalised in Turkish. Nominalised con-
structions behave exactly like lexical DPs in many respects such as their in-
ternal morphology, and case marking (compare (9b) and (10b)) (George &
Kornfilt 1981).
Thus, unlike English, embedded clauses in Turkish are DPs rather than fi-
nite IPs. Embedded nominalised clauses, being like lexical DPs, do not count
 Ayşe Gürel
as GCs in Turkish. In these cases, the GC is the tensed matrix clause that in-
cludes the pronoun and a finite I0
. However, in English, besides finite IPs, DPs
also constitute a binding domain. Thus, the difference between the binding of
English and Turkish overt pronouns in complement clauses (9) or in the pos-
sessive DPs (10) is not surprising. I consider this difference to be a consequence
of a parametric option permitting DPs as GCs in English but not in Turkish (cf.
Manzini & Wexler 1987).
Within this background, in this study, I am interested in seeing how much
knowledge of the binding properties of overt and null pronouns are maintained
in L1 attrition under extensive exposure to the L2 which has no null pro-
nouns and has only one overt pronoun. The research questions are formulated
as follows:
. Research questions
1. Does the definition of binding domain in the L1 change under attri-
tion? More specifically, do native Turkish speakers maintain the contrast
between the L1 and L2 overt pronouns with respect to their binding
properties?
2. Do native Turkish speakers maintain the contrast between the two overt
pronominals in L1 Turkish (o and kendisi) or do they reduce the contrast
in such a way that both are treated like the L2 overt pronoun with respect
to their binding possibilities?
3. Do native Turkish speakers maintain L1 knowledge regarding binding
properties of the null pronoun despite extensive exposure from the non-
pro-drop L2?
Binding properties of overt and null pronouns are integral parts of adult native
grammar knowledge (i.e. linguistic competence) and thus it is less likely that
they undergo L1 attrition. Therefore, I predict that native Turkish speakers will
be able to maintain binding properties of overt and null pronominals even
under extensive L2 exposure.
Attrition in L1 competence 
. The study
. Participants
24 native Turkish speakers who are end-state L2 speakers of English partici-
pated in this study. The participants, aged between 29–72 (mean age: 47), had
immigrated to North America (Canada or the US) at an adult age (ages be-
tween 16–44) (mean age of immigration: 25.5) and had been living in an L2
country for at least 10 years at the time of testing. The length of stay ranged
from 10 to 43 years (mean length of stay: 21.5 years). The 10-year-stay in an L2
country was taken as one of the inclusionary criteria because this seems to be
a generally accepted baseline reported in attrition studies (e.g. de Bot, Gom-
mans, & Rossing 1991; Jordens, de Bot, & Trapman 1989, Köpke and Schmid,
this volume). Following de Bot et al. (1991), length of stay was defined in three
levels: 10–19; 20–29; 30 years and above.
All participants, with the exception of two, are post-puberty L2 learners.6
Age of first L2 exposure was between 7 and 26 years (mean age of first L2 ex-
posure: 13.2). Participants’ contact with L2 English increased after they moved
into the L2 country where some of them had pursued their academic careers
in North American universities and some started to work in various English-
speaking environments.Given these educational and professional backgrounds
of participants here, it can readily be assumed that they are all advanced speak-
ers of English. However, in order to ensure that all participants are at a certain
English proficiency level, I used a cloze test. According to the results of the cloze
test, participants were grouped into two levels: high and high-intermediate.
The cloze test was also given to 15 native English speakers to obtain a baseline
for comparison.
With respect to the frequency of L1 use, some the individuals in this
group had English-speaking and some Turkish-speaking partners. This nat-
urally caused some variability among participants with respect to the amount
of L1 contact. The difficulty of defining and quantifying the amount of contact
with the L1 has already been addressed in other attrition research (e.g. de Bot
et al. 1991). Following de Bot et al., frequency of use was defined in two lev-
els: frequent and infrequent. This grouping is based on information gathered
from participants’ responses on a questionnaire. It appeared that participants
with an English-speaking partner used the L1 Turkish less than those with a
Turkish partner.
In the area of language attrition, it is important to establish a baseline to
which any language change can be compared. To establish this baseline, 30 na-
 Ayşe Gürel
tive Turkish speakers, aged between 20–70 (mean age: 40), were tested. This
group was composed of people who have been living in Turkey since birth and
who had some knowledge of English. This was necessary as one of the tests in-
volved simple short stories in English. Except for the two English teachers in
this group, all of the controls had beginner-level English. The control group
was also matched with the experimental group for educational level.7
. Tests
The tests included a written interpretation task, a truth-value judgment task
and a picture identification-listening task.
.. Test 1: Written interpretation task
This test was adopted from Kanno (1997). It included 48 items with 24 ref-
erential and 24 quantified antecedents, where each category had 12 overt and
12 null pronouns. In this test, participants were given a Turkish sentence like
(11) and asked to select possible antecedent(s) (from among the three options
given) for the embedded subject pronoun. For example in (11), participants
were expected to circle the option (b) (i.e., disjoint reading) as the overt pro-
noun o cannot be bound by the matrix subject in Turkish.
(11) Murati
Murat
[o-nun*i/j
s/he-gen
sinema-ya
cinema-dat
gid-eceğ-i]-ni
go-nom-3sgposs-acc
söyle-di.
say-pst
‘Murati said (that) [ s/he*i/j would go to the movies].’
Soru (question): Sizce bu cümleye göre kim sinemayagidecek olabilir? (According
to this sentence, who could be the person that would go to the movies?)
(a) Murat
(b) Başka bir kişi (some other person)
(c) Hem (a) hem (b) (Both (a) and (b))
Besides these complex clauses, the test also included simple possessive DP
constructions such as (12) below:
(12) Herkes
Everyone
[elbise-si-nin
dress-3sgposs-gen
çok
very
pahalı
expensive
ol-duğ-u]-nu
be-nom-3sgposs-acc
söyle-di
say-pst
‘Everyonei said [proi/j (their/his/her) dress] is expensive.’
Attrition in L1 competence 
Soru (question): Sizce bu cümleye göre kimin elbisesi çok pahalı olabilir? (Ac-
cording to this sentence, whose dress could be expensive?)
(a) Herkesin (Everyone’s)
(b) Başka bir kişinin (Some other person’s)
(c) Hem (a) hem (b) (Both (a) and (b))
In the example above, the matrix subject is a quantified DP, the embedded
subject is a null pronoun, which can potentially take both ‘everyone’ (bound
reading) and ‘some other person’ (disjoint reading) as antecedents. Thus, par-
ticipants were expected to choose the option (c) here.
Testing knowledge of binding in ambiguous contexts such as (12) above
is a problem that L2 researchers have recently addressed (e.g. Bruhn-Garavito
1995; White, Bruhn-Garavito, Kawasaki, Pater and Prévost 1997). If partici-
pants are given only two options to choose from, they are forced to make a
preference between the two possible antecedents. However, accepting one of
them does not necessarily mean that participants completely exclude the other
option. They might simply be expressing their preference for one over the
other. Given this potential problem, I also included another task, a truth-value
judgment task that has been developed to deal especially with this particular
ambiguity and preference problem.
.. Test 2: Truth-value judgment task (Story task)
This test was adopted from Dekydtspotter et al. (1997) and White et al. (1997).
In this task, participants were given 12 short English stories and asked to judge
the following Turkish sentence as true or false according to the context given
in the story. All of the sentences were grammatical; their appropriateness de-
pended on the context provided by the stories. The stories were used to make
as salient as possible in the minds of participants one of the interpretations
(bound or disjoint). The following test item illustrates this point:
(13) Story:
Mary and Brian went to a restaurant. Mary ordered seafood and Brian
ordered a pizza. The bill came to 50 dollars. Brian complained that the bill
was high but Mary didn’t agree.
Target sentence to be judged:
Mary
Mary
restoran-ı
restaurant-acc
pahalı
expensive
bul-duğ-u-nu
find-nom-3sgposs-acc
söyle-di.
say-pst
‘Maryi said (that) proi/j (s/he) found the restaurant expensive.’
 Ayşe Gürel
In this item, the embedded subject position is occupied by pro. Thus, the sen-
tence is ambiguous as pro has two potential antecedents, Mary and Brian. As
mentioned earlier, the null pronoun is likely to have sentential rather than dis-
joint reference. The story above requires the antecedent to be disjoint. The
assumption is that forcing the disjoint reading might override any preference
for sentential antecedents. If learners have knowledge that coreferentiality of
pro with disjoint reference is possible, they should choose true in this item; in
contrast, if they assume that this is not possible; in other words, if they allow
the matrix subject as antecedent, they should choose false.
In this task, each story appeared three times with a target Turkish sentence
following it. Each time, the target sentence included a different pronoun (i.e.,
the overt pronouns, o, kendisi and the null pronoun). For example, in another
test item, the story in (13) appears with the overt pronoun o in the embedded
subject position. This time, if participants answer as true, this means that they
get the disjoint reading but if they say false, that suggests that they get the bound
reading for the overt pronoun o, an option that is not allowed in native Turkish
grammar. However, in English, the embedded subject pronoun can be bound
by the matrix subject Mary. Thus, any response in that direction might suggest
L2 English effects.
.. Test 3: Picture identification-listening task
This test is also a truth value judgment task and in that sense it is similar to
the previous task described above but instead of stories, it involves listening
and picture identification. In this test, participants were asked to listen to a
series of Turkish sentences, involving pronouns and judge the corresponding
colour picture in front of them as true or false according to the sentence they
hear. Participants listened to the sentences on a tape-recorder. Each sentence
was played only once. Participants responded out loud during this period and
their responses were marked by the researcher.
This test included 24 sentences (8 different pictures, each repeated three
times) in referential contexts only.8
The items included 16 overt and 8
null pronouns.
One of the test pictures and the test sentences is given below (the colours
are typed in the following illustration):
Participants hear:
(14) Ahmet
Ahmet
Sarıi
yellow
o-nun*i/j
s/he-gen
resim
picture
çek-tiğ-i-ni
take-nom-3sgposs-acc
söyle-di.
say-past
‘Ahmet Sarıi said that s/he*i/j took picture(s).’
Attrition in L1 competence 
Mehmet Ye
ã
sil
(Mr. Green)
Ahmet Sar
(Mr. Yellow)
F
Figure 1. A picture used in the picture identification-listening task (Test 3)
In comparison to the first two untimed tests, in this task, more ‘on-line’ pro-
cessing was involved as participants heard target sentences in real time duration
and made their judgments in a short period of time.
. Results
A one-factor (i.e., group: control, acquisition and attrition) ANOVA was con-
ducted. It should be noted at this point that since this study is part of a larger
investigation (Gürel 2002) that includes an L2 acquisition group (n = 28), the
total number of subjects on which the original analysis is based is 82.
 Ayşe Gürel
. Summary of group results
As can be seen in Table 1, although, in all tests, there was a tendency to have a
disjoint reading for the overt pronoun o, the attrition group diverged from the
native controls by allowing more bound as well as ambiguous interpretations
for o. Planned comparisons conducted within an ANOVA revealed that in the
quantified context in Test 1, the attrition group allowed the bound reading
for the overt pronoun o at a significantly higher percentage [F(1,79) = 3.98,
p = 0.05]. A similar difference was obtained in Test 2 in referential [F(1,79) =
24.13, p < 0.0001] and quantified contexts [F(1,79) = 22.39, p < 0.0001]. The
Table 1. Group results for Test 1, 2 and 3
Referential antecedents Quantified antecedents
Overt subjects Null subjects Overt subjects Null subjects
O kendisi pro O kendisi pro
TEST 1
Control n = 30
Bound 1%* 36% 16% 2% 32% 10%
Disjoint 94% 0% 0% 89% 0% 3%
Bnd & Dis 5% 64% 84% 9% 68% 87%
Attrition n = 24
Bound 1% 81% 64% 6% 63% 43%
Disjoint 83% 3% 2% 82% 7% 14%
Bnd & Dis 15% 16% 34% 12% 30% 43%
TEST 2
Control n = 30
Bound 4% 79% 76% 3% 81% 74%
Disjoint 96% 21% 24% 97% 19% 26%
Attrition n = 24
Bound 30% 74% 82% 22% 73% 76%
Disjoint 70% 26% 18% 78% 27% 24%
TEST 3
Control n = 30
Bound 0% 85% 78%
Disjoint 100% 15% 22%
Attrition n = 24
Bound 21% 97% 92%
Disjoint 79% 3% 8%
*Percentages indicate how many times the participants interpreted each pronoun with a particular (e.g., bound or
disjoint) interpretation.
Attrition in L1 competence 
same results hold in Test 3 in the referential context F(1,79) = 13.72, p < 0.001].
These results suggest that the ‘disjointness’ requirement of the overt pronoun
o in Turkish is not strictly obeyed by L1 attriters, possibly due to interference
from L2 English.
As can be seen in Table 1, none of the groups treated kendisi like o in any of
the tasks. Thus, the attrition group was able to preserve the distinction between
the two overt pronominals with respect to their binding properties.
With respect to pro, the attrition group seemed to have maintained that pro
is potentially ambiguous between bound and disjoint readings.
In sum, similar to the native controls, for L1 attriters, there are clear in-
terpretational differences between o and pro on the one hand, and between
o and kendisi, on the other hand. While the overt pronoun o was most of-
ten assigned the disjoint reading, pro and kendisi received mostly bound or
ambiguous readings.
Recall that participants in the attrition group were grouped according to
the number of years they spent in the L2 country. In order to see whether the
length of stay factors into the degree of loss in L1 attrition, a separate one-factor
ANOVA was conducted. However, results revealed no length of stay main effect
in any of the tests for the attrition group. This means that ‘time spent in an
L2 country’ was not relevant for the level of performance in pronoun binding.
That is, those who stayed in an L2 country longer do not necessarily show more
L1 attrition than those who stayed less. This suggests that the length of stay is
not an important factor in the L1 attrition process. Probably, as de Bot et al.
(1991) suggest, time only becomes relevant when there is very little L1 contact.9
. Individual results
It has been suggested that group results may not always reflect the properties
of individual grammars in L2 acquisition (Eckman 1994; White et al. 1997). I
assume that L1 attrition, like L2 acquisition, is subject to considerable individ-
ual variation. Therefore, I also analysed the individual results. In this analysis,
individual judgments for the overt pronoun o were examined in order to see
the extent and systematicity of L2 transfer in individual grammars (see Table
2).10
As long as similar tendencies are obtained in both group and individual
results, we can be confident about the findings.
In Test 1, 75% of the participants allowed correct interpretation to the overt
pronoun o. In Test 2, this percentage is somewhat lower (67%) and in Test 3,
71% of the attriters responded correctly. If we compare these individual results
to those of the controls, we see a difference (compare 90% for the controls to
 Ayşe Gürel
Table 2. Individual results for the overt pronoun o (Test 1, 2 and 3)
Test 1 Test 2 Test 3
Consist Inconsist. Consist Inconsist. Consist Inconsist.
Control n = 30 27/30 3/30 30/30 0/30 30/30 0/30
(90%) (10%) (100%) (0%) (100%) (0%)
Attrition n = 24 18/24 6/24 16/24 8/24 17/24 7/24
(75%) (25%) (67%) (33%) (71%) (29%)
Years of stay
1 (10–19 yrs) 10 3 9 4 11 2
2 (20–29 yrs) 6 1 5 2 4 3
3 (30 yrs-) 2 2 2 2 2 2
Total 18 6 16 8 17 7
Use of L1
Frequent 12 5 11 6 11 6
Infrequent 6 1 5 2 6 1
Total 18 6 16 8 17 7
L2 Proficiency
High 17 5 14 8 15 7
High-Intermediate 1 1 2 0 2 0
Total 18 6 16 8 17 7
75% in Test 1, 100% to 67% in Test 2, and again 100% to 71%). This suggests
that L1 attriters seem to be different from the native controls at group as well
as individual level.
With respect to the effects of the length of stay, L1 use and L2 proficiency,
we do not see any clear role of the length of stay in the distribution of consistent
and inconsistent behaviours. That is, it is not the case that the rate of incon-
sistent behaviours to consistent behaviours gets smaller as the time spent in an
L2 country increases. The use of the L1 seems to have a role here. For exam-
ple, in Test 1, out a total of 17 frequent L1 users, 12 are found to be consistent,
whereas only 5 are inconsistent. This might suggest that the frequent use of the
L1 has a ‘blocking effect’ in attrition. However, the amount of inconsistent be-
haviours is also less than the amount of inconsistent behaviours in the case of
infrequent L1 users. Furthermore, the proficiency level in L2 does not seem to
have a ‘facilitative effect’ in attrition. For example, in Test 1, out of 22 highly
proficient English speakers, 17 made consistent judgments, only 5 were found
to be inconsistent. That suggests that the use of L2 English does not necessarily
lead to inconsistency in L1 grammar.
Attrition in L1 competence 
In sum, it was not possible to clearly determine the source of L1 attrition. A
more controlled participant selection and more clear quantification of factors
such as the frequency of L1 use (or L1 contact) are necessary.
Although the source is not clear, there are obvious effects of L2 transfer
that lead to L1 attrition. Individual results are in line with group results in the
sense that in both analyses, L1 attriters seem to diverge from the native controls
in assigning the correct ‘disjoint’ reading for the overt pronoun o.
. Conclusion
Despite the influence of non-pro-drop L2 English, L1 attriters are able to main-
tain the subtle distinction between the binding properties of overt and null
pronouns and between the two overt pronouns in Turkish. However, due to
L2 English, the Turkish overt pronoun o is attributed binding properties of
the English overt pronoun ‘s/he’, disregarding the language-specific constraints
in terms of binding of the overt pronoun o in the subject position. This is
a restructuring or reanalysis of L1 Turkish binding options on the model of
L2 English.
In conclusion, what is documented in this study is restructuring of the
L1 grammar at some deep syntactic competence level. In that sense, this sug-
gests that native competence of late L2 acquirers is alterable due to extensive L2
exposure, together with less accessible L1 input.
As a final note, this study provides a new set of data from adult L1 at-
trition in the domain of syntax. I hope that this will bring in new empirical
perspective into the study of competence change defined within the genera-
tive framework and will also contribute to the understanding of the language
attrition phenomenon in general.
Notes
. In the rest of the paper, the term ‘bound’ is used instead of ‘coreferential’ for inter-
pretations in referential contexts for the sake of unity with interpretations in quantified
contexts.
. Turkish has traditionally been analysed as a pro-drop language (e.g. Enç 1986; Kornfilt
1984; Özsoy 1987) and the theoretical assumption on which this study is based follows this
traditional view (Gürel 2002). However, there are some recent arguments that Turkish can
actually be analysed as a non-pro-drop language (Öztürk 2001).
 Ayşe Gürel
. For the sake of clarity, the indices in English translations indicate what is (im)possible in
Turkish.
. The following abbreviations are used in this paper: acc = Accusative; dat = Dative; gen =
Genitive; nom = Nominalisation; neg = Negation; poss = Possessive; prg = Progressive;
pst = Past; sg = Singular.
. According to the OPC, in pro-drop languages, overt and null pronouns demonstrate
different interpretative properties as bound or referential pronouns. The overt pronouns
cannot receive a bound variable interpretation in contexts where a null pronoun could
occur.
. These two participants had their first exposure to English at the age of 7.
. Out of 24 people in the attrition group, 17 had a university and 5 had a high school de-
gree. The other 2 people were secondary school graduates. Similarly, the majority of controls
had a university degree (25 out of 30). 3 of the other 5 participants were high school and 2
of them were secondary school graduates.
. This is due to the fact that illustrating contexts with quantified antecedents (e.g. ‘Ev-
eryone says s/he sings well’ or ‘Nobody said he painted the wall’) is very difficult. Even if
done, illustrations might not be very clear for the participant who has to judge them in a
restricted time period. Therefore, all the actions illustrated in the test were carried out by
two characters ‘Mr. Yellow’ and ‘Mr. Green’ (adapted from White et al. 1997).
. De Bot et al. (1991) found that the amount of time spent in an L2 setting becomes rel-
evant only when there is not much contact with the L1. Following this, ‘L1 contact’ was
also analysed as one of the main effects. However, the ‘length of stay-L1 contact’ interac-
tion could not be analysed as in some cases there were not enough participants on which
the analysis could be performed (e.g. there was no one who fell into the ‘level 3’ in terms
of length of stay and the ‘infrequent’ level in terms of L1 use). Therefore, an analysis of the
‘frequency of L1 use-length of stay’ interaction effect in conjunction with ‘frequency of L1
use’ main effect could not be done in this study. This was all due to the fact that the main
selection criterion in this study was based on ‘length of stay’. Therefore, L1 use could not
be controlled for in the initial selection procedure. I would like to note this as one of the
factors that future researchers should consider. Yet, given the practical difficulties related
to the participant selection/availability, this factor cannot always be controlled for by the
researcher.
. In this analysis, I wanted to see the consistency of correct ‘disjoint’ responses for the
overt pronoun o. In Test 1 and 2, the total number of items involving the overt pronoun
o was 12 and in the last test, it was 8. Following Eckman (1994) and White et al. (1997), I
took the consistency threshold to be 75%. This corresponds to 9 or more correct responses
out of 12 (Test 1 and 2) and 6 or more correct responses out of 8 (Test 3). This means, for
example, if a participant responded correctly (i.e. gave ‘disjoint-only’ responses) 9 times out
of 12, then s/he was included in the ‘consistent’ category. If, however, the correct number of
responses is below 9, s/he was considered in the ‘inconsistent’ category. Then, the percentage
of participants that had consistent and inconsistent behaviour with respect to the judgment
of the overt pronoun o was calculated.
Attrition in L1 competence 
References
Bot, K. de, Gommans, P., & Rossing, C. (1991). “L1 loss in an L2 environment: Dutch
immigrants in France”. In H. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition
(pp. 31–51). Cambridge: CUP.
Bruhn-Garavito, J. (1995). “L2 acquisition of verb complementation and Binding Principle
B”. In F. R. Eckman, D. Highland, P. W. Lee, J. Mileham, & R. R. Weber (Eds.), Second
Language Acquisition Theory and Pedagogy (pp. 167–188). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence
Erlbaum.
Chomsky, N. (1981). Lectures in Government and Binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
Chomsky, N. (1982). Some Concepts and Consequences of the Theory of Government and
Binding. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. (1986). Knowledge of Language. New York, NY: Praeger.
Chomsky, N., & Lasnik, H. (1995). “Principles and parameters theory”. In N. Chomsky
(Ed.), The Minimalist Program (pp. 13–127). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Dekydtspotter, L., Sprouse, R., & Anderson, B. (1997). “The interpretative interface in L2
acquisition: The process-result distinction in English-French interlanguage grammars”.
Language Acquisition, 6 (4), 297–332.
Eckman, F. R. (1994). “Local and long-distance anaphora in second language acquisition”.
In E. E. Tarone, S. M. Gass, & A. D. Cohen (Eds.), Research Methodology in Second
Language Acquisition (pp. 207–225). Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Enç, M. (1986). “Topic switching and pronominal subjects in Turkish”. In D. I. Slobin
& K. Zimmer (Eds.), Studies in Turkish Linguistics (pp. 195–208). Amsterdam and
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
George, L. M., & Kornfilt, J. (1981). “Finiteness and boundedness in Turkish.” In F. W. Henry
(Ed.), Binding and Filtering (pp. 105–127). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Gürel, A. (2002)). Linguistic Characteristics of Second Language Acquisition and First
Language Attrition: Turkish overt versus null pronouns. Unpublished Doctoral
Dissertation, Montreal: McGill University.
Jordens, P., Bot, K. de, & Trapman, H. (1989). “Linguistic aspects of regression in German
case marking”. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 11, 179–204.
Kanno, K. (1997). “The acquisition of null and overt pronominals in Japanese by English
speakers”. Second Language Research, 13 (3), 299–321.
Kornfilt, J. (1984). Case Marking, Agreement, and Empty Categories in Turkish. Unpublished
Doctoral Dissertation, Cambridge: Harvard University.
Manzini, R. M., & Wexler, K. (1987). “Parameters, binding theory, and learnability”.
Linguistic Inquiry, 18 (3), 413–444.
Montalbetti, M. M. (1984). After Binding. On the interpretation of pronouns. Unpublished
Doctoral Dissertation, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Özsoy, A. S. (1987). “The null subject parameter and Turkish”. In H. E. Boeschoten &
L. T. Verhoeven (Eds.), Studies on Modern Turkish. Proceedings of the Third Conference
on Turkish Linguistics (pp. 82–90). Tilburg: Tilburg University Press.
Öztürk, B. (2001). “Turkish as a non-pro-drop language”. In E. E. Taylan (Ed.), The Verb in
Turkish (pp. 239–259). Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
 Ayşe Gürel
Pavlenko, A. (2000). “L2 influence on L1 in late bilingualism”. Issues in Applied Linguistics,
11 (2), 175–205.
Seliger, H. W. (1996). “Primary language attrition in the context of bilingualism”. In T. J.
Bhatia & W. C. Ritchie (Eds.), Handbook of Second Language Acquisition (pp. 605–626).
New York, NY: Academic Press.
Sharwood-Smith, M. (1989). “Cross-linguistic influence in language loss”. In K. Hyltenstam
& L. K. Obler (Eds.), Bilingualism Across the Life Span (pp. 185–201). Cambridge: CUP.
Thomas, M. (1993). Knowledge of Reflexives in a Second Language. Amsterdam and
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
White, L. (1989). Universal Grammar and Second Language Acquisition. Amsterdam and
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
White, L., Bruhn-Garavito, J., Kawasaki, T., Pater, J., & Prévost, P. (1997). “The researcher
gave the subject a test about himself: Problems of ambiguity and preference in the
investigation of reflexive binding”. Language Learning, 47 (1), 145–172.
Methodological aspects of a generative-based
attrition study
Bede McCormack
Columbia University
Introduction
This paper discusses methodological and linguistic issues associated with a
generative approach to language attrition research. Although it considers a
study of second language attrition, the research methodology used and the
choice of linguistic structure to investigate are applicable to first language attri-
tion studies of a generative nature as well. The study described here is based on
my 2001 PhD thesis on the loss of principles of reflexive binding in L2 English
among L1 Japanese speakers. This was a qualitative, longitudinal, multiple case
study which investigated the attrition of the binding principles which govern
the relationship between reflexive pronouns such as himself and herself, and
their potential antecedents. Since English and Japanese differ in the domains
in which reflexives may be bound, with English at one end of the markedness
hierarchy first proposed by Wexler and Manzini (1987) and Japanese at the
other, the binding patterns which emerge provide an interesting area for attri-
tion research. The results of the study suggest that, despite the apparent loss
of control over some aspects of English reflexive binding, the attrited grammar
which emerged was neither L1 nor L2-like, yet remained within the bounds of
binding patterns allowed by the principles of Government and Binding as pro-
posed by Chomsky (1980a, 1980b, 1981). This suggests, then, that an attrited
aspect of language may not only be the result of pressure from the dominant
language, but also a result of unconscious, speaker-internal processes.
This paper will focus on the following aspects of the study:
a. Adopting a theoretical framework to investigate attrition
b. Selecting a linguistic feature for analysis
 Bede McCormack
c. Informant selection
d. Test design
e. Presentation of results
f. Discussion of results
. Adopting a theoretical framework to investigate attrition
As described in the introduction to this volume, attrition research has typically
involved two versions of the regression hypothesis, namely the “reverse order”,
or “regression” hypothesis which proposes that the order in which attrition
occurs is opposite to the order in which the language was acquired, and the
“inverse relation hypothesis” which states that what has been learned best will
be most resistant to loss (Yoshitomi 1994:12). Studies using these hypotheses
provide valuable descriptions of a broad range of linguistic categories which
are lost such as lexical items and morphology, and the social circumstances
which surround such loss. In addition to looking at pedagogic and social fac-
tors involved in attrition, language attrition researchers also need to consider
other factors such as the “frequency of input, perceptual saliency, features of
the attriting as well as the replacing language, and considerations of marked-
ness and language universals” (Hansen 1999:150). Hansen and Chen’s (2001)
investigation of the loss of numeral classifiers indeed supports the proposition
that the regression of the acquisition sequence may be driven by a universal ac-
cessibility hierarchy. Pushing this line of inquiry, we might further narrow our
focus and ask how we can account for attrited forms which are neither L1 nor
L2 induced, yet which adhere to the constraints found in natural language. Are
such forms entirely the result of transfer and forgetting? Most probably not.
One possible explanation might be that these attrited forms are in part the re-
sult of psycholinguistic processes similar to those which guide L1, and possibly
L2, acquisition.
One theoretical framework which addresses such psycholinguistic pro-
cesses is Chomsky’s (1981, 1986) theory of Government and Binding (GB). In
adopting this framework for their work on L1 attrition, Sharwood Smith and
van Buren (1991:17) note that “however satisfactorily situated attrition data
were within current sociolinguistic models, they could not be properly under-
stood without considering their psycholinguistic status.” Even as far back as
1983, Sharwood Smith noted: “It would be interesting to see to what extent the
tendency to restructure grammars in cases of loss was dictated by principles of
markedness and core grammar as propounded in Chomsky (1980b)” (p. 229).
Generative-based L2 attrition 
In particular, it seems important to know whether an individual has lost or
is even able to lose those kinds of underlying mental representations of his
or her attriting language that may be identified as Chomskian style Universal
Grammar (UG)-based competence. Or perhaps the competence remains, but
the ability to access it is lost. This could be thought of as performance attrition
(O’Grady 2001).
If we accept Sharwood Smith and van Buren’s (1991) claim that attrition
researchers need to include an attriter’s psycholinguistic status in their theoret-
ical framework,what new suggestions can be made? One possibility is that, if an
attriter does have access to UG, we might surmise that in the absence of expo-
sure to the target language, any UG-constrained aspects of that language such
as parameterisation of headedness or constraints on movement might behave
differently from knowledge of non-UG-constrained areas such as lexical items
or inflectional and derivational morphology. Finding evidence that UG-driven
aspects exhibit differing patterns of loss would suggest that there are certain
UG constraints on language attrition and would contribute to a more explana-
torily powerful hypothesis of language attrition than the different versions of
the regression hypothesis alone provide.
As descriptive models of both L1 and L2 language attrition increasingly
contribute to our understanding of the social and pedagogical influences on
loss, it seems appropriate then that there be an accompanying focus which
seeks to explain this loss at the psycholinguistic level. Working within such an
abstract framework as generative linguistics, researchers need to identify and
investigate measurable linguistic features which can inform us of an aspect of a
speaker’s knowledge of the language in question.
. Selecting a linguistic feature for analysis
As discussed by Gürel (this volume), evidence of changes in an individual’s
competence at the syntactic level can be observed in binding phenomena,
where deviant forms of anaphoric relationships occur in the attriting lan-
guage. The study under consideration in this chapter complements Gürel’s
investigation by examining the loss of constraints on reflexive binding, specif-
ically Principle A of the binding theory which requires that an anaphor be
bound in a local domain. “Bound” here means the anaphoric expression and
its antecedent are co-indexed, and that the antecedent constituent-commands
(c-commands) the anaphor, as in (1).
 Bede McCormack
(1) Alexi knew Jasonj deceived himself*i/j
In (1), himself can refer back to Jason (co-index j), but not to Alex (co-index
i). For our purposes, the definition of c-command proposed by Chomsky and
Lasnik (1995:102) and described earlier by Gürel will be used.
The focus of this study then, was whether the governing category of the
language prone to loss (English) attrites, and if so, how does the attrited form
affect a speaker’s reflexive pronoun system. Let us briefly contrast the En-
glish and Japanese governing categories. In English, a reflexive must be bound
to a “local” antecedent, one within the minimal clause containing a subject.
Japanese, on the other hand, does not require the reflexive to be bound to a lo-
cal antecedent, but allows co-reference with either the local or “long-distance”
(matrix) antecedent. In neither language, however, does the finiteness of the
subordinate clause play a role in determining grammaticality. Examples (2)
through (5) compare English and Japanese and illustrate this point by us-
ing asterisked co-indices to identify grammatically unacceptable antecedents
in English.
(2) a. Alicei blamed herselfi
b. Alicei-ga
Alice-nom
zibuni-o
self-acc
semeta
blame-past
(3) a. Alicei said that Suej blamed herself*i/j
b. Alicei-wa
Alice-top
Suej-ga
Sue-nom
zibuni/j o
self-acc
semeta-to
blame-past-comp
itta.
say-past
(4) a. Alicei told Suej to blame herself*i/j
b. Alicei-wa
Alice-top
Suej-ga
Sue-nom
zibuni/j o
self-acc
semete-to
blame-comp
itta.
say-past
(5) a. Alicei said that Suej said that Maryk blamed herself*i/*j/k
b. Alicei-wa
Alice-top
Suej-ga
Sue-nom
Maryk-ga
Mary-nom
zibuni/j/k-wo
self-acc
semeta-to
blame-past-comp
itta-to
say-past-comp
itta.
say-past
In (2a) herself refers to the local antecedent Alice, which also happens to be
the matrix subject. The Japanese equivalent of this monoclausal sentence, (2b),
corresponds to the English interpretation. In (3a) however, herself refers to Sue,
but not to Alice, as Alice is outside the local clause. In the Japanese equivalent
of this biclausal sentence, (3b), however, the reflexive zibun is bound by an
NP that can appear in any position in the sentence that c-commands zibun.
In this way the antecedent of the reflexive is not limited to the nearest clause
Generative-based L2 attrition 
and may refer back to either Sue or Alice. Since the antecedent here may be in
the matrix sentence subject as well as in the local clause, the Japanese range of
potential antecedents is greater than that of English. An attrited English system
could show evidence of transfer from the Japanese system in that the informant
allows the greater (i.e. Japanese-like) range of antecedents in English.
(4a) and (b) illustrate the same phenomena as in (3a) and (b), but here the
subordinate clause in (4) includes a nonfinite verb form whereas (3) includes
a finite form. Despite the tense difference, the grammatical antecedent of each
reflexive in each language respectively remains the same. This illustrates that
finiteness does not play a role in English or Japanese. As we will see, however,
it does affect reflexive binding in other languages such as Russian in that long-
distance binding is allowed out of a clause with a nonfinite verb.
(5a) and (b) illustrate a more extreme form of (3) and (4). Despite the
multiple NPs, the reflexive herself in English still only refers back to the nearest
antecedent, Mary, whereas Japanese, zibun in (5b) can refer back to any of the
three possible antecedents – Alice, Sue, or Mary.
The above examples illustrate the tension between English and Japanese
regarding which clause may function as a governing category. English is more
restricted, Japanese freer.
. Informant selection
The test subjects for this investigation were six Japanese female college stu-
dents. Their knowledge of English reflexive binding was tested over various
periods of time, ranging from 9 months to more than 16 months, depending
on the test subject. Some of the variables which complicated the selection of
informants were their age at first exposure to English, the length of exposure,
the input type, and their proficiency at cessation of exposure to English (i.e.
when they returned to Japan) immediately prior to data collection. Three fur-
ther complications were that the test subjects’ level of English at the start of
data collection had to be high, testing had to begin immediately upon their re-
turn from abroad, and the subjects had to be willing to be involved with the
study for at least a year. As it turned out, finding test subjects was difficult, and
even then, English levels as reflected in their scores on the Test of English as a
Foreign Language (TOEFL) were slightly compromised in two cases (see Table
1 below). Nonetheless, a high level of proficiency with respect to English bind-
ing principles was observed in all six test subjects upon their return to Japan,
and they generously participated in the research project.
 Bede McCormack
In this study, three of the test subjects were childhood bilinguals (“re-
turnee” informants R1, R2, and R3), and three had no exposure to English
in the L2 environment until they were college aged (“student” informants S1,
S2, and S3). The inclusion of three returnees and three non-returnees in this
study allowed for the effects of age at first exposure to the L2 on attrition to
also be considered.
In addition to the test subjects, the results of six native English speakers
were also included as a control group. The native speaker controls were given
the entire battery of test sessions at once and they responded to all 234 truth
value test target items and distractors and 143 grammaticality judgment target
items and distractors over the course of one to two weeks. Additional native
speaker results were expected, but only six completed all test items. Details of
the Japanese test subjects appear in Table 1.
. Test design
Although spontaneous data collection techniques can provide a broad range
of authentic speech patterns, it is unlikely that such an approach can elicit
a significant amount of target forms as specific as those required to investi-
gate binding. Therefore, the present study used both truth value judgment and
grammaticality judgment tests, each test attempting to establish each infor-
mant’s degree of adherence to the local binding restriction in English biclausal
sentences with finite subordinate clauses, and biclausal sentences with nonfi-
nite subordinate clauses.
In truth value Type 1a sentences, an associated story makes the local an-
tecedent in the stimulus sentence the pragmatic (and in English the grammat-
ical) choice of the two potential antecedents, and for Type 1b sentences, the
story makes the long distance antecedent in the stimulus sentence the prag-
matically correct (but for English ungrammatical) choice. Let us look at an
example of each type.
(6) Truth Value Type 1a: Biclausal sentence, finite verb in embedded clause,
pragmatically correct
The CIA officer captured a foreign spy who knew many secrets. The spy
drank some poison and died.
The officer knew the spy killed himself. (Expected judgment: True)
In (6), the two candidate antecedents of himself are the spy and the officer. If
a subject maintains her knowledge of UG constraints on binding with respect
Generative-based L2 attrition 
Table
1.
Ages
of
all
six
test
subjects
at
significant
periods
of
L2
acquisition,
including
type
of
exposure
and
TOEFL
*
details
(McCormack
2001:
133)
Test
Ages
Type
of
L2
Exposure
TOEFL
Age
at
TOEFL
Subject
Score
0;0–8;10
US
local
kindergarten
and
primary
school
R1
12;11–19;11
Compulsory
EFL
instruction
in
Japan,
including
2
years
at
university
630
18
20;4–21;4
US
university
6;3–10;2
US
local
primary
school
R2
13;1–20;2
Compulsory
EFL
instruction
in
Japan
including
2
years
at
university
580
19
20;8–21;7
US
university
8;3–11;1
US
local
primary
school
R3
13;0–20;1
Compulsory
EFL
instruction
in
Japan
including
2
years
at
university
533
20
20;8–21;8
US
university
13;4–20;6
Compulsory
EFL
instruction
in
Japan
including
2
years
at
university
S1
610
20
20;11–21;8
US
Pre-sessional
language
school
and
university
12;6–19;5
Compulsory
EFL
instruction
in
Japan
including
1.5
years
at
university
S2
593
19
19;6–20;7
US
university
13;1–20;8
Compulsory
EFL
instruction
in
Japan
including
2
years
at
university
S3
520
19
21;1–22;3
US
Pre-sessional
language
school
and
university
*The
TOEFL
consists
of
four
sections
(listening,
reading,
structure
and
writing)
and
has
a
maximum
combined
score
of
677
points.
A
minimum
score
of
550
is
generally
required
for
undergraduate
study
in
the
US,
600
for
graduate
study.
 Bede McCormack
to English, she should judge the stimulus sentence true and that it accurately
reflects the content of the story, namely that the spy killed himself. A judgment
of false was interpreted as reflecting a loss of English binding restrictions in
favour of the wider ranging Japanese restrictions, i.e., L1 transfer.
(7) Truth Value Type 1b: Biclausal sentence, finite verb in embedded clause,
pragmatically incorrect
One day, John was delivering letters when a big dog ran at him. John
tried to stop the dog, but it was too late. The dog grabbed John’s leg with
his teeth.
John knew the dog bit himself on the leg. (Expected judgment: False)
In (7), the two candidate antecedents of himself are the dog and John. If a sub-
ject maintains her knowledge of UG constraints on binding for English, she
should believe the stimulus sentence to be false and that it inaccurately reflects
the content of the story as himself is restricted to the embedded clause and can-
not refer back across the clause boundary to John. A judgment of true, however,
may reflect a change in her knowledge of constraints for English binding in that
she has broadened the governing category to allow the matrix subject to serve
as antecedent.
Truth value Type 2a and 2b sentences are structurally similar to TV 1a and
1b sentences, differing in that TV Type 2 sentences have a nonfinite verb in the
embedded clause, as in (8) and (9).
(8) Truth Value Type 2a: Biclausal sentence, nonfinite verb in embedded
clause, pragmatically correct
Arnold always asked George what the time was. George got tired of this
and told Arnold to buy a watch.
George wanted Arnold to buy himself a watch. (Expected judgment: True)
(9) Truth Value Type 2b: Biclausal sentence, nonfinite verb in embedded
clause, pragmatically incorrect
Ed was a customer at a fancy restaurant. He waited a long time for the
waiter to take his order. Finally he got up and asked the waiter for service.
Ed asked the waiter to serve himself. (Expected judgment: False)
As with the finite Type 1a sentences, maintenance of reflexive binding should
result in all TV Type 2a stimulus sentences being judged true, and TV Type
2b sentences judged false. Incorrect judgments here would suggest a subject’s
knowledge of the local domain for English had attrited under the influence of
her Japanese L1 binding principles.
Generative-based L2 attrition 
In addition to the truth-value judgment test, attrition data were also col-
lected by conducting a grammaticality judgment test. The stimulus sentences
in this test also reflected the local vs. long-distance distinction, and were ren-
dered either grammatical or ungrammatical by virtue of number discrepancies
as in (10), or gender discrepancies, as in (11).
(10) GJ Type 1a: Biclausal sentence, finite verb in embedded clause, number
agrees
His parents knew Ben had asked about himself.
(Expected judgment: OK (i.e., grammatical))
(11) GJ Type 1b: Biclausal sentence, finite verb in embedded clause, gender
agrees
Adam thought his daughter had served herself.
(Expected judgment: OK (i.e., grammatical))
A judgment of Wrong on sentences like (10) would suggest that the subject’s
knowledge of UG-determined constraints on the governing category for En-
glish had attrited as the test subject would presumably be trying to bind back
to the long distance antecedent His parents, but the anaphoric relationship is
blocked by the wrong number. In sentences such as (11), the gender of the re-
flexive and the local antecedent agree. As in (10), a judgment of Wrong for (11)
would suggest the test subject is attempting to bind long distance back to the
matrix subject Adam, but this time the anaphoric relationship is blocked by the
gender difference.
. Presentation of results
For each test subject, the period of time from her return to Japan to her last test
session was referred to as her ‘data collection period’. Although test subjects
had varying numbers of test sessions, all six had a data collection period last-
ing at least 1 year, except test subject S1 whose data collection lasted 9 months.
In order to compare test subjects’ results within a meaningful time-frame, each
test subject’s entire data collection period was divided into three approximately
equal sub-periods of time which are referredto as the initial, the secondary, and
the final data collection sub-periods. The exact length of each sub-period is de-
termined by when test sessions took place with respect to time since exposure
to English in the L2 environment ceased (i.e. time since returning to Japan),
thus causing the same sub-period for each test subject to vary somewhat. The
initial sub-period includes the point of re-entry into Japan to whichever test
 Bede McCormack
S3
S2
S1
R3
R2
R1
Months Since Return to Japan
Initial Secondary Final
0 5 10 15
Figure 1. Test subject data collection sub-periods by TSR (Time since re-entry into the
L1 environment)
session is closest to 4 months since her re-entry. For example, test subject S2
had her 6th test session on the 4th month and 3rd day after her return to Japan.
This test session is referred to as Time Since Re-entry (TSR) 4.1, the number
of months, in months and tenths of months, since re-entering the Japanese
environment. The secondary sub-period includes the approximately 4-month
period subsequent to the initial sub-period. For example in S2’s case, her sec-
ondary sub-period lasted from TSR 4.1 to TSR 8.1, 8 months and 3 days after
TSR 0, her re-entry date into Japan. These initial, secondary and final data col-
lection sub-periods for each Japanese test subject are represented in Figure 1.
Note that as test subject S1’s entire data collection period lasted only 9 months,
she has only initial and secondary sub-periods.
In analysing the six test subjects’ test performance, these three sub-periods
were used to compare the test subjects’ performance to each other. Because
Generative-based L2 attrition 
Table
2.
TV
scores
at
time
since
L1
reentry
(TSR)*
This
table
includes
each
test
subject’s
score
(percentage)
on
each
TV
test
session
she
took,
along
with
the
test
session
number
and
corresponding
TSR
number.
The
initial,
secondary
and
final
data
collection
sub-periods
presented
in
Figure
1
are
indicated
by
shading.
 Bede McCormack
of space constraints, we will only look at the truth value judgment test re-
sults, which were analysed in terms of degree of adherence to the principles
of reflexive binding in English as measured against the native English speaker
data. These results are represented in Table 2.
In Table 2, time is calculated from when a test subject’s exposure to English
ceased upon her return to Japan (TSR = 0). That is, all test subjects returned
to Japan at “0” months and then participated in the study for various periods
of time. For example, with a 16 month data collection period, R1 participated
the longest. She also exhibited the most stable results. At 9 months, test sub-
ject S1 has the shortest data collection period. However, compared to the other
five subjects at the nine-month mark, she showed one of the highest degrees
of maintenance of reflexive binding. On the other hand, test subject R3, a re-
turnee with childhood exposure to English in the States, shows a high level of
knowledge of reflexive use on her return to Japan, but this knowledge begins to
become unstable just five months after returning. By 14 months, R3’s perfor-
mance on the tests has attrited to a level similar to that of test subjects with no
childhood exposure to English (S2, and S3).
. Discussion
The general pattern exhibited by all six test subjects initially shows varying
but high levels of knowledge of reflexive binding. These levels then become
unstable, considerably in some cases, over the course of approximately 9 to
16 months. In particular, reflexives in nonfinite subordinate clauses show a
tendency to become bound outside the subordinate clause rather than to the
grammatical local antecedents, though local binding is maintained in tensed
subordinate clauses. Local binding in tensed clauses thus appears more re-
sistant to attrition than to binding in nonfinite clauses. This result correlates
with Thomas’ (1993) findings in her study of the acquisition of L2 English in
Japanese and Spanish learners. Thomas’ results suggest that her test subjects
acquired the local binding constraint in English non-tensed clauses later than
in tensed clauses. My results then, considered in light of the attrition data dis-
cussed here, lend support to de Bot and Weltens’ (1991) regression hypothesis.
If Thomas is right, and English binding restrictions in sentences such as Type
2a (biclausal nonfinite) are acquired only after those applying to sentences like
1a (biclausal finite) are in place, then the evidence found here of restrictions
applying to Type 2a sentences becoming unstable and attriting while restric-
Generative-based L2 attrition 
tions applying to Type 1a sentences are maintained would support the “first
learned, last lost” claims of the regression hypothesis.
One explanation for this may be that these speakers gradually lose the lo-
cal governing category restriction in English in the face of no L2 input, and
come to associate the governing category with their Japanese L1. In this case,
L1 influence can be held responsible for the loss of the test subjects’ English
binding restrictions and we can attribute attrition to L1 transfer. In particular,
this would explain the increasing rejection of the locally bound anaphors, as
Japanese does not allow binding to object antecedents. If changes in the test
subjects’ grammar were due solely to L1 influence, then the original L2 English
settings for reflexive binding may be thought of as having been “deset” to the
L1 setting, and the attriting grammar would eventually come to take on more
and more of the L1 grammar’s rules. This parameter desetting model would
not rely on any UG-like speaker-internal cognitive knowledge or processing
mechanism beyond the already instantiated L1 and L2.
However, the increasing distinction made by test subjects such as R3, S2
and S3 between tensed and non-tensed complements does point to the attri-
tion process being influenced by more than just L1 transfer. Finer and Broselow
(1986) suggest that evidence of this distinction is consistent with the value for
the governing category parameter of a possible natural language somewhere
between English and Japanese, such as Russian, in which the finite/nonfinite
distinction plays a role in determining the governing category. Progovac (1992)
illustrates this distinction and shows Russian allowing binding outside an in-
finitival clause as in (12a), but not outside a finite clause, as in (12b).
(12) a. Professori
professor
poprosil
asked
assistentaj
assistant-acc
citat’
to-read
svoii/j
self’s
doklad
report-acc
‘The professori asked the assistant to read self’si/j report’
b. Vaniai
Vania
znaet
knows
cto
that
Volodiaj
Volodia
liubit
loves
svoi-u*i/j
self’s-acc
zen-u
wife-acc
‘Vaniai knows that Volodiaj loves self’s*i/j wife’ (Progovac 1992:675)
In (12a), we see a nonfinite verb citat’ in the complement, and the pronoun
svoi taking Professor as its long distant antecedent, whereas in (12b), the fi-
nite verb liubit occurs in the complement, and svoi-u refers back to the local
antecedent, Volodia. Despite the fact that neither English nor Japanese makes
this finite/nonfinite distinction, test subjects in the present study did increas-
ingly develop a tendency to make the distinction, accepting long distance an-
tecedents in nonfinite biclausal sentences, but preferring the local antecedent
in finite sentences, where pragmatically appropriate.
 Bede McCormack
Although ungrammatical in English, such long distance antecedents are
UG-sanctioned. Were the test subjects to only accept long distance antecedents
and reject all local antecedents, a case could be made that by violating the GCP,
the test subjects’ grammar was not UG constrained. But this did not happen.
Instead, the tendency was for them to regress to an earlier stage of their in-
terlanguage in a UG-constrained way by increasingly accepting long distance
antecedents in nonfinite sentences, while maintaining the local binding restric-
tion in finite sentences. Never do any of the test subjects come to uniformly
reject all local antecedents. In particular, the robustness of the test subjects’ TV
type 1a sentences (biclausal finite) reflects strong adherence to the least marked
binding pattern (minimal category must have a subject). Only 7.5% (13 out of
172) Type 1a sentence misjudgements appear in the data, making the TV Type
1a sentences the sentence type most resistant to attrition.
This combination of maintenance of high levels of accuracy on the local
binding pattern, along with the acceptance of ungrammatical (for English)
long-distance antecedents in nonfinite clauses, supports the possibility that,
despite the emergence of a deviant grammar as attrition sets in, the emer-
gent grammar nonetheless remains UG constrained. And if we assume those
same UG constraints were at least partly responsible for the development of
the grammar of binding during the acquisition process, as Thomas (1993) sug-
gests, then it is entirely plausible that we can look to the psycholinguistic pro-
cesses guiding both the acquisition and attrition to account for corresponding
Regression Hypothesis-related phenomena.
. Conclusion
Although most test subjects failed to maintain their initial levels of knowl-
edge of the English Principle A-related binding phenomena, by the end of their
data collection periods, the attrited patterns identified in this study in no way
appeared to constitute a non-UG constrained “rogue” grammar. Neither can
these new forms be attributed to L1 transfer alone as they show patterns of
anaphoric relationships not found in either Japanese or English.
The implications of these results illustrate that adding a psycholinguis-
tic thread to the dominant sociolinguistic and regression-based approaches to
attrition research can potentially lead to richer, more multi-dimensional inves-
tigative techniques that will further contribute to a unified theory of both first
and second language attrition.
Generative-based L2 attrition 
References
Bot, K. de, & Weltens, B. (1991). “Regression, recapitulation, and language loss”. In
H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 31–51). Cambridge:
CUP.
Chomsky, N. (1980a). “On binding”. Linguistic Inquiry, 11, 1–46.
Chomsky, N. (1980b). Rules and Representations. New York, NY: Columbia University Press.
Chomsky, N. (1981). Lectures on Government and Binding. Dordrecht: Foris.
Chomsky, N. (1986). Knowledge of Language. New York, NY: Praeger.
Chomsky, N. & Lasnik, H. (1995). “Principles and parameters in syntactic theory”. In
N. Chomsky (Ed.), The Minimalist Program (pp. 13–127). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Finer, D., & Broselow, E. (1986). “Second language acquisition of reflexive binding”.
Proceedings of the Sixteenth Annual Meeting of the North Eastern Linguistic Society, 16,
154–168.
Hansen, L. (1999). “Not a total loss: The attrition of Japanese negation over three decades”.
In L. Hansen (Ed.), Second Language Attrition in Japanese Contexts (pp. 142–153). New
York, NY: Oxford University Press.
Hansen, L., & Chen, Y.-L. (2001). “What counts in the acquisition and attrition of numeral
classifiers?” JALT Journal, 23 (1), 90–110.
McCormack, B. (2001). The Maintenance and Loss of Reflexive Anaphors in L2 English.
Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, University of Durham, UK.
O’Grady, W. (2001). “Language Acquisition and Language Loss”. Plenary presentation,
Pacific Second Language Research Forum (PacSLRF), Honolulu, October 2001.
www.ling.hawaii.edu/faculty/ogrady/langacqlangloss.pdf.
Progovac, L. (1992). “Relativized SUBJECT: Long-distance reflexives without movement”.
Linguistic Inquiry, 23, 671–680.
Sharwood Smith, M. (1983). “On first language loss in the second language acquirer:
Problems of transfer”. In S. Gass & L. Selinker, (Eds.), Language Transfer in Language
Learning (pp. 222–231). Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Sharwood Smith, M., & van Buren, P. (1991). “First language attrition and the parameter
setting model”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition, (pp. 17–
30). Cambridge: CUP.
Thomas, M. (1993). Knowledge of Reflexives in a Second Language. Amsterdam and
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Wexler, K., & Manzini, R. (1987). “Parameters and learnability in binding theory”. In
T. Roeper & E. Williams (Eds.), Parameter Setting (pp. 41–89). Dordrecht: Reidel.
Yoshitomi, A. (1994). The Attrition of English as a Second Language of Japanese Returnee
Children. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, University of California, Los Angeles,
USA.
Convergent outcomes in L2 acquisition
and L1 loss
Silvina Montrul
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Introduction
L1 loss is a general term that covers attrition, incomplete acquisition, language
death, and even language change. L1 attrition, in my opinion, should only be
used to characterise loss of linguistic ability after an L1 was acquired com-
pletely (see also Köpke and Schmid, this volume). The best scenario is the
case of first generation immigrants, as those studied by Gürel (2002), Köpke
(2002), Major (1992), Sorace (2000), and Schmid (2002), among many others.
By contrast, in cases of adult second and third generation immigrants (the si-
multaneous bilinguals and early child L2 learners that will be reported here), it
is hard to establish whether these individuals acquired structural aspects of the
family or heritage language completely in early childhood (i.e., they reached
a steady state). Most probably they did not, and if they did, they might have
lost aspects of it soon afterwards, as recently documented by Silva-Corvalán
(2003) in a study of attrition and incompleteness of Spanish verbal morphol-
ogy in very young children. Moreover, bilingual school-aged children have been
shown to be very vulnerable to abrupt shifts in language dominance (Vihman
& McLaughlin 1982). Therefore, I refer to these cases as incomplete acquisi-
tion/attrition because it is hard to reconstruct their linguistic past. However,
for ease of exposition, I will leave out the “/attrition” part of the definition out,
and just refer to this group as incomplete learners (see also Polinsky 1997 for
this distinction).
The potential relationship between L2 acquisition and L1 attrition (1st
generation immigrants) within current linguistic theory (Chomsky 1995) has
been addressed by Sorace (1999, 2000a), Bouba, Filiaci, Heycock, Sorace, &
 Silvina Montrul
Tsimpli (2002), and Gürel (2002). In this chapter, I will attempt to characterise
the formal nature of incomplete acquisition by 2nd and 3rd generation bilin-
guals from the perspective of generative grammar, and to draw some parallels
with advanced stages of L2 acquisition, elaborating on conclusions reached in
Montrul(2002). L2 learnersreferto speakers of an L1 who began learningan L2
after puberty and are still in the process of learning. These can also be consid-
ered sequential or late bilinguals. The early bilinguals in this study are Spanish
heritage speakers living in the U.S. Heritage speakers are simultaneous bilin-
guals and child L2 learners whose family language is a minority language and
who live immersed in a linguistic environment where the majority language
predominates. These 2nd generation immigrants typically display great vari-
ability in their proficiency level and in different linguistic skills in the heritage
language (Polinsky 1997; Silva Corvalán 1994; Valdés 2000).
There are both theoretical and empirical reasons for comparing these two
populations. Conceptually, these two situations have in common external and
internal factors that appear to play a significant role in language development
and underdevelopment. For example, in both L2 acquisition and L1 attrition
there is the potential effect of transfer from the dominant language (L1 or L2
depending on the situation) (Cook 2003; Köpke 2002; Pavlenko 2000). There is
also the effect of potential universal mechanisms that are not related to the in-
fluence of the other language and that are common in language acquisition and
diachronic change (mechanisms that are part of Universal Grammar would fall
in this category). In L2 acquisition and in L1 attrition reduced input as well
as decreased frequency and degree of language use can also contribute signifi-
cantly to the erosion or lack of linguistic development toward the target gram-
mar (Köpke 2002). Finally, attitudes and motivation play a role in speakers’
willingness to maintain a family language or to continue learning an L2.
Based on these factors, my working hypothesis is that the eroded L1 gram-
mars of bilinguals at a given state or even the fossilised endstate resemble the
incomplete grammars typical of intermediate and advanced stages in L2 acqui-
sition. A representative schema of the comparison I attempt to make is shown
in Figure 1, where an adult monolingual speaker is assumed to have a “stable”
degree of (formal) linguistic competence X, an adult L2 learners is assumed to
have full competence in the L1 and advanced competence in the L2, and an
adult bilingual whose family language (L1) is weaker than the majority lan-
guage (L2) is assumed to have less competence in some areas of the L1 than
in the L2, and perhaps competence in many domains of the L2 is not quite
complete either (this is another empirical question). I will also argue that in
the case of L2 learners and heritage speakers the stronger language influences
Convergent outcomes in L2 acquisition and L1 loss 
a. monolingual b. L2 learner c. bilingual heritage speaker
(incomplete learner)
L L1 L1
L2 L2
Figure 1. Patterns of adult bilingual and monolingual competence and language
balance
the weaker language and predicts the patterns of incompleteness or loss found
at the structural level. This will be evident from the quantitative differences in
particular structural areas found between late bilinguals who are learning an
L2, and early bilinguals (heritage speakers) who show less proficiency in one of
the languages exposed to since birth (i.e., incomplete learners).
A second important aim of this chapter is to make a methodological claim:
If theories of L2 acquisition (SLA) can contribute to the field of language loss,
so can SLA empirical methods. Many studies of language loss have relied on
case studies or have looked at very few individuals (Polinsky in press; Silva Cor-
valán 2003), and this is a valid and suitable methodology to study particular
subjects longitudinally and to document how a particular grammar changes.
However, the field of language loss can also benefit from applying experimen-
tal methods, where a group of participants assumed to be undergoing linguistic
change is compared to a control or baseline group of individuals (preferably
monolinguals speaking the same dialect) who are assumed to have more “sta-
ble” competence. By using a variety of test instruments that have already been
successfully employed in SLA studies, namely instruments aimed at revealing
linguistic performance in production, recognition, comprehension, judgments
(of grammaticality, meaning, truth-value, etc.) and on-line processing of dif-
ferent grammatical phenomena, we can draw interesting comparisons between
the two populations and the results can have more validity. This will also allow
us to identify and investigate general trends in these populations. The studies
to be described in this chapter fulfil this requirement: I consider the combined
results of two independent but methodologically identical studies on Tense
and Aspect morphology in Spanish that I have conducted with adult English-
speaking post-puberty L2 classroom learners (Montrul & Slabakova 2003) and
with adult Spanish heritage speakers (Montrul 2002) (simultaneous Spanish-
English bilinguals from Hispanic background living in the United States whose
 Silvina Montrul
dominant language is English). Before going into the details of the experiment,
in the next section, I will turn to a description of how grammatical aspect is re-
alised in Spanish, followed by a characterisation of the phenomenon in current
generative terms.
. Interpretive properties of the preterit/Imperfect contrast in Spanish
Aspect refers to the internal temporal constituency of a situation, such that a
situation can be in progress or finished. Aspect is expressed lexically by the
meaning of the verb as well as by other elements in the predicate (direct ob-
jects, clitics, prefixes, prepositional phrases, etc.). According to Vendler (1967),
predicates are classified into four classes, as in Figure 2, based on eventivity
and telicity.
States, such as know, are predicates that have no input of energy and are
atelic (i.e., they do not have an inherent endpoint). Activities, accomplish-
ments and achievements are eventive predicates, either describing a process,
as in activities like run; a result, as in achievements like notice, or both, as in
accomplishments like run a mile. Like stative predicates, activities are atelic. By
contrast, accomplishments and achievements have endpoints and are telic.
In addition to lexical aspect, Spanish also marks grammatical aspect in the
past tense. Spanish has two past tense forms – the preterit and the imperfect.
The difference between the two has to do with the event being construed as
bounded (perfective), as in Paula construyó un castillo de arena ‘Paula built
a sand castle’, or unbounded (imperfective) as in Paula construía un castillo de
arena ‘Paula was building a sand castle.’ In principle, all four predicate types are
compatible with the two forms of the past, depending on context or on what
the speaker wants to convey,as shown in (1) through (4). For example, achieve-
ments in the imperfect are odd for many speakers if an appropriate context is
not provided (hence the symbol #).
STATES
ACTIVITIES
ACCOMPLISHMENTS
ACHIEVEMENTS
know
run
run a mile
notice
stative
dynamic
atelic
telic
Figure 2. Vendler’s classification according to lexical aspect
Convergent outcomes in L2 acquisition and L1 loss 
(1) El
the
auto
car
me
to me
costó/
cost-pret/
costaba
cost-impf
$20.000.
$20.000
state
‘The car cost me $20,000.’
(2) Juan
Juan
durmió/
slept-pret/
dormía
slept-impf
en
on
el
the
sofá.
sofa.
activity
‘Juan slept on the sofa.’
(3) Juan
John
corrió/
ran-pret/
corría
ran-impf
5 kms.
5 kms.
accomplishment
‘John ran 5 kms.’
(4) Juan
Juan
alcanzó
reached-pret/
/#alcanzaba
reached-impf
la
the
cima.
top
achievement
‘Juan reached the top.’
An important difference between Spanish and English is that English does not
have a past tense form equivalent to the Romance imperfect. English expresses
the progressive and continuous meaning that the imperfect expresses in Span-
ish with the past progressive. However, the past progressive is typically not
possible with most stative verbs (except for examples like I am liking my math
class these days). The English simple past is typically perfective, as the examples
in (5) show. With stative verbs, the English simple past can be interpreted as
perfective or imperfective, depending on the context, as in (6).
(5) a. #Mary ran in the park and is still running. activity
b. #Mary ran 5 miles and is still running 5 miles. accomplishment
c. #The ice melted and is still melting. achievement
(6) Mary was sick and she is still sick. state
Irrespective of how the Spanish preterit and imperfect combine with lexical
predicates, these two tenses have a variety of other meanings or interpretations.
The preterit typically expresses that an event culminated in the past, and has a
quantified reading that refers to a single event, as shown in (7).
(7) Pedro
Pedro
robó
robbed-pret
algo
something
en
in
el
the
autobus.
bus
‘Pedro robbed something in the bus.’
However, with a small class of stative verbs, use of preterit or imperfect signals
an aspectual shift. In most descriptive and prescriptive grammars these verbs
are referred to as change of meaning preterits. For example, the verb saber ‘to
know’ is stative by default and when it is in the imperfect. However, the preterit
 Silvina Montrul
turns it into an eventive verb, more specifically an achievement, emphasising
the endpoint.
(8) Juan
Juan
sabía
know-impf
la
the
verdad.
truth
stative
‘Juan knew the truth’
(9) Juan
Juan
supo
know-pret
la
la
verdad.
verdad
eventive
‘Juan found out the truth.’
The imperfect has a variety of other meanings. Like the English progressive, the
imperfect can be used to describe an ongoing, progressive activity in the past.
The Spanish imperfect progressive can also be used in this case, as in (11).
(10) Cuando
when
la
the
directora
headmaster
abrió
opened
la
the
puerta
door
la
the
profesora
teacher
entregaba
handed-impf
los
in the
exámenes.
exams
‘When the headmaster opened the door the teacher was handing in the
exams.’
(11) Cuando
when
la
the
directora
headmaster
abrió
opened
la
the
puerta
door
la
the
profesora
teacher
estaba
was
entregando
handing
los
in the
exámenes.
exams
‘When the headmaster opened the door the teacher was handing in the
exams.’
The imperfect can also refer to a habitual activity or eventin the past, as in (12).
Notice that this particular meaning of the imperfect cannot be translated into
the English past progressive, as shown in (13). Rather, auxiliaries like would or
used to are used in English to express habituality in the past, as in (14).
(12) María
María
practicaba
practiced-impf
tennis
when
cuando
she
era
was-impf
niña.
a girl
‘María practiced tennis when she was a child.’
(13) *Maria was practising tennis when she was a child.
(14) Maria used to/would practice tennis when she was a child.
Lastly, the imperfect also expresses genericity,a meaning that is related to habit-
uality. For example, with impersonal pronouns, the imperfect triggers a specific
Convergent outcomes in L2 acquisition and L1 loss 
and inclusive interpretation, as well as a generic interpretation of the subject,
as in (15a), where se can refer to people in general or we.
(15) a. Se
se
comía
eat-impf
bien
well
en
in
este
this
restaurante.
restaurant
‘One/We would eat well in that restaurant.’
se = la gente en general ‘people in general’ generic
= nosotros ‘we’ specific
b. Se
se
comió
eat-pret
bien
well
en
in
este
this
restaurante.
restaurant
‘We ate well in that restaurant.’
se = # la gente en general ‘people’ #generic
= nosostros ‘we’ specific
By contrast, when the tense is in the preterit (15b), the impersonal pronoun se
gets a specific, inclusive interpretation (we).1
In English, generics are expressed
in the simple past or with the subject pronoun (we vs. one), as the translations
above show.
To summarise, the preterit denotes a completed event in the past, while the
imperfect has a variety of other values: progressive, habitual and generic. The
subtlest property of the imperfect tense is that with a variety of impersonal con-
structions, it has both a generic and a specific interpretation, which includes
the speaker. By contrast, the preterit typically denotes a specific interpretation.
. Theoretical assumptions
Within current grammatical theory (Chomsky 1995) parametric differences
between languages are encoded in the lexicon, most specifically in the inven-
tory of functional categories and their associated features and feature values.
Following Giorgi and Pianesi (1997) and many others, I assume that aspect
is part of Universal Grammar and is encoded in the functional category AspP
where the interpretable formal features [± perfective] are checked in the syn-
tax. In Spanish such checking is done overtly through preterit [+perfective] and
imperfect [–perfective] morphology (see Montrul & Slabakova 2003 for more
details). English also has AspP, but this functional category lacks the feature
value [–perfective]. English eventive verbs (accomplishments, achievements
and states) are lexically specified as [+perfective] (Giorgi & Pianesi 1997).
 Silvina Montrul
In generative grammar adult linguistic (monolingual) competence is as-
sumed to be steady and complete. Once parametric choices are made in early
childhood they remain stable in the adult linguistic system. In L2 acquisition,
the L1 steady state plays a significant role in shaping, guiding, and constraining
interlanguage development. To account for persistence fossilisation and lack
of convergence on the target L2 grammar, Hawkins and Chan (1997) proposed
the Failed Functional Features Hypothesis, according to which L2 learners only
have available the functional categories, features and feature values specified for
their L1, and acquisition of different FCs, features or feature values is not possi-
ble in the L2 acquisition situation. Therefore, L1 influence limits L2 acquisition
and will persist in very advanced L2 learners (see White 2003 for an account of
several other positions within this debate).
As far as attrition is concerned, Sorace (2000) and Bouba et al. (2002) view
syntactic attrition as a change in the L1 grammar, as compared to the gram-
mars of monolingual speakers, but parameters are not lost. Syntactic attrition
primarily affects interpretable morpho-syntactic, and I would add semantic,
features, especially those concerning aspects of the grammar in which the
L1 and the L2 assume different values. This is akin to transfer from the L2
to the L1.
Given these theoretical positions, if patterns of “incompleteness” or
“change” from monolingual norms are similar in L2 acquisition and in lan-
guage loss (incomplete acquisition), and if contact with the other language (in
this case English) determines to some extent those structural patterns, then we
expect to find that both L2 learners and Spanish heritage speakers will have
difficulty with verb forms that involve the negative value of the [perfective]
feature, since here lies the parametric difference between Spanish and English
AspP. Therefore, L2 speakers and heritage speakers should show:
1. less discrimination between bounded (preterit) and unbounded (imper-
fect) interpretations with stative verbs, and difficulty with those few stative
verbs that shift aspectual class in the preterit.
2. more difficulty recognising the habitual, generic and specific meanings of
the imperfect tense.
. Methodology
Participants were 47 adult post-puberty L2 learners and 31 adult Spanish
Heritage speakers (simultaneous bilinguals and early child L2 learners) from
Mexican-American background living in the US. All these participants were
Convergent outcomes in L2 acquisition and L1 loss 
Table 1. Proficiency scores (maximum 50)
monolinguals heritage speakers advanced L2 speakers superior L2 speakers
(n = 20) (n = 31) (n = 24) (n = 23)
mean 48.35 41.70 40.12 46.69
sd 1.46 5.28 3.01 1.22
range 45–50 28–48 33–44 45–49
graduate and undergraduate students enrolled in different Spanish language,
linguistics, and literature courses at two major research institution. Some of
them were also Spanish instructors and language and literature professors.
There was also a control group of 20 Spanish speakers from a variety of
Spanish-speaking countries who were raised monolingually and had been liv-
ing in the US for some time, ranging from 6 months to 3 years (for more
specific information about the participants refer to Montrul 2002; Montrul
& Slabakova 2003). In this chapter I only compare the results of the advanced
and superior L2 speakers from Montrul and Slabakova (2003) with those of the
simultaneous bilinguals and child L2 learners from Montrul (2002).2
At the outset of these studies, all participants completed parts of a Spanish
proficiency test (DELE) consisting of a cloze and a vocabulary section.3
The
scores of the comparison groups are listed in Table 1.
An ANOVA on the proficiency scores revealed significant differences
among the groups (F(3,94) = 62.330, p < .0001). Post hoc comparisons in-
dicated that the heritage speakers, the advanced L2 speakers and the superior
L2 speakers were statistically different from the monolinguals. The two groups
of L2 speakers were not different from each other. Note that the greatest range
of variation in scores (28–48) is observed in the heritage speakers’ group.
. Tests
The studies included spontaneous oral production, a morphology recognition
task and two meaning judgment tasks. For lack of space, I will only refer here
to the two instruments testing semantic interpretations. One was a Sentence
Conjunction Judgment Task (adapted from Slabakova 2001), and presented sen-
tences containing conjoined clauses. The verb in the first clause was in the
preterit or imperfect and the conjoined clause either made the previous clause
logical or contradictory. This task tested the interaction of grammatical aspect
with lexical aspect (Cf. ex. (1) to (4) above). Participants had to judge how log-
ical or contradictory the two-clause combinations sounded, by marking a five
 Silvina Montrul
point scale ranging from –2 (contradictory) to 2 (logical). Twenty-one mini-
mal pairs (preterit vs. imperfect) consisting of 7 states, 7 accomplishments, and
7 achievement predicates were constructed, as well 14 distracters (7 logical, 7
illogical). An example with a stative predicate appears in (16).
(16)
La clase era a las 10 pero empezó a las10:30. (imperfect-logical)
the class was-impf at the 10 but started at the 10:30
–2 –1 0 1 2

La clase fue a las 10 pero empezó a las 10:30. (preterit-contradictory)
the class was-pret at the 10 but started at the 10:30
-
-2
 –1 0 1 2
The second instrument was a Truth Value Judgment Task (Crain and Thorn-
ton 1998), consisting of stories followed by sentences with verbs in the preterit
or imperfect to be judged as True or False depending on the context. The
task included three main conditions – change of meaning preterits with stative
verbs (6 stories), one time event vs. habitual action in the past (5 stories), and
generic/specific interpretation of impersonal subjects with se (6 stories) – plus
distracters, for a total of 80 sentence-story combinations (see the appendix for
an example of a story from the condition testing one-time events vs. habituals.)
. Results
Sentence Conjunction Judgment Task. Results of a factorial ANOVA with re-
peated measures with predicate (accomplishment, achievement and state), and
tense (preterit and imperfect) as within subjects factors, and group (mono-
lingual, heritage speakers, advanced L2 speakers and superior L2 speakers) as
between subjects factors, revealedsignificant main effects for predicate (F(2,93)
= 67.101, p < .0001), for tense (F(1,94) = 242.78, p < .0001), and for group
(F(3,94) = 8.965, p < .0001). All possible interactions were significant at the
.05 level. Since in this task it was important to establish that speakers distin-
guished between preterit and imperfect forms with each predicate, a series of
one-factor ANOVAs and independent sample t-tests were conducted for these
contrasts for each group. If speakers do distinguish between logical and con-
tradictory sentences depending on the form of the verb, we expect to find a
statistically significant difference between preterit sentences (with mean ac-
ceptability scores on the negative side of the scale) and imperfect sentences
(with mean acceptability scores on the positive side of the scale). According to
Convergent outcomes in L2 acquisition and L1 loss 
the t-tests, for each group there was a statistically significant contrast between
preterit and imperfect sentences with the three predicates. This means that the
subjects in each group distinguished the overall implications of these two verb
forms. In what follows I focus on the comparisons among the four groups.
Figure 3 shows the results of accomplishment predicates. A one-factor
ANOVA showed no statistically significant differences by group with accom-
plishments in the preterit (F(3,97) = 2.292, p < .083). As for accomplishments
in the imperfect, there were differences only between the heritage speakers and
the superior L2 learners, according to Tukey (F(3,97) = 4.141, p < .008).
The results of achievements appear in Figure 4. There were significant
differences among groups in the responses on achievements in the imperfect
(F(3,97) = 4.185, p. < .008), particularly between the monolinguals and the
advanced L2 speakers, according to Tukey. Crucially the two L2 speaker and
the heritage speakers were not statistically different from each other.
Finally, Figure 5 displays the mean acceptability judgments for stative
verbs. Here, there were differences among the groups with the mean acceptabil-
ity judgments of stative verbs in the imperfect (F(3,97) = 11.806, p < .0001).
There were no differences between the monolinguals and the heritage speakers,
but the two L2 speaker groups were different from the monolinguals and from
the heritage speakers. As for stative verbs in the preterit, the differencesbetween
the groups were also significant (F(3,97) = 8.161, p < .0001). The heritage
speakers scored significantly lower than the monolinguals and the superior L2
speakers, but were no statistically different from the advanced L2 speakers.
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
–0.5
–1
–1.5
–2
Imperfect
Preterit
monolingual
speakers
heritage
speakers
superior L2
speakers
advanced L2
speakers
1.51
1.06
1.42 1.22
–1.38
–0.78 –1 –0.83
Figure 3. Sentence Conjunction Task. Mean acceptability judgments on accomplish-
ments
 Silvina Montrul
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
–0.5
–1
–1.5
–2
Imperfect
Preterit
monolingual
speakers
heritage
speakers
superior L2
speakers
advanced L2
speakers
1.28
0.63 0.56
0.31
–1.78
–1.39 –1.67 –1.5
Figure 4. Sentence Conjunction Judgment Task. Mean Acceptability Judgments on
Achievements
2
1.5
1
0.5
0
–0.5
–1
–1.5
–2
Imperfect
Preterit
monolingual
speakers
heritage
speakers
superior L2
speakers
advanced L2
speakers
1.55
1.17
0.53 0.52
–1.41
–0.66
–1.25
–0.57
Figure 5. Sentence Conjunction Judgment Task. Mean Acceptability Judgments on
States
The Truth Value Judgment Task. According to the results of a factorial
ANOVA with repeated measures, there was a main effect for condition (F(2,94)
= 29.898, p < .0001), for tense (F(1,94) = 6.117, p < .015), and for group
(F(3,94) = 12.733, p < .0001). There was also a condition x tense, and a
condition x tense x group interaction. The results reported below focus on dif-
ferences between groups, for which one-way ANOVAs were conducted on the
different variables.
Convergent outcomes in L2 acquisition and L1 loss 
6
5
4
3
2
1
Preterit (F) Preterit (T)
Imperfect (T) Imperfect (F)
Stative Eventive
monolingual speakers heritage speakers
superior L2 speakers advanced L2 speakers
5.35
3.25
5.21
4.29
5.2
5 4.86 4.95
4.7
3.92
4.73
4.08
5.45
4.29
5.3
4.91
Figure 6. Truth Value Judgment Task. Mean scores on change of meaning preterits
The results of condition A, testing stative verbs that change to eventive in
the preterit (i.e., change of meaning preterits), are shown in Figure 6. When
the story provided a stative context, the imperfect was True (the correct an-
swer) and the preterit was False. All the groups were equally accurate with the
correct imperfect Tense response. With the incorrect response (False), how-
ever, there were statistically significant differences between the groups (F(3,94)
= 10.922, p < .0001). The heritage speakers and the advanced L2 speakers were
not different from each other, but these two groups scored statistically lower
than the monolinguals and the superior L2 speakers, according to Tukey.
When the story presented an eventive context, the preterit was True and the
imperfect was False. With the preterit sentences, there were differences among
groups (F(3,94) = 7.158, p < .0001) due to the performance of the heritage
speakers and the advanced L2 speakers, who were not different from each other
but scored lower than the superior L2 speakers and the monolinguals. Finally,
the false responses with the imperfect-tense sentences also revealed that the
heritage speakers and the advanced L2 speakers scored statistically lower than
the monolinguals the superior L2 speakers. This difference was also significant
according to ANOVA (F(3,94) = 7.219, p < .0001).
Figure 7 displays the mean scores of the condition testing one-time events
vs. habitual activities in the past. In habitual stories, sentences in the imperfect
were True and the same sentences in the preterit were False. With the imperfect
 Silvina Montrul
5
4
3
2
1
Preterit (F) Preterit (T)
Imperfect (T) Imperfect (F)
monolingual speakers heritage speakers
superior L2 speakers advanced L2 speakers
4.85
4.55 4.65
3.7
4.65
3.44
4.21
3.41
4.95 4.81 4.86 4.95
4.7
3.02
4.26
3.04
Habitual One-time
Figure 7. Truth Value Judgment Task. Mean scores on one-time events vs. habitual
actions
sentences overall the heritage speakers (mean 3.45) and the advanced L2 speak-
ers scored alike, and their responses were significantly lower than those of the
monolinguals and the superior L2 speakers, according to ANOVA (F(3,94) =
6.395, p < .001). With the preterit sentences, the advanced group scored lower
than the three other groups (F(3,94) = 5.182, p < .002), and this time the her-
itage speakers were like the superior L2 speakers. The results of eventive stories
show a similar pattern of performance: while there was no difference among
the groups with the sentences in the preterit (F(3, 94) = 1.352, p < .256), with
the sentences in the imperfect, the heritage speakers and the advanced L2 learn-
ers scored statistically alike but much lower than the monolinguals and the
superior L2 speakers.
Lastly, Figure 8 displays the mean scores for the condition testing the spe-
cific versus generic interpretation of subject pronouns. Recall that for this
condition, the preterit form of the verb triggers only a specific interpreta-
tion whereas the imperfect form of the verb is compatible both with both a
generic and a specific interpretation. Results of generic stories showed that all
the groups scored equally high with preterit (F(3,94) = .256, p < .857) and im-
perfect (F(3,94) = 1.518, p < .215). With the specific stories, all the groups were
equally accurate with the preterit sentences (F(3,94) = .222, p < .881). How-
ever, the two L2 speaker groups and the heritage speakers showed the exact
Convergent outcomes in L2 acquisition and L1 loss 
6
5
4
3
2
1
Preterit (F) Preterit (T)
Imperfect (T) Imperfect (T)
Generic Specific
monolingual speakers heritage speakers
superior L2 speakers advanced L2 speakers
5.14 5.06 5.13
4.87
5.55
5.3 5.21 5.2
5.8
5.15
5 4.91
4.4
3.4
3.13 3.16
Figure 8. Truth Value Judgment Task. Mean score on Generic vs. Specific subject inter-
pretation
same pattern of response and were statistically significant from the monolin-
gual speakers, according to ANOVA (F(3,94) = 4.489, p < .005).
. Discussion and conclusion
The combined results of the two methodologically identical studies compared
here show that, in general,there are similarities in the performance of advanced
L2 learners of Spanish and Spanish heritage speakers in the semantic interpre-
tations of the preterit-imperfect aspectual opposition (with different predicates
and in different contexts), as measured with a sentence conjunction judgment
task and a truth value judgment task. Although all speakers showed reliable dis-
crimination of the preterit-imperfect contrast overall, in general advanced L2
learners and heritage speakers differed significantly from monolingual Span-
ish speakers and even from superior L2 speakers in some areas of semantic
interpretations.
If the differences found between these two groups of bilinguals and the
monolinguals is in some sense related to the influence of English as L1 in the
case of the L2 learners, and related to the dominant L1 or L2 in the case of
simultaneous bilinguals and early child L2 learners (the heritage speakers), it
 Silvina Montrul
was predicted that “incompleteness” or “change” with respect to the grammar
of monolinguals would be observed in specific conditions that appear to be
regulated by the [–perfective] feature: (1) with stative verbs in the sentence
conjunction judgment task and in condition A (change of meaning preterits) in
the Truth Value Judgment Task, and (2) with the habitual, generic, and specific
meanings of the imperfect, as tested in the Truth Value Judgment Task.
As it turned out, stative verbs in the preterit were most problematic for
the heritage speakers and the advanced L2 speakers, while stative verbs in the
imperfect were most problematic for the two groups of L2 speakers. Another
revealing result from the Sentence Conjunction Judgment Task was the perfor-
mance of the heritage speakers and the two L2 groups on achievements in the
imperfect, which were rated much less acceptable as compared with the ratings
of the monolinguals, who were more approving of these sentences.
As for the Truth Value Judgment Task, changes of meaning preterits were
most problematic for the heritage speakers and the advanced L2 learners.While
these speakers recognised that these verbs are stative in the imperfect, they
had difficulty accepting or rejecting the stative-preterit combination in even-
tive contexts. Similarly, the same two groups had difficulty with the imperfect
sentences in habitual stories. Finally, while all speakers recognised that the im-
perfect has a generic reading, neither the L2 speakers nor the heritage speakers
recognised that the imperfect could also have a specific reading. In short, the
combined results of the two studies confirm the predictions in terms of the
[–perfective] feature being a vulnerable domain in these grammars.
These results suggest that semantic features of functional categories are
affected by incomplete acquisition and L2 acquisition, and point to the poten-
tial role of the primary or dominant language in the grammar of the “other”
language in bilinguals. While the results of the heritage speakers would sug-
gest that this influence is persistent and has led perhaps to a “fossilised” state
as in advanced L2 learners, the results of the superior L2 speakers (and the
near-native speakers in Montrul & Slabakova 2003) suggest that it is possible
for advanced learners to overcome this stage, since the superior speakers were
comparable to the monolinguals in all conditions with the exception of one
(specific interpretation of the imperfect with impersonal subjects). Thus, the
Failed Formal Features Hypothesis (FFFH) (Hawkins & Chan 1997) correctly
describes and predicts advanced stages of L2 acquisition and fossilisation as a
temporary state or “stage”, but is apparently not suitable to predict end-state
outcomes and fossilisation as a permanent state of knowledge.
What are the conditions, then, to overcome these “temporary” deficits?
The heritage speakers and the advanced L2 learners who participated in these
Convergent outcomes in L2 acquisition and L1 loss 
two experiments were all college students taking Spanish language or literature
classes. In other words, they were learning Spanish. By contrast, many of the
superior L2 speakers were graduate students pursuing studies in Spanish, and
others were Spanish professors who had chosen Spanish as a career path. Al-
though they did not live immersed in a Spanish-speaking environment, their
commitment to learning and maintaining a very advanced level of Spanish
was very strong. This suggests that motivation to seek opportunities to learn
and maintain a language results in increased exposure to the language. Obvi-
ously, rich input, frequency of exposure, and use lead to parameter resetting
and acquisition of functional categories or feature values that are not neces-
sarily represented in the other language. Acquisition of subtleties of semantic
interpretations is context dependent and experience-based.
Thus, in attempting to pinpoint vulnerable structural areas of grammatical
development, it appears that the lexico-semantic and morphosyntax interface
are prone to incompleteness in L2 acquisition and early bilingualism (see also
Hulk & Müller 2000), although this does not mean that attainment at the
native-speaker level is impossible for advanced L2 learners given appropriate
exposure, as shown by the superior speakers and the near-native speakers in
Montrul and Slabakova (2003). Furthermore, as in different grammatical end-
states (Sorace 1993), there is a role for L1 or L2 influence, as shown here, with
the meanings of the imperfect tense assumed to be regulated by the feature
[–perfective]. Additionally, universal tendencies of lexical and grammatical as-
pect combinations as proposed by the Lexical Aspect Hypothesis (Andersen
1986) that are typical of early stages of development appear to also be play-
ing a role in shaping the grammatical states of the heritage speakers and the
advanced L2 learners in this study. These two groups were more accurate at
judging stative verbs in the imperfect and achievement verbs in the preterit, as
opposed to the less prototypical uses of stative verbs in the preterit and achieve-
ments in the imperfect (although this latter combination was not problem-
atic for the heritage speakers). These grammatical-lexical aspect combinations,
which are regulated by pragmatic factors, are the latest to be acquired in L1 and
L2 acquisition (Andersen 1986).
These results suggest that reduced input during childhood and into the
teen years, type of input (written vs. oral, and perhaps also literacy in the case of
early bilinguals), and frequency of use, conspire to promote incomplete gram-
matical states in the heritage language of bilinguals who live immersed in the
majority language. As already documented by Schlyter (1993) with bilingual
French-Swedish children of unbalanced development, the weaker language
(usually the family language) is retarded in relation to the stronger one, and
 Silvina Montrul
develops very much like an L2 (see also Kravin 1992 for another case of erosion
in early bilingual development). To the extent that the language development
histories of the heritage speakers documented in this comparative study could
have been similar to the situations reported by Schlyter and Kravin, the re-
sults of these adult bilinguals suggest that the weaker language develops but
stabilises at an advanced stage, comparable to that advanced level reached by
many adult L2 learners. Although both heritage speakers and the L2 learners
have quite advanced proficiency, certain areas of language (like tense and as-
pect interpretations and other semantic-pragmatic areas) may remain different
and incomplete with respect to the grammars of monolinguals or near-native
speakers of an L2. While the results of Montrul and Slabakova (2003) showed
that to attain full linguistic competence by near-natives is possible for L2 learn-
ers who started learning the L2 after puberty, what remains an open question
for further study is if heritage speakers, who have been exposed to the family
language much earlier in life, can also overcome the apparent deficits they show
given sufficient exposure and use of their family language.
In conclusion, if attrition results when two languages come into contact
(Seliger 1996; Sharwood Smith & Van Buren 1991), I have suggested in this
chapter that incomplete acquisition in the context of bilingualism is a specific
type of language attrition at the individual and probably at the group level,
in a specific population of bilinguals (early bilingual heritage speakers). Be-
cause the cognitive and linguistic relationship between how the two linguistic
systems in this particular population interact and influence each other is very
similar to what happens in adult L2 acquisition, I have argued that the field
of language attrition in general can benefit significantly, both theoretically and
empirically, by adopting methodologies extensively used in mainstream L2 ac-
quisition research. This allows us to investigate issues of overall proficiency,
as well as degree of semantic and morphosyntactic knowledge of the target
language (L1 or L2), and the limits and possibilities of early and sequential
bilingualism, with a variety of testing instruments. Moreover, by applying iden-
tical methodologies, studies of this type can address more precisely and directly
the potential connection between these two populations.
Notes
. The generic interpretation could be pushed if it is the case that restaurant is no longer
opened for business, for example.
Convergent outcomes in L2 acquisition and L1 loss 
. Montrul (2002) addresses the issue of incomplete acquisition versus L1 attrition and in-
cluded 4 groups: 20 monolinguals, 16 simultaneous bilinguals, 15 early child L2 learners and
8 late child L2 learners. The late child L2 learners would constitute cases of attrition, whereas
the simultaneous bilinguals and early child L2 learners are considered cases of incomplete
acquisition. Montrul and Slabakova (2003) speak to the longstanding debate on near-native
competence in post-puberty adult L2 speakers. The experiment tested 20 monolinguals (the
control group), 24 advanced L2 speakers, 23 superior speakers and 17 near-native speak-
ers, as classified according to an oral interview and a proficiency test. The present chapter
excluded the results of the late child L2 learners from Montrul (2002) and the near-native
speakers from Montrul and Slabakova (2003). These two groups behaved very much like the
monolingual comparison group. The results of the simultaneous bilinguals and early child
L2 learners are grouped under heritage speakers.
. The DELEs (Diplomas of Spanish as a Foreign Language) are the official accreditation
of the degree of fluency of the Spanish Language, issued and recognised by the Ministry
of Education, Culture and Sport of Spain. For more information visit http://www.dele.org/
dele-eng/index.asp
References
Andersen, R. (1986). “El desarrollo de la morfología verbal en el español como segundo
idioma.” In J. Meisel (Ed.), Adquisición del lenguaje – Aquisição da linguagem (pp. 115–
137). Frankfurt: Klaus-Dieter Vervuert Verlag.
Bouba, M., Filiaci, F., Heycock, C., Sorace, A., & Tsimpli, I. (2002). “Syntactic attrition
in Greek and Italian near-native speakers.” Paper presented at the First Conference
on Language Attrition. August 21–23, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.
Chomsky, N. (1995). The Minimalist Program. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Cook, V. (Ed.). (2003). Effects of the Second Language on the First. Clevedon: Multilingual
Matters.
Crain, S., & Thornton, R. (1998). Investigations in Universal Grammar. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press.
Giorgi, A., & Pianesi, F. (1997). Tense and Aspect: From Semantics to Morphosyntax. Oxford:
Oxford University Press.
Gürel, A. (2002). Linguistic Characteristics of Second Language Acquisition and First Language
Attrition: Turkish overt vs. null pronouns. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, McGill
University, Canada.
Hawkins, R., & Chan, C. (1997). “The partial availability of Universal Grammar in second
language acquisition: The failed functional features hypothesis”. Second Language
Research, 13, 187–226.
Hulk, A., & Müller, N. (2000). “Bilingual first language acquisition at the interface between
syntax and pragmatics”. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 3, 227–244.
 Silvina Montrul
Köpke, B. (2002). “Activation thresholds and non-pathological L1 attrition”. In F. Fabbro
(Ed.), Advances in the Neurolinguistics of Bilingualism. Essays in honor of Michel Paradis
(pp. 119–142). Undine: Forum.
Kravin, H. (1992). “Erosion of a language in bilingual development”. Journal of Multilingual
and Multicultural Development, 13, 307–325.
Major, R. (1992). “Losing English as a first language.” The Modern Language Journal, 76,
190–208.
Montrul, S. (2002). “Incomplete acquisition and attrition of Spanish tense/aspect distinc-
tions in adult bilinguals.” Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 5, 39–68.
Montrul, S., & Slabakova, R. (2003). “Competence similarities between native and near-
native speakers: An investigation of the Preterite/Imperfect contrast in Spanish.” Studies
in Second Language Acquisition, 25, 351–398.
Schlyter, S. (1993). “The weaker language in bilingual Swedish-French children.” In K.
Hyltenstam & Å. Viberg (Eds.), Progression and Regression in Language: Sociocultural,
neuropsychological and linguistic perspectives (pp. 289–308). Cambridge: CUP.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance: The case of German
Jews in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Seliger, H. W. (1996). “Primary language attrition in the context of bilingualism.” In W. C.
Ritchie & T. J. Bhatia (Eds.), Handbook of Second Language Acquisition (pp. 605–226).
New York, NY: Academic Press.
Sharwood-Smith, M., & Van Buren, P. (1991). “First language attrition and the parameter
setting model.” In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 19–
51). Cambridge: CUP.
Silva-Corvalán, C. (1994). Language Contact and Change. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Silva-Corvalán, C. (2003). “Linguistic consequences of reduced input in bilingual first
language acquisition.” In S. Montrul & F. Ordóñez (Eds.), Linguistic Theory and
Language Development in Hispanic Languages. Papers from the Fifth Hispanic Linguistics
Symposium and the 4th Conference on the Acquisition of Spanish and Portuguese
(pp. 375–397). Sommerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
Slabakova, R. (2001). Telicity in the Second Language. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John
Benjamins.
Sorace, A. (1993). “Unaccusativity and auxiliary choice in non-native grammars of Italian
and French: Asymmetries and predictable indeterminacy.” French Language Studies, 3,
71–93.
Sorace, A. (1999). “Initial states, end-states and residual optionality in L2 acquisition.”
Proceedings of the 23th Boston University Conference on Language Development (pp. 666–
674). Sommerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
Sorace, A. (2000). “Differential effects of attrition in the L1 syntax of near-native L2
speakers.” Proceedings of the 24th Boston University Conference on Language Develop-
ment (pp. 719–725). Sommerville, MA: Cascadilla Press.
Pavlenko, A. (2000). “L2 influence on L1 in late bilingualism.” Issues in Applied Linguistics,
11, 175–205.
Polinsky, M. (1997). “American Russian: Language loss meets language acquisition.” In
Proceedings of the Annual Workshop on Formal Approaches to Slavic Linguistics: The
Cornell Meeting 1995 (pp. 370–406). Ann Arbor, MI: Michigan Slavic Publications.
Convergent outcomes in L2 acquisition and L1 loss 
Valdés, G. (2000). Spanish for Native Speakers [AATSP Professional Development Series
Handbook for Teachers K–16, Vol. 1]. New York, NY: Harcourt College Publishers.
Vendler, Z. (1967). Linguistics in Philosophy. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.
Vihman, M., & McLaughlin, B. (1982). “Bilingualism and second language acquisition in
preschool children.” In C. Brainerd & M. Pressley (Eds.), Verbal Processes in Children
(pp. 35–58). Berlin: Springer.
White, L. (2003). Second Language Acquisition and Universal Grammar. Cambridge: CUP.
Appendix
Sample story from the Truth Value Judgment Task
Context: One Time Event
Panchito era muy tímido y no tenía muchos amiguitos con quien jugar. Panchito
pasaba todo el tiempo en su casa con su mamá. Ayer Panchito se reunió por
primera vez con sus vecinitos para jugar y pasaron un rato muy agradable. Hoy
Panchito se quedó nuevamente con su mamá.
Panchito jugaba con sus vecinos. F
Panchito jugó con sus vecinos. T
“Panchito was (imperf) very shy and he did not have (imperf) friends to play with.
Panchito would spend (imperf) time at home with his mother. Yesterday, for the
first time, he got together (pret) with his neighbors to play and they had (pret) a
very pleasant time. Today Panchito stayed (pret) with his mother again”
Panchito played (imperfect) with his neighbors. F
Panchito played (preterite) with his neighbors. T
Context: Habitual
Laurita tenía muchos amiguitos y después de la escuela pasaba el tiempo en la casa
de sus vecinos. Ayer se quedó en casa con su mamá y pasó un rato muy agradable.
Laurita jugaba con sus vecinos. T
Laurita jugó con sus vecinos. F
“Laurita had (imperf) many friends and after school she would spend (imperf)
time at his neighbors’ house. Yesterday Laurita stayed (pret) at home with her
mother and had (pret) a very good time.”
Laurita played (imperfect) with his neighbors. T
Laurita played (preterite) with his neighbors. F
A modest proposal
Explaining language attrition in the context
of contact linguistics
Steven Gross
East Tennessee State University
Introduction
One of the more disconcerting conclusions one arrives at when reviewing
reports on L1 attrition is a lack of agreement regarding what aspects of an in-
dividual’s grammatical system are most vulnerable to attrition or even whether
linguistic competence, once established, can be irretrievably lost (de Bot 1996).
As Schmid (2002:29) notes, this lack of agreement about these very basic issues
“can almost certainly be put down to varying notions about [methodology] on
the part of researchers”. Regarding methodologies, there are two major consid-
erations that researchers must address. The first involves data collection tech-
niques. What techniques will offer the best evidence for language attrition (for
example, free discourse, ‘elicited’ free discourse, grammaticality judgments, ex-
periments, or some combination of these)? The second deals with the analysis
of the data. What linguistic features should researchers target in their analyses,
and how should these features be organised? While the methodology of data
collection is vitally important in language attrition research, how we analyse
the data ultimately determines how we interpret our data, what generalisations
we can offer, and moreover, how we explain the nature of language attrition.
This article focuses on the second methodological consideration: how best to
analyse language attrition data.
 Steven Gross
. Defining language attrition
A fundamental question that should concern all language attrition researchers
is the question of what exactly language attrition is. To answer this question,
Andersen (1982:91) suggests that L1 attrition is characterised, among other
things, by “a lack of adherence” to L1 linguistic norms. In other words, L1
attrition simply involves production ‘errors’ that a fully competent speaker of
that language would not make. However, there are a number of complicating
factors in assessing what constitutes an error in a given speaker’s linguistic
production.
First, for many of us who investigate elderly populations, there is the prob-
lem of which of these errors we should attribute to attrition and which ones
we should attribute to factors related to aging. For example, in a review of the
literature on nonpathological forms of language loss, Hupet and Schelstraete
(1997:157) report that individuals over the age of seventy appear to exhibit
more difficulties in lexical retrieval and provide fewer and less precise syn-
onyms than younger speakers. In addition, Kynette and Kemper (1986) note
that older individuals tend to avoid producing syntactically complex struc-
tures (e.g. fewer subordinate clauses and fewer left-branching constructions)
but when they do, these elderly individuals exhibit more grammatical errors
(e.g. agreement errors or errors in gender assignment) than their younger
counterparts.
Second, regardless of the age of our subjects, when considering the status
of a given form, language attrition researchers need to consider the issue of
language variation in the variety they are investigating. For example, in my
own data from Bavarian German speakers, the type of construction in (1) is
quite common.
(1) I
I
muass
must
nach
to
Haus
house
komm-en
come-inf
wei
because
sie
she
ist
is
in
in
ander-e
other-pl
Umständ.
circumstances
‘I had to come home because she was in a family way.’
Note that the verb ist ‘is’ in the subordinate clause wei sie ist in andere Umständ
‘because she was in a family way’ occurs immediately following the subject,
and not in clause final position. While German prescriptive grammars main-
tain that subordinating conjunctions like weil ‘because’ introduce SOV clauses,
it is well known that the position of the finite verb in weil-clauses is variable
(either following the subject or in clause-final position) for speakers of Bavar-
Attrition and contact linguistics 
ian German, as well as for speakers of other varieties of German. This issue
of language variation is an important consideration that must be addressed in
language attrition research.
A third consideration, one that Schmid (2002:37) rightfully raises, is the
question of who should decide what will count as an ‘error’? It seems that this
problem is related to the problem of language variation raised in the previ-
ous paragraph. I agree with Schmid when she says that there should ideally
be several judges who are competent speakers of the language varieties repre-
sented in the study employed to assess the status of questionable forms. Yet,
the act of judging grammaticality necessarily involves a kind of grammaticality
judgment task.
Fourth, researchers must address the problem of whether the grammatical
changes they observe should best be analysed as internally motivated or exter-
nally motivated changes. Distinguishing between these two sources of change
is not always a straightforward matter: linguistic change may have multiple
causes. For example, linguists have debated, at length, the causes of case merg-
ers in American varieties of German. While most of the evidence seems to be on
the side of internally motivated explanations, Salmons (1994:62) notes that the
reduction of case-marking paradigms in Texas German may be expedited be-
cause of contact with English. To address some of these difficulties, Seliger and
Vago (1991) have catalogued various strategies that may distinguish internally
from externally motivated language change.
As for the problems of language variation and age, one obvious solution
is to collect data from a monolingual control group that closely matches the
experimental group in terms of the usual demographic characteristics such as
socioeconomic status, education, age, and regional dialect. However, without a
methodology that offers a coherent way to interpret the data, a control group
can only tell us in what ways its linguistic production differs from the experi-
mental group. In effect, without such a methodology, our observations run the
risk of becoming mere laundry lists of divergent constructions.
What is important to emphasise about language attrition is that it is one of
a number of different language contact outcomes. Like other types of contact
phenomena, language attrition involves contact between speakers of different
languages, but as Myers-Scotton (2002:5) points out, what is more important
is that “languages are in contact in the sense they are adjacent in their speakers’
mental lexicon and can impinge on each other in production”. Certainly, not all
sources of linguistic change in L1 attrition can be attributed to the L2 (see for
example Seliger & Vago 1991); yet, crosslinguistic influence has been shown to
have a significant effect on L1 behavior (Altenberg 1991; Kaufman & Aronoff
 Steven Gross
1991; Pavlenko, this volume; Seliger 1991; Sharwood Smith 1983, among oth-
ers). Thus, any definition of L1 attrition must acknowledge the role that the
L2 plays in restructuring the L1 grammatical system. I offer a definition for L1
attrition that takes into account the role of the L2. The kinds of data that will
be presented in this paper reflect such influence.
L1 Attrition
L1 attrition is the restructuring of the L1 linguistic system according to L2
patterns under the psycholinguistic pressures of bilingualism. However, L1
attrition may also be internally induced in the sense that some changes are
motivated by universal strategies based on markedness, for example. L1 attri-
tion is distinguished from language shift in that attrition is intragenerational,
whereas language shift is intergenerational.
. General observations on language attrition
Despite the apparent lack of agreement on what aspects of grammatical change
are the more important indicators of attrition, most researchers would agree
that these changes are anything but random. Thus, when we examine the data,
the evidence indicates that not all categories of morphemes respond in the
same way under the pressures of bilingualism. In fact, when we sift through the
attrition literature, we find considerable anecdotal evidence that lexical items
dominate as the elements that are vulnerable to attrition. For example, Olsh-
tain and Barzilay (1991:145) state that all the American Israelis in their study
exhibited some reduction in lexical retrieval abilities.
In addition to lexical retrieval difficulties, one frequently made generalisa-
tion in language attrition studies is that some L1 lexemes can be semantically
restructured according to L2 requirements. Examples (2) and (3) illustrate the
neutralisation of certain semantic distinctions in German that are not present
in English.
(2) Neutralisation of wissen ‘know a fact’ and kennen ‘be acquainted with
someone’
bie
when
bir
we
her-kumm-a
here-come-prt
sein
be
ha-bir
have-we
niemand
nobody
ge-buss-t
prt-know-prt
‘When we came here, we didn’t know anybody.’
(3) Neutralisation of wohnen bei ‘reside with someone temporarily’ and leben
mit ‘live with someone in an intimate relationship’
Attrition and contact linguistics 
bir
we
sein
are
mit
with
mein
my
Schwäger
in-laws
ein-ge-zong
in-prt-pull
und
and
ham
have
mit
with
jamm
them
a
a
ganz
whole
Jahr
year
ge-leb-t
prt-live-prt
‘We moved in with my in-laws and lived with them for a whole year.’
In (2), the semantic distinction between wissen ‘to know a fact’ and kennen ‘to
know/be acquainted with a person’ has been neutralised reflecting the English
pattern whereby the verb know is used for all contexts of knowing. This sort
of phenomenon has also been reported elsewhere, for example in Fuller (1997)
on convergence in Pennsylvania German and in Bolonyai’s research (1999) on
Hungarian attrition. Similarly in (3), leben mit ‘to live with someone in an inti-
mate relationship’ is used in a context where wohnen bei ‘to reside at someone’s
house temporarily’ would be expected. What is important in examples (2) and
(3) is that these apparent attrition effects are manifested at the level of content
morphemes.
In the domain of morphology, one finds hypotheses that predict, for ex-
ample, loss of case-marking, analogical levelling, simplification, and outright
loss of morphologically marked categories (cf. Andersen 1982; Hagen & de Bot
1990). However, recent studies that offer quantitative results for nontarget-like
production of functional morphemes indicate that such disruptions are not
a significant aspect of language attrition. For example, in a study of young
Croatians living in Australia, Hlavac (2000:485) shows that 91 percent of all
Croatian noun phrases (8,444/9,318) receive target-like case assignments. In
addition, Schmid (2002) notes that target-like case, gender, and plural assign-
ment in German noun phrases among her German Jews who immigrated to
Anglophone countries is the order of the day.
The following section presents a methodology for analysing language
change due to attrition that offers a way to integrate these sorts of observations
under a single, coherent language production hypothesis. From this hypoth-
esis, I will derive a prediction about language attrition that specifies which
categories of morphemes are more or less vulnerable to attrition.
. A methodology for analysing language attrition data
The argument developed here begins with the hypothesis that universal aspects
of the way in which the mental lexicon is organised determine how different
classes of morphemes are activated and projected in language production. This
 Steven Gross
EARLY SYSTEM
MORPHEME
LEMMAS
(Indirectly elected)
LATE SYSTEM
MORPHEME
LEMMAS
(Structurally assigned)
FORMULATOR
PHONETIC/SURFACE FORMS
Positional level
Functional level
Directions to formulator
Lemma level
Semantic/pragmatic
feature bundles
Conceptual level SPEAKERS’ INTENTIONS
CONTENT
MORPHEME
LEMMAS
(Directly elected)
Figure 1. A model of language production (Adapted from Myers-Scotton & Jake
2001:88)
model of lexical organisation presupposes a hierarchy of processing procedures
portrayed in Figure 1. The basic outlines of this model follow Levelt (1989)
with important modifications developed in Myers-Scotton and Jake (2001).
. A language production model
Under this model of language production, lemmas that support content mor-
phemes – those morphemes that participate in the thematic grid (nouns and
Attrition and contact linguistics 
verbs, for example) – are the only lemmas in the mental lexicon that have
a direct link to speakers’ intentional states, to the conceptual level.1
These
morphemes are conceptually activated.
In addition to conceptually activated content morphemes, there are two
other categories of morphemes relevant to this article, early system morphemes
and late system morphemes. The first of these, early system morphemes, is also
conceptually activated at the lemma level; however, early system morphemes
are indirectly elected by content morphemes. According to Bock and Levelt
(1994:953), these morphemes “do not correspond to lexical concepts”; rather,
their function is to enrich the semantic and pragmatic content of the content
morphemes that elect them. Examples of these types of morphemes are English
determiners and plural s.
The final category of morphemes is late system morphemes. These late sys-
tem morphemes are activated at the level of the Formulator (the functional
level); they are structurally assigned to fill grammatical slots in the grammatical
frame. Levelt (1989:11) explains that the Formulator’s function is to “translate
a conceptual structure into a linguistic structure”. More specifically, lemmas
selected by semantic/pragmatic feature bundles send directions to the Formu-
lator to turn on language-specific morphosyntactic procedures for assembling
larger constituents. Thus, operations at this level are automatic, blindly carried
out by the Formulator, and not subject directly to speakers’ intentions. Late
system morphemes are ‘late’ in the sense that they are not fully salient in lan-
guage production until they are called upon to assemble larger constituents.
Included among late system morphemes are subject-verb agreement mark-
ers and the case markers we find in languages like German, that is, purely
grammatical elements.
. Abstract lexical structure
According to Myers-Scotton (2002:194), lemmas contain three levels of ab-
stract lexical structure: (1) lexical-conceptual structure (semantic and prag-
matic information); (2) predicate-argument structure (mapping thematic roles
to grammatical relations); and (3) morphological realisation patterns (surface
realisations of grammatical structure). Now, in certain kinds of language con-
tact situations, e.g. language attrition, convergence, Creole formation, and L2
acquisition, speakers appear to be producing bilingual CPs (projection of the
complementiser) in the sense that some CPs include morphosyntactic struc-
ture from more than one linguistic source, despite the fact that all the surface
forms come from a single language.
 Steven Gross
Recall example (2) in which the speaker uses the German verb wissen in
an English-like manner to express the notion of ‘knowing a person’. Consid-
ering this example in terms of abstract lexical structure, we might say that the
occurrence of wissen reflects the influence of English at two levels of abstract
structure: lexical-conceptual structure and predicate-argument structure. Both
the core meaning of the verb and its semantic selectional properties come from
English; yet, the morphological realisation patterns come from German. (Note
that the lexical verb occurs in its characteristic clause-final position and has
German past participle morphology.) In other words, the lemma entry for the
German verb wissen seems to contain aspects of abstract lexical structure from
two linguistic sources, German and English. This creation of a bilingual lemma
is what Myers-Scotton (1998) calls a composite Matrix Language.
So, what are the necessary contributing factors for such reconfigurations
of L1 lemma entries? The first occurs when there is a competition between lan-
guages for the role of the Matrix Language, as when speakers are shifting from
one language to another as their sociolinguistically dominant language (Myers-
Scotton 2002:22). For example, all but one of the individuals who participated
in my study reported that although they were monolingual German speakers
at the time they immigrated to the United States, they now feel that English is
their stronger language.
A second answer to this question has to do with frequent codeswitch-
ing. All the bilingual participants in this study are heavy codeswitchers. One
widely accepted fact about codeswitching is that content morphemes, mostly
nouns and verbs, are the most frequently switched grammatical category. In
contrast, Embedded Language late system morphemes are noticeably absent in
codeswitching (cf. Myers-Scotton 1993). I want to suggest that codeswitching
is the ‘foot in the door’ that makes it possible for aspects of L2 abstract lexical
structure to intrude upon L1 lemma entries.
. Predicting language attrition outcomes
The language production hypothesis presented in Section 3.1 has clear conse-
quences for how we analyse bilingual data. One of the consequences is that
it leads to a more precise, more highly articulated morpheme classification
model with which to analyse the data. Instead of a large category of functional
morphemes, this model provides a heuristic to distinguish different types of
functional morphemes based upon the way in which they are projected dur-
ing language production. More importantly, this hypothesis offers us a way to
derive a general, testable prediction regarding bilingual production.
Attrition and contact linguistics 
Language attrition prediction
content morphemes > early system morphemes > late system morphemes
where ‘>’ = are more vulnerable to attrition than
The question at this point is why should content morphemes be more vul-
nerable to attrition than early and late system morphemes? The answer lies
in the architecture of the mental lexicon and the asymmetry in how different
types of morphemes are activated. Content morphemes are conceptually ac-
tivated, and lemma entries that support content morphemes are more richly
articulated than system morpheme lemmas; that is, they convey more seman-
tic information. Simply put, when an element is conceptually activated, it is
salient as soon as the speaker’s intentions are encoded as language. Early sys-
tem morphemes are also conceptually activated, but only indirectly by content
morphemes. In contrast, the projection of late system morphemes depends on
implicit procedural knowledge.
This dissociation between the explicit declarative knowledge involved in
projecting content morphemes and the implicit procedural knowledge re-
quired to project late system morphemes has been supported by a wide range
of evidence from psycholinguistic research, neurological cases, and functional
imaging studies (Damasio 1992; Squire, Knowlton & Musen 1993; Stromswold
et al. 1996; Ullman et al. 1997, among others). Ullman (2001) argues that
the lexical memory (i.e. declarative knowledge) involved in learning arbitrary
conceptual/semantic relations is relatively accessible to consciousness, whereas
procedural knowledge tends to be encapsulated so that it is relatively inac-
cessible to conscious examination and control. Thus, we would predict that
procedural knowledge, once acquired, should be difficult to ‘unlearn’ simply
because it is less accessible to conscious control.
. The study
The following production data come from a larger study on L1 attrition (Gross
2000a) in six German immigrants, between the ages of sixty-one and seventy-
four, who have been living in the United States for forty to fifty years. The six
individuals recorded are all speakers of Bavarian German and Schmiedshau
German.2
All six speakers were at least sixteen years old when they immigrated
to the United States, and their first significant contact with English came after
their arrival in the United States. None had received any formal instruction in
English, yet today all these individuals use English as their primary means of
 Steven Gross
communication in the home and the community. All but one report that they
are now English-dominant.
. The interviews
Initial contact with these six participants was made over the telephone. Dur-
ing the telephone conversation, I indicated that I was interested in interviewing
German immigrants in the United States, but I tried to explain as little as possi-
ble about the particulars of the study. The participants assumed that my major
interest was regarding the circumstances surrounding their immigration and
their experiences immediately after arriving in the United States.
The resulting interviews, which were conducted entirely in the partici-
pants’ regional dialects, generated a body of data that included approximately
eight hours of tape-recorded one-on-one conversations in the participants’
homes. In these interviews, I initiated the discourse by asking questions about
the individuals’ life histories. Each conversation generally covered the same
topics – the participants’ experiences in Europe prior to emigrating, the cir-
cumstances surrounding their decision to come to America, and the difficulties
they encountered in their newly adopted homeland. Most of the participants
vividly remembered their experiences during and shortly after World War II;
thus, many of them spent a great deal of time discussing this aspect of their
lives. The main agenda following my initiation of the first topic was to allow
the participants to control topic selection and the flow of the conversation. All
participants seemed eager to tell me about their life histories, and there are
many sections in the recordings in which the participants speak uninterrupted
for long periods of time. Reflecting on the participants’ engagement with and
control of the topic, it appears that they were genuinely unconcerned with the
staged research setting.
. Data analysis
In order to draw valid conclusions about the development of any linguistic va-
riety, one must measure the linguistic data against a reference that represents
the input to the system. Therefore, when analysing data from nonstandard
dialects, it is entirely inappropriate to use the Standard variety as the basis
for comparison. Thus, for this study, the standard of comparison was either
Bavarian or Schmiedshau German, not Standard German.
After conducting the interviews, the corpus was transcribed and analysed,
and all forms that were judged to be deviant in some way were marked and pre-
Attrition and contact linguistics 
sented in their appropriate context to one of three native speakers of Bavarian
German on temporary assignment in the United States for a German-owned
company. If the outside judge agreed that a given form was non-native like, it
was included as an inaccurately produced form. Inaccurate production rates
were then calculated as a percentage of total contexts for the given form.3
. Testing the prediction
To test the first claim in my attrition prediction that content morphemes will
be most vulnerable to attrition, I examined the production of various idioms,
fixed expressions, and metaphorical phrases. Examples (4)–(5) illustrate the ef-
fect of the L2 on these sorts of fixed collocations. In both examples, the speakers
produced loan translations, i.e. calques, that are lexified according to patterns
established in the L2, English. A quantitative analysis of such fixed expressions
shows that 29.7 percent (30/102) exhibit such English-like lexification patterns.
(4) Calque of drink like a fish
a. Er
he
suaf-t
drink-pres.3sg
wie
like
an
a
Fisch
fish
‘He drinks like a fish.’
b. Expected form: wie an Loch ‘like a hole’
(5) Calque of the fixed expression in a way
a. In
in
ein-en
a-masc.dat
Weg
way
war-s
was-it
vielleicht
perhaps
Gott-es
god-gen
Wille
will
‘In a way, it was perhaps God’s will.’
b. Expected form: in gewisser Hinsicht ‘in a certain respect’
The second part of the language attrition prediction is that early system mor-
phemes will be less vulnerable to attrition than the content morphemes that
elect them. To test this, I focused on the production of reflexive markers in
inherently reflexive verbs such as sich etwas vorstellen ‘to imagine something’.
Recall that early system morphemes do not correspond to lexical concepts;
rather, they add semantic and pragmatic information to their content mor-
pheme heads. In example (6), the verb vorstellen fails to elect the expected
reflexive marker sich. In this example, English provides the model in the sense
that the equivalent English content morpheme imagine requires no reflexive
pronoun. The data analysis of these types of verbs shows that 17.3 percent
(18/104) fail to occur with their required reflexive markers.
 Steven Gross
(6) Use of sich etwas vorstellen ‘imagine something’ without the required re-
flexive marker
i
I
kinn ø
can
durt
there
net
not
kaan
no
ärg-sten
annoying-sup
Blatz
place
borste-n
imagine-inf
as
as
bie
like
Beiting
Whiting
‘I can’t imagine a more annoying place than Whiting.’
Finally, to test the prediction that late system morphemes will be relatively
stable under attrition, I quantified the number of inaccurate case assign-
ments in noun phrases. The results of this analysis support my prediction in
that 96.8 percent (2,199/2,271) of all required contexts contain accurate case
morphology.
Figure 2 summarises the results of the comparative analysis of three types
of morphemes in terms of inaccurate production: (1) content morphemes, rep-
resented by idioms and other fixed expression; (2) early system morphemes
represented by reflexive markers in inherently reflexive verbs; (3) late system
morphemes, represented by grammatical case.
These results support the prediction that content morphemes are most vul-
nerable to attrition while late system morphemes are the least likely category to
undergo attrition. Furthermore, these results seem to agree with many of the
observations that other researchers have made regarding the apparent dissocia-
tion between production of content morphemes and functional morphemes in
30.0
25.0
20.0
15.0
10.0
5.0
0.0
%
INACCURATE
IDIOMS REFLEXIVE
MARKERS
GRAMMATICAL
CASE
Figure 2. Summary of production inaccuracy
Attrition and contact linguistics 
L1 attrition as well as in cases of language shift and language death (cf. Dorian
1973; Hlavac 2000; Schmid 2002).
. Language attrition in the context of language contact
A final issue that I want to explore is what insights can be gained regarding
other types of language contact outcomes using this methodology for analysis.
According to the language production hypothesis presented in Section 3, we
should expect content morphemes to be implicated to a much greater degree
than system morphemes in the development of various bilingual linguistic sys-
tems. This is precisely what we find in codeswitching. Recall from Section 3.2
that the Embedded Language is generally free to supply content morphemes
to the grammatical frame; however, only the Matrix Language can supply late
system morphemes (Myers-Scotton 1993).
When we look at the grammatical structure of creoles, especially those that
have had limited contact with their lexifier languages since Creole formation,
we find that their grammatical apparatus is composed mainly of reanalysed
lexifier content morphemes. Late system morphemes from the lexifier are no-
ticeably absent (cf. Gross 2000b for an analysis of Berbice Dutch using this
framework).
When we look at L2 acquisition, we find that late system morphemes are
typically late in being accurately acquired. In fact, Wei (2000) has shown a
statistically significant contrast in the acquisition of English late system mor-
phemes versus early system morphemes. For example, he reports that plural s
(an early system morpheme) is acquired earlier than 3rd person singular s (a
late system morpheme). He also reports that determiners that function as early
system morphemes are acquired earlier than those that function as late system
morphemes.
Even in cases of simple borrowing, it should be no surprise to find that
languages readily borrow content morphemes (especially nouns), but that lan-
guages rarely borrow late system morphemes. This fact has been recognised
in much of the earlier literature on language contact. For example, Haugen
(1950:225) comments that “the instances of new inflections actually intro-
duced into wide use in the language are few”.
 Steven Gross
. Conclusion
In addition to focusing attention on how attrition researchers should approach
the task of data collection, it is vitally important that the methodology of data
analysis be considered as well. All too often, data analyses have been con-
tent with reporting qualitative rather than quantitative results. Thus, it is not
surprising to find that much of the literature on language attrition is filled
with anecdotal accounts of which categories are lost and which are retained
in attrition settings.
One of the challenges facing language attrition researchers is the search
for answers, for explanations, that underlie the phenomena we are reporting
on. To do this, we should be considering insights gained from psycholinguistic
research that seeks to uncover the mechanisms behind language production
and comprehension. Furthermore, we need to look beyond our own inter-
ests in L1 attrition and consider how our findings intersect with findings from
other forms of bilingual speech, such as creoles, interlanguage, convergence,
and codeswitching.
The language production model presented in this article provides us with a
cognitively grounded framework that gives us a road map to navigate through
the complexities of our language attrition data. The predictions derived from
this model are specific and testable, and the data from this study of German-
English bilinguals appear to support these predictions. In addition, research
from other types of bilingual outcomes lends additional support to the basic
premises underscoring this production model. But whether the model holds
up under the scrutiny of further testing remains to be seen. In conclusion, the
challenge that faces language attrition researchers is to transcend the level of
description and, instead, to offer explanations that are grounded in universal
aspects of linguistic organisation and language production that unify the field
of contact linguistics.
Acknowledgment
The author wishes to thank the reviewers for their helpful comments on an
earlier version of this article.
Attrition and contact linguistics 
Notes
. Lemmas are not the words themselves; rather, they are a repository of declarative knowl-
edge about the morphemes in a language. Lemma entries contain all the semantic, syntactic,
and morphological information relevant for constructing a lexical item’s syntactic environ-
ment (Levelt 1989:6).
. Schmiedshau German is a variety of German that was formerly spoken in a larger Ger-
man speech island called the Hauerland, located northeast of Bratislava in the present-day
Republic of Slovakia. This area was settled in the fourteenth century largely by Bavarian
and Schwabian speakers from southwestern Germany (Kurbel 1980:18). After Word War II,
these ethnic Germans were expelled from the region and formed part of a larger post-war
diaspora that included Germans from the Sudetenland and other Eastern European regions.
Although the phonology of Schmiedshau German is distinct from Bavarian, the two are
morphosyntactically similar.
. The author of this study, who is native to the province of Tirol (Austria) and who ac-
quired Bavarian German as an L1, transcribed and analysed the corpus. One of the possible
problems regarding the confirmation of non-native like forms by the outside judges is that
their judgments were based on written transcripts that reflected the dialectal pronuncia-
tion of the subjects. While it may be argued that such transcription conventions may have
negatively influenced the judges’ grammaticality assessments, I was careful to inform these
judges about the nature of the transcripts they were to receive and insisted that they disre-
gard orthography in making their judgments. Furthermore, most residents of Austria and
Bavarian-speaking Germany are accustomed to seeing their variety of German represented
orthographically, on signs and in print, throughout the region. Thus, I would argue that an
orthographically realistic representation of speech in this case did not adversely influence
the judges; rather, it imparted a sense of authenticity to the written transcript.
References
Altenberg, E. P. (1991). “Assessing first language vulnerability to attrition”. In H. W. Seliger
& R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 189–206). Cambridge: CUP.
Andersen, R. W. (1982). “Determining the linguistic attributes of language attrition”. In
R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 83–118). Rowley,
MA: Newbury House.
Bock, K., & Levelt, W. J. M. (1994). “Language production, grammatical encoding”. In M.
A. Gernsbacher (Ed.), Handbook of Psycholinguistics (pp. 945–984). San Diego, CA:
Academic Press.
Bolonyai, A. (1999). The Hidden Dimension of Language Contact: The case of Hungarian-
English bilingual children. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Columbia, SC:
University of South Carolina.
Bot, K. de (1996). “Language loss”. In H. Goebl, P. H. Nelde, Z. Stary, & W. Wölck (Eds.),
Contact Linguistics: An international handbook of contemporary research, Vol. 1 (pp. 579–
585). Berlin: Walter de Gruyter.
 Steven Gross
Damasio, A. R. (1992). “Aphasia”. New England Journal of Medicine, 32 (6), 531–539.
Dorian, N. C. (1973). “Grammatical change in a dying dialect”. Language, 49, 413–438.
Fuller, J. M. (1997). “Pennsylvania Dutch with a Southern Touch”: A theoretical model
of language contact and change. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Columbia, SC:
University of South Carolina.
Gross, S. (2000a). The Role of Abstract Lexical Structure in First Language Attrition: Germans
in America. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Columbia, SC: University of South
Carolina.
Gross, S. (2000b). “When two become one: Creating a composite grammar in creole
formation”. International Journal of Bilingualism, 4, 59–80.
Hagen, A. M., & Bot, K. de (1990). “Structural loss and levelling in minority languages and
dialects”. Sociolinguistica, 4, 136–149.
Haugen, E. (1950). “The analysis of linguistic borrowing”. Language, 26, 210–231.
Hlavac, J. (2000). Croatian in Melbourne: Lexicon, switching and morphosyntactic features
in the speech of second-generation bilinguals. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation,
Melbourne: Monash University.
Hupet, M., & Schelstraete, M-A. (1996). “Les effets du vieillissement sur la compréhension
et la production de langage”. Bulletin Suisse de Linguistique Appliquée, 66, 153–166.
Kaufman, D., & Aronoff, M. (1991). “Morphological disintegration and reconstruction in
first language attrition”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition
(pp. 175–188). Cambridge: CUP.
Kurbel, R. (1980). Schmiedshau: Ein Deutsches Dorf in der Mittelslowakei – Wie es entstand,
war und verging. Stuttgart: Hilfsbund Karpatendeutscher Katholiken.
Kynette, D., & Kemper, S. (1986). “Aging and the loss of grammatical forms: A cross-
sectional study of language performance”. Language and Communication, 6, 65–72.
Levelt, W. J. M. (1989). Speaking: From intention to articulation. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Myers-Scotton, C. (1993). Duelling Languages: Grammatical structure in codeswitching.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Myers-Scotton, C. (1998). “A way to dusty death: The matrix language turnover hypothesis”.
In L. A. Grenoble & L. J. Whaley (Eds.), Endangered Languages: Language loss and
community response (pp. 289–316). Cambridge: CUP.
Myers-Scotton, C. (2002). Contact Linguistics: Bilingual encounters and grammatical
outcomes. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Myers-Scotton, C., & Jake, J. L. (2000). “Explaining aspects of codeswitching and their
implications.” In J. Nicol (Ed.), One Mind, Two Languages: Bilingual language processing
(pp. 84–116). Oxford: Blackwell.
Olshtain, E., & Barzilay, M. (1991). “Lexical retrieval difficulties in adult language attrition”.
In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 139–150).
Cambridge: CUP.
Salmons, J. (1994). “Naturalness and morphological change in Texas German”. In N. Berend
& K. J. Mattheier (Eds.), Sprachinselforschung: Eine Gedenkschrift für Hugo Jedig
(pp. 59–72). Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance: The case of German
Jews in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Attrition and contact linguistics 
Seliger, H. W. (1991). “Language attrition, reduced redundancy, and creativity”. In
H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 227–240). Cambridge:
CUP.
Seliger, H. W., & Vago, R. M. (1991). “The study of first language attrition: An overview”.
In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 3–15). Cambridge:
CUP.
Sharwood Smith, M. (1983). “On first language loss in the second language acquirer:
Problems of transfer”. In S. Gass & L. Selinker (Eds.), Language Transfer in Language
Learning (pp. 222–231). Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Squire, L.R., Knowlton, B., & Musen, G. (1993). “The structure and organisation of
memory”. Annual Review of Psychology, 44, 453–495.
Stromswold, K., Caplan, D., Albert, N., & Rausch, S. (1996). “Localisation of syntactic
comprehension by positron emission tomography”. Brain and Language, 52, 452–473.
Ullman, M. T. (2001). “The declarative/procedural model of lexicon and grammar”. Journal
of Psycholinguistic Research, 30, 37–69.
Ullman, M. T., Corkin, S., Coppola, M., Hickok, G., Growdon, J. H., Koroshetz, W. J., &
Pinker, S. (1997). “A neural dissociation within language: Evidence that the mental
dictionary is part of declarative memory, and that grammatical rules are processed by
the procedural system”. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience, 9, 266–276.
Wei, L. (2000). “Types of morphemes and their implications for second language morpheme
acquisition”. International Journal of Bilingualism, 4, 29–43.
No more reductions!
To the problem of evaluation of language
attrition data
Elena Schmitt
Southern Connecticut State University
Introduction
Researchers in the field of language attrition have been struggling to identify
a unifying explanatory framework to the analysis of language attrition data.
However, to date we have not been able to agree on the explanatory value of
various approaches, descriptions, and accounts of a great number of data sets
collected from individuals and groups of multitude of backgrounds, languages,
and social variables. This paper attempts to identify and compare the explana-
tory power of two approaches to the analysis: the reduction/simplification
framework on the one hand, and convergence and codeswitching as mecha-
nisms of language attrition on the other.
This paper focuses on two sets of language attrition data produced by Rus-
sian immigrant children recorded after five and seven years of immigration to
the U.S. The purpose of this study is three-fold:
1. To demonstrate that a view of language attrition as the process of simplifi-
cation and reduction is not sufficiently explanatory;
2. To identify convergence as the mechanism that underlies simplifica-
tion/reduction; and
3. To discuss convergence and codeswitching as possible tools for explaining
attrition.
Previous studies on language loss in adults and children under the circum-
stances of language contact agree (if only implicitly) that attrition is charac-
terised by reduction and simplification of the available L1 lexicon, morphology,
 Elena Schmitt
and syntax. A large number of studies (e.g. Håkansson 1995; Pfaff 1991; Polin-
sky 1997) point out that attrition leads to significant erosion of the lexicon.
Others propose that grammar is also vulnerable during language loss. Kauf-
man (1995), for example, finds that Israeli immigrant children in the U.S.
exhibit simplification in their morphology, while Merino (1983) reports that
her bilingual Chicano subjects simplify subjunctive, relatives, and past tense
forms of Spanish (their L1) under the influence of L2 (English). All of these
and other studies attempt to establish patterns in which reduction takes place,
provide taxonomies of reduced/simplified forms, and/or describe the causes
that lead to reduction/simplification.
However, discussing attrition data in terms of reduction and/or simplifica-
tion does not seem to provide the desired insights into the nature of interaction
between the attriting language (L1) and its dominant counterpart (L2) which
necessarily takes place in language loss. In order to gain a better understand-
ing of how L2 affects the structure of L1 under attrition, this study attempts
to move beyond the simplification/reduction framework. It accounts for the
changes in the structures of Russian produced by immigrant children from the
point of view of varying levels of participation of abstract lexical structure of
English in the grammatical frame set by Russian, the attriting native language
of the subjects.
In order to constrain the analysis of the data all the examples are dis-
cussed within the framework of the Abstract Level model originally proposed
by Myers-Scotton and Jake (1995) (see Section 1). Explanation of non-target
production stems from the view that convergence and codeswitching are the
mechanisms of language loss (Schmitt 2000).
. Theoretical framework
The dichotomy of Matrix and Embedded languages, as illustrated in example
(1), was first delineated in the Matrix Language Frame (MLF) model (Myers-
Scotton 1993a, 1997). The language that sets the grammatical frame of a com-
plementiser phrase (CP) is referred to as the Matrix language (ML); and the
other language, which only fills in some of the content morphemes, is referred
to as the Embedded language (EL).1
In example (1) most of the morphemes
come from Russian, the content morpheme dog, however, comes from English.
Thus, Russian is the ML in this CP and English is the EL.
Evaluation of language attrition data 
(1) On
He
dolgo
long
laia-l
bark-past/masc/sg
na dog-ov.
on dog-gen/pl.
‘He barked at dogs for a long time.’
It is also necessary to distinguish between four types of morphemes that are
activated and selected at different times in the course of production (Myers-
Scotton & Jake 2000): content morphemes, and three types of system mor-
phemes identified as early system morphemes, and two types of late system
morphemes – bridge and late system morphemes (for a detailed discussion of
morpheme types see Gross, this volume). In example (2) Pepe, like, chew, bone
and Mashka are content morphemes, -ing is an early system morpheme, -’s is a
bridge morpheme, and –s is a late system morpheme or ‘outsider’.
(2) Pepe likes chewing on Mashka’s bone.
Following Rappaport and Levin (1988) among others, Myers-Scotton and Jake
introduce the idea that the abstract structure that underlies production is
not linear, but consists of several levels. The Abstract Level model identifies
three levels of abstract lexical structure: lexical-conceptual, predicate-argument
structure, and morphological realisation patterns. Each of these structures
plays its distinct role in language production. Thus, at the lexical-conceptual
level the speaker’s intentions are mapped onto semantic-pragmatic feature
bundles and language specific lemmas (adapted from Levelt 1989) are acti-
vated. At the level of predicate-argument structure, arguments are selected and
thematic relations are mapped onto grammatical structure. For example, an
argument with a thematic role of an Agent is mapped onto the subject posi-
tion, Benefactor to indirect object position, and Patient to direct object. Finally,
at the level of morphological-realisation patterns grammatical relations are
mapped onto the surface structure. These include case marking, agreement
marking, word order, etc.
All three levels of abstract lexical structure are present in mono- and bilin-
gual speech. However, the Abstract Level model suggests that abstract lexical
structure is modular, i.e. three levels of abstract structure can be split and re-
combined depending on the accessibility of the information from the languages
identified as the ML and the EL. In other words, some parts of the abstract lex-
ical structure may come from the ML while other parts are provided by the EL.
For example, in (3) all morphemes are from the ML (Russian).
(3) On
He-nom/sg/masc
igra-et
play-pres/3rd/sg
v
in
sport.
sport-acc/sg/masc.
‘He plays sports.’
 Elena Schmitt
SR: On
He-nom/sg/masc
zanima-et-sia
engage-pres/3rd/sg-refl
sport-om.
sport-inst/sg/masc.
‘He plays sports.’
However, the lexical conceptual structure of the verb igraet ‘plays’ clearly does
not come from Russian, SR (Standard Russian) requires the verb zanimat’sia ‘to
go in for’ when no specific game is indicated. English, on the other hand, does
not differentiate between the two: the verb play is used both with general sports
and specific games, such as football and tennis. Thus, in order to produce this
sentence the speaker mapped the lexical-conceptual structure of English onto
the Russian grammatical frame.
This type of production is referred to as convergence, defined by Myers-
Scotton (1998) as “the use of morphemes from a single linguistic variety, but
with parts of their lexical structure coming from another source” (p. 290).
Compared to other definitions of convergence (e.g. Beniak, Mougeon, & Val-
ois 1984; Romaine 1995; Thomason 2000; etc.), this view specifically targets
the processes of language attrition (as opposed to creolisation, L2 acquisition
etc.) where the more dominant language affects the abstract lexical structure of
the attriting language, but no reverse influence is observed. Thus, convergence
occurs when speakers do not have complete access to the abstract lexical struc-
ture of one language or the influence of the other language is so pervasive that
speakers want to switch over to that language to fill in the gaps. The surface of
a CP, however, is produced in only one language. Convergence is widely exhib-
ited in many data sets (e.g. Bolonyai 1998, 1999; Jake & Myers-Scotton 1997;
Myers-Scotton 1998, 2002; Schmitt 2000) as well as in the data presented here.
. Subjects and data
. Subjects
The data for this longitudinal study have been collected from five Russian boys
whose families emigrated from the former Soviet Union in the early 1990s.
The boys were brought to the U.S. between the ages of 3;8 and 4;2 years of age
(average age of four years).
The parents of the subjects report that, despite the fact that all the subjects
were brought to this country at a very young age, their Russian at the time of
the arrival was well-developed: they had full command of the case system, i.e.
they were able to produce all the appropriate case endings required by Russian;
they had mastered the verb conjugation system, i.e. they were able to agree the
Evaluation of language attrition data 
subject with the verb and produce the appropriate verbal inflection required
by such agreement; and they dropped pronominal subjects as required by the
pro-drop parameter of Russian. In other words, these boys had mastered the
Russian grammatical system and were able to construct a standard Russian
grammatical frame for any utterance they wished to produce. These reports
are supported by findings on Russian language acquisition by young children
(Slobin 1985). Therefore, I believe that treating the non-target forms produced
by these children as a sign of language attrition and not as a result of incomplete
acquisition is justified.
It is important to emphasise that children at this age are not necessarily fa-
miliar with such complicated structures as subjunctives, conditionals, etc. They
may also find it difficult to correctly conjugate irregular verbs such as khotet’
‘to want’, plakat’ ‘to cry’ and others. Declension of certain irregular nouns may
also be off target in the sense that children have not acquired all allophonic
differences at this time.
Children also produce mainly simple sentences tending to avoid complex
constructions, especially if these require conjunctions. However, what is im-
portant for this study is that four-year-old children have full access to most
of the grammatical structure of the Russian language and are able to use it in
accordance with the requirements in order to be successful in expressing their
intentions.
Upon their arrival in the United States, all five subjects were immediately
exposed to English through day care institutions at the Jewish Community
Center. They were not provided with any special instruction in the English lan-
guage; instead, all their peers were monolingual speakers of English. Therefore,
in order to survive in the new environment and make friends these children
were forced to acquire English and make it their primary language of interac-
tion outside the family. This intensive exposure to English clearly took its toll
on the development of Russian, causing its fossilisation and gradual attrition.
. Language policy at home
The parents of the boys in the study are concerned about their children’s rapid
loss of ability to express their communicative intentions in grammatical Rus-
sian. However, this has not been the case from the very beginning of their life
in the US. As most new immigrants, the parents of these children were aware
of the necessity to learn the language of their host country as soon as possi-
ble in order to gain access to economic, professional, and social benefits. They
also encouraged their children to acquire the target language speedily. Some of
 Elena Schmitt
the parents stated during interviews with the researcher that at the beginning
of their American life they were so eager to acquire English and so anxious
to demonstrate their early success to other members of the family that they
started using newly learned English words in their Russian sentences, i.e. they
started to codeswitch. It is important to note that they still spoke Russian, i.e.
the grammatical frame of all their utterances came from Russian, but English
provided some of the content morphemes. While parental codeswitching in it-
self did not interfere with the parents’ ability to speak standard Russian, it gave
their children a signal that using English at home was not only appropriate but
also to be emulated. This might further have stimulated the subjects’ desire to
acquire English as fast as possible and replace Russian with it.
Once the parents of the subjects situated themselves in the new envi-
ronment and became more secure financially and professionally, they started
noticing that their children were not communicating in Russian even when
spoken to in their mother tongue. This observation proved rather disturbing,
especially to the mothers of these boys because they wished for their children
to have full command of both languages, English and Russian. This led to a
rather conscious introduction of a Russian-only language policy at home, an
approach that was supposed to serve as a method of maintenance of Russian
in an adverse linguistic environment, i.e. in the environment where English
language and American culture dominate the life of the children.
The parents thus tried to speak only Russian to their children and required
that the boys also speak only Russian. However, the boys were not always able
or willing to respond to their parents in Russian. English was the language of
their first choice. After all, it was English that brought them success in finding
friends, establishing ties in the American society, and even elevating them in
the eyes of the parents who sometimes had to use them as interpreters. These
factors along with the lack of motivation to speak Russian led the children to
resist using Russian for interactions at home. The parents, however, report
being adamant about not speaking English at home and insisting that their
children should use Russian. In any case, the parents used only Russian in all
their conversations with the children, as well as with other family members
and Russian-speaking friends and visitors. The children gradually adapted to
this strategy and started using more and more Russian. The parents claim that
the best motivation for speaking Russian is the children’s grandparents, whose
English remains minimal and who cannot understand and/or communicate
with the grandchildren in English.
Thus, the combination of factors, which include parental insistence on
speaking Russian, grandparents’ inability to communicate in English, meet-
Evaluation of language attrition data 
ing other Russian immigrant children who immigrated recently and have not
yet acquired English, encourages the subjects to speak Russian at home. How-
ever, speaking Russian, i.e. responding to their parents in Russian (the children
rarely or never initiate exchanges in Russian) does not imply that the subjects
produce standard Russian: they often incorporate English into their speech
both overtly and covertly. Overt incorporation of English results in codeswitch-
ing; covert use of English results in convergence. In other words, while building
a Russian grammatical frame, the children resort to English for various types of
‘aides’: when codeswitching, they employ English content morphemes to assist
with the lexical items that are not easily available to them from Russian; when
converging, they use some English abstract lexical structures in order to fill in
the gaps left by Russian. Their parents remain rather tolerant to this ‘creative’
use of the two languages. They believe that using some form of Russian is better
than using none at all.
. Data collection
The data for this study were collected at two different times. The first collection
took place in the summer of 1997 when the subjects’ median age was nine and
a half years. The second collection was carried out in the fall of 1999 when their
median age was 11;5. By the time of the first data collection all the subjects had
lived in the United States for a period between four and five years.
The subjects were tape-recorded in their homes while they were playing
and/or had conversations with their parents, siblings and/or family friends
and other Russian acquaintances. The researcher, who was also a friend of all
the families, asked permission to tape-record the children herself. The par-
ents of the subjects gladly agreed, and I visited each family and spent about
two to three hours talking to the children in Russian, playing games, read-
ing books, discussing movies, playing computer games. Whenever the children
started having a good time playing and talking, I turned on the tape-recorder
and recorded their speech. This resulted in 50 to 75 minutes per session of
tape-recorded conversations between the children and the researcher. The con-
versations were natural, in the sense that the children were not forced to answer
any specific questions; they were not interviewed in any kind of formal set-
ting. On the contrary, they were in their home environment playing games that
they normally played and talking about the subjects that interested them, such
as favourite movies, school, friends, collecting various items, etc. Therefore,
the tape-recorded conversations can be considered naturally occurring despite
the fact that they were recorded by the researcher. After all the recordings
 Elena Schmitt
were made, they were transcribed, transliterated into Roman script, glossed
for morphological composition, and translated. This material consisting of 889
Complementiser Phrases (CPs), serves as the data for the primary analysis of
the children’s speech in Russian.
The second collection of the data followed the same procedures and took
place in the fall of 1999 in the same families with the same subjects. The result-
ing corpus yielded 1240 CPs, which were transcribed, transliterated, glossed for
morphological structure, and translated.
Both sets of data were analysed for the presence of codeswitching, conver-
gence and other signs of language attrition. The non-target forms and struc-
tures that were qualified as resulting from convergence were then accounted for
on the basis of the Abstract Level model. The results and analyses are presented
in the following section.
. Analysis
This section of the paper presents an overview of the data, discusses the major
changes exhibited by the informants from the first set of data to the second, and
compares the explanatory power of reduction/simplification framework to the
analysis of non-target forms within the framework of the Abstract Level model.
Table 1 compares the amount of bilingual and monolingual speech across
the two data sets.
Even though the data were not analysed statistically, it is evident from Ta-
ble 1 that the amount of convergence has shown tendency towards an increase
by 7.34% – convergence constituted 25.85% (N = 227/878) of all the data in
Table 1. Comparison of bilingual and monolingual CPs across the two data sets
Recording Total Bilingual CPs Monolingual CPs
number Convergence Codeswitching Standard Russian Standard
od CPs English
(tokens) Total (%) Total (%) Total (%) Total (%)
1st recording 878 25.85% 16.63% 47.03% 10.47%
(227/878) (146/878) (413/878) (92/878)
2nd recording 1204 33.19% 18.43% 44.93% 4.78%
(399/1204) (222/1204) (541/1204) (42/878)
Percent change
from the 1st to + 7.34% + 1.8% –2.1 % –5.69%
the 2nd recording
Evaluation of language attrition data 
1997, but rose to 33.19% (N = 339/1204) in 1999. The amount of codeswitch-
ing also showed a tendency to increase at the time of the second recording by
1.8%. These increases were expected and support the view of the data as re-
sulting from language attrition. Interestingly, the percentage of CPs produced
in Standard Russian increased by 2% in the second recording and the amount
of Standard English went down from 10% in the first recording to 4% in the
second recording two years later. These changes point to the fact that in the
second recording children have become more skilful in producing seemingly
all-Russian speech which has no English on the surface; they also “learned”
to incorporate English covertly, i.e. through convergence. Therefore, it seems
useful to discuss these data from the point of view of the underlying mecha-
nisms of bilingual production, i.e. convergence and codeswitching, which will
provide us with an explanation and even predictions.
While both sets of data contain examples of convergence and codeswitch-
ing, I would like to focus only on those samples of children’s speech that can
be perceived as examples of reduction and/or simplification and be treated
within the Abstract Level model. Let us start with the analysis of examples (4),
(5), and (6).
(4) A
And
chto
what
ty
you-nom/sg/2nd
bud-esh’
will-2nd/fut/sg
dela-t’
do-inf
v
in
park-0?
park-acc (or nom?)/masc/sg.
(SR) A
And
chto
what
ty
you-nom/sg/2nd
bud-esh’
will-2nd/fut/sg
dela-t’
do-inf
v
in
park-e?
park-prep/masc/sg.
‘And what will you do in the park?’ (Data set one)
(5) On
He-nom/sg/masc
rabota-l
worked-past/sg/masc
dlia
for
CIA.
CIA.
(SR) On
He-nom/sg/masc
rabota-l
worked-past/sg/masc
na
for
CIA.
CIA.
‘He worked for the CIA.’ (Data set two)
(6) Ia
I-nom/1st/sg
govori-u
speak-1st/pres/sg
__russk-iy
__Russian-acc/masc/sg
iazyk.
language-nom (or acc?)/masc/sg.
 Elena Schmitt
(SR) Ya
I-nom/1st/sg
govor-iu
speak-1st/pres/sg
na
in
russk-om
Russian-prep/masc/sg
iazyk-e.
language-prep/masc/sg.
‘I speak the Russian language.’ (Data set two).
In example (4) it is evident that the subject is using a non-target case, replacing
the intended prepositional case with the nominative or accusative. In (5) the
subject uses a non-target preposition in the verb phrase. In (6) preposition is
omitted and the case is used in a non-target fashion.
The data contain a great deal of such non-target uses. An analysis within
simplification/reduction framework invites the conclusion that the grammat-
ical system of Russian used by our subjects’ has undergone simplification and
reduction. However, let us look at Table 2 where overall and target-like case
usage is compared.
It is evident here that speakers tend to use the majority of cases in a target-
like fashion – 91.42% (N = 714/781) in the first recording and 86.97% (N =
908/1041) in the second recording. We can also see that the subjects still possess
a full-fledged six-case system of the Russian language and that replacements
arise only in a limited number of CPs. This distribution indicates that even
after eight to nine years of immigration the informants preserve a relatively
stable case system: they still have a command of all six case markers and use
them appropriately most of the time in both the first and second recordings.
Table 3 provides further evidence for the fact that all cases are still in use. In
fact the second recording boasts a slight increase in the proportion of target-
Table 2. Distribution of cases across the two sets of data
1st Recording 2nd Recording
Case Total Total % Case Total Total %
Required Target Target Required Target Target
Contexts Contexts
Nominative 403 401 99.5 Nominative 564 558 98.94
Genitive 93 79 84.95 Genitive 151 102 67.54
Dative 44 36 81.82 Dative 51 37 72.55
Accusative 170 153 90.00 Accusative 199 168 84.42
Instrumental 24 10 41.67 Instrumental 35 16 45.71
Prepositional 47 35 74.47 Prepositional 41 27 65.85
TOTAL 781 714 91.42 TOTAL 1041 908 87.22
Evaluation of language attrition data 
Table 3. Proportional contexts and target-like use of cases
1st Recording 2nd Recording
Case TOTAL % % Target Case TOTAL % % Target
of all of all of all of all
participating participating participating participating
cases cases cases cases
Nominative 51.60 56.16 Nominative 54.17 61.45
(403/781) (401/714) (564/1041) (558/908)
Genitive 11.91 11.06 Genitive 14.50 11.23
(93/781) (79/714) (151/1041) (102/908)
Dative 5.63 5.04 Dative 4.89 4.07
(44/781) (36/714) (51/1041) (37/908)
Accusative 21.77 21.43 Accusative 19.11 18.50
(170/781) (153/714) (199/1041) (168/908)
Instrumental 3.07 1.40 Instrumental 3.36 1.76
(24/781) (10/714) (35/1041) (16/908)
Prepositional 6.02 4.90 Prepositional 3.93 2.97
(47/781) (35/714) (41/1041) (27/908)
like uses of Nominative, Genitive, and Instrumental cases. Moreover, all six
cases are used for replacement.
The combination of these facts points to the possibility that morphologi-
cal case markers do not erode, rather it is the contexts where these markers are
required become less clear to the informants. Therefore, reduction and simpli-
fication accounts will not provide us with the desired insight into the processes
of attrition that are taking place in the language used by the subjects.
On the other hand, if we analyse case loss in terms of convergence, we will
have to conclude that Russian largely continues to build the grammatical frame
and to supply all case markers. But English also participates in the creation of
the grammatical structure by projecting some slots for case marking. To make
things clear, consider example (7).
(7) Ona
She-nom/3rd/sg
bud’-et
will be-3rd/fut
uchitel’nits-a.
teacher-nom/sg/fem.
SR: Ona
She-nom/3rd/sg
bud’-et
will be-3rd/fut
uchitel’nits-ei.
teacher-instr/sg/fem.
‘She will be a teacher.’
 Elena Schmitt
Example (7) illustrates the replacement of the instrumental case by the nomi-
native case to mark the copula complement. In Standard Russian the verbs byt’
‘be’, stanovit’sja ‘become’ and others still assign the instrumental case when
used in the past or future tenses (Timberlake 1993; Comrie et al. 1995). The
subjects in this study, however, consistently replace the required instrumen-
tal with the nominative case in copula clauses.2
In order to explain why this
happens we need to determine how the abstract lexical structures of English
and Russian interact at the level of morphological realisation patterns and
predicate-argument structure. If the whole CP is built by Russian alone then
the slot for the case marker should be projected by the Russian morphological
realisation patterns. However, if the structure of the CP is built by both Russian
and English, then it is possible that the slot for case is projected by English and
therefore cannot be filled by Russian.
This explanation would suffice if the noun complement were not marked
at all. But the noun uchitel’nitsa ‘teacher’ has a feminine nominative ending.
This can be accounted for if we first suggest that it is English which projects the
slot for number marking. Since Russian number only occurs as part of a mul-
timorphemic unit that combines number, gender, and case it is possible that -a
is not nominative, but rather singular feminine ending. But since number and
gender marking never occur in Russian separately from case, I suggest another
explanation that may be more plausible. Since we never see any nouns occur-
ring in the data without multimorphemic units that mark case, even if they
are non-target like, we can suppose that the Russian morphological realisation
patterns are ‘programmed’ to project some slot for a case for each NP. When
the environment is familiar to the speaker, a slot for a specific case is projected.
However, example (7) indicates that English may affect the type of the slot that
is projected onto the morphological realisation patterns due to the lack of overt
case system in English. The result of English influence on Russian morphologi-
cal realisation patterns is uncertainty about case use. Thus, when the context is
not clear-cut, a default slot is projected by the Russian morphological realisa-
tion patterns. This default slot may be filled with the nominative case, which is
one of the most frequent cases used in Russian (see Table 3 above). The default
slot is a result of the influence of English abstract-lexical structure at the level
of morphological realisation patterns.3
This explanation is also valid for examples (8) and (9) below. In both exam-
ples the target case is replaced with a non-target case. In (8) we notice that the
abstract lexical structure of the CP is projected by a composite ML that consists
of both Russian and English. It is English that projects the lexical-conceptual
structure of the preposition v ‘to’ instead of the Standard Russian preposition
Evaluation of language attrition data 
k ‘to’ used with animate objects. In both English and Russian prepositions are
case-assignors (Vergnaud 1985), though in English case is not assigned overtly.
I propose, then, that the slot for case marking in this CP was projected by the
combined abstract lexical structure of Russian and English: the ability of En-
glish to assign the abstract accusative case and the requirement of Russian to
project a slot resulted in the overt non-target accusative marking of the noun
podrug-u ‘female friend’.
(8) Ona
She-nom/sg/3rd
idj-ot
goes-3rd/sg/pres
v
to
podrug-u.
friend-acc/fem/sg.
SR: Ona
She-nom/sg/3rd
idj-ot
goes-3rd/sg/pres
k
to
podrug-e.
friend-dat/fem/sg.
‘She is going to a friend’s.’
In (9) the marker -u on the word shkolu ‘school’ is accusative instead of the tar-
get prepositional. The overt presence of this non-target case marker indicates
that an accusative slot was projected by the Russian morphological realisation
patterns. However, Russian requires the use of the prepositional case of loca-
tion in this CP. So why does it not project the slot for the prepositional case?
Once again English may have influenced the choice of the case slot. Since En-
glish does not specify which case needs to be marked in each particular NP,
speakers whose Russian is undergoing attrition select a case based on the in-
volved preposition. Preposition v has two meanings ‘at’ and ‘to’. Preposition v,
meaning ‘at’, assigns the prepositional case of location to the following NP. The
preposition v, meaning ‘to’, assigns the accusative case of direction to the fol-
lowing NP. If the speaker does not differentiate between the two meanings of
the preposition, the case assignment distinctions may also be indistinguishable.
If so, the accusative case is selected.
(9) Samoe
The
plokhoye
worst
shtuka,
thing,
chto
that
u
I
menia est’
have
v
at
shkol-u,
school-acc/fem/sg,
eto
is
math.
math.
SR: Samoe
The
plokhoe
worst
shtuka,
thing,
chto
that
u
I
menia est’
have
v
at
shkol-e,
school-prep/fem/sg,
eto
is
math.
math.
‘The worst thing that I have in school is math.’
 Elena Schmitt
So, instead of saying that the number of cases is reduced and/or that the case
system is simplified, we actually are being precise in pointing to case replace-
ment strategies and we attempt to demonstrate how the two languages interact
within one CP that is superficially monolingual. The theoretical advantage of
this position is that it does not only point to the fact that some endings are
omitted, but it explains why such replacements take place.
Now let us turn to example (10) below.
(10) Nu,
Well,
est’
is
baseball
baseball
v
in
heaven?
heaven?
SR: Nu,
Well,
est’
is
baseball
baseball
v
in
heaven-e?
heaven-prep/sg/masc.
‘Well, is there baseball in heaven?’
At a first glance, we can simply note that heaven is a codeswitched form and
that it lacks the Russian prepositional case ending. This first observation will
probably point to inaccessibility or loss of lexicon, and the second observa-
tion will drive us to propose a reduction in case system. From the reduc-
tion/simplification point of view there is really not much else to say or explain.
However, if we treat this example within the framework of the Abstract Level
model, we will be able to answer why there is no overt case marker on the
switched form.
Two analyses are possible. One way is to propose that zero case marking is a
result of transferring English morphological realisation patterns onto Russian
by the speaker. If so, the lack of a grammatical marker indicates the presence
of English zero morpheme. However, the projection of any English (EL) late
system morpheme, even if it is a zero case marker, onto the surface of a Rus-
sian (ML) frame would violate the MLF model (Myers-Scotton 1997) which
prohibits the use of late system morphemes from the EL in mixed constituents.
An approach based on the composite grammatical frame provides a more
satisfactory result. The lack of the system morphemes in the intended ML in
the above examples may result from the lack of the necessary slot for such
a morpheme in Russian, but not from the use of the English system of case
marking in a Russian grammatical frame by the subjects, as proposed earlier.
The question is, then, why is the slot lacking? The answer lies in the ability of
the abstract lexical structure to be split and recombined, as proposed by the
Abstract Level model. When the speaker brings the English content morpheme
heaven into the Russian frame, he also brings along parts of its morphological
realisation patterns. These patterns do not contain the slot for case marking.
Evaluation of language attrition data 
Under overt CS that does not involve convergence, the abstract structure of the
ML (i.e. Russian) would block the participation of abstract structure of the EL.
In this case, however, it is the English content morpheme that brings with it
slots for late system morphemes. Russian, being the intended ML, fills these
slots with the late system morphemes when the sentence is ready to be assem-
bled. But since English projects all of the abstract lexical structure for heaven
which does not provide the slot for case marking, Russian case markers cannot
surface. This results in zero marking and bare forms.
One can link the surface structure of this sentence with the underlying
abstract structure: the late system morpheme is activated only when the gram-
matical frame of the CP is ready to accept it; otherwise, the morpheme does
not surface. Therefore, the speaker activates the English lemma for heaven early
on. This activated lemma projects the lexical-conceptual structure, predicate-
argument structure, and morphological realisation patterns. The result is that
the speaker is unable to select the appropriate Russian late system morpheme
precisely because the presence of English morphological realisation patterns on
the noun prevents the Russian morphemes from appearing on the surface. On
the other hand, Russian as the ML in this CP prevents English from project-
ing its late system morphemes. Thus, a composite ML is produced and a bare
form results.
Thus, the analysis of these examples in terms of convergence provides us
with an explanation of what happens when L1 and L2 are in contact. The re-
duction/simplification framework does not only lack explanation, but is often
misleading as far as the processes exhibited in the attriting language are con-
cerned. Furthermore, the reduction and simplification framework does not
allow us to uniformly account for instances of language change that involve an
increase in number and complexity of Russian conjunctions used by the sub-
jects, an increased the number of complex sentences in the second recording,
and a large increase in the number of sentences that do not contain pro-drop.
Conversely, an approach to language attrition via convergence allows us to view
the majority of the developments in an attriting language systematically.
Therefore, I propose that in order to account for the grammatical struc-
tures or features that occur in non-target fashion in the speech of our subjects,
we need to evaluate how convergenceas a mechanism of bilingual production is
used. The levels of convergence and types of codeswitching that subjects utilise
for expressing their communicative intentions indicate how much or how little
attrition is present in a language.
 Elena Schmitt
. Conclusion
Based on the results of the analysis of these data, I propose that explaining
the processes of language attrition involves identification of the mechanisms
present, i.e. codeswitching and convergence, and quantification of the struc-
tures produced under the guidance of these mechanisms. Discussing simpli-
fication and reduction does not provide an insight into the underlying pro-
cesses of bilingual production since both are only surface manifestations of
language loss. Neither simplification nor reduction happen to all inflections,
so citing simplification and/or reduction does not explain why they take place
in attrition. Moreover, it is difficult to delineate any pattern with which sim-
plification/reduction occurs.
On the other hand, a convergence account provides an internally consis-
tent and context specific argument. Under this we clearly see that target late
system morphemes are replaced with non-target ones from the same language
in specific circumstances, where English affects the context of the Russian tar-
get form, making it unclear to the speaker. Russian, then, projects a generic
slot and fills it with a default late system morpheme. Overall, when we use a
model which treats change under attrition as substitution or replacement and
when we identify a mechanism that produces substitution/replacement (i.e.
convergence) and point to a source of this substitution/replacement (i.e. dom-
inant L2), then we have a tool that allows us to explain some of the processes
occurring in language loss.
This approach to accounting for language attrition allows for the following
definitions of reduction and simplification. Reduction is one of the manifesta-
tions of language attrition that does not affect all inflections equally. Crucially,
it is not a major mechanism of language attrition, but rather a possible ob-
servable result of convergence at different levels of abstract lexical structure.
Dependingon the level of the abstract lexical structure where convergencetakes
place, reduction may be observed in the number of content morphemes, in the
number of grammatical markers, in the syntactic system, and in the use of
discourse devices. As the example of the Russian case system demonstrates, re-
duction may be caused by the lack of clear contextual cues where certain cases
are required, rather than by the loss of morphological markers themselves. If
speech samples containing this type of ‘pseudo reduction’ are not discussed
and explained further, the whole interpretation of language attrition data may
be skewed.
Simplification is another manifestation of language attrition which, like
reduction, does not happen to all inflections. Like reduction, it is not a mech-
Evaluation of language attrition data 
anism of language loss but a possible result of the interaction between conver-
gence and codeswitching that leads to the production of bare or uninflected
forms and other types of non-target forms.
Finally, I would like to emphasise that language loss is not the process of
reduction of the grammatical system of a language. Rather, language loss ap-
pears to be a process of gradual replacement of one or more levels of abstract
lexical structure of the L1 with the abstract lexical structure of the L2. This re-
placement results in the projection initially of some and gradually most slots
of the grammatical frame from L2 onto L1. These slots may be filled with mor-
phemes from L1 or L2. I hypothesise that, once syntactically active late system
morphemes of L2 start filling the projected position in the grammatical frame
of a CP, the ML turnover has taken place and language attrition is evident.
Notes
. The use of instrumental case increases in the second recording (see Table 2) in various
contexts, but it is consistently replaced with the nominative case in copula clauses.
. An additional factor in the nominative case assignment could be that the predicate-
argument structure of the Russian copula may have also been mapped from English, where
the verb ‘to be’ takes an object with the nominative case.
. Note that the MLF model refers only to setting the abstract properties of the grammatical
frame. The types of morphemes that fill the slots in the grammatical frame are not specified
by the MLF model. Therefore, it is necessary to rely on the Abstract Level model, which
specifies how languages interact and produce surface level morphemes.
References
Beniak, E., Mougeon, R., & Valois, D. (1984). “Sociolinguistic evidence of a possible case of
syntactic convergence in Ontarian French.” Journal of the Atlantic Provinces Linguistic
Association, 6 (7), 73–88.
Bolonyai, A. (1998). “In-between languages: Language shift/maintenance in childhood
bilingualism”. International Journal of Bilingualism, 2 (1), 21–43.
Bolonyai, A. (1999). The Hidden Dimensions of Language Contact: The case of
Hungarian-English bilingual children. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Columbia,
SC: University of South Carolina.
Comrie, B., Stone, G., & Polinsky, M. (1995). The Russian Language in the Twentieth Century.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Håkansson, G. (1995). “Syntax and morphology in language attrition: A study of five
bilingual Swedes.” International Journal of Applied Linguistics, 5 (2), 153–171.
 Elena Schmitt
Jake, J. L., & Myers-Scotton, C. (1997). “Codeswitching and compromise strategies:
Implications for lexical structure”. International Journal of Bilingualism, 1, 25–39.
Kaufman, D. (1995). “Where have all the verbs gone? Autonomy and interaction in
attrition.” Southwest Journal of Linguistics, 14 (1–2), 43–66.
Levelt, W. (1989). Speaking: From intention to articulation. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Merino, B. (1983). “Language loss in bilingual Chicano children”. Journal of Applied
Developmental Psychology, 4, 277–294.
Myers-Scotton, C. (1993). Duelling Languages: Grammatical structure in codeswitching.
Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Myers-Scotton, C. (1998). “A way to dusty death: The matrix language turnover hypothesis”.
In L. Grenoble & L. Whaley (Eds.), Endangered Languages (pp. 289–316). Cambridge:
CUP.
Myers-Scotton, C. (2002). Contact Linguistics: Bilingual encounters and grammatical
outcomes. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Myers-Scotton, C., & Jake, J. (1995). “Matching lemmas in a bilingual language competence
and production model: Evidence from intrasentential code switching”. Linguistics, 33,
981–1024.
Myers-Scotton, C., & Jake, J. (1998). “Codeswitching and the nature of lexical entries”.
Pluralinguismes, 14, 219–246.
Myers-Scotton, C., & Jake, J. (2000). “Four types of morphemes: Evidence from aphasia,
codeswitching, and second language acquisition”. Linguistics, 8 (6), 1053–1100.
Pfaff, C. (1991). “Turkish in contact with German: Language maintenance and loss among
immigrant children in Berlin (West)”. International Journal of the Sociology of Language,
90, 97–129.
Polinsky, M. (1997). “American Russian: Language loss meets language acquisition”. In
W. Browne, E. Dornisch, N. Khondrashova, & D. Zec (Eds.), Annual Workshop on
Formal Approaches to Slavic Linguistics: The Cornell Meeting (pp. 370–406). Ann
Harbor, MI: Michigan Slavic.
Rappaport, M., & Levin, B. (1988). “What to do with θ Roles”. In W. Wilkins (Ed.), Syntax
and Semantics: Thematic relations (pp. 7–36). New York, NY: Academic Press.
Romaine, S. (1995). Bilingualism. Oxford: Blackwell.
Schmitt, E. (2000). “Overt and covert codeswitching in immigrant children from Russia”.
International Journal of Bilingualism, 4 (1), 9–27.
Slobin, D. (1985). The Crosslinguistic Study of Language Acquisition. Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence
Erlbaum.
Thomason, S. (2000). Contact Languages: An introduction. Washington, D.C.: Georgetown
University Press.
Timberlake, A. (1993). “Russian.” In B. Comrie & G. Gorbett (Eds.), The Slavonic Languages
(pp. 827–886). London: Routledge.
Vergnaud, J. R. (1985). Dependences et Niveaux de Representations en Syntaxe. Amsterdam
and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Language attrition research
An annotated bibliography
Monika S. Schmid
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam
Introduction
This bibliography is based on a total of 242 titles on language attrition (207
articles, 3 MA theses and 32 PhD theses). The selection criteria were rather
strict: only studies or publications which dealt with non-pathological intra-
generational L1 or L2 language attrition were included, leaving out the large
body of work on minority languages, language shift, language death, apha-
sia etc. Where several publications were written on the basis of essentially the
same data and findings, the widest-reaching publication was selected for the
overviews presented below, leaving a total of 137 publications (see Table 1).
However, all publications are listed in the reference section, including those
which were eliminated from the analysis proper.
This bibliography first gives an overview of the studies and articles analysed
herein, providing a short summary sentence in each case (Table 2 for L1 attri-
tion, Table 3 for L2 attrition, Table 4 for theoretical articles). It then lists the first
and second language contexts in which attrition has been investigated (Tables
5 and 6). Further breakdowns are presented by the linguistic level chosen for
the analysis in each case (Table 7), the theoretical framework within which the
study was conducted (Table 8) and the data elicitation technique (Table 9).
It should be noted that this bibliography is a revision of my own notes
as I have kept them over the past years. While I have tried to be as thorough
as possible in revising it for the current volume, and to make it as helpful as
I could to other researchers, it seems inevitable in this kind of overview that
some publications will be missed. I present my apologies to anyone I may have
overlooked or mis-classified – no offence was intended.
 Monika S. Schmid
Table 1. Theoretical and applied studies on L1 and L2 attrition
Attriting language Applied Theoretical Total
L1 73 20 93
L2 24 14 37
not specified 7 7
Total 96 41 137
Language attrition bibliography 
Table
2.
Applied
studies
of
L1
attrition
in
an
L2
context
(CG
=
Control
group)
Study
L1
L2
n
CG
Findings
Altenberg
1991
German
English
2
n
Attrition
is
most
likely
to
occur
where
L1
and
L2
are
similar
(p.
204).
Ammerlaan
1996
Dutch
English
76
y
Lexical
access
problems
are
temporal
(p.
210).
Anderson
2001
Spanish
English
2
n
Semantic
relevancy
and
frequency
of
use
do
impact
the
relative
strength
of
lexemes
and
morphological
markers.
In
particular,
more
formal
language
features,
such
as
person
and
number,
will
be
more
susceptible
to
loss
(p.
398).
Andrews
1998
Russian
English
12
n
Russian
emigrants
are
rapidly
assimilating
into
English
society,
prospects
for
language
main-
tenance
[.
.
.]
appear
quite
slim
(p.
158).
Armon-Lotem
2000
Hebrew
English
13
y
After
2
years
in
the
USA,
at
the
final
stages
of
bilingual
development
when
L2
English
be-
comes
dominant,
there
is
a
loss
of
resumptive
pronouns
and
an
unacceptable
use
of
stranded
prepositions
in
attrited
L1
Hebrew.
This
loss
depends
on
what
the
constituent
resumptive
pronoun
refers
to
(p.
64).
Ben-Rafael
2001
French
Hebrew
56
y
Franbreu
develops
by
both
attrition
and
enrichment
through
contact.
Bettoni
1991
Italian
English
20
n
Attrition
of
nominal
and
pronominal
morphology
is
dependent
on
initial
levels
of
profi-
ciency,
but
verbal
morphology
is
attrited
across
all
speakers
(p.
380).
Bode
1996
Russian
English
1
n
Attrition
of
childhood
language
proficiency
is
neurobiologically
conditioned;
acquisition
per
se
does
not
prevent
attrition,
knowledge
has
to
be
reorganised
and
stabilised,
“a
process
which
seems
to
take
time
and
which
ceases
around
the
age
of
12”
(p.
50).
Bolonyai
&
Dut-
kova-Cope
2002
Hungarian
English
6
n
Attrition
is
governed
by
the
structure
of
the
mental
lexicon.
Bolonyai
1999
Czech
English
6
n
Attrition
is
governed
by
the
structure
of
the
mental
lexicon.
de
Bot
&
Clyne
1994
Dutch
English
45
n
No
further
attrition
since
initial
tests
in
1972
(p.
17).
de
Bot,
Gom-
mans
&
Rossing
1991
Dutch
French
30
n
Amount
of
contact
and
time
matter,
but
time
matters
only
when
there
is
few
contact
(p.
94).
Brewer
Bomar
1982
Spanish
English
2
n
No
evidence
found
for
the
regression
model,
on
the
contrary.
“Perceptual
saliency
and
sociolinguistic
factors
ultimately
determined
the
direction
and
extent
of
the
L2
language
intrusions.”
Brons-Albert
1993
German
Dutch
20
n
Errors
are
restricted
to
the
lexicon
(interference
from
L2),
no
such
phenomena
in
mor-
phosyntax
(p.
101).
Brown
2001
English
Italian
5
n
There
was
no
correlation
between
L2
proficiency
and
L1
attrition
or
between
time
and
attrition,
but
attitude
did
correlate
with
attrition.
 Monika S. Schmid
Study
L1
L2
n
CG
Findings
Bullock
&
Ger-
fen
(forthc.)
French
English
2
n
Distinct
pattern
of
convergence
vs.
preservation
that
cannot
be
convincingly
explained
or
understood
in
terms
of
models
which
privilege
and
thus
preserve
lexically
contrastive
infor-
mation
over
what
might
be
called
low
level
of
allophonic
detail.
El
Aissati
1997
Moroccan
Arabic
Dutch
26
y
Perception
is
generally
unaffected
by
attrition,
but
production
skills
show
some
difference
to
control
group,
e.g.
levelling
of
allomorphic
variation.
Giesbers
1997
Dutch
Indonesian
1
n
This
case
study
found
surprisingly
little
overall
variation,
most
of
what
was
there
was
on
the
lexical
level
(p.
172).
Most
attrition
effects
seem
due
to
language
contact
(p.
176).
Strikingly,
most
phonological
deviations
were
on
the
suprasegmental
level
(p.
169).
Grosjean
&
Py
1991
Spanish
French
15
n
Some
contact
structures
are
judged
as
acceptable
by
attriters,
but
Standard
Spanish
structures
have
higher
acceptability
(p.
59).
Gross
2000
German
English
6
y
Attrition
is
conditioned
by
matrix
language
model,
first
steps
towards
matrix
language
turnover
are
visible
in
data.
(+3
CG)
Gürel
2002a
Turkish
English
24
y
Evidence
for
the
binding
properties
of
Turkish
overt
pronouns
being
replaced
by
those
of
English
in
L1
attrition
(p.
179),
no
length
of
stay
effects
(p.
170).
Håkansson
1995
Swedish
English/
French
5
n
Syntax
(verb
second)
is
unaffected
by
attrition,
morphology
(gender
marking)
is
strongly
affected
(p.
174).
Hakuta
&
d’Andrea
1992
Spanish
English
308
n
The
proficiency
in
Spanish
of
high
school
students
of
Mexican
descent
is
related
to
the
age
at
which
they
first
started
speaking
English
(p.
81).
Hiller-Foti
1985
German
Italian
12
n
This
is
a
report
on
work
in
progress
(no
follow-up
has
been
published,
however).
Hirvonen
1995
Finnish
English
4
n
Language
attrition
is
systematic,
there
is
very
little
loss
in
phonology,
but
some
in
morphology
(case
marking)
(p.
192).
Huls
&
van
de
Mond
1992
Turkish
Dutch
11
n
Turkish
was
found
to
be
the
dominant
language
in
the
family
with
a
shorter
duration
of
res-
idence
in
the
Netherlands
(5
years),
whereas
Dutch
was
the
dominant
language
in
the
family
with
a
longer
duration
of
residence
(15
years)
(p.
113).
Hulsen
2000
Dutch
English
30
n
Productive
skills
decrease
within
generations,
receptive
skills
are
largely
unchanged.
Difficul-
ties
encountered
are
retrieval
problems,
not
‘loss’
as
in
‘erased
from
memory’
(p.
188).
Isurin
2000a
Russian
English
1
n
L1
loss
is
determined
by
L2
interference,
semantic
overlap
is
a
mechanism
of
L1
loss
and
is
noticeable
with
high
amounts
of
L2
learning
(p.
164).
Jarvis
2003
Finnish
English
1
n
L2
effects
in
certain
limited
areas
of
grammar,
and
more
broadly
in
areas
of
lexicosemantics
and
general
idiom.
Crucially,
all
the
L2-influenced
deviant
structures
seem
to
be
item-specific
(i.e.
occurring
with
only
a
few
specific
morphemes,
words
and
phrases),
and
do
not
appear
to
affect
whole
systems
of
grammar
(p.
99).
Language attrition bibliography 
Study
L1
L2
n
CG
Findings
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1988
Italian
Dutch
250
n
No
correlation
between
attitudes
and
language
choice
(p.
170).
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1989
Italian
Dutch
30
n
Language
contact
does
not
seem
to
influence
loss
(p.
94),
but
education
appears
to
be
an
important
factor
(p.
95).
Overall
surprisingly
little
attrition
found.
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1992
Dutch
English
1
n
Very
little
loss
found
(p.
146).
Jordens
et
al.
1986
German
Dutch
not
spec.
n
L2
loss
confirms
regression
hypothesis,
L1
loss
does
not.
Little
overall
attrition
found
(de
Bot,
p.c.).
Kaufman
1992
Hebrew
English
1
n
Attrition
of
L1
is
an
interplay
between
two
languages
which
results
in
the
creation
of
a
productive
interlingual
system
that
produces
hybrid
morphological
innovations.
Kaufman
1998
Hebrew
English
57
n
L1
proficiency
declines,
resulting
in
a
paucity
of
lexical
diversity
(p.
415).
Kaufman
&
Aronoff
1991
Hebrew
English
1
n
Idiosyncratic
system
emerges
(p.
187).
Köpke
1999
German
English/
French
60
y
Lexicon
more
affected
by
attrition
than
morphosyntax.
Similarity
between
languages
deter-
mining
for
attrition.
Variation
within
and
between
groups
due
to
sociocultural
factors.
Kravin
1992
Finnish
English
1
n
The
speech
samples
show
no
increase
or
decrease
in
Finnish
language
development
over
the
course
of
10
months.
Several
areas
of
Finnish
grammar
were
partially
mastered
but,
overall,
the
findings
indicated
that
the
language
development
in
the
child’s
Finnish
stagnated
(p.
307).
Laufer
2003
Russian
Hebrew
30
y
Incorrect
L1
collocations
that
were
modelled
on
L2
were
not
recognised
by
the
immigrants
in
about
40%
of
the
cases
(p.
25).
Lexical
richness
in
free
written
speech
declines
over
years
of
residence
in
L2
context
(p.
29).
Leisiö
2001
Russian
Finnish
159
n
Attrition
is
determined
by
social
factors
and
linguistic
similarities
between
the
systems,
simi-
larity
is
conductive
to
change
(p.
248).
Levine
2000
Yiddish
English
13
n
Attempts
to
set
out
a
framework
which
can
distinguish
between
attrition
and
incomplete
acquisition.
Major
1992
English
Portuguese
5
y
Mutual
interaction
of
L1
and
L2
can
affect
L1
phonetics
(p.
204).
Montrul
2002
Spanish
English
39
y
The
earlier
the
age
of
onset
of
bilingualism
and
the
more
intense
the
exposure
to
the
sociolin-
guistically
dominant
language,
the
more
incomplete
the
adult
grammar
may
turn
out
to
be,
suggesting
that
an
early
age
of
onset
might
be
a
necessary
but
not
a
sufficient
condition
for
convergent
language
acquisition
(p.
61).
Olshtain
&
Barzilay
1991
English
Hebrew
15
y
Attrition
leads
to
problems
in
vocabulary
retrieval
(p.
150).
 Monika S. Schmid
Study
L1
L2
n
CG
Findings
Pavlenko
2003
Russian
English
30
n
L2
influence
on
L1
takes
place
in
the
lexicon,
semantics
and
morphosyntax
of
Russian
L2
users
of
English
who
learned
their
L2
in
late
childhood
or
adulthood
(p.
57).
Pelc
1998
Greek
English
8
n
The
high
acceptance
of
ungrammatical
constructions
suggests
that
alteration
in
the
monolingual
configuration
has
taken
place
(p.
623).
Pelc
2001
Greek
English
57
y
Attriting
group
performs
significantly
different
from
control
group
on
most
tasks,
age
at
arrival
being
one
of
the
most
significant
factors,
but
length
of
stay
is
also
significant
(p.
128).
Polinsky
1994
Russian
English
30
n
Attrition
phenomena
on
different
levels
of
the
linguistic
system
correlate
with
each
other
(p.
274).
Porte
1999
English
Spanish
52
n
The
self-evaluations
suggest
that
the
resident
native-speaker
teacher’s
L1
is
not
a
stable
system,
but
rather
a
changeable
one
(p.
33).
Porte
2003
English
Spanish
3
n
Despite
instances
of
code-manipulation
(particularly
code-mixing)
there
is
no
evidence
that
the
L1
has
suffered
significant
attrition
(p.117).
Py
1986
Spanish
Swiss
French
not
spec.
n
The
internal
restructuring
of
the
system
is
due
in
part
to
input
from
other
migrants,
which
also
contains
numerous
and
varied
deviances
from
L1
norm
(p.
171).
Raidt
1997
Dutch
English
260
n
Amazingly
quick
shift
from
Dutch
to
Afrikaans
or
English,
with
patterns
of
linguistic
interference
and
language
change
reminiscent
of
the
early
stages
in
the
development
of
Afrikaans
(p.
232).
Riionheimo
1998
Finnish
Estonian
9
n
Morphological
processing
modes
partly
determine
whether
an
inflectional
pattern
is
liable
to
attrite
(p.
264).
Ronowicz
1999
Polish
English
1
n
Overview
of
methodological
and
practical
issues
in
designing
research.
Schatz
1989
Dutch
English
97
n
Attempts
to
develop
a
comprehensive
model
for
analysing
code-switching
and
borrowing
(p.
159).
Schmid
2002
German
English
35
n
Persecution
most
important
extralinguistic
factor
(p.
189).
Schmid
(forthc.)
German
English
45
y
Proficiency
data
can
reveal
a
more
accurate
picture
of
attrition
than
errors.
Schmitt
2001
Russian
English
5
n
Language
loss
is
a
gradual
process
of
replacing
one
or
more
levels
of
abstract
lexical
structure
of
the
first
language
with
the
abstract
lexical
structure
of
the
second
language.
This
replacement
results
in
the
projection
initially
of
some
and
gradually
most
slots
of
the
grammatical
frame
from
L2
onto
L1
(p.
243).
Schoenmakers-
Klein
Gunne-
wiek
1997
Dutch
Portuguese
2
n
Relatively
little
loss
found,
where
conceptualisations
were
adapted
it
is
not
always
clear
whether
this
is
in
the
direction
of
the
L2.
Compared
with
Jaspaert
&
Kroon’s
findings
on
L1
Dutch/L2
English
attrition,
there
seems
to
be
even
less
L1
loss
among
Dutch
immigrants
in
Brazil
than
in
the
USA
although
there
is
less
typological
distance
between
Dutch
and
English
than
between
Dutch
and
Portuguese
(p.
117).
Language attrition bibliography 
Study
L1
L2
n
CG
Findings
Schoenmakers-
Klein
Gunne-
wiek
1998
Portuguese
Dutch/
French
40
y
All
tasks
suggest
that
there
is
little
or
no
loss
(p.
163).
Seliger
1991
English
Hebrew
1
n
Attrition
is
not
unlike
acquisition
(p.
239).
Sharwood
Smith
1983a
English
Dutch
2
n
Acquisition
could
be
called
convergent
competence
change
and
loss
divergent
competence
change.
Sharwood
Smith
1983b
English
Dutch
21
y
Attrition
is
governed
by
relative
simplicity
of
processing
of
specific
features/structures
(p.
225f.).
Silva-Corvalán
1991
Spanish
English
6
n
Markedness
hierarchy
proposed
by
Muysken
seems
to
be
valid
as
a
predictor
of
order
of
disap-
pearance
in
subordinate
contact
languages,
such
that
the
most
marked
tense
disappears
first
(p.
165).
Soesman
1997
Dutch
Hebrew
45
n
Confirms
the
findings
from
de
Bot
et
al.
(1991)
on
interaction
of
time
and
contact
factors.
“This
study
revealed
that
immigrants
who
use
their
L1
extensively
had
faster
response
times
than
immigrants
who
do
not,
and
that
immigrants
who
had
emigrated
a
relatively
short
time
ago
responded
faster
than
those
who
had
done
so
a
long
time
ago.”(p.
190).
Søndergaard
1996
Danish
English
89
n
Attrition
is
governed
by
attitudes,
a
feeling
of
‘Danishness’
being
the
main
factor
(p.
554).
Toribio
2000
Spanish
English
8
n
Code-switching
should
not
be
considered
a
necessary
precursor
or
resultant
condition
for
minority
language
attrition
(p.
185).
Toribio
2001
Spanish
English
2
n
Differences
between
proficient
and
attrited
speech
productions
may
lie
outside
the
scope
of
a
computational
system,
target-deviant
forms
may
not
accurately
reflect
non-native-like
competence
(p.
776).
Turian
&
Altenberg
1991
Russian
English
1
n
The
same
compensatory
strategies
are
used
in
L1
attrition
and
L2
acquisition
(p.
216).
Uribe
de
Kellett
2002
Spanish
English
1
n
Documents
a
very
successful
case
of
reactivation
of
the
structure
of
an
attrited
language
in
a
Spanish
child
within
one
month.
Vago
1991
Hungarian
Hebrew
1
n
Attrition
is
governed
by
rule
simplification,
reordering,
loss
and
lexical
restructuring
(p.
249).
Waas
1996
German
English
86
n
Sociodemographic
variables
have
significant
influence,
but
L1
attrition
in
an
L2
environment
appears
inevitable
overall
(p.
171).
Yağmur
1997
Turkish
English
40
y
EVT
does
not
provide
a
sufficiently
explanatory
framework
for
attrition
(p.
100f.).
 Monika S. Schmid
Table
3.
Applied
studies
of
L2
attrition
in
an
L1
attrition
context
Study
L1
L2
n
CG
Findings
Bahrick
1984
English
Spanish
773
y
A
very
large
amount
of
information
can
survive
with
minimal
reharsal
(p.
114).
Berman
&
Ol-
shtain
1983
Hebrew
English
30
n
Loss
is
largely
dependent
on
age
and
literacy,
younger
children
may
reach
a
‘freezing
point’
(p.
232).
Cohen
1989
English/
Hebrew
Portuguese
2
n
Significant
decrease
in
the
total
number
of
words
produced
after
9
months
(p.
138).
Dugas
2000
English
French
40
n
Significantly
more
speakers
decreased
than
increased
in
accuracy.
Fujita
2002
Japanese
English
36
n
Age
of
return
strongest
factor
contributing
to
L2
maintenance,
participants
who
were
9
to
10
when
returned
showed
greatest
individual
differences.
There
may
be
a
critical
threshold
for
language
attrition
around
the
age
of
9.
Gardner
1985
English
French
79
n
Those
who
try
to
maintain
their
L2
skills
are
relatively
successful,
whereas
those
who
do
not
do
so
experience
considerable
language
loss.(p.
537).
Gonzalez
Mon-
cada
1996
Spanish
English
?
n
EFL
teachers
working
in
public
schools
report
decrease
in
language
skills,
EFL
teachers
in
pri-
vate
language
centers
report
increase.
Perceived
level
of
proficiency
showed
correlation
with
standardised
tests,
confirming
the
reliability
of
self-assessment
among
adults.
Grendel
1993
Dutch
French
200
n
Orthographical
and
semantic
knowledge
are
unaffected
(p.
128ff.).
Hansen
1999
English
Japanese
30
n
The
longer
the
exposure
to
L2,
the
better
the
retention
(p.
147).
The
findings
show
an
attrition
sequence
that
is
congruent
with
the
predictions
of
the
regression
theory
(p.
149).
Hayashi
1999
Japanese
Micronesian
languages
25
n
The
findings
are
consistent
with
those
reported
by
research
on
the
progression
and
regression
of
Japanese
negation
(p.
166).
Hedgcock
1991
English
Spanish
22
n
Predictions
made
on
the
basis
of
the
regression
hypothesis
are
not
borne
out
(p.
50).
Kuhberg
1992
Turkish
German
2
n
A
great
deal
of
attrition
features
found
on
all
linguistic
levels,
code-switching
is
the
develop-
mentally
most
relevant
feature
in
the
attrition
process
(p.
148).
McCormack
2001
Japanese
English
6
y
Most
test
subjects
failed
to
maintain
their
initial
level
of
knowledge
of
the
English
reflexive
bind-
ing
system,
but
attrition
data
reflect
a
deviant
knowledge
of
grammar
that
cannot
be
accounted
for
by
L1
transfer
alone.
Moorcroft
&
Gardner
1987
English
French
89
n
Oral
proficiency
declines
over
a
short
period
of
time,
but
decline
is
to
be
found
more
on
the
grammatical
level
than
on
fluency
or
vocabulary
production
(p.
338f.)
Language attrition bibliography 
Study
L1
L2
n
CG
Findings
Murtagh
2003
Irish
English
95
n
While
L2
speakers
of
Irish
report
a
self-perceived
decline
in
spoken
Irish
18
months
after
leaving
school,
tests
found
no
significant
change
over
this
period
(p.
158f.).
Nagasawa
1996
English
Japanese
7
n
There
is
a
critical
threshold
for
preventing
L2
attrition
at
the
Advanced
High
level
of
the
Oral
Proficiency
Interview
scale
(p.
188).
Nakuma
1997
English/
Ghanaian
lg.
Spanish
4
y
Non-users
of
Spanish
suffered
attrition,
measured
by
gaps,
pauses,
repetitions
etc.
Olshtain
1989
Hebrew
English
11–
18
n
Reversal
does
exist
but
is
limited
in
nature,
most
likely
to
occur
in
cases
where
the
criterion
variable
is
a
linguistic
feature
that
is
highly
marked
in
the
attrited
language,
in
contexts
where
there
is
a
severe
reduction
in
the
use
of
the
second
language,
and
in
cases
where
the
attriters
may
lack
stable
competence
of
that
feature
prior
to
attrition
onset
(p.
164).
Raffaldini
1988
English
French
60
n
Subjects
failed
to
improve
upon
the
communicative
skills
which
they
had
acquired
prior
to
and
during
their
immersion
experience
in
the
target
culture,
even
though
they
continued
to
take
courses
in
French
during
the
time
interval.
Instead
most
of
their
communicative
skills
began
to
erode
during
this
period.
Reetz-
Kurashige
1999
Japanese
English
18
n
There
is
a
pattern
of
morpheme
loss
occurring
before
reduction
in
complexity,
which
in
turn
occurs
before
syntactic
errors.
Decline
in
vocabulary
diversity,
reduced
vocabulary,
‘down-
shift’
in
verb
tense,
selection
of
simpler
forms
particularly
in
forming
or
avoiding
negation.
Initial
proficiency
scores
are
the
best
predictor
of
retention.
Russell
1999
English
Japanese
20
n
Vocabulary
size
decreased,
less
discourse
produced,
higher
ratio
of
English
items
(p.
125).
Tomiyama
1999
Japanese
English
1
n
Attrition
first
manifested
as
lexical
retrieval
difficulty.
Some
indications
of
attrition
in
mor-
phology
and
syntax
were
present,
but
phonology
and
receptive
lexicon
remained
quite
robust
(p.
74).
Weltens
1988
Dutch
French
150
n
Substantial
attrition
found
only
in
self-assessments
and
morpho-syntactic
tests,
there
is
no
interaction
between
training
level
and
non-use
and
attrition:
subjects
lose
a
fixed
amount
of
knowledge
independent
of
original
level
(p.
92).
General
receptive
proficiency
in
French
is
clearly
not
subject
to
attrition
after
four
years
of
non-use,
whereas
grammar
–
and
to
some
degree
also
vocabulary
–
clearly
is
(p.
95).
Yoshitomi
1999
Japanese
English
4
n
Overall
accuracy
declined
significantly
implying
that,
while
each
linguistic
sub-skill
erodes
only
slightly,
the
returnees’
overall
command
of
English
does
regress.
Language
attrition
seemed
to
have
taken
place
while
the
returnees
had
little
or
no
opportunities
to
interact
with
a
native
speaker
on
an
individual
basis
(p.
90).
 Monika S. Schmid
Table
4.
Theoretical
articles
Article
Summary
Andersen
1982
Theoretical
outline
of
how
attrition
research
should
be
conducted.
Berko-Gleason
1982
Regression:
Language
acquisition
as
model
for
language
loss.
Berko-Gleason
1993
Neurolinguistics,
aphasia
in
children
and
adults.
de
Bot
&
Weltens
1985
Outline
of
research
program
in
the
Netherlands,
first
instance
of
taxonomy
of
attrition
according
to
attriting
language
and
language
of
the
environment.
de
Bot
&
Weltens
1991
Overview
article
discussing
Jakobson’s
regression
hypothesis
and
different
types
of
language
problems
in
the
elderly.
de
Bot
1996
Handbook
article
on
language
loss.
de
Bot
1998
Outline
of
language
loss
problems
from
the
framework
of
psycholinguistic
language
production
models.
Clark
1982
Theoretical
outline
of
what
instruments
to
measure
language
attrition
should
look
like.
Clyne
&
Pauwels
1997
Sociodemographic
overview
of
the
situation
of
Dutch
in
Australia.
Clyne
1992
Linguistic
and
sociolinguistic
aspects
of
language
contact,
maintenance
and
loss:
towards
a
multifacet
theory.
Cohen
1986
Principles
governing
the
forgetting
of
foreign-language
vocabulary.
de
Vries
&
de
Vries
1997
Sociodemographic
overview
of
the
situation
of
Dutch
in
Canada,
based
on
census
data:
Dutch
immigrants
to
Canada
have
very
low
levels
of
language
maintenance
in
comparison
with
other
immigrant
groups
(p.
135).
van
Els
1986
Overview
of
research,
usually
taken
to
be
first
instance
of
v.
Els
taxonomy
(s.
Köpke
&
Schmid,
this
volume);
this
however
was
first
proposed
in
de
Bot
&
Weltens
1985.
Freed
1982
Establishes
background
for
language
loss
studies,
contains
overview
of
findings
from
related
areas.
Gardner
1982
Discussion
of
social
factors
for
language
attrition,
strong
focus
on
attitudes
and
motivation.
Ginsberg
1986
Methodology
of
the
Language
Skills
Attrition
Project
(LSAP),
containing
mathematical
models
for
the
calculation
of
attrition
rates.
Grendel,
Weltens
&
de
Bot
1993
Overview
of
studies
and
findings
on
lexical
L2
attrition.
Hagen
&
de
Bot
1990
Loss
of
minority
languages
and
dialects,
focus
on
structural
aspects
and
mechanisms
of
interlanguage
–
transference,
compensation
etc.
–
in
language
contact
situations.
Hansen
&
Reetz-
Kurashige
1999
Short
overview
of
L2
attrition
research,
introduction
to
volume
on
L2
attrition
in
Japanese
contexts.
Hansen
2001
Review
of
psycholinguistic
literature
on
language
attrition.
Hinskens
1986
Discussion
of
how
linguistic
variables
should
be
selected
in
dialect
change
and
loss,
criticism
of
how
this
has
been
done
in
research.
Focus
on
justification
of
the
selection.
Hyltenstam
&
Stroud
1996
Handbook
article
on
language
maintenance
and
shift,
overview
of
studies.
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1987
Discussion
of
research
designs.
Jaspaert,
Kroon
&
van
Hout
1986
Important
considerations
on
point
of
reference,
first
explicit
and
detailed
discussion
of
longitudinal
studies
vs.
static
group
comparisons
and
their
respective
advantages
and
disadvantages.
Language attrition bibliography 
Article
Summary
Jessner
2003
Dynamic
model
of
multilingualism,
complex
relationships
in
multilingualism,
time-dependent
changes
in
psycholinguis-
tic
system.
Kaufman
2000
Overview
of
the
situation
of
the
Hebrew
language
in
the
US.
Klatter-Folmer
&
Kroon
1997
Overview
of
the
situation
of
Dutch
the
language
in
emigration.
Kokko
1998
Outline
of
Andersen
and
Preston
model,
attempt
to
link
this
to
situation
of
Ingrian
Finnish
(based
on
author’s
intuitions,
not
actual
data).
Lambert
&
Moore
1986
General
discussion
of
the
nature
of
language
skills
and
how
to
test
them.
Lambert
1982
Does
exactly
what
it
says
on
the
label:
setting
the
agenda.
Lambert
1989
Discussion
of
problems
involved
in
studies
which
focus
on
communities
or
the
individual,
how
to
establish
the
research
design
and
point
of
reference.
Maher
1991
Overview
of
studies
done
on
intergenerational
language
loss
in
linguistic
enclaves,
features
typically
prone
to
loss.
Nakuma
1997a
Argues
for
the
use
of
spontaneous
data,
practical
problems
of
analysis
notwithstanding,
proposes
a
model
for
the
measur-
ing
of
pauses
and
hesitation
phenomena.
Nakuma
1997b
Debate
of
the
concept
of
communicative
competence,
model
for
how
to
define
and
measure
it
in
spontaneous
speech
data.
Nakuma
1998
Debate
of
different
models
of
fossilisation
and
their
impact
for
L2
attrition
studies.
Oxford
1982
Discusses
issues
in
designing
and
conducting
research.
Pan
&
Berko-Gleason
1986
Early
discussion
of
language
loss
and
psycholinguistics.
Pavlenko
2000
Overview
of
studies
and
factors
that
have
been
investigated
in
research
of
L2
influence
on
L1.
Platzack
1998
An
attempt
to
account
for
the
data
used
in
Håkansson
1995
on
the
basis
of
minimalism
and
the
initial
hypothesis
of
syntax.
Preston
1982
A
discussion,
criticism
and
elaboration
of
Andersen’s
1982
‘blueprint
for
research’
.
Seliger
&
Vago
1991
Discussion
of
L1
attrition
within
generative
frameworks
of
acquisition
and
markedness,
issue
of
temporary
access
problem
or
total
erosion.
Seliger
1996
Overview
article,
pointing
out
problems
of
establishing
points
of
reference,
argues
for
the
need
to
include
acquisitional
factors.
Sharwood
Smith
&
van
Buren
1991
A
debate
of
attrition
within
the
competence/performance
concept
–
how
can
it
be
established
whether
a
specific
case
of
‘loss’
is
competence
loss
or
performance
loss?
Discussion
of
attrition
and
parameter
setting.
Sharwood
Smith
1989
Discussion
of
the
Crosslinguistic
Influence
Hypothesis
versus
the
regression
hypothesis,
distinguishes
central
and
periph-
eral
deficits,
makes
predictions
on
attrition
process
on
the
basis
of
lossinducing
properties.
Thompson
1982
Implications
of
language
loss
phenomena
for
language
policy.
Valdman
1982
Implications
of
language
loss
phenomena
for
foreign
language
teaching.
Weilemar
2003
Contrastive
discussion
of
different
generative-based
approaches
and
theory
in
L1
attrition
studies
Yoshitomi
1992
Overview
of
research
and
theories:
regression,
critical
period.
Introduction
of
neurobiology,
brain
plasticity.
 Monika S. Schmid
Table
5.
Languages
investigated
in
L1
attrition
studies
L1
L2
Czech
English
Bolonyai
&
Dutkova-Cope
2002
Danish
English
Søndergaard
1996
Dutch
English
Ammerlaan
1996;
de
Bot
&
Clyne
1994;
de
Vries
&
de
Vries
1997;
Hulsen
2000;
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1992;
Raidt
1997;
Schatz
1989
French
de
Bot,
Gommans
&
Rossing
1991
Hebrew
Soesman
1997
Indonesian
Giesbers
1997
Portuguese
Schoenmakers-Klein
Gunnewiek
1997
English
Dutch
Sharwood
Smith
1983a
Hebrew
Olshtain
&
Barzilay
1991;
Seliger
1991
Italian
Brown
2001
Portuguese
Major
1992
Spanish
Porte
1999;
Porte
2003
Finnish
English
Hirvonen
1995;
Jarvis
2003,
Kravin
1992
Russian/Estonian
Kokko
1998;
Riionheimo
1998
French
English
Bullock
&
Gerfen
forthc.
Hebrew
Ben-Rafael
2001
German
Dutch
Brons-Albert
1994;
Jordens
et
al.
1986
English
Altenberg
1991;
Gross
2000;
Köpke
1999;
Schmid
2002;
Schmid
forthc.;
Waas
1996
French
Köpke
1999
Italian
Hiller-Foti
1985
Greek
English
Pelc
2001
Hebrew
English
Armon-Lotem
2000;
Kaufman
1992;
Kaufman
1998;
Kaufman
&
Aronoff
1991
Hungarian
English
Bolonyai
1999;
Bolonyai
&
Dutkova-Cope
2002
Hebrew
Vago
1991
Italian
Dutch
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1988;
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1989
English
Bettoni
1991
Mor.
Arabic
Dutch
El
Aissati
1997
Polish
English
Ronowicz
1999
Portuguese
French
Schoenmakers-Klein
Gunnewiek
1998
Dutch
Schoenmakers-Klein
Gunnewiek
1998
Russian
English
Andrews
1998;
Bode
1996;
Isurin
2000a;
Pavlenko
2003;
Polinsky
1994;
Schmitt
2001;
Turian
&
Altenberg
1991
Language attrition bibliography 
L1
L2
Finnish
Leisiö
2001
Hebrew
Laufer
2003
Spanish
English
Anderson
2001;
Brewer
Bomar
1982;
Hakuta
&
d’Andrea
1992;
Montrul
2002;
Silva-Corvalán
1991;
Toribio
2000;
Toribio
2001;
Uribe
de
Kellett
2002
French
Grosjean
&
Py
1991;
Py
1986
Swedish
English
Håkansson
1995
French
Håkansson
1996
Turkish
Dutch
Huls
1992
English
Gürel
2002a;
Yağmur
1997
Yiddish
English
Levine
2000
Table
6.
Languages
investigated
in
L2
attrition
studies
L1
L2
Dutch
French
Grendel
1993;
Weltens
1988
English
French
Dugas
2000;
Gardner
1985;
Moorcroft
&
Gardner
1987;
Raffaldini
1988
Japanese
Hansen
1999;
Nagasawa
1996;
Russell
1999
Spanish
Bahrick
1984;
Hedgcock
1991;
Nakuma
1997
Portuguese
Cohen
1989
Ghanaian
lg.
Spanish
Nakuma
1998
Hebrew
Portuguese
Cohen
1990
English
Berman
&
Olshtain
1983;
Olshtain
1989
Irish
English
Murtagh
2003
Japanese
English
Fujita
2002;
McCormack
2001;
Reetz-Kurashige
1999;
Tomiyama
1999;
Yoshitomi
1999
Micronesian
Hayashi
1999
languages
Spanish
English
Gonzalez
Moncada
1996
Turkish
German
Kuhberg
1992
 Monika S. Schmid
Table
7.
Linguistic
levels
in
attrition
studies
Linguistic
level
Phonology
L1
Andrews
1998;
Bullock
&
Gerfen
forthc.;
El
Aissati
1997;
Giesbers
1997;
Hirvonen
1995;
Major
1992;
Vago
1991
L2
Gonzalez
Moncada
1996;
Tomiyama
1999;
Yoshitomi
1999
Morphology
L1
Altenberg
1991;
Anderson
2001;
Bettoni
1991;
Bode
1996;
Bolonyai
&
Dutkova-Cope
2002;
Bolonyai
1999;
Brewer
Bomar
1982;
Brown
2001;
de
Bot
&
Clyne
1994;
El
Aissati
1997;
Giesbers
1997;
Gross
2000;
Håkansson
1995;
Hirvonen
1995;
Jarvis
2003;
Jordens
et
al.
1986;
Kaufman
1992;
Levine
2000;
Major
1992;
Pavlenko
2003;
Raidt
1997;
Riionheimo
1998;
Schmid
2002;
Schmid
forthc.;
Schmitt
2001;
Schoenmakers-Klein
Gunnewiek
1997;
Schoenmakers-Klein
Gunnewiek
1998;
Seliger
1991;
Silva-Corvalán
1991;
Vago
1991
L2
Kuhberg
1992;
Moorcroft
&
Gardner
1987;
Nagasawa
1996;
Nakuma
1997;
Reetz-Kurashige
1999;
Tomiyama
1999;
Yoshitomi
1999
Semantics
L1
Brown
2001;
Grosjean
&
Py
1991;
Hiller-Foti
1985;
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1992;
Pavlenko
2003;
Pelc
2001;
Schoenmakers-Klein
Gunnewiek
1998
Syntax
L1
Armon-Lotem
2000;
Brown
2001;
de
Bot
&
Clyne
1994;
El
Aissati
1997;
Giesbers
1997;
Grosjean
&
Py
1991;
Gürel
2002a;
Håkansson
1995;
Jarvis
2003;
Köpke
1999;
Montrul
2002;
Schmid
2002;
Schmid
forthc.;
Schoenmakers-Klein
Gunnewiek
1998;
Sharwood
Smith
1983b;
Yağmur
1997
L2
Nakuma
1997;
Reetz-Kurashige
1999;
Tomiyama
1999;
Yoshitomi
1999
L2
Yoshitomi
1999
Lexicon
L1
Altenberg
1991;
Andrews
1998;
Ammerlaan
1996;
Ben-Rafael
2001;
Brewer
Bomar
1982;
Brons-Albert
1994;
de
Bot
&
Clyne
1994;
Giesbers
1997;
Hulsen
2000;
Jarvis
2003;
Kaufman
1992;
Kaufman
&
Aronoff
1991;
Köpke
1999;
Laufer
2003;
Pavlenko
2003;
Polinsky
1994;
Schoenmakers-Klein
Gunnewiek
1997;
Soesman
1997;
Yağmur
1997
L2
Cohen
1989;
Grendel
1993;
Reetz-Kurashige
1999;
Russell
1999;
Tomiyama
1999;
Yoshitomi
1999
Code-
L1
Ben-Rafael
2001;
Brown
2001;
Schatz
1989;
Toribio
2000;
Toribio
2001
switching
L2
Berman
&
Olshtain
1983;
Kuhberg
1992;
Tomiyama
1999
Attitudes
L1
Brown
2001;
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1988;
Raidt
1997;
Schmid
2002
Use
L1
Brown
2001;
El
Aissati
1997;
Huls
1992;
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1988;
Raidt
1997;
Schmid
2002;
Soesman
1997
L2
Yoshitomi
1999
Language attrition bibliography 
Linguistic
level
Overall
L1
de
Bot,
Gommans
&
Rossing
1991;
Giesbers
1997;
Hakuta
&
d’Andrea
1992;
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1988;
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1989;
Kaufman
1998;
Kravin
1992;
Leisiö
2001;
Turian
&
Altenberg
1991;
Uribe
de
Kellett
2002;
Waas
1996
L2
Bahrick
1984;
Fujita
2002;
Gardner
1985;
Gonzalez
Moncada
1996;
Hedgcock
1991;
Murtagh
2003;
Raffaldini
1988;
Weltens
1988;
Yoshitomi
1999
Other
L1
Hiller-Foti
1985;
Py
1986;
Sharwood
Smith
1983a;
Søndergaard
1996
L2
Kuhberg
1992;
Nakuma
1997;
Olshtain
1989;
Tomiyama
1999;
Yoshitomi
1999
Table
8.
Theoretical
frameworks
in
attrition
research
Theoretical
framework
Interlanguage
L1
Altenberg
1991;
Brons-Albert
1994;
Bullock
&
Gerfen
forthc.;
Giesbers
1997;
Grosjean
&
Py
1991;
Isurin
2000a;
Jarvis
2003;
Kaufman
1992;
Kaufman
&
Aronoff
1991;
Köpke
1999;
Laufer
2003;
Leisiö
2001;
Major
1992;
Pavlenko
2003;
1998;
Pelc
2001;
Schoenmakers-Klein
Gunnewiek
1997;
Sharwood
Smith
1983a
L2
Berman
&
Olshtain
1983;
Kuhberg
1992;
Reetz-Kurashige
1999
Simplification
L1
Bettoni
1991;
Bode
1996;
Laufer
2003;
Sharwood
Smith
1983b;
Silva-Corvalán
1991
L2
Reetz-Kurashige
1999
Sociolinguistic
L1
Andrews
1998;
de
Bot,
Gommans
&
Rossing
1991;
Hakuta
&
d’Andrea
1992;
Hulsen
2000;
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1988;
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1989;
Olshtain
&
Barzilay
1991;
Raidt
1997;
Schatz
1989;
Schmid
2002;
Schmid
forthc.;
Waas
1996;
Yağmur
1997
L2
Gardner
1985
UG
L1
Gürel
2002a;
Håkansson
1995;
Montrul
2002;
Pelc
2001;
Sharwood
Smith
1983a;
Toribio
2001,
Weilemar
2003
L2
McCormack
2001
4-M/Abstract
Level
model
L1
Bolonyai
&
Dutkova-Cope
2002;
Bolonyai
1999;
Gross
2000;
Schmitt
2001
Psycholing.
L1
Ammerlaan
1996;
Bode
1996;
Hulsen
2000;
Jessner
2003;
Köpke
1999;
Riionheimo
1998;
Seliger
1991;
Soesman
1997
L2
Hansen
1999;
Hayashi
1999;
Hedgcock
1991;
Obler
1993
Regression
L1
Brewer
Bomar
1982;
Jordens
et
al.
1986
L2
Berman
&
Olshtain
1983;
Fujita
2002;
Hansen
1999;
Nagasawa
1996;
Olshtain
1989;
Reetz-Kurashige
1999;
Critical
Threshold
L2
Hansen
1999;
Hayashi
1999;
Hedgcock
1991;
Obler
1993
 Monika S. Schmid
Table
9.
Elicitation
methods
Type
of
data
Elicitation
method
Free
speech
Spontaneous
speech
L1
Anderson
2001;
Ben-Rafael
2001;
Bolonyai
&
Dutkova-Cope
2002;
Bolonyai
1999;
Brons-Albert
1994;
Gross
2000;
Jarvis
2003;
Kaufman
&
Aronoff
1991;
Kravin
1992;
Porte
2003;
Schmitt
2001;
Seliger
1991;
Turian
&
Altenberg
1991;
Uribe
de
Kellett
2002
L2
Tomiyama
1999;
Yoshitomi
1999
Interview
L1
Andrews
1998;
Ben-Rafael
2001;
Bettoni
1991;
Brown
2001;
Brown
2001;
Bullock
&
Gerfen
forthc.;
de
Bot
&
Clyne
1994;
de
Bot,
Gommans
&
Rossing
1991;
Giesbers
1997;
Hiller-Foti
1985;
Huls
1992;
Kaufman
1998;
Leisiö
2001;
Levine
2000;
Riionheimo
1998;
Schatz
1989;
Schmid
2002;
Schmid
forthc.;
Sharwood
Smith
1983b;
Silva-Corvalán
1991;
Søndergaard
1996
L2
Kuhberg
1992;
Nakuma
1997;
Nagasawa
1996;
Raffaldini
1988
Elicited
narrative
L1
Armon-Lotem
2000;
Ben-Rafael
2001;
El
Aissati
1997;
Jarvis
2003;
Kaufman
1992;
Kaufman
1998;
Köpke
1999;
Montrul
2002;
Olshtain
&
Barzilay
1991;
Pavlenko
2003;
Schoenmakers-Klein
Gun-
newiek
1998;
Sharwood
Smith
1983b;
Toribio
2000;
Toribio
2001
L2
Cohen
1989;
Fujita
2002;
Hansen
1999;
Hayashi
1999;
Hedgcock
1991;
Kuhberg
1992;
Olshtain
1989;
Reetz-Kurashige
1999;
Russell
1999;
Yoshitomi
1999
Competence
elicitation
tasks:
Grammaticality/
acceptability
judgments
L1
Altenberg
1991;
de
Bot,
Gommans
&
Rossing
1991;
Grosjean
&
Py
1991;
Gürel
2002a;
Hakuta
&
d’Andrea
1992;
Jarvis
2003;
Köpke
1999;
Laufer
2003;
Pelc
2001;
Polinsky
1994;
Seliger
1991;
Sharwood
Smith
1983b
L2
McCormack
2001
Explicit
morpho-
logical
or
syntac-
tic
task
L1
Altenberg
1991;
Bode
1996;
El
Aissati
1997;
Kaufman
1998;
Köpke
1999;
Sharwood
Smith
1983b;
Vago
1991;
Yağmur
1997
L2
Hansen
1999;
Hayashi
1999
Fill-in/cloze
test
L1
Ammerlaan
1996;
Hakuta
&
d’Andrea
1992;
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1989;
Montrul
2002;
Murtagh
2003
L2
Weltens
1988
FL-style
exam
L1
Bode
1996;
Hakuta
&
d’Andrea
1992;
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1989
L2
Bahrick
1984;
Berman
&
Olshtain
1983;
Fujita
2002;
Gonzalez
Moncada
1996;
Hayashi
1999;
McCormack
2001;
Moorcroft
&
Gardner
1987;
Murtagh
2003;
Olshtain
1989;
Tomiyama
1999
Truth
value
judg-
ments
L1
Gürel
2002a;
Montrul
2002
L2
McCormack
2001
Language attrition bibliography 
Type
of
data
Elicitation
method
Lexical
tasks
Verbal
fluency
L1
Hakuta
&
d’Andrea
1992;
Waas
1996;
Yağmur
1997
Picture
naming
L1
Ammerlaan
1996;
Hulsen
2000;
Isurin
2000a;
Schoenmakers-Klein
Gunnewiek
1998;
Soesman
1997
L2
Dugas
2000
Translations
L1
Ben-Rafael
2001;
Hirvonen
1995;
Polinsky
1994;
Schoenmakers-Klein
Gunnewiek
1998
Self-report
and
–
evaluation
Can-Do
scales
L1
El
Aissati
1997;
Waas
1996;
Yağmur
1997
L2
Gardner
1985;
Gonzalez
Moncada
1996;
Weltens
1988
Self-report
L1
Hakuta
&
d’Andrea
1992;
Jarvis
2003;
Porte
1999;
Waas
1996
L2
Gardner
1985;
Gonzalez
Moncada
1996;
Murtagh
2003;
Weltens
1988
Sociolinguistic
questionnaire
L1
Ammerlaan
1996;
Brown
2001;
Hulsen
2000;
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1988;
Laufer
2003;
Raidt
1997;
Schmid
2002;
Soesman
1997;
Yağmur
1997
L2
Hansen
1999;
Hayashi
1999;
Murtagh
2003;
Yoshitomi
1999
Other
L1
Brown
2001;
El
Aissati
1997;
Grosjean
&
Py
1991;
Gürel
2002a;
Håkansson
1995;
Hirvonen
1995;
Hulsen
2000;
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1989;
Jaspaert
&
Kroon
1992;
Jordens
et
al.
1986;
Kravin
1992;
Laufer
2003;
Major
1992;
Montrul
2002;
Polinsky
1994;
Raidt
1997;
Schoenmakers-Klein
Gunnewiek
1997;
Schoenmakers-Klein
Gunnewiek
1998;
Seliger
1991;
Sharwood
Smith
1983a;
Soesman
1997;
Toribio
2001
L2
Gonzalez
Moncada
1996;
Hansen
1999;
Hayashi
1999;
Raffaldini
1988;
Weltens
1988;
Yoshitomi
1999
 Monika S. Schmid
References
Aissati, A. El, & Schaufeli, A. (1998). “Language maintenance and loss: Evidence from
language perception and production”. In G. Extra & L. Verhoeven (Eds.), Bilingualism
and Migration (pp. 363–377). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Aissati, A. El. (1997). Language Loss Among Native Speakers of Morrocan [sic] Arabic in the
Netherlands. Tilburg: Tilburg University Press.
Almalech, M. (1997). “First language attrition by speakers of Bulgarian in Israel”.
Sapostavitelno Ezikoznanie/Sopostavitel’Noe Jazykoznanie/Contrastive Linguistics (Sofia,
Bulgaria), 22 (3), 55–59.
Altenberg, E. P. (1991). “Assessing first language vulnerability to attrition”. In H. W. Seliger
& R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 189–206). Cambridge: CUP.
Ammerlaan, T. (1991). “Testing linguistic variables in first language attrition”. In F. Lovejoy
(Ed.), Studies in Language Loss (pp. 20–41). Sydney: Holborn Press.
Ammerlaan, T. (1996). “You Get a Bit Wobbly.” Exploring bilingual lexical retrieval processes
in the context of first language attrition. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Katholieke
Universiteit Nijmegen.
Ammerlaan, T. (1997). “ ‘Corrosion’ or ‘loss’ of immigrant Dutch in Australia: An
experiment on first language attrition”. In J. Klatter-Folmer & S. Kroon (Eds.), Dutch
Overseas: Studies in maintenance and loss of Dutch as an immigrant language (pp. 69–
97). Tilburg: Tilburg University Press.
Andersen, R. W. (1982). “Determining the linguistic attributes of language attrition”. In
R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 83–118). Rowley,
MA: Newbury House.
Anderson, R. T. (2001). “Lexical morphology and verb use in child first language loss: A
preliminary case study investigation”. International Journal of Bilingualism, 5 (4), 377–
402.
Andrews, D. R. (1998). Sociocultural Perspectives on Language Change in Diaspora.
Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Armon Lotem, S. (2000). “Language attrition: why are resumptive pronouns so
susceptible?”. In S. C. Howell, S. Fish & K. Thea (Eds.), Proceedings of the 24th Annual
Boston University Conference on Language Development (pp. 58–67). Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla.
Arrieta, K. M. C. (1999). “Nominalisations in Basque: A case in language attrition”. Disser-
tation Abstracts International, Section A: The Humanities and Social Sciences (DAIA), 59
(8), 2950.
Bahrick, H. (1984). “Fifty years of second language attrition: Implications for programmatic
research”. Modern Language Journal, 68, 105–118.
Ben-Rafael, M. (1994). “Contact de langue et simplification”. Cahier du francais
contemporain, I, 77–87.
Ben-Rafael, M. (1999). “Emigration et contact de langues: emprunts et configurations
sémantiques en Franbreu”. In F. S. Martinez & C. H. Gonzalez (Eds.), Las lengas en
la Europa Communitaria III (pp. 423–438). Amsterdam: Rodopi.
Ben-Rafael, M. (2001). Contact de Langues: le français parlé des francophones israéliens.
Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, University of Tel Aviv.
Language attrition bibliography 
Ben-Rafael, M. (2002). “Le franbreu: les traits essentiels”. In D. Mendelson (Ed.), La culture
francophone en Israel (pp. 79–96). Paris: l’Harmattan.
Berko-Gleason, J. (1982). “Insights from child language acquisition for second language
loss”. In R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 13–23).
Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Berko-Gleason, J. (1993). “Neurolinguistic aspects of first language acquisition and loss”. In
K. Hyltenstam & A. Viberg (Eds.), Progression and Regression in Language: Sociocultural,
neuropsychological and linguistic perspectives (pp. 147–177). Cambridge: CUP.
Berman, R. A., & Olshtain, E. (1983). “Features of first language transfer in second language
attrition”. Applied Linguistics, 4 (3), 222–234.
Bettoni, C. (1986). “Italian language attrition in Sydney: The role of birth order”. In
C. Bettoni, T. De Mauro, P. Crino, & J. J. Kinder (Eds.), Italian Abroad: Studies on
language contact in English-speaking countries (pp. 61–85). (Sydney). Camilla, MA:
Frederick May Fndtn. for It. Studies.
Bettoni, C. (1989). “Language variety among Italians: Anglicisation, attrition and attitudes”.
I.T.L.: Review of Applied Linguistics, 83–84, 37–50.
Bettoni, C. (1991). “Language shift and morphological attrition among second generation
Italo Australians”. Rivista di Linguistica (RdLing). Pisa, Italy, 3 (2), 369–387.
Bode, S. de (1996). First Language Attrition: Productive morphology disintegration and
neurobiological support. A case study. Unpublished MA Thesis, California State
Polytechnic University, Pomona.
Bolonyai, A. (1999). The Hidden Dimensions of Language Contact: The case of Hungarian-
English bilingual children. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, University of South
Carolina.
Bolonyai, A., & Dutkova-Cope, L. (2001). “L1 attrition of verbal morphology in bilingual
children and adults”. In X. Bonch-Bruevich, W. J. Crawford, J. Hellermann, C. Higgins,
& H. Nguyen (Eds.), The Past, Present, and Future of Second Language Research: Selected
Proceedings of the 2000 Second Language Research Forum (pp. 104–123). Somerville,
MA: Cascadilla.
Bot, K. de, & Clyne, M. (1989). “Language reversion revisited”. Studies in Second Language
Acquisition, 11, 167–177.
Bot, K. de, & Clyne, M. (1994). “A 16 year longitudinal study of language attrition in Dutch
immigrants in Australia”. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development, 15 (1),
17–28.
Bot, K. de, & Fase, W. (Eds.). (1991). Migrant Languages in Europe (=International Journal
of the Sociology of Language, 90). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Bot, K. de, & Hulsen, M. (2002). “Tests, self-assessments and perceptions”. In V. Cook (Ed.),
Portraits of the Language Learner (pp. 253–274). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Bot, K. de, & Lintsen, T. (1989). “Perception of own language proficiency by elderly adults”.
I.T.L.: Review of Applied Linguistics, 83–84, 51–61.
Bot, K. de, & T. Lintsen. (1986). “Foreign-language proficiency in the elderly”. In B. Weltens,
K. de Bot, & Th. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress (pp. 131–141). Dordrecht:
Foris.
Bot, K. de, & Weltens, B. (1985). “Taalverlies: Beschrijven versus verklaren”. Handelingen van
het 38e Nederlands Filologengcongres, 51–61.
 Monika S. Schmid
Bot, K. de, & Weltens, B. (1991). “Recapitulation, regression, and language loss”. In H. W.
Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 31–51). Cambridge: CUP.
Bot, K. de, & Weltens, B. (1995). “Foreign language attrition”. Annual Review of Applied
Linguistics, 15, 151–164.
Bot, K. de, Gommans, P., & Rossing, C. (1991). “L1 loss in an L2 environment: Dutch
immigrants in France”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition
(pp. 87–98). Cambridge: CUP.
Bot, K. de (1991). “Language loss”. In B. Spillner (Ed.), Sprache und Politik (pp. 63–65).
Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Bot, K. de (1996). “Language loss”. In H. Goebl, P. H. Nelde, Z. Stary, & W. Wölck (Eds.),
Contact Linguistics. An international handbook of contemporary research, Vol. I (pp. 579–
585). Berlin/New York: Walter de Gruyter.
Bot, K. de (1998). “The psycholinguistics of language loss”. In G. Extra & L. Verhoeven
(Eds.), Bilingualism and Migration (pp. 17–28). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Boyd, S. (1986). “Using the present to predict the future in language contact: The case of
immigrant minority languages in Sweden”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.),
Language Attrition in Progress (pp. 99–115). Dordrecht: Foris.
Boyd, S. (1993). “Attrition or expansion: Changes in the lexicon of Finnish and American
adult bilinguals in Sweden”. In K. Hyltenstam & A. Viberg (Eds.), Progression and
Regression in Language: Sociocultural, neuropsychological, and linguistic perspectives
(pp. 386–412). Cambridge: CUP.
Brewer Bomar, K. E. (1982). “Second language lexical and syntactical interference on the first
language of two four year-old Spanish speakers”. Dissertation Abstracts International
(DAI). Ann Arbor, MI, 42 (12), 5105A.
Brons-Albert, R. (1992). “Verlust der Muttersprache in fremdsprachiger Umgebung”. Info
DaF, 19 (3), 315–325.
Brons-Albert, R. (1993). “Interferenzfehler in der Muttersprache von in den Niederlanden
lebenden Deutschen”. In B. Spillner (Ed.), Nachbarsprachen in Europa (pp. 96–104).
Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Brown, J. C. (2001). L1 Attrition Among Native Speakers of English Residents Abroad: A
sociolinguistic case study from Foggia, Italy. Unpublished MA Thesis, University of
Surrey.
Bullock, B. E., & Gerfen, C. (Forthcoming). “Frenchville French: A case study in pho-
nological attrition”. To appear in: International Journal of Bilingualism.
Caramazza, A., & Zurif, E. B. (1978). “Comprehension of complex sentences in children
and aphasics: A test of the regression hypothesis”. In A. Caramazza & E. B. Zurif (Eds.),
Language Acquisition and Language Breakdown: Parallels and divergencies (pp. 145–
161). Baltimore: John Hopkins University Press.
Clark, J. L. D. (1982). “Measurement considerations in language attrition research”. In R. D.
Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 138–152). Rowley, MA:
Newbury House.
Clyne, M. (1968). “Decay, preservation and renewal: Notes on some Southern Australian
German settlements”. AUMLA, 29, 33–43.
Language attrition bibliography 
Clyne, M. (1973). “Thirty years later: Some observations on ‘refugee German’ in
Melbourne”. In H. Scholler & H. Reilly (Eds.), Lexicography and Dialect Geography
(pp. 96–106). Wiesbaden: Frank Steiner.
Clyne, M. (1981). “Second language attrition and first language reversion among elderly
bilinguals in Australia”. In W. Meid & K. Heller (Eds.), Sprachkontakt als Ursache von
Veränderungen der Sprach- und Bewußtsseinsstruktur: eine Sammlung von Studien zur
sprachlichen Interferenz (pp. 25–32). Innsbruck: Institut für Sprachwissenschaft.
Clyne, M. (1981). Deutsch als Muttersprache in Australien: Zur Ökologie einer Einwan-
derersprache. Wiesbaden: Franz Steiner.
Clyne, M. (1992). “Linguistic and sociolinguistic aspects of language contact, maintenance
and loss: Towards a multifacet theory”. In W. Fase, K. Jaspert, & S. Kroon (Eds.),
Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages (pp. 17–36). Amsterdam and Philadelphia:
Benjamins.
Clyne, M., & Pauwels, A. (1997). “Use, maintenance, structures, and future of Dutch
in Australia”. In J. Klatter-Folmer & S. Kroon (Eds.), Dutch Overseas: Studies in
maintenance and loss of Dutch as an immigrant language (pp. 33–49). Tilburg: Tilburg
University Press.
Cohen, A. (1986). “Forgetting foreign-language vocabulary”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, &
T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress (pp. 143–158). Dordrecht: Foris.
Cohen, A. D. (1989). “Attrition in the productive lexicon of two Portuguese third language
speakers”. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 11, 135–150.
Davies, A. (1986). “Language loss and symbolic gain: The meaning of institutional
maintenance”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in
Progress (pp. 117–127). Dordrecht: Foris.
Dorian, N. C. (1982). “Language loss and maintenance in language contact situations”. In
R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 44–59). Rowley, MA:
Newbury House.
Dressler, W. U. (1991). “The sociolinguistic and patholinguistic attrition of Breton
phonology, morphology, and morphonology”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.),
First Language Attrition (pp. 99–112). Cambridge: CUP.
Dugas, L. G. (2000). “Attrition of pronunciation accuracy among advanced American
learners of French”. Dissertation Abstracts International, Section A: The Humanities and
Social Sciences (DAIA), 60 (11), 3986.
Edwards, J. R. (1992). “Sociopolitical aspects of language maintenance and loss: Towards
a typology of minority language situation”. In W. Fase, K. Jaspert & S. Kroon (Eds.),
Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages (pp. 37–54). Amsterdam and Philadelphia:
Benjamins.
Els, T. van (1986). “An overview of European research on language attrition”. In B. Weltens,
K. de Bot & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress (pp. 3–18). Dordrecht:
Foris.
Falstein, S., & Waas, M. (1993). “Migrants face erosion of their mother tongue”. Post
Migration, 90, 19–20.
Fase, W., Jaspaert, K., & Kroon , S. (Eds.). (1992). Maintenance and Loss of Minority
Languages. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
 Monika S. Schmid
Fase, W., Jaspaert, K., & Kroon, S. (Eds.). (1995). The State of Minority Languages.
International perspectives on survival and decline (= European Studies on Multi-
lingualism 5). Lisse: Swets & Zeitlinger.
Fishman, J. (1992). “Conference summary”. In W. Fase, K. Jaspaert & S. Kroon (Eds.),
Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages (pp. 395–403). Amsterdam and Phila-
delphia: John Benjamins.
Freed, B. F. (1982). “Language loss: Current thoughts and future directions”. In R. D.
Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 1–5). Rowley, MA:
Newbury House.
Fromm, E. (1970). “Age regression and unexpected reappearance of a repressed childhood
language”. International Journal of Clinical Experimental Hypnosis, 18 (2), 79–88.
Fujita, M. (2002). “Second language English attrition of Japanese bilingual children”.
Dissertation Abstracts International, Section A: The Humanities and Social Sciences
(DAIA), 63 (1), 59–60.
Furbee, N. L., & Stanley, L. A. (1996). “Language attrition and language planning in
accommodation perspective”. Southwest Journal of Linguistics, 15 (1), 45–62.
Gardner, R. C. (1982). “Social factors in language retention”. In R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed
(Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 24–43). Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Gardner, R. C., Lalonde, R. N., & MacPherson, J. (1985). “Social factors in second language
attrition”. Language Learning: A Journal of Applied Linguistics, 35 (4), 519–540.
Gardner, R. C., Lalonde, R. N., Moorcroft, R., & Evers, F. T. (1987). “Second language
attrition: The role of motivation and use”. Journal of Language and Social Psychology,
6 (1), 29–47.
Gardner, R., Lalonde, R., & MacPherson, J. (1983). Social factors in second-language attrition:
An initial investigation. London, Ontario: University of Western Ontario (Research
Bulletin #584).
Giesbers, H. (1997). “Dutch in Indonesia: Language attrition or language contact?”. In
J. Klatter-Folmer & S. Kroon (Eds.), Dutch Overseas: Studies in maintenance and loss
of Dutch as an immigrant language (pp. 163–180). Tilburg: Tilburg University Press.
Ginsberg, R. B. (1986). “Issues in the analysis of language loss: Methodology of the Language
Skills Attrition Project”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition
in Progress (pp. 19–36). Dordrecht: Foris.
Godsall-Myers, J. E. (1982).“The attrition of language skills in German classroombilinguals:
A case study”. Dissertation Abstracts International, Ann Arbor, MI 43, 1.
Gonzalez Moncada, A. (1996). “Language attrition and retention among non-native speaker
EFL teachers”. Dissertation Abstracts International (DAI), 57 (3), 1118A.
Goral, M. (2004). “First-language decline in healthy aging: Implications for attrition in
bilingualism”. Journal of Neurolinguistics, 17 (1), 31–52.
Grendel, M., Weltens, B., & de Bot, K. (1993). “Language attrition: Rise and fall of a research
topic?”. Toegepaste Taalwetenshap in Artikelen, 46/47, 59–68.
Grosjean, F., & Py, B. (1991). “La restructuration d’une première langue: l’intégration de
variantes de contact dans la compétence de migrants bilingues”. La Linguistique, 27,
35–60.
Gross, S. (2000). The Role of Abstract Lexical Structure in First Language Attrition: Germans
in America. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, University of South Carolina.
Language attrition bibliography 
Gürel, A. (2002a). Linguistic Characteristics of Second Language Acquisition and First
Language Attrition: Turkish overt versus null pronouns. Unpublished Doctoral
Dissertation, Montréal: McGill University.
Gürel, A. (2002b). “First language attrition: The effects of second language”. In B. Skarabela,
S. Fish & A. H. J. Do (Eds.), Proceedings of the 26th Annual Boston University Conference
on Language Development, I, II (pp. 255–266). Somerville, MA: Cascadilla.
Gürel, A. (2004). “Selectivity in L2-induced L1 attrition: A psycholinguistic account.”
Journal of Neurolinguistics, 17 (1), 53–78.
Hagen, A. M., & de Bot, K. (1990). “Structural loss and levelling in minority languages and
dialects”. Sociolinguistica, 4, 136–149.
Håkansson, G. (1995). “Syntax and morphology in language attrition: A study of five
bilingual expatriate Swedes”. International Journal of Applied Linguistics, 5 (2), 153–171.
Hakuta, K., & d’Andrea, D. (1992). “Some properties of bilingual maintenance and loss in
Mexican background high-school students”. Applied Linguistics, 13 (1), 72–99.
Hansen, L. (Ed.). (1999). Second Language Attrition in Japanese Contexts. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Hansen, L. (1999). “Investigating second language attrition: An introduction”. In L. Hansen
(Ed.), Second Language Attrition in Japanese Contexts (pp. 3–20). Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Hansen, L. (1999). “Not a total loss: The attrition of Japanese negation over three decades”.
In L. Hansen (Ed.), Second Language Attrition in Japanese Contexts (pp. 142–153).
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Hansen, L. (2001). “Language attrition: The fate of the start”. Annual Review of Applied
Linguistics, 21, 60–73.
Hayashi, B. (1999). “Testing the regression hypothesis: The remains of the Japanese negation
system in Micronesia”. In L. Hansen (Ed.), Second Language Attrition in Japanese
Contexts (pp. 154–168). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Hedgcock, J. (1991). “Foreign language retention and attrition: A study of regression
models”. Foreign Laguage Annals, 24, 43–55.
Hill, J. H. (1989). “Language attrition in progress – Book review”. Language in Society, 18
(4), 594–598.
Hiller-Foti, I. (1985). “Erhebung über den Verlust der Muttersprache Deutscher Immig-
ranten in Sizilien”. Rassegna Italiana di Linguistica Applicata, 17 (1), 107–110.
Hinskens, F. (1986). “The selection of linguistic variables in empirical research on variation
and change in dialects”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition
in Progress (pp. 53–74). Dordrecht: Foris.
Hirvonen, P. (1998). “The Finnish-American language shift”. In J. Niemi et al. (Eds.),
Language Contact, Variation, and Change (pp. 136–150). Joensuu, Finland: Faculty of
Humanities.
Hofmann, C. (1994). “Language loss and language recovery: The case of the
Russlanddeutsche”. In P. M. Mair & W. V. Davies (Eds.), The Changing Voices of Europe:
Social and political changes and their linguistic repercussions past, present and future
(pp. 311–324). Cardiff: University of Wales Press.
 Monika S. Schmid
Hormann, C. (1994). Acts of Identity in Aussiedler-German: Operationaliszing Le Page’s
sociolinguistic identity theory. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, University of Texas
at Austin.
Huffines, M. L. (1991). “Pennsylvania German: Convergence and change as strategies of
discourse”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 125–137).
Cambridge: CUP.
Huls, E., & van de Mond, A. (1992). “Some aspects of language attrition in Turkish families
in the Netherlands”. In W. Fase, K. Jaspaert, & S. Kroon (Eds.), Maintenance and Loss of
Minority Languages (pp. 99–115). Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Hulsen, M. (2000). Language Loss and Language Processing. Three generations of Dutch
migrants in New Zealand. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Katholieke Universiteit
Nijmegen.
Hulsen, M., de Bot, K., & Weltens, B. (1999). “Language shift, language loss and language
processing: An investigation of three generations of Dutch immigrants in New
Zealand”. In E. Huls & B. Weltens (Eds.), Artikelen van de Derde Sociolinguistische
Conferentie (pp. 221–232). Delft: Eburon.
Hulsen, M., de Bot, K., & Weltens, B. (2002). “‘Between two worlds.’ Social networks,
language shift, and language processing in three generations of Dutch migrants in New
Zealand”. International Journal of the Sociology of Language, 153, 27–52.
Hyltenstam, K., & Stroud, C. (1996). “Language maintenance”. In H. Goebl, P. H. Nelde,
Z. Stary, & W. Wölck (Eds.), Contact Linguistics. An international handbook of
contemporary research, Vol. I (pp. 567–578). Berlin/New York: Walter de Gruyter.
Isurin, L. (2000a). “Mechanisms of first language forgetting”. Dissertation Abstracts
International, Section A: The Humanities and Social Sciences, (DAIA) 60 (9), 3342.
Isurin, L. (2000b). “Deserted island: Or, a child’s first language forgetting”. Bilingualism:
Language and Cognition, 3 (2), 151–166.
Isurin, L., & McDonald, J. L. (2001). “Retroactive interference from translation equivalents:
Implications for first language forgetting”. Memory and Cognition, 29 (2), 312–319.
Jackson, A. E., & Mari, K. (1995). “What happens to their English? A study of the English
proficiency of Japanese elementary school returnees”. Shoin Literary Review, 107, 1–34.
Jamieson, P. (1980). “The pattern of urban language loss”. Australian and New Zealand
Journal of Sociology, 16, 102–109.
Jarvis, S. (2003). “Probing the effects of the L2 on the L1: A case study”. In V. Cook (Ed.),
Effects of the Second Language on the First (pp. 81–102). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Jaspaert, K., & Kroon, S. (1987). “The relationship between global language proficiency tests
and language and language loss”. In F. Beukema & P. Coopmans (Eds.), Linguistics in
the Netherlands (pp. 91–100). Dordrecht: Foris.
Jaspaert, K., & Kroon, S. (1989). “Social determinants of language loss”. I.T.L.: Review of
Applied Linguistics, 83–84, 75–98.
Jaspaert, K., & Kroon, S. (1991). “Social determinants of language shift by Italians in the
Netherlands and Flanders”. International Journal of the Sociology of Language, 90, 77–96.
Jaspaert, K., & Kroon, S. (1992). “From the typewriter of A.L.: A case study in language loss”.
In W. Fase, K. Jaspaert, & S. Kroon (Eds.), Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages
(pp. 137–147). Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Language attrition bibliography 
Jaspaert, K., Kroon, S., & van Hout, R. (1986). “Points of reference in first-language loss
research”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress
(pp. 37–49). Dordrecht: Foris.
Jessner, U. (2003). “A dynamic approach to language attrition in multilingual systems”. In
V. Cook (Ed.), Effects of the Second Language on the First (pp. 234–246). Clevedon:
Multilingual Matters.
Jordens, P., de Bot, K., & Trapman, H. (1989). “Linguistic aspects of regression in German
case marking”. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 11 (2), 179–204.
Jordens, P., de Bot, K., van Os, C., & Schumans, J. (1986). “Regression in German case
marking”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress
(pp. 159–176). Dordrecht: Foris.
Kaufman, D. (1998). “Children’s assimilatory patterns and L1 attrition”. In A. Greenhill,
M. Hugehes, H. Littlefield, & H. Walsh (Eds.), Proceedings of the 22nd Annual Boston
University Conference on Language Development, I, II (pp. 175–188). Somerville, MA:
Cascadilla.
Kaufman, D. (2000). “Attrition of Hebrew in the United States: Sociolinguistic perspectives”.
In E. Olshtain (Ed.), Immigration, Identity, and Language (pp. 409–420). Jerusalem:
Magnes Publications Hebrew University.
Kaufman, D., & Aronoff, M. (1991). “Morphological disintegration and reconstruction in
first language attrition”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition
(pp. 175–188). Cambridge: CUP.
Kaufman, H. D. (1992). “First language attrition as a creative interplay between two
languages”. Dissertation Abstracts International, Ann Arbor, MI 52, 9.
Kirschner, C. (1996). “Language attrition and the Spanish English bilingual: A case of
syntactic reduction”. Bilingual Review/La Revista Bilingue (BR/RB), 21 (2), 123–130.
Klatter-Folmer, J., & Kroon, S. (1997). “Dutch overseas: Introductory remarks”. In J. Klatter-
Folmer & S. Kroon (Eds.), Dutch Overseas: Studies in maintenance and loss of Dutch as
an immigrant language (pp. 1–19). Tilburg: Tilburg University Press.
Kokko, O. (1998). “Loss and maintenance of linguistic features in language attrition”. In
J. Niemi et al. (Eds.), Language Contact, Variation, and Change (pp. 151–172). Joensuu,
Finland: Faculty of Humanities.
Köpke, B. (1999). L’attrition de la première langue chez le bilingue tardif: Implications
pour l’étude psycholinguistique du bilinguisme. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation,
Université de Toulouse-Le Mirail.
Köpke, B. (2000). “Effet du pays d’accueil sur le maintien de la langue. Le cas des immigrés
d’origine allemande”. Education et Societes Plurilingues, 9, 59–65.
Köpke, B. (2001). “Quels changements linguistiques dans l’attrition de la L1 chez le bilingue
tardif? ”. Travaux Neuchâtelois de Linguistique, 34/35, 355–368.
Köpke, B. (2002). “Activation thresholds and non-pathological first language attrition”. In
F. Fabbro (Ed.), Advances in the Neurolinguistics of Bilingualism: Essays in honor of
Michel Paradis (pp. 119–142). Udine: Forum.
Köpke, B. (2002). “Besonderheiten in der Verarbeitung spät erworbener Sprachen: Beispiele
aus einer Studie zum ‘Sprachverlust’ von deutschen Immigranten in Frankreich und
Kanada”. In J. Müller-Lancé & C. Maria Riehl (Eds.), Ein Kopf – viele Sprachen:
Koexistenz, Interaktion und Vermittlung (pp. 31–44). Aachen: Shaker.
 Monika S. Schmid
Köpke, B. (2004). “Neurolinguistic aspects of attrition” Journal of Neurolinguistics, 17 (1),
3–30.
Köpke, B., & Nespolous, J.-L. (2001). “First language attrition in production skills
and metalinguistic abilities in German-English and German-French bilinguals”. In
T. Ammerlaan, M. Hulsen, H. Strating, & K. Yağmur (Eds.), Sociolinguistic and
Psycholinguistic Perspectives on Maintenance and Loss of Minority Languages (pp. 221–
234). Münster: Waxmann.
Kouritzin, S. G. (1998). “Cast away cultures and taboo tongues: Face[t]s of first language
loss”. Dissertation Abstracts International, Section A: The Humanities and Social Sciences
(DAIA), 59 (1), 63.
Kravin, H. (1992). “Erosion of a language in bilingual development”. Journal of Multilingual
and Multicultural Development, 13, 307–325.
Kuhberg, H. (1992). “Longitudinal L2 attrition versus L2 acquisition, in three Turkish
children. Empirical findings”. Second Language Research (SLRe). Utrecht, Netherlands,
8 (2), 138–154.
Lambert, R., & Moore, S.J. (1984). “Recent research on language skill attrition”. ERIC/CLL
News Bulletin, 8, 1–8.
Lambert, R. D. (1982). “Setting the agenda”. In R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss
of Language Skills (pp. 6–10). Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Lambert, R. D. (1989). “Language attrition”. I.T.L.: Review of Applied Linguistics, 83–84, 1–
18.
Lambert, R. D., & Moore, S. J. (1986). “Problem areas in the study of language attrition”. In
B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress (pp. 177–186).
Dordrecht: Foris.
Laufer, B. (2003). “The influence of L2 on L1 collocational knowledge and on L1 lexical
diversity in free written expression”. In V. Cook (Ed.), Effects of the Second Language on
the First (pp. 19–31). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Leisiö, L. (2001). Morphosyntactic Convergence and Integration in Finland Russian.
Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, University of Tampere.
Levine, G. S. (1996). “Elderly second-generation speakers of Yiddish: Toward a model of
L1 loss, incomplete L1 acquisition, competence, and control”. Southwest Journal of
Linguistics, 15 (1), 109–120.
Levine, G. S. (2000). Incomplete L1 Acquisition in the Immigrant Situation: Yiddish in the
United States. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
Levy, J. (1982). “Policy implications/complications arising from native language attrition in
U.S. ethnolinguistic minority groups”. In R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss
of Language Skills (pp. 191–201). Rowley, MA: Newbury.
Lowe, P. Jr. (1982). “The U.S. government’s foreign language attrition and maintenance
experience”. In R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 176–
190). Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Maher, J. (1991). “A crosslinguistic study of language contact and language attrition”. In
H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 67–84). Cambridge:
CUP.
Language attrition bibliography 
Major, R. C. (1993). “Sociolinguistic factors in loss and acquisition of phonology”. In
K. Hyltenstam & A. Viberg (Eds.), Progression and Regression in Language: Sociocultural,
neuropsychological and linguistic perspectives (pp. 463–478). Cambridge: CUP.
Major, R. C. (1992). “Losing English as a first language”. The Modern Language Journal, 76,
190–209.
McCormack, B. (2001). The Maintenance and Loss of Reflexive Anaphors in L2 English.
Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, University of Durham, UK.
Montrul, S. (2002). “Incomplete acquisition and attrition of Spanish tense/aspect distinc-
tions in adult bilinguals”. Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 5 (1), 39–68.
Moorcroft, R., & Gardner, R. C. (1987). “Linguistic factors in second language loss”.
Language Learning: A Journal of Applied Linguistics, 37 (3), 327–340.
Münstermann, H., & Hagen, T. (1986). “Functional and structural aspects of dialect loss:
A research plan and some first results”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.),
Language Attrition in Progress (pp. 75–96). Dordrecht: Foris.
Murtagh, L. (2003). Retention and Attrition of Irish as a Second Language. Unpublished
Doctoral Dissertation, Rijksuniversiteit Groningen.
Nagasawa, S. (1996). “Attrition of speaking skills in advanced speakers of Japanese L2: A
multiple case study”. Dissertation Abstracts International, Section A: The Humanities and
Social Sciences (DAIA), 56 (11), 4381.
Nagasawa, S. (1999). “Learning and losing Japanese as a second language: A multiple case
study of American university students”. In L. Hansen (Ed.), Second Language Attrition
in Japanese Contexts (pp. 169–199). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Nakuma, C. (1997a). “A method for measuring the attrition of communicative competence:
A pilot study with Spanish L3 subjects”. Applied Psycholinguistics, 18 (2), 219–235.
Nakuma, C. (1997b). “Loss of communicative competence: Measurability and description
of a method”. International Review of Applied Linguistics in Language Teaching, 35 (3),
199–209.
Nakuma, C. (1997c). “Cleaning up spontaneous speech for use in L2 attrition research: A
proposal”. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development, 18 (2), 135–144.
Nakuma, C. K. (1998). “A new theoretical account of ‘fossilisation’: Implications for L2
attrition research”. International Review of Applied Linguistics in Language Teaching, 36
(3), 247–256.
Obler, L. K. (1982). “Neurolinguistic aspects of language loss as they pertain to second
language attrition”. In R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills
(pp. 60–79). Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Obler, L. K. (1993). “Neurolinguistic aspects of second language development and attrition”.
In K. Hyltenstam & A. Viberg (Eds.), Progression and Regression in Language:
Sociocultural, neuropsychological and linguistic perspectives (pp. 178–195). Cambridge:
CUP.
Obler, L. K., & Albert, M. L. (1989). “Language decline in aging”. I.T.L.: Review of Applied
Linguistics, 83–84, 63–73.
Obler, L. K., & Mahecha, N. R. (1991). “First language loss in bilingual and polyglot
aphasics”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 53–65).
Cambridge: CUP.
 Monika S. Schmid
Olshtain, E. (1986). “The attrition of English as a second language with speakers of Hebrew”.
In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress (pp. 187–
204). Dordrecht: Foris.
Olshtain, E. (1989). “Is second language attrition the reversal of second language acqui-
sition?”. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 11 (2), 151–165.
Olshtain, E., & Barzilay, M. (1991). “Lexical retrieval difficulties in adult language attrition”.
In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 139–150).
Cambridge: CUP.
Oxford, R. L. (1982). “Research on language loss – A review with implications for foreign-
language teaching”. Modern Language Journal, 66, 160–169.
Oxford, R. L. (1982). “Technical issues in designing and conduction research on language
skill attrition”. In R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills
(pp. 119–137). Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Pan-Alexander, B., & Berko-Gleason, J. (1986). “The study of language loss: Models and
hypotheses for an emerging discipline”. Applied Psycholinguistics, 7, 193–206.
Paradis, M. (1993). “Linguistic, psycholinguistic, and neurolinguistic aspects of ‘inter-
ference’ in bilingual speakers: The Activation Threshhold Hypothesis”. International
Journal of Psycholinguistics, 9 (2), 133–145.
Pavlenko, A. (2000). “L2 influence on L1 in late bilingualism”. Issues in Applied Linguistics,
11 (2), 175–205.
Pavlenko, A. (2003). “‘I feel clumsy speaking Russian’: L2 influence on L1 in narratives of
Russian L2 users of English”. In V. Cook (Ed.), L2 influence on L1 (pp. 32–61). Clevedon:
Multilingual Matters.
Pelc, L. A. (1998). “Supralexical and lexical attrition of Greek in Greek-English bilinguals”.
In A. Greenhill, M. Hugehes, H. Littlefield, & H. Walsh (Eds.), Proceedings of the
22nd Annual Boston University Conference on Language Development (pp. 621–625).
Somerville, MA: Cascadilla.
Pelc, L. A. (2001). L1 Lexical, Morphological and Morphosyntactic Attrition in Greek-English
Bilinguals. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, New York: City University of New York.
Pfaff, C. W. (1991). “Turkish in contact with German: Language maintenance and loss
among immigrant children in Berlin (West)”. International Journal of the Sociology of
Language, 90, 97–129.
Platzack, C. (1998). “The initial hypothesis of syntax: A minimalist perspective on language
acquisition and attrition”. In H. Clahsen (Ed.), Generative Perspectives on Language
Acquisition (pp. 369–414). Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Polinsky, M. (1994). “Structural dimensions of first language loss”. Chicago Linguistic Society,
30, 257–276.
Polinsky, M. (1997). “American Russian: Language loss meets language acquisition”. In
W. Browne, E. Dornisch, N. Kondrashova, & D. Zec (Eds.), Annual Workshop on Formal
Approaches to Slavic Linguistics: The Cornell meeting 1995 (pp. 370–406). Ann Arbor,
MI: Michigan Slavic.
Pons, C. R. (1989). “Book review of ‘Language attrition in progress’ ”. Studies in Second
Language Acquisition, 11 (2), 217–218.
Porte, G. (1999). “English as a forgotten language”. ELT Journal, 53 (1), 28–34.
Language attrition bibliography 
Porte, G. (2003). “English from a distance: Code-mixing and blending in the L1 output
of long-term resident overseas EFL teachers”. In V. Cook (Ed.), Effects of the Second
Language on the First (pp. 103–119). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Prather, W. J. (1998). “Native language loss in second language learners referred to special
education”. Dissertation Abstracts International, Section A: The Humanities and Social
Sciences (DAIA), 58 (8), 3087–3088.
Preston, D. (1982). “How to lose a language”. Interlanguage Studies Bulletin, 6 (2), 64–87.
Py, B. (1986). “Native language attrition amongst migrant workers: Towards an extension
of the concept of interlanguage”. In E. Kellerman & M. Sharwood Smith (Eds.),
Crosslinguistic Influence in Second Language Acquisition (pp. 163–172). New York, NY:
Pergamon.
Raffaldini, T. (1988). “Attrition of communicative ability among former year abroad
students of French”. Dissertation Abstracts International (DAI). Ann Arbor, MI, 49 (4),
807A.
Raidt, E. H. (1997). “Interference, shift and loss of Dutch in South Africa”. In J. Klatter-
Folmer & S. Kroon (Eds.), Dutch Overseas: Studies in maintenance and loss of Dutch as
an immigrant language (pp. 215–236). Tilburg: Tilburg University Press.
Reetz-Kurashige, A. (1999). “Japanese returnees’ retention of English-speaking skills:
Changes in verb usage over time”. In L. Hansen (Ed.), Second Language Attrition in
Japanese Contexts (pp. 21–58). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Rhodes, B. M. (1997). “Research into the attrition of dialect”. Transactions of the Yorkshire
Dialect Society, 19 (97), 22–29.
Rhydwen, M. (1999). “Language loss, our loss”. In R. S. Wheeler (Ed.), The Workings of
Language: From prescriptions to perspectives (pp. 129–138). Westport, CT: Praeger.
Riionheimo, H. (1998). “Morphological attrition and interference in language contact:
Sketching a framework”. In J. Niemi et al. (Eds.), Language Contact, Variation, and
Change (pp. 246–268). Joensuu, Finland: Faculty of Humanities.
Ronowicz, E. (1999). “Methodological issues of testing language attrition in children in a
natural bilingual environment”. Poznan Studies in Contemporary Linguistics (PSiCL),
35, 105–117.
Russell, R. A. (1999). “Lexical maintenance and attrition in Japanese as a second language”.
In L. Hansen (Ed.), Second Language Attrition in Japanese Contexts (pp. 114–141).
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Schatz, H. F. (1989.“ Code-switching or borrowing? English elements in the Dutch of Dutch-
American immigrants”. I.T.L.: Review of Applied Linguistics, 83–84, 125–162.
Schaufeli, A. (1996). “Word order patterns in contact: Turkish in the Netherlands”. Southwest
Journal of Linguistics, 15 (1–2), 153–169.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance: The case of German
Jews in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Schmid, M. S. (Forthcoming). “Measuring first language attrition in free speech: What’s in
a mistake?”. International Journal of Bilingualism.
Schmitt, E. (2000). “The lost word: Language attrition among children”. In S. C. Howell,
S. Fish, & K. Thea (Eds.), Proceedings of the 24th Annual Boston University Conference
on Language Development (pp. 645–656). Sommerville, MA: Cascadilla.
 Monika S. Schmid
Schmitt, E. (2001). Beneath the surface: Signs of language attrition in immigrant children from
Russia. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, University of South Carolina.
Schoenmakers-Klein Gunnewiek, M. (1989). “Structural aspects of the loss of Portuguese
among migrants: A research outline”. I.T.L.: Review of Applied Linguistics, 83–84, 99–
123.
Schoenmakers-Klein Gunnewiek, M. (1997). “Dutch language loss in Brazil and the
conceptual hypothesis”. In J. Klatter-Folmer & S. Kroon (Eds.), Dutch Overseas: Studies
in maintenance and loss of Dutch as an immigrant language (pp. 99–119). Tilburg:
Tilburg University Press.
Schoenmakers-Klein Gunnewiek, M. (1998). Taalverlies door Taalcontact? Een onderzoek
bij Portugese migranten. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Katholieke Universiteit
Brabant.
Seliger, H. W. (1985). Primary Language Attrition in the Context of Other Language Loss and
Mixing. MS, Queens College.
Seliger, H. W. (1989). “Deterioration and creativity in childhood bilingualism”. In
K. Hyltenstam & L. K. Obler (Eds.), Bilingualism Across the Lifespan (pp. 173–184).
Cambridge: CUP.
Seliger, H. W. (1991). “Language attrition, reduced redundancy, and creativity”. In H. W.
Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 227–240). Cambridge: CUP.
Seliger, H. W., & Vago, R. M. (1991). “The study of first language attrition: An overview”.
In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 3–15). Cambridge:
CUP.
Seliger, H. W., & Vago, R. M. (1996). “Primary language attrition in the context of
bilingualism”. In W. C. Ritchie & T. K. Bathia (Eds.), Handbook of Second Language
Acquisition (pp. 605–626). San Diego, CA: Academic Press.
Sharwood Smith, M. (1983a). “On explaining language loss”. In S. Felix & H. Wode (Eds.),
Language Development at the crossroads (pp. 49–69). Tübingen: Narr.
Sharwood Smith, M. (1983b). “On first language loss in the second language acquirer”. In
S. Gass & L. Selinker (Eds.), Language Transfer in Language Learning (pp. 222–231).
Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Sharwood Smith, M. A. (1989). “Crosslinguistic influence in language loss”. In
K. Hyltenstam & L. K. Obler (Eds.), Bilingualism Across the Lifespan (pp. 185–201).
Cambridge: CUP.
Sharwood Smith, M., & Van Buren, P. (1991). “First language attrition and the parameter
setting model”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 17–
30). Cambridge: CUP.
Silva-Corvalán,C. (1991). “Spanish language attrition in a contact situation with English”. In
H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 189–206). Cambridge:
CUP.
Soesman, A. (1997). “An experimental study on native language attrition in Dutch adult
immigrants in Israel”. In J. Klatter-Folmer & S. Kroon (Eds.), Dutch Overseas: Studies in
maintenance and loss of Dutch as an immigrant language (pp. 181–194). Tilburg: Tilburg
University Press.
Søndergaard, B. (1981). “Decline and fall of an individual’s bilingualism”. Journal of
Multilingual and Multicultural Development, 2 (4), 297–302.
Language attrition bibliography 
Thompson, R. T. (1982). “Implications of language attrition research for national language
policy”. In R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 202–206).
Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Tomiyama, M. (1999). “The first stage of second language attrition: A case study of a
Japanese returnee”. In L. Hansen (Ed.), Second Language Attrition in Japanese Contexts
(pp. 59–79). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Toribio, A. J. (2000). “Code switching and minority language attrition: Papers from the 1999
conference on the L1 & L2 acquisition of Spanish and Portuguese”. In R. P. Leow &
C. Sanz (Eds.), Spanish Applied Linguistics at the Turn of the Millennium (pp. 174–193).
Somerville, MA: Cascadilla.
Toribio, A. J. (2001). “On Spanish language decline”. In A. H. J. Do, L. Dominguez, &
A. Johansen (Eds.), Proceedings of the 25th Annual Boston University Conference on
Language Development (pp. 768–779). Somerville, MA: Cascadilla.
Turian, D., & Altenberg, E. P. (1991). “Compensatory strategies of child first language
attrition”. In H. W. Seliger & R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 207–226).
Cambridge: CUP.
Uribe de Kellett, A. (2002). “The recovery of a first language: A case study of an
English/Spanish bilingual child”. International Journal of Bilingual Education and
Bilingualism (IJBEB), 5 (3), 162–181.
Vago, R. M. (1991). “Paradigmatic regularity in first language attrition”. In H. W. Seliger &
R. M. Vago (Eds.), First Language Attrition (pp. 241–251). Cambridge: CUP.
Valdman, A. (1982). “Language attrition and the administration of secondary school and
college foreign language instruction”. In R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of
Language Skills (pp. 155–175). Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Ventureyra, V. A. G., Pallier, C., & H.-Y. Yoo (2004). “The loss of first language phonetic
perception in adopted Koreans”. Journal of Neurolinguistics, 17 (1),79–91
Vries, J. de & Vries, G. de (1997). “Demolinguistic aspects of language maintenance and shift
among Dutch immigrants in Canada”. In J. Klatter-Folmer & S. Kroon (Eds.), Dutch
Overseas: Studies in maintenance and loss of Dutch as an immigrant language (pp. 121–
137). Tilburg: Tilburg University Press.
Waas, M. (1991). “Aspects of non-pathological language loss: Selected bibliography”. In F.
Lovejoy (Ed.), Studies in Language Loss (pp. 55–72). Sydney: Holborn Press.
Waas, M. (1991). “On language attrition”. In F. Lovejoy (Ed.), Studies in Language Loss
(pp. 5–21). Sydney: Holborn Press.
Waas, M. (1993). “Loss of first language skills in the community: Intermediate stage”.
Language Problems and Language Planning, 17 (3), 225–237.
Waas, M. (1994). “‘Deutschies’ und ‘Australianer’. Sprachverlust unter Deutschsprachigen in
Australien”. Muttersprache, 4, 312–319.
Waas, M. (1996). Language Attrition Downunder. Frankfurt: Peter Lang.
Waas, M. (1997). “First language loss: Reflex responses, repartee and sound symbolism”.
Language Problems and Language Planning, 21 (1), 119–133.
Waas, M., & Ryan, A. (1993). “Onomatopoeia in language attrition”. Linguistische Berichte,
148, 477–482.
Weilemar, L. (2003 Generative Theory in Language Attrition Research: A critical evaluation.
Unpublished MA Thesis, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam.
 Monika S. Schmid
Weltens, B. (1988). The Attrition of French as a Foreign Language. Dordrecht: Foris.
Weltens, B., & Cohen, A. D. (1989). “Language Attrition”. Studies in Second Language
Acquisition, 11 (2), 127–133.
Weltens, B., & van Els, T. (1986). “The attrition of French as a foreign language: Interim
results”. In B. Weltens, K. de Bot, & T. van Els (Eds.), Language Attrition in Progress
(pp. 205–221). Dordrecht: Foris.
Weltens, B., van Els, T. J. M., & Schils, E. (1989). “The long-term retention of French by
Dutch students”. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 11, 205–216.
Yağmur, K. (1997). First Language Attrition among Turkish Speakers in Sydney. Tilburg:
Tilburg University Press.
Yağmur, K., Bot, K. de, & Korzilius, H. (1999). “Language attrition, language shift and
ethnolinguistic vitality of Turkish in Australia”. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural
Development, 20 (1), 51–69.
Yoshitomi, A. (1992). “Towards a model of language attrition: Neurobiological and
psychological contributions”. Issues in Applied Linguistics, 3 (2), 293–318.
Yoshitomi, A. (1994). “The attrition of English as a second language of Japanese returnee
children”. Dissertation Abstracts International (DAI), 55 (3), 553A.
Yoshitomi, A. (1999). “On the loss of English as a second language by Japanese returnee
children”. In L. Hansen (Ed.), Second Language Attrition in Japanese Contexts (pp. 80–
111). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
A new blueprint for language
attrition research
Monika S. Schmid
Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam
Introduction
I hesitate to call the present chapter a ‘conclusion’ to either this volume or the
conference that begat it. It seems to me that the questions, approaches and find-
ings that were presented do not lend themselves to closure – on the contrary,
they open up perspectives even as they reveal shortcomings. I will, therefore,
make an attempt here to sum these up and try to look forward as well as back.
What has been established beyond doubt here is that great progress has
been made over the past decades in the area of theoretical interpretation and
evaluation of the phenomena witnessed in language attrition. The frameworks
and models which have been applied to research on attrition have become more
sophisticated, reflecting the relatively greater wealth of researcher’s experiences.
This fine-tuning of how research questions are asked has, in many instances,
led to a more and more microlinguistic approach – which has made it possible
to answer (albeit tentatively) some very specific questions. The more general
ones, however, remain unanswered.
On the basis of the studies published in this volume it is, for example, pos-
sible to say that language attrition can to some degree affect binding properties
of some anaphoric pronouns in both L1 and L2 (see Gürel, this volume; Mc-
Cormack, this volume), or that different types of morphemes may be affected
differently by the attritional process (see Gross, this volume; Schmitt, this vol-
ume). It is not possible, however, to re-investigate the findings from the latter
studies in the light of the theoretical considerations that informed the first two,
or vice versa. Nor is it possible to relate the findings from any of these studies
to an overall evaluation of the individual proficiency of the speakers that were
 Monika S. Schmid
tested. In other words, while interesting facts and discoveries are being made
about specific and local phenomena of language attrition, the global questions
remain unanswered and possibly unanswerable.
This problem is compounded by the fact that the majority of attrition
studies appear to fall into one of two categories. The first category comprises
those investigations which inductively proceed from a clearly defined theoreti-
cal framework, such as GB, minimalism, the Abstract Level model etc., setting
out to investigate one or more predictions made by this theory with respect
to language attrition. These studies usually have a local, microlinguistic fo-
cus, investigating one or two linguistic features, usually on no more than one
linguistic level (e.g. morphology). Sometimes, but by no means always, they
also investigate a small number of informants. They typically elicit their data
with one or two well-considered tests, such as a grammaticality or truth value
judgment.
In the second category are those studies that have chosen a deductive ap-
proach. Such studies typically use a broader range of elicitation techniques,
since an approach that does not depart from a clearly specified and theoreti-
cally informed hypothesis but from an observation of data obviously has to cast
its net much wider. In these cases, the researcher attempts to approach the data
with an open mind, investigating every potentially interesting phenomenon
and drawing conclusions from this.
What is, as yet, lacking are studies that attempt to amalgamate both ap-
proaches, combining data that have been elicited with a wide range of methods
and investigated from all possible angles with a theoretically rigid framework.1
Ideally, such an approach would furthermore cover a wide range of languages
and a large number of informants. Obviously, this is not a task that can be
achieved by one researcher. But it is the necessary next step if real progress is to
be made in language attrition research – that is, progress on more fundamental
and global issues.
. Diagnosis
In the light of these considerations, it seems crucial that we now turn ourselves
to the task of building a broader base on which language attrition research can
be conducted. This fundament will have to rest on four pillars:
1. strong international contacts within the research community
2. a broad and interdisciplinary theoretical perspective
A new blueprint for language attrition research 
3. methodological consistency (a common research framework)
4. the relevance of language attrition from the perspective of society
The first three of these were explicitly or implicitly addressed by the confer-
ence, the fourth was only addressed incidentally as it concerned various specific
studies (e.g. Jääskeläinen 2002; Kipp 2002; Schmid 2002).
. International contacts
It was pointed out in the introduction to this volume that the loss of the close
links, both personal and scientific, between researchers on language attrition
from the late 1980s onwards brought with it the loss of target-oriented im-
petus in research that the field had previously enjoyed. Since research in the
90’s was characterised by the solitary existence of the PhD student, many re-
searchers were not aware of each other and each other’s work. One example
of this is the case of the PhD theses of Gürel (2002, McGill, Canada) and
McCormack (2002, Durham, UK), who investigate similar linguistic features
within the same theoretical framework (GB) and with a comparable elicitation
technique in different attrition settings (L1 vs. L2) and on different languages
(Turkish/English vs. English/Japanese). Due to the lack of a clearly defined
attrition research community, both researchers were – until the Amsterdam
conference – unaware that related work was being conducted.
This problem is compounded by the fact that of the postgraduates who
completed a PhD on any area of L1 attrition so far, not one has gone on to con-
duct a further study on this topic. Senior expertise, combined with a thorough
overview of the field, is thus desperately hard to come by – which typically
makes the onset of any PhD project comparatively slow and onerous: most
graduates feel that it is up to them to re-invent the wheel each time.
The organisers of this conference thus felt the necessity to (re-)create a
strong international network which would facilitate co-operation, exchange of
ideas and research designs. It was also hoped that this network might in time
become a hub of information about different projects and a source of support
and advice for young researchers and PhD students. The most important step
taken in that direction, on the suggestion of Kees de Bot and under supervision
of some of the senior colleagues present at the conference, was the formation
of a graduate research group. This group of some 14 young and 4 senior re-
searchers from 10 countries has so far met twice in Amsterdam, and further
meetings are envisaged on a roughly yearly basis.
 Monika S. Schmid
Within this network, and hopefully within a larger, more informal con-
text, it is anticipated that research questions, hypotheses, methods, data and
results will inform one another from the research design stage onwards. The
first step towards this was the development of a common and crosslinguisti-
cally applicable research design (described in more detail below). This design
will be relatively easy to adapt to other research conditions, and will hopefully
make it possible to arrive at the point where individual studies can compare
their findings and thus cease to exist in a vacuum.
At least as important as these methodological aspects, however, is an open
and constructive debate between various theoretical models.
. Theoretical perspectives
Language attrition has enjoyed attention from various disciplines (see Köpke
& Schmid, this volume). It is easy to see why the topic should be so attractive
to linguists of every denomination: while full-fledged, ‘normal’, adult language
behaviour is the basis for most theoretical models, testing the hypotheses put
forward by various theories on data obtained from such speakers is tricky. This
is why speakers who do not conform to one or more of these criteria – acquirers
(normal or impaired), L2 speakers, or speakers with pathologically conditioned
language impairment – have so often been the focus of research.
Not only is attrition a different ‘condition’ from the aforementioned sit-
uations, allowing different conclusions to be drawn, but the actual testing
procedure may also be less complicated, since many tests are difficult to adapt
for children or impaired speakers. And, of course, attriters may also, for various
reasons, cooperate more easily in tests than children or aphasics.
The studies presented in this volume demonstrate that on the theoreti-
cal level, great strides have been made in the past decade. This is doubtlessly
and demonstrably the outcome of the wealth of PhD studies – and more than
half the articles contained here are indeed reporting on the findings from such
projects. A comparison of the present collection with earlier volumes shows
that the range and depth of theoretical models informing the study of language
attrition has indeed grown more sophisticated. An example of this develop-
ment is the case of attrition studies within the generative framework. While
in the 80s and early 90s these studies wrestled with general and rather broad
and vague notions such as competence and performance, the frameworks cur-
rently adapted to attrition research allow for the formulation of more precise
and testable hypotheses, and therefore more rigorously suggestive findings
A new blueprint for language attrition research 
(for a discussion of the development of generative-based attrition studies see
Weilemar 2003).
However, reviewing the literature on language attrition over the past years
leaves one with the feeling that a peak may have been reached in the progress
that has been achieved on the theoretical level. One reason for this may be
that many of the questions and hypotheses put forward on this front are inher-
ently comparative and crosslinguistic in nature. Consider the following three
research questions that were the point of departure for some of the studies
presented here:
1. Does the definition of binding domain in the L1 change under attrition?
(Gürel)
2. Are content morphemes more vulnerable to attrition than early system
morphemes, and are these in turn more vulnerable to attrition than late
system morphemes? (Gross)
3. Is there a relationship between ethnolinguistic vitality perceptions and first
language attrition? (Yağmur)
All of these questions concern phenomena that are highly dependent on char-
acteristics of individual languages, whether typological or sociolinguistic, and
it thus seems safe to assume that crosslinguistic investigations may be necessary
in order to find generalisable answers.
Furthermore, the explanatory value of various linguistic theories has often
been put to the test on the basis of language attrition data. What is lacking,
however, is an interdisciplinary approach that would assess the power of differ-
ent theoretical models to account for the phenomena observedin any one study
(Schmid 2002 made an attempt towards such an approach, but had to concede
that the limited nature of the data under investigation precluded anything but
the most tentative conclusions).
In my opinion, it is as much the monodisciplinary approach to theoretical
explanation that is responsible for the lack of any real progress within attrition
research over the past ten years as the fact that no study has taken a crosslinguis-
tic, comparative approach. Both are necessary, and both require co-operation,
exchange and openness between researchers.
. Methodological aspects: Developing a common research design
The third important impediment to progress in language attrition research
has been the variety of research designs and data analysis, compounded by
the fact that it is rare for any one study to employ more than one method of
 Monika S. Schmid
data elicitation. This inconsistency of test methods is clearly evident across the
literature on language attrition, including the present collection. In the intro-
duction to this volume, three types of data were identified: data elicited through
self-assessments, data elicited by formal tests targeting a particular linguistic
structure, and data elicited by inviting spontaneous speech production. While
it seems clear that an ideal study of attrition should combine all three kinds of
data, since each of them allows assessment of different factors which the others
cannot capture, the reality of attrition research appears very far from achieving
this goal: Of the studies included in the present collection, only two (Montrul
and Yağmur) include data of more than one type, and none include data from
all three.
The idea of a ‘blueprint for research’, which was first invoked by Ander-
sen (1982), seems even more compelling 20 years down the line. However, on
the basis of the work conducted in the meantime, we are in the position of
putting forward a suggestion for such a blueprint that is somewhat more de-
tailed and concrete, containing a number of specific tests and data elicitation
methods (see below, Section 2). These ideas were developed within the grad-
uate network and are currently being adapted to and pilot-tested in a variety
of languages. Having conducted the analyses, it will then be possible to pro-
vide detailed instructions pertaining to the adaptation and administering of
the tests as well as to their coding and analysis.
Scientists will then be invited to contribute the data and analyses obtained
by these methods to a common ‘pool’ of language attrition data, which will
be shared across the research network. In this way, it will be possible to obtain
results and answers that are far more detailed and reliable than has previously
been the case.
. Societal relevance
.. Multilingualism
The year 2001 was the European Year of Languages, and the EU Commission’s
stated objective in announcing this event was the attainment of “a European
Union where everybody speaks several languages. All those leaving compulsory
education should be able to communicate in at least two European languages in
addition to their mother tongue and then be able to build on that knowledge for
the rest of their lives.” (http://www.europa.eu.int/comm/education/policies/
lang/languages/actions/year2001_en.html, my emphasis) An examination of
the actions and outcomes of the work undertaken reveals an impressive body
of work – which, however, exclusively focuses on the languages spoken in ad-
A new blueprint for language attrition research 
dition to the mother tongue. In other words, all efforts have been going to the
teaching of second and foreign languages, while the preservation of the first
language and its transmission to the next generations in the case of migrants
seems to be deemed a non-issue. The point to be made here is that there is
a danger of neglecting – and thus losing – a great wealth of language profi-
ciency, the preservation of which would cost far less effort than the teaching of
an unknown language from scratch. It thus seems vital to investigate the pro-
cesses and factors underlying the preservation, attrition, and early acquisition
of heritage languages at this point, particularly since these questions will be of
growing interest with the increasing inter-European mobility expected over the
next decades.
However, the prevailing opinion in many European countries seems to be
that knowledge of the heritage language is something that is unnecessary at
best and detrimental to integration into the dominant society at worst. Lan-
guage is one of the most important markers of a ‘deviant’ identity of migrants
to those who subscribe to xenophobic ideas, and linguistic assimilation the
most often and loudly demanded act of integration on the part of an immi-
grant. The prevalent idea seems to be that linguistic assimilation works like an
organ transplant, where the defective and useless L1 is surgically removed and
the more useful dominant language is put in its place. In this vein, the Dutch
cabinet has recently announced plans for the cancellation of all funding for
teaching in heritage languages in public schools, since the focus is to be on the
teaching of Dutch and all across the EU, the opinion that immigrants should
make the switch to the dominant language even in their homes is being heard.
While proficiency in the dominant language is clearly an important asset
for anyone who is a part of a certain society, the idea underlying such de-
mands – that the sacrifice of the first language is a necessary step within this
integration process – is unsupported by linguistic research. It seems essential
to make a step towards re-interpreting multilingualism not as an indicator of
deficiency, but as an asset to any community. This is already the case for the
so-called elite bilingualism. The current situation is thus that, for example,
English- or German-speaking parents in the Netherlands consider their lan-
guage a valuable asset for their children, and make efforts to help them achieve
fully native-like proficiency – efforts which are encouraged by the host com-
munity. Turkish parents, on the other hand, will at every step be confronted
with the attitude that it is detrimental for their children to learn Turkish, that
this will impair their chances for assimilation and career opportunities, and
that education in the monolingual Dutch mode is really preferable.
 Monika S. Schmid
One consequence of this long-standing attitude towards non-prestige im-
migrant languages is that subsequent generations typically have a dramatically
reduced proficiency in their heritage languages. This, however, does not seem
to lead to the desired effect of full-scale integration into the host society. In re-
cent years, it has been observed that especially young speakers from the most
important migrant groups (e.g. Turkish and Moroccan Arabic in the Nether-
lands, Turkish and Polish in Germany, Arabic in France etc.), even though
clearly being dominant in the host language, are developing a ‘contact-like’
variety of this language as a marker of their identity – e.g. ‘Türkendeutsch’
(Androutsopoulos 2001). These varieties, sometimes stigmatised as ‘bad
Dutch’ or ‘bad German’, are far more detrimental to the integration of
these speakers into and acceptance by the host society than full-fledged
bilingualism might be.
Research into the preservation and loss of migrant languages has usually
focused on the second generation. However, the key to whether or not a lan-
guage is passed on, and to what degree – i.e. the key to large-scale bilingual
education which is in effect cost-neutral to the community – lies in the first
generation (see Py & Grosjean 2002:22).
In view of the goal of a multilingual European Union, where everyone is
able to communicate in at least two languages in addition to their native one,
it thus seems vital to
a. assess the factors that have a favourable effect on the maintenance of first
language proficiency in immigrants as opposed to the societal conditions
that will be conductive to first language loss/attrition in order to enable
governments and educators to help maintain proficiency in the first lan-
guage in addition to that on the foreign/second languages
b. assess the factors that have a favourable effect on the transmission of first
language proficiency to subsequent generations of immigrants in order to
enable governments and educators to help maintain proficiency in the first
language across immigrant generations.
.. Endangered languages
In a keynote presentation to the 25th annual meeting of the Deutsche
Gesellschaft für Sprachwissenschaft in 2002, Dieter Wunderlich identified as the
most pressing and important concern for linguistics in the 21st century the
quest to save or at least document endangered languages. This surely is a view
that many would share, and it is reflected in the fact that many funding bodies,
A new blueprint for language attrition research 
both in the governmental and in the business sector, have special programs for
research on endangered languages.
However, one of the most difficult methodological problems research on
endangered languages faces is the fact that if a speech community is dramati-
cally reduced in numbers, it is very difficult to assess to what degree the original
linguistic system is still intact, and to what degree it has eroded or changed due
to language contact. Since there typically is no written tradition and thus no
documented history of endangered languages, it may be all but impossible to
reconstruct the language in its pre-critical state.
If we assume the processes underlying language attrition and language
death to be similar (and all findings thus far indicate that they might well
be), language attrition can provide very valuable findings for language death
studies: The comparison of the linguistic system of the attriter with that of the
non-attrited monolingual speaker in the speech community of origin may al-
low us to discover the rules that govern the attritional process – and these, in
turn, may be invaluable for the reconstruction of dead or dying languages.
. Conclusion
In the introduction to this volume, we summed up the purposes that the
project which led to this volume was intended to achieve, namely:
1. To arrive at a clearer, and more explicit, picture of the theoretical models
that have been used to account for the findings in language attrition studies
than is usually presented
2. To achieve a better communication between researchers engaged in lan-
guage attrition studies, in order to make it unnecessary for everyone to
‘re-invent the wheel’ at the outset of their study
3. To achieve a level of consciousness about the benefits and disadvantages of
particular research designs and data elicitation methods
4. To begin forming an international network of attrition researchers
5. To achieve communication between established scientists and young re-
searchers
We are now in the position to formulate a number of action points to continue
progress in these directions:
1. Set up a research project designed to use data which it is possible to evaluate
from different theoretical angles; share multilingual and comparable data
across projects and approaches. This will hopefully make it possible to test
 Monika S. Schmid
the explanatory power of various theoretical frameworks, to show where
they can account for the phenomena witnessed in attrition across different
languages – and where they cannot.
2. Achieve international visibility of the language attrition network through
continued regular (yearly) graduate workshops, a follow-up conference,
a language attrition discussion list, as well as through the more informal
contacts each of us have.
3. Develop a unified language attrition research design, including tests that
will elicit the three different kinds of data. Develop clear guidelines for the
setting up, administering, analysing and interpreting tasks involved with
each of the tests.
The first two of these speak for themselves (and are being tackled even as I write
this). On the third, some progress has been made towards such a design, which
will be outlined below.
. Prescription: A common research design
The preliminary considerations involved in deciding on a variety of tasks to
elicit data to use in language attrition research suggest that the test battery
should consist of tests that a) tap into various aspects of language attitudes
and linguistic proficiency, b) are recognised for their validity (and, ideally, have
been standardised across the non-attrited population) and c) are economic in
their usage, that is to say, allow for data collection and analysis within a reason-
able amount of time and are short enough for the testing procedure to take no
more than two to three hours (in order to avoid informant fatigue).
On the basis of these deliberations, it has been considered reasonable to
include the following set of elicitation methods:
I. Introspection and self-assessments
a. Sociolinguistic questionnaire: This instrument is an indispensable part
of any study involving multilinguals, considering the large variation
encountered in this type of subjects (e.g. Grosjean 1998). The ques-
tionnaire that we propose to use is an amalgamation of earlier instru-
ments of this type used in language attrition research (e.g. Hulsen
2000). It contains questions on the subject’s background, language
behaviour and linguistic environment.
A new blueprint for language attrition research 
b. Can-Do Scales: This instrument provides an assessment of self-
perceived language proficiency in both L1 and L2. Self-assessments
have often been criticised, especially when used as the only measur-
ing instrument for any one study (Hulsen 2000; Schmid 2002, see also
Schmid & Köpke, this volume), since they often do not correlate with
actual proficiency revealed by formal tests. However, in other cases,
self-assessments did apparently correspond to actual language skills,
and one of the purposes of including them in the research design is to
investigate the validity of self-assessments in more detail in a broader
context. For the present research design, the ALTE can-do statements
of the Council of Europe’s Common European Framework of Refer-
ence for Language Learning and Teaching (www.alte.org/can_do) are
available as a standardised tool. These statements are subdivided into
different levels of everyday activity within the four domains of listen-
ing, speaking, reading and writing.
Since the statements were primarily devised with a view to L2 acqui-
sition, they start at a relatively low level of proficiency. Since we do
not anticipate L1 attrition among adults to ever reach such dramatic
proportions (deterioration to beginner level never having been docu-
mented in such cases), the basic levels of the statements (A1-A2) have
been removed from the scales.
c. Matched guise experiment: This technique focuses on language as a
social identity marker. The participant is asked to listen to a passage
of text read by several (fully native-like bilingual) speakers, and to
score these with respect to fifteen character traits on a 7-point Lik-
ert scale (see Lambert et al. 1960). The participant is unaware that the
speaker(s) recording the text in the different languages are, in fact, the
same person. This task is commonly used to detect differences in at-
titudes towards the various languages or varieties of a multilingual or
multilectal speaker. Since attitudinal factors have often been evoked,
but seldom rigidly demonstrated, in language attrition studies, this test
seemed an appropriate measure.
II. Formal elicitation tasks
a. C-test: The first test in this battery has been designed as a broad mea-
sure of overall language proficiency. It is based on earlier versions of the
cloze test2
and consists of 5 or 6 small texts (around 70 words) in which
the second half of every second word has been removed, usually start-
ing with the second sentence (for a detailed description of the C-test
 Monika S. Schmid
cf. Grotjahn 1992). The informant’s task is to complete the missing
parts. This requires the speaker to make full use of the natural redun-
dancy of a text, which makes it possible to measure not only relatively
low level skills (command of vocabulary, grammar, idioms) but also
higher order skills such as awareness of intersentential relationships,
global reading, etc. Further advantages of the C-test are that it is based
on authentic material and that it is relatively easy to use and to score. It
has been extensively studied and found to be a highly valid and reliable
predictor of overall proficiency.3
b. Verbal fluency task: This task is aimed at tapping specifically into lex-
ical retrieval, which has been recognised to be one of the most im-
portant and earliest consequences of first language loss (e.g. Köpke
1999). The informant is required to produce as many words of a certain
type as possible within a period of 60 seconds. The task may focus on
semantic aspects of lexical retrieval by eliciting words of a specific se-
mantic category (animals, vegetables, etc.) or on phonological aspects
focussing on words starting with the same letter/sound. The fluency
task is known to be highly reliable even in case of light retrieval diffi-
culties and has the advantage of requiring less material and time than
other tests detecting lexical retrieval difficulties, such as e.g. picture
naming tasks.
c. Grammaticality judgments: Despite some criticism and drawbacks,
this test has been recognised as one of the best means to investigate spe-
cific morpho-syntactic features (see Altenberg & Vago, this volume).
III. Spontaneous speech
a. The Chaplin film retelling task: This instrument to elicit spontaneous
speech has been developed within the ESF (European Science Foun-
dation) network on learner languages (for a detailed description see
Perdue 1993). It is recognised to produce relatively free speech data
which are still easier to compare across informants than data elicited
by informal conversation. Despite the considerable amount of work
necessary to transcribe and analyse spontaneous speech data, this
nevertheless remains the only means of getting an overall impres-
sion of the informant’s real language proficiency. Spontaneous speech
data allow not only to look for problematic areas that have not yet
been detected, they also provide the researcher with proficiency data,
showing what the immigrant is still able to do in his language via
A new blueprint for language attrition research 
type/token, stylistic analysis, overall morphosyntactic complexity etc.
(see Schmid, forthc.).
b. Semi-structured interview: At the end of the testing procedure, the
researcher will engage the informant in an (apparently) informal con-
versation, inviting opinions on the testing procedures, but also on
language skills etc. This conversation will be guided by a catalogue of
questions, which are posed in a casual way to avoid the impression that
this interview is still part of the testing procedure.
We hope that the research design outlined here will make it possible to give a
more detailed and more suggestive picture of language attrition in process. For
each immigrant community, it will be possible to determine rates of language
loss on various levels of language and communication in comparison with each
of the other languages investigated within the network. That the results are
comparable is ensured by the setup, which will evaluate findings not directly
across languages but in relation to the native-speaker control group scores.
To illustrate this last point: one of the research instruments, the film-
retelling task, will attempt to evaluate the extent of loss in the lexicon on the
basis of type-token frequencies (among other measurements). Type-token fre-
quencies assess how many different lexical items appear in a given stretch of
linguistic data, i.e. how often each word is used on average. A larger number
of different words will indicate a larger mental lexicon and manifest itself in
a lower type-token-frequency score, since more words are present and conse-
quently, each different word is used less often. However, the average scores of
proficient native speakers will vary greatly across languages, since a highly in-
flecting language, like German (or Arabic), will have more bound morphemes
(inflectional endings, infixes etc.) and thus a lower average type-token fre-
quency than a language like English which relies on grammatical words like
prepositions etc. to make the distinctions that the former might make through,
for example, case marking. Since grammatical words are typically very high fre-
quency, this will result in different overall type-token scores for each language.
In a crosslinguistic investigation of language loss, it is therefore necessary to
calculate these scores not in absolute figures, but in percentages of the average
native speaker score.
This research design is commonly being developed, adapted, tested and
applied for a number of languages (including Dutch, English, German, Russian
and Spanish). We will be happy to make it available to anyone who wishes to
apply it, assist with the adaptation to other languages where such help is needed
and provide support for the data analysis.
 Monika S. Schmid
. Conclusion
A word-count on the manuscript for this volume, which at the time of writ-
ing is as good as ready to go to the publishers, reveals that it is at present just
under 125,000 words. I should say that that was enough, and will close with a
quotation from Goethe’s Faust:
Der Worte sind genug gewechselt,
Lasst mich auch endlich Taten sehn!
Indes Ihr Komplimente drechselt,
Kann etwas Nützliches geschehn.
(Enough words have been exchanged,
now let us proceed to action!
While you fiddle around constructing compliments
useful things could be done.)
Notes
I would like to thank Barbara Köpke and Chris McCully for their helpful comments on
earlier versions of this article.
. There are some notable exceptions to this point within sociolinguistic and psycholinguis-
tic frameworks, e.g. Hulsen 2000, Köpke 1999 and Yağmur 1997.
. A comparison between the C-test and the cloze-test shows that the C-test is more reliable
with advanced speakers (which immigrant L1 speakers most likely are) whereas the cloze-
test is more reliable with lower level speakers.
. It has to be noted that the C-test, as well as some other tests included in this category, may
be a somewhat problematic instrument in a test battery that aims to achieve crosslinguistic
validity: Tests that rely extensively and exclusively on written material cannot be adapted to
languages that do not have a writing system. If and when the network is expanded to include
languages for which this is the case, solutions to this problem will have to be found.
References
Andersen, R. W. (1982). “Determining the linguistic attributes of language attrition”. In
R. D. Lambert & B. F. Freed (Eds.), The Loss of Language Skills (pp. 83–118). Rowley,
MA: Newbury House.
Androutsopoulos, J. (2001). “Ultra korregd Alder! Zur medialen Stilisierung und Aneignung
von ‘Türkendeutsch’.” Deutsche-Sprache, 29 (4), 321–339.
A new blueprint for language attrition research 
Grosjean, F. (1998). “Studying bilinguals: Methodological and conceptual issues”.
Bilingualism: Language and Cognition, 1, 131–149.
Grotjahn, R. (Ed.). (1992). Der C-Test. Theoretische Grundlagen und praktische Anwen-
dungen. Band 1. Bochum: Universitätsverlag Dr. N. Brockmeyer.
Gürel, A. (2002). Linguistic Characteristics of Second Language Acquisition and First Language
Attrition: Turkish overt versus null pronouns. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, McGill
University Montréal.
Hulsen, M. (2000). Language Loss and Language Processing. Three generations of Dutch
migrants in New Zealand. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Katholike Universiteit
Nijmegen.
Jääskeläinen, K. (2002). “Language attrition and language prejudices”. Paper presented at
the International Conference on First Language Attrition, Amsterdam Aug. 2002.
Kipp, S. (2002). “Social networks, individual biography and individual difference – their
impact on language use 30 years on”. Paper presented at the International Conference on
First Language Attrition, Amsterdam Aug. 2002.
Köpke, B. (1999). L’attrition de la première langue chez le bilingue tardif: Implications
pour l’étude psycholinguistique du bilinguisme. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation,
Université de Toulouse-Le Mirail.
Lambert, W. E., Hodgson, R. C., Gardner, R. C., & Fillenbaum, S. (1960). “Evaluational
reactions to spoken language”. Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology, 60, 44–51.
McCormack, B. (2001). The Maintenance and Loss of Reflexive Anaphors in L2 English.
Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, University of Durham, UK.
Perdue, C. (1993). Adult Language Acquisition: Cross-linguistic perspectives. Cambridge: CUP.
Py, B., & Grosjean, F. (2002). “Compétence bilingue: approche expérimentale”. La notion de
compétence en langue. Notions en questions, 6, 19–27.
Schmid, M. S. (2002). First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance: The case of German
Jews in Anglophone countries. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Schmid, M. S. (Forthcoming). “Measuring first language attrition in free speech: What’s in
a mistake?”. International Journal of Bilingualism.
Weilemar, L. (2003). Generative Theory in Language Attrition Research: A critical evaluation.
Unpublished MA Thesis, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam.
Yağmur, K. (1997). First language Attrition among Turkish Speakers in Sydney. Tilburg:
Tilburg University Press.
Author index
A
Ager 180
Ahmed 62
Aksu-Koç 148
Alanen 118
Allen 109
Altenberg 10, 17, 18, 25, 26, 31, 32,
105, 106, 121, 200, 283, 319, 323,
328, 330–332, 360
Ammerlaan 7, 10, 12, 20–23, 26, 34,
35, 137, 139, 140, 147, 319, 328,
330–333
Andersen 3, 22, 135–138, 143,
149–151, 161, 193, 195, 275, 282,
285, 326, 327, 354
Anderson 319, 329, 330, 332
Andersson 50
Andrews 48, 319, 328, 330–332
Androutsopoulos 356
Appel 67, 78, 178
Argenti 208
Armon Lotem 319, 328, 330, 332
Aronoff 9, 17, 283, 321, 328,
330–332
Arthur 106
As 34
Au 208
Auer 168
Avermaet 7
B
Bader 108, 120
Bard 116, 121
Barzilay 21, 26, 148, 185, 284, 321,
328, 331, 332
Bassano 120
Basser 208
Belcher 81, 84
Ben-Rafael 165, 171, 181, 182, 185,
319, 328, 330, 332, 333
Beniak 178, 302
Berko-Gleason 61, 189, 326, 327
Berman 10, 148, 324, 329–332
Berry 109, 111
Besemeres 81, 101
Bettoni 4, 17, 147, 319, 328,
330–332
Bever 108, 109
Bialystok 109
Birdsong 106, 110, 111, 115–117,
119, 121–123
Blackwell 114, 120, 123
Blanc 168
Blanche-Benveniste 180
Bley-Vroman 121
Bock 287
Bode 9, 13, 26, 319, 328, 330–332
Bolonyai 7, 17, 285, 302, 319, 328,
330–332
Bonch-Bruevich 7
Bond 81
Bot 4, 5, 7–9, 12, 14, 16, 17, 19, 22,
25, 26, 31, 33, 50, 61, 82, 92, 98,
101, 105, 112, 114, 118, 119, 122,
134, 136, 138, 147, 189, 191, 192,
194, 198, 203, 231, 237, 240, 254,
281, 285, 319, 321, 323, 326, 328,
330–332, 351
Bouba 12, 18, 259, 266
Bourhis 136, 149
Boyd 50
Bradac 122
 Author index
Brewer Bomar 16, 319, 329–331
Brons-Albert 195, 319, 328, 330–332
Broselow 255
Brown 12, 319, 328, 330, 332, 333
Bruhn-Garavito 233
Buren 17, 18, 21, 61, 193, 244, 245,
276, 327
C
Cairns 106, 111, 116, 117, 121, 124
Canagarajah 55
Caplan 25
Caramazza 20
Chan 266, 274
Chantefort 178
Chaudron 106, 107, 110, 115, 120
Chen 244
Chernitsky 53
Choi 218
Chomsky 107, 226, 227, 243, 244,
246, 259, 265
Clahsen 18, 26
Clark 3, 25, 137, 138, 326
Clyne 12, 50, 147, 168, 189, 191,
198, 203, 326, 328, 330, 332
Cohen 4, 76, 148, 324, 326, 329, 330,
332
Cole 65
Comrie 310
Connor 55, 81, 84
Cook 47, 48, 87, 260
Coughlan 68
Coveney 181
Cowan 113
Cowart 106, 109, 113, 117–119,
122–124
Crain 268
Curtiss 208
Cuza 18, 27
D
Dörnyei 85, 88, 91, 102
Dal Negro 27, 141, 142
Damasio 289
De Guerrero 62, 78
De Kadt 27, 141, 142
Dehaene 208
Dekydtspotter 233
Dewaele 12, 31, 81, 86, 88, 89
Digman 90
Donato 62
Dorian 26, 168, 178, 293
Dufour 89
Dugas 26, 324, 329, 333
Dupoux 208, 217
Durkin 110
Dussias 21, 31
E
Eckman 108, 237, 240
Edwards 136
Eefting 52
Eichen 208
Ellis 113, 114, 117, 120–122
Elordui 27, 141, 142
Els 3, 4, 8, 9, 33, 138, 326
Enç 239
Engeström 65
Ervin-Tripp 52
Eysenck 90
F
Faerch 70
Fase 7, 136, 189
Ferguson 136
Fernández 118, 124
Ferrand 218
Field 168
Filiaci 259
Finer 255
Flege 52
Flynn 115
Frawley 62, 67, 71, 73, 74, 78
Freed 2–4, 33, 135, 326
Frei 180
Frenck-Mestre 11
Fromm 21
Fujita 324, 329, 331, 332
Fuller 285
Author index 
G
Gürel 12, 17, 18, 23, 25, 26, 31–33,
225, 235, 239, 245, 246, 259, 260,
320, 329–333, 349, 351, 353
Gadet 180, 181
Garcia 49, 51
Gardner 12, 324, 326, 329–333
Gass 107
George 229, 250
Giesbers 191, 193, 320, 328,
330–332
Giles 13, 136
Ginsberg 3, 138, 326
Giorgi 265
Gommans 191, 192, 203, 231, 328,
331, 332
Gonzalez-Reigosa 81
Gonzo 135, 136, 139, 161
Goodglass 26
Gopnik 218
Goral 8, 26, 34
Goss 113
Grabois 9, 13, 20, 53
Grainger 20
Green 22, 23, 87, 240
Greenberg 106
Greidanus 114
Grosjean 17, 21, 25, 27, 48, 105, 320,
329–333, 356, 358
Gross 17, 31, 32, 281, 289, 293, 301,
320, 328, 330–332, 349, 353
Grotjahn 360
H
Haarmann 136
Hagège 166, 178
Hagen 25, 285, 326
Hakuta 20, 25, 320, 329, 331–333
Hall 26
Hamers 168
Han 107, 118, 120, 121
Hansen 16, 61, 244, 324, 326, 329,
331–333
Harley 19, 20
Harres 147
Harris 83, 84, 101, 102
Hatasa 113
Haugen 136, 193, 195, 198, 293
Hawkins 266, 274
Hedgcock 16, 61, 324, 329, 331, 332
Heycock 259
Hickerson 52
Hiller-Foti 4, 165, 320, 328, 330–332
Hiramatsu 111
Hirose 217
Hirvonen 27, 320, 328, 330, 333
Hlavac 285, 293
Hout 30, 31, 87, 139, 189, 326
Hughes 194
Hulk 275
Huls 320, 329, 330, 332
Hulsen 7, 13, 14, 21–23, 25, 26, 61,
82, 88, 92, 98, 137, 139, 320, 328,
330, 331, 333, 358, 359, 362
Hupet 282
Håkansson 19, 50, 61, 300, 320, 327,
329–331, 333
I
Isurin 9, 13, 17, 26, 320, 328, 331,
333
J
Jääskeläinen 30, 31, 351
Jacobson 168
Jake 17, 32, 286, 300–302
Jakobson 34, 326
Jarvis 48, 50, 52, 53, 320, 328,
330–333
Jaspaert 7, 10, 12, 14, 20, 26, 87, 115,
121, 136, 139, 147, 189–192, 194,
196, 199, 321, 322, 326, 328,
330–333
Javier 81
Jordan 26
Jordens 16, 25, 30, 31, 116, 231, 321,
328, 330, 331, 333
Jun 208
 Author index
K
Köpke 1, 11–14, 17, 18, 20–23, 25,
26, 34, 105, 106, 120, 122,
134–137, 141, 165, 166, 168, 225,
231, 259, 260, 321, 326, 328,
330–332, 352, 359, 360, 362
Kail 120
Kakehi 217
Kanno 229, 232
Kaplan 26
Kasper 70, 71
Kaufman 7, 9, 17, 19, 141, 142, 283,
300, 321, 327, 328, 330–332
Kawasaki 233
Keijzer 16, 31, 33
Kellerman 71, 106, 116
Kemper 282
King 178
Kinginger 101
Kipp 14, 30, 351
Klatter-Folmer 7, 327
Klein 115, 121, 322, 323
Knightly 208
Knowlson 82
Knowlton 289
Kornfilt 229, 239
Krashen 110
Kravin 276, 321, 328, 331–333
Kroll 89
Kroon 4, 7, 9, 10, 12, 14, 20, 26, 33,
34, 87, 136, 139, 189–192, 194,
196, 199, 321, 322, 326–328,
330–333
Kuhberg 10, 16, 324, 329–332
Kunst-Wilson 218
Kurbel 295
Kynette 282
L
Lüdi 168
Lachman 11
Lai 81
Lakshmanan 117
Lambert 2–4, 12, 33, 135, 189, 190,
327, 359
Lantolf 66, 67, 71, 73, 74, 78
Lasnik 227, 246
Latomaa 54
Laufer 51, 321, 329–333
LeBihan 208
Leeman Bouix 178
Leisiö 17, 321, 329, 331, 332
Lenneberg 20, 208
Leont’ev 62, 64, 65
Levelt 286, 287, 295, 301
Levin 301
Linden 114
Linebarger 114
Long 19
M
Mägiste 11
Macevichius 27, 141, 142
Maher 17, 327
Major 17, 22, 52, 259, 321, 328, 330,
331, 333
Manzini 226, 230, 243
Marcos 81
Martin 98
Martineau 178
Martohardjono 115, 121, 124
Matos 218
Mayberry 208
Mayer 148, 167
McCafferty 62, 78
McCormack 18, 25, 32, 226, 243,
249, 324, 329, 331, 332, 349, 351
McCreary 68
McDaniel 111, 116, 117
McLaughlin 259
Mehler 208, 217
Meng 108, 120
Merino 300
Miceli 20
Michael 89
Milroy 14
Minkowski 12
Mistler-Lachman 11
Mond 320
Montalbetti 229
Author index 
Montrul 9, 19, 26, 30, 32, 259–261,
265, 267, 274–277, 321, 329–333,
354
Moore 3, 327
Moreau 181
Mori 54, 55
Morton 20
Mougeon 178, 302
Müller 275
Munnich 112, 114
Münstermann 25
Murphy 122
Musen 289
Muysken 18, 30, 31, 178, 196, 323
Myers-Scotton 168, 283, 286–288,
293, 300–302, 312
N
Nagata 122
Nespoulous 34, 120, 122
New 13, 105, 184, 218
Newport 208
Nicoladis 9, 13, 20
Novakovich 82–84, 101
O
Obler 61, 331
Odlin 196, 198, 201
Oh 208
Olshtain 10, 16, 20, 21, 26, 61, 148,
185, 284, 321, 325, 328–332
Otheguy 49, 51
Oxford 3, 137, 138, 327
Özsoy 239
Öztürk 239
P
Pallier 10, 14, 20, 32, 207, 208, 217,
218
Pan 189, 327
Paolillo 121
Paradis 23, 34, 109–112
Pater 233
Pavlenko 12, 17, 31, 33, 47, 48, 51,
53, 54, 56, 81, 88, 100–102, 165,
168, 226, 260, 284, 322, 327, 328,
330–332
Pelc 10, 11, 17, 18, 20, 25, 31, 34,
322, 328, 330–332
Penke 25, 26
Perdue 360
Pergnier 168
Pfaff 300
Pianesi 265
Pinker 107
Platzack 19, 61, 327
Polinsky 25, 27, 105, 106, 259–261,
300, 322, 328, 330, 332, 333
Poplack 168
Posner 181
Poulisse 71
Prévost 233
Pritchet 117
Progovac 255
Py 4, 17, 21, 25, 50, 105, 320, 322,
329–333, 356
R
Raidt 17, 322, 328, 330, 331, 333
Rappaport 301
Reber 109
Rice 113
Richards 135
Rochon 25
Roediger 115
Romaine 193, 302
Rossing 191, 192, 203, 231, 319, 328,
331, 332
S
Söter 81, 82, 100
Salmons 283
Saltarelli 135, 136, 139, 161
Sanders 181
Schütze 106, 115–117, 119, 122, 123
Schachter 105, 107, 117, 118, 121
Schelstraete 282
Schlyter 275, 276
 Author index
Schmid 1, 12–18, 23, 27, 28, 31, 34,
50, 61, 82, 86, 105, 106, 124,
134–137, 141, 165, 166, 168, 178,
192, 193, 195, 198–202, 204, 225,
231, 259, 281, 283, 285, 293, 317,
322, 326, 328, 330–333, 349,
351–353, 359, 361
Schmitt 10, 16, 17, 31, 32, 299, 300,
302, 322, 328, 330–332, 349
Schoenmakers-Klein Gunnewiek 14,
26, 27
Scholes 116
Seidenberg 109
Seliger 5, 10, 15, 17, 18, 21, 25, 34,
50, 105, 106, 121, 165, 226, 276,
283, 284, 323, 327, 328, 330–333
Shapard 82–84, 101
Sharwood Smith 4, 17, 18, 21, 22,
61, 105, 106, 111, 193, 244, 245,
276, 284, 323, 327, 328, 330–333
Shimron 53
Silva-Corvalán 259, 323, 329–332
Slabakova 261, 265, 267, 274–277
Slobin 148–150, 159, 161, 303
Smith 4, 17, 18, 21, 22, 61, 105, 106,
111, 124, 134, 193, 244, 245, 276,
284, 323, 327, 328, 330–333
Smits 27, 141, 142
Snyder 118
Soesman 12, 189, 191, 323, 328, 330,
331, 333
Sorace 18, 19, 61, 112, 117, 118, 121,
122, 259, 266, 275
Squire 289
Stanovich 110
Stavans 82–84, 102
Strating 7, 137, 139
Stromswold 289
Supalla 208
T
Tao 53
Tarone 71, 123
Taylor 136
Tees 207, 208
Teranishi 117
Thomas 226, 254, 256
Thompson 53, 327
Thornton 268
Timberlake 310
Tokowicz 89
Tomioka 114
Toribio 61, 323, 329–333
Trapman 231
Tsimpli 260
Turian 10, 323, 328, 331, 332
U
Ullman 289
Ushakova 62
V
Vago 5, 10, 17, 31, 33, 34, 50, 105,
283, 323, 327, 328, 330, 332, 360
Valdés 260
Valois 302
Vendler 262
Vergnaud 311
Verkaik 76
Vihman 259
Vygotsky 62, 63, 65–67
W
Waas 11, 13, 21, 26, 50, 61, 88, 140,
147, 165, 166, 191, 201, 323, 328,
331, 333
Walter 178, 180
Walters 134
Wang 19, 20
Waters 25
Wei 293
Weilemar 31, 327, 331, 353
Weinreich 195
Weltens 4, 5, 8, 16, 33, 138, 194, 254,
325, 326, 329, 331–333
Werker 207, 208
Wexler 226, 230, 243
White 226, 233, 237, 240, 266
Wijst 76
Author index 
Williams 53
Willis 116
Wilson 134
Winter 109
Wulfeck 114, 121
Y
Yaǧmur 27
Yamamoto 98
Yip 107, 117
Yoshitomi 61, 244, 325, 327,
329–333
Z
Zajonc 218
Subject index
4-M model(s) 32
A
Access 11, 21, 67, 69, 78, 88, 105,
107, 115, 120, 144, 196, 219, 245,
302, 303, 319, 327
Activation 21–23, 81, 87, 209, 211
Adoptees 32, 208–214, 216, 217, 219
Agrammatism 25
Anger 85, 86, 89–91, 93–95, 97,
99–101
Aphasia 5, 16, 25, 34, 121, 134, 317,
326
Arabic 3, 320, 328, 356, 361
Aspect 261, 262, 265, 267, 275, 276
Attitude 12–14, 107, 319, 355, 356
B
Binding 32, 226–230, 233, 237, 239,
243–245, 247, 248, 250, 254–256,
320, 324, 349, 353
Borrowing 32, 47–50, 61, 190, 193,
195, 196, 198, 200, 293, 322
Brain imaging 209
Brain plasticity 207, 219, 327
C
Case 283, 285, 287, 292, 302, 308,
309–315
Case-marking 200, 229, 283, 285,
301, 313, 361
case study/case studies 5, 140, 193,
261, 320
Children 9, 10, 13, 19, 20, 26, 32, 34,
62, 66, 68, 69, 78, 83, 111–114,
116, 135, 141, 150, 195, 208, 212,
218, 259, 275, 299, 300, 303–307,
324, 326, 352, 355
Chinese 3, 212
CI 47, 48, 52, 53
CLI 17, 18
Cloze test 114, 231, 332
Codeswitching 29, 32, 168, 184, 288,
293, 294, 299, 300, 304–307,
313–315
Competence 9, 11, 16, 21–23, 48, 54,
55, 61, 87, 89, 106–109, 112, 116,
118, 120, 124, 136, 142, 161, 166,
167, 189–194, 197, 204, 225, 226,
230, 239, 245, 260, 261, 266, 276,
277, 281, 323, 325, 327, 332, 352
Conceptual attrition 56
Contact 12, 14, 17, 19, 20, 22, 23, 30,
32, 134–136, 139, 148–150, 155,
159, 161, 165, 166, 168, 179–185,
191–193, 195, 197, 198, 203, 207,
212, 231, 237, 239, 240, 266, 276,
281, 283, 287, 289, 290, 293, 294,
299, 313, 319–321, 323, 326, 357
Convergence 47, 52–54, 114, 115,
181, 266, 285, 287, 294, 299, 300,
302, 305–307, 309, 313–315, 320
Critical period 19, 20, 207, 208, 327
Crosslinguistic influence 17, 47, 190,
201, 204, 283, 327
D
Dementia 25
Dutch 4, 13, 17, 35, 85, 89, 142, 147,
191, 192, 293, 319–329, 355, 356,
361
 Subject index
E
Editing tests 26
Education level 10, 11, 23, 34, 86
Emotion 21, 51, 81, 84, 86, 88, 93,
100, 176
English 12, 18, 22, 32, 48–56, 68, 75,
78, 81–85, 89, 97–99, 112–114,
117, 141, 142, 144–147, 150, 151,
156, 159, 193, 195–202, 217,
225–227, 229–234, 237–240, 243,
246–248, 250, 251, 254–256,
262–266, 273, 283–285, 287–289,
291, 293, 300, 302–307, 309–315,
319–325, 328, 329, 351, 361
Ethnolinguistic vitality (EVT) 13,
134, 146–149, 154, 323, 353
Explicit knowledge 23, 109–114,
116, 120, 124
Explicit memory 218
F
Feelings 49, 55, 56, 85, 86, 90,
92–94, 100, 101, 176, 183, 184
Film retelling 360
Finnish 50, 52, 54, 55, 85, 212,
320–322, 327–329
fMRI 208, 210, 211, 219
free speech 69, 332, 360
French 12, 32, 82, 85, 89, 97–99,
165–175, 177–184, 208–219,
319–325, 328, 329
G
Garden-path sentences 107
German 13, 32, 81, 85, 97, 98, 140,
142, 147, 192, 193, 198–202,
282–285, 287–291, 295, 319–324,
328, 329, 356, 361
Grammatical norms 109
Grammaticality 11, 12, 22, 28, 31,
52, 105–124, 229, 246, 248, 251,
261, 281, 283, 295, 332, 350, 360
Grammaticality judgment 11, 12,
105–115, 117–124, 248, 251, 283
Greek 11, 18, 85, 98, 212, 322, 328
H
Hebrew 51, 53, 166, 168–172, 174,
175, 177–184, 212, 319, 321,
323–325, 327–329
Heritage speakers 32, 260, 261,
266–269, 271–277
I
Immigration length 12
Implicit knowledge 109–113, 120,
124, 210
Implicit memory 34, 109, 110, 115,
211, 218
Incomplete learning 32
Inhibition 22, 23
Inner speech 66, 85, 86, 90, 95,
99–101
Input 10, 17, 18, 61, 114, 226, 239,
244, 247, 255, 260, 262, 275, 290,
322
Instructions 117, 121–123, 211, 354
Inter-subject variability 117, 118
Interlanguage 15, 17, 74, 123, 166,
183, 201, 256, 266, 294, 326, 331
Interview task 112, 114
Intra-subject variability 118
Italian 10, 18, 85, 97, 99, 147,
319–321, 328
J
Japanese 3, 18, 32, 54, 68, 69, 78, 85,
209, 211, 212, 217, 243, 246–248,
250, 252, 254–256, 324–326, 329,
351
K
Korean 32, 208–219
L
L2 influence 18, 19, 31, 47, 48,
53–55, 168, 201, 275, 322, 327
Subject index 
Language change 17, 68, 109, 134,
139, 144, 199, 231, 259, 283, 285,
313, 322
Language death 259, 293, 317, 357
Language identification 209
Language shift 3–5, 9, 17, 134–136,
160, 161, 284, 293, 317
Language Skills Attrition Project 3,
326
Lexical borrowing 47–50, 190, 193,
195, 200
Lexical retrieval 21–23, 26, 34, 49,
161, 282, 284, 325, 360
Linguistic framing 53
Linguistic knowledge 109, 116, 118
Literacy 11, 20, 55, 275, 324
Loan translation 48
Longitudinal research design 190
LSAP 3, 326
M
Marathi 2
Memory 2, 16, 21, 34, 62, 101,
109–111, 115, 120, 122, 155–157,
171, 173, 211, 218, 289, 320
Mental calculation 85, 86, 90, 91, 95,
97, 100
Metalinguistic 11, 49, 52–54, 73, 88,
110–112, 116, 119, 123
Metalinguistic task 110, 111
Migrants 4, 8, 148, 152, 191, 322,
355
Minimalism 19, 327, 350
Minorities 4, 135
Minority language(s) 5, 7, 25, 33,
136, 260, 317, 323, 326
Morphological interference 200, 201
Multicompetence 48
N
Number recognition 211
O
Object-regulated 66, 67
Object-regulation 68, 69
On-line judgment task 114
On-line processing 108, 109, 113,
120, 235, 261
Other-regulated 67, 69
Other-regulation 67, 68, 73
P
Parsing 116, 117
Performance 10, 11, 13, 21, 22,
25–27, 32, 34, 61, 89, 101,
106–111, 115, 120, 123, 159, 165,
204, 209, 210, 226, 237, 245, 252,
254, 261, 271–274, 327, 352
Phonetic perception 211
Phonology 20, 52–54, 87, 106, 118,
119, 166, 207, 208, 211, 217, 295,
320, 325, 330
Phonotactics 211, 217
Picture naming 11, 14, 21, 333, 360
Plasticity 207, 208, 219, 327
Plural 146, 199–201, 285, 287, 293
Point(s) of reference 8, 87, 133, 136,
147, 183, 189, 191, 192, 194, 326,
327
Portuguese 68, 85, 321–324, 328,
329
Preferentiality 117
Prescriptive 112, 113, 116, 122, 263,
282
Preterit 262, 277, 278
Pro-drop 226, 227, 229, 239, 240,
303, 313
Production task 116, 148, 154–158,
161
Proficiency 1–3, 5, 7, 13, 29, 84, 86,
89, 91, 92, 99, 101, 102, 113, 123,
136, 138, 139, 141, 142, 148, 151,
159, 189, 190, 197, 204, 225, 231,
238, 247, 260, 261, 267, 276, 277,
319–322, 324, 325, 349, 355, 356,
358–360
Pronominals 226, 227, 230, 237
Psychophysics 119
Puberty 9, 15, 20, 34, 208, 260, 276
 Subject index
R
Rating scales 122
Reduction 17, 34, 94, 150, 151, 156,
177, 184, 199, 283, 284, 299, 300,
306–309, 312–315, 325
Regression 15, 16, 19, 23, 30, 121,
244, 245, 254–256, 319, 321, 324,
326, 327, 331
Relative clauses 147, 148, 150, 155,
156, 159–161
Repetition 73, 114, 157
Repetition task 114
Response bias 121
Restructuring 21, 47, 50–52, 54, 74,
225, 226, 239, 284, 322, 323
Retraining 211, 216
Russian 32, 48–54, 56, 85, 247, 255,
299–315, 319–323, 328, 361
S
Sanskrit 2
Self-assessments 25, 325, 354, 358,
359
Self-regulation 67–71, 73–75, 77
Self-regulatory strategies 69, 71–73
Self-report data 13, 14
Self-reported proficiency 92, 99, 101
Semantic extension 51
Semantic narrowing 51, 52
Semantic transfer 193, 198–200
Sensitive period 20, 23
Sentence generation 11, 22
Shift 3–5, 9, 17, 26, 47, 53, 69, 98,
133–136, 160, 161, 165, 263, 266,
284, 293, 317, 322, 326
Simplification 15–18, 24, 180, 184,
199, 285, 299, 300, 306–309,
312–314, 323, 331
Social networks 30
Sociocultural theory 31, 61, 62, 66,
67, 77
Spanish 2, 18, 32, 49, 53, 74, 78,
81–83, 85, 97, 99, 102, 178, 254,
259–267, 273, 275, 277, 300,
319–325, 328, 329, 361
Speech fragment detection 209
Spontaneous speech 22, 27, 148,
149, 160, 327, 332, 354, 360
Strategic loanwords 195, 197
Subject characteristics 122
Swearing 85, 86, 94, 101
Swedish 85, 209, 320, 329
Syntactic interferences 193, 195,
201, 202
T
Tamil 55
Task characteristics 122
Tense 167, 179, 180, 247, 261–263,
265, 266, 268, 270, 271, 275, 276,
300, 323, 325
Timed grammaticality judgment task
108, 120
Transfer 17, 18, 32, 55, 63, 161, 190,
193, 198–200, 226, 237, 239, 244,
247, 250, 255, 256, 260, 266, 324
Translation equivalents 50, 51, 54
Translation task 114, 141, 142
Trauma 13, 134
Truth-value judgments 26, 332
Turkish 13, 18, 32, 133, 139,
142–153, 155, 156, 158–161, 212,
225–227, 229–234, 237, 239, 240,
320, 323, 324, 329, 351, 355, 356
U
UG 18, 32, 226, 245, 248, 250, 256,
331
Ungrammaticality 108, 109, 116,
122
Universal grammar 15, 18, 22, 30,
32, 61, 226, 245, 260, 265
Untimed grammaticality judgment
tasks 120
Urdu 2
V
Van Els taxonomy 9
Verbal fluency 11, 26, 147, 333, 360
Subject index 
W
Web questionnaire 84, 88
Word finding difficulties 21, 34
Word recognition 209, 217, 219
In the series Studies in Bilingualism (SiBil) the following titles have been published thus
far or are scheduled for publication:
1 FASE, Willem, Koen JASPAERT and Sjaak KROON (eds.): Maintenance and Loss of Minority
Languages. 1992. xii, 403 pp.
2 BOT, Kees de, Ralph B. GINSBERG and Claire KRAMSCH (eds.): Foreign Language Research in
Cross-Cultural Perspective. 1991. xii, 275 pp.
3 DÖPKE, Susanne: One Parent – One Language. An interactional approach. 1992. xviii, 213 pp.
4 PAULSTON, Christina Bratt: Linguistic Minorities in Multilingual Settings. Implications for language
policies. 1994. xi, 136 pp.
5 KLEIN, Wolfgang and Clive PERDUE: Utterance Structure. Developing grammars again. In
cooperation with Mary Carroll, Josée Coenen, José Deulofeu, Thom Huebner, Anne Trévise. 1992.
xvi, 354 pp.
6 SCHREUDER, Robert and Bert WELTENS (eds.): The Bilingual Lexicon. 1993. viii, 307 pp.
7 DIETRICH, Rainer, Wolfgang KLEIN and Colette NOYAU: The Acquisition of Temporality in a
Second Language. In cooperation with Josée Coenen, Beatriz Dorriots, Korrie van Helvert, Henriette
Hendriks, Et-Tayeb Houdaïfa, Clive Perdue, Sören Sjöström, Marie-Thérèse Vasseur, Kaarlo Voionmaa.
1995. xii, 288 pp.
8 DAVIS, Kathryn A.: Language Planning in Multilingual Contexts. Policies, communities, and schools
in Luxembourg. 1994. xix, 220 pp.
9 FREED, Barbara F. (ed.): Second Language Acquisition in a Study Abroad Context. 1995. xiv, 345 pp.
10 BAYLEY, Robert and Dennis R. PRESTON (eds.): Second Language Acquisition and Linguistic
Variation. 1996. xix, 317 pp.
11 BECKER, Angelika and Mary CARROLL: The Acquisition of Spatial Relations in a Second Language.
In co-operation with Jorge Giacobbe, Clive Perdue & Rémi Porquier. 1997. xii, 212 pp.
12 HALMARI, Helena: Government and Codeswitching. Explaining American Finnish. 1997. xvi, 276 pp.
13 HOLLOWAY, Charles E.: Dialect Death. The case of Brule Spanish. 1997. x, 220 pp.
14 YOUNG, Richard and Agnes Weiyun HE (eds.): Talking and Testing. Discourse approaches to the
assessment of oral proﬁciency. 1998. x, 395 pp.
15 PIENEMANN, Manfred: Language Processing and Second Language Development. Processability
theory. 1998. xviii, 367 pp.
16 HUEBNER, Thom and Kathryn A. DAVIS (eds.): Sociopolitical Perspectives on Language Policy and
Planning in the USA.With the assistance of Joseph Lo Bianco. 1999. xvi, 365 pp.
17 ELLIS, Rod: Learning a Second Language through Interaction. 1999. x, 285 pp.
18 PARADIS, Michel: A Neurolinguistic Theory of Bilingualism. 2004. viii, 293 pp. (+ index).
19 AMARA, Muhammad Hasan: Politics and Sociolinguistic Reﬂexes. Palestinian border villages. 1999.
xx, 261 pp.
20 POULISSE, Nanda: Slips of the Tongue. Speech errors in ﬁrst and second language production. 1999.
xvi, 257 pp.
21 DÖPKE, Susanne (ed.): Cross-Linguistic Structures in Simultaneous Bilingualism. 2001. x, 258 pp.
22 SALABERRY, M. Rafael: The Development of Past Tense Morphology in L2 Spanish. 2001. xii, 211 pp.
23 VERHOEVEN, Ludo and Sven STRÖMQVIST (eds.): Narrative Development in a Multilingual
Context. 2001. viii, 431 pp.
24 SCHMID, Monika S.: First Language Attrition, Use and Maintenance. The case of German Jews in
anglophone countries. 2002. xiv, 259 pp. + CD-rom.
25 PILLER, Ingrid: Bilingual Couples Talk. The discursive construction of hybridity. 2002. xii, 315 pp.
26 DIMROTH, Christine and Marianne STARREN (eds.): Information Structure and the Dynamics of
Language Acquisition. 2003. vi, 361 pp.
27 CALLAHAN, Laura: Spanish/English Codeswitching in a Written Corpus. 2004. vi, 170 pp. + index.
28 SCHMID, Monika S., Barbara KÖPKE, Merel KEIJZER and Lina WEILEMAR (eds.): First
Language Attrition. Interdisciplinary perspectives on methodological issues. 2004. viii, 364 pp. + index.
