THE OVNO PARAMETER 21
b. V'
~
DP V'
~e
The proposed locality condition on e-role assignment (or rather thematic
mapping) is partly different and partly similar to Chomsky's (l986a) sisterhood
condition. It shares with sisterhood the assumption that an argument must c-command
the element it is thematically related to. It differs from sisterhood in that it allows
arguments to be generated in positions that are not c-commanded by the predicate.
The first condition in (9) is a generalized version ofthe well-known c-command
restriction on predication (cf. Williams 1980). That c-command is required for internal
e-role assignment as well as for predication can be explained ifthematic relations are
treated at the interface as relations oflocal binding. e-roles are variables for which an
antecedent must be found at LF, and like in other cases of variable binding this
antecedent must occupy a c-commanding position (cf. Williams 1989).
The second condition in (9) requires some more discussion. Sisterhood might
seem more restrictive than m-command, since it defines only one object position. This
notion ofrestrictiveness has no theoretical relevance, however, because it does not take
into account the modularity of syntax. In theories based on sisterhood, there must be
movements allowing the object to surface in different positions. The restrictiveness of
sisterhood, then, concerns the base component and not the theory as a whole. Although
more structures can be base-generated under m-command, it remains to be seen
whether this leads to a larger output ofthe theory as a whole. Up to now, this does not
seem to be the case and hence no theory is to be preferred a priori.
One might argue that sisterhood is favored by economy considerations. Given that
a verb projects its argument structure, one may conjecture that it assigns its internal 8-
roles as soon as possible. Hence, it will take arguments for sisters. This line of
reasoning, however, presupposes that thematic roles are assigned in syntax. Ife-theory
is an interpretative theory, however, this is not the case. So, in a model without D-
structure, sisterhood is no more natural than m-command.
If e-theory applies at the LF interface, locality conditions on it must be derived
from the mapping between syntax and semantics. This means that the mapping rules
are either restricted by properties ofthe syntax or by properties ofthe semantic system.
The m-command condition can be derived from the semantics. Suppose that at LF
every maximal projection is mapped onto a slot in the semantic representation. DPs
bearing case are mapped into thematic positions, VPs are mapped into predicative
positions, etc. Establishing a thematic relation across an XP boundary is then excluded,
as it would lead to a semantic representation in which, for example, an argument
contains a predicate that takes its subject outside of that argument. Such non-local
relations cannot be expressed, at least not in predicate logic. Thus, there is a conceptual
reason for saying that XP is the domain for thematic relations.
22 CHAPTER 2
One advantage ofsaying that various positions can be thematically related to the
verb is that a very simple structure for double object constructions becomes available.
Combining the trees in (10) leads to the representation below.
(1 I) V'
~
DP V'
~e
It is plausible that when more than one E)-role is projected, the relative positions ofthe
argument-DPs is determined by a universal thematic hierarchy. In terms ofthe present
proposal, this would mean that the thematic roles ofa head must be associated to case-
marked DPs in a particular order.
In sum, E)-theory is flexible. Case-marked elements within VP are freely
associated with E)-roles ofthe verb, as long as the thematic hierarchy is respected.
3. THE DOMAINS OF HEAD GOVERNMENT
It will be clear that the word order freedom allowed in principle by E)-theory does not
show up in every single language. The reason for this is that case features, which
trigger thematic interpretation, must be licensed at PF. The relevant licensing
conditions select out ofthe set ofpotential argument positions the ones that are actually
available.
As announced in chapter I, we assume that abstract (non-morphological) case is
represented in the syntax as a projection lacking an overt head (cf. Lamontagne &
Travis 1987, Bittner & Hale 1996a and the references mentioned there):
(12) CASEP
~
CASE DP
o
Like other empty categories, the gap in (12) is subject to the ECP, which according to
Rizzi 1990 can be formulated as follows:2
2 In this chapter we will limit ourselves to government by verbs. For some discussion ofthe class
ofproper head governors we refer to chapter 3. In chapter 3 we will also argue that an extended
projection counts as empty at PF ifit contains features that are not supported by lexical material.
Thus, the empty case phrase we postulate for languages like Dutch and English requires
government, as its features are not realized lexically. This cannot be overcome by moving N or
D to CASE, as such movement does not change the featural content of the extended nominal
projection.
This view of empty categories predicts, correctly in our opinion, that head movement
within an extended projection is not restricted by the head-government requirement. The features
of the trace are recoverable from lexical material in the extended projection, namely from the
THE DVND PARAMETER 23
(13) Empty Category Principle
A non-pronominal empty category must be properly head-governed.
Ifso, what is usually conceived ofas the checking ofabstract case can instead be seen
as the licensing of an empty position with respect to the ECP. Thus one ofthese two
operations is eliminated. We will assume, on conceptual grounds, that the ECP holds
at the PF interface. PF seems to be the natural locus ofconditions on lexicalization and
overtness, whereas it is implausible thatthe syntax contains conditions sensitive to such
notions. That the head-government condition holds at the interface between syntax and
phonology was, in fact, already argued by Rizzi (1990), following work by Aoun,
Hornstein, Lightfoot & Weinberg (1987).3
The assumption thathead governmentholds atPF implies that at this interface not
only phonological but also syntactic information must be available: the latter clearly
plays a role in defining government relations. Co-occurrence of phonological and
syntactic information at the interface need not surprise us, however. It is a prerequisite
for the very existence of mapping principles. If syntactic and phonological
representations are not isomorphic, there must be a set of rules that relate one to the
other, and these rules must be stated somewhere. This is not to say that all syntactic and
phonological information is accessible at the interface. We assume that all interactions
betweensyntax andphonology are mediatedby an impoverishedprosodic structure that
will be introduced below (see Zec & Inkelas 1990 for some discussion).
Following Aoun et al. (1987) and Rizzi (1990), we have used the term PF to refer
to the syntax-phonology interface. We will continue to do so below. Note that the term
is ambiguous, since it also refers to the representation that forms the output of the
phonological component (a notion that does not playa role in this study). A similar
ambiguity holds for the term LF, which refers to procedures deriving the semantic
representation of sentences, as well as to those representations themselves.
Having sketched our conception of PF, we can consider the issue of head
government in more detail. Two variables are relevant, namely the domain and the
direction ofthis relation. The directionality ofhead government is traditionally seen as
the source behind variation in basic word order (cf. Hoekstra 1984). We adopt this
view, but with an important modification. As was the case for overtness, it is unlikely
that directionality is a notion to which the syntax is sensitive. However, if head
moved head. N to 0 movement, as argued for by Longobardi (1994), is one operation that
confirms this prediction. As 0 is not a proper governor, the noun's trace remains ungoverned.
Saying that head movement in extended projections is exempt from the head-government
constraint does not imply that it is unrestricted. Head movement still has to meet LF conditions
on chain formation. So, it must be to a c-commanding position and relativized minimality (and
therefore the head movement constraint) must be respected.
3 As in Aoun et al. 1987 and Rizzi 1990, only the head-government condition holds at PF.
Conditions having to do with the relation between the trace and its antecedent are located at the
LF interface. Although this implies that LF movement does not have to meet the head-
government requirement (a correct prediction, as will be apparent from data discussed in chapter
4), it does not mean that no distinction between movement of arguments and adjuncts can be
made at LF, since these two types of elements have different 9-theoretic properties.
24 CHAPTER 2
government is a feature of the PF component, it is not surprising to rmd that it is
directional. After all, PF is where issues of linearity are typically dealt with.
Related to the directionality ofhead government is its domain. Although domain
and direction are in fact subject to two separate parameters, we will argue that a
particular setting of the directionality parameter automatically implies a particular
setting of the domain parameter. To be more precise, VO order leads to a limited
government domain (in practice adjacency); the OV setting, to a larger one (in practice
m-command). The consequence of this is that there is only one learning task for the
language-learning child.
Let us see how this works. Suppose that the relevant parts ofhead government are
dermed as in (14).
(14) Head Government (general)
A head a governs 13 iff
a. a precedes l3/a follows 13, and
b. a and 13 are contained in the same phrasal domain.
As said, both syntactic and phonological information must be accessible at the PF
interface. Therefore, the phrasal domain mentioned in (14) can either be dermed
syntactically or phonologically. However, it is one task ofthe PF interface to prepare
sentences for pronunciation, and consequently there is a strong inclination to shift to
phonological information as soon as possible. Syntactic information can be accessed,
but this will be avoided unless other options fail. The government domain is therefore
preferably dermed in phonological terms, namely as the phonological phrase, <1>. Only
ifsuch a definition cannot be maintained will it be dermed as the syntactic phrase, that
is, as the domain of mutual m-command.
Selkirk (1986) motivates the following mapping principle for <I>-formation:4
(15) tP-Formation
Close <I> when encountering ]xp.
What (15) expresses is that the phonological mapping procedure scans the syntactic
string from left to right, closing a prosodic domain when it meets a right XP bracket.
This procedure can be seen as one ofa family ofconditions that require the alignment
of syntactic/morphological and prosodic boundaries (cf. McCarthy & Prince 1993).
Consider as an example the syntactic structure in (16a). This structure will be mapped
onto the prosodic structure in (16b), where curly brackets indicate <I>-boundaries. The
parser starts by opening a prosodic phrase. It closes this phrase and opens a new one
4 This mapping principle relates the syntax to an impoverished prosodic structure, which in tum
is input to further phonological procedures. These enrich the prosodic representation, taking into
account weight distribution and balancing effects. For example, destressed light material may
be adjoined to an adjacent phonological domain. The conditions we discuss here hold at the
interface, and are therefore insensitive to such adaptations. For discussion see Selkirk 1984,
Nespor & Vogel 1986, Inkelas & Zec 1990 and Cinque 1993.
THE OVNO PARAMETER 25
when it comes upon the ftrst right XP bracket, that of Mary's. It proceeds in this
fashion, until the entire syntactic string is parsed.
(16) a.
b.
[[A friend of [Mary's]] [gave [a book] [to [Sue]]]]
{A friend ofMary's} {gave a book} {to Sue}
English is an example ofa language in which the domain ofhead government is
defmed in prosodic terms. So, in a structure like (16b) the verb head-governs the empty
case shell of the direct object, since the verb and its object are contained in the same
<1>. It is predicted that in such languages case adjacency will hold: if a constituent is
generated between the verb and its object, as in (17a), a prosodic structure results in
which the verb and the object are not in the same domain and in which the ECP is
hence violated (cf. 17a'). This problem does not arise ifthe object is generated adjacent
to the verb, as can be seen in (17b,b').s
(17) a. [[John] [read [yesterday] [0-the book]]]
a'. *{John} {read yesterday} {0-the book}
b. [[John] [read [0-the book] [yesterday]]]
b'. {John} {read 0-the book} {yesterday}
It seems to be the case, then, that the general defmition ofhead government in (14) is
specified as follows in English:6
(18) Head Government (VO)
A head a governs Biff
a. a precedes B, and
b. a and Bare contained in the same <1>.
sOne might think that scrambling does exist in English, but that it takes the guise ofheavy NP
shift. (17a') is grammatical ifthe extraposed objectis contrastivelyfocused orsufficiently heavy,
as in (ia). However, heavy NP shift also exists in Dutch, as can be observed in (ib). Moreover,
the syntactic properties ofthe processes are different. Shiftedheavy DPs are islands, for example,
but scrambled DPs are not. This shows that heavy NP shift cannot be the English counterpart of
Dutch scrambling.
(i) a. John [vp [yp [yp read tDP] yesterday] [the book his father wrote about the war]]
b. dat Jan [vp [yp gisteren [vp tDP las]] [bet hoek dat zijn vader over de oorlog schreef]]
that John yesterday read the book that hisfather on the war wrote
6 Ray Jackendoff(personal communication) informs us that in some constructions the verb and
the object do not seem to form aprosodic phrase, given that a prosodic break may separate them.
However, it appears that this is only possible when the object is heavy or contrastively focused.
To us, this suggests that the relevantconstructions result from string-vacuousheavy NP shift and
are hence irrelevant to the issue ofcase adjacency. In fact, the impossibility ofinserting a break
between the verb and a light object supports the claim that these elements form a prosodic
phrase.
26 CHAPTER 2
It has been argued that English complementizer deletion, at least in argument
clauses, is subject to the head-government condition (cf. Stowell 1981, Aoun et al.
1987 and Pesetsky 1996). Ifthis is true, the proposal made above predicts correctly that
complementizer deletion is subject to a PF adjacency condition (cf. Saito 1984). Just
like an empty case shell, a non-lexical complementizer must be licensed at PF, and
therefore be contained in the verb's government domain:
(19) a.
b.
{Fay} {believed (that) Kay} {was a fool}
{Fay} {believed sincerely} {*(that) Kay} {was a fool}
Suppose that the domain ofhead government in an OV language like Dutch were
also defined prosodically. Then even a simple sentence like (20a) would be ruled out,
because in the corresponding prosodic structure the object and the verb are part of
different <J>s, as can be seen in (20b).
(20) a. [dat [Jan] [[0-het boek] gelezen heeft]]
that John the book read has
b. {dat Jan} {0-het boek} {gelezen heeft}
that John the book read has
The reason for this is that in an OV language the object precedes the verb. Since the
object is a maximal projection, its right edge must correspond to a <J>-boundary, which
would separate object and verb.
Therefore, if an OV language is to have any objects, it must resort to a
dispreferred alternative strategy. Instead ofa prosodic specification ofthe defmition in
(14), a syntactic specification must be chosen: a head and its governees must be in the
same syntactic phrase, that is, in the same m-command domain. Hence, by logical
necessity, OV order implies a larger domain of head government:
(21) Head Government (OV)
A head ex governs E iff
a. ex follows E, and
b. ex and Em-command each other.
It is predicted by the specification ofhead government in (21) that OV languages
are not subject to case adjacency. The reason for this is that linear intervention is
irrelevant to m-command. The only requirement that must be met in Dutch is that the
object and the verb are in the same syntactic phrase, and this will be the case whether
or not an adverbial is generated between them (we will return to this issue in section
6):7
7 Strictly speaking, the empty case head in (22) is not within the verb's government domain: it
is contained in the object and hence fails to m-command the verb. However, by X-bar theory the
properties ofa head are transferred to its maximal projection. As a result, an empty head meets
the ECP if its maximal projection is properly governed.
THE OVNO PARAMETER
(22) a. [dat [Jan] [[gisteren] [0-het boek] gelezen heeft]]
that John yesterday the book read has
b. [dat [Jan] [[0-het boek] [gisteren] gelezen heeft]]
that John the bookyesterday read has
27
We have now explained why case adjacency does not hold in OV languages, but
we have not spelled out yet why it must be obeyed in VO languages (abstracting away
from the effects of V-to-I). As opposed to what was true ofOV order and a syntactic
defmition ofthe government domain, there is no logical relation between VO order and
a prosodic defmition. However, VO order and the prosodic defmition are linked by
considerations of economy. Recall that it is expensive to access syntactic information
at PF. Therefore, ifit is possible to choose a prosodic setting ofthe domain parameter,
it is obligatory to do so. In a VO language the object follows the verb, and therefore the
object can be placed in the same <I> as the verb. Choosing a syntactic defmition would
be to go for a more costly setting ofthe parameter, while a less costly one is available.8
4. THE FORMATION OF VP SHELLS
So far, we have asserted that syntactic structures are symmetric in that dependents may
be placed on either side of the head. This flexibility is restricted by the ECP, which
requires that empty case shells be governed in a certain direction and within a certain
domain. This may explain the occurrence of mirror image effects with PPs and
adjuncts, as well as the existence of case adjacency effects in English, but it does not
yet shed any light on the occurrence of anti-mirror image effects. Or so it seems.
Suppose that some XP is generated in a position that structurally intervenes
between the verb and a DP carrying an empty case shell. For an OV language like
Dutch, this would result in the structure in (23a). As argued in the previous section, this
structure is grammatical, since thematic interpretation is possible and the case shell of
the object is governed. For a VO language like English, the resulting structure would
be the one in (23b). This structure is ruled out. The object and the verb are not
contained in the same <1>, because the prosodic structure that corresponds to (23b) is that
in (23c). Hence, the object's case shell is not governed.
(23) a. V'
~
0-DP V'
~V
8 Thateconomy considerations co-determine the setting ofparametershasbeen argued byGibson
& Wexler (1994).
b. • V'
~0-DP
~xp
c. • {V XP} {0-DP}
The conclusion that this line ofreasoning seems to lead to is that English should
lack a number of constructions that are grammatical in Dutch. This is not correct,
however. English has exactly the same structural possibilities as Dutch, but in
constructions ofthe type in (23) a movement operation takes place in order to license
the case of the object.
Recall that 9-theory does not force a linear order upon a verb-object pair. This
means that it would be wrong to say that the DP in (23b) must follow the verb. It may
be generated in any position that can be licensed at PF. Instead of(23b), the derivation
could therefore start out from (24a), given that (23b) and (24a) have identical
hierarchical properties. Although (24a) as such does not solve the case problem caused
by the intervening XP, it makes it possible to do so by a simple leftward movement of
the verb, as in (24b). In the structure derived by this movement, the verb and the object
are in the same prosodic domain, and they can therefore enter into a government
relation (cf. 24c).
(24) a. V'
~V'
~
V XP
b. V'
~
V VP
~
0-DP ~
tv XP
c. {V 0-DP} {tv XP}
The claim that we will be defending, then, is that English has VP shells in the
sense ofLarson 1988, but that these are not projected in order to satisfy conditions on
9-role assignment, but in order to meet the surface conditions to which empty case
shells are subject. Below, we will argue that verb movement is a necessary condition
for the projection ofVP shells, and that therefore the projection of extra structure will
be blocked by economy in the absence of a trigger for movement. In particular the
THE OVNO PARAMETER 29
following condition, w~ich isreminiscent ofLasnik's (1993) 'enlightenedselfinterest',
seems to be relevant:
(25) Ban on Unmotivated Movement
A movement operation J.1 can only take place if J.1 allows satisfaction of a
condition that would otherwise be violated.
The ban on unmotivated movement has as a consequence that constructions in
which the ECP can be satisfied without verb movement will not contain VP shells. An
example ofthis in English are constructions with a PP complement, rather than a DP.
It is generally argued that PPs do not need case. In the presentproposal this implies that
they are not accompanied by an (empty) case shell (see chapter 4). Hence, the
construction in (26) satisfies the ECP vacuously.
(26) V'
~
V' PP
~
V XP
Similarly, it is expected that there will be no VP shells in Dutch. Since head
government in Dutch does not require adjacency ofthe object and the verb, there is no
reason for moving the verb, and therefore no possibility of recursion of verbal
projections. The construction in (23a) can, and therefore must, be licensed as is. It thus
follows that mirror image effects can be observed when Dutch and English
constructions with PP complements (and other elements that do not bear an empty case
shell) are compared. It also follows that anti-mirror image effects obtain with DPs.
When a constituent intervenes between a DP object and the verb in Dutch, the related
structure in English requires the projection of a VP shell.
Before we can go into the details ofDutch and English syntax, let us clarify our
position on VP shells. It is assumed in Chomsky 1995 that the higher head in a VP shell
is a 'light verb', which, like any verb, is taken from the lexicon and to which the main
verb adjoins in overt syntax. We reject this view on the following grounds. First, it is
suspicious that the light verb is both phonologically and semantically empty.9 Its only
function is to provide a landing site for head movement. One may wonder if this is
sufficient to warrant listing it in the lexicon. What should, in fact, be listed? Second,
if a light verb is already present in the higher VP shell, it is a mystery why the main
verb does not remain in situ at surface structure. Even ifmovement were necessary in
9 Sometimes reference is made to Hale & Keyser 1993 in arguing that light verbs do have
semantic content. However, Hale & Keyser argue for empty head positions in a pre-syntactic
component, and a direct translation of their work to syntax is not without problems. It
presupposes a type of semantic decomposition which, for reasons spelled out by Fodor 1970,
does not seem very attractive to us.
30 CHAPTER 2
order for the subject to be assigned a ®-role by the main verb, this movement could be
postponed until LF (the locus of®-theory).10
These and other problems related to the projection of VP shells disappear if the
stipulation that rules out selfattachment is abandoned. It is usually asserted that if an
element (X is attached to a node Bby movement, it is Bthat projects. However, we can
see no valid independent reason for ruling out projection of (x, at least not for ruling it
out across the board (see Van Riemsdijk 1989, Ackema, Neeleman & Weerman 1993,
Koeneman 1996 and Koeneman & Neeleman 1998 for further discussion). In fact, if
a verb is attached to the top-node of its own projection line, and then projects again, a
structure is derived that exactly matches the structure ofVP shells (cf. 27). Moreover,
ifselfattachment is the way in which VP shells are formed, it becomes trivial that verb
movement is a prerequisite for it.
(27) V'
~
V VP
~V'
~
tv
It is not necessary to add new principles to X-bar theory in order to derive VP
shells by self attachment. The core of X-bar theory is the principle of endocentricity,
which can be stated as follows:
(28) Endocentricity
An XP must contain a unique XO position.
Given (28), the properties of a structure derived by attaching a head to its own
projection are fully predictable. The sister node of the moved head must be the
maximal projection ofthe head's trace, and the node dominating the moved head must
be projected by that head. If it were otherwise, a structure would be derived in which
one XP contains two XO positions, against the reqllirement ofuniqueness ofprojection.
So, by abandoning the stipulation that moved elements may not project, the problem
of VP shell projection can be solved.
In sum, the analysis we propose has the following properties. (i) There is a
universal system of ®-role projection that determines which positions can host an
argument. This system is highly flexible, in that every ®-role can in principle be
assigned within a fairly wide domain. (ii) There is a parameter that determines both the
direction and the domain of head government, and that thus selects out of the set of
potential argument positions the ones that can actually be used in a given language. (iii)
10 At first sight, one could argue that movement is motivated by the adjacency condition
discussed in this chapter. However, one would then have to stipulate that light verbs are not
proper governors, which again confirms that they are just landing sites for movement.
THE OVNO PARAMETER 31
Universally there is the possibility ofcreating VP shells, but this possibility is made use
of only if the system of government of the language in question requires it.
We will demonstrate the effects of these claims by considering particle
constructions (section 5), scrambling (section 6), double object constructions (section
7), and exceptional case marking (section 8).
5. PARTICLES
Particle constructions can be used to illustrate a number ofproperties of the analysis.
Let us start by pointing out what thematic restrictions there are on the placement of
particles. It is clear that particles are not arguments; so they are not subject to
restrictions on E)-role assignment. However, there are good reasons to believe that
particles form a complex predicate with the verb. That is to say, the thematic structure
of VP is determined by the 'combination of the particle and the verb, and not by the
verb alone. One example of this is that verb-particle combinations may be transitive,
even when the verb itself is not:
(29) a. dat Jan (*Marie) lacht
that John Mary laughs
a'. dat Jan *(Marie) uit lacht
that John Mary out laughs
'that John makes fun of Mary'
b. John looked (*the information)
b'. John looked up *(the information)
It is to be expected that iftwo elements form a complex predicate, they must also
form a constituent. Otherwise, VP would be projected from two separate heads,
contrary to the requirement that projection be unique (cf. 28). Ithas indeed been argued
that verb-particle combinations form complex verbal heads in syntax (cf. Chomsky
1955, Hoeksema 1991, Johnson 1991, Roeper & Keyser 1992, Neeleman & Weerman
1993, Neeleman 1994, and others). For Dutch the structure in (30a) has been defended;
for English the one in (30b):
(30) a. v
~
Prt V
b. V
~
V Prt
The behavior of Dutch particles follows straightforwardly from the assumption
that they are adjoined to V. Their position in the clause is immediately to the left ofthe
verb. So, although the placement of adverbials is rather free in Dutch, they cannot
separate a particle from the verb (cf. 31a,a'). Several other arguments can be given for
32 CHAPTER 2
the structure in (30a). One that will be relevant here is that verb-particle combinations
can be coordinated freely with simplex verbs (cf. 31b,b,).11
(31) a. dat Jan Marie geregeld [v uit lacht]
that John Mary regularly out laughs
a'. "'dat Jan Marie uit geregeld lacht
that John Mary out regularly laughs
b. dat Jan het boek [[v uit pakt] en [v leest]]
that John the book out wraps and reads
b'. dat Jan het boek [[v koopt en [v in pakt]]
that John the book buys and in wraps
The situation in English is more complicated. Particles either surface adjacent to
the verb, as they do in Dutch, or they appear to the right ofthe object:
(32) a.
b.
John looks up the information
John looks the information up
Since we assume that underlying syntactic structures are symmetric, it must be the case
that the construction in (32a) is more basic than the one in (32b). As in Dutch, the
particle is adjoined to the verb in (32a), whereas in (32b) it has been separated from the
verb by a movement operation. Indeed, the construction in (32a) shares certain
characteristics with its Dutch counterpart. No adverbial may appear between the verb
and the particle (cf. 33a,a'), and coordination of the verb-particle combination with
simplex verbs is unproblematic (cf. 33b,b,).12
(33) a. John slowly [v looks up] the information
a'. "'John looks slowly up the information
b. John [[v wrote up] and [v published]] his dissertation last year
b'. John [[v wrote] and [v mailed off]] his dissertation last year
At first sight one may attribute the ungrammaticality of(33a') to case adjacency. DP
arguments in English may generally not be separated from the verb by an adverbial.
II The example in (31 b') cannot be a case of VP coordination plus conjunction reduction. In so
far as forward conjunct reduction is allowed in Dutch, it requires a special intonational pattern
that is absent here. It can also not be the case that two VPs are coordinated, and that there has
been an across-the-board application of scrambling (leftward object movement). First, we will
argue in the next section that scrambling is a result of base generation, and not of movement.
Second, the DP selected by the coordinated verbs does not behave as a scrambled object: it may
appear to the right ofadverbials and it can be a non-specific indefinite.
12 Crucially, examples like (33b') cannot be analyzed as either cases ofVP coordination plus
conjunction reduction or instances ofright-node raising. English does not have the required type
of backward reduction, and the example is grammatical without the intonational breaks that
accompany right-node raising. It seems that we are indeed dealing with a complex predicate
coordinated with a simplex verb.
THE OVNO PARAMETER 33
This cannot be the whole story, however, as the same pattern reoccurs in (34), where
the complement of the complex predicate is a PP, rather than a DP. Since PPs do not
need case, the ungrarnmaticality of(34a',b') and (33a') must be due to inseparability
of complex predicates.
(34) a. John initially [gave up] on that solution
a'. *John gave initially up on that solution
b. John fmally [walked out] on Mary
b. *John walked fmally out on Mary
The question, at this point, is how the construction in (32b) can be derived. The
auxiliary hypothesis we will adopt here is that particles may project, but do not have
to. So, the constructions in (35a) and (35b) coexist.
(35) a.
b.
v
~
V Prt
V
V~PrtP
This auxiliary hypothesis can actually be derived from X-bar theory. Recall that X-bar
structures are endocentric in that each projection has a unique head (cf. 28). This
implies that above the XO level heads must project their own phrase. Otherwise, a
maximal projection will be generated that contains two head positions. But below the
XO level, projection is not obligatory. Whether or not the particle in (35) projects, the
VP headed by the verb-particle combination has a unique, albeit complex, head. As we
will now explain, the optionality in (32) indeed follows as a result of different
underlying structures.
An object added to the structure in (35a) can be licensed ifgenerated to the right
ofthe verb-particle combination, as in (36a). The reason for this is straightforward. In
Englishtheverb governs rightwardinaprosodically defmeddomain. Prosodic domains
are built up in such a way that their right boundary coincides with a right XP bracket.
Since the particle does not project in (36a), the verb and the object will be contained
in the same <t> (cf. 36b). Hence, the object's case shell can be governed.
(36) a. Y'
~
V 0-DP
~
V Prt
b. {V Prt 0-DP}
34 CHAPTER 2
Suppose, next, that an object is added to the structure in (35b). This object will not
be licensed if it is simply generated to the right of the verb. Since the particle now
projects, it will trigger <I>-closure, with the effect that the object and the verb are no
longer in the same prosodic domain (cf. 37). Given that government is required,
additional measures must be taken.
(37) a. oj< V'
~
V 0-DP
~PrtP
b. {V PrtP} {0-DP}
The object can only be licensed if a more elaborate structure is projected. To
begin with, it must be generated to the left ofthe verb. Then, the verb is moved out of
its base position and attached to the top node of its own projection. In the newly-
formed structure, it is the moved verb that projects, and not the node to which it is
attached. Due to the VP shell that is thus derived, the object can be licensed. In the
prosodic structure assigned to (38a), the verb and the object are contained in the same
<1>:
(38) a. V'
~VP
~V
~
tv PrtP
b. {V 0-DP} {tv PrtP}
So, following Johnson (1991), we hold verb movement responsible for the
separation ofthe particle and the verb in (32b). However, we do not adopt Johnson's
claims about either the trigger of that movement or the architecture ofthe lower part
of the clause.13
A number of predictions follow from the proposed analysis. In the examples
discussed so far, the particle does not have to project, since it does not take specifiers
or complements. However, if such elements are present, projection is obligatory, and
hence verb movement into a VP shell must take place. If it did not, the object's case
position could not be governed. This first prediction is borne out by the data in (39).
13 Johnson assumes that the verb always moves, and that it optionally strands the particle.
Although we cannot discuss this hypothesis here, it is easy to see that it does not account for the
full range ofdata discussed below. For instance, the fact that modified particles must be stranded
(cf. 39) does not follow.
THE OVNO PARAMETER 35
The verb must be shifted leftward if the particle is accompanied by a specifier or a
complement.14
(39) a. John [looked [(*right) up]] the information
a'. John looked [the information [tv [(right) up]]]
b. John [ran [up (*the pole)]] the flag
b'. John ran [the flag [tv [up (the pole)]]]
This obligatory leftward shiftofthe verb cannotonly be observedin the examples
above, but also ifthe particle has certainphonological properties. 'Heavy' prepositions
like inside and outside are historically related to phrases. As far as their syntax is
concerned, they have lost all phrasal properties. Phonologically, however, they still
seem to be specified as <l>s. This implies that they would block government if they
appeared between the object and the verb in a particle construction. A VP shell must
hence be projected in (40) and (41). Note that, as expected, the ungrammatical
examples improve dramatically when inside and outside are replaced by their 'light'
counterparts in and out.
(40) a. *John [took inside] the clothes
a'. *{John} {took inside} {the clothes}
b. John took [the clothes [tv inside]]
b'. {John} {took the clothes} {tv inside}
(41) a. *John [put outside] the garbage
a' *{John} {put outside} {the garbage}
b. John put [the garbage [tv outside]]
b'. {John} {put the garbage} {tv outside}
Consider next the behavior of verb-particle combinations that select a PP
complement. Since the case shell ofthe DP contained in a PP complement is governed
by the preposition, PPs are independent ofthe verb for their licensing. They therefore
do not have to be contained in the verb's phonological domain. This means that
whether the PP is added to (35a) or (35b), no VP shell has to be formed. Even if the
particle projects, as in (42), this does not lead to ungrammaticality.
(42) a. V'
~
V PP
~PrtP
b. {V PrtP} {PP}
14 The data in (39) cannot be accounted for by an analysis according to which particles optionally
incorporate into the verb from a position following the object. The point is that material
accompanying the particle cannot be stranded by this alleged movement.
36 CHAPTER 2
A further prediction follows from this. Since the formation of a VP shell is not
necessary, this process is ruled out by the ban on unmotivated movement (cf. 25). The
operation ofselfattachment that would derive a VP-shell does not satisfy any condition
that is violated otherwise. It is to be expected, then, that particles will never appear to
the right of a PP complement, as that is the order which would result from projecting
a VP shell. This prediction is correct:
(43) a. John [gave up] on that solution
a' . • John gave [on that solution [tv up]]
b. John [walked out] on Mary
b' ·John walked [on Mary [tv out]]
It is to be expected, furthermore, that a particle that intervenes between the verb
and a PP complement may be accompanied by elements that force projection, even
though this was impossible for particles that intervene between the verb and a DP. As
said, PPs are not dependent on the verb for their licensing. This prediction is also borne
out:
(44) a.
b.
John [gave [right up]] on that solution
John [walked [right out]] on Mary
The ban on unmotivated movement does not only block VP-shell formation with
prepositional complements in English. It also blocks this process in OV-Ianguages,
irrespective of the categorial status of the complement. Since government takes place
in syntactic domains in such languages, a particle verb can license the empty case shell
of its object whether the particle projects or not. In either case the object will be
contained in the verb's m-command domain:
(45) VP
~
0-DP V
P~V
Indeed, there is no difference in placement of projected and unprojected particles in
Dutch, as can be seen below:
(46) a. dat Jan zijn melk op drinkt
that John his milk up drinks
b. dat Jan zijn melk [helemaal op] drinkt
that John his milk completely up drinks
Let us now make explicit two further predictions concerning verb-particle
combinations that select a DP. The frrst is rather straightforward. As observed above,
verb-particle combinations can be coordinated with simplex verbs in English. It is
THE OVNO PARAMETER 37
predicted that if this happens, the formation of a VP shell of the type under
investigation is blocked. The particle cannot be stranded by verb movement, because
the verbs may not move separately (due to the coordinate structure constraint, cf. Ross
1967) and there is no unit that includes the two verbs, but excludes the particle. The
examples in (47) are thus ruled out.
(47) a.
b.
*John [wrote and published] [his dissertation [tv up]] last year
*John [wrote and mailed]] [his dissertation [tv oft]] last year
There are many theories about particle constructions that capture the data in (47), but
far less that can explain the combination of (47) and (33b,b'). It seems that the full
paradigm can only be accounted for if the verb and the particle form a complex
predicate that can be broken up by movement, as in the analysis proposed here.
The [malprediction to be discussed in this section concerns the status ofthe object
in a particle construction. Ifthe verb remains in situ, the object ofa particle verb is like
any other object. But ifa VP shell is created, the object is in fact an exceptionally case-
marked specifier. It has been argued by Kuno (1973a), Kayne (1984) and others that
exceptionally case-marked subjects in English cannot be extracted from. Kuno gives
the following examples in evidence:IS
(48) a. Bill saw the leaves of the tree tum color
a'. ??Which tree did Bill see the leaves of tum color
b. John believed killing this sick man to be a favor to him
b'. ??Who did John believe killing to be a favor to him
Analogous to this pattern, one would expect the object ofa particle verb to be an island
ifa VP shell is projected, but not ifthe construction surfaces unaltered. This prediction
is borne out by the data in (49) (see also Kayne 1985).
(49) a. [What]j did John [look up] [information about t;]
a'. ??[What]j did John look [[information about t;] [tv up]]
b. Whojdid John [send back] [pictures oft;]
b'. ??Whojdid John send [[pictures oft;] [tv back]]
c. What; did John [cut open] [a box of1;]
c'. ??What; did John cut [[a box oft;] [tv open]]
As expected, extraction from the object ofa particle verb in Dutch does not pose
any difficulty (cf. 50). The reason is that such objects never have the status of
exceptionally case-marked specifiers. Projecting VP shells is unnecessary in Dutch:
15 As noted by both Kuno and Kayne, some speakers accept examples like (48a',b'). Although
we do not have an explanation for this fact, it is remarkable that the same variation amongst
speakers is found in the constructions to be discussed below (particle and double object
constructions, as well as constructions with an object-oriented secondary predicate). This re-
enforces the claim that these constructions form a natural class.
38 CHAPTER 2
material that intervenes between the verb and the object does not block government,
because the government domain is defmed syntactically:
(50) a. Waarj heeft Jan [informatie over~] [op gezocht]
what has John information about up looked
b. Wa~ heeft Jan [~ voor foto's] [terug gestuurd]
what has John for pictures back sent
c. (De sigaren) waarj Jan [een doos van ~] [open gesneden] heeft
the cigars that John a box ofopen cut has
In sum, particle constructions can be used to illustrate several properties of the
theory developed in sections 2-4. In particular, differences in the syntax ofDutch and
English particle constructions follow from the hypothesis that empty case shells are
licensed in syntactic domains in OV languages, whereas they are licensed in prosodic
domains in VO languages. This results in an extremely simple analysis ofDutch: VPs
containing a particle simply surface unaltered. In English, the situation is more
complicated (but only slightly), since sometimes a VP shell must be created.
The following conditions hold with respect to this. The verb remains in situ if
either the particle does not project (and hence does not block government), or the
complement is a PP (and hence does not need to be governed). Under those conditions,
the order in VP is the mirror image of that in Dutch. If the particle projects and the
object is a DP, a VP shell is generated through selfattachment ofthe verb. The linear
order in VP then is identical to that in Dutch.
The typological prediction is that particles always show up adjacent to the verb
in OV languages, whereas in VO languages they will be separated from the verb ifthey
project. This prediction seems to be correct. OV languages like Afrikaans, Frisian and
German have particles that indeed appear to the immediate left of the verb. VO
languages like Danish, Icelandic, Norwegian and Swedish indeed show a dissociation
ofthe verb and (projecting) particle-like elements.16
6. SCRAMBLING
As a result ofdiverging conditions on head government, word order in Dutch particle
constructions is rigid, whereas in English an apparent optionality can be observed. In
this section we will consider the opposite of this pattern: a case where word order is
free in Dutch, but quite rigid in English. As already remarked in section 3, Dutch
allows adverbials to intervene between the objectand the verb (a phenomenon referred
to as 'scrambling'), but English does not:
16 See LeRoux 1988 for Afrikaans, De Haan 1997 for Frisian, Stiebels & Wunderlich 1994 for
German, Collins & Thrainsson 1996 for Icelandic, and Svenonius 1996 for the mainland
Scandinavian languages. In Swedish, particles do not seem to project and consequently they
appear adjacent to the verb. ResuItatives do project, however and they must indeed appear in
non-adjacent positions.
(51) a.
b.
(52) a.
b.
THE OVNO PARAMETER
dat Jan het boek langzaam gelezen heeft
that John the book slowly read has
dat Jan langzaam het boek gelezen heeft
that John slowly the book read has
John read the book slowly
*John read slowly the book
39
The solution to the problem posed by (51) and (52) is obvious if the government
domain is dermed prosodically in English. Nevertheless, it is important to consider the
issue more carefully.
It is usually assumed that scrambling is the result of an optional leftward
movement ofthe object from a position adjacent to the verb to a position that precedes
adverbials like langzaam 'slowly' in (51). Our proposal is to replace this analysis by
a very simple theory, namely one in which adverbials may freely be inserted between
the object and the verb. This possibility is implied by the condition on thematic
mapping proposed in section 2 (cf. 9). Moreover, the object can be licensed in either
of the structures in (53), because the domain of head government is dermed
syntactically in Dutch.
(53) a.
b.
V'
~V'
~
eJ-DP V
V'
~~
AdvP V
This analysis straightforwardly accounts for most properties of scrambling. It
explains, for example, why scrambling is optional. This property is problematic for
many movement theories, given that economy dictates that movementbe obligatory or
impossible (see De Hoop 1992, Delfitto 1995, Ruys 1996 and Neeleman & Reinhart
1997 for related discussion). The analysis also explains why scrambling has A-
properties (cf. Mahajan 1990): non-adjacent objects simply appear in a base-generated
argument position. It thus follows that scrambling does not display weak cross-over or
reconstruction effects. It also follows why scrambling is so local (it is restricted to the
thematic domain ofthe verb) and why scrambled DPs are not islands (they are assigned
an intemal a-role; compare the data in (61) below). Furtherargumentation for the base-
generation of scrambling structures can be found in Bayer & Komfilt 1994 and
Neeleman 1994.
40 CHAPTER 2
What about English? It will be obvious that scrambling in the intended sense
violates the case requirements of English. Since the empty case shell must be in the
same prosodic domain as the verb, generating an adverbial between the object and the
verb will lead to a configuration in which government is no longer possible. In (54),
which corresponds to the OV structure in (53b), the right XP bracket of the adverbial
triggers Q>-closure, so that the verb's prosodic domain does not include the object. It is
equally obvious that the structure in (55), which corresponds to (53a), is ruled in. Here,
the object is contained in the Q> that contains the verb.
(54) a.
b.
(55) a.
b.
* V'
~-DP
~
V AdvP
{V AdvP} {0-DP}
V'
~
V' AdvP
~
V 0-DP
{V 0-DP} {AdvP}
Note that the apparent optionality in the placement of English particles is not
expected to reappear in this case. Projection ofparticles is optional, because they are
generated below the XO level. Adverbials, however, do not form a complex predicate
with the verb, and hence X-bar theory, or more particularly the principle of
endocentricity in (28), requiresprojection. So, whereas intervening particles sometimes
block government, intervening adverbials always do.17
The above line of reasoning seems to lead to the conclusion that in English
adverbials cannot be generated lower in the tree than objects. On closer inspection, this
is not what the theory actually predicts. English has a counterpart to (53b), but its word
order is identical to that of(53a)'s counterpart. Ifthe sister of the verb is an adverbial,
the licensing of the object depends on the formation of a VP shell. Only when the
17 Nespor & Vogel (1986) argue that prosodic phrases containing a modifier and prosodic
phrases containing the modified material may be reanalyzed as one prosodic unit, as in (ia,a').
Even if this reanalysis takes place at the interface, it leaves our argumentation unaffected, since
the prosodic phrases in (ib), which contain an argument and a predicative category, cannot be
reanalyzed.
(i) a. {John} {read the book} {yesterday} .....
a'. {John} {read the book yesterday}
b. {John} {read yesterday} {the book} .....
b'. • {John} {read yesterday the book}
THE OVNO PARAMETER 41
object is generated to the left ofthe verb and the verb reprojects after movement will
these two elements be part ofthe same <1>:
(56) a.
b.
V'
~
~
0-DP V'
~
tv AdvP
{V 0-DP} {tv AdvP}
English, then, is as flexible as Dutch, but whereas scrambling in Dutch results in
different orders, scrambling in English only has hierarchical consequences:
(57) a.
b.
John [[read the book] slowly]
John read [the book [tv slowly]]
The movement in (56b) satisfies the ban on unmotivated movement in (25), as it
facilitates government of the object's case shell. Yet, in most cases the structure in
(56b) will be blocked by the one in (55a) on the basis of global economy
considerations, which we will discuss in more detail in chapter 5. The idea behind
global economy is that a syntactic operation like movement will be blocked ifthere is
a cheaper alternative. If there is a structure without movement that is projected from
the same lexical material (the same numeration) and that leads to the same semantic
representation, this structure will be selected over its competitors. This is usually the
case for (55) and (56). Iftwo structures either involve different heads or target different
semantic representations, however, no blocking effects are expected.
The effects ofdifferent numerations can be illustrated by particle constructions,
whose distribution was discussed in the previous section. We will argue in chapter 5
that the numeration of a sentence S consists of the heads of all maximal projections
contained in S. Ifso, verb-particle combinations in which the particle does not project
(cf. 35a), count as a single unit in the numeration, whereas the verb and the particle
count as separate units in case the particle does project (cf. 35b). Competition ofthe
two structures will thus be prevented and consequently the construction which requires
VP-shell formation (the one in which the particle projects) will not be blocked. Thus,
the optionality observed in the previous section follows.
The effects of different semantics with respect to global economy will now be
illustrated for constructions in English which involve scrambling across a secondary
predicate. Williams (1980) has shown that predication is possible only ifthe subject c-
commands the predicate it is associated with (compare the condition on thematic
mapping in (9». The consequences of this restriction are clearly visible in Dutch. A
depictive generated lower than the object can be linked to either this DP or to the
subject, but a depictive generated between the object and the subject has to be linked
to the latter (the depictive and its subject appear in boldface):
42 CHAPTER 2
(58) a. dat [Jan [Marie [naakt ontmoette]]]
that John Mary nude met
a'. dat [Jan [Marie [naakt ontmoette]]]
that John Mary nude met
b. dat [Jan [naakt [Marie ontmoette]]]
that John nude Mary met
b'. *dat [Jan [naakt [Marie ontmoette]]]
that John nude Mary met
Interestingly, an English example likeJohn metMary nude is ambiguous between
a subject-orientedand an object-oriented reading ofthe depictive. The subject-oriented
reading is unproblematic, since it is allowed even if the depictive is attached higher
than the object (cf. 59a). The object-oriented reading, however, can only be accounted
for ifthe depictive is attached lower in the tree than the object. This is, in fact, the case
if a VP shell is generated (cf. 59b). The existence of 'scrambling' in English is thus
confirmed (cf. Vanden Wyngaerd 1989).
(59) a.
b.
John [[met Mary] nude]
John met [Mary [tv nude]]
Ifobject-oriented depictives differ from subject-oriented ones in that they require
the generation ofa VP shell, a further prediction is made. Recall that the object in a VP
shell is an exceptionally case-marked specifier, and therefore an island for extraction
(cf. section 5). This implies that depictives in English should block extraction from the
object if they are associated with that DP, but not if they are subject-oriented. The
examples in (60), which are due to Jane Grimshaw (personal communication), show
that this prediction is correct.18
(60) a. Whojdid you [[meet [friends of~]] nude]
a'. ??Whojdid you meet [[friends oft;] [tv nude]]
b. Whoj did John see [friends oftj] without glasses
b' ??Whoj did John see [[friends of~] [tv without glasses]]
c. Whoj did the sheriff lock up [a friend of~] drunk
c'. ??Whoj did the sheriff [lock up] [[a friend oft;] [tv drunk]]
These data support the claim that English, like Dutch, allows adverbials to be generated
either lower or higher than the object. But unlike what is the case in Dutch, these
structures have an identical surface order. The data in (60) show that VP shells are only
formed when necessary to associate the object with a secondary predicate. This is in
line with global economy: the relevant relation affects the semantics of the structure,
and consequently prevents competition with structures without verb movement.
18 As remarked in footnote 15, some speakers accept examples of the type in (60a'). Thus an
anonymous reviewer quotes Which bookdidyoufindcopies o/unsold as grammatical. However,
the same kind of variation is found with extraction from ECM subjects, indirect objects and
objects of particle verbs, suggesting that these constructions indeed form a natural class.
THE OVNO PARAMETER 43
The ungrammaticality of (60a'), etc., cannot be explained by stipulating that
elements out ofwhich movement has taken place are 'incomplete' and hence may not
function as subjects of depictives. In Dutch, depictives can be linked to incomplete
objects without any problem. This is to be expected, since in Dutch no VP shells have
to be generated.19
(61) a. Wa~ heb je [~voor mensen] naakt ontmoet
what have you kind-ofpeople nude met
a'. Wa~ heb je [~ voor mensen] naakt ontmoet
what have you kind-ofpeople nude met
b. Wat; heeft Jan [t; voor mensen] zonder bril gezien
what has John kind-ofpeople without glasses seen
b'. Wa~ heeft Jan [t; voor mensen] zonder bril gezien
what has John kind-ofpeople without glasses seen
c. Watj heeft de sheriff [~voor mensen] dronken opgesloten
what has the sheriffkind-ofpeople drunk up-locked
c'. Wa~ heeft de sheriff[t; voor mensen] dronken opgesloten
what has the sheriffkind-ofpeople drunk up-locked
A final prediction to be discussed in this section concerns PP complements. Ifthe
formation of VP shells is triggered by the English case system, one would expect that
PP scrambling in English has word order effects, just like DP scrambling in Dutch. As
it is irrelevant whether or not PPs are in the government domain of the verb,
'scrambled' PPs should be allowed to surface in positions not adjacent to the verb:
(62) a. V'
V~PP
V~dVP
b. {V AdvP} {PP}
This prediction is correct. English PPs are like Dutch DPs in that they may freely
be separated from the verb by, for instance, manner adverbials:
(63) a. John [[talked to Bill] slowly]
a'. John talked slowly to Bill
b. The director looked at the telegram pensively
b'. The director looked pensively at the telegram
19 As is well known, indefinite DPs resist scrambling on certain readings (cf. De Hoop 1992).
Scrambling of the war voor phrase obviously has to follow this restriction.
44 CHAPTER 2
Pesetsky (1989) observes that extraction from PP complements in examples like
(63a',b') ispossIble,whichisconsistentwiththeclaimthatthevariousordersarebase-generated:
(64) a.
b.
Who; did John talk slowly [to t;]
What; did the director look pensively [at t;]
So far we have argued that the theory sketched in sections 2-4 explains why Dutch
allows adverbials to surface betweenthe object and the verb, whereas English does not.
The reason for this is not that English does not have 'scrambling', but that if an
adverbial is generated lower than the object in English, a VP shell must be projected
in order to license this DP. English differs from Dutch in this respect, since in English
head government takes place in prosodic domains. The same system that explains why
particles must be adjacent to the verb in Dutch but not in English thus explains why
objects must be adjacent to the verb in English but not in Dutch.
The contrast between Dutch and English carries over to a number of other
languages. As predicted by the analysis presented here, there is a strong correlation
between (observable) scrambling and OV order. Obviously, in order to see this, we
must make sure that the verb is in its base position. This is no problem for the
Germanic OV languages (that is, Dutch, German, Frisian and Old English), which
indeed all have (had) the possibility of placing adverbials between an object and the
verb. As far as we know, the same is true for Afrikaans and non-Germanic OV
languages such as Japanese, Korean and Turkish. In Germanic VO languages without
V-to-I (that is, Danish, English, Norwegian and Swedish), the order V-Adv-O is
ungrammatical. This pattern extends to Icelandic ifwe control for the occurrence ofV-
to-I in this language (cf. chapter 3). Again, the generalization also seems to hold for
non-Germanic VO languages (for instance, Berbice Dutch, French and ltalian).20
Our analysis captures this cross-linguistic correlation. Notice, however, that the
relation between OV order and scrambling has a different status than the one between
VO order and case adjacency. OV languages must allow scrambling by logical
necessity. Even if a child is only confronted with adverb-object-verb order, it will
construct a grammar in which the head-government domain is defined syntactically.
For VO languages a more subtle relation was established. Once a child is confronted
with VO evidence, he or she will try to maintain a prosodic defmition of the head-
government domain. Ifhe or she systematically encounters verb-adverb-object orders,
he or she will first try to analyze this input by means ofeither verb movement or object
movement. Only if these attempts fail will the child resort to a syntactic defmition. In
other words, we expect that there will only be a limited class of VO languages that
allow scrambling.
20 See Bayer & Kornfilt 1994 for German, De Haan 1993 for Frisian, Van Kernenade 1987 for
Old English, Ponelis 1993 for Afrikaans, Ueyama 1994 for Japanese, Lee & Santorini 1994 for
Korean, Kornfilt 1990 for Turkish, Giusti 1990 for the mainland Scandinavian languages,
Collins & Thrainsson 1996 for Icelandic, Kouwenberg 1993 for Berbice Dutch, Pollock 1989
for French and Belletti 1990 for Italian.
THE OVNO PARAMETER 45
7. DOUBLE OBJECT CONSTRUCTIONS
Let us now turn to the construction that most clearly challenges the claim that syntactic
structures are flexible. Whereas there was some optionality in the constructions
discussed in the previous sections, the word order in double object constructions in
Dutch and English displays a rigid anti-mirror image effect:
(65) a.
b.
(66) a.
b.
dat Jan zijn vader een boek geeft
that John hisfather a book gives
*dat Jan een boek zijn vader geeft
that John a book hisfather gives
*John gives a book his father
John gives his father a book
In the previous sections, it turned out that an extremely simple analysis ofDutch
couldbe maintained. Since the domain ofhead government in this language (and in OV
languages in general) is larger than that in VO languages, constructions often surface
unaltered when in English VP shells must be generated.
The same seems to be true ofdouble object constructions. These have never been
considered very problematic in Dutch linguistics, because their properties follow from
the simplest possible analysis. One can just assume that both the Goal and the Theme
argument are contained in V', such that the Goal (DPG) c-cornmands the Theme (DPT).
This analysis only differs from the traditional analyses ofBlom & Daalder (1977) and
De Haan (1979) in the labelling of the V'-nodes:
(67) V'
~V'
~
Two remarks are in order. First, the possibility of generating a tree like (67) is
implicit in what we have said above about scrambling. Free word order effects in Dutch
result from objects being generated in different positions within V' (compare the
condition on thematic mapping in (9». If so, it is not surprising that V' may contain
more than one internal argument. Second, the order ofthe objects in (67) is presumably
dictated by a universal thematic hierarchy. Obviously, it depends on the mapping
between thematic structure and syntax which of the hierarchies proposed in the
literature is adopted. We assume that the more prominent a a-role is, the closer the
corresponding argument will be related to the head in syntax. In chapter 5 we will
argue that the closest possible relation is that ofsubject, and consequently the subject
is assigned the highest a-role in the grid. For our present purposes, however, only the
46 CHAPTER 2
Theme and Goal are relevant. If the Theme is more prominent than the Goal, it will
appear closer to the verb (cf. Jackendoff 1990a):21
(68) Thematic Hierarchy
Agent> Theme> Goal
The properties ofdouble object constructions in Dutch follow from the analysis
in (67). As argued by De Haan (1979), the c-command relations in (67) imply that the
indirect object can bind the direct object, but not vice versa:
(69) a. dat ik [Jan [zicbzelftoonde]] (in de spiegel)
that I John himselfshowed in the mirror
b. *dat ik [zicbzelf [Jan toonde]] (in de spiegel)
that I himselfJohn showed in the mirror
It also follows that there is an asymmetry in the formation of idioms. As pointed out
by Eric Hoekstra (1991), many idioms consist of a verb and its Theme argument,
leaving the Goal free, but the opposite does not occur:
(70) a. dat Jan Marie de bons gaf
that John Mary the bang gave
'that John gave Mary the push'
b. dat Jan Marie de waarheid vertelde
that John Mary the truth told
'that John told Mary a few home truths'
c. dat Jan Marie de mantel uitveegde
that John Mary the coat out-wiped
'that John hauled Mary over the coals'
d. dat Jan en Marie elkaar de bal toespelen
that John and Mary each-other the ball to-play
'that John and Mary scratch each other's backs'
If the Theme and the verb form a constituent that excludes the Goal, as in (67), this
asymmetry can be derived from the restriction that idioms, by and large, may not be
discontinuous (cf. Coopmans & Everaert 1988, Van Gestel1992 and others).
Now, what about English? As is well known, the asymmetries in binding and
idiom formation observed in Dutch reappear in English (cf. Barss & Lasnik 1986, E.
Hoekstra 1991). These data and the thematic hierarchy in (68) imply that, even though
English word order suggests otherwise, the Goal must be attached higher than the
Theme:
21 The same structures obtain if c-comrnand relations between arguments directly reflect the
thematic hierarchy of Grimshaw 1990 (Agent> Goal> Theme). In chapter 5 some empirical
differences will be discussed.
(71) a.
b.
(72) a.
b.
c.
d.
THE OVNO PARAMETER
I showed John himself (in the mirror)
*1 showed himself John (in the mirror)
Mary gave John a cold
Max gave linguistics his all
The count gives me the creeps
I gave him the boot
47
The solution for this problem is, of course, that in English a VP shell must be
generated. This is in fact what one would expect given the case system of English.
From what we have claimed so far, it follows that in the double object constructions the
verb must not only govern the case shell of the Theme, but also that of the Goal
argument. For Dutch, this is unproblematic, since the verb's government domain is
defmed syntactically. It is therefore irrelevant that the Theme intervenes between the
verb and the Goal. In English, however, the verb's government domain is defmed
prosodically, and consequently linear intervention of the Theme is fatal.
This explains why the construction in (73), which corresponds most directly with
the structure motivated for Dutch, is ungrammatical. Ifboth objects are generated to
the right of the verb, only the case shell of the Theme can be governed. The
government domain of the verb will be closed after the right XP bracket of this DP,
with the effect that it does not include the Goal:
(73) a. * V'
~-DPG
~
V 0-DPr
b. {V 0-DP} {0-DP}
A grammatical construction will only be derived ifthe Goal is generated to the left
of the verbal projection line. Self attachment and consequent reprojection of the verb
will lead to a structure in which the case shell of the Goal is governed by the moved
verb, and the case shell ofthe Theme by its trace:22
22 The claim that the direct object in (74) is governed by the trace ofthe verb presupposes that
traces are visible at the moment syntactic structures are mapped onto phonological ones. We
have already argued that at the PF interface both syntactic and phonological information is
available and therefore the accessibility oftraces need not surpise us. It is unlikely, however, that
phonological operations beyond the interface are sensitive to empty syntactic positions.
48 CHAPTER 2
(74) a. V'
~vp
~V'
~
tv 0-DPT
b. {V 0-DP} {tv 0-DP}
So, we follow Larson (1988) in arguing that the word order of English double
object constructions canbe reconciled with the c-cornrnand effects observed in (71) and
(72) ifverb movement to the head ofa VP shell is assumed. However, we diverge from
his analysis in several respects. The most important one is that the projection of VP
shells in the present proposal is driven by case theory, rather than by 8-theory. This
implies that VP shells are only present in languages like English, which have a narrow
case checking domain. Double object constructions in languages like Dutch can be
assigned the more straightforward analysis in (67). This is important, since, as far as
we know, there is no argument internal to Dutch that would support a VP shell analysis
for this language.
The analysis ties in with some subtle judgements about English complementizer
deletion. Recall that the empty position created by this operation is subject to the head-
government requirement at PF. This explains why an adjacency effect can be observed
in (75a). The crucial observation now is that no verb-complementizer adjacency is
required in (75b). This follows if a VP shell is indeed projected in double object
constructions, but not in constructions like (75a). The trace left behind by verb
movement governs the deletion site:23
(75) a.
b.
{John} {explained yesterday} {*(that) Bill} {would be absent}
{John} {told everybody} {tv (that) Bill} {would be absent}
A further prediction that follows from the analysis presented so far is that Goal
arguments in English will be islands for extraction. The reason for this is that they are
exceptionally case-marked specifiers, and, as we have shown above, such elements
resist sub-extraction. This prediction is correct:
(76) a.
b.
??Who; did you offer [[a friend of!;] [tva new contract]]
??Who; did you give [[friends of!;] [tv free subscriptions]]
IfDutch differs from English in that no VP shells are projected in double object
constructions, it follows that in this language extraction from Goal arguments is
23 Any theory using Larsonian structures makes a similar prediction if some form of PF
government is adopted. Note, however, that in other theories this type of government is an
additional assumption, while it is also responsible for the distribution ofobjects in the present
proposal.
THE OVNO PARAMETER 49
grammatical (modulo possible intervening factors). Again, this seems to be the case.
For most speakers, including ourselves, the examples below are grammatical:
(77) a. Wa~ heb je [~ voor mensen] een nieuw contract aangeboden
what have you kind-ofpeople a new contract offered
b. Wat; heb je [~ voor mensen] een gratis abonnement gegeven
what have you kind-ofpeople afree subscription given
Another advantage ofonly projecting VP shells when they are required by case
theory is that a more adequate theory ofdative constructions canbe obtained. In dative
constructions the Goal argument is contained in a PP. The analysis ofPP complements
in chapter 4 suggests that the Goal's a-role originates in the preposition, rather than in
the verb. This does not mean that the Goal is unrelated to the verb's 8-grid, but that
this relation is at best an indirect one (see also Marantz 1984).
Since in the dative construction the a-roles assigned to the Goal and the Theme
originate in different heads, the thematic hierarchy in (68) does not impose any order
on them. The E)-roles of a single predicate must be associated with DPs in a specific
order, but there is no reason why this would be so for the E)-roles of different
predicates. It is therefore expected that in principle the Theme and the Goal are freely
ordered in the dative construction.
As the government domain of Dutch is defmed syntactically, this word order
freedom should be observable at the surface. The Goal can be licensed by the
preposition, and in both trees in (78) the Theme can be licensed by the verb. The fact
that a PP intervenes between the Theme and the verb in (78b) is irrelevant for the Dutch
case system.
(78) a.
b.
V'
-------------
PP V'
A ~
P 0-DPG 0-DPT V
V'
~v'
~v
~0-DP'
The data are as expected. The ordering restriction that held for the double object
constructions in (65) is lifted when the Goal is accompanied by the preposition aan:
(79) a. dat ik aan Jan een boek gegeven heb
that I to John a book given have
50 CHAPTER 2
b. dat ik een boek aan Jan gegeven heb
that I a book to John given have
These data are hard to explain if in all constructions in which the verb selects two
complements a VP shell mustbe projected. IfLarson (1988) were right in claiming that
the Theme in the dative construction occupies the specifier ofa VP shell, the order in
(79a) is unaccounted for.
Ofcourse, Larson did not base his analysis of the dative construction on Dutch.
In English, it is indeed the case that the Theme must precede the Goal if the latter is
accompanied by to (cf. 80). This is not very surprising, however, given that maximal
projections that intervene between the verb and a DP block government. So, the 'rigid'
analysis proposed by Larson cannot be extended to Dutch, while the 'flexible' analysis
proposed here captures the data in both languages.
(80) a.
b.
I gave a book to John
*1 gave to John a book
Let us now consider the English dative construction in some more detail. It would
be awkward ifEnglish simply lacked a variant ofthis construction which is attested in
Dutch. Given the way case is licensed in English, there is no need to say so, however.
The construction in which the PP is attached higher than the Theme can be analyzed
straightforwardly. In the English counterpart of the Dutch construction in (78a), the
case shell of the Theme can be licensed by the verb without any difficulties, and the
case shell of the Goal can be licensed by the preposition:
(81) a. V'
--------------
V' PP
~ A
V 0-DPT P 0-DPo
b. {V 0-DP} {P 0-DP}
The English counterpart of(78b) requires some discussion. It will be clear that if
the PP is generated lower than the Theme, and both appear to the right ofthe verb, the
government domain of the verb will not include the Theme. The structure in (82) is
therefore ungrammatical.
THE OVNO PARAMETER 51
(82) a. ... V'
~0-DP'
V PP
A
P 0-DPo
b. {V P 0-DP} {0-DP}
This problem can be solved, however, ifa VP shell is projected. Ifthe Theme is
generated to the left ofthe verb, and the verb undergoes a process ofselfattachment,
a structure is derived in which the Theme c-commands the Goa~ and in which its case
shell can nevertheless be governed:
(83) a. V'
~vp
~V'
~
tv PP
A
P 0-DPo
b. {V 0-DP} {tv P 0-DP}
So, like in the case of scrambling, English has the same array of structures as
Dutch, but whereas hierarchical differences in Dutch are reflected at the surface, the
order in English remains constant.24
The generation of the structure in (83) is of course subject to global economy
conditions. However, there are properties ofthe dative construction that indeed suggest
a structural ambiguity. On the one hand, the Theme argument can bind the Goal (or an
element contained in it). This suggests that in the examples in (84) a VP shell is
present: only then does the Theme c-command the Goal:
(84) a.
b.
c.
I showed [John [tv to himself]] (in the mirror)
I introduced [the teachers [tv to each other]]
I returned [every lost child [tv to its parents]]
24 Pesetsky (1995) also argues that many VP string are structurally ambiguous in English, only
he claims that the 'layered structure' and the 'cascade structure' coexist. It would take us too far
afield to discuss Pesetsky's analysis here. One reason for not adopting it here is that it is unclear
how it can be applied to OV languages like Dutch. The point is that in OV languages the surface
string cannot be assigned a cascade analysis, at least not straightforwardly.
52 CHAPTER 2
On the other hand, the Theme argument and the verb behave as a unit for certain
constituency tests. In do so ellipsis, for example, the PP containing the Goal can be
spelled out while the verb and the Theme are deleted. This suggests that in the
constructions in (85) no VP shell is generated. VP simply has the structure in (81).
(85) a. John [[showed his holiday pictures] to Mary]
and Bill did so to Sue
b. John [[introduced his girlfriend] to Mary]
and Bill did so to Sue
c. John [[returned a lost wallet] to Mary]
and Bill did so to Sue
The data in (85) are in sharp contrast with the example in (86). It seems, then, that do
so ellipsis is indeed sensitive to the presence of VP shells: in double object
constructions the projection of such a shell is the only option. This strengthens the
conclusion drawn above, namely that there is a variant of the dative constructions in
which VP has a simple left-branching structure.
(86) *John showed [Mary [tv his holiday pictures]]
and Bill did so his new swimming suit
The same conclusion can be drawn on the basis of extraction data. As Chris
Wilder (personal communication) points out, the Theme in a dative construction is not
an island for extraction. Since in a VP shell structure the exceptionally case-marked
specifier does resist sub-extraction, a left-branching structure must be assumed for the
examples in (87).
(87) a.
b.
c.
Who; did you [[show [pictures of~]] to your friends]
Who did you [[introduce [a friend of~]] to Mary]
What; did you [[return [a box oft;]] to Paul]
In sum, the syntax ofVPs containing two arguments follows from the assumptions
made in sections 2-4. Since head government in Dutch is insensitive to linear
intervention, word order inthe double objectconstruction is determinedby the thematic
hierarchy only: the Goal must be generated higher that the Theme. In English, the same
restriction holds, but since the head-government domain is narrower, a VP shell must
be projected in order for the Goal to be licensed. The thematic hierarchy plays no role
in the dative construction, and consequently word order is free in Dutch. In English,
word order is constant, but a VP shell is projected ifthe Theme is generated higher in
the tree than the PP containing the Goal. Verb movement is then required in order for
the Theme's case shell to be governed. Note, finally, that a proper analysis ofboth the
double object and the dative construction can be given without invoking stipulations
about inherent case. Both objects are licensed structurally. In chapter 3 we will argue
that this actually is the only option in languages without morphological case.
THE OVNO PARAMETER 53
8. EXCEPTIONAL CASE MARKING
Up to now we have shown that the syntactic checking domain ofDutch is larger than
the phonological checking domain of English, and that therefore Dutch is the more
permissive language. This is not always the case, however. In some constructions, the
phonological domainis actually largerthanthe syntactic one. Exceptionalcasemarking
is an example.
As is well known, the subject of an embedded infmitival clause may be case-
markedby a c-commanding head inEnglish. Thisphenomenon is muchmore restricted
in Dutch. In this language, raising of the embedded verb to the matrix verb (V-to-V
raising) is a prerequisite for exceptional case marking (cf. Reuland 1982).
Consequently, the range ofovert subjects in non-fmite clauses is rather limited. Ofthe
three types of exceptional-case-marking constructions found in English (cf. 88), only
one has a Dutch correlate (cf. 89).
(88) a.
b.
c.
(89) a.
b.
c.
John sees [e-Mary dance the tango]
John expects [e-Mary to read Shakespeare]
John wants very much [for [e-Mary to be appointed]]
dat Jan [e-Marie de tango~] [ziet danseo,]
that John Mary the tango sees dance
*dat Jan [e-Marie~] verwacht [Shakespeare te lezen].
that John Mary expects Shakespeare to read
*dat Jan besluit [om [e-Marie benoemd te worden]]
that John decidesfor Mary appointed to be
In Dutch, the verb governs leftward in syntactically defmed domains. Since a verb
and the subject of its complement do not m-command each other, they will be
contained in different syntactic domains. Consequently, exceptional case marking is
ruled outunless something special happens. Something special indeedhappens inV-to-
V raising constructions. It is traditionally assumed that V-to-V raising unifies the
domains of the embedded verb and the verb it is adjoined to (cf. Evers 1975).2s
Consequently, in (89a) the case shell ofthe embedded subject is governedby the matrix
verb. (89b,c) are ungrammaticalbecause no V-to-V raising, and therefore no extension
2S That head movement extends syntactic domains has been argued at various stages of
generative grammar. In Evers' pre-GB analysis, head movement facilitated pruning; in Baker's
(1988) analysis, the government transparency corollary explains transparency effects; and in
recent minimalist work, such effects follow from the assumption that head movement lifts
minimality barriers. For our present purposes, it is sufficient to say that ifan XP is generated in
the projection ofa head Y and Y moves to a higher head Z, then the m-command domain ofXP
is ZP and not YP. Whatever is the correct view ofclause union, it is uncontroversial that it is a
prerequisite for exceptional case marking in OV languages, as predicted by our analysis.
54 CHAPTER 2
ofthe matrix verb's government domain, takes place. This is, actually, a generalpattern
in OV languages, which reoccurs in Afrikaans, Frisian, German, etc.26
Given the way government is defmed in English, it also follows that in this
language exceptional case marking requires no extension ofthe syntactic domain. As
case is licensed in phonological domains, the matrix verb and exceptionally case-
marked subject should be part of the same prosodic phrase. This turns out to be so.
Although the embedded subject Mary and the matrix verb expect are part ofdifferent
syntactic domains (cf. 90a), they are contained in the same <I> (cf. 90b). Hence, the case
shell ofthe embedded subject is governed.
(90) a.
b.
[John [expects [0-Mary [to leave]]]]
{John} {expects 0-Mary} {to leave}
It is now predicted - correctly - that if an adverbial intervenes between the
embedded subject and the verb, government is blocked, even when that adverbial is
part ofthe complement clause. As shown in (91), intervention ofan adverbial has the
effect that the verb and the embedded subject end up in different prosodic domains.27
(91) a. [John [expects [tomorrow [0-Mary [to leave]]]]]
a'. *{John} {expects tomorrow} {0-Mary} {to leave}
b. [John [expects [0-Mary [to leave tomorrow]]]]]
b'. {John} {expects 0-Mary} {to leave tomorrow}
The pattern found in English extends to other VO languages. If such languages
allow exceptional case marking, they do so without V-to-V raising. This is not to say
that there are no other factors governing exceptional case marking, but among these we
do not fmd verb movement, the factor that determines the well-formedness of
exceptional case marking in OV languages.28
26 See Broekman 1995 and Ponelis 1993 for Afrikaans, De Haan 1993 for Frisian and Evers 1975
for German.
27 The analysis of exceptional case marking constructions common in GB theory is sometimes
rejected on the basis that a matrix adverbial can (marginally) follow the embedded subject. We
do not find this argument very convincing, because infinitival complements are extraposed in
many languages (including Dutch). Ifthis process also takes place in English and ifit strands the
subject in order to facilitate case checking, the required word order is derived:
(i) John [expects [his pupils til] AdvP] [to do their homework]i
28 There are VO-languages inwhich exceptional casemarking is avery limited phenomenon. The
Romance languages are examples. Although exceptional case marking is widespread in
Rumanian (see Rivero 1991 for discussion), it is absent in French and Italian:
(i) Am vrut pe cineva sa citeasca cartea Rumanian
I-have wanted ACC somebody to read book-the
THE OVNO PARAMETER 55
In sum, exceptional case marking constructions demonstrate that the prosodic
domain of government found in VO languages is sometimes larger than the syntactic
domain found in OV languages. The consequence is that, in contrast to the pattern
established so far, VO languages allow a larger range of constructions in which the
embedded subject is spelled out. Thus, it is not the case that the structures allowed in
VO languages form a subset ofthose attested in OV languages (modulo directionality);
both types of languages display a kind of flexibility that does not surface in the other.
9. CONCLUDING REMARKS
As a summary ofwhat has been discussed so far, consider the table in (92) below. This
table indicates in which constructions English word order is the mirror image of that
in Dutch. As expected, anti-mirror image effects typically obtain where reversing the
Dutch order would result in a construction in English in which an XP intervenes
(ii) a.
b.
*Je croyais Jean etre arrive
I believe John be arrived
*Sostengo Gianni essere intelligente
I-believe John be intelligent
French
Italian
As has been observed by Kayne (1981), exceptional case marking is not entirely absent from
French and Italian: if the embedded subject moves to a higher position the structure becomes
grammatical:
(iii) a.
b.
Le gartyon quede croyais t; etre arrive
The boy that I believe be arrived
II ragazzo che; sostengo t; essere intelligente
The boy that I-believe be intelligent
The contrast between (ii) and (iii) can be understood as follows. In French and Italian the
infinitival marker de/di is obligatorily absent in exceptional case marking constructions. Let us
suppose, therefore, that the I-node is empty and hence subject to a PF-licensing constraint which
operates in a way comparable to PF-case checking. Then, the ungrarnmaticality ofthe examples
in (ii) is a consequence of the empty I-node and the matrix verb being contained in different
phonological domains:
(iv) ... {V Subject} {I ...} ...
In (iii) the empty I-node and the matrix verb are not separated by an overt XP, but by a trace.
Suppose that traces, being empty elements, do not trigger <j>-cIosure. Then, the constructions in
(iii) correspond to the following well-formed PF-structure.
(v) ... {Vtl ...} ...
Note that in English and Rumanian the I-node is filled by to and sarespectively, so that the
above-mentioned PF-constraint is satisfied vacuously. Thus, it can be maintained that, modulo
intervening factors (in this case PF-licensing of the empty I-node), exceptional case marking is
available in VO-languages even ifno V-to-V raising takes place.
56 CHAPTER 2
between the verb and an object dependent on it for case. For each construction, we have
indicated in which section it is discussed.
(92) Contrasts and similarities between Dutch and English
Dutch English
Basic order (5.3) DPV VDP
Adverbials (5. I) Adv Adv, V V Adv, Adv
PPs (5. 1) PP PP,V VPP,PP,
Particle constructions (s. I and 5) PP Prt V V Prt PP
*Prt PP V *V PP Prt
DP Prt V V Prt DP
*Prt DP V V DP Prt
Scrambling (s. 6) AdvPDPV VDPAdvP
DPAdvPV *V AdvP DP
Double object constructions (s. 7) DPaDPTV *VDPTDPa
*DPTDP" V V DP"DPT
Dative constructions (s. 7) DPT PPa V *V PPa DPT
PPGDPTV V DPT PPG
Exceptional Case Marking (5. 8) *[DP ...] V V [DP ...]
As the table makes clear, the proposal that head government takes place at PF
does not only explain why OV languages have scrambling and why VO languages do
not. It also derives some intricate other differences between English and Dutch. As a
consequence the parameter relating OV and VO languages has a wide range ofeffects.
It is, in fact, crucial that parameters have this general architecture. Ifparameters
were construction-specific, a theory would result that is not much different from the
rule-based system that parameters were meant to replace. In order to see this, consider
how the number of possible grammars grows with each additional parameter. In
principle no more than twelve binary parameters are needed to generate 4,000 different
grammars (212 = 4096). Even if no two actually existing languages have the same
grammar and if the existing languages form less than one percent of the possible
grammars defmed by UG, no more than 19 parameters have to be assumed (219 =
524,288).
Of course, calculations of this type only have a relative value, but it should be
clear that the more parameters are assumed the fewer predictions are made. Fewer
predictions are made with respect to language typology, since typological
THE OVNO PARAMETER 57
generalizations cannot be captured if every construction is governed by its own
parameter. Fewer predictions are made as well with respect to first language
acquisition, since less knowledge about the target language is implied by setting each
parameter. In addition, Gibson & Wexler (1994) have observed that the setting ofa
parameter is complicated with each extra parameter that is assumed. Thus, an
unconstrained parameter theory may fail to solve the logical problem of language
acquisition.
It seems to us that the OVNO parameter must playa central role in any theory of
word order. It is psychologically realistic in that it can be set on the basis of simple,
positive and frequent evidence. Moreover, the literature suggests that it is set in the
earliest stages of acquisition (cf. Bloom 1970 and De Haan 1987). If the rationale
behind parameter theory is correct, the child should acquire knowledge about other
structures as an automatic result of acquiring basic word order (see Neeleman &
Weerman 1997 for further discussion). The parameter proposed here does indeed have
this overarching character.
As far as we know, the recent literature does not offer other versions of the
OVNO parameter with a similar scope. Consider, for example, Zwart's (1993)
minimalist account of OV and VO order. If one assumes that all languages are VO
underlyingly, as Zwart does, the difference between English and Dutch mustbe derived
through movement: either the object moves leftward over the verb to the specifier
position ofAgrO (giving rise to OV order), or it remains in situ (with VO as a result):
(93) a. Jan zal [ASJ<jP [het boekl AgrO [vp lezen ~]]
John will the book read
b. John will [ASJ<jP _ AgrO [vp read the book]]
At first sight, it appears that this analysis captures the generalization about
scrambling in OV languages: ifadverbials can only adjoin to maximal projections, one
could argue that in (93a) an adverbial can be adjoined between the object and the verb,
namely to VP, while in (93b) adjunction to VP would not lead to a separation ofobject
and verb. On closer inspection, this explanation cannot be maintained. It rests on the
assumption that the verb remains in situ in VO languages. Ifit is moved to AgrO, a VO
language is derived which has an adjunction site between the verb and the object:
(94) John will [ASJ<jP _ [ASJ<j read] [vp tv the book]]
Similarly, ifthe verb moved to AgrO in an OV language, there no longer would be an
adjunction site for adverbials between the object and the verb:
(95) Jan zal [ASJ<jP [het boekl ~SJ<jlezen] [vp tv ~]]
John will the book read
So, in order to account for the correlation between OV order and scrambling on
the one hand, and VO order and case adjacency on the other, it must be stipulated that
the verb never moves to AgrO. This would be an odd result.
58 CHAPTER 2
In Chomsky 1995 AgrO is abolished in favor ofa multiple specifier analysis. In
our view this does not change the heart of the matter. The correlation between
scrambling and the order of object and verb is still difficult to capture. Consider, for
example, the movement ofthe verb to the light verb that is supposed to head the VP
shell uniformly assumed in this framework. It is unclear why this movement cannot
cross an adverbial adjoined to VP, as in (96). Thus case adjacency in.English,yemains
underived (see Chomsky 1995 and Neeleman & Reinhart 1997 for-further discussion).
(96) *John [vp v-read [vp slowly [vp tv the book]]]
Moreover, even if scrambling could be related to a version of the OVNO
parameter in terms ofmovement, the question remains whether the other phenomena
in the table in (92) fmd a natural explanation. The current state of affairs is that each
ofthese phenomena seems to require a separate account.
The most crucial difference between standard minimalist approaches to English
and Dutch and the analysis proposed in this chapter lies in the extent to which the
syntactic system is claimed to be flexible. The analyses just reviewed are highly rigid.
Each a-role is assigned to a unique position (cf. Baker 1988), case is uniformly
checked in spec-head configurations (cf. Chomsky 1995), and complements always
follow the head (cf. Kayne 1994). The price to be paid for this rigidity is that a number
of movement operations must be introduced in order to capture surface word order.
These movements in tum make it difficult to state generalizing restrictions ofthe type
discussed here.
CHAPTER 3
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE
1. INTRODUCTION
Languages differ in the number ofcases that are realized morphologically. This raises
the question whether case systems are the same across languages. GB theory generally
adopts a rigid view: at least the four basic cases (nominative, accusative, dative and
genitive) are universally present, although sometimes not spelled out. In this chapter
we will argue for a more flexible theory, one in whichno language has case distinctions
beyond what is morphologically realized.
We believe that if one takes the issue of leamability seriously, this is the only
tenable position. Suppose the language learner starts out with a system in which no
inflectional distinctions are given. Pinker(1984) has argued that, in such circumstances,
paradigmatic distinctions can only be acquired on the basis of formal differences
between variants of the same word. In the absence of positive evidence of this type,
inflectional distinctions cannot be learned. The only alternative to the resulting flexible
theory is to make the undesirable assumption that any case distinction attested in any
language is given by UG. Were one to argue that only some cases are universal, one
would be confronted with the awkward question of what determines the cut-off point
between cases that are given and cases that have to be acquired.
The two theories of case make different empirical predictions. According to the
rigid theory there is no fundamental difference between languages with and without
morphological case: morphological case is a superficial reflex of universal features.
According to the flexible theory, languages with and without morphological case differ
with respect to their inventory ofsyntactic features. Hence, the flexible theory does, but
the rigid theory does not, predict syntactic effects of morphological case. Let us now
consider how such effects may come about.
In the previous chapter we have argued that every object DP carries a shell that
contains functional information. In languages without morphological case this
information is unspecified, with the result that the head of the case shell counts as an
empty position:
(1) CASEP
~
CASE DP
o
Empty case positions, like other empty categories, must be licensed at PF, given
that issues oflexicalization are most naturally dealt with there. We have argued that the
relevant PF licensing condition is the ECP, which is repeated below from chapter 2.
(2) Empty Category Principle
A non-pronominal empty category must be p......:>perly head-governed.
59
60 CHAPTER 3
Thus, the distribution of objects is restricted to positions in which the ECP can be
satisfied. We have argued that a number ofdifferences between Dutch and English can
be accounted for in these terms.
We may now assume that if a language has morphological case the head of the
case shell is filled (cf. 3). This implies that objects in such languages satisfy the ECP
vacuously, and therefore they will have a freer distribution, at least in principle.
(3) CASEP
C~P
case
A second implication involves the availability of features that characterize the
various cases. As argued, languages without morphological case cannot have such
features. Languages with morphological case, however, may distinguish between
accusative, dative, genitive, etc., depending on the morpho-phonological evidence
available to the language learner. We will argue that such distinctions guide thematic
interpretation, with the result that requirements imposed by the thematic hierarchy can
be overcome. Again, this results in freer word order.
Both properties of morphological case, thus, account for the traditional
observation that richness ofmorphology has syntactic effects (see, for instance, Meillet
1949, 1950). We are not the first to try and incorporate such effects in a generative
framework (see, for instance, Stowell 1981, Manzini 1983, Van Riemsdijk 1983,
Holmberg 1985 and Longobardi 1996). However, whereas earlier attempts basically
stipulate that morphological case is different, the account to be developed here is an
attempt to explain why this is so.
If objects are licensed by a case shell, as assumed throughout, this has
repercussions for the analysis of nominative SUbjects. It follows from what we have
said above that such subjects, at least in languages without morphological case, must
be licensed in a different way than objects. Anticipating the definition of proper
government developed below, we are lead to the conclusion that the subject of a fmite
clause is not properly governed, as it is not governed by the verb. This explains,
amongst other things, why extraction ofsubjects is problematic and can only take place
if additional measures (such as complementizer deletion) are taken (see, for instance,
Lasnik & Saito 1984 and Grimshaw 1997). Not being properly governed, the subject
ofa finite clause may not contain an empty case position. This implies that nominative
subjects are caseless: they simply lack the functional shell in (1).
This conclusion seems to clash with the assumption that the system of thematic
mapping takes functional markers as its syntactic referent. As argued in chapter 1, this
assumption is forced upon us if syntax is truly flexible. Let us assume, then, that the
relation between the subject and VP in a finite clause is identified by a functional
marker on the predicate. In other words, the licensing and interpretation ofobjects must
be distinguished from that of nominative subjects along the lines of (4). Either the
argument or the predicate is marked as such.
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE 61
(4) a. V'
~
DP+MARKER V
b. VP
~
DP VP+MARKER
As will be apparent, dependent marking in (4a) takes the fonn ofa case affix, whereas
head marking usually, but not exclusively, involves an agreement affix.
Unless the grammar oflanguages with morphological case differs radically from
that of languages like Dutch and English, it is to be expected that if a nominative
subject in, say, Middle Dutch or Old English is associated with a fmite VP, it is caseless
as well. The relevant predicational relation is identified through agreement (cf.
Weennan 1989, Kerstens 1993 and Bittner & Hale 1996a).1
The two ways of licensing arguments are captured by the following defmition:
(5) Visibility
A thematic relation between an argument IX and a predicate 1t can be
established if either IX is marked as an argument or 1t is marked as a
predicate.
The approachjust sketched unifies case and agreement at a conceptual level: both
playa comparable role at the LF interface. In this respect the theory we will develop
in this chapter is comparable to standard minimalism, in which case and agreement are
both reflexes of the relation between a head and its specifier. At the same time the
present theory implies a dissociation of case and agreement at an empirical level - a
dissociation that is crucially absent in the minimalist program. We will show that DPs
licensed through case and DPs licensed through agreement indeed behave rather
differently.
There is further typological evidence for the distinction between case and
agreement. Notice that the defmition in (5) actually allows more thanjust the structures
in (4). In principle, a thematic relation between an object and a verb cannot only be
encoded by case, as in (4a), but also by agreement, as in (6a). Similarly, a subject
cannot only be identified by agreement, as in (4b), but also by case. Case must of
course be overt in (6b) in order to satisfy the ECP.
(6) a. V'
~
DP V+MARKER
I The distinction in form between subject and object pronouns is not necessarily represented in
terms of morphological case, as we will argue in chapter 6. Object pronouns are lexically
specified as having a case shell but this case shell is not filled in languages without
morphological case. Consequently, the pronominal systems of modem Dutch and modem
English do not affect the conclusions drawn in this chapter.
62 CHAPTER 3
b. VP
~
DP+MARKER VP
In chapter 6 we will argue that the system ofthematic interpretation must indeed
be such that it allows both the structures in (4) and those in (6). The latter are found in
absolutive-ergative languages. We will see that it is a matter ofparametrization which
ways offunctional marking are available in a language. In this chapter we will abstract
away from such cross-linguistic variation, concentrating on languages that primarily
use the structures in (4).
To sum up, we will argue for the claims in (8), in addition to those defended in
chapter 2. The latter are repeated in (7).
(7) a.
b.
c.
d.
(8) a.
b.
Syntactic trees are flexible.
There is no fixed underlying word order.
Surface order is a function ofextra-syntactic modules.
Unspecified case is subject to PF licensing.
UG defines two ways oflicensing thematic relations: either the argument is
marked as such (case) or the predicate is (agreement).
The universal notion 'case' is not specified unless this is motivated by the
presence of morphological evidence.
We will start by showing how several morphological and syntactic properties of
nominative subjects can be derived from the assumption that nominative subjects are
licensed by agreement, rather than by case. Having made this basic distinction, we will
discuss some syntactic effects of morphological case in section 3. On the basis of
information gathered in sections 2 and 3 a theory of paradigm formation will be
developed in section 4. Such a theory is necessary in order to explain the conditions
under which case affixes count as fillers of a case shell, and thus the conditions under
which morphological case has syntactic effects. The theory ofparadigmformation will
provide an account for the various gradations in which morphology can influence
syntax. We will see that these gradations range from hardly any effects (as in German),
through some effects (as in Icelandic), to the wide-ranging effects observed in older
stages of the Germanic languages. Section 5 contains some concluding remarks.
2. ASYMMETRIES BETWEEN NOMINATIVE AND CASE
Case theory, as introduced in the early eighties (cf. Rouveret & Vergnaud 1980,
Chomsky 1981, Stowell 1981 and others), makes a distinction between structural case
and inherent case. Nominative and accusative are instantiations ofthe former; dative
is an example ofthe latter. In the minimalist program, the parallel between nominative
and accusative is strengthened by the assumption that both cases rely on specifier-head
configurations. Nominative and accusative are checked in AgrSP and AgrOP,
respectively. This view ofthe classificationofnominative, accusative and inherent case
is schematized in (9):
(9)
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE
NOMINATIVE
<SbnJcturalcase<
ACCUSATIVE
Inherent case
63
The theory ofcase shells adopted in this study leads to a different classification.
As argued in the introduction, agreeing subjects do not have a case shell, and this sets
nominative apart from accusative, dative and the other cases, at least in those languages
that use the licensing modes in (4):
(10) NOMINATIVE
< ~ACCUSATIVE
Case
Inherent case
It is not an innovation of the present study that the first division in the system of
functional marking is the one between nominative and the other cases. In fact, this idea
goes back to lakobson (1933/1966), who proposes a very similar theory.
The diagram in (9) predicts that nominative and accusative show a comparable
behavior, which differs from the behaviorofinherent cases. The diagram in (10) makes
the opposite prediction. It predicts the existence of parallels between accusative and
inherent case, while nominative is expected to display a different pattern. As we will
now argue, the classification implied by (10) does more justice to the relevant
morphological and syntactic observations, which are both synchronic and diachronic
in character.
2.1 Agreement
A first asymmetry between nominative (in the sense of (4b» and the other cases
concerns agreement. If there is overt agreement in the languages under discussion, it
is always subject agreement and never object agreement. The Dutch sentences in (11),
for example, show that the subject's person and number features must have the same
value as those encoded on the finite verb. The features of the objects have no such
influence - neither the direct nor the indirect object agrees with the verb.
(11) a. Ik geef/*geeftl*gevenjou dure cadeaus
I give-lST-sGlgive-3RD-SG Igive-PL you expensive presents
b. lij *geef/geeftl*geven mij dure cadeaus
you give-lST-SGlgive-2ND-SG Igive-PL me expensive presents
c. Wij *geef/*geeftlgeven hem een duur cadeau
we give-lsT-SGlgive-2ND-SG Igive-PL him an expensive present
The asymmetry in (11) obviously supports the claim that nominative subjects are
licensed through agreement, while objects must carry a case shell.
These facts may seem trivial, but they are nevertheless embarrassing for theories
ofcase based on specifier-head relationships. In such theories, the licensing ofsubjects
64 CHAPTER 3
and objects are formally identical, and hence any systematic asymmetry in the overt
reflexes of nominative and accusative is unexpected. Why would it be that if any
agreement is spelled out, it is AgrS rather than AgrO?
Despite claims to the contrary, the picture does not really change ifwe turn from
Germanic to Romance. In many Romance languages, there is agreement between
objects and participles, as the Italian and French examples in (12) show. However, this
type ofagreement differs significantly from the agreement between subjects and fmite
verbs.
(12) a. Manuela la ha aperta Italian
Manuela it-SG-FEM has opened-SG-FEM
b. Combien de tables a-t-il repeintes? French
how many tables-PL-FEM has-he repainted-PL-FEM
First, participle agreement does not appear in all circumstances, unlike subject
agreement. Second, as illustrated above, subject agreement is dependentonbothperson
and number features. Although number plays a role in (12), person does not. Instead,
gender features co-determine which affix appears on the participle. Third, object
agreement is never visible on other verbs than participles in Romance. Participles in
tum never show subject agreement. These asymmetries suggest that what is going on
in (12) should not be analyzed on a par with regular verbal agreement. Rather,
participial agreement seems to be an instantiation of the agreement found with
adjectives. Many linguists have argued that participles have adjectival properties, and,
as Drijkoningen (1997) shows, adjectival agreement is also sensitive to gender and
number.
Obviously, the present proposal does not exclude that a language has an
agreement system for objects (although neither Germanic nor Romance entertains this
possibility). In fact, such an agreement system can be an alternative for object
interpretation through case, as pointed out in connection with (6). What is crucial in the
present context, however, is that subjects like those in (11) cannot have an empty case
shell and must therefore be licensed by agreement.
2.2 Case AffIXes
The second asymmetry between nominative (in the sense of (4b» and the other cases
is, in a way, complementary to the onejust discussed. Since nominative subjects do not
carry a case shell, it is expected that they will not be accompanied by an overt case
affix either. In this respect, there should be a paradigmatic contrast between the
nominative on the one hand, and the accusative, the dative, etc., on the other. For the
most part, this prediction seems to be correct. A clear tendency in languages with
morphological case is that the nominative is the bare form. Oft-cited examples are the
first and third declinations singular of classical Latin:2
2 The ablative -a is a long vowel, as opposed to the short final vowel found in the nominative.
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE 65
(13) Classical Latin 'woman' 'consul'
NOMINATIVE femina consul
GENITIVE feminae consulis
DATIVE feminae consuli
ACCUSATIVE feminam consulem
ABLATIVE femina consule
The Middle Dutch paradigm in (14) illustrates the same contrast.
(14) Middle Dutch 'that man'
NOMINATIVE die man
GENITIVE dies mans
DATIVE dienmanne
ACCUSATIVE dienman
Note that the nominative does not only contrast with the accusative, but with the other
cases as well. The accusative, dative, genitive and ablative all have case affixes, as
expected. Only the nominative does not.
Diachronic observations further support our analysis of nominative case.
Obviously, the form that is maintained after the process of case deflexion is the one
without an overt affix. Unless other factors intervene, we therefore predict that the
surviving form is identical to the nominative. After deflexion, this form will be
indistinguishable from case-bearing forms. Thispredictionis correct. InModemDutch,
for example, the form used for both subjects and objects is the top one in (14V
Notwithstanding the evidence in favor ofour proposal, there are some examples
of apparently nominative suffixes. The classical Latin second and fourth declinations
singular come to mind. These do show an asymmetry between nominative and
accusative, but nominative arguments nevertheless carry an affix.
(15) Classical Latin
NOMINATIVE
ACCUSATIVE
'doctor'
medicus
medicum
'fruit'
fructus
fructum
A similar observation can be made with respect to the paradigm ofthe first and second
masculine declensions singular in Modem Icelandic:
3 Forms that were originally accusative can be maintained in two ways. First, as a result of
diachronic reanalysis, an originally accusative suffix may eventually also be attached to subjects
in another quality. In some Dutch dialects, for instance, the case ending -n was reinterpreted as
a gender suffix. In this capacity, it can of course be attached to subjects and objects alike.
Second, ifthe accusative (for reasons to be discussed in section 4.1) lacks an overtaffix, this may
be the surviving form. This is what happened in at least some of the Romance languages.
66 CHAPTER 3
(16) Modern Icelandic 'Olaf 'time'
NOMINATIVE Olafur timi
GENITIVE Olafs tima
DATIVE Olafi tima
ACCUSATIVE Olaf tima
Ifthe nominative is not a case, at least not from a syntactic point ofview, the question
arises how we should analyze suffixes that are traditionally classified as nominative.
It seems to us that the traditional classification of such suffixes lacks sufficient
empirical support. Languages like Icelandic and Latin, and indeed all the other
languages mentioned above, are fusional. Consequently, the affixes in (15) and (16) do
not only refer to case features, but to other properties as well. The suffix -s in (16), for
example, is at least associated with the masculine declension group, the singular and
the genitive:
(17) -s: <masculine declension I, singular, genitive>
The fusional character ofIcelandic implies that the suffix -ur in (16) is also associated
with the singular and the first masculine declension. There is no reason, however, to
assume that it is associated with an additional nominative case feature. It suffices to say
that -ur appears on singular masculine arguments that are not specified for case. In
other words, the classification of -ur may very well be as in (18):
(18) -ur: <masculine declension I, singular>
This classification of -ur suggests that this suffix is a default with respect to the other
endings of the same declension in (16). The latter all contain extra information (in the
form of case features).4
This analysis of alleged nominative affixes makes a strong prediction about
agglutinating languages. Since in such languages there is a one-to-one relation between
affixes and abstract fe;:ltures, we expect nominative endings to be systematicallyabsent.
This prediction is borne out. Consider, for example, the Turkish paradigm for el 'hand':
(19) Modern Turkish 'hand'
SINGULAR NOMINATIVE el
GENITIVE elin
DATIVE ele
ACCUSATIVE eli
ABLATIVE elden
LOCATIVE elde
4 Note that the second masculinedeclension in (16) illustrates the special status ofthe nominative
with respect to the 'genuine' cases. In addition, the first declension shows that within the group
of 'genuine' cases the accusative has a special status with respect to genitive and dative. We will
argue in section 4.1 that it is indeed unmarked with respect to the other cases.
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE 67
PLURAL NOMINATIVE eller
GENITIVE ellerin
DATIVE ellere
ACCUSATIVE elleri
ABLATIVE ellerden
LOCATIVE ellerde
As the paradigm shows, there is a separate plural suffix, namely -ler. In addition, there
are separate suffixes for all cases but one. As predicted, the nominative is the bare
form. Thus, (19) clearly illustrates the basic asymmetry between nominative on the one
hand and accusative, dative, etc., on the other hand.
Like the distribution of agreement, the distribution of case endings cannot be
explained by theories in which features are uniformly checked in specifier-head
configurations. Since the licensing ofnominative and accusative DPs is unified in such
theories, there is no reason why there should be an asymmetry in their morphological
realization.
2.3 Selection
A third asymmetry between nominative (in the sense of(4b» and the other cases has
to do with selection. We have argued that nominative DPs lack the functional
information that is present in DPs bearing accusative, etc. As opposed to the latter, they
do not project a case shell. On the natural assumption that it is impossible to select for
the absence of information, nominative case is predicted to be unselectable. This
prediction holds true, as can be shown on the basis oflanguages with a morphological
case system.
Consider the types of complements selected by lexical categories in such
languages. As is well known, nouns take genitive complements in the Germanic
languages (see section 3.1 for examples). Other cases are available in languages like
Russian, but the nominative never seems to appear (cf. De Wit 1997).
With regard to prepositions, there seem to be two general options. If the PP
expresses a direction, the case that appears on the DP complement is accusative; ifthe
PP receives a more static interpretation, the dative appears. Some Middle Dutch
examples are given in (20).s
(20) a. So quam Brune in die riviere (OZ 64)
thus came Brune in the river-ACC (direction)
b. Bruun die lach in der ryvieren (OZ 64)
Brune who lay in the river-OAT (place)
Ofcourse, there are language-specific exceptions to the generalizationsjustmentioned.
The language acquirer then has to learn that a specific preposition governs a specific
S The codes following the Middle Dutch examples refer to Van Geste!, Nijen Twilhaar, Rinke!
& Weerman 1992 (OZ), Gysseling 1977 (CG), De Bruin 1970 (LD) and Stoett 1923 (ST). Page
numbers are indicated.
68 CHAPTER 3
case. However, even if idiomatic selection is taken into account, there are no
prepositions that select the nominative.
Van Riemsdijk (1983) discusses at length which case is assigned by German
adjectives. He argues that the unmarked case assigned by adjectives is the dative, while
the genitive is available as a marked option (later on we will suggest an alternative
view). Some examples are given below:
(21) a. der seiner Freundin iiberdriissige Student
the his girlfriend-GEN weary student
b. ein ibm ungelaufiges Wort
a him-oAT unfamiliar word
Again, there do not seem to be adjectives in German that select the nominative. The
same is true ofOld English and Middle Dutch (cf. Van Kemenade 1987 and Van Gestel
et a1. 1992).
The general pattern for DP complements of verbs is that they are assigned
accusative when the DP is a direct object, while the dative appears on indirect objects.
As expected, there are idiomatic exceptions to this general pattern. In the Middle Dutch
example in (22) the verb lexically selects a genitive complement.
(22) So bleef se ens soens (OZ 60)
then gave-birth she a son-GEN
Despite the possibility oflexical selection, there are no verbs that select a nominative
complement.6
In conclusion, there are lexical items that select the accusative, the dative or the
genitive, but, as predicted, selection ofa nominative DP seems to be impossible. In line
with what we have argued before, nominative must be contrasted with accusative,
genitive, dative, etc.
2.4 Case Attraction
A fourth asymmetry can be observed when we tum to the (poorly understood)
phenomenon ofcase attraction in relative clauses. The interesting thing about relative
clauses is that case restrictions are imposed by both the matrix and the embedded
predicate (cf. 23). The matrix predicate's requirements typically hold ofthe head ofthe
relative, while the embedded predicate's requirements must be met by the relative
operator (which moves to spec-CP). The head and the relative pronoun are coindexed,
and in some constructions they are even realized by a single lexical item.
6 This does not imply that nominative DPs can only appear as subjects of finite clauses. In
Middle Dutch, for instance, predicative DPs may be nominative. In Icelandic, nominative DPs
can even appear in object position. Although the (limited) circumstances under which this is
allowed require discussion (see footnote 5 in chapter 6), the important thing to notice is that,
even in Icelandic, a verb cannot select for a nominative object.
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE 69
(23) [ ... V .... [DP ... Nj b RELj ••• V ............ ~ ...]]]
LCASE~ LCASE-1
A situation can arise in which the case requirements of the matrix and the embedded
clause are in conflict. It appears that languages employ different strategies in such a
situation. For our purposes, one strategy is ofparticular interest, namely that in which
one case requirement wins out over the other. As a result, the case of the relative
operator either satisfies the requirements ofthe matrix clause or those ofthe embedded
clause.
The effects of the relevant strategy can be observed in Old and Middle High
German. Pittner (1995) shows that in these languages the case assigned to the noun can
be superimposed on the relative operator, but only ifcertain combinations ofcases are
selected. Some examples ofsuccessful case superimposition are given in (24).
(24) • Genitive instead ofnominative
a. daz er [...] alles des verplac des im ze schaden mohte komen
that he all that-GEN abandoned that-GEN him to damage might come
'that he abandoned all that might cause damage to him'
• Dative instead ofnominative
b. thaz iz liuhte allen then in hUse sint
that it shines all-OAT those-OAT in house are
'that it shines on all that are in the house'
• Accusative instead ofnominative
c. unde ne wolden niet besen den mort den do was geschen
and not wanted not see the murder-ACC that-Acc there had
'and (they) did not want to see the murder that had happened'
Pittner describes several asymmetries as to which cases win out in case attraction.
Theseasymmetries reappear in other languages with a morphological case system (see
Kolbing 1872 on Gothic and Harbert 1983 on Anglo-Saxon). For now, we concentrate
on the status ofthe nominative, but we will return to the other cases in section 4.1. The
crucial observation is that the nominative never overrules any other case, while any
case can overrule the nominative.
Although case attraction itself remains mysterious, this is exactly the pattern
predicted by the present proposal. Nominative signals the absence of case features,
rather than their presence. In this sense, it is the default or 'elsewhere' form. If some
restriction is imposed, the form that results from the absence of restrictions will
obviously have to yield. Accusative, dative and genitive will consequently win outover
nominative.
2.5 Acquisition
The acquisition of case morphology provides a fmal illustration of the asymmetry
between nominative and the other cases. Several linguists have observed that in early
stages of acquisition nominative DPs appear where dative and accusative DPs are
expected. Clahsen, Eissenbeiss & Vainikka (1994), for example, argue that German
70 CHAPTER 3
children acquire the overt morphological cases relatively late. Initially, DPs occur in
the nominative, even in contexts that require the accusative or the dative. Some of
Clahsen et a1.'s examples are given in (25):
(25) a. hab der keubeu noch nicht auf (D, 3;0)
have the-NOM cowboy yet not on
b. noch ein fisch malen (J,2;4)
another-NOMfish draw
In (25a), der is used instead of the correct accusative form den; in (25b), ein appears
instead of the accusative einen. Clahsen et a1. claim that the overgeneralizations are
directional in that the nominative replaces accusative and dative, while the reverse
never occurs (we will return to the relation between accusative and dative in section
4.1).
The acquisition pattern can only be captured if case distinctions are learned on
the basis ofobservable morphology. Ifnotions like'accusative' and 'dative' are present
from day one, there is no reason why nominative DPs would predate their accusative
and dative counterparts. Ifthe child initially assumes unspecified case shells, however,
the accusative and dative mustbe acquired, whereas DPs which are nominative in form,
that is, DPs without morphological case, are available from the start.
So, overgeneralizations ofthe nominative can be understood as follows. As long
as accusative and dative are not yet part ofthe child's grammar, case-marked DPs will
have an empty case shell. However, at the surface, a DP with an empty case shell is
identical to a DP without case. Strictly speaking, then, there is no overgeneralization
ofnominative to accusative and dative. Rather, what happens is that a nominal phrase
with an unspecified case shell is used in circumstances where adults would use a
specified shelC
In conclusion, there is ample evidence for an asymmetry between nominative on
the one hand and accusative, dative, etc., on the other. We have presented arguments
on the basis of agreement and case morphology, selection, case attraction and
acquisition. This evidence justifies the claim that nominative DPs are caseless and
interpreted through agreement. Ultimately, then, the data discussed in this section
corroborate the relevance of visibility in the sense of (5). Visibility relies on the
presence of a functional marker on either the predicate or the argument.
3. SYNTACTIC EFFECTS OF MORPHOLOGICAL CASE
As explained in the introduction, the theory of case shells makes two crucial
predictions. First, nominative subjects must be licensed in a different way than DPs
bearing case. Evidence that this is correct has been presented in the previous section.
Second, it is to be expected that DPs with overt case and DPs that have an empty case
shell behave differently. The latter are subject to the ECP and must hence be head-
governed at PF (cf. chapter 2). The former satisfy the ECP vacuously and are therefore
7 The prediction, then, is that the effects of morphological case will be absent in the very first
stages ofacquisition. This seems to be correct, as we will briefly discuss in section 5.
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE 71
expected to have a freer distribution, at least in principle. In other words, we predict
that morphological case has syntactic effects. In the following subsections, we will
show that this prediction is correct.
Before proceeding, we shouldpointoutthat in languages withmorphological case
not each and every case need be spelled out. As often observed, a paradigm may
contain empty affIXes, that is, morphemes that do not have a phonological realization.
AffIXes ofthis type are also crucial to the analysis of, for instance, conversion (cf. Don
1993). It is important to realize that a case affix that is not spelled out is not the same
as an unspecified case shell. DPs with an unspecified case shell do not contain
morphological information; null affixes do, albeitwiththe phonologicalinstruction'do
not spell out'.
The distribution of null affixes is not arbitrary. Recall that according to Pinker
(1984) inflectional distinctions must be leamed on the basis of formal differences
between variants ofthe same word. Pinker derives from this that null affixes can only
be acquired if they are part of a paradigm also containing overt affIXes. Thus, a
language like English cannot be said to have a paradigm filled exclusively with null
affixes. We will briefly discuss the conditions under which spell-out ofaffIXes can be
suppressed in section 4.1.
3.1 Complementation
Not all heads are proper governors. The literature offers several defmitions ofthe set
ofelements that qualify as such. We will assume here that proper head government can
only exist between categories with contrasting categorial features:
(26) Proper Governors
A lexical head (X is a proper governor for 6 ifand only ifthere is a categorial
feature <F> for which (X and 6 have opposite specifications.
The definition in (26) allows us to capture certain typical A-over-A situations (cf.
Chomsky 1968). To give one example, the extraction ofa PP complement out ofa PP
is excluded because prepositions cannot properly govern prepositional gaps. The
extraction ofa DP in a similar context is in principle allowed, however. Contrasts of
this type suggest thatheads (in this case prepositions) should not be classified as proper
governors once and for all. Instead, the inability of proper government must be
contextually defmed.
Ifso, the question arises which heads are proper governors for case shells. Let us
assume that functional heads are underspecified, in that they bear only positive
categorial features. The hypothesis that case shells are nominal in character then leads
to a specification as <+N>, which in turn implies that case shells can be properly
governed by <-N> categories only. This is the required result, since, in terms of GB
theory, prepositions and verbs typically assign abstract case.
One consequence of (26) is that nouns are defective governors for certain
categories. In particular they do not properly govern nominal gaps. This predicts
correctly that argument extraction from DP is in general more problematic than
argument extraction from VP. Although PP complements can be extracted from DPs
72 CHAPTER 3
in certain languages, extraction of DP complements of nouns is impossible. In
Icelandic, for example, post-nominal genitives can neither be topicalized nor
questioned (judgements from Sigga Sigurjonsdottir and Hoskuldur Thniinsson,
personal communication):
(27) a. Jon keypti [mynd pessa heirnspekings]
John bought a portrait this-GEN philosopher-GEN
b. *[pessa heirnspekingsl keypti Jon [mynd ~]
this-GEN philosopher-GEN bought John portrait
c. *[Hva6a heimspekings] keypti Jon [mynd ~]
which-GEN philosopher-GEN bought John a portrait
In addition, ifcomplementizers are <+N>, the ungrammaticality of(28b) can be
understood as an ECP violation (cf. Aoun et al. 1987 and Rizzi 1990). A noun is not
a proper governor for an omitted complementizer:
(28) a.
b.
I believe (that) she is a genius
The belief *(that) she is a genius
The notion of proper governor in (26) allows us to explain a further effect of
morphological case. Note that the observation in (27) can only be made in languages
with morphological case, since only in such languages do nouns take DP complements.
This follows because nouns are not proper governors for nominal categories, and hence
they will be unable to license DPs with an empty case shell. Even though such DPs can
function as complements to verbs, nouns are expected to take only arguments with a
specified case position, a prediction which seems to be correct. In languages without
morphological case, complements ofnouns mustbe PPs. Crucially, they cannotbe DPs,
as illustrated by the Dutch examples in (29) and (30).
(29) a. het huis van de buren
the house ofthe neighbours
b. de vernietiging van Carthago
the destruction ofCarthago
c. het draaien van het wiel
the turning ofthe wheel
(30) a. *het huis de buren
the house the neighbours
b. *de vernietiging Carthago
the destruction Carthago
c. *het draaien het wiel
the turning the wheel
This situation contrasts sharply with that in languages withmorphological case. In such
languages, constructions of the type in (30) are grammatical. In Middle Dutch, for
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE 73
example, complements ofnouns are DPs that appear in the genitive (see Van Es 1938
for extensive discussion):
(31) a. Derste der werelt (OZ 63)
the-first the-GEN world
b. 't drayen des Fortuyns (OZ 63)
the turning the-GEN Fortune-GEN
c. die versakinghe des herten (OZ 80)
the renouncement the-GEN hart-GEN
Van Schayik (1995) and Weerman & De Wit (1998) observe that there is a sharp
decline in the use ofthe genitive in 14th century Middle Dutch. In the same period, a
growing number of post-nominal complements is introduced by the preposition van
'of'. In other words, the construction in (31) has been replaced by the one in (29). Even
in the intermediate stage, there is no trace ofthe construction in (30).
As it turns out, then, the case shell is always filled in complements ofnouns. In
Middle Dutch and other case-marking languages, it contains genitive case features (cf.
32a); in modem Dutch and other languages without morphological case, a functional
preposition is inserted. For concreteness, we will assume that this preposition appears
in the head of the case shell (cf. 32b).8
(32) a. CASEP
~
CASE DP
genitive
b. CASEP
~
CASE DP
van
Since verbs are proper governors for nominal categories, the disappearance ofthe
morphological accusative and dative did not lead to the insertion of functional
prepositions in modem Dutch.9 The insertion offunctional prepositions is a last resort
operation that need not be applied to objects within VP, because the empty case shell
of an object can be licensed without it.
The diachronic evidence just discussed shows that an abstract notion is lost ifthe
corresponding morphology disappears. If this were not so, modem Dutch would still
8 Alternatively van is analyzed as a prepostion that governs the empty case shell of its DP
complement (on a par with other prepositions). We wiII not pursue this option here, since it is
unclear how it differs empirically from the suggestion made in the main text.
9 Obviously, ifVP-shell formation (cf. chapter 2) is blocked in a VO language, the only way of
licensing two internal arguments is by inserting a prepostion. Such a situation may have arisen
in Romance, where the dative was replaced by a preposition after deflexion.
74 CHAPTER 3
have an (abstract) genitive. However, this would leave unexplained why a functional
preposition must be inserted. One could ofcourse argue that the functional preposition
is the abstract genitive, but this begs the question why genitive still has an overt reflex,
while the verbal cases do not. In the present proposal, this follows from the
independently motivated assumption that nouns, in contrast to verbs, are defective
governors for nominal categories.
3.2 va Leakages
In chapter 2, we have argued that syntax determines hierarchical relations butnot linear
order. Complements can in principle be attached to either side ofthe verbal projection,
surface orderbeing the result ofPF licensing conditions. So, both structures in (33) can
be generated in syntax, but at PF (33b) is filtered out in an OV language. The case gap
in this structure is not contained in the verb's head government domain.
(33) a. V'
~
CASEP V
~
CASE DP
(2)
b.· V'
~
V CASEP
~
CASE DP
(2)
This analysis presupposes that head government is leftward in OV languages. Head
government is expected to be directional if it is indeed a PF phenomenon (cf. chapter
2). In addition, some independent empirical evidence can be given for the directionality
ofhead government. Suppose that some complement may usually surface on either side
of the verb, but that a particular order is required if sub-extraction takes place. If the
relevant type of sub-extraction can be argued to be dependent on government by the
verb, this would confirm that government is directional.
Complements of the relevant type indeed exist. It is generally assumed that PP
complements do not need case (cf. chapters 2 and 4). As a consequence, PP
complements are freely ordered with respect to the verb in Dutch. Now, extraction of
so-called R-pronouns out ofPPs must proceed via spec-PP, as argued extensively by
Van Riernsdijk (1978). Since this specifier is not governed by the preposition, the
felicitousness ofextraction depends on whether an external governor is present. As the
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE 75
examples below show, PPs can appear on either side of the verb, but extraction is
possible only if they precede the verb:10
(34) a. Jan heeft de man van het bewijs overtuigd
John has the man ofthe evidence convinced
a'. Jan heeft de man overtuigd van het bewijs
John has the man convinced ofthe evidence
b. Waarj heeft Jan de man [~ van] overtuigd
what has John the man ofconvinced
b'. *Waarj heeft Jan de man overtuigd [~van]
what has John the man convinced of
These data show that the verb governs to the left in Dutch, and thus that government
is directional. It can consequently be maintained that the contrast in (35) has exactly
the same source as the one in (34b,b').
(35) a. Jan heeft [0 de man] overtuigd
John has the man convinced
b. *Jan heeft overtuigd [0 de man]
John has convinced the man
A further prediction concerning the syntactic effects ofmorphological case can
now be made. Since the head ofthe case shell is filled in languages with morphological
case, it is expected that DPs in such languages will behave like PPs in Dutch (although
there may ofcourse be intervening factors). Ofthe structures in (33), one was ruled out
by the ECP. If an OV language has accusative and dative, however, both structures
satisfy the ECP vacuously:
(36) a. V'
~
CASEP V
~
CASE DP
accusative/
dative
10 At first sight, the trace in spec-PP does not appear within the verb's government domain, as
it does not m-command the verb. The same seems to be true of the head of the case phrase.
However, we have argued in chapter 2, footnote 7, that by X-bar theory the properties ofheads
are transferred to their maximal projection, and that this suffices for government. Similarly, we
may assume that, as a result of specifier-head agreement and X-bar theory, the properties of
specifiers may be copied onto the dominating projection. If so, the feature <+R>, which
characterizes R-pronouns, will be present on PP. Consequently, the trace in (34b) satisfies the
ECP. Note that this line of argumentation does not affect our analysis of exceptional case
marking, as we do not view subjects as specifiers (cf. chapter 5).
76 CHAPTER 3
b. V'
~
V CASEP
~
CASE DP
accusative/
dative
This prediction is correct. Middle Dutch was an OV language with morphological
case, and it indeed allowed vaorders. There is extensive literature on this construction
(see Weerrnan 1989 and the references mentioned there), but for our present purposes
it suffices to give the examples in (37).
(37) a. Ic sal senden minen ingel vor dijn anschin (LD 78)
I shall send my-ACC angel before yourface
b. so sagen si liggen kolen op dat oeuer (LD 282)
thus saw they lie coals-ACC on the bank
c. hi soude dorbreken den muur (ST 216)
he would through-break the-ACC wall
Basing herself on an extensive corpus of Dutch from 1300 to 1650, Burridge
(1993) observes that when the word order in (37) gradually disappears, the factor
'weight' becomes more important. This results in the modem Dutch situation, where
DPs can only be extraposed as a result of heavy NP shift. As expected, the
disappearance ofthe order in (37) coincides with the breakdown ofthe morphological
case system.
The same seems to be true of Old English. Old English was arguably an OV
language. Nevertheless, objects can also appear to the right of the verb (cf. Pintzuk &
Kroch 1985, Van Kemenade 1987, Pintzuk 1993 and others). This is expected given
our proposal. It is also expected that with the morphological case system this type of
word order freedom disappears.
Some linguists have argued that the word order freedom of Old English results
from verb movement. Instead ofsaying that the object can be generated to the right of
the verb (cf. 36a), they claim that the verb moves leftward in apparent cases of
extraposition (cf. 38b).
(38) a.
b.
rep C [SUB] [vp V DO]]]
[ep C [SUB] V [vp DO tv]]]
Although a comparable verb movement seems to take place in modem English (cf.
chapter 2), it appears that not all the Old English data can be accounted for in this way.
In order to explain why, we tum to Old English double object constructions, as
described by Koopman (1990, 1993). Koopman went through the Old English
microfiche concordance, looking for verbs that select a dative and accusative object.
This procedure yielded over four thousand sentences that instantiate various
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE 77
combinations of DP extraposition. The table in (39), based on Koopman's results,
indicates how many times certain VO orders appear with full DPs in embedded clauses.
«Vr) stands for 'fmite verb').
(39) a. C ... VfDOIO 70
b. C ... VfIODO 86
c. C ... DOVfIO 42
d. C ... IOVfDO 29
e. C ... VfDOVIO 11
f. C ... VfIOVDO 6
g. C ... VfVDO 10 22
h. C ... VfV 10 DO 38
i. C ... DO V VfIO 2
j. C ... IOVVfDO 5
Four of these constructions, namely the ones in (39a,b) and (39g,h) can be
analyzed in terms of both (38a) and (38b). In all remaining cases, the verb surfaces
between the two objects. This order cannot be explained by saying that the verb moves
out ofVP. Ifcomplements may appear on either side ofthe verb, however, no problems
arise. One object can simply be generated to the left of the verb, and the other to its
right. We conclude, then, that morphological case is indeed responsible for free word
order effects in Old English and Middle Dutch.
Note that, even though arguments need not be governed in languages with
morphological case, government is expected to be relevant to the grarnmar of such
languages. Certain types of sub-extraction, for instance, may be restricted to
constituents within the government domain ofthe verb. That this is indeed so, is shown
by Van den Berg (1983), who argues that extraction from PPs in Middle Dutch, like in
Modem Dutch, is possible only from pre-verbal positions.
How do other theories account for the correlation between word order freedom
and morphological case? GB theory has nothing to say about it, since overt case is just
a superficial reflex of features that are universally present. This makes it hard to
understand why VO leakages are impossible in the modem Germanic OV languages.
In standard minimalist analyses, case morphology may have syntactic effects:
overt case could be 'strong', while abstract case is 'weak'. This, however, cannot
explain the word order freedom observed in Old English and Middle Dutch. Given a
fixed underlying order, free placement of objects must be a result of movement.
However, move a must adhere to the ban on unmotivated movement (cf. (25) in
chapter 2), and its application is therefore suppressed if unnecessary. So, languages
with morphological case may be expected to have a different word order than other
languages, but it should be just as strict.
Although morphological case may lead to freer word order, its presence is not a
sufficient condition for this. Our claim is that free word order must be due to licensing
mechanisms by which the effects ofthe ECP canbe circumvented. This does not imply,
however, that the presence of morphological case guarantees free word order.
Intervening factors may reduce the freedom that is in principle expected.
78 CHAPTER 3
Consider, for example, modem German. Although the situation in Old High
German is very similar to the one in Middle Dutch and Old English (cf. Lenerz 1984),
case endings in modem German do not license VO leakages. After completing our
argumentation for the syntactic influence of morphological case, we will address the
question ofhow the effects ofmorphological case can be neutralized.
3.3 Scrambling across Arguments
Case theory allows indirect and direct objects to surface in either order. In an OV
language like Dutch, the case shells of these arguments can be governed in various
positions within VP, and hence no order is imposed. Nevertheless, (40b) is
ungrammatical.
(40) a. dat de vrouw [vp [0 de mannen] [0 de film] toont]
that the woman the men thefilm shows
b. ojedat de vrouw [vp [0 de film] [0 de mannen] toont]
that the woman thefilm the men shows
The reason for this is that the system which associates arguments with thematic roles
in languages like Dutch and English makes use of the thematic hierarchy in (41),
repeated from chapter 2. This forces the argument closest to the verb to be interpreted
as the Theme. Since this is not the targeted interpretation in (40b), the sentence is
judged ungrammatical.I I
(41) Thematic Hierarchy
Agent> Theme> Goal
Consider now how morphological case relates to this system. Recall that
arguments are made visible through functional markers (cf. 5). In languages like Dutch
and English the relevant markers do not distinguish between the Goal and Theme
arguments and hence interpretation must rely on the thematic hierarchy. As we will
argue directly, however, arguments in languages with morphological case do contain
enough information to identify them as Goal or Theme. This implies that interpretation
need not rely on the thematic hierarchy. The latter, then, can be seen as a general
strategy (that is, an elsewhere condition) that is only called upon when the available
functional markers do not provide sufficient information.
It is traditionally assumed that there is a transparent relation between case
morphology and the various thematic roles. More concretely, iftwo internal 9-roles are
assigned at LF, dative case guides the system towards an interpretation as Goal, and
accusative case towards an interpretation as Theme. If this kind of information is
present, the association of arguments and 9-roles need not rely on the thematic
hierarchy. and other orders than those prescribed by (41) can surface. In other words,
languages with a transparent case system should allow 'scrambling across arguments'.
II See chapter 5 for the realization of the Agent. This is irrelevant here.
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE 79
This predictionis borne out. Contrary to what canbe observed in Dutch, the direct
object may precede the indirect object in German double object constructions (cf.
Lenerz 1977):
(42) a. Dass die Frau den Miinnem den Film zeigt
that the woman the men-OAT thefilm-AcC shows
b. Dass die Frau den Film den Mlinnem zeigt
that the woman thefilm-ACC the men-OAT shows
The same word order freedom is found in Middle Dutch and Old English. Some
examples from 13th century Middle Dutch prose texts are given in (43) (see Van Gestel
et al. 1992 for some discussion).
(43) a. so ghelove ic [...] den Grave die lettren [...] weder te ghevene (CG 1760)
thus promise I the count the letters back to give
b. [...] ic mine lettren [...] den vorseiden hospitale hebbe ghegheuven (CG 89)
I my letters the above-mentioned hospital have given
c. sal dan v vader ... nit gheuen goede ghichten den ghenen die hem bidden?
(LD 50)
will then yourfather not give good gifts-ACC those-OAT that
him ask
d. om te geuene sinen volke ene leeringe van harre
salegheit (LD 12)
to give his people-oAT a teaching-AcC oftheir salvation
(43a) shows that the indirect object may precede the direct object; (43b) show that the
reverse order is possible as well. The same freedom exists post-verbally, as can be seen
in (43c,d). As far as we know, the strict order found in modem Dutch is introduced
when the morphological case system breaks down and the dative disappears.
ForOld English, the word order in double objectconstructions has been described
in much more detail than for Middle Dutch. Koopman's (1990, 1993) studies are
relevant again. His procedure, sketched in the previous section, yielded 340 sentences
in which two full object DPs appear pre-verbally. As expected, the objects appear in
either order. In Koopman's example in (44a), the Goal precedes the Theme, while the
reverse can be observed in (44b).
(44) a. pret ge Ongolpeode retgredre mid us Drihtnes word bodige
that you the-English-oAT together with us God's word-ACC preach
'that you will preach God's word together with us to the English'
b. Ac gif we pa mirran gode gastlice geoffriaO
but ifwe then myrrh-ACC God-OAT spiritually offer
'but if we offer myrrh to God spiritually'
According to Koopman, the two orders have the following distribution:
80
(45) DATIVE-ACCUSATIVE
203 (60%)
CHAPTER 3
ACCUSATIVE-DATIVE
137 (40%) n=340
So, like in Gennan and Middle Dutch, there is word order freedom in Old English
double object constructions. And like in Middle Dutch, only the orderprescribed by the
thematic hierarchy survives when morphological case is lost.
Two further predictions are made. First, languages without morphological case
should allow scrambling across arguments if the thematic hierarchy imposes no
particular order. As we have argued in chapter I, this prediction is correct. If two
arguments receive their e-roles from different heads, the thematic hierarchy does not
come into play, and hence free word order effects are to be expected. This explains the
contrast between double object constructions with and without a preposition (cf. (46);
see chapters 2 and 4 for further discussion).
(46) a. dat de vrouw aan de mannen de film toont
that the woman to the men thefilm shows
b. dat de vrouw de film aan de mannen toont
that the woman thefilm to the men shows
Second, languages with morphological case should have strict word order ifcase
cannot guide thematic interpretation. This prediction is also borne out. There are, for
example, verbs in Gennan that select two accusative objects. Obviously, case cannot
regulate the assignment ofe-roles in such circumstances, and hence the interpretational
system must rely on the thematic hierarchy. The result is that double accusative verbs
do not allow scrambling across arguments (cf. (47); see chapter 4, footnote 13, for
some discussion of verbs that select a special case).
(47) a. dass der Lehrer die Schiller diese Sprache lehrt
that the teacher the pupils-ACC this-ACC language teaches
b. *dass der Lehrer diese Sprache die Schiller lehrt
that the teacher this-ACC language the pupilS-ACC teaches
As before, the data discussed in this section are hard to understand if
morphological case is just a spell-out ofuniversal notions. Such a theory would, in fact,
predict that Dutch, like Gennan, allows scrambling across arguments. The data are also
hard to understand in standard minimalist approaches. The order of arguments in the
functional part of the structure is determined by conditions on movement (such as
equidistance) and therefore scrambling across arguments should be ruled out
irrespective of the presence ofmorphological case.
3.4 Quirky Subjects
Up to now, we have focussed on the licensing of arguments through case. However,
arguments can also be licensed through agreement. In the languages under discussion,
agreement is predominantly used for the licensing ofsubjects. In fact, licensing through
agreement is often the only option for subjects. Subjects offmite clauses, in particular,
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE 81
are not governed by the verb and hence the projection of an empty case shell is not
possible.
This does not mean that subjects can neverbe licensed through case. First, ifthere
is an external governor, as in ECM constructions, this facilitates the projection of an
empty case shell (cf. chapter 2). Second, if a language has morphological case, this,
instead of agreement, can be used to license the subject. A case shell that does not
contain an empty position can appear in subjectposition without violating the ECP. We
thus predict that in languages with morphological case there may be constructions in
which the subject is case-marked and does not agree with the verb (giving rise to a
structure like (6b». In languages without morphological case, such constructions
should be absent. There, subjects offInite sentences must always show agreement.
This predictionseems to be correct. The subjects in (48) do not trigger agreement.
They are plural, while the verb appears in the default third person singular. The fact
that the sentences are nevertheless grammatical shows that dative and accusative case
on the subject can indeed have a licensing function. (That the relevant DPs are subjects
is shown by a number oftests, see Zaenen, Maling & 1'hniinsson 1985 and Weerrnan
1988).
(48) a. Doe gedachte den Sassen der scaden Middle Dutch
then thought the Saxons-OAT the damage-GEN
b. Strakunum leiddist f sk6lann Icelandic
the bOYS-OAT got bored in the school
c. Strakana vanta~ f sk6lann Icelandic
the boyS-ACC lacked in the school
Languages without morphological case do not have a counterpart of the
constructions in (48). Agreement is obligatory in the Dutch examples below:
(49) a. Toen dachten de Saksen over de schade na
then thought-PL the Saxons about the damage PRT
a'. *Toen dacht de Saksen over de schade na
then thought-3RD-sG the Saxons about the damage PRT
b. De jongens verveelden zich op school
the boys bored-PL REFL at school
b'. *De jongens verveelde zich op school
the boys bored-so REFL at school
c. De jongens ontbraken op school
the boys lacked-PL at school
c'. *De jongens ontbrak op school
the boys lacked-SG at school
This contrast is unexpected ifmorphological case is just a superfIcial reflex offeatures
that are universally present. The assumption that dative and accusative case exist in
languages that lack the related morphology makes it hard to explain the distribution of
82 CHAPTER 3
quirky subjects. On that assumption, dative and accusative should be available to
license the non-agreeing subjects in (49).
Again, a diachronic prediction is made. At the same time that morphological case
disappears from a language, quirky subjects should disappear. There can be no
intervening stage in which the ungrammatical constructions in (49) are allowed. If
morphological case disappears, all case shells contain a gap, and hence they can no
longer appear in subject position. Subjects of fmite sentences must consequently be
interpreted through agreement. As far as we know, this prediction is correct. When the
case system collapses in the history Dutch, quirky subjects are no longer attested,
except for a few lexicalized cases (see Weerman 1988 for discussion).
It is important to observe that case blocks agreement in (48). Agreement with
quirky subjects is not only unnecessary, but actually impossible. This suggests that
thematic relations with a DP can be marked only once, a condition to which we will
retum in chapter 6. If so, an independent argument can be given for the claim that
nominative subjects do not carry a case shell. Since nominative DPs agree withthe verb
in fmite clauses, the presence ofcase would violate the condition just mentioned. The
alleged nominative suffixes in languages like Icelandic must indeed be seen as the
result offusional inflection, given that nominative subjects agree with the verb.
Although the existence of quirky subjects is clearly tied to the presence of
morphological case, the relation between the two is not as direct as one might think. Of
the quirky subjects that existed in the older stages ofGerman, for example, only a few
lexicalized cases remain today. And whether these really are subjects is controversial
(cf. Zaenen et al. 1985). It is remarkable that modem German also does not allow VO
leakages, as already mentioned in section 3.2. These two facts suggest that the case
endings of German are somehow not strong enough to identify the head of the case
shell. Hence, DPs, even though they bear case, have to be governed. We will argue, in
section 4.2, that this follows from the way in which the German case system is
organized.
4. TOWARD A THEORY OF CASE FEATURES
Thus far, we have given evidence for two claims. The flrst is that there is an asymmetry
between the nominative (in the sense of(4b» and the other cases: the nominative is a
bare DP, whereas the other cases are expressed by a case shell. Our second claim is that
the presence ofcase features has syntactic effects. Case affixes flll the head ofthe case
shell and thus their presence makes it possible to satisfy the ECP vacuously. This
explains why languages with relatively free word order typically have a rich
morphological case system. In the absence ofmorphological case, word order is rigid
since objects must appear in governed positions.
However, as mentioned before, not all morphological case systems allow free
word order. Apparently, arguments must sometimes be identifled both structurally and
morphologically. In our analysis, this would meanthatmorphological case fllls the case
shell, but is sometimes not rich enough to flll it completely. This suggests that not any
kind ofinformation expressed in the morphological paradigm is relevant to the content
ofthe case shell. Certain types ofinformation must be present and it may be that these
are not provided by morphology.
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE 83
What this implies is that a distinction should be made between the syntactic
information in the case shell and the information encoded in the morphological
paradigm (which is expressed by case affixes). Certain features mustbe present on the
case shell in order for the mapping from syntax to semantics to proceed successfully.
The case affixes in DP may support these features, but not in all languages.
The idea of morphology supporting syntactic features can be implemented by
saying that the features in the case shell are unspecified and that a value for them is
provided by the morphological information in DP. This is depicted in (50), where the
Greek alphabet is used to indicate unspecified feature values.
(50) CASEP
~
CASE DP
<a.A>
<fiB>
<+A>
<-B>
The procedure by which the case features in DP are matched with those in the case
shell is probably identical to the procedure responsible for the agreement between D
and N (in gender and number) and C and V (in fmiteness features, see Adger and Quer
1997 for some discussion). Several analyses of head-head agreement in extended
projections have been proposed. As far as we can see, the question which one is correct
does not bear on the present proposal.
If, by the relevant procedure, the case affixes in DP provide a value for all features
in the case shell, the case shell counts as 'filled'. It satisfies the ECP vacuously, and as
a result the argument that hosts it may appear in ungoverned positions. However, not
all languages have a case paradigm that is rich enough to support all features in the case
shell. If no morphological case is present at all, to take an extreme example, none of
the features in the case shell can be assigned a value. The consequence is that the case
shell counts as 'empty' and must be governed in order to survive at PF:
(51) CASEP
~
CASE DP
<a.A>
<fiB>
Other languages may have a paradigm that lacks certain features, or that expresses
other features than those present in the case shell. In such circumstances, not all
features in the case shell can be assigned a value, and consequently the case shell again
counts as empty. In both (52a) and (52b), <fiB> remains unspecified, due to the
absence ofa corresponding morphological feature. Therefore, the ECP requires thatthe
arguments in (52) appear in a governed position, despite the presence of case affixes.
84
(52) a. CASEP
~
CASE DP
<aA>
<fiB>
<+A>
b. CASEP
~
CASE DP
<aA>
<fiB>
<+A>
<-C>
CHAPTER 3
In this section, we will develop the theory sketched above in some detail. In order
to do so, we must first gain more insight into the organization of morphological
paradigms. We must also detennine which (unspecified) features are present in the case
shell. As we will argue in section 4.1, both questions can be answered by considering
the case system of languages that display free word order effects. Having done so, we
tum to languages in which morphological case and rigid word order are unexpectedly
combined. In sections 4.2 and 4.3, we will show how peculiarities in the paradigms of
these languages are responsible for this.
4.1 The Organization o/Case Paradigms
In section 2, we have argued that the nominative is the default with respect to the other
cases, in the sense that it encodes less infonnation. The nominative is the bare fonn,
whereas the other cases are at least positively specified for some case feature. In the
same vein, it can be argued that accusative contains the least infonnation of the
remaining cases, so that it is the default with respect to dative and genitive.
The unmarked status of the accusative is corroborated by the observation that
dative and genitive can only appear on direct objects if the verb idiomatically selects
them. Ifno selectional restrictions are imposed, it is always the accusative that appears.
On the assumption that the insertion of marked categories is dispreferred, this implies
that accusative is the default case.
This conclusion is strengthened by several observations. First, if a direct object
is promoted in passive constructions, its case usually changes from the accusative to
the nominative. If the direct object bears dative or genitive, however, this case is
maintained under passivization, as illustrated by the Icelandic examples below (cf.
Zaenen et al. 1985).
(53) a. E.g hjalpa3i peim
I helped them-DAT
a'. peim var hjalpa3
them-DAT was helped
b. E.g mun sakna hennar
I will miss her-GEN
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE
b'. Hennar var sakna6
her-GEN was missed
85
The contrast between accusative and the other cases with respect to passivization can
be accounted for ifthe accusative appears by default, while the dative and the genitive
contain extra information that must be maintained if selected.
This conclusion is corroborated by the phenomenon ofcase attraction (cf. section
2.4). A relative operator is subject to case restrictions imposed by the relative as well
as the matrix clause. As we have shown, a nominative assigned in the relative clause
is overruled if accusative is assigned by the matrix verb. This indicates that the
nominative is the defaultwith respectto accusative case. Similarly, the accusative must
be the defaultwith respect to genitive, given that a genitive assignedby the matrix verb
overrules an accusative assigned in the relative clause, but not the other way around.
An example from Old High German is given below (cf. Pittner 1995):
(54) Do sagete er Parziwale danc prises des erwarp sin hant
there said he Parsivai thanks prize-GEN that-GEN acquired his hand
'He thanked Parsivai for the price that he acquired'
So, both the dative and the genitive are marked with respect to the accusative; they
encode extra information.
Language acquisition provides a further argument for the unmarked status ofthe
accusative. We have argued in section 2.5 that the nominative must be the default since
it is overgeneralized to accusative and dative contexts. Ifthis argument is correct, the
accusative must be the default with respect to the dative, because children
overgeneralize the accusative to dative contexts. In German examples in (55), for
instance, the indirect object appears in the accusative (cf. Tracy 1984 and Clahsen et
al. 1994). Adults would use the dative forms der Frau 'the woman' and dem Kind 'the
child' here.
(55) a. Der Mann erziihlt die Frau eine Geschichte (c. 3;6)
the man tells the-ACC woman a-ACC tale
b. Die Mutter erziihlt das Kind die Geschichte (C. 3;6)
the mother tells the-ACC child a-ACC tale
To be more precise, we can explain that overgeneralization is always from the
nominative to the accusative and from the accusative to the dative as follows. At first,
the child assumes that the case shell is not specified, so that nominative and case-
marked DPs have a similar surface form (cf. section 2.5). Ifconfronted with overt case
markings, the primary assumption is that case is minimally specified: only unmarked
case is used. Only when the input contains sufficient evidence for fmer-grained
distinctions will children distinguish unmarked from marked cases, and thus introduce
the dative into their system.
A final argument for the unmarked status of the accusative can be based on a
pattern often found in paradigms. In section 2.2, we have shown that the nominative
86 CHAPTER 3
is the bare form, while the other cases are usually expressed by suffixes. However, if
one of these cases is not expressed overtly, it is the accusative, rather than the dative
or the genitive. This tendency can be observed most clearly when the diachronic
process ofdeflexion takes place. When case affixes disappear, the accusative ones are
the first to go, as illustrated by the Middle Dutch paradigms for feminine and neuter
words (singular) in (56).
(56) Middle Dutch 'the gift' 'the bread'
NOMINATIVE die gift datbrood
GENITIVE dier gifte dies bro(0 )d(e)s
DATIVE dier gifte dien bro(0 )d(e)s
ACCUSATIVE die gift dat brood
The pattern in (56) reappears in many other languages. Examples are found in the Latin
plural, and we conclude on the basis ofVan Kemenade 1987: 102-103 that the absence
of accusative affixes is also typical ofseveral Old English paradigms.
The pattern in (56) can be understood ifthe accusative is indeed unmarked with
respect to the dative and the genitive. We assume that marked cases, such as the dative
and the genitive, can only be acquired on the basis of overt evidence. This is not true
for unmarked case. The point is that the presence of marked cases implies that an
unmarked case exists. The existence ofan unmarked case does not have the implication
that marked cases exist, however. So, ifonly some cases are spelled out, these must be
the marked ones. If only the default is overt, only the default is acquired.
We conclude that, just as the nominative is the default with respect to the other
cases, the accusative is the default with respect to dative and genitive. Our fmdings so
far are summarized by the tree in (57), where every mother node indicates which ofits
daughters is the default mode of marking arguments.
(57) NOMINATIVE
NOMINATIVE< <ACCUSATIVE
ACCUSATIVE
DATIVE, GENITIVE
Two remarks are in order here. First, the claim that the accusative will
automatically be acquired if dative and genitive affixes are present has some
typological repercussions. Obviously, languages with a dative and a genitive should
also have an accusative. The reverse is not true, however. Languages can have an
accusative withouthaving a dative or a genitive. In such languages all non-nominatives
are marked by the same affix. As can be concluded from Blake 1994, languages ofthis
type indeed exist, while there are no languages that have a dative or genitive but no
accusative.
Second, there is a cross-linguistic trend for nominative and accusative forms to
be identical. This identity in form is too persistent to be coincidental, and hence it is
sometimes used to argue that the nominative and the accusative should be grouped
together as the structural cases (the dative and the genitive are then classified as
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE 87
inherent). Such a classification is only possible ifthe evidence presented in section 2
is ignored, however. In the theory proposed here, the existence ofthe above-mentioned
trend follows from the claim that accusative need not be overt ifdative case exists. The
nominative is the bare form (cf. 58a), and therefore its surface form will be identical
to that ofthe accusative ifthis case is not spelled out (cf. 58b).
(58) a.
b.
ROOT
[[ROOT] ACC]
The prediction, then, is that the trend thatnominative and accusative forms are identical
is the result ofneither bearing an overt affix. Indeed, this is the typical pattern.
Let us now consider how the information summarized in (57) is encoded in a
paradigm, assuming a case system sufficiently rich to allow the various effects of
morphological case discussed earlier (we will return to languages that do not show all
ofthese effects in sections 4.2 and 4.3). Recall that, in our view, marked cases contain
extra information with respect to their unmarked counterparts. We take this to mean
that every marked case is positively specified for a feature. Negative feature values are
reserved for the default:
(59) Paradigmatic Markedness
If a feature <F> structures a paradigm, <+F> is the marked feature value.
With respect to the tree expressing default relations in (57), paradigmatic
markedness implies that two features must structure the paradigm hosting case affixes.
Dative and genitive must each be positively marked for a feature which is present in
its negative form on accusative affixes. On the assumption that the language learner
employs a conservative strategy when constructing paradigms, two features are the
maximum that a four-way case system ala (57) can give rise to.
We will call the feature that distinguishes dative from accusative case <+MAR>
for 'marked role'. This feature expresses that dative arguments are typically associated
with a thematic role that is marked with respect to the thematic role usually assigned
in the domain in question. Thus, according to the thematic hierarchy Goals are marked
with respect to Themes, and hence it is the Goal that appears in the dative in VP. We
will call the feature that distinguishes genitive from accusative <+NOP> (for 'nominal
predicate'). This feature expresses that genitive case is typically realized in projections
ofnouns and adjectives, that is, projections specified as <+N>. In contrast, accusative
is typically assigned by verbs and prepositions, that is, <-N> categories.
How does the language acquirercombine these features into a paradigm? The case
distinction that can be learned on the basis ofthe most straightforward input is the one
between dative and accusative. The reason is that dative and accusative productively
occur together in the same context, namely VP. Genitive and accusative, on the other
hand, do not show up in the same context, and consequently the acquisition of the
feature that distinguishes themrequires comparison ofdifferentstructures (VP and NP).
Thus, the initial paradigm construed by the child will be that in (60).
88 CHAPTER 3
(60)
-MAR Accusative
+ MAR Dative
The paradigm in (60) provides a stepping stone for the construction ofa paradigm
that fully corresponds to the tree in (57). Once the child has concluded that there must
be a feature distinguishing genitive and accusative, it must extend the paradigm in (60)
by introducing a second dimension, based on <NOP>. At fIrst sight, one may expectthat
this will lead to the paradigm in (61).
(61)
-NOP +NOP
-MAR Accusative Genitive
+ MAR Dative
For two reasons (61) is not the paradigm the child will construct. First, it contains an
empty cell, and ifinformation is to be stored in a maximally effIcient way empty cells
cannot be tolerated. Moreover, with (61) the child would introduce a hypothesis about
dative case for which he or she fmds no motivation in the data, namely that dative only
occurs in non-nominal contexts. If the child instead employs a conservative learning
strategy, he or she will assume the paradigm in (62).
(62)
-NOP +NOP
-MAR Accusative Genitive
+ MAR Dative
In this paradigm there is no empty cell. Moreover, it does not introduce a new
hypothesis about the distribution ofdative case. In fact, it correctly predicts that dative
case can appear in nominal as well as non-nominal contexts.
Ofcourse, wherever dative appears there must be a reason for inserting this case,
although the reason need not be the same for all categories. Many prepositions, for
instance, take either dative or accusative case, depending on whether they express a
location or a direction (cf. 20). This can be understood if direction is the primitive
notion expressed by prepositions, whereas location is a notion derived through
application of a semantic rule. Ifso, the locational role is marked with respect to the
directional one, and hence it will be marked by dative. This line ofreasoning extends
to projections headed by adjectives and nouns. Since these categories are <+N>,
insertion of the genitive is the default. The dative is again the marked case, as it has
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE 89
both <+MAR> and <+NOP> in the relevant contexts. We believe that insertion ofdative
DPs must indeed be triggered in AP and NP, but we cannot pursue this issue any
further here. Instead we will focus on what happens in VP.
We assume that in general maximal unmarkedness is the main criterion in
selecting forms from the lexicon. The distribution of cases in extended verbal
projections largely follows from this. In languages that have only the structures in (4),
agreement is not available VP~intemally. Therefore, if the verb takes only a single
object, it will appear in the default case, namely the accusative. If two arguments are
present in VP they will bear dative and accusative, dative being the most appropriate
marked case. Consequently, the genitive will neverbe used as a 'structural' case within
VP, but only as a case that is idiomatically selected.
Since agreement is available VP-extemally in [mite contexts, the subjectneed not
be licensed through case; it will appear in the nominative. When agreement is not
available, as in ECM constructions, the subject will appear in the accusative, this being
the unmarked case. Like objects, subjects can be licensed by a marked case if such a
case is idiomatically selected. This gives rise to quirky subjects, as discussed in section
3.4.
The system of case distribution described above has the consequence that the
number ofselected cases is reduced. In particular, it is no longer necessary to say that
every double object verb lexically selects a dative for its secondary argument. Only
'unexpected' cases must be listed in the lexicon. So, ifa verb appears with a genitive,
this case must be selected; if it appears with two accusatives, only the second is
selected.
As remarked in the introduction to this section, we assume that morphological
case 'fills' the case shell ifthe features encoded by it specify those present on the case
shell. If a language displays syntactic effects of morphological case, the features
contained in case shells must be a subset ofthe features encoded in its morphology. We
propose that case shells are uniformly marked <a:NOP>. The presence ofthis feature is
the minimal way of satisfying the visibility condition in (5). It marks an argument as
such, given that it identifies the categorial make-up of the predicate with which it is
combined. Thus, in order to fulfil its argument-marking function, a case shell must
minimally be a projection of<a:NOP>.
As opposed to the feature <a:NOP>, the presence of <6MAR> on a case shell
depends on the context in which it appears. Since verbs can in principle take more than
one object, <6MAR> must be present on case shells located within VP. This feature
allows the system of thematic association to distinguish between direct and indirect
objects. <6MAR> need not be present on subjects licensed by case, since VP, like all
predicates, is necessarily monadic: it can take only a single argument. Such case shells
therefore only contain <a:NOP>.
The consequences of these assumptions can be illustrated by considering the
representation of arguments in languages that display all syntactic effects of
morphological case. An accusative direct object can be represented as in (63a). The
accusative case present on DP makes it possible to specify the features ofthe case shell
as <-NOP, -MAR>. A dative indirect object can be represented as in (63b), where the
morphology provides the case shell with a <-NOP, +MAR> specification. Finally, a
90 CHAPTER 3
dative quirky subject can be represented as in (63c). This time, case morphology is only
used to specify <CXNOP>. The DP also carries a <+MAR> feature, but this is harmless
additional information.
(63) a. Prototypical direct object (accusative)
CASEP
~
CASE DP
<CXNOP>
<6MAR>
<-NOP>
<-MAR>
b. Prototypical indirect object (dative)
CASEP
~
CASE DP
<CXNOP>
<6MAR>
<-NOP>
<+MAR>
c. Prototypical quirky subject (dative)
~
CASE DP
<CXNOP> <-NOP>
<+MAR>
To sum up, case paradigms are organized in terms of features expressing
markedness relations, that is, relations between default and non-default cases. Some of
the features encoded in the paradigm are also present on case shells, albeit in an
unspecified form. Ifa value for these features is provided by the morphology, the case
shell counts as 'filled' and hence satisfies the ECP vacuously. If one or more features
remain unspecified, the case shell counts as an empty category and may therefore
appear in governed positions only. We thus predict that ifa language does not display
the effects of morphological case, this must be due to the absence of one or more
crucial features from its case paradigm. We will now argue that crucial features are
indeed absent in German and Icelandic.12
12 It is sometimes suggested that possible and impossible case syncretisms are implied by the
organization of the paradigm. Syncretism would be the result of a union of two cells, much in
the way we analyze dative case. This is not the only manner in which syncretism can come about,
however. We have already seen that nominative and accusative have the same form if the
accusative is not spelled out. Syncretisms can also be the result ofgeneralizations conceming the
realization ofdifferent cases. In the system at hand, dative-genitive syncretism, for instance, can
be understood as the result of one form being used to express those cases characterized by a
positive feature, whether <+MAR> or <+NOP>.
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE 91
4.2 Morphological Case in German
Gennan is a language with morphological case, but, as we have shown in sections 3.2
and 3.4, it does not display all related syntactic effects. What is allowed, due to the
presence ofmorphological case, is intra-argumental scrambling:
(64) a. dass die Frau den Miinnern den Film zeigt
that the woman the men-OAT thefilm-AcC shows
b. dass die Frau den Film den Miinnern zeigt
that the woman thefilm-Acc the men-OAT shows
What is not allowed is the generation ofcase-marked arguments to the right ofthe verb.
Alongside (64), the sentences in (65) are ungrammatical.
(65) a. *dass die Frau den Mannern zeigt den Film
that the woman the men-OAT shows thefilm-ACC
b. *dass die Frau den Film zeigt den Mannem
that the woman thefilm-Acc shows the men-OAT
In addition, German does not have quirky subjects, as shown by Zaenen et al. (1985)
and others. Sentences like (66) exist, but the fronted dative argument does not pass any
test for subjecthood. Rather, sentences like (66) should be analyzed as impersonal
passives, that is, as constructions without an (overt) subject.
(66) Ihm wurde geholfen
him-oAT was helped
Modem German differs in this respect from earlier stages of the language, in
which constructions like (65) and quirky subjects were still grammatical. It is
suggestive that this syntactic contrast goes hand in hand with a morphological contrast.
In general, Modem German is deflected to a higher degree than its predecessors. In
many German dialects, morphological case is even absent altogether,just like in Dutch.
If it is present, morphological case is visible on determiners and other prenominal
material in German, but much less so on nouns. Clahsen et al. (1994) argue that this
explains why morphological case is acquired relatively late. Since children in the fIrst
stages of acquisition have not acquired determiners yet, they are dependent on
markings on the noun for an early development ofthe case system. The absence ofsuch
markings has the effect that the German case system is still not mastered at age 3;6, as
shown in (55).
In terms ofour proposal, this implies that children will have to make do with an
unspecifIed case shell. Consequently, all effects ofmorphological case, including the
possibility of scrambling across arguments, should be absent in the fIrst stages of
acquisition. This is a correct prediction. Children that have acquired OV order neither
allow DP extraposition, nor, at fIrst, alternations in the order ofobjects (cf. Eissenbeiss
1994).
92 CHAPTER 3
Precisely because it is visible on nouns, Clahsen et al. (1994) argue that the
German prenominal genitive, as illustrated in (67), is acquired relatively early (that is,
earlier than the dative and the accusative).
(67) a. Mutters Haus
mother's house
b. Annas Auto
Anna's car
However, the prenominal -s clearly does not belong to the morphological case
paradigm. Instead, it seems to be an affixal determiner. It also appears in languages
without morphological case (such as Dutch and English) and it has characteristics that
differ from those of case affixes (cf. De Wit 1997). First, it cannot be attached to
determiners and adjectives. Second, it is restricted to the prenominal position, both in
languages with and without morphological case. Third, in languages with
morphological case the prenominal marker does not have the same form as the true
genitive.
Interestingly, neither in child language nor in the adult grammar does the
morphological genitive appear in prenominal position. Whereas the examples in (67)
are grammatical, those in (68) are ruled out.
(68) a. "'der Mutter Haus
the-GEN mother house
b. "'der Anna Auto
the-GEN Anna car
In earlier stages of German (and the other Germanic languages), the construction in
(68) is regularly attested. Some Middle Dutch examples are given below.
(69) a. des papen hand (CG 23)
the-GEN pope-GEN hand
b. der brodre scaplarise (CG 23)
the-GEN brothers-GEN shoulder-cloth
An argument can be made that in German the genitive has not just disappeared from
the prenominal position, but from the core grammar altogether. All constructions in
which a genitive was used in earlier stages have at least a periphrastic variant today.
Lindauer (1995) observes, for example, that post-nominal genitives can always be
replaced by a PP, usually one headed by von:
(70) a. das Haus von meinen Freunden
the house ofmyfriends
b. das Misstrauen von meinen Freund
the distrust ofmyfriend
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE
c. die Werke von Gottfried
the works ofGottfried
d. die Entdeckung von Amerika
the discovery ofAmerica
e. drei Liter von dieser Milch
three liter ofthis milk
93
In informal German, the periphrastic form is by far the more common one. The
morphological genitive appears to be a marker ofa more elevated style and is therefore
entirely absent in child language (Clahsen et al. 1994). The decline of the German
genitive, known as Genetivschwund, is further evidenced by the fact that verbs
selecting genitive are often used with PP complements in spoken German, and by the
fact that prepositions selecting the genitive frequently occur with dative complements.
Some further relevant discussion can be found in Schachtl 1989, Bhatt 1990 and
Weerman & De Wit 1998. At this point, our conclusion is that the genitive only enters
the language as a result of late, rather conscious acquisition. It is a peripheral
phenomenon, and not one belonging to the core grammar.
Evidence from Dutch shows that late, conscious acquisition can indeed be
responsible for the appearance ofcase endings that do not belong to the core grammar.
Although there is no indication of a morphological case system in Dutch, speakers
sometimes use quasi-genitive forms in elevated style. The constructions in (71), for
example, are titles ofnovels. As in German, these genitive forms never appear in child
language.
(71) a. de tranen der acacia's
the tears the-GEN acacia's
b. het woeden der gehele wereld
the raging the-GEN whole world
It seems, then, that German children do not acquire the genitive as part of their
core grammar. This implies that their paradigm will not be extended beyond the one
in (60), repeated here as (72). As we have seen in section 4.1, the crucial evidence for
further paradigm extension is exactly the genitive-accusative contrast.
(72)
-MAR Accusative
+ MAR Dative
Consequently, the child will not introduce the feature <NOP>. If this feature is
indeed absent from the German paradigm, it follows that case affixes do not specify the
case shell sufficiently. The German variants ofthe prototypical arguments in (63) have
the representations in (73). In each ofthese, the <NOP> feature ofthe case shell remains
unspecified. Case shells in German are consequently subject to the ECP, with the result
that extraposition is excluded, as are quirky subjects.
94 CHAPTER 3
(73) a. Direct object (accusative)
CASEP
C~P
<aNOP>
<J3MAR>
<-MAR>
b. Indirect object (dative)
CASEP
~
CASE DP
<aNOP>
<J3MAR>
<+MAR>
c. Quirky subject (dative)
* CASEP
~
CASE DP
<aNOP> <+MAR>
Scrambling across arguments, however, is still allowed, since for this not the feature
<NOP> but the feature <MAR> is relevant. It is the latter feature that crucially guides
thematic interpretation in double object constructions.
In conclusion, German, even though it still has a case paradigm, does not display
all the effects of morphological case. This, we have argued, is due to the process of
deflexion, which has proceeded further in German than in Middle Dutch or Old
English. In German, case affixes are no longer able to specify all features of the case
shell. More particularly, the feature <aNOP> remains unspecified. We have related this
to the absence of a true genitive in the core grammar of German.
4.3 Morphological Case in Icelandic
In contrast to German, Icelandic has maintained a fairly rich morphological case
system. Case affixes are not only attached to prenominal material, but also to the noun
itself. Clahsen et al. (1994) suggest that the position of case affixes is a crucial factor
in acquisition, and in accordance with this the Icelandic case system is acquired
relatively early. Gissurard6ttir (1995) argues that already at age 2;0 the child largely
masters its basic principles. She reports that on a total of 177 case-marked DPs only
two errors were made. She also reports that genitive forms can be found in the earliest
stages, which would imply that the feature <NOP> is contained in the Icelandic
paradigm.
Nevertheless, there are some conspicuous differences between the Icelandic case
system and the case systems considered so far. In ourperception the basic deviation lies
in the nature ofthe Icelandic dative, whose distribution contrasts in several ways with
dative in other languages with morphological case. The regular pattern is that in verbal
projections datives are typically Goals, both with bi-transitives and mono-transitives.
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE 95
Conversely, Themes usually cannot have dative case. This pattern, we argued, should
be accounted for in terms ofthe feature <MAR> (for 'marked role'). The same feature
cannot be assumed for Icelandic. As Maling (1998) observes Icelandic is exceptional
in that dative productively appears on Themes. This must be the case for at least bi-
transitives that take two dative arguments, ofwhich Maling gives the examples in (74):
(74) lofa 'promise', skila 'return', svara 'answer', uthlata 'distribute'.
Perhaps more strikingly, there is a wide range of mono-transitive verbs which take a
dative Theme object. Examples are:
(75) bjarga 'rescue', breyta 'change', ey6a 'destroy', for6a 'save', gleyma
'forget', hellani6ur 'spill',loka 'close',lresa 'lock', sleppa 'release', sokkva
'sink', tapa 'lose', t}'na 'lose', umbylta 'revolutionize', utskUfa 'expell,
banish', utryma 'exterminate', uvarpa 'broadcast'.
In addition to this list, which was taken from Maling (1998), we can cite the following
examples from Zaenen and Maling (1990: 144). These verbs, too, take a single dative
object, ofwhich at least some must be characterized as Themes.
(76) afletta 'lift', demba 'spill', fjolga 'increase', frekka 'decrease', gera 'do',
gj6sa 'erupt', haga 'arrange', halla 'slant', batta 'arrange', hla6a
'accumulate', hvolfa 'capsize', kopa 'stunt', kyngja 'swallow', Ietta
'lighten', linna 'stop', Ij6sta 'slap', ljuka 'finish', 6gna 'fear', ofbj66a
'shock', seinka 'delay'
Maling(personal communication) informs us that these facts are absent from languages
like German, Russian and Finnish. This implies that whatever feature distinguishes
between accusative and dative in Icelandic cannot be <MAR>. As a result, it is to be
expected that certain effects associated with morphological case will not show up in
Icelandic. Ifa case shell carries the feature <CXMAR>, this feature cannot be assigned a
value on the basis ofthe DP's morphology. Hence, such a case shell must be governed
if it is to satisfy the ECP.
For the moment, we take the feature distinguishing accusative and dative in
Icelandic to be purely formal. We will refer to it as <DEP> (for 'dependent case').
Datives, which we classify as <+DEP>, are marked with respect to <-DEP> accusatives,
but this markedness relation does not have any semantic import. This does not mean
that the distribution of dative is completely unpredictable. Marked cases in general
require a trigger for insertion, and therefore they only appear where default case is not
available. Thus, in an Icelandic double object construction it will still be the Goal
argument that appears in the dative. The Theme, which is higher on the thematic
hierarchy, takes priority in the competition for the unmarked accusative.
To conclude, we assume that the morphological case paradigm of Icelandic is
organized as in (77), presumably as aconsequence ofthe divergentbehavior ofdatives.
96 CHAPTER 3
(77)
-NOP +NOP
- DEP Accusative Genitive
+ DEP Dative
The absence ofthe <MAR> feature in the Icelandic paradigm has consequences
for the identification ofcase shells, and hence for the distribution ofarguments. For a
start, it can be understood why Icelandic has quirky subjects. Recall that the case shell
of a quirky subject only contains the feature <<<NOP>; the feature <BMAR> is absent
because there can be only one subject. Since Icelandic case-marked DPs all encode the
<NOP> feature, they can all appear as quirky subjects (cf. 78). A dative subject, for
example, can be represented as in (79). As shouldbe clear at this point, the morphology
present in DP is rich enough to specify the feature in the case shell.
(78) a. Strakunum leiddist i sk6lann
the-boys-DAT got bored in the-school
b. Strompinn bles afhtisina
the-chimney-ACC blew offthe-house
c. Hennar var saknaO
her-GEN was missed
(79) Quirky subject (dative)
CASEP
C~P
<<<NOP> <+NOP>
<+DEP>
Furthermore, our analysis predicts that Icelandic objects will not display the word
order freedom usually associated withmorphological case. The feature <BMAR>, which
is contained in the case shells ofobjects, cannot be specifiedby the morphology present
in DP (cf. 80). Hence, the case shells ofboth direct and indirect objects count as empty.
They will induce an ECP violation unless generated in governed positions:
(80) a. Direct object (accusative)
CASEP
~
CASE DP
<<<NOP>
<BMAR>
<+NOP>
<-DEP>
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE
b. Indirect object (dative)
CASEP
~
CASE DP
<aNOP>
<BMAR>
<+NOP>
<+DEP>
97
As we will now argue, this explains the distribution ofIcelandic objects. Icelandic
is a VO language and therefore head government is to the right. Consequently, objects
must follow the verb. The free ordering of objects with respect to the verb, though
typical oflanguages with morphological case (cf. section 3.2), does not occur:
(81) a. Jon hefur lesi3 brekurnar
John has read the-books
b. *Jon hefur brekurnar lesi3
John has the-books read
We have argued in chapter 2 that in VO languages the government domain is
defmed prosodically. This implies that, like in English, objects must appear in the same
phonological phrase as the verb if they are to satisfy the ECP. Case-adjacency effects
can indeed be observed in Icelandic. The structure in (82b), for example, is
ungrammatical because the object remains ungoverned at PF. A <j>-boundary, indicated
by curly brackets, separates it from the verb.
(82) a. {Jon} {hefur lesi3 brekurnar} {rrekilega}
John has read the-books thoroughly
b. *{Jon} {hefur lesi3 rrekilega} {brekurnar}
John has read thoroughly the-books
If the government domain is defmed prosodically, it is to be expected that, like in
English, VP shells are projected if an XP otherwise separated the verb and the object.
The structure in (83) is phonologically ill-formed since the unspecified case shell is not
governed.
(83) a.
b.
V'
~0-DP
~
V XP
*{V XP} {0-DP}
As shown in the previous chapter, leftward verb movement can be used to solve this
problem. Ifthe DP is generated to the left of the verb and a VP shell is projected, the
ECP can be satisfied:
98 CHAPTER 3
(84) a. V'
~VP
~
0-DP V'
~
tv XP
b. {V 0-DP} {tv XP}
That VP shells are indeed generated in Icelandic is confIrmed by the syntax of
particle constructions. Recall that particles project optionally. This means that bare
particles are structurally ambiguous: they can be analyzed as full XPs, in which case
the verb must shift leftward, or as heads, in which case the verb will remain in situ.
This ambiguity is responsible for the optionality that can be observed in (85) (cf.
Collins & Thniinsson 1996):
(85) a. {t grer} {hafa peir} {sent peningana} {upp}
yesterday have they sent the-money up
b. {f grer} {hafa peir} {sent upp peningana}
yesterday have they sent up the-money
If the particle is modifIed, however, it can only be analyzed as a maximal projection.
Consequently, the formation ofa VP shell is necessary in order to satisfy the ECP. This
explains the ungrammaticality of(86b).
(86) a. {f grer} {hafa peir} {sent peningana} {beint upp}
yesterday have they sent the-money straight up
b. ... {f grer} {hafa peir} {sent beint upp} {peningana}
yesterday have they sent straight up the-money
It seems, then, that the distribution ofparticles in Icelandic is identical to that in
English. The parallel can even be taken one step further. As Collins & Thniinsson
(1996) note, DP complements, but not PP complements, can appear before the particle.
This indicates that the generation of VP shells is case-related in Icelandic, as it is in
English. In chapter 2 we have shown that a VP shell is only generated if an object
dependent on the verb for its licensing otherwise ended up in a non-adjacent position.
PPs therefore do not trigger VP-shell formation.
A further prediction is that, like in their English counterparts, VP shells are
generated in Icelandic double object constructions. As argued in chapter 2, this is the
only way in which the two objects of a verb like give can satisfy the ECP:
(87) {Eg} {hafOi gefI6j konunginum} {~amhlitinna}
I have given the-king-DAT the-maidservant-ACC
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE 99
If a VP shell is indeed generated in double object constructions, the object closest to
the verb asymmetrically c-commands the object that appears further to the right. This
ties in with the observation that the fIrst object can bind into the second but not vice
versa:
(88) a. Eg hami gefI6 konunginum; [ambilttina sina;]
I had given the-king-oAT maidservant-ACC his-ACC (REFL)
b. *Eg hami gefI6 [konungi sinum;] ambilttin~
I had given king-oAT her-OAT (REFL) the-maidservant-ACC
In sum, Icelandic objects are licensed in the same way as objects in English. This
does not mean, however, that Icelandic is like English in all respects. One crucial
difference is that Icelandic has a process ofV-to-I raising which is absent in English.
Ifthis movement takes places, the verb can license a DP that is generated to the left of
the verbal trace. That is to say, a structure that in English can only occur as a result of
VP-shell formation is generated for independent reasons in Icelandic:
(89) a.
b.
I'
I~VP
V~,
~
tv XP
{V 0-DP} {tv XP}
This effect of V-to-I can be used to capture the phenomenon of object shift, as
discussed by Holmberg (1986) and many others. The pattern to be explained is the
following. If there is verb movement, the object can appear either to the left or to the
right of negation, but if the verb remains in situ, the order is always negation-verb-
object:
(90) a. Jon las brekurnar ekki tv
John read the-books not
b. Jon las ekki tv brekurnar
John read not the-books
c. Jon hefur ekki lesi6 brekurnar
John has not read the-books
d. *Jon hefur ekki brekurnar lesi6
John has not the-books read
e. *Jon hefur brekurnar ekki lesi6
John has the-books not read
The sentences in (90d,e) do not require much discussion. Their ungrammaticality
follows independently from the hypothesis that objects must be governed by the verb
100 CHAPTER 3
in Icelandic and hence cannot appear to its left (cf. 81).13 The example in (90c) is also
straightforward. We assume that negation is attached to the left ofthe verbal projection.
This implies that it cannot give rise to the projection of a VP shell, as it will never
separate the verb and an object to its right. Consequently, (90c) simply reflects basic
word order in Icelandic.
Now consider the crucial sentence in (90a). What is special about this construction
is that the verb has moved out ofVP for independent reasons (namely V-to-I). One
effect of this movement is that an object generated to the left of negation can be
licensed. In the tree in (91), negation is left-adjoined to the verbal projection, as
required, and the object is contained in the verb's head government domain. The
grammaticality of (90a) can thus be explained without assuming object movement to
a functional specifier position:
(91) a. I'
~
I VP
V ~V'
~v
b. {V 0-DP}{NEG tv}
This approach to object shift has several advantages. First, there is an intimate
relation between scrambling in the OV languages and object shift. As we have already
argued in chapter 2, scrambling is a consequence ofthe hypothesis that E)-theory allows
objects to appear in any position within VP. Intervening adjuncts are hence
unproblematic. The same flexibility explains the existence of the structure in (91).
However, whereas scrambling is not dependent on verb movement, object shift is. This
need not be stipulated, since it follows independently from the claim that empty case
shells are licensed in syntactic domains in OV languages and in prosodic ones in VO
languages. Recall that this latter difference in tum results from the setting of the
OVNO parameter. What Icelandic object shift shows, then, is that scrambling is an
option in VO languages once the object can be licensed in a different way.
Second, the analysis predicts that the fronted verb in (91) must be adjacent to
objects generated at the left edge ofVP. We have proposed above that such objects are
licensed by the verb in I, and hence they must appear in its prosodic domain. This
prediction is correct, as Vikner (1994) points out. Vikner actually explains the contrast
in (92) in comparable terms.
(92) a. {Petur} {las b6kina} {eflaust} {ekki tv}
Peter read the-book doubtlessly not
13 Recall that we have assumed that functional heads are underspecified in that they lack negative
categorial features. Hence, auxiliaries in I, being <+V> are not proper governors for case shells,
which are <+N>.
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE
b. *{Petur} {las eflaust} {b6kina} {ekki tv}
Peter read doubtlessly the-book not
101
Third, object shift is predicted to be optional. Obviously, the object can also be
generated to the right ofthe verbal trace. This gives rise to the structure in (93), which
corresponds to the example in (90b). Thus, the problems of economy that typically
arise in movement approaches to object shift are avoided.
(93) a. I'
~
I VP
V ~
NEG V'
~
tv 0-DP
b. {V NEG} {tv 0-DP}
English and Icelandic do not only differ with respect to V-to-I, but also with
respect to morphological case. Although Icelandic case does not encode the <MAR>
feature, it does guide thematic interpretation, as the syntax dictates that Goal arguments
in double object constructions bear the marked dative case. This means that the
interpretation of a double object construction need not rely on the thematic hierarchy.
The Goal argument is identified by the morphology attached to it. We therefore predict
that in Icelandic, like in German and Middle Dutch, arguments are freely ordered in
double object constructions. This is borne out. Alongside the order in (94a), already
given in (87), (94b) is grammatical.
(94) a. Eg haf6i gefit) konunginum ambattina
I have given the-king-oAT the-slave-ACC
b. Eg haf6i gefit) ambattina konunginum
I have given the-slave-ACC the-king-oAT
Since Icelandic is a VO language, as opposed to German and Middle Dutch, the domain
of head government is defmed prosodically. As we have already shown, this implies
that a VP shell must be projected in order for both objects to be licensed. This is not
only so in (87)/(94a), but also in (94b):
(95) {Eg} {haf6i gefit) ambattina} {tv konunginum}
I have given the-slave-ACC the-king-oAT
The implication is that the first object should c-command the second, irrespective of
their grammatical functions. A comparison ofthe data in (88) with those below shows
that this prediction is correct:
102 CHAPTER 3
(96) a. Eg hami gefiO ambattina [konungi sinum]
I have given the-slave-ACC Icing-oAT his-OAT (REFL)
b. *Eg hami gefiO [ambattina sinal konunginum
I have given slave-ACC his-ACC (REFL) the-Icing-oAT
To summarize, the fact that the paradigm in (77) contains the feature <DEP> rather
than the feature <MAR> explains why Icelandic is, in certain respects, a hybrid
language. It is like English, in that objects must be licensed within the verb's
government domain, with the consequence that a VP shell is generated when the object
is not a sister ofthe verb. It is like German, in that it has a morphological feature that
guides thematic interpretation, and hence gives rise to free word order in double object
constructions. Finally, it is like Middle Dutch, in that its morphology encodes the
feature <NOP>, which explains the existence of quirky subjects, as well as that of
genitive objects to nouns.
5. CONCLUDING REMARKS
In this chapter we have argued that syntactic effects ofmorphological case should be
explained in terms ofthe lexicalization of case shells. The distribution of empty case
shells is limited by the condition that empty categories be head-governed at PF. This
restriction does not hold of arguments with morphological case. A number of cross-
linguistic differences, having to do with complementation, extraposition, scrambling
and quirky subjects, can be accounted for in this way.
At first sight, this suggests a binary distinction between languages with and
without morphological case. However, the linguistic reality is more complex. There
seems to be a graded scale, in that some languages with morphological case lack certain
typical phenomena. We have argued that this can be understood once it is
acknowledged that not every morphological paradigm encodes the same information.
The implication is that an affix may identify some features contained in the case shell,
but not others. In such a situation, head government is still required.
That morphological paradigms may differ in their featural content follows from
the fact that they must be learned. We have argued that children only add new (non-
default) features to the paradigm ifthis is motivated by the input they are confronted
with. Hence, in the absence ofmorphological distinctions non-default features cannot
be acquired, with the result that not all information needed to 'fill' a case shell is
present in the paradigm.
This means that children start out with a system of unspecified (empty) case
shells. Consequently, there should be a developmental correlation between word order
freedom and the acquisition of morphological case. As long as children have not
acquired the case paradigm they should have rigid word order. This prediction seems
to be correct. As already mentioned, Eissenbeiss (1994) shows that scrambling across
arguments does not appear prior to the introduction ofthe morphological case system
in German. Similarly, Slobin (1966, 1982) claims that case is acquired relatively late
in Russian and relatively early in Turkish. As a consequence ofthis, Russian children
begin with a rigid word order, while free word order effects already exists in the early
stages ofTurkish. Note that ifchildren set the OVNO parameter in the early stages of
MORPHOLOGICAL CASE 103
acquisition, this may account for the notion of neutral word order in languages with
word order freedom.
The effects of the default/non-default distinction are also observable in the
distribution of cases. The least marked way of licensing arguments does not employ
case at all. Nominative DPs are not interpreted via a case shell but through agreement.
Within the group of genuine cases there are again default/non-default distinctions:
accusative is unmarked with respect to dative and genitive.
The present approach makes it possible to relate certain types of syntactic
variation to morphological differences detectable at PF. Although this originally was
an ideal ofminimalism, it no longer features in more recent variants ofthe framework.
The strength of features is now determined arbitrarily. The reason for this is that
standard minimalism tried to relate morphology to the wrong type of language
variation, namely that in basic word order. The true effects ofmorphological case can
be understood once basic word order is accounted for in terms of PF ordering
conditions.
It is remarkable that the effects of morphological case have often been ignored
and sometimes even denied in generative approaches, even though they are quite
conspicuous and have been observed by many traditional grammarians. The reason for
this seems to be that neither GB theory nor minimalism have the tools to differentiate
between abstract and overt case (see also Kiparsky 1997). We have shown that this is
not inherent to the generative approach, but rather to some of its implementations.
CHAPTER 4
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS
1. INTRODUCTION
In the preceding chapters we have argued that thematic interpretation is only possible
if either the argument or the predicate is marked as such, an assumption which goes
back to the visibility condition ofChomsky 1986b. In this chapter we will discuss one
well-known exception to visibility: PP complements seem to saturate a a-role of the
verb and yet there is abundant evidence that they are not case-marked. At first sight,
one may think that this supports the view that only DPs need case, but it will be clear
that such a statement can be hardly more than a stipulation. We will present an
alternative theory which explains why PP complements do not need case and which
supports visibility in a non-trivial way.
In addition, we will see that the syntax of PPs provides evidence for several
aspects ofthe theory introduced in chapter 1. Most importantly, it supports the claim
that syntactic operations may feed a-theory. We will also encounter additional
evidence for the flexibility of syntax. Thus, we will defend the following claims:
(1) a.
b.
c.
d.
Thematic interpretation is dependent on functional markers.
Syntactic operations may feed a-theory.
Syntactic trees are flexible.
There is no fixed underlying word order.
The starting point of the discussion concerns the thematic licensing of PP
complements, such as the one in (2a). More specifically, we are interested in the way
the internal a-role of a verb selecting a PP is projected, and the way in which this
differs from more typical examples ofinternal a-role assignment, such as in the verb-
object construction in (2b).
(2) a.
b.
John has always believed [pp in Bill's honesty]
John has always believed [op Bill's promises]
One might conjecture thatthe verb always assigns a a-role to its complement, and
that the only difference between PP complements and DP complements is their
categorial feature make-up. However, simple as it may be, this analysis cannot be
maintained.
There is a transparent semantic relation between the verb and the DP argument
in (2b). Believe selects an internal argument denoting what (or who) is believed and the
corresponding a-role is assigned to Bill's promises. But a similar transparent relation
does not seem to exist in the case ofthe PP complement in (2a). It is counterintuitive
to say that the internal a-role of believe is assigned to in Bill's honesty. What the
denotation of the PP in this construction would be, or how the semantic relation
between the PP and the verb should be described, is far from obvious. From a semantic
105
106 CHAPTER 4
point ofview it makes much more sense to say that it is not the PP as a whole but the
DP contained in it that functions as an argument. An argument to which the verb and
the preposition jointly assign a a-role: believe in takes Bill's honesty as its internal
argument.
However, the preposition and the verb do not form a constituent. This can be
observed quite easily in an SOY language like Dutch, since in languages like Dutch the
preposition and the verb are separated by the DP:
(3) Jan heeft altijd [in Wim's eerlijkheid] geloofd
John has always in Bill's honesty believed
So, the problem posed by constructions ofPP complementation is that there is a
mismatch between their syntax and their semantics. The syntactic properties of the
construction in (2a) suggest that the preposition and the DP form a constituent which
excludes the verb, whereas from a semantic point ofview it seems that the preposition
and the verb form a unit which excludes the DP.
The operation standardly used in generative syntax to solve mismatches of the
typejust sketched is that ofmovement. Movement is used to explain why elements may
surface in one position, but be interpreted in another. We will argue that the problem
ofPP complementation should be approached in the same vein. We propose that the
verb and the preposition are generated separately, each heading its own projection, but
that at LF an operation of head movement adjoins the preposition to the verb. The
surface structures in (2a) and (3) are mapped onto the LF representations in (4).
(4) a.
b.
John has always [believed in;] [pp tj Bill's honesty]
Jan heeft altijd [pp ~ Wim's eerlijkheid] [in; geloofd]
John has always Bill's honesty in believed
At this point the details of the analysis cannot be spelled out yet, but the intuition
behind it should be clear: abstract incorporation allows the preposition and the verb to
jointly assign a a-role to the DP because, as a result of this operation, verb and
preposition are combined into a complex predicate.
The proposed analysis can only be right if thematic interpretation can be fed by
movement: the interpretation of the object of the preposition depends on the
incorporation in (4) and must therefore be post-syntactic. This is exactly as expected
given the theory defended here. It also follows that PP complements do not have to
carry a case shell: they are not semantic arguments. A case shell must be present, but
it is projected on top of the complement of the preposition rather than on the PP as a
whole.
The organization ofthis chapter is as follows. First, we will give a more precise
description of the problem posed by PP complements, pointing out some syntactic
requirements that the successful analysis should meet (section 2). The discussion will
make clear why some a priori plausible analyses must be rejected. Then we will
develop the incorporation analysis, showing how it works and how it solves the
bracketing paradox sketched above (sections 3 and 4). Further argumentation for P-
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS 107
incorporation will be based on a number ofsyntactic properties ofPP complements that
follow straightforwardly from the analysis (section 5). Finally, we will briefly go into
some corroboratingevidence concerning differences betweenPP complements to verbs
and PP complements to nouns (section 6), after which the conclusions are presented
(section 7).
2. THE PROBLEM
Non-predicative PPs can have different functions. At least three types ofprepositional
phrases must be distinguished, which we will refer to as PP adjuncts, PP arguments and
PP complements, respectively. Since many prepositional phrases could be classified in
more than one way, demarcation is not trivial. Nevertheless, clear examples ofeach of
the three functions can be given. Consider the following Dutch constructions:
(5) • PP adjuncts
a. dat de held op het laatste moment gered werd
that the hero at the last moment saved was
b. dat Jan in Londen weinig mensen kent
that John in London few people knows
• PP arguments
c. dat ik door de polder zou willen afraden
that I through the polder would want to-advise-against
d. dat ik normaal over Zwolle zou preferen (maar omdat het regent...)
that I normally through Zwolle would prefer (but since it is raining...)
• PP complements
e. dat Jan op zijn geluk vertrouwt
that John on his luck trusts
f. dat Jan in de liefde gelooft
that John in the love believes
The PPs in (5a,b) are uncontroversially analyzed as adjuncts. One (weak)
argument for this is that they can be omitted without repercussions.
The PPs in (5c,d) require more discussion. These examples might seem odd at
first sight. Suppose, however, that one is about to go on holiday to the Frisian lakes and
is discussing the merits ofthe different routes that lead there. One ofthese routes goes
through the polders, the other passes Zwolle, a city on the mainland. In this situation,
sentences like the ones in (5c,d) are perfectly natural.
The PPs in (5c,d) clearly do function as arguments. For one thing, the examples
are ungrammatical ifthey are omitted:
(6) a. *dat ik zou willen afraden
that I would want to-advise-against
b. *dat Jan normaal zou preferen
that John normally will prefer
108 CHAPTER 4
Moreover, PP arguments can easily be analyzed on a par with regular OP arguments.
That is, both the selectional relation between the PP and the verb and the semantics of
the PP itself are straightforward. The PP denotes a path and the verb selects an
argument that can have that denotation. It suffices to say that, as depicted in (7), the PP
is interpreted as the internal argument ofthe verb in (5c,d).
Y'
pOe
(7)
We should remark here that it is sometimes suggested that the PPs in examples
like (5c,d) are not really PPs, but rather reduced OPs. By some process ofdeletion, the
determiner and the noun would remain silent, with the representation in (8) as a result.
(8) a. dat ik [de lonte door de polder] zou willen afraden
that I the route though the polder would want to-advise-against
b. dat Jan [de lonte over Zwolle] waarschijnlijk zal preferen
that John the route through Zwolle probably willprefer
This analysis has some unfortunate consequences. The point is that in other
constructions deletion ofthe determiner and the noun is impossible. The sentences in
(9), for instance, are ungrammatical. This means that the deletion process must be
restricted to specific cases, namely those in which the noun refers to a path (or in other
examples to a location). But if one assumes that the PPs in (5c,d) are simply used as
arguments, no stipulations need to be made: it is to be expected that the PPs in (8) refer
to paths.
(9) a. "'dat ik [het geloofinje eigen kunnen] zou willen versterken
that I the beliefin your own abilities would want to-strengthen
b. "'dat ik [de-zns van Jan] waarschijnlijk leuker zal vinden
that I the sister ofJohn probably nicer willfind
Like the PP arguments in (5c,d), the PPs in (5e,f) must be analyzed as
complements. Like PP arguments, they cannot be omitted:
(10) a. "'dat Jan vertrouwt
that John trusts
b. "'dat Jan gelooft
that John believes
But the PPs in (5c,d) and (5e,f) present thematically different cases. Whereas PP
arguments fit in naturally with standard assumptions about a-theory, PP complements
are hard to analyze. As pointed out above, there does not seem to be a thematic relation
between the PP and the verb, but rather between the verb-preposition combination and
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS 109
the OP contained in the PP. Since the preposition and the verb do not fonn a
constituent, this insight cannot be expressed, at least not directly.
Let us therefore consider - as a fIrst attempt - an analysis that approaches the
desired result indirectly. Suppose that the OP is a-marked by the verb, and that the
preposition has some sortofmediating function, as in (11). One can imagine that, given
further assumptions, the analysis in (11) allows for a satisfactory description of the
semantics ofPP complements.
(11)
Nevertheless, the analysis in (11) must be rejected. If the OP contained in PP
complements is thematically related to the verb, a type of a-role assignment would
have to be allowed for that is barred by the condition on thematic mapping proposed
in chapter 2:
(12) Thematic Mapping
An argument a can be associated with a thematic role ofa predicate It ifand
only if
(i) a c-commands It, and
(ii) It m-commands a.
This condition goes back to Williams's (1980) observation that predication requires c-
command. That is, a predicate may not assign its a-role to a OP that does not c-
command it. So, as already pointed out in chapter 2, the Outch construction in (13a) is
grammatical under eithera subject-related or an object-related reading ofthe secondary
predicate naakt 'nude': both OPs c-command it (recall that in chapter 2 we have
adopted a fIrst branching node defmition ofc-command). (13b) allows only a subject-
oriented reading, since the object-OP Marie does not c-command the predicate in this
construction. (13c) is ungrammatical under any reading, since there is no OP for the
predicate to assign its a-role to. For the present purpose, the crucial fact is that
predication into a PP is impossible. In (13d), it is the PP node dominating Marie that
blocks predication.J
J In this example, the PP appears to the right of the verb. The reason for this is that PPs resist
scrambling across certain adverbials. A sentence like (ia) is marginal, even under a subject-
oriented reading of the AP. Nevertheless, we believe that the claim made here is valid. First,
underan object-oriented reading, (ia) is notjustmarginal, but absolutely ungrammatical. Second,
predication into a PP is also ruled out ifthe PP may freely c-command a secondary predicate, as
in (13d) and (ib,c).
(i) a. *dat Jan [naar Marie;] naaktj kijkt
that John at Mary nude looks
110 CHAPTER 4
(13) a. dat [JaD; [Mariej [naakt;/j ontmoette]]]
that John Mary nude met
b. dat [JaD; [naak~*j [Mariej ontmoettel]]
that John nude Mary met
c. *dat [naakt [Jan [Marie ontmoette]]]
that nude John Mary met
d. dat [JaD; [[naak~*j sprak] [met Mariejl]]
that John nude talked with Mary
The ban on predication into a PP complement also holds for English, as illustrated
by the contrast in (14).
(14) a.
b.
Jo~ met Maryj nudei/j
Jo~ met [with Maryj] nudei/*j
As expressed in (12), Williams's c-command restriction holds not only for
predication, but in fact for all forms ofe-role discharge. In general, a head may not a-
mark a DP contained in its complement. So, although there might be exceptional case
marking (depending on one's analysis ofECM constructions), there is no such thing
as exceptional e-marking. Even in constructions where this might seem to be the case,
like John saw Mary leave, it is implausible that the embedded subject is a-marked by
the matrix verb. In a comparable example like Even though he was standing twenty
miles away from the test site, John was able to see the bomb explode, it is not
necessary, or even likely, that John saw the bomb. The sentence is true as long as he
saw the explosion, which confirms that there is no thematic relation between the verb
and the embedded subject.
The claim that the c-command restriction extends to all cases of a-role
assignment is neither new nor controversial. Chomsky's (1986a) sisterhood condition,
for instance, presupposes it, sisterhoodbeing arelation ofmutual c-command(compare
chapter 2). But if c-command is a general property ofthematic relations, the analysis
in (11) must be rejected, since it crucially requires downward a-role assignment: the
verb e-marks a DP that is lower in the structure.
At first sight, there seems to be a class of analyses that derive the effect of
downward e-role assignment without actually assuming it. In these analyses the verb
a-marks its sister, but the structure introduced by the preposition is not visible at the
level of thematic interpretation. The net result is that the DP is interpreted as the
semantic argument:
b. *het [[naakt; kijken] [naar Marie;]]
the nude looking at Mary
c. *dat Jan [aan Marie;] de boeken naakt; gegeven heeft
that John to Mary the books nude given has
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS 111
(15) V'
~
(PP) va
~~
(P) DP
This 'invisible P hypothesis' can take different fonns. The preposition could be
inserted after a-role assignment has taken place (if a-assignment precedes syntactic
operations), as suggestedby Emonds (1993). Orthe PP couldbe an extendedprojection
of DP in the sense of Grimshaw (1991), assuming that it bears functional, but not
lexical information. More specifically, PP complements could be similar to DPs with
morphological case ifprepositions are seen as overt manifestations of case features.
Whatever the merits ofthese proposals may be, they face one important problem.
In constructions like (13d) and (l4b) the presence of a preposition blocks a-role
assignment by the predicate naaktlnude. This follows from the c-command restriction
on predication ifthe DP, rather than the PP as a whole, is the syntactic argument: the
DP is not available as the subject ofpredication since it is too far down in the structure.
But this implies that the prepositional structure must be visible to predicational
relations. At the same time, the invisible P hypothesis claims that prepositional
structure does not block a-role assignment by the verb. In other words, one is forced
to assume that prepositions are invisible to some forms of a-role assignment (a-role
assignment by the verb), but visible to others (a-role assignment by a predicate). This
is not much more than a restatement ofthe original problem.
Plausible additional assumptions meant to rescue the invisible P hypothesis fail
to capture the facts. Let us give one example. We are operating under the assumption
that a structural explanation for the absence of predication into PPs should be given.
However, the data in (13d) and (14b) might fmd an alternative explanation if the
presence of a preposition is incompatible with the type of a-roles assigned by
secondary predicates. Prepositions may, for instance, force an interpretation of the
PPIDP complex as a location or a path. Although verbs may select arguments of this
type internally, it is unlikely that a location or path could function as the subject ofthe
secondary predicates in (13d) and (14b), since locations and paths cannot be nude.
Although such non-structural factors restrict predication in the case of PP
arguments, we believe that an explanation along these lines must be rejected for PP
complements. In many cases it is unclear why the semantics introduced by the
preposition would be incompatible with the a-role assigned by a secondary predicate.
There are constructions in which adding a preposition does not seem to change the
thematic role of the object, but only its aspectual interpretation: it shifts from a
delimiter ofthe action expressed by the verb to a non-delimiter, in the sense ofVerkuyl
(1972, 1993) andothers. Nevertheless, secondarypredication is blocked ifa preposition
is inserted:
(16) a. datJan [de krantl na~ leest
that John the newspaper wet reads
112 CHAPTER 4
a'. *clat Jan na~ leest [in [de krant]j]
that John wet reads in the newspaper
b. clat Jan [het vlees]j rauwjeet
that John the meat raw eats
b'. *clat Jan rauwjeet [van [het vlees];]
that John raw eats ofthe meat
Note that the aspectual shift that accompanies the insertion of the preposition
cannot be responsible for the blocking effects in (16), since non-delimiting arguments
may freely be predicated of(cf. 17). Moreover, there are minimal pairs (although not
many), in which the aspectual properties ofthe variant with and the variant without the
preposition are identical, and in which the preposition still has a blocking effect (cf.
18).
(17) a. clat Jan [de krant]; na~ onleesbaar vindt
that John the newspaper wet illegible considers
b. clat Jan [het vlees]j rauwjverafschuwt
that John the meat raw despises
(18) a. dat Jan MariejdronkeIl; sprak
that John Mary drunk spoke
b. *dat Jan dronkeIl; sprak [tegen Marie;]
that John drunk spoke to Mary
The data strongly suggest, then, that the blocking effect ofprepositional structure
with respecttopredicationshouldbe explained in configurational, ratherthan semantic,
terms. As a consequence ofthis, the fact that the verb may satisfy a f)-role through the
PP complement, but secondary predicates may not, still forms a strong objection
against the invisible P hypothesis.
In the following two sections we will develop an analysis ofPP complements that
explains this basic fact. As announced in section 1, we will argue that the prepositions
that head PP complements incorporate into the verb at LF. In the resulting structure an
(indirect) thematic relation can be established between the verb and the complement
ofthe preposition, butnotbetween that complementandpossible secondary predicates.
We will then show that a number of differences between PP arguments and PP
complements follow from the assumption that P-incorporation affects the latter but not
the former.
3. INDIRECT a-ROLE ASSIGNMENT
Marantz (1984) proposes a theory of indirect f)-role assignment that partly solves the
problem of PP complements. Although the intuition behind Marantz's analysis is an
important one, the analysis itselfneeds to be developed in more detail, particularly with
respect to structural restrictions on the occurrence ofPPs ofthe relevant type.
Not only verbs, but at least also some prepositions are a-role assigners. In simple
PP adverbials like during lunch, for example, the interpretation ofthe DP depends on
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS 113
the temporal nature ofthe preposition. This leads to the following situation. It is well
known that in verbal syntax a complement may appear only if it is assigned a a-role
by V. Like verbs, some prepositions are a-role assigners. The null hypothesis, then,
would be that complements to prepositions must be assigned a a-role by P.
Marantz uses this relationship to explain why the complement ofP is interpreted
as an argument ofthe verb. He claims that what is typical about PP complements is that
the a-role assigned by P is matched with a role in the a-grid of the verb. He further
assumes that this kind of 'indirect a-role assignment' is possible only ifthe verb's a-
role is lexically marked as having to be assigned through P. The reason for this is that,
by hypothesis, DP complements are the unmarked (preferred) option. In sum, the
following representation is assigned to PP complements:
(19) V'
~P
~
pai~DP
In our view, the main attraction of Marantz's analysis lies in the fact that it
expresses the insight, already mentioned in section 1, that the verb and the preposition
jointly a-mark the DP argument.
The analysis is less appealing in two other respects. First, it enlarges the
possibilities of a-theory by introducing a process of a-role matching that seems to
have undesirable properties. It is a process by which a f)-role, namely that ofthe verb,
is discharged by entering into a relation with an element lower in the structure, namely
the preposition. This goes against the generalization that thematic relations require c-
command. Moreover, it is a process that is non-local in the sense that an internal a-role
ofV is satisfied by an element that is not minimally contained in V's projection. As far
as we know, there are no other constructions in which internal a-roles are discharged
across an XP boundary. One cannot explain away these problematic properties of the
analysis by saying that a process of a-role percolation from P to PP (or vice versa)
mediates between P and V. a-role matching involves the preposition's internal a-role,
and it is generally assumed that only the external a-role of a head X may percolate to
XP (cf. Williams 1981a).
Second, the theory fails to explain an important subject-object asymmetry with
respect to PPs of the relevant type. The point is that there are no PP subjects in quite
the same way that there are PP complements. In the few cases where PP subjects
appear, the PP as a whole, rather than the DP contained in it, functions as an argument
ofthe verb. In terms ofthe tripartition made at the beginning ofsection 2, PP subjects
are always PP arguments. So, a sentence like Under the bedis agoodhidingplace does
not mean that the bed is a good place to hide (a logical possibility), but rather that the
place to which under the bed refers has that quality. How can this be explained? Ifthe
a-role ofa PP argument simply has to be matched with a a-role ofthe verb, it is hard
to see why the construction in (20), featuring a PP subject, would not allow a matching
114 CHAPTER 4
of the E)-roles of P and V. The absence of PP subjects in the relevant sense is
unexpected.
(20)
Marantz's explanation for this asymmetry isbased on the assumptionthat external
E)-roles are not part ofthe verb's E)-grid. If it is further assumed that 9-roles must be
lexically marked as 'indirect' in order to be assigned through P, PP subjects will be
ruled out: a lexical marking of the external E)-role is impossible.
The weakness ofthis line ofargumentation lies in the claim that externalS-roles
are not contained in the a-grid of the verb. As Lapointe (1985) shows, there is no
convincing reason for making this claim, while there are arguments for including the
external a-role in the verb's a-grid. For instance, it is argued by Levin & Rappaport
(1988) that the English nominalizing affix -er binds the external argument ofthe verb
it attaches to. The existence of such a binding relation is hard to understand if the
relevant E)-role is not included in the verb's lexical specification. (Here we assume that
derivational morphology precedes syntax, cf. Aronoff 1976, Lieber 1980, Di Sciullo
& Williams 1987, and others.)
Similarly, the most natural way ofdescribing verb classes seems to be in terms of
external versus internal arguments: transitives have both an internal and an external a-
role, unergatives have only an external a-role, and unaccusatives have only an internal
a-role. In a theory in which external a-roles are not part of the E)-grid of the verb, it
becomes much harder to give a simple characterization of these verb classes. How
could one distinguish transitives and unaccusatives if both are lexically marked as
having just an internal a-role?
Marantz's insight that in PP-complement constructions the verbal E)-role is
identified with that of the preposition underlies the analysis we will now propose.
However, we will argue that a-role matching, like other thematic processes, requires
a local structural relation. In order for such a relation to be established, the preposition
has to incorporate into V at LF, which accounts, amongst other things, for the subject-
object asymmetry observed above.
4. LF INCORPORATION
The resemblance between a-role matching in the sense ofMarantz and the system of
E)-role identification developed by Higginbotham (1985) suggests that a unification of
the two should be sought.
Higginbotham argues that E)-roles can be saturated not only through assignment,
but also through identification with another a-role. The main empirical motivation for
this process involves prenorninal modifiers, although ithasproved useful in otherareas,
too. If prenominal modifiers are predicates, the question arises how they satisfy their
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS 115
a-role. There is no DP around that may function as a target for a-role assignment. In
what way, then, do speakers of English interpret green in a green door?
The answer to this question is based on the hypothesis that NPs have an external
a-role denoting their referent (the so-called R-role, cf. Williams 1981a). This a-role
allows DP to function as a predicate, as in John is a man. According to Higginbotham,
the problem of prenominal modification is solved if one allows the a-role of a
prenominal modifier to be discharged by being identified with the R-role ofNP, as
depicted below.
(21) NP
~
APaj NP~
green door
As a result of a-role identification, the semantics of the a-role of the prenominal
modifier are combined with the semantics of the R-role (in ways that are irrelevant
here). Consequently, a green door denotes something that is green and that is a door.
The similarities between a-role identification and Marantz's process of a-role
matching are straightforward. In both cases the a-roles oftwo predicates are combined
with the effect (i) that one of these a-roles is saturated (in one case the a-role of the
verb, in the other the a-role of the prenominal modifier), and (ii) that an element
associated with one of the identified a-roles functions as the semantic argument of
both. It would therefore be attractive to unify these processes.
We adopt the null hypothesis that a-role identification adheres to the same
structural conditions as thematic mapping: in both processes a a-role is saturated. This
leads to (22).2
(22) Thematic Identification
A a-role of a predicate 1tI can be satisfied through identification with a a-
role ofa predicate 1t2 if and only if
(i) 1t1 c-commands 1t2, and
(ii) 1t2 m-commands 1t1
.
Thus, a-role identification is a local process. a-role matching, however, is less local
than expected. So, if the two processes are to be unified, the latter must be made to
yield to the condition in (22). This has the effect that the underlying structure in (23a)
no longer allows for a-role matching. We propose that in order to facilitate this process
the preposition incorporates into the verb, thus creating the required local relation
between P and V. The resulting structure is given in (23b).
2 Note that the top node in (21) inherits NP's R-role, after which it can enter into a second
relation of prenominal modification. This explains the possibility ofstacking illustrated in (i).
(i) An [beautiful [old [wooden door]]]
116 CHAPTER 4
(23) a. V'
~
va PP
~
pa DP
b.
The reason that P-incorporation in the constructions at hand is covert lies in the
principle ofprocrastination: the assumption that syntactic operations are postponed if
possible (cf. Chomsky 1995). P-incorporation is triggered by the requirement that the
verb's internal a-role be discharged. Since a-theory is located at LF, P-incorporation
can, and therefore must, be postponed until that level of representation (see section 7
for discussion).
One observation still seems to block a unification ofa-role identification and a-
role matching. In the case ofprenominal modification, it is the a-role of the adjunct
that is satisfied by being coindexed with that ofNP. In (23b), the converse is true: the
a-role ofthe verb is satisfied by being coindexed with that ofthe adjoined preposition.
This problem can be solved if, as long as (22) is respected, the direction of a-role
identification/matching is free; that is, if either one of the a-roles involved can be
interpreted as discharged.
In (23b) the a-role of v, rather than that of P, must be discharged through the
process of identification. Otherwise, the preposition would no longer have a a-role to
assign to its complement, in violation of the a-criterion. In prenominal modifier
constructions like (21), independent considerations force discharge ofthe a-role ofthe
prenominal modifier. It is generally assumed that D selects a predicate (cf.
Higginbotham 1985). This means that NP's a-role must remain available.
Consequently, the a-role satisfied by the identification process must be that of the
adjective.
Now that this problem is out of the way, nothing seems to contradict the
conclusion that the head of a PP complement incorporates into the verb at LF. P-
incorporation is favored by a conceptual argument: it allows a-role matching to be
analyzed as a local process. And, as far as we can see, it does not lead to complications
elsewhere in the grammar.
5. EMPIRICAL CONSEQUENCES
Let us now turn to the empirical consequences ofthe P-incorporation analysis. We will
look into six phenomena. Two have been mentioned in earlier sections: the absence of
PP subjects and the absence of predication into a PP complement. These will be
discussed in section 5.1. The other phenomena are PP extraposition, the obligatory
selectional relation between the verb and the preposition that heads a PP complement,
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS 117
the impossibility ofcoordinating a DP and a PP complement and the impossibility of
having two PP complements. These will be discussed in sections 5.2 through 5.5. The
discussion ofthese phenomena does not only support the analysis as presented above,
but it also makes it possible to further develop certain aspects of the analysis, in
particular its relation with conditions on incorporation (sections 5.1, 5.4 and 5.5) and
its relation with case theory and full interpretation (section 5.2 and 5.3). Section 5.6
contains a small excursus on the distribution of selected PPs.
5.1 PP Subjects
A frrst argument for the P-incorporation analysis is that it explains why there are no PP
subjects (at least not in such a way that the DP complement ofP is interpreted as an
argument ofV, cf. section 3). Inorder for there to be such a subject, the preposition that
heads it would have to incorporate into V, thus creating the proper environment for e-
role matching. However, as has been argued extensively by Baker (1988),
incorporation out of a subject violates central conditions on movement. In terms of
Chomsky 1986a, the subject is not L-marked and hence not a felicitous extraction
domain. The representation in (24) is therefore ruled ungrammatical (for the status of
oS', see chapter 5).
(24)
At this point, it is revealing to contrast the behavior ofPP complements with that
of PP arguments. Note that nothing in the analysis presented above blocks
constructions in which a PP as a whole functions as the subject of a verb. In the case
ofPP arguments no a-role matching, and therefore no incorporation, has to take place:
(25) s
~
PP VP
~e
Suchconstructions are indeed grammatical, witness the well-formedness ofUnder
the bedis a good hidingplace. They occur more frequently than is sometimes assumed.
Recall the discussion about the best route to the Frisian lakes introduced in section 2:
one route went through the polders, the other through Zwolle, a city on the mainland.
118 CHAPTER 4
In such a discussion, sentences like the following are perfectly natural (note that (26b)
and (26c) are transitive constructions, in which the PP is assigned a Cause role):3
(26) a. Over Zwolle is natuurlijk een stuk langer
Through Zwolle is of-course a piece longer
b. Door de polder veroorzaakt meestal hoofdpijn en depressies
Through the polder causes usually headache and depressions
c. Over Zwolle brengt een hoop problemen met zich mee
Through Zwolle brings a lot-ofproblems with it along
One cannot maintain, then, that in general PPs are banned from subject positions.
There are PP subjects, but not in quite the same way that there are PP complements.
This requires an explanation specific to the syntax of PP complements, as proposed
here.
A similar line of reasoning captures the observation, discussed in section 2, that
depictives cannot be related to the DP contained in a PP complement. Consider the tree
in (27b), which corresponds (in part) to the Dutch example in (27a).
(27) a. dat [Jail; [[naakti/oj keek] [naar Mariej ]]]
that John nude looked at Mary
b. S
D~VP
( V~PP
~v t~DP
P~8
1 1
There is only one way in which the AP in this structure can discharge its 8-role without
violating the c-command restriction on predication, namely by assigning it to the
subjectian. For obvious reasons (namely the condition in (12», it cannot assign its 8-
role to the DP contained in the PP complement. It also cannot discharge it by matching
it with that of the incorporated P. That would require a downward relation, again in
violation of the c-command requirement.
In fact, the only way a DP contained in a PP complement could be thematically
related to a secondary predicate would be ifthe preposition were to incorporate either
3 The existence ofexamples like It is shorter through Zwolle might be taken as evidence that the
PP subject in Through Zwolle is shorter originates in the complement position of the adjective
shorter. We believe that such an analysis would be wrong, however, since evidence for the
constituency ofshorterthrough Zwolle is lacking. It is impossible tojointlymove this string, and
although one can say Shorter is nicer, it is impossible to say ·Shorter through Zwolle is nicer.
An alternative analysis would have it as the thematic subject ofshorter and through Zwolle as
an adjunct related to the pronoun.
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS 119
into the predicate itself or into its head. Both options are ruled out on independent
grounds. The fIrst would be a case of incorporation into a maximal projection, the
second one of incorporation into a non-m-commanding head. In addition to this,
incorporation into (the head of) a secondary predicate would make it impossible for the
verb to discharge its internal a-role. More generally, then, the proposed analysis
explains why the DP in a PP complement can be interpreted only as an argument ofV.4
Again, one would expect PP arguments to differ from PP complements, in that
they can be subjects under predication. This prediction is correct. In the already
mentioned discourse about the best route to the Frisian lakes, the following utterances,
in which a PP argument receives a a-role from the predicate selected by vinden 'to
consider', can be used:
(28) a. Jan vindt over Zwolle een stuk aangenamer
John considers through Zwolle a lot nicer
b. Ik vind door de polder een slechte keus
I consider through the polder a bad choice
A caveat should be made at this point. It turns out that there are no constructions
in which a PP argument is related to a depictive. This cannot be due to a general
prohibition against PP subjects, since such a prohibition would incorrectly rule out the
constructions in (26) and (28). Our guess is that a semantic explanation is in order here.
Depictive constructions typically have an interpretation in which the property denoted
by the secondary predicate holds of the relevant DP now, but not, or not necessarily,
in the past: depictives express a temporaryproperty. This explains why individual level
predicates cannot be depictives (cf. *John met Mary intelligent). But PP arguments,
presumably because they denote paths or locations, are conceived of as objects with
(more or less) constant properties. They can therefore not be the subject ofa depictive:
a temporary property would have to be assigned to an object with constant properties.
Note that this explanation cannot be extended to the blocking effects ofprepositional
structure in PP complements (cf. section 2). In such structures all kinds ofpredication
are blocked and, as a rule, PP complements do not denote objects with constant
properties.
4 In (27b), the preposition is incorporated from a PP that is not a sister to the verb. In some
theories, this may be an independent reason for ungrammaticality. However, in order to rule out
the variant of(27b) in which the PP is a sister ofthe verb (cf. i), the argumentation in the main
text is still required.
(i) dat [Janj [naaktv.j [keek [naar Mariej]]]
that John nude looked at Mary
Here and below, we assume that incorporation is possible out of categories in the m-command
domain ofthe verb. That is to say, we assume that the verb, as the projecting head, entertains a
sufficiently close command relation with all constituents in VP. This does not imply that
incorporation from subjects will be allowed for. Arguably, subjects are not m-commanded by
the verb, since they occupy a VP-adjoined position (cf. Manzini 1983, Neeleman 1994 and the
discussion in chapter 5).
120 CHAPTER 4
In Dutch, the semantic restriction on depictives holds for all adjunct predicates.
In English, however, the situation is somewhat different. Gerunds can be individual
level predicates and yet function as secondarypredicates. As Edwin Williams (personal
communication) points out, PP arguments may be related to an adjunct predicate in
exactly this case (cf. 29). This agrees with the analysis presented here.
(29) [From Utrecht to the Frisian lakes]; really was too far, [being such a long
distance];
5.2 PP Complements and Case
The data discussed in section 5.1 support an important aspect of the analysis of PP
complements proposed here, namely the abstract incorporation of the preposition.
Some further arguments for this process will be given in sections 5.4 and 5.5. There is,
however, a second aspect of the analysis that requires argumentation. The thematic
representation ofPP complements differs from that ofPP arguments in that in the latter
case the PP is 8-marked (cf. 30a), while in the former case it is not (cf. 30b). So,
whereas both the PP and the DP in (30a) are arguments, only the DP is an argument in
(30b).
(30) a.
b. V'
~PP
P~8;t~DP
This contrast should have consequences for the distribution of PP complements
and PP arguments because, according to visibility, elements can only be interpreted as
arguments ifthey bear case: case features trigger thematic interpretation. For the DPs
in (30a) and (30b) this is not a problem, since their case shell is governed by the
preposition that selects them. The licensing ofPP complements and PP arguments as
a whole does raise an issue, however. Since PP arguments bear a 8-role, it is expected
that they are dominated by a case shell (if they are internal arguments). Their
distribution will hence be restricted to positions in which"this case shell is governed:
(31) CASEP
~
CASE PP
o
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS 121
Since PP complements do not bear a 8-role, it is predicted that they may also appear
in ungoverned positions. So, a crucial property of the proposed analysis would be
corroborated ifthe distribution ofPP complements and PP arguments canbe accounted
for in these terms.
We believe that the data are as expected. It is well known that PP complements
in Dutch may appear both to the left and to the right of the verb. It is less well known
that this possibility does not exist for PP arguments: PP arguments obligatorily precede
the verb (unless the verb moves to C, ofcourse). There is a sharp contrast between the
examples in (32a',b') and the ones in (33a',b'). How can this contrast be explained?
(32) a. dat Jan op zijn geluk vertrouwt
that John on his luck trusts
a'. dat Jan vertrouwt op zijn geluk
that John trusts on his luck
b. dat Jan in de liefde gelooft
that John in the love believes
b'. dat Jan gelooft in de liefde
that John believes in the love
(33) a. dat ik door de polder zou willen afraden
that I through the polder would want to-advise-against
a'. *dat ik zou willen afraden door de polder
that I would want to-advise-against through the polder
b. dat ik over Zwolle waarschijnlijk leuker vind
that I through Zwolle probably nicerfind
b'. *dat ik waarschijnlijk leuker vind over Zwolle
that I probably nicerfind through Zwolle
The traditional explanation for the data in (32) consists of a rightward movement
process that is restricted, by stipulation, to prepositional phrases. It will be clear,
however, that this approach is not satisfactory. For one thing, it fails to distinguish
extraposition of PP complements from extraposition of PP arguments.
In chapters 2 and 3 we have already suggested that PP extraposition is not a result
of movement. Our proposal is, instead, that X-bar theory and 8-theory are only
concerned with hierarchical relations. Ifso, complements may inprinciple be generated
on either side ofthe verb. Linear restrictions follow from PF licensing requirements on
case and agreement. Case checking being directional, complements carrying a case
shell must appear to the left or to the right of the verb, depending on the setting ofthe
head parameter. From this it follows that DP arguments must precede the verb in an OV
language like Dutch, whereas PP complements may either precede or follow it.
It is usually assumed that PPs never require case. This statement fails to capture
the facts, however. In any account ofPP extraposition that refers to case theory, the
contrast between extraposition ofPP arguments and extraposition ofPP complements
can only be explained ifPP arguments need case, while PP complements do not. This,
ofcourse, follows ifPP complements are analyzed along the lines ofthis chapter, while
122 CHAPTER 4
PP arguments are analyzed on a par with regular DP objects. Examples like (32a',b')
are grammatical since the PPs do not have a 9-role and therefore do not have case.
Examples like (33a',b') are ungrammatical since the PPs must be interpreted as
arguments while their case shell is not governed.
A comparable contrast between the behavior ofPP complements and that ofPP
arguments can be observed in English. As pointed out in chapter 2, there is an
adjacency restriction on the licensing ofcase in this language. Complements that carry
a case shell, such as DPs, must appear adjacent to the verb in order to be governed. In
line with what we have argued earlier, PP complements may violate this restriction.
They may optionally be separated from the verb by adverbials, which indicates that
they do not need to be licensed:
(34) a. John talked to Mary slowly
a'. John talked slowly to Mary
b. John looked at the telegram pensively
b'. John looked pensively at the telegram
c. John waited for his bourbon patiently
c'. John waited patiently for his bourbon
The distribution of PP arguments is rather different. Like DPs, they must
immediately follow the governing verb. Jane Grimshaw informs us that, given the
correct pragmatic context, the examples in (35a,b,c) are acceptable, whereas the
constructions in (35a',b',c') are clearly ungrammatical. This suggests that PPs bearing
a 0-role are indeed accompanied by a case shell, in English as well as in Dutch. Further
evidence for the same point comes from the obligatory insertion of the exceptional
case-marking complementizerJor in contexts like (36a,b)
(35) a.
a'.
b.
b'.
c.
c'.
(36) a.
b.
I would choose through the woods normally (but since it is raining...)
"'1 would choose normally through the woods (but since it is raining...)
John would prefer under the bed in general
"'John would prefer in general under the bed
We would generally expect under the table to be most convenient
"'We would expect generally under the table to be most convenient
For through the woods to be the best way would be surprising
"'Through the woods to be the best way would be surprising
So, the distribution ofPP arguments in both Dutch and English shows that PPs bearing
a 0-role must be assigned case, as would in fact be expected. The observation that PP
complements may appear in caseless positions then implies that these elements do not
bear a 0-role, so that they are not interpreted as arguments. This corroborates an
important ingredient ofthe analysis ofPP complements proposed here: at LF, there is
a thematic relation between the verb and the incorporated preposition and between the
trace of the preposition and the DP, but crucially not between the verb and the PP as
a whole.
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS 123
5.3 Idiomatic Selection
In the previous section, we argued that the relatively free distribution of PP
complements is the result oftheir not being thematically related to the verb. Hence, no
licensing by case is required. Inthis section we will argue that the absence ofa thematic
relation has a second effect. A selectional relation between PP and V is required in
order for PP complements to satisfy full interpretation.
It has been observed in the literature that there is an idiomatic relation between
verbs and PP complements in that the verb does not select for the category PP, but
rather for a PP headed by a specific preposition. In their introductory text book, Van
Bart & Sturm (1987) give the following description ofPP complements (p. 169, in
translation): "[The choice of the preposition is], as far as linguistic knowledge is
concemed, a completely idiosyncratic phenomenon, that is to say, a phenomenon for
which no rules can be formulated, because every verb seems to select its preposition
in an arbitrary way".
The observations relevant to this claim are the following. First, verbs usually
select a specific preposition. So, in examples like to rely on and to think of the
prepositions may not be switched: *to rely ofand *to think on are ungrammatical.
Second, it seems to a large extent arbitrary whether a verb takes a PP or a DP
complement. In pairs like to watch versus to look at, or to hear versus to listen to it
seems to be a lexical matter which verb selects a PP complement and which a DP.s
Finally, there is some cross-linguistic diversity. If a verb selects a PP complement in
one language, the corresponding verb does not necessarily do so in another language
(cf. 37). And ifit does, it does not necessarily select the corresponding preposition (cf.
38).
(37) a. to resemble someone
a'. op iemand lijken
on someone resemble
b. to marry someone
b'. met iemand trouwen
with someone marry
(38) a. to vote for someone
a'. op iemand stemmen
(up)on someone vote
b. to think of something
b'. aan iets denken
on something think
The idiomatic nature ofPP complements is in sharp contrast withthe transparency
ofPP arguments. In the discourse about the optimal route to Frisia, referred to several
times before, any suitable preposition may head a PP argument, as is shown in (39).
S With one exception: verbs with an 'affected object' never select a PP complement. For other
verbs, selection seems to be arbitrary.
124 CHAPTER 4
(39) a. dat ik door de polder zou willen afraden
that I through the polder would want to-advise-against
b. dat ik over Zwolle zou willen afraden
that I through Zwolle would want to-advise-against
c. dat ik via Lelystad zou willen afraden
that I via Lelystad would want to-advise-against
d. dat ik langs de Afsluitdijk zou willen afraden
that I along the Afsluitdijk would want to-advise-against
The consistent presence of an idiomatic relation between P and V in PP-
complement constructions has led Marantz (1984) and others to the conclusion that PP
complements are marked, in the sense that some form of lexical selection is required
for PP complementation to be possible. In itself, this is not problematic. There are
many constructions in which a particular lexical item is selected. The question arises,
however, why PP complements, as opposed to DP complements, would be the marked
case. Why would selection be obligatory with PPs, but not with DPs?
We believe that this fact can be seen as a result ofthe thematic structure proposed
for PP complements. According to standardly assumed licensing conditions, especially
Chomsky's (1986b) principle offull interpretation, a suitable semantic function must
be assigned to every constituent. We take this to mean that for every branch in a
syntactic representation there must be a relation that licenses it. Whether one can
maintain this largely depends on one's assumptions about phrase structure, but for the
lexical projections in a tree it seems uncontroversial. The number ofarguments in VP
may not exceed the number of e-roles: arguments without a e-role do not have a
function, and they therefore violate full interpretation.
With this in mind, consider once again the structure proposed for PP
complements. In this structure, there is a thematic relation between the verb and the
incorporated preposition and one between the trace of the preposition and its DP
complement. As opposed to other complements of V, however, no thematic relation
licenses the presence of the prepositional phrase as a whole (cf. 40). Constructions of
PP complementation are therefore potentially threatened by full interpretation. There
is, however, a way in which this threat can be overcome.
(40)
The claim is that complements require some sort of lexical licensing, and that in
the absence of thematic selection they may be licensed by idiomatic selection. This
claim is supported by idioms like the one in (41a), which seems to have a regular
syntactic structure. For one thing, the complement of V may be moved (cf. 41b,c).
Nevertheless, it does not make much sense to say that the verb pull assigns a e-role to
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS 125
its object. This object rather seems to satisfy full interpretation because it is
idiomatically selected by the verb.
(41) a.
b.
c.
John pulled Mary's leg
[Mary's legl John pulled ~
[Whose leg]; did John pull t;
Although the syntax of idioms is a complicated issue, one may safely conclude
that idiomatic selection differs from regular syntactic selection in one important
respect: while syntactic selection involves categories, idiomatic selection involves
particular lexical items. So, in (41a), the verb pull does not select a DP, but rather a DP
headed by the noun leg. In section 5.6, we will briefly go into the issue of how
idiomatic selection is encoded in the lexicon, but for now it is sufficient to note that in
(41) the head of the complement is fixed, while its specifier may freely vary.
At this point, the parallel with PP complements should be clear. Since the relation
between a verb and its PP complement is not licensed by 8-theory, idiomatic selection
is required to license it. And since idiomatic selection involves lexical items rather than
categories, the verb will have to select a PP headed by a specific preposition.
As frequently observed, there are gradations in idiom formation. Some idioms are
completely fixed. They resist any semantic or syntactic analysis. Others are only
opaque to a certain degree. From this perspective, the idiom formation in constructions
ofPP complementation is minimal. Most V-PP combinations are open to syntactic and
semantic analysis, except for the selectional relation between V and P. This is in fact
to be expected. Idiom formation is expensive in that it requires storage of arbitrary
features in the lexicon. Since in constructions of PP complementation idiomatic
selection is used only to prevent violation of full interpretation, it will, in the regular
case, be applied no further than necessary to meet this end.
In sum, the absence of a thematic relation between a verb and a PP complement
has two effects. On the one hand, PP complements need not be interpreted as
arguments, with the effect that they may appear in caseless positions. On the other
hand, there must be an idiomatic relation between a verb and a PP complement in order
for the construction to satisfy full interpretation. PP arguments and DPs behave
differently in both respects. The assumption that they bear a 8-role implies that they
must be case-marked and that they do not need to be selected idiomatically.
5.4 PP-DP Coordination
Let us return now to the argumentation for the process of abstract P-incorporation as
such. In section 5.1, we have already presented two arguments for P-incorporation. A
third argument can be based on the behavior of verbs that select either a PP
complement or a DP. Examples are the Dutch verbs geloven (in) 'to believe (in)' and
vertrouwen (op) 'to trust (on)'. As can be observed below, coordination of the two
types of complements that these verbs allow is impossible.
(42) a. dat Marie [pp op Jan's komst] vertrouwt
that Mary on John's coming trusts
126 CHAPTER 4
b. dat Marie [op Jan's beloften] vertrouwt
that Mary John's promises trusts
c. *dat Marie [zowel [op Jan's be1often] als [pp op zijn komst]] vertrouwt
that Mary both John's promises and on his coming trusts
(43) a. dat Marie [pp in Jan's komst] gelooft
that Mary in John's coming believes
b. dat Marie Jan's verhalen gelooft
dat Mary John's stories believes
c. *dat Marie [zowel [op Jan's verhalen] als [pp in zijn komst]] gelooft
that Mary both John's stories and in his coming believes
Note that the ungrammaticality of (42c) and (43c) cannot be attributed to a
constraint ofcategorial identity. Since Sag, Gazdar, Wasow & Weisler 1985, it is well
known that constituents with different categorial features may be coordinated, as in Pat
is a republican and proud ofit.
Abstract P-incorporation offers a simple explanation for the observation made
above. The coordinate structure constraint demands that movement out of a
coordination take place across-the-board. In (42c) and (43c), however, P-incorporation
affects only the PP complement. The DP conjunct neither allows nor requires
incorporation. Therefore, the coordinate structure constraint is violated:
(44) • V'
&~V
~~
DP & PP P V
A
tp DP
This account of the ungrammaticality of (42c) and (43c) predicts that PP-XP
coordination is possible ifno P-incorporation takes place, which appears to be correct.
In the discourse about routes to Frisia, sentences like the ones in (45c) and (46c) are
perfectly natural, even though the PP arguments in object position are coordinated with
a DP.6•7
6 Similarly, PP subjects may be coordinated with DPs:
(i) a. [op Die route] is korter
that route is shorter
b. [pp Over Zwolle] is korter
through Zwolle is shorter
c. [[op Die route] en [pp over Zwolle)) zijn ongeveer even lang
that route and through Zwolle are approximately equally long
7 Note that the examples of DP-PP coordination given in the main text cannot be analyzed as
cases ofVP coordination combined with deletion ofthe verb in the first conjunct. The point is
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS
(45) a. dat ik [op die route] zou willen afraden
that I that route would want to-advise-against
b. dat ik [pp door de polder] zou willen afraden
that I through the polder would want to-advise-against
c. dat ik [zowel [op die route] als [pp door de polder]] zou willen afraden
that I both that route and through the polder want to-advise-against
(46) a. dat ik [op die route] te lang vind
that I that route too long consider
b. dat ik [pp over Zwolle] te lang vind
that I through Zwolle too long consider
c. dat ik [zowel [op die route] als [pp over Zwolle]] te lang vind
that I both that route and through Zwolle too long consider
127
It seems, then, that there is no ban on conjunctions of PPs and DPs in general, but
rather that a more specific restriction holds. As the analysis presented here predicts,
DPs and PP complements may not be coordinated.
Before we turn to the final argument for P-incorporation, an obvious alternative
account of(42c) and (43c) must be considered. As has been observed in the preceding
section, there is a special selectional relation between the verb and the preposition that
heads a PP complement. No comparable selectional relation exists between a verb and
a DP complement, however. The ungrammaticality ofcases like (42c) and (43c) could
therefore be attributed to a lack of parallelism: the verb has an idiomatic selectional
relation with one conjunct, but not with the other.
Straightforward as it may seem, this explanation is not without problems. The
selectional relation between P and V closely resembles that between A and N in
structures of collocational prenominal modification. Certain adjectives form a fixed
combination with certain nouns,just like certain prepositions form a fixed combination
with certain verbs. A Dutch example is een strenge winter 'a strict winter' (a cold
winter). In its collocational meaning, the adjective streng can only be combined with
winter and vorst 'frost': *een strenge herfst 'a strict autumn' (a cold autumn), for
instance, is ungrammatical. A comparable English example is bitter cold. Now, in
that the examples in the text allow topicalization ofthe DP-PP combination (cf. i), while in clear
cases of 'VP coordination plus gapping' this fronting operation leads to ungrammaticality (cf.
ii)
(i) a. [Zowel [op die route] als [pp door de polder]] zou ik willen afraden
both that route and through the polder would I want to-advise-against
b. [Zowel [op die route] als [pp over Zwolle]] vind ik te lang
both that route and through Zwolle consider I too long
(ii) a. dat ik [zowel [vp Jan een boek e] als [vp Marie een pen [gegeven heb]]]
that I both John a book and Mary a pen given have
b. ·Zowel Jan een boek als Marie een pen heb ik gegeven
both John a book and Mary a pen have I given
128 CHAPTER 4
contrast to what one might expect, collocational prenominal modifiers can be
coordinated with adjectives that do not have a selectional relation with the noun, as is
illustrated by (47). Apparently, not all forms of coordination are restricted by the
parallelism constraint introduced above.
(47) a. een [strenge en [relatief natte]] winter
a strict and relatively wet winter
b. [bittere en [door alles heen dringende]] kou
bitter and through everything PRT piercing cold
c. [zware en [relatiefongezonde]] shag
strong and relatively unhealthy tobacco
In fact, there is a crucial difference between cases like those in (47) and examples
like (48), in which parallelism does seem to playa role.
(48) *John kicked [[the bucket] and [a ball]]
In kick the bucket the idiom consists ofboth the verb and the object: both have lost their
literal meaning. The ungrammaticality of (48) can therefore be explained without
recourse to parallelism: combined with the bucket the verb must be used idiomatically
(i.e. stripped of its literal meaning), and combined with the ball it must be used
literally.
Collocations like een strenge winter 'a strict winter' are different in that the head
of the construction, winter, is used in its literal sense. It is only its relation with the
prenominal modifier that is idiomatic. This means that coordination of a non-
collocational adjective with streng, as in (47a) does not lead to incompatible readings
of the noun, and is therefore allowed.
Although there are fully idiomatic verb-preposition combinations, like to count
on, it seems to us that the examples used in this section, vertrouwen op 'to trust on' and
geloven in 'to believe in', are comparable with een strenge winter. The verbs have not
lost their literal meaning; only their relation with the preposition is idiomatic. Hence,
the ungrammaticality ofexamples in (42c) and (43c) cannot be explained in terms of
idiomatic selection. Coordination of DPs with PP complements must be ruled out for
different reasons, as in the analysis presented here.
5.5 Double PP Constructions
There is a fmal property of PP complements that to the best of our knowledge has not
yet been dealt with in a generative framework. As is observed in the main reference
grammar of Dutch (cf. Geerts et al. 1984:849), verbs in this language can take only a
single PP complement. As far as we know this restriction holds true cross-linguistically
(evidence from English will be presented below). It is not the case, however, that PP
complements in Dutch generally exclude the presence of other arguments. There are
many examples ofverbs selecting a PP and a DP complement:
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS
(49) a. iets voor iemand voelen
somethingfor someonefeel
b. iemand van iets scheiden
someonefrom something separate
c. iets tegen iets ruilen
something against something trade
d. iemand van iets redden
someone ofsomething save
129
Variants of the verb vragen 'to ask' provide a striking example of the
ungrammaticality of the presence of two PP complements in the domain of a single
verb. As the data in (50) show, vragen takes two internal arguments. Either one ofthese
arguments can be a PP, but ifboth are, an ungrammatical construction obtains.
(50) a. iemand iets vragen
someone something ask
b. aanlvan iemand iets vragen
tolofsomeone something ask
c. iemand naar/om iets vragen
someoneforlfor something ask
d. *aanlvan iemand naar/om iets vragen
tolofsomeoneforlfor something ask
In fact, (50) instantiates a more general restnctlOn: in many double object
constructions the Goal argument may show up in a PP headed by aan 'to', but in case
the Theme argument is contained in a PP, this is impossible, as is shown by the data
below.8
8 We are assuming here that the aan-PPs that replace dative objects are PP complements, not PP
arguments. The reason for this is that they behave like PP complements in certain crucial
respects: they cannot be coordinated with OP arguments (cf. ia.), and some fonn of idiomatic
selection is required to license an aan-PP. This last claim is based on three observations. First,
the preposition is not interpreted literally in examples like (ib) (in fact it means 'on'). Second,
the preposition cannot be replaced byother suitable prepositions, although otherverbs may select
these prepositions to head their Goal argument. And third, not every double object verb allows
replacement of its dative object by a PP (cf. ic).
(i) a. *Jan toont [Marie en [aan haar vader]] een foto
John shows Mary and to herfather a picture
b. Jan toont aan/*voor/*tegenl*met Marie een foto
John shows tolforltolwith Mary a picture
c. Jan vergeeft (*aan) Marie haar zonden
John forgives (to) Mary her sins
The argument presented in the main text does not cruciaJly depend on the analysis ofaan-PPs.
Even ifthey are not PP complements, the basic observation that there are no verbs selecting two
(true) PP complements remains.
130 CHAPTER 4
(51) a. (*aan) iemand van iets overtuigen
to someone ofsomething convince
b. (*aan) iemand aan iets herinneren
to someone ofsomething remind
c. (*aan) iemand op iets antwoorden
to someone to something answer
d. (*aan) iemand van iets afbrengen
to someone ofsomething discourage
In English, a similar observation can be made. There are many verbs in this
language that select two complements, either one ofwhich can be a PP, but as far as we
know such verbs never allow both complements to be prepositional. This is illustrated
by the following data:
(52) a. to tell someone about something
a'. to tell something to someone
a". *to tell to someone about something (order irrelevant)
b. to supply someone with something
b'. to supply something to someone
b". *to supply to someone with something (order irrelevant)
c. to ask something of someone
c'. to ask someone for something
c". *to ask of someone for something (order irrelevant)
To be sure, we are not claiming that there can never be two PPs in the domain of
a single verb, but rather that if this is the case at least one ofthem must be either a PP
adjunct, as in (53a), or a PP argument, as in (53b).
(53) a. dat Jan tijdens de lunch aan Marie denkt
that John during the lunch ofMary thinks
b. dat ik over Zwolle aan niemand zou durven voorstellen
that I through Zwolle to nobody would dare propose
As we remarked in section 2, it is sometimes hard to classify PPs. One of the
difficulties that results from this is that for some double PP constructions it is not
straightforward whether the PPs are PP complements or should be analyzed in some
other way. In this respect, examples like (54) are particularly difficult to analyze.
Before we tum to the question ofwhy verbs may select only one PP complement, we
will briefly discuss such apparent counterexamples.
(54) dat Jan over deze kwestie met zijn advocaat gesproken heeft
that John about this matter with his lawyer spoken has
We believe that examples like (54) do not threaten the claim made here, because
at least one ofthe prepositional phrases in such examples (and in some cases both PPs)
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS 131
must be analyzed as a PP adjunct. Below we will present four arguments to this effect,
which focus on the status ofthe PP headed by over 'about,.9
First, the semantics of PP complements is often not, or not completely,
transparent. As we argued in section 5.3, there is an idiomatic selectional relation
between the verb and a PP complement. In counterexamples to the ban on double PP
complement constructions, however, it is always the case that at least one of the PPs
has a completely transparent semantics, suggesting that this PP is not a PP complement.
In (54), for instance, the possibility of inserting a PP headed by over 'about' is to be
expected, since almost any communicative action can be about something.
Second, in a number ofcases a PP complement alternates with a DP (cf. section
5.4). So, in (50) each ofthe two arguments selected byvragen 'to ask' canbe expressed
as either a PP complement or a regular direct object. Counterexamples to the ban on
double PP complements, however, are never part of a paradigm like (50). Their
paradigms systematically contain a gap, in that at least one ofthe PPs (the one with the
transparent semantics) cannot be replaced by a DP. This suggests that this PP is really
an adjunct. So, the PP headed by met 'with' in (54) alternates with a DP, but the PP
headed by over 'about' does not (cf. 55). Again, this would agree with an analysis of
the 'about'-PP as an adjunct
(55) a. dat Jan over deze kwestie zijn advocaat gesproken heeft
that John about this matter his lawyer spoken has
b. *dat Jan deze kwestie (met) zijn advocaat gesproken heeft
that John about this matter (with) his lawyer spoken has
Third, it is typical of PP complements that the verb and the preposition fonn a
fixed combination. As remarked before, the PP is idiomatically selected. In double PP
constructions, however, the PP that we would analyze as an adjunct can be headed by
other semantically suitable prepositions (ifsuch prepositions are part ofthe lexicon of
the language), suggesting once more that an analysis on a par with PP complements
would be incorrect. So, the PP headed by over 'about' in (54) can be replaced by any
ofthe PPs in (56).
(56) a. dat Jan aangaande deze kwestie met zijn advocaat gesproken heeft
that John concerning this matter with his lawyer spoken has
b. dat Jan betreffende deze kwestie met zijn advocaat gesproken heeft
that John concerning this matter with his lawyer spoken has
9 There is a piece ofevidence for a classification ofthe over-PP as a complement: in English the
about-PP in an example like (ia) can be stranded only marginally under do so ellipsis. One may
expect that stranding should be perfectly grammatical ifthe PP were an adjunct. This potential
counterargument is weakened by the fact that at least some PP adjuncts also resist stranding in
do so ellipsis, as pointed out to us by Bill Philip. An example is (ib).
(i) a. ?John spoke with Mary about chemistry and Bill did so about physics
b. ?John kissed Mary in the garden and Bill did so in the living room
132 CHAPTER 4
c. dat Jan inzake deze kwestie met zijn advocaat gesproken heeft
that John concerning this matter with his lawyer spoken has
Finally, in potential counterexamples to the ban on double PP complement
constructions, at least one ofthe PPs can be inserted, without any change ofmeaning,
in contexts where it must be an adjunct. So, the PP headed by over 'about' in (57) must
be an adjunct, given that verbs do not select more than two complements, and given
that Mary and the extraposed CP must be analyzed as such.
(57) dat Jan Marie over Piet verteld heeft dat hij een leugenaar is
that John Mary about Pete told has that he a liar is
If on the basis of this type of evidence potential counterexamples may be
dismissed, how can the observation that verbs take only a single PP complement be
explained? As far as we know, no account can be given under standard analyses ofPP
complements. In Marantz's analysis, for instance, there is nothing that would make it
impossible for a verb to select two PP complements: what would rule out a verb with
two E)-roles that are marked 'indirect'?
Under the P-incorporation analysis, however, a natural explanation is available.
The idea would be that certain types ofincorporation can take place only once, with the
effect that, if two or more PP complements are present, only one of them can be
licensed. There are several ways in which multiple incorporation can be excluded. The
possibility we will explore here is based on Selkirk's (1982) first order projection
condition.
Recall that in constructions of PP complementation, the verb discharges its
internal E)-role by matching it with the E)-role ofthe incorporated preposition. Now, it
has often been observed that there are strict conditions on thematic relations in complex
heads. In particular, a zero-level argument (i.e. an argument generated as part of a
complex XO category) must be adjacent to the head of which it is an argument. One
formulation ofthis restriction is Selkirk's first order projection condition, which says
that the internal arguments ofa head must be realized, in both morphology and syntax,
within the first node dominating that head. We will not discuss the syntactic
consequences of Selkirk's proposal (we believe that they are partially incorrect), but
in morphology its effects are the following. In two-member compounds, the non-head
may be either an adjunct, as in nightflight, or an argument, as in truck driver. In more
complex compounds, there may be both an adjunct and an argument, but only if the
argument and the head are sisters. This is shown by the hypothetical night truck driver
versus *truck night driver. Finally, no compound may contain two arguments:
(58) a.
b.
c.
d.
[x adjunct [x adjunct X]
[x adjunct [x argument X]]
*[x argument [x adjunct X]]
*[x argument [x argument X]]
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS 133
A good illustration ofthis paradigm canbe found inDutch. In this language noun-
verb compounding is used to derive names of games. Now, bored lumberjacks may
invent games like (59a) and (59b), corresponding to (58a) and (58b), butnot games like
(59c) or (59d), corresponding to (58c) and (58d).
(59) a. nacht snel wandelen
night quick walking
b. nacht hout hakken
night wood chopping
c. *hout nacht hakken
wood night chopping
d. *kinder brood geven
children bread giving
The crucial observation is thatcompounds ofthe type in (59d) are ungrammatical.
That is, morphology differs from syntax in that it does not allow double object
constructions. Compounds like *child bookgiver and *baby toy handing are generally
ruled out (cf. Selkirk 1982 and Sproat 1985a). Given this restriction, it is to be expected
that verbs may select only one PP complement. Incorporation of two prepositions
would lead to a construction that closely resembles a zero-level double object
construction, because P-incorporation is a way to discharge one of the verb's intemal
9-roles. This results in ungrammaticality. P2 in (60) does not have a local relation with
V in the sense ofthe first order projection condition.10
(60)
Note that verbs that select as their internal arguments two DPs or a DP and a PP
complement do not violate the first order projection condition: in the first case no
10 Applying the first order projection condition to syntactically derived complex heads might
seem to be in conflict with the lexicalist model of grammar we have assumed earlier in this
chapter. At first sight, such a model ofgrammar does not allow principles that generalize over
syntax and morphology. In Neeleman & Weerman 1993, it is argued, however, that such a
separation ofmorphology and syntax is too strict. There are general principles that have effects
in more than one component of the grammar. The binary branching requirement would be an
example. A similar status can be assigned to the first order projection condition.
134 CHAPTER 4
incorporation is required (so that the condition is saturated vacuously), in the second
case only one preposition has to incorporate (which ends up as a sister to the verb).11
In sum, six properties of PP complements, namely the ones listed in the table
below, can be explained in terms of P-incorporation. The explanation of these
properties should not invoke the notion PP as such, because, as the following table
shows, PP arguments display exactly the oppositebehavior. This means that an analysis
of PP complements in which the PP as whole is 0-marked will probably run into
empirical difficulties, as such an analysis fails to distinguish PP complements from PP
arguments. In section 6 we will argue that a similar argument can be made against
theories that claim that the preposition in PP complements is invisible to 0-theory.
(61) The contrastive behavior ofPP Complements and PP Arguments
PP Complements PP arguments
Cannot be subjects of verbs Can be subjects of verbs
Cannot be subjects of secondary Can be subjects of secondary predicates
predicates
Can appear in caseless positions Must appear in case-marked positions
Are headed by fixed prepositions Are headed by any suitable preposition
Cannot be coordinated with DP Can be coordinated with DP
complements Complements
Cannot be combined with a PP Can be combined with a PP Complement
complement
5.6. Excursus on the Distribution ofSelected PPs
With the previous sections, we have completed the argumentation for our analysis of
PP complements. Yet, there is one aspect of this analysis that needs some further
refmement, given anhitherto unobserved asymmetry in the distribution ofselectedPPs.
The generalization seems to be that Goal-PPs have a freer distribution than Theme-PPs.
Scrambling across arguments is possible with the former but not with the latter, as
demonstrated below:
(62) a. dat Jan van Marie een bijdrage vraagt
that John ofMary a contribution asks
a'. dat Jan een bijdrage van Marie vraagt
that John a contribution from Mary asks
b. dat Jan aan Marie een boek geeft
that John to Mary a book gives
11 The first order projection condition does not rule out mUltiple incorporation as long as this
takes place in a successive cyclic fashion. Thus, the formation of verb raising clusters in Dutch
and German is still allowed.
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS 135
b'. dat Jan een boek aan Marie geeft
that John a book to Mary gives
c. dat Jan tot Marie deze woorden sprak
that John to Mary these words spoke
c'. dat Jan deze woorden tot Marie sprak
that John these words to Mary spoke
d. dat Jan van Marie de krant afneemt
that John from Mary the news-paper away-takes
d'. dat Jan de krant van Marie afneemt
that John the newspaperfrom Mary away-takes
(63) a. dat Jan Marie om de krant vraagt
that John Maryfor the newspaper asks
a'. *dat Jan om de krant Marie vraagt
that John for the newspaper Mary asks
b. dat Jan Marie tot deze daad overhaalt
that John Mary to this deed convinces
b'. *dat Jan tot deze daad Marie overhaalt
that John to this deed Mary convinces
c. dat Jan Marie van zijn onschuld overtuigt
that John Mary ofhis innocence convinces
c'. *dat Jan van zijn onschuld Marie overtuigt
that John ofhis innocence Mary convinces
d. dat Jan Marie aan zijn belofte herinnert
that John Mary ofhis promise reminds
d'. *dat Jan aan zijn belofte Marie herinnert
that John ofhis promise Mary reminds
In chapters 2 and 3, we have explained the word order freedom in (62) along the
following lines. The 9-roles of the verb in a double object construction are assigned
in accordance with the thematic hierarchy. However, the thematic hierarchy only
applies to a-roles assigned by the same head and in (62) the Goal and Theme roles are
assigned by the preposition and the verb respectively. Hence, no order is imposed. If
this is true, the question is what explains the lack ofword order freedom in (63), where
comparable thematic relations hold.
We believe that an independent property ofselectionplays a role here. As already
observed in sections 5.3 and 5.4, PP complements typically entertain an idiomatic
relation with the verb. We will now argue that the relevant selectional requirements can
only be met in (63) if the Theme is the closest argument. In order to make this clear,
we have to be more specific about the way idioms are stored in the lexicon.
We assume that idioms are stored as complex lexical items. That is to say, an
idiom that consists of the lexical items a and b forms a new lexical item a"b (cf.
Ackema & Neeleman 1999). The interpretation of an idiom a"b proceeds as much as
possible on the basis of the semantics of a and b, but more often than not additional
136 CHAPTER 4
semantic instructions are given as part of the idiom. We will not discuss these here,
since we are only interested in certain formal properties of idiomatic selection.
The exact form ofthe complex lexical item has consequences at both PF and LF.
Consider the idiomatic combination vertrouwen op 'to trust on', which is stored in the
lexicon as in (64). Ifa complex lexical item ofthe type in (64) is inserted in a structure,
the PF interface will check whether the verb appears with the appropriate preposition.
The LF interface will make sure that the PP is related to the appropriate a-role.
(64) vertrouwenAop
As said, interpretation proceeds as much as possible on the basis of the lexical
properties ofthe verb and the preposition. This means that, in order to achieve a well-
formed LF representation, the information in (64) must be matched with the a-grid of
vertrouwen, which for our present purposes can be represented as in (65).12 The
associating mechanism is rather straightforward. The idiomatic information is
superimposed on the thematic grid from left to right in a one to one fashion. This has
the (trivial) effect that the Theme must be realized in a PP headed by op.
(65) vertrouwenATheme
The effects of association are not so trivial if the verb takes two complements.
Since the procedure relates the fIrst piece of idiomatic information to the most
prominent a-role, the idiomatic combination vragen om 'to ask for' can be represented
as in (66).
(66) vragenAom
If matched to the a-grid ofvragen, represented in (67), this entry correctly expresses
that the Theme must be realized in a PP headed by om, while the realization ofthe Goal
is free (that is, only restricted by semantic considerations).
Things are less simple ifthe verb is idiomatically related to a Goal-PP. Suppose
that the idiomatic combination vragen van 'to ask of is simply represented as in (68).
Then, it would be incorrectly deduced at LF that this preposition is associated with the
Theme, which is the most prominent a-role in the thematic grid.
(68) vragenAvan (wrong representation)
12 The extemal9-role ofvertrouwen 'to trust' is left out, since this role is not assigned by V but
rather by VP (see chapter 5). Hence, it cannot be involved in idioms built on the verb, but only
in idioms built on VP.
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS 137
Consequently, the representation ofvragen van mustbe more complicated. In order for
the preposition to be associated with the proper E)-role, a variable must be introduced
into the idiom, as in (69). If the selectional information is now superimposed on the
thematic grid, the result is as desired: the realization of the Theme is free (modulo
independent semantic factors), whereas the Goal must be realized in a PP headed by
van.
(69) vragen"X"van (correct representation)
So, the LF association procedure requires that the'idioms vragen om and vragen
van have crucially different lexical representations. However, these representations in
turn provide different instructions to the PF component. In this respect the presence of
a variable in the representation ofvragen van is crucial. It has often been claimed that
idioms may not contain gaps. That is, if the PF component is confronted with the
representation ofvragen om in (66), it checks whether the fIrst complement is headed
by a particular preposition. However, since a variable is present in (69), the
complement idiomatically related to the verb in vragen van may, but need not, be
separated from the verb by another complement. In this case, the PF component does
not check whether the first, but rather whether some, complement is headed by a
particular preposition. It will be clear that the latter instruction allows for scrambling
across arguments, while the former does not. The data in (62) and (63) are thus
accounted for.
This again corroborates the view that syntax is essentially flexible in nature, and
that cases in which this flexibility has no effects are due to intervening PF
requirements.13
6. PP COMPLEMENTS TO NOUNS
PP complementation in the nominal domain differs in three ways from PP
complementation with verbs: (i) in contrast to what is the case in the verbal domain,
13 It is to be expected that the selectional mechanisms introduced above also apply when verbs
select a specific case rather than a specific preposition. We have argued in chapter 3 that the
presence ofmorphological case leads to free ordering ofobjects in a double object construction.
We predict that if a double object verb selects a Theme in a particular case, this freedom
disappears. This prediction is correct, as the following Icelandic examples show (cf. Zaenen,
Mailing & Thnlinsson 1985):
(i) a. pu hefur 6skaO henni pess
you have wished her-DAT this-GEN
b. ·pu hefur 6skaO pess henni
you have wished this-GEN her-DAT
One would expect that word order is again free if a special case is selected for the Goal, while
the realization ofthe Theme is free. However, this situation can only result in double accusative
verbs - genitive is not selectable in indirect object position in Icelandic. For independent reasons,
double accusative verbs do not allow scrambling across arguments (cf. chapter 3).
138 CHAPTER 4
nouns can take more than oneprepositional complement, (ii) PP complements to nouns
can function as subjects for secondary predicates, and (iii) in a nominal environment
PP rather than DP is the unmarked option, that is, DP complements to nouns are
generally ruled out (cf. chapter 3). These three observations can be illustrated with the
Dutch nominalizations in (70)-(72). For discussion of the internal organization of
nominalizations ofthe relevant type, those ending in the infmitival marker -en, we refer
to Hoekstra 1986.
(70) a. het geven van bloemen aan Marie
the giving offlowers to Mary
b. het stellen van vragen aan de leraar
the posing ofquestions to the teacher
(71) a. het groell; verven van deurell;
the green painting ofdoors
b. het rauwj eten van vleesj
the raw eating ofmeat
(72) a. het lezen *(van) boeken
the reading ofbooks
b. het kopen *(van) een huis
the buying ofa house
Although some refinements are required in order to accommodate the behavior
ofPP complements to nouns, we believe that the facts in (70)-(72) support the proposed
analysis of PP complements. Our basic claim in this section wiII be that the invisible
P hypothesis discussed in section 2 is correct for certain PP complements to nouns,
namely those headed by van 'of. Ifthis is true, the contrasts between van-PPs and PP
complements to verbs show (once more) that the invisible P hypothesis must be
rejected for the verbal domain.
One difference between nouns and verbs is that only the latter are proper
governors for nominal categories (cf. (26) in chapter 3). The explanation ofthe data in
(72) relies on this assumption. The different govemment properties ofnouns and verbs
have direct consequences for the analysis ofPP complements ofthe two categories. The
upshot ofthe preceding sections is that the prepositions that head PP complements of
verbs are fully lexical heads. In the case ofnouns, a different type ofpreposition might
be available.
Consider the status of the preposition van 'of in the examples in (70)-(72).
Following a long generative tradition, we would like to claim that this element is a
dummy preposition, inserted to fill the ungoverned case shell ofa noun's complement
(cf. Chomsky 1981, 1986b). We would further like to claim that van insertion is
comparable to do insertion in English, in that it is a last resort operation.
The analysis of nominal van as a dummy is supported by its semantic inertness.
In contrast to the prepositions that head PPs in verbal syntax, van never seems to make
a contribution to the semantics ofa DP. This becomes clear ifthe aspectual properties
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS 139
ofVPs and norninalizations are compared. Ithas been observedby Verkuyl (1972) that
the presence of(just) a PP complement yields a durative VP, presumably because PPs,
as opposed to DPs, cannot 'measure out an event' (see also Tenny 1987). One ofthe
effects of this is that the terminative VP in (73a) becomes durative if a preposition is
added to the DP complement, as in (73b). This shift in aspectuality shows that
prepositions make a contribution to the semantics ofVP.14
(73) a. dat Jan ?urenlanglin een uur de krant leest
that John for hours/in an hour the newspaper reads
b. dat Jan urenlangl?in een uur in de krant leest
that John for hours/in an hour in the newspaper reads
Turning now to nominal PP complements, one fmds that these do not force a
durative interpretation. The nominalization in (74) patterns with the VP in (73a), rather
than with that in (73b). In other words, the preposition van does not seem to make a
contribution to the semantics ofNP, in accordance with the claim that it is a dummy.
(74) het ?urenlanglin een uur lezen van de krant
the for hours/in an hour reading ofthe newspaper
Ifvan is indeed inserted to fill the case shell ofa nominal complement, it follows
that van insertion will not be available in the verbal domain: verbs are proper governors
for nominal categories, so insertion of a dummy preposition would be the application
ofa last resort operation where regular licensing is available.IS The same preference for
regular licensing explains why do insertion is blocked in languages where (main) verbs
can raise.
Let us now tum to the claim that the invisible P hypothesis is correct for van-PPs
in norninalizations. Given that van is a dummy, it follows from Williams's (1994)
notion ofrelativized head, or Grimshaw's (1991) notion of extended projection, that
14 Ofcourse, there are telic V-PP constructions like to run to school. It can be argued, however,
that the PP in this construction is not a PP complement or PP argument, but rather a predicate
that forms a complex predicate with the verb, as do resultatives (cf. Neeleman 1994). There are
similarities between the resultative construction and the construction at hand that would support
extending the complex predicate analysis to directional phrases. For example, directional PPs
like to school can change the valency ofthe verb,just like resultatives can. The unergative verb
fietsen 'to cycle' can be used transitively in (ib).
(i) a. *dat Jan Piet fietst
that John Pete cycles
b. dat Jan Piet naar Den Haag fietst
that John Pete to The Hague cycles
'that John takes Pete to The Hague on his bike'
IS In fact, ifverbs select either a bare DP or a preposition headed by van, this preposition does
seem to make a semantic contribution. There is a clear aspectual difference between hij at de
appel'he ate the appel' and hij at van de appel'he ate ofthe apple'.
140 CHAPTER 4
the referential properties ofDP are inherited by PPs headed by van. The preposition
does not have semantic properties of its own that would block percolation of the
relevant properties to PP. This can be formalized by saying that van is inserted as the
head ofthe case shell and is thus part ofthe extended nominal projection (cf. 75a). For
comparison, the representation ofa regular PP like at Mary in John looked at Mary is
given in (75b).
(75) a. CASEP
~
CASE DP
van
b. PP
~
P DP
at Mary
Since the structure introduced by van is part ofthe noun's extended projection,
it will not block any thematic relations. That is, the a-role ofthe noun can be assigned
to the van-PP with the effect that it is interpreted as being assigned to the DP contained
in it. For the same reason, van-PPs may function as the subject of a secondary
predicate: in accordance with the c-command restriction on predication, the a-role of
the adjectival predicates in (71) can simply be assigned to the van-PP as a whole, with
the required interpretational effect.
It turns out, then, that incorporation ofP into V, which was required to license PP
complements in the verbal domain, does not (or not always) have a counterpart in the
nominal domain. This in tum implies that the effects ofP-incorporation will not show
up with van-PPs. In particular, we argued that, due to limitations on P-incorporation,
the presence of one PP complement blocks the presence of another in the verbal
domain. Ifincorporation is not required for van-PPs, it is predicted that they can freely
be added to nouns that already select another PP complement, a prediction borne out
by (70).
Summarizing, it seems that for van-PPs the invisible P hypothesis is correct.
Nouns are not proper governors, so last resort van insertion is applied in order to allow
for an interpretation as argument. The inserted preposition is a dummy, just like do in
do insertion contexts is a dummy verb. As a result, the structure projected by the
preposition belongs to the extended projection ofthe noun and it consequently does not
block a-role assignment orpredication. Ifthis analysis ofvan PPs is correct, it supports
the claim that the invisible P hypothesis must be rejected for PP complements to verbs.
A unification would leave the differences between regular PP complements and van-
PPs unexplained.
The proposal that regular PP complements and van-PPs have a different status is
corroborated by a further inspection of the selectional properties ofnouns. Although
van insertion is excluded in the verbal domain, nothing so far excludes the occurrence
ofregular PP complements in the nominal domain. In other words, nothing prevents
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS 141
a noun from selecting a prepositional incorporee, and discharging its E)-role after
adjunction ofP to N, as in (76).
(76)
There is reason to believe that syntactic theory should indeed allow for P-
incorporation in NPs. It seems unlikely that there is more than one dummy preposition,
inserted by a last resort operation. However, in addition to van several other
prepositions may head PP complements to nouns. If these prepositions are not
dummies, the analysis presented in this chapter predicts that P-incorporation will have
to take place in order for the DP selected by P to be interpreted as an argument ofthe
noun.
The prediction that then follows is that PP complements to nouns headed by
prepositions other than van will behave much like PP complements to verbs. This
seems to be the case. (77a) shows that such PPs block predication, and (77b,c) show
that they can be combined with a van-PP, but not with another regular PP.16
(77) a. "'het naaktj kijken naar Mariej
the nude looking at Mary
b. het vragen van iets aan iemand
the asking ofsomething to someone
c. "'het vragen naar iets aan iemand
the askingfor something to someone
As it turns out, then, PP complements to nouns support the P-incorporation
analysis in two ways. Some PP complements must be analyzed on a par with the ones
found in the verbal domain: they display the same behavior. Others, namely those
headed by van 'of, behave rather differently. The preposition that heads them seems
to be a dummy, inserted for reasons of case. Consequently, the invisible P hypothesis
discussed in the introduction is correct for van-PPs, but crucially not for PP
complements to verbs.
16 As is to be expected, the counterexamples found in the verbal domain reappear here. Het
spreken met iemand over iets 'the talking with someone about something' is a well-formed
expression. Constructions of this type can be dealt with if, as in the verbal domain, the over-PP
is analyzed as an adjunct (see section 5.5). Interestingly, in Romance there are some functional
prepositions, comparable to van in Dutch that appear in the verbal domain (see De Jong 1996).
If a language has prepostions of this type, it will allow a verb to take two PPs, as do nouns in
Dutch.
142 CHAPTER 4
7. CONCLUDING REMARKS
In this chapter we have presented an analysis of the thematic structure of PP
complements according to which the verb and the DP contained in a PP complement
are thematically related after abstract incorporation of the preposition. At LF, two
thematic relations are established: (i) the preposition assigns its a-role to its DP
complement, and (ii) the internal a-role of the verb is discharged by being identified
with the a-role ofthe preposition. The representation in (78) is thus obtained:
(78)
This structure, which is supported by a range of observations, explains why PP
complements do not need case: they are not assigned a thematic role. Thus it indirectly
supports the visibility condition. The analysis also has some further theoretical
consequences, in particular with respect to the projection principle.
The projection principle is one ofthe cornerstones ofGB theory. It expresses that
representations at each syntactic level are projected from the lexicon, in that they
observe the subcategorization properties of lexical items (cf. Chomsky 1981). The
crucial phrase here is 'each syntactic level'. The projection principle explicitly states
that ifsome element selects another element at one level of representation, it does so
at all levels of representation. It is easy to see that if the analysis of PP complements
presented here is correct, it falsifies the projection principle. The thematic relation
between the verb and the preposition is a selectional relation in the relevant sense, but
it is present only after LF incorporation (the relation between the preposition and its
complement can of course be established earlier).
Although the a-criterion is located at LF in GB theory, the projection principle
requires that it holds at D-structure and S-structure as well. Given the assumption that
D-structure precedes all movements, this leads to a conception of D-structure as
essentially a representation of thematic structure. As Chomsky (1981:39) phrases it:
"At D-structure, then, each argument occupies a a-position and each a-position is
occupied by an argument. In this sense, D-structure is a representation of a-role
assignment [...]". That this is the predominant view is corroborated by the way D-
structure is introduced in linguistic text books. Haegeman (1991; 272) says, for
example, that "D-structure [...] encodes the basic thematic relations in the sentence as
determined by the argument structure of the verb [...]".
Given the way things are organized in GB theory, rejection of the projection
principle implies a rejection of the conception of D-structure as the level of a-role
assignment. Less accurately, but more directly, this consequence ofthe P-incorporation
analysis can be obtained as follows. Since D-structure by hypothesis precedes all
movement, D-structure a-role assignment predicts that movement will never feed
thematic relations. The conclusion that in (78) a relation of a-role identification is
established after movement therefore argues against D-structure a-role assignment.
PREPOSITIONAL COMPLEMENTS 143
This is actually a fortunate consequence ofthe analysis. As pointed out by Brody
(1993) and Chomsky (1995), D-structure a-role assignment is conceptually
unattractive. In the T-model of grammar, syntax proper is a radically autonomous
structurebuilding device, involvedwithX-barrelations, case marking, lexical insertion,
etc. It is only at LF that syntax and semantics meet: this level ofrepresentation forms
the interface with the intentional-conceptual system. Given this division oflabour, one
would not expect syntax proper to represent notions that essentially have to do with the
interpretation of syntactic structures. Moreover, the introduction of such notions into
the structure building device requires a duplication ofprinciples ofthe interpretational
system. As remarked above, the a-criterion holds both at D-structure (for theory-
internal reasons, namely the projection principle) and at LF (by necessity, as this level
forms the interface with semantics).
We have shown, then, that thematic interpretation can be fed by movement and
that therefore a-theory must be post-syntactic, as expected in the model adopted here.
CHAPTER 5
RAISING TO SUBJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
A-movement is a fundamental operation in GB theory, and even more so in standard
minimalism. In this chapter we argue that A-movement cannot exist. This claim fmds
its basis in the hypothesis that case is the syntactic referent for the system ofthematic
mapping, which is located at the LF interface. In other words, only case-marked
positions canbe associated with thematic roles. This implies that there is no motivation
(in the sense of full interpretation) for underlying caseless argument positions, and
hence no motivation for movement from such a position to a case position.
Two phenomena have been discussed in the literature that might involve A-
movement ofan object: scrambling in the Germanic OV languages and object shift in,
for example, Icelandic. We have argued in chapters 2 and 3 that these operations should
be analyzed in terms ofbase generation rather than movement. Our argument was that,
on conceptual grounds, VP must be the domain ofthematic interpretation. This means
that objects do not have to be sisters of the verb; they can also be generated in
'scrambled' or 'shifted' positions. Thus, the A-properties of scrambling and object
shift, as well as the optionality of these phenomena, can be accounted for without
appeal to an A-movement operation.
Minimalist analyses commonly assume that all languages are VO underlyingly
and that OV order is derived through movement ofthe object to its checking position.
This view implies an extension of object shift from the cases mentioned above to the
OVNO parameter, and it is therefore untenable in theory developed here. In chapter
2 we have proposed an alternative formulation ofthis parameter, one that comes closer
to the ideal that parameters connect a wide range of data.
This leaves us with the core case of A-movement, that of raising to subject. In
both GB theory and minimalism, this operation is used to explain why subjects of
passive and unaccusative verbs are not interpreted in the position they surface in. The
subject ofthe passive verb in (ta), for example, is interpreted on a par with the object
in the related active construction. Similar considerations suggest that in (1b,c), too, the
subject heads an A-movement chain. Here, the 9-role that the subject bears
(PatientlTheme) can normally not be assigned to subject position.
(1) a.
b.
c.
[John; was promoted ~ yesterday]
[John; died ~ yesterday]
[John; seems [~ to be happy]]
In this chapter we will present an analysis ofthese facts that does not involve A-
movement. We will argue that subjects in raising constructions, like other subjects, are
a-marked by VP. What is special about raising constructions is that internal to VP an
operation of 9-role promotion takes place by which the internal 9-role of the verb
becomes an external a-role. It is this 9-role that is then assigned to the subject. Thus,
145
146 CHAPTER 5
a process that is banned in the theory adopted here (A-movement) is replaced by one
that agrees with our basic assumptions, namely a syntactic operation that feeds 9-
theory. If 9-role assignment takes place at the LF interface rather than D-structure,
such operations are expected to exist. Moreover, in the previous chapter we have
provided empirical motivation for the existence of such operations on the basis of PP
complementation.
An analysis ofNP raising as base generation of a subject plus 9-role promotion
has been proposed earlier by Williams (1994). However, we will not adopt Williams'
specific proposal about the syntactic instantiation of this process (which involves the
'vertical binding' ofcaseless traces). We will argue instead that the grammatical means
of9-role promotion is the A'-movement ofa silent operator.
9-role promotion through null operator movement is a process that must be
assumed independently. Since Chomsky (1977), easy to please constructions like (2a)
are analyzed as involving the movement ofa null operator to the specifier position of
the infinitival clause. This analysis is supported by the observation that such
constructions display A'-movement effects: the contrast between (2b) and (2c), for
instance, follows from subjacency.
(2) a. John is [AP easy [OJ to please t;]]
b. John is [AP easy [OJ to convince Bill to do business with t;]]
c. •John is [AP easy [OJ to describe to Bill a plan to assassinate t;]]
The null operator movement in question is clearly a process of predicate
formation. A referential expression like John in (2a) must be assigned a 9-role. The
only possible 9-role assigner in the structure is the adjectival phrase. However, easy
is an ergative adjective.I Its single 9-role is assigned internally, to the infinitival
complement: (2a) does not mean that John is easy, but rather that it is easy to please
John.
As Chomsky (1977, 1981), Browning (1987) and others have pointed out, this
implies that it is the null operator movement that provides the adjectival phrase with
an external 9-role. By means of this operation, the internal 9-role of the infmitive is
promoted. It then follows that null operator movement is obligatory. Ifit does not take
place, as in (3), the adjectival phrase does not have a 9-role to assign, and hence John
violates full interpretation.
(3) ·John is [AP easy [to please himself]]
I We use the term 'ergative adjective' to refer to a class of adjectives identified by Cinque
(1990). Cinque presents some tests for ergativity of adjectives. Most of them, however, cannot
be applied to English. The one that can corroborates the ergativity of easy to please phrases.
Such phrases may appear in the construction in (i), a position that Cinque claims is reserved for
ergative APs:
(i) As will be easy to understand, 1 + 1 = 2
RAISING TO SUBJECT 147
Our proposal is that in NP raising constructions a null operator movement takes
place as well. This movement relates the verb's object position with its specifier
position. As a result, VP contains a 'gap' that allows it to function as a predicate:
(4) a.
b.
c.
John [vp OJ was promoted ~ yesterday]
John [VP OJ arrived ~ yesterday]
John [vp OJ seems [~to be happy]]
Although the analysis in (4) is based on similarities between NP-raising and easy
to please constructions, it does not imply that the two constructions are identical in all
respects. To give one example, NP raising is much more local than the null operator
movement in easy to please constructions. We will argue that these differences reduce
to the hypothesis that easy to please constructions involve movement to a functional
specifier, whereas NP raising does not.
In sum, we will defend the following claims in this chapter:
(5) a.
b.
c.
Syntactic operations may feed f)-theory.
A-positions are exclusively defmed as case positions.
All movement is A'-movement.
We will start, in section 2, by developing our theory ofe-role promotion through null
operator movement. In section 3, we will show that this analysis allows several
properties ofthe process to be derived and that exactly these properties reoccur in easy
to please constructions. In sections 4 and 5, we will show that differences between NP
raising and null operator movement in easy to please constructions, in particular the
fact that the former is much more local than the latter, can be traced back to
independent intervening factors. Finally, section 6 summarizes the conceptual
consequences ofthe analysis. One ofthese is that the domains off)-role assignment to
subjects and to objects can be uniformly defmed in terms of m-command. In both
cases, the syntax turns out to be flexible in nature.
2. f)-ROLE PROMOTION AS A'-MoVEMENT
From a semantic point of view, e-roles can best be represented in terms of lambda
calculus. The logicalrepresentation ofan n-place predicate P is AXI... Ax" [P (XI··· x..)],
where every combination of a lambda operator and the variable it binds corresponds
with a a-role. Saturation of a f)-role can be seen as the application of the above-
mentioned formula to an argument. That is to say, the thematic relation between the
adjective proud and its internal argument in (6a) can be represented as in (6b),
abstracting away for the moment from the adjective's externalS-role. The formula in
the top node in (6b) results from lambda conversion of 'AX [proud (x)] (his father),.
(6) a. A'
A~PP
proud ofhis father
148 CHAPTER 5
b. [proud (his father)]
~
AX [proud (x)] (his father)
For ease of exposition, we will refer to the relevant operator-variable pairs as e-roles
when this does not affect the argumentation. We will see, however, that the proposed
analysis ofe-roles does have consequences, as itstraightforwardly allows null-operator
movement to be used as an operation ofpredicate formation.
Internal e-roles must be saturated within the head's maximal projection.
However, Williams (1980, 1981a) argues that heads may have a unique e-role that is
marked as external and that determines the valency of their maximal projection. We
will follow standard notation and mark the external e-role by underscoring. In (7), for
example, f! is the external e-role ofproud: it stands for the role assigned to John in
John is proud ofhisfather.
(7) Proud ill e]
Like the categorial features of a head, its external e-role is copied onto its maximal
projection. In the case at hand, then, the e-role of the phrase projected by proud will
be the one marked as external inproud's e-grid (cf. 8). Once copied upward, this e-
role will be assigned in accordance with the principle ofthematic mapping (cf. (9) in
chapter 2). Thus, the AP must fmd a c-commanding subject in its m-command domain.
(8) APE>
I -
A'
~
A [f! e] PP
proud ~ of his father
Above we have argued that e-roles are in fact lambda-bound variables. If so, the
thematic relations in (8) must be represented as in (9), where the adjective's external
e-role corresponds to AY and the variable it binds.
(9) AY [proud (y, his father)]
Ax A~hiS father)
Again, the formula in the top node in (9) results from lambda conversion.
Williams (1981a) points out that his theory ofpredication, even though it does not
assume a unique subject position, explains why there can be only a single subject per
predicate. The relation between a subject and its predicate is essentially one between
a dependent element (the predicate) and its antecedent (the subject). Such dependency
relations are always unique, in that every dependent element is bound exactly once (cf.
RAISING TO SUBJECT 149
Koster 1987). So, just like an anaphor has a unique antecedent, there is one subject for
each predicate.
In addition, the view ofexternal a-roles sketched above ties in with assumptions
made in chapter 2 about the thematic hierarchy. There, we claimed that the more
prominent a a-role is, the closer it will be related to the head. Even though the subject
is generated external to VP, its a-role entertains the closest possible relation, namely
one directly associated with the verbal projection line. Hence, only the most prominent
a-role can be external.2
Let us now consider how null operator movement can derive predicates. Consider
the structure in (10), in which the head does not have an external a-role, and in which
a null operator moves from complement to specifier position.
(10) XP
~
o· X'
'~
Xa~t;
2 A paradox concerning the ordering ofTheme and Goal in the thematic hierarchy can now be
solved. Consider the examples in (i). (ia,a') show that the Goal argument of a verb must be
realized in a position c-commanding the Theme. (ib,b') show that the opposite is true when the
two 8-roles originate in a preposition: then the Theme is projected as the PP's external argument.
(i) a. Oat Jan [Marie [een boek gaf]]
that John Marie the book gave
a'. *Dat Jan [het boek [Marie gaf]]
that John the book Mary gave
b. Oat Jan [de auto [in het ravijn] duwde]
that John the can into the abyss pushed
b'. *Oat Jan [het ravijn [in de auto] duwde
that John the abyss into the car pushed
These data can be accounted for ifthe hierarchy is as in (ii) (cf. (68) in chapter 2):
(ii) Agent> Theme> Goal
If the closest possible relation is that of association with the projection line, it foIlows that the
Agent in (ia,a') is assigned externaIly to the subject. The Theme is then assigned to the direct
object, and the Goal to the indirect object. In (ib,b'), the Theme is the highest 9-role in the
prepositional grid, and hence it wi\1 be realized external to the PP (assuming that it is marked as
such), whereas the Goal wi\1 be assigned to the preposition's direct object. This ordering paradox
cannot be solved underthe traditional viewthatc-commandrelations between argumentsdirectly
reflect the thematic hierarchy in (iii).
(iii) Agent> Goal> Theme
150 CHAPTERS
Which semantic representation must be assigned to the XP in (1O)? The answer to this
question is partially implied by what we have said above. For a start, the thematic role
ofX is in fact a combination of a lambda operator and its variable:
(11) ')..y [X (y)]
The trace left behind by the null operator movement functions as a variable at LF since
this is the way A'-bound traces are interpreted. This implies that the formula in (11) is
applied to a variable argument, giving rise to (12a), or (12b) after lambda conversion.
(12) a.
b.
')..y [X (y)] (z)
[X (z)]
(12b), then, is the semantic representation of the X'-node in (10). This node is
combined with a null operator that binds the variable z. Given thatnull operators do not
have quantificational force, they should presumably map onto lambda operators at LF.
The consequence is that the XP-node in (10) translates into the formula below:
(13) ')..z [X (z)]
In sum, the entire mapping process proceeds as in (14).
(14) ')..z [X (z)]
~
')..z [X (z)]
~
')..y [X (y)] (z)
Crucially, the representation in (13) is identical to that of an XP with an external 9-
role, as will be clear from a comparison with the top node in (9). In both constructions
a lambda operator binds a variable in the argument structure ofa predicate. Given that
this is so, one is led to the conclusion that null operator movement can tum an XP
without an external 9-role into a predicate. To put it differently, the 9-role assigned
by X reappears at the XP-level due to the application of a process of predicate
formation.3
As argued in the introduction, easy to please constructions exemplify predicate
formation in adjectival phrases. The traditional analysis has it that the null operator
does not move beyond the specifier ofthe infinitival clause ofeasy. But this does not
make much sense. Why would a null operator contained in the complement ofa head
tum the phrase projected by that head into a predicate? Instead we assume, following
Browning (1987) and Mulder & Den Dikken (1992), that the null operator in easy to
3 The same line of argumentation holds, of course, ifthe trace of null operator movement does
not occupy the head's complement position but appears lower in the structure.
RAISING TO SUBJECT 151
please constructions moves one step further. From the specifier of the infmitival
complement it raises to the specifier ofthe adjectival phrase:4
(15)
The effect ofthis movement is that the easy to please phrase will be mapped onto
a predicate (ore-role assigner) at LF. In (15) this is indicated by the a-role on AP, but
it shouldbe clearthat this a-role stands for a lambda operatorplus a variable associated
with the argument structure of the embedded predicate. It now follows that the
adjectival phrase can license the subject John in John is easy to please. It also follows
that the a-role assigned to the subject is interpreted on a par with the a-role assigned
to the null operator chain.
Let us now tum to NP raising. The most popular version of the VP-internal
subject hypothesis, that in which subjects occupy the specifier position of VP, is in
conflict with the theory of predication sketched above. According to this theory,
subjects are external arguments of maximal projections. Following work by Manzini
(1983), Koopman & Sportiche (1991) and Neeleman (1994), we therefore assume that
ifsubjects appear VP-internally, they occupy an adjoined position:
(16) VP
~
DP~t2
The specifier ofVP is now available for a different function, as must be the case
ifNP raising involves predicate formation. Wepropose that inunaccusative andpassive
VPs a null operator moves from a lower argument position to spec-VP. When this
happens, VP can be interpreted as a predicate, even though its head does not have an
external a-role. The semantic representation of the VP in (17) will contain a lambda
operator which binds a variable associated with the verb's argument structure. Hence,
VP can be interpreted as a predicate, on a par with the structures discussed earlier.
4 Mulder & Den Dikken (1992) actually claim that the second step of null operator movement
targets the specifier of a Mood-and-Modality Phrase. We do not agree with this part of their
analysis, and will assume movement to spec-AP instead.
152
(17) VP
D~8
~
CHAPTERS
O· V'
'~
V ~
As in easy to please constructions, the subject's 8-role is interpreted as identical to the
one assigned to the trace ofthe null operator (as required by semantic considerations),
while in fact it occupies an independent thematic position (as required by the proposed
theory ofsubjects). We should remark here that independent motivation for an analysis
ofthe semantics ofNP raising in terms oflambda calculus has been given by Kitagawa
1989 and Chierchia 1995, amongst others.
Null operator movement does not always derive predicates. The constructions in
(18a,b), for instance, are ungrammatical, presumably because the subject John fails to
be 0-marked. Nevertheless, the null operator movements in (18a,b) are licit in relative
clauses (cf. 18c) and matrix topicalization structures (cf. 18d).
(18) a.
b.
c.
d.
·John is [OJ that we like to talk to~]
·1 consider John [OJ that 1like to talk to ~]
[The man [OJ that we like to talk to tJ]
John [OJ I would like to talk to ~]
It seems, then, that the kind ofnull operator movement that derives predicates must be
distinguished from the one that derives relative clauses, etc. For ease ofreference, we
will call the former short null operator movement and the latter long null operator
movement. The crucial distinction between the cases at hand and the ones discussed
earlier is that in (18) null operator movement targets the specifier of a functional
category, whereas in (IS) and (17) it ends up in the specifier ofa lexical category. On
the assumptionhat only lexical categories canbe8-role assigners the ungrammaticality
of(18a,b) follows.s
S It is almost true that CP cannot function as a predicate. However, ifit is headed by a preposition
it can (cf. i). Constructions ofthis type are presumably well-formed because P is lexical category
and hence capable of supporting 8-grids. Apparently, it depends on the lexical or functional
status of the head whether a category may be used as a predicate.
(i) a. Jan is [CP OJ om [tj te zoenen]]
John is COMP to kiss
b. That is [CP OJ for [us to decide ~]]
One might think that the CPs in (i) are predicative because of the null operator movement to
spec-CPo This is not the case, however. CPs headed by omlfor can also be used as predicates in
the absence ofnull operator movement (cf. ii). The movements in (i) must therefore be analyzed
RAISING TO SUBJECT 153
There are severalempiricaldifferences betweenshortnull operatormovement and
longnull operator movement. Inparticular, shortnull operatormovement is muchmore
local than long null operator movement. We will argue in section 4 that these empirical
differences do not have to be stipulated, but can be traced back to the hypothesis that
the former does, while the latter does not, derive predicates. But we first show how
several properties shared by NP raising and easy to please constructions support the
unified analysis proposed here.
3. NP RAISING AS NULL OPERATOR MOVEMENT
In this section we will argue that some basic properties ofNP raising can be explained
straightforwardly if the process is analyzed as base generation of a subject plus null
operator movement to spec-VP. Exactly these properties return in easy to please
constructions, since these are derived by null operator movement as well. The section
contains six subsections, dealing with the trigger ofNP raising, the 'suppression' of
accusative case, the impossibility ofraising to a-positions, the impossibility ofraising
non-arguments, the impossibility of raising to object positions and the possibility of
coordinating transitive or intransitive VPs with unaccusative or passive VPs.
3.1 Designing a Trigger
Above we have already argued that null operator movement in easy to please
constructions is a process ofpredicate formation. In (19) short null operator movement
turns the AP into a predicate, with the result that the subject can be assigned a a-role.
(19) John is [AP OJ easy [tj to please 1;]]
There are two ways in which a trigger for this movement can be formulated. Either one
says that there must be a subject and therefore a a-role to assign to it, or one adopts,
as we will, Chomsky's (1970) suggestion that verbal categories are inherently
predicative. The condition in (20) states that verbal projections only classify as well-
formed LF entities if they have a a-role to assign. Consequently, they will take
subjects. We will refer to (20) as the predicate condition.
(20) Predicate Condition
Maximal projections of <+V> categories must be mapped onto predicates
atLF
Assuming that the predicate condition triggers null operator movement in (19) is more
in line with what we have proposed above. Given Williams' theory ofpredication, it
makes no sense to say that there is a specific subject position and hence there is no
as cases of long null operator movement (fronting).
(ii) a. Zijn gedrag is [om te huilen]
his attitude is COMP to cry
b. This device is [for cleaning archaeological findings]
154 CHAPTER 5
basis for the requirement that this position be filled. Below, further evidence for (20)
will be given.
Once the predicate condition is adopted on the basis of easy to please
constructions, we have also found a trigger for NP raising. The short null operator
movement in passive and unaccusative constructions provides VP with a 9-role, with
the effect that (20) can be satisfied:
(21) a.
b.
John [VP OJ was fired tj ]
John [VP OJ fell ~]
This proposal replaces the traditional assumption that the trigger ofNP raising is
case-theoretical in nature. Passive morphology, for instance, is often assumed to
'absorb' the verb's structural case. Therefore, the object of a passive verb must move
to the nominative position. Burzio's generalization extends this approach to
unaccusative constructions, even though no case-absorbing affIx ispresent there. Itsays
that ifa verb does not assign an external 8-role, it does not assign structural case either.
Burzio's generalization links very different properties ofa predicate, which makes
it conceptually unattractive. Moreover, it faces some empirical diffIculties. Why would
the passive of verbs selecting a PP complement not be formed by simple omission of
the subject, as in (22a',b')? Why, in other words, are there no unaccusative or passive
verbs that select a PP as their sole argument?
(22) a. Many people talk [about this actress]
a' . *_ waslbe talked [about this actress] by many people
a". This actress [OJ was talked [about tJ by many people]
b. Mary walked out [on John]
b'. *_ waslbe walked out [on John] by Mary
b". John [OJ was walked out [on tJ by Mary]
Various linguists have already argued that the relevant facts are ruled out by the
extendedprojectionprinciple (EPP, cf. Chomsky 1982): the requirementthat a sentence
contains a subject (cf. Weerman 1989, Marantz 1992, and others). If the EPP triggers
NP raising in contexts like (22a',b'), it might as well be taken to be the trigger for NP
raising in general. No reference to Burzio's generalization needs to be made. This
comes close to what we have said before, since the EPP can be seen as alternative to
the condition in (20).
The EPP may be an alternative, but it is not a notational variant. There are many
contexts in which verbal projections function as predicates but do not have a structural
subject. Higginbotham (1985), for example, argues that gerunds and participles in
prenominal position discharge their 8-role by entering into a relation with NP (cf. 23).
But NP can hardly be seen as the structural subject ofVP, given that VP is part of the
noun's (extended) projection, rather than the other way around. That VPs may
nevertheless appearpre-nominally implies that the principle triggering NP raising is not
about subjects but about predicates.
(23) a.
b.
RAISING TO SUBJECT
A [NP [VP quietly whistling] [NP postman]]
A [NP [vP OJ carefully composed ~] [NP letter]]
155
A similar argument can based on adjectival prenominal predicates (cf. 24). (Note that,
ifpresent, the adjective's infminitival complement is extraposed because ofthe head
fmal filter).
(24) a.
b.
A [NP [AP green] [NP door]]
An [NP [AP OJ easy~] [NP man]] [~ to please q
In sum, the trigger needed for short null operator movement in easy to please
constructions applies to NP raising as well.
3.2 Case Absorption
It is trivial that in easy to please constructions the accusative case of the embedded
infmitival is assigned to the foot of the null operator chain, whereas the subject is
assigned nominative (for ease ofexposition we will use 'nominative' and 'accusative'
as descriptive terms; see chapter 3 for analysis).
(25) John-NOM is [OJ easy [tjto please tj-ACC]]
In (25), there are two thematic relations, namely one between to please and the trace
in object position and one between the adjectival predicate and the subject. Even
though the a-roles in question are co-valued (due to null operator movement), the
relations they enter into must each be licensed by case. Consequently, both nominative
and accusative are assigned.
Given our analysis, a similar distribution of cases is required in NP raising
constructions. As in (25), there are two thematic relations in the examples below. The
verb a-marks the trace ofnull operator movement and VP assigns a (co-valued) a-role
to the subject under predication. Consequently, two cases must be assigned:
(26) a.
b.
c.
John-NOM [OJ was promoted t-ACCjyesterday]
John-NOM [OJ arrived t-ACCjyesterday]
John-NOM [OJ seems [t-ACCj to be happy]
This analysis is rather different from the ones based on Burzio's generalization,
which explains the fact that the subject appears in the nominative rather than the
accusative by saying that passives, unaccusative verbs and raising verbs cannot assign
case. Whereas Burzio's generalization is no more than a stipulation, however, the
'disappearance' of accusative straightforwardly follows from the analysis proposed
here: it is simply assigned to the trace left behind by null operator movement. No
reference needs to be made to the case-assigning properties ofthe various verb classes.
In fact, this is not even possible, given the theory of case developed in chapters 2 and
3. Case assignment (in languages without morphological case) is reduced to head
156 CHAPTER 5
government. Since traces ofNP raising, like other traces, must be properly governed,
there is nothing that could prevent the projection of a case shell.
In recent A-movement analyses ofNP raising, movement to the subject position
is triggered by the EPP rather than by Burzio's generalization. This does not mean,
however, that such analyses explain why raised subjects do not appear in the
accusative. As far as we can see, additional measures are still required to stop
unaccusative and passive verbs from assigning accusative. In terms ofthe minimalist
program, what would be wrong with inserting an accusative DP in object position,
raising it to spec-AgrO to check its case, and from there to spec-TP to satisfy the EPP?
In standard minimalist analyses, progress can only be made if the EPP is
formulated in terms of case assignment. It is sometimes proposed, for example, that
according to the EPP nominative case assignment takes priority over accusative case
assignment. Movement to subject and absence ofaccusative can thus be linked, for if
there is a single argument, it must be assigned nominative. An account along these lines
faces a serious problem, however. In exceptional case-marking constructions, NP
raising takes place as well:
(27) I expect [John, to be promoted t; soon]
Paradoxically, accusative must sometimes take priority over accusative. This implies
that even ifthe nominative-first hypothesis is adopted, the principle triggering raising
and the principle regulating the case of the subject cannot be the same. In this sense,
a part of Burzio's generalization remains underived.
In contrast, the fact that raised subjects (usually) appear in the same case as
regular subjects follows directly ifNP raising is analyzed as null operator movement.
3.3 Raising to B-Positions
The ergativity of the adjectival head is a consistent property of easy to please
constructions. Ungrammaticality results ifeasy in the prototypical example is replaced
by a transitive adjective like reluctant or eager:
(28) a. *John is [0; reluctant [t; to please tJ]
a'. John is reluctant to please himself
b. *John is [0; eager [t; to please ~]]
b'. John is eager to please himself
Why would this be so? We have claimed that short null operator movement is a process
of predicate formation: it provides a 8-role to verbal categories that lack one. It is a
natural assumption that predicate-forming operations may not affect constituents that
are already licensed as such. So, null operator movement is expected to be blocked if
a verbal category has a head with an external 8-role, as in (28).
Once it is assumed that predicate-forming operations may not affect predicates,
it follows that there can be no raising to 8-positions. That is, short null operator
movement to spec-VP is blocked if V has an external 8-role, just like short null
RAISING TO SUBJECT 157
operator movement to spec-AP is blocked in (28). The ungrammaticality of the
constructions in (29) can thus be explained.
(29) a.
b.
*John [OJ hates t;]
*John [OJ saw [t; dance the samba]]
In GB theory, the ungrammaticality ofraising to 9-positions could be explained
by assuming that a-roles are assigned atD-structure. This position is no longertenable,
however, in view ofthe conceptual and empirical evidence for LF as the level of9-role
assignment (see chapters 1 and 4). This means that the ungrarnmaticality ofexamples
like (29) requires a new explanation, even ifthe traditional A-movement analysis ofNP
raising is adopted.
There are several options, but none is satisfactory. First, one could argue that case
theory is responsible: the chains headed by John in (30) bear both nominative and
accusative. Such an explanation can only be maintained, however, if verbs that can
assign accusative must assign it. This is a highly suspect restriction. Many verbs
optionally select an object, and even intransitives assign accusative in resultative
constructions. Why would such verbs be able to suppress case assignment ifthe verbs
in (30) cannot?
(30) a.
b.
*John; hates tj
*John; saw [tjdance the samba]
Alternatively, one could hold a-theory responsible. Ifthe 9-criterion states that
an A-chain has a unique 9-role, movement as in (30) will be blocked. However, in
constructions ofsecondary predication an A-chain may bear more than one 9-role. In
John ate the meat raw the object is a-marked by both the verb and the depictive raw.
(See Neeleman 1994 for arguments against a small clause analysis of secondary
predication).
What if the 9-criterion says that an A-chain has a unique 9-position, namely its
foot? Although this rules out the constructions in (30), difficulties again arise in the
domain of secondary predication. The point is that raised subjects may be 9-marked
by a secondary predicate, as evidenced by the data in (31). (31a) shows that gerund
depictives may be related to the subject of a transitive verb, but not to the object
(presumably because they are too high in the structure). Nevertheless, gerunds may be
linked to the subjects ofpassive and raising verbs, as (31b,c) show. This suggests that
NP raising may feed a-role assignment, but not 9-role assignment by the main
predicate.
(31) a.
b.
c.
John; killed Bil~ [thinking about Mary);"j
Bill; was killed t; [thinking about Mary];
Bill; died t; [thinking about Mary);
Further adaptions are possible, but they would tum the a-criterion into a descriptive
statement that rules out raising to 9-positions and not much else. The conclusion is
158 CHAPTER 5
that, as it stands, the A-movement analysis of NP raising fails to explain the
ungrammaticality of raising to e-positions.
Having establishedthebasic argument for null operatormovement, letus consider
how the idea that predicate forming operations may not apply to predicates can be
made more precise. As explained in section 2, the external e-role of a head X
determines the valency ofXP. In other words, the way XP is interpreted with respect
to e-theory is encoded in the lexicon. The impossibility ofpredicate formation in (28)
and (29) can be traced back to this fact.
Syntactic operations must respect lexical restrictions. Consider, then, what
happens ifshort null operator movement takes place in a transitive XP. In this case, the
valency of XP is laid down in the lexicon. If null operator movement takes place,
however, the e-role assigned by XP must not only have the content ofX's external e-
role, but also that of the e-role assigned to the null-operator chain. As a result, the
interpretation of XP no longer agrees with what is stated in the lexicon.
The situation in unaccusative XPs is different. Crucially, unaccusative heads do
not have an external e-role. This means that the interpretation of an unaccusative XP
with respect to e-theory is not laid down in the lexicon. If a null operator moves to
spec-XP, this therefore does not have the result that lexical specifications are
overwritten. What happens is that an XP whose valency is left unspecified is provided
with a e-role in syntax.
3.4 Raising ofNon-Arguments
Short null operator movement in easy to please constructions must have its root in a e-
position. Movement from an adjunct position does not suffice to tum the easy to please
phrase into a predicate, as the data in (32) show.
(32) a.
b.
·Yesterday was [OJ easy [to please John ~]]
·Tomorrow will be [OJ easy [to please John tJ]
These data require an explanation since null operator movement in general is not
restricted to arguments. In (33a) and (33b), long null operator movement ofan adjunct
is used to derive a relative clause and a topicalization structure respectively.
(33) a.
b.
[The way [OJ to fix this car ~]]
Tomorrow [OJ I will fix my car t;]
Ifthe impossibility of adjunct movement in easy to please constructions is not due to
a general restriction on null operator movement, it must be a consequence of the fact
that easy to please phrases, as opposed to relative clauses and topicalization
constructions, function as predicates. It is clear why this should be so. As opposed to
long null operator movement, short null operator movement is an operation of e-role
promotion. Obviously, ife-role promotion is to take place, there must be a e-role to
promote. That adjuncts occupy e-bar positions thus implies that they may never feed
short null operator movement.
RAISING TO SUBJECT 159
This basic idea can be developed as follows. We have claimed above that 9-roles
are combinations of a variable and a lambda operator. This is too general an
assumption, however. 9-roles must in fact fulfil specific functions with respect to the
predicate, indicated by labels like Agent, Theme, etc. These functions can be seen as
restrictions on thematic variables: an Agent role can be represented as Ax [AGENT (x)],
a Theme as Ax [THEME (x)], etc. A variable without a lexical restriction of this type
may not be used as a 9-role, presumably because it would violate full interpretation.
The head of an easy to please construction does not have an external 9-role.
Hence, the 9-role of the adjectival phrase must be licensed by syntactic movement.
This implies that its lexical restriction must be inherited from the null operator chain
in spec-AP. Ifso, the ungrammaticality ofthe constructions in (32) follows. Since the
null operator chain is not assigned a 9-role, it does not have a lexical restriction to pass
on.
In the same vein, the impossibility of promoting an adjunct to subject in
unaccusative and passive VPs follows if 9-role promotion is limited to categories
related to a thematic restriction. The ungrammaticality of the examples in (34) is a
result ofthe null operator chains they contain not being assigned a 9-role. These chains
therefore do not carry the restriction required to motivate a 9-role on VP.
(34) a.
b.
*Yesterday [OJ seemed tj [that John left]]
*Tomorrow [OJ will be found out tj by Mary [that John left]]
It is unclear which conditions block promotion of adjuncts in the A-movement
analysis of NP raising. The data in (34) are not captured by the ban on improper
movement, since improper movement is ruled outby ruling out configurations in which
an A-position binds a trace that A'-binds a variable (cf. Chomsky 1981, Muller &
Stemefeld 1993). Such a configuration is not present in (34). The data can also not be
explained by the hypothesis that adjuncts do not need case, and hence do not need to
be moved to a case position. First, NP raising is triggered by the requirement that there
be a subject (as expressed by the predicate condition or the EPP), rather than by the
case filter (cf. section 3.2). Second, certain elements that usually function as adjuncts
can satisfy the predicate.condition when inserted in subject position. Yesterday in (35)
is an example:
(35) Yesterday was the most beautiful day of my life
In addition, the A-movement analysis makes it hard to generalize over the data in (32)
and (34). It seems, then, that an analysis ofNP raising as 9-role promotion explains the
impossibility of adjunct raising more easily.
3.5 Raising to Object Positions
Short null operator movement in easy to please constructions provides the adjectival
phrase with an external 9-role. We know ofno case in which null operator movement
gives rise to an extra internal 9-role on the adjective (and thus to the selection of an
extra object). This follows from the analysis given here, as we will now show.
160 CHAPTER 5
A head may thematically license an object ifit contains an accessible variable to
which that object can be related. Without exception, these variables are the internal 9-
roles provided by the head's lexical entry. An extra internal 9-role could only be
motivated by null operator movement if the landing site of the null operator were
dominated by the head, just like the landing site ofnull operator movement in easy to
please constructions is dominated by AP.
Such movement is inadmissible, however. Incorporation ofmaximal projections,
and therefore incorporation ofnull operators, is impossible. The closestlanding site that
can host null operators is the specifier ofthe head's complement, as in (36). Movement
to this position will at best motivate an extra 9-role on the complement ofthe head, but
never on the head itself.
(36)
Like short null operator movement in easy to please constructions, NP raising is
subject-oriented: it may never target an object position. This generalization has given
rise to extensive discussion in the literature, which we will not try to summarize here.
Let us just point out that what we have said above about the subject-orientedness of
null operator movement in easy to please constructions carries over to NP raising
straightforwardly. We have analyzed this process as base generation of a subject plus
null operator movement. On a par with this, raising to object would have to be
decomposed into base generation ofan object plus a null operator movement providing
the verb with an extra internal 9-role (that is, a 9-role not contained in the verb's
lexical entry). Such a movement does not exist, however. The null operator would have
to incorporate into V and, as remarked above, incorporation ofmaximal projections is
ruled out.
3.6 Coordination
Thus far we have shown that five basic properties of NP raising constructions are
captured by the null operator analysis. This analysis sheds a new light on the trigger of
the operation, its case-absorbing properties, the impossibility ofraising to 9-positions,
the impossibility of raising non-arguments and the impossibility of raising to object
positions. The very same properties reappear in easy to please constructions.
The similarities between NP raising and easy to please constructions can be taken
to support an analysis of the former as involving null operator movement.
Alternatively, one could analyze easy to please constructions as involving A-
movement, and try to derive the shared properties from this process. This is in fact what
Brody (1993) proposes. As far as we can see, the relevant properties do not follow
RAISING TO SUBJECT 161
straightforwardly from such an analysis. There is, however, a more direct argument
against it, based on the distribution of easy to please constructions.
Brody (1993) discusses the classical question ofhow the subject in easy to please
constructions satisfies the a-criterion. He proposes that the complement of the
embedded verb moves to the specifier position ofthe infmitival clause, and from there
to the matrix subject position (cf. 37). The subject is now part of a chain that has its
root in a a-position, and it thus satisfies the a-criterion in the same way as raised
subjects in the A-movement analysis.
(37) Jo~ is [easy [~to please ~]]
Standard assumptions rule out this derivation as a case of improper movement.
The head of the chain in (37) occupies an A-position, while the intermediate landing
site is an A'-position. Brody (1993), however, argues that exactly in cases like (37) the
ban on improper movement should be lifted; under conditions met there an A-chain
may contain an A'-position.
A basic difference between Brody's analysis and others is that it denies that the
adjectival phrase is a a-role assigner. It seems, however, that the distribution ofeasy
to please phrases is best described in terms ofpredication. To give two examples, they
can be used as prenominal modifiers (in that case the infmitival complement is
extraposed), and they may be coordinated with predicative expressions:
(38) a.
b.
An [easy~] man [to mislead];
1consider John [lonely and [easy to mislead]]
At least some of the positions open to easy to please phrases do not allow the
movement crucial to Brody's analysis. (38b) is an illustrative in this respect. Ifsubjects
ofeasy to please phrases indeed move from the specifier ofthe infmitival clause to the
matrix subject position, (38b) should be ungrammatical. On Brody's analysis, it
violates the coordinate structure constraint, as the raising operation affects only one
conjunct (cf. 39a). The traditional analysis does allow the coordination in (38b),
because the null operator movement takes place internal to one of the conjuncts (cf.
39b).
(39) a.
b.
*1 consider John; [lonely and [easy [~to mislead ~]]]
1consider John [lonely and [OJ easy [~ to mislead ~]]]
Data like (38b) make it hard to analyze easy to please constructions as involving
NP raising. On closer inspection, they even suggest an extra argument for analyzing NP
raising in terms of null operator movement. As observed by Burton & Grimshaw
(1992), it is possible to coordinate a transitive and a passive VP. Some crucial examples
are given in (40).
(40) a.
b.
1saw [[the boys] [[perform a play] and [be awarded a prize for it]]]
1saw [John [[commit a crime] and [be arrested for it]]]
162 CHAPTER 5
We assume that the complements ofverbs like see are bare VPs, as suggested by
the absence ofthe infmitival marker to. Ifso, the A-movement analysis ofNP raising
predicts that the constructions at hand violate the coordinate structure constraint. On
a par with the example in (39a), the embedded subject is moved out of the passive
conjunct, whereas no movement affects the active one:
(41) a.
b.
I saw [vp the boys]j [[v. perform a play] and [v. be awarded ~ a prize for it]]]
I saw [vp John; [[v. commit a crime] and [v. be arrested ~ for it]]]
This problem does not arise in the null operator analysis. Recall that VP-internal
subjects are viewed as adjuncts to VP. The constructions in (41) can hence be taken to
involve coordination of two VPs, each of which assigns a f)-role to the subject. Of
course, the f)-role ofthe passive VP is supported by null operator movement, but since
this movement takes place internal to one of the conjuncts, it does not violate the
coordinate structure constraint:
(42) a. I saw [vp the boys] [[vp perform a play] and [vp OJ be awarded ~ a prize for
it]]]
b. I saw [vp John [[vp commit a crime] and [vp OJ be arrested ~ for it]]]
In conclusion, the similaritiesbetween easytopleaseconstructions and NP raising
strongly suggest that the two should be treated in the same way. Coordination data
show that easy to please construction cannot be analyzed in terms of A-movement.
Consequently, NP raising must involve null operator movement, in line with the
evidence presented in the previous sections.
4. SHORT VERSUS LONG OPERATOR MOVEMENT
Let us recapitulate the line ofargumentation so far. The theory developed in this study
does not allow A-movement, and therefore NP raising should be reanalyzed. We have
argued that the subject occupies a base-generated 8-position and that null operator
movement to spec-VP licenses VP as a predicate. This analysis explains five basic
properties ofNP raising, which all reappear in easy to please constructions.
The claim, then, is that NP raising involves A'-movement, rather than A-
movement. Of course, we are aware of the fact that NP-raising and easy to please
constructions also behave differently in a number ofways. For example, NP raising is
more local than null operator movement in easy to please constructions (or other
movements for that matter). Similarly, parasitic gaps are licensed in easy to please
constructions, but not by NP raising. Expletives show the opposite distribution. They
appear in raising constructions, but not with easy-type adjectives.
In principle, observations of this type can be captured in the same way as in
previous frameworks, namely by formulating specific conditions for operations of
predicate formation. This would leave unaffected the claims made above. However,
further conceptual progress would be made ifthe same set ofconditions can be shown
to have different effects forpredicate~forming and non-predicate-forming movements.
Since both types ofmovement appear in easy to please constructions, it would follow
RAISING TO SUBJECT 163
that these share certain properties with NP raising, while at the same time behaving
differently in other respects.
We will develop this approach as follows. First, we will argue in section 4.1 that
an independently motivated locality condition on A'-movement correctly restricts NP
raising. In section 4.2, we will compare WH movement and NP raising, arguing that
differences in locality follow directly from the functions these operations have. Finally,
we will show in section 4.3 how a similar approach captures the distribution ofparasitic
gaps and expletives.
4.1 Supe"aising
The locality of NP ralsmg is illustrated by the impossibility of superraising.
Constructions in which a subject intervenes between a raised DP and the trace ofshort
null operator movement are ungrammatical:
(43) a.
b.
Mary [OJ was made [~to dance the samba]]
*The samba [OJ was made [Mary to dance ~]]
There are two locality restrictions that account for this fact. Traditional analyses
ofNP raising rely on the notion ofrelativized minimality (cf. Rizzi 1990). The central
claim is that movement may not skip a potential landing site. If NP raising is A-
movement, it then follows that it may not cross an A-position.
The other restriction is the shortest steps condition of Chomsky (1995). This
condition says that ifthere are two representations that are well-formed in principle, the
one containing shorter movement chains will block the other. The analysis of NP
raising proposed here relies on this condition to rule out superraising. The movement
in (43a) is shorter than the one in (43b), and therefore the latter example is blocked.
We will now show that the argument promoted to subject is in general selected
by shortest steps, at least in English. We adopt the formulation ofshortest steps in (44).
Obviously, the notion ofreference set must be dermed if(44) is to restrict movement.
Golan (1993), Reinhart (1994), Grimshaw (1997) and others have argued that two
factors come into play: the set oflexical items from which a representation is projected
(the numeration) and the semantics targeted by it (cf. 45). We will come back to the
definition of reference sets in section 4.2.
(44) Shortest Steps
A well-formed representation R. blocks a well-formed representation R2 if
R. and R2 belong to the same reference set and if R. contains a shorter
movement chain
(45) Reference Set
Two representations belong to the same reference set if they are projected
from the same numeration and if they target equivalent semantic
representations
164 CHAPTERS
Golan and Reinhart have shown thatthe well-known superiority effect inmultiple
WH constructions can be explained by shortest steps. A <+WH> COMP must be filled
by a WH element. Ifboth the subject and the object are question words, the condition
dictates that it is the subject that moves, and not the object:
(46) a.
b.
I wonder whojtj saw what
*1 wonder wha~ who saw ~
What about NP raising? Note that this process does not change the distribution of
a-roles in a sentence. Mary is assigned the same a-role in the active John kissedMary
and in the passive Mary was kissed byJohn. Although passive and active sentences are
presumably not contained in the same reference set, different variants of a passive
sentence will compete: they share a single numeration - (47) in the case of(43) - and
they roughly have the same semantics. So, ifa passive VP contains two arguments that
could be promoted to subject, shortest steps will select the one closer to spec-VP.
(47) {Mary, was, made, 0, to dance, the samba}
This is illustrated in the abstract by the representations in (48), which are headed
by the passive verb V*. (48a) violates the predicate condition (or the EPP) since no
argument is promoted. Of the two arguments that can in principle be raised, DP1 will
be selected by shortest steps. Given that DP1 is generated closer to spec-VP than DP2,
the null operator movement required for predicate formation will be shorter:
(48) a.
b.
c.
*[vp ... V* ... DP1 ••• [ ••• DP2 ••• ]]]
[vp ... DP1 ••• [vP OJ •.. V* ... tj ... [ ... DP2 ••• ]]]
*[vp ... DP2 ••• [VP OJ ... V* ... DP1 ••• [ ••• tj ... ]]]
As already noted above, the ungrammaticality of superraising can be seen as a
result of shortest steps: (43) is an instance of (48). But the condition's effects are not
restricted to this case. Consider the passivization of the example in (49a).
(49) a.
b.
b'.
bU.
John showed some pictures to Mary
*To Mary [OJ was shown some pictures tj by John]
Some pictures [OJ were shown ~ to Mary by John]
*Mary [OJ was shown some pictures to ~ by John]
There are three ways in which a passive sentence can be formed on the basis of(49a).
In the first, the PP appears in subject position. This representation is ruled out
independently ofshortest steps. Recall that shortnull operator movement must start out
from a a-position (cf. section 3.4). PP complements, even though they are selected by
the verb, are not semantic arguments. Rather, the DP contained in them is (cf. chapter
4). It follows, then, that promotion of PPs, just like promotion of adjuncts, is
impossible.
RAISING TO SUBJECT 165
This leaves open two possibilities. (49b") is not ruled out by independent
principles. The OP contained in a dative PP is f)-marked, and it may be moved in, for
example, WH constructions. (49b") competes with (49b'), however, and shortest steps
favors the latter: in (49b') a complement of the verb is raised, while in (49b") the
promoted argument is a complement ofa complement of the verb.
In the same vein, shortest steps selects the Goal as the argument to be promoted
in double object constructions. Barss & Lasnik (1986) have shown that the Goal c-
commands the Theme. Under a strict definition oflength ofmovement, itwill therefore
be more economical to promote the former - null operator movement from the direct
object position would result in a longer chain:
(50) a.
b.
b'.
John showed Mary some pictures
Mary [OJ was shown ~ some pictures by John]
*Some pictures [OJ were shown Mary ~ by John]
Shortest steps is a global economy constraint: it compares representations that are
grammatical inprinciple. This implies that the patterns ofpassivizationin (49) and (50)
need not be universal. If a language has an independent constraint blocking
passivization ofthe indirect object, for example, a structure like (50b') will remain as
the only well-formed double object passive.6
There is another construction for which shortest steps is relevant. As in the
previous cases, examples in which a verb takes a complex OP as its object in principle
allow two passives. Either the complex OP as a whole is promoted, or the argument
contained in it is. Again, shortest steps selects the representation with the minimal
chain, the one in which the complex OP is raised:
(51) a.
b.
b'.
John bought [a book about Lenin]
A book about Lenin [OJ was bought ~ by John]
*Lenin [OJ was bought [a book about~] by John]
That shortest steps is a global economy constraint does not only imply that there
is cross-linguistic variation in double object passives. It also has some interesting
consequences internal to English. In (49), the promotion of an argument contained in
a PP complementis blocked because the verb also selects a OP complement. Promotion
ofthe latter is more economical. But ifthe verb selects only a PP, the situation changes.
There no longer is an alternative that could block promotion ofthe argument contained
in the PP (recall that raising of the PP as a whole is impossible for independent
6 Dutch seems to be a language ofthis type. In double objects passives, the Theme is uniformly
raised. This may be due to a thematic constraint that favors Themes over Goals as subjects;
Themes are more prominent on the thematic hierarchy (cf. (68) in chapter 2 and footnote 2). It
has often been argued that thematic constraints interact with structural constraints like shortest
steps in passivization (cf. Woolford 1993). Ideally, the interaction ofthematic constraints with
shortest steps should also explain why in certain languages both the Theme and the Goal can be
promoted to subject. We do not know to what extent this is possible, and leave the issue to future
research.
166 CHAPTER 5
reasons). Hence, shortest steps correctly allows pseudo-passivization in constructions
like (52a):
(52) a.
b.
b'.
John looked [at the problem]
*At the problem [OJ was looked ~ by John]
The problem [OJ was looked [at tj] by John]
Similarly, promotion of an argument contained in a complex DP is expected to
be possible ifpromotion ofthe complex DP as a whole leads to ungrammaticality. This
rarely happens, but idioms may provide the crucial example. In many cases, idiomatic
objects resist passivization (perhaps because they do not bear a 9-role). As expected,
a true argument contained in the idiomatic object may be promoted in such cases:7
(53) a.
b.
b'.
John took [care ofthe problem]
??Care of the problem [OJ was taken ~ by John]
The problem [OJ was taken [care of~] by John]
ECM complements present a final example of a representation being allowed if
a more economical competitor is independently ruled out. The passive ofan ECM verb
is derived by promotion ofthe embedded subject. This might seem unexpected, since
promotion ofthe entire clausal complementwould minimize movement. However, such
a derivation is not well-formed, because it would leave the ECM subject without case
(its case gap would not be governed). A longer movement is therefore necessary:
(54) a.
b.
b'.
Almost everyone expects [John [to become prime-minister]]
*John to become prime-minister [OJ is expected tj by almost everyone]
John [OJ is expected [~ [to become prime~rninister]] by almost everyone]
In sum, a straightforward explanation for the locality ofNP raising can be given
on the basis ofshortest steps. This constraint correctly predicts which argument will be
promoted in English passivizations, and we believe the account carries over to other
domains once the interaction of shortest steps with other conditions is acknowledged.
We have also argued that an account in terms ofglobal economy, as opposed to one in
terms of absolute constraints, is supported by the observation that longer movements
are possible if shorter movements fail.8
7 Idioms sometimes allow two types ofpassives (cf. ia,b). This should probably be explained by
assuming the indicated type of structural ambiguity. It is unclear to us how this affects the
argument presented in the main text. What seems crucial is that constructions like (ia) do not
coexist with constructions like (ic), which seems to be true.
(i) a.
b.
c.
John [OJ was taken [advantage oftj]]
Advantage [OJ was taken [tj] [of John]]
•Advantage of John [OJ was taken tjl
8 One may wonder why short null operator movement does not create weak islands. Why does
it not not block WH movement, for instance? Several answers are possible. One would be to say
RAISING TO SUBJECT 167
4.2 Non-Competing Derivations
There is a difference in locality between NP raising and, for example, WH movement.
In the standard theory this is captured by formulating different conditions on A- and
A'-movement. It is stipulated, for example, that spec-CP is an escape hatch for A'-
movement only. This is not only ad hoc, but it also runs counter to the observation,
made in Rizzi 1990, that this position sometimes behaves like an A-position. In this
section, we will argue that the contrast in locality follows from the way in which
shortest steps is formulated.
The crucial point is that blocking effects are only expected if a more economic
competitor is present in the reference set. Shortest steps will allow long distance
movement ifsuch a competitor is absent. So, sentences in which different constituents
have undergone long distance movement must belong to different reference sets. They
must either have different numerations or target different semantics.
For WH movement, this is trivially the case. The representation in (55a) will not
block the one in (55b) because the two expressions mean different things and because
they are projected from different lexical items.
(55) a.
b.
What; did you show ~ [to John]
Who; did you show the pictures [to~]
Competition will only occur ifmore than one WH expression is present (cf. 46). So, NP
raising and WH movement can be contrasted in the following way. NP raising is
blocked by any intervening argument, whereas WH movement is blocked by
intervening WH expressions only. Since complex sentences must contain more than
one argument, butnot more than one WH expression, NP raising is necessarily the most
local of the two.
This line of reasoning can be easily extended to other cases of long distance
movement. Long null operator movement in relative clauses, for example, does not
violate shortest steps because relativization of different arguments will lead to
constructions with different interpretations (and possibly with different numerations).
This is illustrated by the examples in (56).
(56) a.
b.
[The pictures [0; that I will show ~ [to John]]]
[The man [0; that I will show the pictures [to 1;]]]
But not all long distance operations are unproblematic. Consider topicalization in
a verb-second language like Dutch. On the one hand this operation does not seem to
be restricted by shortest steps, on the other it is hard to see why topicalization of
different elements would put sentences in different reference sets. The examples in
(57), which are often analyzed as involving null operator movement, seem to be
projected from the same set oflexical items and they are truth-conditionally equivalent.
that movements are only blocked if they skip a potential landing site, and that spec-VP is not
open to WHs phrases and the like, because such operators must minimally take scope over the
proposition.
168 CHAPTER 5
(57) a. Jan [OJ zal ik ~ die fotos waarschijnlijk wei tonen]
John will I those pictureprobably indeed show
b. Die foto's [OJ zal ik Jan ~ waarschijnlijk wei tonen]
those pictures will I John probably indeed show
An ad hoc solution would be to introduce a <+topic> feature, attached to Jan in
(57a) and to diefoto's in (57b). If the defmition of reference sets is sensitive to this
feature, as it is to <+WH>, the absence ofshortest steps effects follows. Unfortunately,
there is no independent evidence for a topic feature in Dutch.
We propose instead that, despite appearances, different topicalization structures
have different numerations. As we will explain below, the reason for this follows
straightforwardly from the nature of topicalization. Different numerations imply
different candidate sets and consequently no blocking effects are expected.
To begin with, note that adverbials and other adjoined elements have a special
status. As opposed to arguments, they are freely inserted (cf. Lebeaux 1989 and
Chomsky 1995). We propose that this is reflected in the numeration. In order to be
inserted, the head of a sentence, elements selected by the head, elements selected by
those elements, etc., must be part of the numeration. Adverbials and other adjoined
elements are freely inserted, however, and therefore the numeration does not contain
them:
(58) Numeration
The numeration of a representation R consists of the head of R, HI' the
heads H2 '" Hn of those phrases selected by HI' the heads of those phrases
selected by H2 .., Hn, etc.
The result is that the examples in (57) indeed have different numerations. The
topics, Jan and diefoto 's, are adjoined to CP or even outside the syntactic structure (cf.
Weerman 1989). It is the null operator chain that functions as the argument ofthe verb.
If so, the topics themselves are not part of the numerations of the sentences, and this
in tum implies that (57a) and (57b) no longer belong to the same reference set.
Consequently, no blocking effects will occur. For concreteness, the relevant
numerations are given below.
(59) a.
b.
{I, will, 0, those pictures, show}
{I, will, John, 0, show}
Although we will not demonstrate this here, the same approach can be used to reconcile
long distance adjunction with shortest steps. The crucial assumption would be that an
element moved to an adjoined position is no longer part of the numeration of a
sentence.
Itis important to point outhere why topicalization differs from short null operator
movement. Topicalization as in (57) is not restrictedby shortest steps because the topic
is not contained in the numeration. Short null operator movement, however, is an
operation ofpredicate formation: it provides VP with the f)-role required to license the
RAISING TO SUBJECT 169
subject. This implies that the subject, which is comparable to a topic at first sight, is in
fact contained in the numeration. Variants ofpassive and unaccusative constructions
will consequently belong to the same reference set, so that shortest steps effects are to
be expected.
4.3 Cyclicity
Ideally, the different properties of short and long null operator movement should be
reduced to independent factors. This has now partly been achieved. The basic
difference is that short null operatormovement targets a lexical, and long null operator
movement a functional specifier. Given that only lexical categories can be predicates,
this has the effectthat shortnull operatormovement is a process ofpredicate formation,
whereas long null operator movement is a more general fronting operation. These
different functions in tum imply that short null operator movement must start out from
an argument position, while long null operator movement need not (cf. section 3.4),
and, asjustpointed out, that shorteststeps distinguishes the two. The various properties
oflong and short null operator movement are summarized in the table below.
(60) Properties of long and short null operator movement
Short null operator movement Long null operator movement
targets a lexical specifier tar~ets a functional s~ecifier
is a process of predicate formation is a fronting operation
must start out from a 9-position may start out from a 8-bar position
is restricted by shortest steps is not restricted by shortest steps
Let us now consider how easy toplease constructions f1t into this picture, the issue
being that such constructions combine the two types of operator movement. A
predicate-formingprocess ofshortnull operatormovement is fed by an instance oflong
null operator movement:
(61) John is [AP OJ easy [cp t; to please t;]]
Some of the properties associated with short null operator movement can indeed be
observed in easy to please constructions, as shown in section 3. For example, the null
operator chain musthave its root in a a-position. However, with respect to locality easy
to please constructions pattern with other constructions featuring long operator
movement. In particular, shortest steps does not seem to restrict movement in the CP
complement of the adjective. The following data thus obtain (passives as in (62b,b')
were discussed in section 4.1):
(62) a. Such questions are hard to ask to John
a'. John is hard to ask such questions to
170 CHAPTER 5
b. Such questions were asked to John
b'. *John was asked such questions to
At fIrst sight this is unexpected. In general, long null operator is non-local because
the antecedent of the null operator chain is not thematically related to the rest of the
structure and hence not part ofthe numeration. Consequently, no blocking effects can
occur. In (62a'), however, the subject is thematically related to the AP, and therefore
it must be contained in the numeration. Hence, shortest steps should have its effects,
as it does in (62b,b').
That (62a') is nevertheless grammatical is due, we believe, to a cyclic evaluation
ofconstructions with respect to shortest steps, along the lines ofFox 1995 and Ackema
& Neeleman 1998. The idea is that calculations concerning the embedded CP in
(62a,a') take place before the entire easy to please phrase is evaluated. In the second
cycle, the embedded clause is taken as a given, much as lexical items included in the
numeration, and evaluation consequently only involves material includedby the matrix
CP, but excluded by the embedded one.9
This view ofthe cycle ties in with the notion ofsubjacency. There are reasons to
believe that the relation between a moved element and its trace is encoded as a path,
that is, a set ofnodes connecting trace and antecedent. This implies that ifan element
is not moved to the very front of CP in the fIrst cycle, it cannot be moved at all in any
further cycle; it is frozen in place. The point is that such further movement would
introduce a new (partial) path in the embedded CP, in violation of cyclicity. If an
element is moved to the 'escape hatch', however, moving it further in the second cycle
does not require introduction of a new path in the embedded CP, and it thus satisfies
cyclicity.
This view ofcyclicity explains the grammaticality of(62a'). In the fIrst cycle, the
felicity of the long null operator movement to spec-CP is evaluated:
(63) [CP OJ to ask such questions to ~]
The question, then, is whether the movement in (63) is blocked by a potentially shorter
null operator movement ofthe DP selected by ask. Such movement occurs in (62a) and
leads to the structure in (64) for the embedded CPo
(64) [CP OJ to ask tj to John]
Crucially, the numerations of (63) and (64) are different. The former contains such
questions, which is absent in the latter, whereas the latter contains John, which is absent
in the former. Consequently, there will be no competition between (63) and (64), with
the effect that both structures are allowed by shortest steps. A consequence of(63) and
(64) both being ruled in, is that competition will not occur in the second cycle, that of
the matrix CP, either. As said, we assume that in this cycle the structures in (63) and
9 A similar view of 'cyclic numerations' can be found in Chomsky 1998.
RAISING TO SUBJECT 171
(64) are treated as given, much like elements contained in the numeration. Thus,
competition is avoided in the same way as in John likes Mary versus Bill likes Mary.
In NP raising constructions there is no CP and hence no embedded cyclic domain.
This implies that different null operator movements will compete with respect to
shortest steps, with the effect that only (62b) may surface.
Cyclicity also explains why there expletives appear with raising verbs but not in
easy to please constructions:
(65) a.
b.
There [0 seems to have been a catastrophe]
*There is [AP hard b 0 to believe to have been a disaster]]
In chapter 6 we will discuss the syntax of expletive constructions in more detail. For
now the following sketch suffices. At LF, the associate raises to the expletive, much as
Chomsky 1995 proposes. The trace left behind by this movement is unselectively
bound by a null operator base-generated in spec-VP. LF raising thus gives rise to a
structure in which VP is interpreted as a predicate. In other words, (65a) is transformed
into (66) at LF.
(66) [There [a catastrophe]] [OJ seems to have been 1;]
Suppose that the same operations apply in (65b): the associate is raised to the
expletive at LF and the trace left behind is unselectively bound by a null operator in
spec-CPo This would give rise to the structure in (67) on the second cycle, assuming
that the null operator itself moves to spec-AP in order for AP to be turned into a
predicate.
(67) *[There [a disaster]] is [AP OJ hard [cp 1; to believe to have been 1;]]
There is a straightforward difference between (66) and (67). In the latter the
associate is moved out of a cyclic domain without fIrst landing in the escape hatch
position - this position is already occupied by the null operator. This means that in the
second cycle a path must be created between spec-CP and the trace in the complement
position of be. As explained above, the introduction of such a path violates cyclicity.
In (66), on the other hand, cyclicity does not playa role because there is no embedded
CPo Hence, the example is ruled in.
Finally, cyclicity can be used to explain why parasitic gaps are licensed in easy
to please constructions but not by NP raising. In (68a) the long null operator movement
to spec-CP allows insertion ofa constituent with a parasitic gap, whereas the short null
operator movement in (68b) does not.
(68) a.
b.
John will be [AP OJ easy [ep tj to please 1; [without inviting pg to our party]]]
*John [OJ was entertained 1; [without inviting pg to our party]]
The ungrammaticality of(68b) follows ifparasitic gaps may not be A-bound. As
the null operator chain in (68b) takes John as its antecedent, John binds whatever is
172 CHAPTER 5
bound by the null operator and it is thus illegitimately connected with the parasitic gap.
However, the claim that parasitic gaps resist A-binding may not extend to (68a): John,
being the antecedent ofthe null operator chain, must bind the parasitic gap. What seems
to be the case, then, is that parasitic gaps cannot be A-bound within a particular
domain.
This may follow from cyclicity. Suppose that conditions on the licensing of
parasitic gaps are evaluated cyclically. Then, the structure in which the parasitic gap
in (68a) must be licensed is the one corresponding to the ftrst cycle. John, the subject
of the easy to please phrase is not present in the structure generated during this cycle
(cf. 69). Hence, the parasitic gap does not violate the ban on A-binding.
(69) [ep OJ to please ~ [without inviting pg to our party]]
In the second cycle the structure in (69) is treated as given, just as the structures
in (63) and (64). This implies that the ban on A-bound parasitic gaps is now evaluated
with respect to material contained in the matrix CP, but excluded by the embedded
clause. Consequently, (68a) is ruled in. As in the case of shortest steps, the effects of
cyclic evaluation will be absent in NP-raising constructions, since no CP complement
and hence no embedded cycle is present.
In sum, shortest steps accounts for differences between NP raising and long null
operator movement. It follows from this analysis that easy to please constructions
pattern with NP raising in certain respects, and once the notion ofcyclicity is taken into
account, it also follows that the similarity is not complete. Obviously, the argument
rests on the assumption that there is no embedded CP and hence no cyclic domain in
NP-raising structures. Why this is so will be addressed in the next section.
5. IMPROPER MOVEMENT
In general, NP raising cannot be fed by A'-movement. According to the standard
theory, the reason for this lies in the classiftcation of traces. The foot of the chain in
(70) violates principle C of the binding theory. Being locally A'-bound by the
intermediate trace, it must be a variable, and yet it is A-bound by the subject.
(70) *(yp DPj Vb tj C [... t;]]]
IfNP raising is analyzed as short null operator movement (plus base generation
of a subject), an explanation in terms of principle C cannot be maintained. The
analogue of improper movement in the present proposal would consist of predicate
formation fed by long null operator movement, as in (71). Since in general A'-
movement can feed A'-movement, it is unclear why this sequence ofoperations would
be ruled out.
(71) *DP [VP OJ Vb tj C [... t;]]]
RAISING TO SUBJECT 173
In fact, it should not be ruled out, at least not universally, since precisely the
sequence of operations in (71) is attested in a number of languages (cf. Ura 1994).
Indonesian, for instance, has long-distance passivization ofthe type in (72b).
(72) a. Mereka [vp meng-anggap [cp behwa saja beri-kan surat itu kepada Tini]]
they TRANS-believe COMP I give-BEN letter the to Tini
'They believe that I gave the letter to Tini'
b. Tin~ [vp OJ di-anggap [cp ~ behwa saja beri surat itu ~]]
Tini PAss-believe COMP I give letter the
(same meaning as (72a»
Moreover, as argued above, it is typical ofeasy to please constructions that long
null operator movement feeds predicate formation. Even in English, then, improper
movement should not be ruled out across the board (cf. Brody 1993). With respect to
English, the real question is why the phenomenon is so limited. Why does it occur in
constructions headedby an adjectival phrase, but not in constructions headedby a verb.
Why, in other words, is there a contrast between (73a) and (73b)?
(73) a.
b.
John is [OJ easy [~ to please ~]]
*John is [OJ seeming [~to please ~]]
The question is actually more general. It seems that short null operator movement
can only be fed by long null operator movement in adjectival contexts, as discussed
above, or in nominative ones, as illustrated in (74).
(74) John is [OJ a pleasure [~ to talk to ~]]
However, there are no verbal or prepositional easy to please constructions in English.
Structures of the following type are unattested:
(75) a.
b.
*John is [OJ VERB [~to please~]
*John is [OJ PREPOSITION [~ to please~]
Any theory must account for this fact. Although the standard theory may rule out an
individual example like (73b) on the basis ofthe lexical properties ofseem, it does not
explain why there are no verbal or prepositional correlates at all to the easy to please
construction. Why is there no variant ofseem that licenses null operator movement in
its complement?
The standard theory differs from the one defended here in the following respect.
In the latter, the question of why there is no improper movement and the question of
why easy to please constructions are headed by adjectives and nouns is one and the
same. In the standard theory, these are two separate questions, requiring separate
answers. So, the present analysis allows a reduction ofgrammatical principles once an
explanation for the ungrammaticality of the sentences in (75) has been given.
174 CHAPTERS
We propose that in easy to please constructions the two steps of null operator
movement must be licensed separately. Such constructions can therefore only be
projected if there is a trigger for predicate formation and if long null operator
movement is allowed.
Predicate formation does not seem to be the distinguishing factor. As we have
already seen, predicate formation is always triggered in <+V> categories without an
external a-role. The predicate condition in (20) states that such categories must be 9-
role assigners. This is not to say that predicate formation is excluded in other
categories. However, for non-verbal categories it must be forced contextually. The
relevant category must lack an external argument and yet occur in a structure that
requires it to be interpreted as a predicate. We believe this to be the case in (74): the DP
headed by pleasure appears in a predicative position, but its R-role is suppressed.
Consequently, null operator movement is necessary to turn the DP into a 9-role
assigner.
The issue to be addressed, then, is which categories license null operator
movement in their complement. What we propose is that such categories must have the
feature <+N>. This correctly restricts the distribution of easy to please constructions
to adjectives and nouns. Independent support for this hypothesis comes from the
observation that long null operator movement in relative clauses is also licensed by
nominal categories only.
The claim that null operator relatives occur with nouns is uncontroversial. It is
also clear that they are not licensed by prepositions or verbs. It is less well known,
however, that null operatorrelatives are licensed by adjectives. Evidence for this comes
from degree phrases like (76a) and infinitival adjuncts like (76b):
(76) a.
h.
John is [too angry [OJ to talk to ~]]
Mary is [pretty [OJ to look at ~]]
It is important not to confuse examples of this type with easy to please
constructions: if they were identical the argument presented in this section would be
circular. Fortunately, the behavior ofthe constructions in (76) differs from that ofeasy
to please constructions in ways that can be derived if the former are analyzed as
relative clauses. That is, ifthey differ from easy to please constructions in that the null
operator does not raise beyond the specifier of the infmitival clause.
One crucial property ofeasy to please constructions is that the adjectival head is
ergative: it assigns its single 9-role internally, to the infmitival complement. The
adjectives in (76) do have an external 9-role, however, whereas they lack one that
could be assigned to the infmitival clauses. So, in (76a) John is thematically related to
(too) angry, while the infmitival clause modifies the degree ofangriness. Similarly, in
(76b) Mary is 9-marked bypretty, while the infmitival clause is a modifier expressing
in which respect this property holds ofher.
RAISING TO SUBJECT 175
That easy to please constructions and the constructions in (76) are really different
is corroborated by the fact that John is easy to please has the variant in (77a), whereas
(77b) and (77c) are ungrammatica1.10
(77) a.
b.
c.
It is easy to please John
*It is too angry to talk to John
*It is pretty to look at Mary
Ifthe infmitival clauses in (76) are not a-marked, as the ungrammaticality of(77b,c)
suggests, they must be adjuncts rather than complements. This would corroborate an
analysis as null operator relatives.
A second argument for analyzing at least degree phrases as relative clauses can
be based on comparatives of easy-type adjectives. In such constructions both the
infmitival complement of easy and the degree phrase may be present, but the degree
phrase must follow the infmitival complement:
(78) a.
b.
John is [[too easy [to please]] [to take seriously]]
*John is [[too easy [to take seriously]] [to please]]
Given that there are no heads that take two phrasal complements, one ofthe infinitival
clauses must be an adjunct. The ordering restriction indicates that this is the degree
phrase, again suggesting an analysis as a null operator relative.
A third argument is provided by the distribution ofthe Dutch complementizerom.
As a rule, infinitival relatives are introduced by this complementizer, while it may (and
sometimes must) be omitted in infinitival complements:
(79) a. lemand [*(om) mee te praten]
someone COMP with to talk
b. Jan probeert [(om) met Marie te praten]
John tries COMP with Mary to talk
In (80a) it can be observed that om is optional in easy to please constructions, as is to
be expected ifthe infmitival clause is a complement ofthe adjectival head. In the Dutch
correlates ofthe constructions in (76), however, om must be present, as should be the
case if the infinitival clauses are relatives:
(80) a. Jan is [OJ gemakkelijk [(om) tj te misleiden]]
John is easy COMP to mislead
b. Jan is te boos [OJ *(om) ~ mee te praten]
John is too angry COMP with to talk
10 Following Bennis(\986), we assume that pronominal expletives are genuine arguments related
semanticallywith an adjoined clause. The ungrammaticality ofthe examples in (77b,c) is a result
ofthe fact that 'it' should be angry and pretty respectively, which is not a sensible interpretation
if the pronoun is at the same time semantically related to the adjoined clauses.
176 CHAPTER 5
c. Marie is knap [OJ *(om) tj te zien]
Mary is pretty COMP to see
The Dutch data thus confIrm what we have seen in English, namely that adjectives, like
nouns, have the ability of licensing null operator relatives. It seems, then, that such
relatives may only appear in the domain of a <+N> head. The null hypothesis is that
this licensing condition holds for all cases of embedded long null operator movement
and notjust for relative clauses. Ifso, it follows that easy to please constructions, which
also involve long null operator movement, can only be projected by nouns and
adjectives. 'Improper movement' cannot occur in verbal or prepositional contexts.
As yet it is unclear what might be the rationale behind the generalization that only
<+N> categories license long null operator movement. We offer the following
speculation. Ingeneral, phrases hosting null operator movement are anaphoric, whether
they function as predicates or not. Suppose, then, that such phrases must fInd an
antecedent within their m-command domain. It is clear that this condition is satisfIed
in NP-raising structures, namely by the subject. In relative clauses there is no
antecedent in the regular sense: the relative co-determines the interpretation ofthe DP
in which it appears, and hence this DP cannot function as antecedent. We propose that
in such circumstances there must be a formal antecedent. The head ofthe construction
may count as such if it is nominal in character, that is, if it contains a <+N> feature.
Assuming this line of argumentation to be correct, we can understand why easy
to please constructions must be projected by nominal heads as well. In such
constructions two null operator movements take place. The one targeting spec-AP (or
spec-NP) turns AP (or NP) into an anaphoric category, which indeed fInds an
antecedent, namely the subject, in its m-command domain. Predicate formation is fed,
however, by null operator movement to the specifIer of the embedded CP, and this
phrase does not fInd a local antecedent.I I Hence, it must fInd a formal antecedent in a
head with a <+N> feature.
In conclusion, the analysis proposed here differs from the standard theory in that
it allows improper movement (short null operator movement fed by long null operator
movement) in principle. In practice, however, independently motivated conditions will
seriously limit the distribution of the phenomenon. One advantage of this is that a
reduction can be achieved. The standard theory needs the explanation given above, or
something like it, in order to explain why easy to please constructions are headed by
adjectives. In addition, it needs an explanation for the ungrammaticality of improper
movement. The analysis of NP raising proposed here requires only one explanation,
since there is only one question to answer.
6. CONCLUDING REMARKS
The theory adopted here does not allow A-movement. It assumes that thematic
interpretation depends on the presence ofcase features, so caseless E)-positions cannot
II The null operator in spec-AP (or spec-NP) does not qualify as such. It determines the
interpretation ofthe easy to please phrase as a whole, and consequently it cannot function as an
antecedent for anaphoric categories within this phrase.
RAISING TO SUBJECT 177
exist. A consequence ofthis is that NP raising cannotbe A-movement. We have instead
reanalyzed it as involving A'-movement. In unaccusative and passive VPs, a null
operator moves from an argument position to spec-VP and it thus provides VP with the
a-role it needs to license the subject. Hence, an A-movement is reanalyzed as a
syntactic movement that feeds a-theory.
We have seen that the effects ofBurzio's generalization follow from our analysis,
and that an explanation can be given for the impossibility ofraising to a-positions, the
impossibility of raising non-arguments and the impossibility of raising to object
positions. Inthe standard theory the differences in locality betweenNP raising and WH
movement, etc., are the result of the different conditions that hold of A- and A'-
movement. Formulating different constraints turns out to be unnecessary ifNP raising
is a process of predicate formation, however, since the relevant data follow
straightforwardly from economy conditions on movement and the defmition of
reference sets. In the same vein, the ban on improper movement could be reduced to
independently motivated conditions on null operator movement.
In minimalism a-theory must be located at the LF interface. This implies that
predicate formation by movement is possible - something that was not true in GB
theory. So, whereas NP-raising had to be analyzed as involving A-movement in GB
theory, a similar analysis in a minimalist framework is a deviation ofminimalist ideals:
passive and unaccusative structures can also be analyzed in terms of predicate
formation. Thus, it seems that within minimalism A-movement is a residue of earlier
assumptions, and is hence to be dispensed with.
The analysis that we propose makes it is possible to generalize over subjects and
objects in the following way. In chapter 2, we have argued that there is no empirical
basis for assuming a fixed object position adjacent to the verb. The existence of
scrambling shows that objects are freely generated within VP. Fixed positions are only
apparent: they are the result of independent principles having to do with the licensing
ofcase gaps. That VP is the upper boundary for establishing thematic domains follows
from semantic limitations. This means that we can do away with the conceptually
awkward defmition in terms ofsisterhood.
For subjects, a similar conclusion can be drawn. In the literature there are two
defmitions ofsubjects. One in terms ofsyntactic structure, the other in terms ofexternal
a-roles. The proposal to reanalyze NP raising as a process of predicate formation
makes it possible to maintain a purely thematic defmition ofsubjects, something that
is independently motivated by the literature on secondary predication (cf. Williams
1980, Carrier & Randall 1992, Neeleman & Weerman 1993). Thus a uniform notion
of arguments can be given. The condition on thematic mapping, according to which
thematic relations are phrase-bound (cf. (9) in chapter 2), now implies that neither for
objects nor for subjects there is a fixed structural position. The only difference between
the two is that the a-role assigner in the case of objects is a head, whereas in the case
ofsubjects it is a maximal projection.
The thematic defmition ofsubjects makes it possible to solve a problem we have
not discussed yet. IfA-movement is abandoned, constructions analyzed in terms ofA-
movement have to be reconsidered. This is not only true of NP raising, but also of
raising from spec-VP to spec-IP in languages like English. The thematic definition of
178 CHAPTER 5
subjects makes this movement superfluous. We have assumed thatVP-intemal subjects
occupy an adjoined position:
(81) [vp John [vp reads a book]]
However, ifsubjects are dermed thematically, this is not the only possibility. Subjects
may be generated in other positions as long as they can be assigned a 9-role there. If
the domain ofpredication is dermed in terms ofm-command, a subject in spec-IP can
be a-marked in its surface position. VP and the subject are contained in the same
minimal maximal projection in (82).
(82) [IP John will [vp read a book]]
This approach makes it possible to solve a long-standing problem in the verb-
second literature. Fronting of subjects and of objects have different characteristics.
Whereas fronted objects are focussed, fronted subjects are not. This follows from the
theory developed here, since subject can be base-generated in spec-CP while objects
can only end up there through movement. The reason for this is that, ifno IP is present
in Dutch (cf. Weerman 1989, Reuland 1990 and Ackema, Neeleman & Weerman
1993), a subject in spec-CP can receive its 9-role in situ. The representation in (83) is
structurally identical to the one in (82).
(83) [cP Jan leest [vp het boek tv]]
John reads the book
Objects are 9-marked by the verb, and they therefore must be generated within VP, the
head's m-command domain. Consequently, ifan object ends up in a fronted position,
this must be the result of movement:
(84) Het boek [CP OJ leest [vp Jan [yp tj tv]]]
the book reads John
The different focus interpretations of(83) and (84) can now be seen as the result ofthe
absence or presence ofmovement.
CHAPTER 6
HEAD MARKING
1. INTRODUCTION
The theory developed in this study acknowledges two ways of'licensing predicate-
argument relations. Associated with every predicate is a domain, defined in terms of
m-comrnand, in which thematic roles can be assigned. Thematic interpretation is only
possible, however, if guided by the presence of functional markers. This is expressed
by the principle in (1) (cf. (5) in chapter 3).
(1) Visibility
A thematic relation between an argument IX and a predicate 1t can be
established if either IX is marked as an argument or 1t is marked as a
predicate.
The two instantiations ofmarking that we have encountered so far are depicted in (2).
In the terminology ofNichols 1986, (2a) is an example ofdependent marking: a direct
object is identified through a case affix. (2b) is an example ofhead marking: in a finite
clause VP is marked as a predicate and hence the subject can remain caseless.
(2) a.
b.
V'
~
DP+MARKER V
VP
D~+MARKER
The element to which a marker is attached determines what kind ofinformation it may
encode. The affix involved in head marking may just carry tense, but if the
morphological paradigm is rich enough, it may also refer to properties ofthe argument,
such as person and number. Similarly, case markers can, but need not, refer to
properties ofthe predicate, such as the thematic function that the case-marked element
is mapped onto. Up to now we have mainly discussed the properties of dependent
marking (that is, the case system); in this chapter we will consider various instances of
head marking.
The proposed distinction between head marking and dependent marking is in
conflict with the view, adopted in much recent work, that both case and verbal
inflection (in particular agreement) reflect relations between a specifier and a head. In
chapter 3 we argued that ifsuch a unification is strived for, it becomes hard to account
for the fact that the distribution of case and agreement affixes is not random.
Agreement affixes are typically associated with nominative arguments, while case
affixes typically occur on non-nominative arguments. Unification in terms ofspecifier-
179
180 CHAPTER 6
head agreement forces one to adopt the position that this distribution is coincidental.
Moreover, if subjects and objects both occupy functional specifier positions, it is hard
to account for the wide range ofsubject-object asymmetries reported in the literature.
Although head marking and dependentmarking mustbe distinguished, they share
a basic flexibility. As we have seen, the case system is flexible in three respects. First,
there is no obligation for case to be realized: arguments may remain caseless if they
meetvisibility in another way. Second, there is no unique hierarchical position in which
a particular case is realized: scrambling and object shift show that instead a range of
positions is available. Third, there is no unique linearizationofcase-marked arguments:
OV and VO orders coexist across languages and even within the same language. In
what follows, we will argue that the same three tYPes of flexibility hold of head-
marking. There is no obligation to use head marking as a licensing device and there is
no unique hierarchical or linearposition in which arguments ofhead-marked predicates
appear.
We have already encountered languages in which the subject need not be licensed
by head marking. In the relevant constructions, it carries so-called quirky case (cf.
chapter 3). In (3), quirky case must be morphologically realized, because the subject
will otherwise violate the ECP.
(3) VP
~
DP+CASE VP
~
V DP+CASE
Other languages use the option ofcase-marked subjects more systematically. This can
perhaps best be illustrated if the language in question lacks both head marking and
morphological case. In such circumstances, the subject can only be licensed by an
empty case shell, which, being empty, requires government in order to satisfy the ECP.
If the language in question is YO, this typically gives rise to VSO order. A VP shell
mustbe generated in order to facilitate government ofthe subject's empty case position:
(4)
We will show that this analysis adequately describes the properties ofat least one class
of VSO languages. Thus, there is evidence that the availability of head marking may
differ from language to language.
There is also evidence that arguments licensed throughhead marking may occupy
various hierarchical positions. Clearly, head marking can be used to identify the
HEAD MARKING 181
subject, but this is not the only option. We will argue that under certain circumstances
agreement affixes can be associated with the object, so that this element need not be
accompanied by a case shell:
(5) V'
~
V+MARKER DP
Obviously, the relevant head-marking affix cannot be associated with the subject as
well, with the consequence that the latter must bear case ifit is to be interpreted as an
argument:
(6) VP
D~
~
V+AGR DP
The structure in (6) is typical oftransitive sentences in (morphologically) absolutive-
ergative languages. Note that ifthe case shell ofthe subject is empty, this will give rise
to VSO order on a par with (4). Indeed, the structure in (7) is attested in some
absolutive-ergative languages.
(7) V'
~
~
DP+0~
tv DP
Thus, absolutive-ergative languages show that head marking does not define a
unique argument position.
Finally, we will argue that head marking does not impose a particular order on
argument and predicate. Although the agreeing argument usually appears to the left of
the verb in English, it may surface to its right when there insertion takes place (cf. 8).
This shows that at least at an observational level there is no fixed agreement position
to either the left or the right ofthe verb.
(8) a.
b.
There is a man in the garden
There are some men the garden
As was the case for dependent marking, the word order effects related to head
marking can be traced back to an extra-syntactic module. With respect to dependent
marking, we have seen that a PF condition, namely the ECP, is responsible for the
182 CHAPTER 6
position ofobjects in VP. With respect to head marking, a parsing condition is relevant,
namely one which determines the order of antecedents and elements dependent on
them. When the ECP is satisfiedvacuously, objects can appearinungovernedpositions.
Similarly, if some other element (for instance, an expletive) satisfies the afore-
mentionedparsing condition, the agreeing subject can be placed in a position following
the verb.
To sum up, we will defend the following claims in this chapter:
(9) a UG defmes two ways oflicensing thematic relations: either the argument is
marked as such (case) or the predicate is (agreement).
b. There is no fixed underlying word order.
c. Surface order is a function of extra-syntactic modules.
Before we can discuss the flexibility ofrelations identified by head marking, we must
first determine when affixation can be said to satisfy visibility. Having established this,
we will turn to the issue of absolutive-ergative languages, arguing for hierarchical
flexibility (section 3). In section 4 VSO languages will be discussed. We will argue that
such languages typically lack head marking in the relevant sense. Finally, we will show
that even in nominative-accusative languages agreement relations can be established
in different configurations, both structurally and linearly (section 5). We will
summarize our findings in section 6.
We should point out that, because we discuss various types of languages, the
empirical material discussed for each language is limited compared to the preceding
chapters. Our main interest here is how certain typological generalizations can be
captured and how a flexible syntax makes available simple and transparent analyses of
several language types.
2. HEAD-MARKING AFFIXES
Visibility as formulated in (1) predicts that head marking must be present under certain
circumstances. If a language lacks overt case, case shells can only be licensed within
the government domain of the verb. Consequently, internal arguments and external
arguments in ECM constructions may bear case (the latter are governed by the matrix
verb). External arguments that are not properly governed, however, cannot carry a case
shell, as that would induce a violation ofthe ECP. Such arguments must therefore meet
visibility through an affix on the verb.
One question we have to answer, then, is which affixes can identify VP as a
predicate, and thus license the subject. As a starting point ofthe discussion let us briefly
return to the theory ofpredication (cf. chapter 5). Recall that a verb may not only have
one or more internal a-roles, but also a unique external a-role, which is assigned by
VP. This implies that the information stored in the lexical entry of a verb must be
divided into a set of intemal properties (such as the a-roles assigned to its
complements) and a set of external properties (such as its external a-role). Following
Grimshaw 1990, we will represent this by embedding the internal domain in the
external one. A verb like expect can thus be partially represented as in (10).
HEAD MARKING 183
(10) expect
<+V,-N>
(... a ... (... a ... »
How do inflectional affixes relate to the information encoded in the verb? We propose
that if a complex verb is formed, the features contributed by the afftx are copied into
the verb's grid. Consider, for example, the past tense of expect, in which a feature is
copied from the affix into the verb's extemal domain:
(11) v (9, <PAST> (a»
~
v (a (a» Affix <PAST>
expect -ed
Past tense information must be copied into the verb's external domain for semantic
reasons: tense is a property assigned to propositions, and must hence take scope over
the clause. This would be impossible ifit were copied into the verb's internal domain.
By the same logic, there are affixes whose features must be copied into the internal
domain, as they take scope over VP, but not over any larger constituent. An example
may be aspectual affixes. Finally, there are affixes whose features are compatible with
both copying to the internal and to the external domain. Affixes carrying person and
number features are of this type, because person and number are not scope-taking
features. Hence, it is a matter of parametric variation to which position in the verbal
grid person and number features are copied. Copying to the external domain leads to
subject agreement, whereas object agreement is a result of copying to the internal
domain.
The above suggests a particular answer to the question ofwhich affixes can head-
mark a predicate. We may conjecture that an external a-role assigner is head-marked
if a feature in the external domain of its grid is spelled out.) In (11), for example, the
affix -ed spells out a feature in the extemal domain of expected and hence this affix
head-marks the verb as one that projects a predicate. It is to be expected that only
features in this part of the grid can be used to head-mark a verbal projection as an
external a-role assigner, since the predicational properties ofVP are encodedthere. Put
differently, the existence of an external domain in the verb's grid, including its
predicational status, is signalled if a property of this domain is realized as an affix.
We should remark here, that the notion ofrealization by an affix does not mean
that a head-marking feature must literally have an overt reflex. Just as for case, such
realization is a paradigmatic notion: a feature is realized if there is a paradigm that
encodes it. For example, the present tense of expect is not spelled out, but it is part of
a paradigm encoding tense distinctions. In this paradigm <PRESENT> i~ unmarked with
) The notion of external 8-role assigner used here and below generalizes over transitive,
intransitive and unaccusative VPs. The first two have a lexical external 8-role; the external 8-
Tole of an unaccusative VP is motivated by null-operator movement, as argued in chapter 5.
184 CHAPTER 6
respect to <PAST> and it may hence take the form of a covert affix. Consequently,
expect, like expected, counts as head-marked.2
As the example shows, head marking need not involve an agreement affix. Indeed,
it is highly unlikely that the English past tense encodes person or number features. Such
a conclusion could only be reached on the basis of overt evidence in the third person
singular, present tense, but this would require complex argumentation of a type that
children are probably not able to make.
In fact, other languages clearly show that head marking need not involve person
and number features. Consider the Swedish paradigm in (12). As will be apparent, this
paradigm encodes tense but not person or number.
(12) Swedish
kopa 'buy'
Indicative present
sg pI
1st koper koper
2nd koper koper
3rd koper koper
Indicative past
sg
1st kopte
2nd kopte
3rd kopte
pI
kopte
kopte
kopte
That tense is sufficient to satisfy visibility is evidenced by the observation that finite
verbs (as opposed ofinfinitives and participles) can identify overt subjects in Swedish.
This conclusion is further corroborated by the Swedish pronominal paradigm:
(13) Swedish
subject object
Sg 1st jag mig
2nd du dig
3rd han honom
PI 1st vi oss
2nd ni er
3rd de dem
2 The head-marking affix need not be attached to the main predicate. It can also be attached to
an auxiliary in the extended projection of the lexical verb. One way to deal with this would be
to say that the external 8-role of VP may be transferred in its extended projection in case the
functional head selecting VP is a verb that lacks an external a-role. Possibly, this process of
transfer can be analyzed as a case ofnull-operator movement. In any case, the subject will be 9-
marked by a constituent consisting of the auxiliary and VP, so that it can still be interpreted
through head marking. See Ackema 1999 for discussion ofthe thematic properties ofauxiliaries.
For ease ofexposition, we will abstract away from these issues in the representations that follow.
HEAD MARKING 185
The alternation between subjectpronouns and objectpronouns is traditionally analyzed
in terms of nominative versus accusative case. We argued in chapter 3 that the
nominative does not signal case, but rather absence of case. The distinction between
subject and object pronouns must therefore be one between 'bare' DPs and DPs
accompanied by a case shell. Object pronouns correspond to (14b), instantiating a case
of dependent marking. Subject pronouns correspond to the structure in (14a), and can
therefore only be used as arguments ifhead marking by tense is available. It is, in fact,
often the case that in highly deflected languages the distinction between the two types
of functional marking is corroborated by contrasts in the pronominal paradigm.
(14) a.
b.
[DP Pro]
[CaseP CASE [DP Pro]]
As an aside, it should be remarked that the mere existence ofa distinction between
object and subject pronouns does not mean that object pronouns bear morphological
case. In fact, there is syntactic evidence suggesting that the case shell in (14b) is empty
in Swedish: pronouns in this language do not display the typical characteristics ofDPs
bearing overt case (cf. chapter 3). Whether or not a language has morphological case
depends, it seems, on the existence of a productive paradigm. A word-specific
paradigm like (13) is insufficient to introduce the relevant features into the language.
As said, the Swedish paradigm in (12) shows that in the absence of person and
number features tense affixes can be used for head marking. At the same time tense
cannot be argued to universally assign nominative case. A case in point is Portuguese.
Verbs in Portuguese can bear both person and number features and tense. However, in
those constructions in which tense is absent butperson and number features are present,
overt nominative subjects may still appear (cf. Rouveret 1980, Zubizaretta 1980 and
Raposo 1987). The paradigm for these so-called inflected infinitives is given in (15).
The example in (16) (from Raposo) shows that the subjects ofsuch infinitives indeed
have a nominative form.
(15) Portuguese
(16)
comer 'eat'
Inflected infinitive
sg pI
1st comer comermos
2nd comeres comerdes
3rd comer comerem
Sera dificil eles aprovarem a proposta
will-be difficult they to-approve-AGR the proposal
Portuguese
The conclusion we can draw at this point is that there is no unique feature that is
responsible for head marking. The representation ofthe Portuguese verb aprovarem in
(17) is identical to that of expected in (11), except that the feature spelled out by the
186 CHAPTER 6
affix differs in the two cases. Whereas in (11) tense was copied into the external
domain of the verb's grid, it is person and number that is copied in (17).
(17) v (0, <3RD,PL> (0»
~
V (0 (0» AffIx <3RD,pL>
aprovar -em
In other words, head marking of a predicate involves a unique morphological
configuration, but not a unique feature. This conclusion is reinforced by imperatives
in several languages. In Frisian, for instance, it is quite clear that imperatives are neither
marked for tense nor for person or number. As the examples in (18) show, Frisian
imperatives can nevertheless take overt nominative subjects (cf. De Haan & Weerman
1986).
(18) a. wes jo mar aardich foar josels
be you but nicefor yourself
b. wes hy mar aardich foar himsels
be he but nicefor himself
c. wes heit mar aardich foar himsels
befather but nicefor himself
Frisian
Here it must be (imperative) mood that marks the verb as a predicate and thus allows
insertion ofa caseless subject. This is not unexpected in view ofthe fact that mood, like
tense, must take scope over the proposition rather than over VP. Such an interpretation
can only be achieved ifthe relevant features are copied into the external domain ofthe
verb's grid.
What seems to be the case, then, is that head marking is achieved whenever a
designated feature of the verb is paradigmatically encoded. Languages may differ in
which features are used for head marking, but cross-linguistically the morphological
configuration in which head marking takes place is constant. The cases discussed so far
can be captured by the following statement:
(19) Head Marking (to be modified)
An external 0-role assigner is head-marked if a designated feature in the
external domain of its grid is realized by an affIx.
If there is more than one potential head marker, the question arises which one is
actually used. We propose that in general the affIx that gives the most information
about the subject is relevant for identification. Thus, if both tense and person and
number features are realized by an affIx, the latter are responsible for head marking.
In section 3.2 we will argue that this determines the mutual order of tense affixes and
affIxes bearing person and number.
The definition in (19) touches on the debate concerning the notion offiniteness.
In fact, ourproposal suggests that fmiteness and head marking in verbal projections are
HEAD MARKING 187
one and the same phenomenon. Precisely those verbs that tolerate nominative subjects
cluster with respect to verb movement. Verb second, for instance, is restricted to fmite
verbs. The fact that it appears in Swedish shows that the presence of an affix carrying
person and number features is not crucial to the notion of fmiteness. Similarly,
Portuguese inflected infmitives and Frisian imperatives differ from other tenseless
verbs in that they can be moved. Such movement is also typical of tensed verbs in
Portuguese and Frisian. In orderto generalize over the Portuguese, Frisian and Swedish
data, one must assume that it is the realization of a designated feature in the external
domain ofthe verb's grid that conditions (certain types of) head movement. Finiteness,
then, is not a feature separate from tense, person/number or mood. It rather collapses
with the notion ofhead marking as given in (19).
Since fmiteness, as now understood, is crucial to various subsystems of the
grammar, verbal morphology is to some extent protected from deflexion. Tense, for
example, may trigger movement in addition to its obvious semantic effects.
Consequently, even in languages in which the case system has disappeared completely,
the verbal morphology that instantiates fmiteness is often still present. This in turn
implies that even in highly deflected languages the relation between the subject and VP
canbe licensed through head marking. Such licensing will actually be the default, given
that a fmite verb form is used for independent reasons.
3. ABSOLUTIVE-ERGATIVE LANGUAGES
In the previous chapters, we have shown that a number of grammatical relations are
highly flexible. Both a-theory and case theory associate elements that appear in
varying structural configurations. If flexibility is characteristic of such different
modules as case theory and a-theory, it would be surprising if relations identified by
head marking are restricted to a unique configuration.
In this section we will argue, on the basis ofergative languages, that such relations
are indeed as flexible as expected. Several properties of ergative languages follow
straightforwardly from the interaction ofcase theory with the system ofhead marking.
The discussion will focus on morphologically ergative languages; some remarks on so-
called syntactic ergativity will be made towards the end of section 3.2.
3.1 The Ergativity Parameter
It is typical for ergative languages that the case in which the object ofa transitive verb
appears is identical to the case of the subject of a monadic verb. This case, usually
referred to as the absolutive, differs from the ergative case that appears on subjects of
transitive verbs. The contrast between absolutive-ergative and nominative-accusative
languages can hence be schematized as below:
(20)
Absolutive-ergative system Nominative-accusative system
Transitive verb S-ERG O-ABS V S-NOM O-ACC V
Intransitive verb S-ABS V S-NOM V
188 CHAPTER 6
The absolutive-ergative pattern is illustrated by the Inuktitut examples in (21) (from
Murasugi 1992V
(21) a. Jaani-up tuktu malik-p-a-a Inuktitut
John-ERG cariboufollOW-IND-TR-3SG.ERG+3SG.ABS
b. Jaani pisuk-p-u-q
John walk-IND-INTR-3sG.ABS
Although the case ofthe object and intransitive subject in (21) is referred to as the
absolutive, it is generally assumed that it parallels the nominative in nominative-
accusative languages (see Dixon 1979, 1987, Bok-Bennema 1991, Campana 1992,
Murasugi 1992, and others). Dixon (1987:11) remarks that "[nJominative is the most
important case in a nominative-accusative system - it is likely to be marked by zero (if
anything is) [...J. Absolutive plays a similar role in an absolutive-ergative system with
ergative being the marked case, parallel to accusative." In the present framework, this
parallel suggests that absolutive DPs, like nominative DPs, do not carry a case shell but
are interpreted through head marking, and more particularly agreement.
The implication is that nominative-accusative and absolutive-ergative languages
differ with respect to the positions in which a caseless DP can be associated with a
head-marked E)-role assigner. Whereas head marking can only identify a relation with
a subject in languages like English, it can identify relations with objects as well in
languages like Inuktitut. As we have already argued, head marking obtains with respect
to the external E)-role if a feature in the external domain ofthe verb's grid is realized
by an affix. If so, it stands to reason that features in the internal domain can be used to
mark a predicate as an internal a-role assigner. Once the defmition in (19) is adopted,
the extension in (22) is implied.
(22) Head Marking (fmal version)
An externaVinternal 0-role assigner is head-marked ifa designated feature
in the externaVinternal domain of its grid is realized by an affix.
So, person and number features in the external domain ofa verb's grid can be used to
mark VP as an external 0-role assigner, with the consequence that (23a) can combine
with a caseless subject. Person and number feature in the internal domain ofa verb's
grid, on the other hand, can be used to mark the predicate as an internal 0-role assigner,
and hence (23b) can combine with a caseless object. For ease of exposition we
represent person and number features here and below as AGR.
(23) a. v (0, <AGR> (9»
~
V (0 (0» Affix <AGR>
3 Ifwe refer to agreement in what follows, we refer to absolutive agreement (spelled out by the
external affix). We will argue in section 3.2 that encapsulated affixes, such as ergative
agreement, are not able to identify arguments in syntax.
HEAD MARKING 189
b. V (e (e, <AGR»)
~
v (e (e)) Affix <AGR>
In nominative-accusative languages person and number features are uniformly copied
from the affix that introduces them to the external domain of the verb's grid. The
defining characteristic of absolutive-ergative languages is that person and number
features can be copied either to the internal or to the external domain ofthe verb's grid.
In other words, both (23a) and (23b) are available.
As already indicated in section 2, the possibility of underspecification is typical
ofagreement affixes, given that person and number features, as opposed to tense, mood
and aspect do not take scope. Hence, there are no semantic requirements that force
them to be copied to a particular part ofthe verb's grid. The ergativity parameter, then,
may be formulated as in (24).
(24) Ergativity Parameter
The person and number paradigm {is, is not} specified as external.
If the person and number paradigm is specified as external, (23a) is the only
option. As a result a nominative-accusative pattern obtains. Agreement can only be
used to identify the relation with the subject and hence the object must bear case:
(25) VP
~
DP VP
~
CASEP V-AGR
~
CASE DP
If the person and number paradigm is not specified as external, both (23a) and
(23b) are available, and consequently agreement can either be with the subject or the
object. This has different consequences in different constructions. More particularly,
it leads to the licensing patterns typical of absolutive-ergative languages.
We have argued in chapter 3 that interpretation through agreement is unmarked
with respect to interpretation through case: the latter requires extra information in the
form of a case shell. We have also argued that if a verb takes a single internal
argument, this will be licensed in the most unmarked way available. Ifa second internal
argument is present it receives the next available case, etc. The distribution of
accusative and dative in nominative-accusative languages can thus be explained.
Suppose, now, that the choice of functional markers is determined in a cyclic
fashion, with the effect thatVP-internal arguments havepriority overVP-external ones.
This does not mean that nominative will be assigned to the direct object in nominative-
accusative languages. As just argued, it is characteristic of nominative-accusative
systems that agreement is not available VP-internally. VP-internal agreement is
190 CHAPTER 6
possible in ergative languages, however. The consequence is that it will be used to
license the direct object (ifpresent). After all, the direct object is the most prominent
VP-internal argument.4 Ifa subject is also present, it must consequently be interpreted
by means of a case shell. The result is that a transitive VP looks as follows in an
absolutive-ergative language:
(26) VP
------------
~~
CASE DP DP V -AGR
In intransitive contexts, agreement is not used VP-internally and consequently it
is still available for the subject. This means that a tree like (27) will be derived.
(27) VP
D~P
I
V-AGR
At first sight, one may expect things to be different if NP raising takes place.
Since the direct object in raising constructions is the trace of a null operator, one may
expect agreement to be with this element. This, however, would incorrectly predict that
raised subjects bear ergative case (the next best option). Fortunately, there is reason to
believe that traces of null operators cannot be interpreted through agreement.
Agreement relations are obviously anaphoric in nature: an agreeing head requires an
antecedent with a particular set of person and number features. The point about null
operators is that they are radically empty. They do not carry such features. Hence,
neither they nor their traces can be antecedents in anaphoric relations. This conclusion
is strengthened by the observation that null operator movement does not give rise to
cross-over effects (cf. Lasnik & Stowell 1991 and Higginbotham 1994). If a null
operator indeed cannot be an antecedent in the relevant sense, thematic interpretation
is only possible if its trace is contained in a case shell.
For raising constructions in absolutive-ergative languages, this implies that the
trace left behind by null operator movement must carry a case shell. This, in turn,
implies that agreement is still available for the subject:
4 If the thematic linking rules operating within VP associate the least marked 9-role with the
most economical way ofmarking, as assumed throughout this study, agreement with a possible
indirect object is ruled out.
HEAD MARKING 191
(28) VP
D~
O~V'
I ~
CASEP V-AGR
C~~
3.2 Empirical Consequences
Several predictions follow from the analysis of ergativity presented here. For a start,
it should be observed that the difference between nominative-accusative and
absolutive-ergative languages is primarily morphological in nature. The syntax ofthe
two types oflanguages is basically identical. Differences between them originate in the
relation between the agreement affix and the verb: in nominative-accusative languages
the person and number paradigm is specified as external, in absolutive-ergative
languages no such specification exists.
As argued in section 2, head marking in nominative-accusative languages can
involve any affix related to VP's external properties. One affix of this type is tense,
which can indeed be used to interpret caseless subjects. The prediction now is that
languages that have tense but not agreement affixes can never be of the absolutive-
ergative type. Since tense has to take scope over the proposition, the affix expressing
it must contribute a feature to the external domain of the verb's grid. This affix can
consequently not be used to identify the thematic relation with the object. As far as we
know, this contrast between nominative and absolutive licensing indeed exists. In
contrast to nominative DPs, absolutive DPs typically cooccurwith a genuine agreement
affix (cf. Trask 1979:385).
Ifmorphology is indeed the driving factor behind ergativity, we might expect that
not all agreement affixes ofa language behave alike. The morphological specification
of the person and number paradigm may be sensitive to features of the verb (such as
tense, mood and aspect), as well as to features of the agreement affix. It is, after all,
very common for morphological processes to be conditioned in this way. If only part
of the paradigm is specified as external, a so-called split-ergative system results: a
nominative-accusative pattern occurs when the affix is specified as external, an
absolutive-ergative one if it is not (cf. Dixon 1994 for an overview).s
S A different type of split ergativity is found in Icelandic, where VP-internal arguments can
appear in the nominative in certain circumstances. We believe that the Icelandic head-marking
system is not sensitive to aspectuality or phi features, but rather to the argument structure ofthe
verb. More specifically, agreement must always be with the argument that bears the most
prominent 8-role in the verb's a-grid. This will be the subject in transitive, unergative and
monadic unaccusative constructions. If an unaccusative or passive verb takes two internal
arguments, however, agreement must be with the Theme, even ifthe Goal is promoted to subject
(Icelandic allows promotion ofboth Theme and Goal). Agreement with an VP-internal Theme
leads to what is essentially an absolutive-ergative pattern.
192 CHAPTER 6
A further prediction concerns the morphological realization of case. In a
nominative-accusative language, it is typically the accusative that can be overtly
realized, not the nominative. The latter does not have a case shell. In absolutive-
ergative languages, on the other hand, subjects oftransitive verbs have a case shell, but
objects do not. Consequently, it is ergative that can be overtly realized, not absolutive.
Moreover, given that the case shell in (18) is part of the subject, it is not governed by
the verb. Unless other measures are taken, ergative case, if not spelled out, would
therefore violate the ECP. This ties in with Trask's (1979:385) generalization that "[i]n
languages with ergative case marking, the ergative case is always overtlymarked, while
the absolutive case is usually morphologically unmarked". The pattern is indeed
disturbed ifother measures are taken. As suggested in the introduction, verb fronting
of the type found in VSO languages may provide a governor for the subject. In such
circumstances ergative need not be realized. We will discuss this briefly in section 4.1.
Note that the overtness ofergative case is unexpected in theories that explain all
case and agreement phenomena in terms of the specifier-head relations. This
asymmetrybetween ergative and accusative, in combination with the general similarity
ofthese cases, therefore supports the analysis proposed here.
Consider, next, which morphological markers can have effects in syntax. There
is consensus that only information contained in the head of a morphological complex
can affect syntactic licensing relations (cf. Williams 1981b). This implies that thematic
relations can only be identified by the outermost marker on a noun or a verb.
Consequently, case affixes are the outermost affixes on nouns in agglutinating
languages. In Turkish, for instance, they appear external to number affixes, as shown
by an accusative plural like elleri 'hand-plural-accusative' (cf. chapter 3). Similarly,
agreement affixes on verbs are generally ordered external to tense markers, as can be
observed in languages like Dutch and German.
We now predict that in a language with both subject and object agreement, only
the outermost affix can identify an argument. Therefore, subject agreement should
appear external to object agreement in nominative-accusative languages, since in such
languages the subject is licensed through agreement. The opposite should be true of
ergative languages. Since absolutive DPs are identifiedby agreement, objectagreement
must appear external to subjectagreement in transitive constructions. As Bittner(1991)
and Bittner & Hale (1996b) show, the order ofagreement affixes in absolutive-ergative
languages is indeed the reverse of the order in nominative-accusative ones (see also
Murasugi 1992).
The analysis makes yet anotherprediction. In the structure in (26) the ergative DP
is the subject. This ties in with the claim that it is assigned the verb's external E)-role.
Hence ergative DPs asymmetrically c-command the verb's internal arguments. With
respect to binding relations, there should consequently be a parallel between
nominative and ergative DPs. That this is indeed the case has been argued by Anderson
(1976), Craig (1976), Keenan (1976) and others. Consider, as an example, the West-
Greenlandic sentences in (29) (fromBok-Bennema 1991:155; the affixes bound in (29)
are anaphoric in nature):
HEAD MARKING
(29) a. AnguteIIl; pairtaa qetuunra-nij
man-ERG meet-IND-3SG-3SG son-his
'the man meets his son'
b. Hansi-pj nulia-mi;-nut aningaasat tunniup-pai
Hansi-ERG wife-his-DAT money-PL give-IND-3sG-3PL
'Hansi gave the money to his wife'
193
West Greenlandic
As expected, the ergative subject can bind into both the direct (absolutive) and the
indirect (dative) object.
On the other hand, there is an important difference between subjects in
nominative-accusative and absolutive-ergative languages. Finite subjects in languages
like Dutch and English are always licensed via head marking, that is, in a way that
differs from the licensing of objects. Subjects in absolutive-ergative languages,
however, are licensed by agreement in intransitive contexts (like absolutive objects)
and by ergative case in transitive structures. If certain grammatical operations are
sensitive to the way in which an argument is licensed, contrasts may be expected
between subjects in Dutch and English and subjects in absolutive-ergative languages.
The former will all be treated identically. But in an absolutive-ergative system, an
intransitive subject verb may sometimes pattern like the object ofa transitive verb and
unlike a transitive subject. In this way, phenomena grouped under the term 'syntactic
ergativity' may be explained (cf. Dixon 1979, Campana 1992, Murasugi 1992).
Campana (1992:88) shows, for example, that in Mam extraction of transitive
subjects is impossible, whereas extraction oftransitive objects and intransitive subjects
is grarmnatical:
(30) a. ma-a7 chi tzaj t-tzyu-7n Cheep kab' xiinaq
REC-EMPH 3PL.ABS DIR 3SG.ERG-grab-Ds Jose two man
'Jose grabbed the men'
b. alkyee-qajxhi tzaj t-tzyu-7n Cheep tj
who-PL REC DEP/3pL.ABS DIR 3SG.ERG-grab-DS Jose
'whom did Jose grab?'
c. *alkyeejsaj t-tzyu-7n tj kab' xiinaq
who REC DEP/3sG.ABS/DIR 3SG.ERG-grab-Ds two man
'who grabbed the men?'
(31) a. ma chi b'eet xiinaq
REC 3PL.ABS walk man
'The men walked'
b. alkyeejx-hi b'eet ~
who 3PL.ABS-DEP walk
'who walked?'
Mam
Mam
These data can be understood in terms of absolutive agreement. Suppose that traces
must be governed by an agreeing head in Mam(a VSO language). Ifso, it follows that
absolutive subjects and absolutive objects can be extracted, whereas extraction of
194 CHAPTER 6
ergative subjects will be problematic. Even ifergative agreement is present, as is the
case in Mam, it cannot playa role in the identification ofempty categories because it
is not the outermost agreement marker (see above). Consequently, with respect to
extraction, absolutive DPs may form a class that excludes ergative DPs.
Note that explaining syntactic ergativity along the lines suggested above may
explain Trask's 1979 generalization that "[aJpparently all languages that manifest
ergativity at all [...J show morphological ergativity, while very few exhibit syntactic
ergativity." What does not exist, then, is a syntactically ergative language that is not
morphologically ergative. This follows directly from the proposal made here, as
syntactic ergativity is parasitic on morphological ergativ.ity.
To sum up, we have proposed that in nominative-accusative languages head
marking is reserved for the subject, whereas it is left unspecified in absolutive-ergative
languages. This analysis is supported by the morphological nature of the ergativity
parameter (evidenced by split-ergative languages) and by the fact that from this
parameter a number of differences between the two types of languages follow
straightforwardly. These are summarized in the table below:
(32) Consequences of the Ergativity Parameter
Absolutive-ergative languages Nominative-accusative languages
Head marking takes the form ofagreement Head marking takes the form of
'finiteness'
In transitive structures the object is In transitive structures the object is
licensed via head marking, while the licensed by case, while the subject is
subject is licensed by case licensed via head marking
In intransitive structures the subject is In intransitive structures the subject is
licensed via head marking licensed via head marking
Ergative is overt unless verb movement Accusative can be covert, whether verb
takes place movement takes place or not
If two agreement markers are present, If two agreement markers are present,
object agreement is external to subject subject agreement is external to object
agreement agreement
Ergative arguments c-command absolutive Nominative arguments c-command
co-arguments accusative co-arguments
Generalizations can be made over No such generalizations are possible
transitive objects and intransitive subjects
What alternatives to the analysis ofergativity sketched here are available ifsyntax
is assumed to be rigid? One possibility would be to say that there is a unique position
in which agreeing arguments are located, say spec-IP. In order to derive the facts,
nominative and absolutive DPs must be moved to this position. However, if an
absolutive object is moved there, the subject must move to an A-position external to
HEAD MARKING 195
IF so as to explain the pertaining c-command relations. It is unclear how these two
movements can be related. Thus, the problem that in absolutive-ergative languages
agreement is sometimes internal and sometimes external to the verbal predicate
essentially remains unexplained.
A more recent approach starts out from the assumption that there are two syntactic
agreement positions (AgrSP and AgrOP), of which one is 'active' (see, for instance,
Bobaljik 1993). IfAgrSP is active, a nominative-accusative language results; ifAgrOP
is active, agreement will be with transitive objects and intransitive subjects. Although
such an analysis fails to capture the generalization that ergative case is overt, it does
describe mostother contrasts between the two types oflanguages. Recall, however, that
the evidence for AgrOP innominative-accusative languages is weak (cf. chapters 2 and
3). The claim that the two types of languages share the same rigid architecture is,
therefore, unconvincing. It seems that the price attached to rigidity is the introduction
ofunmotivated structure.
Inouranalysis, nominative-accusativeand absolutive-ergative languages do share
the same clausal architecture, but this architecture does not determine which thematic
relations are identified by head marking. This choice is governed by morphology and
agreement may therefore occur in various syntactic configurations. Of course,
flexibility is exactly what would be expected in view of conclusions reached earlier
about case and a-role assignment.
4. VSO LANGUAGES
In the previous sections we have discussed how head marking can be used to license
thematic relations. An affix spelling out a designated feature marks the predicate as a
a-role assigner and may thus satisfy visibility. In this section we will tum to a class of
languages implied by this line of argumentation, namely languages in which there is
no designated feature. The prediction is that in such languages all argument-predicate
relationships must be identified through dependent marking. We will see, amongst
other things, that this may lead to VSO word order.
4.1 The VSO Parameter
Recall that head marking is defmed as in (22) (repeated here as (33», where the set of
designated features can be different from language to language. In some languages
tense is a designated feature, in others person and number or mood are. Given this kind
ofvariation, one would expect there to also be languages in which the set ofdesignated
features is empty. In such languages, head marking is not available as a means of
licensing argument-predicate relationships.
(33) Head Marking
An external/internal a-role assigner is head-marked ifa designated feature
in the external/internal domain of its grid is realized by an affix.
In the absence of head marking, arguments must be uniformly be accompanied by a
case shell. This shell can in principle be filled, so that it does not have to be governed
- amatterto which we will returnbelow. Suppose, however, that whatever morphology
196 CHAPTER 6
is present in the language turns out to not fill the case shell. Then a governor is not only
required for the object, as in English and Dutch, but also for the subject. This will lead
to an interaction with the OVNO parameter, as we will now explain.
In chapter 2 we argued that the OVNO parameter relates two properties ofhead
government, namely its direction and its domain. Ifthe verb governs to the left, it will
do so in a syntactically defmed domain (namely the VP). If the verb governs to the
right, the domain chosen will be defmed as the prosodic phrase. This explains why
there is an adjacency requirement between the verb and a case-marked complement in
YO but not in OV languages. Dutch, being an OV language, makes use of a
syntactically defmed government domain, and hence governmentcan take place across
an intervening adjunct. As a result both (34a) and (34b) are grammatical.
(34) a. dat Jan [vp vaak 0-dat boek leest]
that John often that book reads
b. dat Jan [vp 0-dat boek vaak leest]
English, on the otherhand, is a VO language and consequently government is restricted
to the verb's prosodic domain. This implies that (35a) but not (35b) is ruled in.
(35) a. John {reads 0-that book} often
b. *John {reads often} 0-thatbook
The adjacency condition that holds in English leads to the formation of VP shells
whenever a case-marked argument threatens to be separated from the verb. Double
object constructions are an example. The left-branching VP structure in (36a) is
mapped onto a prosodic structure in which the indirect object remains ungoverned (cf.
36a'). In (36b) a VP shell is projected, with the result that both the direct and the
indirect object are governed: the former by the trace ofthe verb, the latter by the verb
itself (cf. 36b').
(36) a. John [vp [gives 0-a book] 0-his father]
a'. *John {gives 0-a book} {0-his father}
b. John [vp gives [vp 0-his father [tv 0-a book]]]
b'. John {gives 0-his father} {tv 0-a book}
This analysis has direct implications for YO languages in which both the subject
and the object carry empty case shells. The problem with such languages is how the
subject can be licensed. Ifthe case shell ofthe subject remains ungoverned, a violation
ofthe ECP results. Ungrammaticality can be avoided, however, ifa governor is created
thatprecedes the subject(as government is rightward in VO languages). Therefore, the
verb moves leftward over the subject, thus giving rise to an extra VP-shell:
(37) a.
b.
V'
~
~
HEAD MARKING
DP+0~
tv DP+0
{V DP+0}{tv DP+0}
197
This solution is identical to the one employed in English double object constructions.
The only difference is that in (36b) movement takes place to license the indirect object,
whereas in (37) it is the subject that needs licensing.
A different structure is derived ifthe language in question is OV. Usually no VP-
shells are generated in OV languages, because objects are always within the verb's
government domain. The subject, however, occurs outside VP, and hence cannot be
governed if the verb remains in situ. The consequence is that in an OV language that
lacks head marking the verb has to move after all. A structure in which the verb and the
subject are in the same syntactic domain can be created by rightward verb movement
and subsequent merger ofthe subject:
(38) VP
~
DP+0 V'
~
VP V
~
DP+0 tv
In (38) the subject and the moved verb entertain a relation ofmutual m-command, and
hence government obtains. The fact thatverb and subject are linearly separatedby a VP
containing the object and the trace ofthe verb is irrelevant since syntactic domains are
insensitive to such linear interventions (cf. 34b).
We believe that the structure in (37) is typical of at least a subset of VSO
languages, whereas the structure in (38) characterizes OV languages like Japanese and
Korean. In the remainder of this subsection we will discuss (37); we will tum to (38)
in the next subsection.
The idea that VSO order is derived by leftward movement ofthe verb is widely
accepted (see Emonds 1981, Travis 1984, Sproat 1985b, Fassi Fehri 1993, amongst
others). It is an open question, however, to what extent other properties of VSO
languages can be related to the trigger ofthis movement. Let us therefore consider the
predictions our analysis makes.
For a start it is predicted that the subject and the fronted verb must be adjacent.
Ifan adjunct intervenes between these two elements, they will no longer be part ofthe
same prosodic domain, and hence the case shell ofthe subjectwill remain ungoverned.
198 CHAPTER 6
(39) a. V'
~
b.
V VP
A~VP
~
DP+0 VP
~
tv DP+0
*{V AdvP}{DP+0}{tv DP+0}
Indeed, it has been observed by a number of authors that there is a strict adjacency
between the fronted verb and the subject in languages like Irish, Scottish Gaelic (cf.
Adger 1997) andArabic (cf. Benmamoun 1996). The following data illustrate thepoint.
(40) a. Deireann siad i gconai paidir trioh am lui Irish
say-HAS they always prayer before the bedtime
a'. *Deireann i gconai siad paidir trioh am lui
say-HAS always they prayer before the bedtime
b. *Dh'flllig, tha mi cinnteach, Daihbhidh an de Scottish Gaelic
left-PAsT, be-PRES I sure, Davidyesterday
b'. Dh'fhag Daihbhidh, tha mi cinnteach, an de
left-PAsT David, be-PREs I sure, yesterday
c. *kataba haagaa s-sabaah-a r-rajul-u r-risaalat-a Arabic
wrote this the-morning-Acc the-man-NOM the-letter-ACC
c'. kataba r-rajul-u r-risaalat-a haagaa s-sabaah-a
wrote the-man-NOM the-letter-ACC this the-morning-Acc
Both Benmamoun (1996) and Adger (1997) argue that verb-subject adjacency in VSO
languages must be explained in terms of a process ofpost-syntactic merger: the verb
and the subject form a morpho-phonological unit after spell-out. This is, of course,
exactly what our analysis expresses. However, that VSO languages exhibit this process
need not be stipulated for each language separately, as seems to be the case on
Benmamoun's and Adger's account. Moreover, the adjacency requirement itselfis not
something that specifically needs to be introduced for VSO languages. It follows
directly from the way in which the OVNO parameter is formulated.
A second prediction made by our analysis, is that verb movement will be
suppressed whenever a governor for the subject is present independently. Verb
movement is triggered by the requirement that the subject's case shell be governed.
Therefore it will be blocked by economy ifthe subject satisfies the ECP independently.
This prediction is born out, as is particularly clear in Arabic (cf. Fassi Fehri 1993).
Arabic has two constructions in which the subject's case shell is licensed by an external
head. One involves the case-marking complementizer 'inna (cf. 41a), the other ECM
verbs like 'think' (cf. 41b). In both constructions the embedded verb fails to be fronted.
HEAD MARKING 199
The same point can be illustrated with verbs taking an infmitival ECM complement in
Celtic (cf. 41c,d).
(41) a. 'inna salimat-an fataR-at al-baab-a bi-l-miftaaH-i Arabic
that salima-ACC open-3SG.FEM the-door-ACC with-the-key
b. hasib-tu salimat-an fataH-at al-baab-a bi-l-miftaaR-i
thought-I salima-ACC open-3SG.FEM the-door-ACC with-the-key
c. Bha Daibhidh a' bhualadh a' chait Scottish Gaelic
Be-PAST David SIMP strike-VN the cat-GEN
d. Y mae Sian wedi gweld draig Welsh
PRT be-3SG.PRES John PERF see dragon
As will be clear, the Arabic pattern is hard to explain ifthe trigger for verb movement
in VSO languages is not related to the licensing of the subject.6
A third prediction is borne out by the examples in (41) as well. Given that
leftward verb movement in VSO languages is triggered by a VO setting ofthe OVNO
parameter, it follows that underlyingly the verb must precede the object. The object
could only precede the verb ifwe were dealing with an OV language. But ifthat were
the case the structure in (38) rather than in (37) would be generated. There is clear
evidence that VSO languages are indeed VO underlyingly. As Greenberg (1966:79)
notes, "all languages with dominant VSO order have SVO as an alternative or as the
only alternative basic order." Indeed, the word order that surfaces in Arabic if verb
movement is suppressed is SVO, not SOY (cf. 41a,b). The same observation can be
made with respect to Scottish Gaelic and Welsh (cf. 41c,d).7
Note that the correlation between VSO surface order and VO underlying order is
hard to explain in alternative accounts. Sproat (1985b), for example, proposes that in
6 It has been observed that in Arabic VSO order alternates with SVO order. Given that verbal
agreement is richer in SVO order than it is when the subject follows the verb, one may think that
SVO order is the result ofhead marking (as seems to be the upshot of Huybrechts 1991). Such
an analysis cannot be maintained, however, since A'-fronting of the subject also leads to rich
agreement (additional counterarguments are implied by the further discussion in the main text).
The alternative analysis proposed by Fassi Fehri (1993) is that SVO order is the result of a
general topicalization rule. Indeed, Arabic also allows topicalization ofobjects.
The question that remains is how the distribution of rich agreement in Arabic can be
captured. Following Benmamoun (1996), we propose that when the subject and the verb are in
the same prosodic phrase a morpho-phonological rule applies by which agreement is reduced.
Such a process can only take place when the subject follows the verb, since otherwise it is not
in the same prosodic domain as the verb (only its trace is). A similar process of morpho-
phonological adaption is found in certain dialects of Dutch (cf. Van Haeringen 1958). If the
subject follows an agreeing head (be it a complementizer or a fronted verb) the form of the
agreement affix is changed. This duplication of the Arabic pattern in Dutch suggests that
morpho-phonological adaption may occur independently of a language being VSO.
7 Irish is exceptional in that infinitival verbs (so-called verbal nouns) may be preceded by
objects. This seems to be due, however, to a particle that accompanies the verb. We speculate
that we are dealing with a special instance ofhead marking, and hence that relevant data do not
bear on the OVNO nature ofIrish.
200 CHAPTER 6
VSO languages inflection assigns case to the right, thus triggering verb movement.
However, there is no reason why the verb could not assign case to the left, while I does
so to the right. After all, the existence of SOY languages shows that, on Sproat's
assumptions, the direction in which V and I assign case do not have to be the same.
Similar problems arise in minimalism.
A fourth prediction concerns the morphology ofVSO languages. We have argued
in sections 2 and 3.2 thathead marking restricts the order in which tense and agreement
affixes are attached to the verb. Ifmore than one potential head marker is present, the
one that gives the most information about the subject is relevant for identification.
Hence, if person and number features are spelled out, these rather than tense will be
used for head marking. This implies that agreement affixes must be external to tense,
since only information contained in the head of a morphological complex can affect
syntactic licensing relations.
Of course, this line of argumentation does not apply to languages that lack
designated features in the sense of(33). The prediction, then, is that in such languages
person and number affixes may, but need not, appear internal to tense. This prediction
seems to be correct. In head marking languages like French and Dutch, tense
consistently appears internal to agreement, as the examples in (42) show.
(42) a. Les nouvelles arriv-er-ont dans trois jours
the news arrive-FUT-3PL in three days
b. De mensen lach-t-en
the people smile-PAST-PL
French
Dutch
In some VSO languages, in particular the Celtic ones, the same pattern is found. In
others, however, tense may indeed be attached external to agreement, as observed by
Ouhalla (1991) for Berber and Arabic. Some examples are given below.
(43) a. ad-y-segh Moha ijn teddart
FUT-3sG.MASC-buy Moha one house
b. sa-ya-shtarii Zayd-un dar-an
FUT-3SG.MASC-buy Zayd-NOM house-ACC
Berber
Arabic
Apparently, the order of tense and agreement affixes is subject to cross-linguistic
variation in VSO languages, but fixed for languages that have a system of head
marking.
To spell out a fifth prediction we must make explicit a principle that we have
alluded to several times before. As is well-known, dependent marking is unique in that
no argument bears two case affixes. Similarly, dependent marking excludes head
marking: if the thematic relation between subject and VP is identified by a case affix
on the subject, no agreement relation can be established. Icelandic quirky subjects, for
example, do not agree with the verb; instead the verb shows up in the third person
singular, irrespective ofthe subject's person and number (cf. chapter 3). The following
principle, then, seems to be well motivated:
HEAD MARKING 201
(44) Uniqueness o/Marking
No thematic relation is marked more than once.
In a language that lacks designated features, agreement is notrestrictedby the principle
in (44) because agreement does not lead to head marking in the sense of (33). It is
therefore predicted that even if the thematic relation between the subject and VP is
marked by case, agreement is possible. We have already encountered examples that
display exactly this pattern. In (41a,b), repeated as (45) below, the subject bears
accusative case, yet it shows agreement with the verb.
(45) a. 'inna salimat-an fataH-at al-baab-a bi-l-miftaaH-i Arabic
that salima-ACC open-3SG.FEM the-door-ACC with-the-key
b. hasib-tu salimat-an fataH-at al-baab-a bi-l-miftaaH-i
thought-I salima-ACC open-3SG.FEM the-door-ACC with-the-key
A sixthprediction is immediately relatedto the hypothesis thatperson and number
are not head-marking features in VSO languages. We have suggested that the notions
ofhead marking and fmiteness coincide: non-finite verbs are never head-marked. One
consequence ofthis is that inhead-marking languages attachment ofan agreement affix
to an otherwise infmitival form makes that the verb patterns with regular fmite verbs
- a prediction bome out by Portuguese inflected infinitives (see section 2). In contrast
to this, the presence of agreement affixes does not have such implications in VSO
languages. Here person and number are not designated features and consequently the
verb need not count as finite if agreement is present. This prediction is correct. As
observed by Ouhalla (1991), Berber and Arabic lack uninflected infmitives. In control
environments like those in (46), for example, the verb still bears agreement markers.
(46) a. y-arzu uxwwan [PRO ad-y-awer]
3SG.MASC-tried thiefto-3SG.MASc-escape
b. haawal-a l-saariq-u [?an PRO ya-hrib-a]
tried-3SG.MASC the-thiefNOM that 3SG.MASC-escape
Berber
Arabic
A final prediction concerns the form of the subject. Suppose that morphological
case is present in a VSO language, but that it does not provide a value for all features
in the case shell. As argued in chapter 3, a similar situations is found in German and
Icelandic. Under such circumstances the case shell ofa subject would still have to be
governed, so that VSO order obtains. The prediction now is that VSO languages ofthe
relevant type can have genuine nominative affixes. It is possible to construct a
paradigm in which one affix is reserved for the subject ofa tensed clause. The affix in
question could be marked <+TEP>, for 'tensed predicate'.
Recall that such genuine nominative affixes never occur in head-marking
languages, because subjects oftensed clause do notbear case. By defmition nominative
signals the absence of case features. We have seen that in Turkish, for example,
nominative is indeed the one form that does not carry an affix.
202 CHAPTER 6
Arabic shows that the prediction spelled out above comes true. The paradigm in
(47) boasts a genuine nominative affix. In contrast to apparent nominative affixes in
head-marking languages, this affix cannot be classified as one that encodes gender,
declination or any other independent feature. The nominative affix -u shows up
independently of the properties of its host.
(47) Arabic case paradigm
Nominative: -u
Accusative: -a
Genitive: -i
The question arises why the Arabic nominative does not allow the case shell of
the subject to satisfy the ECP - a matter to which we will briefly return in section 4.2.
For now we conclude that the theory of head marking as introduced in section 2
provides a natural account ofat least a subclass ofVSO languages. The analysis given
here supports the claim that the system by which thematic relations are identified is
flexible. This flexibility implies, amongst other things, that there will be languages for
which dependent marking, as opposed to head marking, is the only option. We have
argued that such languages indeed exist.
Finally we should point out here that this account ofVSO languages predicts that
a subset of these languages may display an absolutive-ergative pattern, namely when
the ergative case requires government, because the case system is not rich enough. This
will give rise to the representation in (7), repeated here as (48).
(48) V'
~
V+AGR VP
~
DP+0 VP
~
tv DP
One language that can be analyzed along these lines is Mam. As the example in (49)
(taken from Campana 1992:88) shows, ergative case is not morphologically realized
in Mam - Mam is indeed a VSO language.
(49) ma-a7 chi tzaj t-tzyu-7n Cheep kab' xiinaq
REC-EMPH 3PL.ABS DIR 3SG.ERG-grab-DS Jose two man
'Jose grabbed the men'
4.2 Japanese Nominatives
Mam
Until now we have considered VO languages that lack the designated features required
for head marking. However, there is no reason why languages which exclusively rely
on dependent marking should have this particular underlying order; they may as well
be OV. If the case shell on the subject requires government to satisfy the ECP, it is
HEAD MARKING 203
predicted that the verb moves rightward, thus creating a structure like (38), repeated
here as (50). In this structure the verb governs the subject, even though no adjacency
obtains. This follows from the hypothesis that in OV languages the domain of
government is defmed syntactically rather than prosodically.
(50)
We believe that languages of this type indeed exist and that Japanese may be an
example. A flrst clue to this effect is that Japanese has a genuine nominative ending,
just like Arabic. This is apparent from the paradigm in (51). The marker ga cannot be
classifled as one that encodes gender, declination or any other independent feature. As
we have argued in the previous section, genuine nominatives can only exist in
languages that lack head marking.8
(51) Japanese case paradigm
Nominative: ga
Accusative: 0
Dative: ni
Genitive: no
Ofcourse, ifJapanese is to be analyzed along the lines of(50), we must assume that at
least the case marker ga does not satisfy the ECP, again like the Arabic nominative
affix -u. We will return to this issue at the end ofthis section.
In general it is problematic to fmd empirical support for rightward verb movement
in a strictly head-fmallanguage like Japanese. Such movement is necessarily string-
vacuous and consequently the usual argumentationbased on the distribution ofadverbs
is not available. However, the Japanese nominative has some remarkable properties
which can be understood if the verb indeed moves rightward. Just like in Arabic,
Japanese nominatives occur with tensed predicates only (cf. Takezawa 1987). More
surprisingly perhaps, VP-intemal arguments can appear in the nominative, despite the
fact that Japanese is not an absolutive-ergative language:
(52) Boku-wa okane-ga hosi-i
J-TOP money-NOM want-PRES
8 Japanese also has a topic marker wa, which is superimposed on any topicalized DP. Thus,
topicalized DPs are not marked for nominative, accusative, etc. (see example (52) below).
204 CHAPTER 6
The existence ofVP-internal nominatives corroborates the analysis in (50) in various
ways.
First ofall, Japanese, like many other languages, does not allow a single predicate
to take multiple arguments in the same case. So, there is a ban on double dative or
double accusative constructions. A single verb, however, can be combined with two
nominatives, as in (53).
(53) John-ga nihongo-ga wakar-u (koto)
John-NOM Japanese-NOM understand-PRES (fact)
Assuming that nominative adheres to the ban on identical cases, data like (53) suggest
that there are in fact two domains in which cases can be licensed. This, of course, is
exactly what is achieved by the verb movement in (50). By this movement a structure
containing a single governor (the verb) is turned into one with two governors (the verb
and its trace). If the conditions on case realization in Japanese allow nominative to
occur in both domains, data like (53) can be understood.
The condition on the occurrence ofgenuine nominatives in Japanese is similar to
that in Arabic (see section 4.1): ga is marked as <+TEP> and may therefore occur with
tensed predicates only. The verb movement in (50) copies features from the foot ofthe
chain to its head (categorial features are an example). It seems likely that <+tense> can
also be copied. Ifso, (50) can be specified as in (54).
(54) VP
~
DP+NOM V'
~
VP V <+TENSE>
~
DP+NOM tv <+TENSE>
If nominative is the case that appears with tensed predicates, it follows that both DPs
in (54) may bear nominative.9
Structures containing two predicates confirm the analysis just sketched. Such
structures differ from the ones in (53) in that the object, which must be nominative in
(53), optionally appears in the accusative. This is illustrated by the examples in (55).
(55) a. John-ga nihongo-o/ga hanas-e-ru (koto)
John-NOM Japanese-AcclNOM speak-can-PRES (fact)
9 As opposed to Japanese, Arabic does not allow double nominatives. One may account for this
contrast by manipulating the featural specification of Arabic and Japanese nominatives. An
alternative would be to reduce it to the setting ofthe OYNO parameter. As argued at length in
chapter 2, the verb's government domain is defined prosodically in YO languages, whereas in
OY languages it is defined syntactically. It seems reasonable that in prosodic structures tense is
only present where it is spelled out. Hence, the nominative will be licensed by traces in an OY
language like Japanese, but not in a YO language like Arabic.
HEAD MARKING
b. Boku-wa osusi-o/ga tabe-tai
I-TOP sushi-ACC/NOM eat-want
205
Many linguists have arguedthatexamples like (55) are structurally ambiguous between
a bi-clausal and a mono-clausal analysis (cf. Kageyama 1982, Sugioka 1984, Tada
1992). In the bi-clausal analysis the two verbs are generated separately, after which the
inftnitival is raised to the tensed main verb. In the mono-clausal analysis the two verbs
form a complex predicate at the beginning of the derivation, and it is this complex
predicate that is raised. These two structures have different implications for the
distribution oftense and thus for that ofnominative case.
Let us consider the bi-clausal analysis ftrst. In (56a) tense is generated on the
matrix verb, V2. The complex predicate VI-V2is created in overt syntax via raising of
VI to V2 (cf. 56b), a process that is typical of tenseless verbs in many other OV
languages (cf. Evers 1975). Obviously, the movement that creates (56b) allows for the
copying of VI'S features, but not for the copying of those of V2: V2 has not been
moved. The trace therefore does not carry tense, with the result that only accusative can
be realized within the embedded VP.
(56) a. VP
~
DP-NOM V'
~2<+TENSE>
~
DP-ACC VI
b.
~
DP-NOM V'
~
VP VI-V2<+TENSE>
~
DP-ACC tv
In the mono-clausal analysis VI and V2 are part of a base-generated complex
predicate (cf. 57a). This implies that the structure will behave as if it contains only a
single verb, which is tensed. The resulting derivation parallels that in (50). The
complex predicate raises in order to create the VP-shell necessary to license the subject.
Since tense is now among the features copied in the movement chain, nominative will
be available both VP internally and external to the VP (cf. 57b).
(57) a. VP
~
DP-NOM VI-V2<+TENSE>
206 CHAPTER 6
b. VP
~
DP-NOM V'
~
VP V1-V2 <+TENSE>
~
DP-NOM tv <+TENSE>
Independent evidence for the proposed analysis ofexamples like (55) comes from their
interpretation. It seems that the scope ofthe object with respect to the modal varies with
its case. In (58a), where the object bears accusative, there is a strong preference for the
modal to take scope over the object. When the object appears in the nominative,
however, scopal relations are reversed. In (58b), it is the object that takes scope over
the modal.
(58) a. John-ga migime-dake-o tumur-e-ru
John-NOM right-eye-onlY-Acc close-can-PRES
can> only (John can wink only his right eye)
b. John-ga migime-dake-ga tumur-e-ru
John-NOM right-eye-onlY-NoM close-can-PRES
only> can (It is only his right eye that John can close)
These interpretation fall out naturally from the analysis sketched above. In the bi-
clausal structure in (56), the matrix verb c-commands the embedded object, but not vice
versa. As a result, accusative on the object correlates with a wide scope reading ofthe
modal. In the mono-clausal structure in (57), on the other hand, the object c-commands
the modal, but the modal, being contained in a larger verbal complex, does not c-
command the object. Consequently, nominative on the object implies that the modal
takes narrow scope. IO
The distribution of nominative objects in Japanese does not only depend on
whether the structure in question is monoclausal or biclausal; it is also conditioned by
the stativity of the predicate. Kuno (1973b) and Tada (1992), among others, have
observed that only stative verbs allow for nominative objects. As soon as the verb is
non-stative, the object must appear in the accusative. This implies that the following
distribution of nominative objects is found:
(59) SUBJ-NOM
SUBJ-NOM
SUBJ-NOM
SUBJ-NOM
OBJ-ACC
OBJ-NOM
OBJ-ACC
OBJ-ACC/NOM
V <-stative>
V <+stative>
V2 VI <-stative>
V2 VI <+stative>
10 The fact that a wide scope reading of the object is marginally possible in (58a) may be
accounted for by a process ofquantifier raising. This process does not affect the reading of(58b),
as verbs do not seem the undergo it.
HEAD MARKING 207
The fact that nominative objects only appear in stative contexts can be understood in
terms ofthe proposed rightward movement ofthe verb. As argued, this movement has
the effect that the configuration that licenses nominative is duplicated: instead ofone,
two tensed heads appear. It goes without saying thatthis duplication oftense is possible
only ifindependent well-formedness conditions are met. As it turns out, this is not the
case when the verb is non-stative.
The point is that for semantic reasons tense must always occur external to aspect:
the type of event expressed by VP must be fixed before this event can be placed in
time. Thus, in creole languages, where tense and aspect are expressed by preverbal
particles, the order typically found is tense - aspect - verb, and not aspect - tense -
verb. Ifthe same condition holds in Japanese, the relevance ofthe verb's aspectuality
can be understood.
We assume that only non-stative predicates have aspectual properties - only they
describe an event. Stative verbs, in contrast, can be characterized as lacking
aspectuality. We further assume, following Tenny 1989 and Verkuy11993, that aspect
is a property of VP: it is determined compositionally on the basis of information
encoded by object and verb. With this in mind, let us consider the effects of verb
movement with stative and non-stative verbs.
Ifthe verb is stative, aspect will not be among the properties ofVP. Hence, aspect
cannot affect the distribution of tense features either, which in tum means that the
structures in (54) and (57) obtain. If the verb is non-stative, however, VP will be
assigned a particular aspect. This implies that it may not contain tense features, because
tense, as we have seen, must be external to aspect. The consequence is that in (60) any
tense features on the trace of the verb must be deleted. As a result, this trace can no
longer license nominative case and the object must appear in the accusative. Ofcourse,
the same line of reasoning applies when the VP in (60) is headed by a complex
predicate.
(60) VP
~
DP+NOM V'
~
VP V <+TENSE>
D~tv<+TENSE> ..... 0
In sum, the absence ofdesignated features in the sense of(33) has different effects
in VO and VO languages. If the verb governs to the right, it results in VSO order, as
discussed in section 4.1. Ifthe verb governs to the left, verb movement will be string-
vacuous. Although such a movement cannot argued for on the basis ofword order, its
existence is supported by strong circumstantial evidence. We have shown how
rightward verb movement allows a straightforward analysis of the distribution of
Japanese nominatives. Japanese, then, seems to be an OV language that lacks head
marking and thus it fills the typological slot predicted by the theory developed so far.
208 CHAPTER 6
At this point, one issue remains. So far we have seen two languages that have
genuine nominative case: Japanese andArabic. Itis somewhat surprising that inneither
ofthese languages the nominative seems to be able to fully identify the features in the
subject's case shell. Government of the subject, and hence verb movement, is still
required to satisfy the ECP. Although this could of course be a coincidence, we
speculate that it is not: the system of paradigm formation is such that genuine
nominative case will systematically fail to fill case shells.
Consider why. We have argued in chapter 3 that the case shell ofa subject must
at least be specified for the feature <O:NOP> (for 'nominal predicate'). Genuine
nominative case, on the other hand, bears the feature <'tTEP> (for 'tensed predicate').
It will be clear that these features partly exclude each other: nominal predicates never
bear tense. Suppose, now, that two features may not defme dimensions in the same
paradigm iftheir marked values are incompatible. Ifso, genuine nominative case must
be stored separately from the paradigm that contains accusative and genitive. As a
result, nominative remains unspecified for <O:NOP> and thus fails to contribute the
feature values required to satisfy the ECP. It is likely that the existence of genuine
nominative DPs has further consequences for the case paradigm, but we will have to
leave these for future research. The above suffices to explain the patterns found in
Japanese and Arabic.
5. THE LINEARIZATION OF SUBJECTS
So far, we have seen that head marking may be absent in a language and can obtain in
different configurations when present. In absolutive-ergative languages, for example,
the agreeing argument sometimes appears within VP and sometimes external to it. In
this section we discuss a different type of flexibility, namely that related to the
linearization of subject and verb. Recall that syntax as such does not impose a linear
order on sister nodes. Rather, linear order is a function ofthe interaction ofsyntax and
systems extraneous to it. For case-marked arguments, such as objects in nominative-
accusative languages, order is determined by the interaction between syntax and
phonology (cf. chapter 2). For subjects, we will argue, interaction with the parser, and
in particular a restriction on anaphoric dependencies, is decisive.
5.1 Anaphoric Dependence
Williams 1997 discusses a condition on anaphoric dependencies according to whichthe
dependent element must either follow, or be in a subordinate environment to, the
antecedent. Some examples illustrating this "general pattern ofanaphoric dependence"
are given in(61), where '#' marks non-syntactic ill-formedness. (61a-c), but not (61d),
allow it to be anaphorically dependent on term paper.
(61) a.
b.
c.
d.
Anyone [who has written his term paper] can turn il in to me now
Anyone [who has written ill can turn his term paper in to me now
Anyone can turn his term paper in to me now [who has written ill
#Anyone can turn il in to me now [who has written his TERM PAPER]
HEAD MARKING 209
Examples (61a,c) are well-formed because the antecedent precedes the dependent
element. (61b) is well-formed, even though the dependency is forward. The reason is
that the dependent element occurs in a subordinate clause with respect to its antecedent.
(61d), fmally, is infelicitous, as the dependency is forward and the dependent is not
subordinated. Term paper is capitalized in (61d) to signify that it has main stress. This
implies that it is not itselfanaphoric to some preceding instance ofthe same DP. Ifso,
the pronoun could be dependent on this DP. Thus, destressing the fmal DP remedies
the problem with (61d).
Williams's conditions predicts that when subordination of the dependent is
impossible, anaphora must be backward. Indeed, in cases ofintersentential anaphora,
the antecedent must always precede the dependent. Thus, he can be dependent onJohn
in (62a), but not in (62b). As before, John is stressed to avoid it referring back to an
earlier instance of the same DP.
(62) a. John walked in. He wore a hat.
b. #He walked in. John wore a hat.
The constraint under discussion has immediate consequences for the linearization
ofthe subject with respect to VP. Following Williams 1980 and subsequent work, we
have analyzed predication as a relation of local binding. The essence of this analysis
is that a predicate is dependent on its subject in much the same way that an anaphor is
dependent on its antecedent. Ifthis analysis is correct, the subject must either precede
the predicate or be located in a clause subordinate to it. Obviously, the latter case is
independently ruled out - predication is strictly clause-bound. The overall result, then,
is that the subject must precede VP.
The linear order ofthe examples in (63) can now be accounted for as follows. The
position ofthe object with respect to the verb is determined by the OVNO parameter
and may thus be different in English and Dutch. The position ofthe subject with respect
to VP follows from the above-mentioned dependency condition. Since this condition
is presumably universal, the subject has to precede VP in both languages.
(63) a.
b.
[John] [vp kissed [0 Mary]]
• Dependency condition:
• Head government:
dat [Jan] [vp [0 Marie] kuste]
that John Mary kissed
• Dependency condition:
• Head government:
John>VP
V> [0 Mary]
Jan> VP
V> [0 Mary]
We believe that Williams's general pattern ofanaphoric dependency can be reduced,
at least for the part relevant here, to properties inherent to the human parser. Parsing,
by its very nature, must proceed from left to right. In addition there is a growing
consensus that parsing is incremental: each new element encountered by the parser is
assigned an immediate analysis. As a consequence the parser will immediately look for
an antecedent whenever it is confronted with a dependent element. Since at that point
210 CHAPTER 6
only the left context of the dependent element is accessible, the antecedent must be
found there. In other words, the antecedent should precede the dependent. Obviously,
this reduction ofWilliams' condition does not explain the existence ofdependencies
that go forward and down. This case is not relevant to the linearization of subjects,
however, and therefore we will leave the additional hypotheses required to deal with
it to future research. For ease of exposition, we summarize the relevant part of
Williams's condition as below:
(64) Dependency condition
If the parser is confronted with a dependent category, it looks for an
antecedent in its left context
We will now argue that the dependency condition in (64) solves some long-
standing problems, involving nominative-dative inversion in Dutch, and locative
inversion and there insertion in English. It is usually assumed that in these
constructions an element other than the subject occupies the subject position. We will
show that indeed an antecedent for VP is present, but that antecedenthood in the sense
of (64) should not be equated to subjecthood. If another element than the subject
functions as VP's antecedent in the discourse, the position ofthe subject itself is not
fixed, and hence verb-subject order is allowed. An additional argument for the
flexibility of syntax thus results.
5.2 Nominative-Dative Inversion
Let us first consider nominative-dative inversion (cf. Den Besten 1989), aphenomenon
illustrated by the Dutch examples in (65).
(65) a. dat de boeken Jan bevallen
that the books John please
a'. dat Jan de boeken bevallen
that John the books please
b. dat de foto's Jan getoond worden
that the pictures John shown are
b'. dat Jan de foto's getoond worden
that John the pictures shown are
According to the standard analysis, the direct object can either remain in situ or be
overtly raised if the verb has no external argument. In (65a,b) the object would be
raised, while it would be in its base position in (65a',b'). As expected given this
analysis, nominative-dative inversion is notpossible in constructions thatdo notrequire
NP raising. Active subjects must always precede indirect objects, as the following
examples show:
(66) a. dat de meisjes Jan de foto's tonen
that the girls John the pictures show
HEAD MARKING
b. *dat Jan de meisjes de foto's tonen
that John the girls the pictures show
211
The optionality of NP raising is usually explained in terms of optional insertion of a
null expletive. Hoekstra (1984), for example, argues that a null expletive is inserted in
the subject position of examples like (65a',b'), and that the agreement between the
object and the verb is the result of chain formation:
(67) datpro; Jan [de boeken]; bevallen
that John the books please
Several arguments can be given against this type of analysis. First, there is no
evidence for the presence ofan empty expletive in (67). Obviously, empty expletives
are phonologically empty, but in this case the expletive also fails to have semantic
consequences. The definiteness effect that can be observed with overt expletives is
absent here - the associate ofthe expletive in (67) is definite, whereas this is impossible
if an overt expletive is inserted. Second, the expletive is syntactically invisible. It
cannot be used to satisfy the verb second constraint, for example. (68a) can only be
interpreted as a yes/no question. Again, overt expletives are different in this respect (cf.
68b).
(68) a. pro; bevallen Jan [de boeken];
please John the books
b. Er; loopt [een man]; op straat
there walks a man on street
If there is neither phonological, nor semantic, nor syntactic evidence for the expletive
in (67), it seems far-fetched to assume it. We would rather maintain that in overt syntax
there is no subject in (65a',b').
Another problem the standard analysis faces is that it sheds no light on the
correlation between nominative-dative inversion and OV order (cf. Weerrnan 1989).
Some cross-linguistic comparison makes clear that nominative-dative inversion is
typical of the Germanic OV languages (Dutch, Frisian, German and Old English). In
English, on the other hand, the subject must be raised overtly, as the example in (69)
shows. The same can be observed in VO languages like Danish, Norwegian, Swedish
and Icelandic.
(69) a.
b.
John is shown the pictures
#Is shown John the pictures
Obviously, a successful analysis of nominative-dative inversion should explain this
correlation. There is no reason, however, why an empty expletive could not be inserted
in (69b).
Let us therefore consider how nominative-dative inversion can be accounted for
if NP raising is a result of null operator movement - the main claim of the previous
212 CHAPTER 6
chapter. Recall that a-theory is located at LF in the model ofgrammar adopted here.
Consequently, therequirementthatinherentlypredicativecategories have a a-role need
notbesatisfiedbefore thatlevel ofrepresentation. This implies thatpredicate formation
maps the surface representation in (70a) onto the LF in (70b). The impression that NP
raising is an overt operation is only due to the subject occupying a base-generated
position.
(70) a. dat [de foto's] [Marie [0 0] getoond worden] -+
that the pictures Mary shown are
b. dat [de foto's] [OJ Marie [0 ~] getoond worden]
that the pictures Mary shown are
Two aspects ofthis derivation require further discussion. First, the null operator
need not bind a trace in (70a), since the condition that an operator binds a variable does
not hold before LF. It could only be relevant to overt syntax if stated at PF, which
seems implausible. Second, as remarked several timesbefore, the thematic organization
of raising constructions forces the presence ofa case shell in (70). At LF, the verb's
internal 9-role is assigned to the trace in object position, and, due to null operator
movement, a covalued a-role is assigned to the subject (cf. chapter 5). The trace must
therefore be accompanied by a case shell, while the subject has to agree with the verb.
Given that the requirements just discussed hold at LF, the well-formedness of
nominative-dative inversion can be understood as follows. In (71a), the subject-to-be
is generated in object position and a null operator is generated higher in the structure.
Since null operators need not bind a variable before LF, this is unproblematic. (71a) is
mapped to an LF representation identical to that in (70b), but the mapping procedure
is different. What happens is that the object moves out ofits case shell and adjoins to
VP:
(71) a. dat [0 Marie [0 de foto's] getoond worden] -+
that Mary the pictures shown are
b. dat [de foto's] [OJ Marie [0 ~] getoond worden]
that the pictures Mary shown are
If the null operator binds the trace left behind by the adjunction operation and
consequently heads the chain required to interpret VP as a predicate, the adjoined OP
can be construed as the subject. Thus, all LF requirements are satisfied.
According to this analysis the OP defoto 's in(7Ia) must both agree with the verb
and carry a case shell in overt syntax. It must agree with the verb because it is promoted
to subject at LF, and the thematic relation with the subject is licensed through head
marking. It must carry a case shell because the thematic relation with the trace it leaves
behind is interpreted trough dependent marking.
This 'double function' of the OP in object position has several consequences.
First, it explains why there is a correlation between nominative-dative inversion and
OV order. The hypothesis that defoto 's in (71a) carries a case shell implies that it must
precede the verb. The same ordermakes itpossible to satisfy the dependency condition
HEAD MARKING 213
in (64). Consider why. As said, the parser will look for an antecedent in its left context
whenever it encounters a dependent category. Crucially, the parser can only introduce
a VP node, the dependent category in question, when it encounters the verb. At that
point, defoto 's is available in the left context, and can hence be construed as a subject
by promoting it along the lines of (71b). In other words, the order imposed by the
direction of government and that imposed by the dependency condition are not
contradictory in an OV language like Dutch:
(72) dat [0 Marie [0 de foto's] getoond worden]
that Mary the pictures shown are
• Dependency condition: [0 de foto's] > V
• Head government: [0 de foto's] > V
The basic difference between Dutch and English is the direction of head
government. From this it follows that there can be no nominative-dative inversion in
English. In (73), which would be the English correlate of (72), the DP John must
follow the verb if its case shell is to satisfy the ECP. At the same time, however, the
parser must be able to fmd John in its left context when confronted with the verb. This
implies that John must precede the verb. Thus, contradictory ordering requirements
result:
(73) #0 is shown [0 John] the pictures
• Dependency condition: [0 John] > V
• Head government: V> [0 John]
In conclusion, this analysis extends the empirical coverage of the OVNO parameter,
as developed in chapter 2, by linking the availability ofnominative-dative inversion to
it. Given the basic nature of this parameter, such extensions are desirable.11
A second advantage ofthe proposed analysis is that it explains why nominative-
dative inversion is restricted to unaccusative and passive constructions (cf. 66). The
derivation in which an object is promoted to subject is not available in transitive
constructions, and hence the subject must be base-generated outside VP. It will
therefore always precede the internal arguments of the verb in an OV language like
Dutch.
Third, the analysis may account for the optionalityofnominative-dative inversion.
In the standard account this property is rather problematic: ifthe subject need not raise
until LF, why is overt raising allowed at all? It should be suppressed by economy. In
the analysis proposed here, however, neither the inverted structure nor the subject-
initial structure involve overtmovement. Optionality is a consequenceofthe hypothesis
that the LF subject can either be generated in object position (cf. 71) or VP-externally
(cf. 70). We believe that the two structures are also equally costly with respect to
11 At first sight, constructions of the type in (73) exist in pro-drop languages. How the option of
pro drop opens up this possibility is briefly discussed in footnote 12.
214 CHAPTER 6
shortest steps. Ofcourse, the movement that derives (71b) is longer than that in (70b).
However, it has been argued that shortest steps is not sensitive to the operation of
movement itself, but rather to the formation ofchains (cf. Poole 1996). Movement and
chain formation usually coincide, but in the case at hand the chain is always with the
null operator, whether it is moved or not. In other words, the claim that the two
structures are mapped onto identical LF representations implies an equal cost with
respect to shortest steps.
Note, finally, that in main clauses in Dutch the verb is moved to C. Hence, if an
element other that the subject is topicalized, the parser will encounter the verb before
it encounters the subject. Similarly, verb-subject inversion occurs in VSO languages.
At first sight one may think that the resulting order violates the dependency condition.
This is not the case, however. Ifthis order is derived by verb movement, the parser will
not construe the predicative category VP when it comes upon the verb, but when it
inserts the verb's trace. Consequently, the subject must be present in the parser's left
context at this point, which is the case in both verb second and VSO languages. The
same line ofargumentation applies to examples like Himself, John likes, where it is the
trace of the anaphor that counts for the dependency condition and other principles of
binding.
In conclusion, we have derived from the dependency condition and assumptions
motivated in chapters 2 and 5 that nominative-dative inversion is optional, that it is
restricted to OV languages and that in only occurs in unaccusative and passive
constructions.
5.3 Expletives
Although nominative-dative inversion does not exist in English, there are constructions
in which an unaccusative or passive subject surfaces in object position. Perhaps the best
known example ofthis are expletive constructions. In such constructions, an expletive
precedes an unaccusative verb, whereas the LF subject appears postverbally. If the
subject is raised overtly, expletive insertion is blocked. It is also blocked ifthe verb is
transitive:
(74) a.
b.
c.
d.
There arrived a famous linguist yesterday
*There a famous linguist arrived yesterday
*There laughed a famous linguist yesterday
*There a famous linguist laughed yesterday
The data seem to indicate that there is a unique subject postion, which is either filled
with a referential subject orwith an expletive. The complementary distribution between
referential subjects and expletives can, of course, be accounted for in this way.
However, in view ofthe phenomena discussed so far, such an analysis would be rather
stipulative. Fortunately, a more satisfactory analysis is available, namely one in which
the ungrammatical examples in (74) violate full interpretation.
The basic assumption about there made in Chomsky 1995 is that it is an LF affIx.
One way to interpret this would be to say that there is a D that lacks an NP
complement. If the derivation is to converge at LF, an NP must be attached to there,
HEAD MARKING 215
after which the DP thus derived functions as the LF subject. The derivation of (74a)
therefore is as in (75):
(75) a. [There] [0 arrived [0 a famous linguist] yesterday] .....
b. [There a famous linguist] [OJ arrived [0 ~] yesterday]
Once afamous linguist is moved across the null operator and attached to the expletive,
the null operator can bind its trace (as in nominative-dative inversion). When this
happens, the VP can be interpreted as a predicate that assigns a f)-role to the nominal
complex headed by there.
It can be argued that the structure in (75) satisfies both the ECP and the
dependency condition. It satisfies the ECP because a famous linguist appears to the
right ofthe verb. Consider now how the parser deals with the structure in (75a). Since
there is an expletive, it indicates to which position its associate will be moved at LF.
This implies that ifthe parser encounters there it may introduce a variable argument X,
whose value will be fixed once the parse proceeds and the associate is found.
Consequently, ifthe parser reaches the verb and constructs VP, it may take X, which
is available in the left context, to be VP's antecedent. In other words, the ordering
requirements imposed by the OVNO parameter and the dependency condition involve
different constituents in expletive constructions, so that no ordering paradox obtains:
(76) [There (X)] [arrived [0 a famous linguist] yesterday]
• Dependency condition: there> V
• Head government: V> [0 a famous linguist]
The ungrammaticality ofthe examples in (74b-d) follows straightforwardly from
the LF procedures we have assumed. For a start, (74c) violates full interpretation; since
the verb laugh does not assign an internal f)-role. Hence, afamous linguist, or its trace,
cannot be interpreted correctly. (74b) and (74d) also violate full interpretation. In these
examples, the expletive is combined with an external subject, resulting, after raising of
the subject to the expletive, in the structure in (77).
(77) [There a famous linguist] t [vp ... ]
This structure is excluded because predicates, and therefore VP, can take only a single
subject (cf. chapter 5). This means that either the trace or the nominal complex cannot
be interpreted. It follows from claims made earlier, then, that there insertion is
restricted to those contexts in which VP can assign a f)-role to the nominal complex
headed by the expletive.
To conclude, there insertion in English supports two aspects ofour analysis. The
fact that it is restricted to unaccusative constructions follows from the assumption that
subjects must be assigned a f)-role at LF. The fact that the internal argument must
216 CHAPTER 6
follow the verb is a consequence of the head government restriction on empty
categories.12,13
5.4 Locative Inversion
English has a second construction in which an unaccusative or passive subject surfaces
in object position, namely locative inversion. The regular cases ofNP raising in (7Sa)
and (7Sb) exists alongside the locative inversion structure in (7Sc).
(7S) a.
b.
c.
Some valuable books have been thrown into the fire
Into the fire some valuable books have been thrown
Into the fire have been thrown some vahiable books
Just like in the case ofnominative-dative inversion, the optionality oflocative inversion
follows from the analysis ofNP raising proposed in chapter 5. In (7Sb), the subject is
generated outside VP while the null operator occupies the object position in overt
syntax (cf. 79a). The proper LF is derived by movement ofthe null operator to spec-VP
(cf.79b).
(79) a. Into the fire [some valuable books] [have been thrown [00]] -+
b. Into the fire [some valuable books] [OJ have been thrown [0 tJ]
In (78c), the subject-to-be is generated in object position while the null operator is
directly inserted in spec-VP. An LF representation identical to that in (79b) is derived
by adjunction ofthe object to VP, after which the null operator binds the trace:
(SO) a. Into the fire [0 have been thrown [0 some valuable books]]-+
b. Into the fire [some valuable books] [OJ have been thrown [0 tj]]
The derivations in (79) and (SO) are equally costly, because they lead to LF chains of
identical length. Economy therefore does not force a choice between them, as it did not
force a choice in the case of nominative-dative inversion.
12 Ifexpletives are empty categories in pro-drop languages, this may account for the observation
that the thematic subject can appear in postverbal position even ifno surface subject in the sense
of the specifier rule seems to be present (cf. Barbosa 1996 on the general availability of pro).
Another account for this fact can be given ifstrong inflection is argumental in nature. Leftward
verb movement then creates a configuration in which VP can take I as its antecedent, thus
satisfying the dependency condition. For a further analysis ofexpletive constructions along the
lines sketched here, see Koeneman & Neeleman 1998.
13 It is sometimes argued that it in examples like It seems to be impossible to leave this party is
an expletive as weI\. If so, it could be analyzed along the lines of this section. We believe,
however, that an analysis along the lines of Bennis 1986 is more plausible. Bennis argues that
it is always a full-fledged argument, and that the clause that appears to be a complement in the
construction at hand is really an adjunct semantically related to the subject pronoun. Further
motivation for an analysis along these lines can be found in Wiltschko 1995.
HEAD MARKING 217
Although locative-inversion is optional, it is dependent on the fronting of a
locative phrase. Alongside (78c), (81) is ungrammatical.
(81) #Have been thrown some valuable books into the fire
This follows from the dependency condition in (64): when VP is constructed the parser
does not find an antecedent for it in the left context. Put differently, contradictory
ordering demands hold ofsome valuable books. It must both precede and follow the
verb:
(82) #Have been thrown [0 some valuable books] into the fire
• Dependency condition: [0 some valuable books] > V
• Head government: V > [0 some valuable books]
If this line of argumentation is correct, how can the grammaticality of (80a) be
understood? The obvious answer is that the fronted locative phrase allows satisfaction
of the dependency condition. We will argue that it does so in a way similar to
expletives.
As argued by Hoekstra & Mulder (1990) and others, the fronted element in
locative inversion is a predicate that takes the postverbal DP as its subject. At first
sight, this raises the question how this predicate satisfies the dependency condition,
since its subject occurs to its left. However, the predicational relation is not with the
surface position ofthe predicate but with its trace. At the moment the parser inserts this
trace, it does find an antecedent for it in the left context. The same procedure is invoked
in other constructions in which a dependent category is fronted.
Once the parser encounters into the fire and analyzes it as a fronted predicate, it
knows that a subject is still to follow. So, just like an expletive, a fronted predicate
provides the parser with information about material not yet parsed. We may
hypothesize, then, thatthis information allows satisfactionofthe dependency condition.
Ifthe parser constructs VP after it hits the verb, it has to look for an antecedent in the
left context. More specifically, it must conjecture a E)-role on VP which must be linked
to material already parsed. In the case at hand, this can be achieved by assuming that
the E)-role of the fronted locative is identical to that ofVP. Thus, the locative phrase
does not provide a referential antecedent for VP, but it does make it possible for VP to
be parasitic on.
Of course, the assumption that the E)-roles of the fronted predicate and VP are
identical must be compatible with the information gathered as the parse proceeds. Our
proposal is that this compatibility requirement is met ifthe restriction ofthe E)-role of
the locative predicate is at least part of the restriction of the E)-role of VP. In other
words, additional assumptions about VP may be made, but the original assumption
cannot be removed.
In the case at hand, it has been argued that into thefire and the verb are construed
as a complex predicate throw into thefire (see Chomsky 1955, Neeleman & Weerman
1993 amongst many others). It is part of the process of complex predicate formation
that the internal E)-role of the verb and the E)-role of the non-verbal predicate are
218 CHAPTER 6
combined into a single internal 9-role (cf. Neeleman 1994). As argued in chapter 5,
this 9-role is promoted to the VP level in passive and unaccusative constructions. As
a result, the 9-role ofVP in (80a) indeed contains the restriction ofthe a-role of the
locative predicate.
In constructions oflocative inversion, then, the locative phrase is used to satisfy
the dependency condition, whereas the internal argument follows the verb because of
the direction of head government in English. No contradictory ordering restrictions
hold:
(83) [Into the flre] [have been thrown [0 some valuable books]]
• Dependency condition: Into the flre > V
• Head government: V > [0 some valuable books]
Three predictions follow from this account oflocative inversion. First, it is crucial
that the fronted phrase and the verb form a complex predicate. Only in that case is the
continuation ofthe parse compatible with the original assumption that the 9-role ofVP
and the locative are identical, since only in complex predicates do we fmd uniflcation
of9-roles. This implies that fronted predicates which do not form a complex predicate
with the verb cannot be used to satisfy the dependency condition. The restriction of
such predicates is never transferred to VP. This prediction is correct. Depictives are
clearly different from resultative and locative phrases and consequently it is not likely
that they are part of a complex predicate. As expected they do not license locative
inversion:
(84) a.
b.
Drunk as usual John left
#Drunk as usual left John
The second prediction is that locative inversion is not possible with verbs that
have an external 9-role. Thus, the transitive construction in (85) does not allow
inversion ofthe subject even if the locative phrase is fronted.
(85) #Into the flre threw some valuable books John
This structure can only satisfy the dependency condition if it is hypothesized that the
a-role of into thefire is identical to that of VP. However, this is not compatible with
the continuation ofthe parse. Although the locative forms a complex predicate with the
verb, it has been observed that complex predicate formation may affect the verb's
internal 9-role but not its external one. The relevant non-verbal predicates are object-
oriented (cf. Simpson 1983, Hoekstra 1988 and Neeleman 1994). Consequently, the
restriction ofthe locative's 9-role will not be part ofthe restriction ofthe 9-role ofVP.
Thus, information concerning the VP-node must be removed, which is not allowed.
Hence, the only felicitous linearization of(85) is that in (86), where John satisfles the
dependency condition and some valuable books follows the verb.
HEAD MARKING 219
(86) [Into the fire] John threw [0 some valuable books]
• Dependency condition: John> V
• Head government: V> [0 some valuable books]
The third prediction concerns the status ofthe fronted predicate. It is sometimes
assumed that in locative inversion structures the fronted predicate occupies a structural
subjectposition (cf. Bresnan & Kanerva 1989 andHoekstra & Mulder 1990). Although
we believe that the idea behind these proposals is correct in that the locative satisfies
the dependency condition, its implementation seems problematic. There are good
reasons to assume that the locative is a topicalized phrase rather than a syntactic
subject, a point made earlier by Coopmans 1989. For a start, it is not assigned a 9-role
by VP, which is a derming property ofsubjects. Moreover, it has at least one distinctive
property oftopicalized elements. As opposed to NP raising, topicalization turns clauses
into islands (cf. 87a,b). Fronting in locative inversion structures has the same effect, as
pointed out to us by Jane Grimshaw (cf. 87a',b').
(87) a. *[Which book]; did you say that to young children one should never give 1;
a'. *[Which book]; did you say that on that table has been put 1;
b. *[To whom]; did you tell Mary that in this room several important case were
assigned t;
b'. *[To whom]; did you tell Mary that in this room were assigned t; several
important cases
Thus, the fronted predicate behaves like a subject in that it satisfies the dependency
restriction, but from a syntactic point of view it is best analyzed as a topic. Indeed, it
has been observed by Bresnan (1994) that phrases licensing locative inversion share
properties withboth subjects and topics. This apparently ambiguous behavior is exactly
what follows from the proposed analysis.
In conclusion, the analyses of nominative-dative inversion and expletive
constructions proposed in the previous sections predict that LF subjects may follow the
verb when some other element satisfies the dependency condition. In the case of
locative inversion this element is a fronted predicate. We can derive from this basic
assumption why locative inversion is optional, why the fronted phrase must be part of
a complex predicate, why the verb must be unaccusative or passive and why the
locative shares properties with both subjects and topics. If correct, the analysis
proposed shows that the syntax is flexible in that it does not impose a particular order
on the subject and VP.
6. CONCLUDING REMARKS
In the previous sections, we have shown that head marking can in principle be used to
license arguments both within and external to VP. Let us now consider in some more
detail what typological predictions this proposal makes, in particular in conjunction
with two conditions that govern the interaction ofhead and dependent marking. First,
as we argued in section 3.2, it follows from the notion ofhead in morphology that only
220 CHAPTER 6
the outermost affIx of a word can guide thematic interpretation. Second, as stated in
(44), no thematic relation can be marked more than once.
It can now be derived under which circumstances objects and subjects are
licensed. The left-most columns in the tables in (88) and (89) indicate whether the
subject and object bear case or not. The top lines show how many agreement markers
are present, how they are ordered and with which argument they are related. The cells
spell out which combinations ofcase and agreement are allowed.
(88) Subject licensing relations
V-Agr~ V-Agr()-Agr~ V(-Agr() V-Agr~-Agr()
Subject .I (b) .I (cj * _La) * 141
Subj+case * (f) * (g) .I (e) .I (h)
(89) Object licensing relations
V{-Agrsl V-Agr" V-Agr()-Agr~ V-Agr~-Agr()
Object * (a) ./ (b) * (c) .I (d)
Obj+case ./ (e) * (f) .I (g) * (h)
Since most relevant constructions have been discussed either here or in previous
chapters, we will only briefly go into the predictions summed up in (88) and (89).
(88b,c) are instantiated by the regular nominative. (88a,d) are ruled out since the
subject cannot be interpreted through either head marking or dependent marking.
(88e,h) are instantiated by a number of constructions cross-linguistically: quirky
subjects in languages with morphological case, subjects in languages that lack head
marking (such as Arabic and Japanese) and transitive subjects in absolutive-ergative
languages. As we have seen, the availability of a governor determines whether or not
the case ofthe subject must be morphologically realized. (88f,g), fInally, are ruled out
since it is impossible to identify a subject through both case and agreement.
The typology ofobject licensing given in (89) also seems to be on the right track.
(89b,d) correctly characterize the absolutive in ergative languages. (89f,h) are
ungrammatical since dual licensing cannot exist. (89a,e) show that in the absence of
object agreement a case shell must be projected on top of the object. The prediction
made by (89c,g) is that the object must also be accompanied by a case shell if both
object and subject agreement are present in a nominative-accusative languages. This
appears to be true, although it should be borne in mind that case on objects can be left
unspecifIed, since objects are contained in the verb's government domain.
As will be apparent from the above typology, the system of head marking is
flexible in several respects. For a start, languages may fail to have head-marking
affIxes. In VSO languages, for instance, verbal inflection does not playa role in
argument licensing. Moreover, head marking is not restricted to a particular
HEAD MARKING 221
configuration. In absolutive-ergative languages, the argument licensed through head
marking can either be a subject or an object, depending on the valency of the verb.
Even in nominative-accusative languages, it would be wrong to speak of a fIXed
position for arguments licensed by head marking. It follows from properties of the
human parser that VP must fmd an antecedent in its left context. Usually this extra-
syntactic condition will be satisfied by the subject. But if another element can do so,
the position ofthe subject is left free. This explains the existence ofnominative-dative
inversion in OV languages. In addition, it explains why the LF subject can sometimes
appear postverbally in VO languages.
There are several parallels, then, between head marking and dependent markings.
Both contribute functional information used to guide thematic interpretation. Both are
linearizedby extra-syntactic principles thatmustbe adopted independently. Whenthese
principles are satisfied vacuously, the basic flexibility ofboth licensing systems can be
observed in overt syntax.
Alongside these parallels, various differences exist. First, the functional
information expressedby head and dependentmarkers is different in nature. Given that
the former are attached to the predicate, they will refer to properties of the argument
ifrich enough. Given that the latter are attached to arguments, they will, ifrich enough,
refer to properties ofthe predicate. Second, the linearization principles governing head
and dependent marking are different, which implies, amongst other things, that objects
and subjects in nominative-accusative languages need not appear on the same side of
the verb. Finally, the circumstances under which head and dependent marking are
realized morphologically differ. If a language has bare DPs for arguments, a head
marking affix must be present. Case, on the other hand, can be covert if contained in
the government domain ofthe verb.
A consequence ofour analysis is that there is no fIXed syntactic subject position.
As we have seen, head marking is not restricted to one configuration and therefore it
cannot be the factor defming such a position. The syntactic structure cannot provide a
defming factor either: neither NP raising, as discussed in chapter 5, nor expletives, as
discussed above, give motivation for a syntactic subject position. What are usually
considered to be EPP effects are actually the result of the dependency condition.
Instead, the crucial factor is the theory ofpredication. At the LF interface, all subjects
are external arguments ofVP.
CHAPTER 7
EPILOGUE
1. INTRODUCTION
In this final chapter, we will evaluate the main claims of this study. We will do so by
comparing our proposals with the minimalist ideals put forward in Chomsky 1995. At
the heart of the minimalist program lies the attempt to reduce the number of syntactic
notions as much as possible. In particular, it is argued that many presumably syntactic
restrictions should actually be derived from independent properties of the LF and PF
interfaces. Several routes towards this goal can be conceived of, and it is important to
realize that there is no necessary logical connection between Chomsky's particular
proposals and the goal of reduction.
Although minimalism has perhaps emphasized it more than other theories,
reduction of notions is not an exclusively minimalist goal. It is the goal of linguistic
inquiry in general, and it consequently also underlies the theory developed in this study.
In fact, in several respects a deeper similarity between minimalism and our theory
exists. We, too, assume that only PF and LF are genuine levels ofrepresentation. One
consequence of this is that in both theories thematic interpretation takes place at LF,
and hence that there is no room for syntactic conditions on arguments. Another
important consequence is that word order phenomena and parametrization cannot be
a matter of the syntax. They must instead be accounted for at the PF interface and by
other extra-syntactic modules. The differences between the two theories, then, does not
originate in the organization of the model, but rather in the flexibility of grammatical
relations. In section 3 we will compare standard minimalist analyses with the ones
proposed in this book.
There are two circumstances that complicate comparison oftheories: they do not
always have the same empirical coverage and they are not always equally falsifiable.
It is very easy, for example, to construct a simpler theory that is unfalsifiable or that
covers only a few facts. However, replacing the old theory with a theory of this type
does not constitute progress. A successful reduction requires that the same or a greater
amount of facts are accounted for and that the basic claims of the new theory are at
least equally falsifiable. This last issue will be discussed in the next section.
2. FALSIFIABILITY
One of the most salient difference between standard minimalism and the theory
proposed in this study concerns the flexibility of syntax. Our argumentation that
grammatical relations are flexible (in a sense summarized in section 3) is at odds with
the popular claim that there is a unique structural instantiation for each grammatical
function. For some linguists, a rigid syntax seems to be the null hypothesis, and hence
they see the step towards flexibility as one that should be taken only ifconfronted with
strong evidence. A rigid syntax is more restrictive than a flexible one, so the argument
goes, since it allows only one output structure instead of two or more.
223
224 CHAPTER 7
We believe that this argument is mistaken. In a modular grammar there is no a
priori reason to reject either a rigid or a flexible syntax. The decision between the two
approaches is a purely empirical matter. Consider, for example, a language that
contains the structures in (1). The element X in (1) entertains a grammatical relation
with the head Y. At the surface, it can be found in domains A, B, C and D.
(1) a.
b.
c.
d.
[0" [c" [0" [A" X .. Y ..]]]]
[0" [C .. [0" X .. [A .. Y ..]]]]
[0" [C .. X .. [0 .. [A" Y ..]]]]
[0" X .. [C .. [0" [A .. Y ..]]]]
Several grammars generate the structures in (1). In a rigid syntax the grammar in
(2) would be the one that comes to mind. This grammar states that the relation between
X and Y can only be established in the smallest domain, A, and that the appearance of
X in larger domains must be the result of movement.
(2) a. Defmed is an ordered set of domains <A, B, C, D>, such that each is
contained in the domains that follow it and such that the smallest, A,
contains the head of the construction, Y.
b. The domain for X-Y relationships is A
c. X can be moved from domain A to any larger domain
However, the grammar in (2) should be compared to that in (3). This grammar
allows the relation between X and Y to be established in a larger domain, namely B,
and only assumes movement in case X is found in domains C or D. It is easy to see that
the grammars in (2) and (3) both derive the structures in (1).
(3) a. Defined is an ordered set of domains <A, B, C, D>, such that each is
contained in the domains that follow it and such that the smallest, A,
contains the head of the construction, Y.
b. The domain for X-Y relationships is B
c. X can be moved from domain B to any larger domain
The two grammars are also comparable from a conceptual point of view, in that they
contain an equal numberofassumptions, which are equally complicated. Consequently,
there is no a priori reason to prefer the grammar in (2) over the one in (3).
The decision between a flexible and a rigid grammar must therefore be made on
the basis of empirical considerations, and as we have argued in the previous chapters
these seem to support flexibility. In general, then, it is wrong to compare only parts of
different grammars. Given the complexity of the data, a rigid syntax requires more
movements than a flexible one and may therefore require a qualitative extension of
movement theory. One simply cannot compare assumptions about clausal architecture
without comparing assumptions about movement.
Although no a priori decision can be made between rigidity and flexibility, there
are certain classes ofgrammars that are conceptually less attractive. Consider as a first
EPILOGUE 225
example the grammar in (4). The difference with the earlier grammars is that X and Y
now start out in a domain ex, which is smaller than any of the domains these elements
surface in. X and Yare then obligatorily moved into domain A, after which X may
optionally move into domains B, C and D.
(4) a. Defined is an ordered set of domains <ex, A, B, C, D>, such that each is
contained in the domains that follow it and such that the head of the
construction, Y, is generated in the smallest domain, ex.
b. The domain for X-Y relationships is ex.
c. X and Yare obligatorily moved into domain A.
d. X can optionally be moved from domain A to any larger domain.
According to this grammar, the surface structure in (Ia) has to be represented as in (5).
From an empirical point of view (4) is equivalent to (2) and (3), but there is a
conceptual reason to prefer the latter: whereas (2) and (3) use three statements to derive
the structures in (1), (4) uses four, which in addition seem to be more complex. The
essential problem with the grammar in (4) is that the effects of one of its statements,
namely (4b) are completely coveredup by another statement, namely (4c) (unless other
elements than X and Yare generated in ex, a possibility we will ignore here).
The grammar in (6) suffers from a similar conceptual flaw. This grammar differs
from the earlier ones in that an additional domain is assumed, which contains the
largest domain so far and to which no movement is possible.
(6) a. Defined is an ordered set of domains <A, B, C, D, B>, such that each is
contained in the domains that follow it and such that the head of the
construction, Y, is generated in the smallest domain, A.
b. The domain for X-Y relationships is A.
c. X can optionally be moved from domain A to domains B, C and D.
d. Movement to domain Bis impossible.
According to this grammar, the surface structure in (Ia) has to be represented as in (7).
(7) [0" [0" [c .. [8 .. [A" X .. Y ..]]]]]
Again the grammar in (6) is empirically equivalent to the other grammars, but like
the grammar in (4) it is conceptually unattractive: an extra domain is assumed, whose
effects are covered up by the condition that no movement to it is possible (assuming
that no elements are base-generated in B). Hence, the grammar is unnecessarily
complicated.
The main reason for rejecting (4) and (6), however, lies in the fact that they are
partly unfalsifiable. They both contain statements that have no empirical effects, due
226 CHAPTER 7
to the presence of other statements. Hence, it is impossible to invent tests that will
confirm or disconfrrm crucial parts ofthese grammars.
We believe that the rigidity ofstandard minimalist theories also leads to reduced
falsifiability, as in the grammars just discussed. Standard minimalist theories are
characterized by a strict separation of case-theoretical and thematic structures.
Thematic relations are established in the lexical part ofthe tree, whereas case relations
are checked in functional projections. Both types ofrelations have to meet very rigid
structural conditions. Each type of case is checked in the appropriate functional
projection; internal thematic relations are established under sisterhood, while subjects
are uniformly generated in lexical specifier positions.
A consequence ofthis view is that OV languages have an uninhabited basement:
all arguments, as well as the verb, are moved out ofVP (see for example Zwart 1993).
Since all thematic relations now hold exclusively between traces, it is hard, if not
impossible, to test claims about 9-theory in Dutch. In the same vein, VO languages
have an uninhabited attic: neither the internal arguments nor the verb move to a
checking position in overt syntax. Hence, claims about case theory cannot be tested in
English. In this sense, standard minimalist analyses of Dutch and English are like the
grammars in (4) and (6) respectively.
In the theory developed in this study there is no dissociation ofcase and thematic
structure. Consequently, every language is relevant to every component of the
grammar. We have actually shown that English provides crucial clues about the case
system, while fundamental properties of 9-theory are revealed in Dutch.
3. FLEXIBILITY
The minimalist program assumes that syntax is rigid in two respects. First, there is a
unique hierarchical position for specifiers, adjuncts and complements. In addition, there
is a unique linearization of these elements, in line with Kayne (1994).
We have adopted the opposite position and argued that neither type of rigidity
holds, at least not absolutely. There are, of course, hierarchical restrictions on the
placement of objects and subjects, but these are much less strict than assumed in the
minimalist program. The relevant restrictions should in our view be accounted for at
LF. In order to be interpreted as an argument, a DP must be in the m-command domain
of a predicative category. Hence, objects can appear in various positions within VP,
whereas subjects can eitherbe adjoined to VP or occupy a suitable position within VP's
extended projection. It follows from this that (at LF) subjects c-command objects. Such
a universal command relation does not hold between objects. Their order is determined
by the thematic hierarchy and may vary in the presence of sufficient functional
information. In addition, the flexibility ofthematic interpretation has the consequence
that objects can be generated in positions not adjacent to the verb, and thus it gives rise
to scrambling.
Linear restrictions, we have argued, should be accounted for by extra-syntactic
modules, amongst which PF. For one thing, objects with an empty case shell must
appear in the head-government domain of the verb. The defmition of this domain
depends on a parameter determining the direction ofgovernment. Ifthe verb governs
to the right the government domain is the phonological phrase; ifit governs to the left
EPILOGUE 227
the syntactic phrase is relevant. Consequently, the word order freedom allowed by 9-
theory can be observed in OV languages but not, or less easily, in va languages. We
have shown that a number of cross-linguistic regularities can be explained in these
terms.
The order of the subject with respect to the predicate is determined by an
independently established principle ofparsing, the dependency condition. Since there
is no fixed subject position, it is possible to generate the subject elsewhere in the
structure as long as the dependency condition is satisfied by some other element. We
have argued that this explains the possibility of inversion in the absence of verb
movement, as well as the relation between nominative-dative inversion and OV order.
So, a flexible syntax allow us to derive a variety of facts from a minimal set of
assumptions. In addition, flexibility solves a problem that has manifested itself in
variousplaces in standard minimalist analyses. Since every elementhas a fixed position
in such analyses, optionality must be explained by optional movements. But optional
movement runs counter to the central role economy plays in the program. The solution
flexibility offers is that coexisting structures are base-generated and that consequently
economy considerations do not come into play. We have argued that the optionality of
scrambling, several instances of extraposition, nominative-dative inversion and many
other phenomena can thus be accounted for.
Another, related, difference between the theory proposed here and standard
minimalist analyses has to do with the effects ofmorphology. In earlier versions ofthe
minimalist program, there was the hope that parametric differences could be reduced
to morphological differences detectable at PF. The claim was that if features are
encoded by an overt affix (and hence 'strong'), they have to be deleted before the
derivation reaches PF. Checking of other ('weak') features could be postponed until
LF. The attempt to make this work failed. Ifsurface word order is derived from a fixed
underlying va structure by movement, one would predict that all OV languages have
overt case, while such case is typically absent in va languages. This, however, is
clearly incorrect. As a consequence, the distinction between strong and weak features
no longerhas independentsupport and is, inmany instances, no more than a descriptive
mechanism.
Apparently, it is not possible to reduce differences in basic word order to
morphology. This is not to say that parameters have to be reintroduced into the
computational system. As we have argued, word order parametrization has to be
accounted for at PF, though not in terms ofthe strong-weak distinction. This is also not
to say that the presence or absence of morphological markers does have syntactic
effects. If a case shell is filled, the ECP is satisfied vacuously, and from this several
syntactic effects can be made to follow. These true effects of morphological case
cannot be accounted for if morphology is responsible for movement or absence of
movement to functional projections.
Our proposals also differ from standard minimalism with respect to the
interpretability offeatures. We have claimed that case and agreement are interpretable
features in that they crucially guide thematic interpretation. In standard minimalism,
on the other hand, case and agreement are purely formal features, which have no
relevance to either the PF or the LF interface. This begs the question why case and
228 CHAPTER 7
agreement exist in the fIrst place. No independent principle seems to preclude the
insertion ofan argument that does not bear case features. The case fIlter, then, turns out
to be an irreducible stipulation about the computational system, and it is obviously a
deviation from minimalist ideals to introduce notions whose only relevance lies there.
In addition, certain types ofcase unmistakenly evoke a specifIc interpretation at
LF, and these are therefore classifIed as interpretable by Chomsky (1995) - partitive
and inherent case are examples. It seems to us that all case and agreement markers
guide thematic interpretation, but that partitive and inherent cases contain more
information than the unmarked accusative. No stipulations about the uninterpretability
of case need to be made.
Case and agreement are unifIed in that they play a comparable role at the
interfaces. Nevertheless, unifIcation should not be as absolute as in standard
minimalism. The cross-linguistic distribution ofcase and agreement is notcoincidental,
and in order to understand why certain arguments are licensed by case and others by
agreement, it is crucial to recognize that agreement markers are attached to the
predicate while case markers are attached to arguments. This basic contrast cannot be
made, however, ifboth case and agreement are reflexes ofspecifIer-head agreement in
agreement projections.
One notion that plays a role in the explanation ofasymmetries between case and
agreement is head government. Chomsky expels this notion from the minimalist
program, replacing it by checking theory. The reduction ofmachinery that is achieved
by doing so is not lost in our proposal, since we have defIned government as the
completely uncontroversial relation holding between a head and its complement in the
head's maximal domain. Obviously, the head-complement relation must in some form
or other be part of every theory. We could, of course, do away with government
altogether by saying that empty categories must be checked at PF. If the checking
domain is defIned in terms of specifIer-head agreement, the empirical problems
mentioned in the previous paragraph return. If it is defIned in terms of PF
complementation (as argued in chapter 2), the discussion reduces to one of
terminology.
Our proposals about case and agreement tie in with Chomsky's recent suggestion
that agreement projections do not exist. Although we have argued that agreement is
interpretable, no functional projection needs to be generated in order for it to be
checked. In this sense, we are closer to a theory that makes use ofbare essentials only.
At one point, however, a functional projection was assumed that is absent in standard
minimalist theories, namely the case shell generated on top ofDP.
On closer inspection, however, one may wonder whether it is necessary to adopt
a functional shell for case. As argued in chapter 3, the emptiness ofthe case shell is in
fact a metaphor. The real issue is that the case shell contains features which either must
be specifIed by morphological material in the DP or will be subject to the ECP. Ifthis
is so, we may as well say that the abstract features are present on DP, and that these
may be specifIed by case affixes. We have claimed that the case head in (8a) counts as
empty, due to the presence ofunspecified features. For the same reason, it may be the
DP in (8b) that must be governed.
(8) a. CaseP
~
Case DP
<ex NOP>
<13 MAR>
b. DP
<ex NOP>
<13 MAR>
EPILOGUE 229
This proposal and the one that employs a case shell have largely identical
empirical consequences. One possible difficulty is that case features must be stranded
by movement in order for interpretation to be successful. This can easily be arranged
if a case shell is present. The DP in (8a) can be moved independently of the case
projection. If (8b) is assumed, a procedure must be assumed by which features are
transferredonto the trace. We will leave this issue for future research. (They bow and
exeunt.)
REFERENCES
Ackema, Peter: 1999, Issues in Morphosyntax, John Benjamins, Amsterdam.
Ackema, Peter and Ad Neeleman: 1998, 'Optimal Questions', Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory 16, 443-490.
Ackema, Peter and Ad Neeleman: 1999, 'Competition between Syntax and
Morphology', manuscript, University of GroningenlUCL. To appear in J.
Grimshaw, G. Legendre en S. Vikner (eds.) Optimality Theoretic Syntax, MIT
Press, Cambridge.
Ackema, Peter, Ad Neeleman and Fred Weerman: 1993, 'Deriving Functional
Projections', in A. Schafer (ed.) Proceedings of NELS 23, Volume I: Clause
Structure, GSLA, Amherst, pp. 17-31.
Adger, David: 1997, 'VSO Clause Structure and the Morphological Elimination of
Strong Categorial Features', manuscript, University of York.
Adger, David and Josep Quer: 1997, 'Subjunctives, Unselected Embedded Questions,
and Clausal Polarity Items', in K. Kusomoto (ed.) Proceedings ofNELS 27, pp.
1-15.
Anderson, Stephen: 1976, 'On the Notion ofSubject in Ergative Languages', in C.N.
Li (ed.) Subject and Topic, Academic Press, New York.
Aoun, Joseph, Norbert Hornstein, David Lightfoot and Amy Weinberg: 1987, 'Two
Types of Locality', Linguistic Inquiry 18,537-577.
Aronoff, Mark: 1976, Word Formation in Generative Grammar, MIT Press,
Cambridge.
Baker, Mark: 1988, Incorporation; A Theory of Grammatical Function Changing,
University of Chicago Press, Chicago.
Barbiers, Sjef: 1995, The Syntax ofInterpretation, Ph.D. dissertation, HILlUniversity
of Leiden.
Barbosa, Pilar: 1996, 'A New Look at the Null Subject Parameter', in 1. Ccista, R.
Goedemans and R. van de Vijver (eds.) Proceedings of ConSole 4, Holland
Academic Graphics, The Hague.
Barss, Andrew and Howard Lasnik: 1986, 'A Note on Anaphora in Double Object
Constructions', Linguistic Inquiry 17, 347-354.
Bayer, Josef and JakIin Kornfilt: 1994, 'Against Scrambling as an Instance of Move-
Alpha', in N. Corver and H. van Riemsdijk (eds.) Studies on Scrambling;
Movement and Non-Movement Approaches to Free Word-Order Phenomena,
Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin, pp. 17-60.
Belleti, Adriana: 1990, Generalized Verb Movement; Aspects of Verb Syntax,
Rosenberg and SeHier, Torino.
Benmamoun, Elabbas: 1996, 'Agreement Asymmetries and the PF Interface', SOAS
Working Papers in Linguistics 6, 106-128.
Bennis, Hans: 1986, Gaps and Dummies, Foris, Dordrecht.
Bhatt, Christa: 1990,Diesyntaktische Struktur der Nomina/phrase im Deutschen, Narr,
Tiibingen.
Bittner, Maria: 1991, 'Basic Case Systems', manuscript, Rutgers University.
231
232 REFERENCES
Bittner, Maria and Ken Hale: 1996a, 'The Structural Detennination of Case and
Agreement', Linguistic Inquiry 27, 1-68.
Bittner, Maria and Ken Hale: 1996b, 'Ergativity; Towards a Theory of a
Heterogeneous Class', Linguistic Inquiry 27,531-604.
Blake, Barry: 1994, Case, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.
Slom, Alied and Saskia Daalder: 1977, Syntaktische theorie en taalbeschrijving,
Muiderberg.
Bloom, Lois: 1970, Language Development: Form and Function in Emerging
Grammars, MIT Press, Cambridge.
Bobaljik, Jonathan: 1993, 'On Ergativity and Ergative Unergatives', in C.Phillips (ed.)
Papers on Case andAgreementII; MIT Working Papers in Linguistics 22, 45-88.
Bok-Bennema, Reineke: 1991, Case and Agreement in Inuit, Ph.D. dissertation,
University of Tilburg.
Bouchard, Denis: 1996, 'Sign Languages and Language Universals: The Status of
Order and Position in Grammar', Sign Language Studies 91, 101-160.
Bouchard, Denis: 1998a, 'The Distribution and Interpretation ofAdjectives in French:
A Consequence ofBare Phrase Structure', Probus 10, 139-183.
Bouchard, Denis: 1998b, 'Fixed Positions, Functional Markers and the Concept of
"Universal''', paper presented at the Workshop on the Effects ofMorphological
Case, Utrecht University.
Bresnan, Joan (ed.): 1982, The Mental Representation ofGrammatical Relations, MIT
Press, Cambridge Mass.
Bresnan, Joan: 1994, 'Locative Inversion and Universal Grammar', Language 70, 72-
131.
Bresnan, Joan and Jonni M. Kanerva: 1989, 'Locative Inversion in Chichewa',
Linguistic Inquiry 20, 1-50.
Brody, Michael: 1993, oS-Theory and Arguments', Linguistic Inquiry 24,1-23.
Broekman, Henny: 1995, 'Verb Clusters in Germanic; The Non-Existence ofthe Third
Construction', in T. Shanon and J. Snapper (eds.) The Berkeley Conference on
Dutch Linguistics /993; Dutch Linguistics in a Changing Europe, University
Press of America, Lanham, pp. 117-130.
Browning, Marguerite: 1987, Null Operator Constructions, Ph.D. dissertation, MIT.
Burridge, Kate: 1993, Syntactic Change in Germanic; Aspects ofLanguage Change in
Germanic; with Particular Reference to Middle Dutch, John Benjamins,
AmsterdamlPhiladelphia.
Burton, Strang and Jane Grimshaw: 1992, 'Coordination and VP-Intemal Subjects',
Linguistic Inquiry 23,305-313.
Campana, Mark: 1992, A Movement Theory ofErgativity, Ph.D. dissertation, McGill
University, Montreal.
Carrier, Jill and Janet Randall: 1992 'The Argument Structure and Syntactic Structure
of Resultatives', Linguistic Inquiry, 23, 173-234.
Chierchia, Gennaro: 1995, 'Individual-Level Predicates as Inherent Generics', in G.
Carlson and F. Pelleties (eds.) The Generic Book, University of Chicago Press,
Chicago, pp. 176-233.
REFERENCES 233
Chomsky, Noam: 1955, The LogicalStructure ofLinguistic Theory, manuscript, MIT.
Published by Plenum Press, New York, 1975.
Chomsky, Noam: 1968, Language and Mind, Harcourt, Brace and World, New York,
etc.
Chomsky, Noam: 1970, 'Remarks onNominalization', inR. Jacobs and P. Rosenbaum
(eds.) Readings in English Transformational Grammar, Ginn, Waltham.
Chomsky, Noam: 1977, 'On WH-Movement', in P. Culicover, T. Wasow and A.
Akmajian (eds.) Readings in English Transformational Grammar, Ginn,
Waltham.
Chomsky, Noam: 1981, Lectures on Government and Binding, Foris, Dordrecht.
Chomsky, Noam: 1982, Some Concepts and Consequences of the Theory of
Government and Binding, MIT Press, Cambridge.
Chomsky, Noam: 1986a, Barriers, MIT Press, Cambridge.
Chomsky, Noam: 1986b, Knowledge of Language; Its Origin, Nature and Use,
Praeger, New York.
Chomsky, Noam: 1995, The Minimalist Program, MIT Press, Cambridge.
Chomsky, Noam: 1998, 'Minimalist Inquiries', manuscript, MIT.
Cinque, Gugliemo: 1990, 'Ergative Adjectives and the Lexicalist Hypothesis', Natural
Language and Linguistic Theory 8, 1-39.
Cinque, Gugliemo: 1993, 'A Null Theory ofPhrase and Compound Stress', LinguistiC
Inquiry 24, 239-298.
Cinque, Gugliemo: 1999, Adverbs and Functional Heads; A Cross-Linguistic
Perspective, Oxford University Press, Oxford.
Clahsen, Harald, Sonja Eissenbeiss and Anne Vainikka: 1994, 'The Seeds of
Structure', in T. Hoekstra and B. Schwartz (eds.) Language Acquisition Studies
in Generative Grammar, John Benjamins, AmsterdamlPhiladelphia, pp. 85-118.
Collins, Chris and Hoskuldur Thrainsson: 1996, 'VP-Intemal Structure and Object
Shift in Icelandic', Linguistic Inquiry 27, 391-444.
Coopmans, Peter: 1989, 'Where Stylistic and Syntactic Processes Meet: Locative
Inversion in English', Language 65, 728-751.
Coopmans, Peter and Martin Everaert: 1988, 'The Simplex Structure of Complex
Idioms: The Morphological Status of Laten', in M. Everaert, A. Evers, R.
Huybregts and M. Trommelen (eds.) Morphology and Modularity; In Honour of
Henk Schultink, Foris, Dordrecht, pp. 75-104.
Craig, Colette: 1976, The Structure ofJacaltec, University ofTexas Press, Austin.
De Bruin, Comelis (ed.): 1970, Het Luikse Diatesseron, Brill, Leiden.
De Haan, Germen: 1979, Conditions on Rules. The Proper Balance between Syntax
and Semantics, Foris, Dordrecht.
De Haan, Germen: 1987, 'A Theory-bound Approach to the Acquisition of Verb
Placement in Dutch', in G.J. de Haan and W. Zonneveld (eds.) Formal
Parameters ofGenerative Grammar; OTS Yearbook III, Foris, Dordrecht, pp. 15-
30.
De Haan, Germen: 1993, 'The Third Construction in Frisian', in W. Abraham and J.
Bayer (eds.) Dialektsyntax; Linguistische Berichte, Sonderheft 5, pp.117-130.
234 REFERENCES
De Haan, Germen: 1997, 'Contact-InducedChanges in Modern West Frisian', Us Wurk
46,61-89.
De Haan, Germen and Fred Weerrnan: 1986, 'Finiteness and Verb Fronting in Frisian',
in H. Haider & M. Prinzhorn (eds.) Verb Second Phenomena in Germanic
languages, Foris, Dordrecht, pp. 77-110.
De Hoop, Helen: 1992, Case Configuration and Noun Phrase Interpretation, Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Groningen.
De Jong, Jelly: 1996, The Case ofBound Pronouns in Peripheral Romance, Ph.D.
dissertation, University of Groningen.
Delfitto, Denis: 1995, 'For a Unitary Approach to Scrambling and Cliticization',
Lingua e Stile 30,501-525.
Den Besten, Hans: 1989, Studies in West Germanic Syntax, Rodopi, Amsterdam!
Atlanta.
Den Dikken, Marcel: 1995, Particles;. On the Syntax of Verb-Particle, Triadic and
Causative Constructions, Oxford, Oxford University Press.
De Wit, Petra: 1997, Genitive Case and Genitive Constructions, Ph.D. dissertation,
Utrecht University.
Di Sciullo, Anna-Maria and Edwin Williams: 1987, On the Definition ofWord, MIT
Press, Cambridge.
Dixon, Robert: 1979, 'Ergativity', Language 55, 59-138.
Dixon, Robert (ed.): 1987, Studies in Ergativity, North-Holland, Amsterdam.
Dixon, Robert: 1994, Ergativity, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.
Don, Jan: 1993, Morphological Conversion, Ph.D. dissertation, Utrecht University.
koningen, Frank: 1997, 'Morphological Strength: NP Positions in French', in D.
Beerman et al. (eds.) Rightward Movement, John Benjarnins, Amsterdam, pp.
81-114.
Emonds, Joseph: 1981, 'Word Order in Generative Grammar', Journal ofLinguistic
Research 1,33-54.
Emonds, Joseph: 1993, 'Projecting Indirect Objects', Linguistic Review 10, 211-263.
Eissenbeiss, Sonja: 1994, 'Kasus und Wortstellungsvariation im deutschen Mittelfeld;
Theoretische iiberlegungen und Untersuchungen zum Erstspracherwarb', in B.
Haftka (ed.) Was determiniert Wortsellungsvariationen?, Westdeutscher Verlag,
Opladen, pp. 277-298.
Evers, Arnold: 1975, The Transformational Cycle in Dutch and German, Ph.D.
dissertation, Utrecht University. Distributed by the Indiana University Linguistic
Club, Bloomington.
Fassi Fehri, Abdelkader: 1993, Issues in the Structure ofArabic Clauses and Words,
Kluwer, Dordrecht.
Fodor, Jerry: 1970, 'Three Reasons for Not Deriving "Kill" from "Cause to Die''',
Linguistic Inquiry 1, 429-38.
Fox, Danny: 1995, 'Economy and Scope', Natural Language Semantics 3, 283-241.
Gazdar, Gerald, Ewan Klein, Geoffrey Pullumand Ivan Sag: 1985, GeneralizedPhrase
Structure Grammar, Harvard University Press, Cambridge.
REFERENCES 235
Geerts, Guido, Walter Haeserijn, Joop de Rooij and Maarten van den Toom (eds.):
1984, Algemene Nederlandse spraak/cunst, Wolters-Noordhoff, Groningen/
Leuven.
Gibson, Edward and Kenneth Wexler: 1994, 'Triggers', Linguistic Inquiry 25, 407-
454.
Gissurardottir, Helga: 1995, 'Morfologische casus in het IJslands; Onderzoek naar
kindertaalverwerving', MA thesis, Utrecht University.
Giusti, Giuliana: 1990, 'Floating Quantifiers, Scrambling and Configurationality',
Linguistic Inquiry 21,633-641.
Golan, Yael: 1993, 'Node Crossing Economy, Superiorityand D-Linking', manuscript,
Tel Aviv University.
Greenberg, Joseph: 1963, 'Some Universals ofGrammar with Particular Reference to
the Order ofMeaningful Elements', inJ. Greenberg (ed.) Universals o/Language,
MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass., pp. 73-113.
Grimshaw, Jane: 1990, Argument Structure, MIT Press, Cambridge.
Grimshaw, Jane: 1991, 'Extended Projection', manuscript, Brandeis University.
Grimshaw, Jane: 1997, 'Projection, Heads, and Optimality', LinguisticInquiry 28,373-
422.
Gysseling, Maurits (ed.): 1977, Corpus van Middelnederlandse teksten, Nijhoff, Den
Haag.
Haegeman, Liliane: 1991, Introduction to GovernmentandBinding Theory, Blackwell,
Oxford.
Hale, Kenneth and Samuel Jay Keyser: 1993, 'On Argument Structure and the Lexical
Expression of Syntactic Relations', in K. Hale and S.l Keyser (eds.) The View
from Building 20, MIT Press, Cambridge, pp. 53-109.
Harbert, Wayne: 1983, 'On the Nature of the Matching Parameter', The LinguistiC
Review 2, 237-284.
Higginbotham, James: 1985, 'On Semantics', Linguistic Inquiry 16,547-539.
Higginbotham, James: 1994, 'Anaphoric Reference and Common Reference',
manuscript, MIT.
Hoeksema, Jack: 1991, 'Complex Predicates and Liberation in Dutch and English',
Linguistics and Philosophy 14, 661-710.
Hoekstra, Eric: 1991, Licensing Conditions on Phrase Structure, Ph.D. dissertation,
University of Groningen.
Hoekstra, Teun: 1984, Transitivity; Grammatical Relations in GB-Theory, Foris,
Dordrecht.
Hoekstra, Teun: 1986, 'Deverbalization and Inheritance', Linguistics 24, 549-584.
Hoekstra, Teun: 1988, 'Small Clause Results', Lingua 74, 101-139.
Hoekstra, Teun and Rene Mulder: 1990, 'Unergatives as Copular Verbs: Locational
and Existential Predication', The Linguistic Review 7, 1-79.
Holmberg, Anders: 1985, 'Case and Word Order in Icelandic and Swedish',
manuscript, Academy of Finland.
Holmberg, Anders: 1986, Word Order and Syntactic Features in the Scandinavian
Languages and English, Ph.D. dissertation, University of Stockholm.
236 REFERENCES
Huybregts, Riny: 1991, 'Allosteric Agreement in VSO Languages', in F. Drijkoningen
and A. van Kemenade (eds.) Linguistics in the Netherlands 1991, John
Benjamins, AmsterdamlPhiladelphia, pp. 81-90.
Inkelas, Sharon and Draga Zec (eds.): 1990, The Phonology-Syntax Connection, The
University of Chicago Press, Chicago.
Jackendoff, Ray: 1990a, Semantic Structures, MIT Press, Cambridge.
Jackendoff, Ray: 1990b, 'On Larson's Account of the Double Object Construction',
Linguistic Inquiry 21, 427-454.
Jakobson, Roman: 193311966, 'Beitrag zur allgemeinen Kasuslehre:
Gesamtbedeutungen der russischen Kasus', in: E.P. Hamp et a!. (eds.) Readings
in Linguistics II, University of Chicago Press, Chicago/London, pp. 51-89.
Johnson, Kyle: 1991, 'Object Positions', Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 9,
577-636.
Kageyarna, Taro: 1982, 'Word Formation in Japanese', Lingua 57, 215-258.
Kayne, Richard: 1981, 'On Certain Differences between English and French',
Linguistic Inquiry 12, 349-373.
Kayne, Richard: 1984, Connectedness and Binary Branching, Foris, Dordrecht.
Kayne, Richard: 1985, 'Principles of Particle Constructions', in J. Gueron, H.-G.
Obenauer and J.-Y. Pollock (eds.) Grammatical Representations, Foris,
Dordrecht, pp. 101-140.
Kayne, Richard: 1994, The Antisymmetry ofSyntax, MIT Press, Cambridge.
Keenan, Edward: 1976, 'Towards a Universal Defmition of"Subject"', in C. Li (ed.)
Subject and Topic, Academic Press, New York, pp. 303-333.
Kerstens, Johan: 1993, The Syntax ofNumber, Person and Gender; A Theory ofPhi-
Features, Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin.
Kiparsky, Paul: 1997, 'The Rise of Positional Licensing in Germanic', in A. van
Kemenade and N. Vincent (eds.) Parameters of Morphosyntactic Change,
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, pp. 460-494.
Kitagawa, Yoshihisa: 1989, 'Deriving and Copying Predication', in J. Carterand R.-M.
Dechaine (eds.) Proceedings ofNELS 19, pp. 279-300.
Koeneman, Olaf: 1996, 'Flexible Syntax and Proposition Marking', in J. Don, B.
Schouten and W. Zonneveld (eds.) OTS Yearbook 1995, Utrecht University, pp.
41-52.
Koeneman, Olaf, and Ad Neeleman: 1998, 'Transitive Expletive Constructions',
manuscript, Utrecht UniversitylUCL. To appear in S. Blake et a!. (eds.),
Proceedings ofWCCFL 17, CSLI, Stanford.
Kolbing, E.: 1872, Untersuchungen aber den Ausfall des Relativ-pronomens in den
germanischen Sprachen, Seitz und Miller, Strassburg.
Koopman, Hilda and Dominique Sportiche: 1991, 'The Position ofSubjects', Lingua
85,211-258.
Koopman, Willem: 1990, Word Order in Old English, Ph.D. dissertation, University
of Amsterdam.
Koopman, Willem: 1993, 'The Order ofDative and Accusative Objects in Old English
and Scrambling', Studia Anglica Posnaniensia XXV-XXVII, 109-121.
REFERENCES 237
Kornfilt, Jaklin: 1990, 'Naked Partitive Phrases in Turkish', manuscript, Syracuse
University.
Koster, Jan: 1974, 'Het werkwoord als spiegelcentrum', Spektator 3, 601-618.
Koster, Jan: 1987, Domains and Dynasties. The Radical Autonomy ofSyntax, Foris,
Dordrecht.
Kouwenberg, Sylvia: 1993, A GrammarofBerbice Dutch Creole, Mouton de Gruyter,
Berlin.
Kuno, Sasumo: 1973a, 'Constraints on Internal Clauses and Sentential Subjects',
Linguistic Inquiry 4, 368-385.
Kuno, Sasumo: 1973b, The Structure of the Japanese Language, MIT Press,
Cambridge.
Lamontagne, Gregory and Lisa Travis: 1987, ''The Syntax of Adjacency', in M.
Crowhurst (ed.) Proceedings ofWCCFL 6, CSLI, Stanford, pp. 173-186.
Lapointe, Stephen: 1985, 'Review ofAlec P. Marantz, "On the Nature ofGrammatical
Relations"', Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 3,341-370.
Larson, Richard: 1988, 'On the Double Object Construction', Linguistic Inquiry 19,
335-391.
Larson, Richard: 1990, 'Double Objects Revisited: Reply to Jackendofr, Linguistic
Inquiry 21, 589-632.
Lasnik, Howard: 1993, 'Lectures on Minimalist Syntax', manuscript, University of
Connecticut.
Lasnik, Howard and Mamuro Saito: 1984, Move a; Conditions on Its Application and
Output, MIT Press, Cambridge.
Lasnik, Howard andTimothy Stowell: 1991, 'WeakestCross-Over', LinguisticInquiry
22,687-720.
Lebeaux, David: 1989, Language Acquisition and the Form ofthe Grammar, Ph.D.
dissertation, University ofMassachusetts, Amherst.
Lee, Young-Suk and Beatrice Santorini: 1994, 'Toward Resolving Webelhuth's
Paradox: Evidence from Germanand Korean', inN. Corver and H. vanRiemsdijk
(eds.) Studies on Scrambling; MovementandNon-Movement Approaches to Free
Word-Order Phenomena, Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin, pp. 257-300.
Lenerz, Jiirgen: 1977, Zur Abfolge nominaler Satzglieder im Deutschen, G. Narr
Verlag, Tiibingen.
Lenerz, Jiirgen: 1984, Syntaktischer Wandel und Grammatiktheorie,. Niemeyer,
Tiibingen.
LeRoux, Cecile: 1988, On the Interface ofMorphology andSyntax, Ph.D. dissertation,
University of Stellenbosch.
Levin, Beth and MaIka Rappaport: 1988, 'Non Event -er Nominals: A Probe into
Argument Structure', Linguistics 26,1067-1083.
Lieber, Rochelle: 1980, On the Organization ofthe Lexicon, Ph.D. dissertation, MIT.
Lindauer, Thomas: 1995, Genetivattribute; Eine morphosyntaktische Untersuchungdes
deutschen DPINP-Systems, Niemeyer, Tiibingen.
Longobardi, Guiseppe: 1994, 'Reference andProperNames: A Theory ofN-Movement
in Syntax and Logical Form', Linguistic Inquiry 25,609-665.
238 REFERENCES
Longobardi, Guiseppe: 1996, 'The Syntax of N-Raising; A Minimalist Theory',
manuscript, University of Venice.
Mahajan, Anoop: 1990, The AlA-bar Distinction and Movement Theory, Ph.D.
dissertation, MIT.
Maling, Joan: 1998, 'Dative Case is not (Always) to Blame: GF's, Thematic Roles and
Morphological Case', paper presented at the Workshop on the Effects of
Morphological Case, Utrecht University.
Manzini, Rita: 1983, Restructuring and Reanalysis, Ph.D. dissertation, MIT.
Marantz, Alec: 1984, On the Nature ofGrammaticalRelations, MIT Press, Cambridge.
Marantz, Alec: 1992, 'Case and Licensing', in G.F. Westphal, B. Ao and H.-R. Chae
(eds.) Proceedings ofESCOL 8, The Ohio State University, pp. 234-253.
McCarthy, John and Alan Prince: 1993, 'Generalized Alignment', in G. Booij and 1.
van Marie (eds.) Yearbook ofMorphology 1993, Kluwer, Dordrecht, pp. 79-153.
Meillet, Antoine: 1949, Caracteres generaux des langues germaniques, Hachette,
Paris.
Meillet, Antoine: 1950, Les dialects indo-europeens, Champion, Paris.
Mulder, Rene and Marcel den Dikken: 1992, 'Tough Parasitic Gaps', in Proceedings
ofNELS 22, pp. 303-317.
Muller, Gereon and Wolfgang Stemefeld: 1993, 'Improper Movement and
Unambiguous Binding', Linguistic Inquiry 24, 461-507.
Murasugi, Kumiko: 1992, Crossing andNestedPaths; NPMovement in Accusativeand
Ergative Languages, Ph.D. dissertation, MIT.
Neeleman, Ad: 1994, Complex Predicates, Ph.D, dissertation, Utrecht University.
Neeleman, Ad: 1997, 'PP-Complements', Natural Language andLinguistic Theory 15,
89-137.
Nee1eman, Ad and Tanya Reinhart: 1997, 'Scrambling and the PF Interface', in M.
Butt and W. Gueder (eds.) The Projection ofArguments, CSLI, Stanford, pp. 309-
353.
Neeleman, Ad and Fred Weerman: 1993, 'The Balance between Syntax and
Morphology: Dutch Particles and Resultatives',Natural Language andLinguistic
Theory 11, 433-475.
Neeleman, Ad and Fred .Weerman: 1997, '11 and L2 Word Order Acquisition',
Language Acquisition 6, 125-170.
Nespor, Marina and Irene Vogel: 1986, Prosodic Phonology, Foris, Dordrecht.
Nichols Johanna: 1986, 'Head-Marking andDependent-Marking Grammar',Language
62,56-119.
Ouhalla, Jamal: 1991, Functional Categories and Parametric Variation, Routledge,
London.
Pesetsky, David: 1989, 'Language-Particular Processes and the Earliness Principle',
paper presented at the 12th GLOW Colloquium, Utrecht.
Pesetsky, David: 1995, Zero Syntax; Experiencers and Cascades, MIT Press,
Cambridge.
Pesetsky, David: 1996, 'Some Optimality Principles ofSentence Pronunciation', in P.
Barbosa et al. (eds.) Is the Best Good Enough; Optimality and Competition in
Syntax, MIT PressIMITWPL, pp.337-383.
REFERENCES 239
Pinker, Steven: 1984, Language Learnability and Language Development, Harvard
University Press, Cambridge.
Pintzuk, Susan: 1993, 'Verb Seconding in Old English: Verb Movement to INFL', The
Linguistic Review 10,5-35.
Pintzuk, Susan and Antony Kroch: 1985, 'Reconciling an Exceptional Feature ofOld
English Clause Structure', in 1.T. Faarlund (ed.) Germanic Linguistics: Papers
from a Symposium at the University ofChicago, Indiana University Linguistics
Club, Bloomington, pp. 87-111.
Pittner, Karin: 1995, 'The Case ofGerman Relatives', The Linguistic Review 12, 197-
231.
Pollard, Carl, and Ivan Sag: 1987, Information-Based Syntax and Semantics, CSLI,
Stanford.
Pollard, Carl, and Ivan Sag: 1994, Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar, CSLI,
Stanford.
Pollock, Jean-Yves: 1989, 'Verb Movement, Universal Grammar and the Structure of
IP', Linguistic Inquiry 20, 365-305.
Ponelis, Fritz: 1993, The Development ofAfrikaans, Peter Lang, Frankfurt, etc.
Poole, Geoffrey: 1996, 'Optional Movement in the Minimalist Program', in W.
Abraham, S. Epstein, H. Thniinssonand C.J.-W. Zwart(eds.) Minimal Ideas, John
Benjamins, Amsterdam, pp. 199- 216.
Raposo, Eduardo: 1987 'Case Theory and Infl-to-Comp: The Inflected Infinitive in
European Portuguese', Linguistic Inquiry 18, 85-109.
Reinhart, Tanya: 1994, 'WH-in-Situ in the Framework of the Minimalist Program',
manuscript, Utrecht University.
Reuland, Eric: 1982, 'Why Count your Auxiliaries in Dutch', in 1. Pustejovsky and P.
Sells (eds.) Proceedings ofNELS 12, pp. 221-234.
Reuland, Eric: 1990, 'Head Movement and the Relation between Morphology and
Syntax', in G. Booij and 1. van Marle (eds.), Yearbook ofMorphology 1990,
Foris, Dordrecht, pp. 129-161.
Rivero, Maria-Luisa, 1991, 'Exceptional Case Marking Effects in Rumanian
Subjunctive Complements', in D. Wanner and D.A. Kibbee (eds.) New Analyses
in Romance Linguistics, John Benjamins, AmsterdamlPhiladelphia, pp. 273-298.
Rizzi, Luigi: 1990, Relativized Minimality, MIT Press, Cambridge.
Roeper, Thomas and Samuel Jay Keyser: 1992, 'Re: The Abstract Clitic Hypothesis',
Linguistic Inquiry 23,89-125.
Ross, John: 1967, Constraints on Variables in Syntax, Ph.D. dissertation, MIT.
Rouveret, Alain: 1980, 'Sur la Notion de la Proposition Finie', Recherches
Linguistiques 9, 76-140.
Rouveret, Alain and Jean-Roger Vergnaud: 1980, 'Specifying Reference to the
Subject', Linguistic Inquiry 11,417-467.
Ruys, Eddy: 1996, 'Dutch Scrambling and the Strong-Weak Distinction', manuscript,
Utrecht University.
Sag, Ivan, Gerald Gazdar, Thomas Wasow and Steven Weisler: 1985, 'Coordination
and How to Distinguish Categories', Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 3,
117-171.
240 REFERENCES
Saito, Mamoru: 1984, 'Three Notes on Syntactic Movement in Japanese', manuscript,
MIT.
Schachtl, Stefanie: 1989, 'Morphological Case and Abstract Case: Evidence from the
German Genitive Construction', in C. Bhatt E. Lobel and C. Schmidt (eds.)
Syntactic Phrase Structure Phenomena in Noun Phrases and Sentences, John
Benjamins, AmsterdamlPhiladelphia, pp. 99-112.
Selkirk, Elizabeth: 1982, The Syntax ofWords, MIT Press, Cambridge.
Selkirk, Elizabeth: 1984, Phonology and Syntax; The Relation between Sound and
Structure, MIT Press, Cambridge.
Selkirk, Elizabeth: 1986, 'On Derived Domains in Sentence Phonology', Phonology
Yearbook 3,371-405.
Simpson, Jane: 1983, 'Resultatives', in B. Levin, M. Rappaport and A. Zaenen (eds.)
Papers in Lexical-Functional Grammar, Indiana University linguistics Club,
Bloomington, pp. 143-157.
Slobin, Dan: 1966, 'The Acquisition of Russian as a Natural Language', in F. Smith
and G. Miller (eds.) The Genesis ofLanguage; A Psycholinguistic Perspective,
Cambridge, MA, pp. 129-148.
Slobin, Dan: 1982, 'Universal and Particular in the Acquisition of Language', in L.
Gleitrnan and E. Wanner (eds.) Language Acquisition The State ofthe Art, New
York, pp. 175-208.
Sproat, Richard: 1985a, On Deriving the Lexicon, Ph.D. dissertation, MIT.
Sproat, Richard: 1985b, 'Welsh Syntax and VSO Structure', Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory 3, 173-216.
Stiebels, Barbara and Dieter Wunderlich: 1994, 'Morphology Feeds Syntax; The Case
of Particle Verbs', Linguistics 32, 913-968.
Stoett, Ferdinand: 1923, Middelnederlandsche spraakkunst; syntaxis, Nijhoff, Den
Haag.
Stowell, Timothy: 1981, Origins ofPhrase Structure, Ph.D. dissertation, MIT.
Sturm, Arie: 1979, 'Over het maximale aantal bars in de X-bar theorie', manuscript,
Utrecht University.
Stuurman, Frits: 1985, X-Bar and X-Plain; A Study ofX-Bar Theories ofthe Phrase
Structure Component, Ph.D. dissertation, Utrecht University.
Sugioka, Yoko: 1984, Interaction ofDerivationalMorphology andSyntax in Japanese
and English, Ph.D. dissertation, University of Chicago.
Svenonius, Peter: 1996, Independent Nexus; Subordinate Predication Structures in
English and the Scandinavian Languages, Ph.D. dissertation, University of
California, Santa Cruz.
Tada, Hiroaki: 1992, 'Nominative Objects in Japanese', Journal ofJapanese Linguistis
14,91-108.
Takezawa, Koichu: 1987, A Configurational Approach to Case-Marking in Japanese,
Ph.D. dissertation, University of Washington.
Tenny, Carol: 1987, Grammaticalizing Aspect and Affectedness, Ph.D. dissertation,
MIT.
REFERENCES 241
Tracy, Rosemarie: 1984, 'Fallstudien; Uberlegungen zum Erwerb von Kasuskategorie
und Kasusmarkierung', in H. Czepluch and H. Janssen (eds.) Syntaktischer
Struktur und Kasusrelationen, Gunter Narr Verlag, Tiibingen, pp.271-313.
Trask, Robert: 1979, 'On the Origin of Ergativity', in F. Planck (ed.) Ergativity;
Towarda Theory ofGrammaticalRelations, Academic Press, NewYork, pp. 385-
404.
Travis, Lisa: 1984,Parameters andEffects ofWordorder Variation, Ph.D. dissertation,
MIT.
Ueyama, Ayumi: 1994, 'Against the AlA'-Movement Dichotomy', in N. Corver and
H. van Riemsdijk (eds.) Studies on Scrambling; Movement and Non-Movement
Approaches to Free Word-Order Phenomena, Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin, pp.
459-486.
Ura, Hiroyuki: 1994, 'Varieties of Raising and the Feature-Based Phrase Structure
Theory', MIT Occasional Papers in Linguistics 7.
Van Bart, Peter and Arie Stunn: 1987, Zinsanalyse, Martinus Nijhoff, Leiden.
Van den Berg, Evert: 1983, Middelnederlandse versbouw en syntaxis; Ontwikkelingen
in de versificatie van verhalende poezie ca. 1200 - ca. 1400, Ph.D. dissertation,
Utrecht University.
Vanden Wyngaerd, Guido, 1989, 'Object Shiftas anA-Movement Rule', MIT Working
Papers in Linguistics 11, 256-271.
Van Es, Gustaaf: 1938, De attributieve genitief in het Middelnederlandsch, Van
Gorcum, Assen.
Van Gestel, Frank: 1992, "En Bloc' Insertion', in M. Everaert, E.-J. van der Linden,
A. Schenk and R. Schreuder (eds.) Proceedings ofthe International Conference
on Idioms, Volume 1, Tilburg University, pp. 103-126.
Van Gestel, Frank, Jan Nijen Twilhaar, Tineke Rinkel, Fred Weennan: 1992, Oude
zinnen; grammaticale analyse van het Nederlands tussen 1200-1700, Martinus
Nijhoff, Leiden.
Van Haeringen, Coenraad: 1958, 'Vervoegde voegwoorden in het oosten',
Driemaandelijkse bladen N.S. 10, 115-124.
Van Kemenade, Ans: 1987, Syntactic Case and Morphological Case in the History of
English, Ph.D. dissertation, Utrecht University.
Van Riemsdijk, Henk: 1978, A Case Study in Syntactic Markedness: The Binding
Nature ofPrepositional Phrases, Foris, Dordrecht.
Van Riemsdijk, Henk: 1983, 'The Case of German Adjectives', in F. Heny and T.
Richards (eds.) Auxiliaries and RelatedPuzzles, Reidel, Dordrecht, pp. 223-252.
Van Riemsdijk, Henk: 1989, 'Movement and Regeneration', in P. Beninca (ed.)
Dialect Variation and the Theory of Grammar; Proceedings of the GLOW
Workshop in Venice, Foris, Dordrecht, pp. 105-136.
Van Schayik, Daphne: 1995, 'De genitiefin de 13e, 14e en 15e eeuw', M.A. thesis,
Utrecht University.
Verkuyl, Henk: 1972, On the Compositional Nature ofthe Aspects, Reidel, Dordrecht.
Verkuyl, Henk: 1981, 'Numerals and Quantifiers in X'-Syntax and their Semantic
Interpretation', in J. Groenendijk, T. Janssen and M. Stokhof (eds.) Formal
242 REFERENCES
Methods in the Study ofLanguage, Part 2, Mathematisch centrum, Amsterdam,
pp.567-599.
Verkuyl, Henk: 1993, A Theory ofAspectuality; The Interaction between Temporaland
Atemporal Structure, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.
Vikner, Sten: 1994, 'Scandinavian Object Shift and West Germanic Scrambling' inN.
Corver and H. van Riemsdijk (eds.) Studies on Scrambling; Movement and Non-
Movement Approaches to Free Word-Order Phenomena, Mouton de Gruyter,
Berlin, pp. 487-517.
Weerman, Fred: 1988, 'Moet kunnen: Middelnederlandse zinnen zonder subject', De
nieuwe taalgids 81, 289-310.
Weerman, Fred: 1989, The V2 Conspiracy; A Syntactic and a Diachronic Analysis,
Foris, Dordrecht.
Weerman, Fred: 1996, 'Asymmetries between Nominative, Accusative and Inherent
Case', in E. Brandner and G. Ferraresi (eds.) Language Change and Generative
Grammar; Linguistische Berichte Sonderheft 7, Westdeutscher Verlag, Opladen,
pp.95-119.
Weerman, Fred: 1997, 'On the Relation between Morphological and Syntactic Case',
in A. van Kemenade and N. Vincent (eds.) Parameters of Morphosyntactic
Change, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, pp. 427-459.
Weerman, Fred, and Petra de Wit: 1998, 'De ondergang van de genitief', Nederlandse
Taalkunde 3, 18-46.
Williams, Edwin: 1980, 'Predication', Linguistic Inquiry 11, 203-238.
Williams, Edwin: 1981a, 'Argument Structure and Morphology', The Linguistic
Review 1,81-114.
Williams, Edwin: 1981b, 'On the Notions "Lexically Related" and "Head ofa Word''',
Linguistic Inquiry 12, 245-274.
Williams, Edwin: 1989, 'The Anaphoric Nature ofe-Roles', Linguistic Inquiry 20,
425-456.
Williams, Edwin: 1994, Thematic Structure in Syntax, MIT Press, Cambridge.
Williams, Edwin: 1997, 'Blocking and Anaphora', Linguistic Inquiry 28,577-628.
Wiltschko, Martina: 1995, IDs in Syntax and Discourse; An Analysis ofExtraposition
in German, Ph.D. dissertation, University ofVienna.
Woolford, Ellen: 1993, 'Symmetric and Asymmetric Passives', Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory 11, 679-728.
Zaenen, Annie and Joan Maling: 1990, 'Unaccusative, Passive and Quirky Case', in J.
Maling and A. Zaenen (eds.) Modern Icelandic Syntax, Syntax andSemantics 24,
Academic press, New York, pp. l37-164.
Zaenen, Annie, Joan Maling and Hoskuldur Thrainsson: 1985, 'Case and Grammatical
Functions: The Icelandic Passive', Natural Language and Linguistic Theory 3,
441-483.
Zec, Draga and Sharon Inkelas: 1990, 'Prosodically Constrained Syntax', in S. Inkelas
and D. Zec, (eds.) The Phonology-Syntax Connection, The University ofChicago
Press, Chicago, pp. 365-378.
Zubizaretta, Maria Luisa: 1980, 'Remarks on the Inflected Infmitive in Portuguese',
manuscript, MIT.
REFERENCES 243
Zwart, Jan-Wouter: 1993, Dutch Syntax; A Minimalist Approach, Ph.D. dissertation,
University of Groningen.
INDEX
Ablative ......................................................... 65
Absolutive .................................................. 188, 192
Absolutive-ergative languages ............................ 62, 181, 187,202
binding in . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 192
ergativityparameter ................................... 187,189,194
morphological ergativity ....................................... 194
split ergativity ............................................... 191
syntactic ergativity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 193
Accusative .......................................... 65,67,90,94, 188
default, as .......................................... 66,84,86, 103
double accusative verbs ..................................... 80, 137
nominative-accusative syncretism . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 87
Adjacency ................................ 14,25,32,44,97, 100, 122, 197
Agent ....................................................... 78, 149
A-movement(see also NP raising) ..................... 8,145,156, 159, 177
Anaphoric dependencies ........................................... 208
dependency condition ............................. 209,215,217,227
general pattern of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 208
A-over-A effects .................................................. 71
A-positions (see also predication) ................................. 2,4, 10
Afrikaans .................................................. 38, 44, 54
Agglutinating languages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66, 192
Agreement ................................. 8,61,179,191,199,201,228
adjectival .................................................... 64
AgrO ................................................ 57,62, 195
default nature of .............................................. 189
gender, in . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 64
object agreement ........................................ 8, 63, 183
participle agreement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
person and number, in ......................................... 64
position of affixes ........................................ 192, 200
specifier-head agreement ............................ 62, 179, 192,228
subject agreement ...................................... 63,80, 183
verbal ....................................................... 64
AgrO .................................................... 57,62, 195
Anti-mirror image effects ............................. 17, 19,27,29,45,55
Arabic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 198, 204
Aspect .............................................. 111, 138, 191,207
Berber .......................................................... 200
Berbice Dutch .................................................... 44
Burzio's generalization ........................................ 154, 155
Case attraction ................................................. 68, 85
245
246 INDEX
Case theory .................................................... 5,226
case absotption .............................................. 155
case adjacency ....................... , 14,25,32,44,97, 100, 122, 197
case licensing conditions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
case shells ......... 6,22,27,33,39,45,53,60, 70,83, 120, 156, 180,228
conceptual necessity of ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2, 227
exceptional case marking ........................ " 53,81,89, 156, 166
functional markers ................................. 3,7,78, 179,228
inherent case ........................................... 2,63,228
object licensing relations ................. '. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 220
PP complements and .......................................... 120
structural case .............................................. 2, 63
subject licensing relations ...................................... 220
universality of case features .............................. 5,70,77,81
C-command ...................................................... 20
Celtic .......................................................... 200
Clause union .................................................. 53, 205
Complementizer deletion .................................. 26, 48, 72, 175
Complex predicates ................................. 31,37,139,205,217
Coordinate structure constraint ............................... 37, 126, 161
Cycle .......................................................... 169
Danish ................................................... 38,44,211
Dative ............................................... 65, 67, 84, 90, 94
Dative (to) constructions ........................................ 49, 164
binding in . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 51
ellipsis in .................................................... 52
extraction from ............................................... 52
order in ...................................................... 49
Deflexion ................................ 5,65, 73, 76, 80, 82, 86, 91, 187
Dependency condition ................................. 209,215,217,227
Dependent marking .......................................... 8, 61, 179
dependent marking' as marked .................................. , 189
Do so ellipsis .................................................... 131
Double object constructions ........ 12, 17,22,45, 79, 89, 98, 101, 133, 165, 196
binding asymmetries in ...................................... 17, 46
ellipsis in .................................................... 52
idiom formation and ........................................... 46
Double PP Constructions ........................................... 128
D-structure ................................................ 2, 146, 157
Dutch .............................................. 15,56 and passim
Middle Dutch ................................ 6,65,76,79,81,86,92
Easy to please constructions .......... 9, 146, 150, 153, 155, 158, 160, 169, 173
ergative adjectives and ......................................... 146
Economy ............................................. 27,39,213,227
cyclic evaluation ............................................. 170
INDEX 247
global economy ........................................ 41,51, 165
procrastination ............................................... 116
reference set ............................................. 163, 167
shortest steps ........................................ 163, 167, 170
Empty category principle (ECP) .................... 7,23,59, 72, 83, 192,228
Endocentricity .............................................. 30, 33, 40
English. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 15,56 andpassim
Old English ..................................... 44, 76, 79, 86, 211
Ergative case ................................................ 188, 192
Ergativity parameter ....................................... 187, 189, 194
Exceptional case marking ............................. 53,81,89,156, 166
Expletives ....................................... 171, 181,211,214,216
Extended projection principle (see also predicate condition) ........... 154, 156
Extended projections ........................................... 22, 139
Extraction ............................ 37,42,44,48,52,60, 71, 74, 77, 193
Extraposition ................................ 74,76,91,93,121,127,227
Falsifiability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 223
Finiteness ................................................... 187,201
First order projection condition ...................................... 132
Flexibility ........................ 1,19,20,59,137,180,202,221,223,226
French ................................................ 44, 54, 64, 200
Frisian ............................................. 38,44,54, 186,211
Full interpretation ..................................... 123, 145, 159,214
Fusional languages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 66, 82
Gapping ........................................................ 127
Generalized phrase structure grammar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 5
Genitive ......................................... 65,67, 73, 84,92, 137
Genetivschwund .............................................. 93
German .................................... 38,44,54, 70, 79, 85,91,211
Old High German .......................................... 69, 85
Goal ..................................... 78,94, 101, 129, 134, 149, 165
Government-binding theory ......................... 1,12,77, 103, 142, 177
Head government .................................... 14,22,24, 155,228
direction of .................................. 14,23, 74, 97, 121,226
domain of ............................... 14,24,26,39,40,47,49,97
OV languages, in . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 26
proper governors .......................................... 71, 138
va languages, in . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Head marking ................................... 8,61,179,186,188,195
designated feature, by a . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 186
head-marking affixes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 182
mood, by ................................................... 186
person and number, by ............................. 183, 185, 189, 191
tense, by ................................................ 183, 191
unmarked, as ................................................ 189
248 INDEX
Head-driven phrase structure grammar .................................. 5
Heavy NP shift ................................................. 25, 76
Icelandic .................................. 38,44,65,81,84,94, 191,211
Idioms .......................................... 46, 123, 127, 129, 135
passivization in .............................................. 166
Imperatives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 186
Improper movement ....................................... 159,161,172
Incorporation ............................................ 106, 114, 142
Indonesian ...................................................... 173
Inflected infmitives ........................................... 185, 201
Inuktitut ........................................................ 188
Irish ........................................................... 198
Italian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44, 54, 64
Japanese ................................................. 44, 197,202
Korean ...................................................... 44, 197
Latin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 64, 86
Lexical interface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Lexical-functional grammar ........................................... 5
LF ....................................... 2,4,20,23, 106, 142, 146,226
incorporation at ...................................... 106, 114, 142
Linear correspondence axiom (LeA) ................................... 11
Locative Inversion ................................................ 216
M-command ...................................................... 20
Mam ....................................................... 193,202
Minimalist program ............... 3, 11, 13,57,61,62,80, 103, 145, 177,223
virtual conceptual necessity of ............................... 144,230
Mirror image effects ................................. 12, 17, 19,27,29,55
Modularity ..................................................... 1, 21
Morphological case ............................................ 59, 192
acquisition of ................................. 69, 70, 85, 91, 94, 102
adjectives, assigned by ......................................... 68
case affixes ......................................... 64, 71, 83, 86
case attraction ............................................. 68, 85
deflexion ............................ 5, 65, 73, 76, 80, 82, 86, 91, 187
null affixes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 71, 86
position of affixes ............................................ 192
pronouns, and ............................................ 61, 185
quirky subjects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 80, 90, 94, 96, 180, 200
richness of ............................................ 82,94, 102
selection for ........................................... 67,84, 137
spell-out of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 2, 71
syntactic consequences of .................. 3,59, 70, 75, 89,91,96,227
thematic roles and .......................................... 78, 87
universality of case features .............................. 5, 70, 77, 81
Morphological ergativity ........................................... 194
INDEX 249
Multiple specifiers ................................................. 58
Nominative ......................................... 7,65, 188,201,208
default, as . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 62, 86
double ..................................................... 202
nominative-accusative syncretism . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 87
nominative-dative inversion ................................ 210,227
nominative-fIrst hypothesis ..................................... 156
Nominative-accusativelanguages .......................... 8,187,189,192
Norwegian ................................................ 38,44,211
NP raising ............................................. 9, 145, 190,211
Burzio's generalization .................................... 154, 155
coordination and ............................................. 160
extended projection principle (see also predicate condition) ....... 154, 156
non-arguments, of .......................................... " 158
object, to .................................................... 159
superraising ................................................. 163
a-positions, to ............................................ 10, 156
trigger of ................................................... 153
Null operator movement ......................... 9, 146, 149, 190,211,216
lambda calculus and . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 150
long ................................... 152,158,162, 167, 169, 174
short ....................................... 152, 158, 160, 162, 169
Numeration ....................................... 41,163,167,168,170
Object agreement ............................................ 8,63, 183
Object shift. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 145
Optionality ......................... 10,33,39, 101, 122,204,211,216,227
OVNO order .......................... 11,24,36,38,78,97, 121,226,227
exceptional case marking and .................................... 54
head government and . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
OVNOparameter ............. 17,100,102,121,196,203,209,213,215
particle placement and . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 38
scrambling and ................................................ 44
VO leakages ............................................ 74, 76, 91
Paradigm formation ...................................... 83, 84, 96, 208
Genetivschwund .............................................. 93
paradigmatic markedness. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 87
syncretism ................................................... 90
Parameters ....................................................... 56
Parasitic gaps .................................................... 171
Parser .................................................. 209,214,217
word order explained by ................................... 182, 227
Particles ................................................... 18, 31, 98
coordination and ........................................ 31,32,36
extraction and ................................................ 37
heavy prepositions as . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
250 INDEX
position of ................................................ 31,35
projection of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 33, 35
Partitive ........................................................ 228
Passive ............................................ 9,84,213,216,218
exceptional case marking and ................................... 166
idioms, in . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 166
long-distance ................................................ 173
pseudo-passive ........................................... 154, 166
PF ................................................ 2, 4, 23, 74, 97, 226
Phonological phrases ...................................... 24, 33, 40, 97
generalized alignment and . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
<I>-formation .................................................. 24
reanalysis of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
Portuguese ...................................................... 185
PP adjuncts ............................................... 18, 107, 130
PP arguments ........ , ....................... 107,117,120,124,126,129
PP complements .................... 18,29,35,43,49,80,105,107,154,164
aan-PPs (see also dative constructions) ............................ 129
case theory and .............................................. 120
double ..................................................... 128
dummy preposition, and ....................................... 138
idiomatic nature of ............................................ 123
invisible P hypothesis ..................................... 111, 138
lexical storage of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 135
nouns, to ................................................... 137
P-incorporation .............................. 116, 125, 132, 140, 142
to-PPs (see also dative constructions) ............................. 129
PP extraposition .................................................. 121
PPSubjects .................................................. 117,126
Predication .............................................. 148,151,153
c-command restriction on ................................ 21, 41, 109
individual level predicate. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 119
predicate condition ....................................... 153, 164
predicate formation ........................................... 174
prenorninal modifiers, and . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 114
secondary .. , ......................... 41,109,118,138,140,157,177
structural definition of subjects .................................. 219
thematic defmition of subjects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 177
uniqueness ofthe subject ....................................... 148
Prenominal modifiers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 154
Principle C ...................................................... 172
Procrastination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 116
Pro-drop languages ............................................... 216
Projection principle ............................................... 142
Pronouns ....................................................... 185
INDEX 251
Proper government ............................................. 71, 138
Quirky subjects .................................. 80,90,94,96, 180,200
Reference set ................................................ 163, 167
Relativization ............................................ 152, 167,174
Relativized head. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 139
Relativized minimality .......................................... 23, 163
Rigidity ................................................... 1, 195,223
R-pronouns ....................................................... 74
R-role ...................................................... 115, 174
Rumanian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 54
Scottish Gaelic .................................... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 198
Scrambling ................................. 10,38,57, 100, 109, 145,227
scrambling across arguments ...................... 78,91, 102, 134, 137
Selfattachment (see also VP shells) .................................... 30
Semantic decomposition ............................................ 29
Sisterhood condition ............................................... 21
Shortest steps .......................................... " 163, 167, 170
Specifier-head agreement. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 62, 179, 192, 228
Split ergativity ................................................... 191
S-structure ........................................................ 2
Superraising .............. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 163
Syncretism .................................................... 87,90
Syntactic ergativity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 193
Subjacency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 170
Subject agreement .......................................... 63,80, 183
Subject-object asymmetries ............................ 7,60, 113, 117, 180
Subjects (see also predication) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 148, 177, 219
Superiority ...................................................... 164
Swedish .............................................. 38,44, 184,211
Thematic hierarchy ........................... 22,45,49, 78, 135, 149, 165
Thematic identification ............................................ 115
Thematic mapping ......................... 4,20,39,45, 109, 145, 148, 177
Theme ....................................... 78,95, 129, 134, 149, 165
Tense .......................................................... 207
E)-theory .............................................. 8, 142, 147,226
c-command condition .......................................... 21
first order projection condition .................................. 132
hierarchical flexibility of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
indirect E)-role assignment .................................. 112, 132
linear flexibility of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 20, 28
m-command condition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
sisterhood condition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
syntactic operations that feed .............................. 8, 105, 142
thematic identification . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 115
thematic mapping ..................... 4,20,39,45, 109, 145, 148, 177
252 INDEX
9-criterion ........................................ 2, 142, 157, 161
9-grid .................................................. 114, 136
9-role assignment ................................... 2, 19, 112, 142
9-role identification ........................................... 114
9-role matching ...................................... 113, 114, 132
9-role promotion ......................................... 145, 147
uniformity oftheta assignment hypothesis (UTAH) ..................... 2
9-roles ......................................................... 147
Agent ................................................... 78, 149
external9-roles ...................................... 114, 148, 183
Goal ................................. 78,94, 101, 129, 134, 149, 165
internal9-roles .............................................. 148
lambda calculus and ....................................... 147, 150
Location . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 111
Path ....................................................... 111
R-role .................................................. 115, 174
thematic hierarchy ........................ 22,45,49, 78, 135, 149, 165
Theme ................................... 78,95, 129, 134, 149, 165
Topicalization ........................................ 152,158,167,219
objects, of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 178
subjects, of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 178
Turkish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44, 66, 192
Unaccusativity ......................................... 9,213,216,218
Uniformity of theta assignment hypothesis (UTAH) ......................... 2
Uninterpretable features .......................................... " 227
Uniqueness of marking (see also visibility) .......................... 82,201
Unmotivated movement ....................................... 29,36,41
Verb movement ............................................... 76, 187
clause union .............................................. 53,205
rightward ........... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203
triggered by case theory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 97, 198
verb second ......................................... 183, 187,214
VP-shell formation (see also VP shells) ................. 73,97, 196,203
V-to-I raising ................................................. 99
Visibility ................................ 2,61,89,105,120,142,179,182
functional markers ................................. 3, 7, 78, 179,228
uniqueness of marking ...................................... 82,201
VO order .......................................•.... see OVNO order
VP shells (see also verb movement) .......................... 27,40,51,58
case theory, and ............................................... 28
extraction, and . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42, 48
light verbs, and ............................................... 29
selfattachment, and . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 30
9-theory, and ................................................. 28
VP-internal subject hypothesis (see also predication) ..................... 151
INDEX 253
VSO languages ........................................... 180, 195, 214
adjacency in VSO languages (see also adjacency) ................... 197
VSO as derived from SVO ..................................... 199
West Greenlandic . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 192
WH movement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 167
Studies in Natural Language and Linguistic Theory
Managing Editors
Liliane Haegeman, University ofGeneva
Joan Maling, Brandeis University
James McCloskey, University ofCalifornia, Santa Cruz
Publications
1. L. Burzio: Italian Syntax. A Government-binding Approach. 1986.
ISBN Hb 90-277-2014-2; Pb 90-277-2015-0
2. W.O. Davies: Choctaw Verb Agreement and Universal Grammar. 1986.
ISBN Hb 90-277-2065-7; Pb 90-277-2142-4
3. K. E. Kiss: Configurationality in Hungarian. 1987.
ISBN Hb 90-277-1907-1; Pb 90-277-2456-3
4. D. Pulleyblank: Tone in Lexical Phonology. 1986.
ISBN Hb 90-277-2123-8; Pb 90-277-2124-6
5. L. Hellan and K. K. Christensen: Topics in Scandinavian Syntax. 1986.
ISBN Hb 90-277-2166-1; Pb 90-277-2167-X
6. K. P. Mohanan: The Theory ofLexical Phonology. 1986.
ISBN Hb 90-277-2226-9; Pb 90-277-2227-7
7. J. L. Aissen: Tzotzil Clause Structure. 1987.
ISBN Hb 90-277-2365-6; Pb 90-277-2441-5
8. T. Gunji: Japanese Phrase Structure Grammar. A Unification-based Ap-
proach. 1987. ISBN 1-55608-020-4
9. W. U. Wurzel: Inflectional Morphology and Naturalness. 1989
ISBN Hb 1-55608-025-5; Pb 1-55608-026-3
10. C. Neidle: The Role ofCase in Russian Syntax. 1988 ISBN 1-55608-042-5
11. C. Lefebvre and P. Muysken: Mixed Categories. Nominalizations in Quechua.
1988. ISBN Hb 1-55608-050-6; Pb 1-55608-051-4
12. K. Michelson: A Comparative Study ofLake-Iroquoian Accent. 1988
ISBN 1-55608-054-9
13. K. Zagona: Verb Phrase Syntax. A Parametric Study of English and Spanish.
1988 ISBN Hb 1-55608-064-6; Pb 1-55608-065-4
14. R. Hendrick: Anaphora in Celtic and Universal Grammar. 1988
ISBN 1-55608-066-2
15. O. Jaeggli and K.J. Safir (eds.): The Null Subject Parameter. 1989
ISBN Hb 1-55608-086-7; Pb 1-55608-087-5
16. H. Lasnik: Essays on Anaphora. 1989
ISBN Hb 1-55608-090-5; Pb 1-55608-091-3
17. S. Steele: Agreement and Anti-Agreement. A Syntax of Luiseno. 1990
ISBN 0-7923-0260-5
18. E. Pearce: Parameters in Old French Syntax. Infinitival Complements. 1990
ISBN Hb 0-7923-0432-2; Pb 0-7923-0433-0
19. Y.A. Li: Order and Constituency in Mandarin Chinese. 1990
ISBN 0-7923-0500-0
Studies in Natural Language and Linguistic Theory
20. H. Lasnik: Essays on Restrictiveness and Learnability. 1990
ISBN 0-7923-0628-7; Ph 0-7923-0629-5
21. M.J. Speas: Phrase Structure in Natural Language. 1990
ISBN 0-7923-0755-0; Ph 0-7923-0866-2
22. H. Haider and K. Netter (eds.): Representation and Derivation in the Theory of
Grammar. 1991 ISBN 0-7923-1150-7
23. J. Simpson: Warlpiri Morpho-Syntax. A Lexicalist Approach. 1991
ISBN 0-7923-1292-9
24. C. Georgopoulos: Syntactic Variables. Resumptive Pronouns and A' Binding
in Palauan. 1991 ISBN 0-7923-1293-7
25. K. Leffel and D. Bouchard (eds.): Views on Phrase Structure. 1991
ISBN 0-7923-1295-3
26. C. Tellier: Licensing Theory and French Parasitic Gaps. 1991
ISBN 0-7923-1311-9; Pb 0-7923-1323-2
27. S.-Y. Kuroda: Japanese Syntax and Semantics. Collected Papers. 1992
ISBN 0-7923-1390-9; Pb 0-7923-1391-7
28. I. Roberts: Verbs and Diachronic Syntax. A Comparative History of English
and French. 1992 ISBN 0-7923-1705-X
29. A. Fassi Fehri: Issues in the Structure ofArabic Clauses and Words. 1993
ISBN 0-7923-2082-4
30. M. Bittner: Case. Scope, and Binding. 1994 ISBN 0-7923-2649-0
31. H. Haider, S. Olsen and S. Vikner (eds.): Studies in Comparative Germanic
Syntax. 1995 ISBN 0-7923-3280-6
32. N. Duffield: Particles and Projections in Irish Syntax. 1995
ISBN 0-7923-3550-3; Pb 0-7923-3674-7
33. J. Rooryck and L. Zaring (eds.): Phrase Structure and the Lexicon. 1996
ISBN 0-7923-3745-X
34. J. Bayer: Directionality and Logical Form. On the Scope of Focusing Particles
and Wh-in-situ. 1996 ISBN 0-7923-3752-2
35. R. Freidin (ed.): Current Issues in Comparative Grammar. 1996
ISBN 0-7923-3778-6; Pb 0-7923-3779-4
36. C.-T.J. Huang and Y.-H.A. Li (eds.): New Horizons in Chinese Linguistics.
1996 ISBN 0-7923-3867-7; Pb 0-7923-3868-5
37. A. Watanabe: Case Absorption and WH-Agreement. 1996
ISBN 0-7923-4203-8
38. H. Thrainsson, S.D. Epstein and S. Peter (eds.): Studies in Comparative
Germanic Syntax. Volume 11.1996 ISBN 0-7923-4215-1
39. C.J.W. Zwart: Morphosyntax of Verb Movement. A Minimalist Approach to
the Syntax of Dutch. 1997 ISBN 0-7923-4263-1; Pb 0-7923-4264-X
40. T. Siloni: Noun Phrases and Nominalizations. The Syntax of DPs. 1997
ISBN 0-7923-4608-4
41. B.S. Vance: Syntactic Change in Medieval French. 1997 ISBN 0-7923-4669-6
42. G. Muller: Incomplete Category Fronting. A Derivational Approach to
Remnant Movement in German. 1998 ISBN 0-7923-4837-0
Studies in Natural Language and Linguistic Theory
43. A. Alexiadou. G. Horrocks and M. Stavrou (eds.): Studies in Greek Syntax.
1998 ISBN 0-7923-5290-4
44. R. Sybesma: The Mandarin VP. 1999 ISBN 0-7923-5462-1
45. K. Johnson and I. Roberts (eds.): Beyond Principles and Parameters. Essays in
Memory of Osvaldo Jaeggli. 1999 ISBN 0-7923-5501-6
46. R.M. Bhatt: Verb Movement and the Syntax ofKashmiri. 1999
ISBN 0-7923-6033-8
47. A. Neeleman and F. Weerman: Flexible Syntax. A Theory of Case and
Arguments. 1999 ISBN 0-7923-6058-3
48. C. Gerfen: Phonology and Phonetics in Coatzospan Mixtec. 1999
ISBN 0-7923-6034-6
49. I. Paul. V. Phillips and L. Travis (eds.): Formal Issues in Austronesian
Linguistics. 1999 ISBN 0-7923-6068-0
Kluwer Academic Publishers - Dordrecht / Boston / London
