(e.g., Melendez, 1997), Saudi Arabia (e.g., Al-Khasawneh, 2016; Alrabai, 2015),
South Africa (e.g., Kraemer & Zisenwine, 1989), Spain (e.g., Palacios, 1998),
Taiwan (e.g., Chao, 2003; Chu, 2008; Tsai, 2003), Thailand (e.g., Anyadubalu,
2010), Turkey (e.g., Cetinkaya, 2005), and the USA (e.g., Elkhafaiﬁ, 2005;
Horwitz, Horwitz, & Cope, 1986). One reason for the relationship between anxiety
and language learning having been a hot issue for so long a time and covering so
wide a range of languages and countries/territories is that language courses are
believed to be the most anxiety-provoking learning tasks for many students
(Walker, 1997).
Consequently, we might wonder why language anxiety would affect language
learning. Answers to this question have been sought by researchers and educators
alike. On the basis of Tobias’ (1979, 1980, 1986) and Schwarzer’s (1986) work,
MacIntyre and Gardner (1989) offered the following explanation: instead of
focusing on the task itself, anxious people are liable to employ themselves in
self-directed derogatory cognition. These task-irrelevant thoughts compete with
task-relevant ones for limited cognitive resources. Since language learning is a
cognitive process involving encoding, storage, and retrieval activities, anxiety can
influence each of these activities by distracting attention from anxious students
(MacIntyre, 1995a). As a result, it is natural to ﬁnd that less anxious students can
better focus their attention on the task itself because of their appropriate rather than
exaggerated self-awareness. However, there are different opinions on these issues,
and other researchers maintain that anxiety inhibits students’ ability to process
incoming language and thus short-circuits the language acquisition process
(Krashen, 1988, 1995). Horwitz and Young (1991a, p. 177) conclude that the
problem about “how anxiety impedes language learning has not been resolved”.
Irrespective of whether scholars and researchers can agree on the reasons for
language learning being affected by anxiety, many studies have been conducted on
the relationship between them (e.g., Alpert & Haber, 1960; Horwitz et al., 1986;
MacIntyre & Gardner, 1991b; Spielberger, 1983). A number of deﬁnitions of the
term anxiety have also been offered by scholars of various theoretical orientations
(e.g., Alpert & Haber, 1960; Spielberger, 1983; Tobias, 1979, 1980, 1986). Among
them, Spielberger’s deﬁnition (1983, see Sect. 1.1.1 for details) is one of the most
accepted (Chiang, 2006). The rest of this section (i.e., Section 2.1) reviews some of
the most established theories with regard to anxiety, such as the differentiations
between state anxiety and trait anxiety; general anxiety and speciﬁc anxiety;
facilitating anxiety and debilitating anxiety; as well as unitary anxiety and multi-
dimensional anxiety (cf., Chiang, 2006). In addition, relationship between anxiety
and language learning will also be reviewed along with these distinctions.
2.1.1 State Anxiety Versus Trait Anxiety
Generally, anxiety is categorized into two kinds: state anxiety and trait anxiety. This
distinction, ﬁrst put forward by Cattell and Scheier (1960), was ﬁrmly established
14 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
by Spielberger, Gorsuch, and Lushene (1970) with the development of a reliable
measurement scale, the State-Trait Anxiety Inventory. In line with Spielberger
(1983), state anxiety may be deﬁned as an immediate, transitory emotional state of
subjective, conscious feelings of tension, apprehension, nervousness, and worry
associated with an arousal of the autonomic nervous system reactions in response to
a particular stimulus such as giving a speech or taking an examination. In contrast,
trait anxiety is a comparatively stable likelihood to become anxious in a wide
spectrum of situations perceived as threatening or dangerous. Students with high
trait anxiety tend to be more anxious and experience greater anxiety intensity when
learning a language than those with low trait anxiety. To sum up, “it should be
emphasized that state anxiety is the reaction, and trait anxiety represents the ten-
dency to react in an anxious manner” (MacIntyre, 1995a, p. 93).
Studies from the state approach are focused on the here-and-now experience of
anxiety as an affective state, which is criticized as “skirting the issue of the source
of the reported anxiety” and the participants are “not asked to attribute the expe-
rience to any particular source” (MacIntyre & Gardner, 1991c, p. 90). On the other
hand, studies from the trait approach regard anxiety as a general personality feature
which has been proved to decrease cognition, to demolish memory, to result in
avoidance behaviors, and to have several other effects (Eysenck, 1979). The trait
anxiety perspective concerning language learning has been criticized in that traits
are nonsensical without interacting with situations (Endler, 1980; Mischel & Peake,
1982) bearing in mind that some situations will arouse anxiety while others will
enhance a sense of relaxation (MacIntyre & Gardner, 1991c). What is more, trait
anxiety correlates, albeit moderately, to measures of performance (Spielberger,
1983). Although it is argued that the distinction between state anxiety and trait
anxiety is meaningful (e.g., Spielberger, 1983), there is evidence that these concepts
are not qualitatively different (e.g., Chrisjohn, 1981; Endler, 1980; MacIntyre &
Gardner, 1989).
2.1.2 General Anxiety Versus Speciﬁc Anxiety
Though the distinction between state anxiety and trait anxiety is signiﬁcant and
illustrative, scholars with interactional orientations to personality (e.g., Endler,
1975; Mischel, 1973) ﬁnd this distinction far from satisfactory. They maintain that
both of these two kinds of anxieties need to be measured on speciﬁed occasions and
neither of them is explicit and comprehensive enough to describe complicated
person-environment interactions when human emotion and behavior are deter-
mined. Interactionists remind anxiety scholars of the need to emphasize the
importance of the interaction between individuals’ trait anxiety and the circum-
stantial features of a speciﬁc situation. This has resulted in the development of
situation-speciﬁc anxiety inventories like test anxiety scales and foreign language
anxiety measurements (e.g., Horwitz et al., 1986; Saito, Horwitz, & Garza, 1999;
Sarason, 1978; Spielberger, 1980). Like Endler (1975), MacIntyre and Gardner
2.1 Anxiety and Language Learning: General Theories 15
(1991c) maintain that situation-speciﬁc anxiety inventories are more strictly related
to behavior on those speciﬁed occasions than general anxiety scales. According to
MacIntyre and Gardner (1991c, p. 90), situation-speciﬁc constructs “can be seen as
trait anxiety measures limited to a given context”. In this perspective, anxieties are
approached in well-deﬁned speciﬁc situations such as speaking in public, writing
language examinations, and participating in a language class.
2.1.3 Facilitating Anxiety Versus Debilitating Anxiety
In addition to the above-mentioned categorizations, anxiety has also been differ-
entiated into facilitating anxiety and debilitating anxiety according to whether it
improves or impairs performance (Alpert & Haber, 1960, see Sect. 1.1.1 for details
of deﬁnitions). Scovel (1978, p. 139) argues that the former “motivates the learner
to ‘ﬁght’ the new learning task; it gears the learner emotionally for approach
behavior”, while the latter, in contrast, motivates the learner to flee the new learning
task. Moreover, Williams (1991, p. 21) suggests that
[T]he emotional state of facilitating anxiety may be equivalent to a low-anxiety state that
diverts the student’s attention only slightly from the learning task. On the other hand,
debilitating anxiety would present a high-anxiety state that diverts a substantial amount of
the student’s attention.
As mentioned in Sect. 1.1, the relationship between anxiety and any kind of
learning outcome or performance can be best described with the Yerkes-Dodson
Law (1908, cited in Levitt, 1980), which depicts a curvilinear relationship between
anxiety and performance as an inverted “U” (see Fig. 2.1). That is, when anxiety is
low, performance is low, too. As anxiety increases to the optimal level, perfor-
mance changes from better to the peak level. However, as anxiety increases even
further and goes beyond the optimal level, performance deteriorates. This law has
been certiﬁed by ﬁndings of a number of studies that “students with higher level of
anxiety tend to do more poorly in their language classes” (Horwitz, 2008, p. 9).
Moreover, such a dual effect between anxiety and performance mainly relies on the
task difﬁculty level as argued by Smith, Sarason, and Sarason (1986): When a task
is comparatively simple, anxiety may not impair and may even enhance perfor-
mance by way of increased effort. Nevertheless, when a task becomes difﬁcult and
demands more on the system, anxiety starts to have a negative effect, since the extra
effort made may not fully compensate for the task-irrelevant cognitive interference
due to anxiety. As a result, the students who experience the optimal level of anxiety
or no anxiety will process the information more quickly and efﬁciently than those
who experience too much anxiety and are thus distracted by task-irrelevant
cognition.
16 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
Although anxiety might have a negative effect on cognitive processing and
interfere with task performance, it should be noted that task performance can arouse
anxiety (MacIntyre & Gardner, 1994a). More than one study has demonstrated that
language anxiety can be both the consequence and cause of problems in language
learning (e.g., MacIntyre & Gardner, 1991b, 1994a, 1994b; Sparks & Ganschow,
1991, 1993a, 1993b). To better understand the dual (i.e., both facilitating and
debilitating) effect that anxiety might have on language learning or on any per-
formance, it is necessary to have a close examination of the continuous, recursive or
cyclical relations among anxiety, cognition, and behavior, with each impacting on
the other (Leary, 1991; Levitt, 1980). For instance, a student might become anxious
when asked to respond to a question in a language class. This anxiety will, in turn,
lead to disturbance. As a result, cognitive performance is decreased due to the
distraction and thus makes performance suffer from it, resulting in negative
self-judgments and more self-disapproving cognition which will further harm
performance, and so forth (see Fig. 2.2). This is, for some students, a repetitive
course of events, and anxiety tends to be credibly related to any occasion involving
language learning. Once established, this relation results in students’ anxiety
whenever it comes to language learning or communication (MacIntyre, 1995a).
Performance
Facilitating
Anxiety
Debilitating
Anxiety
Good
Poor
Low High
Anxiety
Fig. 2.1 Inverted “U” relation between anxiety and performance. Source adapted from MacIntyre
(1995a, p. 92)
2.1 Anxiety and Language Learning: General Theories 17
2.1.4 Unitary Anxiety Versus Multidimensional Anxiety
Psychologically, anxiety has been conceptualized as either a unitary construct or a
multidimensional construct. Early conceptualizations inclined to regard anxiety as
an undistinguished unitary component (Edelmann, 1992). However, Spielberger
(1983) maintains the viewpoint of combining both perspectives, in which trait
anxiety is treated as a single unitary feature of an individual, and state anxiety as a
construct including both cognitive and physiological components. Tryon (1980)
regards anxiety as a multidimensional construct with at least two elements: worry
and emotionality. Worry is the cognitive side of anxiety involving opinions and
faiths concerning one’s ability to cope with a circumstance. Emotionality is the
emotional side of anxiety including physiological reactions like muscular strain and
incremental heartbeat, and behavior reactions such as unconscious murmur and
pacing. Furthermore, Smith and Smoll (1990) insist that anxiety includes three
distinct components, that is, cognitive, physiological, and behavioral reactions.
Despite criticisms of it, “the view that anxiety is a multidimensional construct has
gained wider acceptance in the literature” (Chiang, 2006, p. 17).
In short, this section (i.e., Sect. 2.1) reviews literature related to the extensive
research on the relationship between anxiety and language learning, and the dif-
ferentiation of anxiety into different categories, which jointly form the theoretical
basis of the current book in the sense that the answers to many questions (e.g., what
type of anxiety is FLSA—state or trait or neither?) can only be explored on the
basis of the review in this section. The next section will mainly focus on the
research on foreign language anxiety and foreign language learning.
2.2 Research on FLA and Foreign Language Learning
When we wear clothing that is unbecoming or have a “bad hair day”, we feel uncomfortable
because not only do we not feel like ourselves, we feel that we are presenting a less positive
version of ourselves to the world than we normally do. In an analogous way, few people
Anxiety
Behavior Cognition
Fig. 2.2 Recursive relations
among anxiety, cognition, and
behavior. Source adapted
from MacIntyre (1995a, p. 93)
18 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
can appear equally intelligent, sensitive, witty, and so on when speaking a second language
as when speaking their ﬁrst; this disparity between how we see ourselves and how we think
others see us has been my consistent explanation for language learners’ anxieties. (Horwitz,
2000, p. 258)
Horwitz’s analogy quoted here illustrates foreign language anxiety vividly.
Compared with research on anxiety in general, the research on FLA is still a young
domain (Yan, 1998). Studies before the 1980s in this area “have provided mixed
and confusing results” (Scovel, 1978, p. 137) because of disputable deﬁnitions and
the absence of reliable and valid language learning anxiety scales (Horwitz et al.,
1986). It was not until the mid 1980s when the FLCAS was developed that
advances in foreign language anxiety theory and measurements were made, which
can be considered a landmark of FLA research. The review in this section (i.e.,
Sect. 2.2) will be structured in chronological order.
2.2.1 Research on FLA and Foreign Language Learning
Before 1980s
Research on FLA and FL learning before the 1980s mostly adopted the anxiety
transfer approach (Scovel, 1978). In this approach, language anxiety is considered a
transfer of trait or state anxiety, which produces interfering consequences. In his
classic review, Scovel (1978) examined four studies and highlighted the following:
• Chastain (1975) identiﬁed three different relationships (i.e., positive, negative,
and almost no) between anxiety and FL learning by assessing the anxiety levels
of university beginners of three languages (French, German, and Spanish) with
the help of trait anxiety scale;
• Swain and Burnaby (1976) found a negative relationship between language
anxiety and the measure of children’s oral proﬁciency. However, no correlations
were reported between language anxiety and other proﬁciency measurements;
• Tucker, Hamayan, and Genesee (1976) found that French classroom anxiety
correlated with the measure of written French proﬁciency but not with the other
three measures of language proﬁciency that they examined; and
• Kleinmann (1977) investigated both facilitating anxiety and debilitating anxiety
among ESL learners (native speakers of Arabic, Spanish, and Portuguese) and
reported that facilitating anxiety was positively related to Arabic-speaking
learners’ willingness to experiment difﬁcult linguistic structures in English as
predicted. Nevertheless, no negative correlations were identiﬁed between lan-
guage learning and debilitating anxiety, the more common interpretation of
anxiety that is seen as being detrimental to performance.
2.2 Research on FLA and Foreign Language Learning 19
In addition, Gardner and associates conducted a series of research in the 1970s
on attitude and motivation in FL learning (e.g., Gardner, Clément, Smythe, &
Smythe, 1979; Gardner, Smythe, & Brunet, 1977; Gardner, Smythe, & Clément,
1979; Gardner, Smythe, Clément, & Gliksman, 1976). Among these studies,
Gardner et al. (1976) employed the Attitude and Motivation Test Battery (AMTB)
to assess more than 1,000 Anglophone students learning French in Canada and
identiﬁed anxiety in class to be one of the best indicators of learners’ language
proﬁciency, especially of those with better grades. This AMTB model was revised
with ﬁve items designed to measure French anxiety in class as part of their test
battery about attitudes and motivation of language acquisition (Gardner et al.,
1979). A further study (Gardner, Smythe, & Lalonde, 1984) with the AMTB model
indicated that French class anxiety was negatively correlated with French proﬁ-
ciency when French was used as a foreign language in communication.
From the above reviews of the studies on FLA and FL learning before the 1980s,
it is not difﬁcult to identify three different correlations between anxiety and per-
formance, that is, anxiety may facilitate or debilitate performance, or exert no effect
on the latter. Irrespective of whether it is trait anxiety, state anxiety, or test anxiety,
research with the approach of anxiety transfer demonstrated confusing results, both
within and across studies (Scovel, 1978). Scovel (1978) further ascribed the messy
ﬁndings to the problem of construct ambiguities and recommended that researchers
specify the target anxiety. Horwitz et al. (1986) argued that the reasons for the
conflicting ﬁndings before the 1980s were the inadequate conceptualizations of
anxiety and the absence of reliable and valid anxiety scales speciﬁcally designed for
FL learning. According to them, previous researchers had “neither adequately
deﬁned foreign language anxiety nor described its speciﬁc effects on foreign lan-
guage learning” (p. 125).
2.2.2 Research on FLA and Foreign Language Learning
in 1980s
The deadlock in FLA research described above was broken with the publication of
a breakthrough study on FLA by Horwitz et al. (1986). They treated FLA, for the
ﬁrst time, as a distinct and separate construct (i.e., a situation-speciﬁc anxiety)
speciﬁc to language learning (Young, 1991) and thus led to much more proliﬁc
studies on language anxiety (MacIntyre & Gardner, 1988). This section (i.e.,
Sect. 2.2.2) focuses on the theoretical framework and the scale—FLCAS—devel-
oped by Horwitz et al. (1986), which will be followed by several other studies on
FLA and FL learning in the 1980s.
20 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
2.2.2.1 The Conceptual Framework of Horwitz et al. (1986)
Foreign language anxiety is deﬁned by Horwitz et al. (1986, p. 128) as “a distinct
complex of self-perceptions, beliefs, feelings, and behaviors related to classroom
language learning arising from the uniqueness of the language learning process”.
By this deﬁnition, the authors consider FLA as a type of situation-speciﬁc anxieties,
which is remarkably different from the trait and state approaches commonly
adopted before the 1980s. The trait and state perspectives failed to “capture the
essence of foreign language anxiety or to satisfactorily demonstrate a role for
anxiety in the language learning process” (MacIntyre & Gardner, 1991c, p. 87),
which would naturally lead research towards the situation-speciﬁc perspective. It is
further argued that the intimate relationship between self-concept and
self-expression (Schlenker & Leary, 1985) distinguishes FLA from other academic
anxieties, such as math anxiety (Tobias, 1993). The conceptual framework of FLA
is rooted in the parallels identiﬁed by Horwitz et al. (1986) between FLA and three
performance anxieties: communication apprehension, test anxiety, and fear of
negative evaluation.
Communication apprehension (CA) was ﬁrst deﬁned by McCroskey (1977,
p. 78) as “an individual’s level of fear or anxiety associated with either real or
anticipated communication with another person or persons”. Because of its
emphasis on interpersonal interactions, CA is closely related to the conceptual-
ization of FLA. Therefore, Horwitz et al. (1986, p. 127) redeﬁned CA as “a type of
shyness characterized by fear of or anxiety about communicating with people”. The
common FL learning environment often involves both real and anticipated com-
munication with other people in groups or in public, or in decoding information
from listening or spoken activities. According to Horwitz et al. (1986), difﬁculties
in the above activities are all manifestations of CA. FLA is further regarded to be
logically relevant to the construct of CA (Phillips, 1990), since “one will almost
certainly have difﬁculty understanding others and making oneself understood”
especially in the situation of having to communicate in a foreign language (Horwitz
et al. 1986, p. 127). By contrast, CA may or may not be related to the speech
anxiety experienced in the ﬁrst language (L1) contexts (Lucas, 1984).
Test anxiety (TA) refers to a type of performance anxiety stemming from a fear
of failure (Gordon & Sarason, 1955; Sarason, 1980). According to Horwitz et al.
(1986, p. 127), TA is also closely related to the discussion of FLA because “per-
formance evaluation is an ongoing feature of most foreign language classes”.
Test-anxious students might suffer quite a number of difﬁculties in FL class since
tests and quizzes are almost inevitable in language learning and even the smartest
and most prepared students cannot avoid making errors from time to time, let alone
the anxious students who tend to put unrealistic demands on themselves and per-
ceive only perfect test performance as success. Of all the tests and quizzes, oral
ones are especially anxiety-provoking since anxious students probably manifest
both CA and TA in this kind of test (Horwitz et al. 1986).
Fear of negative evaluation (FNE) was originally deﬁned by Watson and Friend
(1969, p. 449) as “apprehension about others’ evaluations, distress over their
2.2 Research on FLA and Foreign Language Learning 21
negative evaluations, avoidance of evaluative situations, and the expectation that
others would evaluate oneself negatively”. Evaluation, in this situation, applies to
both the academic and non-academic evaluations made to students on the basis of
their performance and competence in the target language. According to Horwitz
et al. (1986), FNE is the third anxiety relevant to FLA research, and it is also
“broader in scope” (p. 128) than TA although it is similar to the latter. Since
students are frequently evaluated in FL class, both real and imaginary evaluations
from either the teacher or their peers can be anxiety-provoking. In other words, the
uniqueness of foreign language learning “lies in the fact that learners are much more
vulnerable to criticism and negative evaluation than in other subjects” because of
the much greater chances of making mistakes in FL classes (Tsui, 1996, p. 156). As
a result, FNE always hangs over those anxious students while they are doubtful of
their FL proﬁciency.
After discussing the three parallels, Horwitz et al. (1986) proposed that FLA is
not just the sum of these three constructs transferred to FL learning. As a matter of
fact, FLA frequently manifests itself in, among others, listening and speaking
activities (especially the unprepared or free speech), testing situations (e.g., poor
retrieval of items from memory in tests), over studying as a compensation, worries
about making mistakes resulting in silence rather than participation, and certain
other beliefs (for instance, everything that will be said in foreign language should be
correct). Horwitz and associates’ theory is mainly based on clinical data and
anecdotal evidence (MacIntyre & Gardner, 1991c), which, however, has been
validated and augmented with increasing empirical studies (e.g., Amiri &
Ghonsooly, 2015; Cao, 2011; Cheng, 1998; Donley, 1997a; He, 2013; Kim, 2000;
Kunt, 1997; Le, 2004; Lee, 2011; Palacios, 1998; Phillips, 1990; Price, 1988;
Schlesiger, 1995; Tóth, 2008; von Wörde, 1998) and generally supported by lit-
erature on FLA from various perspectives (MacIntyre & Gardner, 1991c). It should
be noted that most of the studies supported Horwitz et al.’s (1986) theory that FLA
consists of three performance anxieties/constructs, some of them did come with
slightly different names for the three constructs (see Table 2.1 for a summary of the
names used across studies).
2.2.2.2 The FLCAS Scale by Horwitz et al. (1986)
Horwitz et al. (1986) ﬁlled not only the theoretical void of FLA but also the
practical gap concerning identifying and measuring this situation-speciﬁc anxiety
systematically. Before the publication of Horwitz et al. (1986), four scales were
used by Gardner, Clément and associates to measure the anxiety of foreign lan-
guage learning:
• The French Class Anxiety scale, a scale originally introduced in a study by
Gardner and Smythe (1975), which “appears to have been the ﬁrst measure of
anxiety concerned speciﬁcally with second language learning” (MacIntyre &
Gardner, 1991c, p. 93);
22 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
• English Use Anxiety (Clément, Gardner, & Smythe, 1977a), a measurement
also adapted for other languages such as French (Gardner et al., 1979) and
Spanish (Muchnick & Wolfe, 1982);
• The Attitudes and Motivation Test Battery, a model ﬁrst presented by Gardner
et al. (1976) and further employed by some other researchers (e.g., Gardner, 1983,
1985; Gardner et al., 1979; Gardner, Lalonde, & Moorcroft, 1985; Gardner &
Lysynchuk, 1990; Gardner et al., 1984; Lalonde & Gardner, 1984); and
• English Test Anxiety (Clément, Gardner, & Smythe, 1980, p. 293), a mea-
surement designed to “investigate the effects of social factors on motivational
aspects of second language acquisition”.
However, these scales have their own shortcomings for the research on the
relationship between FLA and FL learning. For example, none of them stated
clearly that it was designed speciﬁcally to measure FLA related to FL learning or
performance. Another problem might be that some of them were too simple for the
purpose of FLA measurement (e.g., Gardner et al., 1979). This is also the reason
why the FLCAS (see Appendix A for the details of this scale) developed by
Horwitz et al. (1986) is considered to be a landmark of FLA scales (Chiang, 2006).
On the basis of an analysis of potential sources of anxiety in language class-
rooms, Horwitz et al. (1986) developed the Foreign Language Classroom Anxiety
Scale. This scale regards FLA as a situation-speciﬁc anxiety, which is believed to
have the following advantages:
• Enabling the assessment of orthogonal types of anxiety, for example, the cor-
relation between a measure of French class anxiety and math class anxiety
(MacIntyre & Gardner, 1988);
• Delineating clearly the situation of interest for the informants (MacIntyre &
Gardner, 1991c); and
• Enabling a better understanding of anxiety, since participants are required to
attribute anxiety to speciﬁc sources (MacIntyre & Gardner, 1991c).
Table 2.1 Constructs of FLA across the studies
Year Author(s) Names of FLA constructs
1986 Horwitz
et al.
Communication
apprehension
Test anxiety Fear of negative
evaluation
2005 Park and
Lee
Communication
apprehension
Examination anxiety Criticism anxiety
2007 Zulkifli Communication
apprehension
Test anxiety Fear of negative
evaluation
2008 Tóth Communication
apprehension
Fear of inadequate
performance in English class
Attitudes to the
English class
2011 Lee Communication
apprehension
Test anxiety Fear of negative
evaluation
Adapted and modiﬁed from Al-Shboul et al. (2013)
2.2 Research on FLA and Foreign Language Learning 23
Nevertheless, this approach is not free from drawbacks. For example, it has been
criticized from the perspective of situation, since the researcher is free to deﬁne the
situation under consideration, which can be deﬁned quite speciﬁcally (e.g., stage
fright), or very broadly (e.g., shyness), or more narrowly (e.g., communication
apprehension) (MacIntyre & Gardner, 1991c). Therefore, “it is the researcher’s
responsibility to deﬁne a situation that is sufﬁciently speciﬁc to be meaningful for
the purpose at hand, yet to have reasonable generality to permit generalizations”
(MacIntyre & Gardner, 1991c, p. 91).
The ﬁrst empirical study (Horwitz et al., 1986) with the help of the FLCAS
reported that it is fairly common for students to experience a considerable amount
of FLA in relation to at least some aspects of FL learning and that language learning
courses can provoke more anxiety than other classes. The FLCAS demonstrated
internal reliability, achieving a Cronbach’s alpha coefﬁcient of 0.93 with all the 33
items. The two tailed tests yielded the test-retest reliability to be r = 0.83
(p < 0.001) over eight weeks. The study further supported the authors’ view that
FLA is a distinct set of beliefs, perceptions, and feelings speciﬁc to FL learning and
“not merely a composite of other anxieties” (Horwitz et al., 1986, p. 130).
Horwitz (1986) supplemented Horwitz et al. (1986) by validating the measure to
establish that FLA is a phenomenon distinguishable from other speciﬁc anxieties.
Horwitz (1986) administered FLCAS to about 300 undergraduate foreign language
students in several separate studies. A correlation analysis of the FLCAS with other
related scales was conducted. Table 2.2 displays the scale, p-value, number of the
respondents, variance shared, and the variance not shared between the scales.
Although a somewhat moderate correlation was found between the test anxiety
scale (Sarason, 1978) and the FLCAS, the variance shared between the two was
low, not to mention the variance shared between the FLCAS and the other three
scales. Therefore, the results shown in Table 2.2 are sound evidence discriminating
FLA from other related anxiety constructs.
2.2.2.3 Other Studies on FLA and Foreign Language Learning
in 1980s
In addition to Horwitz et al. (1986), some other signiﬁcant studies were conducted
in the 1980s on FLA and FL learning, which more or less upheld the viewpoints
that FLA is a distinct form of anxiety to the situation of FL learning and FLA is
negatively correlated with FL learning/proﬁciency as observed in Horwitz et al.
(1986). What is more, Levitt (1980), Young (1986), and MacIntyre and Gardner
(1989) all observed that anxiety and language performance affect each other
reciprocally rather than just one way, which can be further supported with the
studies suggesting that favorable experiences and increased achievements help
reduce anxiety (e.g., Chapelle & Roberts, 1986; Desrochers & Gardner, 1981).
Some of these studies are briefly summarized below:
24 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
• Gardner, Lalonde, and Pierson (1982) found French class anxiety to be nega-
tively correlated with proﬁciency through causal analysis;
• Clément and his associates (Clément, 1987; Clément & Kruidenier, 1985;
Labrie & Clément, 1986) modiﬁed their earlier model (Clément et al., 1977a;
Clément et al., 1980; Clément, Major, Gardner, & Smythe, 1977b) on the basis
of the study of the relationship between self-conﬁdence (with lack of anxiety as
a key characteristic) and language learning in bi/multicultural circumstances,
and they concluded that self-conﬁdence plays a part in language learning as a
form of motivation;
• While investigating a causal model of L2 learning, particularly about the three
situation-speciﬁc constructs—Language Class Discomfort, Language Class
Risktaking, and Language Class Sociability, Ely (1986) has supplied scales of
three attributes conceptually related to FLA;
• Steinberg and Horwitz (1986) investigated the subtle effects of induced anxiety1
on L2 learners’ oral descriptions of pictures and found that participants with
Table 2.2 Differentiating foreign language anxiety from other related anxieties
Scale r p N Scale Variance
shared (%)
Variance not
shared (%)
Fear of negative evaluation scale
(Watson & Friend, 1969)
0.36 0.007 56 FLCAS 13 87
Personal report of
communication apprehension
(McCroskey, 1970)
0.28 0.063 44 FLCAS 8 92
Test anxiety scale (Sarason,
1978)
0.53 0.001 60 FLCAS 28 72
Trait scale of the state-trait
anxiety inventory (Spielberger,
1983)
0.29 0.002 108 FLCAS 8 92
FLCAS (Horwitz, 1986) 0.93 0.001 108 FLCAS 100 0
Adapted and modiﬁed from Al-Shboul et al. (2013)
1
On the basis of the belief that global measures of language ability (e.g., course marks) may be less
sensitive to the subtle effects of anxiety than are more speciﬁc dependent measures, Steinberg and
Horwitz (1986) examined the effect of induced anxiety on the ratio of denotative and interpretive
story content. Participants of their study were twenty Spanish ESL students. Half of them were in
the anxiety arousal group and were treated in an aloof manner by the experimenter and their
session was videotaped to increase the tension level. The other half were treated warmly, engaged
in small talk with the experimenter, and was not videotaped. Using the foreign language, all the
participants were asked to describe three features of a group of ambiguous scenes: (1) the elements
of the picture, (2) the actual event depicted (denotative content), and (3) their view of what was
happening in the scene (interpretive content). The ratio of denotative and interpretive content was
taken as the dependent measure.
2.2 Research on FLA and Foreign Language Learning 25
induced anxiety were signiﬁcantly less interpretive in commenting on
ambiguous scenes than their more relaxed counterparts, which indicates a
reluctance from anxious students to express personally relevant information in a
FL conversation;
• Trylong (1987) investigated the relationship between Year-1 university stu-
dents’ French achievements and their aptitude, attitudes, and anxiety, and
identiﬁed a negative relationship between anxiety and instructors’ ratings of
achievements but a positive one between favorable attitudes and achievements,
and he further concluded that aptitude, attitudes, and anxiety provide a useful
combination of effects for understanding the process of language learning;
• By examining the correlation between FLA and selected variables (e.g., lan-
guage background, test anxiety, public speaking anxiety), Price (1988) found
that FLA was negatively associated with FL aptitude, self-ratings of language
attitudes, and language achievements; and
• MacIntyre and Gardner (1989) extended a previous study (Gardner, Moorcroft,
& MacIntyre, 1987) and reported that FLA is independent of general anxiety
and influences both the input and output of FL learning negatively.
However, different voices can also be heard in this decade. For example, Young
(1986) investigated the influence of anxiety on the oral proﬁciency ratings of
prospective language teachers. Language proﬁciency was judged by taking into
account self-ratings of proﬁciency, a dictation test, and a practice interview. Four
measures of anxiety were examined:
• State Anxiety Scale (Spielberger, 1983);
• The Cognitive Interference Questionnaire (Sarason, 1980);
• Self-report of anxiety; and
• Items from the FLCAS scale (Horwitz et al., 1986).
Young (1986) identiﬁed that both self-ratings of proﬁciency and dictation tests
were signiﬁcantly correlated with oral proﬁciency interview scores. It was further
reported that three of the four anxiety scales (except the second one as listed above)
correlated signiﬁcantly (p < 0.01) with oral proﬁciency. In addition, it was main-
tained that there were insigniﬁcant partial correlations between the anxiety scales
and the proﬁciency scores after statistically removing the effects of the other pro-
ﬁciency measures. On the basis of these ﬁndings, it was concluded that anxiety has
little effect on the oral proﬁciency interview scores. By contrast, it is the language
ability that plays the decisive part in influencing the scores. Such a conclusion,
nonetheless, may not be warranted since it was argued that Young (1986) ignored
“the difﬁculty of interpreting the residualized scores used in partial correlation”
(MacIntyre & Gardner, 1991c, p. 108).
26 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
2.2.3 Research on FLA and Foreign Language Learning
After 1980s
Basically, research on FLA and FL learning after the 1980s follows the trend of
treating FLA as a situation-speciﬁc anxiety in relation to foreign language learning
in the late 1980s. However, there also appears a new tendency to identify more
speciﬁcally the sources of anxiety and the relationship of anxiety with the ﬁve
foreign language skills (i.e., listening, speaking, reading, writing, and translation).
2.2.3.1 Research on FLA and FL Learning: The Situation-Speciﬁc
Perspective
It has been argued in the above sections (i.e., Sects. 2.2.1 and 2.2.2) that a
situation-speciﬁc perspective provides the best approach to the research on the
relationship between FLA and FL learning. The studies reviewed by far also
demonstrate that FLA can and should be differentiated from other types of anxiety
and that FLA can influence FL learning negatively (cf., Yan & Horwitz, 2008). As a
result, the research on FLA and FL learning has blossomed after the advancements
in FLA theories and instruments in the 1980s (MacIntyre & Gardner, 1991c; Yan &
Horwitz, 2008).
For example, MacIntyre and Gardner (1991b) investigated both language anx-
iety and other forms of anxiety with 23 scales, and they obtained three factors:
Social Evaluation Anxiety, State Anxiety, and Language Anxiety. Correlations
were reported between scores on the basis of these factors and measures of
short-term memory (a Digit Span test) and vocabulary production (a Thing
Category test). The two tests were administered in both L1 (English) and L2
(French). It was shown that language anxiety was signiﬁcantly negatively correlated
with L2 performance on the scores of both tests; however, such correlations were
not identiﬁed between anxiety and the tests performed in the participants’ L1. In
another study designed to obtain information on the development of anxiety and
speciﬁc experiences that were most anxiety-provoking or conﬁdence-building for
learners, MacIntyre and Gardner (1991a) argued that students with lower and
moderate levels of French anxiety tended to perform better than those with higher
levels.
In a study conducted to examine the effects of language anxiety on students’ oral
test performance, Phillips (1992) concluded that foreign language anxiety was
correlated with several indicators of students’ achievement with the help of the
FLCAS, including oral test grades, teacher ranking, course grades, and a written
test. Foreign language anxiety was found to have a signiﬁcant moderate inverse
relationship with oral performance. In addition to the questionnaire survey, Phillips
(1992) also interviewed highly anxious students to investigate their attitudes
towards the oral test, and she reported a negative attitude towards the test across
ability boundaries. Furthermore, Phillips argues that one of the reasons why only
2.2 Research on FLA and Foreign Language Learning 27
moderate correlations were identiﬁed might be that the FLCAS did not measure
students’ anxiety related to the speciﬁc oral test, since “the more speciﬁc the anxiety
measure is to the performance measure, the more likelihood there is of a correla-
tion” (Phillips, 1992, p. 20). As argued by Yan (1998), one signiﬁcant feature of
Phillips’ (1992) study lies in that she followed the quantitative survey with a
qualitative interview, since traditional research in this ﬁeld has adopted only
quantitative studies.
In order to develop a fuller understanding of the nature of language anxiety and
its implications for language education of a non-Western language, Aida (1994)
investigated the relationship between language anxiety and the learning of Japanese
as a foreign language, which used Horwitz et al.’s (1986) theoretical model of FLA
as the research framework. Ninety-six university students learning second-year
Japanese in the USA participated in the study. With the administration of the
Foreign Language Classroom Anxiety Scale and a background questionnaire, Aida
(1994) suggested that the factors that influenced the students’ Japanese learning
anxiety included speech anxiety and fear of negative evaluation, fear of failing the
Japanese class, degree of comfort when speaking with native speakers of Japanese,
and negative attitudes towards the Japanese class. One ﬁnding inconsistent with
Horwitz et al. (1986) is that test anxiety was not identiﬁed as a factor leading to
students’ FLA. It is also found that FLA is negatively correlated with the ﬁnal
grades of these students, with the high anxiety group receiving signiﬁcantly lower
grades than low anxiety group (Aida, 1994).
Aida (1994) was not the only study reporting that FLA consists of four such
constructs. Aida’s study was reduplicated by Pérez-Paredes and Martínez-Sánchez
(2000–2001) to examine Horwitz et al.’s (1986) FLA constructs. Similarly, prin-
cipal component analysis also yielded four constructs. They suggested that FLCAS
factors are far from clear and thus further research is needed to establish the
components of FLA. To ﬁnd out which model (i.e., the three construct model and
the four construct model) had the better ﬁtness to FLA, Cao (2011) applied both
models to 300 Chinese college EFL students, and conﬁrmatory factor analysis
displayed that the three-model had the better ﬁt.
In Asian contexts, similar results were also obtained in research with participants
of both high school and university students. For instance, Cheng (1994) reported
that the FLCAS could best predict senior secondary school students’ English
proﬁciency in Taiwan. Other two studies involving the participation of university
students in Taiwan also showed that the FLCAS had statistically signiﬁcant ability
in predicting L2 speaking achievement (Cheng, 1994), and that shyness, FLA, and
willingness to communicate were correlated and that FLA was positively correlated
to shyness (Chu, 2008).
2.2.3.2 Research on FLA and FL Learning: A New Tendency
Young (1990) suggests that FLA may be best examined by considering different
language skills since FLA appears to be a form of anxiety not only speciﬁc to FL
28 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
learning, but also speciﬁc to the language skills to be acquired. In other words, FL
learners may experience different levels of anxiety depending on which language
skill (i.e., listening, speaking, reading, writing, and translation) is being learnt
(Chiang, 2006). The shift to this new tendency in FLA research is shown in the
following studies undertaken at the turn of the century.
With 253 Korean university students as participants, Kim (2000) indicated that
most of Korean university EFL learners experienced foreign language listening
anxiety (measured with the Foreign Language Listening Anxiety Scale—FLLAS),
which interfered with foreign language listening and served as the best predictor of
foreign language listening proﬁciency. Kim (2000) was echoed by Elkhafaiﬁ
(2005), which found that both FLLA and general FLA were signiﬁcantly related to
foreign language achievement, with the former more strongly correlated with lis-
tening grade than the latter. By applying the FLLAS to 452 EFL learners in Japan,
Kimura (2008) further reduced the items in the FLLAS to three constructs through
factor analysis: Emotionality, Worry, and Anticipatory Fear. Golchi (2012) ad-
ministered the FLLAS, the Listening Comprehension Strategy Questionnaire (Lee,
1997), and an IELTS listening test paper to 63 Iranian IELTS learners and obtained
the following ﬁndings: (1) FLLA was negatively correlated with listening com-
prehension and listening strategy use, (2) low anxious learners used metacognitive
strategies more than their high anxious counterparts did, (3) low anxious learners
got better listening performance as well, (4) male learners were less anxious than
female learners, and (5) learners with less years of English learning demonstrated
more FLLA than the more experienced learners. With 300 EFL participants com-
pleting the FLLAS and IELTS test twice with an interval of three and a half months,
Zhang (2013) concluded that FLLA could influence FL listening performance
negatively, probably due to the situation-speciﬁc nature of FLLA.
As far as I know, Xu (2011) was one of the few who studied FLLA without
using the FLLAS. With her own questionnaire, Xu (2011) found that 92% of her
140 participants experienced more or less FLLA and provided the following eight
suggestions to cope with FLLA: (a) making input comprehensible, (b) selecting
material of appropriate interest 1evel, (c) using instructors’ prior knowledge of the
material to guide the listeners, (d) selecting material at an appropriate level of
linguistic difﬁculty as regards syntax and vocabulary, (e) controlling the length of
the material, (f) repeating the material, (g) controlling the speed of delivery and
clarity of diction, and (h) being understanding and sensitive to student fears about
listening and FL learning. On the whole, most of the previous studies on FLLA
agreed that it is negatively related to learners’ FL listening performance or
achievement.
As for anxiety and oral aspects of language use, it is argued that FLA research
was almost completely associated with speaking skills and proﬁciency in the last
century and before (Horwitz, 2001). For example, Hilleson (1996, pp. 260–262)
reported that some students were so self-conscious about their pronunciation that
they considered their English accent “a subject of amusement for others” and that
“communicative apprehension can induce negative affective feelings” towards a
language. In Donley (1997a), many American community university students were
2.2 Research on FLA and Foreign Language Learning 29
found anxious about speaking Spanish in class, taking oral tests, and performing
lengthy or difﬁcult tasks. Donley (1997b) also found several effective coping
strategies, such as deep breathing, positive self-talk, and not calling on individual
students. In addition, Aydin (1999) identiﬁed that the sources of students’ anxiety
include personal concerns such as negative self-assessment of language learning
ability, high personal expectations as well as certain classroom practices like
speaking in front of the class and teacher’s manner. Suleimenova (2013) found that
increased FLSA levels in Kazakhstani students can be attributed to various factors,
for example, the Kazakhstani educational system is not designed to increase the
communicative competence of students, and hence many students may experience
anxiety when needing to speak in an FL. On the basis of the study of 147 Turkish
students’ learning EFL, Çagatay (2015) reported that these students experienced a
moderate level of FLSA, that females seemed to be more anxious than males while
speaking, and that students’ FLSA increases when communicating with a native
English speaker compared to with classmates. Using both questionnaire and
interview, Debreli, Kucuk, and Demirkan’s (2016) ﬁndings revealed that learners
with a higher level of language proﬁciency displayed a higher level of FLSA than
the lower level learners, since it is argued that competitiveness about not making
errors in the classroom becomes more serious and the expectations of the teachers
increase as well along with increasing proﬁciency levels (Marcos-Llinás & Garau,
2009). Debreli et al. (2016) also claimed a few new reasons of FLSA compared
with the current literature:
• Not understanding the question asked by the teacher,
• Being asked immediate questions by the teacher,
• The need to get prepared to speak,
• Lack of skill in pronouncing the words, and
• Not having a good English education before the current university
As one of the ﬁrst explorations seeking to determine if reading is distinctly
anxiety-provoking for some foreign language learners, Saito et al. (1999) intro-
duced a new construct, foreign language reading anxiety, and a scale for its mea-
surement (the Foreign Language Reading Anxiety Scale—FLRAS). On the basis of
a sample of 383 students of French (N = 192), Japanese (N = 114), and Russian
(N = 77), they reported that:
• Contrary to previous teacher intuitions, reading in a foreign language can be
anxiety-provoking to some students;
• FL reading anxiety can be distinguished from general FLA;
• The levels of reading anxiety were found to vary in line with the speciﬁc target
language; and
• Students’ reading anxiety levels increased with the perceived difﬁculty of
reading in their foreign language.
Saito et al.’s (1999) ﬁndings about foreign language reading anxiety are con-
sistent with Kim’s (1998) in that the latter also found that FLCAS scores were
30 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
signiﬁcantly negatively related to learners’ ﬁnal grades in both reading and con-
versation classes. Another study (Matsuda & Gobel, 2001) supported Saito et al.
(1999) by arguing that no signiﬁcant correlation is found between the FLCAS and
the FLRAS as a whole, that is, foreign language reading anxiety is also speciﬁc and
can be distinguished from general FLA. Wang and Li’s (2011) study also revealed
that FLLA was negatively related to their 92 participants’ reading comprehension
scores (r = −0.346, p < 0.001). Using the FLRAS, Nazarinasab, Nemati, and
Mortahan (2014) argued that FLRA was signiﬁcantly negatively related to their
Iranian participants’ reading comprehension as well (r = −0.333, p < 0.001,
N = 93). By employing the FLCAS, the FLRAS, and interviews, Subaşı (2014)
reported six main sources of FLRA, namely: personal reasons, teachers’ manners,
teaching procedures employed, the features of reading materials, reading test
anxiety, and students’ previous experiences.
With a sample of 433 Taiwanese English majors and two measurements, the
FLCAS and the modiﬁed version of Daly and Miller’s (1975a, 1975b) Second
Language Writing Apprehension Test, Cheng et al. (1999, p. 417) investigated the
links between L2 classroom anxiety and L2 writing anxiety as well as their asso-
ciations with L2 speaking and writing achievement. They found that L2 classroom
anxiety and L2 writing anxiety are “two related but independent constructs”, and
that the former is a more general type of anxiety about L2 learning with a strong
speaking anxiety element, whereas the latter is a language-skill-speciﬁc anxiety. In
spite of their distinctness, low self-conﬁdence seems to be an important component
of both anxiety constructs. They also reported that both of the two measurements
are signiﬁcantly correlated with writing achievement, with the second measurement
being more strongly related to it than the ﬁrst one. Other two scales widely-used in
the study of FL writing anxiety are: the foreign language writing anxiety scale
(FLWAS) developed by Young (1999) and the second language writing anxiety
inventory (SLWAI) by Cheng (2004).
In recent years, Marzec-stawiarska (2012) reported that writing anxiety could be
observed among advanced adult EFL learners and the most common symptoms
included heart pounding, freezing up, mind going blank, and jumbled thoughts.
Choi (2013) found no signiﬁcant correlation between junior-high school students’
EFL writing anxiety and writing performance although students with high writing
anxiety level tended to perform poorly in writing. Liu and Ni (2015) made use of
the FLWAS, focused interview, and an English writing test among 1,174 EFL
university students in China and their main ﬁndings were:
• The FLWAS had three major constructs—low conﬁdence in English writing,
dislike of English writing, and English writing evaluation apprehension;
• Their participants liked and were generally conﬁdent in English writing, and
were not apprehensive of having their English writing evaluated;
• Signiﬁcant differences existed between students of different gender and among
different proﬁciency groups;
2.2 Research on FLA and Foreign Language Learning 31
• FLWA was strikingly negatively correlated to students’ performance in the
English writing test; and
• A number of reasons (e.g., the difﬁculty of English writing, lack of vocabulary,
and unfamiliarity with the writing genre) led to the students’ FLWA.
In terms of translation skills, Chiang (2006) introduced and distinguished
interpretation anxiety from general FLA with the help of 327 Taiwanese university
students learning Chinese-English interpretation as questionnaire participants and
ten of them as interviewees. With the quantitative data, he found that interpretation
anxiety and FLA had signiﬁcant negative relationships with the learning outcomes,
and his qualitative data yielded ﬁve main source variables (namely, speaker,
audience, self, task, and classroom procedures variables) and four major effects
(i.e., physiological, life routines, cognitive, and beyond-classroom effects) of
interpretation anxiety. Drawing on the data provided by 50 translation majors, Yan
and Wang (2012) reported that there are signiﬁcant correlations between FLWA,
translation performance, and language ability, and that the factors provoking
FLWA in the translation class include the fear of being evaluated and the general
apprehension of writing in English. They also suggested that it is important for
translation teachers to be aware of anxiety-provoking practices, help students
reduce anxiety levels, and encourage student translators to form correct and positive
self-perceptions about their language abilities.
To sum up, the new tendency of investigation into the anxieties speciﬁc to each
of the ﬁve language skills suggests that FLA is multifaceted, and therefore implies
that instructional interventions might need to be tailored to the speciﬁc concerns of
each aspect of language skills. The next section will discuss the sources leading to
FLA.
2.3 Research on the Sources of FLLA
The literature reviewed seems to suggest a negative correlation between FLA and
achievement. However, it should be noted that anxiety does not work in isolation
(Yan & Horwitz, 2008). A further examination of the relationship between FLA and
achievement shows that there are many other factors working together with FLA to
affect students’ learning outcomes. In other words, these factors might be sources of
students’ FLA.
Several studies have explored the question of why adult students would feel
anxious in FL class. Among them, Horwitz et al. (1986, p. 128) maintain that:
Adults typically perceive themselves as reasonably intelligent, socially-adept individuals,
sensitive to different socio-cultural mores. These assumptions are rarely challenged when
communicating in a native language as it is usually not difﬁcult to understand others or to
make oneself understood. However, the situation when learning a foreign language stands
in marked contrast. Because individual communication attempts will be evaluated
according to uncertain or even unknown linguistic and socio-cultural standards, second
32 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
language communication entails risk taking and is necessarily problematic. Because
complex and non-spontaneous mental operations are required in order to communicate at
all, any performance in the L2 is likely to challenge an individual’s self-concept as a
competent communicator and lead to reticence, self-consciousness, fear, or even panic.
In view of this and other arguments, Horwitz et al. (1986) suggest that adult FL
learners are mature in thoughts and ideas but immature in FL linguistic system
through which to voice them. They further state that these language learners also
worry about negative evaluation because of their uncertainty over what they need to
say in FL. The authors believe that the third source leading to learners’ anxiety is
the unavoidable assessment in language classes since they will be tested on the
proﬁciency of a language that they are still learning.
In addition to the theories put forward by Horwitz et al. (1986), some other sources
of language anxiety include competitive pressure from other students (Bailey, 1983),
the fear of speaking in public (Young, 1990), instructors’ aggressive way of teaching
(Young, 1991), the belief that others are better language learners (Price, 1991), and
teachers’ unsuitable methods of error correction (Koch & Terrell, 1991). On the basis
of the above-mentioned literature review on anxiety in language learning, Young
(1991) identiﬁed the following six potential sources of language anxiety: (a) personal
and interpersonal anxieties, (b) learner beliefs about language learning, (c) instructor
beliefs about language teaching, (d) instructor-learner interactions, (e) classroom
procedures, and (f) language testing. In interviews with foreign language specialists
(including Stephen Krashen, Alice Omaggio Hadley, Tracy Terrell, and Jennybelle
Rardin), Young (1992) further reported some other factors playing a role in learner
anxiety which include motivation, cultural factors, students’ own coping skills,
attention, self-concept, and the speciﬁc teaching methodology student experiences.
In addition to Young’s work in this ﬁeld, other researchers (e.g., Cheng, 2002;
Dewaele, 2002; Dewaele, Petrides, & Furnham, 2008; Onwuegbuzie, Bailey, &
Daley, 1999, 2000) also discussed additional sources like frequency of language use,
and context of language acquisition. Hence, this section will try to systematically
explore the sources leading to students’ FLA (cf., Yan, 1998).
2.3.1 Personal and Interpersonal Anxieties
According to Young (1991, p. 427), “[p]ersonal and interpersonal issues are
probably the most commonly cited and discussed sources of language anxiety in
most studies”. She further argues that the category of personal and interpersonal
anxieties includes self-esteem, competitiveness, speech anxiety, shyness, stage
fright, embarrassment, social-evaluative anxiety, and comprehension apprehension.
In addition to Young (1991), personal and interpersonal issues have been addressed
in other studies. For example, on the basis of 11 learners’ diaries, Bailey (1983)
indicates that these learners’ competitive nature can be a source of anxiety since
they were inclined to get anxious when they compared themselves against other
learners or an idealized image. Horwitz et al. (1986, p. 128) maintain that students’
2.3 Research on the Sources of FLLA 33
high self-esteem may be challenged during L2 learning because “communication
attempts will be evaluated according to uncertain or even unknown linguistic and
socio-cultural standards”. When interviewed by Young (1992, p. 168), Jennybelle
Rardin also proposed that anxiety built into the language learning process would
“touch the core of one’s self-identity, one’s self-image”. However, it is worth
noting that there are also studies reporting the absence of a relationship between
language anxiety and self-esteem (e.g., Price, 1988).
2.3.2 Learner Beliefs About Language Learning
Young (1991) concluded that learner beliefs about language learning are another
major contributor to FLA, which is consistent with Bailey’s (1983) assertion that
what students believe is probably more signiﬁcant than any external reality.2
The
ﬁndings of these two studies can be conﬁrmed with those from other research. For
instance, Horwitz and associates (Horwitz, 1988; Horwitz et al., 1986) discovered
that learners’ great concern over the correctness of their utterances and an excellent
accent might induce anxiety since these beliefs are unrealistic for FL learners.
One aspect of learner beliefs requiring special attention is an individual learner’s
self-perceived competence, which concerns self-evaluation of communicative
ability (McCroskey & McCroskey, 1986). Gardner et al. (1984) reported that
French class anxiety is more closely related to the factors concerning
self-perception of French competence than French achievement. Language anxiety
has a stronger relationship with subjective proﬁciency or perceived competence
than objective achievement (Clément, Dörnyei, & Noels, 1994; MacIntyre, 1992).
As measured with the FLCAS, it is reported that both self-efﬁcacy and
self-conﬁdence in speaking English correlated strongly with learners’ FLA (Chiang,
2006; Truitt, 1995). Moreover, self-perceived competence is considered to be one
of the two preconditions underlying learner’s willingness to communicate
(MacIntyre, Clément, Dörnyei, & Noels, 1998). Highly anxious language beginners
with low perceived proﬁciency might get into a vicious circle, that is, they might
avoid L2 communication, which, in turn, deprives them of the chance to improve
their proﬁciency and experience, and without an improvement in proﬁciency, it is
unlikely that they will experience a decrease in anxiety or an increase in perceived
competence (Baker & MacIntyre, 2000). Donovan and MacIntyre (2004) also
reported that self-perceived competence correlates negatively with FLA. With his
1,459 participants, Dewaele (2007b) reported a similar pattern: FLA is a signiﬁcant
negative predictor of these participants’ self-perceived L2 oral proﬁciency.
2
By “what students believe”, Bailey (1983) refers to students’ “perceived competence” and
“subjective proﬁciency”, and “external reality” means “the objective achievement and proﬁciency
measured”.
34 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
2.3.3 Instructor Beliefs About Language Teaching
In addition to learners’ beliefs, instructors’ beliefs about language teaching can be a
further source of students’ FLA (e.g., Levine, 2003; Peacock, 1999). More evidence
can be obtained from Brandl’s (1987) study reporting that most teachers consider “a
little bit of intimidation as a necessary and supportive motivation for promoting
students’ performance”. Young (1991) maintained that the following beliefs held by
teachers may be contributing to learners’ language anxiety:
• An instructor’s role is to correct students’ errors constantly;
• The class may get out of control if an instructor has students working in pairs;
• The instructor should be doing most of the talking and teaching; and
• The instructor’s role is that of a “drill sergeant” (p. 428) rather than a facilitator.
In addition, mismatches in language beliefs between students and instructors
may also lead to students’ FLA (Kern, 1995). Tsui (1996, p. 158) reported that
teachers’ intolerance of silence is another source of FLA, since a FL teacher “who
keeps repeating the same question or the name of the student when an immediate
response is not forthcoming is inadvertently undermining the self-esteem of the
student”, which, in turn, will increase students’ FLA (Foss & Reitzel, 1988;
Heyde-Parsons, 1983).
2.3.4 Instructor-Learner Interactions
Instructor-learner interactions have been consistently addressed as one of the
sources of FLA in classrooms (Gregersen & Horwitz, 2002; Koch & Terrell, 1991;
Liu & Jackson, 2008; Peacock, 1999; Price, 1991; Young, 1990, 1991). On the one
hand, language learners feel that some error correction is necessary (Horwitz, 1986,
1988; Koch & Terrell, 1991; Young, 1990). On the other hand, it is reported that
language learners are anxious about instructor’s manners of error correction as well
as about their own probability of “responding incorrectly, being incorrect in front of
their peers, and looking or sounding ‘dumb’” (Young, 1991, p. 429). Studies also
found that learners’ anxiety could be alleviated by a non-harsh attitude towards
error correction (e.g., Aida, 1994; Young, 1990). Therefore, what matters “is not
necessarily error correction but the manner of error correction—when, how often,
and, most importantly, how errors are corrected” (Young, 1991, p. 429). In addi-
tion, it is identiﬁed that learners’ affective barriers can be greatly reduced by a
non-judgmental (Samimy & Rardin, 1994), non-threatening (Proulx, 1991) and
non-harsh (Aida, 1994) teaching attitude.
2.3 Research on the Sources of FLLA 35
2.3.5 Classroom Procedures
In terms of classroom procedures, oral activities are believed to be the greatest
source of FLA (e.g., Aydin, 1999; Bowen, 2005; Fitzgerald, 2005). Speciﬁcally,
Horwitz et al. (1986, pp. 126–127) suggested that students tend to be anxious in FL
classroom settings when they:
• need to convey difﬁcult or personal messages in the target language;
• take part in role-play activities;
• have a test or an oral exercise with many grammar points to be remembered and
coordinated simultaneously;
• know the correct answer but provide the wrong one because of nervousness; and
• over study with no improvements in grades.
Price (1991) also identiﬁed four sources of FL classroom anxiety for students:
• Having to speak the target language in front of their peers;
• Making errors in pronunciation;
• Failing to communicate effectively; and
• Getting bogged down by difﬁculties in language classes.
According to Young (1991), “on the spot” and “in front of the class” are most
anxiety-provoking to students, while “silent reading” is the least. Hence, for the
purpose of reducing students’ anxiety in classroom, they should not be put on the
spot or focused on their errors, nor should they be forced to speak before they are
ready, and the input should be interesting (Young, 1992).
Tsui (1996) found that uneven allocation of turns in classroom teaching may also
lead to students’ FLA. In order to avoid silence and to give themselves the illusion
that learning is taking place, the teachers out of expedience often make use of the
strategy of uneven allocation of turns in classroom teaching. This strategy is
believed to have either undermined the weaker students’ self-esteem (when the
turns are allocated in favor of the brighter ones) or have created anxiety in the
weaker students (when the turns are allocated in favor of them), since “they may
perceive the uneven turn allocation as ‘picking on them’ or ‘putting them on the
spot’, especially if they are reprimanded for not being able to answer the question or
for making mistakes” (Tsui, 1996, p. 159).
2.3.6 Language Testing
As found by previous research, language testing may also cause students’ FLA
(e.g., Chang, 2008; Oh, 1992; Yang, 2005). To put it in detail, McCroskey (1977)
identiﬁed four sources of communication apprehension relevant to testing: novelty,
formality, subordinate status, and degree of evaluation. Research also indicated that
learner anxiety can be induced by invalid, ambiguous, and unfamiliar tests (Young,
36 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
1991), and novel and highly evaluative tests (Daly, 1991). Furthermore, some test
types, such as translation and story-telling, are found to be more anxiety-provoking
than others like dictation and true-false (Madsen, Brown, & Jones, 1991).
2.3.7 Motivation
The lack of strong internal motivation to learn a FL may also be one of the sources
of students’ language anxiety because they have to face the external pressure of
having to learn the FL, such as for passing the exams (Brantmeier, 2005; Cheng,
1994; Chu, 2008; Svanes, 1987). Clément and associates (Clément, 1987; Clément
et al., 1980) found that language anxiety can both result from and in low motivation
in learning. Lalonde and Gardner (1984) suggested, in their causal model, that low
motivation results in French class anxiety, which, in turn, influences students’
perceived proﬁciency. It is thus suggested that FL teachers use diversiﬁed strategies
in class which they believe will motivate students and decrease their language
anxiety, and hence improve their language proﬁciency (Bernaus & Gardner, 2008).
2.3.8 Cultural Factors
Studies found that cultural factors might interact with language anxiety (Cetinkaya,
2005; Jones, 2002; Le, 2004; Lucas, 1984; Young, 1992). Cultural reasons might
make many people feel anxious in situations like a telephone conversation (Young,
1992). Lucas (1984) suggested that communication apprehension (CA) can be far
more common in some cultural situations than in others. She investigated
Japanese ESL students’ problems on the issue of CA and believed that a reason for
Japanese students’ fear of making mistakes in FL classroom stemmed from their
early education about not bringing disgrace to their family. Moreover, Lucas (1984)
reviewed the following ﬁve differences between Japanese society and American
society, originally reported by Ishii et al. (1978), which might account for a major
part of Japanese learners’ oral CA:
• Group versus Individual Orientation. For the Japanese, group harmony is val-
ued, therefore, talk tends to conﬁrm each other and not to oppose others directly.
While Americans are more “individualistically oriented” and prefer “value
openness, frankness, and a healthy confrontation of ideas” (Lucas, 1984,
p. 595);
• Aesthetic versus Cognitive Style of Communicating. The Japanese stress the
communicator’s feelings and attitudes, and thus value nonverbal messages much
more than verbal ones. In other words, they “read” feelings. However,
Americans emphasize the exchange of ideas and thus value verbal messages
more than nonverbal ones, i.e. they “listen” to words (Lucas, 1984, p. 595);
2.3 Research on the Sources of FLLA 37
• Non-persuasive versus Persuasive Talk. To the Japanese, using language to
persuade or establish mutual understanding is not a good practice. Instead, they
try to make themselves understood by not talking. However, the reverse is true
for Americans;
• Total versus No Understanding. To the Japanese, understanding the entire
personality of another individual is an “emotional oneness”: one can be either
understood totally or not at all. Americans, on the other hand, believe that it is
impossible to completely understand another person. Hence, “they are more
flexible and cooperative in oral interaction” (Lucas, 1984, p. 595); and
• Non-direct versus Direct Talk. To the Japanese, communication tends to be
indirect, while for Americans, it is direct and up-front.
2.3.9 Frequency of Language Use
The lack of sufﬁcient use is thought to be another source of FLA. For example,
Baker and MacIntyre (2000) compared two groups of Anglophone learners of
French in an immersion and a non-immersion program respectively and found that
those in the non-immersion program had a much higher level of FLA in French,
although the two groups showed virtually equal levels of CA in English. The reason
behind this is that:
The increased contact with the language in the immersion program seems to give the
students an opportunity to improve their ability to predict and conﬁrm expectations
(McCroskey & Richmond, 1987), thereby increasing their perceived competence. This sets
off a chain of behavior in which the student feels less anxious about communicating and
thus more competent. (Baker & MacIntyre, 2000, p. 333)
Dewaele et al. (2008) also reported that practice in authentic communication in
the target language country boosts learners’ self-conﬁdence by increasing the fre-
quency of language use, which, in effect, reduce their level of FLA. Indeed, the
frequency of language use is believed to be closely associated with the development
of both grammatical accuracy and the more elusive aspects of sociopragmatic,
sociolinguistic, and sociocultural competence (Dewaele, 2004a, 2004b, 2005, 2006,
2007a, 2007c, 2008; Dewaele & Pavlenko, 2002).
2.3.10 Context of Language Acquisition
The context of language acquisition is also a signiﬁcant factor related to FLA
(Dewaele, 2004a, 2004b, 2005, 2006, 2007a, 2007b, 2007c, 2008; Matsuda &
Gobel, 2004). For instance, it is reported that Japanese students with overseas
English learning experience demonstrated remarkably less FLA in speaking
(Matsuda & Gobel, 2004). Compared to classroom learners, the naturalistic or
38 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
mixed learners of FL were also found to feel more proﬁcient and less anxious
(Dewaele, 2004b, 2007a), while the former may have more difﬁculties presenting
themselves authentically in the target language (Horwitz, 2000, 2009). In addition,
studies found that the way in which the language is learnt and, more speciﬁcally,
the amount of authentic interaction (as opposed to mechanistic classroom practice)
in the target language has a signiﬁcant effect on learners’ self-perceived language
proﬁciency and FLA (e.g., Dewaele, 2004b, 2007b).
2.4 Strategies for FLLA
Language learning anxiety has been extensively discussed and researched for more
than ﬁfty years (e.g., Alpert & Haber, 1960; Dewaele, 2013; Horwitz et al., 1986).
A number of recent studies have quantiﬁed the effects of FLA on foreign language
learning (e.g., Dewaele, 2013; Liu & Jackson, 2008). Many studies have explored
the reasons resulting in adult learners’ FLA in general (e.g., Alrabai, 2014; He,
2013; Liu & Jackson, 2008; Shabani, 2012; Yan & Horwitz, 2008). Nevertheless,
studies concerning the strategies for FLA, especially FLSA, are insufﬁcient. The
few notable ones will be reviewed in this section.
2.4.1 Limited Research on Strategies Coping with FLLA
Lucas (1984) mentioned two steps to manage students’ FLLA in Japan. Her ﬁrst
step, to create a warm and easy-going classroom atmosphere, includes the following
methods: to provide students with relaxation exercises (e.g., rhythmic breathing), to
help students become familiar with one another at the outset of a course, to
introduce students to social formulae and dialogues, to teach students how to get out
of trouble or embarrassing situations, and to teach students to use gambits (e.g.,
really? Uh-huh) appropriately. Her second step is to involve students in various
classroom activities so that students can practise more in the target language.
However, like most of the other studies on coping strategies for FLSA, hers did not
mention whether these methods or strategies have been veriﬁed to be effective or
not.
Horwitz et al. (1986) also proposed two general ways to reduce FLLA: the
teachers can help students cope with the factors resulting in their FLLA, and teacher
and students work together to decrease the pressure from the learning environment.
Another study based on empirical data from 244 students learning Spanish in the
USA found that teacher characteristics such as “a non-harsh attitude towards error
correction, a positive, friendly and relaxed general attitude towards students” can
help alleviate students’ FLSA (Young, 1990, p. 551). Through her interviews with
four language specialists, Young (1992) identiﬁed 16 strategies coping with FLSA,
2.3 Research on the Sources of FLLA 39
including having students work in pairs or small groups, not forcing students to
speak before they are ready, and not putting anyone on the spot.
Donley (1997b) proposed ten coping strategies, such as discussing feelings with
peer students and the instructor, getting prepared for class, and remembering that
making errors is natural for language learning. However, all the ten methods are
simply his own critical thoughts based on his personal Spanish teaching experiences
in the USA, rather than ﬁndings from an empirical study.
Kondo and Yang (2004) found 70 tactics for coping with language anxiety based
on their study about 219 students learning English as a foreign language (EFL) in
Japan, which were cohered into ﬁve categories: preparation, relaxation, positive
thinking, peer thinking, and resignation (i.e., students doing nothing to reduce their
FLA, e.g., giving up, sleeping in class). Nonetheless, it should not be ignored that
resignation is not an active coping strategy and hence of no pedagogic value.
Liu (2007, p. 132) listed ten reasons of non-English majors’ FLSA in China, but
her participants “seemed to be at a loss” when asked about the strategies for coping
with their FLSA. Only a couple of them suggested that students should have more
practice and build up self-conﬁdence, and teachers should try to provide a “friendly,
supportive and non-threatening classroom-learning environment”. Nevertheless,
Liu’s (2007) study was based on a sample of only 27 students.
Tsiplakides and Keramida (2009) was another case study based on a small
sample of 15 junior secondary school students (aged 13–14 years) in Greece. The
interventions they reported to reduce FLSA are project work and establishing a
supportive learning community. The second intervention includes:
• building a better teacher-student relationship by negotiating a set of classroom
rules like tolerance of mistake, considering errors a natural part of FLL,
expectations of success from all students, group discussions with mixed ability
students, and students being given equally academically challenging questions
and tasks;
• providing indirect error correction;
• accepting the need for self worth protection;
• employing both verbal (e.g., use of humor, use of students’ given name) and
non-verbal (e.g., positive gestures, eye contact) types of teacher immediacy
behaviours; and
• non-verbal praise (e.g., a positive head movement) instead of verbal praise for
minor accomplishments.
These interventions were assessed to be effective in helping reduce students’
FLSA based on their willingness to communicate orally and improved speaking
performance at the end of one semester.
Hashemi and Abbasi (2013) reviewed and summarised previous studies and
listed twenty coping strategies for EFL instructors and learners, to name a few,
instructors acknowledging the existence of anxiety among learners, instructors
using formative assessment more to decrease learners’ worry about classroom
40 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
performance and grades, learners using positive self-talk, and learners encouraging
themselves to take risks in EFL learning.
Among the studies focusing on strategies, Alrabai (2015) is the second one that
tested the effectiveness of the strategies in EFL classes. He proposed and tested
seven strategies for teachers to implement, including demonstrating appropriate
teaching behaviour to students, reducing students’ communication apprehension,
reducing students’ fear of negative evaluation, among others. Each strategy
involved speciﬁc practices and techniques that facilitated teachers’ implementation
of the strategy. However, the participants in his study were of varied EFL proﬁ-
ciency levels in Saudi Arabia context, which may lead to a doubt whether the same
strategies can be applicable to learners from other cultural contexts or societies such
as China.
2.4.2 Effectiveness of FLLA Coping Strategies
From the studies mentioned above, it can be concluded that there are fewer
empirical studies focusing on the coping strategies for FLLA than the ones on the
reasons leading to FLLA, and few of the existing ones proved whether the strategies
they reported were effective or not except for Alrabai (2015). The appropriateness
of these strategies to EFL students in China remains in doubt. In addition, the
paucity of empirical research into FLSA of university students in China also makes
it more signiﬁcant to make such an attempt, like the study to be covered in Chap. 5
of the current book. This study also involved a process of application and veriﬁ-
cation of the strategies identiﬁed, which would provide important pedagogic
implications for foreign language education in China.
2.5 Competing Models of FLLA
In spite of the fact that the majority of FL researchers and scholars have generally
accepted Horwitz et al.’s (1986) theory and framework, some have proposed either
partial modiﬁcation to or total revision of this conceptualization. On the one hand,
studies related to the subcontinents of FLA via factor analysis have questioned
Horwitz et al.’s (1986) conceptual framework. For example, it was argued that of
the three components in Horwitz et al.’s (1986) framework of FLA, test anxiety did
not appear to be a factor as important as the other two (MacIntyre & Gardner,
1989). Aida (1994) studied Japanese learning anxiety and reported four underlying
factors of FLA instead of three by Horwitz et al. (1986): (1) speech anxiety and fear
of negative evaluation, (2) fear of failing the Japanese class, (3) comfortableness in
speaking with Japanese people, and (4) negative attitudes towards the Japanese
class. There are also studies identifying two underlying factors of FLA—low
self-conﬁdence in English speaking and general English classroom performance
2.4 Strategies for FLLA 41
anxiety (Cheng, 1998; Cheng et al., 1999; Matsuda & Gobel, 2001). As a result, it
was maintained that test anxiety appears to be a general problem not speciﬁc to
FLA while the other two components (i.e., communication apprehension and fear of
negative evaluation) are central to Horwitz et al.’s (1986) framework of FLA (Aida,
1994; MacIntyre & Gardner, 1989, 1991b). Aida (1994, p. 162) even insisted that
“items reflective of test anxiety could be eliminated from the FLCAS” since they
are not “conceptually related to other components of foreign language anxiety as
Horwitz et al. proposed”.
On the other hand, Sparks, Ganschow, and associates (Ganschow, Javorsky, &
Sparks, 1998; Ganschow & Sparks, 1996; Ganschow et al., 1994; Sparks &
Ganschow, 1991, 1993a, 1993b, 1995, 2001, 2007; Sparks, Ganschow, Artzer,
Siebenhar, & Plageman, 1997; Sparks, Ganschow, Artzer, Siebenhar, & Plageman,
2004; Sparks, Ganschow, & Javorsky, 2000) challenge whether FLA can be
entirely independent of language achievement and whether the FLCAS measures
anxiety or language skills. Alternatively, they suggest that their Linguistic Coding
Differences/Deﬁcits Hypothesis (LCDH) be used to account for poor FL achieve-
ment, which is based on the work in the area of reading disabilities and linguistic
aptitude by Caroll (1981) and others. In their LCDH, they argue that
FL learning is based primarily on one’s native language learning ability (i.e., language
aptitude), students’ anxiety about FL learning is likely to be a consequence of their FL
learning difﬁculties, and students’ language learning ability is a confounding variable when
studying the impact of affective differences (e.g., anxiety, motivation, attitude) on FL
learning. (Sparks et al., 2000, p. 251)
In developing their LCDH, Sparks and Ganschow (1991, 1993a, 1993b, 1995)
have argued repeatedly that deﬁcits (or differences) in the ability to encode L1 are
primarily responsible for observed individual differences in L2 achievement.
Furthermore, they have proposed that affective reactions to language learning (e.g.,
anxiety, motivation, attitudes) are based primarily on differences among learners in
the ability to decode L1 input. Sparks and Ganschow’s (1993b) criticisms against
affective variables are mainly based on the following two grounds. First, they argue
that affective variables are typically measured with self-report questionnaires and
that such methods generally have measurement problems. Second, on the basis of
“speculations” by Crain (1989), they maintain that affective variables are unrelated
to language during cognitive processing. Speciﬁcally, Sparks and Ganschow (1991)
question the work of Horwitz et al. (1986) insisting that the latter may have
overlooked L1 deﬁcits as the cause of both higher anxiety and lower proﬁciency.
Responding to Sparks et al.’s arguments, MacIntyre (1995b, p. 245) argues that
the primary drawback of the LCDH is that “it ignores the context in which language
learning occurs; with it, we can’t see the forest for the trees”. MacIntyre (1995a)
went into details to reply to Sparks and Ganschow’s (1991, 1993b) criticisms
reported in the preceding paragraph. Firstly, MacIntyre (1995a) believes that Sparks
and Ganschow overgeneralize their criticism of all self-report measures without
realizing the availability of highly reliable and valid measures of language-related
affective variables, such as the Attitude/Motivation Test Battery (Gardner, 1985)
42 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
and the FLCAS (Horwitz et al., 1986). Secondly, according to MacIntyre, Sparks
and Ganschow seemed to be using “language” to refer to its purely linguistic
aspects when assuming that affective variables are cognitively unrelated to lan-
guage. Thirdly, MacIntyre explains that the criticism which Sparks and Ganschow
(1991) made against Horwitz et al. (1986) is “almost always valid for correlational
studies, where a third variable might influence both of the variables in the corre-
lation”. This makes LCDH no exception since it does not take into consideration the
potential effects of affective variables while considering the relation between
aptitude and achievement (MacIntyre, 1995a, p. 95).
In addition to the debates between Sparks et al. and MacIntyre, Sparks et al.
(2000) also reject Saito et al.’s (1999) theories on FL reading anxiety and regard
them almost identical to Horwitz et al.’s (1986) framework about general FL
anxiety. Sparks et al. (2000) criticize Saito et al.’s (1999) hypotheses on FL reading
from four viewpoints. First of all, according to Sparks et al. (2000), a considerable
body of literature on reading acquisition has crystallized that reading words and
reading comprehension are based on learners’ language processing skills, that
phonological processing skills are signiﬁcant for solving reading difﬁculties (e.g.,
Leong & Joshi, 1997; Olofsson & Niedersoe, 1999; Porpodas, 1999), and that the
development of word decoding and reading comprehension is similar in L1 and L2.
On the basis of these arguments, Sparks et al. (2000, p. 252) believe that it is
“premature” for Saito et al. (1999) to suggest that FL reading problems might be
due to anxiety.
Secondly, Sparks et al. (2000, p. 252) question the FL reading anxiety scale (the
FLRAS) because it “indicates a possible confounding interaction between language
skills and anxiety” just as Howitz et al. (1986) confound interaction between
affective variables and students’ language skills. For instance, item 2 of the scale,
“When reading (the FL), I often understand the words but still can’t quite under-
stand what the author is saying” indicates potential difﬁculty with reading com-
prehension rather than anxiety. Therefore, “given the potential for interaction
between reading skill and anxiety, the authors of the FLRAS cannot be certain
whether their scale is measuring FL reading anxiety, FL reading skill, or both”
(Sparks et al., 2000, p. 252).
Thirdly, when it came to research design, Sparks et al. (2000) pointed out that
Saito et al. (1999) failed to choose their participants randomly, which weakens not
only the internal validity of their study but also the possibility to conclude that a
given FL is related to higher levels of FL reading anxiety.
Fourthly, in terms of measuring variance in language skills, Saito et al. (1999)
were criticized for their failure to measure and control their participants’ level of L1
or FL reading skills (Sparks et al., 2000). Without measuring skill levels, Sparks
et al. believe that the authors could not determine whether their participants had
difﬁculties with text processing. Thus, Sparks et al. (2000, p. 253) proposed that
“[o]nly by including language variables in their studies will researchers who
investigate affective variables be able to discern the contribution made by affective
differences in FL learning”.
2.5 Competing Models of FLLA 43
In response to Sparks et al.’s (2000) criticisms, Horwitz (2000) argued that
Sparks et al. believed, on the basis of their theories of cognitive deﬁcits in language
learning, that FLA (including reading anxiety) was a result, rather than a cause, of
poor achievement in FL learning. In other words, Sparks et al. believed that “the
consistently moderate negative relationships between foreign language anxiety and
language achievement reported in the literature are the result of an uncontrolled
third variable, a subtle cognitive-linguistic disability, which causes poor achieve-
ment which, in turn, causes anxiety” (Horwitz, 2000, p. 256). This was acceptable
to Horwitz and other researchers associated with the topic of FLA, but in addition to
that, Horwitz also believed that there are people who are “anxious about language
learning independent of processing deﬁcits and that such anxiety reactions can
interfere with language learning” (Ibid.). To support this belief and to reply to
Sparks et al.’s (2000) criticisms, Horwitz (2000) listed the following proofs.
First of all, as evoked by Horwitz et al. (1986) and Horwitz (1986), countless
language learners and teachers wrote letters and called to report their (their stu-
dents’) anxiety in FL class and the efforts to ﬁght against it, which helped to
validate the potential of anxiety to interfere with FL learning and performance, one
of the most accepted areas of research in psychology and education (e.g.,
MacIntyre, 1995a, 1995b; Spielberger, 1966). To put it another way, the number of
learners (almost one third of American college students) reporting FLA was
obviously too large to support Spark et al.’s theory. Furthermore, the participants in
the anxiety studies (Aida, 1994; Horwitz, 1986; Horwitz et al., 1986; Phillips, 1992;
Price, 1991; Saito et al., 1999; Saito & Samimy, 1996; Young, 1990) were uni-
versity students with at least average language aptitude.
Secondly, Horwitz (2000) thinks that Sparks et al.’s cognitive deﬁcit hypothesis
fails to explain certain phenomena well-documented in anxiety studies, such as
anxious language learners failing to perceive themselves being anxious (e.g., Price,
1991) and experiencing different levels of anxiety with different language learning
activities (e.g., Koch & Terrell, 1991; Madsen et al., 1991; Young, 1990), and even
advanced and highly successful learners (i.e., individuals with enough linguistic
processing abilities) reporting FLA (e.g., Horwitz, 1996).
Thirdly, Horwitz (2000) found it quite puzzling for Sparks et al. to reject the use
of items (see Sparks et al., 2000 for details) related to FL learning in FLA scales
because they believe that such items concern decoding and comprehension in
reading. Horwitz (2000, p. 257) agrees that learners with language disabilities might
approve of these items. However, she holds that “it would be impossible to measure
people’s reading anxiety without asking them about reading”.
Lastly but most importantly, it is believed that Sparks et al.’s arguments are
based on an outdated and simplistic view of language learning that requires just
sound-symbol correspondence although they can be used to explain some indi-
vidual differences in L2 learning (Horwitz, 2000). As a result, it is unreasonable for
Sparks et al. to persistently exclude other theories except for their LCDH from
contributing to the problems in FL achievements. Above all, Horwitz (2001)
emphasizes that anxiety is a well-accepted source of interference in all kinds of
learning and that the case of FL learning should be no exception.
44 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
With regard to the effects of FLLA: merely debilitating or facilitating also, there
seems to be long-standing arguments too. Ever since anxiety has been divided into
facilitating anxiety and debilitating anxiety depending on whether it produces
positive or negative effects towards performance (Alpert & Haber, 1960, see
Sects. 1.2 and 2.1.3 for more details), there have been different opinions on the
relationship between FLA and learners’ language performance. On the one hand,
the ﬁndings of a number of studies (e.g., Kang, 2012; Ito, 2008; Spielmann &
Radnofsky, 2001) maintain that some anxiety can motivate students and even
enhance their performance. On the other hand, a large quantity of studies emphasize
the debilitating effects of FLA in classroom (e.g., Elkhafaiﬁ, 2005; Gregersen,
2003; Gregersen & Horwitz, 2002; Horwitz, 1995; Li & Liu, 2013; MacIntyre &
Gardner, 1989; Young, 1986). Therefore, is FLA largely a negative ingredient of
successful language learning and thus should be avoided by every means or can it
also facilitate language learning when it is at an optimal level? This will be an issue
of lasting interest in the ﬁeld of FLLA.
This chapter reviewed ﬁve aspects related to previous literature in the ﬁeld. It
started with an overview of the research on anxiety and language learning, which
was focused on the differentiation of distinctive categories of anxieties. It then
reviewed theories concerning FLA and FL learning or performance and delineated
the sources of learners’ FLLA. This was followed by a discussion of the studies
pertinent to strategies helping reduce learners’ FLLA, especially FLSA. Lastly, it
draws attention to the competing models of FLLA and the typical controversies
centered on FLLA theories. The next chapter introduces the developments in the
ﬁeld of FLLA in China.
References
Aida, Y. (1994). Examination of Horwitz, Horwitz, and Cope’s construct of foreign language
anxiety: The case of students of Japanese. The Modern Language Journal, 78(2), 155–168.
Al-Khasawneh, F. M. (2016). Investigating foreign language learning anxiety: A case of Saudi
undergraduate EFL learners. Journal of Language and Linguistic Studies, 12(1), 137–148.
Alpert, R., & Haber, R. N. (1960). Anxiety in academic achievement situations. Journal of
Abnormal and Social Psychology, 61(2), 207–215.
Alrabai, F. (2014). A model of foreign language anxiety in the Saudi EFL context. English
Language Teaching, 7(7), 82–101.
Alrabai, F. (2015). The influence of teachers’ anxiety-reducing strategies on learners’ foreign
language anxiety. Innovation in Language Learning and Teaching, 9(2), 163–190.
Al-Shboul, M., Ahmad, M., Nordin, I., & Rahman, Z. (2013). Foreign language anxiety and
achievement: Systematic review. International Journal of English Linguistics, 3(2), 32–45.
Amiri, M., & Ghonsooly, B. (2015). The relationship between English learning anxiety and the
students’ achievement on examinations. Journal of Language Teaching and Research, 6(4),
855–865.
Anyadubalu, C. C. (2010). Self-efﬁcacy, anxiety, and performance in the English language among
middle-school students in English language program in Satri Si Suriyathai, Bangkok.
International Journal of Human and Social Sciences, 2(3), 193–198.
2.5 Competing Models of FLLA 45
Atasheneh, N., & Izadi, A. (2012). The role of teachers in reducing-increasing listening
comprehension test anxiety: A case of Iranian EFL learners. English language Teaching, 5(3),
178–187.
Awan, R.-U.-N., Azher, M., Nadeem, M., & Naz, A. (2010). An investigation of foreign language
classroom anxiety and its relationship with students’ achievement. Journal of College
Teaching and Learning, 7(11), 33–40.
Aydin, B. (1999). A study of the sources of foreign language classroom anxiety in speaking and
writing classes. Unpublished Ph.D., Anadolu University, Eskisehir, Turkey.
Bailey, K. M. (1983). Competitiveness and anxiety in adult second language learning: Looking at
and through the Diary Studies. In H. W. Seliger & M. H. Long (Eds.), Classroom-oriented
research in second language acquisition. Newbury House: Rowley, MA.
Baker, S. C., & MacIntyre, P. D. (2000). The role of gender and immersion in communication and
second language orientations. Language Learning, 50(2), 311–341.
Bernaus, M., & Gardner, R. C. (2008). Teacher motivation strategies, student perceptions, student
motivation, and English achievement. The Modern Language Journal, 92(3), 387–401.
Bowen, A. D. (2005). Overcoming the fear of speaking in a foreign language: A study of the role
that selected humanistic techniques play in reducing language anxiety associated with oral
performance in the TESOL classroom. Unpublished M.A., University of South Africa (South
Africa), South Africa.
Brandl, K. (1987). Eclecticism in teaching communicative competence. Unpublished MPhil, The
University of Texas at Austin, Texas, United States.
Brantmeier, C. (2005). Nonlinguistic variables in advanced second language reading: Learners’
self-assessment and enjoyment. Foreign Language Annals, 38(4), 494–504.
Çagatay, S. (2015). Examining EFL students’ foreign language speaking anxiety: The case at a
Turkish state university. Procedia Social and Behavioral Sciences, 199, 648–656.
Cao, Y. (2011). Comparison of two models of foreign language classroom anxiety scale.
Philippines ESL Journal, 7, 73–93.
Caroll, J. B. (1981). Twenty-ﬁve years of research on foreign language aptitude. In E. K. C. Diller
(Ed.), Individual differences and universals in language learning aptitude (pp. 83–117).
Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Cattell, R. B., & Scheier, I. H. (1960). Stimuli related to stress, neuroticism, excitation, and anxiety
response patterns. Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology, 60(2), 195–204.
Cetinkaya, Y. B. (2005). Turkish college students’ willingness to communicate in English as a
foreign language. Unpublished Ph.D., The Ohio State University, Ohio, United States.
Chang, A. C.-S. (2008). Sources of listening anxiety in learning English as a foreign language.
Perceptual and Motor Skills, 106(1), 21–34.
Chao, C.-T. (2003). Foreign language anxiety and emotional intelligence: A study of EFL students
in Taiwan. Unpublished Ed.D., Texas A&M University, Kingsville, Texas, United States.
Chapelle, C., & Roberts, C. (1986). Ambiguity tolerance and ﬁeld independence as predictors of
proﬁciency in English as a second language. Language Learning, 36(1), 27–45.
Chastain, K. (1975). Affective and ability factors in second-language acquisition. Language
Learning, 25(1), 153–161.
Cheng, D. (2002). Yingyu jiaoxue zhongde yuyan jiaolv jiqi jiejue celue yanjiu [A study on
language anxiety in English langauge teaching and its coping strategies]. Jichu Jiaoyu Waiyu
Jiaoxue Yanjiu [Foreign Language Teaching & Research in Basic Education], 12, 32–33.
Cheng, L. (2004). Guowai waiyu xuexi jiaolv yanjiu zongshu [A review of foreign language
anxiety studies abroad]. Panyu Zhiye Jishu Xueyuan Xuebao [Journal of Panyu Polytechnic],
3(1), 60–64.
Cheng, Y. K. (1994). The effects of attitudinal, motivational, and anxiety factors on the English
language proﬁciency of Taiwanese senior high school students. Unpublished Ph.D., University
of Georgia, Athens, United States.
Cheng, Y.-S. (1998). Examination of two anxiety constructs: Second language class anxiety and
second language writing anxiety. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin,
Texas, United States.
46 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
Cheng, Y.-S., Horwitz, E. K., & Schallert, D. L. (1999). Language anxiety: Differentiating writing
and speaking components. Language Learning, 49(3), 417–446.
Chiang, Y.-N. (2006). Connecting two anxiety constructs: An interdisciplinary study of foreign
language anxiety and interpretation anxiety. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at
Austin, Texas, United States.
Choi, S. (2013). Language anxiety in second language writing: Is it really a stumbling block?
Second Language Studies, 31(2), 1–42.
Chrisjohn, R. D. (1981). A substantive approach to the state-trait distinction in anxiety.
Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Western Ontario, Ontario, Canada.
Chu, H.-N. R. (2008). Shyness and EFL learning in Taiwan: A study of shy and non-shy college
students’ use of strategies, foreign language anxiety, motivation, and willingness to
communicate. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin, Texas, United States.
Clément, R. (1987). Second language profrciency and acculturation: An investigation of the effects
of language status and individual characteristics. Journal of Language and Social Psychology,
5, 277–290.
Clément, R., Dörnyei, Z., & Noels, K. A. (1994). Motivation, self-conﬁdence, and group cohesion
in the foreign language classroom. Language Learning, 44(3), 417–448.
Clément, R., Gardner, R. C., & Smythe, P. C. (1977a). Motivational variables in second language
acquisition: A study of Francophones learning English. Canadian Journal of Behavioural
Science, 9(2), 123–133.
Clément, R., Gardner, R. C., & Smythe, P. C. (1980). Social and individual factors in second
language acquisition. Canadian Journal of Behavioural Science, 12(4), 293–302.
Clément, R., & Kruidenier, B. G. (1985). Aptitude, attitude and motivation in second language
proﬁciency: A test of Clément’s model. Journal of Language and Social Psychology, 4(1), 21–
37.
Clément, R., Major, L. J., Gardner, R. C., & Smythe, P. C. (1977b). Attitudes and motivation in
second language acquisition: An investigation of Ontario Francophones. Working Papers on
Bilingualism, 12(1), l–20.
Crain, S. (1989). Why poor readers misunderstand spoken sentences. In D. Shankweiler & I.
Liberman (Eds.), Phonology and reading disability: Solving the reading puzzle (pp. 133-165).
Ann Arbor, MI: University of Michigan Press.
Daly, J. A. (1991). Understanding communication apprehension: An introduction for langauge
educators. In E. K. Horwitz & D. J. Young (Eds.), Language anxiety: From theory and
research to classroom implications (pp. 3–13). Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice Hall.
Daly, J. A., & Miller, M. D. (1975a). The empirical development of an instrument of writing
apprehension. Research in the Teaching of English, 9(3), 242–249.
Daly, J. A., & Miller, M. D. (1975b). Further studies in writing apprehension: SAT scores, success
expectations, willingness to take advanced courses, and sex differences. Research in the
Teaching of English, 9(3), 250–256.
Debreli, E., Kucuk, F., & Demirkan, S. (2016). Sources and levels of foreign language speaking
anxiety of English as a foreign language university students with regard to language
proﬁciency and gender. International Journal of English Language Education, 4(1), 49–62.
Desrochers, A., & Gardner, R. C. (1981). Second language acquisition: An investigation of a
bicultural excursion experience. Quebec: International Centre for Research on Bilingualism.
Dewaele, J.-M. (2002). Psychological and sociodemographic correlates of communicative anxiety
in L2 and L3 production. The International Journal of Bilingualism, 6(1), 23–38.
Dewaele, J.-M. (2004a). Blistering barnacles! What language do multilinguals swear in?! Estudios
de Sociolingüística, 5(1), 83–106.
Dewaele, J.-M. (2004b). The emotional force of swearwords and taboo words in the speech of
multilinguals. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development, 25(2–3), 204–222.
Dewaele, J.-M. (2005). The effect of type of acquisition context on perception and self-reported
use of swearwords in the L2, L3, L4 and L5. In A. Housen & M. Pierrard (Eds.), Investigations
in instructed second language acquisition (pp. 531–559). Berlin: Mouton De Gruyter.
References 47
Dewaele, J.-M. (2006). Expressing anger in multiple languages. In A. Pavlenko (Ed.), Bilingual
minds: Emotional experience, expression, and representation (pp. 118–151). Clevedon, UK:
Multilingual Matters.
Dewaele, J.-M. (2007a). Context and L2 users’ pragmatic development. In Z. Hua, P. Seedhouse,
L. Wei, & V. Cook (Eds.), Language learning and teaching as social interaction (pp. 162–
183). Basingstoke, UK: Palgrave-Macmillan.
Dewaele, J.-M. (2007b). Diachronic and/or synchronic variation? The acquisition of sociolin-
guistic competence in L2 French. In D. Ayoun (Ed.), Handbook of French applied linguistics
(pp. 208–236). Amsterdam: Benjamins.
Dewaele, J.-M. (2007c). Interindividual variation in self-perceived oral communicative compe-
tence of English L2 users. In E. A. Soler & M. P. S. Jordà (Eds.), The intercultural speaker:
Using and acquiring English in the foreign language classroom (pp. 141–165). Berlin:
Springer.
Dewaele, J.-M. (2008). The emotional weight of “I love you” in multilinguals’ languages. Journal
of Pragmatics, 40(10), 1753–1780.
Dewaele, J.-M. (2013). Emotions in multiple languages (2nd ed.). Basingstoke: Palgrave
Macmillan.
Dewaele, J.-M., & Pavlenko, A. (2002). Emotion vocabulary in interlanguage. Language
Learning, 52(2), 263–322.
Dewaele, J.-M., Petrides, K. V., & Furnham, A. (2008). Effects of trait emotional intelligence and
sociobiographical variables on communicative anxiety and foreign language anxiety among
adult multilinguals: A review and empirical investigation. Language Learning, 58(4), 911–
960.
Donley, P. M. (1997a). The foreign language anxieties and anxiety management strategies of
students taking Spanish at a community college. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas
at Austin, Texas, United States.
Donley, P. M. (1997b). Ten ways to cope with foreign language anxiety. Mosaic: A Journal for the
Interdisciplinary Study of Literature, 30(2), 17.
Donovan, L. A., & MacIntyre, P. D. (2004). Age and sex differences in willingness to
communicate, communication apprehension and self-perceived competence. Communication
Research Reports, 21(4), 420–427.
Edelmann, R. J. (1992). Anxiety: Theory, research and intervention in clinical and health
psychology. Chichester: Wiley.
Elkhafaiﬁ, H. (2005). Listening comprehension and anxiety in the Arabic language classroom. The
Modern Language Journal, 89(2), 206–220.
Ely, C. M. (1986). An analysis of discomfort, risktaking, sociability, and motivation in the l2
classroom. Language Learning, 36(1), 1–25.
Endler, N. S. (1975). A person-situation interaction model for anxiety. In C. D. Spielberger &
I. G. Sarason (Eds.), Stress and anxiety (Vol. 10, pp. 265–305). Washington, D. C: Hemisphere
Publishing Corporation.
Endler, N. S. (1980). Person-situation interaction and anxiety. In I. L. Kutash & L. B. Schlesinger
(Eds.), Handbook on stress and anxiety (pp. 249–269). San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.
Eysenck, M. W. (1979). Anxiety, learning and memory: A reconceptualization. Journal of
Research in Personality, 13(4), 363–385.
Fitzgerald, T. J. (2005). Language anxiety? Try immersion therapy. New York Times, p. 8, from
http://proquest.umi.com/pqdweb?did=808569601&Fmt=7&clientId=18977&RQT=309&VName=
PQD.
Foss, K. A., & Reitzel, A. C. (1988). A relational model for managing second language anxiety.
TESOL Quarterly, 22(3), 437–454.
Ganschow, L., Javorsky, J., & Sparks, R. L. (1998). Foreign language learning problems: A
historical perspective. Journal of Learning Disabilities, 31(3), 248–258.
Ganschow, L., & Sparks, R. L. (1996). Anxiety about foreign language learning among high
school women. The Modern Language Journal, 80(2), 199–212.
48 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
Ganschow, L., Sparks, R. L., Anderson, R., Javorshy, J., Skinner, S., & Patton, J. (1994).
Differences in language performance among high-, average-, and low-anxious college foreign
language learners. The Modern Language Journal, 78(1), 41–55.
Gardner, R. C. (1983). Learning another language: A true social psychological experiment.
Journal of Language and Social Psychology, 2(2–4), 219–239.
Gardner, R. C. (1985). Social psychology and second language learning: The role of attitudes and
motivation. London: E. Arnold.
Gardner, R. C., Clément, R., Smythe, P. C., & Smythe, C. L. (1979). Attitudes and motivation test
battery, revised manual. London: Universities of Western Ontario.
Gardner, R. C., Lalonde, R. N., & Moorcroft, R. (1985). The role of attitudes and motivation in
second language learning: Correlational and experimental considerations. Language Learning,
35(2), 207–227.
Gardner, R. C., Lalonde, R. N., & Pierson, R. (1982). Language attitudes in a university context: A
causal analysis (No. 573 of Research Bulletin). Ontario: University of Western Ontario.
Gardner, R. C., & Lysynchuk, L. M. (1990). The role of aptitude, attitudes, motivation and
language use in second language acquisition and retention. Canadian Journal of Behavioural
Science, 22(3), 254–270.
Gardner, R. C., Moorcroft, R., & MacIntyre, P. D. (1987). The role of anxiety in second language
performance of language dropouts (No. 657 of Research Bulletin). Ontario: The University of
Western Ontario.
Gardner, R. C., & Smythe, P. C. (1975). Second language acquisition: A social psychological
approach (No. 332 of Research Bulletin). Ontario: University of Western Ontario.
Gardner, R. C., Smythe, P. C., & Brunet, G. R. (1977). Intensive second language study: Effects
on attitudes, motivation and French achievement. Language Learning, 27(2), 243–261.
Gardner, R. C., Smythe, P. C., Clément, R., & Gliksman, L. (1976). Second language acquisition:
A social psychological perspective. The Canadian Modern Language Review, 32(2), 198–213.
Gardner, R. C., Smythe, P. C., & Lalonde, R. N. (1984). The nature and replicability of factors in
second language acquisition (No. 605 of Research Bulletin). Ontario: University of Western
Ontario.
Golchi, M. M. (2012). Listening anxiety and its relationship with listening strategy use and
listening comprehension among Iranian IELTS learners. International Journal of English
Linguistics, 2(4), 115–128.
Gordon, E. M., & Sarason, S. B. (1955). The relationship between “test anxiety” and “other
anxieties”. Journal of Personality, 23(3), 317–323.
Gregersen, T. S. (2003). To err is human: A reminder to teachers of language-anxious students.
Foreign Language Annals, 36(1), 25–32.
Gregersen, T. S., & Horwitz, E. K. (2002). Language learning and perfectionism: Anxious and
non-anxious language learners’ reactions to their own oral performance. The Modern
Language Journal, 86(4), 562–570.
Hashemi, M., & Abbasi, M. (2013). The role of the teacher in alleviating anxiety in language
classes. International Research Journal of Applied and Basic Sciences, 4(3), 640–646.
He, D. (2013). What makes learners anxious while speaking English: A comparative study of the
perceptions held by university students and teachers in China. Educational Studies, 39(3), 338–
350.
He, D. (2017). How to cope with foreign language speaking anxiety effectively? The case of
university students in China. Electronic Journal of Foreign Language Teaching, 14(2).
Hewitt, E., & Stephenson, J. (2011). Foreign language anxiety and oral exam performance: A
replication of Phillips’s MLJ study. The Modern Language Journal, 96(2), 170–189.
Heyde-Parsons, A. (1983). Self-esteem and the acquisition of French. In K. M. Bailey, M.
H. Long, & S. Peck (Eds.), Studies in second language acquisition: Series on issues in second
language research. Newbury House: Rowley, MA.
Hilleson, M. (1996). “I want to talk with them, but I don’t want them to hear”: An introspective
study of second language anxiety in an English-medium school. In K. M. Bailey & D. Nunan
References 49
(Eds.), Voices from the language classroom: Qualitative research in second language
education (pp. 248–275). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Horwitz, E. K. (1986). Preliminary evidence for the reliability and validity of a foreign language
anxiety scale. TESOL Quarterly, 20, 559–562.
Horwitz, E. K. (1988). The beliefs about language learning of beginning university foreign
language students. The Modern Language Journal, 72(3), 283–294.
Horwitz, E. K. (1995). Students affective reactions and the teaching and learning of foreign
language. International Journal of Educational Research, 23(7), 573–579.
Horwitz, E. K. (1996). Even teachers get the blues: Recognizing and alleviating non-native
teachers’ feelings of foreign language anxiety. Foreign Language Annals, 29, 365–372.
Horwitz, E. K. (2000). It ain’t over ‘till it’s over: On foreign language anxiety, ﬁrst language
deﬁcits, and the confounding of variables. The Modern Language Journal, 84(2), 256.
Horwitz, E. K. (2001). Language anxiety and achievement. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics,
21(1), 112.
Horwitz, E. K. (2008). Becoming a language teacher: A practical guide to second language
learning and teaching. Bostton: Pearson Education Inc.
Horwitz, E. K. (2009). Cultural identity and language anxiety: How self-concept and cultural
expectations interact with performance in a second language. In P. Zheng & J. X. Yan (Eds.),
Cultural identity and language anxiety (pp. 57–69). Guilin: Guangxi Normal University Press.
Horwitz, E. K., Horwitz, M. B., & Cope, J. (1986). Foreign language classroom anxiety. The
Modern Language Journal, 70(2), 125–132.
Horwitz, E. K., & Young, D. J. (1991a). Afterword. In E. K. Horwitz & D. J. Young (Eds.),
Language anxiety: From theory and research to classroom implications (pp. 177–178).
Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice Hall.
Horwitz, E. K., & Young, D. J. (Eds.). (1991b). Language anxiety: From theory and research to
classroom implications. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice Hall.
Ishii et al. (1978). Communication apprehension of Japanese and Americans in three speeking
situations. Paper presented at the the Annual Meeting of the International Communication
Association.
Ito, N. (2008). Exploring the nature of language anxiety: Experiences of non-native
English-speaking college students in the United States. Unpublished Ph.D., University of
New Orleans, Louisiana, United States.
Jones, S. M. (2002). The influence of native language on the treatment of language anxiety among
an English-as-a-second-language-speaking population. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of
Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, United States.
Kang, Z. (2012). Kouyi jiaolv dui jiaoti chuanyi de xiaoying yu yingxiang [The influence of
interpreting anxiety on consecutive interpreting]. Zhongguo Keji Fanyi [Chinese Science &
Technology Translators Journal], 25(1), 19–21+18.
Kern, R. G. (1995). Students’ and teachers’ beliefs about language learning. Foreign Language
Annals, 28(1), 71–92.
Kim, S. Y. (1998). Affective experiences of Korean college students in different instructional
contexts: Anxiety and motivation in reading and conversation courses. Unpublished Ph.D., The
University of Texas at Austin, Texas, United States.
Kim, J.-H. (2000). Foreign language listening anxiety: A study of Korean students learning
English. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin, Texas, United States.
Kim, Y. (2002). Construction of a theoretical model of foreign language anxiety and development
of a measure of the construct: Korean university EFL learners’ case. Unpublished Ph.D.,
Indiana University, Indiana, United States.
Kimura, H. (2008). Foreign language listening anxiety: Its dimensionality and group differences.
JALT Journal, 30(2), 173–196.
Kleinmann, H. H. (1977). Avoidance behavior in adult second language acquisition. Language
Learning, 27(1), 93–107.
Koch, A. S., & Terrell, T. D. (1991). Affective reactions of foreign language students to natural
approach activities and teaching techniques. In E. K. Horwitz & D. J. Young (Eds.), Language
50 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
anxiety: From theory and research to classroom implications (pp. 109–126). Englewood
Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice Hall.
Kondo, D. S., & Yang, Y.-L. (2004). Strategies for coping with language anxiety: The case of
students of English in Japan. ELT Journal, 58(3), 258–265.
Kraemer, R., & Zisenwine, D. (1989). Changes in attitude toward learning Hebrew in a South
African setting. Language Learning, 39(1), 1–14.
Krashen, S. D. (1988). Second language acquisition and second language learning. New York:
Prentice Hall.
Krashen, S. D. (1995). Principles and practice in second language acquisition. New York:
Phoenix ELT.
Kunt, N. (1997). Anxiety and beliefs about language learning: A study of Turkish-speaking
university students learning English in North Cyprus. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of
Texas at Austin, Texas, United States.
Labrie, N., & Clément, R. (1986). Ethnolinguistic vitality, self-conﬁdence and second language
proﬁciency: An investigation. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development, 7(4),
269–282.
Lalonde, R. N., & Gardner, R. C. (1984). Investigating a causal model of second language
acquisition: Where does personality ﬁt? Canadian Journal of Behavioural Science, 16(3), 224–
237.
Le, J. (2004). Affective characteristics of American students studying Chinese in China: A study of
heritage and non-heritage learners’ beliefs and foreign language anxiety. Unpublished Ph.D.,
The University of Texas at Austin, Texas, United States.
Leary, M. R. (1991). Anxiety, cognition and behavior: In search of a broader perspective. In M.
Booth-Butterﬁeld (Ed.), Communication, cognition, and anxiety. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.
Lee, H. M. (1997). A study of the listening comprehension strategies of junior college EFL
students in Taiwan. Proceeding of the 14 Conferecne on English Teaching and Learning in
Republic of China. Taipei: Crane.
Lee, M.-L. (2011). Differences in the learning anxieties affecting college freshman students of
EFL. In R. Jaidev, M. L. C. Sadorra, W. J. Onn, L. M. Cherk, & B. P. Lorente (Eds.), Global
perspectives, local initiatives (1st ed., pp. 169–182). Centre for English Language
Communication: National University of Singapore.
Leong, C. K., & Joshi, R. M. (1997). Cross-language studies of learning to read and spell:
Phonologic and orthographic processing. Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic.
Levine, G. S. (2003). Student and instructor beliefs and attitudes about target language use, ﬁrst
language use, and anxiety: Report of a questionnaire study. The Modern Language Journal, 87
(3), 343–364.
Levitt, E. E. (1980). The psychology of anxiety (2nd ed.). Hillsdale, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum
Associates.
Li, H., & Liu, R. (2013). Daxuesheng waiyu xiezuo jioalv yu xiezuo ziwo xiaonenggan de gaunxi
jiqi dui xiezuo chengji de yuce [College students’ EFL writing anxiety and self-efﬁcacy and
their predication on students’ writing performance]. Waiyu Yanjiu [Foreign Languages
Research], 2, 48–54.
Liu, M. (2007). Anxiety in oral English classrooms: A case study in China. Indonesian Journal of
English Language Teaching, 3(1), 119–137.
Liu, M., & Huang, W. (2011). An exploration of foreign language anxiety and English motivation.
Education Research International, 1–8.
Liu, M., & Jackson, J. (2008). An exploration of Chinese EFL learners’ unwillingness to
communicate and foreign language anxiety. The Modern Language Journal, 92(1), 71–86.
Liu, M., & Ni, H. (2015). Chinese university EFL learners’ foreign language writing anxiety:
Pattern, effect and causes. English Language Teaching, 8(3), 46–58.
Lu, Z., & Liu, M. (2011). Foreign language anxiety and strategy use: A study with Chinese
undergraduate EFL learners. Journal of Language Teaching and Research, 2(6), 1298–1305.
Lucas, J. (1984). Communication apprehension in the ESL classroom: Getting our students to talk.
Foreign Language Annals, 17(6), 593–598.
References 51
MacIntyre, P. D. (1992). Anxiety and language learning from a stages of processing perspective.
Unpublished Ph.D., University of Western Ontario, London, Canada.
MacIntyre, P. D. (1995a). How does anxiety affect second language learning? A reply to Sparks
and Ganschow. The Modern Language Journal, 79(1), 90–99.
MacIntyre, P. D. (1995b). On seeing the forest and the trees: A rejoinder to Sparks and Ganschow.
The Modern Language Journal, 79(2), 245–248.
MacIntyre, P. D., Clément, R., Dörnyei, Z., & Noels, K. A. (1998). Conceptualizing willingness to
communicate in a L2: A situational model of L2 conﬁdence and afﬁliation. The Modern
Language Journal, 82(4), 545–562.
MacIntyre, P. D., & Gardner, R. C. (1988). The measurement of anxiety and applications to
second language learning: An annotated bibliography (No. 677 of Research Bulletin). Ontario:
University of Western Ontario.
MacIntyre, P. D., & Gardner, R. C. (1989). Anxiety and second-language learning: Toward a
theoretical clariﬁcation. Language Learning, 39(2), 251–275.
MacIntyre, P. D., & Gardner, R. C. (1991a). Investigating language class anxiety using the focused
essay technique. The Modern Language Journal, 75(3), 296–313.
MacIntyre, P. D., & Gardner, R. C. (1991b). Language anxiety: Its relationship to other anxieties
and to processing in native and second languages. Language Learning, 41(4), 513–534.
MacIntyre, P. D., & Gardner, R. C. (1991c). Methods and results in the study of anxiety and
language learning: A review of the literature. Language Learning, 41(1), 85–117.
MacIntyre, P. D., & Gardner, R. C. (1994a). The effects of induced anxiety on three stages of
cognitive processing in computerized vocabulary learning. Studies in Second Language
Acquisition, 16(1), 1–17.
MacIntyre, P. D., & Gardner, R. C. (1994b). The subtle effects of language anxiety on cognitive
processing in the second language. Language Learning, 44(2), 283–305.
Madsen, H. S., Brown, B. L., & Jones, R. L. (1991). Evaluating student attitudes toward
second-language tests. In E. K. Horwitz & D. J. Young (Eds.), Language anxiety: From theory
and research to classroom implications (pp. 65–86). Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice Hall.
Marcos-Llinás, M., & Garau, J. M. (2009). Effects of language anxiety on three proﬁciency-level
courses of Spanish as a foreign language. Foreign Language Annals, 42(1), 94–111.
Marwan, A. (2007). Investigating students’ foreign language anxiety. Malaysian Journal of ELT
Research, 3, 37–55.
Marzec-stawiarska, M. (2012). Foreign language writing anxiety among adult advanced learners of
English. Linguistica Silesiana, 33, 221–239.
Matsuda, S., & Gobel, P. (2001). Quiet apprehension: Reading and classroom anxieties. JALT
Journal, 23, 227–247.
Matsuda, S., & Gobel, P. (2004). Anxiety and predictors of performance in the foreign language
classroom. System: An International Journal of Educational Technology and Applied
Linguistics, 32(1), 21–36.
McCroskey, J. C. (1970). Measures of communication-bound anxiety. Speech Monographs, 37(4),
269–277.
McCroskey, J. C. (1977). Oral communication apprehension: A summary of recent theory and
research. Human Communication Research, 4(1), 78–96.
McCroskey, J. C., & McCroskey, L. L. (1986). Self-report as an approach to measuring
communication competence. West Virginia: West Virginia University.
McCroskey, J. C., & Richmond, V. P. (1987). Willingness to communicate. In J. C. McCroskey &
J. A. Daly (Eds.), Personal and interpersonal communication (pp. 129–156). Beverly Hills,
CA: Sage.
Melendez, A. M. (1997). Language learner perceptions on the circumstances and factors that
contribute to oral English language anxiety in Puerto Rico. Unpublished Ph.D., New York
University, New York, United States.
Mischel, W. (1973). Toward a cognitive social learning reconceptualization of personality.
Psychological Review, 80(4), 252–283.
52 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
Mischel, W., & Peake, P. K. (1982). Beyond deja vu in the search for cross-situational
consistency. Psychological Review, 89(6), 730–755.
Muchnick, A. G., & Wolfe, D. E. (1982). Attitudes and motivations of American students of
Spanish. The Canadian Modern Language Review, 38(2), 262–281.
Nazarinasab, F., Nemati, A., & Mortahan, M. M. (2014). The impact of foreign language reading
anxiety and text feature awareness on university students’ reading comprehension ESP texts.
International Journal of Language and Linguistics, 2(6–1), 1–7.
Oh, J. (1992). The effects of L2 reading assessment methods on anxiety level. TESOL Quarterly,
26(1), 172–176.
Oh, M.-J. T. (1996). Beliefs about language learning and foreign language anxiety: A study of
American university students learning Japanese. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas
at Austin, Texas, United States.
Olofsson, A., & Niedersoe, J. (1999). Early language development and kindergarten phonological
awareness as predictors of reading problems: From 3 to 11 years. Journal of Learning
Disabilities, 32(5), 464–472.
Onwuegbuzie, A. J., Bailey, P., & Daley, C. E. (1999). Relationships between anxiety and
achievement at three stages of learning a foreign language. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 88(3),
1085–1093.
Onwuegbuzie, A. J., Bailey, P., & Daley, C. E. (2000). The validation of three scales measuring
anxiety at different stages of the foreign language learning process: The input anxiety scale, the
processing anxiety scale, and the output anxiety scale. Language Learning, 50(1), 87–117.
Palacios, L. M. (1998). Foreign language anxiety and classroom environment: A study of Spanish
university students. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin, Texas, United
States.
Pappamihiel, N. E. (1999). The development of an English language anxiety assessment
instrument for Mexican middle school English language learners. Unpublished Ph.D., The
University of Texas at Austin, Texas, United States.
Pappamihiel, N. E. (2001). Moving from the ESL classroom into the mainstream: An investigation
of English language anxiety in Mexican girls. Bilingual Research Journal, 25(1/2), 31–38.
Park, H., & Lee, A. R. (2005). L2 learners’ anxiety, self-conﬁdence and oral performance. Paper
presented at the Pan-Paciﬁc Association of Applied Linguistics (PAAL), Japan.
Peacock, M. (1999). Beliefs about language learning and their relationship to proﬁciency.
International Journal of Applied Linguistics, 9(2), 247–265.
Pérez-Paredes, P. F., & Martínez-Sánchez, F. (2000–2001). A Spanish version of the foreign
language classroom anxiety scale: Revisiting Aida’s factor analysis. RESLA, 14, 337–352.
Phillips, E. M. (1990). The effects of anxiety on performance and achievement in an oral test of
French. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin, Texas, United States.
Phillips, E. M. (1992). The effects of language anxiety on students’ oral test performance and
attitudes. The Modern Language Journal, 76(1), 14–26.
Porpodas, C. D. (1999). Patterns of phonological and memory processing in beginning readers and
spellers of Greek. Journal of Learning Disabilities, 32(5), 406–416.
Price, M. L. (1988). Anxiety and the foreign language learner: Correlates of foreign language
anxiety. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin, Texas, United States.
Price, M. L. (1991). The subjective experience of foreign language anxiety: Interviews with highly
anxious students. In E. K. Horwitz & D. J. Young (Eds.), Language anxiety: From theory and
research to classroom implications (pp. 101–108). Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice Hall.
Proulx, P. (1991). Anxiety and language learning: Recognition and prevention. Canadian Journal
of Native Education, 18(1), 53–64.
Saito, Y., Horwitz, E. K., & Garza, T. J. (1999). Foreign language reading anxiety. The Modern
Language Journal, 83(2), 202–218.
Saito, Y., & Samimy, K. K. (1996). Foreign language anxiety and language performance: A study
of learner anxiety in beginning, intermediate, and advanced-level college students of Japanese.
Foreign Language Annals, 29(2), 239–252.
References 53
Samimy, K. K., & Rardin, J. P. (1994). Adult language learners’ affective reactions to community
language learning: A descriptive study. Foreign Language Annals, 27(3), 377–390.
Sarason, I. G. (1978). The test anxiety scale: Concept and research. In C. D. Spielberger & I.
G. Sarason (Eds.), Stress and anxiety (Vol. 5, pp. 193–216). Washington D.C.: Hemisphere
Publishing Corporation.
Sarason, I. G. (1980). Test anxiety: Theory, research, and applications. Hillsdale, N.J.: Lawrence
Erlbaum Associates.
Schlenker, B. R., & Leary, M. R. (1985). Social anxiety and communication about the self.
Journal of Language and Social Psychology, 4(3–4), 171–192.
Schlesiger, H. (1995). The effectiveness of anxiety reduction techniques in the foreign language
classroom. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin, Texas, United States.
Schwarzer, R. (Ed.). (1986). Self-related cognitions in anxiety and motivation. Hillsdale, NJ:
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Scovel, T. (1978). The effect of affect on foreign language learning: A review of the anxiety
research. Language Learning, 28(1), 129–142.
Shabani, M. B. (2012). Levels and sources of language anxiety and fear of negative evaluation
among Iranian EFL learners. Theory and Practice in Language Studies, 2(11), 2378–2383.
Smith, R. E., Sarason, I. G., & Sarason, B. R. (1986). Psychology: The frontiers of behavior (3rd
ed.). New York: Harper & Row.
Smith, R. E., & Smoll, F. L. (1990). Sport performance anxiety. In H. Leitenberg (Ed.), Handbook
of social and evaluation anxiety (pp. 417–454). New York: Plenum Press.
Sparks, R. L., & Ganschow, L. (1991). Foreign language learning differences: Affective or native
language aptitude differences? The Modern Language Journal, 75(1), 3–16.
Sparks, R. L., & Ganschow, L. (1993a). The impact of native language learning problems on
foreign language learning: Case study illustrations of the linguistic coding deﬁcit hypothesis.
The Modern Language Journal, 77(1), 58–74.
Sparks, R. L., & Ganschow, L. (1993b). Searching for the cognitive locus of foreign language
learning difﬁculties: Linking ﬁrst and second language learning. The Modern Language
Journal, 77(2), 289–302.
Sparks, R. L., & Ganschow, L. (1995). A strong inference approach to causal factors in foreign
language learning: A response to MacIntyre. The Modern Language Journal, 79(2), 235–244.
Sparks, R. L., & Ganschow, L. (2001). Aptitude for learning a foreign language. Annual Review of
Applied Linguistics, 21, 99–111.
Sparks, R. L., & Ganschow, L. (2007). Is the foreign language classroom anxiety scale measuring
anxiety or language skills? Foreign Language Annals, 40(2), 260–287.
Sparks, R. L., Ganschow, L., Artzer, M., Siebenhar, D., & Plageman, M. (1997). Language anxiety
and proﬁciency in a foreign language. Perceptual and Motor Skills, 85(2), 559–562.
Sparks, R. L., Ganschow, L., Artzer, M. E., Siebenhar, D., & Plageman, M. (2004). Foreign
language teachers’ perceptions of students’ academic skills, affective characteristics, and
proﬁciency: replication and follow-up studies. Foreign Language Annals, 37(2), 263–278.
Sparks, R. L., Ganschow, L., & Javorsky, J. (2000). Deja vu all over again: A response to Saito,
Horwitz, and Garza. The Modern Language Journal, 84(2), 251–259.
Spielberger, C. D. (1966). The effects of anxiety on performance in complex learning tasks. In C.
D. Spielberger (Ed.), Anxiety and behavior (pp. 361–396). New York: Academic Press.
Spielberger, C. D. (1980). Test anxiety inventory: Preliminary professional manual. Palo Alto,
CA: Consulting Psychology Press.
Spielberger, C. D. (1983). Manual for the state-trait anxiety inventory (Form Y). Palo Alto, CA:
Consulting Psychologists Press.
Spielberger, C. D., Gorsuch, R. L., & Lushene, R. E. (1970). The state-trait anxiety inventory: Test
manual for Form X. Palo Alto, CA: Consulting Psychologists Press.
Spielmann, G., & Radnofsky, M. L. (2001). Learning language under tension: New directions
from a qualitative study. The Modern Language Journal, 85(2), 259–278.
Steinberg, F. S., & Horwitz, E. K. (1986). The effect of induced anxiety on the denotative and
interpretive content of second language speech. TESOL Quarterly, 20(1), 131–136.
54 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
Subaşı, G. (2014). Foreign language reading anxiety: Does it really exist? Educational Research
and Reviews, 9(24), 1360–1371.
Suleimenova, Z. (2013). Speaking anxiety in a foreign language classroom in Kazakhstan.
Procedia Social and Behavioral Sciences, 93, 1860–1868.
Svanes, B. (1987). Motivation and cultural distance in second-language acquisition. Language
Learning, 37(3), 341–359.
Swain, M., & Burnaby, B. (1976). Personality characteristics and second language learning in
young children: A pilot study. Working Papers in Bilingualism, 11, 115-128.
Szyszka, M. (2011). Foreign language anxiety and self-perceived English pronunciation
competence. Studies in second Language Learning and Teaching, 1(2), 283–300.
Tobias, S. (1979). Anxiety research in educational psychology. Journal of Educational
Psychology, 71(5), 573–582.
Tobias, S. (1980). Anxiety and instruction. In I. G. Sarason (Ed.), Test anxiety: Theory, research,
and application. Hillsdale, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Tobias, S. (1986). Anxiety and cognitive processing of instruction. In R. Schwarzer (Ed.),
Self-related cognitions in anxiety and motivation. Hillsdale, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum
Associates.
Tobias, S. (1993). Overcoming math anxiety (revised and expanded ed.). New York: W.W.
Norton.
Tóth, Z. (2008). A foreign language anxiety scale for Hungarian learners of English. WoPaLP, 2,
55–78.
Truitt, S. N. (1995). Anxiety and beliefs about language learning: A study of Korean university
students learning English. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin, Texas,
United States.
Trylong, V. L. (1987). Aptitude, attitudes, and anxiety: A study of their relationships to
achievement in foreign language classroom. Unpublished Ph.D., Purdue University, West
Lafayette, United States.
Tryon, G. S. (1980). The measurement and treatment of test anxiety. Review of Educational
Research, 50(2), 343–372.
Tsai, C.-I. (2003). Anxiety and beliefs about language learning: A study of Taiwanese college
students learning English. Unpublished Ed.D., Texas A&M University, Kingsville, Texas,
United States.
Tsiplakides, I., & Keramida, A. (2009). Helping students overcome foreign language speaking
anxiety in the English classroom: Theoretical issues and practical recommendations.
International Education Studies, 2(4), 39–44.
Tsui, A. B. M. (1996). Reticence and anxiety in second language learning. In K. M. Bailey & D.
Nunan (Eds.), Voices from the language classroom: Qualitative research in second language
education (pp. 145–167). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Tucker, R. G., Hamayan, E., & Genesee, F. H. (1976). Affective, cognitive, and social factors in
second language acquisition. Canadian Modern Language Review, 32(3), 214–226.
von Wörde, R. A. (1998). An investigation of students’ perspectives on foreign language anxiety.
Unpublished Ph.D., George Mason University, Virginia, United States.
Walker, E. (1997). Foreign language anxiety in Hong Kong secondary schools: Its relationship
with the age-related factors, school form and self-perception. Unpublished Ph.D., The
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
Wang, Y., & Li, J. (2011). The interference of foreign language anxiety in the reading
comprehension of agricultural engineering students. IEEE, 660–663.
Watson, D., & Friend, R. (1969). Measurement of social-evaluative anxiety. Journal of Consulting
and Clinical Psychology, 33(4), 448–457.
Williams, K. (1991). Anxiety and formal second/foreign language learning. RELC Journal: A
Journal of Language Teaching and Research in Southeast Asia, 22(2), 19–28.
Xu, F. (2011). Anxiety in EFL listening comprehension. Theory and Practice in Language
Studies, 1(12), 1709–1717.
References 55
Yan, J. X. (1998). An examination of foreign language classroom anxiety: Its sources and effects
in a college English program in China. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin,
Texas, United States.
Yan, J. X., & Horwitz, E. K. (2008). Learners’ perceptions of how anxiety interacts with personal
and instructional factors to influence their achievement in English: A qualitative analysis of
EFL learners in China. Language Learning, 58(1), 151–183.
Yan, J. X., & Wang, H. (2012). Second language writing anxiety and translation: Performance in a
Hong Kong tertiary translation class. The Interpreter and Translator Trainer, 6(2), 171–194.
Yang, L. (2005). Ruhe jiangdi jiaolvgan dui yingyu kouyu shuiping de yingxiang: Laizi yixiang
jiaoxue shiyan de shizheng yanjiu [How to reduce the negative impacts of anxiety on oral
English performance: An empirical study from a teaching experiment]. Shandong Waiyu
Jiaoyu [Shandong Foreign Languages Teaching Journal], 5, 79–82.
Young, D. J. (1986). The relationship between anxiety and foreign language oral proﬁciency
ratings. Foreign Language Annals, 19(5), 439–445.
Young, D. J. (1990). An investigation of students’ perspectives on anxiety and speaking. Foreign
Language Annals, 23(6), 539–553.
Young, D. J. (1992). Language anxiety from the foreign language specialist’s perspective:
Interviews with Krashen, Omaggio Hadley, Terrell, and Rardin. Foreign Language Annals, 25
(2), 157–172.
Young, D. J. (1991). Creating a low-anxiety classroom environment: What does language anxiety
research suggest? The Modern Language Journal, 75(4), 426–439.
Young, D. J. (1999). Foreign language writing anxiety scale (FLWAS). In D. J. Young (Ed.),
Affect in foreign language and second language learning: A practical guide to creating a
low-anxiety classroom atmosphere (p. 257). New York: McGraw Hill.
Zhang, X. (2013). Foreign language listening anxiety and listening performance:
Conceptualizations and causal relationships. System, 41(1), 164–177.
Zheng, Y. (2010). Chinese university students’ motivation, anxiety, global awareness, linguistic
conﬁdence, and English test performance. Unpublished Ph.D., Queen’s University, Canada.
Zulkifli, V. (2007). Language classroom anxiety: A comparative study of ESL learners. Asian
Journal of University Education, 3(2), 75–99.
56 2 History of and Major Developments in FLLA Worldwide
Chapter 3
Developments in the Field of FLLA
in China
There have been considerable developments in the ﬁeld of FLLA in China since the
beginning of the new century. The most noticeable achievement is the steadily
growing number of publications on FLLA.
3.1 Overview of FLLA Research in China
This section is a meta-analysis of previous research on FLLA by Chinese scholars
in China. Meta-analysis in this book refers to a piece of research through which
previously published studies on FLLA research in China are “compiled and their
themes are teased out and re-analyzed in order to identify speciﬁc trends that may
not be evident by reading individual published studies” (Xu, 2017, p. 236).
Considering the large amount of published studies available, the current overview is
highly selective, and is restricted in the following ways: Firstly, it is limited to
journal articles and doctoral dissertations that have been published in mainland
China on the topic of foreign language (i.e., English) learning anxiety between 1998
and 2014. Secondly, the publications have been retrieved exclusively from the
China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), one of the most inclusive and
widely used Web resources for researchers in China. Thirdly, these publications
were further reduced to those that have been cited 15 times or more. Table 3.1 lists
all the 103 articles/dissertations reviewed in this chapter.
Table 3.1 and Fig. 3.1 demonstrate that the research on FLLA published in
China can be divided into four periods according to the number of widely cited
publications: 1998–2002, 2003–2008, 2009–2014, and from 2015 onwards. The
comparatively small number of publications since 2014 as shown in Fig. 3.1 does
not mean there was a remarkable drop of research from then, but mainly due to the
fact that newly published studies usually do not have a high citation rate because of
the time factor. For the same reason, no articles published since 2015 have been
selected for review in this section. This is one of the areas for future research
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
D. He, Foreign Language Learning Anxiety in China,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7662-6_3
57
Table 3.1 References of the 103 articles/dissertations reviewed in this section
Year Major publications (times cited)
1998 Rong, T. (27)
1999 Yu, X. (268)
2001 Chen, Y. (25); Lu, Q. (15); Wang, Y., and Wan, Y. (1,243); Wang, Q., and Ding, X.
(72)
2002 Cheng, D. (33); Hu, H. (18); Li, W. (33); Zhang, Y. (67)
2003 Bai, Y. (76); Chen, J., and Deng X. (55); Huang, Q. (56); Lian et al. (15); Wang, C.
(332); Wang, Q. (153); Xiang, M. (812); Yang, W., and Zhang, M. (19); Yuan, X.
(26); Zhou, D. (340)
2004 Chen, X. (230); Chen, X., and Zhang, M. (45); Cheng, L. (37); Deng, Y. (28); Feng,
M. (50); Guo, H., and Wang, R. (23); Lei, X. (165); Li, C. (15); Li, J. (121); Li, J., and
Fan, W. (15); Li, Y., and Wu, G. (41); Liu, M., and Shen, M. (39); Ma, Y. (30); Wang,
Q. (32); Xin, L. (30); Zhang, Q. (29); Zhang, R., and Yuan, L. (252); Zhang, Z. (47)
2005 Chen, S. (78); Da, H. (41); Fan, L., and Gao, D. (58); He, Y. (32); Kang, Q. (16); Li,
B. (22); Xue, L. (57); Yang, L. (92); Zheng, D. (46)
2006 Chen, J., and Xu, J. (16); Chen, L., and Li, J. (18); Qin, C. (24); Shi, Y., and Liu, Z.
(311); Xu, S. (18); Tao, Y. (15); Zhang, L. (18); Zhang, S., and Wang, G. (77)
2007 Chen, J., and Li, J. (25); Chen, W. (23); Chen, Y., and Li, C. (47); Cheng, Y., He, Q.,
and Han, X. (133); Da, H. (36); Du, L., and Tang, X. (22); Li, J., and Lin, S. (139);
Peng, J. (26); Qiu, M., and Liao, F. (65); Wang et al. (23); Wang, H., and Yang, X.
(19); Wang, J. (19); Xie, S. (16); Xiong, S., and Tan, H. (15); Zhang, S. (17)
2008 Chen, S. (24); Guo, W., and Wu, W. (16); Liao, S. (22); Shao, X., and Zhang, F. (51);
Shi, Y. (55); Wang, Y., and Fang, L. (26); Zhang, H. (17)
2009 Gong, J., and Gao, X. (15); Guo, Y., and Fan, W. (43); Ren, X. (16); Zhou, X. (20);
2010 Chen, Y., and Liu, D. (42); Guo, Y., and Qin, X. (104); Li et al. (20); Lv, H. (52); Pu,
Y., and Shi, H. (22); Zhou, B., and Tang, J. (64)
2011 Guo, Y. (54); Kang, Z. (42); Liu, M. (22); Wu, Y., and Gu, W. (49); Zhang, X., and
Zhao, G. (38)
2012 Kang, Z. (18); Liu, Z., Yao, X., and Hu, S. (31); Sui, X. (16); Wang, X. (31); Xiong, S.
(33); Yuan, P. (28); Zeng, X., and Liu, Q. (21)
2013 Gao, J. (28); Li, H., and Liu, R. (31); Shi, Y., and Xu, J. (29)
2014 Guo, Y., and Xu, J. (26)
Fig. 3.1 Number of widely cited publications on FLLA in China (by year)
58 3 Developments in the Field of FLLA in China
concerning FLLA in China. The ﬁrst period (1998–2002) is the introductory period
with Rong (1998) as the ﬁrst article introducing FLLA to Chinese readers.
However, Wang and Wan (2001) is the highlight of this period with 1,243 citation
times. The second period (2003–2008) sees the booming of FLLA research in
China with 2004 and 2007 as the two peak years. Xiang (2003) deserves special
attention with its 812 citation times. The third period (2009–2014) is the continued
and steady development phase with Guo and Qin (2010) as the highlight since it has
been cited 104 times seven years after its publication. The last period (from 2015
onwards) signiﬁes the future of FLLA research in China, which is also an under-
taking for future research in this area. The following sections will review all the 103
studies in detail.
3.1.1 Reasons Leading to and Strategies Coping with FLLA
Reasons leading to and strategies coping with FLLA are important aspects of
anxiety studies, the research efforts in these areas in China are of great signiﬁcance
too. Chen and Deng (2003) surveyed and interviewed 78 non-English majors and
found that the main reasons resulting in students’ FLLA included: teachers’
classroom word selection, way of error correction, and questioning strategies.
Consequently, the recommended methods to cope with such anxiety were: to create
a supportive and encouraging classroom, to provide examples for communicative
tasks, to allow students enough time to prepare their answers to a question, and to
avoid extremely anxiety-provoking activities (e.g., unexpected tests, opinionated
error corrections).
Via questionnaire survey and interview, Zhang (2004b) investigated 367
non-English majors and reported some reasons leading to and strategies coping with
students’ FLLA. The reasons included: lack of conﬁdence, worry about making
mistakes, and teacher’s inappropriate way of error correction. The strategies pro-
posed were: building a good teacher-student relationship, creating a relaxed
classroom atmosphere, promoting cooperative learning, and organizing teaching
activities reasonably.
Yang (2005) investigated 30 Year-1 undergraduates and reported that their
FLLA was negatively correlated to their oral performance and their foreign lan-
guage speaking anxiety (FLSA) could be reduced through following strategies:
raising questions in less anxiety-provoking ways, adopting appropriate
error-correction methods, carrying out more group/pair activities, and building
more relaxed and friendly FL classroom atmosphere.
On the basis of questionnaire data from 301 non-English major sophomores, Qin
(2006) reported that these participants showed comparatively high level of FLLA
and the anxiety was negatively correlated to language learning grades. Qin (2006)
recommended that FLLA could be reduced in two ways: one was through learners’
positive self-evaluation and appropriate learning motivation, the other was to
3.1 Overview of FLLA Research in China 59
provide a better learning environment such as cooperative learning, and computer-
and web-assisted FL learning.
Gong and Gao (2009) studied 197 Year-1 and -2 Tibetan non-English majors
and found that they showed a much higher level of FLLA than those participants in
other four studies that they compared with (i.e., Aida, 1994; Horwitz, Horwitz, &
Cope, 1986; Lei, 2004; Wang, 2004). The authors also proposed six reasons for
FLLA, which were similar to those mentioned in this section.
3.1.2 FLLA and Computer-Web Assisted Language
Learning
Modern technology is frequently and efﬁciently used in today’s language learning,
so there are also studies on the relationship between FLLA and technology-
enhanced language learning. For example, Xin (2004) investigated 87 university
students learning EFL in the computer-assisted language learning lab and found that
technology-enhanced language learning could help reduce students’ FLLA level
since they had their own independent learning space in the lab when comparing to
common classroom learning. On the other hand, students felt more anxious having
to select materials and manage learning themselves when it came to web-based
learning. Faced with the abundance of knowledge and information online, some
students felt confused and simply gave up their web-based learning.
By applying an experimental web-based spoken English teaching model to 122
students for one year, Zhang (2006) found that the teaching model not only reduced
students’ FLSA but also enhanced their English speaking skills.
Shao and Zhang (2008) studied 138 non-English major sophomores via ques-
tionnaire and interview and reported that network and multi-media teaching envi-
ronment can help enhance their English learning interest, reduce their FLLA, and
improve learning efﬁciency as well.
Sui (2012) surveyed 186 Year-1 non-English majors and interviewed 15 of
them. The questionnaire results showed that most of the participants experienced a
moderate to high level of FLLA learning EFL in the internet-based environment.
Her interview ﬁndings indicated that students’ anxiety was mainly resulted from
three factors: technical issues (e.g., Internet disconnections), poor foundation of
English learning, and lack of person to person communication.
With questionnaire and interview data from 232 Year-1 non-English majors,
Xiong (2012) revealed that most of the students experienced a moderate level of
FLLA and that anxiety was negatively correlated to learning strategy use. Xiong’s
study also provided implications for college English teaching in China such as
reinterpreting the key role FL teachers play in web-based learning, encouraging
cooperative online learning to increase students’ learning motivation, and while
teaching training students how to make use of learning strategies.
60 3 Developments in the Field of FLLA in China
By comparing 526 non-English majors learning EFL through traditional
(N = 261) and web-based computer-assisted (N = 265) classroom teaching, Zeng
and Liu (2012) investigated FLLA in the two different teaching environments with
questionnaire survey and interview. The results and ﬁndings indicated that students
enhanced their English learning interest, reduced their anxiety level, and improved
their learning proﬁciency in the new teaching environment on the whole.
Nevertheless, students still had comparatively high level of FLLA, the freshers in
the new environment (N = 139) even showed a signiﬁcantly higher level of anxiety
than that of their counterparts in the traditional environment (N = 148). In addition,
the results showed that students’ anxiety level was negatively correlated to their
English grades.
3.1.3 FLLA: Self-efﬁcacy and Language Achievement
Self-efﬁcacy and language achievement are closely related to the study of FLLA.
For instance, Yu (1999) studied 49 adult students with the Foreign Language
Classroom Anxiety Scale (FLCAS, Horwitz et al., 1986) and reported that FLLA
was not related to English listening proﬁciency. Although this is the ﬁrst
widely-cited empirical study on FLLA published in China, it should be pointed out
that its conclusion may not be reliable since it is contrary to the correlation between
the two as shown in many other similar studies (e.g., Chen, 2004; Du & Tang,
2007; Chen & Liu, 2010), and one reason might be its small number of participants.
Zhang and Yuan (2004) investigated the relationship among FLLA, self-efﬁcacy
and English performance of 315 Year-2 non-English majors. Their results showed:
(1) the anxiety level of students with good English performance was remarkably
lower than that of students with poor performance, (2) females’ performance and
self-efﬁcacy were higher than males’ but no signiﬁcant gender difference was
identiﬁed concerning their FLLA, (3) students’ English performance and anxiety
level were signiﬁcantly negatively correlated and so were their anxiety level and
self-efﬁcacy, whereas their performance were signiﬁcantly positively correlated to
self-efﬁcacy, and (4) gender, FLLA, and self-efﬁcacy were all indicators of English
performance.
With questionnaire data from 225 undergraduates of different backgrounds, Li
and Wu (2004) concluded that students’ FLLA level was negatively correlated with
their FL achievement and non-English majors’ anxiety level was signiﬁcantly
higher than English majors’.
On the basis of the FLCAS questionnaire data from 54 ﬁrst-year non-English
majors, Chen and Zhang (2004) found that these students’ FLLA was markedly
negatively correlated to both of their overall English grades and their listening
grades. The anxiety decreased their interest in English learning as well. Further
interview data revealed four factors leading to students’ FLLA, namely, students’
inappropriate perceptions (e.g., the belief that they should speak English like a
native speaker of English), teacher-related factors (e.g., the way of error correction),
3.1 Overview of FLLA Research in China 61
curriculum factors (e.g., too much pressure from exams), and lack of chance to use
English in their daily lives. Ma (2004) is another study concerning FLLA and
learning achievements based on the questionnaire data from a small number of
participants (N = 47). Her results showed that most of the participants experienced
a high level of anxiety which led to their inactiveness in classroom conversation.
One more study with a small number of non-English majors (N = 67) as partici-
pants was carried out by Lei (2004) who found that FLLA was prevalent among the
participants and the anxiety was negatively correlated to their FL performance.
Xue (2005) surveyed 94 Year-1 non-English majors and concluded that FLLA
was negatively correlated to FL achievements and that FL writing and reading
anxieties were two distinct anxieties related to FL writing and reading performance
respectively.
With questionnaire data from 529 non-English major sophomores, Chen and
Li’s (2006) study revealed that students with differing English proﬁciency showed
signiﬁcant difference in FL learning motivation, self-esteem, and anxiety, but no
gender difference was reported concerning these aspects.
Wang, Yang, Wang, and Zhang (2007) investigated 192 Year-1 non-English
majors with ﬁve questionnaires and reported that English pronunciation
self-efﬁcacy was a signiﬁcant part of students’ English learning self-efﬁcacy. It was
also reported that students who had high anxiety and tended to attribute their failure
to low ability suffered from low self-efﬁcacy. By applying the FLCAS to 90
non-English majors, Xie (2007) also examined the relationship between FLLA and
English speaking proﬁciency and concluded that FLLA was negatively correlated
with students’ oral scores and their self-perceived English speaking ability.
Via the FLCAS questionnaire survey and group interview to 48 science and
engineering university students, Chen (2008) studied low-achieving students’
FLLA and found that their anxiety level was higher than that of the average stu-
dents but it was not signiﬁcantly negatively correlated to their language proﬁciency.
The ﬁndings also revealed six reasons of FLLA (e.g., trait anxiety, lack of inter-
action with teachers and other students in EFL learning), based on which some
suggestions were provided for EFL teachers, such as exploring the low achievers’
potential in learning, ﬁnding them effective learning strategies, and providing them
with tailored guidance and help.
Liu (2011) surveyed 934 non-English majors from three universities and con-
cluded that: (1) FLLA was signiﬁcantly negatively correlated to English learning
achievement, (2) low self-conﬁdence could negatively predict achievement, and
(3) these two correlations differed from university to university.
3.1.4 FLLA: Motivation and Self-esteem
According to Krashen (1982), comprehensible input undergoes affective ﬁlter in
human mind and hence leads to different learning outputs. As three important
components of emotional factors of foreign language learning, motivation,
62 3 Developments in the Field of FLLA in China
self-esteem, and anxiety are closely related to one another and hence influence the
learning process and efﬁciency. By employing the FLCAS and Dörnyei’s (1998)
seven motivational dimensions underlying L2 learning to 112 non-English major
sophomores, Deng (2004) found that too much emphasis on motivation for good
grades would only increase students’ FLLA, that multi-dimensional motivations
beneﬁted language learning and helped reduce FLLA, and that situational moti-
vation led to the increase of FLLA as well.
Wang (2012) probed into a small number of Year-1 non-English majors
(N = 30) and argued that these students’ FLLA, learning motivation, and
self-conﬁdence were all negatively correlated with their overall English grades and
English listening and speaking grades as well. Liu, Yao, and Hu (2012) also
published a study on language learners’ motivational self-system, anxiety, and
motivated learning behavior. Their questionnaire participants were 706 non-English
majors including both undergraduates (N = 473) from Years 1 to 3 and postgrad-
uates (N = 233). Their results indicated that the ideal L2 self and ought-to L2 self
remarkably interacted with each other and made language learners more anxious
while positive FL learning experience helped reduce their FLLA. With question-
naire data from 370 non-English major sophomores, Yuan (2012) reported that
content-based instruction helped improve FL learners’ learning motivation and
efﬁciency while decreasing their anxiety level.
3.1.5 FLLA in Different Language Skills
A new tendency in FLLA studies is that researchers are investigating the anxiety in
speciﬁc language skills.
3.1.5.1 FL Listening Anxiety
Both Zhou (2003) and Chen (2004) studied the relationship between anxiety and
listening proﬁciency among English major sophomores. Zhou (2003) investigated
96 such students and found that the participants’ FL listening anxiety was nega-
tively correlated to their listening grades and the use of listening strategies helped
improve their listening performance. Chen (2004) also obtained questionnaire data
from 120 English major sophomores and concluded that the participants’ FLLA
was negatively correlated to their listening grades.
There were more studies measuring non-English majors’ listening anxiety. Du
and Tang (2007) surveyed 218 non-English major juniors and concluded that most
of the participants showed a low level of listening anxiety, but their listening
anxiety level was still signiﬁcantly negatively correlated to their listening grades.
Zhou (2009) investigated 105 Year-2 non-English majors with a self-developed
questionnaire and found that listening anxiety was common among the participants
and it had negative effects on their listening scores. She also proposed some anxiety
3.1 Overview of FLLA Research in China 63
coping strategies in line with the results, such as choosing appropriate listening
materials, increasing students’ self-conﬁdence in listening class and doing relax-
ation drills, and training students to use FL listening strategies. On the basis of
questionnaire data from 147 non-English major sophomores, Chen and Liu (2010)
reported that students’ listening anxiety was negatively correlated to their listening
proﬁciency, and that the reasons leading to their listening anxiety included a lack of
listening skills, unfamiliarity with the background knowledge, poor overall English
proﬁciency, among others.
3.1.5.2 FL Speaking Anxiety
Lü (2010) investigated 109 Year-1 non-English majors and revealed that they
demonstrated a comparatively high level of FL speaking anxiety, which was neg-
atively correlated to their use of English speaking learning strategies.
Through analyzing 83 university students’ spoken English test performance and
their responses to a ten-item foreign language speaking anxiety scale, Chen and Li
(2007b) found that most of them showed a high level of speaking anxiety with
distinct individual differences, and their speaking anxiety was negatively correlated
to their grades in the speaking test. The reasons leading to students’ speaking
anxiety included: inappropriate teaching methods (e.g., putting students on the spot
unexpectedly), peer competition, fear of making errors and hence being laughed at,
and teachers’ harsh error correction and low tolerance of errors. Four implications
for EFL teaching were also provided in line with these reasons, such as creating a
conducive linguistic environment so as to decrease the effects of ‘affective ﬁlter’
(Krashen, 1985) in the process of FL learning, organizing group/pair work, and
adopting appropriate techniques in questioning and error correction.
In the same year, another study on 76 Year-2 medical students reported that their
FLLA was negatively correlated to their oral performance and communicative
teaching helped reduce their anxiety (Cheng, He, & Han, 2007).
3.1.5.3 FL Reading Anxiety
Chen (2005) investigated FL reading anxiety among 46 Year-1 non-English majors
and concluded that these participants demonstrated a high level of reading anxiety
which was negatively correlated to and an indicator of their English achievement,
especially for the females.
With questionnaire data from 211 Year-2 non-English majors, Shi and Liu
(2006) found that Chinese university students’ FL reading anxiety was negatively
correlated to both their College English Test Band-4 (CET-4) overall grades and
their reading comprehension grades and that males demonstrated remarkably higher
reading anxiety but lower English achievements than females. Such gender dif-
ference was further conﬁrmed by Shi (2008).
64 3 Developments in the Field of FLLA in China
Qiu and Liao (2007) studied 153 non-English major sophomores’ FL reading
anxiety with the FLCAS and FLRAS (Foreign Language Reading Anxiety Scale,
Saito, Horwitz, & Garza, 1999) and reported that: (1) FL reading anxiety was
mainly caused by the exam-oriented reading practice and a lack of culture aware-
ness; (2) reading anxiety was negatively correlated to FL proﬁciency; (3) reading
anxiety could be separated from but related to general FLLA; (4) there was no
signiﬁcant gender difference concerning both types of anxiety; and reading anxiety
could predict male students’ English proﬁciency much better than it did that of
females.
Wang and Fang (2008) carried out another study on reading anxiety on the basis
of questionnaire data from 127 second-year non-English majors with the help of the
FLRAS and the English Reading Strategy Scale (Liu, 2002). Their results indicated
that reading anxiety was signiﬁcantly negatively correlated to both reading per-
formance and reading strategy use while the latter two were signiﬁcantly positively
correlated to each other.
Liao (2008) studied 202 Year-3 non-English majors’ FL reading anxiety with a
questionnaire survey and reported that the anxiety was signiﬁcantly negatively
correlated to reading achievements and also to students’ self-perceived reading
ability. Her interview data yielded four sources of reading anxiety: new vocabulary,
unfamiliar topics, a slow reading speed, and a lack of efﬁcient reading strategies.
The above studies on FL reading anxiety were all carried out among non-English
majors. There was an evident lack of studies of English majors in this regard. Pu
and Shi (2010) undertook an investigation among 68 Year-1 English majors and
found that these participants had considerably high FL reading anxiety, which had a
remarkably negative correlation with their reading grades.
3.1.5.4 FL Writing Anxiety
After analyzing 60 Year-2 non-English majors’ questionnaire data on writing
anxiety, Zheng (2005) arrived at the conclusions that these participants experienced
a high level of writing anxiety and the students with higher anxiety had signiﬁcantly
lower writing grades and fluency than those with lower anxiety.
Guo and Fan (2009) studied FL writing anxiety with questionnaire data from
293 non-English majors at tree levels as speciﬁed in the College English
Curriculum Requirements: 109 at the basic requirement level, 100 at intermediate,
and 84 at advanced requirement level. The authors concluded that FL writing
anxiety, which consisted of avoidance behavior, cognitive anxiety, and somatic
anxiety, was prevalent among the participants and that the participants showed a
medium level of writing anxiety with the avoidance behavior demonstrating a near
high frequency. It was also found that cognitive anxiety was signiﬁcantly nega-
tively correlated with writing performance among undergraduates at the basic
requirement level, but not among those at intermediate and advanced requirement
levels.
3.1 Overview of FLLA Research in China 65
Guo and Qin (2010) involved even more non-English majors (N = 453) in their
study on FL writing anxiety and reported that: (1) FL writing anxiety included four
factors, namely, classroom teaching anxiety, conceiving anxiety, avoidance
behavior, and lack of conﬁdence; (2) the participants experienced a medium level of
writing anxiety and their avoidance behavior was of high frequency; (3) all four
anxiety factors were signiﬁcantly negatively correlated to writing performance; and
(4) participants’ self-perceptions of FL writing ability and overall FL proﬁciency
had signiﬁcant effects on their writing anxiety.
By employing the thinking-aloud protocol and interviews to 30 students with
high (N = 15) and low (N = 15) levels of writing anxiety, Zhou and Tang (2010)
concluded that FL writing anxiety was negatively correlated to writing scores but
positively correlated to L1 interference. Guo (2011) studied 199 non-English
majors and reported that the Length Approach remarkably decreased students’ FL
writing anxiety and enhanced their writing ability.
Wu and Gu’s (2011) questionnaire survey of 454 Year-1 non-English majors
revealed that these students demonstrated a high level of English writing anxiety
and that cooperative learning could signiﬁcantly reduce the anxiety. Their interview
ﬁndings also indicated that the students were preferable towards cooperative
learning. Li and Liu (2013) probed into 294 non-English major freshers’ EFL
writing self-efﬁcacy and writing anxiety and found that these participants’ writing
anxiety were signiﬁcantly negatively correlated to both their writing self-efﬁcacy
and ﬁnal exam grades and the latter two were signiﬁcantly positively correlated to
each other.
On the basis of questionnaire data from 53 business English majors, Gao (2013)
found that the participants displayed a medium level of overall writing anxiety with
avoidance behavior being of high frequency. A Flipped Class Model consisting of
pre-class metacognition stage, in-class cooperative writing stage, and post-class
reflection stage was designed for distance learners’ business English writing. The
model was found to be helpful in reducing such learners’ EFL writing anxiety and
improving their writing performance.
3.1.5.5 FL Interpreting Anxiety
Through multiple research methods, Kang (2011) studied interpreting anxiety
(IA) among 201 non-English majors enrolled in an English interpretation course.
He classiﬁed the causations of IA into the locutionary and illocutionary factors and
discovered that 79.1% of the subjects demonstrated IA at three levels (i.e., the high,
the medium, and the low), which had different effects on interpreting performance.
It was found that the high and low levels of IA were signiﬁcantly negatively
correlated to interpreting performance while the medium level positively correlated
to interpreting performance. Kang’s (2012) another study on IA of 90 non-English
majors reported that the higher level of IA made students extremely stressful and
influenced their interpreting achievements very negatively, and the lower level of
66 3 Developments in the Field of FLLA in China
anxiety delayed interpreters’ response, while the medium level functioned as a
‘catalyst’ which facilitated consecutive interpreting.
3.1.5.6 FLLA in Multiple Language Skills
Feng’s (2004) study focused on communication anxiety in three language skills:
listening, speaking, and reading. By analyzing questionnaire data from 88 English
majors, Feng (2004) found that English achievements of the students with a
medium level of communication anxiety were higher than those of the students with
a high or low level of anxiety. In addition, their achievements were negatively
correlated with their lack of ambiguity tolerance in speaking and reading, low
self-conﬁdence in reading long texts, fear of negative evaluation in speaking, and
being not good at taking in peer input. Guo and Xu (2014) examined 457
non-English majors’ FLLA in terms of ﬁve dimensions, namely classroom anxiety
and anxiety in English listening, speaking, reading, and writing. Their results
showed that the participants had medium levels of overall anxiety and anxiety in
each dimension as well. The level of classroom anxiety was the highest among the
ﬁve and signiﬁcantly higher than that of reading and writing anxiety, and the level
of reading anxiety was signiﬁcantly lower than that of the other four dimensions.
3.1.6 FLLA: Other Correlational Studies
This section reviews the empirical studies on FLLA and its relationship with other
variables like years of study, classroom atmosphere, and willingness to commu-
nicate. Lain, Yu, and Liu (2003) surveyed and observed 90 non-English majors in
different academic years and argued that: (1) a high level of FLLA affects learners’
pragmatic competence negatively, (2) juniors had higher anxiety level than
sophomores and sophomores higher than freshmen, and (3) males’ anxiety level
was lower than that of females. With FLCAS and the Classroom Atmosphere Scale
(Zhang & Lin, 2001), Wang (2003) investigated the relationship between FLLA
and classroom atmosphere on the basis of the data obtained from 80 university
students. The results demonstrated that: (1) FLLA was negatively correlated to
classroom atmosphere, (2) communication apprehension and fear of negative
evaluation were the main components of FLLA, (3) 55% of the participants
reported lack of support from their teachers and classmates, and (4) females’
anxiety level was lower than males’. Wang (2003) also proposed some strategies to
help reduce FLLA based on the results, such as providing communicative activities
appropriate to students’ English level, being more tolerant of students’ mistakes
during communication, and building a supportive and encouraging learning envi-
ronment. With questionnaire data from 182 Year-1 medical undergraduates, Peng
3.1 Overview of FLLA Research in China 67
(2007) found that FLLA was signiﬁcantly negatively correlated to students’ will-
ingness to communicate in English and that communication apprehension could
serve as a signiﬁcant predictor of their willingness to communicate.
3.1.7 FLLA: Its Research Participants
From what have been reviewed above, it is evident that most of the empirical
studies on FLLA take non-English majors as their participants and studies focusing
on English majors have been scarce. Apart from the few mentioned in previous
sections, there are some other studies on English majors worthy of mentioning. By
administering Spielberger’s (1983) state-trait anxiety inventory to 44 English major
sophomores, Hu (2002) found her participants’ trait anxiety was negatively cor-
related to their English achievements, especially their dictation and listening scores.
Chen and Xu (2006) employed 12 research scales and interviews with 25 English
majors as participants to study the relationship between cooperative language
learning and FLLA. Their results indicated that cooperative learning encouraged
more student-student interaction and hence helped reduce students’ FLLA level,
which led to better language learning efﬁciency according to the pre-test and
post-test results. On the basis of questionnaire data from 210 English major
sophomores, Zhang and Wang (2006) reported that students with veriﬁed degree of
tolerance of ambiguity could be remarkably different in their FL performance and
FLLA level, and that anxiety played a signiﬁcant mediating part in the effect of
tolerance of ambiguity on FL leaning. With the same data as Zhang and Wang
(2006), Zhang (2007) further stated that students with a low level of FLLA and high
tolerance of ambiguity performed better in English learning than those with a high
level of anxiety and low tolerance of ambiguity. In addition, her study found
signiﬁcant differences between urban students and rural students in their tolerance
of ambiguity, with the former displaying noticeably lower such tolerance.
Most of the FLLA studies in China take university students as their participants,
but there are some exceptions. Wang and Ding (2001) collected questionnaire data
from 56 Year-2 senior middle school students and reported that their FLLA level
was very high and negatively correlated to their FL achievements. They also
concluded that males’ anxiety level was higher than that of females. Huang (2003)
also studied 350 senior middle school students and found that FLLA was negatively
correlated to their English leaning efﬁciency. Yuan (2003) investigated 117 senior
middle school students’ FLLA with a modiﬁed version of the FLCAS and found
that their FLLA level was basically negatively correlated to their EFL grades. Yuan
also argued that such a negative correlation might vary according to differing
individuals, time, and learning materials.
Wang (2004) studied 214 students’ FLLA with the FLCAS, and they were from
junior middle school (N = 57), senior middle school (N = 53), and college
(N = 104). The results indicated that communication apprehension was the most
obvious anxiety, that middle school students’ anxiety level was higher than college
68 3 Developments in the Field of FLLA in China
students’ and males’ higher than females’. Da (2005) also studied 213 junior middle
school students and found that the level of male students’ FLLA was signiﬁcantly
higher than that of females’, that self-efﬁcacy and learning strategies formed a
relationship of causality-feedback, and that self-efﬁcacy was the mediator between
anxiety and achievement and it had a relationship of causality-feedback with
anxiety.
With a small sample (N = 43) of questionnaire data, Wang and Yang (2007)
argued that these senior high school students’ FL reading anxiety was negatively
correlated with their reading scores. By surveying 134 ﬁrst year senior high school
students, Xiong and Tan (2007) found that their participants demonstrated a high
level of FLLA and their anxiety was negatively correlated to their English scores.
Zhang (2008) studied 102 Year-1 senior high school students and concluded that
FL writing anxiety was negatively correlated to students’ writing performance. Li,
Wang, Zheng, and Dong (2010) even investigated 399 primary school pupils and
reported that their anxiety level increased along with their school years, with pupils
in Forms 5 and 6 demonstrating remarkably higher anxiety level than those in
Forms 3 and 4. They also found that test anxiety and communication apprehension
were the two major types of FLLA in primary schools. Moreover, there are FLLA
studies with postgraduate students as the participants. For example, Zhang (2002)
surveyed and interviewed 71 postgraduates and found that they had strong learning
motivation and suffered less FLLA than FL beginners. The study also suggested
that classroom activities such as pair and group work, presentation, role play and
debate could help improve students’ oral English and the key role of the instructor
was to create a relaxing classroom with low FLLA.
3.1.8 FLLA: Its Research Scales
Horwitz, et al. (1986) Foreign Language Classroom Anxiety Scale (the FLCAS)
was widely employed in the empirical studies concerning FLLA in China as can be
seen from the reviews in this chapter so far. There have been researchers studying
the Chinese version of the FLCAS and testing its validity and reliability. Wang
(2003) conducted a study on the adaptation and veriﬁcation of the scale itself by
applying it to 418 sophomores. The results showed that the adapted Chinese version
of the scale was valid with a Chronbach alpha coefﬁcient of 0.89, that students’
FLLA was negatively correlated to their CET-4 grades, that females’ anxiety level
was signiﬁcantly lower than males’, and that Chinese university students’ overall
anxiety level was markedly lower than that of the students learning an FL in other
countries (e.g., Aida, 1994; Horwitz et al., 1986; Saito et al. 1999), which may be
due to Chinese students spending strikingly more time learning EFL throughout
their education than their foreign counterparts. Da (2007) modiﬁed and translated
the FLCAS into a Chinese version of English learning anxiety scale. After applying
it to 569 Year-3 non-English majors, Da argued that it could be an effective research
instrument in studying Chinese university students’ FLLA. Guo and Wu (2008)
3.1 Overview of FLLA Research in China 69
tested their modiﬁed Chinese version of FLCAS with 587 adolescents in Forms 5,
7, and 8. The results demonstrated that it was a reliable and valid scale. Moreover,
they found that students’ FLLA included four factors, namely, communication
apprehension, self-conﬁdence, fear of negative evaluation, and intolerance of
uncertainty.
On the basis of questionnaire data from 465 English majors, Zhang and Zhao
(2011) analyzed and validated their Chinese version of Elkhafaiﬁ’s (2005) Foreign
Language Listening Anxiety Scale (the FLLAS) and reported that the scale was
valid and consisted of three factors: listening anxiety, self-belief of listening skill,
and listening skill. They argued that students’ language performance could be
enhanced when any of these three factors was affected for the purpose of reducing
students’ listening anxiety level.
3.1.9 FLLA: Review Articles
One very important aspect of FLLA research in China is the reviewing of previous
literature and studies in the ﬁeld. Among these review articles, the most influential
one is Wang and Wan (2001) with 1,243 citations so far. On the basis of a review of
24 studies done by overseas researchers, Wang and Wan (2001) introduced FLLA
to researchers, teachers and learners in China. They argued that FLLA influenced
FL learning negatively and that teachers should try to minimize learners’ FLLA in
language teaching.
Li (2004a) reviewed the reasons leading to FLLA from the perspectives of
Psychology (speciﬁcally psychoanalysis, behaviorism, humanism) and neurobiol-
ogy, and he also discussed some implications of FLLA research for EFL teaching in
China. Zhang (2004a) conducted a review of literature on FLLA and EFL teaching
from the following perspectives: the FLLA theories, FLLA and its implication for
EFL teaching, the reasons resulting in and strategies dealing with FLLA. Li and Lin
(2007) reviewed some FLLA studies out of China dated from 1973 to 2005 and
reported the following research ﬁndings concerning FLLA: its categories and
reactions, its relationship with FL grades, the reasons leading to and strategies
coping with FLLA, among others.
With 129 academic articles, Shi and Xu (2013) conducted a review based on the
most extensive reading so far and found that FLLA was mainly centered on four
areas: its nature, its research scales, its influence on language performance, and
other relevant factors. They argued that there were still aspects to be improved in
the anxiety study, for example, its research methods.
Other similar review articles that have less than 100 citation times and hence will
not be discussed in detail include Bai (2003), Chen (2007), Chen (2001), Chen and
Li (2007a), Cheng (2002), Cheng (2004), Fan and Gao (2005), Guo and Wang
(2004), He (2005), Kang (2005), Li (2005), Li (2004b), Li (2002), Li and Fan
(2004), Liu and Shen (2004), Lu (2001), Ren (2009), Rong (1998), Tao (2006),
70 3 Developments in the Field of FLLA in China
Wang (2007), Xiang (2003), Xu (2006), Yang and Zhang (2003). Among them,
Rong (1998) is the ﬁrst review article concerning FLLA published in China with
more than 15 citation times. Bai (2003) reviewed relevant FLLA studies according
to different language skills. Chen and Li (2007a) mainly reviewed English reading
anxiety and its coping strategies.
3.1.10 A Summary of FLLA Studies Published in China
To sum up, it can be seen that 28 (27.2%) of the 103 studies mentioned above are
review articles on FLLA studies, and a few of them are brief reviews with only 2
pages. The relatively high percentage of review studies, especially those brief ones,
indicates that some of the FLLA studies in China are not rigorous and their pub-
lication may be for utilitarian purposes (e.g., for promotion) rather than for aca-
demic purpose. The progressive development of FLLA research in China calls for
more rigorous empirical studies in the ﬁeld.
Among the 75 empirical studies, more than half of them (N = 44, 58.7%)
involved non-English majors as participants, only 22 (29.3%) of them investigated
English majors or school students, while the remaining 9 (12.0%) studies did not
specify whether their participants were English majors or not. It should be noticed
that the number of participants in some studies (i.e., Chen, 2005, 2008; Chen & Xu,
2006; Hu, 2002; Ma, 2004; Wang, 2012; Wang & Yang, 2007; Yang, 2005; Yu,
1999) is too small (N < 50) for an empirical study. In order to obtain robust results
and ﬁndings concerning Chinese learners’ FLLA, more representative samples of
the FL learning population in China should be secured, hence future endeavors are
needed to include larger survey samples and students of diversiﬁed backgrounds as
participants in FLLA research.
Most of these 75 empirical studies reported that students’ FLLA or the anxiety in
speciﬁc language skills was negatively correlated to their FL achievement or per-
formance. However, Chen (2008) and Yu (1999) were exceptions and they argued
that anxiety was not related to achievement. Their conclusion may not be reliable in
light of their small number of participants (N < 50). As for FLLA in speciﬁc
language skills, 29 (38.7%) of the 75 studies explored into the correlations between
anxiety and all ﬁve aspects (i.e., listening, speaking, reading, writing, and trans-
lation) of EFL learning in China, which is also the new tendency in FLLA study
internationally.
Only 12 (16.0%) of the 75 studies found gender difference concerning FLLA.
Nine of these 12 studies reported that males demonstrated a higher level of FLLA
than females while the other three arrived at the opposite conclusion. As for reasons
leading to and strategies coping with students’ FLLA, it can be seen that some
studies came with a few reasons and strategies, but none of the strategies reported
had been veriﬁed to be effective, which helps to highlight the signiﬁcance of the
3.1 Overview of FLLA Research in China 71
strategies identiﬁed and veriﬁed in Chap. 5 of this book. When it comes to research
methods adopted in the empirical FLLA studies in China, questionnaire survey was
the most frequently used one and some studies cross-validated or triangulated it
with interview, observation, and thinking-aloud.
It should be noted that it is a tentative effort to identify the underlying themes
and evident trends in FLLA research in China, as presented in the preceding sec-
tions. While studies on the measurement of FLLA and examination of the validity
and reliability of various scales abound in the literature, advances in theory and
applied research are lacking. Nonetheless, with the various research efforts in FLLA
that have been made over the past decades, it is anticipated that FLLA will embrace
more research interest and advancement in China in future.
3.2 Status of English as a Foreign Language in China
It is of great signiﬁcance to study FLLA in a non-western and EFL context since
most of the previous research on FLLA and foreign language learning has been
conducted in foreign language settings in western cultures (e.g., the USA and
Canada). In China, a context where successful FL learning can lead to important
real-world rewards (Yan & Horwitz, 2008), the importance of FLLA research can
be reflected in the following two aspects, which will be discussed in turn:
• the desire for English in China and the effectiveness of English learning in
China; and
• the influence of FLLA on English learners in China.
3.2.1 Desire for English and Effectiveness of English
Learning in China
As a nation with the largest English-learning and English-using population in the
world (Crystal, 2008; He, 2017b, c; He & Zhang, 2010), Chinese people are
well-known for their desire to acquire English, which can be highlighted by the
following facts.
• Firstly, the Ministry of Education in China requires English to be offered as a
compulsory course in China from students’ third year at primary school till
tertiary level. Indeed, the desire to learn English is even sweeping Chinese
kindergartens in the form of the so-called “bilingual kindergartens” (Jiang,
2003). Therefore, “English learners are increasing in number and decreasing in
age” in China (Graddol, 2006, p. 10).
• Secondly, the Chinese government at all levels has encouraged employees and
ordinary people to learn English for the promotion of economic development
72 3 Developments in the Field of FLLA in China
and various other reasons, such as Beijing for the 2008 Summer Olympic
Games, Shanghai for the 2010 World Expo, Hangzhou for the 2016 G20
Summit, Beijing and Zhangjiakou for the 2022 Winter Olympic Games, and
many other cities wishing to enhance their city image. In reality, “in the minds
of many inside China, English seems inextricably linked to the nation’s con-
tinued economic growth” (Bolton, 2002, p. 182). Kirkpatrick (2007) and Li
(2006) also argue that trade is one of the major impetuses for the spread of
English.
• Thirdly, the Certiﬁcate of College English Test, a required high-stakes test for
nearly all the non-English majors in China, has been used as an “exit-test” for
university graduates to seek for a job.
• Fourthly, English language teaching has now grown into an industry which
generates millions of dollars to not only state-owned schools and universities
but also many other private language schools and individuals, such as the New
Oriental School and Li Yang, who is famous for his “Crazy English” (for more
details see Bolton, 2003, pp. 252–256) and
• Fifthly, it was reported that some universities in China who had been granted
autonomy to take in new students through their own University Entrance
Examinations excluded the subject of Chinese from the Examinations but
retained the subject of English (Gao, 2010), while both are required subjects in
the national University Entrance Examinations.
The list of the facts can go on and on, but I think these are perhaps enough to
illustrate people’s desire for learning English in China. Although the investment,
such as time, money and energy, in English learning has been huge, research has
shown that students’ learning effectiveness is not considered as satisfactory (e.g.,
He, 2007, 2013; He & Li, 2009; Huang & Shao, 1998; Tsang, 2001). This is
especially the case when it comes to students’ speaking skills in English. Having
learnt English for at least six years, some for more than ten years, most university
students in China cannot, unfortunately, speak English fluently or express them-
selves easily even in respect of daily routines. When they do speak in English, they
often stumble and stammer. As I discussed at the beginning of Chap. 1, while there
may be more than one reason for the existence of a gap between students’ efforts
and their learning effectiveness, FLLA can be an important one, which makes it
signiﬁcant to understand and investigate the influence of FLLA on English learners
and college English teaching in China.
3.2.2 Influence of FLLA on English Learners in China
Undoubtedly, it is much more difﬁcult for native-speakers of English to learn a
language that is rather different from English (such as Chinese) than one that is
similar (such as French). For example, Aida (1994) argued that it requires
approximately 1,320 h of instruction in an intensive program in languages like
3.2 Status of English as a Foreign Language in China 73
Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, and Korean to bring American students to the same
level of proﬁciency reached after only about 480 h of instruction in languages like
French or Spanish. Similarly, it is quite difﬁcult for native-speakers of Chinese to
learn English compared with western English learners whose native languages are
similar to English. Given that most of the FLLA research has been carried out in
western contexts, it is consequently signiﬁcant to investigate FLLA among EFL
learners in China.
Moreover, studies have found that some cultural groups seem to have a higher
percentage of anxious language learners than others. For example, Horwitz (2008)
argued that Korean learners of English seem to be more anxious than American FL
learners, while Turkish and Spanish-speaking English learners appear to be less
anxious than their counterparts in the USA or Korea. EFL learners from Confucian
heritage cultures (e.g., China, Japan) are also believed to have suffered more from
FLLA than other ethnic groups (Woodrow, 2006). In China’s educational context,
one possible reason why EFL learners suffer high levels of anxiety may be that
models and standards have always been of the utmost importance to Chinese culture
(Kirkpatrick & Xu, 2002). For instance, the Confucian philosopher Hsün Tzu
taught that “[t]o be without a ﬁxed standard in your actions is called inconstancy”
(Watson, 1967, p. 26).
As discussed in Sect. 2.3.2, students’ low FL proﬁciency, both subjective (i.e.,
self-perceived) and objective, might lead to their FLLA. However, this does not
mean that students with high FL proﬁciency have little or no FLLA. Allwright and
Bailey (1991) argue that some very competent students will also be anxious because
if they do not make mistakes, they may stand out from their peers and be resented.
As a result, they deliberately make mistakes. Nonetheless, by so doing, they might
be criticized by their teacher. Hence, they can be anxious in FL classroom too.
The FLLA generated by “trying not to show that one is better than the rest is
perhaps even more serious among Chinese students, whose culture emphasizes
modesty” (Tsui, 1996, p. 157). For example, in a study concerning social-cultural
factors affecting students’ classroom behavior, Wong (1984, cited in Tsui, 1996,
p. 157) suggests that the following “rules” regulate the use of English among some
Hong Kong secondary school students:
• you should not demonstrate verbal success in English in front of your peers;
• you should hesitate and show difﬁculty in arriving at an answer;
• you should not answer the teacher voluntarily or enthusiastically in English; and
• you should not speak fluent English.
Indeed, as Tsui (1996, pp. 157–158) pointed out, “it is a widespread phe-
nomenon in Hong Kong schools that students who know the answer will not take
the initiative and answer the question until they are asked by the teacher to do so”
since “they are inhibited by this ‘maxim of modesty’ in the classroom”.
74 3 Developments in the Field of FLLA in China
3.3 Limited FLLA Research in China Published
in English
A noticeable research gap to be ﬁlled in the ﬁeld of FLLA in China is the shortage
of empirical studies on speaking anxiety, even fewer are the empirical studies
written or published in English (e.g., He, 2013, 2017a; Liu, 2007; Liu & Jackson,
2008; Lu & Liu, 2011, 2015; Yan, 1998; Yan & Horwitz, 2008; Yang, 1993),
focusing on the relationship between EFL learning in China and FLLA. Among the
limited studies, only He (2013, 2017a) and Liu (2007) are focused on FLSA from
the perspective of non-English majors in China, which is a signiﬁcant area of
research as highlighted in Chap. 1. Since Liu (2007) is a small case study with only
27 student participants, this section (i.e., Sect. 3.3) will mainly discuss the other
studies published in English.
Yang (1993) examined the relationship among communicative anxiety,
self-esteem, and Chinese students’ oral and listening proﬁciencies in English.
Moreover, the effects of gender, ﬁeld of study, and level of study were investigated
to see if these variables were related to English proﬁciency, anxiety, and
self-esteem. Her study revealed that language anxiety was negatively related to
students’ English speaking and listening proﬁciencies, and students with higher
anxiety level in English communication obtained lower scores in L2 proﬁciency
tests. Her study also showed a negative correlation between language anxiety and
self-esteem. However, no positive relationship was identiﬁed between participants’
self-esteem and their speaking and listening test scores. Furthermore, she reported
no signiﬁcant difference concerning participants’ scores in English proﬁciency tests,
anxiety measures, and self-esteem scales in line with the background variables of
gender, level of study, and ﬁeld of study.
In order to investigate the sources and effects of FLA in a college English
program in China, Yan (1998) investigated 532 business major students from
Year-1 to Year-4 in a university in Shanghai and found that FLA was moderately
negatively related to language achievement. The quantitative data in her study
indicated that there were consistently higher correlations between the FLCAS and
the scores for listening and speaking achievements than those between the FLCAS
and written work. In addition, the study found: Year-1 students were the most
anxious of all the grade levels; students who were from Shanghai had a lower
anxiety level and higher achievement than others; students who were exposed to
English at home also had a slightly lower anxiety level and higher achievement
scores; and the strength of students’ motivation and anxiety were negatively cor-
related. The qualitative ﬁndings in her study yielded a theoretical model, in which
anxiety was found to be directly influenced by peer pressure, learning strategies,
and interest and motivation. Yan (1998) also indicated that the anxiety reported in
western research plays a similar role in Chinese students’ language learning.
However, special features are connected with both the effects and the sources of
anxiety in a Chinese cultural context, for instance, the deeply-rooted Confucian
3.3 Limited FLLA Research in China Published in English 75
doctrines. These features should be attended to so as to improve FL classroom
practice in this setting.
Similarly, by examining EFL learners’ perceptions of how anxiety interacts with
personal and instructional factors to influence their English achievement, Yan and
Horwitz (2008) conﬁrmed the negative correlation between FLA and FL achieve-
ment as identiﬁed in previous studies (Aida, 1994; Horwitz et al., 1986; MacIntyre
& Gardner, 1989; Saito & Samimy, 1996; Yan, 1998). Through a qualitative
analysis approach, they proposed a grounded-theory model which described how
anxiety might work in combination with other language learning variables to
influence FL achievement.
Meihua Liu has conducted and published quite a few studies on students’ FLLA
in China, most of which were co-authored with others. With the participation of 547
Year-1 undergraduate non-English majors in a study on the unwillingness to
communicate and anxiety of EFL learners in English classrooms, Liu and Jackson
(2008, p. 71) reported that (1) most of the students were willing to participate in
interpersonal conversations, but many of them did not like to risk using/speaking
English in class; (2) more than one third of the students were anxious in their
English class, and they were afraid of negative evaluations, public speaking, and
tests; (3) signiﬁcant correlations were found between students’ unwillingness to
communicate and their FLA, and between their self-rated English proﬁciency and
access to English; and (4) many of the variables of interest (e.g., ages at which the
participants began to learn English) were good predictors of the students’ unwill-
ingness to communicate and of their FLA, which were also powerful predictors for
each other.
What’s more, with questionnaire data from 980 Year-1 non-English majors in
China, Liu and Huang (2011) found that (1) students did not feel much FLLA on
the whole and demonstrated moderate motivation in EFL learning; (2) FLLA was
remarkably negatively correlated to EFL learning motivation; and (3) students’
FLLA level and EFL learning motivation were markedly correlated with their EFL
performance.
Lu and Liu (2011) investigated FLLA and strategy use with respect to their
interactive effect on learners’ EFL performance on the basis of a questionnaire
survey with 934 undergraduates. Their results revealed that (1) about one-third of
the participants experienced FLLA; (2) the students reported a medium use of
cognitive and metacognitive strategies; and (3) there were remarkable correlations
among FLLA, cognitive strategy use, and metacognitive strategy use.
By surveying 1,697 non-English majors in China, Liu and Zhang (2013) indi-
cated that students experienced low to medium level of FLLA and their EFL
learning motivation was medium to high level. The results also showed that par-
ticipants’ FLLA, motivation, and EFL performance were all signiﬁcantly correlated
with each other, which is more or less similar to the results as reported in Liu and
Huang (2011).
Liu and Ni (2015) explored foreign language writing anxiety (FLWA) by sur-
veying 1,174 non-English majors in China and interviewing 18 of them. Their
results and ﬁndings revealed that (1) the FLWAS (Young, 1999) had three
76 3 Developments in the Field of FLLA in China
components—low conﬁdence in FL writing, dislike of FL writing, and FL writing
evaluation apprehension; (2) their participants generally liked and were conﬁdent in
FL writing and hence were not apprehensive of having their writing evaluated;
(3) males experienced signiﬁcantly more FLWA than females; (4) FLWA
remarkably negatively influenced students’ performance in FL writing test; and
(5) seven factors were found to have led to students’ FLWA.
With questionnaire data from 1,702 undergraduates in China, Lu and Liu (2015)
found that (1) more than half of the participants were generally not anxious in EFL
reading and were satisﬁed with and conﬁdent in their EFL reading proﬁciency;
(2) more than half of the students moderately made use of various kinds of reading
strategies like checking and conﬁrming, planning, predicting and assessing;
(3) compared to females, males showed markedly higher level of FL reading
anxiety, lower level of reading proﬁciency, and used signiﬁcantly less reading
strategies; and (4) students’ reading anxiety were signiﬁcantly negatively correlated
with their use of reading strategies, and both were remarkably correlated to their
reading performance.
To add to the existing literature, Chaps. 4 and 5 of this book report an empirical
study examining foreign language speaking anxiety among 302 EFL undergradu-
ates and 30 teachers of English in China. It adopted three triangulated research
methods (i.e., questionnaire survey, focused interview, and classroom observation)
to explore the reasons of and coping strategies for FLSA. The next chapter will
focus on the reasons leading to FLSA.
References
Aida, Y. (1994). Examination of Horwitz, Horwitz, and Cope’s construct of foreign language
anxiety: The case of students of Japanese. The Modern Language Journal, 78(2), 155–168.
Allwright, D., & Bailey, K. M. (1991). Focus on the language classroom: An introduction to
classroom research for language teachers. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bai, Y. (2003). Waiyu xuexi zhongde waiyu jiaolv yingxiang: Guoneiwai xiangguan yanjiu gaishu
ji sikao [The influence of foreign language anxiety in foreign language learning: A review of
relevant studies home and abroad]. Jichu Jiaoyu Waiyu Jiaoxue Yanjiu [Foreign Language
Teaching & Research in Basic Education], 7, 25–27.
Bolton, K. (2002). Chinese English: From Canton jargon to global English. World Englishes,
21(2), 181–199.
Bolton, K. (2003). Chinese Englishes: A sociolinguistic history. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Chen, J., & Deng, X. (2003). Waiyu jiaoshi ketang xingwei dui xuesheng xuexi jiaolv de
yingxiang [The influence of foreign language teachers’ classroom behavior to students’
learning anxiety]. Chengdu Daxue Xuebao (Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of Chengdu University
(Social Sciences)], 3, 84–86.
Chen, J., & Li, J. (2007a). Yingyu yuedu jiaolv qingxu yanjiu ji ketang huanjie celue [Research on
English reading anxiety and its classroom moderation strategies]. Zhejiang Gongye Daxue
Xuebao (Shekeban) [Journal of Zhejiang University of Technology (Social Science)], 6(1),
21–26.
3.3 Limited FLLA Research in China Published in English 77
Chen, J., & Xu, J. (2006). Daxue yingyu ketang de waiyu jiaolv yu hezuo xuexi yanjiu [A study on
foreign language anxiety and interactive learning in university English classes]. Hunan Wenli
Xueyuan Xuaobao (Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of Hunan University of Arts and Science
(Social Science Edition)], 31(1), 129–131+142.
Chen, L., & Li, J. (2006). Daxuesheng qinggan yinsu yu yingyu xuexi chengji guanxi de diaocha
[An investigation into the relationship between undergraduates’ affective factors and their
English learning grades]. Daxue Yingyu (Xueshuban) [College English (Academic Edition)], 3
(1), 384–388.
Chen, S. (2005). Yingyu yuedu jiaolv jiyu yingyu chengji de guanxi chutan [A study on the
relationship between English reading anxiety and reading performance]. Yantai Shifan
Xueyuan Xuebao (Zhexue Shehui Kexueban) [Yantai Normal University Journal (Philosophy
and Social Sciences Edition)], 22(4), 99–101.
Chen, S. (2008). Ligongke xuesheng dui waiyu ketang jiaolv de ganzhi [The perception of science
and engineering students’ foreign language learning anxiety]. Xi’an Waiguoyu Daxue Xuebao
[Journal of Xi’an International Studies University], 16(1), 67–69.
Chen, W. (2007). Yuyan jiaolv de yanjiu zongshu [Review on language anxiety]. Jiangsu Jiaoyu
Xueyuan Xuebao (Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of Jiangsu Institute of Education (Social Science
Edition)], 23(3), 46–48.
Chen, X. (2004). Yingyu tingli lijie yu zhuangtai jiaolv de xiangguan yanjiu ji dui jiaoxue de qishi
[The relationship between students’ anxieties and listening comprehension and the enlightment
to teaching]. Waiyu Dianhua Jiaoxue [Computer-Assisted Foreign Language Education in
China], 2, 65–68.
Chen, X., & Zhang, M. (2004). Waiyu ketang jiaolv yu daxue yingyu xuexi de guanxi [Foreign
language anxiety and students’ achievements of college English]. Chongqing Daxue Xuebao
(Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of Chongqing University (Social Sciences Edition)], 10(5), 114–
117.
Chen, Y. (2001). Jiaolvgan dui daxuesheng yingyu kouyu biaoda de fumian yingxiang jiqi celue
[Negative effects of anxiety on students’ oral performance and the counter measures]. Luoyang
Shifan Xueyuan Xuebao [Journal of Luoyang Teacher’s College], 20(6), 109–111.
Cheng, Y., He, Q., & Han, X. (2007). Yingyu ketang jiaolv dui daxuesheng kouyu biaoda de
yingxiang [The effects of English classroom anxiety on college students’ oral performance].
Yuyan Jiaoxue yu Yanjiu [Language Teaching and Linguistic Studies], 1, 89–95.
Chen, Y., & Li, C. (2007b). Qianxi waiyu xuexi de jiaolvgan dui daxuesheng yingyu kouyu nengli
de yingxiang [Effects of anxiety in English learning on college students’ oral competence].
Dongbei Daxue Xuebao (Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of Northeastern University (Social
Science)], 9(2), 185–188.
Chen, Y., & Liu, D. (2010). Yingyu tingli jiaolv chengyin tantao ji yingdui celue shizheng yanjiu
[An empirical study of listening anxiety on its cause and coping strategy]. Waiguo Yuwen
[Foreign Language and Literature], 26(1), 141–144.
Cheng, Y.-S. (2002). Factors associated with foreign language writing anxiety. Foreign Language
Annals, 35(6), 647–656.
Cheng, Y.-S. (2004). A measure of second language writing anxiety: Scale development and
preliminary validation. Journal of Second Language Writing, 13(4), 313–335.
Crystal, D. (2008). Two thousand million? English Today, 24(1), 3–6.
Da, H. (2005). Chuzhongsheng yingyu xueye chengji yingxiang yingsu de yinguo moxing [A
research into the causality model affecting junior high school students’ English academic
achievement]. Xinli Kexue [Psychological Science], 28(4), 984–988.
Da, H. (2007). Yingyu xuexi jiaolv liangbiao de bianyi ji xinxiaodu jianyan [Translation of the
English learning anxiety scale and the test of its reliability and validity]. Zhongguo Xinli
Wensheng Zaozhi [Chinese Mental Health Journal], 21(1), 24–27.
Deng, Y. (2004). Waiyu xuexi dongji yu jiaolv tnxi [An exploration into the relationship between
motivation and anxiety of foreign language learning]. Daxue Waiyu Kexue [University
Education Science], 2, 63–66.
78 3 Developments in the Field of FLLA in China
Dörnyei, Z. (1998). Motivation in second and foreign language learning. Language Teaching,
31(3), 117–135.
Du, L., & Tang, X. (2007). Feiyingyu zhuanye xuesheng tingli jiaolv xianzhuang de diaocha yu
yanjiu [An investigation and study into the actuality of non-English major students listening
anxiety]. Wenzhou Zhiye Jishu Xueyuan Xuebao [Journal of Wenzhou Vocational & Technical
College], 7(1), 82–84+88.
Elkhafaiﬁ, H. (2005). Listening comprehension and anxiety in the Arabic language classroom. The
Modern Language Journal, 89(2), 206–220.
Fan, L., & Gao, D. (2005). Qingxu tiaojie jiaoxue moshi yu dier yuyan ketang jiaolv tiaokong
[Affective adjustment teaching and L2 classroom anxiety control]. Sichuan Waiyu Xueyuan
Xuebao [Journal of Sichuan International Studies University], 21(2), 134–138.
Feng, M. (2004). Ting, shuo, du jiaoji jiaolv dui yingyu chengji de yingxiang [The influence of
communication anxiety in listening, speaking, and reading on English achievements]. Waiyu
Dianhua Jiaoxue [Computer-Assisted Foreign Language Education in China], 5, 16–20.
Gao, J. (2013). Fanzhuan ketang jiangdi yuancheng xuexizhe yingyu xiezuo jiaolv de yingyong
yanjiu [An empirical study on reducing distance learners’ English writing anxiety through
flipped class model]. Haiwai Yingyu [Overseas English], 12, 93–95.
Gao, R. (2010). Reflections on the exclusion of Chinese as a subject in University Entrance
Examination. Retrieved Jan 20, 2017, from http://news.sohu.com/20100128/n269867154.
shtml.
Gong, J., & Gao, X. (2009). Shaoshu minzu daxuesheng yingyu xuexi jiaolv yanjiu - Yi Xizang
daxuesheng wei gean [On foreign language anxiety of ethnic university students—exampliﬁed
by Tibetan university students]. Guizhou Minzu Yanjiu [Guizhou Ethnic Studies], 29(4),
166–171.
Graddol, D. (2006). English next: Why global English may mean the end of ‘English as a Foreign
Language’? London: British Council.
Guo, H., & Wang, R. (2004). Waiyu xuexi jiaolv jiqi huanjie celue [Foreign language anxiety and its
coping strategies]. Jiaoyu Yanjiu yu Shiyan [Educational Research and Experiment], 3, 60–63.
Guo, W., & Wu, W. (2008). Waiyu ketang jiaolv liangbiao zai bufen zhongxiao xuesheng zhongde
jianyan [Examination of the psychometric properties of FLCAS—The case of adolescent
students in China]. Yichun Xueyuan Xuebao [Journal of Yichun College], 30(2), 185–189.
Guo, Y. (2011). Daxue yingyu xiechangfa dui xiezuo jiaolv he xiezuo nengli yingxiang zuoyong
de shiyan yanjiu [An empirical study on the effect of length approach in college English to
writing anxiety and ability]. Waiyujie [Foreign Language World], 2, 73–81.
Guo, Y., & Fan, W. (2009). Daxue yingyu fencengci jiaoxue beijingxia de xiezuo jioalv shizheng
yanjiu [An empirical study on foreign language writing anxiety in the context of college
English teaching at three levels]. Beijing Dier Waiguoyu Xueyuan Xuebao [Journal of Beijing
International Studies University], 31(10), 79–84.
Guo, Y., & Qin, X. (2010). Zhongguo feiyingyu zhuanye daxuesheng de waiyu xiezuo jiaolv ceshi
baogao jiqi dui xiezuo jiaoxue de qishi [Chinese non-English majors’ foreign language writing
anxiety and its implications to writing]. Waiyujie [Foreign Language World], 2, 54–62+82.
Guo, Y., & Xu, J. (2014). Fei yingyu zhuanye daxuesheng yingyu xuexi jiaolv duoweidu yanjiu
[Amulti-dimensional study on non-English majors’ English learning anxiety]. Waiyujie
[Foreign Language World], 4, 2–11.
He, D. (2007). ‘China English’ or native speaker based standard? A study of college teachers’ and
students’ perceptions of the ideal pedagogic model of college English in mainland China.
Unpublished MPhil thesis, City University of Hong Kong.
He, D. (2013). What makes learners anxious while speaking English: A comparative study of the
perceptions held by university students and teachers in China. Educational Studies, 39(3), 338–350.
He, D. (2017a). How to cope with foreign language speaking anxiety effectively? The case of
university students in China. Electronic Journal of Foreign Language Teaching, 14(2).
He, D. (2017b). Perceptions of Chinese English and pedagogic implications for teaching English
in China. In Z. Xu, D. He, & D. Deterding (Eds.), Researching Chinese English: The state of
the art (pp. 127–140). Dordrecht: Springer.
References 79
He, D. (2017c). The use of English in the professional world in China. World Englishes, 36(4).
He, D., & Li, D. C. S. (2009). Language attitudes and linguistic features in the ‘China English’
debate. World Englishes, 28(1), 70–89.
He, D., & Zhang, Q. (2010). Native-speaker norms and ‘China English’: From the perspective of
learners and teachers in China. TESOL Quarterly, 44(4), 769–789.
He, Y. (2005). Tan kefu waiyu xuexi jiaolv de youxiao duice [The strategies to reduce foreign
language learning anxiety]. Zhongxiaoxue Waiyu Jiaoxue [Foreign Language Teaching in
Schools], 12, 1–5.
Horwitz, E. K. (2008). Becoming a language teacher: A practical guide to second language
learning and teaching. Boston: Pearson Education Inc.
Horwitz, E. K., Horwitz, M. B., & Cope, J. (1986). Foreign language classroom anxiety. The
Modern Language Journal, 70(2), 125–132.
Hu, H. (2002). Yingyu chengji yu jiaolv texing de xianggaunxing yanjiu [Correlation analysis
between English achievements and trait anxiety]. Nanhua Daxue Xuebao (Shehui Kexueban)
[Journal of Nanhua University (Social Science Edition)], 3(2), 72–74.
Huang, G., & Shao, Y. (1998). Daxue yingyu jiaoxue gaige de chulu (The way out: College
English teaching reform). Waiyujie (Foreign Language World), Serial No. 72, 20–22.
Huang, Q. (2003). Zhongxuesheng waiyu jiaolv yanjiu [A study on middle school students’
foreign language anxiety]. Shandong Shida Waiguoyu Xueyuan Xuebao [Journal of School of
Foreign Languages, Shandong Teachers’ University], 1, 28–31.
Jiang, Y. (2003). English as a Chinese language. English Today, 19(2), 3–8.
Kang, Q. (2005). Yuyan jiaolv yu waiyu xuexi [Language anxiety and foreign language learning].
Ningxia Daxue Xuebao (Renwen Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of Ningxia University
(Humanities & Social Sciences Edition)], 27(1), 83–84.
Kang, Z. (2011). Kouyi jiaolv de dongyin, jidu jiqi yingxiang [The causations, the degrees and the
impacts of interpreting anxiety]. Waiyu Yanjiu [Foreign Languages Research], 4, 81–85.
Kang, Z. (2012). Kouyi jiaolv dui jiaoti chuanyi de xiaoying yu yingxiang [The influence of
interpreting anxiety on consecutive interpreting]. Zhongguo Keji Fanyi [Chinese Science &
Technology Translators Journal], 25(1), 19–21+18.
Kirkpatrick, A. (2007). Linguistic imperialism? English as a global language. In M. Hellinger & A.
Pauwels (Eds.), Handbook of applied linguistics: Language diversity and change (Vol. 9,
pp. 331–365). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Kirkpatrick, A., & Xu, Z. (2002). Chinese pragmatic norms and ‘China English’. World Englishes,
21(2), 269–279.
Krashen, S. D. (1982). Principles and practice in second language acquisition. Oxford: Pergamon
Press.
Krashen, S. D. (1985). The input hypothesis: Issues and implications. London: Longman.
Lain, Y., Yu, S., & Liu, Q. (2003). Kuawenhua jiaoji yuyong nengli yu yuyan jiaolv xinli de
xiangguan yanjiu [A study of the relationship between intercultural pragmatic competence and
language anxiety]. Jimei Daxue Xuebao [Journal of Jimei University], 4(2), 52–55.
Lei, X. (2004). Benkesheng yingyu xuexi ketang jiaolv diaocha jiqi dui yingyu jiaoxue de qishi
[An investigation on undergraduates’ foreign language classroom anxiety and its implications
on teaching]. Waiguo Yuyan Wenxue [Foreign Language and Literature Studies], 1, 46–51.
Li, B. (2005). Yuyan jiaolv yu yingyu kouyu xuexi [The influence of language anxiety on oral
English learning]. Taizhou Xueyuan Xuebao [Journal of Taizhou University], 27(1), 68–71.
Li, C. (2004b). Jiaolv - yingxiang waiyu xuexi de zhongyao qinggan yinsu zhiyi [Anxiety—one of
the most important emotional factors influencing foreign language learning]. Hebei Qingnian
Guanli Ganbu Xueyuan Xuebao [Journal of Hebei Youth Administrative Cadres College], 1,
58–60.
Li, D. C. S. (2006). Multilingualism and commerce. In P. Auer & L. Wei (Eds.), The handbook of
multilingualism (pp. 411–431). Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Li, J. (2004a). Waiyu xuexi jiaolv de xinlixue he shenjingxue fenxi [The psychological and
neurobiological analysis of foreign language learning anxiety]. Tianjin Wauguoyu Xueyuan
Xuebao [Journal of Tianjin Foreign Studies University], 11(4), 46–51.
80 3 Developments in the Field of FLLA in China
Li, J., & Fan, W. (2004). Yuyan jiaolv lilun tanjiu jiqi dui waiyu jiaoxue de qishi [On linguistic
anxiety and its insight for language learning]. Yanzhou Zhiye Daxue Xuebao [Journal of
Yangzhou Polytechnic College], 8(2), 46–49.
Li, J., & Lin, S. (2007). Guowai eryu/waiyu xuexi jiaolv yanjiu 30 nian [A review of studies on
foreign language learning anxiety abroad in the past 30 years]. Guowai Waiyu Jiaoxue
[Foreign Language Teaching Abroad], 4, 57–63.
Li, H., & Liu, R. (2013). Daxuesheng waiyu xiezuo jioalv yu xiezuo ziwo xiaonenggan de gaunxi
jiqi dui xiezuo chengji de yuce [College students’ EFL writing anxiety and self-efﬁcacy and
their predication on students’ writing performance]. Waiyu Yanjiu [Foreign Languages
Research], 2, 48–54.
Li, W. (2002). Waiyu xuexi jiaolv yu xuesheng weizhongxin de ketangjiaoxue [Foreign language
learning anxiety and student-centered classroom teaching]. Jichu Jiaoyu Waiyu Jiaoxue yanjiu
[Foreign Language Teaching & Research in Basic Education], 9, 33–35.
Li, Y., Wang, Y., Zheng, Y., & Dong, Q. (2010). Xiaoxue ertong yingyu ketang xuexi jiaolv
fazhan jiqi yu jiaoshi jiaoyu xingwei de guanxi [Primary school students’ English classroom
anxiety and the effect of teachers’ teaching behavior on it]. Xinli Fazhan yu Jiaoyu
[Psychological Development and Education], 1, 42–47.
Li, Y., & Wu, G. (2004). Daxuesheng yingyu xuexi jiaolv de diaocha yanjiu [A study of foreign
language anxiety of college students in China]. Baoding Shifan Zhuanke Xuexiao Xuebao
[Journal of Baoding Teachers College], 17(3), 95–96+102.
Liao, S. (2008). Feiyingyu zhuanye xuesheng yingyu yuedu jiaolv yanjiu [A study of English
reading anxiety of non-English majors]. Guangzhou Guangbo Dianshi Daxue Xuebao [Journal
of Guangzhou Radio & TV University], 8(6), 66–69.
Liu, D. (2002). Zhongguo yingyu xuexizhe de yuedu celue yanjiu [A study on Chinese English
learners’ reading strategies]. Waiyujie [Foreign Language World], 6, 13–18.
Liu, M. (2007). Anxiety in oral English classrooms: A case study in China. Indonesian Journal of
English Language Teaching, 3(1), 119–137.
Liu, M. (2011). Lun dizixing he ketang biaoxian jiaolv dui daxuesheng yingyu xuexi de
yingxiang: Jiaocha zhihou yanjiu [On the effects of low self-conﬁdence and classroom
performance anxiety to college students’ English learning: A cross-lagged regression study].
Waiyu Jiaoxue [Foreign Language Education], 32(5), 43–47.
Liu, M., & Huang, W. (2011). An exploration of foreign language anxiety and English motivation.
Education Research International, 1–8.
Liu, M., & Jackson, J. (2008). An exploration of Chinese EFL learners’ unwillingness to
communicate and foreign language anxiety. The Modern Language Journal, 92(1), 71–86.
Liu, M., & Ni, H. (2015). Chinese university EFL learners’ foreign language writing anxiety:
Pattern, effect and causes. English Language Teaching, 8(3), 46–58.
Liu, M., & Shen, M. (2004). Waiyu ketang zhongde jiaolv yanjiu [Review of anxiety studies in
foreign language classrooms]. Qinghua Daxue Xuebao (Zhexue Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of
Tsinghua University (Philosophy and Social Sciences)], 19(special issue), 100–105.
Liu, Z., Yao, X., & Hu, S. (2012). Daxuesheng eryu ziwo, jiaolv he dongji xuexi xingwei de
jiegou fenxi [The structural analysis of college students’ L2 self, aniety, and motivated learning
behavior]. Waiyujie [Foreign Language World], 6, 28–37.
Lu, Q. (2001). Dui yuyan xuexi zhongde qinggan yinsu chutan - jiaolv ji yiingyu jiaoxue [On
affective factors in language learning—Anxiety and English teaching]. Neimenggu Shifan
Daxue Xuebao (Jiaoyu Kexueban) [Journal of Inner Mongolia Normal University
(Educational Science)], 14(2), 37–40.
Lü, H. (2010). Feiyingyu zhuanye daxuesheng yingyu kouyu jiaolv yu kouyu xuexi celue de
xiangguanxing [The relationship between non-English majors’ English speaking anxiety and
spoken English learning strategies]. Waiyu Yanjiu [Foreign Language Research], (5), 65-71.
Lu, Z., & Liu, M. (2011). Foreign language anxiety and strategy use: A study with Chinese
undergraduate EFL learners. Journal of Language Teaching and Research, 2(6), 1298–1305.
References 81
Lu, Z., & Liu, M. (2015). An investigation of Chinese university EFL learner’s foreign language
reading anxiety, reading strategy use and reading comprehension performance. Studies in
Second Language Learning and Teaching, 5(1), 65–85.
Liu, M., & Zhang, X. (2013). An investigation of Chinese university students’ foreign language
anxiety and English learning motivation. English Linguistics Research, 2(1), 1–13.
Ma, Y. (2004). Waiyu ketang jiaolv dui ketang jiaoxue de yingxiang [Foreign language anxiety
and its influence on teaching]. Gansu Jiaoyu Xuexuan Xuebao (Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of
Gansu Education College (Social Sciences)], 20(2), 80–83.
MacIntyre, P. D., & Gardner, R. C. (1989). Anxiety and second-language learning: Toward a
theoretical clariﬁcation. Language Learning, 39(2), 251–275.
Peng, J. (2007). Yixuesheng yingyu jiaoli yiyuan yu yingyu ketang jiaolv de guanxi yanjiu [Study on
the relationship between college students’ willingness to communicate in English and anxiety in
English classroom]. Xibei Yixue Jiaoyu [Northwest Medical Education], 15(2), 368–371.
Pu, Y., & Shi, H. (2010). Yingyu yuedu jiaolv yu yingyu yuedu chengji de xiangguan fenxi
[Analysis on the correlation between English reading anxiety and English reading
performance]. Chongqing Ligong Daxue Xuebao (Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of Chongqing
University of Technology (Social Science)], 24(2), 96–99.
Qin, C. (2006). Daxuesheng waiyu jiaolv zhuangkuang de diaocha yu fenxi [An investigation and
analysis of university students’ foreign language learning anxiety]. Hehai Daxue Xuebao (Zhexue
Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of Hehai University (Philosophy and Social Sciences)], 8(3), 49–54.
Qiu, M., & Liao, F. (2007). Zhongguo daxuesheng yingyu yuedu jiaolvgan yanjiu [Study on
Chinese university students’ foreign language reading anxiety]. Xi’an Waiguoyu Daxue
Xuebao [Journal of Xi’an International Studies University], 15(4), 55–59.
Ren, X. (2009). Guonei yuyan jiaolv yu daxue yingyu xuexi yanjiu shuping [Language anxiety
and college English learning]. Liaoning Yixueyuan Xuebao (Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of
Liaoning Medical University (Social Science Edition)], 7(2), 91–94.
Rong, T. (1998). Cong waiyu xuexi de jiaolvgan tan chengren yingyu jiaoxue celue [Adult English
teaching strategies concerning foreign language learning anxiety]. Zhejiang Shida Xuebao
(Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of Zhejiang Normal University (Social Science Edition)], (4), 88–89.
Saito, Y., Horwitz, E. K., & Garza, T. J. (1999). Foreign language reading anxiety. The Modern
Language Journal, 83(2), 202–218.
Saito, Y., & Samimy, K. K. (1996). Foreign language anxiety and language performance: A study
of learner anxiety in beginning, intermediate, and advanced-level college students of Japanese.
Foreign Language Annals, 29(2), 239–252.
Shao, X., & Zhang, F. (2008). Wangluo duomeiti huanjing xiade daxuesheng yingyu xuexi jiaolv
yanjiu [A study of college students’ English learning anxiety in net-work and multimedia
environment]. Waiyu Dianhua Jiaoxue [Computer-Assisted Foreign Language Education in
China], 3, 28–32.
Shi, Y. (2008). Waiyu yuedu jiaolv xingbie chayi yu siji yingyu chengji de guanxi tantao [Gender
difference in foreign language reading anxiety and its relations to CET-4]. Zhongguo Waiyu
[Foreign Languages in China], 2, 46–49+53.
Shi, Y., & Liu, Z. (2006). Waiyu yuedu jiaolv yu yingyu chengji ji xingbie de guanxi [Foreign
language reading anxiety and its relationship to English achievement and gender]. Jiefangjun
Waiguoyu Xueyuan Xuebao [Journal of PLA University of Foreign Languages], 29(2), 59–64.
Shi, Y., & Xu, J. (2013). Guoneiwai waiyu jiaolv yanjiu 40 nian [40 years’ studies on foreign
language anxiety home and abroad]. Waiyu yu Waiyu Jiaoxue [Foreign Languages and Their
Teaching], 1, 60–65.
Sui, X. (2012). Wangluo jiaoxue huanjingxia yingyu xuexizhe de jiaolv wenti yanjiu [The study
on anxiety problems with English learners under the Internet-based environment]. Waiyu
Dianhua Jiaoxue [Computer-Assisted Foreign Language Education in China], 1, 78–80.
Tao, Y. (2006). Cong qinggan guolv xueshuo lun xiaochu xiezuo jiaolv [On reducing writing
anxiety from the perspective of affective ﬁlter]. Suzhou Gongye Daxue Xuebao (Gongkeban)
[Journal of Soochow University (Engineering Science Edition)], 26(6), 77–78+81.
82 3 Developments in the Field of FLLA in China
Tsang, E. W. K. (2001). Adjustment of mainland Chinese academics and students to Singapore.
International Journal of Intercultural Relations, 25(4), 347–372.
Tsui, A. B. M. (1996). Reticence and anxiety in second language learning. In K. M. Bailey & D.
Nunan (Eds.), Voices from the language classroom: Qualitative research in second language
education (pp. 145–167). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Wang, C. (2003). Waiyu jiaolv liangbiao zai daxuesheng zhongde ceshi baogao [The adaptation
and validation of the foreign language classroom anxiety scale when applied to Chinese college
students]. Xinli Kexue [Journal of Psychological Science], 26(2), 281–284.
Wang, H., & Yang, X. (2007). Yuedu jiaolv dui gaozhongsheng yuedu lijie de yingxiang [The
effects of reading anxiety on senior high school students’ reading comprehension]. Shandong
Shifan Daxue Waiguoyu Xueyuan Xuebao (Jichu Yingyu Jiaoyu) [Journal of Basic English
Education], 9(5), 53–56.
Wang, J. (2007). Gaozhi xuesheng waiyu xuexi jiaolv ji yingdui celue [Foreign language anxiety
and its coping strategies of vocational school students]. Zhongguo Zhiye Jiaoyu Jishu [Chinese
Vocational and Technical Education], 16, 39–40.
Wang, Q. (2004). Gannan zangzu xuesheng yingyu ketang jiaolv diaocha ji qishi [A study of
Tibetan students’ language anxiety in English classroom]. Qinghai Shifan Daxue Xuebao
(Zhexue Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of Qinghai Normal University (Philosophy and Social
Sciences Edition)], 6, 127–130.
Wang, Q., & Ding, X. (2001). Zhongguo xibu nongcun zhongxuesheng yingyu xuexi jiaolv de
diaocha yanjiu [A study of learners’ English language anxiety in the rural areas of western
China]. Xibei Shifan Daxue Xuebao (Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of the Northwest Normal
University (Social Sciences)], 38(5), 68–73.
Wang, X. (2012). Qinggan yinsu dui daxue yingyu jiaoxue de yingxiang [The influence of
affective factors on college English teaching]. Waiyu Jiaoxue [Foreign Language Education],
33(6), 67–70.
Wang, Y., Fang, L. (2008). Yingyu yuedu jiaolv, yuedu celue he yuedu chengji xiangguanxing
yanjiu [A study on the correlation among English reading anxiety, reading strategies, and
reading performance]. Chongqing Keji Xueyuan Xuebao (Shehui Keyue Ban) [Journal of
Chongqing University of Science and Technology (Social Sciences Edition)], 9, 221–222.
Wang, Y., & Wan, Y. (2001). Waiyu xuexi jiaolv jiqi dui waiyu xuexi de yingxiang: guowai
xiangguan yanjiu gaishu [Foreign language learning anxiety and its influence to foreign
language learning: A review to relevant studies abroad]. Waiyu Jaioxue yu Yanjiu [Foreign
Language Teaching and Research], 33(2), 122–126.
Watson, B. (1967). Basic writings of Mo Tzu, Hsün Tzu, and Han Fei Tzu. New York: Columbia
University Press.
Wong, C. (1984). Social-cultural factors counteract the instructional effects of teaching through
English in Hong Kong. Unpublished manuscript, English Department, University of Washington.
Woodrow, L. (2006). Anxiety and speaking English as a second language. RELC Journal: A
Journal of Language Teaching and Research in Southeast Asia, 37(3), 308–328.
Wu, Y., & Gu, W. (2011). Hezuo xuexi jiangdi feiyingyu zhuanye daxuesheng yingyu xiezuo
jioalv de shizheng yanjiu [An empirical study on cooperative learning decreasing non-English
majors’ English writing anxiety]. Waiyu yu Waiyu Jiaoxue [Foreign Languages and Their
Teaching], 6, 51–55.
Xiang, M. (2003). Qinggan yinsu dui daxue yingyu jiaoxue de yingxiang [The influence of
affective factors on college English teaching]. Waiyu yu Waiyu Jiaoxue [Foreign Languages
and Their Teaching], 3, 23–26.
Xie, S. (2007). Yuyan jiaolv yu yingyu kouyu ziwo ganzhi, kouyu chengji de xiangguan yanjiu
[Research on relationship between language anxiety and self-perception of English speaking
ability as well as oral scores]. Waiguo Yuyan Wenxue Yanjiu [Research in Foreign Language
& Literature], 7(2), 64–68.
Xin, L. (2004). Duomeiti wangluo huanjing xia de waiyu xuexi jiaolv [Foreign language anxiety in
technology enhanced language learning]. Xi’nan Jiaotong Daxue Xuebao (Shehui Kexueban)
[Journal of Southwest Jiaotong University (Social Sciences)], 5(4), 73–76.
References 83
Xiong, S. (2012). Jiyu wangluo huanjing de daxuesheng yuyan xuexi jiaolv yu xuexi celue
shiyong zhi guanxi yanjiu [A study on the relationship between language learning anxiety and
learning strategy use of university students in the computer-based environment]. Waiyu
Dianhua Jiaoxue [Computer-Assisted Foreign Language Education in China], 6, 66–71.
Xiong, S., & Tan, H. (2007). Gaozhong xuesheng yingyu xuexi jiaolv ji chayi yinsu de diaocha
yanjiu [An investigation into senior high school students’ English learning anxiety and the
factors leading to their anxiety difference]. Jiangxi Jiaoyu Keyan [Jiangxi Educational
Research], 11, 47–49.
Xu, S. (2006). Waiyu xuexi jiaolv jiqi yingdui celue [Foreign language anxiety and its coping
strategies]. Xi’nan Keji Daxue Gaojiao Yangjiu [Journal of Higher Education of Southwest
University of Science and Technology], 2, 21–23.
Xu, Z. (2017). Researching Chinese English: A meta-analysis of Chinese scholarship on Chinese
English research. In Z. Xu, D. He, & D. Deterding (Eds.), Researching Chinese English: The
state of the art (pp. 235–266). Dordrecht: Springer.
Xue, L. (2005). Yingyu xuexi jiaolv yu yingyu chengji de xiangguan yanjiu [Research on the
relationship between English learning anxiety and English achievement]. Shanxi Nongye
Daxue Xuebao (Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of Shanxi Agricultural University (Society Science
Edition)], 4(3), 246–248.
Yan, J. X. (1998). An examination of foreign language classroom anxiety: Its sources and effects
in a college English program in China. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin,
Texas, United States.
Yan, J. X., & Horwitz, E. K. (2008). Learners’ perceptions of how anxiety interacts with personal
and instructional factors to influence their achievement in English: A qualitative analysis of
EFL learners in China. Language Learning, 58(1), 151–183.
Yang, R.-L. (1993). A study of the communicative anxiety and self-esteem of Chinese students in
relation to their oral and listening proﬁciency in English. Unpublished Ed.D., University of
Georgia, Georgia, United States.
Yang, T.-K. (2005). Measurement of Korean EFL college students’ foreign language classroom
speaking anxiety: Evidence of psychometric properties and accuracy of a computerized
adaptive test (CAT) with dichotomously scored items using a CAT simulation. Unpublished Ph.
D., The University of Texas at Austin, Texas, United States.
Yang, W., & Zhang, M. (2003). Yuyan jiaolv yu jiaoshi de tiaokong [On teacher’s control of
language anxiety]. Guangzhou Daxue Xuebao (Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of Guangzhou
University (Social Science Edition)], 2(5), 29–31+42.
Young, D. J. (1999). Foreign language writing anxiety scale (FLWAS). In D. J. Young (Ed.),
Affect in foreign language and second language learning: A practical guide to creating a
low-anxiety classroom atmosphere (p. 257). New York: McGraw Hill.
Yu, X. (1999). Chengren xuesheng yingyu ketang jiaolvgan yu tingli lijie chengji de guanxi [The
relationship between adult students’ foreign language classroom anxiety and their listening
comprehension grade]. Yuyan Jiaoxue yu Yanjiu [Language Teaching and Linguistic Studies], 2,
132–143.
Yuan, P. (2012). Yituo xueke neirong de daxueyingyu jiaoxue dui xuesheng xuexi dongji ji
jiaolvgan de yingxiang [On the impact of CBI on EFL learners’ motivation and anxiety in
college English context]. Jiefangjun Waiguoyu Xueyuan Xuebao [Journal of PLA University of
Foreign Languages], 35(3), 41–45.
Yuan, X. (2003). Waiyu xuexi jiaolv yu xuexi chengji guanxi de diaocha fenxi [An investigation
into the relationship between foreign language learning anxiety and learning achievements].
Zhejiang Shifan Daxue Xuebao (Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of Zhejiang Normal University
(Social Science Edition)], (special issue), 97–100.
Zeng, X., & Liu, Q. (2012). Wangluo duomeiti huangjingxia ligonglei daxuesheng yingyu xuexi
jiaolv yanjiu: Jiyu wangluo jiaoxue mushi yu chuantong jiaoxue moshi de duibi yanjiu [A study
of English learning anxiety of science and engineering college students under multi-media
environment: Based on the comparison of multi-media and traditional classroom teaching]. Waiyu
Dianhua Jiaoyu [Computer-Assisted Foreign Language Education], 9, 50–55.
84 3 Developments in the Field of FLLA in China
Zhang, H. (2008). Gaozhongsheng yingyu xiezuo jiaolv de diaocha yu fenxi [A survey of the
effect of writing anxiety on the writing output of high school students]. Ningbo Jiaoyu Xueyuan
Xuebao [Journal of Ningbo Institute of Education], 10(2), 98–100.
Zhang, L. (2006). Wangluo huanjingxia huanjie waiyu jiaolvgan de kouyu jiaoxue moshi yanjiu
[The application of web-based oral English teaching model to alleviating foreign language
anxiety]. Zhongguo Dizhi Daxue Xuebao (Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of China University of
Geosciences (Social Sciences Edition)], 6(6), 86–89.
Zhang, Q. (2004b). Daxuesheng yingyu ketang xuexi jiaolv ji qiwang de diaocha fenxi [An
investigation into college students’ foreign language learning anxiety and expectation]. Xinan
Minzu Daxue Xuebao (Renwen Shekeban) [Journal of Southwest University for Nationalities
(Humanities, Arts, and Social Science Edition)], 25(6), 394–397.
Zhang, R., & Yuan, L. (2004). Daxuesheng waiyu jiaolv, ziwo xiaonenggan yu waiyu chengji
guanxi de yanjiu [Research on the relationship between foreign language anxiety, self-efﬁcacy
and English performance]. Xinli Fazhan yu Jiaoyu [Psychological Development and
Education], 3, 56–61.
Zhang, S. (2007). Waiyu xuexizhe de qiyi rongrendu he jiaolvgan yanjiu [On tolerance of
ambiguity and anxiety in English language learners]. Hebei Jingmao Daxue Xuebao
(Zongheban) [Journal of Hebei University of Economics and Trade (Comprehensive
Edition)], 7(2), 95–98.
Zhang, S., & Wang, G. (2006). Jiaolv zai qiyi rongrendu yu yingyu xuexi chengji zhijian de
zhongjie zuoyong fenxi [Mediating role of language learning anxiety in the relationship
between tolerance of ambiguity and English language learning]. Xinli Fazhan yu Jiaoyu
[Psychological Development and Education], 22(4), 64–67.
Zhang, X., & Zhao, G. (2011). Waiyu tingli jiaolv liangbiao de gouzao fenxi ji xiaodu jianyan
[Analyzing and validating the construct of foreign language listening anxiety scale]. Xiandai
Waiyu [Modern Foreign Languages], 34(2), 162–170.
Zhang, Y. (2002). Feiyingyu zhuanye yanjiusheng xuexi jiaolv yu kouyu ketang huodong yanjiu
[A study of classroom spoken English activities and stress of non-English majors]. Shandong
Waiyu Jiaoxue [Shandong Foreige Languages Journal], 5, 67–70.
Zhang, Y., & Lin, S. (2001). Quanyuyan jiaoxue zai guozhong yingyuke zhi shiyan yanjiu [The
empirical study of whole language teaching in English class of junior high]. Journal of
Research in Education Sciences, 46(2), 233–253.
Zhang, Z. (2004a). Waiyu xuexi jiaolv lilun yu waiyu jiaoxue [A probe into foreign language
anxiety and its signiﬁcance to foreign language teaching]. Xi’nan Jiaotong Daxue Xuebao
(Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of Southwest Jiaotong University (Social Sciences)], 5(4), 77–81.
Zheng, D. (2005). Xiezuo jiaolv dui daxuesheng yingyu xiezuo de yingxiang [The influence of
writing anxiety on undergraduates’ English writing]. Sanmenxian Zhiye Jishu Xueyuan Xuebao
[Journal of Sanmenxia Polytechnic], 4(1), 47–50.
Zhou, B., & Tang, J. (2010). Eryu xiezuo jiaolv dui xiezuo guocheng yingxiang de shizheng yanjiu
[An empirical study on the effect of L2 writing anxiety with writing process]. Waiyu Jiaoxue
[Foreign Language Education], 31(1), 64–68.
Zhou, D. (2003). Eryu ketang zhongde tingli jiaolvgan he qinggan celue [Listening anxiety in L2
classroom and affective strategies]. Guowai Waiyu Jiaoxue [Foreign Language Teaching
Abroad], 3, 22–29+21.
Zhou, X. (2009). Yingyu ketang tingli jiaolv de chengyin jiqiyu siji tingli de guanxi [Causes of
listening anxiety in English classes and the relationship with listening scores in CET-4].
Chongqing Jiaotong Daxue Xuebao (Shehui Kexueban) [Journal of Chongqing Jiaotong
University (Social Sciences Edition)], 9(1), 137–141.
References 85
Chapter 4
Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
Reasons of FLSA are highlighted in this book as a central part in light of FLSA
being a prevailing phenomenon among EFL learners in China. Research efforts in
FLSA, which is a comparatively underresearched area in China’s EFL teaching and
learning, are expected to further the advancement of FLLA research in general and
enhance EFL learning outcomes in the end. This chapter presents the major reasons
resulting in FLSA which are found in an empirical study. Naturally, the chapter
starts with a description of the methodology used in the study. For the purpose of
data triangulation, three instruments were adopted for data collection, namely,
questionnaire surveys, focused interviews (group and individual), and classroom
observations. With the three instruments, 25 speciﬁc reasons leading to students’
FLSA were identiﬁed.
4.1 Methodology of the Study
Hilleson (1996, p. 250) argues that “[t]he way in which human beings learn lan-
guage is largely invisible, taking place inside the mind of the language learner,
where researchers cannot follow”, and the study of FLSA is such a case in point.
The validity and reliability of such a study can only be ensured with well-planned
research methods. Overall, this study is a quantitative study employing statistical
methods complemented with qualitative approaches.
4.1.1 Participants
The selection of participants is determined by the nature of the issues under
investigation. Ideally, a full study of FLSA in China would investigate China’s
English education at the primary and secondary levels, and as well the views from
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
D. He, Foreign Language Learning Anxiety in China,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7662-6_4
87
various stakeholders,1
in addition to the circle of teaching and learning of college
English. This would be a very large project way beyond the scope of a single study.
Therefore, English education at school level was excluded from the scope of the
present study, and the focus has been limited to the perceptions of students and
teachers of college English through the measurement of FLSA among Chinese
non-English majors. Teachers and students of college English were selected as the
participants because they are the people who are most deeply involved in daily
teaching and learning of college English and thus are most closely related to the
issues addressed. University students were selected because they have had at least
six years of English learning experience and thus are able to understand the research
topic better and express their opinions more clearly than school students. The
choice of the participants was further limited to non-English majors and their
English teachers considering that non-English majors constitute the absolute
majority of the potential English-speaking and -using population in China.
To be speciﬁc, the participants in this study were Year-1 non-English majors and
their teachers at two Chinese universities. Only Year-1 students were included
because they were reported to be the most anxious university students in language
learning (Yan, 1998). Altogether 332 participants (302 students and 30 teachers)
participated in the questionnaire surveys and about one-tenth of them were inter-
viewed. In addition, two EFL classrooms were observed, one at each of the two
universities. In order to make the sample more representative, I endeavored to
involve teachers and students of college English from universities of different
academic levels and geographic regions, one key university located in Hubei
province (central China) and one second-tier university in Jiangsu province (eastern
China).2
These two universities take students from all over the country. Moreover,
to increase the validity, reliability, and generalizability of the study, students and
teachers with as wide background as possible were selected to get desirable samples
(see Sects. 4.1.1.1 and 4.1.1.2 below for more details).
4.1.1.1 Student Participants
All 302 student participants were mainland Chinese, ranging in age from 17 to 23
(
x = 19.9). Among them, 44.4% (134) were female and 55.6% (168) male. They
1
Such as the education policy makers and implementers, English language teachers and learners at
different levels, parents of these learners, textbook publishers, examination providers, leaders of
the enterprises which might need their employees to be proﬁcient in oral English, and even the
employees themselves.
2
By “key university”, I mean the universities under the direct administration of the Ministry of
Education in China; there are 75 such universities in China (List of Universities, 2017).
Consequently, all the other universities, institutes, and colleges in China are classiﬁed as
“second-tier universities”.
88 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
were students of four disciplines3
: Science (33, 10.9%), Arts (36, 11.9%), Business
(77, 25.5%), and Engineering (156, 51.7%). About 71.5% (216) of the student
participants (N = 302) were drawn from six different classes of the second-tier
university, and the remaining 28.5% (86) from three classes of the key university.
These participants were non-native speakers of English (NNSs). Although a good
many of the participants speak Chinese dialects (124, 41.5%) other than Putonghua
(163, 54%) as their mother tongue,4
all of them speak Putonghua at university.
Most of them (218, 72.1%) started to learn English from junior middle school, the
rest of them started even earlier. All of them had learnt the language for six years or
more before entering university. Their English learning in middle schools (6 h a
week) focused on grammar rules, intensive text reading and analysis, vocabulary
study (meaning and usage of each word and phrase), and listening. Only a very
small number of the student participants were from foreign language schools, which
emphasized developing listening and speaking skills instead of grammar and
reading. In other words, most of the participants had few or no oral English lessons
in middle schools. They had 3 h of English lesson a week at university and one of
the three was focused on speaking and listening. These participants are considered a
typical sample of Year-1 college students in mainland China. The major and gender
distribution of the student participants are displayed in Table 4.1.
4.1.1.2 Teacher Participants
Teachers were included in this study as participants because FLA is a complex
construct. Research such as this needs to be triangulated not only in terms of
methodology but also data sources, that is, students supply subjective data source,
the researcher analyzes the data objectively, and teachers provide a third inde-
pendent perspective as another stakeholder. Most of the teachers (N = 30) were
from the second-tier university (23, 76.7%), while the rest (7, 23.3%) came from the
key university. Eleven of them (36.7%) were male and 19 (63.3%) female. Their
age ranged from 23 to 50 (
x = 36.4), and they had two months to 27 years of
Table 4.1 Major and gender distribution of the student participants
Science Arts Business Engineering Total
N % N % N % N % N %
Female 12 4.0 20 6.6 49 16.2 53 17.6 134 44.4
Male 21 6.9 16 5.3 28 9.3 103 34.1 168 55.6
Total 33 10.9 36 11.9 77 25.5 156 51.7 302 100
3
Students of each discipline study different programs. For example, students of Engineering major
in Mechanical Engineering, Electronic Engineering, Material Engineering, Motor Engineering, etc.
In this research, they are considered as one group: students of Engineering.
4
Twelve (4%) of the 302 participants speak both Putonghua and one Chinese dialect as their
mother tongues, and three of them (1%) did not report their mother tongue.
4.1 Methodology of the Study 89
English teaching experience (
x = 12.6). In terms of the highest academic qualiﬁ-
cations obtained, two (6.7%) of them held a doctorate degree, 24 (80.0%) a mas-
ter’s degree, and 4 (13.3%) a bachelor’s degree. As for the academic rank, two
(6.7%) of them were professors, 8 (26.7%) associate professors, 16 (53.3%) lec-
turers, and 4 (13.3%) teaching assistants. Up to 21 (70.0%) of them taught
non-English majors only and 9 (30.0%) taught both English majors and
non-English majors. Table 4.2 displays the gender, academic qualiﬁcation and
position distribution of the teacher participants.
4.1.1.3 The Researcher
Having described the participants in the study, it is desirable to also briefly intro-
duce the researcher. I consider myself as both a researcher and a periphery par-
ticipant in the present study because I have had experiences of being both a student
and a teacher in China—experiences which may shape the design and interpreta-
tions of the research.
As an EFL learner, I myself, like most of the participants in this study, began to
learn English at the onset of junior middle school. I know nearly all the feelings
experienced by an EFL learner: how exciting it is at the beginning of learning a new
language, how frustrated while confronting difﬁculties in the course of learning
(e.g., the fear of speaking English in front of others, the apprehension of language
test, the difﬁculties in enlarging vocabulary, improving listening and speaking
abilities), how delighted when one begins to feel at ease using the language, and
how eager to better the mastery of the language, and so on. The two feelings that I
have not come across so far are the desperation caused by repeated failures in spite
of incessant efforts and the relief after giving it up for all time.
Then as a teacher who taught college English for more than ten years, I expe-
rienced almost all the above feelings again, but from a different perspective, that is,
from observing my students. As both an EFL learner and teacher in China, one of
the most prominent feelings is that we have experienced too much foreign language
anxiety, especially speaking anxiety due to the lack of speaking practice in English
learning. On the other hand, we have been short of effective strategies to manage
such anxiety. However, it should not be ignored that these are merely feelings or
perceptions of foreign language learners and teachers like myself from China rather
than empirical evidences. Taken together, what I experienced as an EFL learner and
teacher is also part of the incentives which shaped my original interest in the present
study and this book as well.
4.1.2 Questionnaire Surveys
A number of recent studies have quantiﬁed the effects of FLA on foreign language
learning. Although different methods have been employed, “they can generally be
characterized by their comparison of students’ self-reports of anxiety with their
90 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
Table
4.2
Gender,
academic
qualiﬁcation
and
rank
of
the
teacher
participants
Doctor
Master
Bachelor
Prof
Associate
Lecturer
TA
Total
N
%
N
%
N
%
N
%
N
%
N
%
N
%
N
%
Male
2
6.7
7
23.3
2
6.7
2
6.7
3
10.0
4
13.3
2
6.7
11
36.7
Female
0
0.0
17
56.7
2
6.7
0
0.0
5
16.7
12
40.0
2
6.7
19
63.3
Total
2
6.7
24
80.0
4
13.3
2
6.7
8
26.7
16
53.3
4
13.3
30
100
Note
TA—Teaching
Assistant
4.1 Methodology of the Study 91
language proﬁciency ratings” (Horwitz, Horwitz, Cope, 1986, p. 125). Walker
(1997) also argued that a self-report questionnaire is an appropriate means to
identify anxiety in learners. In order for such a self-report to work, the following
three assumptions must be made according to Wolf (1997, p. 422):
• The respondents can read and understand the questions or items;
• The respondents possess the information to answer the questions or items; and
• The respondents are willing to answer the questions or items honestly.
To these three assumptions we may add a fourth, especially with respect to
foreign language acquisition research, that is, the questions or items must be free
from cultural bias.
4.1.2.1 Instruments
Before answering the questionnaires, participants signed a consent form, in which
they were told the main purpose and signiﬁcance of this study, and they were asked
for their agreement to take part in the investigation and assured of the conﬁden-
tiality of the information they provided. After that, students’ anxiety levels were
tested with the Foreign Language Classroom Anxiety Scale (see Appendix A), a
scale designed by Horwitz5
(1983; see also Horwitz et al., 1986; Horwitz, 2008) to
measure students’ FLA as a situation-speciﬁc trait anxiety. This instrument contains
33 items making use of a ﬁve-point Likert scale. Responses range from “strongly
disagree” to “neither disagree nor agree” and to “strongly agree”. For each item, the
highest degree of anxiety receives ﬁve points and the lowest, one point. For
instance, when statements of the scale are positively worded, the choice of
“strongly agree” receives ﬁve points; when the statements are negatively worded,
the points are also reversed, and the choice of “strongly agree” receives one point.
As a result, participants’ anxiety scores for the FLCAS range from 33 to 165. This
questionnaire has been adapted by the present researcher to form a teacher’s version
(see Appendix B) so that the teacher participants, as a third independent stake-
holder, can judge their students’ anxiety levels and feelings. For the same purpose,
teacher’s version has also been provided for the other two questionnaires (i.e., the
FLSAS and the background questionnaire) and the interview guides at a later stage.
It should be noted that the student’s and the teacher’s versions of all the ques-
tionnaires and consent forms are almost the same except for the wording of some
items, since teaching and learning are two aspects of the same research questions.
Since foreign language anxiety is a context-related concept and may have its own
characteristics in China. Therefore, it is necessary to develop a more speciﬁc and
appropriate scale to evaluate the non-English majors’ FLSA in China. A new instrument
—the Foreign Language Speaking Anxiety Scale (FLSAS, see Appendix C)—has been
5
Subject to the usual requirements for authorship acknowledgment, I have obtained permission
from Professor Horwitz to use this scale in my study.
92 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
developed speciﬁcally for the present study. The items in this questionnaire center on the
four research questions (RQs) stated in Sect. 1.2.1 and assess the variables like debil-
itating and facilitating FLSA, self-perception, oral communication anxiety, oral test
anxiety, and fear of negative evaluation. This new affective instrument was developed in
line with the guidelines of Gable and Wolf (1993) and DeVellis (1991). First of all, I
conducted a comprehensive review of the literature on FLA (e.g., Horwitz et al., 1986;
Kim, 2000; Saito et al. 1999; Yan, 1998), and I also pilot interviewed three Chinese
university students who were then in their ﬁrst-year study. They provided vivid
descriptions of their speaking anxieties and difﬁculties. After getting a pool of state-
ments for possible inclusion in the new questionnaire, the second step was to reﬁne these
items according to the four assumptions discussed at the beginning of Sect. 4.1.2 and
the principles6
suggested by Brown and Rodgers (2002). Then the questionnaire draft
underwent the procedures of translation and back translation, which will be elaborated
in detail later. The fourth step was the pilot study of the questionnaire and then further
reﬁnement on the basis of the pilot results. This questionnaire is scored in a similar way
to the FLCAS.
The two main purposes of employing the FLCAS along with the FLSAS in this
study are: ﬁrst, to obtain a general picture of the students’ FLA and to compare with
previous studies using this scale. Second, since the FLCAS is a well-developed
scale for FLA research as mentioned in Sect. 2.2.2.2, it is used in this study as one
of the means to support the reliability and validity of the newly developed scale—
the FLSAS—through correlational analysis between the two scales. On the other
hand, the aims of the FLSAS are mainly to measure students’ FLSA levels (RQ 1)
and to identify the sources leading to their FLSA and possible strategies helping to
alleviate it (RQs 3 and 4).
Initially, all the consent forms, questionnaires, and interview guides were
developed in English, then they were translated into Chinese, the participants’ L1,
by the present researcher so as to ensure the best comprehensibility and to minimize
possible misunderstanding caused by a foreign language. Before implementation,
the Chinese versions were translated back into English by a Post-doctoral Fellow
with expertise in Cross-Cultural Educational Psychology from mainland China and
the present researcher respectively in order to make sure that the Chinese versions
match with the English versions. In the course of translation and back-translation,
stylistic inconsistencies were minimized and discrepancies thoroughly discussed
and resolved by agreement.
6
According to Brown and Rodgers (2002, see p. 143 for details), there are 19 types of items that
should be avoided in writing a good survey questionnaire, for example, overly long items, unclear
or ambiguous items, negative items, incomplete items, items with overlapping choices, items
across two pages, double-barreled items, loaded word items, absolute word items, leading items,
prestige items, embarrassing items, biased items, irrelevant items.
4.1 Methodology of the Study 93
When drafting all the questionnaires, great caution has been taken to adopt
objective wording. Attempts have also been made to achieve a reader-friendly layout
of the questionnaires. For instance, the items designed to collect respondents’
demographic information and other English learning experiences were initially placed
at the beginning of the FLCAS questionnaires, but then I realized that this might not be
directly related to the stated purpose of the survey (Wolf, 1997), and it might make the
participants feel uneasy while having to provide their personal information even
before they answer the main part of the questionnaires. As a result, they were set
separately as new questionnaires named Student/Teacher Background Questionnaire
(i.e., Appendices D and E). It should also be pointed out that the last two items in the
FLSAS (No. 34 and 35 in Appendix C) are two open questions, since it is believed that
such “unstructured questionnaire items can be a source of rich and spontaneous
response material that can enhance the interpretation of results” (Wolf, 1997, p. 424).
While developing these questionnaires, a lot of other factors have been taken
into consideration in order to guarantee the quality and hence the internal validity of
the questionnaires, such as the time needed to read and answer the questionnaires,
the font and its size, sequencing of items, provision of adequate space to answer
unstructured items, and avoidance of certain wording that might lead to undesirable
items as listed in the above footnote. Research (e.g., Bulmer, 2004; Wolf, 1997)
shows that these factors will have a negative effect on the responses of question-
naire survey without cautious design. I also tried to structure as many items as
possible in the questionnaires unless it is necessary to leave some items
semi-structured (e.g., some items related to the participants’ personal information)
or unstructured (e.g., Items No. 34 and 35 in Appendix C). This rule was observed
because studies have shown that “unstructured items place an additional burden on
the respondents that can result in a reduction of the level of cooperation” (Wolf,
1997, p. 424) and that structured items are more speciﬁc than unstructured ones and
“therefore more apt to communicate the same frame of reference to all respondents”
(Converse and Presser, 2004, p. 5). Finally, the drafted questionnaires which are
handy for use and are speciﬁc and appropriate for the research purpose have been
obtained after a long and painstaking process of development.
To sum up, the following were distributed to participants when collecting the
formal quantitative data of the study: the Consent Forms, the Foreign Language
Classroom Anxiety Scale (the FLCAS), the Foreign Language Speaking Anxiety
Scale (the FLSAS), and the Background Questionnaires, all in student’s and tea-
cher’s versions.
4.1.2.2 Pilot Study with the Questionnaires
A pilot test is very important to address the validity and reliability of the ques-
tionnaire survey since research shows that investigators often take it for granted that
the participants possess the information to understand and answer the questionnaire
items (Wolf, 1997). Therefore, in order to make sure that the items are fully
comprehensible to the participants (both the teachers and students) and can be used
94 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
in the formal study, I asked 30 Year-1 students (15 females and 15 males) studying
in a second-tier university in China and three of their English teachers to complete
the FLCAS and the drafted FLSAS as a pilot study. I intentionally chose pilot
participants from a different university other than the two where I planned to collect
formal data for my study, hoping that my target participants would not be polluted.
Before these respondents answered the questionnaires, they were informed of the
nature of the study being undertaken, the signiﬁcance of the requested information,
and a promise of anonymity and conﬁdentiality in the treatment and use of infor-
mation they supplied. They reported that it took them 17–20 min to complete the
two questionnaires, which is acceptable since a questionnaire should require
“preferably, less than 15 or 20” min to complete (Wolf, 1997, p. 425) and “30 min
is about the upper limit…when questionnaires are administered in a group setting”
(Ibid., p. 422). On the basis of the observations of the 33 completed pilot ques-
tionnaires, the questionnaires were reﬁned and their comprehensibility was
enhanced. Statements associated with either very high or very low means and with
relatively low variance were revised or deleted since they may be leading state-
ments. The revisions helped to shorten the FLSAS from 38 structured items to 33
items, with the ﬁrst 21 focusing on possible reasons of FLSA and the remaining 12
on potential strategies for FLSA. The pilot data yielded Cronbach’s alpha coefﬁ-
cients7
of 0.84 for the FLCAS and 0.87 for the FLSAS.
4.1.2.3 Administration of the Questionnaires
The questionnaires along with the consent forms were administered to 312
non-English majors and 33 teachers of college English within one month.
I contacted four English teachers in the two universities and got their consent to
help with the administration of the questionnaires. Before the questionnaires were
distributed to the participants, a code number was added to each copy serially since
certain informants would be invited to be interviewees after I looked through their
responses to the questionnaires, and the participants were reminded to write down
the number in their notebooks before starting to answer the questionnaires so that
they would not forget it.
The questionnaires were administered to the student participants as intact groups,
that is, before they were going to have a class or during the ﬁrst few minutes of a
7
Normally, the coefﬁcient ranges between 0 and 1. The closer it is to 1 the greater the internal
reliability of the items in the scale (Cronbach, 1951). According to George and Mallery (2003,
p. 231), the rules of thumb for the coefﬁcient are:
 0.9—Excellent;
 0.8—Good;
 0.7—Acceptable;
 0.6—Questionable;
 0.5—Poor; and
<0.5—Unacceptable.
4.1 Methodology of the Study 95
class in the classroom with the help of their teachers. Most of the teacher partici-
pants were approached and invited to complete the questionnaires when they were
in their ofﬁces. Before the participants answered the questionnaires, they were
reminded in Putonghua of the introduction and instructions at the beginning of the
questionnaires and were assured of conﬁdentiality. They were also encouraged to
ask questions about any items that were ambiguous to them while answering.
Towards the end of the participants completing the questionnaires, I asked them to
make sure that they had completed all the questionnaires and had not missed any
item(s) by mistake.
There was no time limit when completing the questionnaires. The fastest par-
ticipant spent about 18 min ﬁnishing them and the slowest 21 min. Altogether 312
and 33 questionnaires were obtained from the student and teacher participants
respectively. After the unusable questionnaires (which refer to those with two or
more items unanswered) were discarded, 302 and 30 copies were left respectively,
and the response rates were 97 and 91%. Since explanations as how to answer the
items were clearly stated at the beginning of the questionnaires and all the partic-
ipants were reminded to check whether they had ﬁnished all the items before they
returned their questionnaires, in addition, the questionnaires with two or more items
unanswered were discarded, the missing value rate for each item was very low (no
more than 0.5%).
4.1.2.4 Data Analysis
All statistical analysis procedures described in this section (i.e., Section 4.1.2.4)
were computed with the Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) version 19.
The descriptive statistics of the questionnaire survey reported the response fre-
quencies by showing the percentages of each of the ﬁve choices of the Likert scales
and means of each statement. Such descriptive analysis was applied to all the
questionnaires.
Multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) was also conducted to examine
whether there existed signiﬁcant differences in the perceptions held by different
groups of participants.
Correlational analyses were conducted with Pearson’s r to explore the rela-
tionships between FLSA and FL proﬁciencies (both the English score in students’
university entrance examination and their self-evaluated FL proﬁciency), as well as
the correlation between the FLCAS and the FLSAS so as to verify the reliability
and validity of the latter.
4.1.2.5 Considerations for Validity and Reliability
Validity and reliability are two aspects that are considered important in judging the
quality of quantitative research instruments (Thorndike & Thorndike, 1997; Wolf,
1997; Zeller, 1997). Questionnaires are measurement instruments and accordingly
96 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
they must possess adequate validity and reliability. The validity of a questionnaire
is the extent to which it measures what it is intended to measure (Dörnyei, 2003;
Zeller, 1997).
According to Horwitz (1986), the internal reliability of the FLCAS measured by
Cronbach’s alpha coefﬁcient was 0.93; the test-retest reliability over eight weeks
was r = 0.83 (p < 0.001, N = 78); the validity coefﬁcient between the FLCAS and
ﬁnal grade for the two beginning Spanish classes was r = −0.49 (p < 0.005,
N = 35) and that for the two French classes was r = −0.54 (p < 0.001, N = 32).
Other studies using the FLCAS have also generated excellent reliability scores. For
instance, Aida (1994) reported an internal consistency of 0.94 with the FLCAS.
When constructing other questionnaires, great caution was taken to improve
validity and reliability. For example, the original word for “decent” in Item 3 of the
FLSAS was “good” (i.e., “I am often worried that if I cannot speak English well I
will not get a decent job in future.”), but “decent” was used ﬁnally considering that
it conveys a more speciﬁc and concrete meaning, which is more apt to communicate
uniform meaning to different participants (Converse & Presser, 2004; Lockerbie &
Borrelli, 1990). Moreover, the adoption of the interviews and classroom observa-
tions together with the questionnaire surveys in this research constitutes a trian-
gulation, which is an effective methodological strategy to enhance concurrent
validity (Denzin, 1989). In addition, more evidence of validity and reliability of the
questionnaires has been obtained from the pilot study as mentioned above in
Sect. 4.1.2.2.
4.1.3 Interviews
The principal method of data collection in this study is the questionnaire survey, but
interviews (group and individual) have also been conducted. The main aims of the
focused in-depth interviews are threefold: ﬁrst, to attempt to triangulate the ﬁndings
of the questionnaire survey and classroom observation; second, to further explore
the reasons leading to students’ FLSA and strategies helping to reduce it; and third,
to seek new possible views related to the research questions.
Miller and Cannell (1997, p. 361) state that “much is learnt in everyday life by
asking people questions”. The most common way to do this is by an interview. An
interview may be focused, semi-focused, or free-focused. In conducting interviews
it is always important to make the objectives known to the interviewees so that they
know why they are being interviewed. Interviews generally utilize the “emic”
principle of research, that is, they enable the researcher to gain an insider’s per-
spective on the issues under discussion. However, this type of data may only be
available to the researcher if certain conditions are met, in particular (Johnson &
Nunn, 2007; Lofland & Lofland, 1995; Miller & Cannell, 1997; Nunn et al., 2007;
Nunn & Kelsey, 2007):
4.1 Methodology of the Study 97
• the informants need to feel comfortable about revealing information to an
outsider;
• the issues under discussion must not be too sensitive; or if they are, the
researcher must have appropriate techniques to handle the sensitive questions;
• the discussion is not dominated by only one speaker;
• the interview should be carried out in the informant-pleasant place which is
comparatively quiet;
• the questions are easy to understand and relevant to informants, and should not
be ambiguous;
• the questions should be culturally appropriate in addition to being clear in
concept, vocabulary, and structure;
• the interview does not last too long (preferably less than 90 min) so that the
informants will not get bored with it; and
• a variety of questioning techniques are employed so as to keep the informants
interested.
Researchers in qualitative research act as “observers and participants” in the
lives of the people under study, so they become “both data experiencer and col-
lector” in the research (Lofland & Lofland, 1995, p. 3). Such a multiple role of the
researchers brings the insider-outsider dilemma to the forefront. While “insider”
researchers have the “closeness necessary to understanding” the research setting
(Lofland & Lofland, 1995, p. 61), they run the risk of conﬁning themselves to “the
range and the kind of things” that they “can observe and understand” (McCracken,
1988, p. 22). Conversely, “outsider” researchers have the “requisite distance” from
the setting while possibly lacking the insider understandings (Lofland & Lofland,
1995, p. 61).
My previous experience as an EFL learner and a teacher of college English in
mainland China made me an “insider” researcher. There are several advantages of
this identity. First, I have easy access to Chinese university teachers and students.
I know where, when, and how to approach these informants. Second, I have easy
access to real data from the informants. As a fellow countryman and a former fellow
member of the profession, I can easily win the informants’ trust and thus elicit their
most natural and frank responses. Third, I am familiar with the background and
context thus having easy access to an accurate understanding of the informants’
perceptions and feelings, explicit or implicit, which could be misinterpreted by an
outsider researcher. The disadvantages of this identity, however, are the potential
risks of narrowing down issues and interpretations to my prior knowledge and
being insensitive to issues which might be indeed of great interest to outsider
researchers. To minimize such disadvantages, I strived to keep myself a “requisite
distance” (Lofland & Lofland, 1995, p. 61) from what I was studying and to “see
familiar data in unfamiliar ways” (McCracken, 1988, p. 24) so as to obtain as
objective ﬁndings as possible.
98 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
4.1.3.1 Pilot Interviews with the Interview Guides
In order to check whether the interview guides were well designed or not, I
interviewed two Year-1 students. From pilot interviews, I found that the original
interview guides were generally well designed and the questions could solicit
enough responses from the interviewees. As a result, I expected that the interview
guides would work well with focused group since students would inspire each other
and thus produce more responses. I also noticed that the two piloted interviews
lasted 18 and 21 min respectively, which suggested that the lapse of the actual
interviews with focused groups of six would not be too long to exhaust the
informants, but could still enable the researcher to elicit enough responses from the
interviewees. The whole process of pilot interviews is considered to be a small scale
practice of the qualitative part of the forthcoming research. One more point worthy
of noting is that two of the interview questions (i.e., Questions 5 and 15, see
Appendix F) have been generated from the primary ﬁndings of the pilot study with
the questionnaires (see Sect. 4.1.2.2).
4.1.3.2 Data Collection Procedures
Bearing in mind the principles mentioned at the beginning of Sect. 4.1.3, I inter-
viewed both the teacher and student participants in ofﬁces or classrooms on their
campus at times convenient to them. Before asking them questions, I briefly
explained the purposes of my research and assured them that the data they provided
would only be used for research purpose and their demographic information would
be kept strictly conﬁdential. In order to make the participants feel easy and mini-
mize the language barrier that might arise when a foreign language is adopted, they
were interviewed in Putonghua. The place and time were pre-arranged in a way that
was most convenient for the interviewees. In addition, I asked for their permission
to have the interviews audio-recorded, which was undertaken on site with two low
noise digital voice recorders for a double guarantee of the recording quality.
Compared with other methods such as videotaping, note-taking, or writing-up after
the interview, audio-recording is effective, convenient yet not very intrusive. I also
took some notes of some incidents happening during the interviews which could not
be audio-recorded, for example, in one group interview with students, I noticed and
noted down that one student was absent-minded and then he said something not so
closely related to the topic under discussion. His comment was thus ignored in the
course of data analysis.
The interviews were carried out in a semi-structured mode which has a struc-
tured overall framework but still allows for a good deal of flexibility, for example,
changing the sequence of questions, allowing students to volunteer information, and
following up the responses and interesting lines of discussions. Through this mode,
the researcher is able to guide the interviewees to answer a set of pre-established
4.1 Methodology of the Study 99
questions which constitute topics to be covered, elicit their multiple perspectives,
further probe their ideas, and clarify the questions and replies if necessary. The
interview questions for the student and teacher interviewees are presented in
Appendices F and G respectively.
In all, I interviewed 30 students (six from the key university and 24 from the
second-tier university) and three teachers (one from the key and two from the
second-tier university) amongst the questionnaire respondents. Considering the
principle of the “maximum variation sampling” (Seidman, 2006), the selection of
the student interviewees also depended on their FLCAS scores and their demo-
graphic backgrounds such as gender. Such variation is acknowledged as an
advantage that increases the validity of qualitative research (Maxwell, 2005). Since
only one-tenth of the questionnaire participants would be interviewed, the gender
control was possible for the purpose of minimizing the influence of gender dif-
ference on the results of the study.
More speciﬁcally, the student participants in the questionnaire survey were
divided into three groups according to their FLCAS scores: the low, moderate, and
high anxiety level groups. The cut-off points used were the 33.33rd and 66.67th
percentiles. Table 4.3 shows the descriptive statistics for the participants’ anxiety
and the two cut-off points used in the selection of student interviewees.
As shown in the table, the students whose FLCAS scores were between 45.00
(minimum score) and 91.00 (33.33rd percentile) formed the group of low anxiety
level; those with scores between 92.00 and 101.00 (66.67th percentile) were the
moderate group; and the remaining one third the high group. As a result, the 30
interviewees were equally selected from these three groups, with ten (ﬁve females
and ﬁve males) from each group. The three teacher interviewees were selected in a
similar way according to their perceptions of their students’ general FLA level.
In view of some of the interview questions being a little sensitive to the teachers
and their possible reluctance to expose their views to colleagues, they were inter-
viewed individually. All the student participants were interviewed in groups of six
since interviews in focused groups may encourage wider and richer discussions
(Mulligan & Kirkpatrick, 2000). As a matter of fact, the student interviewees in this
study did inspire some ideas from each other in the focused discussion, which was
of great help to the progress of the interviews. The length of the interviews (in-
dividual or group) varied in line with the interviewees’ willingness to talk; but no
interview lasted more than 90 min. At the end of each interview, I asked the
informant(s) to write down an e-mail address so that I could contact him/her/them if
necessary.
Table 4.3 Descriptive statistics for the participants’ anxiety (N = 302)
Mean Median Minimum Maximum Percentiles
33.33 66.67
FLCAS scores 97.50 98.00 45.00 138.00 91.00 101.00
100 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
4.1.3.3 Data Transcription and Coding
The interview data were transcribed verbatim into Word ﬁles and then translated
into English by the researcher. The responses that were directly quoted in the next
chapter underwent double transcription and translation by the present researcher
and the Post-doctoral Fellow who helped me with the development of the ques-
tionnaires and interview guides. Cases of inconsistency were thoroughly discussed
till agreements were reached. Although this was rather time-consuming, the relia-
bility and validity of these data were believed to be enhanced by these measures
(cf., Kvale, 1996).
After transcription, the interview data were input into MAXQDA 2007, a soft-
ware designed to analyze and code qualitative textual data. By using this software, I
analyzed and coded the interview data in line with the results of questionnaire
survey data, the ﬁndings from classroom observation, and the research questions of
this study.
4.1.3.4 Considerations for Validity and Reliability
Lincoln and Guba (1985) discuss the concept of trustworthiness in relation to the
quality of qualitative studies. Speciﬁcally, they lay emphasis on four criteria:
credibility, transferability, dependability, and conﬁrmability. These criteria are
roughly equivalent to internal validity, external validity, reliability, and objectivity
for quantitative research. In the present study, the terms “validity” and “reliability”
are used to discuss issues concerning accuracy and consistency of qualitative data
collection and analysis because these are familiar terms in the ﬁeld of language
education.
Although interview as a data-collecting instrument is considered to be very valid
(Babbie, 2004), there still exist threats to its validity (Kirk & Miller, 1986;
Minichiello et al., 1995). Main threats to its validity arise from the interviewers’
listening and questioning skills and ability to interpret the elicited information
accurately (Minichiello et al., 1995). Sources of invalidity could also come from
inaccurate information given by the informants resulting from social desirability
effect or the attempt to please the interviewer (Barone & Switzer, 1995; Gorden,
1998). Measures need to be taken to reduce these threats in data collection, tran-
scription, analysis, and interpretation.
Two common techniques for enhancing the validity of qualitative research are
member checking and cross-validation or triangulation (Brown, 2001; Davis, 1992,
1995; Lincoln & Guba, 1985). Member checking involves having participants
conﬁrm or disconﬁrm data, results, and interpretations. Cross-validation can be
achieved with different approaches, such as data source cross-validation,
4.1 Methodology of the Study 101
methodological cross-validation, and theory cross-validation (Brown, 2001).
Quality-control guidelines have been developed for use in the process of gathering
and analyzing data on the basis of these two techniques and other suggestions made
by Miles and Huberman (1994), Barone and Switzer (1995), Lincoln and Guba
(1985), and Brown (2001). These guidelines are:
• Avoid asking questions that would result in socially unacceptable responses;
• Avoid asking leading questions;
• Check areas of uncertainty (member checking);
• Cross-check information by comparing students’ and teachers’ descriptions of
the same items (data source cross-validation); and
• Check with the informants about the accuracy of the provisional conclusions
drawn from the data (member checking).
I endeavored to observe these guidelines while conducting and analyzing the
interviews.
Threats to the reliability of interview ﬁndings occur in the processes of both data
collection and data analysis. Suggestions for improving reliability in the data col-
lection process include:
• Asking the questions in the way they are worded;
• Standardized methods of recording responses;
• Neutral, nonjudgmental relationships with interviewees;
• Consistent pacing of interviews;
• Consistent instructions to the interviewees before and during the interviews
(Barone & Switzer, 1995); and
• Inquiry auditing8
(Lincoln & Guba, 1985).
In this study, measures that were taken to improve the reliability are as follows:
• An interview guide was used to ensure that the same instructions were given and
same questions were asked in each interview (see Appendices F and G);
• The same recording equipments and procedure were used in all interviews;
• All interviewees were assured of conﬁdentiality and anonymity; and
• Recordings of interviews, ﬁeld notes, and memos were retained for the purpose
of ensuring the reliability and validity of the study.
Inaccurate transcription and translation of the data is another source of threat to
reliability. Kvale (1996) proposes that two persons transcribe the same interview
data and check their degree of agreement. This is what was done in this study when
direct quotations of the interview data are needed (see Sect. 4.1.3.3 for more
details).
8
Inquiry auditing entails an audit trial consisting of raw data, data reduction, analysis products,
etc., which is examined by another person or persons to conﬁrm the ﬁndings or interpretations.
102 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
In summary, measures such as an interview guide, clear quality-control guide-
lines, and data source cross-validation have been taken to optimize the reliability
and validity of the interview data.
4.1.4 Classroom Observations
Classroom observation is a research technique frequently used to obtain qualitative
data (e.g., Lin, 1996, 1999). It is often used together with other data sources for the
purpose of triangulation. By classroom observation, the researcher “is able to
experience the setting by immersing himself in it and verifying what participants
have told him, or look for behavior which the participants are not aware of” (Miller,
2003, p. 79). In addition, observing classrooms over a period of time enables the
researcher “to appreciate the shared understanding” existing between the teacher
and learners and among learners themselves, which in turn can ensure better and
easier interpretation of certain phenomena (in this study, students’ FLSA) in the
classroom (Galton, 1997, p. 336). Classroom observation is much more complex
than simply visiting the classrooms under study. Entry into the classrooms, type of
classrooms to be observed, type of data to be collected, and the way in which the
data is analyzed, are all signiﬁcant factors for consideration when employing
classroom observation as a research method.
Some of the major advantages of using classroom observation as a research
method include (Waxman, 2002):
• The researcher can study the processes of teaching and learning in naturalistic
settings;
• It provides more detailed and precise evidence than other data sources; and
• The ﬁndings from this research method provide a coherent and well-substantiated
knowledge base about effective instruction.
In spite of these strengths, classroom observations are not free from limitations.
One of the primary methodological criticisms is about the validity of the data source
due to the effect of the obtrusiveness of the technique (Wragg, 1999). Observer
effects may occur because teachers and students are aware that their behaviors are
being observed. The presence of an observer may change teacher or student
behaviors, perhaps resulting in reactive effects. This may be especially the case for
an anxiety study like this, since the very presence of a stranger may itself be a
source of anxiety and hence influence what usually happens in the classroom.
Therefore, the following strategies have been taken to minimize obtrusiveness of
this technique. First of all, as the observer, I did not directly intervene in classroom
activities; rather, the teachers and students had their English classes as usual. To
make the observations as unobtrusive as possible, I recorded the observations by
making written notes instead of audio-/video-taping the classes. The second strat-
egy is about participant selection. The teacher participants were chosen on the basis
4.1 Methodology of the Study 103
of their own declaration of intent to experiment with the FLSA research. Therefore,
the teachers’ instruction was not in any way shaped by the observer. The third is
observer inconspicuousness. As the observer, I went into the classroom together
with most of the students and sat in the back of the classroom, out of sight of nearly
all the students except for several of them sitting next to me in the last row. I did not
interact with the students before the observation. The majority of the students could
not have altered their behavior because they could not see the observer. In other
words, most of the students did not realize that they were observed. I only talked to
the teachers and some of the students after the lessons to clarify some necessary
points.
4.1.4.1 Data Collection Procedures
As discussed at the beginning of Sect. 4.1.4, the purpose of adopting classroom
observation as one of the research methods is to obtain triangulation effect of data
sources. Hence, I observed one English classroom at each of the two universities
where I collected my questionnaire and interview data. Both of the two classes
lasted 105 min including a 5-min break in the middle. The class in the second-tier
university focused on spoken English, with 29 students in the classroom. The other
class of 30 students centered on English reading, with the ﬁrst 45 min on listening
and speaking practice. During the observation, I tried to be as unobtrusive as
possible, and only wrote down the objective descriptions of what were believed to
be signiﬁcant in terms of students’ FLSA in time slots varying from 10 s to 5 min.
That is, I noted down students’ obviously anxious behaviors in the interactions
between the teacher and students or among students themselves by seconds, and
recorded students’ behaviors during teachers’ instruction time by periods of 5 min.
After the lessons, I consulted teachers and related students about what I found to be
signiﬁcant concerning these students’ FLSA.
4.1.4.2 Data Analysis and Interpretation
Classroom observation data were recorded and will be reported systematically in
Sects. 4.4 and 5.3. The ways of data recording include note-taking during the
observed lessons and follow-up reflective notes. Although no special software was
used in analyzing these personalized notes, the data collected from real FL class-
rooms still provided another source of data with which to triangulate the ques-
tionnaire and interview data.
4.1.4.3 Considerations for Validity and Reliability
In terms of the validity of classroom observation, it is concluded that one of the
most important tests is the reception of the evidence by the instructors (Anderson &
104 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
Burns, 1989). The ﬁndings of the classroom observations in this study have been
checked with the respective teachers and have obtained their agreement, and hence
these ﬁndings are believed to be valid.
The reliability of the observation data in this study may be ensured on the basis
of the following three factors. Firstly, the unobtrusiveness in data collection as
discussed above helped to make the data reliable (Wragg, 1999). Moreover, the data
reliability has been increased through the agreement between the observer’s written
account and the recognition from the teachers and students (Galton, 1997). Lastly,
the reliability has also been checked against the results and ﬁndings from the other
two research methods.
4.1.5 Application and Veriﬁcation of the Strategies
to Be Found
The whole study comprises two stages which lasted eight months. The ﬁrst stage
was the main data collection period. On the basis of preliminary data analysis, some
strategies that were believed to be helpful in reducing students’ FLSA were iden-
tiﬁed. Then the second stage of the study was undertaken two months later. The
strategies identiﬁed in the ﬁrst stage should be introduced to and applied by the
students involved so as to see whether these strategies are helpful or not in
decreasing their FLSA. This will make the whole study more meaningful than
solely presenting the reasons and strategies found. Stage 2 was designed to realize
this purpose.
First of all, 60 of the questionnaire participants with high level of anxiety were
selected, and half of them were set as the experimental groups while the other half
was used as controls. Secondly, the experimental groups were explained the speciﬁc
strategies and were asked to apply them in their daily English learning under their
teachers’ guidance. The experimental groups were followed up longitudinally for
four months. Then these 60 students were invited to a post-test with the same
questionnaires (i.e., the FLCAS and FLSAS used in Stage 1) and also six of them
and two teachers were interviewed so as to examine the effectiveness of the
strategies. Section 5.4 will explain in more details about the selection of the par-
ticipants in Stage 2 and the results of veriﬁcation.
4.1.6 Design of the Present Research
As discussed in the preceding sections of this chapter, two stages and three
instruments were involved in this research. Since each method had its own inherent
limitations, these three instruments were designed to be supplementary to one
4.1 Methodology of the Study 105
another. In order to display the design of the research clearly, the procedures of the
research are demonstrated in Fig. 4.1. For the details of each procedure, please refer
to the related sections in this chapter.
4.2 Reasons from Questionnaire Surveys
The data collected from the questionnaire surveys were ﬁrst subjected to frequency
analysis. Multivariate Analysis of Variance (MANOVA) was then conducted to
examine whether there was any signiﬁcant differences in the perceptions held by
different groups of participants. More speciﬁcally, comparisons were made between
Questionnaire survey
Construction of
questionnaires
Items from previous research
Items designed for this study
Survey Quantitative data
Major results and group differences
Varied
Analyses
Focused interviews
Interviews Further investigation into related reasons and strategies
Qualitative data
Compared with results from other two instruments
Compared with findings
from qualitative data
Seek new views related to the research questions
Classroom observations
Classroom
observations
Qualitative data
Compared with results from other two instruments
Further investigation into related reasons and strategies
Seek new views related to the research questions
Stage 2 Strategies application and verification
Stage 1 Main data collection
Students’ application
of strategies identified
from Stage 1
Retaking the
questionnaire survey
Further interviews
Strategies:
effective or not?
Compared with the
results from Stage 1
Fig. 4.1 Procedures of the present research
106 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
teachers and students, between female and male participants, between students of
the key university and the second-tier university, and among students of different
disciplines. Lastly, correlational analyses were also carried out so as to ensure the
reliability and validity of the FLSAS and to determine the relationship between
students’ FLSA level and their English proﬁciency.
4.2.1 Descriptive Statistics of the Questionnaires
The descriptive statistics (including item response frequencies and means) of the
questionnaires are reported in turn in the following four sub-sections. Both of the
FLCAS and FLSAS include 33 items scored on a ﬁve-point Likert scale.
The FLCAS reported students’ total scores ranging from 45 to 138, with a mean of
98.27 and a standard deviation of 15.62.
The descriptive statistics of the FLSAS were aimed to answer RQs 1, 3, and 4 as
posed in Sect. 1.2.1. Speciﬁcally, since the ﬁrst 21 items of the FLSAS centered on
students’ FLSA level and the possible reasons for their FLSA, the examination of
RQ 1 was on the basis of the total scores of these 21 items. Therefore, the range of
students’ FLSA scores should vary between 21 and 105. The actual students’ FLSA
scores in this study ranged from 41 to 85, with 65.84 as the mean and 6.48 as the
standard deviation, which demonstrated students’ generally high level of FLSA.
A further summary of these 21 items led to 14 reasons contributing to students’
high level of FLSA (see Table 4.8 for details), which were the ﬁndings addressing
RQ 3.
4.2.1.1 Response Frequency of the FLCAS
Responses to all FLCAS items are displayed in Table 4.4 (for student participants)
and Table 4.5 (for teacher participants). It should be noted that for most of the items
only a small percentage of the participants selected “strongly disagree” or “strongly
agree”, and for some of the items in Table 4.5 no participants made these two
choices. This may be a reflection of the traditional Confucian principle of “the
doctrine of the mean” or “happy medium”, that is, Chinese respondents tend to feel
happy by choosing those near-the-mean choices unless they are absolutely sure they
want to choose “strongly disagree” or “strongly agree” (Yang & Lu, 2008). Within
the teacher group, as there were only 30 participants, the tendency to choose the
golden mean seemed to be more obvious. However, this brought no problem for
data interpretation because when using questionnaires with Likert scales it is often
the case that the points “agree” and “strongly agree” are counted together as
“agree”, and “disagree” and “strongly disagree” as “disagree” for clarity (e.g.,
Horwitz et al., 1986; Peacock, 2010). In other words, the ﬁve-point Likert scale was
treated as a three-point Likert scale in terms of data interpretation. Nevertheless, in
the course of data collection, a ﬁve-point Likert scale was used because it has been
4.2 Reasons from Questionnaire Surveys 107
Table 4.4 Students’ response frequencies in percentages for FLCAS items (N = 302)
Items SD D N A SA
1. I never feel quite sure of myself when I am speaking in
my FL class
3 20 30 40 7
2. I do not worry about making mistakes in language class 3 24 28 42 4
3. I tremble when I know that I am going to be called on in
language class
6 43 31 18 2
4. It frightens me when I do not understand what the
teacher is saying in the FL
7 35 30 26 2
5. It would not bother me at all to take more FL classes 10 34 29 21 6
6. During language class, I ﬁnd myself thinking about
things that have nothing to do with the course
2 24 29 39 6
7. I keep thinking that the other students are better at
languages than I am
4 28 26 37 6
8. I am usually at ease during tests in my language class 4 22 28 42 5
9. I start to panic when I have to speak without preparation
in language class
2 17 15 57 9
10. I worry about the consequences of failing my FL class 5 19 11 54 12
11. I do not understand why some people get so upset over
FL classes
4 30 24 38 4
12. In language class, I can get so nervous I forget things I
know
12 40 24 23 2
13. It embarrasses me to volunteer answers in my language
class
2 16 22 52 9
14. I would not be nervous speaking the FL with native
speakers
3 17 32 43 7
15. I get upset when I do not understand what the teacher is
correcting
2 17 26 50 5
16. Even if I am well prepared for language class, I feel
anxious about it
9 55 19 15 1
17. I often feel like not going to my language class 12 42 22 16 7
18. I feel conﬁdent when I speak in FL class 3 40 41 13 4
19. I am afraid that my language teacher is ready to correct
every mistake I make
11 59 19 11 0
20. I can feel my heart pounding when I am going to be
called on in language class
4 23 19 48 6
21. The more I study for a language test, the more confused
I get
15 55 14 14 2
22. I do not feel pressure to prepare very well for language
class
8 42 25 23 2
23. I always feel that the other students speak the FL better
than I do
5 33 22 35 5
24. I feel very self-conscious about speaking the FL in front
of other students
8 42 19 28 3
25. Language class moves so quickly I worry about getting
left behind
8 41 23 26 2
(continued)
108 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
broadly used in survey instruments measuring attitudes, viewpoints, and beliefs,
and it is more likely to elicit valid data since if a three-point scale is used even more
participants are likely to choose the neutral position (DeVellis, 1991).
As shown in Table 4.4, many student participants reported that they were afraid
to speak in the FL. For instance, there were considerably more students who
supported than rejected the statements related to speech anxiety like “I never feel
quite sure of myself when I am speaking in my FL class” (47% vs. 23%, Item 1); “I
start to panic when I have to speak without preparation in language class” (66% vs.
19%, Item 9); “I can feel my heart pounding when I am going to be called on in
language class” (54% vs. 27%, Item 20); and “I get nervous when the language
teacher asks questions which I have not prepared in advance” (55% vs. 25%, Item
33). In contrast, there were more students who disagreed than agreed with the items
such as “I feel conﬁdent when I speak in FL class” (43% vs. 17%, Item 18). The
students’ deep self-consciousness of risking speaking in FL in the presence of other
people was echoed well by their teachers’ responses. For example, as demonstrated
in Table 4.5, most of the teachers (57, 83, and 60%) endorsed respectively Item 1
(“Students never feel quite sure of themselves when they are speaking in their FL
class”), Item 9 (“Students start to panic when they have to speak without prepa-
ration in language class”), and Item 20 (“Students are apprehensive when called
upon to answer questions in the language class”). Meanwhile, most of the teachers
(53%) rejected Item 18 “Students seem conﬁdent when speaking in the FL class”.
Table 4.4 (continued)
Items SD D N A SA
26. I feel more tense and nervous in my language class than
in my other classes
12 42 16 27 3
27. I get nervous and confused when I am speaking in my
language class
8 48 21 22 1
28. When I am on my way to language class, I feel very
sure and relaxed
3 19 40 35 3
29. I get nervous when I do not understand every word the
language teacher says
4 42 23 29 2
30. I feel overwhelmed by the number of rules you have to
learn to speak an FL
7 34 30 28 1
31. I am afraid that the other students will laugh at me
when I speak the FL
6 47 22 24 2
32. I would probably feel comfortable around native
speakers of the FL
1 19 39 37 3
33. I get nervous when the language teacher asks questions
which I have not prepared in advance
2 23 20 51 4
Notes SD: Strongly disagree; D: disagree; N: neither disagree nor agree; A: agree; SA: strongly
agree
Data in this table are rounded to the nearest whole number. Percentages may not add to 100 due to
rounding
4.2 Reasons from Questionnaire Surveys 109
Table 4.5 Teachers’ response frequencies in percentages for FLCAS items (N = 30)
Items SD D N A SA
1. Students never feel quite sure of themselves when they
are speaking in their FL class
0 20 23 50 7
2. Students do not worry about making mistakes in
language class
0 10 7 77 7
3. Students tremble when they know that they are going to
be called on in language class
7 47 27 20 0
4. It seems to frighten students when they do not
understand what I say in the FL
0 37 37 27 0
5. Students appear to be happy to take more English
language classes
0 43 40 13 3
6. During the language lesson students seem to lose their
concentration easily
3 43 27 23 3
7. Students seem to judge themselves negatively at
languages against their classmates
0 23 43 33 0
8. There is usually a relaxed atmosphere in the class during
language tests
0 10 17 67 7
9. Students start to panic when they have to speak without
preparation in language class
3 3 10 63 20
10. Students worry about the consequences of failing their
FL class
0 0 3 87 10
11. Some students do not understand why some people get
so upset over FL classes
3 37 43 17 0
12. In language class, students can get so nervous they
forget things they know
3 20 23 53 0
13. It appears to embarrass students to volunteer answers in
their language class
0 13 10 63 13
14. My students are conﬁdent about speaking English with
a native speaker
0 3 13 63 20
15. Students get upset when they don’t understand what the
teacher is correcting
0 7 27 67 0
16. Even if students are well prepared for language class,
they seem to be anxious about it
0 57 13 30 0
17. Students are not enthusiastic about their language class 7 30 53 10 0
18. Students seem to be conﬁdent when they speak in FL
class
3 50 40 3 3
19. Students are afraid that their language teacher will
correct every mistake they make
7 27 30 30 7
20. Students are apprehensive when called upon to answer
questions in the language class
0 13 27 60 0
21. The more effort students put into preparing for tests, the
more confused they seem to get
7 67 20 7 0
22. Students do not seem to feel pressure to prepare very
well for language class
0 53 20 23 3
(continued)
110 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
Table 4.4 also illustrates that anxious students are afraid of being negatively
evaluated by other students or being less competent than peers, since more students
agreed rather than disagreed with the items such as “I keep thinking that the other
students are better at languages than I am” (43% vs. 32%, Item 7); “It embarrasses
me to volunteer answers in my language class” (61% vs. 18%, Item 13); and “I
always feel that the other students speak the FL better than I do” (40% vs. 38%,
Item 23). Once more, students’ worry about being negatively evaluated by peers
was resonated by their teachers, and the teacher participants’ supporting rates for
the above three statements were 33, 76, and 33% respectively as displayed in
Table 4.5. Moreover, Table 4.5 shows that observably more teachers approved the
other two items of the same token: “Language class moves so quickly that students
appear to worry about getting left behind” (60%, Item 25) and “Students seem to be
afraid that the other students will laugh at them when they speak the FL” (66%,
Item 31). These ﬁndings are similar to the point raised by Horwitz et al. (1986) that
the fear of being less competent than other students may result in skipping class,
Table 4.5 (continued)
Items SD D N A SA
23. Students always feel that the other students speak the
FL better than they do
0 17 50 33 0
24. Students appears to be very self-conscious about
speaking the FL in front of other students
0 17 17 60 7
25. Language class moves so quickly that students appear
to worry about getting left behind
0 17 23 53 7
26. Students seem to be more tense and nervous in their
language class than in their other classes
0 33 23 40 3
27. Students get nervous and confused when they are
speaking in their language class
3 43 27 27 0
28. Prior to the language class beginning students appear to
be very sure and relaxed
0 13 57 27 3
29. Students seem to get nervous when they do not
understand every word I say
3 33 40 23 0
30. Students appear to be overwhelmed by the number of
rules they have to learn to speak a FL
0 30 40 30 0
31. Students seem to be afraid that the other students will
laugh at them when they speak the FL
0 3 30 53 13
32. Students would probably feel comfortable around
native speakers of the FL
0 7 33 50 10
33. Students get nervous when I ask questions which they
have not prepared in advance
0 10 23 63 3
Notes SD: Strongly disagree; D: disagree; N: neither disagree nor agree; A: agree; SA: strongly
agree
Data in this table are rounded to the nearest whole number. Percentages may not add to 100 due to
rounding
4.2 Reasons from Questionnaire Surveys 111
overstudying, or “seeking refuge in the last row in an effort to avoid the humiliation
or embarrassment of being called on to speak”(p. 130).
By now, it can be argued that FLA is distinctive to FL learning rather than just a
composite of general anxieties. This argument is supported by the above statements
with more participants endorsing them. Moreover, other items also support this
argument to a certain degree. For example, anxious students seem to feel constantly
tested, and hence they worry about making mistakes in the FL classroom (Horwitz
et al., 1986). This can be proved by the fact that 11% of the students agreed with the
statement “I am afraid that my language teacher is ready to correct every mistake I
make” (Item 19), and that 27% disagreed with “I do not worry about making
mistakes in language class” (Item 2) as displayed in Table 4.4. Another example
supporting this argument is the anxious students’ communication apprehension
resulted from their belief that “in order to have any chance of comprehending the
target language message they must understand every word that is spoken” (Horwitz
et al., 1986, p. 130). This is said because 28% of the students and 27% of the
teachers endorsed the statement that “it frightens me (or my students) when I (or
they) do not understand what the teacher is saying in the foreign language” (Item 4
in Tables 4.4 and 4.5). For the statement “I get (The students seem to get) nervous
when I (they) do not understand every word the language teacher says” (Item 29 in
the two tables above), the supporting rates were 31% for the students and 23% for
teachers. More students and teachers agreed with than disagreed with Item 15, “I
(Students) get upset when I (they) do not understand what the teacher is correcting”.
4.2.1.2 Response Frequency of the FLSAS
Tables 4.6 (for students) and 4.7 (for teachers) display participants’ responses to the
ﬁrst 21 statements of the FLSAS, which are centered on students’ FLSA level and
the reasons leading to such anxiety. Similarly, the choices of “strongly disagree”
and “strongly agree” accounted for a minority of the responses to the ﬁve choices.
As mentioned in Sect. 4.1.2.1, the main purpose of developing the FLSAS in
this study is to identify the sources of language learners’ FLSA and the strategies to
reduce such FLSA, that is, to answer RQs 3 and 4 as listed in Sect. 1.2.1. Fourteen
reasons (sources) leading to students’ FLSA can be summarized from Tables 4.6
and 4.7 above and they are presented in the order of students’ supporting rates in
Table 4.8. Table 4.8 also displays the supporting rates and means from the teachers.
Items 5, 6, and 11 as shown in Tables 4.6 and 4.7 are combined as Reason 1, and
Items 8, 9, and 19 as Reason 10, since these two groups of items were designed to
investigate the same issue from different perspectives so as to increase the validity
and reliability of the questionnaire (Thorndike & Thorndike, 1997; Wolf, 1997;
Zeller, 1997). The supporting rates and means of the two positively worded items
(i.e., Items 13 and 17 in Tables 4.6 and 4.7) were interpreted in the opposite way
while examining the reasons leading to students’ FLSA.
Students’ standpoints on 13 of the 14 reasons were echoed by their teachers
except for Reason 7 (i.e., Item 3 “Students often appear to be worried that if they
112 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
Table 4.6 Students’ response frequencies in percentages for FLSAS items (N = 302)
Items SD D N A SA
1. I feel embarrassed to speak English because I think I
have poor pronunciation and intonation
5 23 20 41 11
2. The more pressure I feel, the more effectively I can
practice my oral English
3 38 23 33 2
3. I am often worried that if I cannot speak English well I
will not get a decent job in future
5 23 23 42 8
4. I often hope that teacher would call on me during FL
class
3 13 34 41 9
5. I feel that not knowing enough vocabulary is the biggest
problem preventing me from speaking a FL easily
2 14 12 50 21
6. I become anxious when I get stuck on one or two words
in speaking an FL
2 22 21 51 5
7. I enjoy speaking a FL 5 24 42 25 5
8. The most anxiety-provoking part of learning a FL is
learning to speak
4 28 23 41 5
9. I would not be so anxious just to learn to read and write
in a FL rather than having to learn to speak as well
9 26 22 37 6
10. I do not mind thinking aloud in a FL, but I feel very
uncomfortable when I have to speak to others in it
4 23 28 42 3
11. One reason for me to feel anxious about speaking a FL
is my little knowledge concerning its history and
culture
5 42 25 25 3
12. I am nervous if I have to speak a FL when I am not
familiar with the topic
2 11 15 67 5
13. I feel conﬁdent when speaking a FL 5 43 37 12 3
14. I feel more nervous when having to give important
information orally in a FL
3 52 24 19 3
15. I get worried when I have little time to think about what
I have to speak in a FL
2 16 22 54 6
16. I get anxious when I ﬁnd I cannot speak in the FL
fluently
2 11 24 57 7
17. I have no fear of speaking a FL in public 2 40 27 27 5
18. I am nervous when speaking a FL on the phone or when
imagining a situation where I speak a FL on the phone
3 38 30 26 2
19. When speaking a FL, I often know all the words I need
but still fail to express myself easily due to anxiety
2 34 21 39 4
20. I feel nervous when having to be tested orally in a FL 3 17 18 54 9
21. Others will look down on me if I make mistakes in
speaking a FL
4 26 23 41 6
Notes SD Strongly disagree; D: disagree; N: neither disagree nor agree; A: agree; SA: strongly
agree
Data in this table are rounded to the nearest whole number. Percentages may not add to 100 due to
rounding
4.2 Reasons from Questionnaire Surveys 113
Table 4.7 Teachers’ response frequencies in percentages for FLSAS items (N = 30)
Items SD D N A SA
1. Students seem to be embarrassed to open their mouth because
they think they have poor pronunciation and intonation
0 7 13 70 10
2. I think that the more pressure students feel, the more effectively
they can practice their oral English
0 20 27 43 10
3. Students often appear to be worried that if they cannot speak
English well they will not get a decent job in future
0 43 23 27 7
4. Students often seem to hope that I would call on them during FL
class
0 10 43 43 3
5. Students feel that not knowing enough vocabulary is the biggest
problem preventing them from speaking a FL easily
0 10 17 60 13
6. Students seem to become anxious when they get stuck on one or
two words in speaking a FL
0 13 10 73 3
7. Students appear to enjoy speaking a FL 3 10 63 23 0
8. Students think the most anxiety-provoking part of learning a FL
is learning to speak
0 7 10 70 13
9. Students would not be so anxious just to learn to read and write in
a FL rather than having to learn to speak as well
0 7 10 83 0
10. Students do not mind thinking aloud in a FL, but they feel very
uncomfortable when they have to speak to others in it
0 7 23 63 7
11. Students think one reason for them to feel anxious about
speaking a FL is their little knowledge concerning its history
and culture
10 33 17 37 3
12. Students seem to be nervous if they have to speak a FL when
they are not familiar with the topic
0 7 3 70 20
13. Students appear to be conﬁdent when speaking a FL 7 47 43 3 0
14. Students seem to be more nervous when having to give
important information orally in a FL
13 50 33 3 0
15. I think students get worried when they have little time to think
about what they have to speak in a FL
0 3 7 67 23
16. Students seem to get anxious when they ﬁnd they cannot speak
in the FL fluently
0 0 13 70 17
17. Students appear to have no fear of speaking a FL in public 7 67 20 7 0
18. Students seem to be nervous when speaking a FL on the phone
or when imagining a situation where they speak a FL on the
phone
17 63 17 3 0
19. When speaking a FL, students often seem to know all the words
they need but still fail to express themselves easily due to
anxiety
0 7 10 67 17
20. I think students feel nervous when having to be tested orally in a
FL
0 0 10 73 17
21. Students think others will look down on them if they make
mistakes in speaking a FL
0 13 37 50 0
Notes SD: Strongly disagree; D: disagree; N: neither disagree nor agree; A: agree; SA: strongly
agree
Data in this table are rounded to the nearest whole number. Percentages may not add to 100 due to
rounding
114 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
cannot speak English well they will not get a decent job in future”) with 43% of the
teachers opposing it and 34% agreeing. Among these 14 reasons resulting in stu-
dents’ FLSA, the top two were: “Lack of vocabulary of the FL” and “Speaking a FL
on an unfamiliar topic”. Other reasons dealt with students’ FLSA from various
respects. It should also be pointed out that although more participants disagreed
with the last two reasons (i.e., “Fear of speaking a FL on the phone” and “Worry
about having to give important information orally in a FL”), they are included in
Table 4.8 together with other reasons as sources of students’ FLSA since there were
still a certain number of students (28 and 22% respectively) supporting these two
items.
4.2.1.3 Response Frequency of the Student Background Questionnaire
The ﬁrst part of the student background questionnaire is about the student partic-
ipants’ demographic information, which has been reported in Sect. 4.1.1.1, so the
focus of the present section is mainly on the second part of the questionnaire, that
is, the seven items designed in ﬁve-point Likert scale as shown in Tables 4.9, 4.10,
4.11, and 4.12. The response frequencies (in percentages) and means of the seven
statements concerning students’ English learning are reported. However, the point
discussed in Sect. 4.2.1.1—the issue of “happy medium”—requires special atten-
tion. Possibly due to the influence of this issue and Chinese emphasis on “being
modest”, more than half of the students selected “3” for Questions 1, 2, and 4.
Although many students self-evaluated both their general English and spoken
English as “moderate”, there were remarkably more students who classiﬁed their
oral English proﬁciency (39%, Item 2) as “poor” than those who regarded their
general English (22%, Item 1) as “poor” in Table 4.9. In contrast, there were only a
few students who regarded their general English (7%) and spoken English (8%) as
“good”. Items 3 and 4 in Table 4.10 tell us that most of the students seldom or
never had any contact with NSs (91%), but most of them watched movies or read
magazines in English sometimes or often (76%). From questions 5 and 6 in
Table 4.11, it can be seen that there were evidently more students who showed
strong motivation to learn general English (39%) and oral English (46%) than those
who lacked such motivation (19 and 21% respectively). Lastly, there were notably
more students who believed that speaking English with others was not so
anxiety-provoking (47%) than those who regarded it as very or extremely
anxiety-provoking (19%) as displayed in Table 4.12.
4.2.1.4 Response Frequency of the Teacher Background
Questionnaire
Similar to the student background questionnaire, the ﬁrst part of the teacher
background questionnaire has also been reported earlier in Sect. 4.1.1.2, therefore
the present section mainly focuses on the second part of the questionnaire, that is,
4.2 Reasons from Questionnaire Surveys 115
Table 4.8 Reasons for students’ FLSA
Reasons Related
item(s) in
the FLSAS
Students’
supporting
rates (%)
Students’
means
Teachers’
supporting
rates (%)
Teachers’
means
1. Lack of vocabulary or
background knowledge of
the FL
5 71a
3.74b
73 3.77
6 56 3.35 76 3.67
11 28 2.79 40 2.90
2. Speaking a FL on an
unfamiliar topic
12 72 3.60 90 4.03
3. Worry about the fluency of
speaking a FL
16 64 3.56 87 4.03
4. Fear of being tested orally in
a FL
20 63 3.50 90 4.07
5. Having little time to think
before speaking in a FL
15 60 3.46 90 4.10
6. Worry about the poor
pronunciation and intonation
1 52 2.89 80 3.83
7. Worry about failing to get a
decent job in future for being
unable to speak English well
3 50 3.26 34 2.97
8. Lack of conﬁdence when
speaking a FL
13 48 3.36 54 3.57
9. Worry about being looked
down on for making
mistakes in speaking a FL
21 47 3.38 50 3.37
10. Fear of speaking a FL 8 46 3.17 83 3.90
9 43 3.07 83 3.77
19 43 3.60 84 3.93
11. Fear of speaking a FL with
others
10 45 2.97 70 3.70
12. Fear of speaking a FL in
public
17 41 3.08 74 3.73
13. Fear of speaking a FL on
the phone
18 28 2.86 3 2.07
14. Worry about having to give
important information
orally in a FL
14 22 2.67 3 2.27
Notes a
The percentages are rounded to the nearest whole number
b
The means are rounded to two digits after the decimal point
116 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
Table 4.9 Descriptive statistics for student background items 1 and 2
Items 1a
(%) 2 (%) 3 (%) 4 (%) 5 (%) Means
(N = 302)
1. How do you evaluate your own
English?
5b
17 71 6 1 2.82c
2. How would you rate your speaking
proﬁciency in English?
8 31 53 7 1 2.63
Notes a
1: Very poor; 2: poor; 3: moderate; 4: good; 5: very good
b
The percentages are rounded to the nearest whole number. Percentages may not add to 100 due to
rounding
c
The means are rounded to two digits after the decimal point
Table 4.10 Descriptive statistics for student background items 3 and 4
Items 1a
(%) 2 (%) 3 (%) 4 (%) 5 (%) Means
(N = 302)
3. How often do you have contact with
native English speakers?
33b
58 8 0 1 1.78c
4. How often do you watch movies/
read magazines in English?
1 24 51 18 6 3.06
Notes a
1: Never; 2: seldom; 3: sometimes; 4: often; 5: very often
b
The percentages are rounded to the nearest whole number. Percentages may not add to 100 due to
rounding
c
The means are rounded to two digits after the decimal point
Table 4.11 Descriptive statistics for student background items 5 and 6
Items 1a
(%) 2 (%) 3 (%) 4 (%) 5 (%) Means
(N = 302)
5. How do you evaluate your
motivation in learning English?
3b
16 43 36 3 3.20c
6. How would you rate your motivation
for acquiring oral English skills?
3 18 33 42 4 3.24
Notes a
1: Very weak; 2: weak; 3: moderate; 4: strong; 5: very strong
b
The percentages are rounded to the nearest whole number. Percentages may not add to 100 due to
rounding
c
The means are rounded to two digits after the decimal point
Table 4.12 Descriptive statistics for student background item 7
Item 1a
(%) 2 (%) 3 (%) 4 (%) 5 (%) Mean
(N = 302)
7. How would you rate the
anxiety-provoking level of speaking
English with others?
10b
37 34 16 3 2.64c
Notes a
1: Not anxiety-provoking; 2: a little anxiety-provoking; 3: moderately anxiety-provoking;
4: very anxiety-provoking; 5: extremely anxiety-provoking
b
The percentages are rounded to the nearest whole number. Percentages may not add to 100 due to
rounding
c
The mean is rounded to two digits after the decimal point
4.2 Reasons from Questionnaire Surveys 117
the seven items as displayed in Tables 4.13, 4.14, 4.15, and 4.16. The response
frequencies (in percentages) and means of the seven questions about students’
English learning are reported. However, the issue of “happy medium” discussed
earlier is no longer a problem, since teachers did not need to act modestly and they
could provide a somewhat objective judgment on their students’ English learning.
Teachers’ responses were generally consistent with their students’ except for Item 1.
Table 4.13 Descriptive statistics for teacher background items 1 and 2
Items 1a
(%) 2 (%) 3 (%) 4 (%) 5 (%) Means
(N = 30)
1. How do you evaluate your students’
English?
3b
37 17 40 3 3.03c
2. How would you rate your students’
speaking proﬁciency in English?
40 27 20 13 0 2.93
Notes a
1: Very poor; 2: poor; 3: moderate; 4: good; 5: very good
b
The percentages are rounded to the nearest whole number. Percentages may not add to 100 due to
rounding
c
The means are rounded to two digits after the decimal point
Table 4.14 Descriptive statistics for teacher background items 3 and 4
Items 1a
(%) 2 (%) 3 (%) 4 (%) 5 (%) Means
(N = 30)
3. How often do your students have
contact with native English speakers?
40b
27 20 13 0 2.07c
4. How often do your students watch movies/
read magazines in English?
3 10 20 63 3 3.53
Notes a
1: Never; 2: seldom; 3: sometimes; 4: often; 5: very often
b
The percentages are rounded to the nearest whole number. Percentages may not add to 100 due to
rounding
c
The means are rounded to two digits after the decimal point
Table 4.15 Descriptive statistics for teacher background items 5 and 6
Items 1a
(%) 2 (%) 3 (%) 4 (%) 5 (%) Means
(N = 30)
5. How do you evaluate your students’
motivation in learning English?
3b
13 20 50 13 3.57c
6. How would you rate your students’
motivation for acquiring oral English
skills?
3 3 20 67 7 3.70
Notes a
1: Very weak; 2: weak; 3: moderate; 4: strong; 5: very strong
b
The percentages are rounded to the nearest whole number. Percentages may not add to 100 due to
rounding
c
The means are rounded to two digits after the decimal point
118 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
Though the number of teachers who evaluated their students’ general English
proﬁciency as “bad” (40%, Item 1) was almost equal to the number of teachers who
evaluated it as “good” (43%), there were remarkably more teachers who regarded
their students’ oral English level as “poor” (67%, Item 2) than those who believed it
to be “good” (13%) as demonstrated in Table 4.13. From Items 3 and 4 in
Table 4.14, it can be seen that most of the teachers thought that their students
seldom or never had any contact with NSs (67%), but most of them watched movies
or read magazines in English sometimes or often (66%). Questions 5 and 6 in
Table 4.15 tell us that obviously more teachers believed that their students showed
strong motivation to learn general English (63%) and oral English (74%) than those
who did not believe so (16% and 6% respectively). As for Question 7, there were
signiﬁcantly more teachers who reported that speaking English with others was not
so anxiety-provoking to their students (50%) than those who considered it as very
or extremely anxiety-provoking (17%) as displayed in Table 4.16.
4.2.2 Multivariate Analysis of Variance
In order to ﬁnd the more speciﬁc and detailed elements that may cause the potential
signiﬁcant differences in the perceptions held by different groups of participants
(i.e., RQ 2), MANOVA at item level was conducted. Statistically signiﬁcant dif-
ferences were identiﬁed in four group comparisons:
• Students and teachers were remarkably different on 14 items;
• Students of the key university were found to be signiﬁcantly different from those
of the second-tier university on 14 items;
• Students of different disciplines were markedly different on 12 items; and
• Male and female students were evidently different on four items.
These group differences will be presented in tables in the following sections.
Table 4.16 Descriptive statistics for teacher background item 7
Item 1a
(%) 2 (%) 3 (%) 4 (%) 5 (%) Mean
(N = 30)
7. How would you rate the anxiety-provoking
level of your students speaking English
with others?
20b
30 33 17 0 2.47c
Notes a
1: Not anxiety-provoking; 2: a little anxiety-provoking; 3: moderately anxiety-provoking; 4: very
anxiety-provoking; 5: extremely anxiety-provoking
b
The percentages are rounded to the nearest whole number. Percentages may not add to 100 due to
rounding
c
The mean is rounded to two digits after the decimal point
4.2 Reasons from Questionnaire Surveys 119
4.2.2.1 Students Versus Teachers
As demonstrated in Table 4.17, the differences between the students and the
teachers indicate that the latter generally put more emphasis on the reasons leading
to their students’ FLSA. This is because the teachers’ means were obviously higher
than their students’ on 11 out of the 14 items except for Items 14, 17, and 18. The
difference on Item 2 between teachers and students demonstrates that the former
were statistically more afﬁrmative to their students’ motivation in oral English
practice.
Table 4.17 Means and difference of item scores displaying signiﬁcant student-teacher differences
Items Means
Students/
teachers
Difference
1. I feel embarrassed to speak English because I think I have poor
pronunciation and intonation
2.89/3.83 −0.94**
2. The more pressure I feel, the more effectively I can practice my
oral English
3.04/3.43 −0.39*
8. The most anxiety-provoking part of learning a FL is learning to
speak
3.17/3.90 −0.73**
9. I would not be so anxious just to learn to read and write in a FL
rather than having to learn to speak as well
3.07/3.77 −0.70**
10. I do not mind thinking aloud in a FL, but I feel very
uncomfortable when I have to speak to others in it
2.97/3.70 −0.73**
12. I am nervous if I have to speak a FL when I am not familiar
with the topic
3.60/4.03 −0.43**
14. I feel more nervous when having to give important information
orally in a FL
2.67/2.27 0.40*
15. I get worried when I have little time to think about what I have
to speak in a FL
3.46/4.10 −0.64**
16. I get anxious when I ﬁnd I cannot speak in the FL fluently 3.56/4.03 −0.47**
17. I have no fear of speaking a FL in public 2.92/2.27 0.65**
18. I am nervous when speaking a FL on the phone or when
imagining a situation where I speak a FL on the phone
2.86/2.07 0.79**
19. When speaking a FL, I often know all the words I need but still
fail to express
myself easily due to anxiety
3.09/3.93 −0.84**
20. I feel nervous when having to be tested orally in a FL 3.50/4.07 −0.57**
21. Others will look down on me if I make mistakes in speaking a FL 2.38/3.37 −0.99**
Note **p < 0.01; *p < 0.05
120 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
4.2.2.2 Students of Key University Versus Those of Second-Tier
University
Students of the key university were found to be signiﬁcantly different from their
counterparts of the second-tier university concerning the reasons leading to their
FLSA (see Table 4.18). Speciﬁcally, those from the second-tier university attached
more emphasis to the following ﬁve reasons:
• Lack of enough knowledge concerning the history and culture of the FL (Item
11);
• Lack of enough conﬁdence when speaking a FL (Item 13);
• Having to give important information orally in a FL (Item 14);
• Fear of speaking a FL in public (Item 17); and
• Speaking a FL on the phone or when imagining a situation speaking a FL on the
phone (Item 18).
Table 4.18 Means and difference of item scores on which students of key university showed
signiﬁcant differences from those of second-tier university
Items Means
SKU/SSU Difference
4. I often hope that teacher would call on me during FL class 3.20/3.48 −0.28*
6. I become anxious when I get stuck on one or two words in
speaking a FL
3.58/3.26 0.32**
9. I would not be so anxious just to learn to read and write in a FL
rather than having to learn to speak as well
3.34/2.96 0.38**
10. I do not mind thinking aloud in a FL, but I feel very
uncomfortable when I have to speak to others in it
3.20/2.88 0.32*
11. One reason for me to feel anxious about speaking a FL is my little
knowledge concerning its history and culture
2.62/2.87 −0.25*
12. I am nervous if I have to speak a FL when I am not familiar with
the topic
3.80/3.52 0.28**
13. I feel conﬁdent when speaking a FL 2.48/2.71 −0.23*
14. I feel more nervous when having to give important information
orally in a FL
2.48/2.74 −0.26*
15. I get worried when I have little time to think about what I have to
speak in a FL
3.72/3.36 0.36**
16. I get anxious when I ﬁnd I cannot speak in the FL fluently 3.74/3.49 0.25*
17. I have no fear of speaking a FL in public 2.72/3.00 −0.28*
18. I am nervous when speaking a FL on the phone or when
imagining a situation where I speak a FL on the phone
2.65/2.95 −0.30*
20. I feel nervous when having to be tested orally in a FL 3.74/3.41 0.33**
21. Others will look down on me if I make mistakes in speaking a FL 2.53/2.32 0.21*
Note SKU: Students from the key university, SSU: Students from the second-tier university;
**p < 0.01, *p < 0.05
4.2 Reasons from Questionnaire Surveys 121
However, the students from the key university put more emphasis on the fol-
lowing eight reasons leading to students’ FLSA:
• Getting stuck on one or two words in speaking a FL (Item 6);
• Having to learn to speak a FL (Item 9);
• Having to speak to others in a FL (Item 10);
• Having to speak a FL on an unfamiliar topic (Item 12);
• Having little time to think about what to speak in a FL (Item 15);
• Failing to speak in the FL fluently (Item 16);
• Having to be tested orally in a FL (Item 20); and
• Worrying about making mistakes in speaking a FL (Item 21).
The difference on Item 4 between these two student groups suggests that stu-
dents of the second-tier university showed stronger motivation to practice oral
English than those of the key university since obviously more of the former hoped
to be called on during FL class.
4.2.2.3 Among Students of Different Disciplines
In addition to the remarkable differences between students and their teachers, stu-
dents of different disciplines demonstrated statistically signiﬁcant differences on 12
items of the FLSAS as displayed in Table 4.19. The most obvious differences were
found between students of Science and Arts and between those of Engineering and
Arts as well (on 10 out of the 12 items as shown in Table 4.19), while the least
obvious differences were found between students of Business and Engineering
(Item 9) and those of Science and Engineering (Item 4). In other words, students of
Arts showed the most differences from those of other disciplines whereas students
of Engineering showed the least differences.
4.2.2.4 Male Versus Female Students
MANOVA also found that female student participants were in stronger agreement
on three items (Items 5, 12, and 16) of the reasons resulting in students’ FLSA
while male students put stronger emphasis on Item 9 (refer to Table 4.20 for the
means and differences involved). These differences suggest that male students were
more likely to consider the pressure in learning to speak in FL as one of the reasons
leading to FLSA. On the other hand, signiﬁcantly more female students regarded
the following as the reasons for FLSA:
• Lack of vocabulary (Item 5);
• Having to speak a FL on an unfamiliar topic (Item 12); and
• Failing to speak in the FL fluently (Item 16).
122 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
Table 4.19 Means of item scores on which students of different disciplines showed signiﬁcant
differences
Items Means
B/S B/E B/A S/E S/A E/A
4. I often hope that teacher would call
on me during FL class
/ / / 2.97/
3.47**
2.97/
3.61**
/
5. I feel that not knowing enough
vocabulary is the biggest problem
preventing me from speaking a FL
easily
/ / / / 3.88/
3.36*
3.79/
3.36*
6. I become anxious when I get stuck
on one or two words in speaking a
FL
3.29/
3.67*
/ / / 3.67/
2.94**
3.41/
2.94**
8. The most anxiety-provoking part of
learning a FL is learning to speak
2.96/
3.42*
/ 2.96/
3.53**
/ / 3.13/
3.53*
9. I would not be so anxious just to
learn to read and write in a FL rather
than having to learn to speak as well
2.79/
3.33*
2.79/
3.22**
/ / 3.33/
2.75*
3.22/
2.75*
10. I do not mind thinking aloud in a
FL, but I feel very uncomfortable
when I have to speak to others in it
/ / / / 3.09/
2.58*
3.07/
2.58**
11. One reason for me to feel anxious
about speaking a FL is my little
knowledge concerning its history
and culture
/ / 2.60/
3.61**
/ 2.67/
3.61**
2.73/
3.61**
12. I am nervous if I have to speak a
FL when I am not familiar with the
topic
/ / / / 3.88/
3.28**
3.62/
3.28*
14. I feel more nervous when having
to give important information
orally in a FL
/ / 2.62/
3.03*
/ 2.58/
3.03*
2.62/
3.03*
15. I get worried when I have little
time to think about what I have to
speak in a FL
/ / / / 3.73/
3.08**
3.53/
3.08**
17. I have no fear of speaking a FL in
public
/ / 2.92/
3.39*
/ 2.85/
3.39*
2.82/
3.39**
20. I feel nervous when having to be
tested orally in a FL
3.31/
3.82*
/ / / / /
Notes B: Business, S: Science, E: Engineering, A: Arts; **p < 0.01, *p < 0.05
4.2 Reasons from Questionnaire Surveys 123
4.2.3 Correlational Analyses of the Questionnaires
This section reports the correlational analyses done to the survey questionnaires.
The correlational analyses are to support the reliability and validity of the FLSAS,
and to investigate the relationships between students’ anxiety level and their
background variables.
4.2.3.1 Correlational Analyses for Reliability and Validity
of the FLSAS
As reviewed in the second chapter, the FLCAS is a well-developed and well-tested
scale for FLA research; it is a landmark for FLA scale and has been repeated in
many studies in different cultural contexts. All these studies reported high reliability
and validity of the scale. Therefore, the reliability and validity of the
newly-developed FLSAS, will be determined according to the correlation with the
FLCAS to some extent.
Reliability and validity analyses were conducted so as to assess the quality of the
FLSAS. The internal consistency analysis was utilized to examine the reliability of
the scale since the internal consistency coefﬁcient can indicate the similarity in
measurement across items. With 332 participants, this study reported an internal
consistency coefﬁcient of 0.88 using Cronbach’s alpha. This is almost the same as
the result obtained from the pilot study (0.87) as reported in Sect. 4.1.2.2. Both of
the two results indicated that the FLSAS was reliable and consistent for Chinese
university students.
Validity of the FLSAS was assured from two aspects—content validity and
construct validity of the scale. On the one hand, content validation was given
primary consideration in the course of questionnaire development as described in
Table 4.20 Means and difference of item scores displaying signiﬁcant “gender” differences
among the students
Items Means
Male/female Difference
5. I feel that not knowing enough vocabulary is the biggest
problem preventing me from speaking a FL easily
3.63/3.87 −0.24*
9. I would not be so anxious just to learn to read and write in a
FL rather than having to learn to speak as well
3.22/2.87 0.35**
12. I am nervous if I have to speak a FL when I am not familiar
with the topic
3.47/3.76 −0.29**
16. I get anxious when I ﬁnd I cannot speak in the FL fluently 3.40/3.77 −0.37**
Note **p < 0.01, *p < 0.05
124 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
Sect. 4.1.2.1. On the other hand, construct validity of the FLSAS was achieved with
the analysis of the correlation of its scores with those of the FLCAS. It is believed
that two instruments should be positively correlated if they measure the same
construct, and thus they form the convergent validation (Graham & Lilly, 1984).
The correlation analysis revealed a Pearson correlation coefﬁcient9
of 0.69
(p < 0.01) between the FLSAS and the FLCAS. As both the scales were designed
to measure language anxiety, the comparatively high correlation between them
supported the construct validity of the FLSAS. This coefﬁcient also suggests that
FLSA is closely associated with FLLA. In this study, the signiﬁcant positive cor-
relation between the FLSAS and the FLCAS indicates that students with higher FL
speaking anxiety are likely to have higher foreign language learning anxiety, and
vice versa.
4.2.3.2 Correlations between Students’ FLSA Level and FL
Proﬁciencies
This section focuses on the correlational analyses between students’ FLSA level
and their FL proﬁciencies. Students’ FL proﬁciencies were indicated with both their
English scores in university entrance examination and their self-evaluated proﬁ-
ciencies in both general FL and speaking, as collected in student background
questionnaire (see Appendix D for details). Pearson correlation coefﬁcients were
used to determine whether there were statistically signiﬁcant relationships between
the above mentioned variables. Table 4.21 reports the observed relationships.
Overall, students’ FLSA level was negatively correlated with all the three pro-
ﬁciency indicators as shown in Table 4.21, which means that the students with
higher FL proﬁciencies tended to display lower FLSA level. Since English speaking
skill was not tested in the university entrance examination, the English score in this
examination could not indicate students’ FL speaking proﬁciency, which resulted in
the insigniﬁcant correlation (−0.10) between FLSA level and the English score.
Nevertheless, students’ FLSA level was signiﬁcantly correlated to both their
self-evaluated general English proﬁciency (−0.23) and oral English proﬁciency
(−0.42). Compared to students’ English scores in university entrance examination,
their self-evaluation of English proﬁciencies could reflect their FLSA level in a
more objective way. That is, students with higher self-evaluated English
9
Pearson correlation coefﬁcient is a summary of the strength of the linear association between two
variables named after Karl Pearson (Edwards, 1984). According to Pearson, if there is an opposite
relationship between the predicted variables and the actual variables, the correlation coefﬁcient is
−1; if there is no relationship between the two variables, the correlation coefﬁcient is 0; and a
perfect match of the two variables gives a coefﬁcient of 1. Thus a higher Pearson correlation
coefﬁcient indicates a stronger relationship between the two scales in this study.
4.2 Reasons from Questionnaire Surveys 125
proﬁciencies were apt to demonstrate lower FLSA level, and vice versa. What is
shown in Table 4.21 concerning the correlations between students’ FLSA and their
FL proﬁciencies is also in general agreement with previous studies on the corre-
lations between FL learners’ general FLA and their FL proﬁciencies, since it is
found that students who show little FLA usually evaluate their own proﬁciency
relatively positively (Clément et al., 1994; Clément & Kruidenier, 1985; Dewaele
2007; Donovan & MacIntyre, 2004; Gardner et al., 1984; MacIntyre, 1992; Yan,
1998).
4.3 Findings of Interviews
In order to make the interviewees as representative as possible, various factors were
taken into account while selecting them (see Sect. 4.1.3.2 for more details),
including their anxiety level (judged by their FLCAS scores), identity (student or
teacher), gender, and school type (key or second-tier university). Each of the
interviewees was assigned a code which contained the above information to make
the analyses and descriptions of the interview data more systematic. The way that
these interviewees are coded is illustrated as follows:
• Identity (S—student, T—teacher);
• Gender10
(G—girl, B—boy);
• The code number as assigned to each participants’ questionnaires (for students,
from 1 to 312; for teachers, from 313 to 345);
• Anxiety level for students on the basis of their FLCAS scores (L—low level, M—
moderate level, H—high level); the three teacher interviewees were also coded in
the same way although their FLCAS scores stood for their perceptions of their
students’ anxiety level; and
• University: if the interviewees were from the key university, the letter “K” was
added to the end of the code; if not, nothing was added.
Table 4.21 Correlations between students’ FLSA and FL proﬁciencies
FLSA level
Pearson correlation
coefﬁcients
English score in university entrance
examination
−0.10
Self-evaluated general English proﬁciency −0.23**
Self-evaluated English speaking proﬁciency −0.42**
Note **Correlation is signiﬁcant at the 0.01 level (2-tailed)
10
It is the normal practice to differentiate gender between “female (F)” and “male (M)”. However, I
have to use “M” to stand for “moderate” level of FLA in the codes. Therefore, I use “girl (G)” and
“boy (B)” instead to avoid any possible confusion.
126 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
For example, “SB143L” refers to a male student whose code number of the
questionnaires is 143, and he demonstrated low level of anxiety in line with his
FLCAS score, and he was from a second-tier university; “TG332HK” refers to a
female teacher whose code number of the questionnaires is 332, and she believed
her students showed high level of anxiety judged by her FLCAS score, and she was
then teaching in the key university.
As mentioned earlier in Sect. 4.1.3.3, MAXQDA 2007 was used to help analyze
and code the interview data. There are many advantages in doing so with
MAXQDA. It can, ﬁrst of all, help analyze and code the data in a systematic way
with different levels of sub-codes as displayed in Appendix H. Furthermore, a color
attribute can be attached to each code and sub-code, and different colors can be
attached to different codes, for example, red colors are associated with the reasons
leading to FLSA and green ones with strategies helping reduce FLSA; in this way, a
new perspective of “seeing” the interview data is offered. Another important
advantage of MAXQDA is that it can display all the retrieved segments related to
one code quite conveniently when necessary, which is hard to achieve when
manipulating a large amount of qualitative data manually. This section reports the
ﬁndings of the interview data collected from 30 students of high, moderate, and low
anxiety levels and three of their English teachers as follows.
4.3.1 Students’ Foreign Language Learning Experiences
In order to make the students feel at ease, all the interviews were conducted in their
mother tongue—Putonghua and then transcribed and translated into English (see
Sect. 4.1.3 for more details). The interviews started with warm-up questions and
some questions concerning their foreign language learning (FLL, it is equal to
English learning in this study) experiences before asking about the main topic,
foreign language anxiety (see Appendix F for the interview guides). It was found
that 26 out of the 30 students started to learn English from junior middle school, the
other four started from Form Four of primary school or even earlier. Most of them
(20 students) said that they experienced a lot of anxiety in their English learning
(see Example 1) and that their English learning was greatly influenced by their
teachers in many ways (see Examples 1 and 2), especially their teachers’ sense of
responsibility. However, there were ﬁve students who did not think that their
English learning was much influenced by their teachers (refer to Example 3). Some
of the typical replies concerning their FLL experiences are presented below (The
code of the interviewee is given at the beginning of each quote while the serial
number of examples quoted is in the brackets at the end):
SG69H: I studied English fairly well when I ﬁrst started learning it in junior middle school,
however, I came across the most difﬁcult period of my English learning in senior middle
school.
Interviewer: Can you tell us what difﬁculties you had in those days?
4.3 Findings of Interviews 127
SG69H: We had four English teachers in the ﬁrst two years of our senior middle school.
My English learning was seriously influenced by the frequent change of teachers, especially
by the teaching style of the last teacher, who taught us comparatively long, but most of us
did not like his way of teaching and he was not quite proﬁcient at English. English learning
was then quite anxious to me. My English learning became better when we were assigned
the ﬁfth teacher in the last year of my senior middle school. (Example 1)
SG252MK: I was good at English in my junior high school, but my English teacher at
senior high was not so responsible and my English was not so good then.
Interviewer: Then do you agree that the precondition for you to learn English well at
middle schools is to have responsible English teachers?
(All the six interviewees): Yes.
SG252MK: We have a better English teacher at university now, and I hope I can also learn
English better, both at tests and at oral English, but ﬁrst of all, I want to achieve better test
results. (Example 2)
SB45L: I had laid a solid basis for English learning since I attended all kinds of English
training besides my in-class English learning. I do not think English learning is quite
closely related to English teachers, what is important is that learner must enlarge his/her
English vocabulary and speak English more. I think we have less chance to practice English
at university since we have less English classes each week than we had in middle schools
and we no longer have Early Morning Reading Session for English as we had in middle
schools. (Example 3)
The students’ opinions discussed above were well echoed by their teachers’
responses, two typical examples are cited below:
TG323L: Some students are good at oral English since they had private English tutors or
attended some after-class training programs in their earlier stages of English learning. The
students from regions of ethnic minorities, for example, Xinjiang, are generally not good at
English compared to the students from other regions. (Example 4)
TG332HK: I remember some students told me that having a good English learning envi-
ronment which encourages English using, especially speaking, is very important. In
addition, some students said a good or bad English teacher made quite different influence to
them, especially at the beginning stage of their English learning. (Example 5)
4.3.2 Speaking—the Most Important
and Anxiety-Provoking?
When asked about whether speaking is the most important among the ﬁve skills
(i.e., listening, speaking, reading, writing, and translation11
) concerning FL learn-
ing, the student interviewees responded quite differently. Almost two-thirds (19) of
the 30 students agreed that speaking is the most important of the ﬁve skills, while
nine of them did not think so and the other two offered no comment on this point.
11
In EFL teaching practice in mainland China, translation skill is also one of the very important
basic skills like the other four skills.
128 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
The most frequently mentioned reasons for considering speaking as the most
important skill include: the main purpose of learning a foreign language is to
communicate with others who do not share the same mother tongue with us and
speaking is the most direct way of communication between people (see Examples 6
and 7); the acquisition of good speaking skills can help strengthen learners’ interest
and conﬁdence in FL learning (see Example 8), and even those who did not
consider speaking as the most important agreed that listening and speaking activ-
ities can help increase students’ interest in FL learning (see Example 9). Among the
reasons for disagreeing, the belief that speaking is the least useful skill when using
English in China ranked the ﬁrst (see Examples 9 and 10).
SG175H: I agree since I think the main purpose for us to learn English should be using
English to communicate with others. And I think oral English will be the most useful in our
work in future. Besides, in my opinion, speaking is the most efﬁcient way of communi-
cation. (Example 6)
SG42L: I realized the importance of spoken English when I was in the Ocean Park in
Dalian and had a conversation with a Russian. Without English, it would be nearly
impossible for us to talk since neither of us knew the other’s mother tongue. (Example 7)
SB81H: I also agree, since speaking English well can help increase our interest and con-
ﬁdence in English learning. (Example 8)
SG186M: I do not agree, since I think speaking and listening are the least useful among the
ﬁve skills when we use English in China, but listening and speaking activities might be the
very useful means to improve students’ English learning interests. (Example 9)
SB45L: I don’t agree since we don’t have many chances to speak English in China,
especially with NSs, hence speaking English becomes not so important for students.
(Example 10)
Unlike the disparity in the students’ viewpoints, all the three teachers inter-
viewed thought that speaking is the most important, and two of them reported that it
is also their students’ poorest skill among the ﬁve, and below is a typical example.
TG323L: I think most students have realized that speaking is the most important among the
ﬁve, but this is also their poorest skill. Few of them paid enough attention to oral English in
middle schools since it is not tested in university entrance examination. (Example 11)
As for the anxiety-provoking level of the ﬁve skills, more than half (16) of the
students did not view speaking as the most anxious activity among the ﬁve, instead,
three-fourths (12) of the 16 students argued that listening is the most
anxiety-provoking for them (see Examples 12, 13, and 14 below). The most
commonly mentioned proof to support their standpoints was that they would fail to
respond properly if they could not follow what was said or played to them in real
communication or tests, which is especially the case when talking with NSs who
speak comparatively fast. However, it should be noted that most of the students
who did not list speaking as the most anxiety-provoking activity would regard it as
the second most (see Example 13). On the other hand, 13 students believed that
speaking is the most anxiety-provoking activity for them. The reasons behind their
4.3 Findings of Interviews 129
argument include lack of enough practice in oral English and the worry about the
intelligibility of their English words which are often direct translation from Chinese
(see Examples 15 and 16).
SG69H: I think listening might make me more anxious, since I am not good at listening,
especially when I listen to foreigners’ English. By contrast, I am not so anxious at speaking,
since it is within my control and I believe others can understand what I said in English.
However, if you cannot follow what others said, it is hard to carry on the conversation.
(Example 12)
SB161M: To me, listening is the most anxiety-provoking, then it will be speaking. If I
failed to understand what was said, I would not know how to respond in tests or in real
communication. (Example 13)
SB41L: Listening is the most anxiety-provoking to me, especially when I am listening to
NSs who speak English very fast. (Example 14)
SB81H: Speaking is the most anxious to me, especially when I am talking with NSs, since
we had a lot of training in reading and writing in senior middle school and neglected the
training in speaking, and we seldom spoke English. I am anxious because I am afraid of
making mistakes, although I want to talk with NSs. (Example 15)
SB259LK: Speaking is the most anxious to me, since I seldom speak English, and I am
poor at English grammar, I know just individual English words but do not know how to put
them together in speech. I am afraid of whether others can understand my spoken English
or not, and I also worry about my poor pronunciation. (Example 16)
Teachers also held different opinions about which is the most anxiety-provoking
activity of the ﬁve, and their reasons were almost the same as the students’ as
exempliﬁed below:
TG323L: It is speaking that is the most anxious to students. Then it might be listening, and
then writing, translation, and reading, since they had most practice with reading while least
with speaking in middle school. Another reason for them to feel anxious at speaking is
because they usually speak English by translating from Chinese, if they fail to ﬁnd the
appropriate counterparts in English for their Chinese ideas during translation, they may
become more anxious. (Example 17)
TG332HK: In my impression, both speaking and listening are very anxiety-provoking to
them. If I am asked to select one more anxious from the two, maybe it is speaking, since it
is, as I can see, the skill that they have practiced least. (Example 18)
TB313M: Students are more anxious at listening, and then it should be speaking. This is
because speaking is within the speaker’s control; he/she can always express his/her idea in
this or that way. However, if you cannot understand what is said by the interlocutor, then
you will not know how to respond. (Example 19)
4.3.3 The Influence of Anxiety on FL Learning
To the question concerning the influence of FLA on students’ FL learning, half of
the student interviewees believed that it is not FLA but some other factors (e.g.,
teachers’ teaching style, hard work or lack of hard work, conﬁdence) that have
130 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
signiﬁcant influences on their FL learning (see Examples 20, 21, and 22). Half of
the students found that FLA has a debilitating effect on their FL learning since they
would either get less efﬁcient at language learning or lose chances of oral practice
when they were too anxious (see Examples 23 and 24).
SB164M: I think it is the teachers that influence my English learning rather than language
anxiety. (Example 20)
SG191H and SG268LK: Language anxiety does not influence me much, what is important
is whether I have worked hard at English or not. (Example 21)
SB302HK: To me, anxiety plays a minor role in my English learning, what is more
important is that I haven’t learnt it hard and I lack the chance to practice oral English. I am
not conﬁdent when speaking English, and I am afraid of making mistakes. (Example 22)
SB143L: The more anxious I feel, the less efﬁcient my learning will be, since I am most
efﬁcient at learning when I am relaxed. If I am too anxious at English learning, I might even
give it up. (Example 23)
SB259LK: If you are too anxious, you may lose lots of chances to practice oral English. For
example, when our English teacher asks us a question, usually, few of us will volunteer to
answer and nearly all of us wait for the teacher to nominate someone to answer. (Example 24)
All the three teachers agreed that FLA has negative effects on students’ FL
learning as it may make student stammer while speaking English as well as cause
students’ avoidance to use English. Two teachers’ opinions on this question are
cited below:
TB313M: Language anxiety might make students tongue-tied while speaking. (Example 25)
TG332HK: Frankly, I seldom thought about this question. I guess students may try to avoid
using English if they are too anxious. This may be especially the case for oral English, if a
student is too anxious, I guess he/she will try to hide him/herself from the teacher’s notice,
so that he/she won’t need to say anything in class. Even if they have to answer teacher’s
question, they will try to answer it with as few words as possible, mostly, with “sorry, I
don’t know”. (Example 26)
Another question about the relationship between students’ FLA and FL learning
is whether the interviewees regard FLA as the consequence or cause of poor FL
achievement. To this question, more than half (16) of the 30 students argued that
FLA can be both the consequence and the cause of poor FL achievement, while
eight students thought FLA is the consequence and four the cause, and the
remaining two gave no response to this question. The following are three typical
quotations:
SB262HK: This is a sort of vicious circle. At the very beginning, you might feel anxious for
learning a new language, which will result in your poor FL achievement, and then you may be
more anxious, and then the poorer achievement, and thus the vicious circle. (Example 27)
SG268LK: In my opinion, anxiety is one of the reasons for poor FL achievement, but it is
not the main reason. The main reason is that most students are learning English for exams.
This is not their fault; it is the education system in China and the whole society that
emphasize test results too much. (Example 28)
SG42L: The consequence. For example, if I am fully prepared for an English class or test, I
won’t be anxious. (Example 29)
4.3 Findings of Interviews 131
The three teachers held three different viewpoints: one is for the “vicious circle”,
one for consequence, and one for cause. Since none of them provided supporting
reasons, quotation is believed to be unnecessary here.
4.3.4 Reactions of FLSA
The student interviewees recalled the following physical or psychological reactions
when they spoke FL with anxiety (arranged in decreasing order of mention
frequency):
• Failing to recall familiar words
• Stammer
• Vacant mind
• Faster heart beats
• Trembling voice (or body)
• Red or pale face
• Unconscious behaviors (e.g. touch hair)
• Feeling embarrassed
• Not knowing where to put hands
• Panic
• Being afraid of looking at the interlocutor(s)
• Having an impulse to escape, and
• Being annoyed
It is worth noting that about half of the students who reported various reactions
of FLSA were those with higher level of FLA, which is sensible since the anxious
students will usually have more to say on this question than those who are not so
anxious while speaking the FL. Eight typical quotations about students’ reactions of
FLSA are presented below:
SG175H: I will feel at a loss for words, even those that are familiar to me, when I feel
anxious at speaking English. (Example 30)
SG69H: I may feel tongue-shy, pause a lot while speaking, and fail to speak out the words
that I should be able to when I am not anxious. (Example 31)
SB161M: I may feel at a loss for words and tongue-tied, just like I know what I want to say
but I cannot speak it out. (Example 32)
SG63L: Feel embarrassed, my face may turn red, and my heart will beat faster. (Example 33)
SB206H: I will have lots of unconscious behaviors like scratching the head, stroking ears
and nose, repeating previous sentence. (Example 34)
SG96H: I may feel trembling, both my voice and my body, especially in tests, I may also
fail to recall the words that I am familiar with if I am anxious. (Example 35)
SB279MK: I may feel vacant in mind as if I know nothing; and I may also forget what I
should be able to remember. (Example 36)
132 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
SG30L: I may have faster heart beats, and speak English with trembling voices, especially
speaking English without preparation in formal situations. Also panic. (Example 37)
When the teachers were asked about their students’ reactions of FLSA, the
following four were mentioned (also in decreasing order of mention):
• Stammer
• Abnormally fast speaking speed
• Unconscious behaviors, and
• Red face
It is reasonable that fewer reactions were mentioned by the teachers since some
of the reactions are psychological ones which are hard to be observed by outsiders;
after all, it is the students not the teachers who experience the FLSA personally.
However, two teachers recalled that anxious students may speak FL with an
abnormally fast speed, which might not be easily noticed by students themselves.
Below are the three quotations from teachers:
TG332HK: Of course, nearly all of them feel anxious. They often stammer, scratch their
head, sometimes speak faster than usual, and sometimes speak with a red face. (Example 38)
TG323L: They often stammer when they are anxious. (Example 39)
TB313M: They may be tongue-shy, and they may speak abnormally fast. (Example 40)
4.3.5 Reasons Leading to FLSA
When asked to comment on what caused them to become anxious when speaking a
foreign language, student interviewees reported the following (arranged in
decreasing order of mention):
• Fear of losing face
• Lack of vocabulary
• Trait anxieties
• Fear of making mistakes
• Worry about intelligibility
• Lack of oral practice
• Lack of conducive FL speaking environment
• Lack of conﬁdence
• Poor FL proﬁciency
• Peer pressure
• Fear of speaking a FL with others (especially NSs of English)
• Having too high self-expectations
• Fear of negative evaluation
4.3 Findings of Interviews 133
• Failing to sort one’s thinking
• Test anxiety, and
• Being interrupted unexpectedly
The second reason mentioned above (i.e., “lack of vocabulary”) can be included
into the ninth (i.e., “poor FL proﬁciency”); nevertheless, since as many as 15
students mentioned it, it is listed as one independent reason instead. Some of the
typical responses from students are cited below:
SG252MK: I am afraid of making mistakes when speaking English and not being under-
stood by others, which may embarrass me. Other reasons include poor English proﬁciency,
especially the lack of vocabulary. (Example 41)
SG69H: I worry a lot that what I said in English may be too simple and childish, thus I’m
not bold enough to speak English; which make me short of practice in oral English.
(Example 42)
SB173M: To me, the reasons include lack of vocabulary and conﬁdence, failing to express
what I want to say; all these may make me feel losing face and thus very anxious. (Example 43)
SB161M: Peer pressure is one important factor; I may feel more anxious when I realize that
others are better at oral English than I am. (Example 44)
SG59L: Test is the most important reason to me. I am also afraid of making mistakes in
front of NSs, since I worry about losing China’s English learners’ face. Except for the
above mentioned, I seldom feel anxious while speaking English. (Example 45)
SB41L: Some students might worry about their not so good pronunciation. (Example 46)
SG42L: Sometimes, we may have too high expectations of ourselves. For instance, we may
hope that we can speak a lot in quite fluent English the moment we stand up in class;
however, it may turn out that we have not prepared well and may get stuck somewhere.
Then we may be frustrated and then anxious. What’s more, you are likely to feel panicky
and anxious if there is someone around you who speaks English quite well. You may feel
small. (Example 47)
The reasons provided by the teacher interviewees were very similar to those by
the students except that one of the teachers added a new reason: insufﬁcient
preparation for class. The following are representative quotations from the teachers:
TG323L: In classroom, students may get anxious because they know that other students
and the teacher are waiting for their response and they might be evaluated. Students may
become more anxious when they are talking with NSs than with NNSs, since they may
have problems in following what the NSs said. Another reason for them to be nervous is
their worry about making mistakes or not knowing how to express themselves in English.
(Example 48)
TB313M: Their low language proﬁciency, as I said. Other factors include their individu-
ality and the pressure from assessment, since I, and also many other English teachers,
include their classroom participation into their semester assessment; therefore, they often
feel nervous and they all worry about that their speaking performance in class is not so
good, which will affect their ﬁnal assessment. (Example 49)
TG332HK: Too many reasons to be listed here one by one. For example, come to class-
room unprepared, worry about their pronunciation, cannot ﬁnd the right words or phrases,
worry about being poorly evaluated by teachers and classmates, and, yes, some of them
may be anxious because of their anxious personality. (Example 50)
134 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
4.3.6 Speaking FL with Classmates Versus Speaking FL
with Teachers
To the question of which situation is more anxiety-provoking—speaking English
with classmates or speaking English with teachers, most students (22) said that they
felt more anxious when speaking FL with their teachers since they would be
evaluated and corrected by the latter (see Examples 51 and 52), while ﬁve of the
students thought it was more anxious to speak FL with their classmates due to peer
pressure (see Example 53), and the other three students either gave no response or
did not feel anxious at speaking FL (see example 54).
SB161M: Speaking English with teachers makes me more anxious since I may worry about
making mistakes and being corrected. (Example 51)
SB262HK: With teachers, since they are the judge, I always feel being evaluated by them.
While with my classmates, we are more or less at the same level, we will not worry whether
we are right or not. (Example 52)
SG191H: I feel more nervous while speaking English with classmates, since it is a fact that
teachers are better at English than me. However, I may feel losing face in front of my
classmates if I cannot speak English as well as them. (Example 53)
SB45L: I don’t think speaking English in everyday life will be very anxious except in tests,
since I will just treat it as a communicative tool, it doesn’t matter whether I can speak good
English or not. I may only get nervous in oral English tests. (Example 54)
The three teachers held the same opinion as the majority of the students, that is,
speaking FL with teachers is more anxious to students than speaking FL with their
classmates. The reasons behind their choice were more or less the same as their
students’—teachers’ higher proﬁciency level compared to students’ and the worry
about being evaluated and corrected by teachers, as shown in the following
example:
TB313M: They will be more anxious when they speak English with teachers, since they
assume that teachers will judge what they say in English as right or wrong, good or bad.
They may also be afraid of making mistakes in front of teachers, and hence being directly
corrected. On the other hand, they think they have more or less the same English proﬁ-
ciency as their classmates. (Example 55)
4.4 Findings of Classroom Observations
For the purpose of triangulation from the perspective of research methods, I also
observed one EFL class at each of the two universities where I collected the
questionnaire and interview data. In this way, the ﬁndings obtained with the pre-
vious two research instruments can be checked against the observation data from
real classroom teaching. The process and ﬁndings of the classroom observations
will be meticulously described in this section. Such observations allow for the
4.3 Findings of Interviews 135
contextualization of the data already presented, but as only two classrooms were
observed, the descriptions presented here are mostly for illustrative purposes. It
should be noted that the observation ﬁndings also include some interpretations of
these ﬁndings made on the basis of conversations with the students or teachers
during the break or after the observed classes. These interpretations were italicized
and put in brackets so as to differentiate them from the description of classroom
events.
4.4.1 Observation of Classroom One
I observed an oral English class in the second-tier university from 10:15 am to
12:00 pm with a 5-min break in the middle. There were 29 students in the class. It
was a small class compared to their class for English reading and writing which had
more than 100 students. In order to help students relax and ensure their better
understanding (as the teacher explained to me later after class), about 20 percent of
the classroom teaching was carried in Chinese, the students’ mother tongue. The
teacher was a lecturer with a Master’s Degree of Arts in her early thirties. After
class, I talked in Chinese to the students and the teacher about what I noticed in
class.
In the ﬁrst 10 min, the teacher played a cartoon in English and a recording from
Voice of America and asked the students to practice these materials together.
During these 10 min, no individual student was asked to speak English.
In the following 12 min, the teacher checked the students’ homework of oral
presentation. Three students, one boy and two girls, volunteered to present their
homework individually in the front of the classroom. During their presentations, the
teacher was always smiling at them and said “good” or “very good” from time to
time, which seemed to encourage them a lot (as recalled by the students after class).
In addition, the teacher provided lexical help when necessary. Among the three
students, one girl was nervous; she had almost no eye contact with her teacher and
fellow students, and her face turned red (she told me later that she was anxious
because she worried about her accent being negatively evaluated).
In the next 33 min, the teacher ﬁrst played a short video named “Jack and Jill”
on the topic of love and marriage (about 5 min), and then students were asked to
discuss in pairs the connotations of twelve proverbs on the same topic (about
8 min). During the pair discussion time, the teacher worked as the partner of one
boy who was left alone since there were 29 students in the class. The students
discussed actively with their partners and they spoke Chinese from time to time in
spite of being asked not to do so. Later on, the teacher asked students to present
their pair discussion to the class; she repeated her request six times and ended with
no volunteers. As a result, she nominated one pair to do the presentation sitting at
their places instead of going to the front of the classroom. The pair presented well
(the teacher told me later that they were students with better English proﬁciency).
Then she asked for volunteers again, and four pairs volunteered. (As some of the
136 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
students said after class, the reasons why more students volunteered may be that
the ﬁrst pair inspired the rest of the class by providing them a role model and that
presenting from their seats was less anxiety-provoking to the students.) As men-
tioned earlier, the teacher always tried to encourage the students when they were
speaking.
In their pair presentations, I noticed one male stammered and pushed his glasses
twice (one of his classmates and also his roommate told me later that he had the
habit of pushing his glasses upward when he was nervous). Moreover, the teacher
corrected another boy’s pronunciation of voiceless dental fricative/h/after he pro-
nounced it evidently as voiceless alveolar fricative/s/for the second time, which
seemed to have caused him to speak less fluently when it came to the words with
the phoneme in his following presentation. (Nevertheless, this boy told me later that
he did not mind being corrected in class since he believed that it would be more
impressive to him. The teacher also said that most students in this class, this boy
included, were not so self-conscious when being corrected.) Furthermore, I noticed
one girl touched her hair frequently when she was speaking to the class (she
conﬁrmed later that she was a little nervous then). However, it was a pity that I was
unable to observe facial movements of these students during this period since they
were sitting there instead of standing in the front while speaking and I was sitting in
the last row of the classroom in order to be as unobtrusive as possible.
After a 5-min break, the class resumed. In the ﬁrst 25 min of the second session
of the class, students were asked to discuss in pairs ﬁrstly and then speak to the
whole class about how to express romantic love to someone they were fond of. The
students discussed more enthusiastically this time although they still resorted to
Chinese now and then. After about 10 min discussion, the teacher asked for vol-
unteers to speak to the class again. No one responded to her request at ﬁrst, and then
one boy offered his opinion, and he spoke with a red face, (he told the researcher
after class that he was very nervous because he felt shy and embarrassed at
exposing his feelings about the topic of love). Then another boy and a girl also
volunteered to speak. I noticed that the teacher helped the second boy with two
words that they should have learnt, (and later he admitted that he had been familiar
with the two words but failed to recall them in class because of anxiety). The girl’s
voice seemed to be trembling at the beginning of her speech, (which was also
ascertained by herself after class as she worried about being made fun of by others
for talking about such a topic in class).
(In my follow-up talk with the students, they said that they usually would not
volunteer to answer a question in class when they were not well-prepared despite
being urged several times. Nonetheless, they sometimes forced themselves to speak
up since they knew that the teacher would count their class participation towards
their semester assessment. The teacher validated this since she believed this would
encourage or force students to speak English more in class. She also said that what
really mattered was not the quality of the students’ words but whether they would
say something or not in class. However she did not inform students of this point
because otherwise students would merely care about participating more but
ignoring the real purpose—to improve their English speaking skills. During our
4.4 Findings of Classroom Observations 137
talk, both the students and the teacher agreed that returning to Chinese sometimes
while speaking in English helped the students to relax, that was why the teacher
often accepted that her students would speak Chinese sometimes in class.)
In the next 15 min of the lesson, students were asked to talk to their neighbor on
the topic of marrying someone who is much younger than oneself. The teacher
walked around the classroom and offered guidance. I noticed that some students
were tongue-tied, (which was mostly caused due to a lack of vocabulary. According
to my discussion with them after class, such “tongue-tie” sometimes resulted in
anxiety and sometimes not).
In the last 10 min of the lesson, the teacher presented some tongue-twisters from
her PowerPoint and asked students to practice these together. Students were then
asked to compete with their partners to see who was better at the tongue twisters. It
was more like a game, so no anxious behaviors could be observed during this
period. The classroom was ﬁlled with a relaxing and friendly atmosphere. When
one student was asked to compete with the teacher, the class even joked that the
student spoke better. The class ended there.
4.4.2 Observation of Classroom Two
I observed another English class in the key university. The observation was from
9:45 am to 11:30 am, with a ﬁve-minute break in between. There were 30 students
in the class. It was a class for English reading with almost half of the time centering
on speaking and listening practice. Unlike the second-tier university, all the English
classes, be it for reading and writing or speaking and listening, were carried out in
small classes with no more than 40 students. For the same purpose as mentioned in
Sect. 4.4.1, that is, to make students relax and guarantee their better understanding,
the teacher also taught the class using some Chinese (about 10% of the classroom
teaching). The teacher was an associate professor with a Master’s Degree of Arts in
his early forties. Similar to my procedure at the ﬁrst university, after class, I dis-
cussed with the students and the teacher in Chinese about what I noticed in their
class.
In the ﬁrst 10 min of the lesson, some listening material about sports was played
three times. The students only listened the ﬁrst two times, then for the third time,
the students were given the script of the material and were asked to ﬁll in some
blanks. During this period, students were active and relaxed.
In the following 10 min of the lesson, the teacher played another listening
material and asked students to answer the questions individually. A lot of anxiety
was observed among the students during these 10 min. For example, one boy
paused after almost each word and he continually shifted his weight from one leg to
the other while answering the question in English (he conﬁrmed after class that he
was too nervous to behave normally then). (Another boy also claimed later that he
felt anxious even before the teacher asked him to answer a question.) A third boy’s
voice was so low when he answered a question that I thought it was more like a
138 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
murmur to himself rather than uttering an answer to the whole class, and his voice
trembled a lot (he also told me that he was often quite nervous when answering a
question in English class). It seemed that the female students in this class were not
so nervous as the males when speaking in English in class.
In the next 25 min, the students were asked to read a short story and then answer
some questions individually. During this period, more anxious behaviors were
observed. For instance, one female student spoke comparatively fluently at ﬁrst, but
she stammered once, and then she stammered more after that. (She told me later
that the ﬁrst few stammers made her nervous and thus more stammers followed.)
One boy chose to read from the story for the answer to a question without using his
own words because of anxiety (as said by the boy after class). On the whole, this
class looked less active when answering teacher’s questions than the ﬁrst class, so
the teacher had to name some students every time to answer the questions. (The
teacher said that he tried to call all the students in turn so that each of them could
have a chance to practice his/her oral English. This teacher, like the ﬁrst one,
insisted that participation in speaking activities was very useful to the students,
therefore he also included students’ classroom participation as part of the ﬁnal
assessment).
The rest of the class after the break was focused on teaching the text paragraph
by paragraph, and fewer student activities were involved except for asking some of
them to read the passage. Since the students were merely reading from the textbook,
they were generally not so anxious. After ﬁnishing the passage, the teacher left the
last 10 min for students to review the new words and do some written exercises in
the textbook.
In order to crystallize the ﬁndings of the observation data, what is reported in
Sect. 4.4 is further summarized as speciﬁc reasons or reactions of FLSA in
Table 4.22.
Table 4.22 Summary of the classroom observation data
Reason 1 Worry about pronunciation Classroom 1
Reason 2 Speaking in a FL on a sensitive topic Classroom 1
Reason 3 Lack of vocabulary of the FL Classroom 1
Reason 4 Trait anxieties Classroom 2
Reaction 1 Red face Classroom 1
Reaction 2 Unconscious behaviors Classrooms 1 and 2
Reaction 3 Failing to recall familiar words Classroom 1
Reaction 4 Trembling voice Classrooms 1 and 2
Reaction 5 Stammer Classrooms 1 and 2
4.4 Findings of Classroom Observations 139
4.5 Summary
This chapter has reported the reasons leading to students’ FLSA obtained from the
three research instruments employed in an empirical study: the questionnaire sur-
veys, the focused interviews, and classroom observations. Some statistically sig-
niﬁcant differences among different participant groups in terms of their perceptions
of the reasons resulting in FLSA were also identiﬁed through the quantitative
analyses using MANOVA. Students’ and teachers’ views surrounding foreign
language learning and FLA, especially FLSA, were extracted from the qualitative
data (i.e., interviews and classroom observations) and were presented systemati-
cally. In the next chapter I will proceed to address the strategies helping reduce
students’ FLSA and the application and veriﬁcation of the strategies identiﬁed in
the study.
References
Aida, Y. (1994). Examination of Horwitz, Horwitz, and Cope’s construct of foreign language
anxiety: The case of students of Japanese. The Modern Language Journal, 78(2), 155–168.
Anderson, L. W., & Burns, R. B. (1989). Research in classrooms: The study of teachers, teaching,
and instruction. Oxford, England: Pergamon Press.
Babbie, E. R. (2004). The practice of social research (10th ed.). Belmont, CA: Thomson/
Wadsworth.
Barone, J. T., & Switzer, J. Y. (1995). Interviewing art and skill. Boston: Allyn and Bacon.
Brown, J. D. (2001). Using surveys in language programs. Cambridge; New York: Cambridge
University Press.
Brown, J. D., & Rogers, T. S. (2002). Doing second language research. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Bulmer, M. (Ed.). (2004). Questionnaires (Vol. 1-4). London: SAGE.
Clément, R., Dörnyei, Z., & Noels, K. A. (1994). Motivation, self-conﬁdence, and group cohesion
in the foreign language classroom. Language Learning, 44(3), 417–448.
Clément, R., & Kruidenier, B. G. (1985). Aptitude, attitude and motivation in second language
proﬁciency: A test of Clément’s model. Journal of Language and Social Psychology, 4(1), 21–37.
Converse, J. M., & Presser, S. (2004). Experimental evidence on question design. In M. Bulmer
(Ed.), Questionnaires (Vol. 2, pp. 3–19). London: SAGE.
Cronbach, L. J. (1951). Coefﬁcient alpha and the internal structure of tests. Psychometrika, 16(3),
297–334.
Davis, K. A. (1992). Validity and reliability in qualitative research on second language acquisition
and teaching. TESOL Quarterly, 26(4), 605–608.
Davis, K. A. (1995). Qualitative theory and methods in applied linguistics resarch. TESOL
Quarterly, 29(3), 427–453.
Denzin, N. K. (1989). The research act: A theoretical introduction to sociological methods (3rd
ed.). Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice Hall.
DeVellis, R. F. (1991). Scale development: Theory and applications. CA: Sage.
Dewaele, J.-M. (2007). Diachronic and/or synchronic variation? The acquisition of sociolinguistic
competence in L2 French. In D. Ayoun (Ed.), Handbook of French Applied Linguistics
(pp. 208–236). Amsterdam: Benjamins.
140 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
Donovan, L. A., & MacIntyre, P. D. (2004). Age and sex differences in willingness to
communicate, communication apprehension and self-perceived competence. Communication
Research Reports, 21(4), 420–427.
Dörnyei, Z. (2003). Questionnaires in second language research: Construction, administration,
and processing. Mahwah, N.J.: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Edwards, A. L. (1984). An introduction to linear regression and correlation (2nd ed.). New York:
W.H. Freeman.
Gable, R. K., & Wolf, M. B. (1993). Instrument development in the affective domain: Measuring
attitudes and values in corporate and school settings (2nd ed.). Boston: Kluwer-Nijhoff.
Galton, M. (1997). Classroom observation. In J. P. Keeves (Ed.), Educational research,
methodology and measurement: An international handbook (2nd ed., pp. 334–339). Oxford:
Pergamon.
Gardner, R. C., Smythe, P. C., & Lalonde, R. N. (1984). The nature and replicability of factors in
second language acquisition (No. 605 of Research Bulletin). Ontario: University of Western
Ontario.
George, D., & Mallery, P. (2003). SPSS for Windows step by step: A simple guide and reference.
11.0 update (4th ed.). Boston: Allyn & Bacon.
Gorden, R. L. (1998). Basic interviewing skills. Prospect Heights, Ill.: Waveland Press.
Graham, J. R., & Lilly, R. S. (1984). Psychological testing. Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice-Hall.
Hilleson, M. (1996). “I want to talk with them, but I don’t want them to hear”: An introspective
study of second language anxiety in an English-medium school. In K. M. Bailey & D. Nunan
(Eds.), Voices from the language classroom: Qualitative research in second language
education (pp. 248–275). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Horwitz, E. K. (1983). Foreign language classroom anxiety scale (unpublished manuscript). The
University of Texas at Austin.
Horwitz, E. K. (1986). Preliminary evidence for the reliability and validity of a foreign language
anxiety scale. TESOL Quarterly, 20, 559–562.
Horwitz, E. K. (2008). Becoming a language teacher: A practical guide to second language
learning and teaching. Boston: Pearson Education Inc.
Horwitz, E. K., Horwitz, M. B., & Cope, J. (1986). Foreign language classroom anxiety. The
Modern Language Journal, 70(2), 125–132.
Johnson, S., & Nunn, A. (2007). Working with JOT 18 months on: Qualitative research in former
Option 1 Pilot Districts (No. 409 of Research Report). Leeds: Department for Work and
Pensions, Leeds Metropolitan University.
Kim, J.-H. (2000). Foreign language listening anxiety: A study of Korean students learning
English. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin, Texas, United States.
Kirk, J., & Miller, M. L. (1986). Reliability and validity in qualitative research. Beverly Hills:
Sage.
Kvale, S. (1996). Interviews: An introduction to qualitative research interviewing. Thousand
Oaks, CA: Sage Publications.
Lin, A. M. Y. (1996). Doing-English-lessons in secondary schools in Hong Kong: A sociocultural
and discourse analytic study. Unpublished Ph.D., University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada.
Lin, A. M. Y. (1999). Doing-English-lessons in the reproduction or transformation of social
worlds? TESOL Quarterly, 33(3), 393–412.
Lincoln, Y. S., & Guba, E. G. (1985). Naturalistic inquiry. Beverly Hills, Calif: Sage.
List of Universities. (2017). List of universities under direct administration of the Ministry of
Education in China. Retrieved February 24, 2017, from http://www.moe.edu.cn/jyb_zzjg/
moe_347/201508/t20150824_202647.html.
Lockerbie, B., & Borrelli, S. (1990). Question wording and public support for Contra aid. Public
Opinion Quarterly, 54(2), 195–208.
Lofland, J., & Lofland, L. H. (1995). Analyzing social settings: A guide to qualitative observation
and analysis (3rd ed.). Belmont, CA: Wadsworth.
MacIntyre, P. D. (1992). Anxiety and language learning from a stages of processing perspective.
Unpublished Ph.D., University of Western Ontario, London, Canada.
References 141
Maxwell, J. A. (2005). Qualitative research design: An interactive approach (2nd ed.). CA: Sage
Publications.
McCracken, G. (1988). The long interview. Newbury Park, CA: Sage.
Miles, M. B., & Huberman, A. M. (1994). Qualitative data analysis: An expanded sourcebook
(2nd ed.). Thousand Oaks, Calif.: Sage.
Miller, L. (2003). Academic lectures and listening in a second language: An ethnographic case
study. Unpublished Ph.D., City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
Miller, P. V., & Cannell, C. F. (1997). Interviewing for survey research. In J. P. Keeves (Ed.),
Educational research, methodology and measurement: An international handbook (2nd ed.,
pp. 361–370). Oxford: Pergamon.
Minichiello, V., Aroni, R., Timewell, E., & Alexander, L. (1995). In-depth interviewing:
Principles, techniques, analysis (2nd ed.). Melbourne: Longman.
Mulligan, D., & Kirkpatrick, A. (2000). How much do they understand? Lectures, students and
comprehension. Higher Education Research and Development, 19(3), 311–335.
Nunn, A., Johnson, S., Kelsey, S., & Usher, D. (2007). Job outcome target national evaluation
(No. 462 of Research Report). Leeds: Department for Work and Pensions, Leeds Metropolitan
University.
Nunn, A., & Kelsey, S. (2007). Review of the adviser achievement tool (No. 453 of Research
Report). Leeds: Department for Work and Pensions, Leeds Metropolitan University.
Peacock, M. (2010). Attribution and learning English as a foreign language. ELT Journal, 64(2),
184–193.
Saito, Y., Horwitz, E. K., & Garza, T. J. (1999). Foreign language reading anxiety. The Modern
Language Journal, 83(2), 202–218.
Seidman, I. (2006). Interviewing as qualitative research: A guide for researchers in education and
the social sciences (3rd ed.). New York: Teachers College Press.
Thorndike, R. L., & Thorndike, R. M. (1997). Reliability. In J. P. Keeves (Ed.), Educational
research, methodology and measurement: An international handbook (2nd ed., pp. 775–790).
Oxford: Pergamon.
Walker, E. (1997). Foreign language anxiety in Hong Kong secondary schools: Its relationship
with the age-related factors, school form and self-perception. Unpublished Ph.D., The
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong.
Waxman, H. C. (2002). Classroom observation. Retrieved December 12, 2016, from http://www.
answers.com/topic/classroom-observation#.
Wolf, R. M. (1997). Questionnaires. In J. P. Keeves (Ed.), Educational research, methodology and
measurement: An international handbook (2nd ed., pp. 422–427). Oxford: Pergamon.
Wragg, E. C. (1999). An introduction to classroom observation (2nd ed.). London: Routledge.
Yan, J. X. (1998). An examination of foreign language classroom anxiety: Its sources and effects
in a college English program in China. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin,
Texas, United States.
Yang, G., & Lu, L. (Eds.). (2008). Chinese self: Psychological analysis (Zhongguoren de ziwo:
Xinlixue de fenxi). Taipei: National Taiwan University Press (Taida chuban zhongxin).
Zeller, R. A. (1997). Validity. In J. P. Keeves (Ed.), Educational research, methodology and
measurement: An international handbook (2nd ed., pp. 822–829). Oxford: Pergamon.
142 4 Major Reasons Leading to FLSA
Chapter 5
Effective Strategies Coping with FLSA
Discovering the reasons leading to students’ FLSA and suggesting some coping
strategies accordingly is only the ﬁrst step of helping students with considerable
FLSA. What is more important is the application of the strategies to daily FL
teaching and learning so that the effectiveness of the strategies can be veriﬁed. Only
if the strategies are conﬁrmed to be effective in reducing students’ FLSA will the
students be able to enhance their FL learning efﬁciency. This chapter ﬁrstly presents
and discusses the strategies found with the three research instruments in the ﬁrst
stage of the study, then delineates the procedures and ﬁndings of the application and
veriﬁcation of the strategies in Stage 2, and ends with a brief summary of the
chapter.
5.1 Results of Questionnaire Surveys
In addition to the reasons leading to Chinese University students’ FLSA, the
questionnaire data also revealed some strategies that were believed to be useful in
coping with such students’ FLSA.
5.1.1 Descriptive Statistics of the Questionnaire
The descriptive statistics of the FLSAS reported below were aimed to answer RQ 4
as posed in Chap. 1, that is, the strategies helpful in reducing students’ FLSA.
Table 5.1 (for students) and Table 5.2 (for teachers) display the responses to the
FLSAS statements concerning FLSA coping strategies. Similarly, as shown in
Tables 4.4 and 4.5, the choices of “strongly disagree” and “strongly agree”
accounted for a minority of the responses to the ﬁve choices. It should also be noted
that for most (10) of the twelve items in Table 5.2, none of the teacher participants
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
D. He, Foreign Language Learning Anxiety in China,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7662-6_5
143
chose “strongly disagree” or “disagree”. These are items designed to check partic-
ipants’ agreement with the strategies suggested, and the results showed that the
teachers either agreed with these items or stayed neutral.
Twelve strategies coping with students’ FLSA have been identiﬁed from the
above two tables with regard to the fact that there were remarkably more partici-
pants supporting the relative statements than those opposing them. Table 5.3 pre-
sents these strategies in relation to the speciﬁc items of the FLSAS and in the order
of students’ supporting rates. It is revealed that the participants were fairly afﬁr-
mative of these strategies, and the most strongly agreed ones are “Teacher being
humorous” and “Speaking a FL in a friendly environment”; and even the last two
(i.e., “Participating in a supporting group or activity” and “Talking with other
students about the fears of speaking a FL”) held more than 50 and 60% of sup-
porting rates from students and teachers respectively.
Table 5.1 Students’ response frequencies in percentages for FLSAS items (N = 302)
Items SD D N A SA
22. Having classmates working in small groups helps reduce my
anxiety when speaking a FL
1 10 21 62 6
23. It helps reduce my language anxiety to talk with other students
about the fears of speaking a FL
1 13 30 52 5
24. Participating in a supporting group or activity (e.g., a FL corner)
helps reduce my fears of speaking that language
1 10 32 50 7
25. Doing relaxation exercises (e.g., productive self-talk) helps
reduce my fears of speaking that language
0 5 30 58 7
26. If accuracy is not the focus, I will not be so nervous about
speaking an FL
1 5 18 70 7
27. I do not feel so anxious when speaking a FL in a friendly
environment
1 5 12 72 12
28. Teachers’ encouragement makes me feel relaxed when speaking
a FL
0 5 23 63 10
29. A humorous teacher helps reduce my anxiety in speaking a FL 0 3 8 74 15
30. A patient teacher helps reduce my anxiety in speaking a FL 0 6 12 67 16
31. I feel relaxed about speaking a FL if I know that mistakes are
part of the language learning process and made by everyone
1 8 22 58 11
32. I feel relieved about speaking a FL if my teacher corrects my
mistakes indirectly (e.g., just repeat the right form instead of
saying that I am wrong)
0 8 21 63 8
33. Playing language games helps reduce my anxiety in speaking a
FL
1 8 24 57 10
Notes SD: strongly disagree; D: disagree; N: neither disagree nor agree; A: agree; SA: strongly
agree
Data in this table are rounded to the nearest whole number. Percentages may not add to 100 due to
rounding
144 5 Effective Strategies Coping with FLSA
5.1.2 Multivariate Analysis of Variance
In order to ﬁnd out any underlying differences among differing groups of partici-
pants in their perceptions of the strategies obtained from the questionnaire data (i.e.,
RQ 2), MANOVA test of the 12 items as displayed in Table 5.1 was conducted and
revealed statistically signiﬁcant differences in two group comparisons. Speciﬁcally:
• Students and teachers were remarkably different on 10 items; and
• Students of different disciplines were markedly different on 7 items.
These group differences are presented in tables in the following two sections.
Table 5.2 Teachers’ response frequencies in percentages for FLSAS items (N = 30)
Items SD D N A SA
22. Having classmates working in small groups helps reduce
students’ anxiety when speaking a FL
0 0 3 87 10
23. It helps reduce students’ language anxiety to talk with other
students about the fears of speaking a FL
0 3 33 53 10
24. Participating in a supporting group or activity (e.g., a FL corner)
helps reduce students’ fears of speaking that language
0 0 7 77 17
25. Doing relaxation exercises (e.g., productive self-talk) helps
reduce students’ fears of speaking that language
0 3 7 80 10
26. I think students will not be so nervous about speaking a FL if
accuracy is not the focus
0 0 10 83 7
27. I think students do not feel so anxious when speaking a FL in a
friendly environment
0 0 3 77 20
28. Teachers’ encouragement makes students feel relaxed when
speaking an FL
0 0 3 80 17
29. A humorous teacher helps reduce students’ anxiety in speaking a
FL
0 0 3 63 33
30. A patient teacher helps reduce students’ anxiety in speaking a FL 0 0 3 70 27
31. I think students feel relaxed about speaking a FL if they know
that mistakes are part of the language learning process and made
by everyone
0 0 7 77 17
32. I think students feel relieved about speaking a FL if their teacher
corrects their mistakes indirectly (e.g., just repeat the right form
instead of saying that they are wrong)
0 0 3 83 13
33. Playing language games helps reduce students’ anxiety in
speaking an FL
0 0 3 77 20
Notes SD: strongly disagree; D: disagree; N: neither disagree nor agree; A: agree; SA: strongly
agree
Data in this table are rounded to the nearest whole number. Percentages may not add to 100 due to
rounding
5.1 Results of Questionnaire Surveys 145
5.1.2.1 Students Versus Teachers
As demonstrated in Table 5.4, students and teachers were found to be signiﬁcantly
different on 10 out of the 12 items in the FLSAS concerning strategies. Teachers’
markedly higher means on these ten items indicate that they attached more afﬁr-
mation than students to the strategies that may help reduce students’ level of FLSA.
5.1.2.2 Among Students of Different Disciplines
In addition to the remarkable differences between students and their teachers, stu-
dents of different disciplines demonstrated statistically signiﬁcant differences on
seven of the 12 items concerning strategies, as displayed in Table 5.5. The greatest
difference was found between students of Business and Arts (on ﬁve out of the
seven items as shown in Table 5.5), while the least difference was found between
students of Business and Engineering (Item 31), of Science and Engineering (Item
24), and of Science and Arts (Item 25). Judging from the means, it can be con-
cluded that students of Business were most afﬁrmative of the strategies whereas
students of Arts were least afﬁrmative.
Table 5.3 Coping strategies for students’ FLSA
Strategies Related
item(s) in
the FLSAS
Students’
supporting
rates (%)
Students’
means
Teachers’
supporting
rates (%)
Teachers’
means
1. Teacher being humorous 29 89a
4.01b
96 4.30
2. Speaking a FL in a friendly
environment
27 84 3.89 97 4.17
3. Teacher being patient 30 83 3.93 97 4.23
4. Not focusing on accuracy while
speaking a FL
26 77 3.77 90 3.97
5. Teacher being encouraging 28 73 3.77 97 4.13
6. Correcting mistakes indirectly 32 71 3.71 96 4.10
7. Knowing that mistakes are part
of the FL learning process and
made by everyone.
31 69 3.70 94 4.10
8. Having classmates working in
small groups
22 68 3.63 97 4.07
9. Playing language games 33 67 3.67 97 4.17
10. Doing relaxation exercises 25 65 3.66 90 3.97
11. Participating in a supporting
group or activity
24 57 3.52 94 4.10
12. Talking with other students
about the fears of speaking an
FL
23 57 3.46 63 3.70
Notes a
The percentages are rounded to the nearest whole number
b
The means are rounded to two digits after the decimal point
146 5 Effective Strategies Coping with FLSA
Table 5.4 Means and difference of item scores showing signiﬁcant student-teacher differences
(strategies)
Items Means
Students/
teachers
Difference
22. Having classmates working in small groups helps reduce my
anxiety when speaking a FL
3.63/4.07 −0.44**
24. Participating in a supporting group or activity (e.g., a FL corner)
helps reduce my fears of speaking that language
3.52/4.10 −0.58**
25. Doing relaxation exercises (e.g., productive self-talk) helps
reduce my fears of speaking that language
3.66/3.97 −0.31*
27. I do not feel so anxious when speaking a FL in a friendly
environment
3.89/4.17 −0.28*
28. Teachers’ encouragement makes me feel relaxed when speaking
a FL
3.78/4.13 −0.35**
29. A humorous teacher helps reduce my anxiety in speaking a FL 4.01/4.30 −0.29*
30. A patient teacher helps reduce my anxiety in speaking a FL 3.93/4.23 −0.30*
31. I feel relaxed about speaking a FL if I know that mistakes are
part of the language learning process and made by everyone
3.70/4.10 −0.40**
32. I feel relieved about speaking a FL if my teacher corrects my
mistakes indirectly (e.g., just repeat the right form instead of
saying that I am wrong)
3.71/4.10 −0.39**
33. Playing language games helps reduce my anxiety in speaking a
FL
3.67/4.17 −0.50**
Note **p < 0.01; *p < 0.05
Table 5.5 Means of item scores on which students of different disciplines showed signiﬁcant
differences (strategies)
Items Means
B/S B/E B/A S/E S/A E/A
22. Having classmates working in
small groups helps reduce my
anxiety when speaking a FL
3.78/
3.39*
/ 3.78/
3.44*
/ / /
23. It helps reduce my language
anxiety to talk with other students
about the fears in speaking a FL
/ / 3.52/
3.11*
/ / 3.53/
3.11**
24. Participating in a supporting group
or activity (e.g., a FL corner) helps
reduce my fears of speaking that
language
3.61/
3.15**
/ / 3.15/
3.56**
/ /
25. Doing relaxation exercises (e.g.,
productive self-talk) helps reduce
my fears of speaking that language
/ / 3.83/
3.22**
/ 3.67/
3.22**
3.67/
3.22**
(continued)
5.1 Results of Questionnaire Surveys 147
5.2 Findings of Interviews
5.2.1 Strategies to Reduce FLSA
This section reports 12 strategies to cope with students’ FLSA, which were iden-
tiﬁed from both the students’ and teachers’ interview responses. When students
were asked what strategies may help reduce their anxiety in speaking a FL, they put
forward the following (arranged in decreasing order of mention):
• Strategies concerning FL teachers’ personal qualities
• Strategies concerning error correction
• Creating relaxed or friendly atmosphere
• Trying to use FL more
• Reducing the fear of making mistakes
• Trying to remind oneself to relax
• Preparing well
• Using more body language
• Overcoming the reasons leading to anxiety
• Being brave to speak FL
• Trying to use simple words, and
• Watching some real life TV programs in FL
Most of these strategies, except for the last one, were mentioned by more than
one student. The ﬁrst two strategies cover a good many subsets, which will be
explained separately in Sects. 5.2.1.1 and 5.2.1.2 later. Hence, the examples pro-
vided below solely focus on the remaining strategies.
SG63L: I agree, in a relaxed environment, we won’t worry about making mistakes, and the
teachers also encourage us to speak English. In this environment, we wouldn’t feel
embarrassed even if we made mistakes. In my opinion, our problem is that we lack such an
environment, so we often feel nervous when we need to speak English. (Example 56)
Table 5.5 (continued)
Items Means
B/S B/E B/A S/E S/A E/A
28. Teachers’ encouragement makes
me feel relaxed when speaking a
FL
/ / 3.82/
3.50*
/ / 3.81/
3.50*
31. I feel relaxed about speaking a FL
if I know that mistakes are part of
the language learning process and
made by everyone
3.88/
3.55*
3.88/
3.65*
/ / / /
33. Playing language games helps
reduce my anxiety in speaking a
FL
/ / 3.83/
3.50*
/ / /
Notes B: Business, S: Science, E: Engineering, A: Arts
**p < 0.01, *p < 0.05
148 5 Effective Strategies Coping with FLSA
SB173M: I tried to get myself less anxious at speaking English by making myself more
familiar with this language, for example, speak English whenever possible, sometimes even
think aloud in English, and watch a lot of English movies. (Example 57)
SG268LK: Practice English wherever and whenever possible, for example, I often imagine
situations talking in English with others on the way to school in the morning or back to
home in the afternoon. Besides, it is also helpful to accumulate some idiomatic expressions
useful in certain contexts, so one can feel more ready in real communication. (Example 58)
SG191H: I often talk to myself that making mistakes is nothing serious in English learning;
instead, it is quite common in English learning. This kind of practice helps me relax.
(Example 59)
SG42L: I often try to have a deep breath when I feel anxious.
SB302HK: I guess you are not really anxious if you can manage your anxiety with a deep
breath. To me, there is no way out if I am really anxious.
SG42L: I don’t think so, deep breathing can help you calm down, then you won’t be
anxious, and then you will be brave enough to speak. (Example 60)
SB45L: I think we should be brave enough to open our mouth to speak English and should
not be afraid of making mistakes. We can imagine that NSs of English speak Chinese as
poorly as we Chinese speak English, they may be even worse. (Example 61)
SG186M: I will try to repeatedly remind myself to relax when I am anxious. (Example 62)
Like the students, the teachers also emphasized the importance of creating a
friendly or relaxed atmosphere for students to speak in a FL, and they added other
two strategies they used to manage students’ FLSA in their teaching practice:
arrange some games in English and provide examples before oral tasks. Below are
three responses from teachers:
TB313M: I try to create friendly and easy atmosphere in classroom for students. For
example, I do not point out students’ pronunciation and grammar mistakes directly, and I
do not relate the quality of what they say in classroom with their semester assessment.
(Example 63)
TG332HK: I try to create a friendly atmosphere for them to speak English, and I often
encourage them with a smile, eye contacts, nodding head, or with some positive responses
to what they say. I believe these are helpful to reduce their anxiety. (Example 64)
TG323L: I try to arrange some games in English in classroom that may help them to relax.
I also provide them with some examples, at both lexical and syntactic levels, before an oral
task so that they can learn to ﬁnish the task by imitating. (Example 65)
5.2.1.1 Teacher-Initiated Strategies
It is also believed that FL instructors are able to take some initiatives to help reduce
students’ FLSA (e.g., Young, 1992). The interview data from the students revealed
that FL teachers with the following personal qualities can help reduce their stu-
dents’ FLSA (arranged in decreasing order of mention):
5.2 Findings of Interviews 149
• Friendly
• Humorous
• Knowledgeable
• Good at enhancing students’ interest in FL
• Good at employing different teaching strategies
• Patient
• Lively
• Good at creating conducive learning environment
• Modern (instead of being reserved)
• Outgoing
• Versatile
• Good English (especially in terms of pronunciation and intonation)
• Sensitive to cultural differences
• Excluding students’ classroom performance from ﬁnal assessment, and
• Learning some teaching styles from native-speaking English teachers (NETs)
Among the ﬁfteen features, the ﬁrst eight were mentioned by more than half of
the students, especially the ﬁrst two, nearly all the students emphasized them. Only
one student mentioned the last one, so is the case of the penultimate. Although the
last two seem to be farfetched from teachers’ personal qualities, they are included in
the list because they were directed to the teacher cohort and they were what the
students wished their teachers could do for them. Below are some typical citations:
SG105M: The teacher I liked a lot in my junior high school was amiable, humorous, and
his English, especially his pronunciation and intonation, was very good, at least from our
classmates’ point of view. (Example 66)
SG94H: English teachers should be humorous and be equipped with broad knowledge,
such as knowledge about sports, entertainments, and arts. (Example 67)
SB143L: Knowledgeable and versatile, so they can help students to talk about more topics
that might be interesting to them. (Example 68)
SB259LK: English teachers should be amiable and pay attention to cultural differences.
(Example 69)
Three features mentioned by most of the students were repeated by teachers, and
the latter added the fourth one as listed below:
• Friendly
• Humorous
• Patient (tolerant of errors), and
• Easy-going
The reasons1
that far less features were reported by teachers than by students
may involve, ﬁrstly, far fewer teachers (N = 3) were interviewed than students
(N = 30); moreover, the teachers were interviewed individually while students in
1
The reasons explained here also apply to other sub-sections in Sect. 5.2 when fewer responses
were obtained from teachers than students.
150 5 Effective Strategies Coping with FLSA
group which is believed to help encourage more responses from peer discussions
(Mulligan & Kirkpatrick, 2000). The following are three quotations from teachers:
TG323L: English teachers should tolerate students’ mistakes and be easy-going.
(Example 70)
TB313M: It will be helpful if English teachers are amiable, humorous, and tolerant of
students’ errors. (Example 71)
TG332HK: To be amiable, easy-going, tolerant of their mistakes, yes, and humorous.
(Example 72)
5.2.1.2 Strategies Concerning Error Correction
It is believed that the way of error correction is closely related to students’ FLSA
(Gregersen, 2003; Gregersen & Horwitz, 2002), so the interviewees were asked
speciﬁcally about the way they preferred their errors to be corrected (for students)
or the way they preferred to correct their students’ errors (for teachers). When the
students were asked whether they would correct students’ oral English errors if they
were teachers, more than half (19) of them gave a negative answer unless when
there is an error causing problems of intelligibility (see Examples 73–75), and one
important reason for them to ignore errors was because they believed it was either
discouraging to students or impractical to correct all the errors students made.
Nonetheless, there were still six students insisting that teachers should correct
students’ errors (see Example 76), and the remaining ﬁve students did not answer
this question.
SB164M: The students might be discouraged from speaking next time if the teacher
repeatedly told them that they were wrong, since this does harm to their enthusiasm and
self-conﬁdence. (Example 73)
SB206H: I would not correct them, since I may not have enough time to do so in classroom.
Instead, I would introduce them some good websites that can help those who want to
correct their mistakes. Besides, I think it is impractical for the teacher to correct students’
mistakes one by one. (Example 74)
SG268LK: I would not correct them unless they were quite serious and common ones.
Even if I do need to correct them, I will try to do so after the whole sentence has been
ﬁnished so that the fluidity of the conversation can be guaranteed. (Example 75)
SG63L: I would, I believe this will help improve his/her English
Interviewer: How will you correct, directly say “it is wrong to say …” and then correct it,
or in other indirect ways?
SG63L: I think both are possible, it depends on individual students. To some students, if
they can accept direct correction, the effect of error correction will be better. Or if the
students are too self-conscious, I may correct their mistakes indirectly by repeating the
right. (Example 76)
5.2 Findings of Interviews 151
When it is necessary to correct errors, most of the students (22) would prefer to
correct them indirectly if they were teachers (see Examples 77 and 78), only ﬁve of
them chose to correct errors directly (see Example 79):
SB262HK: I think teachers should pay attention to the way of error correction. If I were a
teacher, I would correct students’ mistakes, however, I would just repeat the right
expressions. In this way, I think they will realize that what they said is not correct. In other
words, I would not point out that they were wrong, which may embarrass them and
discourage them from speaking more next time. (Example 77)
SB161M: I would also try to correct the errors indirectly, for example, I might say, “you
mean … right?” This might be more acceptable to students. (Example 78)
SG59L: After they ﬁnish speaking, I would praise them ﬁrst, and then I would tell what is
wrong and then tell the right one, which may give them stronger impression of the error and
help them avoid it next time. (Example 79)
Concerning when is the appropriate time of error correction—in or after class,
students were somewhat equally distributed in terms of responses: nine of them
thought that it depended on different situations, for instance, size of the class and
number of errors (see Examples 80 and 81); while eight and seven of them argued
for “after class” (see Example 82) and “in class” (see Example 83) respectively;
and the remaining six offered no response. The reasons put forward by students for
correcting errors “after class” include protecting students’ self-esteem, saving
teaching time, and keeping the fluidity of classroom teaching, among others. The
reasons for them choosing “in class” are, to name a few, that students still have
fresh impression of their errors, students might get uneasy being corrected indi-
vidually after class, and that teachers may forget to correct the errors after class.
SB77H: It depends. If it is a small class, I may correct it after class privately. If it is a big
class, then correcting it in a polite and acceptable way may also help other students who
may make the same mistake. (Example 80)
SG69H: If he or she has just one or two mistakes, I will correct it in class. If there are many
mistakes, I will do so after class. (Example 81)
SB81H: I will do so after class, since I think this is good for their conﬁdence. (Example 82)
SG105M: I think it will be better to correct it in class, since it will make me more nervous if
I am corrected individually after class. Besides, I may forget what kind of mistakes I made
in class, and so the effect of the error correction might be reduced. (Example 83)
As for the above three questions—whether, how, and when—concerning error
correction, the real teachers, unlike the “imaginary teachers” (the students inter-
viewed), agreed that they usually did not correct their students’ errors; if it was
really necessary to do so, they preferred the indirect correction by just repeating the
right; and they argued that the right time of error correction was dependent on the
factors like features of errors (e.g., common or not), availability of classroom time,
the personality of individual student (e.g., self-conscious or not). Below is a rep-
resentative example:
152 5 Effective Strategies Coping with FLSA
TG323L: Generally, I do not correct their mistakes unless it is a quite serious and common
one. When I did correct their mistakes, I usually just repeated the right instead of pointing
out that they were wrong. Besides, if the mistakes are quite common and made by many
other students, I usually correct them in classroom, or else, I prefer to correct them after
class. I noticed another advantage of correcting mistakes in class is that other students
stopped laughing at the student who made a mistake, since they may realize that the student
who made the mistake may no longer make it after being corrected. (Example 84)
5.2.2 Reasons for Some Students Learning FL Better Than
Others
Lastly, the interviewees were asked why some students learnt English better than
others. By this question, the researcher intended to see whether the interviewees
considered lower level of FLA a reason for their (or their students’) good English
learning achievements without any implication from the interviewer. FLA is the last
one (with only four mentions) in the students’ list of reasons that made some of
them achieve better English learning results than others (arranged in decreasing
order of mention):
• More practice in FL
• A more conducive FL learning environment
• More interest in learning FL
• Learning FL with appropriate methods
• Better teachers
• Higher innate ability in learning FL
• A solid foundation for FL, and
• Less anxiety
This is not beyond expectation because even when asked how anxiety affected
their language learning, half of the students did not consider FLA an important
influence on their FL learning (see Sect. 4.3.3 for more details). Instead, the ﬁrst
three reasons in the above list were frequently mentioned by most of the students as
shown in the following examples:
SB262HK: They have put more time and efforts into English learning, this is the most
important. Another important factor may be that they learn English in an environment
where many people speak English every day, and they may have more chance to practice
English; hence they may naturally learn English better than others who do not learn English
in such an environment. (Example 85)
SB161M: Interest is really important. I had a classmate, whose parents are both English
teachers, but he is not interested in English, and he failed to learn English well although he
was good at other subjects. (Example 86)
SG63L: Using the effective way of learning is also important. Some students cannot learn it
well no matter how hard he/she worked at it. Being less anxious in English learning can
also be a reason. (Example 87)
5.2 Findings of Interviews 153
When the teachers were asked the same question, they provided almost the same
reasons as the students except that “better teachers” was no longer regarded as a
reason. Below is a representative citation:
TG332HK: Again, too many factors to be listed. Among them, the influential ones,
according to me, may include students’ different efforts, their different language learning
ability, and their different English learning environment, for example, some students may
have better ﬁnancial support so that they may attend some English learning programs after
class. Of course, being less nervous in English learning may also be a reason. (Example 88)
5.2.3 Disparities Among Students with Varied Anxiety
Levels
Since the 30 student interviewees were equally distributed into three groups of high,
moderate, and low level of FLA, examining the differences in viewpoints among
them offers another level of analysis to the data. A closer examination of the
responses from the ten students with high level of FLA revealed the following ﬁve
phenomena. First of all, four of the ten recalled that they had been assigned three to
four English teachers within just one to two years in middle school. Moreover, they
expressed dislike or dissatisfaction with some of these teachers’ teaching styles or
English proﬁciency or both (see Example 1 in Sect. 4.3.1). All these factors
influenced their English learning negatively and thus might have resulted in their
high level of FLA. Secondly, nine of the ten argued that speaking was the most
important among the ﬁve FL skills since they believed that speaking a FL well may
strengthen one’s interest and conﬁdence in learning the language or that English
speaking skill was or would be the most useful in their everyday life or future
careers (see Examples 6 and 8 in Sect. 4.3.2). Thirdly, it was found unexpectedly
that seven of the ten insisted that FLA had little or no effect on their FL learning
(see Examples 21 and 22 in Sect. 4.3.3). In fact, they attributed their less than
satisfactory FL achievements to the lack of learning efforts and the lack of chances
to practice the language rather than to their high level of FLA. Fourthly, all the ten
students upon the enquiry from the interviewer could tell clearly their speciﬁc
physical and psychological reactions of FLSA (see Examples 30, 31, 34, and 35 in
Sect. 4.3.4), which shows that they had from time to time experienced FLSA in
their FL learning thus had grown in the awareness of their FLSA. Fifthly, this group
had the most students (nine) among the three who preferred their errors to be
corrected indirectly. They tended to perceive direct error correction as a source of
embarrassment to students hence discouraging them from speaking more next time,
even worse, hurting their conﬁdence in FL learning (see Example 77 in
Sect. 5.2.1.2).
By contrast, different voices were heard from the ten student interviewees with
low level of FLA concerning the above ﬁve phenomena. First, there was no
emphasis on teachers’ role and influence on one’s FL learning, instead, there were
ﬁve students in this group believing that their FL learning was not so much
154 5 Effective Strategies Coping with FLSA
dependent on their teachers but on some other factors like hard work and interest
(see Example 3 in Sect. 4.3.1). Second, only ﬁve of the ten considered speaking the
most important skill (see Example 7 in Sect. 4.3.2) while another four held the
opposite opinion that speaking was the least useful to the English learners in China
(see Example 10 in Sect. 4.3.2). Third, seven of the ten believed that FLA had
debilitating effects on their FL learning since it either made them less efﬁcient at
learning or resulted in their loss of opportunities to practice the FL (see
Examples 23 and 24 in Sect. 4.3.3). One possible reason for such a belief might be
that their FLA level was comparatively low, so whenever it increased they might
have stronger sense of its impairing effects than those who had high level of FLA.
Fourth, only half of them reported some reactions of FLSA (see Examples 33 and
37 in Sect. 4.3.4), this number is far less than their counterparts in the group of high
FLA level. Lastly, fewer of them (ﬁve students) thought that errors should be
corrected indirectly; on the contrary, four preferred errors to be corrected directly
since they regarded direct error correction as more effective (see Example 79 in
Sect. 5.2.1.2).
Similar to those with low level of FLA, half of the students with moderate level
did not believe that speaking was the most important skill (see Example 9 in
Sect. 4.3.2) while the other half believed so. Again, half of them thought that FLA
did not have strong effects on their FL learning (see Example 20 in Sect. 4.3.3)
while the other half believed that FLA debilitated their FL learning. Like those with
high level of FLA, eight students in this group reported speciﬁc FLSA reactions
(see Examples 32 and 36 in Sect. 4.3.4) and preferred indirect ways of error cor-
rection (see Example 78 in Sect. 5.2.1.2).
5.3 Findings of Classroom Observations
The ﬁndings from the classroom observations revealed ﬁve strategies helping
reduce students’ FLSA as shown in Table 5.6 (Refer to Sect. 4.4 for the detailed
descriptions of classroom observations).
Table 5.6 FLSA coping strategies from the classroom observation data
Strategy 1 Teacher being encouraging Classrooms 1 and 2
Strategy 2 Teacher being patient Classrooms 1 and 2
Strategy 3 Speaking a FL in a friendly environment Classrooms 1 and 2
Strategy 4 Playing language games Classroom 1
Strategy 5 Trying not to put students on the spot Classroom 1
5.2 Findings of Interviews 155
5.4 Application and Veriﬁcation of the Strategies Found
5.4.1 Selection of Participants for Stage 2
As mentioned in Sect. 4.1.5, in order to apply the strategies identiﬁed in Stage 1
and verify their effectiveness, 60 students with high level of both FLA and FLSA
were selected out of the participants and were invited to take part in Stage 2 of the
study. All the 60 students were those with FLCAS scores above 101 and FLSAS
scores above 67 (the ﬁrst 21 items, see Sect. 4.2.1 for more details). These two
ﬁgures are the cut-off points of the one third students who obtained high anxiety
scores among the 302 student participants for the FLCAS and the FLSAS.
Forty-two of the 60 students were from the second-tier university and 18 from the
key university, and they were distributed almost evenly in terms of gender with 31
females and 29 males.
These 60 students were from four classes at the two universities (two classes
from each). Half of them (N = 30) were set as the experimental groups (one group
of 15 from one class at each university) while the other half were used as control
groups (ibid). Bearing in mind that this study should intervene the usual teaching
the least, these four groups were from four natural intact classes respectively. The
researcher selected four classes with more than 50 students each whose anxiety
levels were average or above, so it was not difﬁcult to ﬁnd 15 students with high
anxiety scores in each of the four classes. The effectiveness of the strategies was
assessed by comparing the questionnaire scores obtained from the experimental and
control groups in Stage 1 and Stage 2. Tables 5.7 and 5.8 display more details of
these participants.
Before applying the strategies, the researcher contacted (via phone calls and
emails) two of the English teachers who helped with data collection in Stage 1 in
the two universities, and provided them with detailed explanations of the 33 speciﬁc
coping strategies found in Stage 1 (see Appendix I for the list of the strategies).
These strategies fell into three categories: 18 directed to teachers, 5 to both teachers
and students, and 10 to students. I chose these two teachers, with conﬁdence, as
research participants who not only applied the strategies as teachers but also
supervised their students’ application of the strategies in Stage 2 because of the
following three reasons. First, they were involved in Stage 1 and hence got ade-
quate understanding of this study. Second, both of them held Master’s degree in
English Education and obtained certain research experiences, mainly in qualitative
research. Third, they had taught non-English majors for at least six years and they
knew Chinese students’ learning habits and difﬁculties very well, which might help
them to ﬁnd the reasons for students’ FLSA more easily and to guide students’
application of the strategies effectively.
All the strategies that might cause doubts and confusions to teachers and stu-
dents were fully discussed between the two teachers and the researcher. Each of the
two teachers was teaching two classes of the same school year. The pre-selected
experimental groups were from one class and the control groups from the other. The
156 5 Effective Strategies Coping with FLSA
Table 5.7 Particulars of
participants from second-tier
university in Stage 2
Participant No. Gender Scores in Stage 1
FLCAS FLSAS
Experimental group
1 Female 101 78
18 Male 110 85
20 Male 109 75
37 Female 113 71
68 Female 113 73
69 Female 125 72
70 Female 102 71
77 Male 124 72
81 Male 120 75
84 Male 115 69
88 Female 115 69
91 Female 102 68
96 Female 137 72
97 Female 104 69
100 Female 113 70
106 Female 101 70
112 Female 116 71
113 Male 102 70
120 Male 106 71
121 Male 112 72
130 Female 105 73
Control group
138 Female 107 67
139 Female 119 71
152 Female 106 72
154 Male 119 71
155 Male 111 70
166 Male 102 69
170 Male 102 71
177 Male 115 77
182 Male 104 67
184 Male 111 70
185 Female 123 79
187 Male 114 74
189 Male 101 72
191 Female 131 73
193 Female 122 69
194 Female 115 71
197 Male 108 69
198 Male 106 74
207 Male 116 69
208 Female 110 72
211 Female 114 74
5.4 Application and Veriﬁcation of the Strategies Found 157
teachers were then asked to explain the strategies to students in the experimental
classes and guide them to use the strategies in daily English learning. The teachers
themselves were also encouraged to apply the strategies directed to teachers in the
experimental classes. For example, teachers were suggested to pay attention to
when and how to correct students’ spoken errors and to adopt appropriate error
correction strategies consciously (see Appendix I for more examples). Against the
full list of the strategies, both the two teachers and the 30 students in the experi-
mental classes were able to check every 15 days or so whether they had used these
strategies systematically and to remind themselves to use the strategies persistently
over the four months in Stage 2.
In the following four months, the researcher kept frequent contacts by emails,
telephones, and Skype with the two teachers (at least once a week) and the students
in the experimental groups (once a week with different students) to make sure that
they were really using the strategies introduced and that their questions arising from
applying the strategies were well addressed. In order to track the progress
of application more accurately, the check forms on the list of the strategies were
collected from the teachers and students in experimental classes and they demon-
strated these participants’ systematic and persistent application of the strategies.
Moreover, the researcher observed each of the experimental classes twice and found
the teachers and students applied the strategies efﬁciently and persistently.
Table 5.8 Particulars of
participants from key
university in Stage 2
Participant No. Gender Scores in Stage 1
FLCAS FLSAS
Experimental group
224 Male 105 72
230 Female 120 74
246 Female 109 75
247 Male 116 73
249 Female 115 75
250 Male 114 68
251 Female 119 76
262 Male 131 75
269 Female 117 73
Control group
277 Male 129 76
278 Female 106 70
280 Female 112 75
294 Male 118 76
295 Male 114 73
296 Female 104 80
298 Female 116 73
301 Male 111 79
302 Male 122 67
158 5 Effective Strategies Coping with FLSA
For instance, both teachers took the initiative to organise as many language
activities as possible in small groups, and the students conﬁrmed after class that
their teacher organised more group discussions recently, which they believed was
helpful in alleviating their FLSA. Meanwhile, the control classes were taught as
usual without applying any of the strategies consciously. The researcher took logs
with details of strategy application while observing the experimental classes.
Appendix L is one of the logs taken during a 50-min class on Doing Business
Online. The class consisted of 56 students. The teacher used ten of the coping
strategies as underlined in Appendix L.
The 60 students were invited to answer the FLSAS again after four months. In
addition, six students from the experimental groups and their teachers were inter-
viewed for more qualitative data.
5.4.2 Participants’ FLSAS Score Differences Across Two
Stages
MANOVA was used to compare the participants’ mean differences before and after
applying the strategies. The hypothesis behind the veriﬁcation of the strategies in
Stage 2 is that successful application of these strategies by students and teachers in
the experimental groups will lower students’ FLSA level and then make the reasons
included in the FLSAS (see Appendix C) less prominent in contributing to stu-
dents’ FLSA. In other words, the experimental groups’ mean scores on the ﬁrst 21
items of the FLSAS in Stage 2 are supposed to decrease (preferably signiﬁcantly)
while those of the control groups remain more or less the same.
Table 5.9 shows that the participants in the experimental groups demonstrated a
signiﬁcantly decreasing tendency in anxiety scores. Speciﬁcally, 26 participants
displayed decreased scores on the 21 items with 18 statistically signiﬁcant
decreases, while only three increases were found but none of them being signiﬁcant,
and one mean remained the same across stages. Meanwhile, in the control groups,
only one participant showed signiﬁcant decrease in Stage 2, two remained the same
and one increased remarkably, and the other 26 either increased or decreased
without statistical signiﬁcance.
5.4.3 Interview Responses in Stage 2
In order to cross-validate the questionnaire results, focused interviews were also
used to collect some qualitative data in Stage 2. Six students (three males and three
females) and two teachers were interviewed. They were asked about their percep-
tions of the effectiveness of the strategies that they (or their students) applied to
cope with FLSA. Among the student interviewees, two were from the key
5.4 Application and Veriﬁcation of the Strategies Found 159
university and the other four from the second-tier university, and ﬁve of them
demonstrated signiﬁcantly lower scores of the FLSAS in Stage 2 while the last one
showed no remarkable change. As for the teacher interviewees in Stage 2, one was
from the key university and the other from the second-tier university. Both of them
were teaching the experimental and control groups at the same time.
The interview ﬁndings were in accordance with the quantitative results. Seven of
the eight interviewees believed that the strategies they applied in English learning or
teaching were effective in reducing their (or their students’) FLSA (as indicated by
Table 5.9 Student participants’ FLSA mean differences across two stages
Participant No. Stage I/Stage II Participant No. Stage I/Stage II
Experimental group Control group
1 3.86/2.24** # 138 3.75/3.37 #
18 4.18/2.89** # 139 3.69/3.69 —
20 3.81/2.71* # 152 4.15/3.90 #
37 3.81/2.94 # 154 3.97/3.64 #
68 3.73/2.37** # 155 3.76/3.87 "
69 3.71/2.92 # 166 3.82/3.58 #
70 3.64/2.81 # 170 3.65/3.36 #
77 3.83/2.77* # 177 3.69/2.71* #
81 3.79/2.59* # 182 3.75/3.44 #
84 3.63/2.61* # 184 3.65/3.65 —
88 3.63/3.63 — 185 3.71/3.35 #
91 3.78/2.59* # 187 3.77/3.32 #
96 3.67/2.65* # 189 3.79/3.40 #
97 3.65/3.94 " 191 3.73/3.54 #
100 3.79/3.82 " 193 3.73/4.85** "
106 3.69/2.53* # 194 3.68/3.99 "
112 3.79/2.92 # 197 3.69/3.40 #
113 3.69/2.41* # 198 3.69/3.52 #
120 3.79/2.98 # 207 3.77/3.98 "
121 3.69/3.71 " 208 3.65/3.36 #
130 3.75/2.72* # 211 4.03/4.25 "
224 3.67/3.06 # 277 3.65/3.35 #
230 3.75/2.68* # 278 3.71/3.48 #
246 3.65/2.94 # 280 3.65/4.00 "
247 3.97/2.53** # 294 3.71/3.41 #
249 3.76/2.94* # 295 3.63/3.44 #
250 3.67/2.82 # 296 3.69/3.49 #
251 4.05/3.10* # 298 3.67/3.54 #
262 3.75/2.94* # 301 3.88/3.65 #
269 3.67/2.71* # 302 3.66/3.27 #
Notes **p < 0.01, *p < 0.05; the means have been rounded to two digits after the decimal point
160 5 Effective Strategies Coping with FLSA
Examples 89–91 below). Only the one who demonstrated no signiﬁcant change in
anxiety scores in Stage 2 reported that she found these strategies might not be useful
to her, and she attributed this to her anxious personality (see Example 92 below).
SB262HK: On the whole, I think the strategies you told me were quite effective, I feel I
become less anxious while speaking English now, both in and out of classroom. Thank you,
I think I will keep on trying them. (Example 89)
SG69H: I used to be quite anxious when speaking English, but after applying the strategies
you told us in the past four months, I am glad to see I am no longer that nervous now.
Especially after I realized that mistakes are quite common among language learners, I often
reminded myself of this point in English learning, it really helps. (Example 90)
TB313M: I am glad I have agreed to help you collect some data from my students.
I explained all of the strategies you told me to the experimental class, hoping my students
can beneﬁt from them. And it worked! Many students who were nervous while speaking
English seem to be not so nervous now. So thank you for your research on behalf of myself
and my students.
Interviewer: It is I that should thank you and your students, and I am glad to see that the
strategies are helpful. From the responses in the interviews, the results of the experiment
are even better than I expected. (Example 91)
SG100H: I tried the strategies, and I think I tried hard with them. However, I am sorry to
say that these strategies seemed to be not useful to me. I often ﬁnd, although I have been
told these strategies, and I tried to use them, I am still anxious while speaking English with
others. I guess, I might be born to be nervous. (Example 92)
Both the quantitative results and the qualitative ﬁndings as reported in Sect. 5.4
indicate that the strategies indentiﬁed in Stage 1 are basically effective in reducing
students’ FLSA. Overall, the participants in the experimental groups demonstrated
signiﬁcantly lower FLSA levels than their counterparts in the control groups after
applying the coping strategies for a period of four months. At the same time the
experimental groups also exhibited high recognition of the effectiveness of the
strategies. The present study suggests that with long-term utilization of effective
strategies, students are very likely to be able to cope with their FLA (especially
FLSA) efﬁciently, which will help to build a conducive environment for them to
enjoy FL learning.
5.5 Summary
This chapter has reported 33 strategies helping reduce non-English major students’
FLSA in China, which were obtained from the three research instruments employed
in this study: the questionnaire surveys, the focused interviews, and classroom
observations. In addition, the application and veriﬁcation of the strategies identiﬁed
proved that they were generally effective in coping with students’ FLSA. The next
chapter will revisit the present situation of FLLA research, then discuss the
implications of FLLA research for foreign language education in China, and ponder
some future directions for FLLA research.
5.4 Application and Veriﬁcation of the Strategies Found 161
References
Gregersen, T. S. (2003). To err is human: A reminder to teachers of language-anxious students.
Foreign Language Annals, 36(1), 25–32.
Gregersen, T. S., & Horwitz, E. K. (2002). Language learning and perfectionism: Anxious and
non-anxious language learners’ reactions to their own oral performance. The Modern
Language Journal, 86(4), 562–570.
Mulligan, D., & Kirkpatrick, A. (2000). How much do they understand? Lectures, students and
comprehension. Higher Education Research and Development, 19(3), 311–335.
Young, D. J. (1992). Language anxiety from the foreign language specialist’s perspective:
Interviews with Krashen, Omaggio Hadley, Terrell, and Rardin. Foreign Language Annals, 25
(2), 157–172.
162 5 Effective Strategies Coping with FLSA
Chapter 6
FLLA: Present and Prospects
Ever since researchers consider affective factor an important issue influencing
language learners’ learning effectiveness, various aspects of FLLA have been the
research focuses. For example, foreign language classroom anxiety, FLLA research
scales, FLLA and language learning achievement, the reasons leading to learners’
FLLA, and the strategies that can help reduce such anxiety. A more recent research
tendency is the anxieties concerning speciﬁc foreign language learning skills such
as interpretation. This chapter ﬁrstly revisits the present situation of FLLA study by
discussing the ﬁndings reported in the preceding two chapters from a holistic
perspective and comparing these ﬁndings with those of previous research that was
reviewed earlier in this book. The second section is centered on the implications of
FLLA research for foreign language teaching in China. The last section envisions
the future directions in FLLA study.
6.1 Present Situation of FLLA Revisited
Chinese educators’ and scholars’ continued interest in FLLA research over the past
few decades is largely due to their persistent concern with the effectiveness of FL
teaching and learning in China and the challenging demand in FL talents in a good
many walks of life. At present, research focus in the ﬁeld of FLLA in China is
shifting from FLA in general sense to FLA in speciﬁc language skills including
listening, speaking, reading, writing, and translation, and the target group is being
expanded to FL learners of more diversiﬁed backgrounds. However, in spite of
these inspiring trends speaking anxiety remains an understudied area of FLLA
research. EFL education practices in China have long immensely overlooked the
importance of spoken English, as one essential component of the language skills,
and underestimated the impact of speaking anxiety on learners’ overall EFL per-
formance. This section depicts the current situation of FLLA in China by mainly
focusing on FLSA. Through summarizing the levels of FLSA reported by
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
D. He, Foreign Language Learning Anxiety in China,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7662-6_6
163
non-English major students in China, the differences in FLSA among different
participant groups, the reasons leading to FLSA, and its coping strategies, this
section aims to address the four research questions (RQs) as posed in Sect. 1.2.1.
Detailed analyses of the results and ﬁndings are given in relation to what has been
reviewed or reported in previous chapters.
A total of 302 non-English majors and 30 of their teachers, all learning or
teaching EFL in China, took part in the questionnaire surveys in Stage 1 of data
collection. One tenth of these students and teachers were also interviewed in the
ﬁrst stage. Moreover, I observed one real EFL classroom at each of the two uni-
versities in this stage to get further data to triangulate the results and ﬁndings
obtained with questionnaire surveys and focused interviews. In Stage 2, I
endeavored to verify the effectiveness of the coping strategies found in Stage 1 by
inviting two correspondence teachers and 60 students to an experiment and setting
half of them as the experimental groups who were asked to practice the strategies in
daily English learning whereas the other half as control groups. After following
their application of the strategies for four months, I revisited the 60 students and
asked them to answer the FLSAS for the second time to examine the differences in
their anxiety scores across the two stages. I also interviewed six students from the
experimental groups and the two teachers for the purpose of cross-validation in
Stage 2. On the whole, the results obtained with the three research tools basically
satisﬁed the purpose they were designed for, that is, to cross-validate one another.
The following sections highlight and discuss the results and ﬁndings of the study in
relation to the speciﬁc RQs.
6.1.1 RQ 1—Levels of FLSA
On the one hand, questionnaire data from the FLCAS (M = 98.27, SD = 15.62)
revealed that the level of the general FLA demonstrated by the student participants
was not high. On the other hand, the mean score (M = 65.84, SD = 6.48) of the
FLSAS indicated that, overall, these students had comparatively high level of
foreign language speaking anxiety (cf. Kim, 2000). Over half of the participants
acknowledged the existence of FLSA in themselves (or their students) on more than
two thirds of the items addressing students’ FLSA level (i.e., 15 of the 21 items as
shown in Tables 4.6 and 4.7), and they agreed that they (or their students) were
lacking in conﬁdence while speaking a foreign language (see Item 13 in Tables 4.6
and 4.7).
For FLA, the interview data provided some seemingly contradictory ﬁndings,
since most of the student interviewees reported to have experienced a lot of anxiety
in their FL learning (see Sect. 4.3.1); however, when asked of the reasons for some
students learning FL better than others, they listed ‘less anxiety’ as the last reason
(see Sect. 5.2.2). On the whole, these student interviewees did experience a mod-
erate level of FLA while learning the foreign language, which was in accordance
with the questionnaire results showing that students’ FLA was not so high. As for
164 6 FLLA: Present and Prospects
FLSA, the interview data were also consistent with the questionnaire data because
nearly half of the interviewees (i.e., 15 of 33) regarded speaking as the most
anxiety-provoking activity among the ﬁve skills of foreign language learning, and
still many others viewed speaking as the second most anxiety-arousing activity (see
Examples 13 and 19 in Sect. 4.3.2).
As reported in Sect. 4.4, the observation data from the real EFL classroom
teaching triangulated the results and ﬁndings obtained with the previous two
instruments in the way that many students in the two classrooms demonstrated both
FLA and FLSA, and FLSA was more obvious and prevailing.
6.1.2 RQ 2—Differences in FLSA Among Various
Participant Groups
Multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) of questionnaire data was conducted
in order to examine the group differences from speciﬁc perspectives. Altogether
four group comparisons (i.e., between students and teachers, between students of
the key university and those of the second-tier university, among students of the
four different disciplines, and between male and female students) were imple-
mented. Statistically signiﬁcant group differences were identiﬁed in all the four
group comparisons.
Speciﬁcally, the group differences are: (1) statistically more teachers than stu-
dents agreed with both the reasons resulting in and the tactics coping with students’
FLSA; (2) students from the key university attached remarkably more emphasis to
the reasons leading to FLSA than their counterparts from the second-tier university;
(3) Business and Engineering students demonstrated respectively the most and the
least differences from students of other three disciplines; and (4) markedly more
male students tended to regard “the pressure in learning oral English” as a reason
for students’ FLSA, while obviously more female students believed that the reasons
should be “lack of vocabulary”, “having to speak a FL on an unfamiliar topic”, and
“failing to speak in the FL fluently”.
It should be noted that although interviewees were selected to be as broadly
representative as possible, for example, they spread reasonably between different
participant groups, such as males versus females, students versus teachers, and key
versus second-tier university; no group differences were analyzed in terms of
interview data. With regard to the data from the classroom observations, no other
group difference was found except that at the key university the females seemed to
be less nervous than the males when speaking English in class. Therefore, the group
differences revisited in this section were mainly based on the questionnaire data.
6.1 Present Situation of FLLA Revisited 165
6.1.3 RQ 3—Reasons Contributing to Students’ High Level
of FLSA
One of the main purposes of the present study is to identify the reasons leading to
student’s high level of foreign language speaking anxiety, which is of great sig-
niﬁcance to explore the effective strategies coping with such anxiety.
The questionnaire data showed that the following 14 reasons could result in
students’ FLSA. Among them, the ﬁrst seven reasons had high supporting rates of
50% or above from the student participants; the next ﬁve reasons were supported by
more than 40% but less than 50% of the students; and the last two had lower
supporting rates but both over 20%. The teachers’ viewpoints were basically
consistent with their students’ (see Sect. 4.2.1.2 for more details).
1. Lack of vocabulary or background knowledge of the FL
2. Speaking a FL on an unfamiliar topic
3. Worry about the fluency of speaking a FL
4. Fear of being tested orally in a FL
5. Having little time to think before speaking in a FL
6. Worry about the poor pronunciation and intonation
7. Worry about failing to get a decent job for being unable to speak English well
8. Lack of conﬁdence when speaking a FL
9. Worry about being looked down on for making mistakes in speaking a FL
10. Fear of speaking a FL
11. Fear of speaking a FL with others
12. Fear of speaking a FL in public
13. Fear of speaking a FL on the phone, and
14. Worry about having to give important information orally in a FL
Half (i.e., Reasons 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, and 11) of the above 14 reasons were also
mentioned by the interviewees (see Sect. 4.3.5 for more details). In addition, the
interview data revealed ten other reasons (arranged in decreasing order of mention):
15. Fear of losing face
16. Trait anxieties
17. Fear of making mistakes
18. Worry about intelligibility
19. Lack of oral practice
20. Lack of conducive FL speaking environment
21. Peer pressure
22. Having too high self-expectations
23. Failing to sort one’s thinking, and
24. Being interrupted unexpectedly
Following are three examples from the real EFL classroom observations, which
might verify some of the reasons revealed by the questionnaire and interview data.
One female student was identiﬁed as anxious by the researcher during teaching
166 6 FLLA: Present and Prospects
hours and later she conﬁrmed her anxiety while speaking English in class. The
reason she provided was that she worried about her accent being negatively eval-
uated by her classmates and/or teacher. One male student said that he felt anxious
when he was corrected unexpectedly during his speech in English class. Another
male student confessed that one of the reasons for him to be anxious may be due to
his anxious personality since he often felt nervous in classroom even before he was
asked to answer a question. A new reason was observed in the classrooms, which
said that students might also get anxious if they had to speak in foreign language on
a sensitive topic. This new reason was then added to the list:
25. Speaking in a FL on a sensitive topic.
6.1.4 RQ 4—Strategies Helping to Reduce Students’ High
Level of FLSA
All the three instruments obtained some strategies that may help to reduce student’s
high level of FLSA. To be speciﬁc, the questionnaire data demonstrated that the
following 12 strategies would be useful because more than half of the participants
agreed with these strategies:
1. Teacher trying to be humorous
2. Speaking a FL in a friendly environment
3. Teacher trying to be patient
4. Not focusing on accuracy while speaking a FL
5. Teacher trying to be encouraging
6. Correcting mistakes indirectly
7. Knowing that mistakes are part of the FL learning process and made by
everyone
8. Having classmates working in small groups
9. Playing language games
10. Doing relaxation exercises
11. Participating in a supporting group or activity, and
12. Talking with other students about the fears of speaking a FL
The interview data derived 28 strategies coping with students’ FLSA. Among
them, seven have been included in the quantitative results as listed above (i.e.,
Strategies 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, and 10), the remaining 21 are shown in the following list
(arranged in decreasing order of mention):
13. Trying to use FL more
14. Preparing well before FL class
15. Providing examples before oral tasks
16. Using more body language to help express oneself
6.1 Present Situation of FLLA Revisited 167
17. Overcoming the reasons leading to anxiety
18. Being brave to speak FL
19. Trying to use simple words while speaking a FL
20. Watching some real life TV programs in FL
21. Teacher trying to be knowledgeable
22. Good at enhancing students’ interest in FL
23. Good at employing different teaching strategies
24. Teacher trying to be lively
25. Teacher trying to be good at creating conducive learning environment
26. Teacher trying to be modern (instead of being reserved)
27. Teacher trying to be outgoing
28. Teacher trying to be versatile
29. Good English (especially in terms of pronunciation and intonation)
30. Sensitive to cultural differences
31. Excluding students’ classroom performance from ﬁnal assessment
32. Learning some teaching styles from NETs, and
33. Teacher trying to be easy-going
The results and ﬁndings obtained from the three different research methods have
triangulated as well as supplemented each other. For instance, some of the strategies
found in questionnaire and interview data (e.g., teacher should be patient and
friendly to students while they are speaking English in classroom, playing language
games) were also observed in the real classroom teaching and proved to be effec-
tive. Classroom observation data also implied that teachers should try not to put
students on the spot, which is consistent with Young (1992). This strategy was not
mentioned in questionnaire and interview data but was included in the list of
strategies that were explained to and experimented by the participants in Stage 2. To
add up, 34 strategies believed capable of helping reduce students’ FLSA were
identiﬁed in Stage 1.
34. Trying not to put students on the spot
Nearly all of the 34 strategies found in Stage 1 were provided to teachers and
students in Stage 2 and they were proved to be effective as a whole to reduce
students’ FLA, especially their FLSA (see Sects. 5.4.1 and 5.4.2 for more details).
Only one strategy was not applied and veriﬁed in Stage 2, that is, “Teachers should
have good English, especially in terms of pronunciation and intonation” (see
Sect. 5.2.1.1). Teachers were not provided with this strategy due to two consid-
erations. Firstly, it is a sensitive topic that might offend teachers and result in their
resistance to the experimentation of the strategies. Secondly and even more
importantly, it is impossible for the teachers to make obvious improvement in their
pronunciation and intonation in a short period of several months.
168 6 FLLA: Present and Prospects
6.1.5 Illustrations of the Reasons and Strategies for FLSA
With a closer scrutiny of the reasons and strategies discussed in Sects. 6.1.3 and
6.1.4, it is found that the 25 reasons basically fall into three dimensions: (1) stu-
dents’ concerns/worries related to their oral foreign language learning, (2) trait
anxiety related issues, and (3) FL learning environment; and the 34 strategies also
go into three dimensions: (1) teacher-initiated strategies, (2) students’ awareness of
and ability in coping with FLSA, and (3) conducive FL learning environment.
Figures 6.1 and 6.2 illustrate respectively the speciﬁc dimensions of the reasons and
strategies.
6.1.5.1 Further Analyses of the Reasons Identiﬁed
By analyzing Figs. 6.1 and 6.2 as a whole, it can be observed that, on the one hand,
20 of the 25 reasons leading to students’ FLSA are about students’ concerns/worries
related to their oral FL learning; that is, students seemed to focus on themselves for
the reasons leading to their FLSA. On the other hand, 18 out of the 34 strategies
helping reduce students’ FLSA are addressed to teachers rather than to students
themselves; in other words, students expected their teachers to play a more
important role than themselves in reducing their FLSA. Given this, teachers should
take initiatives to create a more relaxing yet supportive EFL learning environment
for students through various efforts, such as learning to be humorous in class, trying
to be tolerant of students’ errors that do not affect intelligibility, correcting errors
Reasons leading to students’ FLSA
1. lack of vocabulary 11. speaking FL with others
2. unfamiliar topic 12. speaking FL in public
3. fluency 13. speaking FL on the phone
4. oral test 14. telling important info
5. little time for thinking 15. losing face
6. pronunciation 17. making mistakes
& intonation 18. intelligibility
7. failure in job-hunting 21. peer pressure
8. lack of confidence 24. unexpected interruption
9. negative evaluation 25. sensitive topic
10. speaking FL
Students’ concerns/worries Trait anxiety FLL environment
16. trait anxiety
22. too high self-
expectation
23. failing to sort
one’s thinking
19. lack of oral
practice
20. inconducive FL
environment
Fig. 6.1 Illustration of reasons leading to students’ FLSA. Notes info—information; FLL—
foreign language learning
6.1 Present Situation of FLLA Revisited 169
indirectly when necessary, and providing students with more encouragement. In
terms of teaching efﬁcacy, teachers should try to learn different teaching methods
and adopt them flexibly in response to students’ needs and expectations. Moreover,
teachers are expected to be knowledgeable, lively, modern, outgoing, versatile, and
easy-going so that they will be more competent to reduce students’ FLSA and
eventually enhance their interest in EFL learning, particularly in practicing speaking
skills.
Speciﬁcally, some of the major reasons are further elaborated and discussed as
follows.
(i) Lack of vocabulary of the foreign language
The results in Chap. 4 suggest that “lack of enough vocabulary of the foreign
language” is the most prominent reason resulting in students’ FLSA. This is
understandable since foreign language learners in China often regard vocabulary as
a big obstacle for their FL learning (Cortazzi & Jin, 1996) and lack of vocabulary
has also been identiﬁed as a main cause for Chinese students’ anxiety in foreign
language in previous studies (e.g., Liu, 2007). In addition to the general strategies
that may be useful in coping with this reason (e.g., trying to use simple words, using
more body language, see Fig. 6.2), my experience as an EFL learner and teacher
makes me believe that students will feel more relieved if they are able to accumulate
more vocabulary in everyday EFL learning so that they can express their ideas more
readily while speaking English. EFL teachers thus need to be more aware of stu-
dents’ concern with vocabulary and help them to develop a system to “pick up” new
Figure 6.2
6.1.5 d
Teacher-initiated strategies
Strategies coping with students’ FLSA
1. humorous 26. modern
3. patient 27. outgoing
5. encouraging 28. versatile
6. correcting errors 29. good English
Indirectly 30. sensitive to
21. knowledgeable cultural difference
22. enhancing 31. excluding classroom
students’ interests performance from
23. using different final assessment
teaching methods 32. learning teaching
24. lively styles from NETs
25. creating conducive 33. easy-going
environment 34. not putting Ss on spot
Students’ awareness
and ability
Conducive FLL
environment
7. mistakes as part of FLL
10. relaxation exercises
11. participating in supporting
group/activity
12. talking with sb. about FLSA
13. trying to use FL more
14. preparing well
15. breathing deeply
16. using more body language
17. overcoming FLSA reasons
18. being brave to speak FL
19. trying to use simple words
20. watching TV in FL
2. speaking FL in
friendly
environment
4. not focusing on
accuracy
8. working in groups
9. playing language
games
Fig. 6.2 Illustration of strategies coping with students’ FLSA
170 6 FLLA: Present and Prospects
words and expressions in their daily life and try to put them into practice both in
and out of EFL class.
(ii) Speaking a foreign language on an unfamiliar topic
Another main reason why speaking a foreign language can be anxiety producing is
because students have to speak a FL on unfamiliar topics (He, 2013). Speaking a FL
has already made the students who are not proﬁcient at it feel rather out of control,
and speaking it on an unfamiliar topic often makes the situation even worse.
Therefore, it will be helpful, if possible, for teachers to initially focus more on
topics that are familiar and known to students, such as foods, sports, music, family,
and school. The more background knowledge students have in their native language
about the topics, the more they will acquire the vocabulary needed to talk about
them in the foreign language. Starting with these familiar topics, students will feel
more natural and thus less nervous in speaking a FL, and so develop more conﬁ-
dence before moving onto more challenging topics.
(iii) Fear of being tested orally in a foreign language
Fear of tests, and especially oral tests, is another salient reason which results in
students’ anxiety of FLL since students who are vulnerable to test anxiety usually
perceive the FLL process, especially oral production, as a test situation instead of an
opportunity for communication and language improvement (Tsiplakides &
Keramida, 2009). Test anxiety may affect concentration and achievement in FLL
negatively, increase errors in the FLL, prevent students from studying a FL efﬁ-
ciently, and decrease the interest towards a FL. Therefore, for the purpose of
helping students overcome their test anxiety and hence their FLSA, teachers should
try not to put students in the test-like situations (e.g., including students’ classroom
performance into their semester assessment as mentioned in Sects. 4.3.5 and 4.4.2).
In addition, students should remind themselves to treat speaking a FL as a learning
process rather than a test situation.
(iv) Lack of conﬁdence when speaking a foreign language
The present study found that lack of conﬁdence also makes students feel anxious
while speaking a foreign language. Lack of conﬁdence is likely caused by many
factors, among them, learners’ limitation in foreign language mastery and use is a
very important one (Pappamihiel, 2002). To help the students who lack
self-conﬁdence in speaking a FL, two strategies might be considered. One is to
strengthen the students’ self-conﬁdence by asking them to practice the following
tactics, among others, listing some of their positive qualities, spending time with
positive people, being themselves instead of imitating others, trying not to think
about failure, and being kind to themselves. The other is to help them improve their
overall English proﬁciency. All aspects of language skills are meant to be inter-
twined. When they have enhanced their skills in the aspects such as vocabulary,
grammar, listening, and reading, they will naturally gain more conﬁdence in
speaking.
6.1 Present Situation of FLLA Revisited 171
(v) Worry about being looked down on for making mistakes
This reason is mainly associated with students’ fear of negative evaluation (FNE).
Students who experience FNE are silent and withdrawn most of the time, and
usually do not participate in foreign language classroom activities. They often do
not regard errors as a natural part of the foreign language learning and do not realize
that every language learner makes mistakes; instead, they consider mistakes as a
threat to their image, and as a source of negative evaluations either from the teacher
or their peers. To help students with FNE, ﬁrst of all, teachers should provide them
with positive reinforcement such as positive comments. However, it should be
noted that praising these students in front of their classmates for a minor accom-
plishment may have a negative effect, as they often consider it as an indication of
the teacher’s lack of conﬁdence in their abilities (Thompson, 1997). Therefore,
non-verbal praise (e.g. a smile or a positive gesture) is often more effective than
direct verbal praise. Secondly, teachers need to help these students realize that
mistakes are a natural part of foreign language learning and made by all language
learners.
(vi) Fear of speaking a foreign language with others or in public or on the phone
These three reasons are discussed together because they all involve speaking a FL
in contextual conversations that call for instantaneous responses and improvisation
of speech as opposed to prepared speeches. Chinese students are not used to
speaking a FL, and they usually feel uncomfortable in contextual communications.
Public speaking may be one of the greatest fears human being might experience,
and speaking in a group in a foreign language multiplies the effect. It is hard to have
phone conversations in a foreign/second language because we cannot see the
interlocutor’s eyes, mouth and body language. Although we may not be aware of it,
in face-to-face conversations we lip-read and watch for smiles, frowns and gestures,
which help facilitate the face-to-face communications.
6.1.5.2 Further Analyses of the Strategies Identiﬁed
Some of the main strategies helping students to reduce their FLSA are also
expounded in more detail as follows.
(i) Teacher trying to be humorous
Having a humorous teacher was found to be the most effective strategy coping with
students’ FL speaking anxiety according to the ﬁndings in the present study. Humor
is important in foreign language classroom teaching for at least two reasons. Firstly,
students are potentially exposed to relatively high level of anxiety when learning
another language because of the discrepancy between their linguistic skills and their
cognitive ability (Horwitz, 1986; Krashen, 1982, 1985; MacIntyre & Gardner,
1989; Young, 1991); while humor (especially teacher’s humor) can help reduce
students’ anxiety and encourage their desire to participate in speaking activities by
172 6 FLLA: Present and Prospects
creating a relaxing classroom atmosphere (Wagner & Urios-Aparisi, 2008) and
such a low affective ﬁlter is conducive to high motivation, self-conﬁdence, and low
level of anxiety in FLL (Krashen, 1982). Secondly, humor can facilitate the
acquisition of the content ideas of the target language and culture by providing an
“instrument for cultural and social transmission” (Alexander, 1997, p. 7), which can
help students learn to communicate in target language situations (Lee & VanPatten,
2003; Richards & Rodgers, 2001). The more content ideas they get to know about
the target language and culture, the better they will communicate in the target
language, and the less FLSA they will experience. This might imply that teachers as
well as students themselves should enhance their awareness of making good use of
humor in daily FL teaching and learning in order to relieve students’ FLSA (see
Appendix K for a sample workshop developed by the researcher on the use of
humor in FL teaching).
(ii) Speaking a foreign language in a friendly environment
It is argued that stressful classroom atmosphere works as an affective ﬁlter pre-
venting easy acquisition and restricting learners from taking in and processing
incoming information (Krashen, 1985). What is found in Chap. 5 supports this
argument in that students tend to feel less anxious when speaking a FL in a friendly
environment. The present data suggest that a friendly classroom environment
requires the efforts from both the teacher and students. On the one hand, the teacher
should be friendly to students and try to create a low-anxiety classroom for them.
On the other hand, students should also be friendly to each other and try not to exert
unnecessary peer pressure on others. In this way, a supportive and friendly envi-
ronment can be built for foreign language learning, in which students would feel
encouraged to take part in the oral activities without constantly worrying about
being negatively evaluated.
(iii) Teacher trying to be patient
Another effective strategy helping students reduce their FLSA is to have a patient
teacher in the classroom. It is unavoidable for students to make mistakes when they
are struggling to express themselves in a language not their own. Hence teachers
should be tolerant to students’ small errors that do not affect the communication
process, which will release pressure and strengthen students’ self-conﬁdence. In the
classroom, FL teachers should not only encourage students’ active participation but
also show patience to students’ silence when they are not supposed to. Studies (e.g.,
Du, 2009) prove that there is little use pushing or forcing students to say something
when they are unwilling or not ready to say; on the contrary, it can only make them
more anxious.
(iv) Correcting mistakes indirectly
Providing indirect rather than direct correction can also help to cope with students’
FLSA. Teachers should, when necessary, avoid direct and on-the-spot correction in
speaking activities, since it may undermine students’ conﬁdence and discourage
them from experimenting with the foreign language. Moreover, explicit error
6.1 Present Situation of FLLA Revisited 173
correction may carry the meaning of inadequacy, and learners who are thus cor-
rected may become more nervous and less able than those who receive indirect
correction or who are allowed to self-correct. It is also found in Chap. 5 that
learners became frustrated and more anxious when the teacher interrupted their
response by correcting the errors, since they often changed their focus from com-
munication to form and accuracy due to these interruptions. Indeed, teachers should
encourage nervous FL learners and provide them with support (both affective and
language support) so that they are able to continue a speaking activity in spite of
their mistakes.
(v) Preparing well before speaking a foreign language
What has been presented in Chap. 5 indicates that being well-prepared before
speaking can also reduce students’ FLSA quite effectively. FL learners can get
prepared for speaking at different levels. At the general level, they can get better
equipped by continuously improving their overall FL proﬁciency; as a result they
would be less anxious while speaking. Speciﬁcally, if they are having a FL class,
they can get prepared by studying the materials to be used in class in advance. If
they are preparing for a public speech or a contest in a FL, they can practice
speaking and reading in front of a mirror at home. In this way, they will see
themselves as others see them, and they will gain conﬁdence to speak the FL since
they have realized that they do not look different or weird in the process.
(vi) Having classmates working in small groups
Similar to Young (1990), the present study also found that having students working
in pairs or small groups help reduce their FLSA since they tend to feel safe in
groups and are usually more eager to participate in speaking activities in small
groups. After group discussions, students can rejoin the whole class to share their
group debates with others. It deserves noticing, however, that teachers should make
sure that a sense of small community should be created in the groups, or else,
students might feel competitiveness and peer pressure in groups. In addition,
teachers should try to make groups formed with mixed ability students, to challenge
groups with academically equal tasks, and to use the same questioning strategies for
all groups; so that the learners would not feel that they are treated differently with
respect to their foreign language proﬁciency (Alderman, 2008).
6.1.6 Additional Issues Related to FLLA and FLSA
In addition to the above main results and ﬁndings, the present study reported in
Chaps. 4 and 5 also derived other issues related to students’ FLLA and FLSA.
One is students’ 13 reactions of FLSA as recalled by the interviewees (see
Sect. 4.3.4 for more details). Some of these reactions had also been observed in real
classrooms. For example, when students spoke English with anxiety, some of them
would speak in trembling voice, some in red face, some with unconscious
174 6 FLLA: Present and Prospects
behaviors, and some others would often stammer. It is believed that only when the
foreign language teachers are able to detect these reactions and manifestations can
they respond accordingly to reduce their students’ FLA and FLSA (Young, 1992).
Teachers’ prompt detection and appropriate responses to students’ anxiety in FL
learning will generate positive affective feelings in students, which in turn will
result in favorable attitudes towards their learning situation (Gregersen, 2005;
Richmond, McCroskey, Plax, & Kearney, 1986).
Another point to note is about the competing models of foreign language anxiety
as reviewed in Sect. 2.5. The results and ﬁndings from the present study provide
further indications for the two main competing models. Firstly, there is a contro-
versy whether test anxiety should be included or not as one of the major compo-
nents of FLA framework. While Horwitz, Horwitz, and Cope (1986) included test
anxiety in their framework, other scholars (e.g., Aida, 1994; MacIntyre & Gardner,
1989, 1991) held different opinions because they considered test anxiety a general
problem not speciﬁc to FLA. However, what was found in the present study is
consistent with Horwitz et al. (1986), since both the questionnaire and interview
data indicated that fear of oral test is a considerably important reason leading to
students’ FLSA (see Table 4.8 and Sect. 4.3.5). Classroom observation data also
suggested that students were likely to feel nervous while speaking English if they
knew that their classroom participation would be considered as part of their
semester ﬁnal assessment (see Sect. 4.4). Secondly, Sparks, Ganschow, and
Javorsky (2000) argued that FLA is a result, rather than a cause, of poor FL
achievement, whereas Horwitz (2000) believes that FLA can be both the cause and
the result of poor FL achievement. Most of the interviewees in the present study
supported Horwitz’s belief and they reported that the relationship between FLA and
FL achievement could be regarded as “a vicious circle” (see Sect. 4.3.3).
The third issue concerns the effects of FLA as discussed in Sect. 2.5, that is, does
FLA merely debilitate FL learning or does it also bring about facilitating effects?
According to the results of the questionnaire survey in the present study, the stu-
dents who regarded FLA debilitating to their FL learning outnumbered those who
believed that FLA could also be facilitating (see Sects. 4.2.1.1 and 4.2.1.2). The
interviewees reported either debilitating or no effects of FLA on their FL learning,
while facilitating effects have neither been reported by the interviewees nor been
observed in the real classrooms (see Sects. 4.3.3 and 4.4). In other words, the three
different relationships (i.e., positive, negative, and almost no effect) between anx-
iety and FL learning identiﬁed by Chastain (1975) were all found in the present
study although the positive relationship or the facilitating effect was reported by
only a small number of questionnaire participants.
Lastly, in line with the differentiations of anxiety into different categories as
reviewed in Sect. 2.1, foreign language speaking anxiety can be considered as a
combination of both state anxiety and trait anxiety and meanwhile it is speciﬁc,
mainly debilitating, and multidimensional. Speciﬁcally, the results and ﬁndings of
the present study indicate that FLSA is a situation-speciﬁc construct inherent in
foreign language speaking contexts, with both state anxiety and trait anxiety evident
(see Sect. 4.3.5). FLSA is also a multidimensional construct demonstrating both of
6.1 Present Situation of FLLA Revisited 175
the two elements as suggested by Tryon (1980): worry and emotionality. On the
one hand, participants in the present study worried a lot about their ability to speak
EFL in various circumstances. On the other hand, they reported or displayed the
emotional side of anxiety including physiological reactions such as incremental
heartbeat, and unconscious reactions like touching hair and pushing glasses upward
(see Sects. 4.3.4 and 4.4 for more details).
6.1.7 A Comparative Perspective
6.1.7.1 Students’ FLA Level
As mentioned in Chap. 2, many previous studies conducted similar investigations
using the FLCAS as (one of) the main research instrument(s). Therefore, it will be
meaningful to compare the results of the present survey with those of previous
studies. Table 6.1 displays the FLCAS scores of some studies with university
students as the participants. The FLCAS is a 33-item inventory using a 5-point
Likert scale, which yields a composite score with a possible range from 33 to 165.
A higher mean suggests a higher level of FLA of the selected target population.
A comparison between previous studies (with participants in the USA, Korea,
Taiwan, Poland, and Saudi Arabia) and the present study demonstrates that the EFL
learners in China generally experienced a moderate level of foreign language
anxiety.1
Table 6.1 demonstrates that although the participants in the present study
reported in Chaps. 4 and 5 did not show a level of FLA as high as EFL learners
from Korea and Saudi Arabia, their FLA level was higher than those of EFL
students from Taiwan (Cheng, 1998; Chiang, 2006) and Poland (Szyszka, 2011)
and students learning Spanish/Japanese in the USA (Aida, 1994; Horwitz et al.,
1986; Palacios, 1998). There might be many reasons behind such disparity, and
cultural difference might be an important one, which is especially the case when we
examine the difference between the present study and the two carried out in Taiwan.
Although the participants in these three studies share the same mother tongue,
Chinese, the participants in Taiwan were more widely and deeply influenced by
western cultures than their counterparts in mainland China because of more contacts
with western cultures (Yang & Lu, 2008). For example, in foreign language
teaching, western cultures usually emphasize the intelligibility and the realization of
communication while traditional Chinese teaching often focuses on the models, the
1
The studies (e.g., Liu, 2007; Liu & Jackson, 2008; Yan, 1998; Yan & Horwitz, 2008; Yang,
1993) mentioned in Sect. 3.3, like the study reported in Chaps. 4 and 5, researched university
students in China. It would also be meaningful to compare these ﬁve studies with the one in this
book because they have the same target population. However, these ﬁve studies altered the FLCAS
by adding 3 to 6 items to it, which makes the comparison of the means and standard deviations
unfeasible.
176 6 FLLA: Present and Prospects
standards, and the correctness of the target language acquired (Kirkpatrick & Xu,
2002; Watson, 1967). The pedagogical implication of such difference in the FLA
level is that, in order to make the EFL learners in mainland China feel less anxious
and more at ease while learning the language, the school authorities, teachers,
parents, and learners themselves should be more tolerant of errors in EFL learning
and hence work together to provide a more conducive environment for learners.
6.1.7.2 Reasons and Strategies Found
The major ﬁndings of the present study reported in Chaps. 4 and 5 are the reasons
leading to and strategies helping reduce students’ FLSA. Although only a few
previous studies focus speciﬁcally on students’ FLSA, it would be meaningful to
compare the reasons and strategies identiﬁed in the present study with those found
in previous research (including those on general FLA). Such comparisons may help
demonstrate the importance of the major ﬁndings of the present study from another
perspective.
When comparing the 25 reasons discussed in Sect. 6.1.3 with the 10 categories
of the sources leading to students’ general FLA, which were reviewed in Sect. 2.3,
it can be concluded that 18 of the 25 reasons for FLSA can be classiﬁed into the ﬁrst
two categories of the sources of general FLA (i.e., personal and interpersonal
anxieties, and learner beliefs about language learning), and that the other seven
reasons belong to the other six categories (i.e., instructor beliefs about language
teaching, instructor-learner interactions, classroom procedures, language testing,
frequency of language use, and context of language acquisition). As for the other
two categories of the sources of general FLA reviewed in Sect. 2.3 (i.e., motivation,
and cultural factors), the present study found them to be irrelevant to students’
FLSA. Since the sources concluded in previous studies are all general categories
Table 6.1 The FLA scores reported in 11 studies using the FLCAS
Study Location Participants’ target
language
Number of
participants
Mean SD
Horwitz et al. (1986) USA Spanish 108 94.5 21.4
Phillips (1990) USA French 44 99.3 24.6
Aida (1994) USA Japanese 96 96.7 22.1
Truitt (1995) Korea English 198 101.2 23.4
Cheng (1998) Taiwan English 423 94.9 20.0
Palacios (1998) USA Spanish 445 94.3 22.8
Kim (2000) Korea English 239 103.9 19.8
Chiang (2006) Taiwan English 327 92.9 17.9
Szyszka (2011) Poland English 48 81.4 23.1
Alrabai (2014) Saudi Arabia English 196 101.5 –
The present study China English 332 98.3 15.6
6.1 Present Situation of FLLA Revisited 177
and no detailed reasons were discussed, it is impractical to make further speciﬁc
comparisons between the sources of general FLA and the reasons found in the study
reported in Chaps. 4 and 5.
As discussed earlier, there are only limited studies focusing speciﬁcally on how
to overcome foreign language learners’ speaking anxiety, which offered limited
number of effective strategies helping students reduce their FLSA. Liu (2007)
argued that in mainland China the reason for the lack of such coping strategies was
the scarce research on FLA, which did not capture enough attention from either
EFL teachers or learners in the past. Even when it comes to students’ general FLA,
not many effective strategies were offered by previous studies (e.g., Cope-Powell,
1991; Crookall & Oxford, 1991; Oxford, 1990; Saunders & Crookall, 1985; Young,
1992). Chapter 5 focused on students’ FLSA and identiﬁed 34 coping strategies,
more than half of which have received little attention in the literature.
In short, the reasons resulting in students’ FLSA found in Chap. 4 all fall into the
broad categories of sources identiﬁed in previous studies, therefore it can be con-
cluded that these reasons basically reafﬁrm the existing framework of the sources.
With regard to the strategies coping with FLSA, Chap. 5 has obtained insightful and
promising ﬁndings considering that FLSA strategies are insufﬁciently explored in
previous studies.
6.2 Implications for Foreign Language Teaching in China
The ﬁndings of this book are likely to provide insightful implications for various
stakeholders in China’s tertiary English education system, such as the frontline
teachers of college English and their students, trainers and recruiters of teachers of
English, textbook writers, examination providers, and the policy makers of college
English education. The ﬁndings also give insights that may illuminate other similar
educational settings, especially in the regions or nations where many Chinese learn
EFL/ESL and where decisions need to be made on the training of EFL/ESL teachers
and the overcoming of students’ FLSA. The implications are presented in three
aspects: theory, methodology, and practice.
6.2.1 Theoretical Implications
As the ﬁrst monograph focusing speciﬁcally on FLLA in mainland China that is
written in English, it has signiﬁcant theoretical implication for the teaching of EFL
in China, since it generates evidence of the existence of speaking anxiety among
Chinese EFL learners and its mainly adverse effects on their learning. Although
Chinese EFL students have experienced FLLA, especially FLSA, for a long time,
178 6 FLLA: Present and Prospects
their awareness of such anxieties is scant and their management of the anxieties is
far from successful. In other words, as an important reason for students’
less-than-satisfactory foreign language learning proﬁciency, FLLA and FLSA have
not been given sufﬁcient attention. As a result, the adverse effects could have
accumulated in students’ learning and lowered their learning effectiveness in the
end, which could in turn make them even more anxious in future learning. The
whole situation could be similar to that described by some interviewees in this
book: a vicious circle.
6.2.2 Methodological Implications
The most important methodological implication of the study is the advantage of the
multi-method approach, in which the multiple measurement instruments used
provide both quantitative and qualitative data for triangulation. Firstly, on the basis
of the research purposes and the ﬁndings of the pilot interviews reported in Chap. 4
as well as the ﬁndings of some previous research, a new questionnaire was
developed and used to investigate Chinese university students’ and teachers’ per-
ceptions on the reasons leading to students’ FLSA and the possible strategies to
overcome such anxiety. Furthermore, the questionnaire data were triangulated with
the data obtained from the in-depth interviews and classroom observations, which
also generated new insights. Put simply, the data obtained from the three instru-
ments addressed the research questions with three different methods that were
complementary to each other. Such a research design combined the strengths of
quantitative and qualitative approaches thus yielding robust ﬁndings.
In addition to the multiple measurement instruments, this book also involved
both of the two main stakeholders that are engaged in daily English teaching in
China’s tertiary institutions: non-English majors and their teachers. As reported in
Chap. 4, the respondents were from one key university and one second-tier uni-
versity. Within the student group, there were also sub-samples of different disci-
plines and genders. Moreover, while selecting interviewees, the following
demographic details were also taken into consideration: age, gender, anxiety level,
and for teachers, their teaching experience, academic qualiﬁcations and ranks. Such
multiple samples of participants enabled the researcher to seek as wide viewpoints
as possible from different angles to avoid biased conclusions caused by a single
sample. Moreover, it should be noted that, as far as I know, this book is the only
one concerning FLLA that involves teachers as the participants, since they can
provide another independent perspective in addition to the subjective data from
students (see Sect. 4.1.1.2 for more details). It is argued that the results yielded from
teachers can considerably enrich the ﬁndings of an anxiety study on FLLA (Yan,
1998).
6.2 Implications for Foreign Language Teaching in China 179
6.2.3 Pedagogical Implications
This book may have valuable pedagogical implications for Chinese students’
English learning, especially the non-English majors’ oral English acquisition.
Although the study reported in Chaps. 4 and 5 has found that university students in
China demonstrate a comparatively high level of FLSA, it, on the other hand,
indicates that little effort has been put in foreign language teaching to help these
students reduce such anxiety. Teachers’ and students’ awareness of FLSA and the
relevant coping strategies has been rather limited.
Many Chinese students spend a large quantity of money, time and energy on
private English tutoring since they do not have enough conﬁdence in the efﬁciency
of the formal English instruction they receive at school. For the formal educational
system of China to better serve and prepare its students of English, especially in
oral English, a thorough reform of teaching methods should be instituted. In this
reform, the pre-service and in-service EFL teachers as well as students themselves
should all be informed of the role played by FLLA, especially FLSA. Meanwhile,
their awareness and mastery of the strategies concerning FLSA management should
be emphasized, so that they can know how to effectively reduce students’ FLSA. In
so doing, systematic training programs and tutorial workshops on FLSA should be
developed and carried out in an on-going process. Hopefully the ﬁndings of this
book and the sample workshop in Appendix K, which is about why and how humor
can be used to reduce students’ FLSA, can provide EFL teachers and students in
China with a baseline for their remedial action.
Severe FLSA decreases the probability of achieving a high degree of spoken
proﬁciency in the target language and may cause other related problems, such as
lowering self-esteem, reducing self-conﬁdence in target language learning, and
lessening willingness to take risks (Crookall & Oxford, 1991), whereas reducing
anxiety seems to increase language acquisition, retention and learner motivation
(e.g., Horwitz et al., 1986; Young, 1990). Different students may have different
reasons for FLSA and may be responsive to different coping strategies.
Tertiary EFL teachers in China are strongly recommended to ﬁnd out the reasons
for individual students’ FLSA so as to work out the most appropriate management
strategies. If teachers can help their students to cope with FLSA successfully and
build their self-conﬁdence in performing in the language, students’ participation in
speaking activities will be enhanced and their spoken English proﬁciency poten-
tially increased.
EFL teachers in China may start to reduce their students’ anxious feelings in
speaking a foreign language by referring to the reasons mentioned in this book. If
these reasons apply to their students, the teachers can know what to do and what not
to do so as to make their students feel less anxious at speaking with the help of the
effective strategies identiﬁed. Even if the reasons do not apply to their students, the
teachers may also try to ﬁnd out the reasons for their students’ FLSA with the
inspiration of this book; meanwhile, they can still experiment with the strategies
identiﬁed to overcome FLSA. For example, if peer pressure is one reason for
180 6 FLLA: Present and Prospects
students’ FLSA, then the teachers should try to avoid situations which cause
pressure among peers in EFL classrooms. The speciﬁc actions that the teachers can
take may include, among others, to separate students with obviously differing levels
of EFL proﬁciency into different classes and provide them with teaching materials
of varied difﬁculties, to incorporate activities that facilitate peer cooperation instead
of peer competition into EFL classroom teaching (e.g., small group discussion,
playing games, and role play), and to help every student realize that he or she is a
unique individual so as to remove peer pressure as a potential reason leading to
FLSA. Similarly, the EFL learners themselves can also examine their speaking
anxiety against the reasons found in this book and then try applying some of the
strategies to reduce their FLSA.
Practically, the strategies identiﬁed in Chap. 5 may be applied to not only EFL
students in mainland China but also Chinese students learning EFL/ESL in Hong
Kong, Macao, Taiwan, Singapore and other parts of the world, since they share the
same/similar mother language and culture.
6.3 Future Directions in FLLA Research
A number of important ﬁndings have been reported in the foregoing sections of this
book, especially the reasons resulting in students’ FLSA and the effective strategies
to overcome such anxiety. These ﬁndings are believed to not only have contributed
signiﬁcantly to the research on FLLA and FLSA but also have provided profound
implications for various stakeholders in the tertiary EFL education in mainland
China as well as some other regions or nations with similar educational setting.
Several directions for further research can be inferred from this book. First of all,
although this book has checked the reliability and validity of the main question-
naire, the Foreign Language Speaking Anxiety Scale, it is still a newly-developed
instrument. As a result, more duplication in other universities in China will be
needed for the validation of the ﬁndings from this book. The replication of this
questionnaire can also determine whether the present ﬁndings hold true with dif-
ferent research populations (or cultures). In addition, when conducted a similar
study in different settings, for instance, in populations of different ages and with
different levels of foreign language proﬁciency, more strategies useful to cope with
students’ FLSA may be found and a more complete picture of FLSA can be
obtained. It would also be interesting to examine FLSA in EFL learners who have
frequent contacts with NSs due to learning English mainly in foreign language
schools or immersion settings in China.
As reported in Sect. 4.2.2, there exist various differences in the perceptions of
different participant groups. However, the reasons behind these differences are
largely left untouched, since they do not constitute the focus of this book.
Therefore, another attempt worth making for future researchers is to identify these
reasons, which might be of great practical importance for EFL teaching and
learning in China. For example, more appropriate strategies to overcome students’
6.2 Implications for Foreign Language Teaching in China 181
FLSA might be suggested for the business majors if the reasons for the differences
among them and the students of other disciplines were found.
Thirdly, with the globalization of English, more and more nations or regions
have realized the importance of English teaching and learning, which brings their
learners’ FLLA, especially FLSA, to an ever-prominent situation. Therefore, it may
be a fruitful endeavor to undertake similar studies as reported in Chaps. 4 and 5 in
any of these countries. Such studies can be very meaningful and important for
yielding more empirical ﬁndings in the ﬁeld of FLSA and accordingly in EFL/ESL
teaching in the world.
Lastly, despite the relatively robust ﬁndings, the results reported in Chaps. 4 and
5 should be interpreted with some caution because of several limitations. These
limitations can be considered another direction for future research. One major
limitation is the lack of appropriate methods to test and report student participants’
oral FL proﬁciency. It would be more meaningful to explore the influence of
students’ FLSA on their FL learning by examining the correlation between their
FLSA level and their oral FL proﬁciency. Nevertheless, no ofﬁcial oral FL scores of
the students could be obtained. Instead, students’ ofﬁcial English scores in uni-
versity entrance examination, their self-evaluated general and oral English proﬁ-
ciencies were adopted in the correlational analyses with their FLSA level (see
Sect. 4.2.3.2 for more details).
The second limitation is that I myself was unable to supervise students’ appli-
cation of the strategies in Stage 2. It was practically impossible to teach both classes
myself as I was based in Hong Kong when these strategies were applied by the
participants and the two universities were far apart. Nonetheless, as explained in
Sect. 5.4.1, I tried every means to ensure that the teachers and students in the
experimental groups actually used the strategies I introduced to them, such as the
check forms with which the participants recorded the process of their application
and the detailed observation logs I took for the duration of the application (see
Appendix L for an example of the logs). Furthermore, I had conﬁdence in the two
teachers who helped me to train their students in the application of the strategies
(see Sect. 5.4.1 for more details). If I were able to supervise the participants in the
application period, more substantial evidence could be possibly obtained for veri-
fying the effectiveness of the strategies.
The third limitation is that, although many background factors were taken into
account when sampling the interviewees, not all of these factors were included
when analyzing the data. In other words, I did not look into all the detailed group
differences in relation to these interviewees’ background variables. More interesting
ﬁndings might be obtained if I examined the group differences further. However,
such background information was incorporated into the coding of the interviewees
for readers’ reference.
182 6 FLLA: Present and Prospects
References
Aida, Y. (1994). Examination of Horwitz, Horwitz, and Cope’s construct of foreign language
anxiety: The case of students of Japanese. The Modern Language Journal, 78(2), 155–168.
Alderman, M. K. (2008). Motivation for achievement: Possibilities for teaching and learning (3rd
ed.). New York: Routledge.
Alexander, R. (1997). Aspects of verbal humor in English. Tübingen: G. Narr.
Alrabai, F. (2014). The influence of teachers’ anxiety-reducing strategies on learners’ foreign
language anxiety. Innovation in Language Learning and Teaching, 9(2), 163–190.
Chastain, K. (1975). Affective and ability factors in second-language acquisition. Language
Learning, 25(1), 153–161.
Cheng, Y.-S. (1998). Examination of two anxiety constructs: Second language class anxiety and
second language writing anxiety Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin, Texas,
United States.
Chiang, Y.-N. (2006). Connecting two anxiety constructs: An interdisciplinary study of foreign
language anxiety and interpretation anxiety. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at
Austin, Texas, United States.
Cope-Powell, J. A. (1991). Foreign language classroom anxiety: Institutional responses. In E.
K. Horwitz & D. J. Young (Eds.), Language anxiety: From theory and research to classroom
implications (pp. 169–176). Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice Hall.
Cortazzi, M., & Jin, L. (1996). Cultures of learning: Language classrooms in China. In H.
Coleman (Ed.), Society and the language classroom (pp. 169–208). Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Crookall, D., & Oxford, R. L. (1991). Dealing with anxiety: Some practical activities for language
learners and teacher trainees. In E. K. Horwitz & D. J. Young (Eds.), Language anxiety: From
theory and research to classroom implications (pp. 140–150). Englewood Cliffs, N.J.: Prentice
Hall.
Du, X. (2009). The affective ﬁlter in second language teaching. Asian Social Science, 5(8), 162–
165.
Gregersen, T. S. (2005). Nonverbal cues: Clues to the detection of foreign language anxiety.
Foreign Language Annals, 38(3), 388–400.
He, D. (2013). What makes learners anxious while speaking English: A comparative study of the
perceptions held by university students and teachers in China. Educational Studies, 39(3), 338–
350.
Horwitz, E. K. (1986). Preliminary evidence for the reliability and validity of a foreign language
anxiety scale. TESOL Quarterly, 20, 559–562.
Horwitz, E. K. (2000). It ain’t over ‘till it’s over: On foreign language anxiety, ﬁrst language
deﬁcits, and the confounding of variables. The Modern Language Journal, 84(2), 256.
Horwitz, E. K., Horwitz, M. B., & Cope, J. (1986). Foreign language classroom anxiety. The
Modern Language Journal, 70(2), 125–132.
Kim, J.-H. (2000). Foreign language listening anxiety: A study of Korean students learning
English. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin, Texas, United States.
Kirkpatrick, A., & Xu, Z. (2002). Chinese pragmatic norms and ‘China English’. World Englishes,
21(2), 269–279.
Krashen, S. D. (1982). Principles and practice in second language acquisition. Oxford: Pergamon
Press.
Krashen, S. D. (1985). The input hypothesis: Issues and implications. London: Longman.
Lee, J. F., & VanPatten, B. (2003). Making communicative language teaching happen. Boston:
McGraw-Hill.
Liu, M. (2007). Anxiety in oral English classrooms: A case study in China. Indonesian Journal of
English Language Teaching, 3(1), 119–137.
References 183
Liu, M., & Jackson, J. (2008). An exploration of Chinese EFL learners’ unwillingness to
communicate and foreign language anxiety. The Modern Language Journal, 92(1), 71–86.
MacIntyre, P. D., & Gardner, R. C. (1989). Anxiety and second-language learning: Toward a
theoretical clariﬁcation. Language Learning, 39(2), 251–275.
MacIntyre, P. D., & Gardner, R. C. (1991). Language anxiety: Its relationship to other anxieties
and to processing in native and second languages. Language Learning, 41(4), 513–534.
Oxford, R. L. (1990). Language learning strategies: What every teacher should know. New York:
Newbury House.
Palacios, L. M. (1998). Foreign language anxiety and classroom environment: A study of Spanish
university students. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin, Texas, United
States.
Pappamihiel, N. E. (2002). English as a second language students and English language anxiety:
Issues in the mainstream classroom. Research in the Teaching of English, 36(3), 327–355.
Phillips, E. M. (1990). The effects of anxiety on performance and achievement in an oral test of
French. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin, Texas, United States.
Richards, J. C., & Rodgers, T. S. (2001). Approaches and methods in language teaching.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Richmond, V. P., McCroskey, J. C., Plax, T. G., & Kearney, P. (1986). Teacher nonverbal
immediacy training and student affect. World Communication, 15(2), 181–194.
Saunders, D., & Crookall, D. (1985). Playing with a second language. Simulation/Games for
Learning, 15, 166–172.
Sparks, R. L., Ganschow, L., & Javorsky, J. (2000). Deja vu all over again: A response to Saito,
Horwitz, and Garza. The Modern Language Journal, 84(2), 251–259.
Szyszka, M. (2011). Foreign language anxiety and self-perceived English pronunciation
competence. Studies in Second Language Learning and Teaching, 1(2), 283–300.
Thompson, T. (1997). Do we need to train teachers how to administer praise? Self-worth theory
says we do. Learning and Instruction, 7(1), 49–63.
Truitt, S. N. (1995). Anxiety and beliefs about language learning: A study of Korean university
students learning English. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin, Texas,
United States.
Tryon, G. S. (1980). The measurement and treatment of test anxiety. Review of Educational
Research, 50(2), 343–372.
Tsiplakides, I., & Keramida, A. (2009). Helping students overcome foreign language speaking
anxiety in the English classroom: Theoretical issues and practical recommendations.
International Education Studies, 2(4), 39–44.
Wagner, M., & Urios-Aparisi, E. (2008). Pragmatics of humor in the foreign language classroom:
Learning (with) humor. In M. Putz & J. N.-V. Aertselaer (Eds.), Developing contrastive
pragmatics: Interlanguage and cross-cultural perspectives (pp. 209–228). New York: Mouton
de Gruyter.
Watson, B. (1967). Basic writings of Mo Tzu, Hsün Tzu, and Han Fei Tzu. New York: Columbia
University Press.
Yan, J. X. (1998). An examination of foreign language classroom anxiety: Its sources and effects
in a college English program in China. Unpublished Ph.D., The University of Texas at Austin,
Texas, United States.
Yan, J. X., & Horwitz, E. K. (2008). Learners’ perceptions of how anxiety interacts with personal
and instructional factors to influence their achievement in English: A qualitative analysis of
EFL learners in China. Language Learning, 58(1), 151–183.
Yang, G., & Lu, L. (Eds.). (2008). Chinese self: Psychological analysis (Zhongguoren de ziwo:
Xinlixue de fenxi). Taipei: National Taiwan University Press (Taida chuban zhongxin).
Yang, R.-L. (1993). A study of the communicative anxiety and self-esteem of Chinese students in
relation to their oral and listening proﬁciency in English. Unpublished Ed.D., University of
Georgia, Georgia, United States.
184 6 FLLA: Present and Prospects
Young, D. J. (1990). An investigation of students’ perspectives on anxiety and speaking. Foreign
Language Annals, 23(6), 539–553.
Young, D. J. (1991). Creating a low-anxiety classroom environment: What does language anxiety
research suggest? The Modern Language Journal, 75(4), 426–439.
Young, D. J. (1992). Language anxiety from the foreign language specialist’s perspective:
Interviews with Krashen, Omaggio Hadley, Terrell, and Rardin. Foreign Language Annals, 25
(2), 157–172.
References 185
Appendix A
Foreign Language Classroom Anxiety
Scale (for Students)
Please circle the option that best matches your feeling about each statement. There
are no right or wrong options, all depending on your ﬁrst reaction. The options
stand for:
SD = strongly disagree, D = disagree, N = neither agree nor disagree, A = agree,
SA = strongly agree.
1. I never feel quite sure of myself when I am speaking in my foreign language class.
SD D N A SA
2. I do not worry about making mistakes in language class.
SD D N A SA
3. I tremble when I know that I am going to be called on in language class.
SD D N A SA
4. It frightens me when I do not understand what the teacher is saying in the foreign
language.
SD D N A SA
5. It would not bother me at all to take more foreign language classes.
SD D N A SA
6. During language class, I find myself thinking about things that have nothing to do with
the course.
SD D N A SA
7. I keep thinking that the other students are better at languages than I am.
SD D N A SA
8. I am usually at ease during tests in my language class.
SD D N A SA
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
D. He, Foreign Language Learning Anxiety in China,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7662-6
187
12. In language class, I can get so nervous I forget things I know.
13. It embarrasses me to volunteer answers in my language class.
SD D N A SA
SD D N A SA
14. I would not be nervous speaking the foreign language with native speakers.
15. I get upset when I do not understand what the teacher is correcting.
SD D N A SA
SD D N A SA
16. Even if I am well prepared for language class, I feel anxious about it.
17. I often feel like not going to my language class.
SD D N A SA
SD D N A SA
18. I feel confident when I speak in foreign language class.
19. I am afraid that my language teacher is ready to correct every mistake I make.
SD D N A SA
20. I can feel my heart pounding when I am going to be called on in language class.
21. The more I study for a language test, the more confused I get.
SD D N A SA
SD D N A SA
22. I do not feel pressure to prepare very well for language class.
23. I always feel that the other students speak the foreign language better than I do.
SD D N A SA
SD D N A SA
24. I feel very self-conscious about speaking the foreign language in front of other
students.
9. I start to panic when I have to speak without preparation in language class.
SD D N A SA
10. I worry about the consequences of failing my foreign language class.
SD D N A SA
11. I do not understand why some people get so upset over foreign language classes.
SD D N A SA
SD D N A SA
188 Appendix A: Foreign Language Classroom Anxiety Scale (for Students)
28. When I am on my way to language class, I feel very sure and relaxed.
SD D N A SA
29. I get nervous when I do not understand every word the language teacher says.
SD D N A SA
30. I feel overwhelmed by the number of rules you have to learn to speak a foreign
language.
SD D N A SA
31. I am afraid that the other students will laugh at me when I speak the foreign
language.
SD D N A SA
32. I would probably feel comfortable around native sp eakers of the foreign language.
SD D N A SA
33. I get nervous when the language teacher asks questions which I have not prepared in
advance.
SD D N A SA
25. Language class moves so quickly I worry about getting left behind.
SD D N A SA
26. I feel more tense and nervous in my language class than in my other classes.
SD D N A SA
27. I get nervous and confused when I am speaking in my language class.
SD D N A SA
(Source: Appendix B of Horwitz, 2008, see also Horwitz, 1983; Horwitz et al.,
1986).
Appendix A: Foreign Language Classroom Anxiety Scale (for Students) 189
Appendix B
Foreign Language Classroom Anxiety
Scale (for Teachers)
For each of the following statements, please circle the option that you think best
matches most of your students. There are no right or wrong options, all depending
on your ﬁrst reaction. The options stand for:
SD = strongly disagree, D = disagree, N = neither agree nor disagree, A = agree,
SA = strongly agree.
1. Students never feel quite sure of themselves when they are speaking in their foreign
language class.
SD D N A SA
2. Students do not worry about making mistakes in language class.
SD D N A SA
3. Students tremble when they know that they are going to be called on in language class.
SD D N A SA
4. It seems to frighten students when they do not understand what I say in the foreign
language.
SD D N A SA
5. Students appear to be happy to take more English language classes.
SD D N A SA
6. During the language lesson students seem to lose their concentration easily.
SD D N A SA
7. Students seem to judge themselves negatively at languages against their classmates.
SD D N A SA
8. There is usually a relaxed atmosphere in the class during language tests.
SD D N A SA
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
D. He, Foreign Language Learning Anxiety in China,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7662-6
191
12. In language class, students can get so nervous they forget things they know.
SD D N A SA
13. It appears to embarrass students to volunteer answers in their language class.
SD D N A SA
14. My students are confident about speaking English with a native speaker.
SD D N A SA
15. Students get upset when they don’t understand what the teacher is correcting.
SD D N A SA
16. Even if students are well prepared for language class, they seem to be anxious about it.
SD D N A SA
17. Students are not enthusiastic about their language class.
SD D N A SA
18. Students seem to be confident when they speak in foreign language class.
SD D N A SA
19. Students are afraid that their language teacher will correct every mistake they make.
SD D N A SA
20. Students are apprehensive when called upon to answer questions in the language
class.
SD D N A SA
21. The more effort students put into preparing for tests, the more confused they seem to
get.
SD D N A SA
22. Students do not seem to feel pressure to prepare very well for language class.
SD D N A SA
23. Students always feel that the other students speak the foreign language better than
they do.
SD D N A SA
9. Students start to panic when they have to speak without preparation in language class.
SD D N A SA
10. Students worry about the consequences of failing their foreign language class.
SD D N A SA
11. Some students do not understand why some people get so upset over foreign
language classes.
SD D N A SA
192 Appendix B: Foreign Language Classroom Anxiety Scale (for Teachers)
26. Students seem to be more tense and nervous in their language class than in their other
classes.
SD D N A SA
27. Students get nervous and confused when they are speaking in their language class.
SD D N A SA
28. Prior to the language class beginning students appear to be very sure and relaxed.
SD D N A SA
29. Students seem to get nervous when they do not understand every word I say.
SD D N A SA
30. Students appear to be overwhelmed by the number of rules they have to learn to
speak a foreign language.
SD D N A SA
31. Students seem to be afraid that the other students will laugh at them when they speak
the foreign language.
SD D N A SA
32. Students would probably feel comfortable aro und native speakers of the foreign
language.
SD D N A SA
33. Students get nervous when I ask questions which they have not prepared in advance.
SD D N A SA
24. Students appears to be very self-conscious about speaking the foreign language in
front of other students.
SD D N A SA
25. Language class moves so quickly that students appear to worry about getting left
behind.
SD D N A SA
Appendix B: Foreign Language Classroom Anxiety Scale (for Teachers) 193
Appendix C
Foreign Language Speaking Anxiety Scale
(for Students)
Please circle the option that best matches your feeling about each statement. There
are no right or wrong options, all depending on your ﬁrst reaction. The options
stand for:
SD = strongly disagree, D = disagree, N = neither agree nor disagree, A = agree,
SA = strongly agree.
1. I feel embarrassed to speak English because I think I have poor pronunciation and
intonation.
SD D N A SA
2. The more pressure I feel, the more effectively I can practice my oral English.
SD D N A SA
3. I am often worried that if I cannot speak English well I will not get a decent job in
future.
SD D N A SA
4. I often hope that teacher would call on me during foreign language class.
SD D N A SA
5. I feel that not knowing enough vocabulary is the biggest problem preventing me from
speaking a foreign language easily.
SD D N A SA
6. I become anxious when I get stuck on one or two words in speaking a foreign
language.
SD D N A SA
7. I enjoy speaking a foreign language.
SD D N A SA
8. The most anxiety-provoking part of learning a foreign language is learning to speak.
SD D N A SA
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
D. He, Foreign Language Learning Anxiety in China,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7662-6
195
11. One reason for me to feel anxious about speaking a foreign language is my little
knowledge concerning its history and culture.
SD D N A SA
12. I am nervous if I have to speak a foreign language when I am not familiar with the
topic.
SD D N A SA
13. I feel confident when speaking a foreign language.
SD D N A SA
14. I feel more nervous when having to give important information orally in a foreign
language.
SD D N A SA
15. I get worried when I have little time to think about what I have to speak in a foreign
language.
SD D N A SA
16. I get anxious when I find I cannot speak in the foreign language fluently.
SD D N A SA
17. I have no fear of speaking a foreign language in public.
SD D N A SA
18. I am nervous when speaking a foreign language on the phone or when imagining a
situation where I speak a foreign language on the phone.
SD D N A SA
19. When speaking a foreign language, I often know all the words I need but still fail to
express myself easily due to anxiety.
SD D N A SA
20. I feel nervous when having to be tested orally in a foreign language.
SD D N A SA
9. I would not be so anxious just to learn to read and write in a foreign language rather
than having to learn to speak as well.
SD D N A SA
10. I do not mind thinking aloud in a foreign language, but I feel very uncomfortable
when I have to speak to others in it.
SD D N A SA
196 Appendix C: Foreign Language Speaking Anxiety Scale (for Students)
24. Participating in a supporting group or activity (e.g., a foreign language corner) helps
reduce my fearsof speaking that language.
SD D N A SA
25. Doing relaxation exercises (e.g., productive self-talk) helps reduce my fears of
speaking that language.
SD D N A SA
26. If accuracy is not the focus, I will not be so nervous about speaking a foreign
language.
SD D N A SA
27. I do not feel so anxious when speaking a foreign language in a friendly
environment.
SD D N A SA
28. Teachers’ encouragement makes me feel relaxed when speaking a foreign language.
SD D N A SA
29. A humorous teacher helps reduce myanxiety in speaking a foreign language.
SD D N A SA
30. A patient teacher helps reduce my anxiety in speaking a foreign language.
SD D N A SA
31. I feel relaxed about speakin
g a foreign language if I know that mistakes are part of
the language learning process and made by everyone.
SD D N A SA
32. I feel relieved about speaking a foreign language if my teacher corrects my mistakes
indirectly (e.g., just repeat the right form instead of saying that I am wrong).
SD D N A SA
33. Playing language games helps reduce my anxiety in speaking a foreign language.
SD D N A SA
21. Others will look down on me if I make mistakes in speaking a foreign language.
SD D N A SA
22. Having classmates working in small groups helps reduce my anxiety when speaking
a foreign language.
SD D N A SA
23. It helps reduce my language anxiety to talk with other students about the fears of
speaking a foreign language.
SD D N A SA
Appendix C: Foreign Language Speaking Anxiety Scale (for Students) 197
Please write down your responses to the next two questions:
34. Do you have any other feelings about speaking in a foreign language which are not
included above? If yes, please write down your feelings.
35. Are any of the above questions unclear or confusing to you? If yes, please write
down the question number(s) and briefly describe what is confusing.
198 Appendix C: Foreign Language Speaking Anxiety Scale (for Students)
Appendix D
Student Background Questionnaire
Student No.: ____________________ Gender: Female Male
Age: ________ Major: _________________________________________________
English score in university entrance examination: __________
Place of birth: ___________ Place of residence (where you grow up): ___________
Mother tongue: Putonghua Other dialect (please specify): _________________
Years of English learning: ______
How do you evaluate your own English (choose one)?
1. very poor 2. poor 3. moderate 4. good 5. very good
How would you rate your speaking proficiency in English (choose one)?
1. very poor 2. poor 3. moderate 4. good 5. very good
How often do you have contact with native English speakers (choose one)?
1. never 2. seldom 3. sometimes 4. often 5. very often
How often do you watch movies / read magazines in English (choose one)?
1. never 2. seldom 3. sometimes 4. often 5. very often
How do you evaluate your motivation in learning English (choose one)?
1. very weak 2. weak 3. moderate 4. strong 5. very strong
How would you rate your motivation for acquiring oral English skills (choose one)?
1. very weak 2. weak 3. moderate 4. strong 5. very strong
How would you rate the anxiety-provoking level of speaking English with others (choose
one)?
1. not anxiety-provoking 2. a little anxiety-provoking
3. moderately anxiety-provoking
4. very anxiety-provoking 5. extremely anxiety-provoking
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
D. He, Foreign Language Learning Anxiety in China,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7662-6
199
Appendix E
Teacher Background Questionnaire
Gender Male Female (choose one) Age: ______________
Teaching Experience: ________ year(s) ________ month(s)
Below please √ the appropriate alternative or nearest equivalent
Highest academic qualification attained:
_______ Bachelor’s degree _______ Master’s degree
_______ Doctorate degree _______ Others (please specify: _________)
Academic rank:
_______ Teaching assistant _______ Lecturer
_______ Associate professor _______ Professor
Students you teach:
________ Non-English majors
________ Both English majors and non-English majors
How do you evaluate your students’ English (choose one)?
1. very poor 2. poor 3. moderate 4. good 5. very good
How would you rate your students’ speaking proficiency in English (choose one)?
1. very poor 2. poor 3. moderate 4. good 5. very good
How often do your students have contact with native English speakers (choose one)?
1. never 2. seldom 3. sometimes 4. often 5. very often
How often do your students watch movies/ read magazines in English (choose one)?
1. never 2. seldom 3. sometimes 4. often 5. very often
How do you evaluate your students’ motivation in learning English (choose one)?
1. very weak 2. weak 3. moderate 4. strong 5. very strong
How would you rate your students’ motivation for acquiring oral English skills (choose
one)?
1. very weak 2. weak 3. moderate 4. strong 5. very strong
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
D. He, Foreign Language Learning Anxiety in China,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7662-6
201
How would you rate the anxiety-provoking level of your students speaking English with
others (choose one)?
1. not anxiety-provoking 2. a little anxiety-provoking
3. moderately anxiety-provoking
4. very anxiety-provoking 5. extremely anxiety-provoking
202 Appendix E: Teacher Background Questionnaire
Appendix F
Interview Guides (for Students)
Warm-up activities
1. Explain who I am and why I am conducting the interview briefly, assure the
interviewees the issue of conﬁdentiality, and ask for their permission to record
the interview.
2. The interviewees introduce themselves simply.
A. Questions concerning general foreign language learning
3. Can you tell me something about your learning experiences in learning English?
4. Did you have any good or negative experiences in learning English at school?
5. Many students think that oral English is the most important among the ﬁve skills
(i.e., listening, speaking, reading, writing, and translation) concerning English
learning. Do you agree? Why?
B. Questions related to foreign language anxiety
6. How anxious do you feel when using English, reading, writing, listening,
speaking, and translation? Which activity is more anxious to you? Why?
7. How does anxiety affect one’s language learning?
8. Is FLA the consequence or cause of poor FL achievement? Why?
C. Questions about foreign language speaking anxiety
9. Do you feel anxious when speaking English? If yes, what are your physical or
psychological reactions?
10. What are the reasons leading to your anxieties in speaking English?
11. Which is more anxiety-arousing to you: speaking English in front of your
classmates or teachers? Why?
12. Do you have any strategies to reduce your anxiety when speaking English?
What are the strategies helping reduce your anxieties in speaking English?
13. If you were the English teacher, what would you do to reduce students’ anx-
ieties in speaking English?
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
D. He, Foreign Language Learning Anxiety in China,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7662-6
203
14. What features should an English teacher have to help reduce students’ speaking
anxieties?
15. It is an educated guess that 40% students believe that “when speaking a foreign
language, they often seem to know all the words they need but still fail to
express themselves easily”, do you agree with this? Why?
D. Questions with regard to other learning factors
16. Do you feel one’s level of Chinese can interfere with his/her English learning?
If yes, how?
17. Can you tell me some errors you or others make while speaking English
because of the cross-linguistic influence of Chinese?
18. Do you think one’s dialect could influence his/her English learning? If yes,
how? Who are better foreign language learners: students speaking Putonghua or
dialect? Why?
19. What do you think makes some students achieve better in English than others?
Closing question
20. Is it okay to email you if I have additional questions? If yes, would you please
leave me an email address?
204 Appendix F: Interview Guides (for Students)
Appendix G
Interview Guides (for Teachers)
Warm-up activities
1. Explain who I am and why I am conducting the interview briefly, assure the
interviewees the issue of conﬁdentiality, and ask for their permission to record
the interview.
2. The interviewees introduce themselves simply.
A. Questions concerning general foreign language learning
3. Can you tell me your students’ good or negative experiences in learning English
at school?
4. Many students think that oral English is the most important among the ﬁve skills
(i.e., listening, speaking, reading, writing, and translation) concerning English
learning. Do you agree? Why?
B. Questions related to foreign language anxiety
5. How anxious do you think your students are when using English, reading,
writing, listening, speaking, and translation? Which activity is more anxious to
them? Why?
6. How does anxiety affect your students’ language learning?
7. Is FLA the consequence or cause of poor FL achievement? Why?
C. Questions about foreign language speaking anxiety
8. Do you think your students feel anxious when speaking English? If yes, what
are their physical or psychological reactions from your point of view?
9. What are the reasons leading to your students’ anxieties in speaking English?
10. Which is more anxiety-arousing to your students: speaking English in front of
their classmates or teachers? Why?
11. Do you know any strategies that your students use to reduce their anxiety when
speaking English?
12. As the English teacher, what can you do to reduce students’ anxieties in
speaking English?
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
D. He, Foreign Language Learning Anxiety in China,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7662-6
205
13. What features should an English teacher have to help reduce students’ speaking
anxieties?
14. It is an educated guess that 40% students believe that “when speaking a foreign
language, they often seem to know all the words they need but still fail to
express themselves easily”, do you agree with this? Why?
D. Questions with regard to other learning factors
15. Do you feel your students’ level of Chinese can interfere with their English
learning? If yes, how?
16. Can you tell me some errors your students make while speaking English
because of the cross-linguistic influence of Chinese?
17. Do you think your students’ dialect could influence their English learning? If
yes, how? Who are better foreign language learners: students speaking
Putonghua or dialect? Why?
18. What do you think makes some students achieve better in English than others?
Closing question
19. Is it okay to email you if I have additional questions? If yes, would you please
leave me an email address?
206 Appendix G: Interview Guides (for Teachers)
Appendix H
Code Systems of Interview Data
1. Code system of students’ interview data:
FL learning experiences
Speaking - the most important
No
Speaking - the most anxious
No
How does anxiety affect FLL?
No significant influence
Debilitating
FLA - consequence or cause of poor FL achievement?
Vicious circle
Consequence
Cause
Reactions of FLSA
Feeling embarrassed
Not knowing where to put hands
Panic
Being afraid of looking at the interlocutor(s)
Red/pale face
Unconscious behaviors (e.g., touch hair)
Failing to recall familiar words
Vacant mind
Faster heart beats
Having an impulse to escape
Trembling voice (or body)
Stammer
Being annoyed
Reasons leading to FLSA
Having too high self-expectations
Failing to sort one’s thinking
Peer pressure
Fear of negative evaluation
Test anxiety
Worry about intelligibility
Fear of making mistakes
Poor FL proficiency
Lack of oral practice
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
D. He, Foreign Language Learning Anxiety in China,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7662-6
207
With classmates
With teachers
Strategies to reduce FLSA
Repeatedly remind oneself to relax
Prepare well
Watch some real life TV programs in FL
Providing examples before oral tasks
Create relaxed/friendly atmosphere
Use more body language
Overcome the reasons leading to anxiety
Try to use FL more
Reduce the fear of making mistakes
Be brave to speak FL
Try to use simple words
The way of error-correction to reduce FLSA
Yes but the way of correcting depends
No, impractical/harmful
No, unless it affects intelligibility
Yes and directly
Yes but indirectly
When to correct depends
Correct in class
Correct after class
Teacher-initiated strategies helping reduce students’ FLSA
Exclude students' classroom performance from final assessment
Good English (esp. in terms of pronunciation and intonation)
Good at employing different teaching strategies
Sensitive to cultural differences
Versatile
Outgoing
Good at creating conducive learning environment
Knowledgeable
Good at enhancing students’ interest in FL
Modern (instead of being reserved)
Humorous
Friendly
Learning some teaching styles from NETs
Patient
Lively
Influence of Chinese on FLL
No
Yes
Lack of conducive FL speaking environment
Lack of confidence
Trait anxieties
Fear of losing face
Being interrupted unexpectedly
Fear of speaking a FL with others (especially NSs of English)
Lack of vocabulary
Which is more anxious - speaking FL with classmates or teachers?
Neither
208 Appendix H: Code Systems of Interview Data
More practice in FL
Less anxiety
A solid foundation for FLL
A more conducive FLL environment
2. Code system of teachers’ interview data:
FL learning experiences
Speaking - the most important
Speaking - the most anxious
No
How does anxiety affect FLL?
Debilitating
FLA - consequence or cause of poor FL achievement?
Vicious circle
Consequence
Cause
Reactions of FLSA
Abnormally fast speaking speed
Red face
Unconscious behaviors
Stammer
Reasons leading to FLSA
Poorly prepared for the class
Poor FL proficiency
Fear of negative evaluation
Peer pressure
Test anxiety
Worry about intelligibility
Fear of making mistakes
Lack of oral practice
Failing to express what to be said
Trait anxieties
Lack of vocabulary
Which is more anxious - speaking FL with classmates or teachers?
With teachers
Strategies to reduce FLSA
Provide examples before oral tasks
Arrange some games in English
Create relaxed/friendly atmosphere
The way of error-correction to reduce FLSA
Influence of dialects of Chinese on FLL
No
Yes
The reasons for learning FL better than others
Learning FL with appropriate methods
Higher innate ability in learning FL
More interest in learning FL
Better teachers
Appendix H: Code Systems of Interview Data 209
Influence of Chinese to FLL
No
Yes
Influence of dialects to FLL
Yes
The reasons for learning FL better than others
Higher innate ability in learning FL
More interest in learning FL
More practice in FL
A solid foundation for FLL
Less anxiety
A more conducive FLL environment
Indirectly if necessary
No, unless it affects intelligibility
When to correct depends
Teacher-initiated strategies helping reduce students’ FLSA
Easy-going
Humorous
Friendly
Patient (tolerant with errors)
210 Appendix H: Code Systems of Interview Data
Appendix I
The List of the Strategies Identiﬁed
in Stage 1
Strategies directed to teachers
1. Teacher trying to be humourous;
2. Teacher trying to be patient;
3. Teacher trying to be encouraging;
4. Correcting mistakes indirectly;
5. Having classmates work in small groups;
6. Providing examples before oral tasks;
7. Teacher trying to be knowledgeable;
8. Good at enhancing students’ interest in a FL;
9. Good at employing different teaching strategies;
10. Teacher trying to be lively;
11. Good at creating conducive learning environment;
12. Teacher trying to be modern (instead of being reserved);
13. Teacher trying to be outgoing;
14. Teacher trying to be versatile;
15. Excluding students’ classroom performance from ﬁnal assessment;
16. Learning some teaching styles from native-speaking English teachers;
17. Teacher trying to be easy-going;
18. Trying not to put students on the spot;
Strategies directed to both teachers and students
19. Speaking a FL in a friendly environment;
20. Not focusing on accuracy while speaking a FL;
21. Playing language games;
22. Doing relaxation exercises;
23. Being sensitive to cultural differences;
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
D. He, Foreign Language Learning Anxiety in China,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7662-6
211
Strategies directed to students
24. Knowing that mistakes are part of the FL learning process and made by
everyone;
25. Participating in a supporting group or activity;
26. Talking with other students about the fears of speaking a FL;
27. Trying to use a FL more;
28. Preparing well before FL classes;
29. Using more body language to help express oneself;
30. Overcoming the reasons leading to anxiety;
31. Being brave to speak a FL;
32. Trying to use simple words while speaking a FL;
33. Watching some real life TV/Web programmes in a FL.
Please check your application of the strategies against the above list about every 15
days by ticking (✓) the appropriate boxes in the table below.
For teachers
Strategy
No.
1st
check
2nd
check
3rd
check
4th
check
5th
check
6th
check
7th
check
8th
check
1
…
23
For students
Strategy
No.
1st
check
2nd
check
3rd
check
4th
check
5th
check
6th
check
7th
check
8th
check
19
…
33
212 Appendix I: The List of the Strategies Identiﬁed in Stage 1
Appendix J
An Example of Contacts with Participants
during Application of the Strategies
From deyuanhe2 <deyuanhe2@student.cityu.edu.hk>
Sent Tuesday, March 9, 2010 12:28 pm
To james197405@126.com
Subject Re:Re: About the use of the strategies
Dear James,
Thank you very much for being so helpful. I am also very glad to know that you and
your students are applying the strategies as I hoped and that you found the strategies to
be useful. If you have any question concerning these strategies, feel free to contact me.
Best regards and many thanks to you and your students again.
Paul
----- Original Message -----
From: james197405@126.com
Date: Monday, March 8, 2010 21:28 pm
Subject: Re: About the use of the strategies
To: deyuanhe2 <deyuanhe2@student.cityu.edu.hk>
Dear Paul,
As I told you on telephone, I’m very glad that my students and I have such a chance to
get to know the strategies because I think we benefit a lot from using these strategies,
especially about the error-correction strategies. After I consciously corrected students’
errors indirectly for a while, I found students became more active in classroom
participation and less nervous when speaking in class recently. Of course, these may also
be the results from the effects of other strategies you told us. So we will keep on using
these strategies and I think both my students and I will benefit more.
Regards,
James
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
D. He, Foreign Language Learning Anxiety in China,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7662-6
213
I remember you told me that you consider it very important to correct students’ errors
and you were used to correcting them directly, which, as you believe, will leave students’
more impression about their errors. After these days’ application of the strategies I
introduced to you, can you tell me the feelings from you and your students?
Best wishes to you and your family.
Paul
----- Original Message -----
From: deyuanhe2 <deyuanhe2@student.cityu.edu.hk>
Date: Sunday, March 7, 2010 16:19 pm
Subject: About the use of the strategies
To: james197405@126.com
Dear James,
214 Appendix J: An Example of Contacts with Participants during Application …
Appendix K
Helping Students Reduce Their FLSA
with Humor
A Sample Workshop
In this workshop, I will explain why a humorous teacher can help reduce students’
foreign language speaking anxiety. Then some categorized jokes are provided as
examples that can be used when teaching the related topics. After that, the par-
ticipants of the workshop will discuss the application of humor in oral foreign
language teaching. A sample questionnaire is given to the participants at the end of
the workshop so that they can evaluate the strategy of using humor in teaching.
Humor can be a very effective teaching tool in foreign language classroom to
create a relaxed atmosphere and thus help reduce anxiety in the class. In this
workshop, humor is understood broadly as “anything done or said, purposely or
inadvertently, that is found comical or amusing” (Long & Graesser, 1988, p. 37),
which includes the following related but also subtly different varieties: jokes, jests,
witticisms, quips, sallies, cracks, gags, puns, retorts, riddles, and one liners (cf.
Schmitz, 2002).
The two functions of humor: social and informative (Attardo, 1994) can both be
operated in foreign language classrooms. For example, when a teacher needs to
correct her/his students’ language errors, s/he can do so with some gentle humor,
which may be more acceptable to students since humor serves as a face-saving
device in this circumstance. Even when a teacher wants to reproach a student,
which is socially undesirable, humor can also help since the meaning of a humorous
criticism can be reinterpreted when necessary (for example, by saying “just kid-
ding”). The informative function of humor lies in the fact that humors used in
teaching such as jokes, cracks, and humorous conversations carry information in
themselves about behaviors, feelings, taboos, cultures, and so on (Wagner &
Urios-Aparisi, 2008).
Humor provides teachers and students with the opportunity for a relaxation from
the formally assigned teaching documents and textbooks, which usually do not
incorporate humorous materials or else they may become stale and outdated in a
matter of months (Schmitz, 2002). Teachers can use humor “as a way of putting
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
D. He, Foreign Language Learning Anxiety in China,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7662-6
215
students at ease, as an attention getter, as a way of showing that the teacher is
human, as a way to keep the class less formal, and to make learning more fun”
(Neuliep, 1991, p. 354). Humor is of special signiﬁcance to EFL/ESL students who
are potentially exposed to comparatively high level of anxiety while learning
another language because of the discrepancy between their linguistic skills and their
cognitive ability (Horwitz, 1986; Krashen, 1982, 1985; MacIntyre & Gardner,
1989; Young, 1991).
For example, in the following classroom teaching on food, humor can be used to
help students practice some newly learnt words and create a relaxing atmosphere
after a formal instruction of the words.
Teacher: We have learnt some words about food, now let’s play a game. Please ﬁll in the
blanks to create some funny conversations (The following four jokes are from The Joke
Yard, 2004).
(a) Once upon a time there were two mufﬁns in the microwave. Suddenly, one of the
mufﬁns says: “Man! It’s hot in here!”
The other mufﬁn exclaims, “Look, a talking mufﬁn!”
(b) What do you call a whiteﬁsh with no eyes?
A whtefsh.
(c) Two snowmen are standing in a ﬁeld. One says: “I smell carrots”. The other says:
“Funny, I smell carrots too”.
(d) What’s the difference between chopped beef and pea soup?
Everyone can chop beef, but not everyone can pea soup!
Below are three more groups of jokes that teachers can use while teaching
related topics:
1. Politics (Oneliner, 2010):
(a) Politicians and diapers have one thing in common. They should both be
changed regularly, and for the same reason.
(b) Why do Americans choose from just two people to run for the president and
50 for Miss America?
(c) A diplomat is someone who can tell you to go to hell in such a way that you
will look forward to the trip.
(d) Politicians either lie or tell the carefully edited truth.
2. Money (Oneliner, 2010):
(a) I thought I wanted a career, it turns out I just wanted paychecks.
(b) If you think nobody cares if you are alive, try missing a couple of payments.
216 Appendix K: Helping Students Reduce Their FLSA with Humor
(c) Always borrow money from a pessimist. He will not expect it back.
(d) Money cannot buy happiness, but it sure makes misery easier to live with.
3. Work (Oneliner, 2010):
(a) I like work. It fascinates me. I sit and look at it for hours.
(b) Bus station is where buses stop. Train station is where trains stop. I have a
desk, and there is a work station on it…
(c) Just about the time when you think you can make ends meet, somebody
moves the ends.
(d) It is not how good your work is, it is how well you explain it.
While applying humor in foreign language classrooms, the following two
aspects should be noted. On the one hand, not all jokes are ﬁt for classroom
teaching. According to Long and Graesser (1988), jokes are classiﬁed into ten
different categories: (1) nonsense, (2) social satire, (3) philosophical, (4) sexual,
(5) hostile, (6) demeaning to men, (7) demeaning to women, (8) ethnic, (9) sick, and
(10) scatological. Among these ten categories, only the ﬁrst three can be applied to
foreign language classroom while the remaining seven are quite problematic for
most classrooms. When selecting the appropriate types of humor for speciﬁc class,
teachers can often rely on their common sense and tact. On the other hand, the use
of humor in classrooms should be well planned by teachers. Instead of giving
students the impression of incidental or ‘by the way’ activity, humor used in EFL
classes should leave them the impression of being spontaneous and meanwhile
being an inseparable part of the course instruments to build their foreign language
speaking skills (Schmitz, 2002).
Activities in the workshop:
1. Ask each of the in/pre-service teachers to tell a real experience concerning the
use of humor in foreign language teaching when they were/are students.
2. Ask the participants to discuss the use of humor in various oral foreign language
teaching circumstances.
3. Look at a selection of textbooks and at the content of a lesson. In groups, discuss
what type of humorous activities might be suitable for the teacher to use, for
example, tell a joke about the topic, tell a funny story, explain some cultural
misconceptions about some vocabulary, and play a short game (e.g., hangman).
Appendix K: Helping Students Reduce Their FLSA with Humor 217
4. Present to the participants a few words or expressions which are assumed to be
new to their students. Ask the participants to demonstrate how to teach these
words or expressions in a humorous way after group discussion.
5. Present to the participants some written errors students made in their assign-
ments and ask them to discuss how to correct these errors humorously.
A questionnaire for the participants’ students
In order to encourage the participants of the workshop to apply the strategy of
humor and evaluate its effectiveness in their daily teaching, a brief sample ques-
tionnaire is provided for them to elicit their students’ responses to the use of the
strategy.
On a scale of 1 (strongly disagree) to 5 (strongly agree), rate the following
statements:
1. I am generally anxious while speaking a foreign language.
1 2 3 4 5
2. I will be less anxious if my foreign language teacher is humorous in class.
1 2 3 4 5
3. A humorous teacher is likely to create a relaxing learning atmosphere.
1 2 3 4 5
4. My foreign language teacher is becoming more humorous in class recently.
1 2 3 4 5
6. I think I like my foreign language teacher being more humorous in class.
1 2 3 4 5
5. I have got lower level of foreign language speaking anxiety since my teacher began to
use more humors in class.
1 2 3 4 5
6. Do you have any other suggestions for reducing students’ foreign language speaking
anxiety? Your reply can be focused on the strategy of humor or on other strategies to
reduce your speaking anxiety.
_____________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________
218 Appendix K: Helping Students Reduce Their FLSA with Humor
Appendix L
A Classroom Observation Log
for the Application of Coping Strategies
Minutes Strategies applied The effects of the strategy
1 The teacher began the class with a joke
related to the topic of the lecture
The students laughed and seemed to
bea
relaxed because of the joke
4–20 Students discussed the task assigned
(online shopping experience) in groups
of 4–5 and then one student from 6 of
the groups reported to the class
The students seemed to be
well-prepared when reporting their
discussion. Their familiarity with this
topic made their speeches fluid and
vivid
10 One student said “he like buying food
online”. The teacher did not correct the
student directly, instead, she repeated
“Good. He likes buying food, right?
Anything else?”
The student realized the error and
repeated the sentence correctly and
went on with his speech
16 One student seemed to be blocked
when she tried to say the word
“procrastinate”. The teacher spelled the
word on the board and said “We can
also say it simply here, like ‘keep
delaying’”
The student nodded and said “Yes.
I mean delay”. Then she went on
saying more about her experience
21–30 The teacher explained
“nominalization” and its usage to
students with the following as one of
the examples: “The sentence he
succeeded in online games, and this
brought him money and fame can be
rephrased as his success in online
games brought him money and fame”
Then several students learnt to
paraphrase sentences with “failure”,
“disappearance”, and “communication”
instead of “fail”, “disappear”, and
“communicate” respectively
(continued)
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2018
D. He, Foreign Language Learning Anxiety in China,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-10-7662-6
219
(continued)
28–30 One student had some trouble while
making a sentence with
“communicate” and then rewording it
with “communication”, but the teacher
showed her patience and joked “Don’t
worry. This is not a test, and you won’t
be given a mark for it”
The student smiled and tried again, and
ﬁnally got both sentences correct
31–50 In the following 20 minutes, the class
learnt a short passage together. The
teacher demonstrated her knowledge
and her outgoing and lively
characteristics
The students seemed to be impressed
and attracted by the teacher and also to
be at ease with the learning
a
All the “seemed to be” were conﬁrmed to be true in the talks with students after class
References
Attardo, S. (1994). Linguistic theories of humor. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Horwitz, E. K. (1983). Foreign language classroom anxiety scale (unpublished
manuscript). The University of Texas at Austin.
Horwitz, E. K. (1986). Preliminary evidence for the reliability and validity of a
foreign language anxiety scale. TESOL Quarterly, 20, 559–562.
Horwitz, E. K. (2008). Becoming a language teacher: A practical guide to second
language learning and teaching. Bostton: Pearson Education, Inc.
Horwitz, E. K., Horwitz, M. B., & Cope, J. (1986). Foreign language classroom
anxiety. The Modern Language Journal, 70(2), 125–132.
Krashen, S. D. (1982). Principles and practice in second language acquisition.
Oxford: Pergamon Press.
Krashen, S. D. (1985). The input hypothesis: Issues and implications. London:
Longman.
Long, D., & Graesser, A. (1988). Wit and humor in discourse processing.
Discourse Processes, 11(1), 35–60.
MacIntyre, P. D., & Gardner, R. C. (1989). Anxiety and second-language learning:
Toward a theoretical clariﬁcation. Language Learning, 39(2), 251–275.
Neuliep, J. W. (1991). An examination of the content of high school teachers’
humor in the classroom and the development of an inductively derived taxonomy
of classroom humor. Communication Education, 40(4), 343–355.
Oneliner (2010). Top 100 funniest one-liners on the internet. Retrieved January 8,
2017, from http://www.thejokeyard.com/one_line_jokes/clean_one_liners.html.
Schmitz, J. R. (2002). Humor as a pedagogical tool in foreign language and
translation courses. Humor, 15(1), 89–113.
The Joke Yard. (2004). Clean one liners. Retrieved January 8, 2017, from http://
www.thejokeyard.com/one_line_jokes/clean_one_liners.html.
Wagner, M., & Urios-Aparisi, E. (2008). Pragmatics of humor in the foreign
language classroom: Learning (with) humor. In M. Putz & J. N.-V. Aertselaer
220 Appendix L: A Classroom Observation Log for the Application …
(Eds.), Developing contrastive pragmatics: Interlanguage and cross-cultural per-
spectives (pp. 209–228). New York: Mouton de Gruyter.
Young, D. J. (1991). Creating a low-anxiety classroom environment: What does
language anxiety research suggest? The Modern Language Journal, 75(4), 426–
439.
Appendix L: A Classroom Observation Log for the Application … 221
