Belén López Meirama 15
a verb that belongs to the come-class. The verb in sentence (2.15b) belongs to
the existence-presence-class, while the verb in (2.15c) is from the production-class.
(2.15) a. A mis ojos acudían las lágrimas como temerosas.
Tears would well up in my eyes, as if they were tremulous.’
b. Muy cerca de aquí está el palacio.
‘The palace is very near here.’
c. Y en sus ojos se cristalizaba un recuerdo inefable.
‘And in his/her eyes an ineffable memory was crystallized.’
Secondly, the discussions by Morales de Walters (1982) and Delbecque
(1991) address the question of verb semantics and subject position, and
include mention of psych verbs. The following examples have been taken
from Morales de Walters and correspond to the class labelled by this author
as ‘verbs of psychological reaction’.
(2.16) a. Me fascina la cocina francesa.
me fascinates the cuisine French
‘I love French cuisine.’
b. Nos gusta ver los logros de nuestro trabajo.
us likes to see the fruits of our work
‘We like to see the fruits of our work.’
Examples (2.14–2.16) reveal the need to review both types of construction-
locative and psych verbs, albeit briefly, in order to account for an unmarked
order that does not coincide with the basic word order in Spanish.
With respect to locative verbs, the structure containing a locative verb
illustrated in (2.14b), termed ‘locative inversion’, is considered by many
linguists as a diagnostic of unaccusativity. They posit a series of properties
in Spanish with the purpose of demonstrating the equivalence between
the subject of this structure and the direct object of the transitive sentence.
Such properties, however, fail a detailed analysis, and thus cannot be
adduced as evidence (in this respect, see López Meirama, 1997a, and
Cifuentes Honrubia, 1999).
Against the position that the locative inversion construction is an example
of syntactic unaccusativity, Levin and Rappaport Hovav (1995) provide an
alternative account for the properties of the unaccusative type that this con-
struction exhibits (that is, the postverbal subject and the preverbal locative or
directional element). The key point, in their view, is the discursive function
that the construction serves. In other words, the construction is used as a pre-
sentational type of focus used to introduce the referent of the postverbal NP.
Levin and Rappaport Hovav, as well as Birner (1992, 1994), argue that the
general function of all inversions, including the locative one, is that of using
sentence initial-position to link relatively unfamiliar information to already
familiar information in the discourse. The information represented by
postverbal NPs must always be less familiar – but not necessarily new – than
that represented by preverbal NPs. That is, the locative inversion introduces
less familiar information within the context of more familiar information.
The construction, therefore, is presentational, but in a more general sense
than the one we attribute to this term. The verb in this construction must be
informationally light and, if an appropriate context is provided, it may
belong, at least in principle, to any semantic type of verb (including the
unergative types), although the canonical types are represented by those
referring to existence (for example existir ‘exist’) and appearance (for example
aparecer ‘appear [in the punctual sense]’) because these do not add information
to that conveyed by the preverbal NP.
The following examples illustrate the difference brought about by the
positional change at the discourse level between a subject and a locative
element. This difference is clear with existence and appearance verbs as in
examples (2.17, 2.18) and movement verbs as in examples (2.19, 2.20):
(2.17) a. Allí donde mirase descubría señales de su existencia. Él
habitaba ya de alguna manera entre nosotros.
‘Wherever I looked, I would find signs of his existence.
Somehow, he was already living among us. (SUR: 100, 4)
b. La residencia de Lalín no sólo acoge a los ancianos de la
comarca del Deza … Últimamente en la residencia habitan
también tres niños.
‘The nursing home in Lalín not only admits the aged from the
Deza area. As of late, three children have lived in the nursing
home, too.’ (3VOZ: 32, 2)
(2.18) a. Los recién casados aparecieron poco después en el automóvil
descubierto, abriéndose paso a duras penas en el tumulto.
‘The newly-weds showed up afterwards in the convertible.’
(CRÓNICA: 48, 24)
b. Al llegar a este punto, detrás de nosotros aparecen unas personas
que permanecen de pie. Son nuestros ‘ángeles’ y van a hablar
en nuestro lugar.
‘At this point, behind us, some people show up who remain
standing. They are our “angels”, and are going to talk on our
behalf.’ (JÓVENES: 45, 17)
(2.19) a. … el hecho es que Pablo Vicario entró solo en la pocilga a
buscar los otros cuchillos.
‘… the fact of the matter is that Pablo Vicario walked into the pig
sty by himself to look for the other knives.’ (CRÓNICA: 64, 8)
16 Spanish Word Order
Belén López Meirama 17
b. La luz no regresaba y por las ventanas mal cerradas entró el
silbido del viento.
‘Light was not being restored, and through the badly-shut win-
dows the wind blew in.’ ( JÓVENES: 51, 23)
(2.20) a. Pasa un rato y el niño se despierta. El viejo acude a la alcobita y
consigue volverle a dormir.
‘A while goes by, and the child wakes up. The old man goes to
the bedroom and manages to put him back to sleep.’
(SONRISA: 158, 8)
b. Los niños celíacos de Galicia celebran el domingo su fiesta
anual en Santiago . . . A la fiesta acudirán pequeños de las cua-
tro provincias.
‘The celiac children from Galicia are celebrating their annual
party in Santiago on Sunday. Children from the four provinces
will go to the party.’ (3VOZ: 28, 3)
It is not difficult to see that in the (b) examples, the locative elements convey
to the interlocutor old information or, at least, more familiar or accessible
information than the elements appearing as subjects. Thus, the locative
elements in these examples occupy a topic position (AVS order), whereas in
the (a) examples it is the subject that carries more familiar information and
occurs in topic position. As expected, the subject and topic coincide (SVA
order) in these examples.
Regarding psychological verbs, the structure containing a psychological
verb exemplified in (2.14a) has been accounted for in the literature by
appealing to the notion of the unaccusative construction. Fernández Soriano
(1993: 130), for instance, claims the following:
Another type of verbs, closely linked to the unaccusative verbs seems to dis-
play properties similar to those of the ‘psychological’ verbs, discussed in
Belletti and Rizzi (1987). Succinctly, the hypothesis of these authors is that
verbs such as gustar ‘like’, asustar ‘scare’, preocupar ‘worry’, and so on, also
have ‘internal’ subjects whose basic postverbal position is normally reserved
for the direct objects of transitive verbs accompanied by an agentive subject.
The excessive reductionism of the Unaccusative Hypothesis also manifests
itself in this type of psychological verb construction. Therefore, the conclu-
sions so for advanced are equally applicable in this case. That is, it is possible
to find examples of this construction involving a preverbal subject. Although
such instances do not invalidate the Unaccusative Hypothesis entirely, they
nevertheless strongly suggest that there are several semantic factors at play
regarding constituent order in Spanish. The Arthus corpus provides instances
of the most representative verbs of this group:
(2.21) a. ¿Tienes preferencia por algún pintor concreto? Sí, Sorolla me
gusta muchísimo.
‘Do you have any preference for any painter in particular? Yes,
I like Sorolla a lot.’ (SEVILLA: 279, 30)
b. ¿Qué me pasa? Lo de siempre. Mi estómago vuelve a
molestarme.
‘What’s the matter? The same old story. My stomach is
bothering me again.’ (CARTA: 87, 20)
c. Cuando ríes mucho, algo te pasa.
‘When you laugh a lot, something happens to you.’
(CAIMÁN: 21, 24)
A more promising approach, in our view, is that of Vázquez Rozas (1995, and
Chapter 4 of this volume), according to which the two-argument construction
(subject–indirect object) is considered a non-prototypical two-argument
semantic configuration in that it reveals a low degree of Transitivity based on
the parameters proposed in Hopper and Thompson (1980) (cf. Chapter 1, this
volume). The semantic differences between syntactic patterns of prototypi-
cally transitive clauses and clauses containing a gustar-type-verb construction
can be outlined as in Table 2.1 (adapted from García-Miguel 1995: 94).
18 Spanish Word Order
Table 2.1 Comparison of semantic differences and syntactic patterns of
prototypically transitive clauses sentences v. clauses sentences with a
gustar-type verb construction
Subject-Predicate-Direct Obj Subject-Predicate-Indirect Obj
Dynamic Stative
Non-involuntary subject Involuntary subject
Affected (modified) 2nd argument 2nd argument not affected physically
 Animate 2nd argument Animate 2nd argument
 Animate 1st argument  Animate 1st argument
In fact, some verbs have different features depending on the configuration
in which they are used. As we can see in the following examples from Arthus,
the intransitive meaning, which corresponds to the pattern with indirect
object, shows a departure from a prototypical transitive sentence:
(2.22) a. El ridículo personaje de Action Française admira ahora su propia
obra con orgullo casi paterno. (meaning: ‘to esteem, to value’)
‘The ridiculous character in Action Française now admires his
own work with almost paternal pride.’ (PAISAJES: 78, 29)
Belén López Meirama 19
b. Era Julián el que hablaba, y a David le admiró su valentía para
contradecir al muchacho. (meaning: ‘surprise’)
‘It was Julián who was speaking, and David was amazed at
Julian’s courage in proving the boy wrong.’ (JÓVENES: 140, 32)
(2.23) a. El conquistador invariablemente aprovecha las rivalidades entre los
estados y las divisiones internas. (meaning: ‘take advantage of’)
‘The conqueror invariable takes advantage of the rivalries
among states and internal divisions.’ (TIEMPO: 88, 34)
b. ¿A quién aprovechaba aquel endemoniado desbarajuste?
(meaning: ‘be advantageous’) [lit. to whom was advantageous
that darn mess]
‘Who benefited from that darn mess?’ (PAISAJES: 15, 4)
(2.24) a. Aunque parezca extraño, en el norte pasamos un calor terrible.
(meaning: ‘suffer’)
‘Although it may seem strange, we suffer high temperatures in
the north.’ (MADRID: 116, 7)
b. Siempre me pasan cosas malas. (meaning: ‘happen, occur’)
‘Bad things always happen to me.’ (SUR: 62, 3)
These examples display differences in the animacy of the participants of the
sentences. In the transitive sentences (the [a] examples), the subject is an
animate entity and the object is inanimate. The the intransitive sentences
(the [b] examples), it is the opposite. Moreover, in the examples (2.22a) and
(2.23a) the subject of the transitive acts volitionally, in (2.22b) and (2.23b)
the respective subjects do not exhibit any volition at all.
Definiteness of the subject
Among the semantic properties associated with the constituents of the sen-
tence that favour the appearance of one as a topic, the feature of definiteness
stands out and it has attracted a good deal of attention among many
researchers. An indication of this attention is the coining of the notion
‘Definiteness Effect’. Essentially, definiteness is said to impose on the NP
subject of a sentence the restriction that it must be definite (Belletti 1987:
173). With regard to the order of constituents in a sentence, the Definiteness
Effect means that definite phrases (that is, proper nouns, personal pronouns,
phrases headed by definite determiners or possessives and some quantifiers)
cannot form part of a presentative structure (in English with expletive there),
nor can they be the only argument of a sentence whose verb is unaccusative.
In other words, in Belletti’s view, unaccusative verbs are constructed with an
indefinite subject generated in object (postverbal) position at D-structure,
that is, at deep structure.
Applying this analysis to present-day Spanish, it is easy to find counter-
examples to this principle in the relatively extensive database used for this study.
The following small sample shows that so-called ‘unaccusative verbs’ also
appear with definite subjects, preverbally (2.25) as well as postverbally (2.26):
(2.25) a. Le ofrecí mi vida a cambio de tu salvación. Yo moriría antes de
cumplir los diez años.
‘I offered him/her my life in exchange for your salvation. I
would die before turning ten.’ (SUR: 22, 25)
b. La historia ocurrió antes de 1930.
‘The story happened before 1930.’ (HISTORIAS: 101, 10)
c. Es el atardecer. El día va a decaer. Tu vecina pasa.
‘It is getting dark. The day is going to fade. Your neighbour
walks by.’ (DIEGO: 87, 19)
(2.26) a. ANA. – Estábamos contentos y teníamos miedo.
‘We were happy and scared.’
TEO. – Claro, había muerto Franco.
‘Of course. Franco had died.’ (AYER: 50, 14)
b. [Fue] una imposición militar extranjera la que estableció el
comunismo en Polonia. Ocurrió lo mismo, con pequeñas
variantes, en Checoslovaquia.
‘It was a foreign military imposition which established com-
munism in Poland. The same happened, with small variations,
in Czechoslovakia.’ (TIEMPO: 195, 31)
c. Ha pasado la medianoche y el tiempo es tormentoso.
‘Midnight has passed, and the weather is stormy.’
(COARTADA: 23, 3)
On the other hand, it is questionable to justify the postverbal position of an
indefinite subject on the grounds of verb class, since it would be difficult to
account for the instances of indefinite subject NPs with verbs that are con-
sidered unergative, such as the examples in (2.27):
(2.27) a. A esa hora asoman una tras otra las estrellas y canta lejos
alguien que vuelve del campo.
‘At that time, the stars come out one after the other, and, in
the distance, somebody coming back from the countryside
sings.’ (SONRISA: 322, 23)
b. Ahora estudia mucha gente.
‘Now many people study.’ (MADRID: 151, 19)
c. Ladra un perro; ladra agresivamente.
‘A dog is barking. It is barking aggressively.’ (DIEGO: 88, 22)
20 Spanish Word Order
Belén López Meirama 21
These examples, however, are not direct counterexamples to the Definiteness
Effect. Instead, they reveal two fundamental drawbacks that weaken it. The
first is that it is presented as a rule but in fact reflects a tendency: in Spanish,
definite phrases do not obligatorily precede the verb nor do non-definite
ones follow it, although oftentimes this is the case. The second drawback is
that the restriction is linked exclusively to verb class, when actually we are
dealing with a semantic feature linked to the subject argument. This is why
the tendency towards postposing non-definite phrases is detected in both
unaccusative and unergative structures, as evidenced in the examples we
have seen so far.
In fact, at the time when Milsark (1974, 1977) established the notion of
the ‘Definiteness Principle’, the so-called ‘thematic hierarchies’ or ‘topicality
hierarchies’ began to proliferate.11
These hierarchies make it evident that the
tendency for an argument to function as Topic (that is, to occupy a sentence-
initial position) is directly related to certain semantic features of the argu-
ments, such as animacy and definiteness. Such features cannot be reduced to
a dichotomy. In other words, the influence of definiteness on the tendencies
found in argument pre-or postplacement cannot be accounted by means of a
purely formal interpretation based on a definite–indefinite binary opposition.
In our view, it is clearly advantageous to adopt a logical tradition to gram-
matical studies, in which definiteness is interpreted as that which is identifi-
able. We can, for example, appeal to theoretical usefulness in explaining
definiteness within the more general framework of reference. Thus, we can
easily justify why a definite referential subject is more likely to occupy a topi-
cal position and a non-referential subject more likely to occupy a non-topical
position. Givón (1984: 434) states that the reason for this is that human
communication fundamentally (or prototypically) deals with real events and
individual referential entities. Likewise, humans typically talk about animate
and agentive entities that control some action, hence the propensity to orga-
nize sentences primarily around real and concrete entities identifiable in
discourse by the interlocutor. Moreover, it is specific individuals (rather than
types or classes) that carry out actions. This tendency can be visualized
through the hierarchy in Table 2.2.
Therefore, proper nouns occupy the highest position in the hierarchy
since they are inherently definite, which accounts for the high frequency
with which they appear in preverbal position. In addition to proper nouns,
Table 2.2 (In)definiteness, (non-)referentiality
and topichood
Definite Indefinite Non-Referential
Topic
personal and demonstrative pronouns and phrases with demonstrative
determiners share the highest position in the hierarchy. As the examples in
(2.28) illustrate, the NPs occupying the highest position in the hierarchy
appear in preverbal position:
(2.28) a. Toniolo murió enseguida, la malaria.
‘Toniolo died very quickly, malaria.’ (SONRISA: 163, 31)
b. Inf. A. – Mm. Nosotros hablamos a la mañana. ¿Te acordás?
‘Uhm. We talked in the morning, remember?’ (BAIRES: 42, 1)
c. ¿Puedo lavarme las manos? Las llevo manchadas de pintura y
esto delata más que nada.
‘Can I wash my hands? I have paint on them, which gives one
away more than anything else.’ (HOMBRE: 21, 11)
d. Estas heridas sanarán dentro de unos días.
‘These wounds will heal in a few days.’ (ZORRA: 44, 13)
At the other end of the hierarchy, we find determiner-less NPs, or NPs
without determiners or modifiers (bare nouns), usually employed to convey
the generic sense. These occupy a non-topic position. The Arthus data provide
numerous instances of bare NPs of one-argument sentences in postverbal
position and some are listed in (2.29) (see also 2.2b above):
(2.29) a. Pasaban con altoparlantes y después empezó a desfilar gente
con las banderas.
‘They were passing with bullhorns, and then people carrying
flags started to parade.’ (BAIRES: 74, 10)
b. Apenas quedaba ya luz en la habitación.
‘There was hardly any light left in the room anymore.’
(CAIMÁN: 74, 13)
c. Empieza a soplar viento. Una nueva tormenta parece acercarse.
‘The wind is beginning to blow. A new storm seems to be
approaching.’ (2INFAN: 90, 15)
In López Meirama (1997a), we supply and comment in detail on statistical
data with reference to one-argument sentences. Summarizing those findings,
we found roughly 85 per cent preplacement of subjects that were relatively
high on the hierarchy (those with a proper noun, a personal pronoun or a
deictic determiner), and around 90 per cent postplacement of subjects
relatively low on the hierarchy (noun phrases without determiner). Such
findings underscore the argument we have proposed that the placement of
the subject relative to the verb is not only a matter of verbal semantics. It is
for this reason that we propose speaking of unergative and unaccusative
construction types rather than of unergative and unaccusative verbs.
22 Spanish Word Order
Belén López Meirama 23
This approach also allows the consideration of other significant factors that
affect subject order, a key one of which is variable definiteness of the subject.
Discourse-pragmatic factors
Introduction
Unlike the wider range of interlinguistic variability in the ordering of
syntactic elements – typology, for example, has established three fundamen-
tal types of basic word orders for transitive sentences: SOV, SVO and VSO –
ordering on the discourse-pragmatic level is more homogeneous. Thus, the
sequence theme–rheme is the most natural order, that is the least marked
order, in the majority of world languages. Some linguists have formalized
this fact. For instance, Bossong’s (1980: 51) ‘principe de linéarisation thémato-
rhématique’, or Tomlin’s (1986) ‘Theme First Principle’ would govern basic
word order, along with other functional principles.
It is doubtless the case that Spanish follows this principle, and that as
Reyes (1985: 577–8) points out, the theme–rheme pattern tends to prevail
even at the expense of the subject–predicate syntactic pattern. This means
that although theme and subject frequently coincide, there are many exam-
ples in which the theme of the sentence is a functional element other than
a subject. In the previous section we discussed that certain semantic features
contribute to word-order flexibility. In this section we examine the extent to
which word-order variation in Spanish depends on discourse-pragmatic
factors.
From a discourse-pragmatic viewpoint, the sentence-initial slot is unques-
tionably a ‘privileged’ position. We shall propose that this position is used
for different discourse-pragmatic purposes, mainly for preserving discursive
cohesion and for accommodating given (or presupposed) information.
Moreover, the sentence-initial position is used for emphasis, since it is an
intonationally prominent position. At the same time, it is also true that the
discourse-pragmatic functions linked to sentence-initial position can also be
rendered through other means. That is, given that new or given information
relates to the structure of the text and to other factors such as ellipsis and
anaphora, its status is not only expressed by its relative position within the
sentence. Furthermore, intonation plays a significant role in emphasizing
expression, thus implying that, theoretically, an element can be emphasized
in any position in a sentence. Later in this section we provide an analysis of
the most relevant cases of marked positioning of subjects due to emphasis.
A good number of studies on word order analyse the distribution of ele-
ments as a manifestation of specific discourse-pragmatic functions in such a
way that a given position is associated with a particular function at the
discourse-pragmatic level. As it relates to sentence-initial position, such an
approach is not without its problems. At its best, it renders partial analyses
that leave many cases unaccounted for. In our view, it is desirable to develop
a theory that allows for the interweaving of all the relevant factors for
subject order relative to the verb without blurring them.
With particular regard to the notion of theme (and the theme–rheme
structure), however, many definitions have been advanced and various
semantic and pragmatic properties have been associated with them. To illus-
trate, we highlight those that we believe are the most common: ‘that which
is spoken about, that which the sentence is about’, ‘known or given infor-
mation’, ‘presupposed information’, ‘element around which the interest
of the speaker is centred’, ‘determined or generic element’, ‘element that
begins the sentence / preposed to the verb / dislocated to the right or left’. Of
all these, the undoubtedly most extended definition is the first one. Hidalgo
(2003: 39) notes in this respect that the meaning of aboutness ‘appears in
practically all the definitions of the notion [of theme] that are found in the
writings and the models that have treated the question’. Hidalgo (2003: 39)
finds this important because it ‘reflects the relationship of the term to the
pretheoretical and intuitive notion of the term as used in common usage, as
“theme or matter which something is about”, such as a book or a movie, that
is, a specific fragment of discourse’.12
This will be the concept of theme we will work with in this chapter. In
adopting such a general definition as ‘what is spoken about’ or ‘what we
speak about’ allows us to associate it with different discourse-pragmatic func-
tions. In general, ‘we’ (in the generic sense) speak of that which is given,
presupposed, or inferable information. Discourse will be coherent if what is
spoken about allows us to link what will be communicated with what has
already been communicated. However, the theme can be sometimes an
element that a speaker wants to highlight, and does not have to be necessar-
ily given or inferable information. Later in the chapter we analyse the most
relevant cases of marked theme in Spanish.
The theme and other discourse-pragmatic functions
The presence of different discourse-pragmatic functions associated with
syntactic elements has been a constant point of debate in the grammatical
tradition surrounding the Spanish language, although it has generally been
discussed from an impressionistic viewpoint. In particular, some manuals of
grammar provide a definition of the sentence that is not strictly syntactic,
whereby the subject–predicate distinction is comparable to the theme–rheme
dichotomy (which further implies that subject and theme coincide in
unmarked cases). That is, grammarians have long believed that speakers
mold the information into fully meaningful units that in turn are divided
into two segments. Functional Grammar has overcome the limitations of
traditional grammar by separating the syntactic level from the discourse-
pragmatic (or informational) one (see, for instance, Dik, 1978, and Givón,
1984). With respect to the latter level, we espouse Halliday’s concept of
thematic structure (as opposed to syntactic structure), whereby a sentence is
divided into theme and rheme.
24 Spanish Word Order
Belén López Meirama 25
However, the distinction between the syntactic and discourse-pragmatic
levels cannot per se clearly establish the concept of theme since, as we have
pointed out, the element the sentence is about (which in Spanish occupies
the preverbal position) is generally the initial position and associated with
different informational factors.13
It would, therefore, be convenient to
clearly differentiate these factors from one another. In other words, the the-
matic or preverbal position is discourse-pragmatically relevant, and speakers
use it for several communicative purposes.
Old/given information
The sentence-initial position is often occupied by given (or old) information,
which has led to its being identified with the theme, a view that attained
great prestige especially in the 1970s, thanks to the work by the Prague
School, and the so-called ‘functional sentence perspective’. Among the
authors that have applied this perspective to the word order in Spanish
are Contreras (1976), Silva-Corvalán (1977), Delbecque (1979), Morales de
Walters (1982) and de Miguel (1989).
Identifying given or old information with the theme has a serious drawback:
the distinction between old and new information does not constitute a
dichotomy but rather a continuum, whereas the theme–rheme structure is
binary, since the placing of an element in a sentence can only be preverbal or
postverbal. Silva-Corvalán (1984: 4), for instance, claims that ‘even though it is
possible that there is no old/new information continuum, these values are
surely relative’. That is, the information can be more or less old or new, and
word order ‘responds to the relative values of newness of the information’
(1984: 4).
Along similar lines, Mendieta and Medina (1997: 459) analyse the
notion of ‘pragmatic function’ among the variables used in their analysis of
preverbal objects. The authors argue for the existence of four different func-
tions, which are defined in terms of their degree of newness, and which are
ordered along a four-point continuum: (a) the relation function; (b) lexical
cohesion by repetition; (c) lexical cohesion by association; and (d) rhematic
anteposition. In the first three cases, a preverbal object introduces given
information (although in [c] the information is old for been deduced from
the text or the situation), whereas in the fourth case (d) (rhematic anteposition)
an object introduces new information.
In fact, there are many examples in which the identification between
theme and given information is untenable as shown in the following exam-
ples (the first one appears in Mendieta and Medina [1997: 461]) (for this sec-
tion, we have underlined the item that occupies a thematic position):
(2.30) a. … pero no les aconsejo que vayan allí, porque las chinches las
sacan a peso.
‘… but I advise you not to go there, because bedbugs they take
out by the truckload.’ (México, p. 100)
b. ¡Madonna, déjame vivir un mes más que el Cantanotte, por
favour! ¡Un cirio te llevaré, el más gordo que encuentre!
‘Madonna, let me live one month more in the Cantanotte,
please! A candle I will bring you, the fattest one I can find!’
(SONRISA: 98, 4)
c. NÉSTOR – Espera. Yo querría saber, Rufina, si Charito puede
seguir yendo a los ensayos.
‘Wait. I wanted to know, Rufina, if Carlos may continue going
to rehearsal.’
RUFINA – Que haga lo que quiera. Remedio ya no tiene.
‘He can do whatever he wants. It’s hopeless now.’ (CAIMÁN: 78, 5)
Examples (2.30b) and (2.30c) support the hypothesis put forward by
Mendieta and Medina (1997: 461) that preverbal objects introducing new
information tend to be associated with the feature [-definite]. This hypothe-
sis is by no means original. The association between the feature [definite]
of an argument and its capacity to express old/new information has already
been addressed in studies on word order since thematic hierarchies began to
spring up. In these hierarchies, however, the relationship is extended to the
theme–rheme dichotomy, and can be represented as in Table 2.3.
26 Spanish Word Order
Table 2.3 The theme–rheme dichotomy
Theme Rheme
Old information New information
[definite] [definite]
Nevertheless, the possibility that a non-definite element may function as
theme in Spanish has led some researchers to reject the conceptualization of
theme as ‘given information’ and replace it with others. For instance, Reyes
(1985) argues that the notion of given information is rather imprecise and
that it would be clearer to use the notion of presupposed information,14
which, in her view, encompasses all the degrees of mutual knowledge
between speaker and hearer, and allows one to integrate the representation
of unknown entities or individuals into the concept of theme. Zubizarreta
(1999: 4,219), in turn, defines theme as ‘what the sentence is about’, and
claims the following:
It should be noted that an indefinite phrase … can also function as
theme … We know that the indefinite nominal phrase (unlike the defi-
nite one) introduces new information. This proves that the dichotomy
of new vs. old information is not appropriate to define the theme of a
sentence.
Belén López Meirama 27
Moreover, the new/old dichotomy is not reflected only in word order, since
it is related to other grammatical aspects of languages, such as ellipsis and
anaphora.
In light of these considerations, we conclude that, even though the ele-
ment spoken about (the theme of the sentence) constitutes frequently known
information, one should not make the exclusive identification between
theme given/known information. As Hidalgo (2003: 60) notes, ‘the informa-
tional status of discourse referents [their nature as given or new] is a dis-
course notion, clearly differentiated from the function of theme, understood
in the sense of “aboutness”, because of which one cannot identify one aspect
with the other in the organization of discourse’.
Discourse cohesion
Closely related to the discussion so far is the notion of theme as a cohesive
element that is necessary for the text (understood as an informational unit)
to be constructed coherently, as pointed out by Silva-Corvalán’:
The progression from the known to the unknown information creates
cohesion in discourse. Therefore, when C (the complement) represents
the known information in a sentence, whether because its referent has
been evoked or inferred, it is placed in initial position, where it serves a
textual-linking function (translation by the editors). (1984: 6)
The claim that sentence-initial position is where cohesive elements are
usually placed is bolstered by the fact that connectors, whether they are
syntactic or discursive, normally occupy this position, at least in Spanish,
adding a sense of connection, continuity, and, therefore, coherence to the
text, as we can see in the following examples:
(2.31) a. No sé si ayer estabas en la reunión.
‘I don’t know if yesterday you were in the meeting.’
b. Escuché muchas veces aquella melodía que tanto habíamos
amado.
‘Many times I listened to that melody that we had loved so
much.’
With respect to the notion of theme and thematic structure, there is no
identification between these concepts and that of the term ‘cohesive ele-
ment’, although the initial position is frequently used for this function. This
can be demonstrated by the positional tendencies of adjuncts. Consider, for
instance, the sentences in (2.32), in which the theme repeats what has been
mentioned immediately before:
(2.32) a. Había dos asignaturas que eran una rémora en la carrera, era el
Latín, por una parte, y el Arte. El Arte no había más remedio
que aprobarlo.
‘There were two courses that were an obstacle in our degree:
Latin, on one hand, and Art, on the other hand. Art, you just
had to pass it.’ (SEVILLA: 202, 39)
b. Mi padre no era de aquí, pero vivió casi toda su vida en Sevilla.
‘My father was not from here, but lived almost all his life in
Seville.’
¿Y tu madre?
‘And your mother.’
Mi madre creo que nació aquí.
‘My mother, I think she was born here.’ (SEVILLA: 275, 13)
We also find cases, given in (2.33), in which the theme is syntactically
disconnected with the sentence it begins, but where the cohesiveness of the
sentence containing the elements is unquestionable:
(2.33) Inf B. – ¡Yo tengo unos líos!, que ya no sé ni medir los versos,
fíjate.
‘I am so confused that I don’t even know anymore how to
measure the verses, imagine!’
Inf. A. – Eso te coges cualquier libro, cualquier manual.
‘[For] that, you get yourself any book, any manual.’
(MADRID: 410, 5)
Therefore, there is an undeniably close relationship between sentence-initial
position and discursive coherence, but we repeat that such a link cannot lead
us to an absolute link between theme and a cohesive element. Cohesion can
also be achieved through means other than word order, such as intonation
or the use of deictic elements, particularly anaphoric elements.
Emphasis
The discursive importance of the sentence-initial position also surfaces when
a speaker employs it to emphasize a particular element. Jiménez Juliá (2000)
claims that the theme has a potentially contrastive function, since it implies
a choice of one over another, and thus it is ‘very likely to carry the intona-
tional focus at a given moment, according to M.A.K. Halliday’s description’
(2000: 156, translated from the original).
Halliday defines focus as the ‘point of prominence within the message’
(1967: 203); that is, the element that receives the most intonational emphasis
as a result of heightened informational interest on the part of the speaker.
Halliday claims that a speaker presents the focus as a non-recoverable
element from the preceding discourse, that is, it is considered new information.
In any case, it is indisputable that theme and focus are not synonymous.
We merely point out that an emphasized element very frequently occupies
28 Spanish Word Order
Belén López Meirama 29
the rheme (that is, postverbal) position, as illustrated in the following examples
(the focus appears in small capitals):
(2.34) a. Y aún pienso que podré resistir mucho más, ir más allá de
donde pueda ir cualquier mujer, acercarme a las fieras, a su
orgullosa autosuficiencia. Quiero abastecerme YO MISMA de
libertad y de aventura.
‘And I still think that I will not be able to hang on much longer,
go beyond where any woman can go, approach the beasts, their
prideful self-sufficiency. I want to stock up on freedom and
adventure MYSELF.’ (ZORRA: 30, 1)
b. Y la acompañé, o me acompañó ELLA a mí, en la noche sin
tiempo.
‘And I accompanied her, or SHE accompanied me into the
timeless night.’ (CAIMÁN: 71, 15)
However, we must reiterate that the functions of theme and focus are not
mutually exclusive. Since two features that allow us to identify the focus are
on one hand, a marked (that is, unexpected) position within a sentence, and
on the other hand, intonational emphasis, it seems clear that a marked
theme can become the focus of the predication. Later in this section we will
discuss specifically the marked theme. For now, we focus on the most
relevant cases of a marked theme in Spanish.
The thematic structure of Spanish
As we have already pointed out, we take the thematic structure to be a binary
mechanism of distributing information through which a theme is presented
and something about it, that is, the rheme, is predicated. This informational
structure is superimposed, as it were, onto the semantic and syntactic struc-
ture in the sense that the elements in the informational structure also make
up these semantic and syntactic structures. However, these three structures
(syntactic, semantic and informational) do not exist independently of one
another, but rather are interconnected in all languages. Apart from the
semantic tier, a sentence is thus the result of the superimposition of two
structures: the semantic and the informational. In a nominative-accusative
language such as Spanish, it is not uncommon that both theme and subject
coincide, as illustrated in Table 2.4.
Table 2.4 The overlay between thematic and syntactic
structure
Thematic structure Theme Rheme
Syntactic structure SUBJ PRED DO IO
Due to this, researchers usually regard a prototypical sentence as one in
which the subject is the element spoken about. Thus, in grammars (for
example in that of the Academia, 1973), we find examples such as El niño
duerme en la cuna, ‘The child sleeps in the crib’, or Juan dio una limosna a
nuestro vecino, ‘Juan gave some money to our neighbour’, in which El niño and
Juan are both subject and theme. However, it is debatable how respresentative
such sentences are in Spanish, given that it is more frequent to find other
structures, especially in oral texts, such as aquí duermo ‘here I sleep’, le pegó
una paliza ‘s/he beat him/her up’, or Por asuntos comerciales viajaba mucho mi
hermano mayor entre España y América ‘For commercial reasons, my older
brother would travel a lot between Spain and America’ (in Academia, 1973).
In this regard, we make the following two observations.
First, not all sentences in Spanish are thematic, nor do they respond to the
theme–rheme structure. The reason for this is that the morphological system
of Spanish is rich enough to be able to do without obligatory full NPs or
overt subject pronouns once they have been introduced into discourse. This
is frequently observed in the case of the subject, which is the first candidate
to occupy a thematic position, as pointed out earlier. In fact, the majority of
subjects in Spanish are ‘morphological’.15
Consider the following fragment
from Crónica de una muerte anunciada [Chronicle of a Death Foretold], by
Gabriel García Márquez:
Bayardo San Román, el hombre que devolvió a la esposa, había venido por
primera vez en agosto del año anterior: seis meses antes de la boda. Llegó
en el buque semanal con unas alforjas guarnecidas de plata que hacían
juego con las hebillas de la correa y las argollas de los botines. Andaba por
los treinta años, pero muy bien escondidos, pues tenía una cintura
angosta de novillero, los ojos dorados, y la piel cocinada a fuego por el
salitre. Llegó con una chaqueta corta y un pantalón muy estrecho, ambos
de becerro natural, y unos guantes de cabritilla del mismo color. Magdalena
Oliver había venido con él en el buque y no pudo quitarle la vista de
encima durante el viaje.
‘Bayardo San Román, the man who had given the wife back, had come
for the first time in August of the previous year: six months before the
wedding. He came on the weekly boat with silver-adorned saddlebags
that matched the buckles on his belt and the rings on his ankle boots. He
was around 30 years old, but concealed his age very well, because he had
the narrow waist of a bullfighter, golden eyes, and skin broiled by salt-
peter. He came wearing a short jacket and tight-fitting pants, both made
of authentic calfskin, and a pair of kidskin gloves of the same color.
Magdalena Oliver had come with him on the boat, and had not been able
to take her eyes off him during the voyage.’
In the text, there are seven predicates, marked in boldface, which function as
nuclei of their respective sentences. Among these sentences, only the first
30 Spanish Word Order
Belén López Meirama 31
and the penultimate ones satisfy the characterization according to which the
subject and the theme are the same argument as unmarked cases. The other
five sentences illustrate the abundance of athematic structures in Spanish:
note that once a topic has been introduced into discourse, it is not nor-
mally expressed again by an overt NP or pronoun for several sentences
(cf. Comajoan, Chapter 3 of this volume, for details).
Second, Table 2.4 represents the unmarked theme, which as expected
coincides with the subject. However, as just noted, the morphological
richness of Spanish may be what underlies the separation of Spanish syntac-
tic and thematic structure: the position of an NP within the sentence is not
an identifying feature of the subject, except in extreme cases, such as
modernización significa abolición del pasado / abolición del pasado significa
modernización ‘modernization means abolition of the past / abolition of the
past means modernization’. Thus, the theme is not necessarily the subject
and often may be the DO or IOs, as in (2.35):
(2.35) a. A Juan lo he visto en el supermercado.
OBJ Juan him.ACC have.1s seen in the supermarket.
‘Juan I saw in the supermarket.’
b. A mi gata le pica la herida.
OBJ my cat her.DAT itches the wound
‘My cat’s wound itches.’
Having made these preliminary remarks, let us now discuss the issue of themes
coinciding with elements of a sentence other than the subject. Given that the
distributional possibilities of constituents in Spanish are many, we will limit our-
selves to discussing the most representative cases. More specifically, we will focus
on what might be considered a prototypical sentence (that is, independent,
active, declarative, affirmative) and examine cases of thematization of the DO.
In general, when the literature refers to thematized DOs, it provides
examples such as (2.35a). In fact, an examination of a large corpus of present-
day Spanish reveals that this example represents the most common type of
DO thematization, as illustrated in examples in (2.36), extracted from Arthus:
(2.36) a. El dinero lo puso Arturo, naturalmente.
the money it.ACC put Arturo of course
‘The money Arturo put it in, of course.’ (AYER: 67, 18)
b. Este muelle lo construyó mi padre antes de que yo
naciera.
this dock it.ACC constructed my father before that I was.born
‘This dock my father built it before I was born.’ (CINTA: 32, 12)
c. Al parque lo habían invadido las grandes hierbas locas.
the park it.ACC had invaded the big grasses crazy
‘The park, the big crazy grasses had invaded it.’ (DIEGO: 146, 15)
This type of construction exhibits two basic features that are normally
underscored by researchers who have analysed it: first, the existence of
pronominal reduplication (Suñer, 1988, and García-Miguel, 1991, among
others, speak of an agreement marker); second, a postverbal subject. We
might thus claim that theoretically a monotransitive sentence presents two
possible distributions of subject and object: SVO (unmarked), and OVS
(marked). Nevertheless, the following observations are in order. First, note
that most instances of preverbal object are accompanied by non-overt sub-
ject. That is, the subject is exclusively expressed by morphological means,
since it is usually considered known information. The examples (2.37)
corroborate this point:
(2.37) a. ¿Te gustan los toros? A mí no. No, a mí me cansan.
‘Do you like bullfights? Not me. No, they tire me.’
(SEVILLA: 30, 30)
b. Esa parte de la historia la conozco mejor.
‘That part of the story I know it better.’ (PASAJERO: 63, 2)
c. El «Ya» lo leíamos en casa los domingos.
‘«Ya» we used to read it at home on Sundays.’ (MADRID: 82, 17)
Hatcher (1956) employs the abbreviation ‘O lo V’ to identify this con-
struction. Given that overt subject deletion also occurs when the DO occu-
pies a rhematic position, we should refine our nomenclature for accuracy:
SVO/VO is an unmarked order in a transitive sentence, whereas OVS/OV (or,
in Hatcher’s terms, O–lo–VS / O–lo–V) is a marked sequence, resulting from
DO thematization.
Secondly, with a lexically realized subject, DO thematization often takes
place alongside a postverbal subject, but not in all cases, which means that
the thematic position may be occupied by both arguments. Thus, in Spanish
there are other possibilities of constituent distribution apart from the ones
discussed earlier. In the examples in (2.38), the two elements that make up
what we call the multiple theme are numbered with a subscript:16
(2.38) OSV
a. El artículo de Fillmore1 yo2 lo podría haber elaborado mucho
mejor.
‘Fillmore1’s article2 I could have developed it better.’
(BAIRES: 36, 38)
b. Pero a a Emilia1 esta idea2 no acababa de hacerla feliz.
‘But Emilia1 this idea2 didn’t make her totally happy.’
(LABERINTO: 148, 21)
(2.39) SOV
a. ¿El árabe? Yo1 el árabe2 lo aprobé con éste, con P.
32 Spanish Word Order
Belén López Meirama 33
‘Arabic? Well, Arabic1 I2 passed it with this guy, with P.’
(MADRID: 418, 3)
b. Una buena alfombra1, como una buena capa, todo2 lo tapa.
‘A good carpet1, like a good cloak, covers everything2.’
(HOTEL: 31, 34)
There are even cases in which a speaker changes the relative order of both
thematic elements, as shown in the example in (2.40), where the speaker
wavers when constructing the subject:
(2.40) Pues ha cambiado todo, porque a mí estos … , esta construcción
de ladrillos1 a mí2 me enferma.
‘Well, everything has changed, because me, this … , this brick
construction1 makes me2 sick. (MADRID: 269, 31)
On the other hand, some studies on themes in Spanish argue that the
theme can be in external position of the sentence, which has led researchers
to establish different types of themes, and even to distinguish theme from
another discourse-pragmatic function. The first approach is found in
Zubizarreta (1999: 4,218–24), who, following Cinque (1983), claims that the
‘theme of the sentence’ becomes grammaticalized through two constructions:
the Hanging Topic construction and Left-Dislocation. The second approach
is epitomized by López García (1996), who distinguishes theme from topic
and claims that ‘the theme merely represents a modification of the gradual
order of informational succession of the elements in the sentence’, whereas
‘the topic entails a privative view based on configurationality’ (1996: 486
translated from the original).
The analysis of a large corpus of real texts in modern Spanish reveals that
the dissociation of the theme from a syntactic structure belongs almost
exclusively to the realm of colloquial Spanish (since it is practically inexis-
tent in narratives), and it appears to varying degrees. What follows is a syn-
opsis of the most relevant types of dissociation found in our corpus.
The theme can be separated from a sentence by means of a pause,17
although our data reveal that, unless the theme is used in a spoken language
(or in texts that imitate it, such as dialogues in novels and plays), a pause is pri-
marily used for prosodic reasons when the theme is long, as shown in (2.41):
(2.41) a. A un chico a quien se le escapara un chiste atrevido o un taco
delante de una señorita, se le catalogaba inmediatamente
como un grosero.
‘Any boy who would let an off-color joke or a swear word slip
out before a young lady one immediately would brand him a
rude person.’ (USOS: 194, 10)
b. Lo que hizo la Reforma protestante en la esfera de las creencias
y los sentimientos religiosos, lo ha hecho la Unión Americana
en la esfera secular.
‘What the Protestant Reform did in the realm of religious
beliefs and feelings, the American Union has achieved in the
secular realm.’ (TIEMPO: 37, 9)
There is sometimes a discrepancy between the element in thematic
position and the coreferential clitic pronoun, as in (2.42):
(2.42) a. Encuestador: ¿Pero no crees que para esto de la medicina hay
que tener mucha sangre fría también?
Researcher: ‘But don’t you think that in this medicine business
one has to be a coolheaded person, too?’
Inf. – Sí; pero eso la adquieres a lo largo del tiempo.
‘Yes, but that you acquire over time.’ (MADRID: 133, 11)
b. Creo que consigue muchas cosas por su inteligencia y otras
muchas cosas lo consigue por su dinero.
‘I think that s/he gets many things because of his/her intelli-
gence and many other things s/he gets it through his/her
money.’ (MADRID: 97, 18)
c. Los estudios superiores me dices que lo hiciste aquí en la
Facultad.
‘Your studies in higher education you’re telling me that you
did it here in the school.’ (SEVILLA: 41, 4)
That is, in all these examples, there is a lack of grammatical gender and/or
number agreement between the lexical DO and the corresponding doubled
pronoun: eso – la ‘that-NEUT’ – it-FEM’, otras muchas cosas – lo ‘many other
things-FEM – it-MASC’, and los estudios superiores – lo ‘higher education
studies-MASC – it-MASC’.
We also find a certain degree of dissociation when the preverbal element is
a DO without the expected DO marker a, that is, an animate DO without the
prescriptively obligatory personal a.
(2.43) a. Mis amigos de la Universidad los adoro todavía.
‘My friends from college I still adore them.’ (SEVILLA: 255, 29)
b. De todas formas, muchos de los actores de ahora los conocemos
a través de la televisión.
‘Anyway, many of today’s actors we know them through TV.’
(MADRID: 276, 4)
34 Spanish Word Order
Belén López Meirama 35
c. Porque, no sé, los demás los encuentro muy distanciados.
‘Because, I don’t know, the others I find them rather distant.’
(SEVILLA: 58, 13)
The dissociation is even clearer when the thematized element is not the DO
of a transitive sentence, as in the examples in (2.44):
(2.44) a. Y ¿la enseñanza media? La enseñanza media fui a una academia.
‘And secondary education? [For my] secondary education I
went to an academy.’ (SEVILLA: 273, 9)
b. La gente universitaria está mucho más unida, de forma que
Granada, por ejemplo, vas en tiempo de curso o en tiempo de
vacación y notas una diferencia enorme.
‘College people are much closer to one another, so Granada, for
example, you go [there] during the period of classes, or over a
break, and you notice an enormous difference.’ (SEVILLA: 160, 2)
Examples in (2.43) and (2.44) suggest that in extreme cases the theme may
become an element outside of a sentence, an element that is similar to
conjunctive adjuncts and modals in Halliday’s (1985) sense. In our view,
however, the significant difference between these types of elements must
be taken into consideration: the discourse-pragmatic value (more specifically,
the informational value) of adjuncts is exclusively cohesive. Although these
thematized elements qualify as being ‘spoken about’ within the sentence, they
cannot be identified with any of the sentence’s arguments because they are
not marked as such.
Nevertheless, we should bear in mind that these examples almost exclu-
sively belong to spoken language, which is characterized by constructional
immediacy. This sense of urgency sometimes generates what is called
Anacoluthon. That is, since the thematic position in unmarked cases is occu-
pied by the subject argument, and given that the subject in Spanish lacks
formal marking (for example, prepositions), it follows that a speaker may
associate non-marking of an element with the grammatical relation of
subject. As a result, a speaker sometimes begins his/her utterance with a
noun phrase, although he/she then constructs a sequence in which that
phrase should be introduced by a linking particle (en/durante la enseñanza
media ‘in/during secondary education’; a Granada ‘to Granada’).18
In order to support this account, we offer examples in which an element
that functions as theme is introduced by a marking that does not correspond
to the meaning of the construction. For example, as the speaker in (2.45)
goes along, s/he changes the syntactic structure with which s/he expresses
the content s/he wants to communicate. In (2.45), the speaker begins with
con Jacqueline ‘with Jacqueline’ as the theme and then marks this adjunct
clause as an indirect object in se le ha creado demasiado mito ‘one has created
to her to much myth’:
(2.45) Es que con Jacqueline creo que se le ha creado demasiado mito y
no se la considera ya como una mujer igual que las demás.
‘It’s that with Jacqueline I think one has created around her a lot
of myth, and she is not considered a woman like the others.’
(MADRID: 97, 25)
Another typical feature of spoken language is that the theme can be
introduced by specific marking. In this regard, López García (1996: 485),
following Metzeltin (1990), distinguishes what he calls a topicalizer, such as
en lo referente a ‘with regard to’, en lo tocante a ‘with respect to’, ‘as for’, en
relación con ‘in relation to’, and so on, from the lexical expression of its top-
icalized nature, which is realized through expressions like hablando de
‘speaking of’, la cuestión es que ‘the thing is that’, and so on. Similarly,
Zubizarreta (1999: 4,220–1) points out that what she calls hanging topics can
be optionally preceded by the expressions en cuanto a ‘as for’ and con respecto a
‘with respect to.’ It seems clear, then, that this way of marking an element
implies a disassociation between the theme and the internal syntactic
structure of the sentence. Some examples from Arthus are given in (2.46):
(2.46) a. En cuanto al grupo cuarto, cabe destacar que lo encabezan el
Ignacio Gago y el San Mamed.
‘As for the fourth group, we should mention that it is led by
Ignacio Gago and San Mamed.’ (1VOZ: 51, 6)
b. La carrera en cuanto dificultad de, de superarla, de sacarla creo
que no tiene problema mayor.
‘The degree, as far as difficulty of, of bettering it and complet-
ing it is concerned, I don’t think it’s a big problem.’
(MADRID: 100, 13)
c. En cuanto a la Virgen, todos, creo, que estamos de acuerdo. La
más representativa de Sevilla es La Macarena.
‘As for the Virgin [Mary], all of us, I think, agree. The most
representative [Virgin] of Seville is La Macarena.’
(SEVILLA: 40, 25)
Another property that Zubizarreta considers typical of the hanging topic,
and one which differentiates it from left-dislocation, is that ‘the relationship
between the theme and a certain sentence-internal position is that of
coreferentiality; there cannot be a relationship of grammatical dependence’
(1999: 4,224, translated from the original). This entails that within a sentence
we can find not only a clitic (example 2.47a), but also a stressed pronoun as
36 Spanish Word Order
Belén López Meirama 37
in (2.47b), an epithet as in (2.47c), or a phrase with which the theme
establishes an inalienable relationship as in (2.47d) (examples from
Zubizarreta 1999):
(2.47) a. En cuanto al hermano, parece que los padres lo contemplan
mucho.
‘As for the brother, it seems that his parents have him on their
mind a lot.’
b. En cuanto al hermano, parece que los padres hablan de él todo
el tiempo.
‘As for the brother, it seems that his parents talk about him all
the time.’
c. En cuanto al hermano, parece que el desgraciado se lleva bien
con todo el mundo, inclusive con los padres.
‘As for the brother, it seems that the poor soul gets along with
everybody, even with his parents.’
d. [Context: an argument about Juan’s cars]: En cuanto al BMW,
parece que los frenos le fallan constantemente.
‘As for the BMW, it seems the brakes are constantly failing.’
In Arthus, we find examples of coreference with an element other than the
clitic, even in the absence of thematization marking (that is, even without
expressions such as en cuanto a ‘as for’). Some are listed in (2.48):
(2.48) a. Y luego, claro, coches, pues se veían muy pocos.
‘And then, of course, cars, you would see very few [of them].’
(MADRID: 159, 7)
b. No sé, yo, vos sabés que los tanos no tengo nada en contra de
ellos, pero …
‘I don’t know, but you know that Italians I have nothing
against them, but …’ (BAIRES: 413, 27)
c. Bueno, pues, ese animalito, trabajo, trabajo, lo que la gente
llama trabajo puede que no tenga mucho. (MADRID: 219, 22)
‘Well, that little animal, work, work, what people call work, he
probably doesn’t have much [to do]’ (cf. Clements Chapter 6
this volume, who considers this type a case of null object
(pronominalisation)).
Extraposition is also possible in Spanish: an element that belongs to a
sentence integrated within a complex syntactic structure is placed at the
beginning of the structure, that is, outside of the sentence of which it is a
constituent. Rivero (1980) considers such constructions to be left-dislocations,
in which the subject has been fronted:
(2.49) a. A la jovencita no convenía apearla de su pedestal de sueños.
‘The young lady, it wasn’t a good idea to knock her off her
pedestal of dreams.’ (USOS: 157, 36)
b. Pero en fin, el arte me gusta apreciarlo, me gusta, me encanta, sí.
‘But anyway, art I like to appreciate it, I like it, I love it, yes.’
(SEVILLA: 92, 35)
c. Éste de la Gran Vía ya no me acuerdo ahora cómo se llama.
‘This one on Gran Vía, I don’t remember what is called
anymore.’ (MADRID: 249, 7)
Arthus, moreover, reveals that although it is possible to find examples in
written texts as in (2.49a), extraposition is more common in spoken lan-
guage, such as (2.49b) and (2.49c). In addition, many examples are found in
reported speech (with matrix-sentence predicates such as creer ‘believe’, saber
‘know, learn’, and suponer ‘suppose’, generally in the first person), suggesting
that this structure usually stems from the speaker’s involvement in the text,
shown by the example in (2.50):
(2.50) La mentalidad creo que no me atrevo a decir que sea distinta.
‘The mentality, I think I don’t dare to say that it’s different.’
(SEVILLA: 269, 18)
As a corollary of what we have discussed so far, we believe that thematic
structure in Spanish is highly productive and displays a higher degree of
independence relative to syntactic structure than in languages such as
French or English. The productive use of thematic structure in Spanish is, in
our view, precisely what makes Spanish a so-called free-word-order language.
The distributional combinations of elements are manifold, especially in the
oral register. However, the possibilities are not arbitrary in that the placing of
elements in a particular position depends on different communicative strate-
gies that a speaker may adopt while producing his/her utterance. In the
following section, we will show that emphasis also generates a particular
word order.
Focus and subject position
In the previous section we claimed that the discourse-pragmatic structure is
a complex network of different factors. This complexity has caused a good
deal of confusion and heterogeneity regarding the notion of ‘theme’ and the
traits that characterize it (cf. Casielles-Suárez, 2004). One of these factors is
contrast, which can be defined as the use of various means by a speaker to
draw attention to one of the elements in an utterance. In other words,
38 Spanish Word Order
Belén López Meirama 39
contrast is given as a result of a speaker’s choice among a limited number of
candidates, that is the elements in an utterance, with the element chosen
being the so-called ‘contrastive focus’ (Chafe, 1976).
One of the most representative cases of contrastive focus is the equational
structure (or cleft and pseudo-cleft sentence), as illustrated in the examples
in (2.51) in which different distributional possibilities are shown. In
Spanish, this structure has some variants with the connectives si ‘if’ and
porque ‘because’, examples of which are given in (2.52):
(2.51) a. Lo que no acepta mi soberbia es el error, mi visión deformada
de ti.
‘What my pride cannot accept is the mistake, my deformed
view of you.’ (JÓVENES: 69, 8)
b. Pero horchata y zarzaparrilla era lo que se bebía … la Coca-
Cola es zarzaparrilla.
‘But horchata [a sweet milky drink made of tiger nuts] and sar-
saparilla was what one would drink. Coca Cola is sarsaparilla.’
(MADRID: 259, 28)
c. Son nuestros amigos mexicanos los que me han animado a
pensar que puedo ganarme la vida en México, dando lecciones.
‘It was our Mexican friends who encouraged me to think that I
can earn a living in Mexico teaching.’ (DIEGO: 40, 19)
(2.52) a. Si algo acertado he hecho en la vida, Emi, te lo aseguro, ha sido
compartirla contigo.
‘If something right I’ve done right in life, Emi, I assure you, it’s
been sharing it with you.’ (CINTA: 118, 27)
b. Diría que lo que sucede hoy aquí es porque no nos aguantamos
las unas a las otras ni un cochino día más.
‘I would say that what is happening here today is because we
can’t stand one another even one more friggin’ day.’
(HOTEL: 48, 24)
Nevertheless, a discourse-pragmatic factor whose presence is practically
constant in human communication (speaking, like living, is the product of
successive choices) cannot be expressed only through a few specific struc-
tures. In any sentence, one of the constituents can be highlighted as a con-
strastive focus. In marked modalities, a possibility turns into a rule, and thus,
the sentence-initial element in exclamatory sentences and in indirect,
partial questions becomes the focus of the utterance:19
(2.53) a. ¡Ya, ya, BUENAS LABORES debía de hacerle a ella!
‘OK, OK, GOOD WORK [I/she/he] should do for her.’
(SONRISA: 163, 29)
b. ¿CUÁNTAS VECES te habrías adormecido escuchándolo desde tu
habitación?
‘HOW MANY TIMES would you have dozed off listening to him
from your room?’ (SUR: 40, 21)
It is often said that in Spanish prosodic prominence is the mechanism that
enables us to identify the focus. The pairs of examples in (2.54) and (2.55)
(from Hernaz and Brucart, 1987) illustrate this point:
(2.54) a. Pedro se casará con María.
‘Pedro will marry María.’
b. PEDRO se casará con María (y no Luis).
‘PEDRO (not Luis) will marry María.’
(2.55) a. María detesta las acelgas.
‘María hates chard.’
b. María detesta LAS ACELGAS (y no los bombones).
‘María hates CHARD (not chocolates).
Unfortunately, such examples are provided without appropriate contexts
(even though the authors regard the focus as a discourse-pragmatic value
that warrants analysis at the discourse level, instead of the sentence level).
They are indeed invented sentences, not examples extracted from recordings
of actual speech that are accompanied by the pertinent prosodic study.
Arthus is not the most appropriate corpus to find examples containing this
discourse-pragmatic value, since it is largely made up of written texts.20
Nevertheless, the information that we have been able to glean from it sug-
gests that speakers usually combine intonational prominence with a modifi-
cation of the word orders. On some occasions, speakers even make use of
specific focalization markings (like the ones for the theme in the previous
section) that we might label as focalizers:
(2.56) a. (repetition of [2.34a]) Quiero abastecerme YO MISMA de libertad
y de aventura.
‘I want to stock up on freedom and adventure MYSELF.’
(ZORRA: 30, 1)
b. Contra las esperanzas de Mercedes, el abuelo no ofrecía indi-
cios de mejoría. Durante los últimos días, había telefoneado
con frecuencia a médicos y hospitales o acudido ELLA MISMA a
visitarlos.
‘Contrary to Mercedes’ hopes, her grandfather showed no
signs of recovery. On the last days, she had often called doctors
and hospitals, or SHE HERSELF had gone to visit them.’
(TERNURA: 125, 25)
40 Spanish Word Order
Belén López Meirama 41
c. – Anda, anda, a tu siestecita ….
‘There, there, take your little nap …’
– Bueno, pero te acuestas TÚ TAMBIÉN.
‘OK, but YOU go to sleep, too.’ (SONRISA: 332, 36)
(2.57) a. HASTA LA MUERTE la consideras como una prerrogativa exclusiva-
mente tuya.
‘EVEN DEATH you consider a prerogative exclusively your own.’
(CINTA: 22, 20)
b. Pero HASTA ESO lo hizo con tanto sigilo que …
‘But EVEN THAT he did [it] in so much secrecy that …’
(CRÓNICA: 50, 24)
c. Hace rato que entró en los llanos, ya NI GUARDACRUCEROS hay.
‘It’s been a while that he got into the plains. There are absolutely
no GUARDACRUCEROS left’ [i.e., people who wave a flag in order to
stop traffic and thus prevent accidents]. (DIEGO: 67, 23)
Based on an examination of these examples, we deduce that the focus is
placed in a postverbal position if the subject of the sentence is a focalized
element and in preverbal position if the focalized element is a complement.
We believe word order in focalization can be more accurately characterized
as follows: the focalized element is placed in a marked position, that is
non-canonical position, in relation to its syntactic and/or semantic features
(cf. Gili Gaya, 1961: 81–97). With regard to subjects, we can claim that, in
general, the postverbal position (in particular, the absolute final position;
Fant, 1984), is emphatic, but so is the preverbal position if, for instance, the
subject is a determiner-less noun. The examples in (2.58) and (2.59) for
subject as focus and (2.60) for object as focus (none of which include the
focalizing element) serve to illustrate this point:
(2.58) a. ERNESTO – [Hablando de cuatro hermanos] Seguimos igual.
Cuando uno está en dificultades, allí acudimos TODOS, ¿verdad?
Ernesto: (speaking of four brothers) ‘The situation is the same.
Each of us is having problems. EVERYBODY goes there, right?’
(CINTA: 89, 14)
b. Miguel no podía dejar de mirar con asombro a un lado y a otro,
sin advertir siquiera sus propias toses. Sí las advirtió en cambio
LA ABUELA.
‘Miguel could not stop looking around in astonishment, without
even noticing his own coughing. THE GRANDMOTHER, however,
did notice it.’ (TERNURA: 6, 11)
(2.59)21
a. … consultaban en vano el mapa con la nueva nomenclatura de
las calles: no entendían ni pío. AMBULANCIAS Y COCHES PATRULLA
aullaban inútiles.
‘… they were vainly going over the map with the new street
terminology. They did not understand a thing. AMBULANCES AND
POLICE CARS howled pointlessly.’ (PAISAJES: 15, 14)
b. Se ha combatido contra el extranjero, contra la antipatria:
MORAL Y HONOR pueden dormir tranquilos.
‘One has combated foreigners [and] anti-homeland element.
MORAL AND HONOR can sleep in peace.’ (HISTORIAS: 57, 14)
(2.60) a. ESTA IMPRESIÓN, si no otra peor, debimos de causarle a la
recepcionista.
‘THAT IMPRESSION, if not a worse one, we probably gave the
receptionist. (LABERINTO: 181, 24)
b. MONTSERRAT – Yo no me mancho las manos con comida. Sólo
tomaré una copa de champagne y una pata de pollo con el
hueso envuelto en papel de plata.
‘I am not going to get my hands dirty with food. I will only
have a glass of champagne and a chicken leg with the bone
wrapped in aluminum foil.’
ROCÍO – Pues yo PAPEL DE PLATA puedo darte. De lo otro, nada.
‘Well, I can give you the ALUMINUM FOIL, but none of the other
stuff.’ (HOTEL: 66, 37)
From our discussion so far, we can deduce that a focused element in initial
position is also a thematic element, apart from being the topic. However,
this runs against a widespread stance, especially among generativists,
whereby there have to be two different types of fronting, illustrated in the
following examples in (2.61) taken from Hernanz and Brucart (1987):
(2.61) a. A Sansón lo traicionó Dalila.
‘Samson, Delilah betrayed [him].’
b. A SANSÓN traicionó Dalila.
‘SAMSON Delilah betrayed.’
From this standpoint, only (2.61b) can be paraphrased with a clefted
structure: Fue a Sansón (y no a otro) a quien traicionó Dalila ‘It was Samson
(not another man) that Delilah betrayed’. Zubizarreta (1999: 4,240) explains
these differences as follows:
A preverbal-focus construction is distinguished from left-dislocation
not only from a prosodic and interpretative viewpoint, but also from a
syntactic one. A focalized direct object does not allow accusative clitic
doubling. In contrast, a dislocated direct object obligatorily requires the
presence of the accusative clitic. (Translated from the original)
42 Spanish Word Order
Belén López Meirama 43
Given this stance, one could conclude that thematic structure and informa-
tional structure of contrastive focus are incompatible, since they cannot co-
occur in the same sentence. However, this is not always the case. The speaker
can combine both structures when s/he thematizes an element belonging to
a cleft structure, as shown in the examples in (2.62), taken from Arthus:
(2.62) a. El campo lo que encuentro es que es un poco aburrido.
‘The countryside what I find is that it is a bit boring.’
(SEVILLA: 136, 34)
b. Ahora, ¿Esto lo que gasta es gas o petróleo?
‘Now, that, what it runs on is it natural gas or normal gas?’
(BAIRES: 103, 34)
c. Y allí los coches lo que no pueden es circular porque nada más
es para aparcarlo.
‘And there, cars what they cannot do is drive around, because
it is for parking only.’ (SEVILLA: 166, 31)
On the other hand, the concepts of ‘theme’ and ‘focus’ as used here
cannot lead us to Zubizarreta’s (1999: 4,227) conclusion that the same
phrase cannot function as theme and focus at the same time. In fact, there is
no reason why an element which the sentence is about (that is, the theme)
cannot be at the same time the result of a choice on the speaker’s part (that
is, the focus).
It is clear that (2.61a) and (2.61b) are different sequences from a discourse-
pragmatic standpoint; the presence or absence of the coreferential clitic is
not, of course, arbitrary. Although it may be that the Arthus corpus is not the
most appropriate source for studying the discourse-pragmatic value of an
element of a sentence that manifests itself through intonational emphasis, it
is indeed a good source for real oral and written language. The instances pro-
vided by the corpus indicate that in a large portion of the cases the corefer-
ential clitic appears in sequences in which the postverbal subject is also the
contrastive focus or, to be more precise, in sequences in which there is a
postverbal element that is also a focus of contrast. Examine the examples in
(2.63) and (2.64), which have been contextualized in order to highlight the
contrastive value of the focused elements:
(2.63) Inf. A – Mira, ya al fin y al cabo, estamos lanzados …
‘Look, finally, we have thrown ourselves into it.’
Inf. C – EL SEGUNDO AÑO hacéis, ¿no?
‘You are doing THE SECOND YEAR, right?’
Inf. B – ¡No!, ¡primero!
‘No! First!’
Inf.C – ¿Y son tres?
‘And are they three?’
Inf. B – ¡Cinco!
‘Five!’ (MADRID: 440, 24)
(2.64) Hasta cuarto, lo hice en el mismo colegio que hice la primaria, y
ya, después QUINTO lo hice EN EL INSTITUTO, sexto libre y, ahora,
C.O.U. otra vez en el instituto.
‘Up until fourth grade, I did at the same school that I did my ele-
mentary education, and then THE FIFTH YEAR I did IN THE INSTITUTE,
sixth I tested out of, and now the Pre-University Course again in
the institute.’ (SEVILLA: 55, 21)
Based on the discussion so far, we believe that the examples in (2.61) can
have two interpretations (with the corresponding intonational change
shown in small capitals). The sentence (2.61a) can be interpreted (with stress
marked) as A SANSÓN lo traicionó DALILA, that is, fue a Sansón (y no a otro) a
quien traicionó Dalila (y no otra) ‘it was Samson (not another man) that
Delilah (not another woman) betrayed’. It can also be interpretated as A
SANSÓN lo traicionó DALILA, that is, fue Dalila (y no otra) quien traicionó a Sansón
‘It was Delilah (not another woman) that betrayed Samson’. In this respect,
we have already mentioned that sentences generally lack an overt subject in
the majority of cases containing direct object thematization. Therefore, it
would be erroneous to think that the postverbal occurrence of this subject is
due only to the thematized object. In our view, such an occurrence is also
discourse-pragmatically relevant, which may explain why (2.61b), in which
the subject is not a contrastive element, is not representative of Spanish, as
evidenced in the Arthus corpus where out of a total of roughly 160,000
sentences we found not one example of the type illustrated by (2.61b).
A good source of examples (recurrent throughout Arthus) that seems to
corroborate this hypothesis can be found in a neuter demonstrative eso used
as the thematized element. For instance, the example in (2.65) can be said
with an additional coreferential clitic, illustrated in (2.66); such an addition
would indicate the focalization of the element in final position, shown in
small capitals in (2.66):
(2.65) a. ESO comentábamos con Lita, ¿no?
‘THAT we were discussing with Lolita, weren’t we?’
(BAIRES: 44, 22)
b. ESO hizo por mí la Salvinia.
‘THAT, Salivinia did for me.’ (SONRISA: 261, 26)
(2.66) a. ESO lo comentábamos CON LITA, ¿no? (posible respuesta: ‘no,
con Laura’)
‘THAT we were discussing WITH LITA, weren’t we?’ (possible
answer: ‘no, with Laura’)
44 Spanish Word Order
Belén López Meirama 45
b. ESO lo hizo por mí LA SALVINIA. (posible continuación: ‘aunque
tú creas que fue Eva’).
‘THAT SALVINIA did for me (possible follow-up:’even though you
think it was Eva’).
In fact, there are numerous examples featuring postverbal subjects, as in
(2.67), in which the context clearly shows that they carry contrastive focus:
(2.67) VÍCTOR – Pero para dejar a salvo el idealismo de tu juventud no
dudarás en acusarla de delatora, aún a sabiendas de que es
mentira.
VÍCTOR JOVEN – ESO lo hiciste TÚ. A mí, ni siquiera me han detenido
todavía.
VÍCTOR – ‘But in order to salvage the idealism of your youth, you
will not hesitate to accuse her of being an informer, even
though you know that it’s a lie.’
VÍCTOR JOVEN – ‘THAT YOU did. I haven’t even been arrested yet.’
(HOMBRE: 35, 29)
Our interpretation of this type of structures is a tentative one that could be
either confirmed or refuted in a thorough study on contrastive focus in
Spanish based on a large corpus of oral texts. To our knowledge, such a study
has yet to be carried out, although we do have some general works on the
discourse-pragmatic context in Spanish, among which Fant (1984) stands
out. The author likens LOS PLATOS los lava FERNANDO ‘The dishes Fernando
washes them’ to a clefted structure such as Lo que vende son CALCULADORAS’
What he sells are calculators’. Fant (1984: 76) claims that both sequences are
automatically assigned a contrastive value, which allows them to be com-
bined, as illustrated by the example (2.68) taken from Fant (1984: 131).
(2.68) … a Carlos le voy a dar dos tortas si no pone más cuidado al lavar
los platos.
‘Carlos I’m going to give [him] a couple of slaps if he doesn’t pay
more attention when doing the dishes.’
Espérate, papá, Carlos es quien quita la mesa; los platos los lava
Fernando.
‘Wait, Dad, Carlos is the one who clears the table, but it’s
Fernando that does the dishes.’
In any case, it is indisputable that contrastive emphasis in Spanish makes
use of word order as a common means of expression, and thus becomes
another factor that affects the variability in the order of constituents. For
this reason, contrastive emphasis should receive more attention in studies
on constituent order in Spanish, to be examined alongside thematization
and topicalization.
Summary
In this chapter, we have not offered an exhaustive treatment of constituent
order in Spanish, but rather we have tried to point out the most relevant
semantic and discourse-pragmatic aspects that affect it, using real-text
examples from modern Spanish.
With respect to the semantic aspects affecting Spanish constituent order,
we have examined two: agentivity and the definiteness of the subject noun
phrase. Here, we noted the tendency displayed by Spanish to postpose
non-agentive and non-definite subjects and we suggested the possibility of
recasting two hypotheses discussed in the generative grammar literature
(the Unaccusative Hypothesis and the Definiteness Effect) as two parts of a
complex array of factors that affect Spanish word order. Although the use-
fulness of these notions to account for the constituent order phenomena is
evident, we consider it risky to establish taxonomic laws (for example verb is
an unaccusative verb) with concrete reference to constituent order in
Spanish, a language about which it is preferable to speak in terms of word-
order tendencies. That is, we prefer to speak in terms of unergative and unac-
cusative constructions, not unergative or unaccusative verbs. On the other
hand, we have found that different features overlap considerably. That is, in
the linear organization of elements in each utterance by a given speaker,
various factors interact in each case, semantic as well as discourse-pragmatic
factors. The reliance on unaccusativity and/or definiteness alone can
become, thus, a reductionist enterprise.
As regards discourse-pragmatic factors, we have centred our analysis on
thematic structure in discourse, attempting to offer a basic notion of a topic
that is still in need of highly detailed studies. Thus, we consider the work
presented in this chapter as preliminary in various ways.22
First, it must be
noted that the notion ‘theme’ has been defined at times as ‘known/given/
old information’, at others as ‘a cohesive element’, and even as a ‘potentially
contrastive element’ (cf. Casielles-Suárez, 2004). In this chapter, where we
have preferred the definition of a theme as ‘that which is spoken about in
the sentence’, we observed that the theme can frequently be associated with
the features just mentioned, but in no way can it be defined by these fea-
tures. The element in sentence-initial position, about which something is
predicated in the sentence, is customarily known/old/given information,
but it can also be new information. Such an element is customarily a cohe-
sive element in discourse, but cohesion can also be achieved using other
means. At times, a theme may be defined as contrastive, but contrastive
focus, apart from the possible trait of emphatic intonation, can be indepen-
dently characterized as appearing in a non-default position, that is, a marked
position. That is, no one trait defines one and only one notion.
46 Spanish Word Order
Belén López Meirama 47
We also briefly examined Spanish thematic structure, pointing out its
characteristic features. On the one hand, we observed the frequency with
which we find athematic clauses in Spanish, something rarely discussed in
the literature. On the other hand, we discussed the most characteristic cases
of a ‘marked theme’ in transitive clauses, whereby we noted that Spanish
uses a wide variety of mechanisms to mark the theme, above all in spoken
language. Again, these facts suggest that in studying Spanish constituent
order it is more accurate to speak of tendencies or patterns than hard and fast
rules.
Notes
1 For this paper we have used data from the Base de datos sintácticos, compiled at the
University of Santiago Compostela from a large corpus on present-day Spanish
(Arthus). The compilation was made possible through successive research projects
under the supervision of Prof. D. Guillermo Rojo. For further information, the
reader is directed to http://www.bds.usc.es.
2 Some authors, such as Delbecque (1991: 261), claim that Spanish is an SVO/VS lan-
guage, whereas others, De Miguel Aparicio (1989: 758) among them, argue that it
is an SVO/SV-VS language. This last characterization coincides with Dryer’s (1997)
proposed typology.
3 As Givón (1995: 32) points out, ‘the main, declarative, affirmative, active clause
has been tacitly assumed, in grammatical description ever since the Greeks, to be
the privileged, unmarked clause type (bold is my emphasis).’ This assumption is
currently shared by different frameworks.
4 In this chapter, we will not discuss cleft constructions or clauses containing a
copula.
5 In López Meirama (1997a and 1997b), we offer a detailed account of the reasons
why Spanish is to be considered a subject-initial language. Here we remind the
reader that Spanish is considered a nominative-accusative language because both
the intransitive- and transitive-sentence subjects (S and A respectively) are marked
in the same way, and distinctly from the object (O). As is well-known, in the lan-
guages of the world we find two opposing tendencies with regard to topicalization:
the more common one consists of the preference for the topicalization of agentive
items; the less common tendency, however, reveals a preference for the topicaliza-
tion of patients. Bearing in mind the syntactic generalizations we are referring to,
we can establish two patterns of topic selection: the nominative-accusative {S,A}
and the ergative-absolutive {S,O} patterns. Spanish is generally considered a nomi-
native-accusative language, since the subject is usually the most agentive argument
of the predication (which, obviously, does not mean that all subjects are agents).
This implies that the pattern of topic selection is {S,A}, and, consequently, that the
basic order is SVO/SV (however, see Clements, Chapter 5 of this volume, for a
discussion of ergative patterns in Spanish).
6 ‘I’ represents ‘indirect object’, and ‘A’ stands for ‘adverbial adjunct’.
7 In the examples, taken from Arthus, the verbal nucleus of each example has been
italicized.
8 In relation to this class some researchers also allude to the verb classes in Hatcher
(1956), who subdivides them in ‘verbs of existence-presence’, ‘verbs of continuing-
remaining’, ‘verbs of occurrence’, and so on.
9 See López Meirama (1997a: 158ff) for further discussion.
10 Contreras (1978: 74) explicitly states that in addition to presentative verbs
accompanied by only one patient, there are others that also include a locative or
an expression of origin.
11 Some examples are: Hawkinson and Hyman (1974), Givón (1976), Silverstein
(1976), Dixon (1979) and Lazard (1984).
12 The translations from Spanish are ours (JCC, JY).
13 There are cases in which sentence-initial position is occupied by a cohesive
element, or by an adjunct, as in the following examples from our corpus.
(i) Francamente la televisión a mí me aburre.
‘Frankly, television bores me.’ (SEVILLA: 94, 8)
(ii) De repente, a Renato le alarma en el viejo cierta expresión doliente.
‘Suddenly, a certain suffering expression of the old man alarms
Renato.’ (SONRISA: 142, 33)
14 That is, the speaker’s supposition about what the hearer can accept as true in each
stage of the conversation (Reyes, 1985: 576).
15 A tally of the Arthus data yielded the following figures: out of a total of 149,882
sentences with subject, 53,669 (35 per cent) contain an overt subject and 96, 213
sentences (65 per cent) have a null subject.
16 Jiménez Juliá (2000: 164) proposes that more than one element in preverbal posi-
tion can be considered having two different structures, made up of either two
linked themes, Yo//, de eso// (no tengo) ni idea ‘I, about that, (I don’t have) any idea’,
or a presentative theme linked to a focalized unit (in small caps), as in Eso A MÍ no
me gusta nada [lit. that to me NEG me pleases nothing] ‘THAT, I don’t like at all’, or
A mí ESO no me gusta nada [lit. to me that NEG me pleases nothing] ‘I don’t like
THAT at all’.
17 Following Metzeltin (1990), López García (1996: 485) considers the pause as a
topicalization strategy in Spanish, in cases as the following: Dulces, no quiero
‘Candies, I don’t want’, or A estos jóvenes recelosos, un exceso de solicitud y de com-
prensión les parece aún más sospechoso que la rigidez ‘To these distrustful youths, an
excess of solicitude and of understanding seems to them even more suspicious
than rigidity.’
18 This could also account for instances of spurious agreement, such as ¿Qué cosas te
interesan más conocer? ‘What things are you most interested in knowing?’
(SEVILLA: 75, 24), in which there is agreement between main-clause interesan [interest.
PRESENT.3P.] and qué cosas, the DO of the embedded-clause verb conocer.
19 Given that this type of focus is typically accompanied by prosody, the focus
element in these examples is highlighted in small capitals.
20 In fact, all cases of focalization are interpretations of this author based on a
careful reading of the texts. Thus, the use of Arthus, especially for the examples in
this chapter, should be considered a way of illustrating the most prominent ten-
dencies in Spanish constituent order.
21 According to Suñer (1982: 224), the coordination of determiner-less nouns is one
of the strategies that Spanish uses to present a situation as contrastive: ‘They do
not obey the [Naked Noun Constraint] because they are contrastive; that is, each
element of the list receives heavy stress because the focus of the sentence has been
attracted to this preverbal subject position.’
22 Here, the recent work by Hidalgo Downing (2003) could serve well as a point of
departure.
48 Spanish Word Order
Belén López Meirama 49
References
Academia, Real … Española (1973) Esbozo de una nueva Gramática de la Lengua
Española. Madrid: Espasa-Calpe.
Belletti, A. (1987) Los verbos inacusativos como asignadores de caso. Sintaxis de las
lenguas románicas, in V. Demonte and M. Fernández Lagunilla (eds). Madrid: El
Arquero, pp. 67–230.
Belletti, A. and L. Rizzi (1987) Los verbos psicológicos y la teoría temática. Sintaxis de las
lenguas románicas, in V. Demonte and M. Fernández Lagunilla (eds). Madrid: El
Arquero, pp. 60–122.
Birner, B.J. (1992) The Discourse Function of Inversion in English. doctoral dissertation.
Northwestern University, Evanston, IL.
—— (1994) ‘Information Status and Word Order: An Analysis of English Inversion’,
Language, vol. 70, pp. 233–59.
Bossong, G. (1980) ‘Variabilité positionnelle et universaux pragmatiques’, Bulletin de la
Société de Linguistique de Paris, vol. 75, pp. 39–67.
Butt, J. and C. Benjamin (2000) A New Reference Grammar in Modern Spanish, 3rd ed.
London: Edward Arnold.
Casielles-Suárez, E. (2004) The Syntax-Information Structure Interface: Evidence from
Spanish and English. London: Routledge.
Chafe, W.L. (1976) ‘Giveness, Contrastiveness, Definiteness, Subjects and Topics’, in
C.N. Li (ed.), Subject and Topic. New York: Academic Press, pp. 25–55.
Cifuentes H., José Luis (1999) ‘Inacusatividad y movimiento,’ Revista Española de
Lingüística, vol. 29, pp. 35–61.
Cinque, G. (1983) ‘Topic constructions in some European languages and
“Connectedness”’, Connectedness in Sentence, Discourse and Text in H. van Riemsdijk
and K. Ehlich (eds). Tiburg: Katholieke Hogeschool.
Contreras, H. (1976) A Theory of Word Order with Special Reference to Spanish.
Amsterdam: North Holland (Spanish version: El orden de palabras en español. Madrid,
Cátedra, 1978).
Delbecque, N. (1979) Etude quantitative d’un phénomène de variation syntaxique: la position
du sujet en espagnol. Doctoral Dissertation. Universidad Católica de Lovaina.
—— (1991) El orden de los sintagmas. La posición del regente. Gramática española:
enseñanza e investigación, vol. II, Gramática. Ediciones Universidad de Salamanca.
Dik, S. (1978) Functional Grammar. Amsterdam: North Holland.
De Miguel Aparicio, E. (1989) ‘Sujetos invertidos en las construcciones ergativas del
castellano. Los conceptos de tema y rema’. Lenguajes naturales y lenguajes formales,
IV/2, in Carlos Martín Vide (ed.) Universidad de Barcelona, pp. 753–66.
De Miguel Aparicio, E. and S. Olga Fernández (1988) ‘Proceso-acción y ergatividad: las
construcciones impersonales en castellano’. Lenguajes naturales y lenguajes formales,
III/2, in Carlos Martín Vide (ed.) Universidad de Barcelona, pp. 643–51.
Dixon, Robert M.W. (1979) ‘Ergativity’. Language, vol. 55, pp. 59–138.
—— (1987) ‘Introduction’, in R.M.W. Dixon (ed.), Studies in Ergativity. Amsterdam:
Elsevier Science Publishers B.V., pp. 1–16.
Downing, P. (1995) ‘Word order in discourse’, in Pamela Downing and Michael
Noonan (eds), Word Order in Discourse. Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 1–27.
Fant, L. (1984) Estructura informativa en español. Estudio sintáctico y entonativo. Acta
Univ. Upsaliensis 34.
Fernández Soriano, O. (1993) ‘Sobre el orden de palabras en español’, Dicenda
(Cuadernos de Filología Hispánica) vol. 11, pp. 113–52.
Forster, J.F. and C.A. Hofling (1987) ‘Word order case and agreement’, Linguistics,
vol. 25, pp. 475–99.
García-Miguel, José María (1991) ‘La duplicación de complemento directo e indirecto
como concordancia’, Verba, vol. 18, pp. 375–410.
—— (1995) Las relaciones gramaticales entre predicado y participantes. Lalia, Series Maior,
no. 2. Santiago de Compostela: Universidad de Santiago de Compostela.
Gawelko, M. (1995) ‘Sobre el orden de palabras básico en español’. Anuario de
Lingüística Hispánica (Universidad de Valladolid) vol. 11, pp. 183–92.
Gili Gaya, S. (1961) Curso superior de sintaxis española. Vox: Barcelona.
Givón, T. (1976) ‘Topic, pronoun and grammatical agreement’, in Charles N. Li (ed.),
Subject and Topic, New York, Academic Press.
Givón, T. (1984) Syntax: A Functional-Typological Introduction, vol. I. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
—— (1995) Functionalism and Grammar. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1967) ‘Notes on Transitivity and theme in English, Part 2’. Journal of
Linguistics, vol. 3, pp. 199–244.
—— (1985/1994)2
An Introduction to Functional Grammar. London: Edward Arnold.
Hatcher, A. Granville (1956) Theme and underlying question. Two studies of Spanish word
order. Word 12, supplement 3.
Hawkinson, A.K. and L.M. Hyman (1974) ‘Hierarchies of natural topic in Shona’,
Studies in African Linguistics, vol. 5, pp. 147–70.
Hernanz, M.L. and J.M. Brucart (1987) La sintaxis. Barcelona: Ed. Crítica.
Hidalgo D., Raquel (2003) La tematización en el español hablado. Madrid: Gredos.
Hopper, P. J. and S.T. (1980) ‘Transitivity in grammar and discourse’, Language, vol. 56,
pp. 251–99.
Jiménez Juliá, T. (2000) ‘Tema en español y en inglés: dos conceptos enfrentados’,
Bulletin of Hispanic Studies vol. 77, pp. 153–76.
Knauer, G. (1989) ‘Verbo y orden de palabras en la estructura oracional del español
actual’ Linguistische Arbeits-Beritche, vol. 68, pp. 43–52.
Lazard, G. (1984) ‘Actance variation and categories of the object’, in Frans Plank (ed.),
Objects. Towards a Theory of Grammatical relations. London: Academic Press in pp.
269–92.
Levin, B. and M.R. Hovav (1995) Unaccusativity: at the Syntax-Lexical Semantics
Interface. Linguistic Inquiry Monographs 26. Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MIT
Press.
López García, Á. (1996) Gramática del español II. La oración simple. Madrid: Arco Libros.
López Meirama, B. (1997a) La posición del sujeto en la cláusula monoactancial en español.
Lalia, Series Maior, no. 7. Santiago de Compostela: Universidad de Santiago de
Compostela.
López Meirama, B. (1997b) ‘Aportaciones de la tipología lingüística a una gramática
particular: el concepto orden básico y su aplicación al castellano’. Verba, vol. 24,
pp. 45–82.
Mendieta, E. and I. Medina (1997) ‘Anteposición de objeto en el habla culta de
México y Madrid’. Revista Española de Lingüística vol. 27, pp. 447–77.
Metzeltin, M. (1990) Semántica, pragmática y sintaxis del español. Heidelberg: Gottfried
Egert Verlag.
Milsark, G. (1974) Existential Sentences in English. PhD dissertation. Massachussets
Institute of Technology. Cambridge MA.
—— (1977) ‘Toward an explanation of certain peculiarities in the existential construction
in English’, Linguistic Analysis, vol. 3, pp. 1–30.
50 Spanish Word Order
Belén López Meirama 51
Morales de W.A. (1982). ‘La posición del sujeto en el español de Puerto Rico a la luz de
la clase semántica verbal, la oposición tema-rema y el tópico oracional’, Lingüística
Española Actual, vol. 4, pp. 23–38.
Reyes, G. (1985) ‘Orden de palabras y valor informativo en español’, in Julio
Fernández Sevilla et al. (ed.), Philologica Hispaniensa in Honorem Manuel Alvar II.
Madrid: Gredos pp. 567–88.
Rivero, M. L. (1980) ‘On left-dislocation and topicalization in Spanish’, Linguistic
Inquiry, vol. 11, pp. 363–93.
Silva-Corvalán, C. (1977) ‘A discourse study of some aspects of word order in the Spanish
spoken by Mexican-Americans in West Los Angeles’. Unpublished M.A. Thesis.
—— (1984) ‘Topicalización y pragmática en español’, Revista Española de Lingüística
vol. 14, pp. 1–19.
Silverstein, M. (1976) ‘Hierarchy of features and ergativity’, in Robert M. W. Dixon
(ed.), Grammatical Categories of Australian Languages Camberra: Australian Institute
of Aboriginal Studies pp. 112–71.
Suñer, M. (1988) ‘The role of agreement in clitic doubled constructions’, Natural
Language and Linguistic Theory, vol. 6, pp. 391–434.
Thompson, S. (1978) ‘Modern English from a typological point of view: some impli-
cations of the function of word order’, Linguistische Berichte, vol. 54, pp. 19–35.
Tomlin, R.S. (1986) Basic Word Order: Functional Principles. Kent: Croom Helm.
Vázquez, R.V. (1995) El complemento indirecto en español, col. Lalia, Series Maior, no. 1.
Universidad de Santiago de Compostela.
Zubizarreta, M.L. (1999) ‘Las funciones informativas: tema y foco’, in Ignacio Bosque
and Violeta Demonte (eds), Gramática descriptiva de la lengua española (Chapter 64),
(eds) 215–44. Madrid: Espasa Calpe.
Abbreviations used for the
original texts cited
Essays
LING Bunge, M., Lingüística y filosofía, Ariel, Barcelona, 1983.
USOS Martín Gaite, C., Usos amorosos de la postguerra española, Anagrama, Barcelona,
19888
.
TIEMPO Paz, O., Tiempo nublado, Seix Barral, Barcelona, 1983.
HOMILÍA Sánchez Ferlosio, R., La homilía del ratón, El País, Madrid, 1986.
Narrative
JÓVENES Aldecoa, J.R., Porque éramos jóvenes, Seix Barral, Barcelona, 1986.
HISTORIAS Bioy Casares, A., Historias desaforadas, Alianza, Madrid, 1986.
CARTA Colinas, A., Larga carta a Francesca, Seix Barral, Barcelona, 1986.
GLENDA Cortázar, J., Queremos tanto a Glenda, Alfaguara, Madrid, 19814
.
CRÓNICA García Márquez, G., Crónica de una muerte anunciada, Mondadori, Madrid,
1987.
SUR García Morales, A., El sur (seguido de Bene), Anagrama, Barcelona, 1985.
PAISAJES Goytisolo, J., Paisajes después de la batalla, Montesinos, Barcelona, 1982.
MIRADA Guelbenzu, J.M., La mirada, Alianza, Madrid, 1987.
TERNURA Martínez de Pisón, I., La ternura del dragón, Anagrama, Barcelona, 19883
.
LABERINTO Mendoza, E., El laberinto de las aceitunas, Seix Barral, Barcelona, 1982.
DIEGO Poniatowska, E., Querido Diego, te abraza Quiela y otros cuentos, Alianza/Era,
Madrid, 1987.
SONRISA Sampedro, J.L., La sonrisa etrusca, Alfaguara, Madrid, 1985.
Theatre
MORO Alonso de Santos, J.L., Bajarse al moro, Antonio Machado, Madrid, 19872
.
CAIMÁN Buero Vallejo, A., Caimán, Espasa-Calpe, Madrid, 1981.
AYER Díaz, J., Ayer, sin ir más lejos, Antonio Machado, Madrid, 1988.
OCHENTA Diosdado, A., Los ochenta son nuestros, Antonio Machado, Madrid, 1990.
COARTADA Fernán Gómez, F., La coartada, Antonio Machado, Madrid, 1987.
HOTEL Gala, A., El hotelito, Antonio Machado, Madrid, 1988.
ZORRA Nieva, F., Te quiero, zorra, Antonio Machado, Madrid, 1989.
1INFAN Olmo, L. y P. Enciso, Teatro infantil I, Antonio Machado, Madrid, 1987.
2INFAN Olmo, L. y P. Enciso, Teatro infantil II, Antonio Machado, Madrid, 1987.
PASAJERO Reina, M.M., El pasajero de la noche, Antonio Machado, Madrid, 1988.
CINTA Reina, M.M., La cinta dorada, Antonio Machado, Madrid, 1989.
HOMBRE Salom, J., Un hombre en la puerta, Martín Pancorbo, 1984.
Oral speech
BAIRES Barrenechea, A.M., El habla culta de la ciudad de Buenos Aires. Materiales para su
estudio, tomo II, Instituto de Fil. y Lit. Hispánicas Dr Amado Alonso, Buenos Aires,
1987.
MADRID Esgueva, M. y M. Cantarero (eds.), El habla de la ciudad de Madrid. Materiales
para su estudio, CSIC (Miguel de Cervantes), Madrid, 1981.
SEVILLA Pineda, M.A. de (ed.), Sociolingüística andaluza 2. Materiales de encuestas para el
estudio del habla urbana culta de Sevilla, Universidad de Sevilla, 1983.
Newspapers
1VOZ La Voz de Galicia (30 October 1991).
2VOZ La Voz de Galicia (22 November 1991).
3VOZ La Voz de Galicia (23 November 1991).
52 Spanish Word Order
3
Continuity and Episodic Structure
in Spanish Subject Reference
Llorenç Comajoan
53
Subject reference in Spanish
In Spanish, as in other Romance languages, human subject reference is
encoded by three linguistic devices: lexical noun phrases (NPs), personal pro-
nouns and null subjects (zero).1
For instance, Participant 3 in this study
produced the three types of devices to refer to a human referent (el niño, ‘the
boy’) in the following narrative segment:
(3.1) El niño recoge una de las banastas de de peras y Ø se las lleva con
él en la bicicleta. Ah mientras Ø se lleva las peras Ø se cruza con
otra niña que viene en bicicleta y, al cruzarse, en un camino que es
más bien estrecho, él pierde el sombrero, Ø se despista mirando
hacia atrás y Ø se cae.
‘The boy takes one of the baskets of pears and Ø takes them with
him on the bike. Ah while Ø is taking the pears Ø passes another
girl who is coming on a bike and when passing, in a road that is
narrow, he loses his hat, Ø distracts himself looking back, and Ø
falls.’
Research in Spanish nominal reference has been conducted within different
linguistic theories and methodologies (see reviews in Luján, 1999; Silva-
Corvalán, 2001). The major research questions in Spanish functional lin-
guistics have been related to two main topics: the variable use of pronouns
in different Spanish varieties and the linguistic explanations for the variability
of use.
The variability in Spanish nominal devices can be examined by studying
the use of devices in different varieties (for example, comparing Puerto
Rican and Madrid Spanish) or the use of different devices within one variety
(for example, rates of NP, pronoun, and zero in Puerto Rican Spanish).
Most Spanish speakers intuitively notice that Spanish subject pronouns are
more frequent in certain varieties (such as Puerto Rico Spanish) than in oth-
ers (for example, Madrid Spanish), and research results have shown that dif-
ferent varieties of Spanish indeed display different rates of pronoun/NP use.
Table 3.1 displays results from studies in different varieties that have focused
on third person nominal reference and shows that the percentage use of pro-
nouns ranges between 8% and 48%.
However, the data on the variability of use of pronouns need to be taken
cautiously, because the types of discourse, the total number of nominal
devices under study, and the syntactic positions are not always the same.
Table 3.2 includes a summary of studies that have specifically studied nomi-
nal reference. Some of the discourse types for these studies include written
literary texts (Rosengren, 1974), semi-guided or spontaneous personal oral
conversations (Givón, 1983; Bentivoglio, 1983; Cameron, 1992; Flores-Ferrán,
2002; Ranson, 1991), and elicited spoken narratives (for example, using The Pear
Film, Blackwell, 1994; Clancy, 1980). Some studies (for example, Bentivoglio,
1983, 1992; and Blackwell, 1994) analyse three linguistic devices, but others
(such as Cameron, 1992; Flores-Ferrán, 2004) have included only zero and
pronouns. The role of different syntactic contexts in the analysis of nominal
reference is evident in the data from Blackwell (1994). When the use of
nominal devices in subject and object position were analysed, full NPs and
zero were the most common devices (38% and 36%, respectively), followed
by pronouns (26%). However, when only anaphoric instances in subject
position were examined, the proportions differed (90% were zero, 5% were
pronouns, and 5% were NPs).
Table 3.2 shows that the use of pronouns is variable (ranging between
20% and 45%) and that zero and NPs are used in higher proportions than
pronouns.
54 Continuity and Episodic Structure in Spanish Subject Reference
Table 3.1 Percentage rates of third-person pronouns in different Spanish
varieties
Pronoun Pronoun
3rd sing. % 3rd pl. % Variety Study
8 8 Madrid Cameron (1992)
10 9 Puente Genil (Spain) Ranson (1991)
12 6 Spain Rosengren (1974)
14 14 Madrid Enríquez (1984)
26 16 Mexican (Los Angeles) Silva-Corvalán (1994)
39 25 Puerto Rican (San Juan) Cameron (1992)
43 23 Puerto Rican (Boston) Hochberg (1986)
48 22 Puerto Rican Flores-Ferrán (2002)
(New York City)
Llorenç Comajoan 55
Functional approaches in the study of noun referentiality
In order to explain the variable use of NPs, pronouns, and zero in Spanish,
researchers in functional linguistic approaches have isolated a series of internal
and external factors (Flores-Ferrán, 2002; Morales, 1982; Silva-Corvalán, 2001).
Internal factors include switch reference, person/number of the verbal inflec-
tion, tense-mood-aspect of the verb, verbal semantics (for example, perception
v. cognition verbs), ambiguity, functional compensation, and specificity.
External factors include narrative style, contact with another language,
social class, and the speakers’ gender and age.
The most studied internal factor is switch reference, which describes two
types of relationships between NPs: ‘When these two NPs have different ref-
erents, they are “switch” in reference. When these two NPs share the same
referent, they are “same” in reference’ (Cameron, 1995: 4). Studies following
a variationist approach have shown that switch reference is a strong factor in
the use of Spanish NPs. For instance, Silva-Corvalán (1982) examined con-
versational data of 24 speakers in the Spanish-speaking community of West
Los Angeles and studied what variables could account for the (non)expres-
sion of subjects. The results showed that the factors that favoured absence of
subject were old information, unambiguous verb, and same reference;
whereas the factors that least favoured absence of subject were ambiguous
verb form, new information, and switch reference. In a comparison of San
Juan and Madrid Spanish, Cameron (1994) found that 66% of pronouns
were used to switch reference in San Juan Spanish (compared to 35% to
refer to the same reference). In Madrid Spanish, the percentages were
Table 3.2 Percentage rates of zero, pronoun, and full NPs in different Spanish varieties
Zero Pronoun Full NPs Variety Study
40 23 37 Caracas Bentivoglio (1983)
56 24 20 Caracas Bentivoglio (1992)
36 26 38 Aragon (Spain) Blackwell (1994) (S and O)
90 5 5 Aragon (Spain) Blackwell (1994)
55 45 Puerto Rican (San Juan) Cameron (1992)
79 21 Madrid Cameron (1992)
55 45 Puerto Rican (New Flores-Ferrán (2004)
York City)
40 Puerto Rican (Boston) Hochberg (1986)
39 Puerto Rican Morales (1986)
24 Puente Genil (Spain) Ranson (1991)
20 Madrid Enríquez (1984)
22 Mexican (Los Angeles) Silva-Corvalán (1994)
38% and 14%, respectively.2
Further research has emphasized the importance
of going beyond switch reference and has shown that degree of discourse
connectedness, reference chains, and perseveration need to be taken into
consideration as well (Bayley and Pease-Alvarez, 1997; Cameron, 1995;
Cameron and Flores-Ferrán, 2004).
This study takes previous research into consideration and expands on it by
examining two approaches to the study of nominal reference in Spanish: the
distance and episodic approaches.
The distance approach
Early studies of noun referentiality derived from Givón’s (1983a) theory of
nominal reference and topic continuity, which argued that the function
of nominal reference within discourse was to assist the speaker and the
hearer in keeping track of the participants in discourse. Givón’s (1983a, b, c)
methodology provided quantitative data in three measures of topic continuity:
(a) referential distance (look-back) assessed the gap between a referent in a
clause and its previous mention; (b) persistence or decay mirrors the previ-
ous measure and assessed for how long a referent was mentioned in dis-
course after first mention; and (c) potential interference or ambiguity
examined how several referents interact in discourse (that is, how reference
is established when more than one referent are present in the context).
Results using this methodology showed that different linguistic devices
could be distributed along a continuum of topic accessibility in which zero
coded the most continuous/accessible topics, and referential indefinite NPs
coded the most discontinuous topics (Givón 1983a: 17, see also Givón,
2001b: 463) (Table 3.3).3
Bentivoglio (1983) applied Givón’s (1983a, c) methodology to analyse
Latin American Spanish (Mexico City, Caracas, and Santiago de Chile).
56 Continuity and Episodic Structure in Spanish Subject Reference
Table 3.3 Nominal devices for topic continuity
Continuity Nominal device
Most continuous/accessible topic
zero anaphora
unstressed/bound pronouns or grammatical agreement
stressed/independent pronouns
right-dislocated definite NPs
neutral-ordered definite NPs
left-dislocated definite NPs
contrastive topicalization
cleft/focus constructions
referential indefinite NPs
Most discontinuous/inaccessible topics
Llorenç Comajoan 57
She found that verbal agreement (that is, zero) and stressed pronouns were
the most continuous devices, whereas indefinite existentials (‘there is X’)
and definite NPs modified by a relative clause were the most discontinuous.
As far as the distribution of the different nominal devices, the data from
Bentivoglio (1983) showed that zero was the most common device (40%),
followed by NPs (37%) and pronouns (23%). In a further study, Bentivoglio
(1993) studied Caracas Spanish and found that NPs had different rates of
use according to their function. The most common grammatical roles for
NPs were locative, object, and subject of an intransitive verb; and the least
common was subject of a transitive verb. In addition, most NPs coded inan-
imate referents, except for subjects of transitive verbs, which were animate
in 91% of the cases. Most NPs were used to track referents already intro-
duced into the discourse, 23% were used to code truly new referents, and
only 25.5% were used to code human participants. The data from
Bentivoglio (1993) included very few human subjects coded by NPs (5% of
NPs). Whenever they were used and they coded new referents, they were
always (100%) introduced by NPs. These data showed that full NPs can ful-
fill a variety of roles and that coding for new information was not their
major role, except for the case of subjects in transitive verbs, which tended
to be human.
The episodic approach
In a critique of the recency or distance approach used in the studies by Givón
and Bentivoglio, Tomlin (1987) argued that this approach had two strengths –
generability and simplicity – but that it could not account for two types of
counterexamples: NPs that refer to an antecedent found in the previous clause,
and pronouns that persist for several clauses (Tomlin, 1987; Fox, 1987). As an
alternative to the recency approach, Tomlin (1987: 456) argued for an
episodic/paragraph model that ‘considers the alternation between noun and
pronoun to be a function of the limited capacity of working memory, which
is manifested in the text artifact primarily through its paragraph, or episodic,
organization.’ In discussing the strengths and weaknesses of this approach,
Tomlin (1987) explained that it was superior to the distance approach, because
it could account for noun and pronoun use in different types of text and cre-
ated a link between language and psychology. Nevertheless, the episodic
approach was challenging from a methodological perspective, because it is
difficult to define constructs such as paragraph, episode, and focus in texts.
In order to test the episodic model, Tomlin (1987) used a set of 21 slide
pictures with a story and asked three groups to produce a story in English.
Group 1 saw the slides one at a time, group 2 saw the slides in odd pairs, and
group 3 saw the slides in even pairs.4
The rationale behind the experiment
was that the differences in the pairing of the slides would produce bound-
aries of episodes that would trigger differences in the use of nouns and pro-
nouns. Thus, if participants used nouns after a boundary (a new pair of
slides), regardless of the distance from the previous mention, it would be
considered evidence for the episodic approach; but if participants used
nouns and pronouns to refer to previous mention, regardless of the bound-
aries, it would be considered evidence for the recency approach. The results
indicated that all three groups produced similar measures of discourse den-
sity (proportion of propositions to episodes) and episode boundary: NPs were
used after an episode boundary and pronouns within an episode boundary.
In a second experiment, 10 participants watched a videotaped cartoon and
produced an online oral description. The data showed that the participants
produced more propositions per clause than in the slide experiment, but
the proportion of NPs after an episode boundary and pronouns within an
episode was the same as for the slide experiment. In sum, Tomlin (1987) pro-
vided evidence for the episodic approach, but this study still needs to be
replicated in other languages and types of narratives.
The current integrates research in switch reference and topic accessibility
in order to investigate (a) the use and function of Spanish NPs, pronouns,
and zero in Peninsular Spanish, and (b) to what extent the data provide
evidence for the distance or episodic approaches.
The study
Materials
Spanish narratives were elicited using The Pear Film from Chafe (1980), a
seven-minute video-film used for studies in cognitive, cultural, and linguis-
tic aspects of narrative production (see Appendix A for a summary of the
plot). The data in this study come from the analysis of approximately half of
the story narrated in the film: from the beginning of the story until the end
of the fourth paragraph in the summary of Appendix A (when the boy riding
his bike falls and the pears spill out of the basket onto the ground).
Participants
The 16 participants (11 female, 5 male; average age 29.5) in this study were
native speakers of Peninsular Spanish varieties that do not neutralize verbal
inflection (Barcelona, Valencia, Mallorca, Madrid, Bilbao, Burgos, Salamanca,
Guipúzcoa, Ciudad Real, Palencia, and Valladolid). All participants were
students at a United States university at the time of data collection. Their
average length of stay in the United States was three years.
Procedure
The participants were informed that they would participate in a study about
the different ways people told stories. They watched the complete film and
were asked to retell the story as if they were telling it to somebody who
had not seen it. It was stressed that they should tell it in as much detail as
58 Continuity and Episodic Structure in Spanish Subject Reference
Llorenç Comajoan 59
possible. For the recording of the data, the researcher provided the participants
with a tape recorder and asked them to retell the story in a separate room by
themselves.
Coding categories
Each narrative was divided into clauses that contained one verbal form.
Only clauses with human subject referents in which one of the variables
(NP, pronoun, or zero) could be inserted were considered (for example, direct
object relative clauses were analysed, but subject relative clauses and clauses
with se le were coded in a separate category). Infinitives in modal construc-
tions were analysed as part of the matrix clause. Constructions with the verb
parecer ‘to seem’ were not considered, because it was not clear whether their
subject was a human referent or an expletive subject. Verb phrases containing
comments from the participants were not considered. Each clause was coded
into the following categories: referent, introduction of referents, linguistic
form, referential distance, and episode boundary.
The human referents of the film were the following: man picking up pears,
man with the goat, boy, and girl. Each subject was coded as ‘new’ if it was the
first mention of the referent. If it was not the first mention, it was coded
as ‘different subject’ or ‘same subject’ depending on whether the previous
clause had the same or a different subject.
For the coding of the linguistic form of subjects, the following categories
were used: definite NP, indefinite NP, pronoun, and zero. The category ‘Definite
NPs’ included definite NPs, demonstrative adjectives, and otro/a ‘another’.
The category ‘Other’ included a few other devices (for example, gerunds,
pronominal demonstratives, and los dos ‘both’).
Relative clauses were coded as direct object relative clauses (with an NP,
pronoun, or zero subject) or relative clauses (with a definite or indefinite NP
subject antecedent). Finally, clauses with hay ‘there is/are’ that referred to
human subjects were coded as hay-clauses, and clauses with ergative construc-
tions (with se [le]) (for example, se le cae el sombrero ‘the hat falls [off his
head]’) were coded as se (le) clauses.
For the analysis of the distance approach, the data were coded for referential
distance. Referential distance (or look-back) measured how many clauses
intervened between one referent and its last mention. Following Givón
(1983a, c), new referents were given a measure of 20, and old referents were
given a number ranging from 1 (mentioned in the previous clause) up to 20
(the highest number given in this study was 13). Thus, referential distance
measured switch/same reference when the look-back value was 1 and a pro-
noun, an NP, or zero was used. The look-back measure referred to mention
of the referent regardless of whether the previous mention was in subject
position or not.
The procedure for coding episodic boundary and events closely followed
Tomlin (1984, 1987). Tomlin defined an event as ‘the total action occurring
between event boundaries’ (1984: 121) and an event boundary as ‘the loci
of abrupt visual change within the video’ (1984: 121). Two main types of
abrupt visual change can occur in the video segment used for this study: a
camera cut and the loss or gain of characters. The analysis identified 28 events
(camera cuts) and six episodes (see Appendix B). The relationship between
episode boundary and linguistic form (NP, pronoun, or zero) was coded
using a system of hits and misses (following Tomlin, 1987). A hit was defined
as an NP at the beginning of an episode or the use of a pronoun/zero inside
an episode. A miss was defined as an NP inside an episode or a pronoun/zero
at the beginning of an episode. Clauses that could not be readily classified
into one of the events and episodes of the film were excluded from the per-
centage analysis of hits and misses and were coded as ‘out’ cases. The
excluded clauses were instances of extra information that was not in the
event/episode analysis of the film (Appendix B), events that were not retold
in the order in which they occurred in the film (for example, descriptions of
characters after first mention), clauses with se le, and subject relative clauses.
Results
Nominal devices for new and old referents
The most common device to code human subject referents in the narratives
was zero (68.5%), followed by NPs (29%) and pronouns (2.5%) (Table 3.4).
60 Continuity and Episodic Structure in Spanish Subject Reference
Table 3.4 Subject nominal devices used in
the narratives
Participant NP Pronoun Zero
1 4 0 15
2 7 0 8
3 3 2 11
4 9 0 14
5 6 1 16
6 9 0 32
7 13 0 23
8 5 0 9
9 10 0 18
10 7 4 18
11 4 1 19
12 8 0 15
13 6 0 23
14 12 1 24
15 8 1 14
16 6 0 16
Total 117 10 275
(29%) (2.5%) (68.5%)
Llorenç Comajoan 61
For the introduction of new characters, indefinite NPs were the most
common device (56.5%), followed by relative clauses (RC) with indefinite NPs
(16.5%), and hay-clauses (‘there is/are’-clauses) with indefinite NPs (10%). New
referents were never coded by zero or pronouns (Table 3.5). The most frequent
device to code subject continuity (same subject as previous clause) was zero
(78.5%). Pronouns (2%) and indefinite NPs (1%) were barely used (Table 3.6).
Table 3.5 Nominal devices to introduce new characters
Participant NP indef. NP def. Zero Pronoun RC NP indef. RC NP def. hay NP indef. Other
1 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 1
2 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 0
3 2 0 0 0 1 1 0 0
4 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 0
5 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
6 1 0 0 0 0 0 2 1
7 2 0 0 0 0 1 0 0
8 2 0 0 0 2 0 0 0
9 2 0 0 0 1 1 0 0
10 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 0
11 3 0 0 0 0 1 0 0
12 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
13 1 0 0 0 2 0 0 0
14 2 1 0 0 1 0 0 0
15 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
16 2 0 0 0 0 1 1 0
Total 34 2 0 0 10 6 6 2
(56.5%) (3.5%) (0%) (0%) (16.5%) (10%) (10%) (3.5%)
Table 3.6 Nominal devices to introduce same subjects from previous clauses
Participant NP indef. NP def. Zero Pronoun RC NP RC NP (se) le
indef. def.
1 0 0 12 0 0 1 0
2 0 1 4 0 0 0 0
3 0 1 9 1 0 0 0
4 0 1 12 0 0 0 0
5 0 0 12 0 1 2 0
6 0 3 24 0 0 0 2
7 0 4 14 0 2 1 1
8 0 0 6 0 0 0 1
9 1 2 12 0 1 0 0
10 0 0 15 3 3 0 1
11 0 0 10 0 0 0 1
12 0 1 9 0 1 0 0
13 1 2 19 0 1 0 0
14 0 5 20 0 0 0 0
15 0 3 12 1 1 0 1
16 0 3 13 0 1 0 1
Total 2 26 203 5 11 4 8
(1%) (10%) (78.5%) (2%) (4%) (1.5%) (3%)
Subject discontinuity (reference to a different subject from the previous
clause) was marked with zero (51%) and definite NPs (36.5%). The percentage
rate of pronouns for discontinuity was very low (3.5%) (Table 3.7).
These results confirm the different functions fulfilled by nominal devices
in Spanish narratives: Indefinite NPs mostly code new subjects, zero tends to
code subject continuity, and definite NPs and zero code subject discontinuity.
Subject pronouns were infrequent in the Spanish narratives in this study,
and their function is discussed in the following section.
The recency approach versus the episodic approach
The coding of discontinuity in this study was along the following continuum:
zero (51%)  definite NP (36.5%)  pronoun (3.5%) (Table 3.6). The high
percentage of zero to refer to a different subject from the previous clause is
contrary to what in the distance approach predicts, because zero is the most
continuous device. However, the percentage rates of zero to code continuity
(78.5%) and discontinuity (51%) confirm that – although zero can be used to
refer to different subjects from the previous clauses – its main function is to
code continuity. An analysis of the look-back measure shows the difference
between the use of zero for same and different subjects from the previous
clause: the average look-back measure of zero when it referred to the same
subject (78.5%) was 1, whereas it was 2.5 when it referred to different subjects
(4.5 for NP; 3 for pronoun) (Table 3.8).
The analysis of hits and misses relating episode boundaries and the use of
NP, pronoun, and zero showed that 81.5% of the data were hits and could be
accounted by an episodic approach (NPs at the beginning of an episode,
pronoun/zero inside an episode) (Table 3.9).
62 Continuity and Episodic Structure in Spanish Subject Reference
Table 3.7 Nominal devices to introduce different subjects from previous clauses
Participant NP def. NP indef. Zero Pronoun RC NP indef. RC NP def. (se) le Other
1 1 0 3 0 0 1 1 0
2 4 1 4 0 0 0 0 0
3 0 0 2 1 0 0 0 0
4 6 0 2 0 0 0 0 0
5 2 0 4 1 0 1 0 0
6 6 0 8 0 0 0 0 1
7 7 0 9 0 0 0 1 0
8 3 0 3 0 0 0 1 0
9 4 0 6 0 0 1 2 1
10 6 0 3 1 0 0 0 0
11 1 0 9 1 0 0 0 0
12 3 0 6 0 0 0 1 0
13 2 0 4 0 0 0 0 0
14 4 0 4 1 0 1 0 0
15 2 0 2 0 0 0 0 0
16 1 0 3 0 0 0 0 0
Total 52 1 72 5 0 4 6 2
(36.5%) (1%) (51%) (3.5%) (0%) (3%) (4%) (1.5%)
63
Table 3.8 Look-back distance for definite NPs, pronoun, and zero when
they refer to a different subject from the previous clause
Participant Def. NP Pronoun Zero
1 1 2, 4, 4
2 2, 5, 7, 1 2, 3, 3, 3
3 3 2, 3
4 2, 2, 3, 4, 4, 5 2, 2
5 3, 2 5 1, 2, 2, 3
6 2, 2, 2, 11, 7 1, 2, 2, 2, 3, 4, 7, 9, 3, 1
7 1, 2, 5, 12, 3, 4, 5 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 3, 3
8 3, 4, 4 1, 2, 3
9 2, 4, 13, 8 1, 2, 2, 2, 2, 3
10 2, 2, 10, 11, 3, 33 1, 1, 2
11 2 3 2, 2, 2, 3, 3, 4, 10, 2, 2
12 4, 3, 2 2, 2, 3, 3, 3, 8
13 4, 11 2, 2, 2, 2
14 2, 3, 6, 7 2 1, 1, 3, 3
15 6, 6 2, 4
16 5 1, 2, 3
Average 4.5 3 2.5
Note: 1 indicates that the referent was mentioned in the previous clause, 2 indicates
that it was mentioned two clauses back, and so on. The look-back measure refers to
mention of the referent regardless of whether the previous mention was in subject
position or not.
Table 3.9 Overall hits and misses for the episodic model
Participant Hit1 Hit2 Miss
1 18 15 1
2 11 10 3
3 11 9 5
4 19 17 4
5 18 14 4
6 32 32 9
7 26 24 10
8 11 9 0
9 18 16 6
10 19 18 3
11 19 16 1
12 14 10 2
13 25 24 3
14 28 25 7
15 17 14 5
16 16 14 5
Total 302 (81.5%) – 68 (18.5%) Hit 1
– 267 (80%) 68 (20%) Hit 2
New referents were always introduced by indefinite NPs at the beginning
of episodes (33 tokens, 100%), In order to avoid a possible bias in favour of
the episodic approach, two analyses of hits and misses were calculated. Hit 1
included all the subject referents, whereas Hit 2 excluded new referents.
Overall, the difference in the misses between the two counts was less than 2
percentage points (18.5% based on Hit 1, 20% based on Hit 2).
Table 3.10 provides an analysis of hits and misses for new and old referents.
Overall, the data show that the episodic model can account for most uses of
NPs and zero in the Spanish narratives. New referents were always coded by
indefinite NPs and were all at the beginning of episodes. Regarding old ref-
erents, zero was mostly used inside episodes. Specifically, the use of zero
inside episodes represented 82% of the data for subject continuity and 57%
for subject discontinuity. The largest percentage of misses in the episodic
model occurred in the coding of discontinuity and old referents when they
were coded by definite NPs (19%).
Discussion
This section discusses the data from this study in light of previous research
and focuses on three aspects: the use of NP, pronouns, and zero; the evidence
for the recency and episodic approaches; and counterexamples to the
episodic model.
In the narrative data from this study, human referents were coded by zero
or NPs (68.5% and 29%, respectively), and only in a few instances by
pronouns (2.5%). Overall, the participants produced more NPs and fewer
pronouns than previously reported (Tables 3.1 and 3.2). This difference may
be due to the fact that the data in previous studies were conversational and
included more than one participant, whereas in the current study partici-
pants produced monologic retellings of The Pear Film. The presence of an
interlocutor in the retellings is very likely to influence the production of
64 Continuity and Episodic Structure in Spanish Subject Reference
Table 3.10 Hits and misses for new referents, old referents, and
different subjects
Hit Miss Out
New referents
NP indef. 33 (100%) 0 (0%) 1
Zero 0 (0%) 0 (0%) 0
Old referents
Same subject
NP def. 3 (1.5%) 22 (10%) 1
Zero 179 (82%) 14 (6.5%) 10
Different subject
NP def. 19 (19%) 19 (19%) 14
Zero 57 (57%) 6 (6%) 9
Llorenç Comajoan 65
NPs, pronouns and zero. For instance, Tannen (1980) compared Greek and
English narratives of The Pear Film and found differences in the use of nomi-
nal devices in the languages in part because the Greek participants tended to
assume that the researcher collecting the data had already heard the narrative
several times. However, despite differences in the methodology (but using the
same film), Blackwell’s (1994) Spanish data on pronoun use in subject position
(5-6%) were similar to those of the current study (3.5%).
In this study, the nominal devices that introduced new characters were
indefinite (indefinite NPs, relative clauses with indefinite NPs, and hay-
clauses with indefinite NPs). These results confirm Bentivoglio’s (1983) claim
that the most discontinuous devices for human subjects were indefinite exis-
tentials and presentatives. Bentivoglio’s analysis did not classify relative
clauses with indefinite NPs as a separate category, but her data showed that
the most continuous device after indefinite existentials and presentatives
were definite NPs modified by a relative clause. The strong relationship
between indefiniteness and introduction of new characters also supports
Givón’s (1983a) continuity hierarchy and Levinson’s (1987) extragrammatical
pragmatic principles (Levinson, 1987), whereby The speaker takes into
account the hearer’s knowledge and provides statements that are informa-
tionally appropriate to the situation.
The limited number of subject pronouns (10 tokens) produced by the
participants in this study allows for a close examination of their use. The con-
text in which the subject pronouns were used had two characteristics in com-
mon: the pronouns referred to the boy in the narrative (8 of the 10 instances),
and they occurred in episodes 5 and 6 (see Appendix B) (8 of the 10 instances).
The boy was the main character in the story, which can account for the use of
pronouns to focus on this character. At first, it could be argued that the subject
pronouns in episodes 5 and 6 were used to disambiguate; because in those
episodes the boy and the girl are riding their bicycles, and, when they pass
each other from opposite directions, the boy loses his hat and falls. In the
retelling of this episode, the use of a pronoun may specify who the referent for
each verb is. For instance, in (3.2a and b) the subject pronoun él ‘he’
disambiguates in two occasions the referent who loses the hat and falls:
(3.2) Participant 3 (2 tokens)5
el niño recoge una de las banastas de de peras
the boy takes one of the baskets of pears
y Ø se las lleva con él en la bicicleta
and Ø takes them with him on the bike
ah mientras Ø se lleva las peras
ah while Ø is taking the pears
Ø se cruza con otra niña
Ø passes another girl
que viene en bicicleta y al cruzarse, en un camino que es más bien
estrecho,
who is coming on a bike and when passing, in a road that
is narrow,
(a) ➔él pierde el sombrero
he loses his hat
Ø se despista mirando hacia atrás
Ø distracts himself looking back
y Ø se cae
and Ø falls
(b) ➔y y como consecuencia cae él de la bici, las peras
and and as a consequence he falls from the bike, the pears
y su sombrero se pierde
and his hat is lost
y ah además Ø se hace daño en una pierna.
and ah in addition Ø hurts himself in a leg.
In (3.3), the subject pronoun disambiguates the referent of the person who
is distracted:
(3.3) Participant 5 (1 token)
el niño este va por ahí con la bicicleta con el cesto el canasto este
de de peras en su bicicleta de manera que es bastante dificultosa
¿no? porque pesan
y todo esto
this boy goes around there on the bike with the basket this
basket of pears on his bike in a way that is pretty difficult, right?
because they weigh and all this
pasa una niña en una en otra bicicleta
a girl passes by on another bike
Ø se cruza con él
Ø passes him
➔él se distrae
he distracts himself
Ø choca contra una piedra la bicicleta
Ø hits the bike against a stone
y Ø se y se cae.
and Ø falls.
Participant 10 produced 4 subject pronouns, but only one of the tokens had
a disambiguation function. The pronoun in (3.4d) makes it clear that the
boy was the referent who got off the bike, not the girl:
(3.4) Participant 10 (4 tokens)
hay un señor que está subido a una escalera de mano frente a un árbol
66 Continuity and Episodic Structure in Spanish Subject Reference
Llorenç Comajoan 67
there is a man who is at the top of a ladder in front of a
tree
(a) ➔él está cogiendo fruta verde, unas peras
he is picking up green fruit, pears
y Ø lo hace de una forma muy artesanal muy calmado así
como una a una
and Ø does it in a very careful way very calmly like one
by one
eh nuestro protagonista vuelve a subir al árbol
our protagonist climbs up the tree again
y Ø sigue haciendo su tarea
and Ø keeps doing his task
Ø recoge una a una las piezas las frutas
Ø picks up the pieces of fruit one by one
(b) ➔mientras él está subido
while he is up
hay una hay una secuencia que
there is a scene that
eh un niño vestido así como un poco tipo boy scout pasa con
una bici
ah a boy dressed like a boy scout goes by on a bike
y el supuesto boy scout, por llamar de alguna forma, no sé,
tendrá también unos doce años
and the supposed-to-be boy scout, to give him some name,
I don’t know, must also be twelve years old.
(c) ➔ah el al cruzarse él se queda mirándola
ah when passing he looks at her
y el sombrero bueno Ø se chocan bueno no se chocan
and the hat well Ø crash into each other well they do not
crash into each other
eh Ø gira la cabeza
ah Ø turns his head around
y se le escapa el sombrero
and the hat flies from him
y nada Ø se tropieza con una piedra
and Ø hits a stone
y Ø se cae
and Ø falls
la chica yo creo que ni se da cuenta
the girl I think does not realize
(d) ➔pero él tiene que bajarse y demás.
but he has to get off and all that.
Finally, in (3.5), the pronoun in él mismo ‘he himself’ disambiguates the
reference regarding which participant falls (the boy):
(3.5) Participant 15 (1 token)
entonces en esto Ø se cruza con una chica
then Ø passes a girl
y al mirarla se le cae el sombrero
and when looking at her his hat falls
➔y él mismo va detrás de las peras.
and he goes behind the pears (falls).
However, not all pronouns have a disambiguating function. For instance,
the pronouns in (3.6) and (3.7) do not disambiguate, because other contex-
tual information makes it clear who the referent is. In (3.6), the feminine
direct object pronoun la ‘her’ unambiguously refers to the girl; and in (3.7),
the girl has not been introduced yet:
(3.6) Participant 11 (1 token)
y en esto que en el camino ah en pues en la otra dirección viene
una chica
and in all this on the road ah then in the other direction a girl
is coming
➔él se la queda mirando
he stands there looking at her
y la chica pues le da le quita al chico al niño el sombrero que Ø
llevaba.
and the girl then takes the hat Ø was wearing.
(3.7) Participant 14 (1 token)
el niño también lleva un sombrero porque hace mucho sol
the boy is also wearing a hat because it is very hot
➔en el camino cuando él va con la bicicleta
on the road when he is on his bike
se cruza con una niña de largas trenzas
passes a girl with long braids
que también va en bicicleta.
who is also on a bike.
The subject pronouns in (3.6) and (3.7) show that the participants used
subject pronouns in contexts that are referentially ambiguous (two referents
performing similar actions in similar situations) even though the contexts
are not linguistically ambiguous. Thus, a subject pronoun may anticipate
ambiguity and provide extra information to track reference of the participants.
68 Continuity and Episodic Structure in Spanish Subject Reference
Llorenç Comajoan 69
Finally, in three instances (3.4a, 3.4b, and 3.4c), subject pronouns were
used in nonambiguous contexts and did not refer to the boy in the narrative.
All three tokens were in subordinate clauses and were produced by the same
speaker.
Only 6 of the 16 participants produced subject pronouns in their narra-
tives to refer to the boy in episodes 5 and 6. In the same episodes, the
remainder of the participants used NPs, non-subject pronouns, or zero
(Table 3.11).
In sum, these results show that in the Spanish data for this study the
expression of nonnew human subject referents was expressed through
devices along the following continuum: zero  NP  pronoun. The ordering
of the three devices does not follow Givón’s (1983) topic-accessibility hierar-
chy (Table 3.3). This may be due to differences in the use of pronouns in dif-
ferent languages. For instance, Clancy (1980) compared English and
Japanese data using The Pear Film and found that the Japanese participants
produced more NPs and zero than the English participants (Table 3.12).
The proportion of use of zero in Japanese and Spanish was similar (73.2%
and 78.5%, respectively). Clancy (1980) argued that the difference in the use
Table 3.11 Nominal devices in episodes 5 and 6
Participant Nominal device
1 se le (unstressed dative pronoun)
2 NP
4 NP
6 NP
7 NP
8 le (unstressed dative pronoun)
9 se le (unstressed dative pronoun)
12 NP
13 NP
16 zero
Table 3.12 Nominal devices to introduce continuous
subjects in Spanish, English, and Japanese
English Japanese Spanish (this study)
NP 15.7% 26.8% 10% (def. NP)
1% (indef. NP)
Pronoun 63.8% – 2%
Zero 20.5% 73.2% 78.5%
Note: The Japanese and English data are from Clancy (1980).
of NPs between English and Japanese was probably due to the fact that
Japanese only has two devices for continuity, whereas English has three.
Spanish has as many devices as English, but the Spanish data on the use of NPs
and zero were closer to the Japanese than the English data. These results indi-
cate that similar devices may fulfill distinct functions in different languages.
Thus, pronouns in English can be used anaphorically (in low referential dis-
tance) or to mark contrast (in higher referential distance) (Givón, 1983c);
whereas in Spanish the anaphoric function is carried out by zero and to a lesser
extent by pronouns. Further research needs to compare data elicited through
similar tasks in order to replicate these results and study the specific functions
of nominal devices within narratives. Further research needs to compare data
using the same elicitation task in order to replicate these results and investi-
gate how the same devices in different languages fulfill different functions.
The data from this study can shed light on the recency and episodic
approaches to noun referentiality. Research following the recency approach
found that zero and pronouns were the most continuous devices, followed by
NPs of different kinds (Bentivoglio, 1983, table 3.3). The general results for the
current study do not provide support for the recency approach, because the
data showed that NPs were more continuous than pronouns, and zero was
more discontinuous than NPs. Specifically, old referents were mostly marked
by zero (78.5%), followed by definite NPs (10%) and pronouns (2%)
(Table 3.6); and zero marked both continuity (78.5%) and discontinuity (51%).
Table 3.8 showed that the average look-back distance was 2.5 clauses for
zero, 3 clauses for pronouns, and 4.5 for definite NPs. This pattern supports
the results of the distance approach except that a shorter distance might be
expected for zero. The fact that zero persisted for an average of 2.5 clauses
suggests that distance alone cannot explain the use of nominal devices,
because zero continued to be used even when discontinuity (produced by a
new referent, a different human referent, a different nonhuman referent, or
a comment from the speaker) occurred. Cameron (1995) referred to reference
chains for cases in which same-reference devices (for example, zero) persisted
over intervening switch-reference subjects, and he found a gradation in the
use of subject pronouns in chains that extended two referents back (higher
possibility of pronoun use when the preceding referents were also switch ref-
erence in regard to each other and the target). Cameron’s (1995) reference
chains capture the limitations of the distance approach but do not explain
what triggers the use of a specific nominal device at the end of the chain. A
possible explanation is that the nominal devices persist or decay depending
on the episodic structure of the text.
The analysis of hits and misses in Table 3.10 provided evidence for an
episodic model in which pronouns and zero are used inside episodes, and
NPs are used to begin new episodes. The percentage values of the episodic
model in the current study (81.5% hits, 18.5% misses) were similar to the
values in Tomlin (1987) (84% hits and 16% misses). The remaining 16% of the
70 Continuity and Episodic Structure in Spanish Subject Reference
Llorenç Comajoan 71
data in Tomlin (1987) were counterexamples to the episode model and were
intraepisode uses of NPs or uses of pronouns at the beginning of new
episodes. The intraepisode uses of NPs were found in evaluations, in the per-
formance of one individual speaker, and in cases of ambiguity resolution
that were supposed to be filtered out but were not.
In this study, no exceptions to the introduction of new referents were
found, because they were always introduced with indefinite NPs, relative
clauses, or hay-clauses and never by pronouns or zero.
Regarding the introduction of same subjects, the intraepisode uses of
definite NPs (10%) can be grouped under three categories:
1 Most intraepisode uses of definite NPs were descriptions of the characters,
as in (3.8):
(3.8) Participant 15
en la historia aparece un hombre
in the story a man appears
que está recogiendo peras de un árbol
who is picking up pears
➔el señor tiene bigote
the man has a moustache
Ø tiene un pañuelo en el cuello rojo y un delantal
Ø has a red handkerchief around the neck and an apron
entonces el hombre se afana en coger muchas peras
Then the man labors at picking up many pears
que Ø las va bajando del árbol por una escalera.
that Ø is bringing them down the tree with a ladder.
2 Three instances of intraepisode definite NPs were provided by two
participants, who used them with a demonstrative (este, ‘this’), as in 3.9:
(3.9) Participant 7
➔y ah mientras este campesino sigue recogiendo la fruta
and ah while this peasant keeps picking up fruit
viene un niño con un sombrero en la cabeza
a boy comes with a hat on his head
➔viene este niño en bicicleta
this boy comes on a bike
Ø es un niño
Ø is a boy
que es más pequeño que la bicicleta
who is smaller than the bike
prácticamente Ø no puede ni ir en su bicicleta ¿no?
practically Ø cannot ride on his bike, right?
pero de lo pequeño que Ø es comparado con la bici
but Ø is so small compared to the bike
➔ah entonces este este niño que debe tener ¿qué sé yo? unos ah
siete u ocho años rubito muy delgadito ah se se da cuenta del
enorme cesto de peras.
ah then this this boy who must be what do I know? about seven
or eight years old blond very skinny ah notices the big basket of
pears.
3 Another instance of a miss is when one of the characters is part of a
collective subject, as in (3.10):
(3.10) Participant 7
entonces el niño las peras y la bicicleta se van todos al suelo.
then the boy the pears and the bike go to the ground (fall).
Finally, in a few instances, intraepisode uses of definite NPs did not have a
clear-cut explanation, as in (3.11):
(3.11) Participant 15
entonces el hombre se afana en coger muchas peras
then the man labors at picking up many pears
que Ø las va bajando del árbol por una escalera
that Ø brings them down using a ladder
Ø las va dejando abajo
Ø is bringing them down
➔entonces cuando el hombre recoge un capazo
then when the man takes a basket
Ø vuelve a subir arriba
Ø goes back on the tree
y en esto Ø sigue recogiendo peras ¿no?
and Ø keeps picking up pears, right?
Only 6% of the uses of zero that referred to the same subject as the previ-
ous clause occurred at the beginning of an episode (Table 3.10). A few of the
counterexamples occurred in subordinate clauses that referred to a new
episode, whose main clause was part of the previous episode (example 3.12).
The others did not have a clear explanation (example 3.13):
(3.12) Participant 3
el niño recoge una de las banastas de de peras
the boy picks up one of the baskets of pears
y Ø se las lleva con él en la bicicleta
and Ø takes them with him on the bike
ah mientras Ø se lleva las peras
72 Continuity and Episodic Structure in Spanish Subject Reference
Llorenç Comajoan 73
ah while Ø is taking the pears
➔ Ø se cruza con otra niña
Ø passes another girl
que viene en bicicleta
who is coming on a bike.
(3.13) Participant 11
y la chica pues le da le quita al chico al niño el sombrero
and the girl then hits takes from the boy the hat
que Ø llevaba
that Ø was wearing
y entonces en esto de que quitar estar mirándole a ella pues Ø no
se da cuenta bien de la carretera
and then in all this looking at her then Ø does not realize
about the road
➔y en una y ah Ø tropieza eh con una piedra.
and Ø hits a stone.
The misses for definite NPs were instances of definite NPs inside an episode
(19%). These counterexamples could be classified into two categories:
1 A definite NP to refer to a different subject within an episode usually
occurred after a comment from the speaker or a description of a referent:
(3.14) Participant 3
después aparece un niño en una bicicleta también con sombrero
por cierto
then a boy appears on a bike also with a hat by the way
y Ø lleva un pañuelo puesto ah como un cowboy a la manera de
cowboy
and Ø is wearing a handkerchief like a cowboy, cowboy style
➔el niño recoge una de las banastas de de peras
the boy picks up one of the baskets
y Ø se las lleva con él en la bicicleta
and Ø takes the with him on his bike.
2 Definite NPs to refer to a different subject within an episode were also
used to disambiguate (as previously discussed):
(3.15) Participant 4
cuando el niño iba en la bicicleta
when the boy was on his bike
Ø encontró por el camino otra niña, una niña con dos trenzas,
muy guapa,
Ø found on the road another girl, a girl with two braids, very
beautiful,
que venía en la contrar en la dirección contraria
who was coming on the opposite direction
➔y el niño llevaba un sombrero de paja en su cabeza para
protegerse del sol
and the boy was wearing a straw hat on his head to protect
himself from the sun
y la niña cuando pasó delante suyo
and the girl when passed in front of him
Ø se lo quitó
Ø took it from him
Ø se lo tiró
Ø pulled it from him
➔el niño, sorprendido, miró hacia atrás
the boy, surprised, looked towards his back
y de repente Ø se cayó de la bicicleta con las peras en el suelo
and suddenly Ø fell from his bike with the pears on the
ground.
The misses (6%) in the introduction of different subjects by zero were due
to the methodology of the study. Once the episodes and events were identi-
fied in the film, the same division of events and episodes was applied to all
narratives. Most participants provided more than one clause for each
episode, but in a few cases only one clause was provided. In order to be con-
sistant in the coding of the data, these cases were coded as individual
episodes, even though from the perspective of the speaker they were likely to
be part of the previous episode.
To summarize, the analysis of hits and misses supports the episodic model
that argues for the use of NP at the beginning of an episode and zero/pronouns
inside the episode. The model cannot account for all the data, but most
counterexamples can be grouped under meaningful categories (for example,
NPs within an episode to describe a character).
Conclusion
This study has shown that zero and NPs were the two most common nomi-
nal devices to refer to subjects in Spanish narratives. Subject pronouns were
used infrequently and mostly in ambiguous contexts. Reference to same and
different subjects from the previous clause was expressed by zero. The high
use of zero for reference to same and different subjects can be considered
74 Continuity and Episodic Structure in Spanish Subject Reference
Llorenç Comajoan 75
counterevidence to the distance approach (Givón, 1983 a, b, c; Bentivoglio,
1983). The results indicated that a high percentage of zero and definite NPs
(80%) can be explained by a model that has the segmentation of narratives
into episodes and events as the main variable (Tomlin, 1987). The remaining
20% of the data was explained by some exceptions and other more special-
ized variables that interacted with episodes and events, such as descriptions
of characters, comments from the speaker, subordination, and disambigua-
tion.
These findings add to the growing body of research in nominal reference
in Spanish. Specifically, they provide evidence for the role of episodes from
a cognitive and linguistic perspective. This episodic model overcomes the
main weaknesses of the recency approach, namely the use of NPs for
antecedents found in the previous clause and the use of zero/pronouns that
persist for several clauses. However, further research needs to investigate the
episodic model in order to replicate the results found in this study and refine
the model. First, future studies need to apply the episodic model in a variety
of types of discourse to explore how conversations with several interlocutors
differ from retellings produced as monologues. Second, further studies also
need to explore the processing mechanisms and narrative strategies that
make some speakers use pronouns and others use different nominal devices
(only six of the sixteen participants used subject pronouns). Third, the
results showed that new characters were introduced by indefinite NPs (iso-
lated or in relative clauses) and hay-clauses, which is evidence for the role of
clause structure and syntax in the introduction of new characters. Thus, fur-
ther research needs to go beyond the study of NP, zero, and pronouns to
examine how syntax interacts with nominal reference. Finally, a complete
episodic model must incorporate other factors that have been found to cor-
relate with the use of NPs, pronouns, and zero (such as verbal inflection and
regional/social variation) in order to ascertain whether episodes and scenes
can subsume other factors.
Appendix A: Summary of The Pear Film
(from Chafe, 1980: xiii–xiv)
The film begins with a man picking up pears on a ladder in a tree. He descends the
ladder, kneels, and dumps the pears from the pocket of an apron he is wearing into
one of three baskets below the tree. He removes a bandana from around his neck and
wipes off one of the pears. Then he returns to the ladder and climbs back into the tree.
Toward the end of this sequence we hear the sound of a goat, and when the picker
is back in the tree a man approaches with a goat on a leash. As they pass by the bas-
kets of pears, the goat strains toward them, but is pulled past by the man and the two
of them disappear in the distance.
We see another closeup of the picker at his work, and then we see a boy approaching
on a bicycle. He coasts in toward the baskets, stops, gets off his bike, looks up at the
picker, puts down his bike, walks toward the baskets, again looking at the picker, and
lifts up a basket full of pears. He puts the basket down near his bike, lifts up the bike
and straddles it, picks up the basket and places it on the rack in front of his handlebars,
and rides off. We again see the man continuing to pick pears.
The boy is now riding down the road, and we see a pear fall from the basket on
his bike. Then we see a girl on a bicycle approaching from the other direction. As
they pass, the boy turns to look at the girl, his hat flies off, and the front wheel of
his bike hits a rock. The bike falls over, the basket falls off, and the pears spill out
onto the ground. The boy extricates himself from under the bike, and brushes off
his leg.
In the meantime we hear what turns out to be the sound of a paddleball, and then
we see three boys standing there, looking at the bike boy on the ground. The three
pick up the scattered pears and put them back in the basket. The bike boy sets his bike
upright, and two of the other boys lift the basket of pears back onto it. The bike boy
begins walking his bike in the direction he was going, while the other three boys begin
walking off in the other direction.
As they walk by the bike boy’s hat on the road, the boy with the paddleball sees
it, picks it up, turns around, and we hear a loud whistle as he signals to the bike
boy. The bike boy stops, takes three pears out of the basket, and holds them out as
the other boy approaches with the hat. They exchange the pears and the hat, and
the bike boy keeps going while the boy with the paddleball runs back to his two
companions, to each of whom he hands a pear. They continue on, eating their
pears.
The scene now changes back to the tree, where we see the picker again descending
the ladder. He looks at the two baskets, where earlier there were three, points them,
backs up against the ladder, shakes his head, and tips up his hat. The three boys are
now seen approaching, eating their pears. The picker watches them pass by, and they
walk off into the distance.
Appendix B: Division of the Pear Story into events
and episodes
76 Continuity and Episodic Structure in Spanish Subject Reference
Ev. Ep. Description Character Sec. Sec./Ep.
1 1 scene-setting, countryside scene-setting, 3 50
intro. of man
picking pears
2 1 man picking up pears in the tree 5
3 1 one pear falls to the ground 2
4 1 man goes down the ladder, empties 40
pears from the pocket of an apron, and
cleans one pear
5 2 one man comes from the left side, the intro. of man 25 31
other man climbs up the ladder, the man with goat
has a goat
6 2 the man and the goat go by the tree 6
and leave
Llorenç Comajoan 77
Notes
1 NP refers to full lexical NPs and zero refers to null subjects.
2 Despite the fact that the relative percentage rates seemed to differ in San Juan and
Madrid Spanish, VARBRUL weights were not different. Similar rates were found in
New York City Puerto Rican Spanish (Flores-Ferrán, 2004, Cameron and Flores-
Ferrán, 2004). Other studies (Cameron, 1992, 1994; Flores-Ferrán, 2004) have con-
firmed the central role of switch reference in explaining pronoun use in Spanish.
3 It needs to be noted that, in further research, Givón (1992, 1995) moved beyond dis-
course, relating his previous studies to cognition (attention and episodic memory) and
arguing for the discrete rather than scalar properties of topicality (Givón, 1992: 19).
7 1 man picking up pears in the tree man picking 3 8
more pears
8 1 closeup of a hand picking a pear 1
9 1 man picking up pears in the tree 1
10 1 face of man picking pears in the tree 3
11 3 a boy riding a bike can be seen from a boy 2 69
distance
12 3 man picking up pears in the tree 2
13 3 the boy riding a bike is getting closer 15
14 3 the boy bikes closer to the tree and gets off 8
his bike
15 3 the boy touches a basket full of pears and 3
looks at the man up in the tree 2
16 3 man picking up pears in the tree 25
17 3 the boy looks up and picks a basket, gets on
his bike and puts the basket in front of the
bike, and leaves
18 3 man picking up pears in the tree 3
19 3 boy riding his bike with difficulty 4
20 3 closeup of pears in the basket in front of the bike 2
21 3 boy riding his bike 3
22 4 a girl riding a bike can be seen from girl 5 7
a distance
23 4 boy riding his bike 2
24 5 boy and girl riding bikes from opposite boy and girl 3 6
directions, they are going to pass each other
25 5 closeup of boy, girl passes him, hat flies, and 3
boy notices his hat is off
26 6 closeup of a stone, the boy’s bike hits accident, boy 2 14
a stone
27 6 pears fall to the ground 4
28 6 boy on the ground, he feels his injured leg 8
185 185
Note: Ev.  event, Ep.  episode, Sec.  seconds of each event, Sec./Ep.  seconds of each episode.
4 Group 1 saw each slide separately, whereas groups 2 and 3 saw slides in pairs. That
is, group 1 (singles condition) saw slide 1, followed by slide 2, followed by slide 3,
and so on. Group 2 (odd condition) saw slide 1, followed by the pair of slides 2 and 3,
followed by slides 4 and 5, and so on. Group 3 (even condition) saw slides 1 and 2
together, followed by slides 3 and 4, and so on.
5 Each line of data represents one clause. The nominal devices under discussion are
underlined. The symbol ➔ refers to the line under discussion.
References
Bayley, R. and L. Pease-Alvarez (1997) ‘Null Pronoun Variation in Mexican-descent
Children’s Narrative Discourse’, Language Variation and Change, vol. 9, pp. 349–71.
Bentivoglio, P. (1983) ‘Topic Continuity and Discontinuity in Discourse: A Study of
Spoken Latin-American Spanish’, in T. Givón (ed.), Topic Continuity in Discourse: A
Quantitative Cross-Language Study. Philadelphia: Benjamins, pp. 259–311.
—— (1992) ‘Linguistic Correlations between Subjects of One-Argument Verbs and
Subjects of More-Than-One-Argument Verbs in Spoken Spanish’, in P. Hirschbühler
and K. Koerner (eds), Romance Languages and Modern Linguistic Theory. Philadelphia:
Benjamins, pp. 11–24.
—— (1993) ‘Full NPs in Spoken Spanish: A Discourse Profile’, in W. Ashby, M. Mithun,
G. Perissinotto and E. Raposo (eds), Linguistic Perspectives on the Romance Languages.
Philadelphia: Benjamins, pp. 211–24.
Blackwell, S. (1994) ‘A Neo-Gricean Pragmatic Approach to Spanish NP Anaphora’,
unpublished PhD dissertation, University of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Brown, C. (1983) ‘Topic Continuity in Written English Narrative’, in T. Givón (ed.),
Topic Continuity in Discourse: A Quantitative Cross-Language Study. Philadelphia:
Benjamins, pp. 317–41.
Cameron, R. (1992) ‘Pronominal and Null Subject Variation in Spanish: Constraints,
Dialects, and Functional Compensation’, unpublished PhD dissertation, University
of Pennsylvania.
—— (1994) ‘Switch Reference, Verb Class, and Priming in a Variable Syntax’, Papers
from the 30th regional meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society: Vol. 2: The
Parasession on Variation in Linguistic Theory, ed. by K. Beals et al., pp. 27–45.
Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society.
—— (1995) ‘The Scope and Limits of Switch Reference as a Constraint on Pronominal
Subject Expression’, Hispanic Linguistics, vol. 6/7, pp. 1–27.
—— (1996) ‘A Community-Based Test of a Linguistic Hypothesis’, Language in Society,
vol. 25, pp. 61–111.
Cameron, R. and Flores-Ferrán, N. (2004) ‘Perseveration of Subject Expression across
Regional Dialects of Spanish’, Spanish in Context, vol. 1, pp. 41–65.
Chafe, W. (1980) The Pear Stories. Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Clancy, P. (1980) ‘Referential Choice in English and Japanese Narrative Discourse’, in
W. Chafe (ed.), The Pear Stories. Norwood, NJ: Ablex, pp. 127–202.
Enríquez, E. (1984) El pronombre personal sujeto en la lengua española hablada en Madrid.
Madrid, Spain: Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas.
Flores-Ferrán, N. (2002) Subject Personal Pronouns in Spanish Narratives of Puerto Ricans
in New York City: A Sociolinguistic Perspective. Munich, Germany: Lincom Europa.
—— (2004) ‘Spanish Subject Personal Pronoun Use in New York City Puerto Ricans:
Can We Rest the Case of English Contact?’ Language Variation and Change, vol. 16,
pp. 49–73.
78 Continuity and Episodic Structure in Spanish Subject Reference
Llorenç Comajoan 79
Fox, B. (1987) Discourse Structure and Anaphora. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Givón, T. (ed.) (1983a) Introduction. Topic Continuity in Discourse: A Quantitative Cross-
Language study. Philadelphia: Benjamins, pp. 5–41.
—— (1983b) ‘Topic Continuity in Discourse: The Functional Domain of Switch
Reference’, in J. Haiman and P. Munro (eds), Switch-reference and Universal Grammar.
Philadelphia: Benjamins, pp. 51–82.
—— (1983c) ‘Topic Continuity in Spoken English’, in T. Givón (ed.), Topic Continuity
in Discourse: A Quantitative Cross-Language Study. Philadelphia: Benjamins,
pp. 347–63.
—— (1992) ‘The Grammar of Referential Coherence as Mental Processing
Instructions’, Linguistics, vol. 30, pp. 5–55.
—— (2001) Syntax. Vol. I. Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Hochberg, J. (1986) ‘Functional Compensation for /s/ Deletion in Puerto Rican
Spanish’, Language, vol. 62, pp. 609–621.
Levinson, S. (1987) ‘Pragmatics and the Grammar of Anaphora: A Partial Pragmatic
Reduction of Binding and Control Phenomena’, Journal of Linguistics, vol. 23,
pp. 379–434.
Luján, M. (1999) ‘Expresión y omisión del pronombre personal’, in I. Bosque and
V. Demonte (eds), Gramática descriptiva de la lengua española: Volume 1. Madrid,
Spain: Espasa, pp. 1277–315.
Morales, A. (1982) ‘La posición de sujeto en el español de Puerto Rico a la luz de la
clase semántica verbal, la oposición tema-rema y el tópico oracional’, Lingüística
Española Actual, vol. 4, pp. 23–37.
—— (1986) ‘La expresión de sujeto pronominal en el español de Puerto Rico’, in
Gramáticas en contacto: Análisis sintácticos sobre el español de Puerto Rico. San Juan, PR:
Playor, pp. 89–100.
Ranson, D. (1991) ‘Person Marking in the Wake of /s/ Deletion in Andalusian Spanish’,
Language Variation and Change, vol. 3, pp. 133–152.
Rosengren, P. (1974) Presencia y ausencia de los pronombres personales sujeto en español
moderno. Stockholm: Acta Universitatis Gothoburgensis.
Silva-Corvalán, C. (1982) ‘Subject Expression and Placement in Mexican-American
Spanish’, in J. Amastae and L. Elías-Olivares (eds), Spanish in the United States:
Sociolinguistic Aspects. New York: Cambridge University Press, pp. 93–119.
—— (1993) ‘On the Permeability of Grammars: Evidence from Spanish and English
Contact’, in W. Ashby, M. Mithun, G. Perissinotto and E. Raposo (eds), Linguistic
Perspectives on the Romance Languages. Philadelphia: Benjamins, pp. 19–43.
—— (1994) Language contact and change: Spanish in Los Angeles. Oxford: Clarendon
Press.
—— (2001) Sociolingüística y pragmática del español. Washington, DC: Georgetown
University Press.
Tannen, D. (1980) ‘A Comparative Analysis of Oral Narrative Strategies: Athenian
Greek and American English’, in W. Chafe (ed.), The Pear Stories. Norwood, NJ:
Ablex, pp. 51–87.
Tomlin, R. (1984) ‘The Treatment of Foreground-Background Information in the
On-line Descriptive Discourse of Second Language Learners’, Studies in Second
Language Acquisition, vol. 6, pp. 115–142.
—— (ed.) (1987) ‘Linguistic Reflections of Cognitive Events’, in Coherence and
Grounding in Discourse. Philadelphia: Benjamins, pp. 455–79.
4
Gustar-Type Verbs
Victoria Vázquez Rozas
80
Introduction
When comparing the verbal structures of English and Spanish, grammatical
accounts underscore the differences between English like and Spanish
gustar. Despite their closeness in meaning, these predicates exhibit a diver-
gent syntactic behaviour: whereas like codes as subject the entity that expe-
riences a certain feeling, and as object the stimulus responsible for that
feeling, gustar expresses the experiencer through an indirect object (or
dative) and the stimulus through the subject, illustrated in the examples
(4.1) and (4.2).
(4.1) I liked the book.
(4.2) Me gustó el libro.
Other verbs that share structural features with gustar appear in the following
examples:
(4.3) A Miguel ya no le apetecía jugar al parchís. (TERNURA: 50, 4)
‘Miguel did not feel like playing Parcheesi anymore.’
(4.4) El dulce les repugnará. (GLENDA: 57, 11)
‘The cake will disgust them.’
(4.5) Le pareció reconocer la música que sonaba. (CARTA: 185, 2)
‘S/he thought s/he recognized the music that was playing.’
(4.6) Nunca una mujer le importó como Viviana. (HISTORIAS: 60, 2)
‘Never before had a woman mattered to him as Viviana did.’
In view of these examples, it could be argued that in Spanish there is a
particular selection of a syntactic pattern typical of verbs of feeling or
emotion. The situation, however, is more complex since the range of the
so-called verba sentiendi (that is, psychological verbs) also comprises verbs
Victoria Vázquez Rozas 81
that adhere to a transitive syntactic pattern, with a coding similar to that for
English like:
(4.7) La había amado en secreto varios años. (CRÓNICA: 11, 1)
‘He had loved her in secret for several years.’
(4.8) La Mujer Pirata odiaba al abuelo. (TERNURA: 99, 13)
‘The Woman Pirate hated the grandfather.’
(4.9) Yo detestaba a los hombres altaneros. (CRÓNICA: 35, 6)
‘I detested haughty men.’
(4.10) Tía Delia creía haber visto a abuela. (SUR: 49, 10)
‘Aunt Delia thought that she had seen Grandma.’
Therefore, the same semantic class of predicates is represented by, at least,
two classes of syntactic constructions.1
This chapter presents a study of gustar-type verbs (GTVs) with the
Transitivity Hypothesis model advanced by Hopper and Thompson (1980).
In the following section we adduce arguments in favour of considering indi-
rect objects (IOs) as part of the core argument structure of GTVs. We will
show that constructions containing GTVs exhibit low Transitivity. We then
move on to examine the syntax and semantics of the GTVs as compared to
transitive constructions with emotion verbs. We argue that there is a seman-
tic distinction between the two structures and offer typological data in sup-
port of this claim that suggest the existence of a cognitive basis for the
constructional contrast. We then examine the properties of those verbs that
fluctuate between the DO and IO constructions. It is found that the alterna-
tion between the two structures follows from the predictions made in the
Transitivity Hypothesis. We argue, however, that it is difficult to determine
at which point a change from one construction to another will take place,
given that we are not dealing with categorical rules but rather with statisti-
cally significant tendencies.
The Transitivity Hypothesis
In Spanish, the most frequent syntactic configuration of biactant predica-
tions corresponds to the transitive construction, in which the arguments
take on the grammatical relations of subject and direct object. We have taken
our examples from the Arthus corpus (Archivo de Textos Hispánicos de la
Universidad de Santiago) and the quantitative data provided here have been
obtained from the Base de Datos Sintácticos (BDS), based on an analysis of
the corpus under Professor Guillermo Rojo’s supervision.2
According to the
data from the BDS, of a total of 91,465 clauses with two participants, 68,011
(74.36%) display the subject–direct object pattern. From a semantic view-
point, the transitive construction prototypically encodes actions initiated by
an agent and transferred to a patient. Thus, despite their syntactic configu-
ration, examples (4.7–4.10) do not conform to the transitive protoytpe.
With regard to GTVs, their subject–indirect object pattern deviates from
the transitive prototype in that they exhibit a configuration that can be best
characterized as experiencer-stimulus, which is clearly distinct from the
transitive agent–patient configuration. The hypothesis defended here is that
both levels – syntactic and semantic – are intimately related, and that the
manifestation of a particular nontransitive configuration (that is, one with
an indirect object) constitutes the syntactic manifestation of the semanti-
cally marked character (that is, marked with respect to the transitive proto-
type) of the clause in question.
Following Hopper and Thompson’s (1980) framework, it will become
evident that GTVs determine the lower Transitivity of the clauses that they
configure, in opposition to the higher Transitivity of the prototypically tran-
sitive clauses. The present study will analyse the semantic characteristics of
the clauses with GTVs, with special emphasis on some of the Transitivity
parameters proposed by Hopper and Thompson (1980: 252).
Participants of the verb
The first parameter mentioned by Hopper and Thompson (1980) refers to
the number of participants or arguments contained in a clause. It is under-
stood that a highly transitive clause will have two or more participants,
whereas a clause lower in Transitivity will typically exhibit one participant.
Although Hopper and Thompson (1980: 252, and endnote 1) do not explic-
itly define the concept of participant, they cite Dixon’s (1979) A (for Agent)
and O (for Object), which in a restrictive interpretation coincide with the
subject and object of a prototypically transitive clause. It follows that
the English clause ‘Jerry likes beer’ (1980: 254) contains two participants,
whereas the Spanish clause Me gusta la cerveza ‘I like beer’ features only one,
since ‘the experiencer … appears in an oblique case’ (ibid.). However, by
denying an O(bject) status to the dative experiencer in Me gusta la cerveza,
Hopper and Thompson (1980) weaken their assertion that ‘[w]e make no
claims about the grammatical relations that the NP arguments referring to
these participants [A & O] might bear to the verb’ (1980: 252, footnote 1).
In order to properly tackle the study of the GTVs, it is necessary to over-
come the limitations inherent in the traditional analysis of clauses, which is
based on a surface interpretation of the Transitivity/Intransitivity
dichotomy. Such an approach merely reduces the distinction to the presence
or absence of a certain type of clausal constituent, the direct object, consid-
ered ‘the object’, with other possible complements being demoted to an
ancillary or peripheral status.
Valency (or dependency) grammar, which takes Tesnière’s (1959) work as
its starting point, distinguishes between actants and circumstants according
to their governed nature. Another, more formal distinction is superimposed
82 Gustar-Type Verbs
Victoria Vázquez Rozas 83
on this one; it identifies with the circumstants the presence of prepositional
marking or of certain case affixes. In contrast to the circumstants, the actants
lack prepositional marking and correspond to less-marked cases, such as
nominative and accusative. Nevertheless, the difference between actants and
circumstants (or core v. oblique) cannot be reduced to the selection of cer-
tain concrete markings, but rather is felt by many linguists to exist at a more
general level, with case-marking being just one of its manifestations
(Thompson, 1997: 60).
Although Thompson (1997: 61) points out that ‘[l]anguages differ in the
extent to which they make a morphological distinction between noun
phrases serving core and oblique roles’, core participants are regarded as those
that take on the functions of subject and direct object, which are precisely the
arguments that lack prepositional marking in English. On the other hand,
from a typological viewpoint, core functions are represented by the only
argument of an intransitive verb, and the agent and patient of a transitive
verb (S, A and O in Dixon’s, 1979, terminology). In this sense, we arrive at a
rather restrictive interpretation of the concept of core arguments, since it
mirrors the traditional distinction between transitive and intransitive.
With regard to GTVs, there are reasons to argue that, apart from the sub-
ject, the indirect object (or dative) is also a core function in the clause. From
a semantic viewpoint, it displays enough heterogeneity to prevent a simple
association between syntactic function and semantic role. An argument with
the function of indirect object can be an experiencer (Me gusta la cerveza ‘I
like beer’), a recipient (Le mentí a Juan, ‘I lied to Juan’), a goal (Le entregué los
documentos a tu hermano ‘I handed the documents to your brother’), a bene-
factive (Le preparé la cena ‘I prepared dinner for him’), or a possessor (Le lavé
la cara al niño ‘I washed the child’s face’), and so on.
In considering the syntactic features of core functions, we might expect
that the process of grammaticalization of expressive devices would lead to
less marking in morphological encoding. However, this does not mean that
core functions are universally characterized by syntactic features such as a
lack of prepositional marking, as in English. In Spanish, for example, the
presence of the preposition a with animate direct objects, as in He visto a
María ‘I have seen Mary’, does not deny the core character of the direct
object, nor does its presence justify the alignment of the indirect object with
oblique participants.
There is a significant index of expression shared by subject, direct object
and indirect object – the three core functions of the Spanish clause – which
is the agreement with the verb. This agreement is marked by inflectional
categories for the subject function (person and number suffixes on the ver-
bal stem), and by unstressed pronouns for the direct and indirect object
functions, (proclitics or enclitics to the verbal form). These agreement mark-
ers are illustrated in the example in (4.11), where se marks the indirect object
and is coreferential with Juan, la marks the feminine singular direct object
and is coreferential with la bicicleta, and the suffix –mos marks 1pl and is
coreferential with nosotros.
(4.11) La bicicleta se la regalaremos nosotros a Juan.
The bicycle IO.3 DO.3fsg give-FUT1pl we to John
‘We will give the bicycle to John.’
The presence of the clitic totals nearly 100 per cent in the GTV examples.
That is, based on the count of the tokens of gustar with the subject–predicate–
indirect object structure, 1,218 of the 1,221 examples in the database
(99.75%) contained the clitic.
With regard to the semantico-pragmatic implications, the central functions
encode the most prominent participants in the process described by the
predication, which is reflected in the degree of topicality they display when
compared to the degree of topicality of noncentral or peripheral participants.
The indirect object undoubtedly presents a high degree of topicality, as
shown in the distribution of its categorical realizations in our corpus. Within
the framework of the Topic Continuity Theory (Givón, 1983), clitics would
display the highest topicality; the clitic conjunction and full form would
imply a lower degree of topicality; and, finally, with the full form without
clitic being the least topical. The BDS data regarding of indirect objects
provide the results in Table 4.1.
Thus, there are semantic and syntactic reasons supporting the idea that
the indirect object in Spanish is a core function, and not an oblique one. In
contrast to Hopper and Thompson (1980), we claim that the clauses in
(4.2–4.6) have two participants, thus matching the number of participants
present in prototypically transitive clauses.
However, there are obvious syntactic differences between a direct and an
indirect object in Spanish. Apart from the differences in case between the
accusative (direct object) and dative (indirect object) clitics (lo, los, la, las v.
le, les respectively), the full NP indirect object is obligatorily marked by the
preposition a, whereas the direct object is marked with a only when it pos-
sesses certain features involving animacy and/or definiteness.
84 Gustar-Type Verbs
Table 4.1 Degree of topicality in indirect objects
Clitic only 9,727 78.66%
Clitic  full form 1,654 13.38%
Full form 1,085 8.77%
Total 12,466 100%
Clitics highly topical, clitic  full form less topical, full
form only least topical.
Victoria Vázquez Rozas 85
There are also differences in the possibility of passivization, which is
blocked for indirect objects, as illustrated by the examples in (4.12) and (4.13):
(4.12) a. La nueva maestra les gusta a los niños.
‘The children like the new teacher.’
b. *Los niños son gustados por la nueva maestra.
‘The children are liked by the new teacher.’
(4.13) a. Los niños quieren a la nueva maestra.
‘The children love the new teacher.’
b. La nueva maestra es querida por los niños.
‘The new teacher is loved by the children.’
An explanation for the impossibility of passivization in the case of (4.12b)
involves the selection of semantic roles of GTVs. One must bear in mind that
the function of passivization is to make into a theme (in the theme–rheme
sense) a constituent other than the subject, that is, the direct object in
Spanish. However, in GTVs the indirect object is treated as an unmarked
theme, and as such there is no need to passivize it (cf. Table 4.4).
Another syntactic difference between the Spanish direct and indirect
objects is relativization. Whereas direct objects allow relative que without
preposition, indirect objects require that the preposition a precede the relative:3
(4.14) La maestra que quieren los niños.
‘The teacher that the children love.’
(4.15) Los niños a los que les gusta la nueva maestra.
‘The children that like the new teacher.’
Nevertheless, the analysis of a copious and diverse corpus reveals that the
differences between the direct and indirect object are not as clear-cut as they
seem in light of the above examples, since there are numerous verbs that show
vacillation between both constructions. The uncertainty is compounded by
those cases that feature a first- or second-person object clitic, whose form
does not allow us to discern between accusative and dative:
(4.16) Las leyes ya no me afectan. (PASAJERO: 34, 12)
‘The laws do not affect me any more.’
(4.17) Te fastidia recordar el pasado. (AYER: 35, 4)
‘It bothers you to remember the past.’
Even when a third-person clitic is involved, the vacillation between
accusative and dative turns out to be somewhat random:
(4.18) Lo que realmente lo preocupaba era una ceremonia, de fecha
próxima, en la que se presentaría ante la reina (HISTORIAS: 131, 18)
‘What really worried him was a ceremony, coming up soon, at
which he would introduce himself to the queen.’
(4.19) Dentro de cincuenta años, esos bienes que tanto le preocupan no
le servirán de nada (HISTORIAS: 70, 10)
‘In fifty years from now, those possessions that worry him so
much will be useless.’
Such difficulty in distinguishing direct from indirect objects represents
another argument in favour of considering indirect objects as a participant
and not as an oblique in Spanish.
Kinesis, aspect and punctuality
Three of the Transitivity parameters (kinesis, aspect and punctuality) pro-
posed by Hopper and Thompson (1980) deal with ‘aspectuality’. The authors
contend that highly transitive clauses are action clauses, that is, dynamic
clauses involving telicity and punctuality. On the other hand, low
Transitivity corresponds to static (that is, non-dynamic) clauses, which are
atelic and non-punctual.
If our approach to GTVs is correct, we would expect the predicates of GTVs
take stative, atelic and nonpunctual clauses, and indeed the behaviour of
GTVs seems to point in this direction. Some GTVs exhibit incompatibility
with the perfective aspect; and although we find this with a reduced number
of verbs (atañer ‘concern’, competer ‘be incumbent upon’, concernir ‘concern’,
convenir ‘suit, be good for’, incumbir ‘be up to, concern’, which are inherently
imperfective), this shows the correlation between perfectivity and high
Transitivity on one hand, and imperfectivity and low Transitivity on the
other.4
(4.20) a. Os conviene refrescaros.
‘It is good for you guys to freshen up.’ (CAIMÁN: 37, 9)
b. *? Os convino refrescaros.
‘Freshening up was good for you guys.’
(4.21) a. A ti no te incumbía hablar de ellos realmente.
‘It was really not up to you to talk about them.’ (SEVILLA: 192, 17)
b. *? A ti no te incumbió hablar de ellos realmente.
‘It was really not up to you to talk about them.’
A feature that generally characterizes stative clauses as opposed to dynamic
ones is that the former do not carry a habitual or frequentative interpreta-
tion when used in the present (4.22), contrary to what happens with
dynamic clauses, as shown by the sentence in (4.23):
(4.22) A Ana le gusta Juan (*todas las semanas/*cada tarde/*con frecuencia).
‘Ana likes Juan (every weekend /every evening /frequently).’
86 Gustar-Type Verbs
Victoria Vázquez Rozas 87
(4.23) Ana visita a su abuela (todas las semanas / cada tarde / con
frecuencia).
‘Ana visits her grandmother (every weekend / every evening /
frequently).’
The incompatibility between stativity and habituality not only affects GTVs
but also stative predicates with transitive argument structure, such as those
in (4.7–4.10) above. In the same vein, the progressive-based test has been
used as a key argument in the distinction between dynamic and stative. It is
generally contended that stative predicates are anomalous in the progressive
(cf. Marín Gálvez, 2000: 71). Indeed, as we have confirmed through the BDS,
the verb type that combines with the estar  gerund construction (analo-
gous to English to be  -ing) is the one which denotes acts and operations
particularly evident to the faculties of sensation, (Fernández Ramírez, 1960:
534), such as those in (4.24) and (4.25):
(4.24) El viejo ya está abriendo a Simonetta. (SONRISA: 147, 13)
‘The old man is already opening [the door] to Simonetta.’
(4.25) Mira: yo la estoy acariciando. (TERNURA: 31, 18)
‘Look: I am caressing her.’
Nevertheless, it turns out that practically any verb, supported by the appro-
priate context, can be used in the estar  gerund construction, although not
all verbs convey the same semantic implications in this construction.
Following Halliday’s (1985: 109) stance regarding English, it can be similarly
claimed that, in Spanish, the estar  gerund construction is the marked
option with nondynamic clauses, and that its use in such instances –
undoubtedly infrequent – does not add a semantic feature that can labelled
as ‘progressive’, but rather other features, such as ‘ingressive’ or ‘intensive’:
(4.26) Me está apeteciendo un café.
‘I am feeling like having a coffee.’
(4.27) No nos está gustando nada tu comportamiento
‘We are not liking your behaviour at all.’
Another test that has been adduced to prove the difference between stative
and dynamic situations is the possibility (or lack thereof) of combining parar
de ‘stop’(de Miguel, 1999). It seems that parar de is only compatible with
clearly dynamic situations:
(4.28) *Esa película no para de gustarme
‘That movie does not stop pleasing me.’
(4.29) *La propuesta no paró de interesarles.
‘The proposal did not stop interesting them.’
In sum, there are reasons to believe that GTVs have stative (and thus, low
Transitive) clauses. Therefore, GTVs contrast with prototypically transitive
predicates, which have active (and thus, highly Transitive) clauses. Never-
theless, among the clauses exhibiting the transitive syntactic pattern (sub-
ject–direct object), we also find abundant examples of stativity (with verbs
such as those cited in 4.7–4.10), thus making it impossible to establish a
direct relationship between syntactic pattern and the stative or dynamic
nature of the situation denoted by the verb.
Volition and agency
Among the Transitivity features proposed by Hopper and Thompson (1980),
there are two that refer to the semantic characteristics of the participant A:
volition and agency. Higher Transitivity is correlated with the volitional and
agentive aspect of A, whereas the absence of volition and agency in A is
related to a lower Transitivity in the clause.
Volition and agency refer to the degree of involvement of participant A in
the situation described by a given clause. Volition depends on the voluntary
and conscious nature of A’s participation, while agency is given, according to
Hopper and Thompson (1980), by Silverstein’s Animacy hierarchy, since it
largely coincides with the degree of topicality of the entity in question.5
Both volition and agency are interrelated, as the agentive potentiality, and in
particular a high degree of animacy, is a necessary but not sufficient condition
for volition.
A number of researchers working on typologically unrelated languages
have demonstrated that the possibilities of using a noncanonical transitive
coding increase when the animacy of the subject is lowered in the Animacy
Hierarchy (Dixon, 1979: 85ff; Comrie, 1981: 121; and Lazard 1994: 200–4).
This tendency is also confirmed by Spanish data. The subject–direct object
clauses and the subject–indirect object clauses display a highly different pic-
ture regarding the animate v. inanimate character of their subjects (Table 4.2).
The low degree of animacy that characterizes the subject in the subject–
indirect object pattern is also corroborated by the frequency of clausal
subjects in this pattern when it is contrasted with the rather exceptional
presence of a subject clause in the transitive pattern (Table 4.3).
88 Gustar-Type Verbs
Table 4.2 Frequencies and percentages of animate v. inanimate
subjects in two-participant clauses
Animate Inanimate
Direct–object clauses 58,318 (85.75%) 9,693 (14.25%)
Indirect–object clauses 1,879 (28.35%) 4,748 (71.65%)
Note: These data include all the subject–indirect object clauses in our
database, not only the data pertaining to GTVs.
Victoria Vázquez Rozas 89
Examples of GTVs with clausal subjects are the following:
(4.30) Me agrada que penséis lo mismo (COARTADA: 50,33)
‘It pleases me that you guys think the same.’
(4.31) Al viejo le gusta que ella no bisbisee oraciones (SONRISA: 182, 14)
‘The old man likes that she doesn’t whisper prayers.’
The data from Table 4.3 show that the clauses containing the subject–indirect
object pattern clearly deviate from the transitive prototype, which includes
among its components a highly agentive and, therefore, a highly animate
subject, while a clausal subject such as that in (4.30–4.31) occupies the
lowest level on the Animacy Hierarchy, and consequently exhibits the low-
est potentiality of agency. Thus, those verbs that are combined alternatively
with a direct object (accusative clitic) or an indirect object (dative clitic)
reject the transitive pattern when they are combined with a clausal subject.
Let us compare (4.32) and (4.33):
(4.32) a. Le sorprendió mucho el comienzo de la Guerra.
‘The beginning of the War surprised her/him a lot.’
b. Le sorprendió mucho que comenzase la Guerra.
‘It surprised her/him greatly that the War began.’
(4.33) a. El comienzo de la guerra la sorprendió en París.
‘The beginning of the war surprised her in Paris.’
b. *Que comenzase la guerra la sorprendió en París.6
‘That the war began surprised her in Paris.’
The tendency shown by certain verbs to adhere to the transitive pattern if
the subject is animate, and to the indirect object pattern if the subject is
inanimate, had already been observed by grammarians such as Cuervo
(1874: fn. 121) and Fernández Ramírez (1951: 192), and, more recently, by
García (1975: 307–16). Copious examples from our corpus corroborate that
tendency, illustrated by the following pairs:
(4.34) Una chica de Nueva York toma el barco a una isla del Caribe,
donde la [DO] espera el novio para casarse. Parece una chica muy
Table 4.3 Frequencies and percentages of clauses functioning as
subject
Clausal subject Others
Direct-object clauses 589 (0.86%) 67,422 (99.14%)
Indirect-object clauses 1,666 (25.14%) 4,748 (74.86%)
buena, y llena de ilusiones, que le cuenta todo al capitán del
barco, que es buen mocísimo, y él mira al agua negra del mar,
porque es de noche, y después la mira a ella como diciendo ‘esta
no sabe lo que le [IO] espera.’ (BMA, 163–4)
‘A girl from New York takes the ship to a Caribbean island, where
her fiancé is waiting to get married. She seems like a very good
girl, full of hope, who tells everything to the ship’s captain, who
is staring into the black water, because it is nighttime, and then
he starts looking at her as if to say “she doesn’t know what she’s
in for”.’
(4.35) a. Sabía que el sólo decírselo a él iba a aliviarla, pero no lo hizo
para no preocuparlo [DO]. (ATC, 484)
‘She knew that her just telling him was going to relieve her, but
she did not tell him in order not to worry him.’
b. Lo que más le [IO] preocupaba de la muerte al doctor Urbino
era la vida solitaria de Fermina Daza sin él. (ATC, 75)
‘What worried Dr. Urbino most about death was Fermina
Daza’s lonely life without him.’
With respect to the feature of volition, which according to Hopper and
Thompson’s (1980) view characterizes the participant A in canonical transi-
tive clauses, it is absent in clauses with GTVs. Since inanimate subjects,
which typically appear with GTVs (cf. Table 4.2), are inherently non-
volitional, the criterion to determine the presence of volition in participant
A would be those GTV constructions containing an animate subject, as exem-
plified below:
(4.36) Hoy precisamente, doy una comida y quiero presentarte a mis
amigos, les vas a encantar. (DIEGO: 138, 11)
‘Precisely today, I am hosting a meal, and I want to introduce you
to my friends. They are going to like you.’
(4.37) JAVIER – Ganas dinero y follas con quien te apetece.
ADELA – Y, a veces, con quien me conviene. (CINTA: 102, 23)
‘JAVIER – You make some money and ball whoever you please.’
‘ADELA – And, sometimes, who (also) suits me.’
(4.38) Que no seas pelmazo, que ya no me importa José. (OCHENTA: 67, 29)
‘Don’t be a bore, I am no longer interested in Jose.’
(4.39) ¿Quién de los dos le gustaba al francés? (JÓVENES: 154, 4)
‘Which of the two did the Frenchman like?’
Among the signs that are adduced to show the volitional or controlled char-
acter of a situation, are the compatibility with the imperative, the possibility
90 Gustar-Type Verbs
Victoria Vázquez Rozas 91
of functioning as complement of a verb of command/obligation, and the com-
binability with manner adverbials (see Dik, 1989: 96–7; Di Tullio, 1996: 225).
None of these tests yield positive results with clauses containing GTVs:
(4.40) *Encántales a mis amigos.
‘Make my friends like you.’
(4.41) *Te sugiero / ordeno que le convengas a Juan.
‘I suggest / order that you be right for Juan.’
(4.42) *La convencí / persuadí de que le gustase al francés.
‘I convinced / persuaded her that the Frenchman like her.’
(4.43) *José le importa deliberadamente / cuidadosamente / a propósito
a Pedro.
‘Pedro matters to Jose deliberately / carefully / on purpose.’
Similarly, the impossibility of constructing an impersonal passive depends
on the non-agentive character of the predication (see Levy, 1994: 357):
(4.44) *Se les encanta a los amigos.
‘One is enjoyed by the friends.’ (Rough translation)
Therefore, the semantic implications of the animate subjects accompanying
GTVs include neither agentivity, nor volition, nor control of the situation
described by the clause, and are interpreted in a way similar to inanimate
subjects, as a cause or stimulus of the state in which the the experiencer finds
her/himself.
Affectedness and individuation of the O(bject)
With regard to the features of the O argument, Hopper and Thompson
(1980) claim that the degree of Transitivity is correlated with the affected-
ness and individuation of this participant. A clause will become more transi-
tive to the extent to which O becomes affected by the process described in
the clause, as is the case, for instance, with created or altered Os. With
respect to the O appearing with GTVs, coded as the indirect object, it would
be difficult to assert that it is affected in Hopper and Thompson’s (1980:
252–3) sense, that is, ‘[t]he degree to which an action is transferred to a
patient is a function of how completely that patient is affected’, since the
clauses containing these predicates do not refer to an action, nor can it be
claimed that the participant O becomes affected. Rather, O is the basis of a
stative situation. The fact that the affectedness feature does not apply to the
O of GTVs is conditioned by the fact that such a participant is not the
patient in an action clause, but rather, the experiencer of a state.
For its part, the ‘individuation’ feature is interpreted as a cluster con-
cept with the following properties: proper noun, human-animate, concrete,
singular, countable and referential-definite. Such properties refer to the
distinctiveness of O, whose Transitivity is lowered to the extent that O is
characterized as common, inanimate, abstract, plural, uncountable and non-
referential. In extreme cases, we find clauses that do not really have two par-
ticipants, but rather one participant (A) with O-incorporation. In this view,
the Os in sentences such as el niño tiene hambre (lit. the boy has hunger) ‘the
boy is hungry’, la peonza da vueltas (lit. the top gives spins) ‘the top is spin-
ning’, los escolares hacen novillos (lit. the student make young bulls) ‘the stu-
dents play hooky’, esa cara da miedo (lit. that face gives fright) ‘that face is
scary’, are not considered arguments, but rather they are part of complex
predicates, with the resulting clauses being interpreted as intransitive.7
Hitherto we have seen that clauses containing GTVs are characterized as
having low Transitivity. However, upon examining features of the O partici-
pant of the GTV clauses in our corpus, we find that the degree of individua-
tion of the entity would correspond in Hopper and Thompson’s (1980)
hypothesis, to clauses of high Transitivity. Indeed, almost all examples with
GTVs contain a human, concrete, countable, and referential-definite indirect
object. There are, however, some observations by Hopper and Thompson that
seem to contradict considering a highly individuated O as an indicator of
high Transitivity. That is, the authors claim that the Transitivity of the clause
can be reduced ‘when there is an anomalous A–O relationship, viz. when the
O is higher than the A in the [Agency] hierarchy’ (ibid.: 273).
Indeed, GTVs favour a type of construction in which the O participant
surpasses A on the Transitivity hierarchy, such that the high animacy of O
would reduce the degree of Transitivity of the clause. In order to minimize the
effect of such a contradiction, Hopper and Thompson (1980: 273) state that
it ‘is the reduction of the “Agency” of the A which accounts for the anomaly
in the A–O relationship, not the fact that the O is high on the hierarchy.’
This statement reestablishes the authors’ initial idea that the human-animate
character of O is a sign of high Transitivity.
Nevertheless, we offer the following data, which counter the above idea.
First, if we assume that the canonical or deviant character of a certain syn-
tactic configuration is correlated with its frequency, those features that char-
acterize the object most frequently will be the ones that will allow us to
qualify the object as prototypical. With regard to the animacy of the O par-
ticipant in transitive constructions, the data from Spanish are convincing: of
a total of 68,010 subject–direct object clauses only 12,834 (18.9%) display
animate Os, from which we can conclude that the prototypical O will be
inanimate. Second, according to the criterion of syntactic marking, a proto-
typical O will exhibit a morphologically less marked construction.8
Therefore,
we must conclude that those Os marked with the preposition a (typically
animate and definite) cannot be considered prototypical objects. Third, the
inanimate character of O is also given by the semantic definition of
Transitivity. It is assumed that a prototypical transitive clause refers to a
92 Gustar-Type Verbs
Victoria Vázquez Rozas 93
transfer from an agent to a patient, roles which are defined by Langacker
(1991: 210) as follows:
The archetypal ‘agent’ role is that of a person who volitionally carries out
physical activity which results in contact with some external object and
the transmission of energy to that object. The polar opposite of an agent
is an inanimate ‘patient’, which absorbs the energy transmitted by exter-
nally initiated physical contact and thereby undergoes some change of
state.9
Finally, the correlation between the different parameters that make up the
Transitivity Hypothesis leads us to consider the inanimate O as a feature
of high Transitivity. If Hopper and Thompson’s approach were correct,
we would expect an animate O to be correlated with the parameters of
kinesis, volition, agency, and so on that characterize highly transitive
clauses. However, there are copious verbs in Spanish that show the opposite
situation, that is, they present more features of high Transitivity when they
have an inanimate O (coded as a direct object) than when they have an
animate O (coded as an indirect object) (discussed later in this chapter).
‘Dative subjects’
In light of the relationship between clauses such as (4.45) and (4.46), the
existence of a relation between the indirect object in (4.45) and the subject
in (4.46) was proposed in early formalist accounts:
(4.45) A María le gusta la música.
‘María likes music.’
(4.46) María ama la música.
‘María loves music.’
The relationship was analysed transformationally as a rule of subject–object
exchange called FLIP by Lakoff (1970: 126), and Psych-movement by Postal
(1971).10
For its part, Case Grammar attributed the same interpretation, in
terms of case frames, to both constructions, based on its supposed synonymy
(see Fillmore, 1968: 30). Later, Relational Grammar interpreted construc-
tions illustrated by (4.45) as involving inversion, which consisted of demot-
ing the underlying subject to a surface indirect object, and promoting the
underlying object to a surface subject, known as unaccusative advancement.
Among the specific arguments for the existence of ‘dative-subject’ verbs in
Spanish is that dealing with nominalizations. As noted by Fernández-Soriano
(1999: 125), the nominalization of a three-argument verb such as entregar
‘hand in’ retains the preposition a for the indirect object, as in (4.47),
whereas the indirect object of a verb like faltar ‘to lack’ – which is generally
thought of as a type of GTV – is obligatorily preceded by de, the preposition
that appears with subjects:
(4.47) La entrega del premio a Juan
‘The presentation to Juan of the award.’
(4.48) La falta de valor de / *a Juan (nominalization of A Juan le falta
valor.)
‘Juan’s lack of courage.’ (‘Juan lacks courage’.)
In Fernández-Soriano’s view, the obligatory selection of de in (4.48) suggests
that Juan may be an underlying (that is, a deep) subject, a so-called ‘dative
subject’.
As for the nature of the subject in GTVs, such as gustar ‘like’, its status as
an underlying object has often been pointed out, appealing to the fact that
it does not retain the preposition de, typical of subjects in nominalizations,
but rather it is accompanied by the preposition por, as shown in (4.49):
(4.49) a. A Juan le gustan las cerezas.
‘Juan likes cherries.’
b. El gusto de Juan por las cerezas.
‘Juan’s liking for cherries.’
Campos (1999:1,560) mentions the coreferentiality test with temporal
infinitival constructions, according to which the indirect object position of
GTVs (for example gustar in 4.50) controls the subject position of the infini-
tive. Thus, in terms of its control properties, the indirect object in (4.50)
corresponds to the subject position of verbs denoting dynamic situations
(for example escribir ‘write’), where the subject controls the infinitive subject
position, as indicated in (4.51):
(4.50) A Lucii le gustaba Ronnyj antes de ei,*j conocer a Otto.
‘Lucyi liked Ronnyj before ei,*j meeting Otto.’
(4.51) A Ronnyj le escribía Lucyi antes de ei,*j conocer a Otto.
‘Lucyj used to write to Ronnyi before ei,*j meeting Otto.’
However, other tests employed by generative grammarians to identify
the subject do not support the presence of ‘dative subjects’ with GTVs.
For example, Fernández-Soriano (1999: 123–4) attempts to show that the
compatibility with small clauses is possible in constructions such as those in
(4.52)–(4.56):
(4.52) Me falta café.
‘I need coffee.’
94 Gustar-Type Verbs
Victoria Vázquez Rozas 95
(4.53) Me pasa algo.
‘Something is wrong with me.’
(4.54) Me consta que eres el mejor.
‘I know for a fact that you are the best.’
(4.55) Nos dieron las dos.
‘It was two o’clock (and we were still engaged in some activity)’.
(4.56) A Marta le fue bien en Buenos Aires.
‘It went well for Marta in Buenos Aires.’
Nevertheless, of the examples in (4.52–4.56), only (4.55) and (4.56) are com-
patible with a small clause co-indexed with the indirect object, as shown in
(4.57) and (4.58), respectively:
(4.57) Nosi dieron las dos borrachosi
‘We were drunk at two o’clock.’
(4.58) Mal mei fue ausentei pero peor presentei.
‘It went badly for me when I was absent, but much worse when I
was present.’
However, the constructions featured in (4.52), (4.53) and (4.54) are
incompatible with indirect object small clauses.11
This incompatibility is
found with to all GTVs. However, GTVs do admit subject small clauses, as
exemplified in (4.59):
(4.59) A Maríai Juanj le desagrada borrachoj/ *borrachai.
‘Maríai dislikes Juanj drunkj/*i.’
Both Relational Grammar, as well as Generative Transformational Grammar
give precedence to the behavioural properties over the coding properties,
minimizing the importance of the coding that identifies subjects (agreement
with the verb, absence of preposition) from indirect complements (dative
clitic showing agreement, the preposition a). For our part, we interpret such
coding as crucial in the syntactic characterization of arguments. Moreover,
we do not consider appropriate the distinction of several (more or less deep)
levels of syntactic function. However, we acknowledge the similarities
between the sentences such as (4.45) (A María le gusta la música ‘María likes
music’) and (4.46) (María ama la música ‘María loves music’).
Unlike the generativist formulations described above, we believe that the
relationship between constructions such as (4.45) and (4.46) is to be inter-
preted in terms of different semantic and discourse values. Although both
sequences can refer to the same reality, the different syntactic coding of
the participants is not random at all, but rather it fits a different semantic
and discourse configuration. With respect to the corresponding English
sentences (John likes music and Music pleases John), Danes (1968: 61) proposes
two different semantic patterns: the first would consist of ‘bearer of attitude –
attitude – object of attitude’, whereas the second would be made up of
‘source (cause) – effecting – recipient of effection’.
Before studying the features that distinguish the clauses in (4.45) and
(4.46), we will discuss the similarities between both structures, starting with
a diachronic reference to the issue at hand. In the earlier stages of their
respective histories, both English like as well as Spanish gustar had a different
argument structure than what they have now. In Old English, the element
that currently takes on the form of subject was coded as the object, as in him
like oysters v. he likes oysters.12
With regard to gustar, it was used as a transitive
verb in Old Spanish. In the sixteenth century this transitive pattern coexists
with a pattern with prepositional object, and by the eighteenth century doc-
umentation emerges showing gustar with ‘dative subjects’.13
However, the structural changes are not restricted to the verbs like and
gustar. As Whitley (1998) points out, many of the so-called psych verbs have
presented different syntactic patterns over time, a variability that is not
observed in prototypically transitive verbs, which are more syntactically
stable.
Focusing on the evolution of gustar, we observe that the transition from
the transitive to the ‘dative subject’ argument structure has been accompa-
nied by a semantic change that adheres to Hopper and Thompson’s (1980)
Transitivity Hypothesis. As Whitley indicates (1998: 138), ‘[i]n the semantic
change of gustar from a tasting agent to a satisfied experiencer, there was a
decrease in “kinesis”, “volitionality” and “agency”.’ However, regardless of
the direction of the structural variation, it is unquestionable that the change
reveals a close link between the subject of the transitive pattern and the indi-
rect object of the intransitive one.
From a typological perspective, this relationship is supported by data
from several languages. For example, in the Indo-European context it is
shown in the emergence of the verb of possession ‘have’ from a dative con-
struction containing the copula ‘be’, as exemplified by the Latin examples in
(4.60)–(4.61):
(4.60) Mihi est liber
to me (dat) is book (nom)
‘I’ve got the book.’
(4.61) Habeo librum
I have book (acus)
‘I’ve got the book.’
The dative, or indirect object, represents a certain degree of activity on the
part of the participant, which is linked to its prototypically animate character.
This degree of activity sets the participant apart from the direct object
96 Gustar-Type Verbs
Victoria Vázquez Rozas 97
(characterized as non-active), while bringing it closer to the subject, which
in turn corresponds to a prototypically active participant. The relationship
between indirect object and subject also manifests itself in the fact that the
dative can code the agent complement of the passive construction in lan-
guages such as Old Persian and Pre-Classical Latin (see Herslund, 1988:
292–3), Mongolian (Comrie, 1976: 276), or Japanese (Marantz, 1984: 140).14
Another characteristic that draws the indirect object toward the subject
and moves it away from the direct object is the feature of independent
existence that we attribute to the entity represented by the indirect object.
This is one of the properties that Keenan (1976) assigns to the subject.15
Indeed, the independent existence characterizes the indirect object that
accompanies GTVs.
Finally, the pragmatic-informative properties also attest to the close rela-
tionship between the indirect object in a clause like (4.45) and the subject in
clauses such as (4.46). In both instances, it is the relatively more active par-
ticipant that occupies the thematic position, independently of the syntactic
function it performs.
The data about the position with respect to the verb that have been
mentioned for gustar clearly indicate the thematization of the indirect object
vis-à-viss the subject. Contrary to the most common association between
subject and discourse theme, in clauses with GTVs the unmarked discourse
theme is not the subject, but rather the indirect object, and as such it occu-
pies the first position in the clause, whereas the subject follows the verb
(Table 4.4).16
Table 4.4 Frequencies and percentages of preposition and
postposition of subject and indirect object for gustar
Subject17
Indirect object
Preposed 125 (9.98%) 223 (18.26%)
Postposed 678 (54.15%) 29 (2.37%)
Implicit, clitic, 449 (35.86%) 969 (79.36%)
or fixed order
Total 1,252 1,221
Direct construction v. inverse construction
We begin this section with a terminological note. Following the terminology
employed to refer to the patterns under consideration, we will consider a
‘direct construction’ the pattern found in clauses such as María ama la música
‘María loves music’ (in 4.46), and ‘inverse construction’ the pattern identifi-
able in a María le gusta la música ‘María likes music’ (in 4.45).18
As we have
seen in the previous section, some authors claim that the differences
between these constructions are limited to the most superficial syntactic
level, and that underlyingly we would be dealing with an identical configu-
ration. An argument against this view is the existence of sentence pairs
containing the same lexical items that exhibit divergent interpretations:
(4.62) a. María admira la rapidez con que dibujas.
‘María admires the quickness with which you draw.’
b. A María le admira la rapidez con que dibujas.
‘María is astonished by how fast you draw.’
(4.63) a. Juan apetece una casa propia.
‘Juan fancies having his own house.’
b. A Juan le apetece una casa propia.
‘Juan fancies having his own house.’
(4.64) a. Antonio repugna el dulce.
‘Antonio finds the sweet disgusting.’
b. A Antonio le repugna el dulce.
‘The sweet disgusts Antonio.’
If we adopt a functional approach, we need to account for the existence of
two different constructions for the expression of the same content. That is,
we must justify the functional output of the two constructions.
Whitley (1998: 130) suggests that there is difference in terms of control
between the constructions:
Verbs that stayed in or moved to type 1 [the direct construction] suggest
a common denominator of choice or control. One can choose to love,
hate, hope, use, even take responsibility for it, while pleasure (gustar,
placer), pain (doler), and sorrow (pesar) in type 3 [the inverse construction]
are feelings that simply happen to the experiencer.
Nevertheless, the attribution of control or responsibility to the subject
participant of the direct construction is debatable. It is not clear to what
extent one can love, hate or admire something or somebody as a result of a
conscious, volitional effort. If we try strictly linguistic tests, the result is not
any clearer. It is true that some verbs like amar ‘love’ or pensar ‘think’ are
compatible with the imperative:
(4.65) ‘Amaos los unos a los otros’, dijo Jesucristo.
‘ “Love one another”, said Jesus Christ.’
(4.66) Piénsalo con calma.
‘Think it over calmly.’
However, it does not seem possible to use the imperative with verbs such as
apetecer ‘fancy, feel like’, repugnar ‘disgust’. Nevertheless, certain contrasts
98 Gustar-Type Verbs
Victoria Vázquez Rozas 99
between direct and inverse constructions lend credence to the idea that the
direct construction implies a certain degree of agentivity on the part of the
subject that is absent from the inverse construction. Thus, in saying he tenido
una idea ‘I have had an idea’ or he pensado que podríamos ir a la fiesta
‘I thought that we could go to the party’, we assume responsibility for the
mental activity represented, whereas if we say se me ha ocurrido una idea ‘an
idea has occurred to me’ or se me ha ocurrido que podríamos ir a la fiesta ‘it has
occurred to me that we could go to the party’, we do not admit our partici-
pation in the making of the thoughts that are reproduced. Thus, they would
escape the conscious control of our mind.
Proof regarding how the different degree of agentivity affects the selection
of the construction is given by the verbs recordar ‘remember’ and olvidar
‘forget’. Although both refer to similar cognitive processes, the language
attributes more agentivity to the action of remembering than to that of
forgetting. Therefore, only the latter verb allows the inverse construction:19
(4.67) a. María recordó el cumpleaños de Juan.’
‘María remembered Juan’s birthday.’
b. *A María se le recordó el cumpleaños de Juan.20
‘María remembered Juan’s birthday.’
(4.68) a. María olvidó el cumpleaños de Juan.
‘María forgot Juan’s birthday.’
b. A María se le olvidó el cumpleaños de Juan.
‘María forgot Juan’s birthday.’
On the other hand, the differences in control between direct and inverse
constructions are also reflected in the (im)possibility of functioning as com-
plement of a verb that implies volition, such as intentar ‘try’. Thus, we can
say intentó olvidar a María ‘S/he tried to forget María’, but not *intentó que se
le olvidara María.
From a typological point of view, there are reasons to think this. Like
Spanish, other languages are equipped with more than one way of conceptu-
alizing psychic processes (see Wierzbicka 1999: 58–9). This is found in
Russian, in which on can express the fact of ‘being sad’ with three different
constructions:
(4.69) a. On byl grusten.
he-NOM was-MASC sad-MASC
b. Emu bylo grustno
he-DAT (it)was-NEUT sad(ADV)NEUT
c. On grustil
he-NOM sad(VERB)-PAST.MASC. (Wierzbicka, 1999: 59)
As Wierzbicka (1999: 60) points out:
All these sentences can be roughly glossed as ‘he was sad’, but in fact they
differ in meaning. In particular sentence (b) implies that the sadness was
involuntary and was, so to speak, ‘happening to the experiencer’, whereas
(c) implies active involvement by the experiencer, and suggests that he is
bringing about his own sadness by thinking certain thoughts.
The semantic and constructional parallelism between (4.69b) and (4.69c)
above with the inverse and direct construction, respectively, is evident.
A similar situation is found in Polish, which presents direct constructions as
well as inverse ones in order to represent the same type of processes:
(4.70) a. Ania podziwiala Piotra.
Ania:NOM admired Piotr:ACC
‘Ania admired Piotr.’
b. Ani imponuje Piotr.
Ania:DAT impressed Piotr:NOM
‘Piotr impressed Ania. / Ania was impressed by Piotr.’
(Dhbrowska, 1997: 70)
Thus, the experiencer is coded, according to the construction, as nominative
or dative. Dhbrowska asks herself about the basis for this distinction and
concludes that it is based on the existence of two ways of conceptualizing
mental experiences, which revolve around two different theories. On the
one hand, we have the ‘craftsman model’, according to which the mental
experience is conceived as an action undertaken by the experiencer who
manipulates mental objects (ideas, images, experiences). This model corre-
sponds to the coding of experiencer as nominative. On the other hand, we
have the ‘mental arena model’, which conceives the mind as a container of
ideas that executes the activities of thinking, feeling, and so on, as sponta-
neous processes that take place in the experiencer’s personal sphere. According
to this model, the sensations, feelings and beliefs are conceived by attribut-
ing to them an independent existence outside the experiencer.21
This model
corresponds to the dative experiencer (see Dhbrowska, 1997: 77).
The existence of the two types of constructions, direct and inverse, would
corroborate the cognitive validity of both theories. According to Dhbrowska
for Polish, the coding of the experiencer through the nominative is inter-
preted as the default option, with the dative construction requiring a special
motivation (ibid.: 79).
We can also explain the existence of two different codings for psychological
processes through the prototypical configuration of the biactant predica-
tions, which can be summed up as the transference of an action from an
100 Gustar-Type Verbs
Victoria Vázquez Rozas 101
agent to a patient. The verbs that adjust more naturally to this semantic con-
figuration have been called ‘primary transitive verbs’,22
and pose no prob-
lems with regard to the syntactic construction that they select: the agent is
coded as subject and the patient as direct object. Situating ourselves within
Dowty’s (1991) framework, which deals with a set of semantic implications
for the Proto-Roles of Agent and Patient, we can say that for ‘primary transi-
tive verbs’ the subject has all the Proto-Agent features, whereas the object
displays all the properties of the Proto-Patient.23
Nevertheless, in the case of psychological processes, the selection of sub-
ject and object is less obvious, since the participants are not so evidently spe-
cialized as Proto-Agents or Proto-Patients. Rather, we need to acknowledge
that both the experiencer and the stimulus have Proto-Agent properties: the
experiencer has property b (‘sentence and/or perception’) of the Agent Proto-
role, whereas the stimulus has property c (‘causing an event or change of
state in another participant’) of the Agent Proto-role. Thus, both the experi-
encer and the stimulus can be candidates to be coded as subject, as is the case
in Spanish.
Indirect object v. direct object
The list of verbs that combine exclusively with indirect object and show the
semantic configuration stimulus-experiencer is relatively limited:
(4.71) agradar ‘please’, alcanzar ‘affect’, be sufficient for’, apetecer ‘fancy’,
atañer ‘concern’, competer, concernir ‘concern’, convenir ‘be good
for’, desagradar ‘displease’, doler ‘hurt’, extrañar ‘find strange’, gus-
tar ‘like’, importar ‘matter’, incumbir ‘concern’, parecer ‘seem’, pasar
‘happen’, pesar ‘regret’, placer ‘please’, repugnar ‘disgust’, suceder
‘happen’, tocar ‘be posted, win, be one’s turn, concern’
Some of these verbs also have a subject–direct object construction whose
semantic configuration is no longer stimulus–experiencer, but agent–patient.
If the direct object is compulsorily inanimate, both constructions corre-
spond to two clearly distinct meanings, as shown by the examples in (4.72)
and (4.73):
(4.72) a. Los abogados han convenido las condiciones del contrato.
[DO]
‘The lawyers have agreed the conditions of the contract.’
b. Al abogado [IO] le convienen las condiciones del contrato.
‘The conditions of the contract are good for the lawyer.’
(4.73) a. El gobierno importa alimentos [DO] de Australia.
‘The government imports food from Australia.’
b. Al gobierno [IO] no le importa tu opinion.
‘Your opinion does not matter to the government.’
In other instances, the direct object can be animate, like the indirect one, but
there are also differences of meaning between the two:
(4.74) a. Voy a extrañar a Mariana [DO], por ser la última mujer de
mi vida. (HISTORIAS: 56, 4)
‘I am going to miss Mariana for being the last woman of
my life.’
b. A él [IO] también le extraña que, de repente, lo tan ansiado
parezca recuerdo de cosa ya olvidada. (SONRISA: 232, 17)
‘He also finds strange that, suddenly, that which was so craved
seems a memory of something already forgotten.’
There are some other verbs that seem to reveal differences in their
semantics that go hand in hand with their use with an indirect (or direct)
object, although mention of both constructions does not always appear in
the dictionaries. For example, the verb encantar ‘love’ exhibits two, clearly
differentiated meanings, shown in (4.75)–(4.76):24
(4.75) Someter [a alguien o algo] a una acción que sobrepasa lo natural
por medio de la magia. (Seco, 1999, entry for encantar)
‘To subject [somebody or something] to an action that goes
beyond the natural [world] by means of magic.’
(4.76) Gustar o complacer extraordinariamente [a alguien].
(Seco, 1999, entry for encantar)
‘To like or please [someone] very much.’
Both uses are listed as transitive, contrary to the common tendency in
Spanish. Nevertheless, in the same dictionary (Seco et al., 1999), there is an
example with an accusative clitic for the sense in (4.75): al escupirles en la
cara logra encantarlos, y quedan como muertos por el día ‘when s/he spits in
their faces, s/he manages to enchant them, and they remain as if dead for the
day’; and another example with a dative clitic for the meaning in (4.76): Le
encanta la música ‘S/he loves music’. The possibility of leísmo for the latter
example is out of the question, since the dative clitic can have a feminine
referent, as in a María le encanta la música ‘María loves music.’ According to
the BDS data, of a total of 96 appearances of encantar with the meaning in
(4.76) above, 26 exhibit a dative clitic (le/les, whether alone or accompanied
by a phrase introduced by a) and 70 have first- and second-person clitics,
that is, syncretic forms that neutralize the distinction between accusative
and dative. In light of these data, we can claim that in its meaning of
102 Gustar-Type Verbs
Victoria Vázquez Rozas 103
predicate of affection, encantar displays the inverse construction linked to
the GTVs.
Significantly more complex is the behaviour observed in a large set of
verbs that has the possibility of appearing with the accusative or the dative,
without there being any clear semantic difference between them. Among
these verbs, we cite the following:
(4.77) abrumar ‘overwhelm’, aburrir ‘bore’, admirar ‘admire’, afectar
‘affect’, afligir ‘grieve’, alegrar ‘make happy’, angustiar ‘distress’,
apasionar ‘fascinate’, apenar ‘sadden’, asombrar ‘amaze’, asustar
‘scare’, atemorizar ‘frighten’, aterrar ‘terrify’, aterrorizar ‘terrorize’,
atormentar ‘torment’, atraer ‘attract’, avergonzar ‘shame’, cansar
‘tire’, complacer ‘please’, consolar ‘console’, convencer ‘convince’,
decepcionar ‘disappoint’, deleitar ‘delight’, desanimar ‘dishearten’,
descontentar ‘displease’, desconsolar ‘distress’, desesperar ‘exasper-
ate’, disgustar ‘disgust’, distraer ‘amuse’, ‘distract’, divertir ‘amuse’,
emocionar ‘move’, ‘touch’, entretener ‘amuse’, ‘entertain’, entristecer
‘sadden’, entusiasmar ‘love’, escandalizar ‘scandalize’, espantar
‘scare away’, estorbar ‘bother’, exasperar ‘exasperate’, fascinar ‘fas-
cinate’, fastidiar ‘annoy’, favorecer ‘favour’, halagar ‘flatter’, impre-
sionar ‘impress’, incomodar ‘inconvenience’, inquietar ‘unsettle’,
interesar ‘interest’, intranquilizar ‘worry’, intrigar ‘intrigue’, irritar
‘irritate’, maravillar ‘amaze’, molestar ‘bother’, obsesionar ‘obsess’,
ofender ‘offend’, pasmar ‘astonish’, perjudicar ‘be bad for’, preocupar
‘worry’, reconfortar ‘comfort’, satisfacer ‘satisfy’, seducir ‘seduce’,
sorprender ‘surprise’, tranquilizar ‘calm down.’
Given that these are verbs that appear in dictionaries with the ‘transitive’
label, one would expect them to take accusative (direct) objects in nonleista
dialects. However, the grammarians’ accounts about the fluctuation in case-
marking of these verbs are not only recent. With respect to the verb admirar,
Bello (1847: §749) states that it projects accusative case in un objeto nos
admira ‘an object strikes us as odd’, while Cuervo (1886–93, s.v. admirar)
claims that if we interpret the admirar ‘cause admiration’, as in Bello’s example,
this entry takes the dative, since the accusative is associated with the mean-
ing ‘consider with admiration’. Other verbs for which Cuervo (1886–93) pos-
tulates a dual case marking are agradar25
‘please’, desagradar ‘displease’,
contentar ‘please’, cansar ‘tire’, descontentar ‘displease’, and disgustar ‘annoy’.
More recently, several scholars have attempted to identify the factors that
determine the selection of accusative or dative case marking among verbs
belonging to this class.26
The factors that have been alluded to are related to the
nature of the subject and object participants, as well as to the aspectual nature
of the predicate as a whole. The features that have been mentioned fit into
the predictions of Hopper and Thompson’s (1980) Transitivity Hypothesis
(with certain modifications regarding the characteristics of the object
participant; see our earlier discussion of ‘Affectedness and Individuation of O’),
in the sense that the accusative object is associated with highly transitive
clauses, whereas the dative object corresponds to clauses of low Transitivity.
With regard to the aspectual configuration of the predicate, we argue that
clauses with direct object marking tend to denote dynamic and telic events,
whereas indirect object marking corresponds to stative and atelic events. The
following examples with the verb atraer ‘attract, appeal’ clearly illustrate
how direct object marking appears in a clause that expresses an action of a
physical nature (4.78), while indirect object marking appears in a clause
expressing a psychic reaction on the part of the experiencer (4.79):27
(4.78) Los rugidos del león atrajeron al cazador, quien, sacándolo del
fondo del foso, lo metió en una gran jaula y se lo llevó
(1INFAN: 21, 26)
‘The roaring of the lion attracted the hunter, who took it out from
the bottom of the pit, put it in a big cage, and took it with him.’
(4.79) El libro estaba encuadernado en piel y tenía el canto dorado, pero
a ella no le atraía. (SUR: 104, 30)
‘The book was bound in leather and had a gilded spine, but did
not appeal to her.’
The aforementioned differences in telicity can be observed in the following
examples with convencer (4.80) in its telic sense, and (4.81) in its atelic one:
(4.80) La ha convencido y se casarán en cuanto arreglen los papeles.
(SONRISA: 329, 23)
‘He has convinced her and they are going to get married as soon
as they straighten the paperwork out.’
(4.81) Veo que a usted le gusta el ambiente porque veranear por ahí en
un poblacho, eso no le convence. (MADRID: 31, 24)
‘I see that you like the atmosphere, because spending the summer
in a dump, that does not convince you.’
For Di Tullio (1998: 256), the verbs in question ‘can denote complex events
as well as states in each of their alternative forms, the accusative and the
dative’. In complex events, the activity carried out by the subject triggers a
change in the psychological state of the object. As Di Tullio (1998: 258)
points out, the activity implies dynamism and control on the part of the sub-
ject, and the resulting event is telic since it entails culmination or outcome.
On the other hand, the sentence with a dative-marking verb implies neither
104 Gustar-Type Verbs
Victoria Vázquez Rozas 105
dynamism nor control, nor is it delimited, since it does not entail an
outcome. The impossibility of the imperative and the progressive constitutes
proof of the stative nature of the predicate with dative marking.
Following Croft (1986), Dowty (1991) points out that the psychological
predicates that code the stimulus as subject (please, frighten, and so on) can
be interpreted as inchoative or stative (unlike verbs such as like, fear, and
others, whose subject is experiencer, and are interpreted only as stative). The
inchoative interpretation implies a change of state in the experiencer, ‘com-
ing to experience an emotion or a new mental state’ (Dowty, 1991: 580),
such that this argument would have a Proto-Patient implication absent from
the stative interpretation. Consequently, the experiencer in the inchoative
interpretation would be a ‘better’ Patient (ibid.) than the experiencer in the
stative interpretation. This would explain, as Ackerman and Moore (1999:
24) note, the distribution of object marking in Spanish: accusative (proto-
typical direct object) in the inchoative predicate, and dative (non-prototypical
object) in the stative predicate.
The nature of the subject argument determines the marking of the object.
If the subject is animate and possesses the will to act consciously, the likeli-
hood that the experiencer/patient is coded as an accusative object increases
notably (see 4.82 below). However, if the subject is inanimate it is more
likely that the experiencer will be dative (see 4.83 below):
(4.82) No buscó a Diego, no quería molestarlo. (DIEGO: 59, 6)
‘S/he did not seek out Diego. S/he did not want to bother him.’
(4.83) También le molestaba mucho que Agus se metiera el dedo en
la nariz. (TERNURA: 90, 26)
‘It also bothered him a lot that Agus picked his nose.’
Strictly speaking, it cannot be claimed that all the apparently (animate)
subjects can be interpreted as agents with the verbs under consideration
in this article. Di Tullio (1998) distinguishes those cases in which the ani-
mate subject denotes an individual with agentive potentialities, like the
implicit subject of molestar in (4.82) above, from other situations in which
the animate reference is understood as a summation of properties, body
parts, characteristics or behaviours (Di Tullio, 1998: 257), as shown by the
subject of atraer in 4.84.
(4.84) Los [estudiantes] más comprometidos en la lucha seguían en la
Facultad. A David le atraían. (JÓVENES: 156, 39)
‘The students that were most committed to the struggle continued
on in the Department. David was attracted by them.’
The subject of human reference in (4.84) behaves like the subjects of GTVs,
which, as we pointed out earlier in the chapter, lack volition and control
over the situation, independently of their subcategorization features.
With regard to the characteristics of the object, it seems that the way in
which it participates in the event can also condition the functional selec-
tion. The less active the object argument is, and the more directly affected by
the situation it is, the more likely it is to be coded as a direct object. In
particular, when the affectedness is physical, there is a tendency to use the
accusative, whereas psychic affectedness tends to correlate with the dative.
In this respect we can adduce, for example, Hurst’s (1951: 76) data on
the verb irritar, which favours the use of the dative in a sequence such as a ella
le irritan mis atenciones ‘my affections irritated her (dative)’ vis-à-vis the phys-
ical meaning of la irritaba el roce de la cinta ‘the rubbing of the tape [on her
skin] irritated her (accusative)’. By the same token, the possibilities of pas-
sivization are reduced for the psychological uses of the verbs listed in (4.77).
Compare, for instance, the sentences in (4.85) to their counterparts in (4.86):
(4.85) a. Al ladrón lo sorprendió la policía en el interior de la vivienda.
‘The police surprised the burglar in the inner part of the house.’
b. El ladrón fue sorprendido por la policía en el interior de la
vivienda.
‘The burglar was surprised by the police in the house.’
(4.86) a. Al ladrón no le sorprendió la actuación de la policía.
‘The police intervention did not surprise the thief.’
b. *El ladrón no fue sorprendido por la actuación de la policía.
‘The thief was not surprised by the police intervention.’
Ackerman and Moore (1999: 9), following Treviño (1992), explain the con-
trast between ‘direct affectedness’ and ‘non-direct affectedness’ using the
examples in (4.87)–(4.88):
(4.87) Los perros lo molestan siempre que llega ebrio.
‘The dogs harass him (DO) every time he comes home drunk.’
(4.88) Los perros le molestan (*siempre que llega ebrio).
‘The dogs bother him (IO) (every time he comes home drunk).’
In (4.87), we have an object that is more prototypically patient than the one
in (4.88), which accounts for its coding as a direct object. In (4.88), however,
the object participant does not undergo a change of state, and is not directly
affected, but rather is the experiencer of a new stative situation. Again, one
can test this: only (4.87) allows passivization.
With respect to the dialectal extension of the accusative–dative alternation
of the verbs in (4.77), we have to point out that there are instances of
106 Gustar-Type Verbs
Victoria Vázquez Rozas 107
interference due to the phenomenon of leísmo. In such circumstances, the
alternation only has an effect on the feminine form, with the exception of
those varieties that exhibit both leísmo and laísmo. Apart from that, it has
been pointed out that in certain varieties (for example those in Argentina,
Chile, Peru), accusative case marking has been generalized for the verbs
listed in (4.77), and for some GTVs (see Fernández-Ordóñez, 1999: 1,325).
The example with concernir ‘concern’ illustrates this solution:
(4.89) Algo que lo concernía tan íntimamente quizá lo descalificara para
juzgar. (HISTORIAS: 93, 2)
‘Maybe something that concerned him so intimately disqualified
him from judging.’
Thus, the alternation between accusative and dative case marking for verbs of
affectedness is a phenomenon that itself varies somewhat in the Spanish-
speaking domain. Although the factors that we have pointed out in this sec-
tion undoubtedly play a role in the syntactic coding of the object participant,
it must be interpreted not as a set of rules that are applied rigidly, but rather
as general tendencies that account for a large number of cases, but that do not
exclude the existence of examples that go against the predictions.
There is one more factor that contributes to the alternation of object mark-
ing in verbs of emotion: the relatively low frequency with which speakers are
forced to choose between one or the other construction. Emotion verbs
express an internal process of the experiencer in such a way that a speaker
can more easily appreciate his/her own feeling when s/he is the one affected,
but has only indirect evidence of the process when the experiencer is another
person.28
This is why in discourse there are more cases in which objects are
first-person pronouns than those in which objects are third-person pronouns.
Since the syncretism of the Spanish pronominal system excludes the possi-
bility of making a case distinction between direct and indirect object in all
but the third person, speakers are freed from having to choose between the
two forms when using the first (and second) person pronoun.
We have provided statistical analyses in our data that seem to confirm this
line of argumentation. Since it is commonly understood that conversational
oral language is the most representative of the spontaneous language use, we
have limited the statistical analyses to data from oral texts and the theatrical
texts of the data Arthus (see note 1). We have also limited the verbs under our
investigation to a small sample: alegrar ‘please’, asombrar ‘surprise’, disgustar
‘displease’, divertir ‘enjoy’, interesar ‘interest’, molestar ‘bother’, preocupar
‘worry’, sorprender ‘surprise’ and tranquilizar ‘calm’. Results indicate that
there were 21 cases of third-person pronouns while there were 133 cases of
first person pronouns (86.4%). Needless to say, a more extensive quantitative
study needs to be done, but the data discussed in our study still provide an
important indication for the relative frequency of the pronominal forms in
real discourse.
Why, then, is it considered that a low frequency of use favours variation? The
answer to this question is based on the assumption that linguistic structures
result from conventionalization of frequently used discourse forms. That is, fol-
lowing claims by Givón (1979), Du Bois (1985) and Hopper (1998), we believe
that grammar emerges from discourse and thus a frequency factor is essential
to account for the emergence and evolution of the syntactic structures. As
pointed out by Du Bois (1985: 363), ‘grammars code best what speakers do
most’. Thus, we believe that the accusative–dative alternation in emotive verbs
cannot be accounted for either way – generalizing either accusative or dative
for all the cases of the same verb – since its frequency of use is not sufficient to
force grammaticalization. We do note tendencies for some of these verbs
to be used in a fixed construction in order to express a certain meaning (cf.
example 4.76 with the verb encantar ‘like’), but the majority of verbs have not
lexicalized the accusative or the dative construction, which leaves ample
semantic space in which the two variants of construction coexist.
Conclusion
In this chapter, we have carried out an analysis of the GTVs within the frame-
work of the Transitivity Hypothesis proposed by Hopper and Thompson
(1980). First, we argued that, together with DOs and subjects, IOs should be
considered part of the core argument structure of GTVs. After examining the
characteristics of the constructions containing verbs and paying special
attention to the parameters proposed by Hopper and Thompson (1980), we
demonstrated that constructions containing GTVs exhibit low Transitivity.
We also analysed the syntax and semantics of the GTVs as compared
to transitive constructions with emotion verbs. In contrast to formalist
approaches that defend assigning the same semantic configuration to both
types of construction, we have seen how the functionalist approach leads us
to make a semantic distinction between the two structures. In support of this
argument, we put forward typological data which corroborate the existence
of a cognitive basis for the constructional contrast.
Finally, we examined the properties of those verbs that fluctuate between
the construction with IO and the construction with DO. We found that the
alternation between the two structures follows perfectly from the predic-
tions made in the Transitivity Hypothesis: sentences with accusative object
tend to be dynamic and telic, and tend to have an animate, agentive subject,
and their objects tend to be inactive and physically affected. By contrast,
sentences with dative objects are usually stative, atelic, have no agentive sub-
ject, and their objects are affected psychologically. The choice between
accusative and dative objects is, thus, an indication of the degree of
Transitivity of the sentence as a whole.
108 Gustar-Type Verbs
Victoria Vázquez Rozas 109
In any case, we have to remember that speakers ultimately choose the
most appropriate construction for each case, depending on the meaning
they intend to convey. If high Transitivity is coded by means of the
accusative construction, we are able to say only that as a sentence becomes
increasingly prototypically less transitive, the greater the possibility is of the
dative construction appearing. It is, however, difficult to determine exactly
at which point such a change will systematically occur. In this area we are
dealing with statistically significant tendencies, not categorical rules.
Notes
1 One should also consider as a typical construction of ‘verba sentiendi’ that one
found in clauses of pronominal and prepositional object construction, exemplified
in Me alegraba de tenerlo a mi lado (Historias: 156, 13) ‘Having him beside me made
me happy’; Jano se olvidó de Betina (Carta: 111, 13) ‘Jano forgot about Betina’; Se
encaprichó con la chiquilla (Sonrisa: 301, 22) ‘S/he took a liking to the little girl’.
2 For further information on the database, the reader is directed to http://www.
bds.usc.es.
3 Nevertheless, in the oral language the use of the relative is frequent without prepo-
sition: Me han hablado muy bien de la obra; ahora, que hay gente …, que hay gente que
[a la que] le gusta mucho y otra que [a la que] no le ha convencido demasiado (Madrid:
371, 27) ‘I have been told very good things about the plau; now, that there are
people …, that there are people that like it very much and other that has not been
convinced enough’.
4 Hopper and Thompson (1980: 271) observe that ‘if the Aspect is perfective, the
interpretation – other things being equal – has properties allowing the clause to be
classified as more transitive; but if the Aspect is imperfective, the clause can be
shown on independent grounds to be less transitive’.
5 Dixon’s (1979: 85) representation of the hierarchy is the following:
Human Animate Inanimate
1st p. pron. 2nd p. pron. 3rd p. pron. proper nouns common nouns
<- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Likelihood of functioning as transitive agent
6 These examples are variants of those presented by Givón (1976: 170): La guerra le
sorprendió mucho ‘The war surprised him a lot’ and La guerra lo sorprendió en París
‘The war surprised him in Paris.’
7 With respect to this type of verb–noun combinations in English, Thompson and
Hopper (2001: 34) state: ‘These V–O compounds are low in Transitivity because it is
difficult to maintain that O is individuated or affected. In fact, for clauses with V–O
compounds, it is not clear whether they should even be considered two-participant
clauses at all.’
8 ‘The core A, S and O arguments are more likely to be systematically and morphologi-
cally unmarked than are the other arguments’ (Thompson, 1997: 64)
9 Likewise, Comrie (1981: 121) argues that ‘the most natural kind of transitive
construction is one where the A is high in animacy and definiteness, and the P is
lower in animacy and definiteness.’
10 The analysis of these authors refers to examples such as The music pleases me and
I like the music. The degree of parallelism between Spanish and English is high
enough to assume the same transformational rules for the Spanish examples.
11 It cannot be said, for example (4.52)*Me falta café despierta, (4.53) *Me pasa algo
sola, or (4.54) *Me consta segura que eres el mejor.
12 Examples taken from Jespersen (1924: 160).
13 In the sixteenth century, we find old constructions such as (i), as well as
constructions with prepositional objects, as shown in (ii):
(i) … si ya no gustas que la discreción y sciencia de Tirsi y de Damón te
alumbren de la ceguedad en que estás …
(From LA GALATEA by Miguel de Cervantes, 1,585)
‘if you don’t like that the discretion and science of Tirsi and Damon enlight
your blindness in which you are …’
(ii) Su padre de ella gusta de su casamiento.
(From LOS HECHOS DE GARCILASO by Lope de Vega, 1,579–83)
‘Her father likes [the idea of] her marriage.’
For its part, Continental Portuguese still has the construction found in (ii). Therefore,
one cannot accept Rotaetxe’s (1999: 27) generalization that in their evolution,
languages often pass from a dative to a direct object construction, and never the
other way round. Although the changes undergone by English like seem to sup-
port such a statement, Spanish gustar, along with verbs such as faltar, admirar, and
so on illustrate the opposite situation (see Whitley, 1998: 128).
14 With regard to this information, we should also mention the position attributed
to the experiencer on the control continumm proposed by Comrie (1981: 53–6),
a position that brings the experiencer closer to the agent, but separates it from the
patient.
15 ‘The entity that a b[asic]-subject refers to (if any) exists independently of the
action or property expressed by the predicate’ (Keenan, 1976: 312–13).
16 These quantitative data have been obtained form the BDS (see note 1).
17 The total frequency of the subject is slightly higher than that of the indirect object
due to the existence of clauses without an indirect object.
18 Both terms have been used extensively in Relational Grammar, although authors
from other schools have also employed similar terminology. For instance,
Bossong (1997: 260) contrasts the terms ‘généralisation’ and ‘inversion’, whereas
Whitley (1998) distinguishes ‘direct construction’ from ‘reverse construction’.
19 Proof independent of the more agentive character of recordar is the possibility of
the causative construction with this verb, as in Juan le recordó la hora de la cita a
María ‘Juan reminded María the time of the appointment’, which is not possible
with olvidar (*Juan le olvidó la hora de la cita a María).
20 This sequence would be possible as a reflexive passive, not as an inverse
construction.
21 ‘We tend to think of ideas as objects that enter and leave our minds and of
emotions as waves that overwhelm us and sweep us away’ (Dhbrowska, 1997: 42).
22 A. Andrews (1985: 68) defines ‘primary transitive verbs’ as ‘the class of two-
argument verbs taking an Agent and a Patient (for example kill, eat, smash)’.
23 ‘Contributing properties for the Agent Proto-Role:
a. volitional involvement in the event or state
b. sentence (and/or perception)
110 Gustar-Type Verbs
Victoria Vázquez Rozas 111
c. causing an event or change of state in another participant
d. movement (relative to the position of another participant)
e. exists independently of the event named by the verb)
Contributing properties for the Patient Proto-Role:
a. undergoes change of state
b. incremental theme
c. causally affected by another participant
d. stationary relative to movement of another participant
e. does not exist independently of the event, or not at all’. (Dowty, 1991: 572)
24 Repeler ‘repel, repulse’ exhibits a similar behaviour, since it presents a transitive
pattern in all its meanings, except in the sense of ‘make somebody feel disgust or
aversion’ (Diccionario de la Real Academia Española, entry for repeler), which
undoubtedly favours the dative: A usted, amiga mía, le repele visceralmente el tipo
humano al que pertenece Alvar (Renglones) ‘You, my friend, are viscerally repulsed
by the human type Alvar belongs to’.
25 According to Cuervo (1886–93, entry for agradar), at that time the Diccionario de
la Real Academia considered this verb as transitive. In its current edition, both
agradar and desagradar are regarded as intransitive.
26 Examples of particularly relevant studies are: Hurst (1951), García (1975), Roldán
(1975), García and Otheguy (1977), Levy (1980), Orange (1982), Uber (1986),
Whitley (1995, 1998), di Tullio (1995) and Roegiest (1995).
27 Each example is associated with a meaning different from that in Seco et al.
(1999). Atraer in (4.78) means ‘(of a person or thing) to make somebody or some-
thing (DO) come closer to him/her/it or to where s/he it is by means of a physical
force or impulse of an instinctive or voluntary nature’; whereas in (4.79) it means
‘(of a person or thing) to bring it about that somebody or something (DO) have a
feeling of affection, inclination or desire towards him/her/it’.
28 As Mithun (1991: 522) notes, ‘Speakers do not claim to feel what another
individual is feeling’. See also Melis (1999).
References
Ackerman, F. and J. Moore (1999) ‘Syntagmatic and Paradigmatic Dimensions of
Causee Encodings’, Linguistics and Philosophy, vol. 22, pp. 1–44.
Andrews, A. (1985) ‘The Major Functions of the Noun Phrase’, in T. Shopen (ed.),
Language Typology and Syntactic Description. Vol. I: Clause Structure. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, pp. 62–154.
Bello, A. (1847) Gramática de la lengua castellana destinada al uso de los americanos.
Valparaíso.
Bossong, G. (1997) ‘Le marquage de l’expérient dans les langues d’Europe’, in
J. Feuillet (ed.), Actance et valence dans les langues de l’Europe. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter, pp. 258–94.
Campos, H. (1999) ‘Transitividad e intransitividad’, in I. Bosque and V. Demonte
(eds.), Gramática descriptiva de la lengua española, Vol. 2. Madrid: Espasa Calpe,
pp. 1,519–74.
Comrie, B. (1976) ‘The Syntax of Causative Constructions’, in M. Shibatani (ed.),
Syntax and Semantics, Vol. 6: The Grammar of Causative Constructions. New York:
Academic Press.
—— (1981) Language Universals and Linguistic Typology. Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
Croft, W. A. (1986) ‘Surface Subject Choice of Mental Verbs’, Paper presented at the
Annual Meeting of the Linguistic Society of America, New York.
Cuervo, R. J. (1886–93) Diccionario de construcción y régimen de la lengua castellana,
Paris: A. Roger and F. Chernoviz.
–––– (1874) Notas a la Gramática de la lengua castellana de Andrés Bello, ed. de Niceto
Alcalá Zamora. Buenos Aires: Sopena, 1973.
Dhbrowska, E. (1997) Cognitive Semantics and the Polish Dative. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Danes, F. (1968) ‘Some Thoughts on the Semantic Structure of the Sentence’, Lingua,
vol. 21, pp. 55–69.
de Miguel, E. (1999) ‘El aspecto léxico’, in I. Bosque and V. Demonte (eds), Gramática
descriptiva de la lengua española, Vol. 2. Madrid: Espasa Calpe, pp. 2,977–3,060.
Di Tullio, A. (1996) ‘Verbos psicológicos en español’, Signo and Seña, Vol. 5, pp. 219–38.
–––– (1998) ‘Alternancia acusativo-dativo en verbos psicológicos del español’, in Atti
del XXI Congresso Internazionale di lingüística e filologia romanza, Vol. 2. Tübingen:
Max Niemeyer, September 1995, pp. 255–60.
Dik, S. C. (1989) The Theory of Functional Grammar. Part I: The Structure of the Clause.
Dordrecht: Foris.
Dixon, R. M. W. (1979) ‘Ergativity’, Language, Vol. 55, pp. 59–138.
Dowty, D. (1991) ‘Thematic Proto-Roles and Argument Selection’, Language, Vol. 67,
pp. 547–619.
Du Bois, J. (1985) ‘Competing Motivations’, in J. Haiman (ed.), Iconicity in Syntax.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 343–65.
DRAE. (1992) Diccionario de la Real Academia Española. Madrid: Espasa Calpe.
Fernández-Ordóñez, I. (1999) ‘Leísmo, laísmo y loísmo’, in I. Bosque and V. Demonte
(eds), Gramática descriptiva de la lengua española, Vol. 1. Madrid: Espasa Calpe,
pp. 1317–97.
Fernández-Soriano, O. (1999) ‘Two Types of Impersonal Sentences in Spanish: Locative
and Dative Subjects’, Syntax, Vol. 2, pp. 101–40.
Fernández Ramírez, S. (1960) Gramática española. Los sonidos, el nombre y el pronombre.
Madrid: Revista de Occidente.
Fillmore, C. (1968) ‘The Case for Case’, in E. Bach and R. T. Harms (eds), Universals in
Linguistic Theory. New York, Holt: Rinehart and Winston, pp. 1–88.
García, E. (1975) The Role of Theory in Linguistic Analysis: The Spanish Pronoun System.
Amsterdam: North Holland.
—— and R. Otheguy (1977) ‘Dialect variation in leísmo: A semantic approach’, in
R. W. Fasold and R. W. Shuy (eds), Studies in Language Variation, Washington, D.C.:
Georgetown University Press, pp. 65–87.
Givón, T. (1976) ‘Topic, Pronoun, and Grammatical Agreement’, in C. N. Li (ed.),
Subject and Topic. New York: Academic Press, pp. 149–188.
—— (1979) On Understanding Grammar. New York: Academic Press.
—— (1983) ‘Topic Continuity in Discourse: An Introduction’, in T. Givón (ed.), Topic
Continuity in Discourse. A Quantitative Cross-language Study. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins, pp. 5–41.
Halliday, M. A. K. (1985). An Introduction to Functional Grammar. London: Edward
Arnold.
Herslund, M. (1988) Le datif en français. Louvain-Paris: Peeters.
Hopper, P. J. (1998) ‘Emergent Grammar’, in M. Tomasello (ed.), The New Psychology of
Language. Cognitive and Functional Approaches to Language Structure, Mahwah.
New Jersey: Laurence Erlbaum, pp. 155–75.
112 Gustar-Type Verbs
Victoria Vázquez Rozas 113
–––– and A. T. Sandra (1980) ‘Transitivity in Grammar and Discourse’, Language,
Vol. 56, pp. 251–99.
Hurst, D. A. (1951) ‘Influence of Subject and Connotation of Force’, Hispania, Vol. 34,
pp. 74–8.
Jespersen, O. (1924) The Philosophy of Grammar. London: Allen and Unwin.
Keenan, E. L. (1976) ‘Towards a Universal Definition of “Subject” ’, in C. N. Li (ed.),
Subject and Topic. New York: Academic Press, pp. 303–33.
Lakoff, G. (1970) Irregularity in Syntax. New York: Holt: Rinehart and Winston.
Langacker, R. (1991) Concept, Image, and Symbol. The Cognitive Basis of Grammar. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter.
Lazard, G. (1994) L’Actance, Paris: PUF.
Levy, P. (1980) ‘Una peculiar oposición entre le y lo en el español de México’, Anuario
de Letras, Vol. 18, pp. 263–68.
—— (1994) ‘Verbos con sentido causativo en la construcción transitiva’, in A. Alonso,
B. Guarza and J. A. Pascual (eds), II Encuentro de lingüistas y filólogos de España y
México. Salamanca: Junta de Castilla y León and Universidad de Salamanca,
pp. 347–66.
Marantz, A. P. (1984) On the Nature of Grammatical Relations. Cambridge, MA: MIT
Press.
Marín Gálvez, R. (2000) ‘El componente aspectual de la predicación’, Doctoral disser-
tation. Universidad Autónoma de Barcelona.
Melis, C. (1999) ‘Variación sintáctica con los verbos de emoción’, Español Actual, Vol. 71,
pp. 49–62.
Mithun, M. (1991) ‘Active/Agentive Case Marking and Its Motivations’, Language,
Vol. 67, pp. 510–46.
Orange, J. A. (1982) ‘Contextual Constraints on the Use of le and lo in Spanish’, Word,
Vol. 33, pp. 201–28.
Postal, P. M. (1971) Cross-Over Phenomena. New York: Holt, Rinehart & Winston.
Roegiest, E. (1995) ‘Accusatif, ergatif et datif en espagnol moderne’, in Atti del XXI
Congresso Internazionale di lingüística e filologia romanza. Tübingen: Max Niemeyer,
Vol. 2, pp. 739–49.
Roldán, M. (1975) ‘The Great Spanish le-lo Controversy’, Linguistics, Vol. 147, pp. 15–30.
Rotaetxe, K. (1999) ‘Tipología lingüística: dativo y datividad’, Revista Española de
Lingüística, Vol. 29, pp. 1–33.
Seco, M., A. Olimpia and R. Gabino (1999), Diccionario del español actual. Madrid: Aguilar.
Tesnière, L. (1959) Éléments de syntaxe structurale. París: Klincksieck.
Thompson, S. A. (1997) ‘Discourse Motivations for the Core-Oblique Distinction as a
Language Universal’, in A. Kamio (eds), Directions in Functional Linguistics.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins, pp. 59–82.
Thompson, S. A. and J. H. Paul (2001) ‘Transitivity, Clause Structure, and Argument
Structure: Evidence from Conversation’, in J. L. Bybee and P. J. Hopper (eds),
Frequency and the Emergence of Linguistic Structure. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 27–60.
Treviño, E. (1992) ‘Subjects in Spanish Causative Constructions’, in P. Hirschbühler
and K. Koerner (eds), Romance Languages and Modern Linguistic Theory. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins, pp. 309–24.
Uber, D. R. (1986) ‘Actions and Activeness in Spanish Clitic Selection’, in O. Jaeggli
and C. Silva-Corvalán (eds), Studies in Romance Linguistics. Dordrecht: Foris,
pp. 153–65.
Whitley, M. S. (1995) ‘Gustar and Other Psych Verbs: A Problem in Transitivity’,
Hispania, Vol. 78, pp. 573–85.
–––– (1998) ‘Psych Verbs: Transitivity Adrift’, Hispanic Linguistics, Vol. 10, pp. 115–53.
Wierzbicka, A. (1999) ‘Emotional Universals’, Language Design, Vol. 2, pp. 23–69.
Abbreviations used for the original texts cited
Narrative
ATC García Márquez, G., El amor en los tiempos del cólera, Bruguera, Barcelona, 1985.
BMA Puig, M., El beso de la mujer araña, Seix Barral, Barcelona, 1976.
JÓVENES Aldecoa, J.R., Porque éramos jóvenes, Seix Barral, Barcelona, 1986.
HISTORIAS Bioy Casares, A., Historias desaforadas, Alianza, Madrid, 1986.
CARTA Colinas, A., Larga carta a Francesca, Seix Barral, Barcelona, 1986.
GLENDA Cortázar, J., Queremos tanto a Glenda, Alfaguara, Madrid, 1981.
CRÓNICA García Márquez, G., Crónica de una muerte anunciada Mondadori, Madrid,
1987.
SUR García Morales, A., El sur (seguido de Bene), Anagrama, Barcelona, 1985.
TERNURA Martínez de Pisón, I., La ternura del dragón, Anagrama, Barcelona, 1988.
LABERINTO Mendoza, E., El laberinto de las aceitunas, Seix Barral, Barcelona, 1982.
DIEGO Poniatowska, E., Querido Diego, te abraza Quiela y otros cuentos, Alianza/Era,
Madrid, 1987.
SONRISA Sampedro, J.L., La sonrisa etrusca, Alfaguara, Madrid, 1985.
Theatre
CAIMÁN Buero Vallejo, A., Caimán, Espasa-Calpe, Madrid, 1981.
OCHENTA Diosdado, A., Los ochenta son nuestros, Antonio Machado, Madrid, 1990.
COARTADA Fernán Gómez, F., La coartada, Antonio Machado, Madrid, 1987.
1INFAN Olmo, L. y P. Enciso, Teatro infantil I, Antonio Machado, Madrid, 1987.
CINTA Reina, M.M., La cinta dorada, Antonio Machado, Madrid, 1989.
Oral speech
MADRID Esgueva, M. y M. Cantarero (eds), El habla de la ciudad de Madrid. Materiales para
su estudio, CSIC (Miguel de Cervantes), Madrid, 1981.
114 Gustar-Type Verbs
5
Primary and Secondary Object
Marking in Spanish*
J. Clancy Clements
115
Introduction
The goal of this chapter is to examine the patterns in Spanish object mark-
ing, and in grammatical relation marking in general, in order to determine
what type of marking pattern is predominant. Our findings suggest that
Spanish has developed signs of an ergative-absolutive marking pattern in
grammatical relation marking, but most strikingly object marking, which
following Dryer (1986) we will refer to as primary-and secondary-object
marking. Such a state of affairs is not necessarily expected from a typological
perspective given that Latin, as well as the sister languages French, Italian
and Portuguese, do not exhibit this type of marking pattern. Following
Comrie (1981: 119), we argue that this object marking pattern found in
Spanish developed for reasons of economy and, moreover, that it is sensitive
to animacy and definiteness, features also key to the ordering pattern of the
subject relative to the verb.1
Before discussing primary v. secondary object marking, we first address
some general considerations about split accusative v. ergative marking in lan-
guages, followed by a discussion of the ergative-absolutive marking pattern in
Spanish intransitive clauses. We then examine the ergative-absolutive mark-
ing pattern in direct and indirect objects, followed by a discussion of the
presence of this type of pattern in rule domains, before some concluding
remarks.
* This study is an augmented, updated, and revised version of ‘Ergative patterning,
in Spanish’, which appeared in 2001 in Current issues in Spanish syntax and semantics
(ed. Javier Gutiérrez-Rexach and Luis Silva-Villar), Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter (271–90)
and in 1998 in Perspectives in Hispanic Linguistics (vol. 3) (ed. José del Valle and Javier
Gutierrez-Rexach) Columbus, OH, Ohio State University (20–40).
Split nominative-accusative v. ergative-absolutive marking
In some languages, such as various Austronesian languages (Silverstein,
1976), we find that a certain part of the case-marking system in a given lan-
guage follows nominative-accusative marking, whereas another part of the
system follows ergative-absolutive marking. The demarcation point between
the one and the other marking pattern differs from language to language,
but, according to Silverstein, a given language has one point of demarcation.
This is shown schematically in Figure 5.1.
For instance, a given language will mark the second-person form as
accusative (marked in Figure 5.1. as ‘’) and all other forms as ergative
(marked as ‘’); or it will mark both the first- and second-person forms as
accusative and the rest as ergative, and so on. Below, we suggest that Spanish
does not have a demarcation point, but rather a demarcation range for
accusative v. ergative marking (shown in Figure 5.1), which includes almost
all (human) and some (animate), (human) direct objects (DOs). What is
different about the case-marking system in Spanish is that it not only
depends on syntactic and semantic features (grammatical relations and ani-
macy, respectively), but also on discourse-related features such as definiteness
and topicality. In that sense, the ergative case-marking patterns to be exam-
ined are somewhat different than those found in the Austronesian languages
discussed by Silverstein (1976). Specifically, while ergative marking patterns
in Austronesian languages depend largely if not entirely on the morphosyn-
tax of the languages, in Spanish they are sensitive to discourse-pragmatic
notions, which in turn influence syntax. This is clearly so in the case of sub-
ject order relative to the verb in Spanish, the focus of the next section.
Subject order relative to the verb
We will discuss three views regarding subject order in Spanish. One view posits
verb–subject (VS) order for Spanish, the second argues for indeterminant
116 Primary and Secondary Object Marking in Spanish
Figure 5.1 Possibilities for a simple lexical split of case marking: two two-way sub-
systems, ‘accusative’ v. ‘ergative’
Note: The vertical lines mark successive division of accusative v. ergative case-marking, only one in
a given language.
Acc | Erg
|_______
_
+ tu | –tu
+ego –ego
|________ ‘pronouns’
| _ _ _|________ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
+proper | – proper |_________
+human | –human |__________ ‘nouns’
+animate | – animate
|--Spanish--| . . .
| _ _ _ _
_ _ _ _ _ _ _
J. Clancy Clements 117
subject–verb/verb–subject SV/VS order in intransitive clauses and (subject)–
verb–object ([S]VO) order in transitive clauses, and the third accounts for
marked tendencies in SV, VS, and SVO order from a discourse and semantic
perspective. We will argue here that the discourse and semantic reasons for
SV and VS word order in Spanish underlie a syntactic ergative-absolutive pat-
terning. In nominative-accusative languages, intransitive-clause and transi-
tive-clause subjects are marked in the same way. For example, in English the
default position for all subjects, regardless of whether they are in a transitive
or an intransitive clause, is sentence-initial (e.g. John travels, John loves
Mary). In some morphologically rich nominative-accusative languages,
e.g. Spanish, it is common that both transitive-clause and intransitive-clause
subjects agree with their corresponding verb, as in yo canto ‘I sing’, ellos can-
tan ‘they- MASC sing’, where yo ‘I’ and ellos ‘they-MASC’ agree with the suffixes
–o ‘1sg.PRES.IND’ and –n ‘3pl.PRES.IND’, respectively.
In ergative-absolutive languages, intransitive-clause subjects and transitive-
clause direct objects are marked identically. This marking is most often
coded morphologically, but there is a priori no reason why such ergative
marking cannot be coded in word order, such as subjecthood in English,
which is coded using word order. The marking differences between nominative-
accusative and ergative-absolutive languages are illustrated in Table 5.1,
where the terms in bold indicate which arguments in each system are
marked identically (the subjects in the nominative-accusative system and
the subject and direct object in the ergative-absolutive system).
We know that Spanish marks subjects through subject–verb agreement
and that this morphological marking follows the nominative-accusative
pattern. However, it is also known that languages such as Basque, for
example, display morphological ergative-absolutive marking and syntactic
nominative-accusative marking (Croft, 1990: 151). For Spanish, we claim
that the opposite is true; specifically, that Spanish displays morphological
nominative-accusative marking but syntactic ergative-absolutive marking
and, furthermore, that this syntactic ergative-absolutive pattern emerges due
to discourse-pragmatic considerations (see Chapter 2, pp. 28–32 for related
discussion).
For Spanish word order, essentially three general analyses have been
advanced. The first posits VSO or VOS basic word order as the default order.
The second makes a four-way distinction involving combinations of two-slot
Table 5.1 Nominative-accusative v. ergative-absolutive marking
Nominative Accusative Ergative Absolutive
marking marking marking marking
Transitive clause subject direct object subject direct object
Intransitive clause subject subject
options (VS and VO [verb-initial], SV & VO [≈SVO], SV and OV [verb-final],
VS and OV [≈OVS (rare)]) advanced by Dryer (1997). Under this second analy-
sis, Spanish would be a SV/VS & VO language. The third analysis posits an
SVO order based on the argument of frequency. That is, intransitive clauses
exhibit a slight predominance of VS (53%) over SV (47%) order (García-
Miguel, 1995: 50; personal communication), and transitive clauses with two
full NPs exhibit SVO order around 95 per cent of the time (see Ocampo, 1995;
Silva-Corvalán, 1983; Liceras, 1994). Thus, the sum of frequencies of SV and
SVO occurrences indicate a predominance of SVO order (see Chapter 2).2
We now discuss the reasoning for each analysis. The arguments for VSO or
VOS order go back at least to Gili Gaya (1961), and have been taken up
directly by Groos and Bok-Bennema (1986), Contreras (1976), among many
others. The general idea is that in a sentence of one breath unit, the verb
appears either in sentence-initial or in second position, but in no other. So,
the sentences in (5.1 a–d) are syntactically well-formed, while (5.1 e–f) are
syntactically ill-formed if uttered in one breath unit:
(5.1) a. [Mi padre] compró [una casa] (SVO)
my father bought a house
‘My father bought a house’.
b. Compró [mi padre] [una casa] (VSO)
c. Compró [una casa] [mi padre] (VOS)
d. [Una casa] compró [mi padre] (OVS)
e. *[Mi padre] [una casa] compró (SOV)
f. *[Una casa] [mi padre] compró (OSV)
Moreover, since in a one-breath unit both arguments of a mono-transitive
clause can appear postverbally, and either a subject or an object can appear
preverbally, it is argued (for example by Groos and Bok-Bennema) that there
is only one slot in preverbal position. This slot can remain empty, or can be
occupied by either a subject or an object, but not by both. Given this and
the fact that there are more ordering options in which the subject appears
postverbally (5.1 b, c, d), it is claimed in this analysis that the canonical
position of the subject is postverbal.3
Another argument in favour of default postverbal subject order is that
in non-finite clauses (that is, in infinitive and gerund clauses), preverbal
arguments are not allowed, as shown in (5.2–5.3), taken from Groos and
Bok-Bennema:
(5.2) a. Diciéndomelo
telling-me-it
‘Telling it to me.’
b. *Me lo diciendo
me it telling
118 Primary and Secondary Object Marking in Spanish
J. Clancy Clements 119
(5.3) a. Por decirme estas cosas la abuela …
because-of tell-me these things the grandmother
‘Because gramma told me these things …’
b. *Por la abuela decirme estas cosas …
because-of the grandmother tell-me these things
In the majority of generative approaches for Spanish since Rizzi, the subject
is generated postverbally (that is the VP-internal hypothesis), and the
appearance of subjects in preverbal position is a consequence of movement.
The advantages of the VP-internal hypothesis are the following: that it
accounts for so-called subject inversion phenomena related to argument
fronting, wh-word or otherwise (but see endnote 3), it accounts for the
impossibility of preverbal arguments for non-finite verbs, and finally it
accounts for the fact that for intransitive verbs the default subject position is
postverbal. However, the most serious problem for the VS analysis is that in
transitive clauses forming part of a narrative, SVO is found between 90 and
95 per cent of the time, depending on the genre considered (see Liceras,
1994; López-Meirama, 1997b; Ocampo, 1995; Silva-Corvalán, 1983).4
As mentioned, the second analysis was advanced by Dryer (1997), who
proposes doing away with the 6-way word-order typology, shown in (5.4a),
and replacing it with a 4-way word-order typology, shown in (5.5):
(5.4) a. 1. SOV; 2. SVO; 3. VSO; 4. VOS; 5. OVS; 6. OSV
b. 1. VS & VO (verb-initial)
2. SV & VO (≈SVO)
3. SV & OV (verb-final)
4. VS & OV (≈OVS [rare])
He offers eight reasons in favour of his proposal. Three of these involve the
collapsing of VSO and VOS orders because such orders are unstable and lan-
guages with such orders have an indeterminant status because they exhibit
no marked preponderance of one order over another. The other five reasons
deal with the advantages of calculating orders using the two-place rather
than the three-place option. Crosslinguistically, the two-place option (that
is, SV, VS, VO, OV) is filled much more frequently than the three-place
option (that is, SOV, SVO, VSO, VOS, OVS, OSV). The two-place option is more
applicable to those languages that display such flexible word order as to ren-
der the three-place option unsuitable for purposes of classification. Moreover,
the two-place option is preferable for isolating object order relative to
the verb. Finally, the three-place option overlooks the order of the subject
and verb in intransitive clauses, ‘even though the order in such clauses is
occasionally different from the order of subject and verb in transitive
clauses, and even though intransitive clauses containing a noun subject are
much more common than transitive clauses containing a noun subject’
(Dryer, 1997: 70).
On this view, Spanish is a SV/VS and VO language, based on frequency of
occurrence of intransitive clauses and transitive clauses respectively. The draw-
backs of this analysis are two: if VO order is assumed for transitive clauses, we
cannot account for the fact that Spanish has obligatory postverbal subjects in
gerund and infinitive clauses. Second, by separating the calculation of subject
order relative to the verb in transitive and intransitive clauses, the important
fact is lost that SV order is by far the most frequent over all given that VO
orderings with a subject are SVO 90–95 per cent of the time and that just
under half of overt subjects in intransitive clauses (47%) have SV order.
In a discourse-pragmatic approach, the third analysis, the phenomenon
illustrated by the examples in (5.3) would be considered the grammaticaliza-
tion of a topicless construction, if we adopt López-Meirama’s notion of
topic (Chapter 2, this volume) as a phrasal element that appears preverbally.
Regarding the distribution of intransitive-clause SV v. VS, López Meirama
(Chapter 2, this volume) isolates definiteness as a strong predictor of SV or
VS order: SV order is at approximately 85 per cent if subjects are relatively
high in definiteness (those with a proper noun, a personal pronoun or a
deictic determiner), while VS order is around 90 per cent if subjects are rela-
tively low in definiteness (noun phrases without determiner). This correla-
tion between the degree of definiteness and SV or VS order supports her
argument that subject order relative to the verb is not first and foremost a
matter of verbal semantics, but rather of discourse-pragmatics (definiteness).
And this leads her to propose that for Spanish it makes more sense to speak
in terms of unergative (SV) and unaccusative (VS) construction types than
unergative and unaccusative verbs. López-Meirama’s account also addresses
the 90–95 per cent occurrence of preverbal subjects in VO clauses: preverbal
subjects are topics and overwhelmingly definite.
In Casielles (1996, 1998), we find some illustrative examples involving
definiteness and subject order relative to the verb that highlight López-
Meirama’s findings. In Spanish, transitive verbs can take bare plurals and
mass nouns as direct objects, as illustrated in (5.4). In the se passive, how-
ever, such bare plurals only occur in postverbal position, as shown in (5.5).
That is, they are ill-formed in preverbal position (see 5.5b):
(5.4) Julia invitó a participantes de México.
Julia invited-3sg ACC participants from Mexico
‘Julia invited participants from Mexico.’
(5.5) a. Se invitaron participantes de México.
PASSIVE invited-3p1 participants from Mexico
‘Participants from Mexico were invited.’
b. *Participantes de México se invitaron.
Participants from Mexico PASSIVE invited-3p1
120 Primary and Secondary Object Marking in Spanish
J. Clancy Clements 121
Analogously, with intransitive verbs bare plural subjects also appear postver-
bally, but rarely if ever in preverbal position, as illustrated by the examples
in (5.6) and (5.7):
(5.6) a. Vinieron participantes de México.
came-3pl participants from Mexico
‘Participants from Mexico came.’
b. *Participantes de México vinieron.
(5.7) a. Llegaron jugadores para celebrar la victoria.
arrived-3p1 players for to celebrate the victory
‘Players arrived to celebrate the victory.’
b. *Jugadores llegaron para celebrar la victoria.
Casielles (1998) points out that postverbal bare plural subjects have only an
existential (and narrow scope) reading. Such an interpretation is compatible
with focus material but not with topic material. As mentioned, topics con-
stitute old information and are marked as definite NPs in discourse, and
this allows only a wide-scope reading. Bare plural subjects, on the other hand,
are foci and cannot appear in sentence-initial position. Thus, the ergative-
absolutive pattern found in the default word order of intransitive subjects
(postverbal) and mono-transitive objects (also postverbal) is accounted for
by appealing to definiteness, which is intricately linked to the distinction in
discourse between topics and foci.
The second set of supporting data for the third hypothesis involves solely
transitive clauses. The data suggest that SVO order is the canonical order of
Spanish transitive clauses, something for which we already find overwhelm-
ing support in the aforementioned frequency counts. Koontz-Garboden (2002)
offers evidence that object doubling is found substantially more frequently
in Argentine and Castilian Spanish when the order is not SVO. That is, direct
object doubling is found more often in noncanonical orders, as shown by
the examples in (5.8):
(5.8) a. Juan los ve a sus hermanos a menudo. (SVO) Object
Juan them-see-3sg ACC his brothers often
其 doubling
‘Juan sees his brothers often.’ less often
b. A sus hermanos los ve Juan a menudo. (OVS) Object
c. Los ve Juan, a sus hermanos a menudo. (VSO) doubling
d. Los ve a menudo a sus hermanos, Juan. (VOS) more
often or
e. Juan, a sus hermanos, los ve a menudo. (SOV) obligatory
f. A sus hermanos, Juan los ve a menudo. (OSV)
}
Similarly, in ditransitive clauses, if the order differs in any way from
S–V–DO–IO order, IO doubling is found virtually always. The conclusion to
be drawn from the evidence is that the unmarked order is the one that trig-
gers clitic doubling least. This is evidence in favour of SVO order as the
default in Spanish.
In sum, in this section we have argued that the SV/VS order in Spanish
intransitive clauses is best accounted for by appealing to the discourse-
pragmatic notion of definiteness. By appealing to definiteness it is also pos-
sible to account ergative-absolutive pattern (see Table 5.1 above) apparent in
subject and direct object order relative to the verb. The subjects and direct
objects that are not definite are marked identically in that they appear in
postverbal position. By contrast, definite subjects appear preverbally. In direct
and indirect object marking, we also find an ergative-absolutive pattern.
Primary-secondary object marking in mono- and
di-transitive clauses
Analogous to the ergative-absolutive marking in transitive and intransitive
clauses, shown schematically in Table 5.1 above, Dryer (1986) argues that the
same pattern exists in the marking of objects proper. That is, in nominative-
accusative languages objects of mono- and ditransitive verbs are marked
respectively always as DOs and IOs, with accusative and dative case marking,
respectively. In ergative-absolutive marking, by contrast, monotransitive
DOs and ditransitive IOs would be marked identically, as opposed to the
ditransitive DO. The principle is, however, the same: since monotransitive
DOs and ditransitive IOs never occur in the same clause together, they can
be marked identically. Dryer coined the term Primary Object (PO) marking
to refer the identical marking of monotransitive-clause DOs and ditransitive-
clause IOs, and Secondary Object (SO) marking to refer to the marking of the
ditransitive DO. This is shown schematically in Table 5.2.
In Spanish, we find strong evidence for this marking pattern in both full
NP objects and object pronouns. We show that the key features underlying
the PO–SO distinction are primarily semantic (animacy) and, secondarily
discourse-pragmatic (specificity).5
122 Primary and Secondary Object Marking in Spanish
Table 5.2 Direct–indirect v. primary–secondary object marking
Direct Indirect Secondary Primary
object object object object
Ditransitive clause DO IO DO IO
Monotransitive clause DO DO
Note: The items in bold on each side of the table indicate that they are
marked identically.
J. Clancy Clements 123
Full NP Objects
It is well-known that Spanish marks the DO with personal a if it is animate
(5.9) or if there is a need to disambiguate (cf. 5. 10) or to highlight, as in (5.11).
(5.9) Juanita visitó a su hermano.
‘Juanita visited A her brother.’
(5.10) La virtud vence al odio.
‘Virtue conquers A hate.’
(5.11) Los americanos quieren mucho a sus coches.
‘Americans love A their cars a lot.’
(5.12) El tío Segundo daba dinero mensualmente a la iglesia.
‘Uncle Segundo gives money monthly A the church.’
In these cases, DO marking is identical to IO marking. As the example in
(5.12) shows, it is marked with a just as the DO is marked with a in
(5.9)–(5.11). In terms of POs and SOs in the examples just seen, a marks POs.
There is one large set of counterexamples that weakens considerably the
PO–SO analysis of Spanish object marking: inanimate DOs are not marked
with a unless disambiguation is necessary or a speaker wants to use a to
highlight a DO. However, this is in our view a stronger set of data that
argues in favour of the PO–SO analysis. Company Company (2001, 2002)
cites research by Ortiz (2001) who finds in a large diachronic Spanish corpus
(14 texts from the thirteenth to the twentieth centuries) 3,075 ditransitive
sentences with both DO and IO animate full NPs. Ortiz reports only 33 cases
(33/3,075, or 1.07% illustrated by 5.13b–5.13c) where both object NPs are
marked with a. In the rest of the cases (3,042/3,075, or 98.9%), the DO is left
unmarked and IO marked with a (illustrated by 5.14) Company Company
(2001: 21, 2002: 50–51) also concurs that object marking follows a PO–SO
pattern: in monotransitive clauses with an animate DO, it is marked with a,
in ditransitive clauses with two animate objects, the IO is marked with a.
(5.13) a. Oye, mañana vienen los padres de Julio.
‘Hey, tomorrow Julio’s parents are coming.’
b. Él tendrá que presentar a su padre a los compañeros, y
He will-have to introduce his father to the friends-MASC, and
‘He’ll have to introduce his father to his guy friends, and.’
c. Yo me encargaré de presentar a su madre a las compañeras.
I REFL take-charge of introduce his mother to the friends-FEM
‘I’ll take care of introducing his mother to my girl friends.’
(5.14) A la niña se le presentó un protector rico. (LA BUSCA; [Baroja,
1961: 43])
A the girl PASSIVE her presented a protector rich
‘A rich protector was introduced to the girl.’
Other data suggest that native speakers today avoid the construction alto-
gether. This is reflected in the Arthus corpus of modern Spanish, in which of
362 cases of the ditransitive verb presentar ‘introduce’ only 22 (6%) corre-
spond to the S–V–DO–IO order with all animate arguments. No example was
found with two full object NPs.6
Thus, animate full NPs in both object posi-
tions of ditransitive verbs are not common, but where they are found the
evidence for a PO–SO marking pattern is exceedingly strong. We suggest that
the key feature that underlies this marking pattern is animacy: animate full
NP DOs are marked with a and all IOs carry a marking. As we will see in the
next section, however, the marking patterns are somewhat different for
object pronouns in mono- and ditransitive clauses.
Ergative-absolutive marking patterns in the pronominal system
The Spanish pronominal system currently found in many countries in Latin
America maintains the etymological DO–IO distinction (see Table 5.3).
However, in some dialects of Castilian Spanish (as well as in some South
American dialects, such as those in Paraguay and Uruguay), an innovative
pattern has been gradually emerging. Various studies (such as Lapesa, 1968;
Marcos Marín, 1978; García, 1975, 1986; Flores Cervantes, 2002) have exam-
ined the phenomena of leísmo, laísmo, and/or loísmo over time.7
In a corpus
spanning from the twelfth to the nineteenth century, Flores Cervantes
(2002: 115–45) found a total of 7,642 occurrences of innovative use of
Spanish pronouns, only 974 (13%) of which correspond to the innovative
uses. Nevertheless, she established that the innovative uses increased from
around 5 per cent in the twelfth century to roughly 30 per cent in the nine-
teenth century, and largely favouring the singular.
Using older and present-day texts, Klein-Andreu (1992: 171) shows that
leísmo in certain varieties of Peninsular Spanish is virtually complete for mas-
culine animate direct objects and very advanced for masculine inanimate
direct objects (see Table 5.4, taken from Klein-Andreu 1992: 171). From the
sixteenth century texts of Saint Teresa to modern-day speech of professional
women and rural speakers, the use of le to mark animate DOs is virtually com-
plete at 96 per cent and close to 70 per cent for inanimate masculine NPs.
124 Primary and Secondary Object Marking in Spanish
Table 5.3 The etymological Spanish pronominal
system
Gender Masc. Masc. Fem. Fem.
Number sg. p1. sg. p1.
Direct object lo los la las
Indirect object le les le les
(se) (se) (se) (se)
J. Clancy Clements 125
If leísmo in the varieties 2 and 3 in Table 5.4 were carried to completion, the
result would be a PO-SO pronominal marking system in those Castilian vari-
eties. That is, a pronominal system would arguably emerge such as that dis-
played in Table 5.5.
Although these varieties of Castilian Spanish may be close to a PO–SO
pronominal system, Klein-Andreu (2000) demonstrates that the degree of
variation in pronominal systems is high and is sensitive to semantics (for
example animacy), as well as to location (she studied five major areas in
north-central Spain), sociolinguistic factors (for example education, socio-
economic class, gender), grammatical categories (for example number), and
function (pronominalization of count v. noncount NPs).
Klein-Andreu also found evidence of what she called intermediary systems,
or hybrid systems, in which both leísmo and either laísmo or loísmo are found.
We find that such hybrid systems have existed for centuries. Marcos Marín
(1978: 214–18) comments on the one found in the eighteenth century Moratín
Table 5.4 Frequency of le as a function of the referents’
animacy in (1) writings of St Teresa; (2) speech of present-
day Castilian professional women; (3) speech of present-
day Castilian rural speakers (n.b. only count NPs were
considered)
Animates Inanimates
le lo % le le lo % le
1. St Teresa 83 2 98 22 3 88
2. Professional women 67 6 92 16 21 43
3. Rural speakers 36 0 100 22 6 76
Total 186 8 96 60 30 67
Source: Klein-Andreu (1992), p. 171.
Table 5.5 A probable result of leísmo in a variety of the
Castilian pronominal system
Gender Masc. Masc. Fem. Fem.
Number sg. pl. sg. Pl.
Primary object le les le les
(monotrans. DO and
ditrans. IO)
Secondary Object lo los la las
(ditrans. DO)
play El sí de las niñas, where there is evidence of both leísmo and laísmo.
Masculine monotransitive DOs and ditransitive IOs are consistently marked
with le/les and feminine monotransitive DOs and ditransitive IOs are consis-
tently marked with la/las. That is, we have the system as shown in Table 5.6.
The pronoun lo is found, but in 76 per cent of the cases (111/147) it is used
as a neuter. We find one instance of double pronominalization in the play,
shown in (5.15). This suggests that in double pronominalization le/s marks
the IO and lo (and perhaps la) the DO. Thus, the pattern of pronominal use
in Moratin’s play points to a PO–SO pattern that in addition marks gender.
(5.15) ‘Sí, no lo dudo; pero el saber que la merezco alguna inclinación,
oyéndoselo decir con aquella boquilla tan graciosa que tiene,
sería para mí una satisfacción imponderable.’
EL SÍ DE LAS NIÑAS: (183–84)
‘Yes, I don’t doubt it; but knowing that I deserve from her some
sign of affection, hearing her say it with that sweet little mouth
of hers would be for me of profound satisfaction.’
In other words, we find a nominative-accusative system that for noncount
DOs has the neuter pronoun lo and for noncount IOs uses the pronoun le;
for countable objects the system distinguishes grammatical gender without
distinction between direct and indirect objects except in IO–DO double
pronominalization, in which case se (	 le/s) marks the IO. This is illustrated
in Table 5.7.
To sum up this section, the evidence gathered and presented here makes a
strong case for the existence of a PO–SO system in Spanish full NP object
marking, as well as a pronounced development in certain varieties of Castilian
Spanish toward a PO–SO marking pattern. In addition, there is also strong evi-
dence (see Klein-Andreu 2000) that various hybrid systems exist in Castilian
Spanish. The factors that contribute to variation in virtually all these pronom-
inal systems are semantic (animacy), geographic, sociolinguistic (education,
socioeconomic class, gender), grammatical (gender, number), as well as func-
tional (pronominalization of count v. noncount NPs) in nature.
126 Primary and Secondary Object Marking in Spanish
Table 5.6 General pronominal system
found in the Moratín play El sí de las
niñas
Masculine Feminine
Direct object le/s la/s
Indirect object le/s la/s
J. Clancy Clements 127
Evidence of nominative-accusative or ergative-absolutive
marking in rule applications
In this section, we examine three rules, namely, passivization, object doubling
and clitic ordering, to see to what extent they may be sensitive to the ergative-
absolutive marking pattern already apparent in subject order relative to the
verb and in object marking.
Passivization
If it were the case that passivization were sensitive to PO–SO marking, we
should find that Spanish allows the passivization of ditransitive IOs. That
is, we would expect POs (monotransitive DOs and ditransitive IOs) to be
passivizable and SOs (ditransitive DOs) not to be. This, however, is not the
case as it is clear that in no variety of Spanish is it possible to passivize any
argument but the DO. For this reason, passive sentences such as that in
(5.16b) are impossible for all varieties of Spanish:
(5.16) a. Marta le dió el libro a Juanita.
‘Marta gave the book to Juanita.’
b. *Juanita fue dada el libro (por Marta).
‘Juanita was given the book (by Marta).’
Thus, the passivization rule in Spanish is sensitive to only DO–IO marking,
and not to PO–SO marking.
Object doubling
The facts on object doubling suggest a sensitivity to the PO–SO distinction.
If we assume that Spanish has a PO–SO system and it has as part of its object
doubling rule the hierarchy SO pronominalization  PO pronominalization,
the grammaticality or ungrammaticality of the sentences in (5.17) becomes
transparent. The hierarchy SO pronominalization  PO pronominalization
means that in a PO–SO language that allows object doubling, if the SO can
be doubled, then the PO must be able to be doubled. Assuming Spanish to be
Table 5.7 Probable object-marking system based on pronoun use in
Moratin’s El sí de la niñas
Gender Masc. Masc. Fem. Fem. Neuter
Number sg. pl. sg. pl. sg.
Single pronominalization le les la las IOle
(DOs and IOs) DO lo
Double pronominalization IO se IO se IO se IO se IO
DO lo DO los DO la DO las DO lo
a PO–SO language, sentence (5.17a, b) contain instances of PO doubling.
Sentence (5.17c) displays a case of PO and SO doubling, and the sentence is
grammatical. However, sentence (5.17d) has SO doubling but no PO dou-
bling, and it is ungrammatical. These facts are seamlessly accounted for if we
assume the hierarchy SO pronominalization  PO pronominalization for
Spanish.8
(5.17) a. Lei ví [a Juan]i
3SG-PO saw-1SG A Juan
‘I saw Juan.’
b. Lei dí [el libro] [a Juan]i
3SG-PO gave-lSG the book A Juan
‘I gave the book to Juan.’
c. Sei lok dí [el libro]k [a Juan]i
3SG-PO 3SG-SO gave-lSG the book A Juan
‘I gave the book to Juan.’
d. *Lok dí [el libro]k [a Juan]
3SG-SO gave-lSG the book A Juan
‘I gave the book to Juan.’
Clitic ordering
If we assume Spanish to be a PO–SO language, clitic ordering falls out
directly from the assumption. In the ordering of referential pronominal
clitics (as opposed to the non-anaphoric clitic se) in monotransitive
clauses, the PO occupies the first and only clitic slot, as in (5.18a). We
know that it is the first slot because of the example in (5.18b), a ditransi-
tive clause, in which the PO occupies the first slot and the SO the second.
These clitic ordering facts fall out automatically by appealing to PO–SO
marking:
(5.18) a. Quiere verle.
wants see-INF-3SG-PO
‘S/he wants to see him.’
b. Quiere entregárselo
wants deliver-INF-3SG-PO – 3SG-SO
‘S/he wants to give him to him/her/them.’
In sum, while passivization clearly follows DO–IO marking, the facts about
object doubling and clitic ordering are most easily accounted for by appealing
to the PO–SO marking pattern.
128 Primary and Secondary Object Marking in Spanish
J. Clancy Clements 129
Conclusion
In this chapter, we have argued that in addition to the more commonly
known nominative-accusative pattern found in Spanish morphology,
Spanish also exhibits an ergative-absolutive marking patterns in a number of
ways. First, the evidence involving the ordering of the intransitive-clause
subjects and transitive-clause DOs shows that these arguments are most
often in postverbal position, especially if they constitute foci of a sentence.
By contrast, due to its status as a topic in the vast majority of cases, the
transitive-clause subject is overwhelmingly found in preverbal position. This
ergative-absolutive pattern in syntax follows a discourse-pragmatic ordering:
intransitive-clause subjects and DOs, constituting most often foci, new infor-
mation and being non-specific/indefinite, appear in clause-final position;
transitive-clause subjects, being given/old, animate, and definite informa-
tion, appear in topic (that is clause-initial) position.
We have provided striking evidence that in object marking an ergative-
absolutive pattern is also present and is sensitive to features commonly
found in topics, that is those of animacy and specificity/definiteness. That is,
animate DOs and IOs are marked identically in Spanish, with personal a.
By contrast, inanimate DOs are rarely marked with personal a.9
In those
sentence with two animate object NPs, the IO is the element marked with
personal a in 98.9 per cent of the cases (3,042/3,075) (Ortiz, 2001). Thus, in
such cases the PO–SO pattern is exceedingly strong. In the pronominal
marking system, we have also provided evidence suggesting that the leísta
system is developing toward a PO–SO object pattern, while loísta/laísta
pronominal systems display a variety of hybrid patterns, depending on
semantic (animacy), geographic, sociolinguistic (education, socioeconomic
class, gender), grammatical (gender, number), as well as functional (pro-
nominalization of count v. noncount NPs) factors. We have also showed
that while passivization clearly exhibits a nominative-accusative pattern,
two other syntactic rules (object doubling and clitic order in double pronom-
inalization) follow the PO–SO marking pattern.
Finally, we must ask the question: why do these ergative-absolutive patterns
exist in Spanish? With regard to the subject order relative to the verb, it is
clear that the patterns are governed by the discourse-pragmatic notions of
topic and focus. As for the PO–SO pattern with two animate full NP objects,
the key factor in the relevant leísta dialects that has led to the spread of le/s
as a PO and not only an IO pronoun is semantic, more specifically, animacy.
However, Klein-Andreu (2000) demonstrates that in several varieties of leísta
as well as laísta dialects, a number of factors influence object pronoun use.
We state, then, that these pronominal systems are in flux and indeed proba-
bly have been for centuries. Given that this degree of ergative-absolutive
marking and this degree of variability in grammatical relation marking is
only found in Spanish of all the major Romance languages, one must ask
how such a hybrid system emerged. This line of research has not been
explored and would provide ample scope for synchronic and diachronic
work in the future.
Notes
1 The notion of animacy is clear. Our definition of definiteness is as follows: an
NP is definite if it contains a definite, deictic, or possessive determiner referring to
something in the context or discourse.
2 For a discussion of unergative and unaccusative verbs, see Chapter 2 of this volume.
3 The phrase structure posited by Groos and Bok-Bennema (1986) is as in (i):
(i)
130 Primary and Secondary Object Marking in Spanish
INFL⵮
Spec INFL⬙
XP
INFL⬘
INFL Vmax
V⵮ NP (subject)
V⬙ Spec
V⬘ PP (indirect object)
V NP (direct object)
The XP of INFL
 is an argument position and can accommodate any one argument
of the verb. The Spec of INFL
 is for adjuncts and accounts for the fact that
sentences such as (ii) are: grammatical.
(ii) ¿Por qué Juan no cena esta noche?
why Juan NEG dine-pres-3sg this evening
‘Why isn’t Juan having dinner this evening?’
Por qué is Spec of INFL
 and Juan is in XP position. The problem is that (i) would
allow the sentences in (iii), which are ungrammatical in Spanish.
(iii) a. ¿*Cuándo Juan va al cine?
when Juan go-pres-3sg to-the movies
‘When is Juan going to the movies?’
b. ¿*Dónde Luisa come los sábados?
where Luisa eat-pres-3sg the-pl Saturdays
‘Where does Luisa eat Saturdays?’
¿*Cuánto Mario pesa?
how-much Mario weigh-pres-3sg
‘How much does Mario weigh?’
It appears that those wh-words that typically have a response in the form of a
proposition (i.e. a clause or more), such as cómo ‘how’ and por qué ‘why’ may appear
with non-inverted subjects, as in (iii) above. In contrast, those wh-words that have
as a response less than a clause, i.e. a phrase (NP or PP), trigger subject inversion.
J. Clancy Clements 131
Thus, wh-words linked to phrasal adjuncts and arguments form one group, while
wh-words linked to clausal adjuncts make up a distinct group. The reason why the
wh-words corresponding to adjuncts do not display homogeneous behaviour is not
clear and requires further research.
4 In a differently oriented study using the Arthus database, García-Miguel (1995:
48) finds that in mono-transitive clauses with full NP participants the following
percentages:
(i) (Mono) transitive clauses: SV / VS VO / OV
78%/22% 97%/2.5%
5 We adapt our definition of specificity from that given by Von Heusinger (2002): an
NP is specific if the referent is identifiable for the relevant party. In the example
in (i), for instance, the reader being referred to is not readily identifiable by the
relevant party (the author of the piece of work), whereas in (ii) the friend called
Hugo Sosa is readily identifiable by the relevant party (Ruben Danieli). Thus, the
underlined NP in (i) is non-specific and the underlined NP in (ii) is specific.
(i) La obra abierta sería, en contraste, aquella que busca un lector más
imaginativamente activo ante el estímulo de la lectura.
‘The open piece of work would be, in contrast, that which seeks a more
imaginatively active reader faced with the stimulus of the reading material.’
(ii) Ruben Danieli vive en Australia desde 1971 y busca a un amigo llamado Hugo
Sosa, que por 1975 tenía una empresa de copias en Santiago de Chile …
‘Ruben Danieli has lived in Australia since 1971 and is looking for a friend
named Hugo Sosa, who around 1975 had a copying business in S.d.C. …’
6 Thanks to Scott Schwenter for informing me about the data from Ortiz (2001) and
to Victoria Vázquez (personal communication) for providing me with these data
on presenter.
7 The term leísmo refers to the extension of use of the indirect object pronouns le
and les in monotransitive clauses in the direct object domains of the masculine
animate, the masculine inanimate, and, increasingly, the feminine. Laísmo refers to
the extension of la to the indirect object function and loísmo to the extension of lo
to indirect object function.
8 Thanks to José Ignacio Hualde for this observation.
9 To give an example of the frequency with which indefinite DOs are not marked
with personal a, we carried out a search of the VP chunk busca un/una ‘looks for
a(n)’ in the CREA database (it contains 1,400,000 words). The search yielded 212
tokens, of which only six (3%) had an animate DO: only one (0.5%) was specific,
the remaining five (2.5%) were non-specific.
References
Anderson, S. (1976) ‘On the Notion of Subject in Ergative Languages’, Subject and
Topic. New York: Academic Press, pp. 1–24.
Casielles, E. (1996) ‘On the Misbehavior of Bare Nouns in Spanish’, in C. Parodi,
C. Quicoli, M. Saltarelli and M. L. Zubizarreta (eds), Aspects of Romance Linguistics.
Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press, pp. 135–48.
–––– (1998) ‘Preverbal Subject vs. Dislocated Phrases’, in J. Gutiérrez-Rexach and J. del
Valle (eds), Perspectives on Spanish Linguistics. Columbus, OH: Ohio State University,
pp. 1–20.
Comrie, B. (1981) Language Universals and Linguistic Typology. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Company Company, C. (2001) ‘Multiple Dative-Marking Grammaticalization: Spanish
as a Special Kind of Primary Object Language’, Studies in Language, Vol. 25, pp. 1–47
—— (2002) ‘Reanálisis en cadena y gramaticalización. Dativos problemáticos en la
historia del español’, Verba, Vol. 29, pp. 31–69.
Contreras, H. (1976) A Theory of Word Order with Special Reference to Spanish.
Amsterdam: North Holland.
Croft, W. (1990) Typology and Universals. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
DeLancey, S. (1980) An Interpretation of Split Ergativity and Related Patterns.
Bloomington, Indiana: Indiana University Linguistics Club.
Dryer, M. (1986) ‘Primary Object, Secondary Objects, and Antidative’, Language, Vol. 62,
pp. 808–45.
—— (1997) ‘On the Six-Way Word Order Typology’, Studies in Language, Vol. 21,
pp. 69–103.
Flores Cervantes, M. (2002) Leísmo, laísmo y loísmo. Sus orígenes y evolución. Ciudad de
México: Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México.
García, E. (1975) The Role of Theory in Linguistic Analysis: The Spanish Pronoun System.
Amsterdam: North Holland.
—— (1986) ‘The Case of Spanish Gender’. Neuphilologische Mitteilungen, Vol. 87(2),
pp. 165–84.
García-Miguel, J. M. (1995) Transitividad y complementación preposicional en español.
Universidad de Santiago de Compostela (Verba, anexo 40).
Gili Gaya, S. (1961) Curso superior de sintaxis española. Barcelona: Vox.
Groos, A. and R. Bok-Bennema (1986) ‘The Structure of the Spanish Sentence’, in
H. Contreras, I. Bordelois and K. Zagona (eds), Generative Studies in Spanish Syntax.
Dordrecht: Foris, pp. 67–80.
Hopper, P. J. and S. A. Thomas (1980) ‘Transitivity in Grammar and Discourse’.
Language, Vol. 45, pp. 251–99.
Klein-Andreu, F. (1992) ‘Understanding Standards’, in G. W. David and G. K. Iverson
(eds), Explanation in Historical Linguistics. Amsterdam: Benjamins, pp. 167–78.
—— (2000) Variación actual y evolución histórica: Los clíticos le/, la/s, lo/s. Munich:
Lincom Europa.
Koontz-Garboden, A. (2002) ‘A Quantitative Analysis of Spanish Indirect Object
Doubling’, in J. F. Lee, K. Geeslin and J. C. Clements (eds), Structure, Meaning, and
Acquisition in Spanish. Somerville, MA: Cascadilla, pp. 193–211.
Lapesa, R. (1968) ‘Sobre los orígenes y evolución del leísmo, laísmo y loísmo’, in
Festschrift Walther von Wartburg. Tübingen: Max Niemeyer, pp. 523–51.
Liceras, J. (1994) ‘La teoría sintáctica y los juicios de gramaticalidad: la posposición del
sujeto en español’, Revista Canadiense de Estudios Hispánicos, Vol. 18, pp. 219–55.
Lipski, J. (1991) ‘In Search of the Spanish Personal Infinitive’, in D. Wanner and
D. A. Kibbee (eds), New Analyses in Romance Linguistics. Amsterdam: Benjamins,
pp. 175–94.
López M. B. (1997a). La posición del sujeto en la cláusula monoactancial en español (Lalia,
Series Maior, no. 7). Santiago de Compostela: Universidad de Santiago de Compostela.
—— (1997b) ‘Aportaciones de la tipología lingüística a una gramática particular:
el concepto orden básico y su aplicación al castellano’. Verba, Vol. 24, pp. 45–82.
Marcos Marín, F. (1978) Estudios sobre el pronombre. Madrid: Gredos.
Moratín, L. F. de (1968) La Comedia Nueva / El Sí de las Niñas, ed. J. Dowling and
R. Andioc. Madrid: Clásicos Castalia.
Ocampo, F. (1995) ‘The Word Order of Two-Constituent Constructions in Spoken
Spanish’, in P. Downing and M. Noonan (eds), Word Order in Discourse. Amsterdam:
Benjamins, pp. 425–47.
132 Primary and Secondary Object Marking in Spanish
J. Clancy Clements 133
Ortiz, R. M. (2001) ‘La bitransitividad en español. Estructura y diacronía’, unpublished
PhD dissertation. Mexico City: Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México.
Silva-Corvalán, C. (1983) ‘On the Interaction of Word Order and Intonation: Some OV
Constructions in Spanish’, in F. Klein-Andreu (ed.), Discourse Perspectives on Syntax.
New York & London: Academic Press, pp. 117–40.
Torrego, E. (1984) ‘On Inversion in Spanish and Some of its Effects’. Linguistic Inquiry,
Vol. 15, pp. 103–29.
6
Null Direct Objects in
Spanish*
J. Clancy Clements
134
Introduction
The phenomenon of null objects is, as Schwenter (2005) shows, variable
across varieties of Spanish, depending on the factors of animacy and specificity.
Null objects are found to varying degrees in Spanish varieties from Mexico,
the Andes, Paraguay, and even in Brazilian Portuguese. Schwenter provides
us with an excellent discussion of the phenomenon in several varieties of
Spanish, first noted by Kany (1945).
Our purpose in this chapter is to examine null objects in the standard variety
of Castilian Spanish. That is, we address the question of why an overt object
pronoun is not required in sentences such as (6.1b) but is necessary in
sentences such as (6.2c), without which it is ill-formed. The phenomenon in
(6.1b) has been referred to as object drop in the literature (Campos, 1986).
We will call it null direct object (DO) pronominalization and will justify this
name below.
(6.1) a. ¿Compraste cafe?
‘Did you buy coffee?’
b. Sí, compré.
‘Yes, I bought (some).’
(6.2) a. ¿Compraste el libro?
‘Did you buy the book?’
b. *Sí, compré.
‘Yes, I bought.’
c. Sí, lo compré.
‘Yes, I bought it.’
* The present study is a revised, refocused, and expanded version of a study that
appeared as ‘Notes on topicalization and object drop in Spanish’ in Mazzola (1994:
219–36).
J. Clancy Clements 135
Another manifestation of this same phenomenon is found, we argue, in the
type of topicalization shown in (6.3b) in which no redundant pronoun is
required, while its counterpart in (6.4b) does require it, as is apparent by
comparing (6.4b) to (6.4c), which is ill-formed:
(6.3) a. No tomas ni té ni coca cola.
‘You don’t drink tea or coca cola.’
b. Café tampoco tomo.
‘Coffee I don’t drink either.’
(6.4) a. ¿No bebes esta taza de té?
‘Won’t you drink this cup of tea?’
b. No, pero [el vaso de agua]i sí me loi bebo.
‘No, but the glass of water, yes, I will drink it.’
c. *No, pero [el vaso de agua]i sí me bebo.
We argue that the lack of DO doubling is linked to the semantic nature of the
DO. That is, non-referential and non-count DOs (that is, mass nouns and
bare plurals) are those that allow the absence of the DO pronoun, as illus-
trated in (6.1b) and (6.3b). Moreover, we suggest that the cases in question
involve a type of Spanish partitive construction analogous to the partitive
constructions with en and ne in French, Catalan and Italian.1
Indeed, only
indefinite and quantified DOs are affected, as one would expect if one
assumes the existence of a Spanish partitive construction.
Supporting evidence for the partitive analysis is provided from three
other Romance languages. We show that in Catalan, French and Italian, the
respective partitive pronouns en, en and ne (in non-adverbial use) occur in
precisely the same environments in which Spanish allows null DO pronom-
inalization and topicalization without object doubling. We argue that null
DO pronominalization of indefinite DOs is predicted by Hopper and
Thompson’s (1980) Transitivity Hypothesis and the Definiteness Hierarchy
as proposed by Lazard (1984) and Comrie (1979). The first two authors
demonstrate that transitive clauses with indefinite DOs pattern cross-
linguistically with intransitive clauses. Accordingly, the expectation for
Spanish is that indefinite DOs rather than definite DOs would show no overt
marking of pronominalisation because of the lower degree of Transitivity
exhibited by clauses containing indefinite DOs. This, in fact, turns out to be
the case for Spanish.
The data, however, turn out not to be entirely uniform in that the type
of construction for expressing the pronominalization of indefinite DOs in
Spanish is not obligatory. One finds indefinite DOs pronominalized by what
generally are assumed to be definite object pronouns. Badia Margarit (1962:
175, 182) notes, for instance, that the (a) examples of (6.5)–(6.7) may appear
without a pronoun, but also can appear with a definite pronoun, as illustrated
by the corresponding (b) examples of the same sets:
(6.5) a. ¿Tienes dinero? Sí tengo.
‘Do you have (any) money? Yes, I have some.’
b. ¿Tienes dinero? Sí LO tengo.
‘Do you have (any) money? Yes, I have it.’
(6.6) a. Dame pan si aún tienes.
‘Give me (some) bread if you have (any).’
b. Dame pan si aún LO tienes.
‘Give me (some) bread if you have it.’
(6.7) a. ¿Has encontrado lana fina? No he encontrado.
‘Have you found (any) fine wool? I haven’t found (any).’
b. ¿Has encontrado lana fina? No LA he encontrado.
‘Have you found (any) fine wool? I haven’t found it.’
We claim that this use of Spanish definite pronouns to pronominalize indefi-
nite DO’s is not ruled out in Lazard’s particular version of the Definiteness
Scale. To account for the identical pronominalization of definite and
generic NPs in Spanish, we appeal to Givón’s (1984: 407) distinction
between the universe of tokens, pertaining to definite (and referential) NPs,
and the universe of types, corresponding to generic NPs. Based on data
gleaned from CREA, we suggest that the definite-determiner pronominal-
ization of indefinite DOs (understood here as mass-noun and bare-plural
DOs) happens within the same speaker’s utterances in one turn in discourse,
while null pronominalization of such DOs occurs in utterances of different
speakers in discourse.
We now turn to the discussion of the partitive construction in four Romance
languages and null pronominalization in Spanish.
Marking the partitive in Catalan, French,
Italian and Spanish
Catalan, French and Italian possess the partitive pronouns en, en and ne
respectively, all of which have a wider use than just in the partitive construc-
tion. In the purpose at hand, we will concern ourselves with these pronouns
only in so far as they pronominalize DOs.2
All three languages make an obligatory distinction between pronominaliza-
tion of a definite DO and that of an indefinite DO. When speaking of
pronominalization of an indefinite DO in the present context, we are referring
only to the pronominalization of a mass noun or a bare plural, as in Catalan,
or of a PP introduced by de or di that contains a mass noun or bare plural, as
in French and Italian.
136 Null Direct Objects in Spanish
J. Clancy Clements 137
The partitive pronoun in Catalan may replace an indefinite DO regardless
of its number or gender, as the example in (6.8) illustrates:
(6.8) Vende en Joan {pasta [fem.sg.]/ pa [masc.sg.]/ peres [fem.pl.]/ libros
[masc.pl]}?
Si, en vende. (Cat.)
‘Is Joan selling (pasta/ bread/ pears/ books)? Yes, (he) is selling
some.’
Similarly, as the examples (6.9)–(6.10) illustrate, both French and Italian
partitive pronouns may also replace any DO partitive phrases, regardless of
the number or gender of the NP:
(6.9) Est-ce que Jean vend {de la glace [fem.sg.]/du beurre [masc.sg.]/des
carottes
[fem.pl.]/des haricots verts [masc.pl.}? Oui, il en vend. (Fr.)
‘Is Jean selling {ice cream/butter/carrots/green beans}? Yes, he is
selling some’.
(6.10) Giovanni vende {della minestra [fem.sg.]/del gelato [masc.sg.]/delle
pere
[fem.pl.]/dei pomodori [masc.pl.]}? Sì, ne vende. (Ital.)
‘Is Giovanni selling {soup/ice cream/pears/tomatoes}? Yes, (he) is
selling some.’
The Spanish analogs to the sentences (6.8)–(6.10) display what we will call a
null object, as shown in (6.11):
(6.11) ¿Vende Juan {pasta [fem.sg.]/pan [masc.sg.]/peras [fem.pl.]/libros
[masc.pl]}?
Sí, vende. (Sp.)
‘Is Joan selling {pasta/bread/pears/books}? Yes (he) is selling some.’
Additional evidence is found in the pronominalization quantified DOs.3
Regarding quantified DOs containing numerals, Catalan, French and Italian
use their respective partitive pronoun to replace the nonnumeral portion of
the NP as in (6.12a–c). In the analogous Spanish example in (6.12d), we find
again a null object:
(6.12) a. Si vas a 1’estació a comprar els bitllets, compra’n tres pera
nosaltres. (Cat.)
b. Si tu vas à la gare pour acheter les billets, achètes-en trois pour
nous. (Fr.)
c. Se vai alla stazione a comprare i biglietti, comprane tre per noi.
(Ital.)
d. Si vas a la estación para comprar los billetes, compra tres para
nosotros. (Sp.)
‘If you’re going to the station to buy the tickets, buy three for us.’
The same correspondence is apparent with a quantified nominal DO. The
Catalan, French and Italian sentences in (6.13a–c) contain their respective
partitive pronoun, while in Spanish we find again a null object (6.13d):
(6.13) a. Com que avui els pollastres no deuen ser cars, compreu-ne un
parell. (Cat.)
b. Puisque aujourd’hui les poulets ne doivent pas être chers,
achetez-en quelque-uns. (Fr.)
c. Poichè oggi i polli non devono essere cari, compratene un
paio. (Ital.)
d. Como hoy los pollos no deben ser caros, comprad un par. (Sp.)
‘Since today chickens shouldn’t be expensive, buy a couple.’
We encounter the same type of correlation with quantified DOs containing
the equivalent of ‘much’, and so on, where the partitive pronoun is used in
Catalan, French and Italian (6.14a–c), but where a null object is found in
Spanish (6.14d):
(6.14) a. Tens moltes alumnes? No en tinc gaires. (Cat.)
b. Est-ce que tu as beaucoup d’élèves? Je n’en ai guère. (Fr.)
c. Hai molti alunni? Non ne ho molti. (Ital.)
d. ¿Tienes (a) muchos alumnos? No tengo muchos. (Sp.)
‘Do you have many students? I don’t have many.’
With indefinite pronoun DOs containing the equivalent of English pronominal
‘some’, we find again the same pattern: Catalan, French and Italian exhibit
an overt partitive pronoun (6.15a–c), and Spanish displays no overt marker
(6.15d):
(6.15) a. Havíeu de coure totes les patates, pero només n’heu cuites
algunes. (Cat.)
b. Vous deviez faire cuire toutes les pommes de terre, mais vous
n’en avez fait cuire que quelques-unes. (Fr.)
c. Avevate da fare cuocere tutte le patate, ma non ne avete fatto
cuocere che alcune. (Ital.)
d. Debíais de cocer todas las patatas, pero sólo habéis cocido
algunas. (Sp.)
138 Null Direct Objects in Spanish
J. Clancy Clements 139
‘You were to boil all the potatoes, but you only boiled some (of
them).’
This very pattern also emerges with DOs containing an adjective phrase, as
shown by the sentences in (6.16):
(6.16) a. Tens cintes blaves? En tinc de grogues. (Cat.)
b. Est-ce que tu as des rubans bleus? J’en ai des jaunes. (Fr.)
c. Hai nastri azzurri? Ne ho di gialli. (Ital.)
d. ¿Tienes cintas azules? Tengo amarillas. (Sp.)
‘Do you have blue ribbons? I have yellow ones.’
Thus, we find strong evidence that, wherever in Catalan, French and Italian
we have a partitive pronoun replacing an indefinite DO or a portion of
a quantified DO, the corresponding Spanish construction displays null
pronominalization. A reasonable deduction based on the above data is that
we are dealing in all four languages with partitive pronominalization, the
difference being that in Catalan, French and Italian it is overtly marked,
whereas in Spanish it is not. These facts lead us to two questions we would
like to address: (1) Is the fact that Spanish displays no overt pronominaliza-
tion for indefinite DOs an isolated phenomenon, or does it fit into a broader
picture of how indefinite DOs are marked cross-linguistically? and (2) Why
is it that Spanish optionally allows the pronominalization of indefinite
DOs with definite object pronouns? That is, why can (6.16d) also appear
as (6.17)?
(6.17) ¿Tienes cintas azules? Las tengo amarillas.
(BADIA MARGARIT, 1962: 182)
‘Do you have blue ribbons? I have yellow ones.’
We offer answers to these questions by appealing to the Transitivity
Hypothesis (TH) advanced by Hopper and Thompson (1980), and the
Definiteness Scale proposed by Lazard (1984).
Transitivity Hypothesis, Definiteness Scale and
the Spanish object pronominalization
Defined in the more conventional and traditional way, the notion Transitivity
refers to the carrying-over or the transferring of an action from one partici-
pant to another. As outlined in Chapter 1, Hopper and Thompson (H&T)
show how Transitivity ‘can be broken down into its component parts, each
focusing on a different facet of the carrying-over in a different part of the
clause’ (1980: 253). Breaking Transitivity down into its different parts allows
one to characterize clauses in degrees of Transitivity, that is as more or less
Transitive, as illustrated in (1.1)–(1.2) in Chapter 1.
Using the values ‘high’ and ‘low’ for each of these components, the degree
of Transitivity of any given clause can be measured according to how many
features of the clause are found in the ‘high’ column in (1.1) or in the ‘indi-
viduated’ column in (1.2). The more transitive a clause is, the closer it is to
what H&T call Cardinal Transitivity (1980: 253). The general claim of the
Transitivity Hypothesis is that high or low values for Transitivity will co-vary
within a given clause. That is, ‘[i]f two clauses (a) and (b) in a language differ
in that (a) is higher in Transitivity according to any of the features in [(1.1)
and (1.2)], then, if a concomitant grammatical or semantic difference
appears elsewhere in the clause, that difference will also show (a) to be
higher in Transitivity’ (H&T, 1980: 255). With specific reference to their data
on indefinite DOs, H&T state that ‘languages which morphologically distin-
guish between transitive and intransitive clauses, AND between definite and
indefinite O[bjects]’s, have a tendency to associate indefinite (that is charac-
teristically unmarked) O’s with INtransitive clauses’ (1980: 259). This quote is
relevant for Spanish in the following way. Although Spanish does not
distinguish between transitive and intransitive clauses morphologically, it
does distinguish them syntactically in terms of word order, as was discussed
in some detail in Chapter 5. The position of the subject in the majority of
intransitive clauses is postverbal, just as the object of transitive verbs is
postverbal. Moreover, if the subject is a bare plural, it may appear in postver-
bal position, as shown in (6.18a) below, but not in preverbal position, hence
the asterisk on sentence (6.18b). Thus, given that DOs in Spanish, and in
general, represent new information and are nonreferential considerably
more often than transitive-clause subjects, indefinite subjects and direct
objects share key defining properties, which would account for the placement
of niños ‘children’ in (6.18) (see Chapter 5 for more details):
(6.18) a. Pueden entrar niños al teatro si son acompañados por un
adulto.
‘Kids can enter the theatre if they are accompanied by an
adult.’
b. *Niños pueden entrar al teatro si son acompañados por un
adulto.
Furthermore, both intransitive clauses and transitive clauses with
pronominalized indefinite DOs exhibit the same surface structure in terms
of overt arguments: without an overt subject both have no overt arguments,
with an overt subject both have only one argument. This seems to be a syn-
tactic analog to what is described above by H&T with regard to morphology.
That is, Spanish definite DOs are obligatorily and overtly marked (with a
140 Null Direct Objects in Spanish
J. Clancy Clements 141
definite article) and are pronominalized obligatorily with overt pronouns.
On the other hand, Spanish indefinite DOs (which we repeat are defined
here as mass nouns or bare plurals) are not overtly marked with an indefi-
nite pronoun. Thus, they appear either as null objects or are pronominal-
ized with a definite pronoun. According to the Transitivity Hypothesis,
obligatory overt marking of definite DOs should co-vary with higher
Transitivity, whereas the optional pronominalization of indefinite DOs
and the lack of DO with intransitive verbs should co-vary with relatively
lower Transitivity. A concrete example bears out these observations and
predictions. Below, we have computed the degree of Transitivity for the
boldface-typed sentences in (6.19). The intransitive predicate in (6.19a) is a
Vendlerian Activity, the transitive predicate in (6.19b) is also an Activity due
to the mass term DO, while the transitive predicate in (6.19c) is an
Accomplishment due to the count term DO. The relevant values are shown
in (6.20) and the results in (6.21):
(6.19) a. ¿Juan corrió ayer? Sí, (Juan) corrió.
‘Did Juan run yesterday? Yes, (Juan) ran.’
b. ¿Juan compró café ayer? Sí, (Juan) compró.
‘Did Juan buy coffee yesterday? Yes, (Juan) bought (some).’
c. ¿Juan compró el televisor ayer? Sí, (Juan) lo compró.
‘Did Juan buy the television yesterday? Yes, (Juan) bought it.’
(6.20) (6.19a) (6.19b) (6.19c)
A. PARTICIPANTS low high high
B. KINESIS high high high
C. ASPECT low low high
D. PUNCTUALITY low low low
E. VOLITIONALITY high high high
F. AFFIRMATION high high high
G. MODE high high high
H. AGENCY high high high
I. AFFECTEDNESS OF O low high high
J. INDIVIDUATION OF O low low high
IND-2 IND-4
NON-IND-4 NON-IND-2
concrete concrete
singular singular
mass[low] count[high]
indefinite[low] def./ref. [high]
common common
inanimate inanimate
(6.21) (6.19a) (6.19b) (6.19c)
(w/intransitive verb) (w/indefinite DO) (w/definite DO)
5 high 7 high 9 high
5 low 3 low 1 low
In terms of Transitivity, (6.19b) is just as close to intransitive (6.19a) as it is
to (6.19c), the sentence with a definite DO. In terms of the Vendlerian (1967)
predicate types, it is interesting to note as well that although (6.19a) contains
an intransitive clause and (6.19b) a transitive one, both are Activities. In other
words, both (6.19a) and (6.19b) are semantically compatible with durative
contexts and semantically incompatible with telic contexts. This accounts
for the well-formedness of the sentences in (6.22) and the ill-formedness of
those in (6.23) on an Activity reading:
(6.22) a. Juan pasó tres horas corriendo.
‘Juan spent three hours running.’
b. Juan pasó tres horas comprando café.
‘Juan spent three hours buying coffee.’
(6.23) a. *Juan tardó tres horas en correr. (on an Activity reading, not an
Inchoative reading)
‘It took Juan three hours to run.’
b. *Juan tardó tres horas en comprar café. (on an Activity reading,
not an Inchoative reading)
‘It took Juan three hours to buy coffee.’
The two facts – that in terms of Transitivity, transitive clauses with
indefinite DOs are situated between transitive clauses with definite DOs
and intransitive clauses, and that intransitive clauses and transitive clauses with
indefinite DOs are Activities – reflect a pattern that is pervasive across
languages: both intransitive clauses and transitive clauses with indefinite DOs
are often marked identically. In a survey of 30 languages from 16 different
families, Lazard (1984) found many instances in which marking for intransi-
tive verbs and transitive verbs with indefinite DOs is identical.4
We cite here
three particularly revealing examples. First, in Hungarian the so-called objec-
tive conjugation is used with definite objects while the so-called subjective
one is used for indefinite objects (including mass nouns and bare plurals)
and intransitive verbs. Crucial here is that the subjective conjugation is
thought of as being the conjugation type for intransitive verbs only. Second,
in Eskimo, an incorporating language, the grammatical subject in transitive
clauses containing a definite DO is marked with a genitive-case suffix and
the DO (appearing clause-initially) is morphologically unmarked. In transi-
tive clauses with an indefinite DO, however, the subject is morphologically
unmarked, the DO is marked with a model element, and the verb appears as
a one-argument verb, agreeing with the subject. This type of grammatical
142 Null Direct Objects in Spanish
J. Clancy Clements 143
relation marking is precisely what we find in intransitive clauses, where
the intransitive-clause adverbial phrase is marked with a model element,
the same way in which the transitive-clause indefinite DO is marked.5
This is
shown schematically in (6.24):
(6.24) Transitive clause
with definite DO: NPDO NPSUBJ-AffixGEN V-AffixSUB-AffixDO
Transitive clause
with indefinite DO: NPSUBJ NPDO-Model V-AffixSUB
Intransitive clause: NPSUBJ ADVP-Model V-AffixSUB
The final example involves partitive marking in Finnish, which appears on
mass and generic NPs, but not on definite NPs. Based on this and other
evidence, Lazard concludes that languages display a certain pattern for marking
or not marking definiteness, which is reflected in the Definiteness Scale
shown in Table 6.1.
The following observation generally holds for the languages surveyed by
Lazard: if a point on the scale (for example A, B, C, D, E) is relevant in a given
language for marking or not marking a given grammatical or other type of
relation, all values (1 through 6) on one side of that point will obtain for
marking the pertinent relation and all values from that point on the other
side will not obtain for marking it. Referring back to the examples just men-
tioned, Finnish marks mass and generic nouns with the partitive case, so the
crucial point for Finnish is ‘D’. Hungarian marks values 1, 2 and 3 with the
subjective conjugation and the values 4 and 5 with the objective conjuga-
tion. So, for Hungarian the crucial point on the scale is ‘C’, as it seems to be
as well for Eskimo. Interestingly, English mass and generic nouns pattern
alike in that only mass nouns, bare plurals and generics (values 5 and 6 on
the scale) appear without articles. Thus, the crucial point for English is ‘D’, as
with Finnish. For Spanish, the crucial point on Lazard’s Definiteness Scale
for null pronominalization of objects is also ‘D’.
The Definiteness Scale in Table 6.1 runs into counterexamples involving
generic NP marking. In a number of languages, for example the Romance
languages and Hungarian, generic NPs and definite NPs are treated identically.
Table 6.1 Lazard’s definiteness scale
1 2 3 4 5 6
1st–2nd 3rd pronouns Definite Indefinite Mass Generic
pronouns Proper nouns Human Non-human
A B C D E
Source: Lazard (1984), p. 283. Reproduced with the permission of Elsevier.
With specific reference to Spanish, generic NPs pattern like definite NPs
in that they are also marked with the definite article, as (6.25a). Moreover,
pronominalization of generic NPs also takes place as with definite NPs, as
shown in (6.25b):
(6.25) a. Me gustan las manzanas.
‘I like apples.’
b. Me encanta comerlas, sobre todo en otoño.
‘I love eating them, above all in autumn.’
Givón (1984: 407) accounts for this as follows: a referential, definite NP pertains
to the universe of Tokens, whereas the generic, definite NP pertains to the
universe of Types. That is, a generic NP marked with a definite determiner
pertains to a whole category as an abstract type (for example, I like apples, as
a type), whereas a definite NP with a definite determiner refers to a set of
tokens in the discourse context. Thus, the definite determiner operates on
at least two levels of interpretation. In this way, we can also account for
definite-pronoun pronominalization of generic as well as definite NPs.
There remains, however, the question of pronominalizing mass or bare
NPs with a definite pronoun or null pronominalization. The appropriate
data for studying this issue are not easy to find. In a database search of
indefinite DOs with the verbs beber ‘drink’, comer ‘eat’, comprar ‘buy’, hacer
‘do’, querer ‘do’, and tener ‘have’, we found relevant examples only with
tener, which display the following pattern: overt pronominalization with
the definite pronoun is sensitive to whether pronominalization takes place
within the speech of the same speaker or in a dialogue across speakers. Of
the seven examples of DO pronominalization with tener, only two cases,
shown in (6.26) and (6.27), display overt pronominalization with the defi-
nite article:
(6.26) … aunque sí, tengo cáncer de garganta, yo no lo noto … porque
Dios está conmigo.
‘although I have throat cancer, yes, I don’t notice it … because
God is with me.’
(from CREA, EL MUNDO, 24 September 1994)
(6.27) Manuel se sintió herido, pero mantuvo la ecuanimidad:
‘No, tampoco eso. No soy estúpido, Cati. Pero sí esperaba más
interés.’
Catalina exclamó, casi a gritos:
‘¡Pues sí tengo interés, claro que lo tengo!’
Manuel felt hurt, but maintained his equanimity:
‘No, it’s not that either. I’m not stupid, Cati. But I did expect more
interest from you.’
144 Null Direct Objects in Spanish
J. Clancy Clements 145
Catalina exclaimed, almost yelling:
‘But I AM interested, of course I am.’ [lit. yes, I have interest, of
course I have it]
(from CREA, ROVINSKI, 1993, Herencia de sombras, p. 126)
Noteworthy is that in (6.26) the same speaker who is talking about having
throat cancer also overtly pronominalizes the relevant NP in the next utter-
ance, and that (6.27) Catalina claims to have interest in something Manuel
does, and pronominalizes the relevant NP in her next utterance. In other
words, overt pronominalization in these examples occurs within the speech
of the same speaker within the same turn in discourse. We conjecture that
definite-determiner pronominalization of a mass noun occurs because it is
uttered by the same speaker and, secondarily, because of the immediate
proximity of the referent and the fact that the referent being pronominalized
is the theme of conversation. The key factor seems to be the pronominaliza-
tion by the same as opposed to a different speaker, given that it does not
seem to matter whether the clauses appear adjacently or not. That is, in those
cases where two sentences are uttered by two different people in dialogue,
we find no definite-determiner pronominalization, even if the sentences
are adjacent. The examples illustrating this are shown in (6.28)–(6.29),
where the relevant parts are underlined:
(6.28) A: Papá, ¿por qué no tienes pelo en la cabeza?
B: Anda, niño, cállate y mira las nubecitas … ¡Y sí tengo pelo!
A ¡No tienes! ¡En esta parte no tienes! ¡Se te ve la carne!
A: ‘Dad, why don’t you have any hair on your head?’
B: ‘Come on, kid, pipe down, look at the clouds … And I DO have
hair’.
A: ‘No you don’t. You don’t have any on that part! You can see
your skin!’
(From CREA: 2001, Ventajas de ser incompetente y otros monólo-
gos de humor. El club de la Comedia, p. 84)
(6.29) A: ‘¿Tienes tiempo?’ pregunta Andrés pasándole el brazo por la
espalda.
B: ¿Para qué?
A: ¿Tienes o no tienes?6
B: ‘Sí, sí tengo’, dice ella sonriéndose.
A: ‘Do you have time’, asks Andrés, putting his hand on her back.
B: ‘What for?’
A: ‘Do you or don’t you?’
B: ‘Yes, I do’, she says smiling.
(from CREA: MENDOZA, 2002, Satanás, p. 168)
If definite-determiner pronominalization does not occur between adjacent
sentences uttered by different speakers, we would also predict that it will also
not be found in those cases of pronominalization across speakers where
there are intervening utterances between the indefinite DO and its pronom-
inalization. The data bear the prediction out. In other words, where definite-
determiner pronominalization of an indefinite DO is possible across speakers
in dialogue, we find no such overt pronominalization. The relevant exam-
ples are given in (6.30)–(6.32), in which the passages are again underlined:
(6.30) Q: ¿Qué es una persona sin sentido del humor?
A: Una persona plana, sosa, insípida. Yo creo que sí tengo
aunque hay días que me levanto con el pie izquierdo.
Q: ‘What is a person without a sense of humor?’
A: ‘A flat, dull, insipid person. I think I have one although there
are days when I get up on the wrong side of the bed (lit. with
the left foot).’
(from CREA, LA RAZÓN [España], 2 September 2002)
(6.31) Q: Y ¿tiene nietos o tiene …
A: Claro que sí tengo. Tengo nueve nietos. ¡Nueve nietos! Tengo
cinco hijos.
Q: ¿Cuántos hijos?
A: Tengo cinco hijos.
Q: ‘And do you have grandchildren?’
A: ‘Of course I have. I’ve got nine grandchildren. Nine grand-
kids! I have five children.’
Q: ‘How many children?’
A: ‘I have five children.’
(from CREA: oral language from Costa Rica in 1992)
(6.32) R: ¿Alguien tiene …? Juanjo ¿tienes desmaquillador?
J: No, Rodri, lo siento, no tengo. A mí me lo deja Pilar.
M: Yo sí tengo. Espera que me saque el modelito no lo vaya a
ensuciar.
(from CREA: MIRALLES, 1981, Céfiro agreste de olímpicos embates)
R: ‘Does someone have …? Juanjo, do you have any make up
remover?’
J: ‘No, Rodri, I’m sorry, I don’t have any. Pilar’s the one who lets
me use hers.’
M: ‘I have some. Wait till I get out of the dress so it doesn’t get
dirty.’
We note in these examples of inter-speaker null pronominalization, that we
find not only mass terms (sentido de humor ‘sense of humour’, tiempo ‘time’,
pelo ‘hair’, and desmaquillador ‘make-up remover’), but also an animate bare
146 Null Direct Objects in Spanish
J. Clancy Clements 147
plural (nietos ‘grandchildren’). Even the feature of animacy is not strong
enough to trigger definite-determiner pronominalization across speakers.
In our data, we encountered one apparent counterexample to the pattern
we have been discussing, which we give in (6.33). This exchange contains an
overt, inter-speaker pronominalization of a topicalized quantified DO (un
poquito de vino ‘a little bit of wine’). However, the definite-determiner
pronominalization (bébaselo [lit. drink-IMPERATIVE-3SG.REFLEXIVE-it-MASC.SG]
‘drink it down’) does not constitute a bona fide counterexample given that
the argument structure of beberse ‘drink up/down’, an ingestion verb with
completive aspect, requires an overt, count DO (cf. Clements, Chapter 11,
this volume). In other words, in the relevant sentence, T in the dialog does
not have the option of saying *¡Bébase a sorbitos! [lit. drink it down in sips]
‘sip a little bit at a time’ because the argument structure of beberse requires
the overt pronoun lo in this particular case:
(6.33) a. P: Un poquito de vino en las comidas sí bebo.
‘P: A little bit of wine with meals I do drink.’
b. T: ¡Bébaselo a sorbitos !
‘Sip it a little at a time.’ (from CREA, OLMO, 1984: 43–4)
To summarize this section, we maintain that it is not coincidental that
Spanish transitive clauses with null-pronominalized DOs appear very similar
to Spanish intransitive clauses. Indeed, we find evidence of the same phe-
nomenon cross-linguistically, in languages as diverse as Eskimo, Finnish,
Hungarian and English. The connection between the structure of intransi-
tive clauses and clauses containing indefinite DO pronominalization is also
corroborated by the behaviour of predicates in terms of Vendlerian predicate
types. Finally, we have seen that overt or null pronominalization of indefi-
nite DOs (understood here as mass nouns and bare plurals) is sensitive to the
distinction between pronominalization within the same speaker’s utterances v.
across the utterances of two speakers. The data gleaned from a database
analysis suggest that definite-determiner pronominalization of an indefinite
DO is found within the utterances of the same speaker, but not in utterances
across speakers, where null DO pronominalization is found.
In the next section we discuss the connection between topicalization and
null DO pronominalization.
Topicalization in Spanish
Topicalized DOs, that is sentence-initial DOs, are typically doubled, as
shown in (6.34):
(6.34) Esta casai, lai miro cada vez que paso por aquí.
‘This house, I look at it each time I pass by here.’
However, as Rivero (1980) points out, the lack of doubling of topicalized
indefinite DOs, that is mass-term and bare-plural DOs, is common in Spanish.
that is, sentences such as (6.33a) and (6.35) are commonly found:
(6.35) Y como, aunque leo despacio, buena letra sí tengo, también
quiere que pase a limpio las comedias.
‘And as, although I read slowly, I have good penmanship, he wants
me to copy the comedies.’ (FERNÁN-GÓMEZ, 1985: 82)
In our data collection, we found a number of topicalized DOs with no
doubling and all contain an indefinite DO. We mentioned the one in
(6.33a); the others are given in (6.40)–(6.41):
(6.40) Por eso dirán que soy simple. Sin duda lo soy, pues siempre he
evitado las complicaciones. Pero algunos anhelos sí tengo.
‘Because of that, they will say I am simple. I am undoubtedly,
because I’ve always avoided complications. But some desires
I do have.’
(VARGAS LLOSA, 1988: 183)
(6.41) A: Pero [el libro de] Largaespada seguro que lo tiene. Bueno, eso es
lo primero que necesitamos. Y también un buen mapa de car-
reteras.
B: Mira, de eso resulta que sí tengo.
A: ‘But surely you have [the book by] Largaespada. Well, that is
the first thing we need. And also a good road map.’
B. ‘See, it turns out that some of those I do have.’
(SAVATER, 1981: 142)
Example (6.40) contains a quantified NP (algunos anhelos ‘some desires’);
(6.41) is a partitive DO (de eso ‘of that’), similar to the partitive in French
and Italian (see above, 6.9 and 6.10 respectively). These topicalized DOs
are most not overtly doubled when they are indefinite NPs. In other
words, these cases of null DO pronominalization are analogous to the
examples discussed in the previous section and are accounted for in
exactly the same way.
Conclusion
In some of the generative literature on null direct objects and topicalization,
these phenomena have been linked to wh-movement (Rivero 1980 and
Campos 1986). In this chapter, we have suggested that both topicalization
and null objects are cases of null DO pronominalization. The evidence in
favour of positing a null DO pronoun is overwhelming. First, exactly in
148 Null Direct Objects in Spanish
J. Clancy Clements 149
those cases where Catalan, French and Italian exhibit an overt partitive DO
pronoun, Spanish does not mark anything overtly, which can be reasonably
interpreted as a null DO (partitive) pronoun.
We have showed that the behaviour of null pronominalization of Spanish
indefinite DOs, understood here as mass nouns and bare plurals, is consistent
with how indefinites are treated cross-linguistically, in such diverse lan-
guages as Eskimo, Hungarian and Finnish. It is thus not surprising that
Spanish transitive clauses with pronominalized indefinite DOs and Spanish
intransitive clauses have an identical structure given that, in terms of
Transitivity features (Hopper and Thompson, 1980), they are close to one
another. The similarity in structure between intransitive clauses and clauses
containing indefinite DO pronominalization is also corroborated by the
behaviour of predicates in terms of Vendlerian predicate types in that both
are Activities. Finally, the evidence gleaned from a database search suggests
that definite-determiner pronominalization of indefinite DOs is found in
utterances of the same speaker within the same turn in discourse, while null
pronominalization of such DOs is found across speakers. A more extensive
study of corpora would be able to confirm or disconfirm the strength of this
tendency.
Notes
1 Vallduví (1988) also observes the idiosyncratic nature of topicalization in Spanish
and proposes an indefinite pro object to account for it. The present proposal is that
certain DOs are not pronominalized and they can be characterized as partitives.
Moreover, the phenomenon is part of a broader phenomenon displayed by non-
definite DOs crosslinguistically, which we discuss from a typological perspective in
this study.
2 Catalan en can pronominalize not only indefinite objects but indefinite subjects as
well, as in (i):
(i) Poden entrar nens al teatre? Si, n’hi poden entrar. (Catalan)
‘Can the children go into the theater? Yes, they can.’
In contrast, the pronominalization of indefinite subjects in French (ii) and
Italian (iii) is impossible:
(ii) *Des enfants peuvent entrer dans le théâtre? Oui, y en peuvent entrer.
(French)
‘Can the children go into the theater? Yes, they can.’
(iii) *Dei bambini possono entrare nel teatro? Sì ne possono entrare. (Italian)
‘Can the children go into the theater? Yes, they can.’
The reason for the ungrammaticality of (ii–iii) may well have to do with the pres-
ence of de and di v. the absence of it in Catalan and Spanish. The specific difference
is still in need of research.
3 We recognize that the examples of quantified DOs in (6.12–6.16) do not constitute
cases of null-object proper. Rather, they are examples of the Spanish null partitive.
This syntactic difference corresponds to a difference in syntactic behaviour: in
(6.11) pronominal reference is possible, whereas in (6.12–6.16) it is not.
4 The breakdown of languages considered by Lazard (1984) is as follows: Northeast
Caucasian languages (3), Equatorial Brazilian languages (1), Indo-Iranian (3),
Sino-Tibetan (3), Mayan (1), Austronesian (7), Australian (1), Eskimo (1), Uralic (3),
Altaic (1), Wakashan (1), Siberian (1), Andean (1), Semitic (1), Romance (1),
Aztecan (1).
5 The use of the term ‘indefinite’ in this particular example refers to NPs with indefinite
articles. Nevertheless, the strength of the argument is not therefore diminished.
6 In this example, one could argue that the same speaker null-pronominalizes
tiempo. While this may be true, the speaker does so in another turn, not in the
same turn.
References
Badia Margarit, A. M. (1962) Gramática Catalana. Madrid: Editorial Gredos.
Burzio, L. (1986) Italian Syntax. Reidel: Dordrecht.
Campos, H. (1986) ‘Indefinite Object Drop’, Linguistic Inquiry, vol. 17, pp. 354–59.
Comrie, B. (1979) ‘Definite and Animate Objects: A Natural Class’, Linguistica Silesiana,
vol. 3, pp. 13–21.
Fernán-Gómez, F. (1985) El viaje a ninguna parte. Madrid: Debate.
Givón, T. Syntax. (1984) A Functional-Typological Introduction. Vol. 1. Amsterdam:
Benjamins.
Hopper, P. and S. Thompson (1980) ‘Transitivity in Grammar and Discourse’,
Language, vol. 56, pp. 251–99.
Kany, C. (1945) American–Spanish Syntax. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Lazard, G. (1984) ‘Actance Variations and Categories of the Object’, in F. Plank (ed.),
Objects: Toward a Theory of Grammatical Relations. New York: Academic Press,
pp. 269–92.
Mazzola, M. (1994) Issues and Theory in Romance Linguistics. Washington: Georgetown
University Press.
Mendoza, M. (2002) Satanás. Barcelona: Seis Barral.
Miralles, A. (1981) Céfiro agreste de olímpicos embates (Come y calla, que es cultura).
Madrid: Fundamentos.
Olmo, L. (1984) Pablo Iglesias. Espectáculo dramático/musical original. Sada, A Coruña:
Edición do Castro.
Rivero, M. L. (1980) ‘On Left-Dislocation and Topicalization in Spanish’, Linguistic
Inquiry, vol. 11, pp. 363–93.
Rovinski, S. (1993) Herencia de sombras. San José, Costa Rica: REI Centroamérica.
Savatér, F. (1981) Caronte aguarda. Madrid: Ediciones Cátedra.
Schwenter, S. (2005) ‘Null Objects Across South America’, in T. L. Face
and C. A. Klee (eds), Selected Proceedings of the 8th Hispanic Linguistics Symposium,
Somerville, MA: Cascadilla Proceedings Project.
Vallduví, E. (1988) ‘Functional Load, Prosody, and Syntax: Left-Detachment in
Catalan and Spanish’, Chicago Linguistic Society, vol. 24, pp. 391–404.
Vargas Llosa, M. (1988) Elogio de la madrastra. Barcelona: Tusquets.
Vendler, Z. (1967) Linguistics in Philosophy. Ithaca: Cornell University Press.
150 Null Direct Objects in Spanish
7
Transitivity and the Syntax of
Inalienable Possession in Spanish*
Richard Winters
151
Introduction
Inalienable possession is the linguistic term used to classify the relation of
possession that exists between a possessor and possessum ‘object possessed’
when the later cannot be easily separated, or conceived of apart, from the pos-
sessor. Chappell and McGregor (1996) observe that the semantic classes of
nouns associated with alienable possession generally denote body parts, cloth-
ing, kinship, and tools or weapons closely associated with their possessor(s),
with spatial relations also falling into this category. The consideration of
these noun classes as inalienable does vary cross-linguistically, they note,
with some being included or excluded by particular languages. Kinship
terms in some Australian languages are treated as alienable, according to
Dixon (1980), while in Ewe, body-part nouns are not treated as inalienable
nouns (Ameke, 1996). In Spanish, there is no semantic class of nouns that is
always treated as inalienable. In general, however, nouns denoting body
parts and clothing are those that are most consistently encoded as inalien-
able in Spanish, with more variation on the part of other semantic classes of
nouns prototypically considered to be inalienable. This variation in encod-
ing does not extend from the semantic classes, but rather from other factors
such as verbal semantics and the grammatical function of the possessum.
Extralinguistic factors, such as a particular speaker’s perception of an event,
may influence the encoding as well (Dumitrescu, 1990).
In Spanish, inalienability is typically encoded through the use of a definite
or an indefinite determiner in the place of a possessive adjective modifying
the inalienable noun. Sometimes there is an accompanying dative clitic
co-referent with the possessor. Constructions with this dative clitic have
traditionally been labelled dative possessive. The broader term possessor ascension
reflects that cross-linguistically there are other grammatical means to encode
* This chapter has benefited from helpful comments from Clancy Clements and
two anonymous reviewers. All errors remain my own.
this phenomenon, such as incorporation, where the possessor raises (or
appears to raise) from its original position to a higher one. As an illustration
of the possibilities for encoding inalienability in Spanish, consider the examples
in (7.1).1
Note that in every case the possessed object is accompanied by a
definite article:
(7.1) a. Susana levantó la mano.
Susana raised.3S the hand
‘Susana raised her hand.’
b. Arturo le tocó el brazo a Carmela.
Arturo CL.3S.DAT touched.3S the arm to Carmela
‘Arthur touched Carmela’s arm.’
c. Miguel se lavó el pelo.
Miguel REFL.3 washed.3S the hair
‘Miguel washed his hair.’
d. Luis me quebró un dedo.
Luis CL.1S.DAT broke.3S a finger
‘Luis broke one of my fingers.’
e. *Marta me abrió la puerta.2
Marta CL.1S.DAT opened.3S the door
Intended meaning: ‘Marta opened my door.’
In (7.1a), lacking any other context, la mano ‘the hand’ is interpreted as
Susana’s hand. In (7.1b), a possessive relation between el brazo ‘the arm’ and
the dative clitic me ‘to me’ obtains, yielding the interpretation that it was my
arm which was touched. In (7.1c), the dative clitic is also reflexive, with the
interpretation that Miguel washed his (own) hair.3
Sentence (7.1d) illustrates
that an indefinite article may also participate in this construction, with a
partitive reading of the possessed noun in question, as people generally have
ten fingers. This sentence exemplifies another property of possessive dative
sentences, namely that they also have a benefactive/malefactive, as well as a
possessive reading. Thus, in (7.1d) there is also the reading of Arturo broke his
finger (and I was affected by that), although the gloss shown for (7.1d) is the
one most speakers would have as the default interpretation. Additionally, as
Roldán (1972) and García (1975) note, while possessive sentences have a
benefactive/malefactive reading, the converse is not necessarily true; that is,
a benefactive sentence might not have a possessive reading, which is the case
we see in (7.1e). (7.1e) is not acceptable to most speakers as meaning Marta
opened my door; rather, it has the interpretation of Marta opened the door for
me. This may be attributed to the unlikelihood that door could be considered
as something inalienably possessed.
The dative possessive in particular poses something of a syntactic puzzle.
While the possessor relation in sentences like (7.1a) can be deduced through
152 Transitivity and the Syntax of Inalienable Possession in Spanish
Richard Winters 153
knowledge of the world and context, sentences like (7.1b) and (7.1d) appear
to have too many arguments, considering the valency of the verbs in
question. That is, touch and break typically have two arguments, an agent
and a patient, but not a benefactive/malefactive argument. What, then,
determines whether and when the ‘extra’ dative argument – with possessive
interpretation – may appear?
If we examine the data further, more discrepancies arise. Even though
the (in)definite article, with or without a dative clitic, is typically used in
constructions involving inalienable nouns, this is not always the case. Kliffer
(1983) points out that the sentence in (7.2) may have an inalienable reading
or not, depending on the context:
(7.2) Mariana se quitó la falda.
Mariana REFL.3 took.off.3S the skirt
‘Mariana took off the skirt.’ / ‘Mariana took off her skirt.’
Without additional context, the default interpretation is that the skirt is
Mariana’s. However, as Kliffer states, if we know that Mariana is shopping for
a skirt and has just tried this one on, then the possessive interpretation does
not obtain.
Also, the inalienable nature of a noun does not preclude it being accom-
panied by a possessive adjective instead of a determiner. Note that (7.3a) is
pragmatically marked, while (7.3c) is the most neutral way to convey this
information:
(7.3) a. Tus ojos son azules.
your eyes are.3P blue
‘Your eyes are blue.’
b. *Los ojos son azules.
the eyes are.3P blue
Intended meaning of (7.3a).
c. Tienes los ojos azules
have.2S the eyes blue
‘You have blue eyes.’ / ‘Your eyes are blue.’
These, then, are the issues involved in encoding inalienable nouns in Spanish.
In the next section I review the factors previous investigations have identified as
affecting the encoding of the possessor relation in Spanish, focusing on the
alternation between a dative possessor and a possessive determiner. I than dis-
cuss how this encoding provides additional evidence in support of Hopper and
Thompson’s Transitivity Hypothesis,4
and discuss an empirical analysis of
Spanish data that lends further support to a link between the choice of posses-
sive type and Transitivity. In the final section concluding remarks are presented.
The syntax of inalienability and the dative
possessive in Spanish
While sentences such as (7.1a) or (7.3c) rely on the context of the discourse
or one’s ‘knowledge of the world’ to identify the possessors, in the sentences
in (7.1b–d), a dative clitic co-referent with the possessor appears. What is the
function of this clitic, especially when it appears in sentences where it may
alternate with a possessive determiner? Consider the examples in (7.4):
(7.4) a. Oigo tu voz.
hear.1S your voice
‘I hear your voice.’
b. Te oigo la voz.
CL.2S.DAT hear.1S the voice
‘I hear your voice.’
Dumitrescu (1990) observes that these sentences are not interchangeable,
although they do communicate the same basic information. In the following
section I will discuss factors that influence the choice between these two
options of encoding the possessor.
Various factors have been identified in previous research as influencing
how inalienable nouns are treated in Spanish, as well as in other Romance
languages. The referentiality of the part and its autonomy from the whole,
the affectedness of the whole, topicality and focus have all been identified as
influencing the choice between (in)definite articles and possessive modifiers.5
Vergnaud and Zubizarreta (1992) argue that inalienable nouns accompanied
by the definite article in dative possessive sentences are non-referential. A
reflex of this in the grammar is that they cannot be modified by nonrestrictive
(attributive) adjectives, as first noted in French by Kayne (1975).6
Such nouns
may be seen as inseparable from the whole and have no referentiality on their
own apart from the whole. Consider the examples given in (7.5):
(7.5) a. *Rosa le lavó la cara sucia a la niña.
Rosa CL.3S.DATwashed.3S the face dirty to the girl
Intended meaning: ‘Rosa washed the girl’s dirty face.’
b. Rosa le lavó la mano izquierda a la niña.
Rosa CL.3S.DAT washed.3S the hand left to the girl
‘Rosa washed the girl’s left hand.’
c. Rosa lavó la cara sucia de la niña.
Rosa washed.3S the face dirty of the girl.
‘Rosa washed the girl’s dirty face.’
d. Rosai lavó suj cara sucia.
Rosa washed.3S her face dirty
‘Rosa washed her dirty face.’
154 Transitivity and the Syntax of Inalienable Possession in Spanish
Richard Winters 155
Example (7.5a), in which the inalienable noun is modified by a non-restrictive
adjective, is ungrammatical in this dative possessive construction. The only
grammatical reading is the one in which the girl has two or more faces, one
of which is dirty. The sentence in (7.5b) contains a restrictive adjective,
izquierda ‘left’, which differentiates one of the two possible hands the girl
has. In contrast to (7.5a), both (7.5c) and (7.5d) illustrate the possibility of
modifying the possessed noun when the possessor is genitive or a possessive
adjective.
Greater autonomy of the part from the whole is associated with the likeli-
hood of using a possessive modifier. Spanoghe’s (1995) statistical analysis of
body-part nouns in Spanish literary works finds that there is a slight prefer-
ence for use of the possessive when the body-part noun is the subject and an
overwhelming preference for the article with the body-part noun is the
direct object.7
As a subject, the noun part has greater autonomy from
the whole than when it is a direct object, this difference being encoded by
the choice between possessive and article; the greater the autonomy, the
more likely the use of a possessive adjective.
Spanoghe also considers the possessive dative construction to highlight
the affectedness of the possessor, a claim also argued for by García (1975)
and Kliffer (1973, 1979, 1983, 1987). Along these lines, Dumitrescu (1990),
comparing the possessive dative in Spanish and Romanian, suggests that the
dative possessive is used to show that the possessor is implicated in the
event, that the possessor is an involved party to the event.
Dumitrescu also argues that the dative possessive appears when the
possessor is topical, and that the possessive modifier is used when the pos-
sessum is topical. This concords with Manoliu-Manea’s (1990, 1996) and
Popescu-Ramírez and Tasmowski-De Ryck’s (1988) analyses of the possessive
dative in Romanian, which encodes topicality of the possessor in a similar
fashion to that of Spanish. Popescu-Ramírez and Tasmowski-De Ryck’s analy-
sis of Romanian treats topicality and focus in terms of thematicity and rhe-
maticity, with a rhematic, or focused, status of the possessum resulting in a
greater probability that the possessive adjective will be used. In turn, this
concurs with similar research by Barnes (1980, 1985) for French and Levine
(1984) for Russian.
In summary, the syntax of inalienable nouns in Spanish can be linked to
the level of referentiality and autonomy of the possessum, the affectedness of
the possessor/whole, and the topical or focused nature of the possessor and
possessum. A topical and/or highly affected possessor is likely to surface as a
dative clitic and a non-referential, low autonomy part is likely to be modified
by an article. A focused or topical possessum, referential and highly
autonomous, is likely to be modified by a possessive adjective. In the next
section we shall see how the notion of Transitivity aides us in predicting
whether a possessor is likely to be encoded as a dative argument or as a
possessive determiner.
Transitivity and possessive constructions in Spanish
Hopper and Thompson correlate high Transitivity with foregrounding, and
thus in discourse foregrounded elements are likely to be in (relatively) highly
Transitive constructions, while backgrounded elements are likely to be in
constructions with (relatively) low Transitivity. Further, the factors that deter-
mine the relative level of Transitivity of a sentence are those that play a role
in influencing the choice of a dative possessor or a possessive determiner.
Transitivity and choice of possessive type
As we have seen in the previous section, the possessive dative construction
correlates with a topical possessor, while an inalienable noun modified by
the possessive adjective correlates with topicality or focus (thematic or rhe-
matic status); their status also correlates with foregrounding. Following
Dumitrescu’s (1990) observation that these two constructions are not inter-
changeable, we can conclude that Spanish has opted for the dative posses-
sive to foreground the possessor, correlated with relatively higher degree of
Transitivity, and modification of the possessum by a possessive adjective to
foreground the inalienable part, with a relatively lower degree of Transitivity.
Consider the two sentences in (7.6), which illustrate a contrast between
the dative possessive and the possessive determiner in Spanish with regard to
Transitivity:
(7.6) a. Juana me pisó el pie.
Juana CL.1S.DAT stepped.3S the foot
‘Juana stepped on my foot.’
b. Tus dientes penetraron la envoltura de plástico.
Your teeth penetrated.3p the wrapping of plastic
‘Your teeth penetrated the plastic wrapping.’
While both sentences are highly Transitive according to Hopper and
Thompson’s parameters in Table 1.1 in Chapter 1 (7.6a) is slightly higher in
Transitivity than (7.6b). Where the parameters differ is in the number of par-
ticipants, the affectedness of the object, and the individuation of the object.
The differences between these two sentences vis-à-vis the Transitivity para-
meters emphasize the presence and participation of the possessor, giving it
salience. As Manoliu-Manea (1980) points out, our conception of the world
is human-centred. Accordingly, it should be expected that [human] ele-
ments are more salient than [human] elements. This accounts for the
slightly higher Transitivity that (7.6a) has, in comparison to (7.6b).
With regard to the individuation of the object, the difference between the
two sentences tilts in favour of the prominence of the possessive adjective con-
struction. The object in (7.6a) is less referential than the object in (7.6b), for the
reasons discussed above. This can be seen as a way to highlight the autonomy
156 Transitivity and the Syntax of Inalienable Possession in Spanish
Richard Winters 157
of the possessed item from its possessor. In (7.6a), the possessor is more salient
than the possessum, while the possessum has greater saliency in (7.6b).
Empirical evidence
To further support the claim that the factors determining the relative level of
Transitivity are those that influence the choice of possessive type, Winters
(2004) provides a statistical analysis of empirical data that correlates factors
yielding relatively higher levels of Transitivity with the factors favouring the
use of a dative possessor. This study, which analysed dialogue from eight
Spanish-language plays from the latter half of the twentieth century, found
several variables that were significantly associated with the choice of one
type of possessor or the other, at confidence levels of 95 per cent or greater.
Among the variables associated with the choice of a dative possessor were
dynamic telic verbs, the possessum as a direct object, and body-part nouns.
Variables associated with the choice of a possessive determiner were sta-
tive verbs, the possessum as a copula predicate, and nouns referring to
abstract possessions (for example, liberty, happiness, love) and interpersonal
relationships.
Such results are not unexpected, given Hopper and Thompson’s
Transitivity Hypothesis. As the dative clitic serves to highlight the possessor’s
participation or affectedness, its presence in a sentence increases the relative
level of Transitivity. It is not surprising then that dynamic telic verbs, pos-
sessa as direct objects, and body-part nouns are associated with the appear-
ance of a dative possessor. Dynamic telic verbs are likely to affect their
objects, in turn affecting the possessor of the object. If the possessum is the
direct object, then it follows that the possessor will be affected if the posses-
sum is. Moreover, affected body-part nouns are very likely to have affected
possessors as well. On the other hand, a possessive determiner serves to
reflect an unaffected or non-participating possessor. Neither objects of sta-
tive verbs nor copula predicates are affected by the verbs in question, and
therefore will not have affected possessors. Actions affecting nouns referring
to abstract possessions and interpersonal relationships are less likely to have
a (physical) effect on their possessors.
Summary
The dative possessive construction, serving to foreground the possessor,
derives a higher level of Transitivity in the sense of Hopper and Thompson
through the addition of a third participant argument, the possessor, while
the use of the definite article with the possessed noun lowers its autonomy,
referentiality and individuation, resulting in the possessor appearing as an
entity both affected by, and involved in, the action. The use of a possessive
adjective serves to foreground the inalienable noun by increasing its autonomy,
referentiality and individuation and decreasing the possessor’s prominence.
The slightly higher level of Transitivity possessed by the dative possessive
construction can be attributed to the salience accompanying the [human]
dative clitic. Therefore, the factors that contribute to the relative level of
Transitivity of a clause correspond to those that influence the choice of one
possessive type. That this is the case is further shown by the empirical study
in Winters (2004), which found that certain variables in semantics of the
nouns and verbs in a sentence, and the grammatical function of the possessum
are associated at a significant level of confidence with the choice of posses-
sor type, and that these variables correspond to factors determining level of
Transitivity.
Conclusion
Past researchers have argued that the syntax of inalienable nouns in Spanish
encodes the referentiality and autonomy of the possessum, and the topicality
or focused nature of the possessor and possessum, factors that correlate with
the parameters of Hopper and Thompson’s (1980) notion of Transitivity.
In this chapter the correlation of the topicality of the possessor with the use
of the dative possessive, and the correlation of the use of the possessive
adjective with the topicality or focus of the possessum, has been linked to
Hopper and Thompson’s Transitivity parameters. By adding a third argu-
ment to the verb in the form of a dative clitic, the dative possessive con-
struction raises the level of Transitivity and foregrounds the possessor, giving
salience to its affectedness and involvement as well as increasing the num-
ber of participants and decreasing the referentiality of the possessum. The use
of the possessive adjective, on the other hand, foregrounds the possessum by
increasing its autonomy and referentiality and by decreasing the promi-
nence of the possessor. The syntactic behaviour of these possessive construc-
tions with inalienable nouns provides additional support for Hopper and
Thompson’s hypothesis. This claim is further supported by a statistical
analysis of empirical data from Winters (2004), showing that factors that are
associated with influencing the choice between a dative possessor and a
possessive determiner are among those that determine the relative level of
Transitivity.
Notes
1 The following abbreviations will be used in the glosses in this chapter:
1  1st person S  singular CL  clitic REFL  reflexive
3  3rd person P  plural DAT  dative
2 This sentence is grammatical with the interpretation of ‘Marta opened the door
for me.’
3 Kliffer (1983), among others, observes that reflexive clitics are required in Spanish
when the action is performed on or to the possessum (generally body parts
and clothing), while actions performed with the possessum do not require reflexive
clitics. Following Herschensohn (1975), Kliffer terms the non-reflexive verbs
158 Transitivity and the Syntax of Inalienable Possession in Spanish
Richard Winters 159
pseudo-transitives, and following Diffloth (1974), he terms the reflexive verbs reflex-
ive body movements. Junker and Martineau (1987) present a similar analysis for
French verbs.
4 See Chapter 1 for a detailed presentation on this hypothesis.
5 Stylistics have also been identified as a factor. Hatcher (1944a, 1944b) suggests that
in literary French using a possessive modifier where an article is expected breaks
away from the cliché-like nature of the article. The use of the possessive modifier
give a more literal reading as well. Kliffer (1983) compares contemporary literary
usage of articles and possessives with their usage by native speakers, finding that pos-
sessives are used much more frequently by authors than in (non-literary) speech,
supporting Hatcher’s observations. Stylistics will not be further addressed in this
chapter.
6 Spanoghe (1995) finds a few instances of Spanish literary usage where Kayne’s
observation does not hold for postnominal nonrestrictive adjectives, but such
examples are rare. It may be that these are due to stylistic choices on the part of the
authors whose works she analysed.
7 Popescu-Ramírez and Tasmowski-De Ryck (1988) report similar findings in
Romanian for the possessum as a direct object; with regard to the possessum as
subject, Romanian shows a pronounced preference for the possessive adjective.
References
Ameke, F. (1996) ‘Body Parts in Ewe Grammar’, in Chappell and McGregor, op. cit.,
pp. 783–840.
Barnes, B. K. (1980) ‘The Notion of “Dative” in Linguistic Theory and the Grammar of
French’, Lingvisticae Investigationes, vol. 4, pp. 245–92.
—— (1985) ‘A Functional Explanation of French Nonlexical Datives’, Studies in
Language, vol. 9, pp. 159–95.
Chappell, H. and W. McGregor (1996) ‘Prolegomena to a Theory of Inalienability’, in
Chappell and McGregor, op. cit., pp. 3–30.
—— (eds) (1996) The Grammar of Inalienability: A Typological Perspective on Body Part
Terms and the Part–Whole Relation. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Diffloth, G. (1974) ‘Body Moves in Semai and in French’, Chicago Linguistic Society,
vol. 10, pp. 128–38.
Dixon, R. M. W. (1980) The Languages of Australia. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Dumitrescu, D. (1990) ‘El dativo posesivo en español y en rumano’, Revista Española de
Lingüística, vol. 20, pp. 403–29.
García, E. (1975) The Role of Theory in Linguistic Analysis: The Spanish Pronoun System.
Amsterdam: North Holland.
Hatcher, A. G. (1944a) ‘Il me prend le bras vs. il prend mon bras’, Romanic Review,
vol. 35, pp. 156–64.
—— (1944b) ‘Il tend les mains vs. il tend ses mains’, Studies in Philology, vol. 41,
pp. 457–81.
Herschensohn, J. (1975) ‘An Interpretive Approach to Inalienable Possession in
French’, ERIC Microfiche no. 123912. Washington: Center for Applied Linguistics.
Hopper, P. J. and S. A. Thompson (1980) ‘Transitivity in Grammar and Discourse’,
Language, vol. 56, pp. 251–99.
Junker, M. and F. Martineau (1987) ‘Les possessions inaliénables dans les constructions
objet’, Revue Romane, vol. 22, pp. 194–209.
Kayne, R. S. (1975) French Syntax: the Transformational Cycle. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Kliffer, M. D. (1973) The Spanish Dative: Selected Syntactic and Semantic Problems. Ithaca,
NY: Cornell University Ph.D. dissertation.
—— (1979) ‘Levanto la mano / Me lavo las manos / Me levanto la mano’, Canadian
Modern Language Review, vol. 35, pp. 217–26.
—— (1983) ‘Beyond Syntax: Spanish Inalienable Possession’, Linguistics, vol. 21,
pp. 759–94.
—— (1987) ‘Los sustantivos intrínsecamente relacionales: un examen multi-nivelístico’,
Revista Española de Lingüística, vol. 17, pp. 283–99.
Levine, J. S. (1984) ‘On the Dative of Possession in Contemporary Russian’, Slavic and
East European Journal, vol. 28, pp. 493–501.
Manoliu-Manea, M. (1980) ‘Pragmatics of Romance Possessives: Romanian as an
Affectively Marked Language’, Southeastern Europe, vol. 7, pp. 1–10.
—— (1990) ‘Ethno-syntax and Discourse: Inalienability and Topicality in Romanian’,
Revue Roumaine de Linguistique, vol. 35, pp. 323–29.
—— (1996) ‘Inalienability and Topicality in Romanian: Pragma-semantics of Syntax’,
in Chappell and McGregor, op. cit., pp. 711–43.
Popescu-Ramírez, L. and L. Tasmowski-De Ryck (1988) ‘Thématicité et possessivité en
roumain’, Lingvisticae Investigationes, vol. 12, pp. 303–35.
Roldán, M. (1972) ‘Concerning Spanish Datives and Possessives’, Language Sciences,
vol. 21, pp. 27–32.
Spanoghe, A.-M. (1995) La syntaxe de l’appartenance inaliéable en français, en espagnol et
en portugais. Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Vergnaud, J.-R. and M.-L. Zubizarreta (1992) ‘The Definite Determiner and
the Inalienable Constructions in French and English’, Linguistic Inquiry, Vol. 23,
pp. 595–652.
Winters, R. A. (2004) The Syntax of Inalienable Possession in Spanish and Romanian.
Bloomington: Indiana University Ph.D. dissertation.
160 Transitivity and the Syntax of Inalienable Possession in Spanish
8
Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective
Construction
J. Clancy Clements*
161
Introduction
An overall analysis of copula choice in the Spanish ‘copula  predicate
adjective’ construction will need to account, at least, for the distribution of
ser and estar found in the examples in (8.1)–(8.4):
(8.1) a. El ser humano es /*está mortal.
‘The human being is mortal.’
b. Juanita es /*está inteligente.
‘Juanita is intelligent.’
c. Sus acciones son necesarias.
‘His/her/their actions are necessary.’
d. El exilio es preferible a la muerte.
‘Exile is preferable to death.’
(8.2) a. El empleado es/está sincero.
‘The employee is sincere.’
b. El empleado es/está cortés.1
‘The employee is polite.’
(8.3) a. Juan es/está muy alto.
‘Juan is very tall.’
b. La chica/la casa es/está muy bonita.
‘The girl/the house is very pretty.’
c. La sopa es/está muy sabrosa.
‘The soup is very tasty.’
(8.4) a. Adriana *es/está levantada.
‘Adriana is standing.’
b. El nene *es/está descalzo.
‘The little boy is barefoot.’
* Special thanks to Kimberly Geeslin for her comments on this study. Of course, all
errors and oversights remain mine.
c. La máquina *es/está rota.
‘The machine is broken.’
d. La llegada está prevista para las tres.
‘The arrival was anticipated for three o’clock.’
Ser, but not estar, combines with adjectives such as mortal ‘mortal’, inteligente
‘intelligent’, necesario ‘necessary’, and preferible ‘preferable’; both ser and estar
appear with adjectives like sincero ‘sincere’, alto ‘tall’, bonito ‘pretty’, and
sabroso ‘tasty’; and estar, but not ser, combines with adjectives such as levan-
tado ‘standing’, descalzo ‘barefoot’, roto ‘broken’, and previsto ‘anticipated’.
In this chapter, we ask which semantic and pragmatic factors of the subject
referents, the copulas and the different adjective types can be appealed to in
order to account for copula distribution in (8.1)–(8.4), and the different
interpretations of the copula sentences in (8.2)–(8.3), where both ser and
estar are possible.
In the following section we provide a semantic characterization of ser and
estar, following which we distinguish the two copulas using the feature
[aspect]: ser does not carry the feature and estar carries it. We then examine two
analyses of adjectives – one based on the distinction between individual- v.
stage-level predicates and another taken from Clements (1988) – to test the
extent to which each predicts the distribution of adjective types with ser and
estar. The distribution of the copulas with second-order subject referents is then
discussed, and our conclusions and final remarks are found in the last section.
Semantic characterization of ser and estar2
We begin by discussing ser and estar as main verbs. As a main verb, the core
meaning of ser is ‘exist’, and in reference to activities and events, ‘take place’.
As the three examples in (8.5) illustrate, ser ‘exist’ appears with one argu-
ment (the subject) and no predicative nominal:
(8.5) a. Dios es.
‘God is (exists).’ (FALK, 1979: 25)
b. Y el tiempo, una palabra volátil, frágil, etérea y veloz para
quienes pertenecen a él, pues para otros el tiempo simplemente
es, ni va ni viene.
‘And time, a volatile, fragile, ethereal, and fleeting word for
those who belong to it, because for others time simply is, it nei-
ther goes or comes.’ (CREA)
c. La otra vía llevaba a las cosas mismas, por emplear una repetida
fórmula de Husserl. Fue el camino de los escritores del nouveau
roman. Para ellos, el mundo ni es absurdo ni está lleno de sen-
tido, simplemente es.
162 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
J. Clancy Clements 163
‘The other way carried the things themselves, to use a well-worn
formula by Husserl. It was a way of the writers of the ‘nouveau
roman’. For them, the world is neither absurd or full of meaning,
it simply is.’ (CREA)
In the reading of ser as ‘take place’, the subject refers to an event or activity.
Illustrative examples are given in (8.6).
(8.6) a. La llegada del tren será a las 21 horas 15 minutos.
‘The arrival of the train will take place at 21 hours 15 minutes.’
b. La celebración es hoy a las cuatro.
‘The celebration is today at four o’clock.’
Ser is also used as a copula to express an intrinsic identification between the
referent and an attribute, a substantive, or a pronoun (modified or not). This
is shown in (8.7):3
(8.7) a. Ella es hermosa.
‘She is beautiful.’
b. Ella es profesora.
‘She is a teacher.’
c. La profesora es ella.
‘The profesor is her.’
d. Ella es la que ganó el premio.
‘She is the one who won the prize.’
To understand the semantic content of estar, a brief look into its etymology
is useful. Estar derives from Latin stare ‘stand’. According to Falk (1979:
116–17), estar in medieval Spanish had both the meaning hallarse en el espa-
cio en posición vertical ‘be in (a) space in a vertical position’, as well as that of
hallarse inmovilizado, persistir en un estado ‘be immobilized, remain in a state’.
In modern Spanish, the core meaning of estar is ‘be located’, the essential
notion here being located in space. For example, the standard manner in
Spanish of asking for someone (for example, Pedro) on the telephone is ¿Está
Pedro?, for which the translation in English, German and French would
respectively be, ‘Is Pedro there?’, ‘Ist Pedro da?’, ‘Pedro est-il la?’ In these lan-
guages, the presence of the locative adverb ‘there’ is necessary, whereas in
Spanish its presence is superfluous because, we argue, the semantics of estar
contains a feature which we will for now call [locative].
Another piece of evidence supporting the view of a [locative] feature in
estar involves the optional nature of an adverbial as a complement of estar as
main verb whenever reference to a location is understood from the context,
as in (8.8a). However, if the same sort of deletion takes place in an estar
copula construction, the resulting sentence, (8.8b), is at best strange:
(8.8) a. Hemos buscado por toda la casa y Pedro no está ø.
‘We have looked all through the house and Pedro isn’t (here).’
b. *Estas manzanas están verdes y aquella está también.
‘These apples are green and that one is too.’
c. Estas manzanas están verdes y aquella lo está también.
‘These apples are green and that one is too.’
d. Estas manzanas están verdes y aquella también.
‘These apples are green and that one too.’
Note that for (8.8b) to be entirely felicitous, either the pronoun lo must be
inserted, as in (8.8c), referring to the colour being predicated of aquella ‘that
one (apple)’, or está has to be deleted, as in (8.8d). The respective gapping
restrictions are different for Spanish than for languages such as English,
French and German, a fact that we can account for if we assume that estar
has as its basic meaning ‘be located’.
From a diachronic perspective, the first contexts in which estar is found in
the history of Spanish involve, as already mentioned, the idea of location, or
a physical situation (cf. Hanssen, 1912; and Bouzet, 1953, in Fernández
Leborans, 1999: 2,422–3). Thus, both on synchronic and diachronic
grounds, the evidence suggests the presence of the [locative] feature in
estar. We assume, therefore, that the semantic make up of estar contains the
semantic feature [locative].
As a copula in the ‘estar  adjective’ construction, this verb is used to iden-
tify the referent with the predicate complement. Here, the semantics of estar
does not necessarily express the location of the referent, (though this is pos-
sible), but rather it expresses a connection to another situation involving the
referent, either assumed or expected, depending on the discourse situation.
(8.9) a. Las nubes están altas.
‘The clouds are high.’ (VAÑO-CERDÁ, 1982: 145)
b. Sus ojos estaban rojos.
‘His/her eyes were red.’ FALK, 1979: 66)
Thus, just as in (8.9a) a connection to the location of the referent (las nubes
‘the clouds’) within its natural frame of reference (the sky) is assumed for a
felicitious reading (see Vaño-Cerdá, 1982: 146) (whereby location here is
viewed as variable and not a classifying characteristic), so it is in (8.9b) that
for a felicitious interpretation a connection to a prior, assumed or antici-
pated state of the referent is assumed in which a classifying characteristic of
the referent is not his/her red eyes. The claim is, then, that the semantics of estar
contains something like a [locative] feature that supports this assumption.
164 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
J. Clancy Clements 165
We can say that there is, in connection with the semantic feature [locative],
the presence of a presupposition of some prior state of affairs. This [locative]
feature in the lexical configuration of estar is the distinguishing semantic
trait between the core meanings of estar and ser.
This difference in the semantics of ser and estar is the basis for certain
Pragmatic Presuppositions, defined by Stalnaker (1974: 198) as ‘propositions
whose truth [the speaker] takes for granted, or seems to take for granted, in
making his statement’. In the ‘copula  adjective’ construction, the [locative]
is assumed to be present but as a more general feature. Clements (1988) pro-
poses the pragmatic feature [nexus], suggesting that just as [locative] of
estar’s core meaning implies a connection to a location, [nexus] implies a
connection to some other situation, assumed or expected. On this analysis,
ser would carry no relevant marker or the [nexus] in its lexical feature bun-
dle and estar would have the [nexus] feature. Other scholars, such as Navas
Ruiz (1963), Luján (1980, 1981) and Hernanz (1988), adopt the semantic
[aspect] to distinguish the two copulas: ser is [aspect] and estar is [aspect].
Schmitt (1992) uses the notion of aspect to distinguish the two copulas,
maintaining that ser is aspectually inert, while estar is marked for aspect. All
these analyses contain the same essential observation, namely, that estar is
the marked copula in the sense that it is marked for aspect and ser is
unmarked or negatively marked for the same feature. In our discussion, we
assume that ser and estar differ with regard to the [aspect] feature in that estar
carries the [aspect] feature and ser does not.
Having characterized ser and estar, let us now turn to the semantic character-
ization of the referent and the adjective in the ‘copula  adjective’ construction.
The role of the subject referent and the adjective in the
‘copula  adjective’ construction
With regard to the nature of the subject referent, we will consider the effect
of animacy and the pragmatic assumption about whether a given subject
referent is able or not to undergo change with respect to a given position in
space or a given state. While animacy will seem important in some cases, the
pragmatic assumption is probably the most general overarching considera-
tion. For example, if there is a situation (with a lot of contextual support) in
which a sentence such as Marta está venezolana ‘Marta is Venezuelan’ is inter-
pretable in some way other than that Marta is a Venezuelan national – for
instance as a behaviour typical of Venezuelans – the sentence becomes
relatively more acceptable, in spite of the fact that the combination
estar  venezolano is rarely found. Although there are specific rules that con-
travene the pragmatic assumption (for example all derived adjectives in ble
appear only with ser), it is a good general principle that has wide use.
For the semantic characterization of adjectives, we discuss two analyses: one
based on the distinction between inidividual-level and stage-level predicates
and the other based on whether or not for any given adjective an underlying
event or activity can be assumed.
Individual-level and stage-level predicates in the Spanish
‘copula  adjective’ construction
The now well-known distinction between individual-level predicates (ILPs)
and stage-level predicates (SLPs) was first proposed by Milsark (1974, 1977)
and Carlson (1977). Here, we follow the latter. According to Carlson, ILPs are
predicates of individuals that denote properties of true state, such as an
entity being human or an object being wooden. By contrast, SLPs are predi-
cates of stages of entities or objects. They can denote nonstative as well as
stative situations; examples of the latter include physical positions of an
entity, such as standing, sitting and so on. We adapt Yoon’s (2001: 86)
schema of Carlson’s idea, shown in Figure 8.1.
Examples of SLPs are the predicate adjectives nice and mean. They do not
necessarily refer to inherent properties of an individual in that one can
behave in a mean way but in reality be an inherently nice person. Examples
of ILPs are the predicate adjectives tall/short or intelligent: these refer neces-
sarily to inherent properties of an individual. If a person is short or intelli-
gent, shortness and intelligence are inherent properties of that person.
Carlson devised a number of tests for teasing apart ILPs from SLPs. One
involves the progressive construction, according to which SLPs are acceptable
in the progressive construction (8.10a), while ILPs are not (8.10b):
(8.10) a. Mary was being nice/mean. (SLP)
b. *Mary was being tall/intelligent. (ILP)
The reason an ILP is illformed in the progressive is that as a true property of an
individual it is incompatible with the progressive construction that expresses
ongoingness in a dynamic or stative situation. A SLP, on the other hand, is
compatible with the progressive construction as it denotes a stage of an entity
(a transitory behaviour of Mary), not necessarily a true property of Mary.
166 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
Predicates
IL SL
States Stative verbs (e.g. stand, lie) Processes Events
Figure 8.1 The distribution of ILPs and SLPs over states, activities and events
J. Clancy Clements 167
Leonetti (1994) argues that the distinction between ILPs and SLPs is largely
sufficient to account for the distribution of adjectives with ser and estar
in the ‘copula  adjective’ construction.4
We first note that the acceptability
judgments of the English sentences in (8.10) also apply to their Spanish
counterparts in (8.11):
(8.11) a. Mary está siendo amable/mala. (SLP)
‘Mary is being nice/mean.’
b. *Mary está siendo alta/inteligente. (ILP)
‘Mary is being tall/intelligent.’
If the ILP–SLP distinction were the sole predictor governing which predicate
adjectives appear with ser or estar, one would expect ILPs to be compatible
with ser but not with estar, and SLPs to be compatible with estar but not with
ser. Taking our initial examples from (8.1) to (8.4), the prediction is borne out
in part. That is, ser is compatible with ILPs such as mortal ‘mortal’, inteligente
‘intelligent’, necesario ‘necessary’ and preferible ‘preferable’, but ser is also
compatible with SLPs such as sincero ‘sincere’ and cortés ‘polite’, which
should only be compatible with estar. We take sincero ‘sincere’ and cortés
‘polite’ to be SLPs based on the criterion that they are acceptable to many
native Spanish speakers in the progressive construction, as shown in (8.12):
(8.12) Marta está siendo muy sincera/cortés últimamente.
‘Marta is being very sincere/polite lately.’
Moreover, given that the adjectives sabroso and bonita in (8.3b, c) appear
with ser and are illformed in the progressive construction (see, 8.13), we take
them to be ILPs and should therefore only be acceptable with ser. However,
both adjectives appear with both ser and estar, as shown in (8.3b, c) above.
(8.13) a. *La sopa está siendo sabrosa.
‘The soup is being tasty.’
b. *La chica/casa está siendo bonita
‘The girl/house is being pretty.’
The adjectives that appear in (8.4) above, that is, levantada ‘(gotten) up’
(denoting a transitory state), descalzo ‘barefoot’, roto ‘broken’, and previsto
‘anticipated’, do not appear with ser, regardless of the construction they
appear in. That is, these adjectives appear exclusively with estar. Milsark
(1974) takes predicates that denote transitory states such as being barefoot or
broken, as well as others such as sick, hungry, tired, naked, drunk, open, closed
(and by extension enfermo, cansado, desnudo, borracho, abierto, cerrado) to be
SLPs. One test that distinguishes these SLPs from ILPs involves small clauses
(see Yoon, 2001: 88). For example, ILPs in (8.14a) are incompatible in the
relevant small-clause construction, but the SLPs in (8.14b, c) are not:
(8.14) a. *Ví a Marta inteligente/mortal/alta. ILP
‘I saw Marta intelligent/mortal/tall.’
b. Ví a Marta cansada/enferma/borracha/desnuda. SLP
‘I saw Marta tired/sick/drunk/naked.’
c. Ví la puerta abierta/cerrada. SLP
‘I saw the door open/closed.’
This criterion also works for identifying nontransitory resultant states as
SLPs: they are wellformed in the relevant small-clause construction, as
shown in (8.15):
(8.15) Ví el vaso roto. SLP
‘I saw the glass broken.’
To sum up the discussion so far, the ILP–SLP distinction makes the right
predictions for some adjectives, namely that ILPs such as inteligente ‘intelligent’
and mortal ‘mortal’ appear with ser, and SLPs like enfermo ‘sick’, cansado
‘tired’, descalzo ‘barefoot’, abierto ‘open’, and cerrado ‘closed’ appear only
with estar. However, it fails to predict the correct distribution with the
copulas for the ILPs sincero ‘sincere’, cortés ‘polite’, alto ‘tall’, sabroso ‘tasty’,
and bonito ‘pretty’.
The alternative analysis of predicate adjectives that we will consider addresses
this shortcoming by differentiating states according to whether or not they
imply some underlying process or event, and by appealing to the notion of time
stability as it applies to the different types of states underlying adjectives.
State types and time stability
The manner in which we encode our world through language has to do with
how we perceive the parts of our world to be or to function. For example,
those parts of our world that have physical or spatial mass, such as moun-
tains, stones, rivers, sky, people and objects in general, are seen prototypi-
cally as being more time-stable and are encoded as nouns. By contrast, those
parts of our world that are more fleeting, such as the activity of singing or
the punctual event of finding an object, are considered prototypically less
time-stable and are generally encoded as verbs (Givón 1979, Hopper and
Thompson 1984). Between these two extremes is the area of states, coded
commonly as adjectives (for example, sick) or as stative verbs (lie, stand,
know). This is shown schematically in Figure 8.2.5
168 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
J. Clancy Clements 169
Within the area of phenomena coded as verbs or predicates, one distin-
guishes states, processes and events, using the criteria of whether or not a
predicate denotes a dynamic situation (in the sense of Comrie, 1976),
whether or not it has duration, and whether or not it contains an intrinsic
endpoint, that is whether or not it is telic. Vendler (1967) speaks of dynamic
situations in terms of Activites (durative, nontelic), Accomplishments (durative,
telic) and Achievements (nondurative, telic). This is shown in Table 8.1.
For our purposes, we refer to Activities as processes and Accomplishments
and Achievements as events. Here are some illustrative examples of these verb/
predicate classes. A typical stative predicate is know in that knowing something
is a mental state rather than a dynamic activity. Typical process-predicates are
learn, think and sing in that they take time to do (durative) and do not have an
intrinsic endpoint. That is, we can learn, think things, or sing without there
being an intrinsic endpoint to the processes. However, we can give such
processes endpoints. For example, while sing and learn are processes, sing a song
and learn a song are limited by the count NP a song. That is, sing a song and learn
a song are durative and have an endpoint: singing or learning a song ends when
the song has been sung or learned. Intransitive verbs can also denote durative
events. Melt, for example, has an intrinsic endpoint and takes time.
Examples of punctual-event predicates are find and arrive in that they take
place punctually and are intrinsically telic (see Chapter 11 this volume for
discussion of verb classes).
Figure 8.2 Prototypical coding of the world in language based on time stability
+ Time stability –
Objects, Physical, mental states Processes Events
Animate entities
| -----------------Nouns----------------------------| |----------------------Verbs-------------------------|
|------------- Adjectives ---------------|
Table 8.1 Characterization of verb classes
Dynamic
situation Durative Telic
States   
Activities (processes)   
Accomplishments (durative events)   
Achievements (punctual events)   
Source: Based on Vendler (1967).
With particular reference to adjectives, the relevant factors for classification
(first discussed by Clements, 1988) are whether or not they have an under-
lying dynamic situation, and, if so, whether or not the dynamic situation is
an underlying process or an underlying event (durative or punctual). Adjectives
without any underlying event or process are those such as mortal–inmortal
‘mortal–immortal,’ inteligente ‘intelligent,’ and colombiano ‘Colombian’ (in
reference to nationality). Examples of adjectives with an underlying process
are nuevo/joven–viejo ‘new/young–old’ (the underlying predicate is envejecer
‘get old’) and sincero–insincero ‘sincere–insincere’ (the underlying predicate is
volverse sincero–insincero ‘become sincere/insincere’). Finally, adjectives with
corresponding underlying events are those such as adjectives bautizado
‘baptized’ (the underlying event is bautizar ‘baptize’) and levantado–tumbado/
sentado ‘standing-lying/sitting down’ (the underlying events are levantarse–
tumbarse/sentarse ‘get up–lie/sit down’).6
In terms of time stability, we
propose that adjectives with no underlying process or event are relatively
more time-stable than adjectives with an underlying process, and those
adjectives with an underlying process are in turn more time-stable than
adjectives with an underlying event. This is illustrated schematically in
Figure 8.3.
Three predictions emerge from this classification. First, given that ser is
unmarked for the feature [aspect], it is predicted to be most compatible with
adjectives denoting states that have no aspectual properties connected to
them in terms of an underlying process or event. This turns out to be true:
adjectives such as mortal ‘mortal’ and inteligente ‘intelligent’ have no under-
lying dynamic situation and the appear vritually only with ser, as shown in
(8.1), repeated below:
(8.1) a. El ser humano es /*está mortal.
‘The human being is mortal.’
b. Juanita es /*está inteligente.
‘Juanita is intelligent.’
The second prediction is the converse of the first: since estar is marked
with the feature [aspect], it would be most compatible with adjectives denoting
states that have an underlying event because events are telic and least time-
stable. This also turns out to be true. Adjectives such as levantado ‘standing’
170 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
+ Time stability –
Adjectives with no
underlying process
or event
Process-adjectives Event-adjectives
Figure 8.3 Time stability of adjectives with no underlying process/event v. adjectives
with an underlying process v. adjectives with an underlying event
J. Clancy Clements 171
and bautizado ‘baptized’ are the resultant states of the underlying events
levantarse ‘wake up’ and bautizar ‘baptize’, and they appear virtually only
with estar, as shown in (8.16):
(8.16) a. Marta *es/está levantada.
‘Marta is (standing) up.’
b. La niña ya *es/está bautizada.
‘The little girl is already baptized.’
The last prediction is that adjectives with underlying processes are compat-
ible with both copulas or with neither. It turns out that process adjectives
appear with both copulas, as shown in (8.17):
(8.17) a. Luisa fue/estuvo sincera. (volverse sincero ‘become sincere’)
‘Luisa was sincere.’
b. Juana es/está muy alta. (crecer ‘grow’ is the underlying predicate)
‘Juana is very tall.’
c. Luis es/está muy joven. (envejecer ‘get old’ is the underlying
predicate)
‘Luis is very young.’
Thus, applying the notion of time stability to adjectives allows us to make
a series of predictions that turn out to be true. However, several questions
remain unanswered. For one, why is a resultant-state event-adjective like
casado ‘married’, which is predicted to appear only with estar, also found with
ser? Moreover, for those adjectives that allow both copulas, what is the differ-
ence in interpretation with one and the other copula and is there any way of
predicting the different interpretations that arise? To attempt an answer to
these questions, we introduce the notion of directionality in the classification
of the adjectives. We will also discuss the issue of pragmatically feasible
interpretations that follow from the semantics of the ‘copula  adjective’
construction with ser and estar, as well as conventionalization of patterns.
Directionality of underlying processes and events according to the
animacy of the referent
It turns out that if we introduce the notion of directionality into the
classification of the adjectives we are dealing with, we can predict with
greater accuracy the compatibility of ser and estar with adjectives in the
‘copula  adjective’ construction. For adjectives such as mortal ‘mortal’, in
our naïve, every-day understanding of how the world works, there is no
directionality between mortal ‘mortal’ and its antonym inmortal ‘immortal’,
or between finito ‘finite’ and its antonym infinito ‘infinite’. Directionality is
typically linked to an underlying process or event. For example, in reference
to living entities, alto ‘tall’ assumes growth and growth is a unidirectional
process in our naïve understanding of the world. In the world, an animate
entity is thought to grow bigger or taller, but not smaller or shorter. A subject
referent can be bajo ‘short’, joven ‘young’, or nuevo and over time become
become alto ‘tall’ or viejo ‘old’. Both of these cases involve a unidirectional
process (UP) (bajo → alto, joven/nuevo → viejo).
In the case of the pair sincero ‘sincere’ and insincero ‘insincero’ a bidirec-
tional process (BP) is involved. As Clements (1988) argues, in reference to
an inherent trait (as opposed to a behaviour) of an animate referent a per-
son can over time become sincere or insincere (sincero ↔ insincero).
Directionality is also apparent in events. The antonym pair soltero
‘unmarried’ and casado ‘married’ involves a unidirectional event (UE)
(soltero → casado), whereas the pair levantado–sentado ‘standing–sitting’
involves a bidirectional event (BE). Finally, there are dynamic situations that
can be considered as bidirectional events or bidirectional processes, depend-
ing on the context. For example, the adjectives bonito–feo ‘pretty–ugly’ in
Spanish can have either an underlying event or an underlying process. An
event-interpretation of (8.17a) is that Juanita made herself look pretty using
dress, make up, and so on. An process-interpretation of (8.17b) is that
Juanita may not have been so beautiful in the past, say as a teenager, but
having grown out of teenagerhood has become a beautiful woman:
(8.17) a. Ahora Juanita está bonita.
‘Now Juanita is beautiful.’
b. Ahora Juanita es bonita.
‘Now Juanita is beautiful.’
By including directionality in the classification, we distinguish the adjective
types given in Figure 8.4 and displayed in terms of features in Table 8.2.
Before discussing these adjective classes with animate and inanimate ref-
erents, we would like to revisit the notions of individual-level and stage-level
predicates in light of the discussion of the adjectives so far. We saw earlier
that alto ‘tall’ (and we can now add bajo ‘short’ by extension) is considered
an ILP. We also saw that this fact has no bearing on whether alto can appear
with ser or estar. We would like to propose that the distinction between ILPs
and SLPs is not necessarily a semantic distinction, but rather a pragmatic one
that in some languages may conventionalize into a semantic distinction. As
suggested by Yoon (2001), for Spanish it is more accurate to speak in terms
of IL and SL Readings. As an illustration, we take the examples in (8.18):
(8.18) a. Mary es alta.
‘Mary is tall.’ (synchronic comparison with her peer age group)
b. Mary está alta.
‘Mary is tall.’ (compared with an earlier stage of her life)
172 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
J. Clancy Clements 173
The reading of (8.18a) is that Mary is tall with respect to a class, say, her age
group (see Falk, 1979). Following Carlson (1977) and others, the predicate
alta ‘tall’ is considered an ILP, where tallness is a defining property of Mary.
However, in Spanish the property alta ‘tall’ is only a defining characterisic of
the referent if it appears as ser alta. We shall call this an IL Reading. If alta
appears with estar, we obtain an entirely different reading. In sentence
(8.18b) Mary is tall, not in relation to her peers, but rather as compared to
an earlier time at which she herself was shorter. Given that in this reading,
tallness is not a defining property of Mary among her peers, it cannot be
the case that this interpretation depends solely on the adjective. Rather, it
must depend on the combination estar  adjective. Following Yoon (2001),
we call the reading that corresponds to the sentence (8.18b) a SL reading.
Thus, although the distribution of ser and estar in the ‘copula  adjective’
construction is not accounted for by the ILP–SLP distinction, it is possible to
say that the ‘ser  adjective’ construction will tend to correspond to an IL
reading, and the ‘estar  adjective’ to a SL reading. However, we will see that
there are counterexamples to this generalization.
Adjectives with no
underlying dynamic
situation
Adjectives with an
underlying dynamic
situation
Event adjectives Process adjectives
UE ADJs BE ADJs BE/BP ADJs UP ADJs BP ADJs
Figure 8.4 Spanish adjective classification
Table 8.2 Examples of Spanish adjective types in terms of features
mortal / despierto / muerto / sincero / alto / bonito / —7
Event adjective     ()  
Process adjective       
Bidirectional       
Unidirectional       
Source: Based on Clements (1988).
One more consideration needs to be mentioned before continuing. Above
we saw that introducing the notion of time stability leads to certain predictions
about which of the copulas is compatible with which type of adjective. States
with no apparent underlying dynamic situation are predicted to prefer
ser over estar, states having an underlying event prefer estar over ser, and
finally states with corresponding underlying processes can appear with both
copulas. We will find that, to a large extent, these predictions turn out to
be accurate. Where counterexamples emerge, we will see that they are cases
in which certain pragmatic assumptions override conventions based on
semantic considerations to yield acceptable interpretations of different
copula  adjective combinations. We now turn to this discussion, first with
animate and then with inanimate subject referents.
‘Copula  adjective’ construction with an animate referent
At the one extreme of the continuum shown in Figure 8.3, a copulative
sentence containing an animate subject referent and a predicate adjective
with underlying event or process, such as mortal ‘mortal’, venezolano
‘Venezuelan’, or inteligente ‘intelligent’, is not affected by the lack of time sta-
bility of any underlying event or process. On this view, adjectives of this type
are relatively more time-stable than those with an underlying process or
event. We argue that the higher time stability of these adjectives is compati-
ble with the semantically empty nature of ser, which is unmarked for
[aspect]. Thus, we expect such adjectives to appear with ser and have an IL
reading. This prediction is borne out. We have seen examples of this in (8.1)
above and include another example in (8.19):8
(8.19) El presidente {es/*está} {mortal/venezolano/inteligente}.
‘The president is {mortal/Venezuelan/intelligent}.’
On the other extreme of the continuum are the event-adjectives. We argue
that the relatively lower time stability of the underlying events of these
adjectives (which are often punctual) determines their incompatibility with
ser and their compatibility (both bidirectional levantado ‘standing’ and uni-
directional bautizado ‘baptized’ and muerto ‘dead’) with estar (with the corre-
sponding SL reading). This prediction is borne out, as we can see from the
sentences in (8.20). Event-adjectives combine with estar and yield a SL read-
ing. This is overwhelmingly the case for the bidirectional adjectives we
examined (cansado ‘tired’, despierto ‘awake’, harto ‘fed up’, descalzo ‘barefoot’,
enojado ‘angry’):9
(8.20) a. Luz {*es/está} levantada.
‘Luz is up/standing.’
174 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
J. Clancy Clements 175
b. La niña {*es/está} bautizada.
‘The little girl is baptized.’
c. La cucaracha está muerta.
‘The cockroach is dead.’
However, there were exceptions for the unidirectional adjectives. We find
that some (not all) of the unidirectional event-adjectives combine with ser
and refer to the particular status of an individual, usually a legal status, over-
riding the effect of the less time-stable underlying event. This reading would
arguably correspond to an IL reading. For example, although the adjective
casado ‘married’ is found with estar 80 per cent (185/230) of the time in
CREA, if the civil status of being a married person is being referred to, ser
casado is used. In all of these cases, there are contexts in which routine infor-
mation regarding family is provided, as in ‘married, with two children,’ or in
contexts such as (8.21) in which it is also clear that the legal status of the
referent is being referred to:
(8.21) Hace algunos días me propuso que formalizáramos nuestra
situación, pero la verdad es que no sé qué hacer, porque resulta
que él también es casado, separado legalmente y con tres hijos,
más o menos de la misma edad de los míos.
‘A few days ago, he suggested to me that we formalize our situa-
tion, but the truth is that I don’t know what to do, because it
turns out that he also is married, legally separated and with three
children, more or less of the same age as mine.’ (CREA)
This is also the case for other unidirectional event-adjectives, such as divorciado
‘divorced’. That is, the only case of es divorciado found in CREA is in a context
in which civil status and other such type of information is included (8.22):
(8.22) Juan es un abogado de treinta y tres años, es divorciado y tiene
una hija llamada Malena.
‘Juan is a lawyer, 33 years old, divorced, and has a daughter
named Malena.’
By contrast, está divorciado is found 10 times and not in this context.
Moreover, in a metaphorical sense, divorciado appears only with estar and not
with ser as illustrated in (8.23). This suggests that the default is, most likely,
estar divorciado:
(8.23) Su idealismo, pues, está divorciado de la realidad.
‘His idealism, then, is out of touch with reality.’
According to Silva-Corvalán (1986, 1994), the unidirectional event-adjective
muerto ‘dead’ behaves similarly in that it appears with both ser and estar, both
with an SL reading.10
It is interesting to note that its antonym, vivo ‘alive’, has
different readings with ser and estar. In reference to animate entities, ser vivo
‘be lively’ refers to a defining quality, with a corresponding IL reading,
whereas estar vivo ‘be alive’ has an SL reading and is only understood as
the opposite of dead. We see, then, that in the case of unidirectional event-
adjectives, discourse considerations may favour the use of ser over estar in
some cases, but overall they appear with estar and have an SL reading.
With regard to ‘copula  process-adjectives’, the prediction is that
they will be compatible with both ser and estar. This will be discussed for
both bi- and unidirectional process-adjectives.
Compared to the bidirectional event-adjectives, bidirectional process-adjectives
as a group appear either entirely with ser, for example (in)cauto ‘(un)wary’, or
principally with ser and occasionally with estar.11
In terms of their range of ref-
erence, with an animate subject referent these adjectives more often denote a
mental, as opposed to a physical trait. As expected, there are exceptions to this
general tendency. The adjective (in)capaz ‘(in)capable’ can refer to a mental dis-
position when appearing with ser. For example, in (8.24a, b) it refers to whether
the subject referents are mentally (in)capable to carrying out something and
have an IL reading. However, this adjective appears also with estar, as in (8.24c),
where reference is made to the physical (in)capacity of procreating. No examples
of estar capaz were found in CREA or elsewhere:
(8.24) a. Beckmann es incapaz de adaptarse.
‘Beckmann is incapable of adapting.’ (CREA)
b. ¿Usted es capaz de decirle todo lo que piensa a Fidel?
‘Are you capable of telling Fidel everything you think?’(CREA)
c. Penélope: Un hombre que no nos gusta, cuanto más viejo,
mejor.
Eurimena: Si está incapaz … Pero, ¿por qué?, ¿por qué?
‘P: A man who we don’t like, the older, the better.
E: But he’s not virile anymore. … But, why?, why?’ (CREA)
The construction ‘copula  sincero’ has a similar distribution. The sentence
[ ] es/fue sincero ‘[ ] is/was sincere/was telling the truth’ occurs 60 times in
CREA with an animate subject referent. In nearly all instances, reference is
made to a particular situation in which the subject referent displays defining
property of being sincere, which in Spanish is often interpreted as telling the
truth, and is illustrated by the two examples in (8.25):
(8.25) a. Badú fue sincero al decir que tanto Estados Unidos como
México son seguros clasificados.
176 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
J. Clancy Clements 177
‘Badu was sincere in saying that the U.S. as well as Mexico are
sure to be classified [in the World Soccer Cup].’ (CREA)
b. John Kerry afirmó que el presidente George W. Bush no fue sin-
cero ante la Organización de las Naciones Unidas (ONU) sobre
la verdadera situación de la posguerra en Irak. Kerry criticó el
discurso de Bush ante la Asamblea General de la ONU en
Nueva York, en el que durante 30 minutos defendió su decision
de invader Irak el año pasado.
‘John Kerry affirmed that President George W. Bush didn’t tell
the truth before the United Nations Organization (UNO) about
the true situation of postwar Iraq. Kerry criticized Bush’s
speech to the General Assembly of the UNO in New York, in
which he spent 30 minutes defending his decision to invade
Iraq last year.’
(Radio Cooperativa, Santiago, Chile, 21 March 2004)
However, it can refer to being sincere or genuine, as shown in (8.26).
Whereas in the examples in (8.25) reference is made to a particular situation,
here reference is not only to a particular situation, but to a general behaviour
pattern of the subject referent, that of being always sincere or genuine.
(8.26) Bielsa camina todo el tiempo, pero, a veces, se queda quieto.
Y como siempre, fue sincero.
‘Bielsa walks the whole time, but at times, he stands still. And as
always, he was sincere.’
There are few examples of sincero with estar; the three we found are given in
(8.27):
(8.27) a. Y el otro autor, el Alex de la Nuez, pues me cayó bien, estuvo
sincero aunque se nota que el pisito se lo paga la SGAE …
‘And the other author, Alex de la Nuez, well I liked him, he was
sincere although it’s clear that his digs are being paid by
SGAE …’
(www.bandaancha.st/foros.php?temid430982; Raposo,
24 Feburary 2005)
b. Fernández Meca en su primero estuvo sincero y peleón, sin
conseguir lucimiento.
‘In his first [phase of the bull fight] Fernández Meca was
sincere and aggressive without being able to really shine.’
(El País. Madrid, 23 June 2002)
c. Saulo de Tarso, más tarde conocido como el apóstol Pablo,
estaba sincero cuando perseguía la iglesia.
‘Saul of Tarsus, later known at Paul the apostle, was sincere
when he pursued the church.’
(Phillip Gray, http://68.153.150.155/condenatorio_es_
preguntar_quien.htm)
In all three cases, reference is made, not to telling the truth, but rather to a
sincere attitude or behaviour. It is important to note that the examples
(8.27a, b) refer to particular instances: in the first the speaker refers to a
particular opinion written by Alex de la Nuez; in the second reference is
made to the first part of torero Fernández Meca’s performance in a particular
bullfight. In both these cases, the preterit is used. This contrasts with the use
of the imperfect estaba in (8.27c), where the speaker refers to a rather long
interval of time in which Saul of Tarsus was engaged in pursuing followers of
Jesus. In these examples, at least, the choice of preterit v. imperfect seems to
coincide with the length of the interval being referred to.
Other adjectives of this class display a slightly different range of readings
because of the nature of their reference. As bidirectional process-adjectives
cortés and descortés are predicted to combine with both ser and estar. We find
that (des)cortés ‘(im)polite’ primarily appear with ser, as in the case of sincero
‘sincere’, although some speakers admit sentences such as (8.28):
(8.28) Estuviste muy descortés con doña Ramona.
‘You were very impolite with Mrs Ramona.’
Just as with event-adjectives where pragmatic factors support possible inter-
pretations such as the exceptional ‘legal-status’ reading (IL), similarly in the
case of descortés pragmatic factors make interpretations such as the ‘transient
behaviour’ SL reading possible, apart from the default ‘defining characteris-
tic’ IL reading. Thus, descortés ‘impolite’ in (8.28) makes reference to impo-
lite behaviour displayed by the subject referent towards doña Ramona.
In CREA, we find no examples of estar with descortés, but 60 cases of
copula  cortés, of which only four cases appear with estar. These are shown
in (8.29):
(8.29) a. No por esto don Pío dejó de estar cortés, dentro de lo que su
estado le permitía.
‘Not because of that did Don Pio quit being polite, as much as
his condition permitted.’
b. Procuré estar cortés y sonreírle.
‘I tried to be polite and smile at him.’
178 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
J. Clancy Clements 179
c. No has estado muy cortés, aunque no me extraña…
‘You were not very polite, although it doesn’t surprise me…’
d. Yanguas Messía, está afable, bondadoso y cortés.
‘Yanguas Messia, is affable, kindhearted and polite.’
In each of these cases, the reference is to the behaviour of the subject referent.
But we also find a clear behaviour-reading with ser and these adjectives,
examples of which are given in (8.30):
(8.30) a. No quiero ser tan descortés.
‘I don’t want to be so impolite.’ (CREA)
b. Ni fui descortés con los alemanes de mi contorno, ni, como
algunos, cortejé el favour de los ingleses y los norteamericanos.
‘I neither was impolite to the Germans in my surrroundings,
nor did I, as some did, court the favour of the English and the
Americans.’ (CREA)
c. Tratando de ser cortés, grita hacia afuera, ‘¡Señor!’
‘Trying to be polite, he calls towards outside, “Sir!” ’ (CREA)
d. El Cabo procuró ser cortés, pero medido.
‘The private attempted to be polite, but restrained.’ (CREA)
Thus, it seems that while estar with this class of adjective has only the
SL reading, ser allows both an inherent-property reading as well as a transient-
behaviour reading. This fits within the prediction in the following way: since
bidirectional process adjectives in principle should be compatible with both
copulas, there is no reason why either an IL or an SL reading would not be
possible with both copulas. However, this is constrained by the pragmatic
nature of the properties denoted by the adjectives. The trait sincero in
Spanish refers in all cases to being (in)sincere and telling the truth (or not),
whereas cortés (and its counterpart descortés) encompasses a larger range of
references from behaving politely (with and without the desire to do so) to
possessing a polite nature.
Turning now to unidirectional process-adjectives, to discuss these we need
to comment on the nature of unidirectional processes. First, the prediction
derived from the continuum in Figure 8.3 is that these adjectives, as bidirec-
tional process-adjectives, should be compatible with both copulas and, in
addition, that the subject referent of a unidirectional process-adjective
together with discourse factors will determine the exact interpretation in
each case. For purposes of illustration, let us take as a representative example
the unidirectional process crecer ‘grow’. As predicted, process-adjectives that
refer to animate subject referents, such as alto ‘tall’ or bajo ‘short’, may refer
to a defining property of the subject referent or a nondefining property. That
is, process-adjectives can refer, at least, to a static state, to a dynamic state
that implies a set of resultant states along the trajectory of growth, or to
some other aspect of the growth process. The examples found in CREA bear
this out: those in (8.31)–(8.32) refer to a static state (with an IL reading),
those in (8.33) to a stage in a dynamic process (with an SL reading):
(8.31) Mi tío es alto y rubio…
‘My uncle is tall and blond…’
(8.32) Mi hermana es alta y bastante graciosa.
‘My sister is tall and quite funny.’
(8.33) a. ¡Qué alto estás! ¡Cómo has crecido!
‘How tall you are! How you have grown!’
b. ¡Estás más alto que nunca!
‘You are taller than ever.’
Alto (and bajo) can also be used in a metaphorical sense, referring not to height,
but to a hierarchy, as in (8.34):
(8.34) No hay duda de que Dios es alto y las criaturas son bajas.
‘There’s no doubt that God is high and the creatures are low.’
In (8.34), alto ‘high’ is a defining feature of God relative to his creatures, who
are by nature bajas ‘low’ relative to God.
When change of state involving the notions of ‘high’ and/or ‘low’ is implied,
estar alto is used (with an SL reading), as in (8.35) in which an emotional
(manic) state is being referred to and contrasted with its opposite depressive
state:
(8.35) Cuatro años después, volvía a estar alto, es decir, en otra etapa de
euforia.
‘Four years later, he returned to being high, that’s to say, in
another state of euphoria.’
The last group to be considered is the bidirectional event/process adjective.
This adjective type can freely refer to states independent of or that result
from an underlying process or event. Thus, in the copula  bidirectional
event/process adjective construction, the semantics of the copula in connec-
tion with the specific discourse situation determines whether there is an
underlying process or event or no underlying dynamic situation, and conse-
quently, the IL or SL reading. That is, a speaker can refer to someone as bonito
‘pretty’ in terms of a defining trait of the person, as in (8.36a), or as the result
of an event or process, as in (8.36b). In the latter case, the possible readings
imply either that the referent or her mother has brought about such a state
or that she has become so over time:
(8.36) a. Elisabeth es bonita y exhala dulzura y bondad.
‘Elizabeth is pretty and exudes sweetness and goodness.’
(CREA)
180 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
J. Clancy Clements 181
b. Mi Nelly es un amorcito y ahora sin la pancita está bonita.
‘My Nelly is a little love and now without her little belly she’s
pretty…’ (CREA)
Notice that copula choice with the same adjective (in this case bonita ‘beautiful,
pretty’) can change within the same conversation, and even in the speech of
the same interlocutor (in the case of linda ‘pretty, beautiful’):
(8.37) Qué bonita. ¿Y ésta es M? M, ahí sí. Esa no cambia. No, y A M. C
A y G. Ella es bonita. … Ellas dos están bonitas también. Sí, ésta
era bella cuando estaba cumpliendo quince, dieciséis años, estaba
linda, era no era porque era mi hija pero era linda. Es sí, se ve muy
bonita.
‘How pretty. And this is M. M, ah yes. That one doesn’t change.
No, and A M. C A and G. She is (ser) pretty. Those two are (estar)
also pretty. Yes, this one was (ser) beautiful when she was turning
15–16 years old, she was (estar) pretty, it was it wasn’t because she
was my daughter but she was (ser) pretty. She is, yes, she looks
very beautiful.’ (CREA)
Overall, bonita with animate subject referents appears more often with ser
than estar (10 instances to one instance in the CREA search of present-tense
forms). Thus, copula choice with this adjective is apparently similar to
copula choice with the bidirectional process-adjectives like cortés, discussed
above.
In sum, with animate subject referents, the presence of ser or estar in the
‘copula  adjective’ construction involves the semantic interplay of the ref-
erent, the copula, and the adjective within a given discourse situation. We
have proposed to capture the difference between ser and estar as unmarked v.
marked for [aspect] respectively. Our analysis of adjective semantics invokes
the notion of time stability, according to which we have at one extreme
those adjectives with no underlying dynamic situation that are arguably
more time-stable (for example inteligente ‘intelligent’), and at the other
extreme those adjectives with an underlying event (for example cansado
‘tired’), whereby events are known to be the least time-stable dynamic situa-
tions (Hopper and Thompson, 1984; Givón, 1984). The prediction following
from this analysis is that the adjectives linked to greatest degree of time sta-
bility should be most compatible with ser, and least compatible with estar,
and conversely, that the adjectives linked to the smallest degree of time sta-
bility should display most compatibility with estar, and least with ser. With
the exception of the unidirectional event adjectives (for example casado
‘married’), this prediction turned out to be accurate.
Between the two extremes of the continuum, we have on the one hand
adjectives with underlying bi- or unidirectional processes (sincero ‘sincere’,
cortés ‘polite’, alto ‘tall’) and, on the other, adjectives that can be construed
as having either no underlying dynamic situation, or an underlying process
or event (bonito ‘good-looking, pretty’). The prediction for these adjectives is
that there would be more fluidity in copula choice and semantic reading,
and indeed, this is the case. We saw that, with ser, sincero ‘sincere’ and cortés
‘polite’ can have an IL or an SL reading, depending on the context, and that
cortés ‘polite’ with estar has only an SL reading, as would be expected. With
such indeterminacy, context plays a major role in establishing the reading
for these adjectives in the ‘copula  adjective’ construction. The same is true
of adjectives such as bonito ‘good looking, pretty’, which according to con-
text and copula choice (both copulas are possible) may have no underlying
dynamic situation, or an underlying process or event. Finally, where there is
a choice between copula in the ‘copula  adjective’ construction, in terms of
frequency of occurrence ser seems to be the default for all adjectives except
the event-adjectives such as cansado ‘tired’ and casado ‘married’. This fol-
lows, we argue, from the semantics of the copula: ser is semantically empty,
while estar is marked with the feature [aspect]. If it were true, we might
expect the forms of ser overall to be more frequent than the forms of estar,
even though both ser and estar each appear in various different construc-
tions. Looking at frequency counts gleaned from two different sources
(CREA and Alameda and Cueto’s, 1996, frequency dictionary), we see that,
overall, the forms of ser are far more frequent than their corresponding forms
of estar. The comparison is shown in Table 8.3, with the form-by-form fre-
quency comparison in Table 8.4. The data suggest that of the two verbs, in
general, ser is the default copula. We also note that with the exception of the
singular imperfect forms (era and estaba) in Alameda and Cuetos, which are
more numerous than in CREA, the percentages largely coincide.
182 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
Table 8.3 Comparison of commonly occurring verb forms of ser and estar
CREA Alameda and Cuetos
Verb forms Raw numbers Percentage Verb forms Raw numbers Percentage
es 957,399 57 es 14,453 54
ser 232,525 14 ser 3,467 13
son 217,181 13 son 2,897 11
era 212,883 13 era 5,201 19
eran 45,496 3 eran 939 3
Total 1,665,484 100 Total 26,957 100
está 195,934 44 está 2,050 35
estar 47,767 11 estar 646 11
están 81,467 18 están 711 12
estaba 93,156 21 estaba 1,925 34
estaban 26,914 6 estaban 488 8
Total 445,238 100 Total 5,820 100
J. Clancy Clements 183
In Table 8.4, we see that the singular present-tense and infinitival forms of
ser are, apart from being far more numerous, more frequent than the corre-
sponding forms in estar, while the imperfect forms of ser are somewhat less
frequent. The two sources differ the most on the plural present-tense form.
The main point of this comparison is, however, that ser is undisputedly
the default copula in Spanish.
‘Copula  adjective’ construction with an inanimate referent
The characterization proposed for adjectives with animate subject referents
in the ‘copula  adjective’ construction can be adjusted to discuss inanimate
subject referents. In this section, we examine what and where the similarities
and differences are.
Earlier we stated that the ‘copula  adjective’ construction is most accu-
rately accounted for by taking into consideration the interaction between
the semantics of the copula, the semantics and pragmatics of reference, and
the discourse situation, as well as the animacy of the subject referent. In the
last section, we have seen that an animate subject referent determines in a
relatively homogeneous manner the underlying directionality of adjectives
and their reference to situations (for example growing is unidirectional and
becoming tired/rested is bidirectional). Mutatis mutandis, the same can be
predicted of inanimate subject referents in the ‘copula  adjective’ con-
struction. Although there is an obvious difference between animate and
inanimate referents, they have in common some key properties. For exam-
ple, as compared to states, processes and events, both animate as well as
inanimate entities – people, animals, plants and things – represent what
Lyons (1977: 443) calls first-order entities. On the time stability continuum
in Figure 8.3, first-order entities are at the left of the continuum and contrast
with second-order entities – states, processes and events. As Lyons (1977:
443) notes, states, processes and events ‘are located in time and … in
English, are said to take place, rather than exist’. It is reasonable to assume
Table 8.4 Form-by-form frequency comparison of different forms of ser and estar
CREA Alameda and Cuetos
Verb forms Raw numbers Percentage Verb forms Raw numbers Percentage
es/está 957,399/195,934 83/17 es/está 14,453/2,050 88/12
ser/estar 232,525/47,767 83/17 ser/estar 3,467/646 84/16
son/están 217,181/81,467 73/27 son/están 2,897/711 80/20
era/estaba 212,883/93,156 70/30 era/estaba 5,201/1,925 73/27
eran/estaban 45,496/26,914 63/37 eran/estaban 939/488 66/34
Total 1,665,484/ 79/21 TOTAL 26,957/5,820 82/18
445,238
that this also obtains for Spanish. Apart from being second-order entities,
states, processes and events are considered first-order properties, which can
be ascribed to first-order entities (Lyons 1977: 439). Specifically, adjectives
such as alto ‘tall, high’, cansado ‘tired’ or roto ‘broken’ are, as states, second-
order entities, as well as first-order properties in that they can be ascribed to
first-order entities. For example, in Juanita es alta ‘Juanita is tall’, Marta está
cansada ‘Marta is tired’, and la radio está rota ‘the radio is broken’, the states
‘tall’, ‘tired’ and ‘broken’ are ascribed through predication to the entities
Juanita, Marta and la radio respectively.
If the subject referent denotes an inanimate first-order entity, such as an
object, the issue becomes whether, in our naïve understanding of the world,
the denoted entity can undergo alteration or not with respect to a given state
or a given spatial position. If we are talking about the moon, for example, we
acknowledge that its state of visibility changes; in the case of a road, it can
be made wider or narrower, and so on. Given that the directionality of the
states predicated of inanimate subject referents hinges upon whether they
are considered alterable or not with respect to a given spatial position or a
given state, this feature is pragmatically assessed by the speaker within a
given situation for each subject referent. Consequently, the interpretation of
a given adjective depends on the speaker’s assessment of the situation and
the nature of the elements involved in the utterance.
Adjectives predicated of an inanimate subject referent that have no imag-
inable underlying event or process, such as infinito ‘infinite’, are assumed to
behave like their counterparts mortal ‘mortal’ and inteligente ‘intelligent’ in
their compatibility with ser and lack thereof with estar, and in their seman-
tic reading (they have an IL reading). This turns out to be the case, as illus-
trated by the example in (8.38) from CREA. In our database search, we found
no cases of estar with infinito ‘infinite’ or finito ‘finite’.
(8.38) El presente es infinito. El futuro no tiene más realidad que la
esperanza actual.
‘The present is infinite. The future doesn’t have any more reality
than current hope.’
Event adjectives with inanimate subject referents generally behave as they
do with animate subject referents, although, as just mentioned, directional-
ity depends on the semantic nature of the subject referent and discourse con-
siderations, including our understanding of the world. The examples in
(8.39) are bidirectional event-adjectives that denote the resultant state of
their corresponding event:
(8.39) a. abrir–cerrar → abierto–cerrado
‘to open–to close’ ‘open–closed’
184 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
J. Clancy Clements 185
b. tapar–destapar → tapado–destapado
‘to cover–to uncover’ ‘covered–uncovered’
c. encender–apagar → encendido–apagado
‘to turn on–to turn off’ ‘on–off’
Due to the lower time stability of the underlying events of these adjectives
(they are punctual), they are predicted to be incompatible with ser and com-
patible with estar, and have an SL reading.12
This prediction is borne out. As
we can see from the sentences in (8.40), event-adjectives combine with estar
and yield an SL reading:
(8.40) a. La puerta *es/está abierta/cerrada.13
‘The door is open/closed.’
b. La botella *es/está tapada/destapada.
‘The bottle has its lid on.’
c. La luz *es/está encendida/apagada.
‘The light is turned on/off.’
With inanimate subject referents, some event-adjectives can be either uni-
or bidirectional, depending on the nature of the subject referent they appear
with. For example, given that typically we understand the breaking
of an object, such as a cup, to be unidirectional, the sentence (8.41a) is
considered unacceptable, or at best odd. The sentence (8.41b), however, is
well-formed given our understanding of how radios work and how they can
be repaired again and again to a functioning state:
(8.41) a. *?La taza está siempre intacta/rota.
‘The cup is always intact/broken.’
b. La radio está siempre intacta/rota.
‘The radio is always intact/broken.’
The adjective intacto ‘intact’ is an anomaly because there is no event neces-
sarily underlying the state, but rather a lack of such an event, one that may
be expected to have happened but did not. This is apparent in the examples
in (8.42) taken from CREA. (8.42a) is said of an animal that underwent an
operation. In this case, one expectation may have been that the swallowing
reflex would stop functioning because of the severity of the operation, yet it
did not:
(8.42) a. El reflejo de tragar está intacto.
‘The swallowing reflex is intact.’ (CREA)
b. El poder atómico de Rusia está intacto.
‘Russia’s atomic power is still intact.’ (CREA)
In (8.42b), there may have been an expectation that Russia’s atomic power
would not be intact because of the dissolution of the Soviet Union, yet it
remains. Thus, one argument that intacto appears obligatorily with estar and
not with ser is that there is a potential but unrealized underlying event.
However, perhaps a simpler account is that intacto–roto ‘intact–broken’ are
considered an antonymic pair and thus would share the same syntactic con-
straints. In other words, they would appear in the same constructions, such
as in the ‘copula  adjective’ construction. This would constitute a more
local explanation of the behaviour of intacto.
Properties denoted by adjectives that are typically considered to have an
underlying event, such as limpio ‘clean’ in (8.43a) (limpiar el apartamento
‘clean the apartment’ is the underlying, durative event) and sucio ‘dirty’ in
(8.43b) (ensuciarse el escritorio ‘the desk to become dirty’ is the underlying,
durative event),
(8.43) a. Después me acerco al escritorio que está limpio, quiero decir,
no hay nada sobre él, salvo una lata de té Mazawattee, vacía,
usada para guardar lápices, un marcador rojo, una regla, una
goma de borrar, un broche de metal.
‘Then I approach the desk, which is clean, I mean, there’s
nothing on top of it, except an empty tin of Mazawatee tea,
used to hold pencils, a red marker, a ruler, an eraser, a metal
brooch.’ (CREA)
b. El apartamento está sucio, yo apurada limpiando cuando
llama él.
‘The apartment is dirty, and I harried cleaning when he calls.’
(CREA)
can also be understood as defining characteristics of an object, independently
of any underlying event. On such as reading, they can refer to how an object
is made or to an inherent property of an object. In (8.44a), the use of ser with
sucio and limpio here expresses that coal is dirty or not clean by its very nature.
In (8.44b), the train is perceived as clean from the perspective of how it is fur-
nished and finished, both of which are defining characteristics of the train:
(8.44) a. Los detractores del carbón dicen que este combustible es sucio.
El carbón no es sucio y de hecho se está empleando hasta en
industrias alimentarias: es su manipulación la que puede no ser
limpia, si no se utilizan las técnicas adecuadas.
‘Detractors of coal say that this solid fuel is dirty. Coal is not
dirty and in fact it is even used in the food industry. It is its use
that has not been clean if the suitable technology is not
employed.’ (CREA)
186 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
J. Clancy Clements 187
b. Adentro, el tren es limpio, con asientos tapizados en azul y
rojo, con ventanas grandes y claras.
‘Inside, the train is clean, with seats upolstered in blue and red,
with large and clear windows.’ (CREA)
With inanimate subject referents, adjectives such as the antonymic pair
nuevo–viejo ‘new–old’ is of the unidirectional process-adjective type, analo-
gous to alto ‘tall’ with animate subject referents. Such adjectives generally
refer to the relative age span or to the aging of a given object, and correspond
to the underlying process of aging or developing. Adjectives having such an
underlying process may or may not be perceived as denoting resultant states,
although the semantics of their underlying predicates do not have an end-
point coded in their semantics. Just as in the case of the unidirectional
process crecer ‘grow’ discussed above, the process of an object aging can be
viewed as a series of various resultant states along the trajectory of aging or
as a continuous development. Thus, we would expect that unidirectional
process-adjectives, situated as they are in the middle on time stability con-
tinuum, would be compatible with both ser and estar. The examples in (8.45)
bear this out:
(8.45) a. El coche es viejo.
‘The car is old.’
b. El hecho de cambiar de coche, ¿tú crees que se debe al hecho
de que aumenta la familia, primariamente?, ¿o tal vez al hecho
de que el coche está viejo, y por eso se cambia?
‘The fact of getting another car, do you think it’s because of the
fact that the family is getting bigger, primarily, or perhaps
because of the fact that the car is getting old, and because of
that it’s being exchanged?’ (CREA)
The developmental process of entities generally considered slightly ani-
mate to inanimate (for example fruit, vegetables, meat, and so on) is unidi-
rectional in the sense that it follows one of at least two developmental paths:
immature → mature → rotten/dried or fresh → rotten. One would expect
adjectives denoting entities that undergo one of these processes to also
behave like unidirectional process-adjectives such as alto ‘tall’, and this is in
fact the case. To denote the defining colour of an apple, for instance, ser is
used, independently of the developmental process it undergoes (cf. 8.46a).
The same sentence with estar, given in (8.46b), implies a comparison with
another state of the apple in the same way that in sentence (8.33) alto ‘tall’
implies a comparison with another state of the referent:
(8.46) a. La manzana es roja/verde. (a defining characteristic)
‘The apple is red/green.’
b. La manzana está roja/verde (stage of maturation).
‘The apple is red (ripe)/green (unripe).’
The notion of an edible object being tasty or delicious may be reasonably
assumed to be a unidirectional process or event. That is, an adjective such as
sabroso ‘tasty, delicious’, mentioned in the introduction to the chapter, is con-
sidered, among other things, the result of its development over time (process,
with ser and estar), or as the result of being cooked (event, with estar). We
find, however, that there are other factors involved, such as whether the
objects being ascribed the property sabroso ‘tasty’ are understood as generic or
specific in discourse. For example, in the sentence in (8.47a) the meat spoken
of is understood to be a generic reference. The sentence contains a condition
event (the ‘fattening up’ event), which would result in the turkey meat being
delicious. The sentence in (8.47a) is a general, timeless, conditional state-
ment. This is also true of (8.47b), in which the meat (with generic reference)
would be delicious (the result) if it is prepared in a certain manner (the prepa-
ration event). Again, it is a general, timeless, conditional statement. The time-
lessness and generality of these statements present them as general truths and
therefore sabroso appears with ser and has an IL reading:
(8.47) a. La carne de los guajolotes es sabrosa y aun exquisita si se ha
cebado cuidadosamente.
‘Turkey meat is tasty and even exquisite if they have been fat-
tened up carefully.’
b. Si la carne se cocina cuando el agua ya está hirviendo la super-
ficie se coagula y se impide en cierta medida la salida de jugos,
esta carne es sabrosa, jugosa y conservará su poder nutritivo y
sabor …
‘If the meat is cooked when the water is already boiling the sur-
face coagulates and to a certain extent blocks the juices from
getting out, this meat is tasty, juicy, and it will conserve its
nutritional value and its flavour.’ (CREA)
This adjective appears with estar when reference is made to a particular
instance in which the objects themselves are definite in discourse, in the sense
of being identifiable by the speaker. For instance, in (8.48) the discourse par-
ticipant A offers discourse participant B a mandarin orange in the first turn of
the conversation provided here. B accepts the offer, and A then refers back to
‘a mandarin’ with the definite pronoun, indicating that it is identifiable:
(8.48) A. ¿Quiere una mandarina? B. Sí, por favour. A. Tómesela, está
sabrosa …
‘A. Do you want a mandarin orange? B. Yes, please. A. Take it, it’s
tasty.’ (CREA)
188 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
J. Clancy Clements 189
This case of está sabrosa ‘it is tasty’ is remarkable because there is no
implication of an underlying process or event. We argue that it appears with
estar because the statement refers to a definite object identifiable in a partic-
ular discourse situation. With estar sabroso, a personal experience, implied or
real, of an edible item is expressed. In this particular case, we assume that the
speaker A is speaking of the batch of mandarins which she has sampled and
one of which she offers to her interlocutor B.
Turning to bidirectional process/event-adjectives, an adjective such as
bonito ‘pretty, beautiful’ with inanimate subject referents, as with its animate
counterparts, can refer to a defining property of an entity or to a phase or
stage of the object, either with an underlying event or process. In a conver-
sation, given in (8.49), we find both es bonito ‘it is beautiful’, as well as está
bonito ‘it is beautiful’. The difference is that the first use refers to a place
(Chorrera) being beautiful as a defining property of the place (corresponding
to an IL reading). In the second use, reference is made to the fact that the
place has undergone restoration. That is, there is a restoration event under-
lying the state denoted by está bonito and it has a SL reading.
(8.49) A. La Chorrera allá en Bailadores es muy bonito … .
‘The Chorrera there in Bailadores is very beautiful … .’
B. Hace mucho tiempo.
‘Quite a while back.’
A. Eso es una belleza, eso lo han arreglado mucho. Ahorita está
muy aseado eso.
‘It’s a beauty, they’ve fixed it up a lot. Now it all very clean.’
B. Sí está bonito.
‘Yes, it is beautiful.’ (CREA)
In (8.50), we find that está bonita makes reference to a similar situation as in
(8.49b), linking the fact that the school has been cleaned to the observation
that it is pretty, with the corresponding SL reading:
(8.50) Pues está bonita la escuela. Y qué limpia.
‘Well the school is pretty. And how clean it is.’ (CREA)
Some unidirectional process adjectives with animate subject referents,
such as alto ‘tall, high’ and bajo ‘short, low’, behave with an inanimate sub-
ject referent like bidirectional event/process adjectives. Even if reference is
made to spatial relations, objects can be spoken of with ser, as shown in
(8.51), arguably because the location of the place is a defining property of
the place of the object:
(8.51) a. El lugar es alto, ventoso, misérrimo como toda región otomí.
‘The place is high, windswept, wretched as all Otomi regions.’
(CREA)
b. … un Cristo antiguo de madera, de tamaño natural y expresión
severa y dulce, inclina la cabeza, resignada y tristemente, como
queriendo implorar el perdón. La cruz es alta, de color verde
claro, y en su parte posterior dos escaleras llegan hasta sus
brazos.
‘An old wooden crucifix, life-size and showing a harsh and
sweet expression, bows its head, resigned and sad, as if wanting
to implore forgiveness. The cross is high, light green in color,
and behind it two stairways go up to its arms.’ (CREA)
Even in reference to something as fluctuating as the height of the water in a
river, both alto and bajo appear with ser and estar. In the example in (8.52),
the topic is the mass extinction that took place millions of years ago and that
is recorded in the fossil record. We include a larger portion of the text to
show that it is a general statement, and it may to due to this that alto and
bajo appear with ser:
(8.52) Pregunta: ¿se debió esta extinción a un suceso repentino producto
de una catástrofe, o se trató de un evento gradual? Imagine que
usted deja caer gotas de tinta roja a un ritmo constante, digamos
una gota por minuto, en un río, y que en una estación a un
kilómetro río abajo realiza muestreos del agua una vez al día. Si el
caudal del río es alto, la tinta se diluirá más que si el caudal es
bajo, como por ejemplo durante una sequía.
‘Question: Is this extinction due to a sudden event such as a cata-
strophe, or does it involve a gradual event? [Answer:] Imagine
that you squeeze drops of red ink at a constant rate, say one drop
per minute, into a river and, that one kilometer downstream from
that place we have our testing station set in and we carry out our
water samplings once a day. If the volume of the river is high, the
ink will become diluted more than if the volume is low, as for
example during a drought.’ (CREA)
However, this is not a steadfast rule. In (8.53), for example, we have a general
statement involving a water levels in the sea where alta appears with estar:
(8.53) Los pulpos son muy tímidos dice, todo les asusta, permanecen
acurrucados a la puerta de sus casitas, cuando la mar está alta se
les puede ver allí desde la lancha …
‘Octopuses are very timid he says, everything scares them, they
stay curled up at the door of their little houses, when the sea is
high, they can be seen there from the boat …’ (CREA)
190 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
J. Clancy Clements 191
An example that portrays the concrete situation of low water volume in the
Amazon as a process expressed with estar, is shown in (8.54):
(8.54) La navegación se hace cada vez más lenta. El río está muy bajo y
se debe andar con mucho tino para evitar quedar encallados.
‘Navigating [the Amazon] is increasingly slow. The river is very
low and we have to proceed with very sound judgment to avoid
running aground.’ (CREA)
The location of an object May be referred to in relation to its surroundings,
and in (8.55) the use of estar expresses its location with regard to the back-
ground of the valley in which it is situated:
(8.55) La casa está muy baja (situada en un valle).
‘The house is (situated) very low (in the valley).’
(VAÑO-CERDÁ, 1982: 146)
Given what has been discussed so far, we can now expect objects that
change or are alterable with respect to their physical characteristics to be
compatible with both ser and estar. This is true with rivers and seas, we
expect a certain amount of fluctuation with their water volume based on our
understanding of the world. If we apply our understanding of the world to
something commonly thought to fluctuate less, such as the height of build-
ings, we see that referring to the height of a building does not allow con-
strual with both ser and estar, even though we know that buildings can be
made taller or shorter. Most native speakers find the sentence in (8.56) to be
unacceptable with estar, and no examples of this were found in CREA:
(8.56) Con la adición de otros diez pisos, este edificio ahora es/*está alto.
‘With the addition of another ten floors, this building is now tall.’
This leads us to conclude that our knowledge of the world dictates what may
or may not be conceived of as having an underlying dynamic situation. And
this, in turn, most likely depends on frequency of occurrence. That is, from
a relative and impressionistic perspective, buildings are less frequently made
taller or shorter than, for example, rivers become higher or lower, or roads
are made wider or narrower. Although CREA has no examples of (8.57b),
native speakers consulted found this example acceptable:
(8.57) a. La carretera es ancha ahora. (defining characteristic)
‘The road is wide now.’
b. ¡Qué ancha está la carretera! (resultant state)
‘How wide the road is!’ (FALK, 1979: 73)
In both sentences, the comparison involves knowledge on the part of the
speaker about a previous state of the road. In sentence (8.57a), the speaker
expresses that a defining trait of the road is now its wideness. With (8.57b),
the speaker expresses that the road in question is wider than before,
although there is no implication that for this reason a defining characteris-
tic of the road is its wideness. Hence, a sentence such as (8.58), in which it is
expressed that the road is wider but not wide, is entirely acceptable:
(8.58) Ahora la carretera está más ancha que antes pero todavía no es
muy ancha.
‘Now the road is wider than before but it is still not very wide.’
Thus, in determining the possibility of ser v. estar in the ‘copula  adjective’
construction, not only the semantics of the copulas and the adjectives comes
into play, but also pragmatic knowledge about how we perceive our world to
work, which in turn seems to be a function of frequency.
To summarize this section, adjectives on the left end of the time stability
continuum in Figure 8.3, that is, those adjectives without any underlying
dynamic situation, such as infinito–finito ‘infinite–finite’, behave identically
with inanimate or animate subject referents: they appear with ser, not with
estar, and they have an IL reading. Similarly, those adjectives on the right
end of the time stability continuum, such as the clear-cut event-adjective cer-
rado ‘closed’, and so on, behave like their counterparts with animate subject
referents: they appear with estar, rarely if ever with ser, and have an SL read-
ing. In the centre of the continuum, for inanimate subject referents we find
no process-adjectives equivalent to sincero ‘sincere’ or cortés ‘polite’ for ani-
mate subject referents. What we have are unidirectional process-adjectives
such as nuevo–viejo ‘new–old’ and event/process-adjectives, that is, those that
can have no underlying dynamic situation or an underlying process or
event, such as bonito ‘pretty, beautiful’. As expected, these appear with both
ser and estar, with the respective IL and SL readings. The interpretation of the
adjectives in this class depend on the semantic nature of the subject referent,
but possibly more on discourse-related considerations and how we perceive
our world to function. In turn, our understanding of the world is, at least in
part, a function of frequency of occurrence of certain situations and how we
conventionalize the encoding of them over time.
‘Copula  adjective’ construction with a second-order
entity as subject referent
In the previous section the distinction was mentioned between first- and
second-order entities, following Lyons (1977: 439–43). Recall that first-order
entities include people, animals, plants and things, while second-order
192 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
J. Clancy Clements 193
entities are states, processes and events more likely to be located in time and
to take place rather than exist.
Second-order entities are typically encoded in Spanish as adjectives and
verbs. However, adjectives and verbs can be nominalized through deriva-
tional morphological processes. For example, the adjectives alto ‘high, tall’,
cansado ‘tired’, and roto ‘broken’ can be nominalized respectively as altura
‘height’, cansancio ‘tiredness’ and rotura ‘breaking’, although these nominal-
izations do not always correspond exactly to their respective adjectival coun-
terparts. Leaving the syntactic and word-class differences aside, while
el cansancio de Marta ‘Marta’s tiredness’ is roughly equivalent to Marta está
cansada ‘Marta is tired’, la altura de Juan ‘Juan’s height’ is not equal to Juan es
alto ‘John is tall’ because Juan es bajo ‘Juan is short’ also corresponds to
la altura de Juan ‘Juan’s height’. Similarly, the phrase la rotura del plato ‘the
breaking of the plate’ is not equivalent to el plato está roto ‘the plate is bro-
ken,’ because roto refers to the resultant state of the event romper ‘break’,
whereas rotura ‘breaking’ refers to the event itself. Even though such differ-
ences exist between adjectives and their corresponding derived nominals, as
long as the derived nominal refer to a state, event or activity, we maintain
that they are second-order entities.
The qualification regarding the reference to states, events or activities is
necessary because deverbal and deadjectival nominalizations can come to
refer to first-order entities. Dokulil (1968), Lüdke (1978) and Clements
(1979) discuss nominalizations that change or expand reference from sec-
ond- to first-order entities. They note that it is not uncommon for nouns
derived from verbs to come to denote objects or individuals. Nouns from
intransitive verbs, for example, can come to refer to the subject of the under-
lying verb. So, the deverbal noun congregación ‘congregation’ from congregar
‘congregate’ can refer not only to the action of congregating, but also to
those individuals who have congregated, which is a first-order entity.
Similarly, nouns derived from transitive verbs can come to refer to the object
of the underlying verb. For instance, the deverbal noun creación ‘creation’
from crear ‘create’ can refer not only to the act or action of creating some-
thing, but also to the resultant object of the act of creating, which again is a
first-order entity.
In addressing the question of compatibility of the copulas with second-
order entities, we refer to those nominalizations that exclusively denote a
state, process, or event. For this discussion, we have chosen the nominaliza-
tion conocimiento ‘knowledge’ from the stative verb conocer ‘know, be
acquainted with’, the nominal form acciones ‘actions’, which has no clear
underlying verb but is semantically a second-order entity, and two nominaliza-
tions from punctual verbs, muerte ‘death’ (from morir ‘die’) and llegada ‘arrival’
(from llegar ‘arrive’).
The nominalization conocimiento appears with both copulas.14
It appears
with ser when the property denoted by the adjective is to be understood as
being a defining property of conocimiento and has the corresponding IL
reading. In (8.59a), the speaker compares knowledge to imagination
and intuition, concluding that knowledge is limited by its own nature.
Interesting here is the appearance of ser with a participial adjective, but it is
important to note that limitado ‘limited’ is not necessarily an event-adjective
because limitar can be a stative verb in the sense of a statement such as know-
ledge limits imagination. Assuming stative limitar, ser with stative-verb par-
ticipial adjectives is not uncommon, as evidenced by examples such as
es sabido que ‘it is known that’ or Marta es muy querida ‘Marta is very beloved’.
(8.59) a. La imaginación y la intuición son más importantes que el
conocimiento. El conocimiento es limitado. La imaginación
abarca al mundo entero.
‘Imagination and intuition are more important than knowl-
edge. Knowledge is limited. Imagination encompasses the
whole world.’ (CREA)
b. La universidad es un cimiento arcaico. Es un instrumento
arcaico, nacido hace muchos siglos, cuando los conocimientos
humanos se limitaban a cinco o seis disciplinas. Hoy, el
conocimiento es increíblemente extenso.
‘The university is an archaic foundation. It is an archaic instru-
ment, born many centuries ago, when human knowledge was
limited to five or six disciplines. Today, knowledge is incredibly
extensive.’ (CREA)
c. Todo conocimiento es cultural y, por tanto, adquirido.
‘All knowledge is cultural and, therefore, acquired.’ (CREA)
d. El conocimiento es radical.
‘Knowledge is radical.’ (CREA)
The example in (8.59b) is interesting because the state of general knowledge
in different eras is being compared. Whereas in (8.59a) knowledge is being
compared to other entities – something akin to a class comparison – in
(8.59b) knowledge is being compared to itself at different stages. That is, the
development of knowledge is being addressed. Given our discussion of the
unidirectional process-adjectives such as alto ‘tall, high’, we might expect
knowledge accumulation to be largely a unidirectional process and that
conocimiento should appear with estar in a context in which such accumula-
tion is implied. This is, however, not the case. This is one indication that
second-order entities behave differently than first-order entities with respect
to copula choice.
In the example (8.59c), knowledge is being defined as cultural and thus
appears with ser. In (8.59d), the property ‘radical’ is being attributed to
knowledge as a defining trait.
194 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
J. Clancy Clements 195
The noun conocimiento ‘knowledge’ also appears with estar, as shown by
the examples in (8.60):
(8.60) a. El conocimiento está intrínsecamente vinculado a la
comunicación.
‘Knowledge is intrinsically linked to communication.’ (CREA)
b. El conocimiento está afectado por el reduccionismo.
‘Knowledge is affected by reductionism.’ (CREA)
c. El conocimiento está disperso, extendido, es múltiple en el
seno de la naturaleza.
‘Knowledge is scattered, widespread, it is multifarious in the
bosom of nature.’ (CREA)
In (8.60a, b), estar appears with the event-adjectives vinculado ‘linked’ and
afectado ‘affected’, which is predicted since such adjectives appear almost
exclusively with estar. In (8.60c) there is the additional feature of implied
space in the adjectives disperso ‘scattered’ and extendido ‘widespread’, and
one would expect them to appear with estar, even though the implication to
spatial relations is metaphorical.
The next set of examples involves the noun acciones ‘actions’. In each of
the cases in (8.61)–(8.62), acciones ‘actions’ is clearly a second-order entity. In
(8.61a), ser appears because the adjective is a derived in ble. All derived
adjectives in ble appear solely with ser. The adjective necesario ‘necessary’ in
(8.61b) can be interpreted as a defining feature of acciones ‘actions’ because
of its semantics, regardless of whether there is an underlying process/event
or not:
(8.61) a. Estas acciones son denunciables ante los Tribunales ordinarios.
‘These actions are reportable before the ordinary courts.’
(CREA)
b. Indicó que estas acciones son necesarias en una sociedad que
va camino al desarrollo.
‘He indicated that these actions are necessary in a society that
is in the process of development.’ (CREA)
(8.62) a. Pero de hecho tales acciones estaban dirigidas, bajo cuerda, por
dirigentes sindicales de la empresa o de fuera de ella.
‘But in fact such actions were directed, secretly, by union lead-
ers of the company or outside of it.’ (CREA)
b. Manifestó que dichas acciones están orientadas ‘para liberar al
país de los lazos de la dependencia interna y externa.’
‘He revealed that said actions are designed “to liberate the
country from the ties of internal and external dependence.’
(CREA)
c. Ahora sus acciones estaban determinadas por su conversión a
la iglesia protestante.
‘Now his actions were determined by his conversion to
protestantism.’ (CREA)
In (8.62a, b, c), the event-adjectives dirigidas ‘directed’, orientadas ‘designed,
oriented’ and determinadas ‘determined’ denote resultant states and as such
they appear with estar.
Another clear example of a second-order entity is muerte ‘death’ in refer-
ence to the event of dying. Here, we find that if the property denoted by the
adjective is a defining feature, such as a characteristic of death in general or
the death of a particular individual, as in (8.63a, b, c), or if the adjective is
derived in ble, as in (8.63d), it takes ser:
(8.63) a. Su muerte es injusta y sobre todo, ilegal.
‘His death is unjust and above all, illegal.’ (CREA)
b. Esa muerte es política- y moralmente estúpida.
‘That death is politically and morally stupid.’ (CREA)
c. La muerte es gradual.
‘Death is gradual.’ (CREA)
d. La muerte es preferible al exilio.
‘Death is preferable to exile.’ (CREA)
If, however, spatial location is implied by the semantics of the adjective, as
in (8.61a, b), or if there is a participial adjective, as in (8.64c), estar appears:
(8.64) a. La muerte está cercana.
‘Death is near.’ (CREA)
b. Sin embargo, la muerte está presente.
‘However, death is present.’ (CREA)
c. La muerte está programada en los genes.
‘Death is programmed in the genes.’ (CREA)
Lastly, an event such as llegada ‘arrival’ can be afforded properties that define
it for a particular person in a given situation. In (8.65a), in which the speaker
sees the arrival of a person as hermoso ‘beautiful’ or ritual, as in (8.65b),
regardless of any underlying process or event (Spanish ritual is always an
adjective; the noun is rito ‘ritual’):
(8.65) a. Su llegada es hermosa.
‘His arrival is beautiful.’ (CREA)
b. Su llegada es prácticamente ritual.
‘Her arrival is practically ritual.’
196 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
J. Clancy Clements 197
We find llegada ‘arrival’ occurs with estar in the presence of event-adjectives
such as prevista ‘anticipated’ or repleta ‘filled, full, replete’; the latter a predi-
cate like llenar mucho ‘stuff full’. Examples are shown in (8.66):
(8.66) a. La llegada estaba prevista para la media tarde de ayer.
‘The arrival was anticipated for the middle of the afternoon
yesterday.’ (CREA)
b. La llegada estuvo repleta de emociones.
‘The arrival was filled/full/ with emotions.’ (CREA)
To sum up this section, if the subject referent is a second-order entity, such
as a state (for example conocimiento ‘knowledge), a process (for example
acciones ‘actions’) or an event (muerte ‘death’, llegada ‘arrival), ser appears
when the states denoted by the adjectives are taken as defining properties of
the subject referent. In these cases, there is an IL reading. We also have IL
readings and ser with all adjectives derived in –ble. By contrast, those adjec-
tives that imply a spatial relation, such as cercano ‘near’ or disperso ‘scattered’,
and event-adjectives, almost always encoded as participial adjectives like
vinculado ‘linked’, appear with estar. We also saw one case of participial
adjective, limitado ‘limited’, derived from what we assume to be the stative
verb limitar ‘limit’ that appears with ser. As noted, this is not uncommon
with such adjectives given that they do not have a corresponding underlying
event or process.
We saw also that second-order entities behave somewhat differently
than first-order entities. While event-adjectives and adjectives without an
assumed underlying dynamic situation seem to behave in the expected man-
ner, the adjective extenso ‘extensive’, with an implied process of knowledge
accumulation (in 8.59b), appears not with estar, but with ser. Thus, copula
choice with second-order entities in the ‘copula  adjective’ construction
may be differently constrained than with first-order entities, and is an area
in need of further study.
Concluding remarks
In this chapter, we have argued that in order to understand the presence of
ser or estar in the Spanish ‘copula  adjective’ construction one must take
into consideration the semantic nature of the subject referent, the copulas,
and the adjectives, as well as the discourse-pragmatic information such as
referentiality, generic v. definite readings, and our naïve understanding of
the world. We used the feature [aspect] to differentiate the copulas: ser does
not carry the feature and estar does. For subject referents, we made the
distinction between first-order entities (animate as well as inanimate enti-
ties) and second-order entities (nominalized states, processes and events).
Further, we characterized the semantics of the adjectives by appealing to the
notion of time stability (Givón, 1979; Hopper and Thompson, 1984). Here,
we distinguished adjectives with no underlying dynamic situation from
those that have an underlying process or event. In the case of animate sub-
ject referents, for example, mortal ‘mortal’ and infinito ‘infinite’ have no
underlying dynamic situation but sincero ‘sincere’, alto ‘high, tall’ and viejo
‘old’ have an underlying process and casado ‘married’, cansado ‘tired’ and cer-
rado ‘closed’ have an underlying event. Following Clements (1988), we fur-
ther distinguished unidirectional (crecer ‘grow’: bajo ‘short’ → alto ‘tall’) from
bidirectional (cansar ‘tire’: cansado ‘tired’ ↔ descansado ‘rested’) adjectives.
The reason for this distinction is that it allows us greater precision is stating
compatibility constraints between copulas and adjectives. We summarize
our findings for first-order entities (animate and inanimate subject referents)
in Table 8.5. In general, the only major differences found between animate
and inanimate subject referents in the ‘copula  adjective’ construction are
(1) for inanimate subject-referents there is no equivalent to the process-
adjective class, such as sincero ‘sincere’ for animate subject referents; and
198 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
Table 8.5 Copula-adjective combination according to adjective type and reading for
both animate and inanimate subject referents
Copula Adjective type Reading (IL and/or SL) and
combination with copula
a. ser Adjective with no underlying dynamic IL
situation (animate: mortal ‘mortal’;
inanimate: infinito ‘infinite’)
b. ser (estar) Bidirectional process-adjectives IL, with ser
(animate: sincero ‘sincere’; inanimate: SL, with ser and estar
no such adjective with inanimate subject
referents)
c. ser/estar Unidirectional process-adjectives IL, with ser
(animate: alto ‘tall’; inanimate: viejo SL, with estar
‘old’)
d. ser/estar Bidirectional event/process-adjectives IL, with ser
(animate: bonito ‘beautiful, pretty’; SL, with estar
inanimate: bonito ‘beautiful, pretty’)
e. estar (ser) Unidirectional event-adjectives SL, with estar
(animate: casado ‘married’; inanimate: IL, with ser (only
roto ‘broken’) animate subject referents)
f. estar Bidirectional event-adjectives SL, with estar
(animate: cansado ‘tired’; inanimate:
abierto–cerrado ‘open–closed’)
Note: The parentheses around estar and ser (b) and (e) indicate that with the corresponding adjec-
tive type the particular copula is attested far less than the other.
J. Clancy Clements 199
(2) with inanimate subject referents the specific nature of the referent seems
to determine directionality more often than with animate referents. For
example, we saw in the sentences in (8.41) that a cup breaking is more con-
ceivable as a unidirectional event than a radio breaking, although they both
constitute examples of the event breaking.
This overall similarity between animate and inanimate subject referents in
the ‘copula  adjective’ reflects some findings in the literature on the acqui-
sition of Spanish copulas. Geeslin (2002) found no statistically significant
difference in the acquisition of Spanish by native English speakers.
However, as just reported we do find two major differences between
animate and inanimate referents in our construction. Interestingly, in
another study, Geeslin (2004, ch. 5) found there to be a significant interac-
tion between animacy and adjective class in second-language acquisition.
Thus, just as we have identified similarities and differences in the interaction
between copulas and adjective class, Geeslin has also reached different
results in separate studies.
Although second-order entities also seem to follow the same behaviour as
first-order entities on the extremes of the time stability scale, there is con-
siderable variability in the centre of the continuum, which seems to depend
on how the speaker chooses to express him/herself. That is, there seems to be
greater freedom for the speaker to choose an IL reading by selecting ser or a
SL reading by selecting estar, although the data in Tables 8.3 and 8.4 strongly
suggest that ser can reasonably be considered the default copula
On a more general level, for all subject referents copula choice appears to
be most predictable with those adjectives linked to the extremes of the time
stability scale in Figure 8.3. In the middle of the continuum is where we find
most variability and where discourse-related considerations and our naïve
understanding of the world play the biggest role in meaningfully combining
copulas with adjectives in the Spanish ‘copula  adjective’ construction.
Notes
1 An asterisk indicates that the form is unacceptable to the native speakers consulted
and not found in the database consulted (Corpus de Referencia del Español Actual
[CREA] of the Real Academia Española, a 140 millon-word corpus, at www.rae.es).
A question mark followed by asterisk indicates that the copula  adjective combi-
nation was not found in CREA but found by some native speakers to be acceptable.
2 This section is an updated version of section 2.1 in Clements (1988).
3 For an in-depth treatment of ser, see Fernández Leborans (1999).
4 Leonetti notes that the ILP–SLP distinction fails to account for sentences such as la
sopa es/está sabrosa ‘the soup is tasty’. Other scholars, such as Fernández Leborans
(1999: 2,438–41), present evidence suggesting that the estar-to-SLP and ser-to-ILP
mapping is unable to account for other cases as well, which we address below.
5 For our purposes, we take objects, animate entities, etc. to be what Lyons (1977:
443) calls first-order entities: ‘[f]irst-order entities are such that they may be
referred to, and properties may be ascribed to them’. We take states, activities
and events to be what Lyons (1977: 443) calls second-order entities: ‘By second-
order entities we shall mean events, processes, state-of-affairs, etc., which are
located in time and which, in English, are said to occur or take place, rather than
to exist.’
6 We note that this classfication is not categorical. For example, given the appropri-
ate context, such as a comparative context in (ia) or an iterative context in (ib),
event adjectives may also have underlying processes and process adjectives may
also have underlying events:
(i) a. Juan es/está más gordo que antes.
‘John is fatter than before.’
b. Juan tardó dos años en volver a crecer.
‘It took John two years to begin to grow again.’
Although the verb engordar ‘become fat’ is arguably a durative-telic event, the
sentence in (ia) can be interpreted either as the result of John getting fat or as a
gradual process. Similarly, in (ib) crecer is the underlying process of the adjectives
bajo ‘short’ and alto ‘tall’, but it can be interpreted as an iterative event when an
implied endpoint is involved.
7 See Clements (1988) for a detailed discussion and motivation of the semantic traits
of the adjectives. In that study, as well as in the present one, we found no adjectives
that are both uni- and bidirectional and that simultaneously correspond to both
processes and events.
8 In such types of examples, we found only rare and marginal cases in which we
there is an SL reading. These will be discussed below.
9 For some of these bidirectional event-adjective adjectives, there are no cases of
es  adj in the CREA database. For example, enojado ‘angry’ appears with está 27
times but zero times with ser. In CREA, está cansado ‘s/he is tired’ appears 127 times
and es cansado five times, shown below:
(i) Lo que estoy es cansado y harto de tus cambios de humor y de tus apasion-
amientos.
‘What I am is tired and fed up with your mood swings and your passions.’
(ii) Aunque es cansado estar de gira, compensa, porque hay que montarse
sobre una tarima y mostrarle al público lo que sabes hacer, que es cantar y
comunicarte.
‘Although it is annoying to be on tour, it’s worth it because you’ve got to get
up on stage and demonstrate to the public what you know how to do, which
is sing and connect with them.’
(iii) Esto es cansado, triste, melancólico a tope.
‘This is annoying, sad, melancholic to the max.’
(iv) Mirar y saber es cansado. ¿Es que cambian las cosas? No, nada.
‘To watch and to know is annoying. Do things really change? No, not
a bit.’
The case in (i) is a cleft construction that always takes ser, while the other three an
inanimate subject and cansado has the meaning ‘annoying’.
In CREA, the adjective despierto ‘awake’ appears with es twice and with está
35 times. In those cases with es, the adjective refers not to the awake state (corre-
sponding to an SL reading), but rather to an inherent state of being bright (with an
IL reading), as shown by the example in (v). This is a clear example of the discourse
200 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
J. Clancy Clements 201
context allowing an interpretation that contravenes the semantics of the adjec-
tive and its underlying event:
(v) Pedro Rimales es despierto, avispado y mañoso, siempre listo para burlarse de
los demás y engañarlos, sean ellos sus enemigos, sus amigos o sus parientes.
‘Pedro Rimales is bright, sharp, and good with his hands, always ready to
make fun of others and cheat them, whether they are his enemies, his friends,
or his relatives.’
10 In CREA, we found examples to support Silva-Corvalán’s assertion. In (i), an old
man is mentioned who is now dead. It clearly has an SL reading, although it
appears with ser:
(i) Aquí había un viejito, que ya es muerto, llamado M.
‘Here there was a little old man, who now is dead, named M.’
11 A detailed argumentation motivating the category of uni- and bidirectional
process adjectives is presented in Clements (1988).
12 These adjectives appear with ser in the passive construction, as in la puerta es
abierta por el empleado a las ocho cada día ‘the door is opened by the employee
at eight o’clock every morning’. This, however, is not a ‘copula  adjective’
construction.
13 With animate subject referents, abierto ‘open’ and cerrado ‘closed’ can readily refer
to defining traits of a person, as illustrated by the examples in (i), where ‘open’
and ‘closed’ are used metaphorically. With inanimate subject referents, we found
no such use.
(i) a. Como persona, Luis es muy abierto/cerrado.
‘As a person, Luis is very open/closed.’
14 We disregard those constructions with ser that can be considered passive, as in (i):
(i) El conocimiento es valorado como el factor de mayor incidencia.
‘Knowledge is valued as the factor of greatest impact.’
References
Alameda, J. R. and F. Cuetos (1995) Diccionario de frecuencias de las unidades lingüísticas
del castellano. Oviedo, Spain: Universidad de Oviedo, Departamento de Psicología.
Bouzet, J. (1953) ‘Orígenes del empleo de estar. Ensayo de sintaxis histórica’, in
Estudios dedicados a Menéndez Pidal (vol. 4), pp. 3–58.
Carlson, G. (1977) ‘Reference to Kinds in English’, unpublished PhD dissertation,
University of Massachusetts, Amherst MA.
Clements, J. A. (1979) ‘Die ATA-Bildungen im Spanischen’, unpublished Universität
Tübingen dissertation. Tübingen, Germany.
Clements, J. C. (1988) ‘The Semantic and Pragmatics of the Spanish 	COPULA 
ADJECTIVE Construction’, Linguistics, vol. 26, pp. 779–822.
Comrie, B. (1976) Aspect. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Dokulil, M. (1968) ‘Zur Theorie der Wortbildung’, Wissenschaftliche Zeitschrift der
Karl-Marx Universität Leipzig. Gesellschafts- und Sprachwissenschaftliche Reihe, vol. 17,
pp. 203–12.
Falk, J. (1979) SER y ESTAR con atributos adjetivales. Anotaciones sobre el empleo de la
cópula en catalán y castellano. Stockholm: Almqvist & Wiksell.
Fernández Leborans, M. J. (1999) ‘La predicación: las oraciones copulativas’, in
I. Bosque and V. Demonte (eds), Gramática descriptiva de la lengua española. Madrid:
Espasa Calpe, vol. 2, pp. 357–460.
Geeslin, K. (2004) Crossing Disciplinary Boundaries to Improve the Analysis of Second
Language Data: A Study of Copula Choice with Adjectives in Spanish. Munich: Lincom
Europa.
Geeslin, K. (2002) ‘The Second Language Acquisition of Copula Choice and its
Relationship to Language Change’, Studies in Second Language Acquisition, vol. 24,
pp. 419–51.
Givón, T. (1979) On Understanding Grammar. New York: Academic Press.
Hanssen, F. (1912) ‘La pasiva castellana’, Anales de la Universidad de Chile, pp. 2–28.
Hernanz, M. L. (1988) ‘En torno a la sintaxis y la semántica de los complementos
predicativos en español’, Estudi General, vol. 8, pp. 7–29.
Hopper, P. J. and S. A. Thompson (1980) ‘Transitivity in Grammar and Discourse’,
Language, vol. 56, pp. 251–99.
–––– (1984) ‘The Discourse Basis for Lexical Categories in Universal Grammar’,
Language, vol. 60, pp. 703–52.
Leonetti, M. (1994) ‘Ser y estar: estado de la cuestión’, Barataria (U. de Alcalá de
Henares), vol. 1, pp. 182–205.
Lüdke, J. (1978) Prädikative Nominalisierungen mit Suffixen im Französischen,
Katalanischen im Spanischen. Tübingen: Max Niemeyer.
Luján, M. (1980) Sintaxis y semántica del adjetivo. Madrid: Cátedra.
–––– (1981) ‘The Spanish copulas as aspectual indicators’, Lingua, vol. 54, pp. 165–210.
Lyons, J. (1977) Semantics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Martín, R. J. (1981) Caballos desbocaos. Madrid: Ediciones Cátedra.
Milsark, G. L. (1974) ‘Existential Sentences in English’, PhD dissertation, MIT.
–––– (1977) ‘Toward an Explanation of Certain Peculiarities of the Existential
Construction in English’, Linguistic Analysis, vol. 3, pp. 1–29.
Mourelatos, A. (1978) ‘Events, Processes, and States’, Linguistics and Philosophy, vol. 2,
pp. 415–34.
Navas, R. R. (1963) Ser y estar. El estudio sobre el sistema atributivo del español. Salamanca.
Schmitt, C. (1992) ‘Ser and Estar: A Matter of Aspect’, Northeastern Linguistic Society,
vol. 22, pp. 411–26.
Silva Corvalán, C. (1986) ‘Bilingualism and language change: The extension of estar in
Los Angeles Spanish’, Language, vol. 62, pp. 587–608.
—— (1994) ‘The Gradual Loss of Mood Distinctions in Los Angeles Spanish’. Language
Variation and Change, vol. 6, pp. 255–72.
Stalnaker, R. (1974) ‘Pragmatic Presuppositions’, in M. K. Munitz and P. K. Unger (eds),
Semantics and Philosophy. New York: New York University Press, pp. 197–214.
Van Valin, R. and R. LaPolla. (1997) Syntax: Structure, Meaning and Function. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Vaño-Cerdá, A. (1982) Ser y estar ⫹ adjetivo. Tübingen: Narr.
Verhaar, J. (1990) ‘How Transitive is Intransitive?’ Studies in Language, vol. 14, pp. 93–168.
Yoon, J. (2001) ‘Small Clauses in Spanish: A Semantic-Functional Approach’,
unpublished Indiana University dissertation, Bloomington, IN.
202 Ser-estar in the Predicate Adjective Construction
9
Spanish Adjective Position:
Differences between Written
and Spoken Discourse
Richard J. File-Muriel
203
Introduction
Little is known about the interaction between competence-based and
performance-based constraints, but production and processing of speech are
clearly influenced by both. Although the present study does not address this
interaction, it does add to the growing body of literature on the role of
performance constraints in constituent ordering. The aim of this chapter is
to provide an account of attributive adjective (A) position in Spanish based
on performance constraints. We argue that (1) adjective position in spoken
Spanish may be explained in terms of word length and semantic constraints,
and (2) show that adjective position has become partially grammaticalized
due to word length. In addition, we provide evidence that shows adjective
realization differs greatly across written and spoken registers and argue that
it is inadequate to depend solely on written language to make claims about
language in general.
Word length
In much of the literature on adjective position in Spanish, there has been
brief discussion of a ‘heaviness shift rule’, according to which the syllabically
heavier element in a phrase consisting of a noun (N) and an A is postposed.
For example, in the sentence No debemos someternos a falsasA modestiasN ‘we
should not submit ourselves to false modesties’, the preposed A falsas ‘false’
has two syllables, while the N modestias ‘modesties’ has three. In the phrase
La prohibición de las fuerzasN armadasA ‘the prohibition of the armed forces’,
the first element fuerzasN ‘forces’ has two syllables, while the heavier element
armadasA ‘armed’ is postposed with three. Some dismiss the heaviness shift
rule as a significant factor for predicting adjective position, arguing that the
phenomenon is merely the result of the fact that long descriptive adjectives
tend to follow the noun because they represent an important proposition
(Terker, 1985). Almost all agree that semantic values cannot be ignored,
pointing out that if word length were the key determiner governing adjec-
tive position, other factors would be irrelevant and semantics would not play
any role. In other words, the adjective would be the same whether it is pre-
posed or postposed (Prado, 1980). This phenomenon of the heavier element
being postposed is not unique to Spanish. Standard grammars of French
often state that the phonological form of the attributive adjective influences
its position relative to the noun that it modifies. The claim is that if the
adjective has fewer syllables than the noun, the adjective is preposed; if the
adjective has more syllables than the noun, it is postposed (Wilmet, 1980).1
Fernández (1951) was one of the first to look at Spanish adjective position
with respect to weight and rhythmic laws. He analysed two constructions
in literary prose containing the preposition con: (1) con  indefinite
article  AN/NA(for example, con un buen chico ‘with a good boy’ v. con un
chico bueno lit. ‘with a boy good’), and (2) con  AN/NA (for example con pura
agua ‘entirely with water’ v. con agua pura ‘with pure water’). He found
40 examples of the con un(a)  NA/AN construction: 30 cases were realized
as NA and 10 were AN. In the constructions with con  determiner, the final
element was either equal or syllabically heavier than the preceding element.
In the second construction involving con with no determiner, Fernández found
that 60 per cent of the cases reflected AN order compared to 40 per cent NA;
the syllabic rule failed to apply 100 per cent of the time. He concluded that
Spanish demonstrates a tendency to postpose the adjective, but if it is shorter
than the noun, the adjective is preposed.
Prado (1980) conducted a more general analysis not limited to any one
particular preposition. Based on data gleaned from four novels, he found
that in AN constructions, the length of the element did not correlate highly
with the position of the adjective. For example, the preposed adjective was
lighter or equal to the noun 62 per cent, 75 per cent, 58 per cent and 70 per
cent of the time across the four novels, whereas in NA constructions, the
postposed adjective was heavier or equal to the noun 80 per cent, 83 per
cent, 80 per cent and 83 per cent in the four novels. Although Prado notes
that there is a tendency for lighter adjectives to precede the noun, he con-
cludes that there is not sufficient evidence to support a heaviness principle
and that semantic values are the crucial factor in determining adjectival
position.
Others, such as Terker (1985), take a much stronger position against the
influence of syllable length on AN/NA order. Terker claims that adjective
position should not be dealt with in terms of tendencies, giving several
counterexamples, presumably from a written text, that blatantly violate the
rule of ‘heaviness shift’ (for example el distinguidoA senadorN ‘distinguished
senator’). Although Terker argues against syllabic heaviness as a possible
determiner of adjectival position, he considers syntactic complexity a factor,
204 Spanish Adjective Position: Differences between Written and Spoken Discourse
Richard J. File-Muriel 205
showing that complex adjective phrases must always be in postnominal
position.2
The claim that the phonological component may have influence at the
syntactic level is quite controversial. The standard assumption has been a
top-down flow of information from a syntactic plan to a phonetic one
(Garrett, 1982). This model of speech production is summarized by Bock
(1987: 120) and outlined in (9.1):
(9.1)
0. Message level: production begins at the message level with a
non-linguistic representation of the speaker’s intention.
1. Functional level: semantically specified lexical items are assigned
syntactic roles, which control the creation of a representation at
the next linguistic level.
2. Positional level: phonologically specified words (primarily open
class or content words) are inserted into a planning frame,
which represents the hierarchical constituent organization, var-
ious closed-class elements (functional words and inflectional
affixes), and the prosodic structure of the sentence.
3. Phonetic level: the resulting positional level structure – an
ordered representation of phonologically specified morphemes
integrated with the planning frame – then guides the develop-
ment of the utterance’s detailed phonetic form.
This model holds that there is a complete absence of feedback from the
positional to the functional level due to the unidirectional flow of infor-
mation (that is, functional to positional). In other words, processing and
the representation of information at the positional level should have no
impact on the selection of morphemes or their assignment to grammatical
roles.
This unidirectional information flow is argued for by Miller, Pullum and
Zwicky (1997), who propose the Principle of Phonology-Free Syntax (PPFS)
as a principle of Universal Grammar (UG) that prohibits reference to phono-
logical information in syntactic rules or constraints. The claim is that rules
of syntax make no reference to phonology. They consider four phenomena
of French that were previously used to argue against the PPFS. For their part,
they claim that any statement regarding weight as a determiner of word
order does not represent a rule of grammar at all, but merely a statistical
tendency observed in usage. They further claim that although speakers or
writers may often choose a given order because it sounds better than the
alternative, these choices do not imply the existence of a grammatical
constraint: ‘The typical effect of a skilled writer or speaker’s choices in a
certain context may be to create a tendency for words with heavier syllabic
weight to follow words of lighter weight, but that does not mean that there
is a grammatical constraint enforcing this ordering’ (1997: 74).
In contrast, Bock (1987) argues against the claim that the flow of informa-
tion is only from the higher, functional level to the lower, positional level.
She claims that factors related to the retrieval of phonological forms of words
do, in fact, modify the structure of the sentences in which they appear.
Evidence, she states, can be found in the phonological effects on word
exchange errors: ‘Dell and Reich (1981) found that words which undergo
exchanges, anticipations, and perseverations share more phonological
features than would be expected by chance’ (1987: 121–2), indicating that
there is some feedback between the phonological and syntactic levels. She
claims that ‘sentences tend to be structured in such a way that phonologi-
cally accessible word forms precede less accessible forms, other things
equal’(1987: 122).
For his part, Hawkins (1994) finds that processing constraints affect word
order. Arguing that sentences need to be both produced and understood in
real time, he explores what role such processing constraints impose on gram-
mars. Specifically, he claims that processing, rather than discourse or prag-
matics, better explains the properties and constraints of word order and
constituent structure. The role of an innate Universal Grammar is, in his
view, greatly reduced in favour of processing mechanisms, which are ulti-
mately innate as well. He proposes a set of processing explanations that he
calls the assumption of absolute unprocessability: ‘Some absolute limit on
human processing resources is proposed within a given domain, and a gram-
matical response is then explained on the grounds that this limit would be
exceeded by structures of a certain type’ (1994: 8). Hawkins believes words
and constituents occur in an order that allows syntactic groupings and their
Immediate Constituents (IC) to be recognized, comprehended and produced
both rapidly and efficiently as possible in on-line language performance; dif-
ferent constituent orderings result in a more, or less, rapid IC recognition. In
other words, complex structures that are difficult to process are avoided and
thus not incorporated into the grammar. According to his model, which he
calls Early Immediate Constituent (EIC), grammars are moulded by process-
ing constraints on speakers and listeners during rapid and efficient produc-
tion and comprehension of language. Immediate Constituents (ICs) can be
recognized on the basis of a proper subset of the words and categories dom-
inated by that phrase. According to Hawkins, processing favours Constituent
Recognition Domains (CRD)3
for Verbal Phrases (VP) and Sentences (S),
which allow for the most efficient recognition of the ICs contained within
them.4
Hawkins’ model of performance is concerned mainly with processing, that
is with the listener’s perspective. By contrast, Wasow (1997a) argues that the
role of the speaker is paramount and that weight effects exist primarily to
206 Spanish Adjective Position: Differences between Written and Spoken Discourse
Richard J. File-Muriel 207
facilitate utterance planning and production, as speakers take advantage of
syntactic flexibility to postpone hard-to-produce constituents until later in
the utterance (cf. also Bock, 1987). Wasow (1997b: 360), however, points out
that ‘language use is characteristically a joint activity. If we wish to explain
aspects of language structure in terms of performance, we should look at
the tasks facing both participants, and at how the participants carry out
those tasks.’
In a subsequent study, Arnold, Ginstrom, Losongco and Wasow (2000)
concentrate on production in examining heaviness in terms of syntactic
complexity. They hypothesize that new and heavy constituents are likely to
be harder to produce than given, light ones, and following Levelt (1989)
they posit three stages for language production: (a) conceptualizing a
message, (b) formulating grammatical characteristics of the message, and
(c) articulating it. Given that online processing occurs rapidly, ‘discourse sta-
tus and syntactic weight could influence production at any of these stages’
(2000: 46).5
They note that postposition of a heavier and newer sentential element
may be due to speaker and listener concerns. Speakers often begin to pro-
duce an utterance before the proposition has been fully planned. They argue
that postposition of the heavier element favours processing for the listener,
saving ‘the hardest for last’. From the speaker’s point of view, the postposi-
tion of the heavier element functions to facilitate performance concerns
such as planning and production. They give a baseball example to illustrate
how the postposition functions to give the play-by-play announcer time to
check the score card (for example, ‘That brings to the plate … Ozzie Smith’).
The two experiments carried out by Arnold et al. (2000) focus on produc-
tion rather than perception and investigate the roles of discourse status
(that is, new v. old information) and weight in constituent ordering. The first
study examines two constructions in the Align-Hansard6
corpus: Heavy
Noun Phrase Shift (HNPS) and Dative Alternation (DA). Heaviness was mea-
sured as the number of words in the theme minus the number of words in
the goal.7
Measuring the relative weight between two constituents allows
one to observe the graded nature of weight effects (Wasow, 1997a).8
The sec-
ond experiment carried out was an elicitation experiment focusing on
production of DA constructions. The authors were interested in what word
order the participants would produce and how this would be affected by the
discourse status of the referent and the weight/complexity of the NP used to
denote it. As expected, they found both heaviness and newness to be signif-
icant factors in constituent order choice. In both studies, the heavier, newer
constituent tended to follow the lighter, old one.
Arnold et al. (2000: 46) point out that ‘lexical retrieval and phonological
processing should be more difficult for long, complex phrases than shorter
ones simply because they contain more linguistic material’. Hawkins (1994)
and Arnold et al. (2000) base their models on syntactic weight (in terms of
number of words) in determining constituent order. This methodology is
easily extendable to include the word level with relative syllable counts as
the unit of measure. Looking at weight in terms of words, nodes or phrasal
nodes may overlook effects stemming from word length only. That is, one
would expect lexical retrieval and phonological processing to be more diffi-
cult for longer words than shorter ones because they contain more linguistic
material. We argue that performance considerations favour the postnominal
position of the attributive adjective in spoken Spanish because it is generally
longer than the noun it modifies. Moreover, we claim that the prenominal
placement of attributive adjectives in spoken discourse is reserved for light,
frequently occurring, non-relational adjectives. Finally, we offer evidence
suggesting that adjective position in Spanish may be in the process of gram-
maticalization due to performance considerations based on word length.
Methodology
The present study compares oral and written Costa Rican Spanish. The
speech data come from transcribed semi-informal interviews with five
university-educated males from San José, Costa Rica, between the ages of
27–45. Each interview lasted 15–30 minutes and was conducted on the topic
‘the absence of a military in Costa Rica’. The writing samples, which con-
sisted of seven letters/editorials taken from San José’s prominent newspaper,
La Nación, were taken between 4–21 August 1999. In collecting the data, an
effort was made to select articles that were near to the previously mentioned
topic. Articles on other topics were not considered due to the possibility that
they could represent translations from another language.
Each article and transcribed interview was scanned for instances of nouns
with corresponding attributive adjectives. A total of 231 spoken tokens and
287 written tokens were found and coded, using the variables given in (9.2):
(9.2) ORDER: whether adjective was pre or postposed (NA or AN order)
WEIGHT: difference in syllable count between A and N
SEMANTIC CLASS: semantic class of A
STYLE: whether the token came from a spoken or written source
STRESS: whether or not an adjective has syllable-final stress
Adjective position, pre v. postposed, was the dependent variable, while all
others constituted the independent variables. For each token, the difference
in word length between the A and N was calculated by subtracting the num-
ber of syllables of the A from the number of syllables of the N. For example,
in the phrase buenaA ocupaciónN ‘good occupation’, the A buena has two sylla-
bles while the N ocupación has four; the adjective would be scored 2, that is
208 Spanish Adjective Position: Differences between Written and Spoken Discourse
Richard J. File-Muriel 209
two syllables lighter than the noun. The semantic class of the adjective was
coded following Delbecque’s (1990) classification, included in (9.3):
(9.3) Class 1: Colour: e.g. amarillo
Class 2: Relational: Affiliation/association/attachment to
a. geographic entity e.g. colombiano ‘Colombian’
b. ethnic group e.g. celta ‘Celtic’
c. socio-political or socio-political grouping e.g. liberal
‘liberal’
d. professional or scientific discipline e.g. científico
‘scientific’
e. symbolic or philosophical movement e.g. intelectual
‘intellectual’
Class 3: Temporal markers e.g. moderno ‘modern’
Class 4: Shape and space markers e.g. interno ‘internal’
Class 5: Physical property markers e.g. gordo ‘fat’
Class 6: Modality markers e.g. posible ‘possible’
Class 7: Evaluation markers e.g. bueno ‘good’
Class 8: Personality/disposition markers e.g. responsable ‘reliable’
As mentioned, the style variable refers to whether the token was taken from
a spoken or written source. Finally, adjectives were also coded for whether
they had syllable-final stress or not (for example syllable-final stress: militar
‘military’, leal ‘loyal’, real ‘real’, actual ‘current’; non syllable-final stress:
científico ‘scientific’, capacitado ‘with the capacity’, armada ‘armed’). This
variable was tested just in case it turned out that word-level stress assignment
is a factor in the position of an A relative to the N it modifies.
Results
The corpus was submitted to a binary logistic regression analysis using SPSS
11.5. Adjective position relative to the noun was entered in the regression as
the dependent variable and all the other factors listed in (9.2) were entered
as covariates. The independent variable semantic class was entered as cate-
gorical. The results of the binary logistic regression, given in Table 9.1, show
that style, weight and semantic class are all significant determiners (.000) of
whether or not an A is preposed, whereas stress was not significant (.092).
The Exp(B) values in the last column of Table 9.1 tell us the number of
times more likely that a given token will be preposed than not. Note that
weight is the strongest predictor of N–A order, with an Exp(B) value of 2.311.
That is, based on the variable of the relative weight (measured in syllables)
between the N and its modifying A, A position is 2.311 times more likely to
be correctly predicted than by the null hypothesis. The Wald test measures
the goodness of fit of the model. The Wald values of the variables ‘style’
(36.575), ‘weight’ (36.575), ‘semantic class’ (40.793) are high, indicating that
they account for a goodness of fit of the model.
With specific regard to weight, Table 9.2 shows the distribution of A posi-
tion with respect to the difference in syllabic weight between the A and N
(for example 2 means that the A was two syllables lighter than the N, and
so on).
Tables 9.3 and 9.4 have the same function but they separate the spoken
from the written data respectively.
210 Spanish Adjective Position: Differences between Written and Spoken Discourse
Table 9.1 Spoken and written style
B S.E. Wald df Sig. Exp(B)
Step 1a
style 1.429 .365 15.300 1 .000 .239
weight .838 .139 36.575 1 .000 2.311
stress .742 .441 2.839 1 .092 2.101
semantic .472 .074 40.793 1 .000 .624
constant 4.584 .513 79.885 1 .000 97.877
a
Variable(s) entered on step 1: style, weight, stress, semantic class.
Table 9.2 Position of As to Ns for the all the data according to their respective weights
Weight 3 or  2 1 0 1 2 3 or 	
Preposed 5 13 21 22 11 1 1
Postposed 1 22 60 124 85 86 30
Table 9.3 Position of As to Ns in the spoken data according to their respective weights
Weight 3 or  2 1 0 1 2 3 or 	
Preposed 1 3 4 4 0 0 0
Postposed 0 9 28 74 34 50 19
Table 9.4 Position of As to Ns in the written data according to their respective
weights
Weight 3 or  2 1 0 1 2 3 or 	
Preposed 4 10 17 18 11 1 1
Postposed 1 13 32 50 51 36 11
Richard J. File-Muriel 211
Given that in the spoken data there were only 12 cases of a preposed A, it
would be useful to list them all, and these are given in Table 9.5.
The findings for heaviness are strong: preposed adjectives tend to be equal
or lighter than the noun: 83.8 per cent overall and in written discourse, and
100 per cent in spoken discourse, In spoken discourse, all AN pairs respected
a word-length principle; that is, the As were either syllabically equal to or
lighter than the Ns they preceded. These frequencies were supported by a
comparison of mean weights of the A across written and spoken discourse.
Postposed As in both the spoken and written corpus’ were substantially
heavier (3.76 and 3.81) than the preposed As (2.0 and 2.74). Preposed As in
the written corpus had a mean weight of 2.74, while As in the spoken corpus
had a mean weight of only 2.0. In this regard, there is a clear difference
between written and spoken data. A logical explanation is performance; per-
formance constraints would be more visible in unplanned discourse (that is,
spoken) than in planned discourse (that is, written).
Discussion
Throughout the literature, it seems that the analysis of Spanish adjective
position faces a written language bias. Itkonen (1991) notes that linguists
tend to analyse written rather than spoken sentences, which has the nega-
tive consequence that units resulting from such grammatical analyses are
characteristic of written language only. We share this concern and show that
attributive adjectives in Spanish vary across written and spoken discourse in
terms of frequency of position (whether the adjective appears in prenominal
or postnominal position), distribution of semantic class, and adherence to
word-length constraints.
The richness and variety of adjective use is greater in written discourse.
Table 9.6 indicates that the preplacement of the A happens with much
Table 9.5 Preposed adjectives in spoken discourse
Token Weight Semantic class
un gran espíritu 3 Shape & space
una gran cosa 1 Shape & space
muy malos ojos 0 Evaluation
una bajísima escolaridad 1 (3) Shape & space
una nueva constitución 2 Temporal
la gran paz 0 Shape & space
una muy buena ventaja 1 Evaluation
los grandes edificios 2 Shape & space
al libre comercio 1 Shape & space
una mejor Costa Rica 2 Evaluation
mala influencia 1 Evaluation
un alto grado de 0 Shape & space
greater frequency in written discourse than it does in spoken discourse, 24.2
per cent to 5.3 per cent respectively.9
Why would such a great difference
exist between written and spoken discourse? Clearly, the preplacement of A
represents a greater burden on performance and or processing.
Table 9.7 shows that written discourse allows multiple (2) adjectives to be
linked to one noun more frequently than does spoken discourse (8.3% v.
1.5% respectively).
Table 9.8 suggests that the distribution of semantic class of the adjective
differs greatly across spoken and written discourse.
As shown by the Chi-square test in Table 9.9, this distribution is non-
random and statistically significant.
These findings support the claim that one cannot depend solely on writ-
ten language to make claims about language in general. This is especially
true when examining performance-based constraints. Clearly, performance
constraints will be more active in on-line speech production and processing
than in off-line performance (that is, reading and writing). The differences
noted across written and spoken language seem to reflect a difference in ease
212 Spanish Adjective Position: Differences between Written and Spoken Discourse
Table 9.6 Adjective position
Spoken (226) Written (256)
Adjective preposed (AN) 12 (5.3%) 62 (24.2%)
Adjective postposed (NA) 214 (94.7%) 194 (75.8%)
Table 9.7 One v. two adjectives modifying same noun
Spoken (231) Written (287)
1 adj. el carro rojoA 226 (97.8%) 256 (89.2%)
2 adj. el nuevoA carro rojoA 5 (2.2%) 31 (10.8%)
Table 9.8 Distribution of semantic categories
Semantic classification Total Spoken (226) Written (256)
Relational 282 156 (69.0%) 126 (49.2%)
Shape & space 52 26 (11.5%) 26 (10.2%)
Evaluative 47 12 (5.3%) 35 (13.7%)
Modality 36 5 (2.2%) 31 (12.1%)
Personality 32 17 (7.5%) 15 (5.9%)
Temporal 28 7 (3.1%) 21 (8.2%)
Physical 5 3 (1.3%) 2 (0.8%)
Richard J. File-Muriel 213
of production and processing between the two registers. If a particular
structure is said to be difficult to process, the hypothesis could be advanced
that it should also occur with less frequency in spoken samples.
Comparisons between spoken and written data could also form the basis for
hypotheses about planned v. unplanned discourse.
A comparison of written texts from different time periods may also help
determine patterns of diachronic grammaticalization in adjective position.
The findings in the present study regarding journalistic prose are strikingly
similar to those in Prado (1980) based on the literary works Crónica de una
muerte anunciada by Gabriel García Marquez (1981) and Cobra by Severo
Sarduy (1974). The journalistic prose sample in the present study (AN 24.2%
and NA 75.8%) shares the same AN and NA distribution with the data
gleaned from the two twentieth-century novels (23%–27% AN and
73%–77% NA). Prado points out that the averages were quite different 100
years ago, examining Pepita Jiménez by Juan Valera (1886) and Doña perfecta
by Benito Pérez Galdós (1876), where the distribution is 55 per cent–58 per
cent AN and 42 per cent–45 per cent NA. If we trace A position back even far-
ther, we see a noticeable preference for A preplacement. Grimsley (2000), for
example, examines three plays written by Calderón dating back to 1648: La
segunda esposa y Triunfar muriendo, Andromeda y Perseo, and El indulto general,
finding that the allocation of the A in prenominal position was predominant
at 62.9 per cent, as opposed to postnominal position 37.1 per cent. Penny
(1994) notes that in Latin the descriptive adjective could be both pre- and
postposed. It appears, then, that adjective position in written Spanish has
increasingly migrated towards postnominal position, as illustrated by the per-
centages in the aforementioned text, chronologically ordered in Table 9.10.
This development suggests that the postplacement of the Spanish adjec-
tive may be grammaticalizing due to the processing constraints on word
length. As Hawkins (1994: 14) points out in reference to VO word order in
English, grammatical data should correlate with degrees of processing ease in
performance, providing evidence for its influence on grammars: ‘The degree
of processing complexity will determine which structures are selected for
grammaticalization from each domain.’ Structures that are easier to produce
and process will grammaticalize before more difficult structures of the
Table 9.9 Chi-square test for Table 9.8 data (semantic class)
Value df Asymp. sig. (2-sided)
Pearson Chi-square 38.833a
6 .000
Likelihood ratio 41.630 6 .000
Linear-by-linear assoc. 14.231 1 .000
No. of valid cases 482
a
2 cells (14.3%) have expected counts less than 5. The minimum expected count is 2.34.
relevant type. Processing and production ease and efficiency can determine
the relative ordering of categories.
The commonly held notion about Spanish adjectives is that there is a large
number of adjectives that cannot appear in prenominal position. These
include adjectives of relational nature, which are affiliated with geographic
entities, ethnic groups, social or political groups, professional or scientific
disciplines, or symbolic or philosophic movements (Delbecque, 1990). Mean
word lengths were recorded for nouns and adjectives in the entire corpus, as
well as adjectives by semantic class (Table 9.11).
Overall, the adjective was heavier with a mean of 3.61 to the noun at 3.19.
It is not surprising, then, that the relational semantic class, whose members
do not appear in prenominal position, is syllabically the heaviest adjective
class in our corpus at 3.91. In fact, with one exception (evaluation) a shorter
mean A length corresponds exactly to an increase in the preposition of the
A. At first glance, the semantic class evaluation (3.55) seems to pose a
problem to the notion of light-before-heavy, as it was the second heaviest A
and the most frequently preposed (46.8%). A closer examination of the data,
however, shows that the adjectives in the semantic class evaluation did obey
a heaviness principle. The mean weights for the As in this class were 3.55
overall, 3.88 for postposed As, and 3.18 for preposed.
214 Spanish Adjective Position: Differences between Written and Spoken Discourse
Table 9.10 Diachronic distribution of A position in texts
Adjective position
Texts Pre Post
3 plays (Calderón 1648–09) 63 37
Doña perfecta (Galdós, 1876) 58 42
Pepita Jiménez (Valera, 1886) 55 45
La sangre y la ceniza (1965) 45 55
Cobra (Sarduy, 1974) 23 77
Crónica de una muerte anunciada (Marquez, 1981) 27 73
Letters/editorials in la Nación (1996–2000) 26 74
Table 9.11 Mean word length of As by semantic class
Semantic class A pre pos %preposed
relational 3.93 0 282 0.0
evaluation 3.55 22 25 46.8
personality 3.5 6 26 18.8
modality 3.25 11 25 30.6
temporal 3.11 10 18 35.7
physical 2.8 2 3 40.0
shape & space 2.56 23 29 44.2
Richard J. File-Muriel 215
Conclusions
By comparing written and spoken discourse, one can advance claims about
planned (for example written) v. unplanned (for example spoken) discourse
types. Planned discourse may violate certain constraints on production and
processing ease that are more strictly adhered to in spoken/unplanned dis-
course. As far as the writer is concerned, there is no on-line time constraint
in production in that s/he does not face the on-line pressures typical in con-
versational discourse and can write, erase/delete and rewrite. Likewise, the
reader can read and reread. This would explain the stricter observance of the
weight constraint by the spoken data found in the present study.
We have argued that length in general, not just syntactic complexity
(Hawkins, 1994; Arnold et al., 2000), should be considered when dealing
with constraints on performance. The present study has shown that a
constraint on word length disfavours syllabically heavy adjectives in
prenominal position because there is more linguistic material to process.
That is to say, word length (measured in syllables) is a performance
constraint which influences structure. When lighter adjectives are post-
posed, it is because they belong to a semantic class (relational) that has gram-
maticalized (that is, it categorically occurs in postnominal position) due to
issues of the word length of its class. This study presents more evidence
against the notion of a phonology-free syntax. It’s essential that linguists not
dismiss tendencies as purely stylistic choices made by speakers that have
no subsequent effects on the grammatical structure of language. The pre-
sent study shows that these tendencies exist due to performance con-
straints and ease of processing and that tendencies can ultimately lead to
grammaticalization.
The total absence of violations of the word-length constraint in our
spoken corpus suggests that most of the violations of length (that is, when
the heavier adjective is preposed) cited in the literature come from written
texts or created examples not representative of spoken discourse. As far
as adjective use is concerned, it has been demonstrated in this study that
written data is an inadequate representation of spoken language and
one should be cautious when making claims based on written texts only.
In order to fully appreciate the role that performance constraints play in
constituent ordering, one must necessarily deal with spoken rather than
written data.
Future research could attempt to extend these findings across different
registers. We propose that as registers go from informal to formal, there may
be less adherence to processing principles. That is, informal speech will be
marked by an accelerated tempo, thus, a higher faithfulness to processing
constraints would be necessary for both the speaker’s planning and produc-
tion, and taking into consideration the processability by the listener. By con-
trast, formal or careful speech would be marked by a slower tempo, more
closely representing planned speech and written discourse.
The claim here is not that weight is the sole determiner of adjective place-
ment in Spanish. Clearly, there is a variety of competing factors in deter-
mining its position (weight, semantics and perhaps frequency). As suggested
by Clements (personal communication), the frequency of use and length of
a word may be linked. On the one hand, frequency may be the driving force
behind short forms of adjectives (buen-bueno, gran-grande). On the other
hand, it may be that frequent preposing is the reason for reduction.
Furthermore, it may be that high frequency is the actual driving force
behind the selection of words for preposition. Future research should look at
frequency as a possible performance constraint. Certainly, one would expect
that more frequently accessed lexical items, regardless of length, would be
easier to produce and process than less frequently accessed words.
Alameda and Cuetos (1995) have compiled a frequency dictionary for
written Spanish, and, interestingly, all the preposed adjectives in our spoken
corpus were among the most frequently occurring words in their dictionary
(see Appendix A), the average occurrence being 1,357 times for each word.
By contrast, the postposed adjectives in our spoken corpus occurred with
much lower frequency in the dictionary.10
There is also an interaction with semantic class and frequency. Preposing
an evaluative A such as mal is quite common in both spoken and written
Spanish. It should also be noted that the number of possible evaluative As is
comparatively limited to the number of relational adjectives and that many
evaluative adjectives (for example bueno ‘good’, mal ‘bad’, mejor ‘better’ and
so on) are among the most frequently occurring adjectives in the language.
Thus, it is difficult to tell whether the driving force is semantic class or
frequency of occurrence.
Appendix A
Adjectives preposed in spoken corpus and the number of occurrences in Alameda and
Cuetos (1995):
gran, grande(s) 2,147
mal (a/o/as/os) 1,228
bajo (a/o/as/os) 1,250
nuevo (a/as/os) 1,760
buen (a/as/o/os) 1,868
libre (s) 358
mejor (es) 1,348
alto (a/o/as/os) 895
Notes
1 Benjamin Hebblethwaite (personal communication 10 November 2002) points
out that Haitian Creole is even more restrictive about allowing heavy adjectives in
prenominal position.
216 Spanish Adjective Position: Differences between Written and Spoken Discourse
Richard J. File-Muriel 217
2 a. El joven ancioso de cantar se puso nervioso.
‘The child anxious to sing became nervous.’
b. *El ancioso de cantar joven se puso nervioso.
‘The anxious to sing child became nervous.’
c. Las rutas difíciles de ascender son las más estimadas.
‘The routes difficult to climb are the most esteemed.’
d. *Las difíciles de ascender rutas son las más estimadas.
‘The difficult to climb routes are the most esteemed.’
3 A CRD (Constituent Recognition Domain) is a type of structural domain consist-
ing of the constituents that make the phrase-structure recognition possible on-
line. Hawkins defines it as follows: ‘A CRD for a mother node M consists of the
terminal and non terminal nodes that must be parsed in order to recognize M and
all immediate constituents (IC)s of M, proceeding from the terminal node that
constructs the first IC on the left, to the terminal node that constructs that last IC
on the right, including all intervening terminal nodes and the non terminal
nodes that they construct’ (1994: 58–9).
4 The following sentence with its possible orderings illustrates how the CRD works.
The CRDs for S and VP are calculated by the number of ICs to non-ICs. In
other words, the number of words the listener has to parse before all ICs are
recognized:
[SRicardo [VPllevó] a su] novia S 2/2 (100) VP 2/2 (100) (100)
[[S VPLlevó Ricardo] a su] novia S 2/2 (100) VP 2/3 (66) (83)
[VPA su novia [SRicardo llevó]] S 2/2 (100) VP 2/5 (40) (70)
5 Arnold et al. (2000) calculate syntactic weight in terms of ‘number of words’. Since
they do not refer to grammatical categories, it is not clear whether heaviness is
being calculated syntactically or phonologically.
6 The Align-Hansard corpus consists of transcriptions of debates in the Canadian
parliament.
7 Wasow (1997a) notes that weight effects can be measured quite accurately by
counting words, nodes or phrasal nodes and concludes that these measures are
indistinguishable as predictors of order.
8 Wasow (1997a) found that weight phenomena are sensitive, not only to the
weight of one constituent, but rather to the relative weights of the constituents
whose ordering is at issue.
9 Analogously, Hawkins (1994: 452–3) predicts that spoken data will conform to the
Early Immediate Constituent, just like written data. ‘If anything, we expect that
spoken data will be more (or equally) in conformity with EIC, because the pro-
cessing load associated with less efficient Constituent Recognition Domain will
not be helped by the additional source of visual information that comes with writ-
ten material.’
10 In the words surveyed, most of the postposed adjectives in my corpus occur
less than 100 times in the frequency dictionary. The only exceptions constitute
those words that function in multiple lexical categories. For example, the word
general ‘general’ functions not only as an adjective, but also as a noun (military
general) and as part of the adverbial phrase por lo general ‘in general.’ Even so,
these words fall far short in frequency compared to the preposed adjectives in my
corpus.
References
Alameda, J. R. and F. Cuetos (1995) Diccionario de frecuencias de las unidades lingüísticas
del castellano. Oviedo: La Universidad de Oviedo.
Arnold, J., T. Wasow, A. Losongco and R. Ginstrom (2000) ‘Heaviness vs. Newness: The
Effects of Structural Complexity and Discourse Status on Constituent Ordering’,
Language, vol. 76, no. 1, pp. 28–55.
Bever, T. G. (1970) ‘The Cognitive Basis for Linguistic Structures’, in J. R. Hayes (ed.),
Cognition and the Development of Language. New York: Wiley, pp. 279–362.
Bock, J. K. (1987) ‘An Effect of the Accessibility of Word Forms on Sentence Structures’,
Journal of Memory and Language, vol. 26, pp. 119–37.
Delbecque, N. (1990) ‘Word Order as a Reflection of Alternate Conceptual Construals
in French and Spanish: Similarities and Divergences in Adjective Position’, Cognitive
Linguistics, vol. 1, pp. 349–416.
Dell, G. S. and P. A. Reich (1981) ‘Stages in Sentence Production: An Analysis of Speech
Error Data’, Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behaviour, vol. 20, pp. 611–29.
Erdmann, P. (1988) ‘On the Principle of “Weight” in English’, in C. Duncan-Rose and
T. Vennemann (eds), On Language, Rhetorica, Phonologica Syntactica: A Festschrift for
Robert P. Stockwell from his Friends and Colleagues. London: Routledge, pp. 325–39.
Fernández, S. (1951) Gramática Española. Madrid: Revista de Occidente.
Garrett, M. F. (1982) ‘Production of Speech: Observations from Normal and
Pathological Language Use’, in A. Ellis (ed.), Normality and Pathology in Cognitive
Functions. London: Academic Press, pp. 19–76.
Gili Gaya, S. (1961) Curso superior de sintaxis española. Barcelona: Biblograf.
Grimsley, S. (2000) ‘Quantitative Study of Historical Spanish Adjective Placement’,
Paper presented in the 4th Hispanic Linguistic Symposium.
Hawkins, J. A. (1994) A Performance Theory of Order and Constituency. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Itkonen, E. (1991) Universal History of Linguistics: India, China, Arabia, Europe.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Klein-Andreu, F. (ed.) (1983) Discourse Perspectives on Syntax. New York: Academic Press.
Levelt, W. (1989) Speaking. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Levelt, W. and B. Maassen (1981) ‘Lexical Search and Order of Mention in Sentence
Production’, in W. Klein and W. Levelt (eds), Crossing the Boundaries in Linguistics.
Dordrecht: Reidel. 221–252.
Miller, P. H., G. K. Pullum and A. M. Zwicky (1997) ‘The Principle of Phonology-Free
Syntax: Four Apparent Counterexamples in French’, Journal of Linguistics, vol. 33,
pp. 67–90.
Pajunen, A. (1998) ‘Adjectives in Spoken Language’, Word, vol. 49, pp. 341–68.
Penny, R. (1994) History of the Spanish Language. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Prado, M. (1988) ‘The Semantics of Adjective Position in Spanish’, Selecta, vol. 9,
pp. 1–8.
Terker, A. (1985) ‘On Spanish Adjective Position’, Hispania, vol. 68, pp. 502–10.
Wasow, T. (1997a) ‘Remarks on Grammatical Weight’. Language Variation and Change,
vol. 9, pp. 81–105.
Wasow, T. (1997b) ‘End-Weight from the Speaker’s Perspective’, Journal of
Psycholinguistic Research, vol. 26, pp. 347–61.
Wilmet, M. (1980) ‘Antéposition et postposition de l’épithète qualificative en français
contemporain: Matériaux’, Travaux de linguistique, vol. 7, pp. 179–201.
218 Spanish Adjective Position: Differences between Written and Spoken Discourse
10
Adjective Placement and Noun
Semantics in Spanish
Mariche García-Bayonas
219
Introduction
This chapter addresses the issue of adjective placement in Spanish and, more
specifically, it investigates how adjective placement is related to semantic
interpretation of both the noun it modifies and the noun phrase (NP) where
it is contained. Adjectives in Spanish are said to have a restrictive or non-
restrictive interpretation depending on their position relative to the noun
they modify (Luján, 1980). The restrictive interpretation of a noun-adjective
(NA) or an adjective-noun (AN) pair is a complex matter. Delbecque (1990:
350) notes that the semantic interpretation of adjectives such as Spanish
grande ‘big’ – when preposed it refers to what the entity denoted by the noun
does or has done and when postposed to a physical characteristic of the per-
son (for example gran hombre ‘great man [because of his deeds]’ v. hombre
grande ‘big man’) – is valid for a restricted number of adjectives and in con-
junction with a restricted number of nouns that usually refer to humans. So,
for example, the noun phrases in (10.1) can be interpreted to be a person
who knows and performs music well or a good person who is a musician.
The one or the other interpretation would be determined, ultimately, by
context:
(10.1) a. buen músico
‘good musician’
b. músico bueno
musician good
‘good musician’
Another example shows, however, that adjective position may more impor-
tant for the interpretation of the noun phrase (NP) than previously thought.
In the example in (10.2), the NP in (10.2a) refers not to a civil servant who
is tall, but rather to a civil servant who is highly ranked in his profession.
The most common interpretation of (10.2b), by contrast, is a civil servant
who is physically tall:
(10.2) a. alto funcionario
tall/high civil servant
‘high-ranking civil servant’
b. funcionario alto
civil servant tall/high
‘tall civil servant’
A restrictive interpretation of an adjective, then, can refer to the general
semantics of the noun it modifies (for example for músico such a feature
might be [human]), or to its more specific semantic features (for example
for músico, these might be [profession], [music performance], and so on),
with the context often providing the key disambiguating material if neces-
sary. In some NA/AN pairs, such as those in (10.2), there is a clearer reference
in AN order to the more specific semantic features of the noun, and in NA
order to its more general semantic features. In other words, the semantic
interpretations of the AN order in (10.2a) and that in (10.2b) are closer to
being conventionalized in the sense that the AN and NA orderings are being
given a certain interpretation, independently of the actual lexical items in
the construction.
Spanish adjectives with professions
In this study, we limit ourselves to discussing general v. specific semantic fea-
tures of nouns that denote human professions or vocations. For instance, the
general semantic features of two nouns used in the present study, poeta ‘poet
(masculine)’ and azafata ‘flight attendant’, would be roughly those shown
in (10.3):
(10.3) POETA AZAFATA
[masculine] [feminine]
[animate] [animate]
[human] [human]
[countable] [countable]
… …
An incomplete characterization of the specific semantic make up of these
nouns, in terms of semantic features, would be roughly those given in (10.4):
(10.4) POETA AZAFATA
[profession/vocation] [profession]
220 Adjective Placement and Noun Semantics in Spanish
Mariche García-Bayonas 221
[writer] [waitress]
[poems] [airplane]
… …
In Spanish, such adjective-noun combinations as buen poeta, poeta bueno
‘good poet’, or gran azafata, azafata grande ‘great/big airhostess’ are common.
The possible restrictive semantic readings for these constructions are given
in (10.5) and (10.6) respectively:
(10.5) buen poeta/poeta bueno:
a. a poet who is good as a poet, referring to the specific semantics
of the noun.
b. a poet who is a good person, and may or may not be a good
poet, referring to the general semantics of the noun.
(10.6) gran azafata/azafata grande:
a. a flight attendant who is great as a flight attendant, referring to
the specific semantics of the noun.
b. a flight attendant who is physically big, referring to the general
semantics of the noun.
Although there are at least two possible restrictive readings for each AN
or NA combination in (10.5) and (10.6), there seems to be a context-
independent tendency to give the specific reading in (10.5a) to buen poeta.
Similarly, gran azafata generally receives a specific reading, while azafata grande
refers to the general semantics of the noun. The question we pose in this
study is: to what extent is this the case for other AN and NA combinations?
The question of specific v. general reference of AN or NA combinations is
hardly touched upon in the literature on the semantic interpretation of
Spanish adjective placement. Traditionally, the distinction is made that post-
placed adjectives restrict the scope of the noun (edificios hermosos ‘beautiful
buildings’ is a subset of the set of edificios ‘buildings’), whereas preplaced
adjectives do not. Research by Klein-Andreu (1983) shows that pragmatic
factors play a larger role in the semantic interpretation of AN and NA com-
binations than previously thought. Other research, such as that by Luján
(1980), focuses on the semantic interpretation of more than one postplaced
adjective. However, neither scholar addresses the question of specific v. gen-
eral semantic interpretation. Delbecque (1990: 375, 402–3), on the other
hand, does address this issue, noting that in AN combinations the A repre-
sents the Landmark and the background element to which the domain of
the N (the Trajector and foreground element) is assigned. The result is that
the A modifies the whole semantic domain of the N, the specific as well
as the general semantic traits. By contrast, in NA combinations the N is the
Trajector and background element and the A the Landmark and foreground
element, which allows, among other things, that the adjective may be
assigned to only part of the semantic domain of the noun (see example
[10.2] above). The question we ask in this study is to what extent this is the
case, independently of contextual or discourse cues.
Research questions
In this chapter we address two specific questions: what role (if any) does pre-
or postplacement of an adjective play in the semantic interpretation of the
noun it modifies, independently of context? And, if pre- or postplacement of
the adjective does play a role in the semantic interpretation of the noun it
modifies, why is this so and does the grammaticalization of the AN or NA
construct play a role in the semantic interpretation of NA/AN combinations?
To attempt to respond to these questions, a study was designed to test
whether there is a significant correlation between specific semantics refer-
ence and preplacement on the one hand, and general semantics reference
and postplacement, on the other.
The study
The instrument
A list of NA/AN combinations (40 in all, 27 of which were used for the pre-
sent study; see Appendix) was given to each of the 106 participants in the
study (20 adults and 86 adolescents).1
The adjectives buen ‘good’, terrible ‘ter-
rible’, alto ‘tall, high’, pequeño ‘small, low’, grande ‘big’, genial ‘brillant’, malo
‘bad’ and magnífico ‘magnificent’ were used four times, twice pronominally
and twice postnominally, as attributive modifiers of nouns referring to pro-
fessions (compositor ‘composer’, estudiante ‘student’, funcionario ‘civil servant’
[used twice], poeta ‘poet’, empresario ‘business person’ [used twice], filósofo
‘philosopher’, arquitecto ‘architect’, economista ‘economist’, médico ‘doctor’,
abogado ‘lawyer’,azafata ‘flight attendant’, campesino ‘peasant’, maestro
‘teacher’, gimnasta ‘gymnast’, recepcionista ‘receptionist’, cura ‘priest’, actor
‘actor’, presidente ‘president’ [used twice], cómico ‘comedian’, fotógrafo ‘pho-
tographer’, músico ‘musician’, alumno ‘pupil’, escritor ‘writer’, matemático
‘mathmatician’, aparejador ‘surveyor’, contable ‘accountant’, naturópata
‘naturopath’, notario ‘notary public’, piloto ‘pilot’, granjero ‘farmer’, professor
‘teacher, professor’, tenista ‘tennis player’, telefonista ‘telephone operator’,
monja ‘nun’ and actriz ‘actress’.
The general goal of the task was to ascertain the extent to which native
speakers of Spanish of different ages display a significant tendency to match
up adjective preplacement with what we have called the specific semantic
interpretation of the noun and postplacement with the general semantic
interpretation of the noun. To afford a comparison, some of the nouns
222 Adjective Placement and Noun Semantics in Spanish
Mariche García-Bayonas 223
have been selected as pairs with regard to their lexical meaning. For
instance, buen compositor ‘good composer’ corresponds to músico bueno ‘good
musician’.
As indicated in the list, three nouns (funcionario ‘civil servant’, empresario
‘business person’, presidente ‘president’) were included twice in the instru-
ment with the same adjective, once prenominally and once postnominally.
The rationale for this was to compare responses of participants to possible
lexicalized expressions (for example, alto funcionario ‘high-level civil servant’
v. funcionario alto ‘tall civil servant’; pequeño empresario ‘small-time business
person’ v. empresario pequeño ‘small business person’, and so on) as opposed
to possibly less lexicalized expressions, such as mal presidente ‘bad president’
v. presidente malo ‘president who is a bad person’. Moreover, the adjective
pobre ‘poor’, though excluded from the general study, was included in order
to test the extent to which its commonly held pronominal interpretation,
‘unfortunate, miserable’, and postnominal interpretation, ‘financially poor’,
would hold for the set of participants of the study.
The order of appearance of combinations on the list is random. This, along
with the fact that the test was designed so that adjectives appeared twice in
the same position, was meant to function as a test of reliability among the
participants. Thus, if they interpret funcionario alto to be a case of reference
of the adjective to the general semantics of the noun, as in ‘a tall civil ser-
vant’, the same could be expected to hold for azafata alta as well. It will
become apparent that this is not always the case.
As already mentioned, the combinations were given to the participants
devoid of any context. The participants were given the option of marking
whether the meaning of the AN or NA combination referred to the general
semantics of the noun, its specific semantics, or another option in case they
did not agree with either of the other possible answers offered.
Participants
The test was administered to two groups of participants: an adult group (part
one) and a preadolescent group (part two). Part one of the study took place
in Marbella, Spain. The adult subjects (n  20) were selected randomly,
10 males, and 10 females, in order to prevent possible gender differences. All
participants were native speakers of Spanish living in Andalucía, Spain, their
ages ranging from 18 to 65 (mean age of 32.4).
Part two of the study took place in Madrid, Spain. Children (n  86) were
selected randomly from a primary school for this part of the study. Their ages
ranged from 10 to 14 (mean of 11.28). All members of this group were also
native speakers of Spanish.
The dependent variable in the study was pre- or postplacement of the
adjective. The independent variables coded for were age, gender, number of
books reported to have been read in the preceding year (for children), and
specific-general-other semantics of the noun.
Hypotheses
The null hypothesis for this study was that there would be no correlation
between pre-/postplacement of an adjective relative to the noun it modifies
and the age, gender, number of books read by the participants (children), or
the semantics of the noun. However, based on the semantic readings com-
monly assigned to alto funcionario ‘high-ranked civil servant’ and funcionario
alto ‘tall civil servant’ (cf. 10.2 above), we expected that there might be a ten-
dency for a preposed adjective to receive a semantic interpretation applying
to the specific semantics of the noun, and a postposed adjective to the gen-
eral semantics of the noun. Moreover, given the observation by Delbeque
(1990) that the semantic interpretation of an AN or NA combination is ulti-
mately determined by context, we expected that participants would display
vacillation between different semantic readings because of the lack of con-
text. That is, we expected there to be randomness. Finally, given that adjec-
tive use develops later in language (cf. Gili Gaya, 1961), we also expected
that there might be more indecisiveness, reflected in higher variation, in the
preadolescents’ responses relative to those of their adult counterparts.
Results and discussion
The null hypothesis held regarding the correlation between the effect of age,
gender and number of books reportedly read by the participants (children)
on pre- v. postplacement of an adjective. That is, we found no statistically
significant correlation between adjective placement relative to the noun it
modifies on the one hand and age, gender and number of books read by the
participants (children) on the other.
Before moving on to address the frequencies and distributions of the two
groups at large, we will first discuss the results of individual items in the
instrument.
As mentioned above, various pairs tested with the instrument may be par-
tially or entirely. The pair funcionario alto and alto funcionario is a case in
point. The semantic interpretation of the AN ordered phrase is typically
‘high-level civil servant’, referring to the specific semantics of the noun,
whereas the semantic interpretation of the NA ordered phrase is ‘tall civil
servant’, referring to the general semantics of the noun. Table 10.1 displays
the frequency of responses from both the adults and children for alto
funcionario v. funcionario alto.
The responses from both groups are comparable. Although it is by no
means categorical, both groups preferred the general semantic interpretation
for the NA order (funcionario alto), with the children displaying a stronger
preference. This could be because among younger people this phrase is at
a different degree of lexicalization than with the adults. A more detailed
study of this would be useful to determine if this is in fact the case. For
alto funcionario, the percentages of the two groups are almost identical
in overwhelmingly preferring the specific semantic interpretation. This
224 Adjective Placement and Noun Semantics in Spanish
Mariche García-Bayonas 225
suggests that the AN phrase is more lexicalized that its NA counterpart.
Again, a more detailed study could make a more definitive statement as to
whether or not this is true.
In light of the results in Table 10.1, the pairs azafata alta and alto piloto,
shown in Table 10.2, are remarkable: while the children’s responses for these
pairs are comparable to those in Table 10.1, the adults overwhelmingly pre-
ferred the general interpretation of the NA combination azafata alta (95%),
but only slightly more than half (55%) preferred the specific interpretation
in the AN phrase alto piloto.
By contrast, only 53.5 per cent of the children preferred the general inter-
pretation of azafata alta but overwhelmingly preferred the specific interpre-
tation of alto piloto. Again, this may have to do with generational differences
which an in-depth study would better determine. There might also be an
analogical influence of alto funcionario in the children’s language. That is,
this phrase may be serving as a type of exemplar, or prefab, for children to
form other similar conventionized collocations with an analogous semantic
interpretation (see Bybee, 2005). By contrast, the results of the adults’
preferences do not show this possible effect.
Table 10.1 Interpretations of alto funcionario and funcionario alto in adults and
children
Adults Children
Funcionario alto Specific 9 (45%) 23 (27%)
General 10 (50%) 50 (58%)
Other 1 (5%) 13 (15%)
Total 20 (100%) 86 (100%)
Alto funcionario Specific 18 (90%) 77 (90%)
General 1 (5%) 9 (10%)
Other 1 (5%) —
Total 20 (100%) 86 (100%)
Table 10.2 Interpretations for azafata alta and alto piloto in adults and children
Adults Children
Azafata alta Specific 1 (5%) 46 (53.5%)
General 19 (95%) 31 (36%)
Other — 9 (10.5%)
Total 20 (100%) 86 (100%)
Alto piloto Specific 11 (55%) 77 (90%)
General 8 (40%) 8 (9%)
Other 1 (5%) 1 (1%)
Total 20 (100%) 86 (100%)
Another phrase that we perceived to possibly be lexicalized is pequeño
empresario ‘small business owner’. In Table 10.3, we compare this to its NA
counterpart empresario pequeño ‘little (short-statured) business owner’, and to
two other phrases that could have been influenced by pequeño empresario by
analogy. For pequeño empresario ‘small business owner’, both the adults and
children display the same strong preference toward a specific interpretation.
This would suggest that the phrase is highly lexicalized. Moreover, the simi-
lar split in preference for empresario pequeño between the general and specific
readings apparent in both groups points to a lack of lexicalization, similar to
that found for funcionario alto discussed in Table 10.1.
The preferred semantic interpretations of preposed v. postposed pobre
(‘miserable’ v. ‘poor’, respectively) and simple (‘mere’ v. ‘simple, stupid’,
respectively) are generally perceived to be somewhat lexicalized in colloquial
speech. That is, pobre filósofo is more often thought to refer to a philosopher
who is down on his luck rather than one who is economically not well-off.
A monja pobre, on the other hand, is generally considered a nun without eco-
nomic means rather than one who is down on her luck. Similarly, for a sim-
ple poeta the perceived preferred interpretation would be a ‘mere poet’,
whereas gimnasta simple would be a simple-minded gymnast. Although we
did not include these examples in the overall data gleaned from the groups,
we wanted to see to what extent the preferences of the adults and children
in our study coincided with the preferences we perceived. The results are
given in Tables 10.4 and 10.5.
226 Adjective Placement and Noun Semantics in Spanish
Table 10.3 Semantic interpretations for N-pequeño and pequeño-N in adults and
children
Adults Children
Pequeño empresario Specific 19 (95%) 77 (90%)
(lit. ‘small bus. owner’) General — 8 (9%)
Other 1 (5%) 1 (1%)
Total 20 (100%) 86 (100%)
Empresario pequeño Specific 12 (60%) 59 (69%)
(lit. ‘small bus. owner’) General 6 (30%) 26 (30%)
Other 2 (10%) 1 (1%)
Total 20 (100%) 86 (100%)
Pequeño granjero Specific 18 (90%) 66 (77%)
(lit. ‘small farmer’) General 2 (10%) 18 (21%)
Other — 2 (2%)
Total 20 (100%) 86 (100%)
Campesino pequeño Specific 6 (30%) 58 (68%)
(lit. ‘small farmer’) General 14 (70%) 27 (31%)
Other — 1 (1%)
Total 20 (100%) 86 (100%)
227
Table 10.4 ‘Miserable’ v. ‘poor’ interpretation for preposed v. postposed pobre
Adults Children
Pobre filósofo ‘miserable’ 10 (50%) 38 (44%)
‘poor’ 1 (5%) 20 (23%)
Other 9 (45%) 28 (33%)
Total 20 (100%) 86 (100%)
Pobre cura ‘miserable’ 16 (80%) 54 (63%)
‘poor’ 3 (15%) 21 (24%)
Other 1 (5%) 11 (13%)
Total 20 (100%) 86 (100%)
Matemático pobre ‘miserable’ 2 (10%) 19 (22%)
‘poor’ 13 (65%) 47 (55%)
Other 5 (25%) 20 (23%)
Total 20 (100%) 86 (100%)
Monja pobre ‘miserable’ 3 (15%) 13 (15%)
‘poor’ 15 (75%) 66 (77%)
Other 2 (10%) 7 (8%)
Total 20 (100%) 86 (100%)
Table 10.5 ‘Mere’ v. ‘simple-minded’ interpretation for preposed v. postposed simple
Adults Children
Simple poeta ‘mere’ 3 (15%) 4 (5%)
‘simple-m,’ 12 (60%) 78 (90%)
Other 5 (25%) 4 (5%)
Total 20 (100%) 86 (100%)
Simple tenista ‘mere’ 2 (10%) 7 (8%)
‘simple-m,’ 13 (65%) 72 (84%)
Other 5 (25%) 7 (8%)
Total 20 (100%) 86 (100%)
Gimnasta simple ‘mere’ 11 (55%) 33 (38%)
‘simple-m,’ 7 (35%) 48 (56%)
Other 2 (10%) 5 (6%)
Total 20 (100%) 86 (100%)
Escritor simple ‘mere’ 9 (45%) 18 (21%)
‘simple-m.’ 8 (40%) 61 (71%)
Other 3 (15%) 7 (86%)
Total 20 (100%) 86 (100%)
The positional interpretations of pobre appear to be largely lexicalized.
That is, in preposed position its interpretation is ‘miserable’, postposed its
interpretation is ‘poor, having little money and few possessions’. With
respect to preposed v. postposed simple, preposed ‘simple-minded’ appears
also to be largely lexicalized for the children’s group, but less so for the adult
group of informants. Analogously, gimnasta/escritor simple is less lexicalized
than its AN counterpart for the adult group, but more so for the younger
group. Interestingly, both semantic interpretations of both pobre and simple
refer, not profession-specific semantic features, but to the general semantic
features of the person being denoted by the respective adjective.
Chi-square analyses were calculated for the data of the two groups in order
to test the statistical significance of preposed v. postposed As, and how they
relate to the general or specific semantics of the Ns. The dependent variable
is the position (whose values are pre v. postposed position of the adjective).
The independent variable is the semantic interpretation of the phrase con-
taining the adjective (whose values are reference to the general v. specific
semantics of the noun). As a point of departure, we adopt the null-hypothesis.
That is, independently of whether an adjective is preposed or postposed,
there should be no correlation between adjective position and the general v.
specific semantic interpretation of the phrase in which the adjective appears.
In other words, the phrases buen músico ‘good musician’ and músico bueno
[lit. musician good] should not correlate with the general v. specific seman-
tic interpretation, that is ‘good person who is a musician’ (general) or ‘good
musician’ (specific). The results of the Chi square tests are given in
Tables 10.6 (adults) and 10.7 (children).
228 Adjective Placement and Noun Semantics in Spanish
Table 10.6 Chi-square results for the adults
General Specific Other Totals
Preposed 30 (12%) 224 (86%) 6 (2%) 260 (100%)
Postposed 85 (30%) 184 (66%) 11 (4%) 280 (100%)
Totals 115 408 17 540
Degrees of freedom: 2, Chi-square  31.08, p  0.0001. The distribution is significant.
Table 10.7 Chi-square results for the children
General Specific Other Totals
Preposed 184 (16%) 902 (81%) 32 (3%) 1,118 (100%)
Postposed 306 (25%) 853 (71%) 45 (4%) 1,204 (100%)
Totals 490 1,755 77 2,322
Degrees of freedom: 2, Chi-square  30.8, p  0.0001. The distribution is significant.
Mariche García-Bayonas 229
Based on the high significance of the Chi-square test, the null hypothesis
is rejected. While there is a very strong overall preference for the specific
semantic interpretation independently of the position of the adjective, there
is also a statistically significant preference for the general semantic interpre-
tation in conjunction with the postposed adjective. From another perspec-
tive, the preference for the specific semantic interpretation is greater in a
statistically significant way with the preposed adjective. In sum, indepen-
dently of any context whatsoever, the position of the adjective influences
whether a general v. specific semantic reading of an AN or NA pair is
preferred.
One possible criticism of the instrument is ordering of the options the
informants had to choose from. In the 27 examples we took for this study,
the options were always given as in (10.7) (see Appendix):
(10.7) a. Specific semantic interpretation
b. General semantic interpretation
c. Other
To test whether the specific–general or general–specific ordering in the
instrument had an effect on the choices made by the informants, four exam-
ples were included that had the ordering shown in (10.8):
(10.8) a. General semantic interpretation
b. Specific semantic interpretation
c. Other
Using the tokens for the most chosen option (the specific semantic interpre-
tation) because their number was more robust, we performed a Chi-square
test on the specific–general v. general–specific ordering in the instrument.
The results are shown in Table 10.8.
The ordering presented to the informants, whether that in (10.7) or that in
(10.8), had no influence on the options chosen by them in this study.
Table 10.8 The significance of specific–general and general–specific ordering in the
instrument, calculated with tokens from the specific semantic interpretation in adult
and child groups
Spec v. gen Gen v. spec Totals
Adults 408 (85%) 71 (15%) 479 (100%)
Children 1,755 (86%) 290 (14%) 2,045 (100%)
Totals 2,163 361 2,524
Degrees of freedom: 1, Chi-square  0.130 (critical value is 3.84). The distribution is not
significant.
Another possible reading of the result of Table 10.8 would be that the tokens
are too few to get a significant result. However, given that the number of
tokens is fairly robust, this possibility can be ruled out.
Conclusion
The central question in this study is whether, devoid of context, the position
of the adjective relative to the noun it modifies has an influence on the gen-
eral v. specific semantic interpretation of the noun, as predicted by the
analysis advanced by Delbecque (1990). Concretely, we wanted to know
whether the position of an A such as buen(o) ‘good’ relative to a noun such
as músico ‘musician’ would influence whether an informant preferred a gen-
eral semantic interpretation of the phrase, that is, ‘a good person who is
a musician’ v. ‘a good musician’. Our conclusion, based on a Spanish
native-speaker informant base of 20 adults (18–65 years) and 86 children
(10–14 years), is that the general v. specific semantic interpretation of such
phrases is influenced by position, shown to be significant by Chi-square
tests.
We also examined the interpretation of semi-fixed expressions such as alto
funcionario ‘high-level civil servant’ and pequeño empresario ‘small business
owner’ to measure the extent to which they may be lexicalized. We found
they were indeed on their way to being lexicalized, and that there may be
some exemplar effect carrying over from these to phrases such as alto piloto
‘high-rank’ or pequeño granjero ‘small-scale farmer’. However, for the corre-
sponding phrases with postposed adjective (funcionario alto ‘tall civil ser-
vant’, azafata alta ‘tall air hostess’ and campesino pequeño ‘small farmer’) we
found little evidence for a lexicalized interpretation. Thus, the AN combina-
tions may lend themselves more so than the NA combinations to the process
of phrasal lexicalization.
The preferences of interpretation of the phrases containing pobre ‘miserable/
poor’ and simple ‘mere/simple-minded’ by our informants also suggest that
the semantic interpretation of these is linked to their position relative to the
noun they modify, independently of context. That is, preposed pobre refers
to the person denoted as hapless, though not necessarily poor, while post-
posed pobre refers to the financial state of the person denoted, just as pre-
posed simple refers to the person denoted as a mere being, while postposed
simple refers to the mental capacity of the person denoted. These are
arguably cases prefabs in that pobre  N and simple  N have a particular
semantic interpretation, which is systematically different than N  pobre
and N  simple, respectively.
Returning to the initial issue of the link between specific semantic inter-
pretation and adjective preplacement v. general semantic interpretation and
adjective postplacement, the question needs to be posed as to why this is so.
Delbecque (1990) argues that it has a cognitive basis. Following a similar line
230 Adjective Placement and Noun Semantics in Spanish
Mariche García-Bayonas 231
of reasoning, Clements (2004) examines phrase-initial v. phrase-final
position of sentences, DPs and NPs, arguing that the phrase-initial position
is cognitively salient and is often used to refer to whole or known entities,
whereas the phrase-final position is most commonly used to code partitive
or contrastive meaning, or indicate new information. This cognitive inter-
pretation accommodates Spanish adjective position in the following way:
preposed adjectives in Spanish are preferred to refer to the specific semantics
of an entity denoted by a noun, which logically also include the general
semantics of the noun, as well. By contrast, postposed adjectives are pre-
ferred to refer to the general semantics of an entity denoted by the noun,
that is, only part of the semantic features of the noun. In this context, it is
relevant to note an observation by King and Suñer (1999): preposed adjec-
tives can imply that the entity denoted by the corresponding noun is taken
to be a whole class, whereas postposed adjective do not have this reading.
For example, the phrase perezosos alumnos ‘lazy students’ in sentence (10.9a)
refers to a whole set of students, whereas the phrase alumnos perezosos
[lit. students lazy] in (10.9b) refers to a subset of the whole set of students
(examples are taken from King and Suñer, 1999: 170):
(10.9) a. Los perezosos alumnos de esta clase no sacan buenas notas.
‘The lazy students [all are lazy] in this class do not get good
grades.’
b. Los alumnos perezosos de esta clase no sacan buenas notas.
‘Those students in this class who are lazy do not get good
grades.’
We argue, in consonance with Debecque (1990) and Clements (2004), that
the findings of this study and the semantic interpretations of the sentences
in (10.9) are related and have to do with the cognitive nature of phrase-
initial and phrase-final positions. The scope for research on this is as vast as it
is important. We hope that our study has contributed a part of the answer to
the larger question of the cognitive significance of phrase-initial and phrase-
final positions.
Appendix
Items used in study
3. Funcionario alto
a. prestigioso
b. hombre alto
c. otro/a
5. Pequeño empresario
a. empresario con capital/negocio pequeño
b. hombre de estatura pequeña
c. otro/a
7. Arquitecto grande
a. arquitecto famoso/conocido/bueno
b. hombre de gran estatura
c. otro/a
10. Abogado magnífico
a. referido a su profesión
b. referido a su cualidad humana
c. otro/a
11. Azafata alta
a. alta en la escala profesional
b. persona de estatura alta
c. otro/a
12. Campesino pequeño
a. hombre que posee pocas tierras
b. hombre de estatura pequeña
c. otro/a
13. Buen maestro
a. maestro que es bueno
b. persona que es buena
c. otro/a
15. Terrible recepcionista
a. referido a la profesión
b. referido a la persona
c. otro/a
17. Genial actor
a. actor que es muy bueno
b. persona que es muy buena
c. otro/a
18. Presidente malo
a. referido a la profesión
b. referido a la persona
c. otro/a
19. Magnífico cómico
a. referido a la profesión
b. referido a la persona
c. otro/a
20. Gran fotógrafo
a. buen profesional
b. personal grande
c. otro/a
21. Músico bueno
a. referido a la profesión
b. referido a la persona
c. otro/a
22. Terrible alumno
a. mal estudiante
b. mal chico
c. otro/a
23. Alto funcionario
a. funcionario de alto cargo
232 Adjective Placement and Noun Semantics in Spanish
Mariche García-Bayonas 233
b. funcionario de alta estatura
c. otro/a
25. Empresario pequeño
a. empresario con poco negocio
b. persona de baja estatura
c. otro/a
27. Gran aparejador
a. aparejador famoso/bueno
b. aparejador de gran tamaño
c. otro/a
28. Contable genial
a. referido a la profesión
b. referido a la persona
c. otro/a
29. Naturópata malo
a. mal profesional
b. mala persona
c. otro/a
30. Magnífico notario
a. gran profesional
b. gran persona
c. otro/a
31. Alto piloto
a. piloto de alto cargo
b. persona de estatura alta
c. otro/a
32. Pequeño granjero
a. granjero con pocas posesiones
b. granjero de baja estatura
c. otro/a
33. Profesor bueno
a. buen profesor
b. buena persona
35. Telefonista terrible
a. mala profesional
b. mala persona
c. otro/a
37. Actriz genial
a. actriz que es muy buena
b. persona que es muy buena
c. otro/a
38. Mal presidente
a. presidente que no es bueno
b. persona que no es buena
c. otro/a
39. Presentador magnífico
a. buen profesional
b. buena persona
c. otro/a
Items not used in the study
1. Buen compositor
a. buena persona
b. buen profesional
c. otro/a
2. Estudiante terrible
a. terrible referido a la persona
b. terrible referido al estudiante
c. otro/a
4. Simple poeta
a. sólo un poeta
b. poeta tonto
c. otro/a
6. Pobre filósofo
a. hombre sin dinero
b. hombre que da pena
c. otro/a
8. Genial economista
a. hombre genial
b. profesional genial
c. otro/a
9. Mal médico
a. hombre malo
b. médico de mala calidad
c. otro/a
14. Gimnasta simple
a. gimnasta que es simple
b. persona que es sólo un gimnasta
c. otro/a
16. Pobre cura
a. cura que da pena
b. cura sin dinero
c. otro/a
24. Escritor simple
a. escritor tonto
b. persona simplemente escritora
c. otro/a
26. Matemático pobre
a. persona sin dinero
b. persona que da pena
c. otro/a
34. Simple tenista
a. tenista tonto
b. persona que sólo es tenista
c. otro/a
36. Monja pobre
a. persona sin dinero
b. persona que da pena
c. otro/a
234 Adjective Placement and Noun Semantics in Spanish
Mariche García-Bayonas 235
40. Cámara grande
a. un cámara reconocido/famoso
b. persona de gran tamaño
c. otro/a
Note
1 Of the 13 combinations not included, four contained the adjective simple ‘simple,
only’, four contained the adjective pobre ‘poor, miserable’, both of which tend to
have a lexicalized meaning in preposed position. Five examples were excluded
because they contained a different ordering of the questions from the other 27.
References
Beard, R. (1991) ‘Decompositional Composition: The Semantics of Scope Ambiguities
and “Bracketing Paradoxes” ’, Natural Language and Linguistic Theory, vol. 9(2),
pp. 195–229.
Bello, A. (1847) Gramática de la lengua castellana destinada al uso de los americanos.
Santiago de Chile.
Bybee, J. (2005) ‘The Impact of Use on Representation: Grammar is Usage and Usage
is Grammar’, Presidential address to the Linguistics Society of America annual
meeting. Oakland, CA, 6–9 January.
Clements, J. C. (2004) ‘Salience Effects of Initial (and Final) Position in Clauses,
Phrases, and Words’, Paper presented at the High Desert Linguistic Society biennial
meeting. University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, 4–6 November.
Delbecque, N. (1990) ‘Word Order as a Reflection of Alternate Conceptual Construals
in French and Spanish and Divergences in Adjective Position’, Cognitive Linguistics,
vol. 1(4), pp. 349–416.
Gili Gaya, S. (1961) Curso superior de sintaxis española. Madrid: Vox.
King, L. D. and M. Suñer (1999) Gramática española. Análisis y práctica. Boston:
McGraw Hill.
Klein-Andreu, F. (1983) ‘Grammar in Style: Spanish Adjective Placement’, in F. Klein-
Andreu (ed.), Discourse Perspectives on Syntax. London: Academic Press, pp. 143–79.
Luján, M. E. (1980) ‘La estructuración e interpretación de secuencias de adjetivos’,
Boletin de la Biblioteca de Menendez Pelayo, vol. 56, pp. 387–99.
236
11
Transitivity and Spanish
Non-Anaphoric se
J. Clancy Clements*
Introduction
In the languages of the world, it is not uncommon to find reflexive pro-
nouns taking on other functions. Indeed, the reflexive pronoun is a wide-
spread source for passive-voice constructions in several language families
(Semitic, Uto-Aztecan, Athabaskan and Carib languages; see Givón, 1990:
602 and references therein). In Romance and non-Romance European lan-
guages (for example the Germanic languages), we find the reflexive pronoun
as a marker of the passive and/or middle voice (Abraham, 1995; Fagan, 1992;
Vater, 1988).1
In Spanish, the reflexive pronoun marks not only middle and
passive voice, but also appears as a marker in impersonal and antipassive
constructions (Masullo, 1992), serves as an aspectual marker on verbs of var-
ious sorts (see Hernández, 1966: 50), and accompanies certain other verbs
where it co-varies with markers of definiteness and foregrounded material.
And although it seems that this wide variety of non-anaphoric functions of
Spanish se is quite disparate, this chapter presents a unified analysis of non-
anaphoric se. With ‘unified’ we mean here that by appealing to a single
notion, that of Transitivity as proposed by Hopper and Thompson (1980),
the basic function of non-anaphoric se can be accounted for.2
That is, the
various functions of Spanish non-anaphoric se are all, essentially, a function
of Transitivity. And although the notion of Transitivity, and the focus of this
study, are largely functionalist in nature, we refer to notions from the for-
malist perspective, such as the notions of binding, case assignment and
absorption, in order to give a broader characterization of the effects of se on
the Transitivity of the clause in which it appears.
* Thanks to José Camacho, Edelmiro Salas, Liliana Sanchez and several anony-
mous reviewers for their comments and suggestions. Thanks also go to Sonia Colina
and Phillip Elliott for their comments on an earlier version of this study, and to Richa
Pauranik Clements for assistance in proofreading.
J. Clancy Clements 237
The non-anaphoric functions of Spanish se have developed from its
function as a reflexive pronoun. Reflexivity and reciprocity in Spanish are
typically expressed with clitic pronouns me ‘myself’, te ‘yourself’, se ‘himself,
herself, themselves’, nos ‘ourselves’, os ‘yourselves’. Some examples are given
in (11.1–11.2):
(11.1) Luisai sei lava.
Luisa REFL washes
‘Luisa washes herself.’
(11.2) Juani y Luisaj sei-j aman.
Juan and Luisa REFL love
‘Juan and Luisa love each other.’
In order for sentences such as (11.1–11.2) to be interpretable on a proposi-
tional level (in Givon’s 1984 sense), certain general semantic/syntactic
requirements, given in (11.3) and (11.4), must be met:
(11.3) Reflexive pronouns typically must have an antecedent in their
local domain (that is, within a clause containing a finite verb)
(≈ Principle A in a PP-type framework)
(11.4) Arguments must be interpretable in terms of case (for example
nominative, accusative or dative, and so on), and semantic role
(such as agent, experiencer, source, theme and so on).
Apart from these requirements, there is another, expressed in (11.5), which
sets a key condition for a felicitous pragmatic interpretation of a reflexive
construction:
(11.5) Condition for the felicitous interpretation of the reflexive
pronoun: The participant expressed as the lexical subject of the
verb is assumed by the speaker of the utterance to have the ability
to bring about the action referred to by the verb.
(11.5) has been adapted from one of Searle’s (1990: 123) two preparatory
conditions, the sincerity condition, elaborated initially to account for the
commissive speech act of promising: If speaker S promises to do proposition
p, ‘the speaker believes it is possible for him to do the act’. Accordingly, if S
utters that someone does something to him/herself, S assumes that the per-
son being referred to is able to carry out the action referred to by the verb.3
Applying (11.3)–(11.5) to the sentences in (11.1–11.2), we see that the
local domain in each case is the whole sentence and both reflexives are
bound within their respective local domain. Moreover, the subjects in
(11.1–11.2) have nominative case, and the reflexive pronoun se is a direct
object (accusative case) of transitive verbs lavar and amar respectively.
Both verbs have agentive subjects and patient DOs. Finally, both subjects
are human and understood as being able to carry out the event/activity
denoted by the respective verbs. Thus, the basic syntactic, semantic, and
pragmatic requirements for the proper interpretation of the reflexives
are met.
According to Cennamo (1993), the development of Spanish se from a
reflexive/reciprocal to an intransitive impersonal traced the path in (11.6).
Both reflexive-verb passives (for example se venden muebles) and impersonals
(for example se vende muebles) are found as early as the ninth to eleventh
centuries (see Cennamo, 1993, in Maldonado, 1996: 97). From the thirteenth
to the nineteenth century these forms became increasingly more frequent,
first gradually, then by the seventeenth century substantially more com-
mon. In part, this increase had to do with the stabilization of the use of per-
sonal a (Barry, 1985: 210–13). The impersonal construction for intransitive
clauses represents the end of the development.4
(11.6) Category Example
REFLEXIVE/ a. Juan se lava.
RECIPROCAL Juan REFL washes
‘Juan washes himself.’
b. Juan se levanta por la mañana.
Juan REFL gets-up in the morning
‘Juan gets up in the morning.’
c. Juan y María se venden muebles.
Juan & María REFL sell furniture
‘Juan and María sell each other furniture.’
⇓ ⇓
MIDDLE VOICE d. Juan se despierta por la mañana
Juan REFL wakes-up in the morning
‘Juan gets up in the morning.’
e. Luisa se cansa fácilmente.
Luisa REFL tires easily
‘Luisa becomes tired easily.’
⇓ ⇓
‘EMPHATIC’ SE f. Luisa se va mañana.
Luisa REFL goes tomorrow
‘Luisa is leaving tomorrow.’
g. El abuelito se murió ayer.
the grandpa REFL died yesterday
‘The grandpa died yesterday.’
⇓ ⇓
238 Transitivity and Spanish Non-Anaphoric se
J. Clancy Clements 239
PASSIVE VOICE/ h. Se venden muebles.
IMPERSONAL ‘REFL’ sell-3pl furniture-3pl
PASSIVE ‘One sells furniture.’ ‘Furniture are sold.’
(with transitive i. Se vende muebles.5
verbs) ‘REFL’ sells furniture-3pl
‘One sells furniture.’ ‘Furniture is sold.’
⇓ ⇓
IMPERSONAL j. Se trabaja mucho aquí.
(with intransitive ‘REFL’ works a lot here
verbs) ‘People work a lot here.’
From a cognitive perspective, the reflexive and the middle voice overlap
somewhat, as is apparent in the examples (11.6b) and (11.6d)–(11.6e). Recall
that here middle voice is considered a conceptual domain that includes utter-
ances like Juan se acuesta [lit. Juan lies (himself) down] ‘Juan lies down’where
agentivity is present, as well as those such as Juan se durmió ‘Juan fell asleep’, in
which the subject is an experiencer and se is an aspectual marker (see section
Increasing Transitivity late in the chapter).6
These two sentences are compara-
ble to precisely those in (11.6b) and (11.6d)–(11.6e) respectively: Juan in (11.6b)
is an agent, whereas Juan in (11.6d) and Luisa in (11.6e) are experiencers.
Depending on the context, there are cases in which a given sentence
containing se has several possible readings. Givón (1990: 604) cites the
example reproduced in (11.7), for which he gives the possible interpretations
in (11.8):
(11.7) Se curaron los brujos.
REFL cured-3pl the sorcerers
(11.8) a. The sorcerers cured themselves. (reflexive or reciprocal
interpretation)
b. The sorcerers got well. (middle voice interpretation) (
Givón’s ‘middle/intransitive’)
c. The sorcerers were cured. (passive interpretation)
A context for (11.8a) would be, for example, a group of ailing sorcerers, in
which each sorcerer would cure him/herself (reflexive reading). But (11.8a)
could also correspond to a situation in which each of two groups of sorcerers
were suffering from a different ailment, and one group provided a remedy
for the other group, and vice versa (a reciprocal reading). In both cases, the
sorcerers are the agents of the change as well as the patients, either reflex-
ively or reciprocally. The reading in (11.8b) corresponds to a group of sorcer-
ers that recovered from the ailment over a period of time, without
necessarily doing anything proactively. They are the experiencers of healing.
Finally, the reading for (11.8c) is one in which the sorcerers are the patients,
being cured by an outside person.7
One could make a similar case for the
reflexive/reciprocal or, marginally, the passive reading for the sentence
(11.6h). Thus, the discourse situation often determines the exact interpreta-
tion of such sentences as those in (11.6h) and (11.7).
In other cases, the interpretation of se is more predictable. As we will see
below, an impersonal or an aspectual interpretation of a sentence containing
dormir and se depends on factors having to do with Transitivity, a character-
ization of which is given in the next section. In this characterization, the
notion of Transitivity is then extended to include, as well, typically imper-
sonal constructions of intransitive verbs.
Transitivity
Traditionally, transitive clauses are those whose verbs take a DO. Cast more
broadly, however, it can be said that Transitivity involves the carrying-over
of an action (or the transferring of energy) from one participant to another
(Hopper and Thompson, 1980). Hopper and Thompson argue convinc-
ingly that Transitivity ‘can be broken down into its component parts, each
focusing on a different facet of the carrying-over in a different part of the
clause’(1980: 253). By breaking Transitivity down into its component parts,
it is possible to characterize clauses, not as transitive or intransitive, but
rather as more or less transitive. On this view, Transitivity becomes a ques-
tion of degree. The factors making up the notion of Transitivity, adapted
from Hopper and Thompson (1980), are given in (11.9–11.10):
(11.9) Component parts of Transitivity
High Low
a. PARTICIPANTS 2 or more 1 participant
participants,
A(gent) and
O(bject)
b. KINESIS action non-action
c. ASPECT telic atelic
d. PUNCTUALITY punctual non-punctual
e. VOLITIONALITY volitional non-volitional
f. AFFIRMATION affirmative negative
g. MODE realis irrealis
h. AGENCY A high in potency A low in potency
i. INDIVIDUATION
OF S(UBJECT) S highly S non-
individuated individuated
j. AFFECTEDNESS OF O O totally affected O not affected
k. INDIVIDUATION O highly O non-
OF O individuated individuated
240 Transitivity and Spanish Non-Anaphoric se
J. Clancy Clements 241
(11.10) Component parts of Individuation (11.9i and 11.9k)
Individuated Non-Individuated
proper common
human, animate inanimate
concrete abstract
singular plural
count mass
referential, definite non-referential, indefinite
Note that item (11.9i), highlighted, is an addition to Hopper and
Thompson’s original proposal, an extension originally proposed in a similar
framework by Verhaar (1990: 94–7), who distinguishes between what he
calls intransitive verbs of actorhood, high on the Transitivity scale such as
the equivalents of ‘swim’, ‘talk’ and ‘run’, and intransitive verbs of undergo-
ing, low on the Transitivity scale such as equivalents of ‘fall’, ‘melt’ and
‘faint’. By adopting this extension, it is possible to include intransitive
clauses on the Transitivity scale as well. Thus, with the help of the values
‘high/low’in (11.9) and ‘individuated/non-individuated’in (11.10), one can
measure the degree of Transitivity of any given clause.
Within this definition of Transitivity, Spanish se functions in two distinct
ways; it can have the function of reducing the Transitivity of a clause either
by decreasing the valency of the verb by one argument, from a valency of
two to a valency of one, or by ‘impersonalizing’the verb of an intransitive
clause such that the presence of se disallows nominal or pronominal realiza-
tion of the subject. This results in the subject argument of the intransitive
clause receiving an indefinite and non-referential interpretation. However,
the impersonal construction in transitive clauses (that is, se vende casas) does
not receive such a reading. Rather, the impersonalization effected by se here
is tantamount to a se passive construction, the sole difference being that the
DO does not become the grammatical subject. Revealingly, both of these
types appear at the same time in their historical development.
The valency-reduction function of se has been the subject of many for-
malist analyses. In a Government-and-Binding or Principles-and-Parameters
framework, the decrease in Transitivity is accounted for by attributing se the
function of a case absorber, neutralizer or suspender which deprives the verb
of assigning inherent case (see Belletti, 1982: 5; Otero, 1986: 87–95; Cinque,
1988: 575; Suñer, 1990; and Mendikoetxea, 1994).8
This will be addressed in
more detail below. Se can also have the function of increasing the
Transitivity of the clause. In this function, the claims in (11.11), which fol-
low from Hopper and Thompson’s Transitivity Hypothesis, will obtain for
the presence or absence of se:
(11.11) Claims:
a. Presence of se co-varies with relatively higher Transitivity.
b. Absence of se co-varies with relatively lower Transitivity
These functions of se will be taken up in the following sections.
Decreasing Transitivity9
Se as a valency-reducer: middle and passive se
Above, in (11.6), we showed just how the functions of Spanish se are histori-
cally related. The proximity between the reflexive and the middle interpreta-
tion is illustrated by Givón’s examples in (11.7–11.8a, b). Such cases are not
uncommon. Consider the examples in (11.12) containing the verb mojarse
‘drench oneself, get wet’; (11.12a) is clearly reflexive, indicated by the adver-
bial con entusiasmo ‘with enthusiasm’, while sentence (11.12b), however,
cannot be reflexive and must have something like a patient semantic role
since the subject el cuadro ‘the painting’ is inanimate. Sentence (11.12c) has
an animate, experiencer subject, which has a middle interpretation:
(11.12) a. … Roque Lacentella se mojó con entusiasmo, dio una leve y
jocosa morisqueta. … ‘Eso es lo que se llama un baño, ¿eh?’
‘… Roque Lacentella drenched himself with enthusiasm,
made a light and humorous face … “That’s what’s called a
bath, uh?” ’
(from CREA: Ayerra, 1984: 307)10
b. … y tiene un cuadro que fue de su abuela y viene una un
temporal y se mojó el cuadro y se puso feo, pues lo bota.
‘ … and she has a painting that was her grandmother’s and a,
a storm comes and the painting got wet and it got ugly, then
she throws it out.’
(from CREA, oral, woman, Puerto Rico, 1990)
c. Como no llevaba paraguas, Juan se mojó en el chubasco
tormentoso.
‘As he was carrying an umbrella, Juan got wet in the stormy
downpour.’
Such ambiguity in interpretation is found in greater or lesser measure in
many other verbs, such as acercarse ‘pull oneself toward, approach’, alejarse
‘move oneself away from, get away from’, and moverse ‘move oneself, move’.
In all these cases, the prerequisites for a felicitous reflexive interpretation,
stated in (11.3)–(11.5), may or may no be met, depending on the animacy
and agency of the subject, as well as on the context.
Other verbs with se, such as enamorarse ‘fall in love’in (11.13), and similar
verbs as aburrirse ‘become bored’, ‘become tired’, confundirse ‘become con-
fused’, despertarse ‘wake up’, divertirse ‘have fun’, enojarse ‘get angry’, espan-
tarse ‘become scared’, hartarse ‘become fed up’, ofenderse ‘become offended’,
preocuparse ‘worry, become worried’, allow only a MIDDLE interpretation.11
242 Transitivity and Spanish Non-Anaphoric se
J. Clancy Clements 243
(11.13) Luisa se enamora fácilmente.
Luisa REFL falls-in-love easily
‘Luisa falls in love easily.’
Although structurally se displays reflexive behaviour by having its
antecedent in its local domain (see 11.3 above), se cannot be said to be the
direct object or the patient of the verb enamorar, as would be necessary
according to (11.4); rather, the addition of se to enamorar makes it an intran-
sitive verb. In some formalist accounts, se is said to absorb accusative case
and the corresponding patient semantic role. Other formalist accounts of
such verbs (for example Masullo, 1992) consider them antipassives.
Both analyses of enamorarse-type verbs disregard the complex issue of the-
matic roles. As a transitive verb, enamorar ‘kindle love in the person’
(Moliner, 1984, our translation) is a causative, transitive verb with an agen-
tive subject and a patient DO. By contrast, enamorarse ‘begin to feel love for
a person of the opposite sex’ (ibid., our translation) is an intransitive verb
with an experiencer rather than an agentive subject. No absorption mecha-
nism in the formalist literature deals adequately with the change of seman-
tic roles between enamorar and enamorarse and verbs like them. Regarding
case assignment, however, se does reduce the valency by one. However, the
condition in (11.5) is not met: in the manner in which we understand our
world to generally function, the subject participant Luisa in (11.12) logi-
cally does not have the ability to make herself fall in love. Thus, the se in
enamorarse is non-anaphoric. According to (11.9a), a verb with two partici-
pants is higher in Transitivity than one with only one participant. This is
precisely the affect of se here: it lowers the Transitivity of enamorar by reduc-
ing its valency from two arguments to one. In addition, it converts a verb
with an agentive subject into one with an experiencer subject. In terms of
agency (11.9h), enamorar is high in potency while enamorarse is low in
potency.
In the PASSIVE construction, the function of se is also that of a valence-
reducing mechanism which lowers Transitivity (cf. 11.9a). In addition, se
also affects the semantic roles by leaving the patient (or ‘theme’ in formalist
accounts) as the remaining semantic role. Consequently, the subject of a se
passive construction is non-volitional (11.9e), and non-agentive (11.9h),
thus reducing the Transitivity of the clause even further. This lowering of
Transitivity is captured in the formalist literature by appealing again to the
notion of passive se being a case/semantic-role ‘absorber’ (Belletti, 1982;
Jaeggli, 1986; Cinque, 1988; Suñer, 1990; Mendikoetxea, 1994). Thus, in
(11.14b) se is said to absorb accusative case and the agentive thematic role.
The inanimate object (los) muebles, then, receives the nominative case
assignment intended for the NP subject slot.12
The end result is, again, that
se reduces the valency of the verb by one.
(11.14) a. Juan vende (los) muebles.
‘Juan sells (the) furniture.’
b. Se venden (los) muebles.
SE sell-3PL (the) furniture-3PL
‘(The) furniture is sold.’
Note that in (11.14b), the object-turned-subject is inanimate. If the DO is
animate, but indefinite and non-referential (bare plural), valency reduction
also takes place (11.15a), in which se also renders the verb intransitive and
does away with the agentive semantic role.
With an animate DO which is referential and/or definite, as in (11.15b) –
one of the so-called IMPERSONAL constructions – valency reduction does not
take place; it is nevertheless lower in Transitivity in that the understood
subject is lower in individuation properties (cf. 11.10): it is non-referential
and indefinite (arbitrary or expletive in the formalist perspective [see
Cinque, 1988, and Suñer, 1990]).
(11.15) a. Se invitaron a cenar participantes del congreso.
SE invited-3p to dine participants of-the conference
‘Participants of the conference were invited to dinner.’
b. Se invitó a cenar {a los participantes del congreso/a Marta y a
Pepe}
REFL invited-3s to dine {to l. p. of the conf. / to M. and to P.}
{The participants of the conference /Marta and Pepe} were
invited to dinner.’
Although the examples in (11.15) are considered the default constructions in
Spanish, there is some variation. A search of the CREA corpus shows that
aside from the expected cases, which are comparable to (11.15a) and
(11.15b) and shown in (11.16a.c) and (11.16b) respectively.
(11.16) a. En los inicios de la Reforma Agraria se advirtieron en el
Caquetá condiciones especiales para impulsarla y
‘In the beginnings of the Agrarian Reform special conditions
were indicated in Caquetá to stimulate it and
b. se invitó a los colonos para que sembraran caucho y palma
africana,
the tenant farmers were invited in to plant cork trees and
African palms,
c. se les entregaron tierras y créditos especiales para ganados y
especies menores, pero el gobierno no les hizo adecuado
seguimiento, abandonó los programas y casi todo se fue a la
ruina.
244 Transitivity and Spanish Non-Anaphoric se
J. Clancy Clements 245
they were given land and special credits for livestock and
secondary species, but the government did not carry out an
adequate follow up strategy, it abandoned the programs and
almost everything went to ruin.’
(From CREA: El Tiempo, 13 September 1996, Colombia)
we also encounter examples in which the ‘se  verb-3pl’ construction
co-occurs with referential subjects without personal a (in 11.17), as well as
with referential subjects with personal a (in 11.18 and 11.19):
(11.17) El cardenal nicaraguense, Miguel Obando y Bravo, recomendó
ayer que de realizarse el debate entre los principales aspirantes a
la presidencia de Nicaragua, el liberal Arnoldo Alemán y el san-
dinista Daniel Ortega. . . . Alemán y Ortega, se invitaron el
martes a un debate televisivo.
‘The Nicaraguan cardinal, Miguel Obando y Bravo, recom-
mended yesterday that upon staging a debate between the main
presidential candidates the liberal Arnoldo Alemán and the
Sandinista Daniel Ortega. . . . Alemán and Ortega were invited
Tuesday to a televised debate.’
(From CREA: La Nación, Nicaragua, 12 September 1996)
(11.18) Es obvio que a usted se le ha dado la información equivocada’,
indica Sol Bang a los diputados. A la licitación, según lo refiere
CEL, se invitaron a las siguientes firmas: BZM/Barclays
Bank/Ernst & Young/Ahorromet/Nera, Citibank N.A. . . .
‘“It is obvious that you were given erroneous information,” indi-
cates Sol Bang to the members of parliament. To the tender,
according to CEL, the following enterprises were invited: BZM/
Barclays Bank/Ernst & Young/Ahorromet/Nera, Citibank N.A . . .’
(From CREA: El Salvador Hoy, El Salvador, 4 March 1997)
(11.19) Se hará una presentación de los peloteros que participarán en
esta serie final, se invitaron a las glorias del béisbol.
‘A presentation will be made about the players who will participate
in the final series, the stars of baseball were invited.’
(From CREA: La Prensa, Nicaragua, 29 November 1996)
This variation is found in Latin American Spanish varieties. We return to this
question below in our discussion of impersonal constructions. Before that,
however, we will address the issue of the so-called unaccusative and antipas-
sive constructions.
As already alluded to, even though they are structurally identical, the
se middle construction (11.12b–11.13) and the se passive construction
(11.14b–11.15a) differ in their respective thematic roles. In the middle
construction, the subject has either an experiencer semantic role (animate
subject) or a patient role (inanimate subjects). In the passive se construction,
by contrast, the subject can only have a patient semantic role. In terms
of both structural and semantic role properties, the passive se and the
UNACCUSATIVE se constructions in Spanish are identical. An example of an
unaccusative construction is given in (11.20b):
(11.20) a. Juan rompió la ventana/rama.
‘John broke the window/branch.’
b. Se rompió la ventana/rama
REFL broke the window/branch
‘The window/branch broke.’
The term unaccusative is used here to refer to telic, intransitive verbs.13
If we
extend the definition to include derived intransitive constructions as well,
such as the passive se and unaccusative constructions, the identicalness
of these in Spanish can be accounted for in a straightforward manner, given
that both constructions exhibit only one argument slot, the other having
been eliminated by se. Note also that with both the passive and the unac-
cusative se, the sole argument receives the patient role. In terms of
Transitivity, what was applicable for passive se constructions above applies
here as well: Transitivity is lowered by the reduction of the number of par-
ticipants from two to one (11.9a), and by the non-agentive (11.9h), and thus
non-volitional (11.9e), nature of the subject.
The ANTIPASSIVE construction, typically found in ergative-absolutive lan-
guages, contrasts with the passive construction in key aspects. Whereas the
passive makes a subject and/or topic out of a non-subject argument and
codes the original subject/topic with an adposition or non-nominative case
marking (for example John was kissed by Mary), the antipassive construction
retains the original subject and recodes the object (Givón, 1990: 624ff; 1995:
77ff). Masullo (1992) identifies the construction in (11.21b) as the Spanish
antipassive:
(11.21) a. Juan confiesa sus pecados.
‘Juan confesses his sins.’
b. Juan se confiesa de sus pecados.
Juan REFL confesses OBL his sins
‘Juan confesses his sins.’
Note that there is no crucial semantic distinction between (11.21a) and
(11.21b). By demoting the DO to an oblique clause, and introducing se,
(11.21b) puts the focus on the subject and the event. In both sentences, Juan
is the agent of the confessing event. However, for some speakers there may
246 Transitivity and Spanish Non-Anaphoric se
J. Clancy Clements 247
be a slight difference in degree of agentivity and/or intentionality between
the sentences, (11.21a) possibly being slightly more agentive than (11.21b).
The greater degree of agentiveness in (11.21a) co-varies with the higher
Transitivity, and with the fact that (11.21a) has a DO, whereas (11.21b) does
not have a comparable DO (cf. 11.9a).
Masullo also includes other, fundamentally different verbs in the set of
those that may undergo the antipassive construction, such as alegar(se) ‘be
glad, gladden’, lamentar(se) ‘lament’, olvidar(se) ‘forget’, preocupar(se) ‘worry’,
sorprender(se) ‘surprise’, temer(se) ‘fear’, and so on. Whereas lamentar(se) and
olvidar(se) function roughly like confesar(se) in that there is no substantial
semantic difference with or without se, this is not the case for remaining
verbs just mentioned. For example, there is a substantial difference in inter-
pretation between (11.22a) and (11.22b):
(11.22) a. Juani alegra suj vida.
Juan gladdens his/her/their life
‘Juan makes his (*own)/her/their life happy.’
b. Juani se alegra de sui/j vida.
Juan REFL gladdens OBL his life
‘Juan is happy about his/her/their life.’
In (11.22a), Juan can be the agent or the source of another’s life being happy
and Juan and su are disjoint in reference. By contrast, in (11.22b) Juan is the
experiencer of happiness and the source thereof is his own life or that of
another or others. Given that, mutatis mutandis, the same also applies for the
other verbs just mentioned, it becomes apparent that the group of verbs in
question is heterogeneous in nature. They constitute no distinct class or type
and only share the trait that they enter into what looks like an antipassive
construction, which is unproductive in Spanish, whereas in ergative lan-
guages it is productive.14
Based on these considerations, it seems reasonable
to include the verb type illustrated by alegrar(se) in (11.22) in the group of
verbs that can appear in the middle construction. Recall that a typical mid-
dle construction is that in (11.6d), repeated as (11.23b) below:
(11.23) a. Juan despierta a su hermano.
Juan wakes-up A his brother
‘Juan wakes up his brother.’
b. Juan se despierta por la mañana.
Juan REFL wakes-up in the morning
‘Juan gets up in the morning.’
Compare (11.23a), where Juan is the agent of his brother awaking, to
(11.23b), in which Juan is the experiencer of the event, analogous to the
example in (11.22b), and to the case of enamorarse discussed in (11.13)
above. Treating cases such as (11.21b–11.22b) as cases of middle se would
have the advantage of doing away with the notion of an antipassive con-
struction for Spanish, which by most accounts is a forced application. The
observation on Transitivity regarding (11.21) above applies to the example
sets in (11.22) and (11.23) as well: the former are transitive clauses, whereas
the latter are intransitive.
Impersonal se
Traditionally, IMPERSONAL constructions are said to involve either transitive
verbs, such as the example in (11.6i) and (11.15b) (repeated as 11.24a and
11.24b below), or intransitive verbs, as illustrated by the example in
(11.25b):
(11.24) a. Se vende muebles.15
REFL sells furniture-3pl
‘One sells furniture.’ ‘Furniture are sold.’
b. Se invitó a cenar {a los participantes del congreso/a Marta y a
Pepe}
REFL invited-3s to dine {to l. p. of the conf. / to M. and to P.}
‘{The participants of the conference /M. and P.} were invited
to dinner.’
(11.25) a. Marcos trabaja en la fábrica.
‘Marcos works in the factory.’
b. Se trabaja mucho en la fábrica.
REFL works much in the factory
‘One works a lot, i.e. a lot of work goes on, in the factory.’
From the viewpoint of Transitivity, the presence of se in the examples in
(11.24) lowers Transitivity because it renders the subject of the clause indef-
inite and non-referential (cf. 11.10 above), although the verb retains a DO.
In (11.25), since trabajar is an intransitive verb, se cannot reduce its valency.
However, it does affect the interpretation of the subject: se in (11.25b) is
indefinite and non-referential, as in the cases of se in (11.24). In addition
(11.25b) has an obligatory generic or habitual reading.
Given that there is a difference in interpretation between the impersonal
constructions with transitive (11.24) and intransitive (11.25b) verbs – the
latter necessarily having a generic or habitual reading, but the former not
necessarily so – it is reasonable to question whether constructions such as
(11.24b) constitute an impersonal variant of the passive se construction. At
issue is the fact that in cases such as (11.24), the DO does not become the
subject, as in (11.6h) or (11.14b) above. If this could be otherwise accounted
248 Transitivity and Spanish Non-Anaphoric se
J. Clancy Clements 249
for, we would be able to consider them a type of passive construction.
There is a historical consideration. The passive and the impersonal
construction of transitive verbs both developed as early as the ninth to
eleventh centuries, whereas the impersonal construction of intransitive
verbs, illustrated by (11.25b), emerged much later (Cennamo, 1993, in
Maldonado, 1996). Moreover, cases such as (11.24) show interesting
variation but only among transitive verbs. Above, we saw data gleaned from
Latin American Spanish sources that suggest that the construction in
(11.24b) with personal a and not verb–subject agreement has variants
in which we find agreement between the verb and an overtly marked DO
(for example se invitaron a las siguientes firmas ‘the following enterprises were
invited’ [11.18], se invitaron a las glorias del béisbol ‘the baseball stars were
invited’ [11.19]), just as we also find cases in which there is agreement
between the verb and an unmarked, definite and referential NP, as in Alemán
y Ortega, se invitaron el martes a un debate televisivo ‘Alemán and Ortega were
invited Tuesday to a televised debate’ (11.17). This range of variation only
happens among transitive verbs, which suggests that (11.24b) may more
accurately be considered one of the impersonal variants of the passive se
construction.
Summary
Various constructions involving the non-anaphoric reflexive pronoun have
been examined (referred to in the literature as middle voice se, passive se,
unaccusative se, antipassive se, and impersonal se). In all constructions
except those such as (11.24) and (11.25b), se lowers the Transitivity of the
clause in which it appears by reducing the valency of the verb by one argu-
ment. It was pointed out that there is in principle no reason, either seman-
tic or syntactic, to treat unaccusative se and passive se as distinct. Nor is there
any compelling reason to separate the so-called antipassive se from middle
voice se, given the similarity of the evidence in (11.13) and (11.21b) on the
one hand, and (11.22b) and (11.23b) on the other. Consequently, in this set
of valency-reducing constructions, we need distinguish for Spanish only
middle voice se and passive/unaccusative se. Finally, we have also argued
that the passive construction in (11.15a) is linked historically with that illus-
trated in (11.24b). Due to this, and to the fact that the variation in this con-
struction only involves transitive verbs, (11.24b) may more accurately be
considered a case of passive se.
The impersonal se from intransitive verbs (cf. 11.25b) is clearly distinct
from the valency-reducing constructions. There is no reduction in valency
of the verb given that this verb type has a valency of one. The distinguish-
ing trait with the impersonal construction is the decrease in overall
Transitivity of the clause. In terms of individuation of the subject in imper-
sonal constructions (cf. 11.9i), the subject in a sentence such as se trabaja
mucho aquí ‘a lot of work is done here’ is non-individuated, as illustrated
in (11.26):
(11.26) Individuation of subject:
S highly individuated S non-individuated Does not apply
proper common n.a.
animate inanimate
concrete abstract
singular plural n.a.
count mass n.a.
referential, definite non-referential,
indefinite
Given that the subject in impersonal constructions is abstract, non-referential
and indefinite, and also that the construction has a generic or habitual inter-
pretation, its Transitivity is lower relative to the same sentence without se,
such as Juan trabaja mucho aquí ‘Juan works a lot here’.
Regarding what component of the grammar would deal with passive, mid-
dle and impersonal se constructions, these are syntactic phenomena,
although they have, naturally, an important semantic and pragmatic aspect
to them as well (cf. 11.13 above and subsequent discussion, and 11.8). An
exception to this would be those verbs, such as arrepentirse ‘repent’, which
have se as part and parcel their lexical make up. Such items would be entered
as such in the lexicon.
In what we have seen so far, non-anaphoric se affects the Transitivity of
clauses by lowering it in one of two ways: by reducing the valency of the verb
or by limiting the interpretation of a subject to indefinite and non-referential
with an accompanying generic or habitual reading of the process denoted by
the verb. However, se affects Transitivity in the opposite way as well; that is,
its presence co-varies with heightened Transitivity, which we now examine.
Increasing Transitivity
In this section, we argue that the predictions in (11.11), repeated as (11.27)
below, hold unambiguously for Spanish:
(11.27) Claims:
a. Presence of se co-varies with relatively higher Transitivity
b. Absence of se co-varies with relatively lower Transitivity
In what follows we will see se as it functions as a marker of verbal aspect and
a highlighter of foregrounded material and a marker of definiteness of
different types.
250 Transitivity and Spanish Non-Anaphoric se
J. Clancy Clements 251
Se as an aspectual marker
Vendler (1967) treats Aktionsart, or inherent verbal aspect, in terms of
Achievements, Accomplishments and Activities. Clements (1985: 178–81)
adds the category ‘states’, characterizing the four categories in terms of
dynamic v. non-dynamic situations, duration and telicity, as shown in
Table (11.1).
To illustrate briefly what these terms refer to, states comprise, among
many others, mental states such as creer ‘believe’, querer ‘want’, saber ‘know’,
and so on, and resultant states such as estar despierto ‘be awake’, estar cansado
‘be tired’, and so on. One key criterion for distinguishing states from
dynamic situations is that states do not typically appear in the progressive
aspect. Thus, the sentences in (11.28) are ill-formed:
(11.28) a. *Luisita está sabiendo francés.
‘Luisita is knowing French.’
b. *Elena está {creyendo/queriendo} estar en casa.
‘Elena is {believing/wanting} to be at home.’
c. *Dolores está estando {despierta/cansada}.
‘Dolores is being {awake/tired}.’
Dynamic situations are distinguished by two criteria: duration and telicity.
One can test dynamic situations by using tests for duration and telicity,
taken from Clements (1985). Verbs and VPs that have an endpoint, such
as llegar ‘arrive’ and construir una casa ‘build a house’, will be grammatical
in a telic context, that is a context that demands an endpoint.16
In the telic
context given in (11.29–11.30), Vs and VPs with an endpoint will be
well-formed (11.29), while Vs/VPs without an endpoint will be ill-formed
(11.30):
(11.29) a. Luis tardó tres meses en llegar.
‘It took Luis three months to arrive.’
b. Ignacio tardó tres meses en construir una casa.
‘It took Ignacio three months to build a house.’
Table 11.1 Characterization of Vendlerian Aktionsart categories
Dynamic situation Durative Telic
States   
Achievements   
Accomplishments   
Activities   
(11.30) a. *Forest tardó tres meses en correr.
‘It took Forest three months to run.’
b. *Lola tardó tres horas en construir casas.
‘It took Lola three hours to build houses.’
By contrast, in a durative context, non-durative telic Vs/VPs will be ill-
formed (11.31), while durative telic Vs/VPs will be well-formed (11.32):
(11.31) *Luis pasó tres meses llegando.
‘Luis spent three months arriving.’
(11.32) a. Ignacio pasó tres meses construyendo una casa.
‘Ignacio spent three months building a house.’
b. Forest pasó tres meses corriendo.
‘Forest spent three months running.’
c. Lola pasó tres meses construyendo casas.
‘Lola spent three months building houses.’
Verbs such as llegar are Achievements because they are telic and non-
durative. VPs such as construir una casa are Accomplishments because they
are telic but durative. Finally, Vs/VPs which are durative but atelic are
Activities, such as correr and construir casas. Note that the sole difference
between the Accomplishment constuir una casa and the Activity constuir
casas lies in that the former has a count NP (which constitutes an endpoint),
whereas the latter has a bare plural NP (non-count and cannot constitute an
endpoint).
Having reviewed the Vendlerian categories, we now turn to the link
between se, Activities (durative and atelic) and Achievements (non-durative
and telic, hence punctual). In the characterization of Transitivity in
(11.9–11.10) aspect and punctuality are two of its component parts. Thus,
the difference between dormir ‘sleep’and dormirse ‘fall asleep’ is easily
captured: (11.33a), being an Activity, is atelic and non-punctual; (11.33b), an
Achievement, is telic and punctual:
(11.33) a. Marta durmió en casa de su amiga.
‘Marta slept at her friend’s house.’
b. Marta se durmió en casa de su amiga.
‘Marta fell asleep at her friend’s house.’
In all other aspects of Transitivity, except in aspect and punctuality, dormir
and dormirse are non-distinct. Thus, due to this crucial difference in the
Aktionsart of the two verbs, dormirse is higher, and dormir lower in overall
252 Transitivity and Spanish Non-Anaphoric se
J. Clancy Clements 253
Transitivity. This is illustrated in (11.34):
(11.34) high low
dormirse dormir
ASPECT telic atelic
PUNCTUALITY punctual non-punctual
In the case of dormirse, the question of ambiguity arises in that se in some
cases could theoretically be interpreted either as impersonalized, or as an
aspectual marker. As already discussed, the impersonal reading of se occurs in
generic or habitual context, such as in (11.35). In this sentence, se could only
be interpreted as an aspectual marker if the equivalent of ‘one’(uno) were
added, as shown in (11.36):
(11.35) Aquí se duerme bien.
here REFL sleeps well
‘One sleeps well here.’
(11.36) Aquí uno se duerme bien.
here one REFL sleeps well
‘One falls asleep well here.’
In (11.36), uno is the subject and se interpreted as an aspectual marker.
However, with the appropriate adverbial and contextual support, an aspec-
tual interpretation of se could still be possible without uno, as in the sentence
(11.37) uttered in a context in which falling asleep is the topic of conversa-
tion, as long as there is an antecedent in the discourse:
(11.37) Aquí se duerme en seguida/rápidamente.
here REFL sleeps right away/quickly
‘One falls asleep right away/quickly here.’
In sum, the more definite the context is, with adverbials and contextual sup-
port, the less likely it is to obtain an impersonal interpretation of se with
dormir. In other words, the impersonal and aspectual functions of se appear
to occur in mutually exclusive contexts and there is little or no scope of
ambiguity in the interpretation of se.
Motion verbs such as ir ‘go’ and marchar ‘march’ have counterparts with se
that have over time acquired aspectually distinct meanings: irse ‘go, leave’
and marcharse ‘leave’ (see De Molina Redondo, 1974: 48–49, 53). Both ir ‘go’
and marchar ‘march’ are Activities, as they are durative, and yield ill-formed
sentences in a telic context (cf. 11.38).
(11.38) *Luisa tardó una hora en ir/marchar.
‘Luisa took an hour to go/march.’
By contrast, irse and marcharse are Achievements and therefore yield well-
formed sentences in telic context.
(11.39) Luisa tardó una hora en irse/marcharse.
‘Luisa took an hour to leave.’
Thus, the verbs in (11.39) are higher in Transitivity than their counterparts
in (11.38) in the crucial areas of aspect and punctuality, just as in the case of
dormir-dormirse above in (11.34).
(11.40) high low
irse ir
marcharse marchar
ASPECT telic atelic
PUNCTUALITY punctual non-punctual
As De Molina Redondo (1974: 47–56) illustrates with key examples, the same
aspectual differences exist between the motion verb pairs venir-venirse
‘come’, salir-salirse ‘leave, go out’, entrar-entrarse ‘enter’, caer-caerse ‘fall’,
volver-volverse ‘return’, and escapar-escaparse ‘escape’. In his view, se with
verbs of motion functions either as a marker of an implied source (origin) or
as a marker emphasizing the source. In both cases, se adds the element of
telicity. For instance, in declaring ya me voy (lit. already REFL go-1sg/pres-ind)
‘I leave/I’m leaving’, the source de aquí ‘from here’ is implied, though
not overtly expressed. Without me in the sentence, the implication is not
present.
With many of these motion verbs, the presence of se also co-varies with
elements higher in Transitivity. A case in point is the pair caer ‘fall’ and
caerse ‘fall’. Moliner (1984) discusses the difference between caer and caerse,
essentially restating De Molina Redondo’s position. Especially revealing,
however, are her examples, in which the use of caer occurs in indefinite,
non-referential (often generic) contexts (11.41), whereas caerse is used in
definite, referential contexts (11.42):17 18
(11.41) a. Caen las hojas en otoño. (GENERIC, NON-REF)
‘Leaves fall in the fall.’
b. La lluvia cae de las nubes. (GENERIC, NON-REF)
‘The rain falls from the clouds.’
c. Los cuerpos caen con movimiento acelerado. (GENERIC,
NON-REF)
‘Bodies fall with accelerated movement.’
254 Transitivity and Spanish Non-Anaphoric se
J. Clancy Clements 255
d. Ha caído un aerolito al mar. ([NON]-REF, INDEF)
‘A meteorite has fallen into the sea.’
(11.42) a. Se están cayendo todas las hojas del rosal. (DEF, REF)
‘All the leaves of the rose bush are falling off.’
b. Se han caído todas las naranjas del árbol. (DEF, REF)
‘All the oranges on the tree fell off.’
A related function of se to that of marking the origin of movement of a
motion verb, is that of a highlighter of foregrounded material. In a narrative,
the foreground is that portion of the text that carries the story, that is, it
is ‘the material which supplies the main points of the discourse’ (Hopper
and Thompson, 1980: 280). We use examples taken from two older texts
because they offer a particularly striking illustration of the point at hand.
However, the function of se as a marker of foregrounding is common place
in Spanish today.
The first set of examples (11.43–11.45) is taken from a legal document
written in 1578 (García Carrillo, 1988: 66,119,128), in which the speaker
is highlighting, with the use of se, a foregrounded portion of the text, that
is the escape of the prisoner and the fact that he is heading toward the
church:
(11.43) oyó dar bozes hazia la Cárçel Real de corte a vn hombre, que
dezían que era alcaide, diziendo: ‘que SE huye el preso! … ’
(p. 128, ls. 854–6)
‘he heard the yells directed to the Royal Jail … by a man who
they said was the mayor, and he was yelling, “the prisoner SE is
getting away!” ’
(11.44) Martín Vélez, que allí estaua, le dixo: ‘Guillén es, que SE a salido
de la cárçel y SE viene a la yglesia … ’ (p. 119, ls. 330–1)
‘and Martín Vélez, who was there, said to him: “It’s Guillén who
just SE got out of jail and SE is coming to the church …” ’
The second set of examples is taken from the confessions of a nun who lived
and wrote in the early eighteenth century. The text describes a mystical
encounter with Christ (Myers and Powell, 1999):
(11.45) estando un dia en orasion vide a nr sr crusificado cerca de mi y
vide como se desclabo bajandoSE de la [crus] y SE vino para mi
la crus se quedo parada y su mgd llego donde io estaba y SE
entro dentro de mi y abraso a mi [alma] …
(volume II, Folios 175 (verso) - 176)
‘One day during prayer I saw our Lord, crucified, near me and I
watched him as he took out the nails, lowered himself off the
cross and SE came to me. The cross stayed upright and He
approached where I was and SE entered within me and
embraced my soul.’
In the examples se viene a la yglesia (11.44) and in se vino para mi and se entro
dentro de mi (11.45), it is not readily as apparent that an origin is necessarily
being implied, as it is apparent that these movements form part of the fore-
ground, and are being highlighted by the use of se. Hopper and Thompson’s
(1980) study on Transitivity makes clear that the main discourse function of
higher Transitivity is that of foregrounding, with which se here co-varies.
Thus, these excerpts serve as prime examples of this discourse function of se.
Transitivizing se co-varies with definiteness and/or referentiality
With optionally transitive verbs of ingestion, such as comer ‘eat’ and beber
‘drink’, the addition of se makes them not only obligatorily transitive, but
also sensitive to the definiteness of the object as well. Taking comer as an
illustration, with bare plurals and mass nouns, comerse is odd to unaccept-
able (cf. 11.46b) (see also Zagona, 1996):
(11.46) a. Emilia comió manzanas/arroz.
‘Emilia ate apples/rice.’
b. ?*Emilia se comió manzanas/arroz.
‘Emilia REFL ate apples/rice.’
This fact is linked to the question of Aktionsart, not of the verb alone, but of
the entire VP in this case. The VP comer manzanas is an Activity, that is dura-
tive and atelic. We know it is atelic because it is ill-formed in contexts that
demand an endpoint to be interpretable, such as (11.47). The English gloss
of this is also ill-formed for the same reason (see 11.30b above and accom-
panying discussion):
(11.47) *Juan tardó tres horas en comer manzanas.
‘Juan took three hours to eat apples.’
Given that a bare plural in the VP renders the NP non-countable, the NP pro-
vides no endpoint for the VP. If a count NP is substituted for the bare plural, it
provides an endpoint and also forces the presence of se in most cases.19
That is,
with count nouns, such as la manzana ‘the apple’, a single sentence is well-
formed only as long as se is present. Without se, it is generally odd to ill-formed:
(11.48) a. Emilia se comió la manzana.
Emilia REFL ate the apple
‘Emilia ate the apple.’
b. ?*Emilia comió la manzana.
256 Transitivity and Spanish Non-Anaphoric se
J. Clancy Clements 257
The foregoing generates the following prediction: any partitive construction
with comer would appear obligatorily without se. This turns out to be true, as
the sentences in (11.49) illustrate:
(11.49) a. Emilia comió de la manzana.
Emilia ate of the apple
‘Emilia ate some of the apple.’
b. *Emilia se comió de la manzana.
In terms of Transitivity, various components, shown in (11.50), are involved:
aspect and affectedness/individuation of the object. Note that the presence
of se always co-varies with higher Transitivity, while its absence co-varies
systematically with lower Transitivity:
(11.50) high low
comerse comer
ASPECT telic atelic (optionally telic)
AFFECTEDNESS O O totally affected O not totally affected
INDIVIDUATION O individuated non-individuated
count mass (and bare plural)
referential, definite non-referential, indefinite
In the case of se with the parecer, its absence covaries with indefinite, non-
referential predicate NPs, as illustrated in (11.51):
(11.51) Roberto parece un boxeador.
‘Roberto looks like a boxer.’
With se, the corresponding predicate NP is referential (either definite
or indefinite), and it must be accompanied by a personal a, as shown in
(11.52):
(11.52) a. Roberto se parece a uno de esos boxeadores en la tele.
(INDEF, REF)
Roberto REFL looks-like A one of those boxers in the television.
‘Roberto looks like one of those boxers on television.’
b. Roberto se parece a ese boxeador/Mohammed Ali.
(DEF, REF)
Roberto REFL looks-like A that boxer/Mohammed Ali
‘Roberto looks like that boxer/Mohammed Ali.’
Note that with a referential predicate NP, the absence of se results in an ill-
formed sentence, and with a non-referential predicate NP, the presence of se
yields an ill-formed sentence as well:
(11.53) a. *Roberto parece uno de esos boxeadores en la tele. (INDEF, REF)
b. *Roberto parece ese boxeador/Mohammed Ali. (DEF, REF)
c. *Roberto se parece un boxeador. (INDEF, NON-REF)
This set of examples involves only the individuation of the predicate NP.
Parecerse appears with referential NPs, parecer with non-referential NPs:
(11.54) Individuated Non-individuated
parecerse parecer
referential non-referential
Summary
Whereas in the previous section se affects for the most part the valency of
the verb and is a syntactic phenomenon, in the examples in this section se
either alters the Aktionsart of the verb or co-varies with definite NPs. Given
that in these functions se is found rather idiosyncratically and that its effect
is within the area of verbal semantics, it is uncontroversially considered a
lexical phenomenon. Consequently, there would be different lexical entries
for verb pairs such as comer–comerse, dormir–dormirse, ir–irse, parecer–parecerse,
and so on.
Conclusion
In this study, we have attempted to show that Spanish non-anaphoric se has
one broad function: it affects the Transitivity of the clause in which it
appears. It does this in two general ways. First, se reduces the valency of a
given verb by one participant. This function accounts for middle, passive,
unaccusative and antipassive se. We have argued that, semantically (that is
in terms of semantic roles) and syntactically, there is no difference between
unaccusative, passive and impersonal passive se in Spanish. There is, there-
fore, no need to treat them separately. In the same vein, given the evidence
in (11.13), (11.22b), (11.23b) and the corresponding discussion, there is no
reason to treat middle and antipassive se as separate either. The valency-
reducing se can also lower the Transitivity of an already intransitive clause
by making the clause impersonal, with a habitual or generic reading (see
11.25b). In terms of Transitivity in (11.9–11.10), any impersonal se construc-
tion is lower in Transitivity than its non-impersonalized counterpart
(11.25a).
The other, second, general function of se is that of increasing or heighten-
ing the Transitivity of a clause. This function accounts for aspectual differ-
ences between verb pairs such as dormir–dormirse ‘sleep–fall asleep’ and
258 Transitivity and Spanish Non-Anaphoric se
J. Clancy Clements 259
marchar–marcharse ‘march–leave’, for the presence of se with count NPs as in
Juan se comió una/la manzana ‘Juan ate up a/the apple’, the absence thereof
with bare plurals as in *Juan se comió manzanas, ‘Juan ate apples’, and a sim-
ilar type of phenomenon in the pairs caer–caerse ‘fall’, parecer–parecerse ‘look
like’, and quedar–quedarse ‘remain’. We also saw that se co-varies with fore-
grounded motion verbs, which is not surprising given that one always finds
increased Transitivity in the foregrounded events of a narrative (see Hopper
and Thompson, 1980: 285).
As to where these two different functions of se are treated in a grammar,
valency-reducing se is a syntactic phenomenon, but involves, of course,
semantic and pragmatic issues as well. Se as increaser of Transitivity is treated
as a lexical phenomenon, best handled in the lexicon. Finally, the presence
of se with foregrounded motion verbs would be accounted for in the prag-
matic component of the grammar, with a clear link between this component
and the lexicon. In fact, the general function of non-anaphoric se as a
marker of Transitivity may be seen as evidence that the Transitivity links at
least the lexicon, syntax, semantics and pragmatics, and probably morphol-
ogy as well.
Notes
1 Traditionally, the middle voice is defined as it was used in Ancient Greek, where its
sense was broadly reflexive. For English, this would include transitive sentences
such as John bought himself a house, as well as intransitive ones such as John shaved.
In both sentences, there is a reflexive meaning involved (see Matthews, 1997: 226).
For Spanish, Maldonado (1999: 392) considers the domain of the middle voice to
refer to similar types of sentences as those just mentioned, all of which involve se:
Juan se lava las manos ‘Juan washes his (own) hands’, Juan se afeita ‘Juan shaves’,
Juan se acuesta ‘Juan lies (himself) down’, and Juan se durmió ‘Juan fell asleep’. In
this study, the notion ‘middle voice’ is used to refer to this range of senses.
2 When used in Hopper and Thompson’s sense, we capitalize the term, as in
Transitivity.
3 Comrie (1984: 59) adopts this same preparatory condition for directive speech acts.
4 Reflexive and middle interpretations of se are common from Latin. Moreover,
‘emphatic se’ is found in Peregrinatio Aeteriae: ‘En “Eteria” aparece vadent se
[‘se van’], intransitivo con forma reflexiva, indicando la voluntariedad en la
acción’ (Terracini, 1945, in Hernández, 1966: 49). As mentioned, the passive se and
the se in transitive-clause impersonal constructions developed together, while the
intransitive-clause impersonal construction developed later. For Spanish, then,
Givón’s (1990: 605) scale, based on Marín (1989a, 1989b), of Reflexive ➔ Middle/
Intransitive ➔ se Passive with subject agreement ➔ se Passive without subject agree-
ment, would for Spanish need to be revised by collapsing the last two phases of
the development, and adding the development of the intransitive, impersonal
construction.
5 The Castilian Spanish informants consulted found se vende muebles ill-formed. That
is, if the DO is inanimate, in Castilian Spanish there must be subject–verb agree-
ment as in se venden muebles. However, for most of the speakers of Latin American
Spanish dialects consulted, (11.6i) was acceptable, despite the lack of subject–verb
agreement.
6 The semantic role ‘experiencer’ is understood here as corresponding to an
animate entity who experiences some sensation. For example, in Juan tiene un
dolor ‘Juan has a pain/an ache’, the subject is the experiencer and the DO the sen-
sation experienced. In Juan disfruta sus vacaciones, ‘Juan enjoys his vacaciones’,
Juan is the experiencer, while the DO sus vacaciones is the source.
7 It is important to observe that native speakers we consulted ruled out (11.8c) as
a possible interpretation for (11.7). For a passive interpretation, one needs the
so-called impersonal construction such as se curó a los brujos. This will be taken up
in the discussion of example (11.15) and below.
8 Generally, se is considered to have the function of ‘absorbing’ case. Cinque (1988:
575), however, distinguishes a [argument] si (the Italian counterpart of Spanish se)
and a [argument] si, each of which has different properties: the former absorbs
the external theta-role and nominative case. The latter suspends the external
theta-role and accusative case. In speaking of the valency-reducing function of se,
we will use at times the terms ‘absorb’ and ‘absorption’ to refer to both [arg] and
[arg] se alike.
9 Apart from those just cited, others have also done work in this area, including
García (1975), Arce Arenales (1992), Maldonado (1999) and Vann (1993), to
mention just a few.
10 Many of the examples in the study have been taken from Corpus de Referencia
de Español Actual (CREA) made available by the Real Academia Española
(www.rae.es).
11 Although uncommon, some of these verbs can receive a reflexive, or pseudo-
reflexive, interpretation, as in:
(i) Juanita se aburre a propósito para no tener que quedarse en la fiesta.
‘Juan REFL gets bored purposely so she won’t have to stay at the party.’
(ii) Juanita se enoja a propósito para salirse con la suya.
‘Juanita REFL gets-angry purposely to get her own way.’
(iii) Juanita se cansa a propósito para dormir mejor.
‘Juanita REFL tires purposely to sleep better.’
The first two examples correspond to situations in which the subject feigns bore-
dom or anger as a way of getting her way. As such, they are what may be called
pseudo-reflexives. In fact, these and the other aforementioned verbs customarily
receive a middle voice interpretation. Sentence (iii) can have a reflexive interpre-
tation, though, again, it is not common practice that one gets tired purposely.
(iii) is a case somewhat similar to that in (11.12), in that cansarse is ambiguous
and can have a reflexive or a middle interpretation, depending on the context.
Given that much more context is necessary in order to obtain a reflexive inter-
pretation of cansarse than the middle reading, the latter is reasonably the default
interpretation.
12 A sentence such as se vende los muebles is also possible. For an account of this, see
examples in (11.15) and related discussion.
13 The term unaccusative (also ergative), referring to verbs, was coined by Perlmutter
(1978) to refer to a subclass of intransitive verbs with certain syntactic properties.
Haspelmath (1985: 157) points out that two properties of the verbs in this sub-
class are telicity and that their participle can be used adjectivally, for example a
broken glass. (We follow here Haspelmath’s definition.) By contrast, the term
260 Transitivity and Spanish Non-Anaphoric se
J. Clancy Clements 261
unergative refers to intransitive verbs that are atelic and whose participles cannot
be used adjectivally, for example *a danced girl. See De Miguel (1992: 44–8; 63–96)
for an in-depth discussion of the semantics of unaccusative verbs in Spanish.
14 Masullo (1992: 183) considers the construction idiosyncratic. Given that in erga-
tive languages the antipassive is commonplace, productive, and typically used
with indefinite, non-referential NPs, it is questionable whether we are dealing
here with a bona fide antipassive construction. The verbs mentioned here could
also be handled as cases with middle-voice interpretation.
15 In our search of CREA, we found clear examples of se vende  NP-3pl only in Latin
American sources. We include some examples below.
(i) El minicentro comercial está compuesto por más de una docena de pequeñas
tiendas donde se vende perfumes, carteras …
‘The mini-comercial center is made up of more than a dozen small stores
where perfumes, purses … are sold.’
(From CREA: El Nuevo Herald, US, 3 February 1997)
(ii) Indicaron que esto le sucede con varios productos que venden en Jamaica
donde estos se vende, aunque no en la cantidad que desearían.
‘They indicated that this happens with various products that they sell
in Jamaica where these are sold, although not in the quantity that they
would like.’
16 Here we are using the notions ‘telic’ and ‘endpoint’ in the broad sense, although
in certain cases, one could speak more concretely in terms of a starting point. For
instance, the stative verb conocer ‘know, be acquainted with’ is well-formed in telic
contexts, as in (i):
(i) María tardó algún tiempo en conocer a su sobrino.
‘María took a long time to get to know her nephew.’
Strictly speaking, however, the telic aspect of (i) is the initial point of María know-
ing her nephew, although one could also argue that the point of knowing also is
the culminating point of a process leading up to María knowing her nephew. The
fact remains, nonetheless, that the notions ‘telic’ and ‘endpoint’ are not to be
understood in this paper in a narrower, but rather in a wider sense.
17 Maldonado (1988) frames this difference in terms of expectations of the partici-
pants in the discourse context. In his analysis of Mexican Spanish, he notes that
(i) is unnatural with se because the event is expected, whereas (ii) is unnatural
without se because the event is unexpected. Thus, se, in Mexican Spanish at least,
seems to code the degree of expectedness of the event occurring:
(i) La pelota (*se) cayó de la mesa como era esperado.
‘The ball fell off the table, as was expected.’
(ii) La pelota se (*(Ø) cayó de la mesa inesperadamente.
‘The ball unexpectedly fell off the table.’
The link between Maldonado’s analysis and the present one is this: generic state-
ments, in which caer would be more likely used, are generally expected events.
By contrast, falling events involving definite and referential grammatical sub-
jects would more often be one-time occurrences, and more often than not
unexpected.
18 Although it is not a movement verb, but rather a stationary verb, the presence
of se in quedarse ‘stay, remain’ also co-varies with elements higher in
Transitivity: quedarse appears with animate, and mostly referential subjects (i–a,b),
but can also appear with definite inanimate subjects, as in (i–c).
(i) a. Se quedó un muchacho en la fiesta.(ANIMATE, INDEF, [NON]-REF)
REFL stayed one boy at the party
‘One boy stayed at the party.’
b. Se queda aquí Juanita/la mujer del pelo largo. (REF, DEF, ANIMATE)
REFL stays here Juanita/the woman with the long hair.
‘Juanita/the woman with the long hair stays/is staying here.’
c. El sofá se queda aquí.
The sofa REFL stays here
‘The sofa stays here.’
By contrast, with quedar ‘remain, be left over’, one finds in the vast majority of
cases – if not exclusively – inanimate and largely partitive subjects. In fact, defi-
nite, referential, non-partitive subjects are not possible with quedar, as is the case
in the English equivalent:
(ii) a. Quedan las manzanas de ayer. (DEF, PARTITIVE)
left-over-are the apples from yesterday
‘Yesterday’s apples are left over.’
b. Quedan manzanas. (INDEF, NON-REF)
left-over-are apples
‘There are apples left.’
c. *Quedan las manzanas. (GENERIC)
left-over-are the apples
*‘There are the apples left.’
Thus, the presence of se co-varies with definiteness and referentiality, its absence
co-varies with indefiniteness and non-referentiality. Consequently, quedar is
lower, and quedarse is higher in Transitivity, confirming predictions in (11.11)
regarding the presence-absence of se. See Bull (1940) for a detailed study of
quedar–quedarse.
19 The presence of se with count VPs is not an automatic process, but can be over-
ridden by a context, in which the focus is mainly on the event denoted by the
verb instead of on the whole VP. In the examples in (i),
(i) Emilia (se) comió la bocata y (se) bebió el vino.
‘Emilia (REFL) ate the sandwich and (REFL) drank the wine.’
the focus is the sequence of events more so than what was eaten or drunk. In such
cases, se is optional and adds an aspectual quality of completion. However, devoid
of any particular context, a single sentence with comer ‘eat’ or beber ‘drink’ accom-
panied by a count noun will trigger the presence of se.
References
Abraham, W. (1995) ‘The Middle, Particularly in West-Germanic: What does
Reflexification have to do with Valency Reduction’, in W. Abraham, T. Givón and
S. Thompson (eds), Discourse Grammar and Typology. Amsterdam and Philadelphia:
Benjamins, pp. 3–47.
Arce Arenales, M. A. (1989) Semantic Structure and Syntactic Function: The Case of Spanish
‘se’. Boulder, Colorado: University of Colorado dissertation.
262 Transitivity and Spanish Non-Anaphoric se
J. Clancy Clements 263
Ayerra, R. (1984) La lucha unútil. Madrid: Debate.
Barry, A. (1985) ‘The Rise of the Impersonal-SE Construction’, Hispanic Journal, vol. 6,
pp. 209–19.
Bull, W. E. (1953) ‘Quedar and Quedarse: A Study of Contrastive Ranges’, Language,
vol. 26, pp. 467–80.
Cennamo, M. (1993) The Reanalysis of Reflexives: A Diachronic Perspective. Napoli:
Liguoi Editore Napoli.
Clements, J. A. (1985) Verb Classification and Verb Class Change in Spanish. Seattle,
Washington: University of Washington dissertation.
Comrie, B. (1984) ‘Reflections on Subject and Object Control’, Journal of Semantics,
vol. 4, pp. 47–65.
De Miguel, E. (1992) El aspecto verbal en una gramática generativa del español. Madrid:
Universidad Autónoma de Madrid.
De Molina Redondo, J.A. (1974) Usos de se: Cuestiones sintácticas y léxicas. Madrid:
Sociedad General Española de Libreria, S.A.
Fagan, S. (1992) The Syntax and Semantics of Middle Constructions: A Study with Special
Reference to German. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
García, E. (1975) The Role of Theory in Linguistics Analysis: The Spanish Pronoun System.
Amsterdam: North-Holland Publishing.
García Carrillo, A. (1988) El español en México en el siglo XVI: estudio lingüístico de un
documento judicial de la Audiencia de Guadalajara (Nueva España) del año 1578. Sevilla:
Ediciones Alfar.
Givón, T. (1984,1990) Syntax: A Functional-Typological Introduction. Vols. 1 and 2.
Amsterdam and Philadelphia: Benjamins.
–––– (1995). Functionalism and Grammar. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: Benjamins.
Haegemann, L. (1994) Introduction to Government and Binding Theory, 2nd edn. Oxford,
UK: Blackwell.
Haspelmath, M. (1994) ‘Passive Participles across Languages’, in B. Fox and P. Hopper
(eds), Voice: Form and function. Amsterdam and Philadelphia: Benjamins, pp. 351–77.
Hernández, C. (1966) ‘Del se reflexivo al impersonal’, Archivum Oviedo, vol. 16,
pp. 39–66.
Hopper, P. J. and S. A. Thompson. (1980) ‘Transitivity in Grammar and Discourse’.
Language, vol. 56(2), pp. 251–99.
Jaeggli, O. (1986) ‘Three Issues in the Theory of Clitics: Case, Doubled NPs, and
Extraction’, in H. Borer (ed.), The Syntax of Pronominal Clitics (Syntax and Semantics,
Vol. 19). New York: Academic Press, pp. 15–42.
Levin, B. (1993) English Verb Classes and Alternations. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Maldonado, R. (1988) ‘Energetic Reflexives in Spanish’, in S. Axmaker, A. Jaisser and
H. Singmaster (eds), Berkeley Linguistics Society: Proceedings of the Fourteenth Annual
Meeting. Berkeley: Berkeley Linguistics Society, pp. 153–65.
–––– (1996) ‘Review of “The Reanalysis of Reflexives: A Diachronic Perspective” by M.
Cennamo’, in Sprachtypologie und Universalienforschung, vol. 49(4), pp. 94–8.
—— (1999) A media voz. Problemas conceptuales del clítico se. México D.F: Universidad
Nacional Autónoma de México.
Marin, M. (1989a) ‘Functions of se in the El Poema de Mio Cid’. Eugene: University of
Oregon (ms.).
—— (1989b) ‘Functions of se in El Quijote’. Eugene: University of Oregon (MS).
Masullo, P. J. (1992) ‘Antipassive Constructions in Spanish’, in K. Koerner and
P. Hirschbuehler (eds), Romance Languages and Modern Linguistic Theory. Amsterdam
and Philadelphia: Benjamins, pp. 175–94.
Mazzola, M. (ed.) (1994) Issues and Theory in Romance Linguistics. Selected Papers from
the Linguistic Symposium on Romance Languages XXIII. Washington, DC: Georgetown
University Press.
Mendikoetxea, A. (1994) ‘Impersonality in Non-Finite Contexts: the Spanish se
Construction in Control and Raising Environments’, in M. Mazzola (ed.), op. cit.,
pp. 385–401.
Moliner, M. (1984). Diccionario del uso del español. Madrid: Gredos.
Myers, K. (ed.) and Powell, A. (transl.) (1999) A Wild Country out in the Garden: The
Spiritual Autobiography of María de San José. Bloomington: Indiana University Press.
Otero, C. (1986) ‘Arbitrary Subject in Finite Clauses’, in I. Bordelois, H. Contreras and
K. Zagona (eds), Generative Studies in Spanish Syntax. Dordricht: Foris, pp. 81–109.
Perlmutter, D. (1978) ‘Impersonal Passives and the Unaccusative Hypothesis’,
Proceedings of the Berkeley Linguistic Society, vol. 4, pp. 157–89.
Searle, J. R. 1990 [1965] ‘What is a Speech Act?’ in A. P. Martinich (ed.), The Philosophy
of Language, 2nd edn. Oxford: Oxford University Press, pp. 115–25.
Suñer, M. (1988), ‘The Role of Agreement in Clitic-Doubled Constructions. Natural
Language and Linguistic Theory vol. 14(2), pp. 309–24.
Terracini, B. (1945) ‘Sobre el verbo reflexivo y el problema de los orígenes románicos’.
Revista de Filología Hispánica, vol. 7, pp. 1–22.
Vann, R. (1994) ‘Middle Voice, “No-Fault SE”, and the Anticausative: Ergativity in
Spanish’, in Michael Mazzola (ed.), op. cit., pp. 493–508.
Vater, H. (1988) ‘Mittelkonstruktionen em Englischen, Danischen und Deutschen’, in
Pavica Mrazovic and Wolfgang Teubert (eds), Valenzen im Kontrast: Urich Engel zum
60. Geburtstag. Heidelberg: Groos.
Vendler, Z. (1967) Linguistics in Philosophy. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.
Verhaar, J. (1990) ‘How Transitive is Intransitive?’, Studies in Language, vol. 14(1),
pp. 93–168.
Zagona, K. (1996) ‘Compositionality of Aspect: Evidence from Spanish Aspectual se’,
in C. Parodi, C. Quicoli, M. Saltarelli and M. L. Zubizarreta (eds), Aspects of Romance
Linguistics. Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press, pp. 475–90.
264 Transitivity and Spanish Non-Anaphoric se
265
12
‘Juan salió contento’: Semantic
Constraints on Small Clauses in
Adjunct Position*
Jiyoung Yoon
Introduction
Most analyses of small clauses (SCs), illustrated in (12.1), have been mainly
syntactic rather than semantic. Only a few studies such as Demonte (1992),
McNally (1994) and Rapoport (1991, 1993b, 1999) have included semantic
factors in the syntactic accounts they provide:
(12.1) a. SC in complement position:
Considero inteligente a Juan.
‘I consider Juan intelligent.’
b. SC in adjunct position:
Juan llegó al parque cansado.
‘Juan arrived at the park tired.’
These semantic analyses, in turn, focus on one of two areas: (a) the analysis
of the semantics of adjunct predicates to find out why certain types of pred-
icates are allowed to occur with a particular verb or verb phrase,1
whereas
others are disallowed – this type of analysis has been done in terms of stage –
versus individual-level predicates (SLP and ILP, respectively) (Rapoport,
1991, 1993a, 1993b; McNally, 1994); or (b) the semantic analysis of matrix
* I would like to thank two anonymous reviewers and Clancy Clements who provided
me with helpful comments on the empirical data, the theoretical background, and
the organization of an earlier version of this chapter. I would also like to express
my gratitude to the audiences at the 4th Hispanic Linguistics Symposium, the
55th annual Kentucky Foreign Language Conference, and the 31st Annual Meeting of
the Linguistic Association of the Southwest for their suggestions and comments on the
partial and modified versions of this chapter presented at each conference. All errors
are my own.
verb phrases (stative [STA], activity [ACT], accomplishment [ACC], or
achievement [ACH]), to see whether the lexical aspect of the verb phrase
(that is, Aktionsart) correlates with the allowance or disallowance of a particular
type of predicate (Demonte, 1992; Rapoport, 1999).
Nevertheless, few studies have considered the interaction of these
constraints, that is, the interaction of the semantics of the matrix verb
phrase and the adjunct predicate, let alone the semantics of direct objects
and subjects themselves. In addition, the distinction of lexical aspect (based
on Vendler, 1967, and Dowty, 1979) seems to be too general to capture
the idiosyncractic semantic nature of different verb phrases, as shown in
examples (12.2–12.5), which show that STA, ACT, ACC and ACH verb
phrases do not behave consistently with respect to allowing the subject host,
suggesting that lexical aspect may not be the only factor that determines the
allowance of the adjunct predicate:2
(12.2) STA verb phrases:3
a. Algún día -pensó desanimado. (RAE)4
‘One day-he thought discouraged.’
b. *María sabía la verdad confusa/preocupada.
‘Mary knew the truth confused/worried.’
(12.3) ACT verb phrases:
a. María corre cansada.
‘María runs tired.’
b. ?? María corre incapaz.
‘María runs incapable.’
(12.4) ACC verb phrases:
a. María escribió el poema inspirada/alegre.
‘María wrote the poem inspired/happy.’
b. ? Juan construyó una casa animado.
‘John constructed a house animated.’
(12.5) ACH verb phrases:
a. La escena en que aparece borracho … no fue ficticia. (RAE)
‘The scene in which he appears drunk … was not fictitious.’
b. ?? María encontró el libro inesperada.
‘Mary found the book unexpected.’
As the examples in (12.2–12.5) show, the fact that two different verb phrases
belong to the same semantic aspectual category – STA, ACT, ACC or ACH –
does not necessarily mean that these verb phrases behave in the same way
with respect to the (dis)allowance of the subject host to the adjunct predicates.
In (12.2), both pensar ‘to think’ and saber la verdad ‘to know the truth’ are STA
verb phrases, but only the first allows the subject host. Likewise, in (12.3a), the
ACT verb correr ‘to run’ allows the adjunct predicate, whereas in (12.3b) the
266 Semantic Constraints on Small Clauses in Adjunct Position
Jiyoung Yoon 267
same verb with a different adjunct predicate sounds less acceptable. The same
is true for ACC verb phrases: the adjunct predicate in (12.4a) with escribir el
poema ‘write the poem’ can freely refer to the subject host María while (12.4b)
with construir una casa ‘to construct a house’ is less acceptable. ACH verbs in
(12.5) do not behave consistently either: aparecer ‘to appear’ freely allows
for the adjunct predicate, but the same is not true for encontrar el libro ‘to find
the book.’ All of these facts indicate that a mere distinction of the semantics of
the main verbs or verb phrases – as STA, ACT, ACC or ACH – is too general to
capture all of the various factors that affect the behaviour of the adjunct
predicates. This suggests then that we need to take into account not only the
aspectual class of the main verb, but also its other semantic traits, as well as the
semantics of the other elements of the sentence.
In this chapter, we argue that the licensing of the adjunct predicate in SC
constructions is not dependent on a single factor but rather on the interac-
tion among the semantics of verbs, predicates and objects. As a starting
point, we analyse the lexical aspects of verb phrases (that is, STAs, ACTs,
ACCs, ACHs) in relation to the licensing of the adjunct predicate. The
semantic factors of the adjunct predicate are also examined in terms of
individual-level versus stage-level predicates (ILP v. SLP). In addition, we
examine both the affectedness and the definiteness of the object, and sum-
marize all of the factors in terms of the Transitivity Hypothesis (Hopper and
Thompson, 1980; Thompson and Hopper, 2001).
Stage-level predicates/verbs v. individual-level
predicates/verbs
Background
Let us consider the following examples of SLPs and ILPs with respect to the
lexical aspect of each verb phrase:
(12.6) STA verb phrases:
a. María está en el cuarto emocionada. (SLP)
‘Mary is in the room excited.’
b. *María está en el cuarto inteligente. (ILP)
‘Mary is in the room intelligent.’
(12.7) ACT verb phrases:
a. Ese día trabajábamos nerviosos. (SLP)
‘That day we were working nervous.’
b. *Trabajaba incapaz en la empresa de su padre. (ILP)
‘He was working incapable in the company of his father.’
(12.8) ACC verb phrases:
a. Alzaba los brazos tras gritar emocionado la experiencia de
Victoria … (SLP)(RAE)
268 Semantic Constraints on Small Clauses in Adjunct Position
‘He raised his arms after yelling excited the experience of
Victory … .’
b. *José escribió inteligente una novela interesante. (ILP)
‘José wrote an interesting novel intelligent.’
(12.9) ACH verb phrases:
a. Afirmó haber llegado muy cansado por el largo viaje. (SLP) (RAE)
‘He admitted having arrived very tired because of the long trip.’
b. *Manolo la besó optimista. (ILP)
‘Manolo kissed her optimistic.’
These examples show that not every adjunct predicate can be added to a
transitive or intransitive sentence. Following Rapoport (1991) and McNally
(1994), we suggest that this contrastive behaviour can be accounted for based
on the distinction of SLPs and ILPs, in which only SL adjunct predicates
attribute a temporary property to the referent of their host NP. In other
words, semantic properties of the adjunct predicate play an important role in
determining the (un)acceptability of a given adjunct predicate. In particular,
the distinction between SLPs and ILPs is a crucial factor in accounting for the
contrasting behaviour in (12.6–12.9). SLPs like emocionda ‘excited,’ nervioso
‘nervous,’ and cansado ‘tired’ as in the (a) examples in (12.6–12.9) are predi-
cates that imply a transitory state, whereas ILPs like inteligente ‘intelligent,’
incapaz ‘incapable,’ and optimista ‘optimistic’ as in the (b) examples in
(12.6–12.9) assume a permanent state (Carlson, 1977; Milsark, 1974, 1977).5
We propose that the SL/IL distinction can be reduced to the characterization
of the feature [telicity], lexical aspectual notions indicating whether a
given dynamic situation contains an endpoint as a result of an action or an
event, and whether it denotes a duration of that action or event. SLPs can be
taken to be [telic] in that they describe characteristics of individuals that
hold in space and time, which necessarily entail a duration and an endpoint
of such characteristics of an event (we call them ACC-like predicates),
whereas ILPs are [telic] since they do not denote an endpoint of such an
event (we call them ACT-like predicates).6
According to Hopper and
Thompson’s Transitivity Hypothesis, telic events are considered to be higher
in Transitivity than atelic events, thus, we analyse SLPs as predicates higher
in Transitivity than ILPs.7
(See Chapter 1 for detailed discussions on the
Transitivity Hypothesis.)
In the following section we extend the SL/IL distinction to verbs. We
show that just as only SL adjunct predicates are semantically compatible
with a small clause construction, only SL verbs allow adjunct predicates
(cf. Milsark, 1977; Carlson, 1977; Rapoport, 1991).
The stage-level restriction on verbs
In Carlson’s (1977) framework, IL verbs are characterized as ‘true’ statives
while SL verbs can be stative or eventive. In other words, STA verbs (that is
Jiyoung Yoon 269
telic verbs) can be either SL or IL as shown in the examples in (12.10):
(12.10) a. Juan está en el cuarto. (SL verb)
‘Juan is in the room.’
b. Juan posee muchos libros. (IL verb)
‘Juan possesses many books.’
In spite of this contrast, one can find more IL verbs than SL verbs in the
STA verb class. Being IL verbs, these STA verbs do not allow any type of
predicates – regardless of whether they are ILPs or SLPs – in adjunct position.
The following examples illustrate subject-hosted adjunct predicates in IL
verbs:
(12.11) María sabe la teoría *{confusa/dudosa}/*inteligente.8
(*SLP/*ILP)
‘María knows the theory {confused/doubtful}/intelligent..’
(12.12) María posee el libro ??contenta/??curiosa. (??SLP/??ILP)
‘María possesses the book happy.’
(12.13) María ama a sus nietos ??emocionada/??sincera. (??SLP/??ILP)
‘María loves her grandchildren excited/sincere.’
As the examples in (12.11–12.13) illustrate, most STA verbs, such as cognitives
(saber ‘know’), possessives (poseer ‘possess’) and emotives (amar ‘love’), disallow
all adjunct predicates with subject hosts. Note, however, that with the emotive-
factive verbs such as lamentar ‘to regret,’ sospechar ‘to suspect,’ and dudar ‘to
doubt’ in (12.14–12.16), which presuppose some fact in the past that is assumed
to be true, the sentences with SL adjunct predicates are more acceptable than
those in (12.11–12.13). This may imply that this group of STA verbs is closer to
SL verbs. As the label ‘emotive-factive’ implies, the phrase lamentar la situación
‘to regret the situation’ in (12.14) expresses an emotion regarding some presup-
posed event in which there was a problem. As such, the predicate is bound to an
eventive space and time. In (12.15), the phrase sospechar a su colega ‘to suspect
her colleague’ also expresses an emotion regarding a presupposed belief/suspicion
that, for example, a person was deceptive. The following minimal pairs show
that the IL/SL distinction is still effective, that is, the sentences containing these
emotive-factive verbs are less acceptable with ILPs than with SLPs:
(12.14) María lamentaba (?)triste/*pesimista la situación.9
(?SLP/*ILP)
‘María regretted the situation sad/pessimist.’
(12.15) María sospechaba (?)enojada/*inteligente a su colega. (?SLP/*ILP)
‘María suspected her colleague angry/intelligent.’
(12.16) María dudaba (?)nerviosa/*pesimista que vaya a pasar el examen.
(?SLP/*ILP)
‘María doubted nervous/pessimist that she would pass the exam.’
270 Semantic Constraints on Small Clauses in Adjunct Position
When applying the IL/SL distinction to non-STA verbs, that is, ACT, ACC
and ACH verbs, it becomes clearer that only SLPs can be added to sentences
as an adjunct predicate. In such cases, unlike the objects in STA verbs, the
objects in ACT, ACC and ACH verbs are more likely to be affected objects in
Hopper and Thompson’s (1980) sense to be defined below (cf. Basilico,
1996). The examples are given in (12.17–12.19):10
(12.17) Mi hermano bebe cervezas contento. (ACT)
‘My brother drinks beers happy.’
(12.18) María comió el pedazo de pizza desanimada. (ACC)
‘María ate the piece of pizza distressed.’
(12.19) Juan la besó nervioso. (ACH)
‘Juan kissed her nervous.’
In these examples, the objects cervezas ‘beers,’ el pedazo de pizza ‘the piece of
pizza,’ and la ‘her’ undergo change, in other words, are ‘affected’ as a result
of the action of the verb.
As explained in Hopper and Thompson (1980), the affectedness of objects
is determined by ‘the degree to which an action is transferred to a patient’
(1980: 252). In other words, it is ‘a function of how completely that patient
is affected; it is done more effectively in, say I drank up the milk than in I
drank some of the milk’ (ibid.: 253). For example, the object la casa ‘the house’
in destruir la casa ‘destroy the house’ would be more completely affected
than the same object in tener la casa ‘have the house,’ in that the former
undergoes change due to the action of the verb.
Because affected objects are taken to be higher in Transitivity than non-
affected objects, and because SL verbs (ACH, ACC, ACT and some STA verbs)
are also considered to be higher in Transitivity than IL verbs (for more
detailed discussion of the Transitivity Hypothesis, see Chapter 1, this volume),
we would predict that if Transitivity in a sentence (that is, the Transitivity
features of its verbs and objects) is high, adjunct predicates are more likely to
be allowed in a sentence.
In the following section, we examine another factor that affects the licensing
of predicates: the definiteness of objects.
Definiteness of objects
We propose in this section that a higher degree of definiteness of the object
(and thus a higher degree of Transitivity) makes a sentence more likely to
be compatible with adjunct predicates. The following examples show the
contrast between objects with indefinite and definite articles:
(12.20) a. #~?? Juan cavó un hoyo animado/cansado.
‘Juan dug a hole animated/tired.’
Jiyoung Yoon 271
b. ? Juan cavó el hoyo animado/cansado.
‘Juan dug the hole animated/tired.’
(12.21) a. #~?? María tejió un suéter alegre/agotada.
‘María knit a sweater happy/exhausted.’
b. ? María tejió el suéter alegre/agotada.
‘María knit the sweater happy/exhausted.’
(12.22) a. ?? Juan construyó una casa animado.
‘Juan constructed a house animated.’
b. ? Juan construyó la casa animado.
‘Juan constructed the house animated.’
(12.23) a. *~?? María creó un partido político animada.
‘María created a political party animated.’
b. ? María creó el partido político animada.
‘María created the political party animated.’
All of the (b) examples with definite articles have a higher rate of acceptability
than the (a) examples with indefinite articles for the native speakers of
Spanish consulted. One of the impressionistic comments from my informants
was that when they hear an object NP with a definite article, they tend to
expect the adjunct predicate not to refer to the object since the object
is already definite without a need for further modification, and thus they
find less ambiguity for determining whether the adjunct predicate is subject-
hosted or object-hosted.
Transitivity hypothesis and adjunct
predicates
We have examined so far how different elements of a sentence such as a
verb, a predicate and an object can affect the licensing of adjunct predicates
semantically. We propose that all of these factors are closely interrelated and
that they can fit into the Transitivity Hierarchy proposed in Hopper and
Thompson (1980). We have claimed that adjunct predicates are more likely
to be acceptable in sentences that are higher in the Transitivity Hierarchy.
First, we have argued that SLPs and SL verbs, which are characterized by
their [telicity] property, allow for predicates in adjunct positions. Telic
predicates (that is SLPs) can be taken to be higher in Transitivity than ILPs,
which are not perfective in the Transitivity Hierarchy, since SLPs and SL
verbs are spatio-temporally bound to an event, which entails some outcome
or result. Therefore, telic predicates have an endpoint, as a consequence of
the result entailed by the action or event. This corresponds to the [telic] fea-
ture in the Transitivity Hypothesis. Accordingly, we can affirm that adjunct
predicates are more likely to be compatible if the verbs or the predicates are
higher in Transitivity with respect to telicity.
272 Semantic Constraints on Small Clauses in Adjunct Position
On the other hand, SL verbs exhibit a high probability of entailing affected
objects (that is, more patient-like objects in high Transitivity), while IL
verbs low in Transitivity tend to entail non-affected objects also low in
Transitivity. We have shown along the same lines that affected objects (nor-
mally accompanied by SL verbs) are more likely to be compatible with
adjunct predicates. In addition, we have claimed that the more definite the
object is, the more likely the adjunct predicate is to be compatible with the
sentence. Therefore, verbs and objects higher in Transitivity are more likely
to be compatible with adjunct predicates.
Table 12.1 summarizes the discussion of the semantic factors licensing
adjunct predicates in relation to the Transitivity Hypothesis.
As Table 12.1 shows, adjunct predicates are not licensed solely by one part
of the sentence. It is not simply the semantics of verbs or predicates that
impose restrictions on adjunct predicates as suggested by most of the linguists
discussed here (Demonte, 1992; Rapoport, 1999; McNally, 1994, among oth-
ers). Instead, the semantics of all of the elements of a sentence (for example
verbs, adjunct predicates, objects) interact in such a way as to contribute to a
higher or lower Transitivity of the sentence as a whole, which in turn allows
or disallows adjunct predicates. Table 12.1 shows that if the features of all of
these elements correspond to higher Transitivity, the sentence is more likely
Table 12.1 Licensing factors of adjunct predicates in relation to Transitivity
Sentence part Higher Transitivity Lower Transitivity
Verbs Licensing SL verbs IL verbs
factors (more likely with an affected (with a non-affected object)
object; but a non-affected
object is also possible)
Examples María destruyó el juguete *María posee el libro contenta.
enojada.
Adjunct Licensing SLPs ([telic]) ILPs ([telic])
predicates factors
Examples María estudia contenta. *María estudia inteligente.
María usó la lavadora sucia. *María usó la lavadora cara.
( María la usó sucia.) ( *María la usó cara.)
Objects Licensing Affected objects ([patient]) Only non-affected objects
factors and some non-affected objects ([patient])
Examples María destruyó el juguete *María necesitaba el coche
enojada. (affected object) desesperada.
María busca un apartamento
desesperada (non-affected
object)
Licensing [definite] objects [definite] objects
factors
Examples ?María tejió el suéter ??~*María tejió un suéter
agotada. agotada.
Jiyoung Yoon 273
to allow adjunct predicates. With respect to verbs, SL verbs, which are usually
non-stative, are more likely to be compatible with adjunct predicates, as in
María destruyó el juguete enojada ‘Mary destroyed the toy angry’ versus *María
posee el libro contenta ‘Mary possesses the book happy’. For adjunct predicates,
SLPs (i.e. [telic] predicates), which are spatio-temporally bound to the uni-
verse and also entail a result or change of state as a consequence of the action
of the verb, allow for adjunct predicates, as shown in María estudia contenta
‘María studies happy’ (contenta as SL predicate) versus *María estudia
inteligente ‘María studies intelligent’ (inteligente as IL predicate). Objects, on
the other hand, also contribute to Transitivity: Affected and definite objects
are higher in Transitivity and non-affected and indefinite objects are lower.
Thus, if the Transitivity features of the object are higher, it is more likely that
subject-hosted adjunct predicates will be compatible with the sentence, as in
María destruyó el juguete enojada ‘María destroyed the toy angry’ (affected and
definite object) versus *María necesitaba un coche desesperada ‘María needed a car
desperate’ (non-affected and indefinite object).
It is important to point out, however, that Table 12.1 does not provide
clear-cut criteria or an exact dichotomy for determining the (dis)allowance
of a given adjunct predicate. Rather, semantic licensing should be under-
stood as taking place on a continuum of high to low Transitivity. In other
words, what Table 12.1 implies is that a more prototypical transitive sen-
tence, in which the subject is more agent-like, the object more patient-like,
and the verb/predicate bound to space and time (that is telic), is more likely
to allow for adjunct predicates, imposing fewer restrictions on them:
(12.24) a. María destruyó el juguete enojada (more prototypical transi-
tive sentence)
‘María destroyed the toy angry.’
[volitional subject, telic verb, affected and definite object]
b. ? María encontró el libro inesperada.
‘María found the book unexpected.’
[non-volitional subject, telic verb, definite object]
c. *Este reloj necesita pilas roto (less prototypical transitive sentence)
‘This watch needs batteries broken.’
[non-volitional subject, atelic verb, indefinite plural object]
The sentences in (12.24) represent different degrees of acceptability of
adjunct predicates based on corresponding degrees of higher or lower
Transitivity. Sentence (12.24a) is considered a more prototypical transitive
sentence in that the subject is volitional, and the object undergoes change
(that is, is an affected object) and is a definite noun, thus allowing for a
higher chance of licensing the adjunct predicate enojada ‘angry.’ In contrast,
sentence (12.24c) represents a less prototypical transitive sentence since the
subject is non-volitional, and the object does not undergo change and is a
plural noun. As predicted, this sentence does not allow licensing of the
adjunct predicate roto ‘broken.’ Sentence (12.24b) represents a medium
between the two in terms of Transitivity: the subject is non-volitional, the
verb is telic, and the object is definite but less affected than that of (12.24a).
But (12.24b) is still less acceptable than (12.24a), because the Transitivity fea-
tures of the subject and object are lower. This all suggests that a sentence
with higher Transitivity does not guarantee the licensing of the adjunct
predicate. Instead, it results in a greater probability that an adjunct predicate
will be compatible with the verb or verb phrase in the sentence.
Conclusion
In this chapter, we have claimed that the licensing of the adjunct predicate
is not dependent on any single factor, as has been proposed by many lin-
guists, but rather is based on the interaction among the semantics of verbs,
adjunct predicates, and objects. We have argued that neither Vendlerian verb
typologies nor the IL/SL distinction alone can account for the licensing of
adjunct predicates unless other variables such as the affectedness and defi-
niteness of the object are taken into consideration. We have claimed that
there is an interrelation between the licensing of adjunct predicates and the
Transitivity Hypothesis (Hopper and Thompson, 1980; Thompson and
Hopper, 2001): The higher in Transitivity a sentence is, that is, the closer a
sentence is to the prototypical transitive sentence, the higher the likelihood
that the sentence allows adjunct predicates. Thus, licensing is not a clear-cut
dichotomy that a formal syntactic analysis might be based on, but rather a
continuum of probability for adjunct predicates to be allowed.
This is what is proposed in the functionalist framework, namely, the
notion of ‘prototypicality’ (Givón, 1984). The functional approach typically
does not treat grammar as autonomous formal rules and discrete categories,
but rather allows partial categoriality (Givón, 1984: 14). For instance, we
have observed that most prototypical SL verbs require affected objects in
order for an adjunct predicate to be added to a sentence (for example Comía
tacos contenta ‘She was eating tacos happy’), while it is still possible for other
SL verbs (for example some STA verbs and some ACT verbs) with non-
affected objects to allow adjunct predicates (for example Juan miraba la foto
deprimido ‘Juan looked at the picture depressed’). In other words, although
we have claimed that an adjunct predicate is more likely to be allowed in a
prototypical high-Transitivity sentence (that is, one with high-Transitivity
features in all parts of the sentence), this does not imply that a less proto-
typical transitive sentence (for example a sentence with a non-affected
object) cannot allow an adjunct predicate at all. The continuum of prob-
ability for allowing an adjunct predicate should be understood as the
extent to which ‘typical’ properties of a prototypical transitive sentence
274 Semantic Constraints on Small Clauses in Adjunct Position
Jiyoung Yoon 275
(for example a combination of a highly volitional subject, an affected and
definite object, and a telic or SL verb) overlap. Thus, the functionalist view
that we adopt replaces the exclusive, all-or-nothing approach of the formal-
ist with the notion of prototypicality.
Notes
1 Lexical aspect is determined not only by a verb itself but also by a verb phrase, that
is, a verb and its accompanying elements such as adverbs and prepositional
phrases. A well-known example is the difference between Juan corrió ‘Juan ran’
(ACT) and Juan corrió una milla ‘Juan ran a mile’ (ACC).
2 For more recent discussions about the typology of lexical aspects (termed ‘states of
affairs’), see Van Valin and La Polla (1997: ch. 3–4), Groot (1983), and Dik (1997).
In these studies, the parameters that distinguish the four states of affairs are [static],
[telic], [punctual] and [control] (this last feature does not appear in Van Valin and
La Polla). The four types of states of affairs are, then, situation, event, process and
action, which correspond to the lexical aspects (that is, Aktionsart) state, achievement,
accomplishment and activity, respectively.
3 Some of my examples were created for the purpose of testing their grammaticality/
acceptability with respect to the different lexical aspects. They were judged by
native speakers of Spanish who participated in this study.
4 Some data in this study were collected from the Real Academia Española (RAE)
database at http://www.rea.es. Some parts of the authentic examples were omitted
(indicated as …) due to space limitations.
5 The notion of ILP and SLP can be referred to as ‘ILP/SLP reading’, which implies that
the ILP/SLP distinction is in many cases not absolute but rather depends on the con-
text (compare discussion of the ILP/SLP distinction in Chapters 8 and 13, this volume).
6 The contrast between ILPs and SLPs holds for object hosts as well as subject hosts,
as shown in the following examples:
(i) a. Juan lo pintó enorme. (SLP)
‘Juan painted it enormous.’
b. *Juan lo pintó caro. (ILP)
‘Juan painted it expensive.’
(ii) a. María leyó roto un libro.
‘María read a book torn.’ (SLP)
b. *María leyó interesante un libro. (ILP)
‘María read a book interesting.’
7 See Bosque (1990) and Clements (1988) for more discussion of the classification of
adjective predicates.
8 Note that the use of the preterite for the verb saber ‘to know’ (which means ‘found
out’) makes the sentence sound better, as shown in the following contrast:
(i) a. *María sabía la verdad angustiada/preocupada.
‘María knew the truth distressed/worried.’
b. ?María supo la verdad angustiada.
‘María found out the truth distressed.’
Sentence (ib) is paraphrased in Spanish as María ya estaba angustiada cuando supo la
verdad ‘María was already distressed when she found out the truth.’ Note that, with
the use of the preterite, the meaning of the verb saber changes from STA to a punctual
276 Semantic Constraints on Small Clauses in Adjunct Position
VP, that is, the beginning of knowing. It seems that this can be accounted for in
terms of high/low Transitivity (Hopper and Thompson, 1980) since supo is punctual
while sabía is stative.
9 The preferred word order for sentence (12.14) for most native speakers is María,
triste, lamentaba la situación ‘María, sad, regretted the situation’. The sentence with
an ILP, however, still does not allow this word order (*María, pesimista, lamentaba
la situación ‘María, pessimistic, regretted the situation’).
10 Note that ACT verbs do not necessarily entail affected objects as shown in (i):
(i) Manolo miraba la casa orgulloso.
‘Manolo looked at the house proud.’
(ii) Marisol busca un apartamento desesperada.
‘Marisol looks for an apartment desperate.’
In such examples, objects are not affected by the action of the ACT verbs.
Nevertheless, almost all the ACC and ACH verbs (which exhibit higher
Transitivity than ACT verbs) normally entail affected objects (for example destruir
la casa [ACC] ‘destroy the house,’ esconder el regalo [ACC] ‘hide the present,’ dibu-
jar una manzana [ACC] ‘draw an apple’; tocar la pared [ACH] ‘touch the wall,’ perder
el cheque [ACH] ‘lose the check’). However, the correlation between the lexical
aspect of the verb and the affectedness of the object is not absolute, but should be
understood instead as a probability.
References
Basilico, D. (1996) ‘Asymmetric Object Positions’, Eastern States Conference on
Linguistics ‘95, pp. 1–12. Cornell University.
Bosque, I. (ed.) (1990) Tiempo y aspecto en español (Tense and Aspect in Spanish). Madrid:
Ediciones Cátedra.
Carlson, G. (1977) ‘Reference to Kinds in English’, PhD dissertation, University of
Massachusetts, Amherst.
Clements, J. C. (1988) ‘The Spanish 	COP  ADJ Construction’, Linguistics, vol. 26,
pp. 779–822.
Demonte, V. (1992) ‘Temporal and Aspectual Constraints on Predicative Adjective
Phrases’, in H. Campos and F. Martínez-Gil (eds), Current Studies in Spanish
Linguistics. Washington D.C.: Georgetown University Press, pp. 165–200.
Dik, S. C. (1997) ‘States of Affairs and Semantic Functions’, in K. Hengeveld (ed.), The
Theory of Functional Grammar, vol. 1. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, pp. 105–26.
Dowty, D. (1979) Word Meaning and Montague Grammar: The Semantics of Verbs and
Times in Generative Semantics and in Montague’s PTQ. Dordrecht; Boston: D. Reidel,
Publishing Company.
Givón, T. (1984) Syntax: A functional-Typological Introduction, vol. 1. Amsterdam and
Philadelphia: John Benjamins.
Groot, C. de. (1983) ‘Typology of States of Affairs’, in H. Bennis and W.U.S. van Lessen
Kloeke (eds), Linguistics in the Netherlands. Dordrecht: Foris, pp. 73–82.
Hopper, P. J. and S. A. Thompson (1980) ‘Transitivity in Grammar and Discourse’,
Language, vol. 56, pp. 251–99.
McNally, L. (1994) ‘Adjunct Predicates and the Individual/Stage Distinction’, West
Coast Conference on Formal Linguistics, vol. 12, pp. 561–76.
Milsark, G. L. (1974) ‘Existential Sentences in English’, PhD dissertation: MIT.
–––– (1977) ‘Toward an Explanation of Certain Peculiarities of the Existential Construction
in English’, Linguistic Analysis, vol. 3, pp. 1–29.
Jiyoung Yoon 277
Rapoport, T. R. (1991) ‘Adjunct-predicate Licensing and D-structure’, in S. D. Rothstein
(ed.), Perspectives on Phrase Structure: Heads and Licensing. San Diego: Academic Press,
pp. 159–87.
—— (1993a) ‘Stage and Adjunct Predicates: Licensing and Structure in Secondary
Predication Constructions’, in E. Reuland and W. Abraham (eds), Knowledge and
Language, vol. 2, Lexical and Conceptual Structure. Netherlands: Kluwer Academic
Publishers, pp. 157–82.
—— (1993b) ‘Verbs in Depictives and Resultatives’, in J. Pustejovsky (ed.), Semantics
and the Lexicon. Netherlands: Kluwer Academic Publishers, pp. 163–84.
—— (1999) ‘Structure, Aspect, and the Predicate’. Language, vol. 75, pp. 653–77.
Thompson, S. A. and P. J. Hopper (2001) ‘Transitivity, Clause Structure, and Argument
Structure: Evidence from Conversation’, in J. L. Bybee and P. J. Hopper (eds),
Frequency and the Emergence of Linguistic Structure. Amsterdam: John Benjamins,
pp. 27–60.
Van Valin, R. D. and R. J. La Polla (1997) Syntax: Structure, Meaning and Function.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Vendler, Z. (1967) ‘Verbs and Times’, in Z. Vendler (ed.), Linguistics and Philosophy.
Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, pp. 97–121.
13
Causative hacer and dejar
Carmen Ruiz-Sánchez
278
Introduction
In the past there has been some general discussion of Romance causatives,
some of which have included Spanish samples, but little has been written
specifically on Spanish causatives per se. To date, most studies dealing with
Spanish causatives have concentrated on the hacer  infinitive construction,
while some of them (for example Aranda, 1990) have focused on similarities
and differences among lexical causative verbs (for example mostrar ‘show’
v. hacer ver ‘make see’) or the synonymy between the hacer  infinitive v. the
dejar  past participle constructions (for example lo hice sonrojarse ‘I made
him blush’ v. lo dejé sonrojado ‘I left him blushing’). Few studies, however,
present a comparative analysis of causative hacer and dejar.
The literature on Romance causatives has almost exclusively treated the
syntax of causative constructions rather than their semantics. For example,
many linguists have focused their attention on the question of argument
structure (valency and actancy) (Tesnière, 1959), discovering that some verbs
are subject to modifications of valency. Hacer is considered one of these verbs
since it increases its valency by one actant when used in the causative
hacer  infinitive construction.
The goal of this chapter is to fill this void, unaddressed by previous studies,
and explore the different semantic make up of causative hacer and dejar and
the syntactic repercussions of these differences in causative infinitive con-
structions and small clauses. In arguing that hacer is the default causative
verb in Spanish while causative dejar is a semantic extension of the main
verb dejar, we claim that the difference between hacer and dejar is similar to
that between the copula ser and estar. Before beginning, however, we will
comment on the terminology to be used.
Terminology
In the present study, we follow Curnow’s (1994: 167) definition of causative,
as adapted from Shibatani’s (1976) definition: any construction with hacer or
Carmen Ruiz-Sánchez 279
dejar is interpreted as causative if the event is caused by the subject of the
main clause and if it occurs only as a result of the intervention of the subject.
In the case of dejar, the intervention of the subject is most often understood
as a conscious nonintervention on the part of the subject, letting an event
unfold by not impeding or stopping its trajectory.
Regarding other terminology used in this chapter, we use the term
implication to speak of the difference between the semantics of causative
dejar and hacer. For example, in the sentence Juanita deja terminar su trabajo
al niño ‘Juanita lets the boy finish his work’, there is an implication that the
boy has already started the work and intends to finish it. In the analogous
sentence Juanita hace terminar su trabajo al niño ‘Juanita makes the boy finish
his work’, there is no such implication.
The semantics of hacer and dejar
In this section we examine the non-causative meanings of hacer and dejar in
order to isolate their respectively different semantic characteristics. The
characterization of these verbs is based on the examination of some of their
respective Transitivity features in the sense of Hopper and Thompson (1980):
Transitivity of the verb, thematic role of the subject, lexical aspect and refer-
ence to the event structure. The following analysis will be used later to identify
the semantic features retained by each verb in causative constructions.
The semantics of non-causative hacer
In its most standard denotation as ‘create, produce, fabricate, make, do,
and so on’, hacer can be characterized as requiring a direct object and an
animate subject, denoting a non-punctual dynamic situation (an accom-
plishment [nonpunctual, telic] or an activity [nonpunctual, atelic], but
never an achievement [punctual, telic]), and having a scope of reference over
the whole event:
(13.1) a. Los estudiantes hacen la tarea.
‘The students do their homework.’
b. *Los estudiantes hacen rápidamente.
‘The students do quickly.’
(13.2) a. Los estudiantes/ los profesores/ Juan y María hacen su trabajo.
‘The students/ the teachers/ Juan and Marta do their work.’
b. *Los libros hacen su trabajo.
‘The books do their work.’
Thus, the (a) examples in (13.1)–(13.2) are well-formed because they have a
direct object and an animate subject. On the other hand, (13.1b) and (13.2b)
are ill-formed because the first has no direct object and the second is without
an animate subject. As for the incompatibility of punctual events and the
semantic feature(s) of hacer, it is compatible with object NPs denoting time
intervals, but not with NPs denoting punctual events. Thus, (13.3a) is well-
formed because una fiesta ‘a party’ is a durative event. By contrast, (13.3b) is
ill-formed because the direct object NP llegada ‘arrival’ denotes a punctual
event:
(13.3) a. Marta hizo una fiesta el viernes. (durative)
‘Marta had a party on Friday.’
b. *Marta hizo la llegada el viernes. (punctual)
‘Marta had her arrival on Friday.’
With regard to the trait of referring to the whole event, the entailments
in (13.4) can be said not to hold because hacer la sopa ‘make the soup’ makes
reference to the whole event of creating the soup, not to a subset of its
component parts:
(13.4) a. Juan calentó la sopa -/- Juan hizo la sopa.
‘Juan heated up the soup’ -/- Juan made the soup.’
b. Juan cortó las verduras para la sopa -/- Juan hizo la sopa.
‘Juan cut up the vegetables for the soup’ -/- Juan made
the soup.’
c. Juan hirvió los fideos para la sopa -/- Juan hizo la sopa.
‘Juan boiled the noodles for the soup’ -/- Juan made the soup.’
Having identified the most important semantic traits of hacer, let us turn to
the semantic characterization of dejar.
The semantics of non-causative dejar
We group the different key meanings of dejar into two broad categories.
The first is ‘separation, detachment or abandonment’, and the second
‘permission/ non-avoidance or non-impediment of an event’.1
Examples of
the first set of entries are given in (13.5):
(13.5) a. Lo he dejado sobre la mesa.
‘I left it on the table’.
b. He dejado la bebida/ los estudios/ de fumar.
‘I gave up drinking/ studying/smoking’.
c. Ha dejado/abandonado a su familia.
‘He has left/abandoned his family’.
d. Le dejé el coche a mi amiga.
‘I lent my car to my friend’.
280 Causative hacer and dejar
Carmen Ruiz-Sánchez 281
Examples of the entries ‘permission/ non-avoidance or non-impediment
of an event’ are shown in (13.6):
(13.6) a. Juanita nos dejó salir.
‘Juanita let us leave.’
b. La mujer que estaba en el medio del pasillo me dejó pasar
finalmente.
‘The woman who was in the middle of the hall let me finally
go through.’
c. El policía nos dejó en paz.
‘The police officer left us alone.’
Non-causative dejar shares the following characteristics in its different
entries in question: it is a (di)transitive achievement verb with an agent or
experiencer subject, and implies either that the beginning of an event has
already taken place or that a state already existed.
If we compare the characterizations of hacer and dejar, their differences lie
mainly in their respective lexical aspect, hacer is nonpunctual (telic or atelic)
and dejar is punctual. Moreover, while hacer refers to a whole event and only
to the event, dejar refers either to a point on the timeline of an event already
started or to a point on the timeline of a state that already existed or was
already happening.
Based on the preceding semantic and syntactic characterization of these
two verbs, we advance the following, uncontroversial hypothesis: the verbs
hacer and dejar will exhibit different semantic features in their respective
causative constructions, giving rise to different readings and interpretations.
We also predict that these semantic differences can account for the different
behaviours of hacer and dejar in small clauses such as those underlined in
(13.7) and (13.8). In these examples, we see that causative hacer is compati-
ble with an individual-level predicate like interesante ‘interesting’, but
causative dejar is not. On the other hand, causative dejar is compatible with
a stage-level predicate such as cansada ‘tired’ where hacer is not. We will discuss
why this is so later in the chapter.
(13.7) a. El profesor hizo la charla interesante.
‘The teacher made the lecture interesting.’
b. *El profesor dejó la charla interesante.
‘The teacher left the lecture interesting.’
(13.8) a. La abuela dejó cansada a Marta.
‘The grandmother left Marta tired.’
b. *La abuela hizo cansada a Marta.
‘The grandmother made Marta tired.’
282 Causative hacer and dejar
Causative dejar and hacer
For our present purposes, this study is limited to dejar/hacer-plus infinitive
constructions with agentive animate subjects.2
Regarding the methodology,
in order to tease apart the semantic features of hacer and dejar, we use mini-
mal pair sentences in which only one of the two verbs yields a well-formed
sentence or in which one of the verbs is more acceptable than the other.3
In some cases, both verbs yield well-formed sentences, but each implies
something different.4
Contexts contrasting causative dejar and hacer
The examples to follow are classified into four categories according to the
lexical aspect of the infinitive: states (STA), activities (ACT), accomplish-
ments (ACC), and achievements (ACH) (Vendler, 1967, in Yoon, 2001).5
The
motivation for this classification is to discern how the lexical aspect of
the infinitive affects the behaviours of dejar and hacer. When contrasting
the semantics of dejar/hacer-plus infinitive constructions, we focus on the
following information: the possible avoidance/impediment of the action by
the causer, intentionality of the causer, direct/indirect causation, the causee’s
willingness for the event to happen, control over the event (coercion/
permission) on the part of the causer and the presence of semantic traces
from the non-causative meanings of the verbs. In addition, some Transitivity
features are considered, such as volitionality, involvement of the causer, and
reference to the event structure. This information is compiled in two tables
at the end of this section. A brief description of the different implications
and readings follows each set of examples. In order to avoid repetition, the
explanation for the first set of examples is more comprehensive and includes
all of the implications, while the subsequent comments and example sets are
limited to highlighting the most relevant difference/s that the constructed
context reveals.
States
(13.9) a. No quise justificarme y les dejé pensar lo que quisieran sobre mí.
‘I did not want to justify myself and I let them think whatever
they wanted about me.’
b. No quise justificarme y *les hice pensar lo que quisieran sobre mí.
‘I did not want to justify myself and I made them think what-
ever they wanted about me.’
(13.10) a. A veces mis compañeros de clase me hacen sentir un poco
estúpido.
‘Sometimes my classmates make me feel a bit silly.’
Carmen Ruiz-Sánchez 283
b. A veces mis compañeros de clase *me dejan sentir un poco estúpido.
‘Sometimes my classmates let me feel a bit silly.’
Examples (13.9a) and (13.9b) show that when the sentence implies that the
action could have been avoided, or was caused by lack of action on the part of
the subject, only causative dejar is permitted. Therefore, the causer in (13.9a) is
responsible for the action only in an indirect manner. By contrast, in the sen-
tence with hacer (13.10a) there is a more direct involvement of the causer in the
action. Another difference between these two verbs is that there is clear inten-
tionality with dejar in (13.9a), but not necessarily in (13.10a). Moreover, dejar in
(13.9a) refers to a state of mind already originated: the thinking and judging of
his classmates had already started and the causer did not want to stop it,
whereas in the sentence with hacer (13.10a) the implication is that the causer
originates the emotion, caused in its entirety by his classmates’ actions or
behaviour. This implication of hacer is traceable back to its original meaning ‘to
create, to produce … from the beginning’. Examples (13.10a) and (13.10b) con-
trast hacer and dejar by illustrating the pure causative nature of hacer. In general,
dejar adds more than causative meaning to the sentence, and it is not accept-
able in those cases where the only intended meaning is causation. It appears as
well that hacer implies that the causee did not want the event denoted by the
verb to take place. Thus, causative hacer can express some sense of coercion, as
it is more clearly demonstrated in following examples in (13.11) and (13.12):
(13.11) a. Mi padre me deja estar en su oficina si no lo molesto. Como lo
moleste me echa.
‘My father lets me hang out in his office as long as I don’t
bother him. If I do, he kicks me out.’
b. *Mi padre me hace estar en su oficina si no lo molesto. Como
lo moleste me echa.
‘My father makes me hang out in his office if I don’t bother
him. If I do, he kicks me out.’
(13.12) a. Mi padre me hace estar en la tienda los fines de semana
cuando yo prefiero jugar con mis amigos.
‘My father makes me be (work) in the store on the weekends
when I would rather be with my friends.’
b. *Mi padre me deja estar en la tienda los fines de semana
cuando yo prefiero jugar con mis amigos.
‘My father lets me be (work) in the store on the weekends
when I would rather be with my friends.’
In (13.12a) hacer carries a strong sense of obligation as evidenced in the fact
that it can be exchanged with the verb obligar. Besides, the causee has no
desire to perform the action, as indicated by its incompatibility with the
clause cuando yo prefiero jugar con mis amigos ‘when I would rather play with
my friends’. Consequently, since the context in examples (13.11a) and
(13.11b) implies the causee’s willingness to be in the office, causative dejar
can be used but hacer is disallowed. In (13.11a) we can also see a cooperative
effort between the two participants, and the causation is indirect.
Accomplishments
(13.13) a. Me lesioné pero no tuve que salirme de la carrera, ¡menos
mal! El juez fue bueno conmigo y me dejó correr las tres últimas
millas a pesar de todo.
‘I injured myself but I didn’t have to quit the race. Thank
God! The judge was very nice to me and he let me run the last
three miles despite everything.’
b. Me lesioné pero no tuve que salirme de la carrera, ¡menos
mal! El juez fue bueno conmigo y *?me hizo correr las tres últi-
mas millas a pesar de todo.
I had an injury but I didn’t have to quit the race. Thank God!
The judge was very nice to me and he made me run the last
three miles despite everything.’
(13.14) a. Mi entrenador es muy exigente y me hace correr 10 millas
todos los días como parte de mi entrenamiento.
‘My coach is very demanding and he makes me run 10 miles
every day as part of my training.’
b. Mi entrenador es muy exigente y *me deja correr 10 millas
todos los días como parte de mi entrenamiento.
‘My coach is very demanding and *he lets me run 10 miles
every day as part of my training.’
All the implications considered for the stative verbs above apply in this set of
examples as well. Hacer expresses some sense of coercion, direct causation,
and reference to the whole event. Dejar contains the sense of permission for
the continuation or non-impediment of the event, indirect causation, the
causee’s volition in the carrying out of the event, and reference to a subpart
or to a wider implications of the event. More examples of dejar and hacer
with accomplishments follow in order to specifically illustrate dejar’s feature
of letting some event continue its trajectory (the non-impediment of an
ongoing activity or state):
(13.15) a. La señora estaba en medio del pasillo bloqueando el paso con
el carrito, pero cuando nos vio acercarnos, se echó a un lado y
nos dejó pasar.
284 Causative hacer and dejar
Carmen Ruiz-Sánchez 285
‘The lady was in the middle of the hall blocking the way with
her cart, but when she saw us approaching, she moved to one
side and let us pass.’
b. La señora estaba en medio del pasillo bloqueando el paso con
el carrito, pero cuando nos vio acercarnos, se echó a un lado
y *nos hizo pasar.
‘That lady was in the middle of the hall blocking everyone’s
way with her cart, but when she saw us approaching, she
moved to one side and *made us pass.’
(13.16) a. En el libro se explica cómo los nazis hacían pasar a los judíos
a las duchas de gas.
‘In that book they explain how the Nazis made the Jews go to
the gas chambers.’
b. En el libro se explica cómo *?los nazis dejaban pasar a los
judíos a las duchas de gas.
‘In that book they explain how *the Nazis let the Jews go to
the gas chambers.’
Achievements
(13.17) a. El director estaba en la puerta recibiendo a los invitados. Por
la expresión de su cara me di cuenta de que me había vestido
muy informal para la ocasión, pero aún así me dejó entrar en
su fiesta sin decir nada.
‘The director was at the door welcoming the guests. From the
expression on his face, I could tell that I was dressed very
informally for the occasion but, despite that, he let me enter
his party without saying a word.’
b. El director estaba en la puerta recibiendo a los invitados. Por
la expresión de su cara me di cuenta de que me había vestido
muy informal para la ocasión y, aún así *?me hizo entrar en su
fiesta sin decir nada.
‘The president was at the door welcoming the guests. From
the expression on his face I could tell that I was dressed very
informally for the occasion and, despite that, he made me
enter his party without saying a word.’
(13.18) a. Acusé a Manolo de haberse quedado con mi CD. Él se enfadó
y la próxima vez que estuve en su casa, me hizo entrar en su
habitación para que viera que no lo tenía.
‘I accused Manolo of taking my CD. He got angry and the
next time I was at his house, he made me go in his room so I
could see that he had not taken it.’
b. Acusé a Manolo de haberse quedado con mi CD. Él se enfadó y
la próxima vez que estuve en su casa, *?me dejó entrar en su
habitación para que viera que no lo tenía.
‘I accused Manolo of taking my CD. He got angry and the next
time I was at his house, he let me go in his room and see that
he had not taken it.’
These sentences illustrate the expected implications of dejar and hacer. In par-
ticular, the sentences in (13.17a) and (13.17b) clearly display the difference
between permission versus coercion readings of dejar and hacer respectively.
The hacer causative in (13.17b) is ill-formed because there is not implication
of direct causation on the part of the causer, but the use of hacer becomes
acceptable in (13.18a), since the context is one in which Manolo is directly
responsible for the causee’s action. In the same context, dejar is ill-formed
because it wrongly implies that Manolo lets the event happen or gives his
permission, counter to the meaning established by the context. This sentence
would only be acceptable in a context in which it is understood that the person
had asked Manolo to enter his room to check if he had the CD.
Activities
(13.19) a. Cuando llegué a casa, mi hermana cantaba en la ducha.
Aunque canta fatal, no le dije nada y la dejé cantar porque sé
cuánto le gusta.
‘When I got home, my sister was singing. Even though she
sings horribly, I didn’t say anything and let her sing since
I know how much she likes it.’
b. Cuando llegué a casa, mi hermana cantaba en la ducha.
Aunque canta fatal, no le dije nada y *la hice cantar porque sé
cuánto le gusta.
‘When I got home, my sister was singing. Even though she
sings horribly, I didn’t say anything and *made her sing since
I know how much she likes it.’
(13.20) a. Antonio no quería cantar porque le daba vergüenza. Todos
insistimos y al final lo hicimos cantar.
‘Antonio did not want to sing because he was shy. We all
insisted and eventually made him sing.’
b. Antonio no quería cantar porque le daba vergüenza. Todos
insistimos y al final *lo dejamos cantar.
‘Antonio did not want to sing because he was shy. We all
insisted and eventually let him sing.’
These examples demonstrate the now-familiar ways in which dejar and hacer
refer to an event structure. The context in (13.19a) conveys the idea that the
286 Causative hacer and dejar
Carmen Ruiz-Sánchez 287
causer does not stop an ongoing activity but lets the causee continue with
the activity. Due to its semantic make up, hacer in the same context is ill-
formed, as seen in (13.19b). If the context is one in which the causer initiates
the activity, as in (13.20a), only then is the use of hacer correct. In relation
to this same idea, Aranda (1990: 69) states that when the causative verb is
hacer, the impulse for the realization of the action originates in the subject/
causer, whose participation in the event is greater than when the verb dejar
is used. According to him, this fact becomes evident in those cases when
hacer can be interpreted as mandar and dejar as permitir.
Finally, consider the following activity.
(13.21) a. Dejaron arder los pastos toda la noche.
‘They let the pasture burn all night long.’
b. *?Hicieron arder los pastos toda la noche.
‘They made the pasture burn all night long.’
c. Hizo arder toda la casa con una sola cerilla.
‘He/she made the house burn with only one match.’
d. *Dejó arder toda la casa con una sola cerilla.
‘He/she *let the house burn with only one match.’
The phrase ‘toda la noche’ indicates duration, and can be used with dejar but
not with hacer. Dejar arder in (13.21a) implies that the burning continued all
night long while hacer arder, on the other hand, refers to the beginning of
that action, that is, to the ignition of the fire, the whole phrase hacer arder
being a synonym with quemar ‘burn’ or prender fuego ‘light a fire’. Even
though arder is an activity, the phrase hacer arder becomes punctual and telic,
an achievement. Sentence (13.21b) would only be acceptable if the action is
interpreted as reiterative, meaning that they continued setting fire to the
pasture all night. By contrast, if the context construed is one where the only
possible interpretation is that of setting the fire as in (13.21c), then only
hacer can be used but not dejar (cf. 13.21d).
Having discussed causative hacer and dejar in various contexts involving
states, accomplishments, achievements and activities, let us now summarize
the respective properties that make up the two causative verbs.
General characterization of causative dejar and hacer
The previous discussion of causative dejar and hacer has identified consistent
differences between the two verbs regarding their lexical semantic make up
and in terms of their respective implications. Regarding the lexical aspect of
the infinitive with which causative dejar and hacer appear, stative verbs are
largely incompatible with causative hacer but not with causative dejar. With
achievements and accomplishments (that is dynamic telic predicates), we
also note that the reference of the verb complex can imply prior intention
288 Causative hacer and dejar
on the part of the causee. That is, while with stative and activity verbs,
causative dejar refers to a subpart of an event, it encompasses more than the
event proper with telic predicates. In Tables 13.1 and 13.2 we have attempted
to summarize the difference between the causative verbs, trying to capture
the different implications that each causative verb carries in the different
contexts provided in the previous section.
By comparing Tables 13.1 and 13.2, we arrive at the following characteri-
zation of causative dejar and hacer. Causative dejar carries the implication
that the causer could have avoided or impeded the event or state being
caused, but instead let it occur or continue, causing the action only indi-
rectly, albeit intentionally. In most cases, causative dejar carries the implica-
tion that the causee wants the event or state to happen or continue and that
s/he has some control over the action. The caused event or state is then the
result of a cooperative effort between the two participants rather than the
result of just the causer’s intervention. Causative dejar usually refers to
an event that has already started, so its reference is partial in that sense.
However, it can also include in its scope of reference the whole event/state as
well as the intention on the part of one or plus the preceding intention. The
reason for the unique semantic nature of causative dejar lies in that it retains
traits from dejar as a main verb, namely ‘permission’ and/or ‘non-impediment’.
In addition, the low involvement of the causer in bringing about the event
Table 13.1 Characterization of causative dejar
Characterization of
dejar in the different
verb categories STA ACC ACH ACT
Possible    
avoidance/impediment
of the action by the
causer
Intentionality (causer)    
Direct/indirect causation I I I I
The causee’s    
willingness for the
event to happen
Control over the event    
by the causee
Reference to the event partial partial whole event partial
structure  intention
Involvement of the low low low low
causer
Semantic traces of non-    
causative meanings
Carmen Ruiz-Sánchez 289
or its continuation or termination can be related to its traits ‘abandonment,
separation’ as a main verb.
Causative hacer displays characteristics of an inherent causative verb.
In most cases, it adds no additional meaning to the sentence other than that
of causation. The event happens only as a result of the intervention of the
subject, who has direct responsibility for the event. Causative hacer carries
the implication that the causee does not want the event or state to come
about, and has no control over it, hence the sense of coercion in many
instances. Causative hacer refers to the whole event. Generally, the idea of
the initiation of the event or state is entirely clear. We propose that this is
due to its semantics as main verb, namely ‘create, originate, produce.’
Dejar and hacer in small clauses6
In this section, we would like to support the developed characterization of
dejar and hacer by briefly discussing the behaviour of these causative verbs
in small clauses. Previous research on small clauses (Yoon, 2001) shows
that hacer and dejar behave differently with stage-level predicates (SLPs) (for
example sorprendido ‘surprised’, cansado ‘tired’) and individual-level predicates
(ILPs) (such as inteligente ‘intelligent’, alto ‘tall’). After considering dejar and
Table 13.2 Characterization of causative hacer
Characterization of
hacer in the different
verbs categories STA ACC ACH ACT
Possible N/A N/A N/A N/A
avoidance/impediment
of the action by the
causer
Intentionality (causer)    
Direct/Indirect causation D D D D
The causee’s    
willingness for the
event to happen
Control over the event    
by the causee (some
coercion)
Reference to the event whole whole whole beginning
structure event event event
Involvement of the high high low high
causer
Semantic traces of non-  (but    
causative meanings with verbs
of feeling)
hacer in small clauses with SLPs and ILPs, we advance an account, based on
the characterization of causative dejar and hacer above, as to why some SLPs
can only take one of these causative verbs, and why some ILPs can be used
only with hacer and under specific conditions.
Given that so far our analysis of causative dejar/hacer-plus infinitive con-
structions has been limited to animate subjects, we will follow the same
practice here. Regarding the analysis of dejar and hacer in small clauses, I will
divide the examples in two subsections, one with animate objects and the
other with inanimate objects to discover if animacy of the object is a variable
in the choice of dejar or hacer.
Small clauses with animate objects
Consider the following sentences:
(13.22) a. Ese chico dejó a todo el mundo sorprendido/asustado/callado.
(SLPs)
‘That guy left everyone amazed/scared/quiet/pleased.’
b. *Ese chico hizo a todo el mundo sorprendido/asustado/callado/
encantado.
‘That guy made everyone amazed/scared/quiet/pleased.’
(13.23) a. La peluquera dejó a mi mamá muy bonita/fea/atractiva. (SLPs)
‘The hairdresser left my mom very pretty/ugly/attractive.’
b. *La peluquera hizo a mi mamá muy bonita/fea/atractiva.
‘The hairdresser made my mom very pretty/ugly/attractive.’
(13.24) a. *Juan dejó a su hijo más inteligente/guapo/alto/tímido. (ILPs)
‘Juan left his son more intelligent/handsome/tall/shy.’
b. *Juan hizo a su hijo más inteligente/guapo/alto/tímido.
‘Juan made his son more intelligent/handsome/tall/shy.’
The acceptability judgments on these examples suggest that causative hacer
cannot be used in this type of constructions with animate objects  SLP/ILP.7
By contrast, causative dejar is compatible with SLPs but not with ILPs. We can
account for these facts by appealing to the semantics of causative hacer and
dejar. As noted above, causative hacer refers to a whole event, an event which
the causer initiates as an agent, and, therefore, it cannot be used with stage
level predicates that refer to states which cannot be brought about at will by
an agentive participant. In the (a) sentences in (13.22)–(13.23) the implication
is that there is a situation previous to the event denoted in the sentence in
which the subject participant was involved. Given its extended reference,
causative dejar can accommodate a resultative interpretation, and the sentences
are, therefore, acceptable. We argue that it is due to the lack of extended refer-
ence frame in the semantics of causative hacer that the corresponding
sentences with hacer (the [b] sentences in 13.22–13.23) are ill-formed.
290 Causative hacer and dejar
Carmen Ruiz-Sánchez 291
This account of the respective behaviour of causative dejar and hacer in
small clauses is further supported by examining other structures. The sentences
in (13.22) contain SLPs that are past participle forms of a corresponding middle
reflexive verb (sorprendido ‘surprised’ from sorprenderse ‘become surprised’,
asustado ‘scared’ from asustarse ‘become scared’, and callado ‘quiet’ from
callarse ‘become quiet’). If instead of past participial SLPs we use the verbs,
the sentences become well-formed, as shown in (13.25):8
(13.25) Ese chico hizo a todo el mundo sorprenderse/asustarse/callarse.
‘That guy made everyone become surprised/scared/quiet.’
Here, ese chico ‘that guy’ is the initiator and agent of everyone becoming
surprised, scared or quiet. There is a beginning and an end to the causative
event. There is no implication of previous intention on the part of the
subject, nor any implication that some event or state was already underway
previous to the causative event. Aranda (1990) views this difference between
causative dejar and hacer in the following way: dejar has a perfective value
whereas hacer has a progressive value and represents the process from the
perspective of its realization in which the subject is the starting point.
Regarding the ILPs in the examples in (13.24), both (a) and (b) examples show
that the two verbs in question cannot be used with ILPs (with animate object).
This is arguably due to the fact that ILPs refer to permanent and unalterable
qualities of the animate participants that cannot be brought about or be allowed
to be brought about through human agency. As a result, they are incompatible
with hacer, which must have an agentive subject. More particularly, given that
in small clauses causative dejar refers to the resultant state of the event, it is
incompatible with predicate adjectives denoting permanent features that do not
change over time or can appear as a resultant state. However, if we assume that
the subject is a creature with supernatural powers, the sentence with hacer
becomes grammatical: Dios hizo al hijo de Luis inteligente/guapo/alto/tímido ‘God
made Juan’s son intelligent/handsome/tall/shy’. Therefore, the previous state-
ment should be redefined in the following way: hacer can take ILPs as long as the
interpretation of the sentence does not conflict with our understanding of how
the world typically runs.
Small clauses with inanimate objects
Consider the following sentences:
(13.26) a. La costurera dejó el vestido ancho/estrecho/grande/pequeño.
(SLPs)
‘The seamstress left the dress loose/tight/big/small.’
b. La costurera hizo el vestido ancho/estrecho/grande/pequeño.
(ILPs)
‘The seamstress made the dress loose/tight/big/small.’
(13.27) a. Juan dejó la casa fea/bonita/limpia/desordenada. (SLPs)
‘Juan left the house ugly/pretty/clean/messy.’
b. Juan hizo la casa fea/bonita (ILP) /*limpia/*desordenada. (SLPs)
‘Juan made the house ugly/pretty/clean/messy.’
(13.28) a. Marta dejó la puerta abierta/cerrada/ manchada. (SLPs)
‘Marta left the door open/closed/stained.’
b. *Marta hizo la puerta abierta/cerrada/ manchada. (SLPs)
‘Marta made the door open/closed/stained.’
(13.29) a. *El profesor dejó su charla interesante/ entretenida/aburrida/original.
(ILPs)
‘The teacher left his/her talk interesting/entertaining/
boring/original.’
b. El profesor hizo su charla interesante/ entretenida/aburrida/
original. (ILPs)
‘The teacher made his/her talk interesting/entertaining/
boring/original.’
The (a) examples in (13.26)–(13.28) reveal that causative dejar is also com-
patible with SLP small clauses with an inanimate object and incompatible
with ILPs for the same reason as discussed above. As for causative hacer, it is
incompatible with SLPs with inanimate objects because the use of these
predicates (13.26–13.28) implies a previous state that was subject to some
type of modification. The implication with hacer would be that the objects
were created with those qualities, but these qualities are transitory, and do
not admit such an interpretation. Causative hacer, however, is compatible
with ILPs and inanimate object to the extent it can be created by the subject,
as in the examples (13.26b), (13.27b) (with bonita ‘pretty’ and fea ‘ugly’), and
(13.29b).
To summarize, dejar takes SLPs in small clauses with both animate and
inanimate objects, but cannot take ILPs. Hacer, on the other hand, cannot
take SLPs regardless of the type of object, and occurs with ILPs mainly when
the direct object is inanimate, as well as when the direct object is animate in
those in cases in which the subject of the sentence can be interpreted as the
creator of the object in question.
Similarities in the relation of causative
hacer/dejar and ser/estar
We suggest that the semantics of causative dejar and hacer in small clauses is
analogous to the semantics of the copula verbs estar and ser, especially with
regard to the type of adjectives they take and the implications involved.
Clements (1988) argues that the basic distinction between the two Spanish
copular verbs has to do with whether a connection to a locus or another
292 Causative hacer and dejar
Carmen Ruiz-Sánchez 293
situation is implied or not. He notes that estar implies such a connection
([nexus]), while ser does not ([nexus]). The same distinction is applicable
to causative dejar and hacer. Causative dejar would then be [nexus] while
causative hacer implies no such thing and would thus carry the [nexus] fea-
ture. This distinction explains why causative dejar [nexus], like copular
estar, can occur with SLPs adjectives (13.22a, 13.23a, 13.28a) but not with
ILPs adjectives (13.24a, 13.29a) and why causative hacer [nexus], like cop-
ular ser, can occur with ILPs adjectives (13.29b, the ungrammaticality of
13.24b is explained at the end of this section) but not with SLPs adjectives
(13.22b, 13.23b, 13.28b). More examples with a wider variety of each class of
adjectives are given below in order to provide more evidence to this similarity
between dejar/hacer and estar/ser:
(13.30) a. Juan dejó el televisor apagado/encendido/roto/cubierto/sucio/
polvoriento. (SLPs)
‘Juan left the TV set off/on/broken/covered/dirty/dusty.’
b. El televisor está apagado/encendido/roto/cubierto/sucio/polvoriento.
(SLPs)
‘The TV set is off/on/broken/covered/dirty/dusty.’
c. *Juan hizo el televisor apagado/encendido/roto/cubierto/sucio/
polvoriento. (SLPs)
* ‘Juan made the TV set off/on/broken/covered/dirty/dusty.’
d. *El televisor es apagado/encendido/roto/cubierto/sucio/polvoriento.
(SLPs)
‘The TV set is off/on/broken/covered/dirty/dusty.’
(13.31) a. Juan dejó la mesa arañada/coja/preparada/puesta/vacía/impecable.
(SLPs)
‘Juan left the table scratched/wobbly/ready/set/empty/
impeccable.’
b. La mesa está arañada/coja/preparada/puesta/vacía/impecable.
(SLPs)
‘The table is scratched/wobbly/ready/set/empty/impecable.’
c. * Juan hizo la mesa arañada/coja/preparada/puesta/vacía/impecable.
(SLPs)
‘Juan made the table scratched/wobbly/ready/set/empty/
impeccable.’
d. *La mesa es arañada/coja/preparada/puesta/vacía/impecable.
(SLPs)
‘The table is scratched/wobbly/ready/set/empty/impeccable.’
(13.32) a. *Juan dejó la mesa metálica/moderna/plegable/segura. (ILPs)
‘Juan left the table metallic/modern/folding/secure.’
b. *La mesa está metálica/moderna/plegable/segura. (ILPs)
294 Causative hacer and dejar
‘The table is metallic/modern/folding/secure.’
c. Juan hizo la mesa metálica/moderna/plegable/segura. (ILPs)
‘Juan made the table metallic/modern/folding/safe.’
d. La mesa es metálica/moderna/plegable/segura. (ILPs)
‘The table is metallic/modern/folding/secure.’
(13.33) a. *Juan dejó el pastel español/ enorme/nupcial/ligero (ILPs)
‘Juan left the cake Spanish/huge/wedding/light.’
b. *El pastel está español/ enorme/nupcial/ligero (ILPs)
‘The cake is Spanish/huge/wedding/light.’
c. Juan hizo el pastel español/ enorme/nupcial/ligero (ILPs)
‘Juan made the cake Spanish/huge/wedding/light.’
d. El pastel es español/ enorme/nupcial/ligero (ILPs)
‘The cake is Spanish/huge/wedding/light.’
In those cases in which estar or ser are acceptable, creating minimal pairs,
Clements notes that ‘the speaker can choose to frame a given situation
according to an individual norm, which corresponds to estar, or a class
norm, corresponding to ser’. Some adjectives such as alto ‘tall’, ancho ‘wide’,
fea ‘ugly’ and bonita ‘pretty’ permit this freedom of choice. In the feature
system proposed by Clements, such adjectives carry a [␣resultative] feature,
sensitive to the presence or absence of the [nexus] feature of the copula.
In its presence [␣resultative] becomes [resultative]. That is, the adjective
receives a resultative reading (an individual-norm reading) if it appears with
the [nexus] copula (that is, estar). If it appears with the [nexus] copula
(that is, ser), the absence of [nexus] supports a [resultative] reading (a class-
norm reading). To illustrate, consider the examples in (13.34):
(13.34) a. El edificio está bonito.
‘The building is (i.e. looks) pretty.’ (in reference to an existing
assumption on the part of the speaker that in a previous state
it did not look as pretty as it now does [an individual norm
reading  stage-level interpretation of the adjective])
b. El edificio es bonito.
‘The building is pretty.’ (in reference to the class of buildings
to which this particular building would be likely to be
compared for beauty [a class-norm reading  individual-level
interpretation of the adjective])
While sentence (13.34a) implies the prior existence of another state of the
building known by the speaker, the speaker would say sentence (13.34b) if
s/he were comparing the building in question to other buildings of its class.
These two types of reading are, mutatis mutandis, also available with
this same adjective class when they appear with causative dejar and hacer.
Carmen Ruiz-Sánchez 295
In examples (13.26a) and (13.28b) the adjectives ancho, estrecho, grande,
pequeño are used both with dejar and hacer depending on whether they are
interpreted as SLPs or ILPs. The sentence la costurera dejó el vestido ancho/
estrecho/grande/ pequeño ‘The seamstress left the dress loose/ tight/ big/ small’
implies that the dress was already made and the seamstress made some alter-
ations to it, giving a resultative reading to the sentence, which corresponds
to the semantics of SLPs. The sentence la costurera hizo el vestido ancho/estrecho/
grande/pequeño ‘The seamstress made the dress loose/ tight/ big/ small’
implies that the dress was made, from beginning to end, by the seamstress,
and it does not allow a resultative reading, which corresponds to the seman-
tics of ILPs and which is also true in the corresponding sentences with ser el
vestido es ancho/estrecho/grande/pequeño. Adjectives that are hybrid SLPs/ILPs
are arguably so because they carry the feature [␣Resultative]. The adjectives
fea, bonita ‘ugly, pretty’ in (13.27) belong to this same class of adjectives that
have two possible readings, and therefore they allow both dejar and hacer, as
well as estar and ser.
Conclusion
The results of this study confirm the initial hypothesis that causative
hacer and dejar have different semantic implications. In addition, we have
accounted for their different behaviours in small clauses and establish
some interesting parallels between hacer and ser, and dejar and estar.
As main verbs and as causatives in infinitive constructions as well as in
small clauses, dejar and hacer refer to different extensions of a given event.
Main verb and causative hacer refer to the whole event, as in hacer la comida
‘to make the food’, hacer entrar ‘to make enter’ or hacer la charla interesante ‘to
make the lecture interesting’. This is captured in Figure 13.1.
With activities, causative hacer refers to the beginning of the event, as in
hacer arder ‘to set fire’, which is graphically represented in Figure 13.2.
Main verb and causative dejar (Figure 13.3) refer not only to a whole event
but also what immediately precedes it, as in dejar entrar ‘to let [someone]
enter’ or dejarse el bolso ‘to forget one’s purse’.
Figure 13.1 Reference frame of hacer
296 Causative hacer and dejar
However, the implications connected with causative dejar are more complex.
The semantics of this verb can also imply an event or state that already
exists, as in (13.9a), (13.11a) or (13.13a). This is graphically represented in
Figure 13.4, where the arrow indicates the point of reference of causative
dejar and the oval encompasses the event or state that is implied.
In small clauses, causative dejar implies the existence of an entire event or
state the result of which is referred to by the dejarsmall clause complex.
This is shown graphically in Figure 13.5.
The present study offers a deeper understanding of the different semantic
implications that causative constructions with dejar ‘let’ and hacer ‘make’
have in Spanish. Since most of the discussion of Spanish causatives has been
centred around hacer, this study is a significant contribution to the current
knowledge about the semantics of dejar as a causative verb and about its con-
trast with the default causative hacer. A logical extension of the present study
would be to examine in depth examples involving causative dejar and hacer
with inanimate subjects. In addition, a similar analysis can be done for other
Romance languages which have causative verbs comparable to Spanish
hacer and dejar, such as French faire and laisser and Italian fare and lasciare.
We may find that the causative verbs of these languages have the same or
similar semantic implications as Spanish hacer and dejar.
Figure 13.2 Reference frame for causative hacer with activities
Figure 13.3 Reference frame for main verb and causative dejar
Carmen Ruiz-Sánchez 297
Notes
1 Hernanz (1982: 272–3) distinguishes three meanings of dejar: permitir ‘to allow’,
no impedir ‘not impede’ and causar deliberadamente ‘cause deliberately’. He con-
siders dejar a causative verb only when it cannot be exchanged by the other two
or some other synonymous expressions. This third use of dejar as a causative is
only exemplified in Lo dejé caer con todas mis fuerzas ‘I threw it with all my
strength’.
2 For present purposes of accounting for the causative meaning of dejar, meanings of
the verb with non-animate subjects were not included. Thus, we will not discuss
uses of dejar with inanimate source or instrument subjects, while acknowledging
that such a study would be highly interesting. As is apparent from the examples
below, causative hacer and dejar with inanimate subjects have different syntactic
behaviours that interact with negation, which would be a promising topic for
future research.
(i) a. El jarrón de la mesa no me deja ver la tele.
‘The table vase doesn’t let me see the television.’
b. *El jarrón de la mesa no me hace ver la tele.
‘The table vase doesn’t make me see the television.’
c. *?El jarrón de la mesa me deja ver la tele.
‘The table vase lets me see the television.’
d. *El jarrón de la mesa me hace ver la tele.
‘The table vase makes me see the television.’
Figure 13.4 Implied reference frame of causative dejar in certain cases
Figure 13.5 Reference to the result of an event in small clauses with an implied event
or state
298 Causative hacer and dejar
(ii) a. El olor a huevo podrido me hace vomitar.
‘The smell of rotten egg makes me vomit.’
b. *El olor a huevo podrido me deja vomitar.
‘The smell of rotten egg lets me vomit.’
(iii) a. El ruido no me deja dormir.
‘The noise doesn’t let me sleep.’
b. *?El ruido me deja dormir.
‘The noise lets me sleep.’
c. *El ruido no me hace dormir.
‘The noise doesn’t make me sleep.’
d. ?El ruido me hace dormir.
‘The noise makes me sleep.’
3 The examples analysed in this chapter are formulated by the author. They are
all well-contextualized in an attempt to show that they are authentic and likely
to appear in those situations. However, the analysis of a corpus of spoken
Spanish would have contributed to yield a more authentic picture of causative
constructions.
4 An interrogation mark together with an asterisk (*?) is used to express that the
sentence could be regarded as grammatical and be given an interpretation, but
that it would not be the natural one in the context in question. Three interroga-
tion marks on a sentence indicate that we cannot know whether the sentence
is well- or ill-formed, as the context does not provide enough information to
determine that.
5 For further information about the criteria for these verb categories, see Vendler
(1967), which is the main source for our classification of the infinitives and its
arguments, Comrie (1976) and Yoon (2001).
6 See Yoon (2001) for a semantic-functional study of small clauses in Spanish.
7 Yoon (2001) considers the sentence (31) Juan hizo más educado a su hijo an example
of the use of the causative verb hacer with an SLP, but I question the grammaticality
of a sentence like this.
8 Encantado ‘charmed, pleased, enchanted’ has not been included because it is not
the past participle of a reflexive verb, the infinitive being encantar ‘charm, please,
enchant’ and not encantarse.
References
Aranda, A. (1990) La expresión de la causatividad en español actual. Zaragoza: Libros Pórticos.
Cano Aguilar, R. (1977) ‘Las construcciones causativas en español’, Boletín de la Real
Academia Española, vol. 67, pp. 221–58, 323–51.
Clements, J. C. (1988) ‘The Semantics and Pragmatics of the Spanish
	COPULA  ADJECTIVE Construction’, Linguistics, vol. 5, pp. 779–817.
Comrie, B. (1976) Aspect. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Curnow, T. J. (1994) ‘Semantics of Spanish Causatives Involving “hacer” ’, Australian
Journal of Linguistics, vol. 13, pp. 165–84.
Hernanz Carbo, M. L. (1982) El infinitivo en español. Bellaterra: Universidad Autónoma
de Barcelona, Departamento de Filología Hispánica.
Hopper, P. J. and S. A. Thompson (1980) ‘Transitivity in Grammar and Discourse’,
Language, vol. 56, pp. 251–99.
Carmen Ruiz-Sánchez 299
Shibatani, M. (1976) ‘The Grammar of Causative Constructions: A Conspectus’, in
M. Shibatani (ed.), The Grammar of Causative Constructions. New York: Academic
Press, pp. 1–40.
Tesnière, L. (1959) Eleménts de syntaxe structurale. Paris: Klincksieck, pp. 260–82.
Vendler, Z. (1967) Linguistics in Philosophy. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press.
Yoon, J. (2001) ‘Small Clauses in Spanish: A Semantic-Functional Approach’, Indiana
University dissertation. Bloomington, IN.
This page intentionally left blank
301
acquisition of language,
lexicon/grammar and 1–2
adjectives
copula choice in predicate adjective
construction 161–2, 197–9;
animate referent 174–83;
directionality of underlying
processes and events according
to the animacy of the referent
171–4; inanimate referent
183–92; individual-level and
stage-level predicates 166–8; role
of subject referent and adjective
165–92; second-order entity as
subject referent 192–7; semantic
characterization of
ser and estar 162–5; state types
and time stability 168–71
position 203, 215–16; adjectives with
professions 220–2; noun
semantics and 219–20, 230–1;
studies 208–14, 222–30; word
length 203–8
adjunct position, semantic constraints
on small clauses in 265–7, 274–5
definiteness of objects 270–1
stage-level predicates/verbs v.
individual-level predicates/
verbs 267–70
transitivity hypothesis and adjunct
predicates 271–4
affectedness of object 91–3
agency in a subject 9, 10–19
gustar-type verbs 88–91
two-argument constructions with
postverbal subject 14–19
unaccusative constructions 10–14
Anacoluthon 35
antipassive constructions 246–8
aspect, se as aspectual marker 251–6
Austronesian languages, ergative-
absolutive marking in 116
case grammar 93
causative hacer and dejar 278, 295–6
contexts contrasting 282–7
general characterization 287–9
semantic aspects of non-causative
hacer/dejar 279–81
similarities with ser/estar 287–95
small clauses 289–92; animate
objects 290–1; inanimate
objects 291–2
terminology of study 278–9
cohesion in discourse, discourse-
pragmatic viewpoint and 27–8
contrast, subject position and 38–9
copular verbs (ser/estar)
causative hacer and dejar compared
with 287–95
choice in predicate adjective
construction 161–2, 197–9;
animate referent 174–83;
directionality of underlying
processes and events according to
the animacy of the referent
171–4; inanimate referent
183–92; individual-level and
stage-level predicates 166–8; role
of subject referent and adjective
165–92; second-order entity as
subject referent 192–7; semantic
characterization of ser and estar
162–5; state types and time
stability 168–71
dative
alternation 207
possessive 151–8
subjects of gustar-type verbs 93–7
definiteness 10–11, 19–23
non-anaphoric se co-varying with
256–8
null pronominalization and 135,
139–47
semantic constraints on small clauses
in adjunct positions and 270–1
dependency grammar 82
discourse-pragmatic viewpoint
subject order relative to verb 120
Index
discourse-pragmatic viewpoint –
continued
word order in Spanish and 23–46;
discourse cohesion 27–8;
emphasis 28–9; focus and
subject position 38–46;
old/given information 25–7;
thematic structure of Spanish
29–38, 47; theme and other
discourse-pragmatic functions
24–9, 46
distance, functional approaches to noun
referentiality and 56–7, 62–4
emphasis, discourse-pragmatic
viewpoint and 28–9
ergative-absolutive marking 116,
124–8, 129–30
estar see copular verbs
extraposition 37
focus subject position and 38–46
functional approaches
functional sentence perspective 25
noun referentiality 55–8, 74–5;
discussion 64–74;
distance/recency approach 56–7,
62–4; episodic approach 57–8,
62–4; nominal devices for new
and old referrals 60–2; results of
study 58–60; study 58–60
generative grammar 94, 95, 119
gustar-type verbs 80–1, 108–9
dative subjects 93–7
direct construction v. inverse
construction 97–101
indirect object v. direct object 101–8
Transitivity Hypothesis and 81–93;
affectedness and individuation of
object 91–3; kinesis, aspect and
punctuality 86–8; participants of
the verb 82–6; volition and
agency 88–91
hanging-topic construction 33, 36–7
heavy noun phrase shift 207
impersonal constructions 248–9
inalienable possession, transitivity and
151–8
individuation of object 91–3
intransitivity 3, 9
left-dislocation 33, 37–8
locative verbs 15, 16–17
negation, double 9
noun phrases 53–4
adjective placement and
noun semantics 219–20,
230–1; adjectives with
professions 220–2;
study 222–30
functional approaches in the study
of noun referentiality 55–8,
74–5; discussion 64–74;
distance/recency approach
56–7, 62–4; episodic approach
57–8, 62–4; nominal devices
for new and old referrals 60–2;
results of study 58–60;
study 58–60
heay noun phrase shift 207
Spanish syntax and 2
switch reference 55–6
null pronominalization 4, 53, 54,
134–6, 148–9
definiteness and 135, 139–47
marking the partitive 136–9
topicalization and 147–8
Transitivity Hypothesis and 135,
139–47
object(s) 115, 129–30
affectedness 91–3
definiteness, semantic constraints on
small clauses in adjunct positions
and 270–1
doubling 127–8, 147–8
evidence of nominative-accusative or
ergative-absolutive marking in
rule applications 127–8
indirect object v. direct object
101–8
individuation 91–3
null 4, 53, 54, 134–6, 148–9;
definiteness and 135, 139–47;
marking the partitive 136–9;
topicalization and 147–8;
Transitivity Hypothesis and 135,
139–47
302 Index
Index 303
object(s) – continued
primary–secondary object marking in
mono- and di-transitive clauses
122–6; ergative–absolute marking
patterns in pronominal system
124–6; full NP objects 123–4
split nominative–accusative v.
ergative–absolutive marking 116
old/given information, discourse-
pragmatic viewpoint and 25–7
partitive 135, 136–9
passive clauses 85
evidence of nominative-accusative or
ergative-absolutive marking in
rule applications 127
possession
dative possessive 151–8
inalienable, transitivity and
151–8
Prague School 25
predicate adjective construction, copula
choice in 161–2, 197–9
animate referent 174–83
directionality of underlying processes
and events according to the
animacy of the referent 171–4
inanimate referent 183–92
individual-level and stage-level
predicates 166–8
role of subject referent and adjective
165–92
second-order entity as subject referent
192–7
semantic characterization of ser and
estar 162–5
state types and time stability
168–71
professions, adjectives with 220–2
pronouns 4, 53
ergative–absolute marking patterns in
pronomial system 124–6
functional approaches in the study of
noun referentiality 55–8, 74–5;
discussion 64–74;
distance/recency approach 56–7,
62–4; episodic approach 57–8,
62–4; nominal devices for
new and old referrals 60–2;
results of study 58–60;
study 58–60
null pronominalization 4, 53, 54,
134–6, 148–9; definiteness and
135, 139–47; marking the
partitive 136–9; topicalization
and 147–8; Transitivity
Hypothesis and 135, 139–47
reduplication 32
switch reference 55–6
transitivity and non-anaphoric se
236–40, 241, 258–9; decreasing
transitivity 242–50; impersonal
se 248–9; increasing transitivity
250–8; se as aspectual marker
251–6; se as valency-reducer
242–8; se co-varying with
definiteness/referentiality
256–8
psychological reaction verbs 15, 17,
80–1, 96
see also gustar-type verbs
recency, functional approaches to noun
referentiality and 56–7, 62–4
reflexive pronouns 236–7
non-anaphoric se 236–40, 241,
258–9; decreasing transitivity
242–50; impersonal se 248–9;
increasing transitivity 250–8;
se as aspectual marker 251–6;
se as valency-reducer 242–8;
se co-varying with
definiteness/referentiality
256–8
relational grammar 93, 95
relativization 85
semantics-based approaches to
syntax 1
adjective placement and 219–20,
230–1; adjectives with professions
220–2; study 222–30
causative hacer and dejar 278, 295–6;
contexts contrasting 282–7;
general characterization 287–9;
semantic aspects of non-causative
hacer/dejar 279–81; similarities
with ser/estar 287–95; small
clauses 289–92; terminology of
study 278–9
semantic characterization of ser and
estar 162–5
semantics-based approaches to
syntax – continued
semantic constraints on small clauses
in adjunct position 265–7,
274–5; definiteness of objects
270–1; stage-level predicates/verbs
v. individual-level predicates/verbs
267–70; transitivity hypothesis
and adjunct predicates 271–4
Spanish word order 9–10, 46; agency
in a subject 9, 10–19, 46;
definiteness of subject 10–11,
19–23, 46; discourse-pragmatic
viewpoint 23–46
ser see copular verbs
small clauses
causative hacer and dejar in 289–92;
animate objects 290–1;
inanimate objects 291–2
semantic constraints on small clauses
in adjunct position 265–7,
274–5; definiteness of objects
270–1; stage-level predicates/verbs
v. individual-level predicates/verbs
267–70; transitivity hypothesis
and adjunct predicates 271–4
stage-level restrictions on verbs 268–70
subject(s)
agency in 9, 10–19; gustar-type verbs
88–91
dative subjects of gustar-type verbs
93–7
definiteness of 10–11, 19–23
focus and subject position 38–46
functional approaches in the study of
noun referentiality 55–8, 74–5;
discussion 64–74;
distance/recency approach 56–7,
62–4; episodic approach 57–8,
62–4; nominal devices for new
and old referrals 60–2; results of
study 58–60; study 58–60
ordor relative to verb 116–22
role of subject referent and adjective
in ‘copula  adjective’
construction 165–92; animate
referent 174–83; directionality of
underlying processes and events
according to the animacy of the
referent 171–4; inanimate
referent 183–92; individual-level
and stage-level predicates 166–8;
second-order entity as subject
referent 192–7; state types and
time stability 168–71
subject reference in Spanish 53–4
switch reference 55–6
syntax 1
Spanish see word order in Spanish
themes
discourse-pragmatic functions
24–9, 46
thematic hierarchies 21
thematic structure of Spanish
29–38, 47
Topic Continuity Theory 84
topicality hierarchies 21
topicalization 36
null pronominalization and 147–8
transitivity 240–2
cardinal 140
inalienable possession and 151–8
non-anaphoric se and 236–40, 241,
258–9; decreasing transitivity
242–50; impersonal se 248–9;
increasing transitivity 250–8; se
as aspectual marker 251–6; se as
valency-reducer 242–8;
se co-varying with definiteness/
referentiality 256–8
overt v. null pronominalization
and 4
Transitivity Hypothesis 2–4
adjunct predicates and 271–4
gustar-type verbs 81–93, 104, 108;
affectedness and individuation of
object 91–3; kinesis, aspect and
punctuality 86–8; participants of
the verb 82–6; volition and
agency 88–91
inalienable possession and 153,
157, 158
null pronominalization and 135,
139–47
unaccusative constructions 10–14, 246
definiteness of subject(s) and 20
Unaccusativity Hypothesis 9, 11, 14,
46; two-argument constructions
with postverbal subject 14–19
urgency 35
304 Index
Index 305
valency grammar 82
verbs
causative hacer and dejar 278, 295–6;
contexts contrasting 282–7;
general characterization 287–9;
semantic aspects of non-causative
hacer/dejar 279–81; similarities
with ser/estar 287–95; small
clauses 289–92; terminology of
study 278–9
gustar-type 80–1, 108–9; dative
subjects 93–7; direct
construction v. inverse
construction 97–101; indirect
object v. direct object 101–8;
Transitivity Hypothesis and
81–93
order relative to subject 116–22
se as aspectual marker 251–6
semantic constraints on small clauses
in adjunct position 265–7,
274–5; definiteness of objects
270–1; stage-level predicates/verbs
v. individual-level predicates/verbs
267–70; transitivity hypothesis
and adjunct predicates 271–4
Spanish syntax and 2
stage-level restrictions 268–70
syntactic propitious and meaning 1
unaccusative constructions 10–14
see also copular verbs; intransitivity;
transitivity
volition, gustar-type verbs 88–91
word length, adjective position and
203–8
word order in Spanish 2, 7–9, 46
adjective position 203, 215–16;
adjectives with professions
220–2; noun semantics and
219–20, 230–1; Studies 208–14,
222–30; word length 203–8
semantic factors 9–10, 46; agency in
a subject 9, 10–19, 46; discourse-
pragmatic viewpoint 23–46
subject order relative to verb 116–22
transitivity and inalienable possession
151–8
