Noun phrases 19
(61) a. I saw a man and a woman there
b. I saw the man and the woman there
c. ?I saw the man and a woman there
d. ?I saw a man and the woman there
The pragmatic and cognitive diﬃculties involved in processing clauses such as (61c,d) may
be understood in terms of the grammar of deﬁniteness and reference (Vol.I, Ch.10):
•By conjoining two NPs at the subject, object or oblique role in a single clause, one
intends the clause to code a single event, within which those NPs participated together
in the same capacity.
•One thus expects the two NPs to be of relatively equal status, in terms of topicality,
thematic importance or cognitive accessibility.
•But conjoining an indeﬁnite with deﬁnite would create a confusion in precisely those
terms, and would confound the anaphoric and/or cataphoric grounding of the dispa-
rate referents.
As in the case of case-roles, ﬁner gradation of event uniﬁcation in NP conjunction may be
signalled in English by the use of single vs. multiple articles:
(62) a. Did you wash the pots and pans?
b. Did you wash the pots and the pans?
c. I bought some bread and butter.
d. I bought some bread and some butter.
But when the two conjuncts are semantically dissimilar, the use of two separate articles is
preferred over a unifying one. Thus compare:
(63) a. Did you feed the kids and the horses?
b. ?Did you feed the kids and horses?
c. Did you wash the porch and the dog?
d. ?Did you wash the porch and dog?
In Hebrew, the option of using a single article in a conjoined NP is impossible, perhaps due
to the fact that a bare noun can be interpreted as a non-topical or non-referring indeﬁnite.
Thus compare:
(64) a. hu kana et-ha-basar ve-ha-yerakot
he bought acc-the-meat and-the-vegetables
‘he bought the meat and (the) vegetables’
b. ?hu kana et-ha-basar ve-yerakot
he bought acc-the-meat and-vegetables
Both number and class/gender create special grammatical problems in NP conjunction,
most strikingly in pronominal agreement. In the case of number, a seemingly universal
convention treats the conjoined NP as plural (or dual):
20 Syntax
(65) a. John is married
b. Mary is married
c. John and Mary are married
In the case of class/gender, language-speciﬁc rules of gender resolution are often required
when the two conjuncts are of diﬀerent genders. Consider ﬁrst a two-gender language,
such as Hebrew. The masculine/feminine conﬂict in NP conjunction is resolved, rather
predictably, in favor of the socially-dominant masculine:
(66) a. ha-yelad-im oxl-im
the-boy-masc.pl eat-masc.pl
‘The boys eat’
b. ha-yelad-ot oxl-ot
the-girl-fem.pl eat-fem.pl
‘The girls eat’
c. ha-yeled ve-ha-yald-a oxl-im
the-boy/masc.sg and-the-girl-fem.sg eat-masc.pl
‘The boy and the girl eat’
d. *ha-yeled ve-ha-yald-a oxl-ot
the-boy/masc.sg and-the-girl-fem.sg eat-ot
In Bantu languages, with a more extensive class/gender system, conﬂict resolution
strategies are considerably more complex. In Luganda, if non-human nouns of varying
genders are conjoined as objects, or as subjects of the passive, the conﬂict is neutralized
into the non-human gender 9/10 (Givón 1970):
(67) a. ente zy-a-labwa (class 9/10 Pl)
cow(s) they-past-seen
‘The cows were seen’
b. ebibe by-a-labwa (class 7/8 Pl)
cats they-past-seen
‘The wild-cats were seen’
c. amaato ya-a-labwa (class 5/6 Pl)
canoes they-past-seen
‘The canoes were seen’
d. ente, ekibe ne elyato zy-a-labwa (class 9/10 Pl)
cow cat and canoe they-past-seen
‘The cow, the wild-cat and the canoe were seen’
When humans of diﬀerent genders are conjoined, the conﬂict resolves into the human
gender (1/2):
(68) a. abakazi ba-a-labwa (class 1/2 Pl)
women they-past-seen
‘The women were seen’
Noun phrases 21
b. amasajja ya-a-labwa (class 5/6 Pl)
fat.men they-past-seen
‘The fat men were seen’
c. inyana zy-a-labwa (class 11/10 Pl)
thin.children they-past-seen
‘The thin children were seen’
d. omukazi, essajja no oluana ba-a-labwa (class 1/2 Pl)
woman fat.man and thin.child they-past-seen
‘The woman, the fat man and the thin child were seen’
The conjunction of human with non-human subjects is considered either ungrammatical
or infelicitous in most Bantu languages. In Luganda, neutralizing the conﬂict into gender
9/10 is somewhat more acceptable than into the human gender 1/2. But the preferred
strategy is still to not conjoin, but rather to mark the non-human NP as an associative
object:
(69) a. ?omusajja ne embwa bi-a-labwa (9/10 Pl)
man and dog they-past-seen
b. *omusajja ne embwa ba-a-labwa (1/2 Pl)
man and dog they-past-seen
c. omusajja y-a-labwa ne embwa (Sg + Assoc)
man he-past-seen with dog
‘The man was seen with the dog’
On the face of it, one could also conjoin a human with a non-human object in Luganda.
However, the same restrictions on object pronominal agreement emerge:
(70) a. omukazi y-a-laba omusajja ne embwa
woman she-past-see man and dog
‘The woman saw the man and/with the dog’
b. ?omusajja ne embwa, omukazi y-a-bi-laba (9/10 Pl)
man and dog woman she-past-them-see
‘The man and the dog, the woman saw them’
c. *omusajja ne embwa, omukazi y-a-ba-laba (1/2 Pl)
man and dog woman she-past-them-see
d. omusajja, omukazi y-a-mu-laba ne embwa (Sg + Assoc)
man woman she-past-him-see with dog
‘The man, the woman saw him with the dog’
One may view restrictions on the conjunction of disparate-gender NPs as an extension of
the restrictions on case-role and deﬁniteness. But one may also view them as a device for
insuring that entities that don’t have the same capacity to perform jointly the same role in
an event cannot be conjoined as arguments of a predicate that is semantically compatible
with one — say the human/agent — but not the other. These two explanations may reﬂect
a single principle:
22 Syntax
(71) The joint participation principle
In order for two participants to perform jointly the same function in a single
event, they must have substantially the same inherent capacity to perform their
joint task.
Principle (71) is, of course, consonant with the idea that NP conjunction codes a single
event, albeit with two or more co-participants. A more formal expression of principle (71)
may be couched as the following constraint:
(72) The relational consolidation constraint
In NP conjunction, it is the higher NP node, rather than its subordinate con-
juncts, that bears all semantic, pragmatic and syntactic relations to the predicate.
11.6.4 Group nouns and their agreement
Another set of facts that reﬂects on the degree of event uniﬁcation in clauses with con-
joined NPs involves the verb-agreement of group nouns, such as ‘team’, ‘crowd’,
‘audience’, ‘group’ etc. To illustrate their behavior, consider:
(73) a. Sally and Joe are a good team.
b. Sally and Joe is the winning team.
c. Peter, Paul and Mary are trying to get back together.
d. ‘Peter Paul and Mary’ is a folk group.
e. The majority is against it. (The election speaks for itself).
f. The majority are against it. (They asked each one for their reaction).
g. The team is winning.
h. The team are bickering among themselves.
i. The crowd was in an ugly mood.
j. The crowd were all running in diﬀerent directions.
The distinction made here is between group events viewed as uniﬁed joint actions, and
group events viewed as a collection of separate individual actions. Rather iconically, the
uniﬁed group perspective on the event is coded by a singular verb agreement, the multiple
individual perspective by plural agreement.
11.6.5 Placement of the conjunction morpheme
So far we have seen only NP conjunctions where the conjunction-marking morpheme was
placed between the two conjoined NPs, thus perhaps preﬁxed to the second conjunct, a
pattern found most often in VO languages. But the conjunctive particle may be also
suﬃxed to the second NP, a pattern most often found in OV languages. The ontology of
these two patterns most likely derives from two factors:
•Conjunctive morphemes most commonly arise out of the associative or instrumental
case-marker ‘with’.
•Case-markers tend to be preﬁxal in VO languages and suﬃxal in OV languages.
Noun phrases 23
The Luganda data in (70) above illustrate the VO pattern. The OV pattern may be
illustrated with Walapai (Yuman; J. Payne 1985, following Redden 1966):
(74) a. na-ch nikwai-ch-a avon-a-m tao-k-wil
I-nom clothes-pl-def soap-def-with wash-I-asp
‘I washed the clothes with the soap’
b. hato-au-ach hman-m hwak tiatavm yu-ch-ak-yu
puppy-def-nom boy-and two happy be-pl-3-prog
‘The puppy and the boy are very happy’
b. Walpaikwauk haikukwauk-m iche
Walapai English-and we-speak
‘We speak English and/with Walapai’
A third pattern is to attach the conjoining particle to both conjoined noun. In most
languages showing this pattern, it is used in special, more marked contexts to emphasize
the separateness of the conjoined NPs, thus of the states or events that logically underlie the
uniﬁed clause:
(75) a. Either John or Mary or Paul will come.
b. Neither John nor Mary nor Paul will come.
c. Both Mary and John will come.
The three coordinated NPs in (75a) are in fact disjoined, thus precluding the sense of a
single event that is usually associated with NP conjunction. In (75b), the coordination is
both disjoined and negative/emphatic, again precluding the sense of a single event. Finally,
in (75c) the individuality — thus separateness — of the conjoined participants is empha-
sized, an eﬀect further illustrated in the contrast:
(76) a. He is coming for two or three weeks.
b. He is coming for either two or three weeks.
In (76a) ‘two or three’ tends to form a unit. In (76b), a disjunctive choice is more clearly
emphasized.
A similar use may be seen in adjectival conjunction in Russian, when one wishes to
emphasize the temporal separateness of the diﬀerent states (J. Payne 1985, following
Svedova 1970):
(77) Ja znal ego to veselym to grustnym to zadumchivym
I knew him c happy c sad c thoughtful
‘I knew him (alternately, when) happy, sad and thoughtful’
In Turkish, several variants of such disjoint coordination are possible (J. Payne 1985,
following Lewis 1967):
(78) a. ben-de sen-de kardeshin-de
I-c you-c brother.your-c
‘both I and you and your brother’
24 Syntax
b. hem ziyaret hem ticaret
c pilgrimage c trade
‘both pilgrimage and trade’
c. ha bag, ha bahçe, ha tarla
c orchard c garden c ﬁeld
‘both orchard, garden and ﬁeld’
Finally, one must note that many languages code NP conjunction by simple juxtaposition,
with little or no use of conjunctive particles, as in Pacoh (Mon-Khmer; J. Payne 1985,
following Watson 1966):
(79) Nháng tiráp tilêt, callóh, acóq
we prepare baskets spears knives
‘We prepare baskets, spears and knives’
However, simple juxtaposition in NP conjunction — especially without pauses or
intonational separation — often yields uniﬁed group lexical items. Thus, in Chinese the
conjunct compound ‘father-mother’ stands for ‘parents’, and ‘heaven-earth’ for ‘world’.
Likewise, in the following large conjunctive compound Sanskrit (J. Payne 1985):
(80) deva-gandharva-mānus-oraga-rāksas-ān
god-heavenly.singer-man-serpent-demon-acc
‘gods, heavenly singers, men, serpents and demons’
11.7 Noun phrases derived by nominalization
11.7.1 Finiteness and nominalization
The second major source of syntactic complexity in NPs may be best characterized as the
product of nominalization. As a grammatical — rather than lexical-derivational — process,
nominalization may be deﬁned as:
(81) Nominalization as a grammatical process:
Nominalization is the process via which a ﬁnite verbal clause — either a com-
plete clause or a subject-less verb phrase — is converted into a noun phrase.
A verbal clause is nominalized most commonly when it occupies a prototypical nominal
position/function — subject, direct object, indirect object or nominal predicate — within
another clause. The syntactic complexity of NPs arising through nominalization merely
reﬂects the structure of their source verbal clause.
Within the nominalized NP, the erstwhile verb assumes the syntactic role of head noun,
while other clausal constituents — subjects, objects, verbal complements or adverbs —
assume the role of modiﬁers.
Nominalization is best described in terms of the syntactic adjustments from the ﬁnite
verbal-clause prototype to the nominal (NP) prototype (Hopper and Thompson 1984).
The major components of such adjustment are:
Noun phrases 25
(82) Nominalization as the adjustment from the prototype
ﬁnite verbal clause to the prototype noun phrase
a. verb becoming a head noun
b. verb acquiring nominalizing morphology
c. loss of tense–aspect-modal morphology
d. loss of pronominal agreement morphology
e. subject and/or object acquiring genitive case-marking
f. addition of determiners
g. conversion of adverbs into adjectives
As an illustration of the general pattern emerging out of (82), contrast the ﬁnite clause
(83a) below with its nominalized version (83b):
(83) a. Finite verbal clause
She knew mathematics well.
b. Nominalized NP
Her good knowledge of mathematics.
The syntactic structure of (83a) and (83b) is given in (84) and (85) below, respectively:
(84) Finite main clause
NP
Subj
[NP]
she
Adv
V
knew
VP
Obj
[NP]
math well
(85) Nominalized NP
NP
Det
her
Adj N PP
P NP
of math
good knowledge
Finiteness has been treated traditionally as a property of verbs, since many of its salient
features (82a–d) indeed pertain to the verb. But the rest of the features (82e–g) pertain to
other constituents of the clause. Finiteness is thus fundamentally an aggregate grammatical
feature of clauses. Its converse, non-ﬁniteness, is thus an aggregate grammatical feature of
nominals, i.e. noun phrases.
The same tradition also treats ﬁniteness as a discrete, either-or distinction. But since the
ﬁnite prototype (or its converse) is patently an aggregate of multiple features, ﬁniteness
26 Syntax
must be at least in principle a matter of degree.
At the very top of the ﬁniteness scale, one ﬁnds the unmarked prototype verbal clause
such as (83a) — main, declarative, aﬃrmative, active. At the very bottom, one ﬁnds highly
marked radically-nominalized clauses such as (83b). But many clause-types fall inbetween,
and are thus semi-marked, exhibiting intermediate degrees of ﬁniteness and nominalization
(see chs 12, 14, 18). A quick illustration of this gradation may be seen in:
(86) least ﬁnite
a. Her good knowledge of math helped
b. Her knowing math well helped
c. For her to know math so well surely…
d. She wanted to know math well
e. Having known math well since highschool, she…
f. She should have known math well
most ﬁnite
At the top of the scale, (86a) displays the maximal array of non-ﬁnite features listed in (82).
Next, (86b) is considerably more ﬁnite, with the object case-marked as object, the adverb
marked as adverb, and the verb taking a less-extreme nominalized gerund form. In (86c,d),
next, the subject is not marked as genitive and the verb is marked by the slightly more ﬁnite
inﬁnitive form. In (86e,f) the verb displays some aspectual marking (perfect). Finally in the
most ﬁnite (86f) the verb is fully marked for tense, aspect and modality.
11.7.2 Typological variation in nominalized structure
As elsewhere in grammar, the universal schema given in (82) predicts only the most
common features that can be associated with nominalized clauses. But the presence or
absence of each feature in any particular language, and thus the degree to which the
nominalized clause diﬀers from the ﬁnite verbal clause, is subject to enormous cross-
language variation. In the following space we will describe some of the main dimensions of
this typological variation.
11.7.2.1Nominalizing vs. ﬁnite languages
The broadest cross-language typological distinction in ﬁniteness is the veritable chasm
between extreme nominalizing and extreme ﬁnite languages. In the ﬁrst type, all sub-
ordinate clauses are (at least historically) nominalized. Only main clauses display fully
ﬁnite structure. In the second, no clause-type is nominalized, and thus all clause-types are
fully ﬁnite.
11.7.2.1.1Extreme nominalizing (embedding) languages. The extreme nominalizing language
type is found in a number of language families or sub-families — Tibeto-Burman (Watters
1998), Turkic, Carib (Gildea 1998), Quechuan (Weber 1996), some languages of the
Papuan Highlands, No. Uto-Aztecan. We will illustrate this type with Ute (Uto-Aztecan).
The three most conspicuous telltale signs of clause nominalization in Ute are:
Noun phrases 27
•genitive case-marking on the subject
•nominalizer suﬃx on the verb
•object case-marking of entire clauses
Compare ﬁrst the ﬁnite verbal clause (86a) with its nominalized counterpart, serving as the
subject of another clause (Givón 1980, 1993):
(87) a. Finite clause
ta’wach ’u yoghovu
=ch-i pakha-qa-’u
man/subj def/subj coyote-obj kill-perf-he/him
‘The man killed the coyote’
b. Nominalized clause
ta’wach-i ’uway yoghovu
=ch-i pakha-qa-na-y
man-gen det/gen coyote-obj kill-perf-nom-obj
ka-’áy-wa-t ’ura-’ay
neg-good-neg-nom be-imm
‘It was bad that the man killed the coyote’
(lit.: ‘The man’s killing (of) the coyote was bad’)
The nominalized clause in (87b) shows at least one conspicuous element of ﬁnite structure
— tense–aspect-modality. Indeed, many clause-types that were historically nominalized in
Ute are gradually de-marked or re-ﬁnitized precisely in this respect (Givón 1993).
The very same nominalized structure as in (87b) is also found in complements of
perception-cognition verbs:
(88) mamach ’u pucucugwa-pu
=ga
woman/subj def/subj know-rem
ta’wach-i ’uway yoghovu
=ch-i pakha-pu
=ga-na-y
man-gen det/gen coyote-obj kill-rem-nom-obj
‘The woman knew that the man (had) killed the coyote’
(lit.: ‘The woman knew the man’s killing (of) the coyote’)
And likewise in object relative clauses:
(89) yoghovu
=ch ’u [ta’wach-i ’uwáy pakha-pu
=ga-na]…
coyote/subj def/subj [man-gen det/gen kill-rem-nom]
‘the coyote that the man killed…’
(lit.: ‘The coyote of the man’s killing…’)
Complements of modality and manipulation verbs in Ute are clearly embedded, with the
complement verb marked with a nominalizer and the irrealis suﬃx:
(90) a. Finite main clause
na’acich kani pu
=nikya-pu
=gay-’u/-ax
girl/subj house/obj see-rem-she/-it
‘The girl saw the house’
28 Syntax
b. Modality-verb complement
na’acich kani pu
=nikyay-vaa-ch ’ásti’i-pu
=gay-’u
girl/subj house/obj see-irr-nom/ss want-rem-she
‘The girl wanted to see the house’
c. Manipulation-verb complement
mamach na’acich-i kani pu
=nikya-vaa-ku máy-pu
=ga
woman/subj girl-obj house/obj see-irr-nom/ds tell-rem
‘the woman told the girl to see the house’
Many adverbial subordinate clauses in Ute are also nominalized. Some of them reveal no
tense–aspect-modality marking, which is then read oﬀ the associated main clause:
(91) a. Realis ‘when’-clause
ta’wach-i ’uwa-y kani-naagh yu
=ga-khw,
man-gen def-gen house-in enter-sub
mamach ’u págh-kwa-pu
=ga
woman/subj def/subj walk-go-rem
‘When the man entered the house, the woman took oﬀ’
(lit.: ‘(upon) the man’s entering the house, …)
b. Irrealis ‘if’/‘when’
ta’wach-i ’uwa-y kani-naagh yu
=ga-khw,
man-gen def-gen house-in enter-sub
mamach ’u págh-kwa-vaa-ni
woman/subj def/subj walk-go-irr-fut
‘If the man enters the house, the woman will take oﬀ’
(lit.: ‘(upon) the man’s entering the house, …)
Subject relative clauses display their own nominalizer, the one used in subject lexical
nominalizations:
(92) a. ta’wach ’u [yoghovu
=ch-i pakha-qa-t]…
man/subj def/subj [coyote-obj kill-perf-nom/subj]
‘The man who killed the coyote…’
b. ta’wach ’u yoghobu
=-pakha-mi-t ’ura-’ay
man/subj def/subj coyote-kill-hab-nom/subj be-imm
‘the man is a coyote-killer’
One may suggest that in extreme nominalizing languages, the notion subordinate clause is
grammaticalized to the extreme. The nominalization strategy is then akin to treating sub-
ordinate clauses — by analogy — as subject or object NPs, sometime to the point of case-
marking the entire clause, as in Ute; or marking the nominalized clause with a determiner.
The latter can be seen in Chuave (Papuan Highlands). In this language, all subordinate
clause-types share the very same nominalizing marker, and can only appear in the chain-
initial slot. Only one aspectual distinction can be marked on them — sequential vs.
Noun phrases 29
simultaneous (vis-a-vis to the following main clause). However, pronominal aﬃxes can be
still marked on the nominalized verb. Thus (Thurman 1978; see further detail in Ch.18):
(93) a. Rel-clause
gan moi-n-g-u-a, Gomia tei awi d-i
child be-he-nom-him-seq Gomia there send leave-imper
‘Send the child who is here to Gomia!’
(lit.: ‘The child who is here, send (him) to Gomia!’
b. V-complement
kasu di-in-g-a, fai-ke-∆-m-a
lie say-they-nom-seq right-neg-past-it-emph
‘It’s not right that they told a lie’
(lit.: ‘That they told a lie, (it’s) not right’)
c. Adv-clause
ne iki-num moi-n-g-i, tei u-na-y-e
you house-your be-you-nom-sim there come-fut-I-declar
‘I’ll come over when you’re at home’
(lit.: ‘While you are in your house, I’ll come there’)
d. Topic clause
koma du-pun-g-a-rai, niki do-m-e
before say-we-nom-seq-that bad be/past-it-declar
‘That talk we had before, it was no good’.
11.7.2.1.2Extreme ﬁnite (non-embedding) languages. At the other end of our typological
chasm one ﬁnds languages in which all clause-types are ﬁnite, including in some languages
even lexical nominalizations. Iroquois (Mithun 1991), So. Arawak, and Athabaskan
languages are conspicuous examples of this type. But many serial-verb languages are just
as radically non-embedding (cf. Senufu, Niger-Congo; Carlson 1994). We will illustrate
this type with data from Tolowa Athabaskan.
Consider ﬁrst verb complements in Tolowa, which are all ﬁnite, with tense–aspect-
modality and pronominal aﬃxes matching the prototype ﬁnite main-clause pattern
(Bommelyn and Givón 1998):
(94) a. Main clause (Imperf)
nn-tu
=-sh-’í̧
2sg-th-1sg-observe
‘I observe you’
b. Main clause (Perf)
nn-tee-s-ii-’í̧-’
2sg-th-perf-1sg-observe-perf
‘I observed you’
30 Syntax
c. V-complement (implicative, Imperf)
nn-tu
=-sh-’í̧ xa-sh-tR-sri
2sg-thm-1sg-observe incep-1sg-l-do
‘I begin to observe you’
(lit. ‘I begin-do I observe you’)
d. V-complement (implicatie, Perf)
nn-tee-s-ii-’í̧-’ xaa-gh-íi-R-sri̧
2sg-th-perf-1sg-observe-perf incep-perf-1sg-l-make/perf
‘I began to observe you’)
(lit.: ‘I began-did I observed you’)
e. V-complement (non-implicative, Imperf)
nn-tu
=-sh-’í̧ ’-uu-sh-tR-te
2sg-thm-1sg-observe thm-des-1sg-l-want
‘I want to observe you’
(lit.: ‘I want I observe you’)
f. V-complement (non-implicative, Perf-Imperf)
nn-tu
=-sh-’í̧ ’aa-w-íi-l-te
2sg-thm-1sg-observe thm-des/perf-1sg-l-want
‘I wanted to observe you (but maybe didn’t)’
(lit.: ‘I wanted I observe you’)
g. V-complement (non-implicative, Perf-Perf)
nn-tee-s-ii-’í̧-’ ’aa-w-íi-R-te
2sg-th-perf-1sg-observe-perf th-des/perf-1sg-l-want
‘I wanted to observe you (and did)’
(lit.: ‘I wanted I observed you’)
While some restrictions constrain the distribution of aspectual-modal combinations in
(94),6
complement clauses display the very same ﬁnite structure as main clauses.
Relative clauses in Tolowa are just as ﬁnite, involving no subordinating morpheme but
mere juxtaposition (Valenzuela 1996; L. Bommelyn, i.p.c.):
(95) a. Main clause
tr’a̧a̧xe ∆-s-ii-ts’u
=ms
woman 3sg-perf-1sg-kiss
‘I kissed the woman’
b. Main clause
tr’a̧a̧xe te-s-∆-ch’a
woman th-perf-3sg-leave
‘The woman left’
c. Rel-clause
tr’a̧a̧xe [Ø-s-ii-ts’u
=ms] te-s-ch’a
woman [3sg-perf-1sg-kiss] th-perf-leave
‘The woman I kissed left’
Noun phrases 31
d. Main clause
Tr’a̧a̧xe ch’u
=sne yu
=-s-∆-ts’u
=ms
woman man tr-perf-3sg-kiss
‘The woman kissed the man’
e. Rel-clause
Ch’u
=sne [Tr’a̧a̧xe yu
=-s-∆-ts’u
=ms] te-s-ch’a
man [woman tr-perf-3sg-kiss] th-perf-away
‘The man the woman kissed left’
Adverbial clauses are just a ﬁnite, and often the adverbial subordinator itself is historically
a ﬁnite serial-verbal construction (Hennesy 1996; L. Bommelyn i.p.c.):
(96) daach’u
=stRna-’u
=n’ naa-s-ee-ya ch’a̧a̧-[n]-t’a’
store-to mov-perf-1sg-go away-rev-ﬂy/perf
‘After I went to the store,
(lit.: ‘Flying away from having gone to the store
na̧a̧-[n]-nu
=-sh-ch’a
mov-rev-perf-1sg-go.away
I came back (home)’
The extreme ﬁniteness of Tolowa syntax is most conspicuously attested in the fact that even
lexical nominalizations display full ﬁnite structure. Only in some agent nominalizations
does one ﬁnd an optional nominalizing suﬃx; and if the verb is transitive, the old
antipassive (‘impersonal object’) preﬁx is used, as in (Givón and Bommelyn 2000):
(97) a. ch’-u-R-ch’ak-ne
ap-con-l-pinch-nom
‘hawk’ (‘he pinches things’)
b. k’waa̧’n’-ch’-uu-le’
on-ap-con-stick
‘mosquito’ (‘he sticks something on’)
Conversely, in object/patient nominalization, the old passive (‘impersonal subject’) D-
preﬁx is used:
(98) a. tu
=-d-k’u
=sh
th-d-pull
‘bow’ (‘one pulls it’)
b. ye’-na-y-d-tr’u
=sh
under-mov-tr-d-wear
‘underwear’ (‘one wears it under’)
c. tu
=-d-R-xu
=t
th-d-l-gulp
‘water’ (‘one gulps it’)
32 Syntax
And in oblique nominalizations of three-argument verbs, both the old passive and
antipassive preﬁxes are used:
(99) a. mu
=R-ch’u
=-d-R-ts’a’s
with-ap-d-l-whip
‘whip’ (‘one whips things with it’)
b. mi̧’-ch’u
=-ghu
=-d-R-t’e’sr
in-ap-perf-d-l-write
‘book’ (‘one wrote things in it’)
c. k’wu
=t-gee-na-’-d-’a
on-up-mov-ap-d-say
‘altar’ (‘one says things (prayers) on it’)
11.7.2.2Case-marking in nominalized clause
As noted earlier (82e), one of the most ubiquitous marks of nominalization is the adjust-
ment in case-marking — indeed, in grammatical relations — of the major nominal
participants, from subject or object in the ﬁnite verbal clause to genitive (‘possessor’) in the
nominalized NP. As in other GR-changing processes (see chs 13, 14), such an adjustment
is bound to create problems in reconstructing the case-roles of the main participants in the
event. The typological variation in the way languages handle clausal nominalization may
be viewed as diﬀerent solutions to this recoverability problem.
11.7.2.2.1The double-genitive strategy (English). Consider the following examples of various
nominalized clauses in English:
(100) a. The enemy’s destruction of the city
b. The destruction of the city
c. This destruction of the city
d. The city’s destruction
e. The city’s growth
f. The growth of the city
When the verb is transitive and both its subject and object are overtly expressed (100a), the
subject claims the pre-nominal (‘Anglo-Saxon’) genitive determiner position, the object the
post-nominal (‘Norman’) genitive position. Participant roles are thus diﬀerentiated well by
both morphology and word-order.
When the transitive subject is left unexpressed but is anaphorically accessible, the
nominalization requires another determiner — a deﬁnite article (100b), a demonstrative
(100c), or the object itself in the pre-nominal genitive determiner position (100d).
When the verb is intransitive, the subject may occupy either one of the genitive
positions (100e,f). And if it occupies the post-nominal genitive slot, again another
determiner must be used (100f).
The patterns in (100b–d), with the transitive subject missing, may be augmented by
overtly expressing the subject as agent-of-passive, as in:
Noun phrases 33
(101) a. The destruction of the city by the enemy
b. The city’s destruction by the enemy
Next, English also has a more ﬁnite nominalization pattern, in which the verb takes one of
two participial forms, imperfective or perfect. In this pattern, only the subject can assume
the genitive determiner role. The object retains its ﬁnite-clause accusative form:
(102) Transitive
a. His destroying the city like that (is a shock)
b. Her leaving him (was unexpected)
c. Her having left him (created quite a sensation)
Intransitive
d. Their growing old together (was no surprise)
Pattern (102) is less disruptive in terms of case-role confusion, potentially aﬀecting only
the subject.
Finally, English also has another, more ﬁnite pattern, with the verb marked with the
inﬁnitive to-. In this pattern, the subject cannot be marked as genitive any more, but either
takes the object form with the prepositional combination for…to, or is an anaphoric zero:
(103) Transitive
a. for him to destroy the city like this…
b. to destroy the city like this…
Intransitive
c. for them to grow old together…
d. to grow old together…
11.7.2.2.2The single-genitive strategy (Biblical Hebrew). Many languages have only one
genitive slot in the NP. In such languages, the tendency is for the subject to lay ﬁrst claim
to the genitive role in nominalized NPs. An echo of this tendency may be already seen in
English, in the sense that if only one genitive is used in a nominalized transitive clause with
an overt subject, the subject lays ﬁrst claim to it:
(104) a. His killing Joe was a shock
b. *He killing of Joe was a shock
c. *He Joe’s killing was a shock
d. *His Joe’s killing was a shock
e. Joe’s killing was a shock
In a language with a single genitive slot, the subject’s prior claim on the genitive case is
absolute. As an illustration, consider Biblical Hebrew:
(105) a. b-yom ’asot Yhwh ’elohim ’erets v-shamayim
on-day-of making-of YHWH God land and-sky
‘on the day when God made earth and heaven’
(lit.: ‘on the day of God’s creating earth and heaven’)
(Gen. 2:4)
34 Syntax
b. ki b-yom ’axol-xa mimen-o mot ta-mut
conj on-day/of eating-your from-it death you/irr-die
‘for on the day when you ate from it, you’ll die’
(lit.: ‘for on the day of your eating from it, you’ll die’)
(Gen. 2:17)
c. l-bilti hofx-i ’et-ha-’ir
to-neg turning/of-my acc-the-city
‘so that I will not devastate the city’
(lit.: ‘to forego my devastating the city’)
(Gen. 19:21)
d. ’ad-shuv-xa ’el-ha-’adama
till-return/of-your to-the-soil
‘until you return to the soil’
(lit.: ‘until your return to the soil’)
(Gen. 3:19)
The constraint that bars non-subjects from occupying the genitive position in nominalized
transitive clauses is so strong in Biblical Hebrew, that when the subject is left unexpressed,
the clause must be rendered in the passive voice, with the patient now being the subject and
claiming the genitive role:
(106) a. b-hib-bar’-am
in-pass-creation/of-their
‘when they were created’
(lit.: ‘on their being created’)
(Gen. 2:4)
b. b-him-mol-o bsar ’orlat-o
on-pass-circumcision/of-his ﬂesh/of foreskin-his
‘when his foreskin was circumcised’
(lit.: ‘on his foreskin’s being circumcised’)
(Gen. 17:18)
11.7.3 Nominalization and indirect objects
As Comrie and Thompson (1985) note, indirect objects universally retain their original
ﬁnite-clause case-marking in nominalization:
(107) a. His objection to the proposal
b. Her departure from the university
c. The sending of aid to Ethiopia
d. Their success through intimidation
e. The trapping of coyotes with metal traps
When a non-patient is promoted to direct object, it cannot partake in any type of nominal-
izations as a post-nominal genitive. Thus compare:
Noun phrases 35
(108) a. The giving of money to charity is encouraged
b. Giving money to charity is encouraged
c. *The giving of charity money is encouraged
d. Giving charities money is encouraged
e. The showing of exhibits to special customers was common
f. Showing exhibits to special customers is common
g. *The showing of special customers exhibits is common
h. Showing special customers exhibits is common
One may interpret this restriction as an attempt to recruit the genitive case in the nominal-
ized clause to code, as much as possible, the underlying semantic case-role of patient,
rather than the grammatical/pragmatic case-role of direct-object.
11.7.4 Nominalization and noun complements
So far, we have considered only nominalized clauses with nominal arguments — subject,
direct object or indirect object. Such clauses are easier to adapt to NP grammar via re-
marking the subject and/or direct object as genitive modiﬁers. But nominalization can and
often does introduce into the NP rather incongruous constituents, such as case-marked
direct and indirect objects.
When the verb to be nominalized takes a verbal (clausal) complement, that complement
is transported into the nominalized clause with little structural adjustment, becoming an
even less prototypical constituent of a noun phrase. Such constituents are sometime called
noun complements. Thus consider:
(109) a. He wanted to leave ﬁ His wanting to leave
b. He let go of the knife ﬁ His letting go of the knife
c. She made him wash the ﬂoors ﬁ Her making him wash the ﬂoor
d. She told him to shape up ﬁ Her telling him to shape up
e. She did it to save Joe ﬁ Her doing it to save Joe
f. She wished that he would come back ﬁ Her wish that he would come back
g. He discovered that she was blind ﬁ His discovery that she was blind
h. He shouted: “Watch out!” ﬁ His shouting: “Watch out!”
There is peculiar construction in English that shows a deceptive structural similarity to
noun complements such as (109f–h):
(110) a. The fact (that) she knew him didn’t surprise me
b. The idea (that) he could lose ﬁnally occurred to him
It may well be that the existence of such constructions is but another indication that an
entrenched syntactic pattern — in this case that of nominalizations with noun comple-
ments — can be extended analogically even in the absence of a corresponding syntactic
‘source’.
36 Syntax
11.7.5 Word-order in nominalized clauses
We have already noted (Vol.I, Ch.5) that in a number of languages, word-order in
subordinate clauses diﬀers from the unmarked word-order in main clauses. To the extent
that subordinate clauses are nominalized in such a language, word-order in nominalized
clauses may then diﬀer from that in the ﬁnite verbal clause.
11.7.6 Verb-phrase nominalizations
So far, we have considered only nominalizations of full clauses, with either an overtly-
expressedor zero-anaphoricsubject.Buta well-knownclassof nominalizationsappliesonly
to verbphrases.Suchnominalizationsmaysuperﬁciallyresemblethosewithzero-anaphoric
subject (see (100) above). But most typically they depict generic events, and typically with
an impersonal subject (‘passive’) or an impersonal object (‘antipassive’). Thus consider:
(111) a. Real event, anaphoric subject
The sacking of Troy (by the Greeks)
b. Irrealis event, impersonal subject
Sacking Troy (would be quite a task)
c. Generic event, impersonal subject and object
The sacking of cities (is to be discouraged)
d. Impersonal subject and object
Sacking cities (is a chore)
e. Object-incorporating pattern
City-sacking (is a dangerous job)
In other languages, the two types of VP nominalization are formally a bit more distinct.
Thus in Ute, the nominalizing suﬃx -ta marks impersonal-subject nominalizations
(passive), and object incorporation marks impersonal-object nominalization (antipassive):
(112) a. Finite clause
sarich yoghobu
=ch-i pakha-pu
=ga
dog/subj coyote-obj kill-rem
‘the dog killed the coyote’
b. Nominalized VP, anaphoric subject
yoghobu
=ch-i pakha-vaa-ch (‘ásti-kya)
coyote-obj kill-irr-nom want-perf
‘(s/he wanted) to kill the coyote’
c. Nominalized VP, impersonal subject
yoghobu
=ch-i pakha-ta
coyote-obj kill-nom/pass
‘the killing of the coyote’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘someone killed the coyote’
‘the coyote was killed’
Noun phrases 37
d. Nominalized VP, impersonal subject and object
yoghobu
=-pakha-ta
coyote-kill-nom
‘coyote-killing’, ‘the killing of coyotes’
‘someone kills coyotes’
One may view the availability of more extensive nominalizing morphology and object
incorporation as part of the grammatical arsenal with which a language may
grammaticalize more distinctly various sub-types of nominalization.
Notes
1. In the grammaticalization of a word into a morpheme, structural change is much slower than
functional reanalysis. Consequently, unstressed clitics appear to behave, at least by some criteria, as
stress-bearing words. In principle, however, grammatical morphemes should not be treated formally
as syntactic constituents. Even early in their diachronic trajectory, profound changes in their
semantic or pragmatic scope are evident. Their physical location within the linear structure thus
reﬂects rather poorly their operator-operand scope relations, making the whole issue of constituency
rather convoluted.
2. See discussion of so-called ‘non-conﬁgurationality’ in Vol.I, Ch.5.
3. In this particular case, disjunctive choice is not absolute, since in principle more that one post-
nominal modiﬁer may occur in the same noun phrase. The most common violation of this rule
involves multiple relative clauses.
4. Ute compounds, like those of English, carry only one primary lexical stress.
5. As noted in our discussion of so-called ‘non-conﬁgurationality’ (Vol.I, Ch.5), the supposed
diﬀerences in word-order ﬂexibility and NP-scattering between ‘conﬁgurational’ and ‘non-
conﬁgurational’ languages are yet to be documented with comparative text-frequency ﬁgures (Givón
1999).
6. If the main verb is implicative, as in (94d), an imperfective complement cannot combine with a
perfective main verb, a combination that is acceptable with non-implicative main verbs (94f).
</TARGET "11">
<TARGET "12" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Verbal complements and clause union"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 12
Verbal complements and clause union
12.1 Introduction
This chapter deals primarily with clausal — or verbal — complements of verbs. The
general semantic and syntactic classiﬁcation of complement-taking verbs has been given
earlier (Vol.I, §3.3.7). Deﬁned in the broadest semantic terms, verbal complements
(V-Comp) are clauses that function as subject or object arguments of other clauses. But the
resemblance between verbal complements and nominal arguments is only partial, and
many languages distinguish syntactically between the two types of construction (see §11.7).
At best, one may say that verbal complements are constructed by analogy with clausal
subjects and objects.
The complement clauses we deal with here are primarily those that are analogous to
clausal objects. That the analogy is not spurious is evident from systematic polysemy of
complement-taking verbs, most of which can take both a verbal complement and a bona
ﬁde nominal object. That is:1
(1) a. She wanted an apple
b. She wanted to eat the apple
c. They made a chair
d. They made her eat the apple
e. He knew Mary
f. He knew that Mary ate the apple
Since the prototype subject or object is nominal, it is only natural that complement clauses,
even when not fully nominalized, should display some facets of non-ﬁnite, nominalized
syntax. In this sense, our treatment of the syntax of complementation builds up rather
naturally on our earlier discussion of ﬁniteness (§11.7).
A major theme of this chapter is the systematic isomorphism obtaining between the
semantic and syntactic dimensions of complementation. Indeed, the grammar of comple-
mentation furnishes one of the best, and cross-linguistically most reliable, examples of
iconicity in syntax (Haiman 1985a,b; Givón 1991a). The isomorphism between the syntax
and semantics of complementation involves the two parallel dimensions:
•semantic: event integration (‘semantic bond’)
•syntactic: clause integration (‘clause union’).
Our general prediction of iconicity may be given as the following principle:
40 Syntax
(2) Event integration and clause union
The stronger is the semantic bond between the two events, the more extensive will
be the syntactic integration of the two clauses into a single though complex clause.
While principle (2) does not apply only to complementation, it certainly ﬁnds in it one of
its most conspicuous expressions. Another general reﬂection of principle (2) is that
syntactic complexity — the embedding of one clause inside another — is but a natural
consequence of cognitive-semantic complexity — nesting one event inside another.
We will begin by outlining the major semantic dimensions of event integration, that is
the strength of the bond between the two events coded in the main and complement
clause. We will then turn to the syntactic dimensions of clause integration, showing the
isomorphism between the semantic and syntactic dimensions of complementation. We will
lastly discuss the cross-language typological variability of clause-union, the general syntactic
process of which complementation is but an instance, albeit a central one.
Rather than undermining universality, our survey of typological diversity in the
grammar of complementation points out to the existence of a small inventory of universal
coding devices that, when combined together, yield varying degrees of clause-union. Some
of these devices reﬂect, rather transparently, cognitive universals. Others are more
conventionalized, i.e. grammaticalized. The two types most commonly intertwine in the
overall grammar of complementation, as they are in the grammar of other complex
syntactic constructions (Givón 1991a).
As elsewhere, the apparent typological diversity in the grammar of complementation
arises out of two primary sources which often interact. First, individual languages may
make diﬀerential use of universally-available coding devices. Second, individual languages
may display diﬀerential coding density along the very same cognitive-semantic continuum.
12.2 Event integration
12.2.1 The overall scale
In this section we deal with the cognitive-semantic dimensions of complementation, which
turn out to correlate closely with the semantic properties of the main verb. Our discussion
here extends the rough semantic classiﬁcation given earlier (Vol.I, §3.3.7). As noted there,
the syntactic structure of clauses is dictated to a large extent by the semantic case-frame —
argument structure — of the verbs that sit at their core. And verbal complements are just
one type of argument — albeit a complex one — of the main clause.
As noted in our earlier discussion, complement-taking verbs fall into three major
classes:
•Modality verbs
(‘want’, ‘begin’, ‘ﬁnish’, ‘try’ etc.)
•Manipulation verbs
(‘make’, ‘tell’, ‘order’, ‘ask’ etc.)
Verbal complements and clause union 41
•Perception-cognition-utterance (PCU) verbs
(‘see’, ‘know’, ‘think’, ‘say’ etc.)
The semantic dimension of event-integration that underlies the grammar of complemen-
tation — the semantic bond between the two events — is profoundly scalar, a fact that can
be easily demonstrated for each of the three verb classes. But the scale appears to be a
uniﬁed seamless continuum, with modality verbs and manipulation verbs running in parallel
from the top to mid-scale, showing roughly the same semantic and syntactic transitions.
Around mid-scale, both classes shade gradually into PCU verbs, which then span the
bottom portion of the scale. The shape of the overall scale thus resembles that of a tuning-
fork:
(3)
PCU verbs
modality verbs
manipulation verbs
Weakest Bond Strongest Bond
We will illustrate the scale ﬁrst with the gradual transition between manipulation verbs and
PCU verbs. The relation between the main and complement clause may be given in terms
of two broad prototypes, one semantic, the other syntactic. For manipulation verbs ﬁrst:
(4) Semantic prototype of manipulation verbs
•The agent of the main verb manipulates the behavior of the manipulee, a poten-
tial agent.
•The manipulee of the main verb is coreferent with the agent of the complement
verb.
•The complement clause codes the target event to be performed by the mani-
pulee.
(5) Syntactic prototype of manipulation verbs
•The agent-manipulator of the main verb is the subject of the main-clause.
•The manipulee of the main verb is either the direct object or indirect object of the
main clause.
•The manipulee of the main verb is also the subject of the complement clause.
•The manipulee-subject of the complement clause is coded as zero in the com-
plement clause.
•The complement-clause verb most commonly displays less-ﬁnite or nominalized
morphology.
•The complement clause tends to occupy a typical object position in the main
clause (OV or VO).
•The complement clause tends to fall under a uniﬁed intonation contour with the
main clause.
42 Syntax
An example of such a structure is:
(6) She told Marvin to leave
The tree diagram corresponding to (6) is:
(7) Tree-diagram for manipulative verbs
S
Subj
She
VP
V Comp
[S]
Obj
Marvin
told
Subj VP
V
[ ]
Ø to-leave
The semantic and syntactic prototypes of PCU verbs are, respectively:
(8) Semantic prototype of PCU verbs
•The verb in the main clause codes either a mental state or event of perception or
cognition, or a verbal act of utterance.
•The subject of the verb is either a dative an agent.
•The state or event coded in the complement is analogous to the patient of the
main-clause verb.
The syntactic deﬁnition of PCU verbs is:
(9) Syntactic prototype of PCU verbs
•No coreference restrictions hold between the main and complement clause.
•The complement clause is more likely to have the normal main-clause ﬁnite
structure, with a fully expressed subject and ﬁnite verb morphology.
•The two clauses may be separated by a subordinator morpheme.
•The two clauses may fall under separate intonation contours.
A typical example of a PCU verb with its complement is:
(10) He knew that she hated ﬁsh
The tree diagram corresponding to (10) is:
Verbal complements and clause union 43
(11) Tree-diagram for PCU verbs
S
Subj
He
VP
V Comp
[S]
knew
Subj VP
she
V Obj
hated Wsh
that-
We will begin the discussion by ranking a representative sample of manipulation and PCU
verbs in English according to their position along the event-integration (‘semantic bond’)
scale.
(12) The complementation scale
Semantic scale of verbs Syntax of Comp-clause
a. She let go of the knife co-lexicalized Comp
b. She made him shave
c. She let him go home
d. She had him arrested
bare-stem Comp
e. She caused him to switch jobs
f. She told him to leave
g. She asked him to leave
h. She allowed him to leave
i. She wanted him to leave
j. She’d like him to leave
inﬁnitive Comp
k. She’d like for him to leave for-to Comp
l. She suggested that he leave
m. She wished that he would leave
n. She agreed that he should leave
subjunctive Comp
o. She knew that he left
p. She said that he might leave later
indirect quote Comp.
q. She said: “He might leave later” direct quote Comp.
The ﬁnely graduated semantic transition on the left in (12) is matched by the much more
discrete but still graded syntactic scale of complementation on the right.
44 Syntax
12.2.2 Semantic dimensions of event integration
12.2.2.1Successful vs. intended manipulation
In our earlier discussion of manipulation verbs (Vol.I, §3.3.7), we divided them into two
groups, implicative and non-implicative. This logic-based distinction (Karttunen 1970,
1971, 1974) translates into, respectively successful vs. intended manipulation. Thus, in (12)
above, (12a–e) code successful manipulations, which may be couched in the logical terms
of implication:
(13) Successful (‘implicative’) manipulation verbs
If the main-clause state/event is true, then the complement-clause state/event
must also be true.
On the other hand, (12f–n) code intended manipulations that were not necessarily
successful, for which implication (13) does not necessarily hold.
While the logical division of implicative vs. non-implicative has been indeed useful, it
has severe limits. To begin with, it cannot predict the cross-language typological variability
of syntactic coding-points that span the manipulative range of the scale. Indeed, it cannot
even predict the ﬁve coding-points that span the manipulative range in English (12a–n),
nor even the three coding-points spanning the implicative range in English (12a–e).
What is more, the logic-bound analysis tends to obscure the major semantic-cognitive
sub-dimensions of event integration that do not reduce directly onto logical implication.
The ﬁrst three of those go to the very heart of eventhood, and the last three to the very heart
of agentivity:
•co-temporality (temporal integration)
•direct contact (spatial integration)
•co-reference (referential integration)
•intentionality
•control
•coercive power
Since these sub-dimensions are not fully independent of each other, we will discuss them
below in terms of their pair-wise interactions, couching those in terms of pragmatic
inference.2
12.2.2.2Co-temporality and success
The verbs at the top of our complementation scale (12a–e) are indeed logically implicative,
but the relation between the two events also involves, beyond logical implication, temporal
dependence. When the main verb is implicative, the two events are either co-temporal or
tightly sequential. And co-temporality is a major cognitive pre-condition for construing the
doings of two or more participants as a single event. This precondition may be couched in
terms of the pragmatic inference:
Verbal complements and clause union 45
(14) Co-temporality and uniﬁed eventhood
The more co-temporal the two events are, the higher is the probability that they
are not independent of each other, but rather constitute a single if complex event.
Inference (14) predicts the infelicity of the temporally-dispersed (15a) below for the
implicative ‘make’, but not for the non-implicative ‘ask’:
(15) a. *Yesterday she made him shave today
b. Yesterday she asked him to shave today
12.2.2.3Succes and agentive control
Another major semantic sub-dimension relevant to the grammar of complementation is
the degree of control, choice or independence ceded by the main-clause agent to the
complement-clause agent/manipulee. In a successful manipulation (12a–e), the main-
clause agent imposes his/her will over the manipulee, who thus displays less control, less
choice, less independence of action. Such a manipulee is more patient-like, less agent-like.
In contrast, the manipulee of non-implicative verbs (12f–n) is conceded more choice,
control and independence, and thus resembles more closely a prototype agent. This may
be couched in terms of the pragmatic inference:
(16) Agentivity and manipulative success
The more successful a manipulation is, the less control does the manipulee
have, and the less agent-like s/he is.
Inference (16) predicts the infelicity of (17a) with the implicative ‘make’, as against the
felicity of (17b) with the non-implicative ‘ask’:
(17) a. *She made him shave but he refused
b. She asked him to shave but he refused
12.2.2.4Intentionality and agentive control
Consider next the contrast between the two equally implicative ‘make’ and ‘cause’:
(18) a. John made Mary quit her job
b. John caused Mary to quit her job
In terms of their logical implication, the two seem rather alike. However, their compatibili-
ty with adverbs of intent is exactly the opposite:
(19) a. John deliberately made Mary quit her job
b. *John inadvertently made Mary quit her job
c. ?John deliberately caused Mary to quit her job
d. John inadvertently caused Mary to quit her job
The manipulating agent of ‘make’, it appears, always retains control, while that of ‘cause’
does not.
Our analysis is further supported by the use of intent adverbs in the complement clause.
Such use is tolerated in the complement of ‘cause’, but not in the complement of ‘make’:
46 Syntax
(20) a. *John made Mary deliberately quit her job
b. John caused Mary to deliberately quit her job
The manipulee of ‘make’, it appears, retains no intentionality or control, but the manipulee
of ‘cause’ does.
The diﬀerences in intentionality and control between ‘make’ and ‘cause’ may be further
ampliﬁed by the fact that the subject of ‘cause’ may be a non-agent, say a nominalized
clause, while the subject of ‘make’ must be an agent:
(21) a. *John’s behavior made Mary quit her job
b. John’s behavior caused Mary to quit her job
c. John’s behavior caused Mary to deliberately quit her job
In light of the discussion above, let us now turn to examine the position of ‘let’ at the top
of the English complementation scale (12a). One characteristic of this ‘let-V’ expression in
English is that the object need not be a conscious, intending, acting agent. To drive this
point home, contrast ‘let’ at the top of the scale (12a) with ‘let’ in (12c):
(22) a. She let go of him
b. She let go of his arm
c. She let him go all by himself
d. *She let go of him all by himself
e. She let him go where he wanted
f. *She let go of him where he wanted
g. She let him go screaming and cussing
h. She let go of him screaming and cussing
i. She let go of him like a sack of potatoes
j. *She let him go like a sack of potatoes
Expression (22d) is odd because all by himself tends to suggest, at the very least, a vestige of
independent motivation. Likewise (22f) is odd because where he wanted suggests residual
independent motivation. In (22g) screaming and cussing can refer to the manipulee ‘him’,
but in (22h) it is more likely to refer to the manipulator ‘she’. Finally, (22j) is odd because
like a sack of potatoes suggests a non-agentive ‘go’, compatible with ‘let go’, indeed
compatible with (12a)/(22i) but not with ‘let… go’ (12c)/(22j).
12.2.2.5Agentive control and temporal integration
The diﬀerence in control carries with it, by some subtle and perhaps indirect pragmatic
inference, other diﬀerences. For example, the complements of ‘make’ seem to require co-
temporality, while those of ‘cause’ do not:
(23) a. Two years ago John ﬁnally made Mary quit her job.
b. John made Mary quit her job ﬁnally yesterday.
c. *Two years ago John made Mary ﬁnally quit her job yesterday.
d. John’s behavior two years ago caused Mary to ﬁnally quit her job yesterday.
Verbal complements and clause union 47
The interaction between agentive control and co-temporality may be given as the pragmat-
ic inference:
(24) Agentive control and temporal integration
If the manipulee is acting under their own motivation and control, they can act in
their own good time.
The subject of ‘cause’, unlike the subject of ‘make’, is thus not the causer of the manipulee’s
behavior but rather the chosen reason for the manipulee’s self-controlled behavior.
12.2.2.6Direct contact and spatio-temporal integration
Consider next the contrast between two equally implicative manipulation verbs, ‘make’
and ‘have’:
(25) Context: He wasn’t in the room when she entered,
a. *so she made him come in
b. so she had him come in
The verb ‘make’ implies direct contact between the manipulator and the manipulee. It is a
direct manipulation verb. The equally implicative ‘have’ does not imply such contact. It is an
indirect manipulation verb. The diﬀerence between the two is further underscored by the
diﬀerential acceptability of passive complements, admissible for ‘have’ but not for ‘make’:
(26) a. She had him brought in (by her bodyguards)
b. *She made him brought in (by her bodyguards)
The manipulee in (26a) is not directly manipulated by the manipulator-agent of ‘have’, but
rather by the intermediary agent-of-passive of the complement. Since ‘make’ implies direct
manipulative contact, a passive complement as in (26b), with the implication of an
intermediary agent, is infelicitous.
The very same semantic contrast may be shown at a lower, non-implicative portion of
the scale, between ‘want’ and ‘wish’. In English, ‘want’ is used rather consistently when the
probability of direct communication between manipulator and manipulee — i.e. direct
manipulative contact — is higher. ‘Wish’, on the other hand, is used when that probability
is lower. Out of context, the meanings of the two seem rather alike:
(27) a. She wanted him to hurry
b. She wished that he would hurry
Indeed, earlier Generative descriptions considered the direct object of ‘want’ in (27a) as an
instance of syntactic raising, out of an initial deep-structure resembling (27b).
The meaning diﬀerence between ‘want’ and ‘wish’ emerges once discourse context is
provided. In the context of direct contact, ‘want’ seems preferable to ‘wish’:
(28) Context: We kept arguing for an hour,
a. I wanted her to quit, but she said she wouldn’t.
b. ?I wished that she would quit but she said she wouldn’t.
48 Syntax
In contrast, in the context of no direct contact ‘wish’ seems preferable to ‘want’:
(29) Context: He left a week earlier. Now, sitting there all alone,
a. she wished that he had come back.
b. she wished that he would come back.
c. ?she wanted him to come back.
12.2.2.7Direct contact and success
Examples (29) also illustrate an inferential connection between direct manipulative contact
and the probability of success. Note ﬁrst that the complement of ‘wish’ can take either an
irrealis (29b) or counter-fact (29a) modality. On the other hand, the complement of ‘want’
(28a) can only be interpreted as irrealis. When one communicates one’s wishes directly, as
in ‘want’, the desired state/event is more likely to be in the realm of possibility, thus irrealis.
When one’s wish is not communicated, the desired state/event may either be possible, thus
irrealis (29b), or remain unrealized, thus counter-fact (29a).
The non-implicative pairs ‘tell’ vs. ‘insist’ and ‘allow’ vs. ‘agree’ seem to contrast the
same way:
(30) a. She told him to leave
b. She insisted that he must leave
c. She insisted that he could have left (but didn’t)
d. She allowed him to leave
e. She agreed that he could leave
f. She agreed that he could have left (but didn’t)
In (30a,d) the probability of direct communication between manipulator and manipulee
is higher, while (30b,c,e,f) are more likely to have involved indirect manipulation. Again,
indirect manipulation is compatible with counter-fact (30c,f), while direct manipulation
isn’t (30a,d).
The interaction between direct manipulative contact and manipulative success may be
given as the pragmatic inference:
(31) Direct contact and manipulative success
The more direct the manipulation is, the more likely it is to succeed.
12.2.2.8Resistance, coercion and success
Both ‘make’ and ‘force’ code intended, direct, successful manipulation. Nevertheless ‘force’
is ranked below ‘make’ on the syntactic complementation scale. At ﬁrst glance, such
ranking seems counter-intuitive, given that the agent of ‘force’ exerts higher manipulative
eﬀort, and is thus in a sense more agentive. To resolve this seeming contradiction, one must
revisit the question of the manipulee’s residual independence and control.
As suggested earlier above, the lower a verb is on the complementation scale, the more
choice, control and independence is ceded to the manipulee. And independence implies
the ability to resist manipulation. The coercive ‘force’ implies that the manipulation is
meeting stiﬀ resistance. Thus compare:
Verbal complements and clause union 49
(32) Context: He wasn’t putting up much of a ﬁght,
a. so they went ahead and made him do it.
b. ?so they went ahead and forced him to do it.
The interaction between resistance and coercive force may be expressed in terms of the
pragmatic inference:
(33) Resistance, coercion and success
If the manipulee has the power and will to resist, then
•the manipulator must resort to coercive force; and
•the probability of successful manipulation is lower.
12.2.2.9Successful causation vs. co-temporality
So far, the impression may have been given that causation or successful ‘implicative’
manipulation are core semantic dimensions underlying the upper portion of our comple-
mentation scale. But there are grounds for suspecting that the involvement of these features
in complementation, and their apparent predictive power, is mediated rather than direct.
Consider the position of the verb ‘see’ at three points on our complementation scale
(12). The ﬁrst two are syntactically akin to ‘make’ (12b), the third syntactically akin to PCU
verbs (10L-q):
(34) a. She saw him come out of the theater
b. She saw him coming out of the theater
c. She saw that he came out of the theater
No manipulation, successful or otherwise, is involved in (34a,b). Nevertheless these
expressions are logically implicative. Note, further, that (34a,b) contrast with (34c) in two
important respects. First, in (34a,b), the two events — ‘see’ and ‘come out’ — are co-
temporal, another core ingredient of single eventhood. In (34c), on the other hand, the two
events need not have been co-temporal. Second, ‘see’ in (34a,b) is a perception verb, but in
(34c) it is a cognition verb of inference or reﬂection. Perception is co-temporal with the
perceived event. Cognition need not be co-temporal with the cognized event:
(35) a. She saw that he had come out already
b. She saw that it would be a while before he came out
c. She saw that he would never come out
d. *Yesterday she saw him come out today
e. *Today she saw him coming out yesterday
It thus seems that the fundamental feature that places a verb higher on our complemen-
tation scale is neither causation nor logical implication per se. Both of these are but
instances of the more general dimension of co-temporality — the spatio-temporal
integration of two events into a single if complex event.
50 Syntax
12.2.2.10Referential integration
Consider again the three-way contrast in (34), reproduced below:
(34) a. She saw him come out of the theater
(> He came)
(*> She came)
b. She saw him coming out of the theater
(> He came)
(> She came)
c. She saw that he came out of the theater
In (34a), the subject of the complement verb must be coreferential with the object of the
main verb. In (34b), it can be co-referential with either the subject or the object of the main
verb. In (34c) no co-reference between arguments of the main and complement clause is
required.
More broadly, we have already noted that verbs that occupy the two upper branches of
our scale — modality and manipulation verbs — impose rigid co-reference restrictions
between main and complement clause. PCU verbs at the bottom portion of the scale do
not. The top of our complementation scale is thus characterized not only by a higher level
of spatial and temporal integration, but also a higher degree of referential integration of the
two events.
The interaction between referential cohesion and event integration may be expressed as
the pragmatic inference:
(36) Referential cohesion and event integration
The more two events share their referents, the more likely they are to be con-
strued as a single event.
12.2.2.11Manipulative speech-acts
So far, we have only considered reported manipulations packaged in declarative speech-
acts. But the very same constructions can also be used in direct manipulative speech-acts.
When so used, the relative ranking of constructions on our complementation scale (12)
correlates well with their ranking as manipulative speech-acts. Constructions that are
higher on scale (12) tend to be used as more direct, authoritarian, coercive speech-acts.
Those lower on the scale tend to be used as indirect, tentative, softer speech-acts. To
illustrate this, consider again the contrast between ‘want’ and ‘wish’, this time as manipula-
tive speech-acts:
(37) a. I want you to stop harassing her,
(i) …immediately!
(ii) …?it’s so unnecessary.
b. I wish that you’d stop harassing her,
(i) …?immediately!
(ii) …it’s so unnecessary.
Verbal complements and clause union 51
Expression (37a) is a stronger direct manipulation, (37b) a weaker one bordering on a
mere wish. In the same vein, consider the two possible complements of ‘expect’, one with
a ‘raised’ manipulee and an inﬁnitive complement (38a), the other with an unraised
manipulee and a subjunctive complement (38b):
(38) a. I expect you to be done by noon,
(i) …so get on with it!
(ii) …?if you don’t mind.
b. I expect that you should be done by noon,
(i) …?so get on with it!
(ii) …?if you don’t mind.
(iii) …if everything goes on schedule.
Expression (38a) is a more direct manipulation. Expression (38b) is much less direct and
borders on mere prediction.
Consider lastly the contrast between the inﬁnitive to complement form (12j), and the
for-to form (12k). When used as manipulative speech-acts, the two reveal the same relative
ranking as in (12):
(39) a. I’d like you to
(i) …leave right away.
(ii) …?be able to leave when you’re ready.
b. I’d like for you to
(i) …leave right away.
(ii) …be able to leave when you’re ready.
The softer, less coercive (39b) is compatible with both the more authoritative inﬁnitival
complement (i) and the more accommodating modal-subjunctive complement (ii). The
more coercive in (39a) is much less compatible with the modal-subjunctive (ii).
12.2.3 The lower portions of the complementation scale
12.2.3.1From preference to epistemics
We turn now to discuss the bottom portion of our complementation scale, occupied by
PCU verbs. One of the best arguments for the existence of a uniﬁed scale in (12) involves
the gradual semantic and syntactic transition, or overlap, found in the mid-section of the
scale. This transition involves two segments of the syntactic scale:
•inﬁnitival complements
•subjunctive complements.
One way gradual transition manifests itself is through the presence of the same or similar
verbs (or verb senses) on both sides of the syntactic divide. Thus, the volitional ‘want’ (12i)
has its weaker counterpart in ‘wish’ (12m). The permissive ‘allow’ (12h) has its weaker
counterpart in ‘agree’ (12n). And the manipulative ‘tell’ with an inﬁnitive complement (12f)
may appear with a subjunctive complement, much like its weaker relative ‘suggest’ (12L).
52 Syntax
The overlap between the subjunctive and indicative indirect-quote portions of the scale
is just as striking. Along that segment, the deontic modality of preference shades oﬀ into the
epistemic modality of certainty, belief or evidence. Thus, ‘suggest’ (10L) may be comple-
mented by either the subjunctive complement of manipulation (40a), or the subjunctive of
uncertainty (40b) (Vol.I, Chs6,7):
(40) a. Deontic (weak manipulation)
She suggested that John leave right away.
b. Epistemic (lower certainty)
She suggested that John may have left earlier.
Likewise with ‘agree’ (12n):
(41) a. Deontic (weak manipulation)
She agreed that he should leave immediately
b. Epistemic (lower certainty)
She agreed that he may have left already
Prototype PCU verbs such as ‘think’, ‘know’ and ‘say’ display a similar transition, though
perhaps at a lower point on the scale:
(42) a. Deontic (subjunctive-modal complement)
He said/thought/knew that she should leave
b. Epistemic (indicative complement)
He said/thought/knew that she had left
Another subtle transition may be seen in deontic uses of ‘wish’, ‘hope’, ‘fear’, ‘suppose’ or
‘guess’. ‘Wish’, ‘hope’ and ‘fear’ are commonly used as preference verbs, with modal-
subjunctive complementation:
(43) a. She hoped that he would come
b. She was afraid that he wouldn’t come
c. She wished that he would come
But the same verbs may also be used when the complement codes an event that had already
occurred though its epistemic status is yet unresolved:
(44) a. She wished that he had arrived on time
b. She hoped that he did arrive on time
c. She was afraid that he might not have arrived on time
The semantic shift between (43) and (44) is indeed subtle — from preference for still-
possible future events (43) to epistemic anxiety about past events whose epistemic status is
yet unresolved (44). This shift makes it possible for languages such as English and Spanish
to use the very same subjunctive form to code both the deontics of preference and the
epistemics of uncertainty (Vol.I, §7.9.3).
The overlap of lexical verbs is a compelling argument for the unity of our complemen-
tation scale, and for following reason. Diachronic extension of both meaning and form
Verbal complements and clause union 53
tends to proceed gradually along contiguous portions of a continuum, driven by analogy
and similarity. The pervasive overlap in lexical verbs along the inﬁnitive, subjunctive and
indirect-quote portions of our complementation scale suggests a continuous semantic
gradation.
12.2.3.2From cognition to utterance
The last two steps on the complementation scale involve ﬁrst the transition from cognition
to utterance verbs, and second from indirect-quote to indirect-quote. The ﬁrst step may be
viewed as a move from internal speech to external speech.3
In spite of the similarities between indirect-quote constructions of cognition and
utterance verbs, subtle diﬀerences persist. To begin with, the subject of ‘think’ or ‘know’
retains considerable epistemic commitment to the complement proposition, in a way that
the subject of ‘say’ does not. This fact is well noted in the grammar of evidentiality (Vol.I,
Ch.6). Thus compare:
(45)
a. *She thought he left, though she
 knew
he didn’t
Ï¸
Ì˝
Ó˛
thought
b. *She knew he left, though she
knew
he didn’t
Ï¸
Ì˝
Ó˛
thought
c. She said he left, though she
 knew
he didn’t
Ï¸
Ì˝
Ó˛
thought
Tense–aspect restrictions between main and complement clause with ‘know’/‘think’ vs.
‘say’ are subtly diﬀerent. Tense agreement — thus a uniﬁed perspective or deictic integra-
tion — seems to be more strictly required for ‘know’ and ‘think’ than for ‘say’:
(46) a. I knew she was coming
b. *I knew she is coming
c. I knew she had come
d. *I knew she has come
(47) a. I said she was coming
b. I said she is coming
c. I said she had come
d. I said she has come
While seemingly independent clauses with their own ﬁnite verb, the complements of
cognition verbs exhibit higher temporal and deictic integration with the main clause than
do the complements of ‘say’.
12.2.3.3From indirect to direct quote
The transition from indirect- to direct-quote complementation signals the ﬁnal de-
coupling of the two propositions. No temporal-deictic constraints bind the two clauses,
thus no vestige of tense agreement. Likewise deixis and perspective are now fully de-
coupled: The speaker retains deictic responsibility for the main clause, the subject of ‘say’
controls the deixis of the complement:
54 Syntax
(48) a. She said that I was a crook
(I = me, who’s telling this to you)
b. She said: “I was a crook”
(I = she, who said that)
c. She said that this book is good
(this book = the one we’re looking at now)
d. She said: “This book is good”
(this book = the one she was looking at then)
e. She said that now is as good a time as any
(now = when we are talking now)
f. She said: “You better quit now”
(now = when she was talking then)
The control of the tense-agreement option has also subtly shifted:
(49) a. She said he had disappeared
b. She said: “He had disappeared”
c. She said he has disappeared
d. She said: “He has disappeared”
In both (49a) and (49c) the time-axis for ‘had’ and ‘has’ is now, when I am talking to you.
In (49b) and (49d) the time-axis is then, when she was talking to whoever. This de-coupling
of deictic perspective in direct-quote constructions entails maximal separation between
main- and complement-clause events.
The opening of a direct quotation is akin to initiating another universe of discourse. The
two events coded in the main and complement clause exist, in some sense, in two separate
universes of discourse, in spite of the fact that one (complement) is embedded within the
other (main).
The gradual cognitive-semantic transition along the complementation scale involves the
following main steps:
(50) The complementation scale from manipulation to PCU verbs
a. successful intended causation
b. intended active attempted manipulation
c. preference/aversion
d. epistemic anxiety
e. epistemic certainty/uncertainty
f. indirect-quoted utterance
g. direct-quoted utterance
12.2.4 Modality verbs
12.2.4.1Overview
Modality verbs span roughly the same upper portion of the complementation scale as
manipulation verbs. The parallelism between the two verb types is both semantic and
Verbal complements and clause union 55
syntactic. The semantic and syntactic relation between a modality verb and its complement
may be given in terms of two broad prototypes, respectively:
(51) Semantic prototype of modality verbs
•The main-clause verb codes the aspectual (inception, termination, continu-
ation, success, failure) or modal (attempt, intent, obligation, ability, possi-
bility) action, state or attitude of its subject vis-a-vis the event/state coded
in the complement clause.
•The subject of the main clause is co-referent to the subject of the comple-
ment clause.
(52) Syntactic prototype of modality verbs
•The subject of the main verb is also the subject of the complement clause.
•The subject the complement clause is zero-coded.
•The complement-clause verb is commonly non-ﬁnite or nominalized.
•The complement clause is analogous to the object of the main clause (OV
or VO).
•The complement clause tends to fall under a uniﬁed intonation contour with
the main clause.
A typical example of modality verb complementation is:
(53) She wanted to eat dinner
The tree diagram corresponding to (53) is:
(54) Tree diagram for modality-verb complementation
S
Subj
She
VP
V Comp
[S]
wanted
Subj VP
[ ]
Ø
V Obj
to-eat dinner
In (55) below we illustrate, again with English data, the gradual transition along the
complementation scale from modality to PCU verbs. Syntactically, the point of transition
here is the very same as in the transition from manipulation to PCU verbs in (12) — verbs
of preference or aversion with subjunctive complements (55i).
56 Syntax
(55) The complementation scale from modality to PCU verbs
Semantic scale of verbs Syntax of complement
a. She ﬁnished building the house nominalized Comp
b. She managed to build the house
c. She tried to build a house
d. She had to build a house
e. She wanted to build a house
f. She planned to build a house
g. She was able to build a house
inﬁnitive Comp
h. She knew how to build a house how-to Comp
i. She wished that he would build a house subjunctive Comp
j. She knew that he built a house indir. quote Comp
As the cursory survey below will show, the cognitive-semantic features underlying the
modality-verb portion of our scale are substantially the same as those which underlie the
manipulation-verb segment in (12).
12.2.4.2Referential cohesion and event integration
Modality verbs, in contrast with PCU verbs, impose a strict coreference condition — in this
case equi-subject — on their complement clause. The connection between co-reference and
event integration has already been noted in (36) above, reproduced below:
(36) Referential cohesion and event integration
The more two events share their referents, the more likely they are to be con-
strued as a single event.
12.2.4.3Implicativity
The top of the modality-verb scale is occupied by implicative verbs (‘ﬁnish’, ‘start’,
‘continue’, ‘complete’, ‘manage’, ‘fail’), contrasting with non-implicative verbs further
down the scale (‘want’, ‘be reluctant to’, ‘try’, ‘be able to’, ‘be obligated to’). Thus recall
(Vol.I, §3.3.7.1):
(56) a. Implicative
She ﬁnished doing her homework (… She did her homework)
b. Neg-implicative
She failed to do her homework (… She didn’t do her homework)
c. Non-implicative
She wanted to do her homework (…
/ She did her homework)
d. Neg-non-implicative
She was reluctant to do her homework (…
/ She didn’t do her homework)
Verbal complements and clause union 57
The connection between successful manipulation (‘implicativity’) and temporal integration
of the two events has been noted above (§12.2.2.1). In English, the more nominal verb-
form -ing is used mostly in complements of implicative modality verbs. Some of these, like
‘ﬁnish’ and ‘stop’, can only take this complement form. In verbs that can take both the -ing
and the inﬁnitive to-form, a subtle contrast in implicativity can be discerned:
(57) a. Finally, he tried reciting the pledge of allegiance.
But the child kept crying.
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
?But no sound came out.
b. Finally, he tried to recite the pledge of allegiance,
but no sound came out.
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
?but the child kept crying.
The inference in (57a) is that the complement event was successfully performed, though it
didn’t quite achieve the desired end. The inference in (57b) is that the complement event
was attempted without success. In the same vein:
(58) a. John started doing the dishes every evening,
but then changed his mind.
b. John started to do the dishes every evening,
but then changed his mind.
In (58a) the probability is higher that John changed his mind after doing the dishes for a
spell, with ‘start’ thus being implicative. In (58b) the probability is higher that John
changed his mind before doing any dishes, with ‘start’ being thus non-implicative.
The contrast is more subtle yet with ‘manage’, which is more commonly implicative:
(59) a. She barely managed to teach them Spanish that year.
b. She barely managed teaching them Spanish that year.
In (59a), the completion of the event ‘to teach them Spanish’ had been under some doubt,
though it was eventually accomplished — just barely. In (59b), accomplishing the
complement event itself was never in doubt. What remained in doubt was whether the
accomplishment served its intended higher purpose.
12.2.4.4Intentionality and success
Along the non-implicative portion of the scale, verbs may be ranked in terms of intentional
strength, with the order being roughly ‘want’ > ‘intend’ > ‘plan’ > ‘can’. This ranking is
again related to successful accomplishment through the pragmatic inference:
(60) Intentionality and success
The stronger is the actor’s intent, the higher is the probability of success.
12.2.4.5Habituality, know-how and co-reference
The contrast between the inﬁnitival to and how-to complement forms in English illustrates
another transition along the scale. With an implicative verb such as ‘remember’, a three-
58 Syntax
step transition can be seen, from speciﬁc accomplishment, through speciﬁc skill, to
generic/habitual skill:
(61) a. Speciﬁc accomplishment (coreferent Comp)
She remembered to lock the house
b. Speciﬁc skill (coreferent Comp)
She remembered how to lock the house
c. Generic skill (non-coreferent Comp)
She remembered how one should lock the house
With a non-implicative verb such as ‘plan’, the transition is more subtle yet: from deﬁnite
intent, to deﬁnite plan to generic plans:
(62) a. Deﬁnite intent (co-referent Comp)
She planned to lock the house
b. Deﬁnite plan
She planned in great detail how to lock the house
c. Generic plans
She planned in great detail how one may lock the house
One way or another, the semantic bond between the two events is weakened through these
transitions, a weakening that is paralleled by the gradual dilution of the co-reference
condition.
12.2.4.6The ﬁnal transition
The ﬁnal transition, from equi-subject complementation to the PCU segment of the scale
(55i,j), is underscored by the ﬁnal loosening of the coreference (equi-subject) condition.
As in the transition from manipulation to PCU verbs (12), verbs of preference with a
subjunctive complement occupy the pivotal transition point, with the transition often
evident in the very same lexical verb:
(63) a. He wanted to leave
b. He wished that she would leave
c. She forgot how to run
d. She forgot how one could run
e. She forgot that she/Joe should run
f. She forgot that Joe ran
g. She decided to do it
h. She decided that she/Joe should do it
i. She decided that Joe did it
Once again, the use of the same lexical verbs over contiguous segments of the scale
reinforces our conviction that a single cognitive-semantic continuum underlies the
complementation scale.
Verbal complements and clause union 59
12.3 The syntactic coding of complementation
12.3.1 Recapitulation
In the preceding sections we outlined the complex cognitive-semantic continuum
underlying the scale of complementation. In rather general terms:
(64) The complementation scale of event integration
successful causation
attempted manipulation
weaker manipulation
accomplishment
attempt
intent/obligation
preference/fear
ability/know-how
M
O
D
M
A
N
I
P
preference/aversion
epistemic anxiety
epistemic certainty
edited citation
unedited citation
P
C
U
maximal event integration (a single event)
minimal event integration (two distinct events)
In this section we deal more explicitly with the syntactic coding of complementation. We
will note the systematic isomorphism between the semantics and syntax of complementa-
tion, pointing out the relatively few syntactic coding devices that underlie the oft-baﬄing
typological diversity in the syntax of complementation. One major typological dimension
— nominalizing vs. ﬁnite languages — will be discussed at the end.
12.3.2 The syntactic coding of clause-union
12.3.2.1Preamble
The considerable typological diversity in the syntax of complementation can be still
described in terms of the use — extensive, limited, or non — of four main syntactic coding
devices. Each one of the four performs some distinct sub-task in the syntactic integration
of the complement and main clause. Each one is, in turn, transparently related to some
distinct aspects of the cognitive-semantic integration of the two events. The four devices
taken together are the structural nuts and bolts of clause integration, i.e. clause-union:
(65) Syntactic devices used to code clause-union
a. Co-lexicalization (‘predicate-raising’)
Attaching the two verbs together — main and complement — to form a
single phonological word.
60 Syntax
b. Case-marking and grammatical relations
The case-marking of the object of the main clause and the subject of the
complement clause.
c. Finite verbal morphology
The ﬁniteness status of the complement-verb morphology.
d. Inter-clausal gap
The separation — by subordinator morpheme or intonation break —
between the main and subordinate clause.
In the following sub-sections we will discuss each syntactic device in order, contrasting
languages that make extensive use of a device with those that make only scant use of it. As
elsewhere in syntax, the eﬀect of such diﬀerential use of individual coding devices is that in
some languages a particular segment of the cognitive-semantic scale is more densely coded,
while in other languages it goes relatively under-coded.
12.3.2.2Co-lexicalization (‘predicate-raising’)
Consider the contrast between ‘let’ and ‘make’ in English, both implicative manipulation
verbs at the top of the scale (12):
(66) a. Co-lexicalized
Mary let-go of John’s arm
b. Not co-lexicalized
Mary made John go
Predicate-raised structures such as (66a) are relatively rare in English. In Spanish, they are
found more copiously near the top of the scale. Among manipulative verbs, the implicative
hacer ‘make’ can take both the co-lexicalized and subjunctive complement pattern, with a
predictable gradation in the force and directness of the manipulation. The non-implicative
decir ‘tell’, on the other hand, can only take the more ﬁnite subjunctive complement:
(67) a. Co-lexicalized
José le hizo-comer a Juan
Joe him/dat made-eat/inf dat Juan
‘Joe made John eat’ (direct)
b. Subjunctive
José hizo que Juan comiera
J. made sub Juan eat/past/subjun
‘Joe caused it that John ate’ (indirect causation)
c. *Co-lexicalized
*José le dijo-comer a Juan
J. him/dat told-eat dat Juan
Verbal complements and clause union 61
d. Subjunctive
José le dijo a Juan que comiera
J. him/dat told dat Juan sub eat-he/past/subjun
‘Joe told John that he should eat’
A similar syntactic contrast in verb forms — co-lexicalized vs. ﬁnite — is also used with
perception verbs in Spanish, coding the cognitive-semantic distinction between a co-
temporal perception and non-co-temporal cognition senses of the very same verb (as in the
English; see (35) above):
(68) a. Co-lexicalized (perception)
María le vió-caer a Juan
M. him saw-fall/inf dat Juan
‘Mary saw John fall’
b. Finite (cognition)
María vió que Juan había caido
May saw sub John had fallen
‘M. realized that John had fallen’
While co-lexicalization is not as common on the modality-verb segment of the scale, it is
found there too in some languages, in a way that parallels the Spanish contrasts in (67),
(68). In Ute (Uto-Aztecan), for example, the same syntactic contrast — co-lexicalized vs.
non-ﬁnite/nominalized complement verb — is used to code the distinction of implicative
vs. non-implicative senses in both manipulation and modality verbs:
(69) Manipulation verbs
a. Co-lexicalize (implicative)
mamach ta’wach-i tu
=ka-ti-pu
=ga
woman/subj man-obj eat-caus-rem
‘The woman made the man eat’
b. Non-ﬁnite (non-implicative)
mamach ta’wach-i tu
=ka-vaa-ku ’asti-pu
=ga
woman/subj man-obj eat-irr-nom want-rem
‘The woman wanted the man to eat’
c. Non-ﬁnite (non-implicative)
mamach ta’wach-i tu
=ka-vaa-ku may-pu
=ga
woman/subj man-obj eat-irr-nom say-rem
‘The woman told the man to eat’
(70) Modality verbs
a. Co-lexicalized (implicative)
mamach wu
=u
=ka-maku-pu
=ga
woman/subj work-ﬁnish-rem
‘The woman ﬁnished working’
62 Syntax
b. Co-lexicalized (implicative)
mamach wu
=u
=ka-ucaa-pu
=ga
woman/subj work-start-rem
‘The woman began to work’
c. Non-ﬁnite (non-implicative)
mamach wu
=u
=ka-vaa-ch ’asti-pu
=ga
woman/subj work-irr-nom want-rem
‘The woman wanted to work’
d. Non-ﬁnite (non-implicative)
mamach wu
=u
=ka-vaa-ch sapigya-pu
=ga
woman/subj work-irr-nom can-rem
‘The woman was able to work’
In Yaqui, a distant relative of Ute, the co-lexicalization pattern has been extended down to
the entire scale on both the manipulation and modality side, eﬀectively removing this
device from coding semantic distinction along this portion of the scale. Thus consider
(Lindenfeld 1973; Jelinek 1986):
(71) Modality verbs
a. Implicative
aapo yi’i-taite
he dance-start
‘He is starting to dance’
b. Implicative
bempo bwik-su-k
they sing-ﬁnish-perf
‘They have ﬁnished singing’
c. Non-implicative
itepo yooko aman kat-vae
we tomorrow there go-intend
‘We plan to go there tomorrow’
d. Non-implicative
inepo siim-pea
I leave-wish
‘I want to leave’
(72) Manipulation verbs
a. Implicative
apo’ik-ne siim-tua-k
him-I leave-make-perf
‘I made him leave’
Verbal complements and clause union 63
b. Implicative
anchi-ne yi’i-mahta-k
you-I dance-teach-perf
‘I taught you to dance’
c. Implicative
inepo-’a yi’i-vicha-k
I-him dance-see-perf
‘I saw him dance’
d. Non-implicative
inepo Mary-ta siim-sae-n
I Mary-obj leave-tell-past
‘I told Mary to leave’
e. Non-implicative
aapo Mary-ta siim-’i’a
he Mary-obj leave-want
‘He wants Mary to leave’
Only toward the bottom portion of the scale, with PCU verbs, can one ﬁnd detached main
and complement verbs in Yaqui:
(73) PCU verbs
a. n-a bicha ke hu ili uusi chu’u-ta hipwe
I-it see subord this little child dog-obj have
‘I see that this little child has a dog’
b. inepo hu’unea enchi tuisi aa bwika-po
I know you much it sing-about
‘I know that you do much singing’
c. aapo hunen hia hu-ka hamut-ta tut’uli-tia4
he thus say this-gen woman-gen pretty-say
‘He says that this woman is pretty’
The use of co-lexicalization to code the degree of semantic integration of the two clauses
may be summed up in terms of the following implicational-hierarchic prediction:
(74) Co-lexicalization and the complementation scale
a. The higher a verb is on the semantic-cognitive scale of event integration,
the more likely it is to co-lexicalize with its complement verb.
b. If a complement-taking verb is co-lexicalized, all the verbs above it on the
scale will also be co-lexicalized.
The iconicity principle that motivates co-lexicalization as a coding device is rather
transparent, with the degree of physical proximity at the code level mapping isomorphically
onto the degree of event integration at the cognitive level. The general principle underlying
such iconic coding may be given as (Haiman 1985a,b; Givón 1991a):
64 Syntax
(75) The proximity principle
The closer two linguistic entities are functionally, the more contiguously they will
be coded.
As we shall see further below, another coding device involved in complementation is
motivated by the very same iconicity principle.
Two counter-examples to predictions (74) need to be considered here. Rather predict-
ably, both are motivated by diachrony. First, David Payne (in personal communication)
has noted that when PCU verbs grammaticalize as evidentiality markers (Mithun 1986), co-
lexicalization may be now found at the bottom segment of the complementation scale, but
not necessarily above that portion.
This counter-example turns out to be only an apparent one, and for the following
reason: In all known cases where a language grammaticalizes PCU verbs into evidentiality
markers, such verbs do not disappear from the lexicon as main verbs. Rather, they remain
as main verbs with their normal — loosely bound — complementation pattern, as in the
Yaqui example (73c) above. As further illustration of this, consider the grammaticalized
evidentiary use of PCU verbs in spoken English in (76) below, as against their non-
evidentiary lexical use in (77):
(76) Grammaticalized pattern
a. Say I bought you a ﬂower and… (= suppose)
b. Suppose we do it my way, OK? (= suppose)
c. Guess I’ll go along with that (= tentative)
d. She’s left I think (= inference)
e. They might agree I imagine (= hypothesis)
f. He’s back they say (= hearsay)
g. She’s left I hear (= hearsay)
h. He’s right y’know (= insecurity)
(77) Non-grammaticalized pattern
a. Mary said that John was a crook
b. They all supposed he was wrong
c. She guessed that he was an artist
d. John thought that everybody hated spinach
e. Cindy imagined that the sky was purple
f. They heard that John was in town
g. She knew that it was time to go home
As Thompson (1991) notes, another syntactic correlate of the event integration scale (in
addition to stress and intonation) distinguishes systematically between the grammaticalized
(76) and non-grammaticalized (77) patterns in English: The presence vs. absence of the
subordinator that, respectively (§12.3.2.5 below).
The second — and real — counter example to predictions (74) involves some well-
known dynamics of grammaticalization (Heine et al. 1991; Traugott and Heine eds 1991;
Givón 2000a). Brieﬂy, if complement verbs at the top of the scale co-lexicalize ﬁrst, they
would also tend to be the ﬁrst to undergo phonological erosion. Take the current Yaqui
Verbal complements and clause union 65
complementation situation as a point of departure: Suppose the top-of-the-scale ‘start’,
‘ﬁnish’ and ‘make’, which co-lexicalized ﬁrst, also proceed now to the eroded ﬁrst. If a new
generation of new lexical verbs were now to replace the eroded verbs at the top of the scale,
at least for a while their complements would be syntactically looser, as compared with the
co-lexicalized verbs further down the scale. This is so because at their diachronic point of
inception, complement constructions are always more loosely bound. In other words, a
word in a syntactic construction is always the precursor of a co-lexicalized or grammatical-
ized aﬃx.
The early beginnings of exactly such a development can be seen in Matsees (Mayoruna;
Panoan). In this language, there are two verb-stems each coding ‘ﬁnish’ and ‘start’ — an
older one that has co-lexicalized with its complement verb, and a more recent one that is
more loosely bound to its non-ﬁnite complement. Thus (Hattie Kneeland, i.p.c.):
(78) a. Co-lexicalized ‘ﬁnish’
chui-bud-o-sh
tell-compl-rpast-3/declar
‘He has told (a story)’
b. Loosely-bound ‘ﬁnish’
chui-quin ën-o-sh
tell-ss/sim/tr ﬁnish-rpast-3/declar
‘He ﬁnished telling it’
c. Co-lexicalized ‘start’
con buchi-n dada-man-ben-o-sh
my brother-erg man-make-incep-rpast-3/declar
‘May brother began to write’ (acquired the skill)
d. Loosely-bound ‘start’
ti-ed dëd-quin taua-o-sh
cut-nom/past chop-ss/sim/tr begin-rpast-3/declar
‘He began to cut the ﬁeld’ (initiated the event)
The same is also seen with the non-implicative ‘want’:
(79) a. Co-lexicalized ‘want’
sëdëdquid is-tiad-qu-e-bi
airplane see-desid-intens-be-pres
‘I want to see the airplane’
b. Loosely-bound ‘want’
sëdëquid is-te bon-e-bi
airplane see-nom want-pres/declar-1/excl/abs
‘I want to see the airplane’
The co-lexicalized ‘ﬁnish’ in (78a) has already become grammaticalized as the perfect
aspect, and the co-lexicalized ‘start’ (78c) is undergoing a semantic shift. The lexical load
of the implicative ‘start’ and ‘ﬁnish’ is thus shifting to the looser complementation in
66 Syntax
(78b,d), while further down the scale one can still ﬁnd a co-lexicalized form of the non-
implicative ‘want’ (79a).
12.3.2.3Case-marking and GRs of the main-clause manipulee
and the complement subject
The second device used systematically to code the complementation scale is the case-
marking of the manipulee — as object of the main verb or subject of the complement. The
general prediction here is:
(80) Case-marking of the manipulee and/or Comp-clause subject
a. The higher a verb is on the cognitive-semantic scale of event integration,
the less likely it is that the manipulee will receive prototypical subject case-
marking in the complement clause, given the case-role hierarchies below.
b. The case-role hierarchies of prototype subject:
(i) Semantic: Agt > Dat > Pat > others
(ii) Grammatical: Subj > DO > Oblique
The case-role hierarchies in (80b) are the very same ones that rank the main semantic roles
in terms of their access to subjecthood (80b(i)), and the main grammatical roles in terms of
their topicality (80b(ii)) (Vol.I, Ch.4). From another perspective, (80b(i)) is also the
hierarchy of agentivity. With that in mind, prediction (80) may be re-cast as:
(81) Event integration and agent-like marking of the complement-clause subject
The more integrated the two events in the main and complement clauses are, the
less likely is for the subject of the complement clause to receive prototypical agent
case-marking.
The facts of English complementation, surveyed earlier above, have already furnished
examples for the case-marking scale in complementation, as in:
(82) a. She let-go of him (Gen)
b. She made him go (DO)
c. She told him to go (DO)
d. She wanted him to go (DO)
e. She would like for him to go (Dat/Ben)
e. She wished that he would go (Subj)
A more detailed transition along the case hierarchy can be seen in languages that have no
grammaticalized direct-object. Thus in Hebrew, marking the manipulee as accusative vs.
dative object of the main verb is used in the diﬀerential coding of implicative vs. non-
implicative manipulations. Respectively:
(83) a. Implicative (manipulee = Acc)
hi hixrix-a ot-o le-exol
she forced-she acc-him to-eat
‘She forced him to eat’
Verbal complements and clause union 67
b. Non-implicative (manipulee = Dat)
hi kar’-a l-o le-exol
she called-she to-him to-eat
‘She called him to eat’
Some non-implicative verbs in Hebrew require that the manipulee be coded as accusative.
But even here the case hierarchy is exploited in marking stronger vs. weaker manipulation,
by varying case-marking in the complement. In stronger manipulations, a non-ﬁnite
complement is used, with the manipulee zero-marked. In weaker manipulations, a ﬁnite
subjunctive complement is used, with the manipulee marked as subject:
(84) a. Inﬁnitive complement (manipulee = zero)
hi hizmin-a ot-o le-exol
she invited-she acc-him inf-eat
‘She invited him to eat’
b. Subjunctive complement (manipulee = Nom)
hi hizmin-a ot-o she-y-oxal
she invited-she acc-him that-he-eat/irr
‘She invited him so that he may eat’
The facts of complementation in Spanish further validate the case hierarchies in (80b).
When the manipulee of the implicative ‘make’ is either non-human or an inactive human,
it is marked as accusative, and the complement verb is co-lexicalized with the main verb, as
in:5
(85) a. Non-human manipulee
María hizo-caer el libro
Mary made-fall the book
‘Mary let the book fall’
b. Inactive human manipulee
María lo-hizo-comer al bebé
Mary acc/him-made-eat dat/the baby
‘Mary fed the baby’ (> the baby is patient-like)
The manipulee of the non-implicative ‘invite’ is marked as dative, but a ﬁner gradation is
created by the complement form — inﬁnitive in (86a) vs. ﬁnite subjunctive (86b) vs. ﬁnite
indicative (86c):
(86) a. Dat + inﬁnitive
María le-invitó a Juan a-comer
Mary dat-invited dat John inf-eat
‘Mary invited John to eat’ (strong invitation)
b. Dat + subjunctive
María le-pidió a-Juan que comiera
Mary dat-asked dat-John sub eat/subjun
‘Mary asked John that he eat’ (weaker)
68 Syntax
c. Unraised + indicative
María sabe que Juan ha comido
Mary knows sub John has eaten
‘Mary knows that John has eaten’
We noted above the correlation between the degree of clause integration and the degree of
control retained by the subject of the complement. That correlation may be now re-
formulated as the converse of (81) above:
(87) Event integration and agentivity
The less integrated the main and complement events are cognitively-semantically,
the more is the subject of the complement likely be construed as an independent,
controlling agent.
12.3.2.4Finite verb morphology
The third syntactic device used in coding the complementation scale is verb morphology,
where a scale runs between the ﬁnite verbal prototype and the non-ﬁnite nominal
prototype (§11.6). The non-ﬁniteness — or nominality — of a verbal form is coded
syntactically through a number of devices, three of which concern us here:
(88) Devices signalling reduced ﬁniteness of the verb
•reduced tense–aspect-modality marking
•reduced pronominal agreement marking
•derived nominal form of the verb
In the use of these devices for coding the complementation scale, one may make the
following hierarchic-implicational prediction:
(89) Event integration and nominal form
The higher a main verb is on the complementation scale, and the more integrated
the main and complement events are cognitively-semantically, the more nominal
— thus less ﬁnite — will the complement verb appear morphologically.
As ﬁrst illustration of prediction (89), consider again the forms of English complements,
ﬁrst in the case of modality verbs:
(90) a. Nominal
She ﬁnished her work
b. Participial
She started working
c. Inﬁnitive
She wanted to work
Although all three complement forms in (90) are non-ﬁnite, (90a) is clearly the most
nominal, (90b) a bit less nominal, and (90c) a bit less. A similar but fuller gradation is seen
in the transition from manipulation to PCU verbs:
Verbal complements and clause union 69
(91) a. Bare stem (co-lexicalized)
She let-go of his hand
b. Bare stem
She made him leave
c. Inﬁnitive
She told him to leave
d. Modal-subjunctive
She wished that he would leave
e. Modal-subjunctive + aspect
She hoped that he could have left
f. Tense with restrictions
She knew that he was leaving
g. Fully ﬁnite
She said: “He is leaving”
While possessing a considerable array of non-ﬁnite verb forms, English displays little gram-
matical agreement. The exploitation of this grammatical feature in coding the complemen-
tation scale can be shown in Arabic, in the contrast between the implicative ‘ﬁnish’ with a
nominalized complement and the non-implicative ‘want’ with a ﬁnite a ﬁnite complement:
(92) a. Nominal, Gen pronoun:
»
halasa shurl-u
ﬁnished-he work-his
‘He ﬁnished his work’
b. Finite, irrealis/subjunctive, Nom pronoun
kaana bidd-u yi-shrul
was-he want-his he-work/irr
‘He wanted to work’
The exploitation of pronominal agreement may create contrasts even at lower points on the
scale. As an illustration, consider the following from Bemba (Bantu). In this language, the
contrast between the inﬁnite and subjunctive complement forms is used to distinguish
between the implicative and non-implicative sense of the same lexical verb (Givón 1972a):
(93) a. Inﬁnitive
n-a-mu-konkomeshya uku-boomba
I-past-3sg/obj-force inf-work
‘I forced him/her to work’
b. Subjunctive
n-a-konkomeshya (uku-ti) a-boomb-e
I-past-order (sub) s/he-work-subjun
‘I ordered him/her to work’
‘I ordered that s/he should work’
70 Syntax
The manipulative sense ‘want’ and the desiderative sense ‘wish’ of the same lexical verb
both take subjunctive complements. The presence of a raised object pronoun, together with
a subordinator (see below), combine to code the subtle diﬀerence:
(94) a. Raised object pronoun, no subordinator
n-dee-mu-fwaaya a-boomb-e
1sg-prog-3sg/obj-want 3sg-work-subjun
‘I want him/her to work’
b. Unraised, with subordinator
n-dee-fwaaya uku-ti a-boomb-e
1sg-prog-want subord 3sg-work-subjun
‘I wish that s/he would work’
The exploitation of verb-form contrasts reach lower down yet along the complementation
scale in Bemba. Thus the diﬀerence between direct and indirect quote is signalled by the
form of the subordinator, derivative from the verb ‘say’. Indirect-quote complements,
higher on the scale, take an inﬁnitival form of the subordinator (95a,b). Direct-quote
complements, lowest on the scale, take a ﬁnite form of the subordinator, with obligatory
pronominal agreement controlled by the subject of the main verb (95c,d):
(95) a. Indirect quote, Inf subordinator
n-a-mu-ebele uku-ti n-a-boombele
1sg-past-him-tell inf-say 1sg-past-work
‘I told him that I worked’
b. Indirect quote, Inf subordinartor
a-a-mu-ebele uku-ti n-a-boombele
3sg-past-him-tell inf-say 1sg-past-work
‘He told him that I worked’
c. Direct quote, ﬁnite subordinator
n-a-mu-ebele n-a-ti: “n-a-boombele”
1sg-past-him-tell 1sg-past-say 1sg-past-work
‘I told him: “I worked”’
d. Direct quote, ﬁnite subordinator
a-a-mu-ebele a-a-ti: “n-a-boombele”
3sg-past-him-tell 3sg-past-say 1sg-past-work
‘He told him: “I worked”’
As noted earlier (§11.7.2.1), extreme nominalizing languages tend to nominalize, at least
historically, all non-main clauses, including verbal complements except for direct-quote
complements. In such languages, the coding density along the complementation scale can
be rather low. Sherpa (Tibeto-Burman) may serve as an illustration of this. The comple-
ments of all modality verbs in Sherpa are nominalized, though the nominal form of the
complement of the implicative ﬁnish is somehow ‘more lexical’, while the complements of
the non-implicative want or plan take the ‘more verbal’ inﬁnitive form. Lower down the
scale,indirect-quotecomplementsofPCUverbsalsotaketheinﬁnitiveform(K.Lama,i.p.c.):
Verbal complements and clause union 71
(96) a. Nominal-lexical
ti-gi chenyi cha-ng sin-sung
he-erg cup break-nom ﬁnish-perf
‘He ﬁnished breaking the cup’
b. Inﬁnitive
ti chenyi choq-up no-up kyaa-sung
he/abs cup break-inf want-noM do-perf
‘He wanted to break the cup’
c. Inﬁnitive
ti chenyi choq-up naasam tang-sung
he/abs cup break-inf mind put-perf
‘He planned to break the cup’
d. Inﬁnitive
ti-la ]ye wa-up-ti cha-no
he-dat I/gen come-inf-def know-perf
‘He knew that I came’
(lit.: ‘he knew of my coming’)
e. Finite, direct quote
ti-gi “]ga lagha kyaa-yin” si-no
he-erg I/abs work do-perf say-perf
‘He said: “I worked”’
12.3.2.5Subordinating morphemes
The cross-linguistic data surveyed above also furnish ample evidence for the systematic use
of subordinator morphemes in coding the event-integration scale. This use may be
summed up in the following implicational-hierarchic prediction:
(97) The complementation scale and subordinating morphemes
a. The lower the main verb is on the complementation scale, and thus the less
integrated the main and complement events are cognitively-semantically, the
more likely it is that a subordinating morpheme be used to separate the two
clauses.
b. If a language uses a subordinating morpheme at a certain point on the scale,
it will also use it at all points lower on the scale.
One apparent counter-example to prediction (97) is the contrast between direct- and
indirect-quote complements at the very bottom of the scale. In most languages surveyed —
with Bemba being an exception here — direct-quote complementation tends to involve no
subordinator morpheme, while indirect quote complementation may display it. However,
there exists another, more iconic, device for creating a temporal separation between the
main clause and its direct-quote complement — the use of intonation breaks or pauses.
Such pauses are indeed more likely to appear before direct-quote complements than before
indirect-quote complements.
72 Syntax
The pause separating direct-quote complements allows for cognitive reorientation
(Givón 1991b), whereby the speaker/hearer ‘shifts mental gears’ in terms of temporal,
spatial, referential or deictic orientation, as well as in terms of modal and evidential
coherence. In most oral traditions, this re-orientation is accompanied by a shift in voice
quality and mimicking of the quoted speaker.
The use of subordinators and pausing reﬂects the very same general iconic principle
(75), whereby the degree of cognitive separation between two events is isomorphically
mapped onto the degree of temporal separation between the two clauses.
12.3.2.6Enriching the scale with complementizers
As noted above, the gradation along the complementation scale may be intricate and
subtle. Many diﬀerent cognitive-semantic sub-features may play a role in creating meaning
contrasts along various segments of the scale. Each one of these features ties in with the
overall dimension of the scale — cognitive-semantic event integration — albeit through
diﬀerent pragmatic inferences. In any particular language, the number of discrete syntactic
coding points along the scale is limited.
Two other means exist for enriching the number of points along the scale.
•the use of diverse lexical verbs
•the use of diverse subordinators.
The ﬁrst has been made suﬃciently obvious throughout the preceding discussion. In this
section we will brieﬂy illustrate the second, which is historically derived from the ﬁrst.
We have already noted how the distinction between direct and indirect quote in Bemba
is coded by diﬀerent forms of the verb ‘say’, used as a subordinator. Indeed, ‘say’ is used in
many languages as a subordinator at the bottom range of the scale (Saxena 1988). At the
same lower range, KinyaRwanda (Bantu) codes the diﬀerence between presupposed and
asserted complements, or between strong and weak evidential strength, by contrasting two
complementizers (Givón and Kimenyi 1974):
(98) a. ya-razi ko amazi yari mare-mare
3sg/past-sure sub water was deep-deep
‘S/he was sure that the water was deep’
(> and it may or may not have been)
b. ya-razi ngo amazi yari mare-mare
3sg/past-sure sub water was deep-deep
‘S/he was sure — mistakenly — that the water was deep’
(> but in fact it wasn’t)
c. ya-bgiye ko wa-kora-ga cyaane
3sg/past-say sub you/past-work-hab hard
‘S/he said that you worked hard’
(> and I have no comment)
Verbal complements and clause union 73
d. ya-bgiye ngo wa-kora-ga cyaane
3sg/past-say sub you/past-work-hab hard
‘S/he said that you worked hard’
(> but I doubt it)
A much more elaborate use of complementizers can be seen in the recruitment of various
serial verbs to code ﬁner gradation on the scale in Krio, an English-based Creole. Four
complementizers — and their various combinations — are used in Krio, three of them
derived from English verbs (‘make’, ‘let’, ‘say’) and the fourth from the preposition ‘for’.
Not surprising, their positions on the scale as complementizers recapitulate, to quite an
extent, their positions as lexical main verbs:6
(99) ‘for’ > ‘make’ > ‘let’ > ‘say’
Thus consider (Givón 1980b):
(100) a. Zero complementizer = direct causation
a mek am it am
I make him eat it
‘I made him eat it’
b. ‘For’ = weaker manipulation
a ffs am ff
f it am
I force him for eat it
‘I forced him to eat it’
c. ‘For’ + ‘make’ = weaker manipulation
a ffs am ff
f m7
7k i it am
I force him for make he eat it
‘I prevailed upon him to eat it’
d. ‘Make’ = indirect causation
a mek m7
7k i it am
I make make he eat it
‘I had him eat it’
e. ‘For’ = communicated strong wish
a wan am ff
f kam
I want him for come
‘I wanted him to come’
f. Uncommunicated preference
a wan m7
7k i kam
I want make he come
‘I’d like him to come’
g. ‘Let’ = Weaker wish
a wan l7
7 i kam
I want let he come
‘I would like for him to come’
74 Syntax
h. ‘Say’ + ‘make’ = weaker wish
a wan se m7
7k i kam
I want say make he come
‘I wish that he would come’
i. ‘Say’ + subjunctive = weaker preference
a op se i go-ebul kam
I hope say he irr-able come
‘I hope that he would be able to come’
j. ‘Say’ = epistemic
a no se i bin-sik
I know say he been-sick
‘I thought that he was sick’
12.4 Causativization and syntactic clause-union
12.4.1 Co-lexicalization and the complementation scale
As seen above, morphological or lexical causativization, with a co-lexicalized causative verb
(or aﬃx), occupies the very top of the complementation scale. The aﬃxal status of the
causative morpheme is but the diachronic consequence of co-lexicalization of its precursor
manipulative verb. Over time, such constructions eventually become lexical-derivational,
whereby the erstwhile verb — ‘make’, ‘cause’, ‘let’ — loses its independent lexical status,
undergoes phonological reduction (‘bleaching’), and becomes a causative aﬃx on the
erstwhile complement verb.
At an early stage of this development, one may still consider the causative operator an
inﬂectional morpheme, marking the syntactic process of transitivization. But the potential
for considering the causative aﬃx as derivational is just as strong, since over time the
process becomes less regular and more lexically-governed. As an illustration of this,
consider the few surviving inchoative-causative verb-pairs in English:
(101) Old morpho-lexical causatives in English
Intransitive Transitive
sit
lie
rise
see
drink
clean
set
lay
raise
show
drench
cleanse
Such verb pairs are the last vestige of an older Germanic morphological causative, where
the transitive member of the pair was the derived form.
Verbal complements and clause union 75
When a language has both a periphrastic (‘syntactic’) and a morphological causative
construction, the following implicational-hierarchic prediction can be made (Givón
(1975a, 1976a).
(102) Morpho-lexical causatives and non-agentive manipulees
If a language has both a periphrastic (syntactic) and a morphological (co-
lexicalized) causative, the former is more likely to code weaker causation, with
an agentive human manipulee, while the latter is more likely to code stronger
causation, with an non-agentive inanimate manipulee.
Prediction (102) follows from predictions (16) and (24) earlier above, which note that
complex events with agentive manipulees will be lower on the scale than those with non-
agentive manipulees.
As an illustration of prediction (102), consider English, where the periphrastic
causative verbs ‘make’, ‘have’, ‘force’ and ‘let’ are typically used in causative constructions
with human manipulees (Givón 1975a). This contrasts with lexical causatives in (101)
above, or the morphological causatives in (103) below, which typically apply only to non-
human manipulees:
(103) Intransitive Transitive
theory
substance
dark
large
theor-ize
substanti-ate
dark-en
en-large
Bantu languages also conform in the main to this contrasting pattern between syntactic
and morphological causatives (Givón 1976a). And further cross-linguistic support for this
prediction can be found in Shibatani (ed. Forthcoming).
12.4.2 Semantic distinction in morphological causatives
As noted earlier above, in a language such as Yaqui all manipulative verbs are co-lexicalized
with their complements. In other words, all causative constructions are morphological
rather than syntactic. In such a language, whatever semantic distinctions that are made
along the manipulative portion of the complementation scale — implicativity, volition-
ality, strength, directness — must be coded by morphemic or lexical means, rather than by
syntactic-constructional means.
Consider now Japanese, where the most productive morphological causative, the suﬃx
-(s)ase, codes intended causation with a human-agentive manipulee, a pattern illustrated
in the acceptable (104b) vs. the unacceptable (104c) (Shibatani 1973, 1976b):
(104) a. Intransitive
Ziro-ga tomare-ta
Z.-subj stop-past
‘Jiro stopped’
76 Syntax
b. Agentive manipulee
Taroo-ga Ziroo-o tomare-ase-ta
T.-subj Z.-obj stop/int-caus-past
‘Taro made Jiro stop’ (physically, directly)
c. *Non-agentive manipulee
*Taroo-ga enzin-o tomare-ase-ta
T.-subj engine-obj stop/int-caus-past
(*‘Taro made the engine stop’)
In contrast, lexical — or morphologically irregular — causative patterns may apply to both
agentive and non-agentive manipulees. Thus, the intransitive ‘stop’ tomare- (104a) is
related to the corresponding transitive stem tome-, which admits both agentive (105a) and
non-agentive (105b) manipulees (Shibatani 1973, 1976b):
(105) a. Agentive manipulee
Taroo-ga Ziroo-o tome-ta
T.-subj Z.-obj stop/tr-past
‘Taro stopped Jiro’ (physically, directly)
b. Non-agentive manipulee
Taroo-ga enzin-o tome-ta
T.-subj engine-obj stop/tr-past
‘Taroo stopped the engine’ (physically, directly)
But even when the manipulee of tome- is human, as in (105a), the manipulation involves
brute force rather than persuasion, thus still contrasting with the productive morphological
causative -sase (104b).
When the morphological pattern with -(s)ase is used with an agentive manipulee, a
further distinction between can be made between direct/coercive vs. indirect/persuasive
manipulation. This is coded by the contrast between the accusative vs. the dative case-
marking on the manipulee (Shibatani 1973):
(106) a. ACC manipulee = direct/coercive
Taroo-ga Ziroo-o ik-ase-ta
T.-subj Z.-acc go-caus-past
‘Taro made Jiro go’
b. DAT manipulee = indirect/persuasive
Taroo-ga Ziroo-ni ik-ase-ta
T.-subj Z.-dat go-caus-past
‘Taro had Jiro go’
And the non-agentive manipulee of the non-productive lexical causative, as in (105b),
cannot take the dative case, even when it is human (Shibatani 1973):
(107) *Taroo-ga Ziroo-ni tome-ta
T.-subj Z.-dat stop/tr-past
Verbal complements and clause union 77
In Hindi, next, two morpho-lexical causative forms are used to code intended causation,
both capable of taking human manipulees. However, one of the two forms (“Caus-1”)
applies only to intransitive verb stems, so that its manipulee can also be inanimate. The
other (“Caus-2”) applies only to transitive verbs, so that its manipulee is most commonly
an agent. The less-regular — and diachronically older — “Caus-1” codes direct causation.
The more productive “Caus-2” codes indirect causation (Kachru 1976):
(108) a. Intransitive
shiisha »
tu»
t-ge-ya
mirror break-go-perf
‘The mirror broke’
b. Direct (“Caus-1”):
Ram-ne shiisha to»
r-di-ya
Ram-erg mirror break/caus1-give-perf
‘Ram broke the mirror’
c. Indirect (“Caus-2”)
Ram-ne Sham-se shiisha tu»
r-va-ya
Ram-erg Sham-by mirror break-caus2-perf
‘Ram had Sham break the mirror’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘Ram had the mirror broken by Sham’
The distribution of the two causatives in Hindi is predictable from general restrictions on
transitivity: The subject of transitives is typically a human-agent, thus capable of volition
and resistance. The indirect “Caus-2” thus ﬁts well, in both form and meaning, at a lower
point on the complementation scale.
Finally, if the manipulee in the indirect “Caus-2” pattern is mentioned overtly, it must
be case-marked as agent-of-passive (108c). In contrast, the non-agentive manipulee of the
direct “Caus-1” must be marked as the absolutive object (108b).
12.4.3 The case-marking of the manipulee in morpho-lexical causativization
As noted above, predictions (80) concerning the case-marking of the manipulee along the
complementation scale have been borne out by a wealth of cross-linguistic evidence. There
appears to be a strong correlation between case-marking and degree of event integration.
At the upper portions of the scale — strong, direct, intended, successful causation — the
manipulee is more likely to be marked as patient/DO. At lower portions — weaker,
indirect, unintended, unsuccessful manipulation — it is more likely to be marked as dative
or even agent/subject.
In an early work on the subject, Comrie (1976) suggested a more mechanical rule
governing manipulee case-marking in morphological causative constructions, citing data
similar to those of Japanese and Hindi. Roughly:
78 Syntax
(109) Comrie’s (1976) case-bumping hierarchy
If the accusative slot is already occupied, e.g. when the causative applies to a
transitive complement verb with a direct object, than the manipulee of the
causative construction will be assigned the next available case on the hierarchy
Acc > Dat > Agt.
As Cole (1977/1984) pointed out later, there was a systematic semantic explanation to
those data, along the line suggested above. The manipulee is typically a human agent when
causativization applies to transitive complements. And the manipulation of a human agent
tends to be weaker, less direct, less successful, with the manipulee retaining a larger
measure of agentive control.
Part of Cole’s (1977/1984) argument hinged on the re-interpretation of French
causativization data cited by Comrie. In French, if the complement verb in causativization
is agentive-transitive, the manipulee is coded by the agent-of-passive preposition par (‘by’).
If the complement verb is stative or takes a dative subject, the manipulee is coded by the
dative à (‘to’) (Cole 1977/1984):
(110) a. Il a fait-téléphoner au psychiâtre par Jean
he aux made-call dat psychiatrist by John
‘He had John call the psychiatrist’
b. Marie a reussi à faire-aimer la France à Jean
Marie aux succeed inf make-love def France dat John
‘Marie succeeded in making John love France’
The choice between dative vs. agent-of-passive case-marking of the manipulee in (110)
cannot be predicted from Comrie’s mechanical case-hierarchy bumping rule (109). Nor
can (109) predict the meaning contrast — indirect causation in (110a) vs. direct causation
(110b). Both contrasts are predictable within the framework outlined above.
12.5 Two typological routes to clause-union
12.5.1 Preamble
Earlier on (§11.7.2.1) we described the major scalar typological dimension of ﬁniteness. At
one end stood extreme nominalizing languages (No. Uto-Aztecan, Tibetan, Turkic), where
all subordinate clauses are nominalized or non-ﬁnite. At the other end stood extreme ﬁnite
languages (Athabaskan, Iroquois, So. Arawak), where all clause types are ﬁnite.
It is hardly an accident that the most conspicuous data supporting our intricate
complementation scale, and the systematic isomorphism between the cognitive-semantic
dimension of event integration and the syntactic dimension of clause-union, turn out to
come from languages in the middle of this typological continuum (English, Spanish,
Hebrew, Bantu). Such languages do have subordinate clauses that exhibit reduced
ﬁniteness. But while their complement clauses may exhibit some analogy with nominal
objects, they are not fully nominalized.
Verbal complements and clause union 79
In this section we return to this typological dimension from a somewhat broader
perspective, in the context of the two major diachronic routes to clause-union. What we
will show is that only in embedding languages, where clause-integration arises diachroni-
cally from embedded complement clauses of reduced ﬁniteness, does syntactic clause-
union ever reach completion. In serial-verb languages, on the other hand, where clause
integration arises diachronically from clause-chaining and no strong ﬁniteness gradation
exists between main and ‘subordinate’ clause, the very same semantic event combinations
yield incomplete clause-union.
12.5.2 Grammaticalization and clause-union
Clause-union has been traditionally discussed almost exclusively within the domain of
morphological causativization. But in fact it is a much wider phenomenon. Semantically,
a broad range of syntactic conﬁgurations can be the diachronic precursors to clause-union.
The common denominator in all clause-union types is the grammaticalization of one
verb in the two clauses to be merged. In embedding languages, it is most commonly the
main-clause verb that grammaticalized and becomes an aﬃx on the other verb.7
As a result,
the entire complex construction undergoes syntactic re-organization, most conspicuously
in terms of its grammatical relations. Prior to clause-union, the participants in each clause
bear GRs independently to their respective verbs. In the merged clause, they must all bear
their GRs to the single co-lexicalized verb.
As an illustration of some of the more common types of precursors to clause-union in
embedding languages, consider:
(111) a. Causativization
She let-go of his hand
b. Tense–aspect-modal auxiliaries
He will-eat the apple
They have-eaten their supper
c. Evidentials
They say she’s quitting
She’s quitting I hear
d. Directionals (Tok Pisin, Givón 1991b)
em tromwey sospan i-go
she threw.away saucepan pred-go
‘She threw the saucepan away’
e. Cognate objects
She made a left turn
f. Ideophone construction
He went kapow!
g. Resultative verb construction
She shot him dead
80 Syntax
h. Co-verb constructions (Wagiman; Wilson 1999)
liri-ma nga-ya-naggi munybaban
swim-asp I-go-past other.side
‘I swam to the other side’
In all these bi-predicate clauses, at least in some languages, one of the verbs grammatical-
izes, precipitating full clause-union.
The reason why clause-union has appeared so conspicuous in morphological causative
constructions is because the causative verb (111a) is itself transitive and thus takes an
object — the manipulee. When the complement is also transitive, competition ensues in
clause-union for the object GR — between the manipulee/object of the main verb and the
patient/object of the complement. This is the competition Comrie’s (1976) rule (109)
attempted to deal with.8
12.5.3 Relational constraints on clause-union
12.5.3.1Preliminaries
In both embedding and serializing languages, what started historically as two verbal
clauses, each with its own verb and its own set of GR-bearing arguments, can condense
over time into a single event clause with a uniﬁed set of GRs. Viewed diachronically, clause-
union may be thus deﬁned as follows:
(112) Clause-union from a diachronic perspective
The diachronic process by which two (or more) clauses, with two (or more)
distinct predicates and two (or more) distinct sets of GR-bearing arguments,
are merged to yield a single clause with a single set of GR-bearing arguments.
The two major diachronic venues for obtaining this type of syntactic complexity —
embedding vs. verb serialization — involve starkly diﬀerent strategies for creating a
complex multi-verb structures. Embedding languages arrive at clause-union through the
condensation of main clauses with their verbal complements. Serializing languages arrive at
clause-union, often with the very same semantic conﬁgurations, via the condensation of
two or more chained clauses.
In both embedding and serializing languages, two major types of relational conﬁgura-
tions can partake in clause union — equi-subject (SS) and switch-subject (DS). The two
types have somewhat diﬀerent consequences in clause-union, and it is best to consider
them separately.
12.5.3.2Clause-union in equi-subject (SS) conﬁgurations
a.
Embedding languages
Clause-union of equi-subject (SS) conﬁgurations is the main diachronic venue of
grammaticalized auxiliaries (thus T-A-M markers; see (111b) above), directionals (111e),
cognate object clauses (111f), ideophone clauses (111g) and co-verb constructions (111i).
In embedding languages, the initial syntactic conﬁguration for SS clause-union is that of
Verbal complements and clause union 81
equi-subject complementation, i.e. that of modality verbs. In embedding languages, verbal
complements are constructed by analogy with nominal objects of transitive clauses.
The main then verb retains much of the ﬁnite inﬂections, such as tense–aspect-modality
and pronominal aﬃxes. The complement verb is either partially or fully nominalized,
exhibiting less-ﬁnite morphology.
In both VO and OV languages, SS-complementation places the complement verb
directly adjacent to the main verb (Givón 1971). Thus compare the VO complementation
pattern of English (113a) with the OV pattern of Ute (113b):
(113) Equi-subject (SS) clause-union in embedding languages
a. English (VO)
S
Subj
Mary
VP
V Comp
[S]
Wnished
Subj VP
[Ø]
V Obj
reading the-book
b. Ute (OV) (Givón 1980a):
S
Subj
Mary
Mary
VP
Comp
[S]
V
Subj VP
Obj V
[Ø] po’oqwatu
=
book/obj
puni’ni - maku
look.at - nish
- kwa
-
W perf
‘Mary nished reading the book’
W
When the main verb (‘ﬁnish’) grammaticalizes into a perfect(ive) aspect, it becomes — at
least initially — a ﬁnite auxiliary that remains, morpho-syntactically, the main verb of the
complex two-verb clause, as in English (113a). When that auxiliary grammaticalizes, it
becomes a preﬁx on the complement verb in a VO language, or a suﬃx in an OV language.
82 Syntax
With cliticization, the erstwhile auxiliary now brings along with it all its ﬁnite morphology
to the new main verb, as in Ute (113b).
b.
Serial-verb languages
In serial-verb languages, two factors conspire against complete clause-union. First, the
precursor chained structure most often prevents verb adjacency, scattering the verbs on
opposite sides of the object NP. One of the verbs in the clause may grammaticalize
semantically, but the two non-adjacent verbs cannot co-lexicalize. As an illustration of this,
compare the SS-complementation of the embedding languages in (113) above with the
serial-verb languages Saramaccan (VO) and Supyire (OV) in (114) below:
(114) Equi-subject (SS) clause-union in serial-verb languages
a. Saramaccan (VO) (Byrne 1987):
S
Subj VP
[S]
VP
V Obj
Subj VP
V
kaba
nish
W
di-wosu
the-house
bi-
-
fe
paint
W
tns
a
he
‘He nished painting the house’
(Hist.:
W
W
‘He painted the house and nished’)
[Ø]
b. Supyire (OV) (Carlson 1994):
S
Subj VP
VP
Perf V Perf V
Obj
à
perf
u-kuntunu-s ge
her-monkey-skin
77
V
V
kaba
nish
W
nura
return
perf
[Ø]
she
‘...and she again took her monkey-skin...’
(Hist.: ‘...and she returned and took her monkey-skin...’
maa
and
When ‘ﬁnish’ in (114a) and ‘return’ in (114b) grammaticalize as aspect markers, they have
no adjacent main verb to cliticize onto.
The second factor is tangentially related to the ﬁrst. As noted above, the V-complement
conﬁguration that gives rise to clause-union in embedding languages is structured by
analogy with the V-OBJ conﬁguration of the simple clause. In such constructions, the main
Verbal complements and clause union 83
verb retains all ﬁnite verbal features, while the complement verb is nominalized or less-
ﬁnite. When clause-union occurs in this syntactic conﬁguration, the grammaticalized main
verb — now co-lexicalized with the complement verb — contributes all its ﬁnite inﬂections
to the combined single lexical verb. As an illustration of this, consider the Spanish
auxiliaries in:
(115) a. se-lo-est-amos explicando
dat/3sg-acc/3sg.masc-be-1p explain/part
‘We are explaining it to him/her’
b. se-la-h-an dado
dat/3sg-acc/3sg.fem-have-3p give/part
‘They have given it to her/him’
In many serial-verb languages, the verbs in the precursor chained structure are of equal
ﬁniteness. When an erstwhile chain condenses into a single serial clause, the verbs in it
likewise do not diverge in ﬁniteness. What is more, even in languages where ﬁnite verbal
morphology had consolidated on a single verb in the precursor chain — and thus on a
single verb in the resulting serial clause, that verb could just as easily be the semantically-
bleached, grammaticalized verb. Thus, in Miskitu (OV), the grammaticalized chain-ﬁnal
‘go’ in (116) below displays all ﬁnite marking, while the semantic main-verb ‘ﬂy’ is non-
ﬁnite (Hale 1991):
(116) Baha usus-ka pali-i wa-n
that buzzard-cns ﬂy-inf go-past/3
‘That buzzard ﬂew away’
Similarly in Saramaccan (VO), the grammaticalized chain-ﬁnal ‘give’ in (104) carries the
ﬁnite inﬂection, while the semantic main-verb ‘buy’ goes unmarked (Byrne 1992):
(117) Koﬁ bai di buku bi-da di muyee
Koﬁ buy the book tns-give the woman
‘Koﬁ bought the book for the woman’
The conﬂation of both factors — verb dispersal and lack of consolidated single locus for
ﬁnite verbal morphology — renders clause-union in a serializing language a rather
diﬀerent syntactic aﬀair than in an embedding language. Even in equi-subject (SS) clauses,
serializing languages tend to preserve much of the original morpho-syntax of the precursor
chained structure, retaining multi-VP structures and multi-object relations (Osam 1997).
12.5.3.3Clause-union in switch-subject (DS) conﬁgurations
a.
Embedding languages
Switch-subject (DS) clause-union involves a family of, broadly, causative or resultative
constructions. These structures are patterned on DS-complementation of manipulation
verbs such as ‘make’, ‘cause’, ‘force’ or ‘let’. In embedding languages, this pattern concen-
trates all ﬁnite marking on the main verb, leaving the complement verb nominalized or less-
ﬁnite. The DS co-reference constraint in such constructions is (see (4)/(5) earlier above):
84 Syntax
(118) Co-reference condition in DS complementation
The object/manipulee of the main verb is the subject/agent of the complement.
Syntactically, the manipulee bears some object relation to the main verb, and there is no
syntactic evidence to support the contention that the manipulee retains any subject
properties vis-a-vis the complement verb (Givón 1995a: Ch.6).
In OV languages, the main causative verb in DS complementation always winds up
adjacent to the complement verb. As in Ute (Givón 1980a):
(119)
tu
=kuavi
meat/obj
S
Subj VP
Obj Comp
[S]
V
may
tell
-kyay-’u
- -3 /
ant sg an
mamach
woman/subj
ta’wachi
man/obj
Subj VP
Obj V
[Ø] ciira
fry
-vaa-ch
-irr-nom
‘The woman told the man to fry the meat’
The adjacency of the main and complement verbs makes co-lexicalization and full clause-
union only a matter of time — provided the main verb grammaticalizes semantically, as
is the case with the causative construction in Ute:
(120) S
Subj VP
Obj Comp
[S]
V
mamach
woman/subj
ta’wachi
man/obj
Subj VP
Obj V
tu
=kuavi
meat/obj
[Ø] ciira-ti
fry- - -3 .
caus ant sg an
-kyay-’u
‘The woman made the man fry the meat’
The syntactic structure in (120) is actually too abstract, since full clause-union leaves us
a complex bi-transitive verb with two objects — one the causee, the other the patient of
‘fry’. A more accurate syntactic characterization of (120) is thus:
Verbal complements and clause union 85
(121) S
Subj VP
Obj V
mamach
woman/subj
ta’wachi
man/obj
tu
=kuavi
meat/obj
ciira-ti
fry- - -3 .
caus ant sg an
-kyay-’u
‘The woman made the man fry the meat’
Obj
In embedding VO languages, the situation is compounded a bit by the fact that there is no
automatic verb adjacency in DS-complementation, with the main-clause object of the
main verb intervening:
(122) S
Subj VP
V Comp
[S]
Obj
Mary made John
Subj VP
V Obj
cook the-meat
[Ø]
Over time, VO languages can nonetheless aﬀect predicate raising and co-lexicalization, as
in Spanish:
(123) María se-la-hizo comer la manzana a Juan
Mary him-it-make/pret/3sg eat/inf the apple dat John
‘Mary made John eat the apple’
The pronominal clitics agreeing with the two objects in (123) now appear at the beginning
of the verbal complex, regardless of the fact that ‘apple’ is the patient of ‘eat’. And there
is no morpho-syntactic evidence that the two objects bear their respective grammatical
relations to two diﬀerent verbs, or partake in two diﬀerent VPs.
b.
Serial-verb languages
Here again, serial-verb languages come short of full clause-union. Of the four syntactic
devices universally used to code clause-integration (65), serial-verb languages skip three:
•They tend to keep apart the multi-verbs in the serial clause, thus show no co-
lexicalization (65a).
•They tend to cluster their objects with their respective verbs as distinct VPs, so that
several objects may bear the same grammatical relation within the clause — each to its
own verb (65b) (Osam 1997).
86 Syntax
•They often fail to vest all ﬁnite morphology in a single verb, and thus have weak
ﬁniteness gradation among the multi-verbs of the serial clause (65c).
The only structural device serializing languages use consistently to indicate clause
integration is the most universal and iconic one — intonation. The multi-verb — indeed
multi-VP — serial clause is placed under a uniﬁed intonation contour, with neither pause
nor subordinator (65d).
With respect to the subject GR, serial-verb languages stand on a par with embedding
languages, facing the same problem in the analysis of switch-subject (DS) merged clauses.
Thus, consider the serial resultative (DS) construction:
(124) a. Akan (Osam 1997)
Esi yi-i tam-no ﬁ-i pon-no-don
Esi take-past cloth-the leave-past table-the-on
‘Esi took the cloth oﬀ the table’
(lit.: ‘Esi took the clause and it left the table’)
b. Miskitu (Hale 1991)
Yang truk-kum atk-ri wa-n
I truck-a sell-ds/1 go-past/3
‘I sold the truck away’
(lit.: ‘I sold the truck and it went’)
c. Tok Pisin (Givón 1991b)
…em layt nau paya i-kamap…
…she light now ﬁre pred-come.up
‘…She lights the ﬁre…’
(lit.: ‘She lights the ﬁre and it comes up’)
d. Tok Pisin (Givón 1991b)
…em tromwey sospan i-go…
…she threw.away saucepan pred-go
‘She threw the saucepan away’
(lit.: ‘She threw the saucepan and it went’)
e. Kalam (Givón 1991b)
…mon d-angiy-ek yin-ip…
…wood take-light-past/seq/ds/3sg burn-perf/3sg
‘…She lights the wood…’
(lit.: ‘She takes and lights the wood ant it burns’)
In all these examples, the object of the ﬁrst verb is semantically the subject of the second.
Often the old switch-reference morphology of the precursor chain is left intact in the
serial clause (124b,e). But, by all available syntactic tests for GRs, the semantic ‘subject’
of the second verb is a grammatical object in the serial clause (Givón 1995: Ch.6).
The same also applies to causative constructions in serializing languages:
Verbal complements and clause union 87
(125) a. Supyire (Carlson 1994)
mii à u karima à ngukuu lyi
I perf him force perf chicken eat
‘I forced him to eat the chicken’
(lit.: ‘I forced him and he ate the chicken’)
b. Ijo (Williamson 1965)
woni u mie-ni indi die-mi
we him make-asp ﬁsh share-asp
‘We made him share the ﬁsh’
(lit.: ‘We made him and he shared the ﬁsh’)
c. Ijo (Williamson 1965)
ari u mie mu-mi
I him make go-asp
‘I chased him away’
(lit.: ‘I chased him and he went’)
And likewise with the limited serial-resultative pattern in English:
(126) a. They shot him dead
(‘They shot him and he is dead’)
b. They struck him dumb
(‘They struck him and he became dumb’)
c. She broke the box open
(‘She broke it so that it opened’)
d. He packed/stuﬀed it full of rocks
(‘He packed/stuﬀed it and it is full of rocks’)
e. She wiped/rubbed it dry/clean
(‘She wiped/rubbed it and it is dry/clean’)
f. They pried the door open
(‘They pried the door and it is open’)
12.5.4 Degree of grammaticalization and the re-analysis of GRs in clause-union
There is a certain correlation, albeit not a perfect one, between the degree of semantic
grammaticalization of the main verb and the re-alignment of grammatical relations in
clause union. Consider ﬁrst the contrast between the non-grammaticalized verb ‘want’
and the grammaticalized modal ‘will’ in English:
(127) a. I want to eat the apple
b. *The apple wants to be eaten
c. I will eat the apple
d. The apple will be eaten
88 Syntax
Historically, ‘will’ meant ‘want’ and selected a dative subject. It also had the same syntactic
properties as ‘want’, so that (115b) would have been equally implausible earlier on. Only
when ‘will’ became semantically bleached and lost its earlier selectional restrictions could
the patient/object of the complement verb be promoted to the subject of the passive
clause (115d). But now it is not a selected subject of the modal ‘will’, but rather a selected
patient-subject of the passive ‘be eaten’.
In the same vein, compare the behavior of the grammaticalized modal ‘can’ with its
ungrammaticalized semantic counterpart ‘be able to’:
(128) a. She was able to eat the apple
b. *The apple was able to be eaten
c. She can eat the apple
d. The apple can be eaten
Likewise, compare the long-grammaticalized progressive auxiliary ‘be’ with the more
recently grammaticalizing ‘keep’, ‘ﬁnish’, ‘stop’ and ‘resume’:
(129) a. He was ﬁxing the roof
b. The roof was being ﬁxed
c. He kept ﬁxing the roof
d. ??The roof kept being ﬁxed
e. He ﬁnished washing the dishes
f. ??The dishes ﬁnished being washed
g. She stopped writing her memoirs
h. ??Her memoirs stopped being written
i. She resumed writing her memoirs
j. ??Her memoirs resumed being written
Next, consider the slightly less clear contrast between the long-grammaticalized modal
‘should’ and its close semantic equivalent ‘need to’:
(130) a. They should build the house there
b. The house should be built there
c. They need to build the house there
d. ?The house needs to be built there
The fact that the grammaticalization of ‘need’ is now in progress is evident from seeming
acceptability of passive expressions such as:
(131) a. It needs to be done
b. This paper needs to be careful edited
c. His room needs to be cleaned
What we observe here is a correlation between the degree of grammaticalization of an
erstwhile main verb and the degree of completion of syntactic clause-union. When a main
verb is not fully grammaticalized semantically, it continues to exert strong semantic
restrictions on its subject. The complement-clause patient is semantically inadmissible as
subject of the main verb. Nor is the complement-clause patient admissible as patient of
Verbal complements and clause union 89
the main verb, because the main verb does not take that type of a patient. Being inadmis-
sible as a patient, the lower-clause object is also inadmissible as a main-clause object. It
thus cannot be promoted to subject-of-passive in the main clause for two reasons:
•The main verb will not tolerate it semantically, neither as its agent nor as its patient.
•As grammatical object of an embedded clause, it cannot be promoted to subject-of-
passive in the main clause.
When the erstwhile main-verb reaches full semantic grammaticalization, so that it exerts
no selectional restrictions of its own, the erstwhile complement verb becomes semantical-
ly the main verb. Only now can the patient of this newly-crowned main verb bear an
object relation within the uniﬁed clause — and thus become accessible to passivization.
12.6 Closure
The profound semantic and syntactic scalarity of complementation illuminates the
syntactic process of clause-union as an iconic reﬂection of the cognitive-semantic process
of event integration. Through gradual diachronic evolution, erstwhile multiple simple
events can merge cognitively-semantically and then be re-interpreted as unitary complex
events. In parallel, erstwhile simple clauses can be merged and reanalyzed as syntactically
complex single clauses. Full clause-union — with co-lexicalized verbs, a uniﬁed set of
GRs, and a re-consolidated single-focused ﬁnite morphology — is but the apex of the
graduated syntactic scale of clause integration. The profound scalarity of
complementation merely illuminates the fact that clause-union is a gradual diachronic
process.
Notes
1. The analogy is fundamentally diachronic, thus a matter of the semantic extension responsible for
the systematic polysemy of particular verbs and verb-classes (see Vol.I, §3.3.8).
2. Pragmatic inferences lack the binding deductive force of logical implications, and are typically
probabilistic (see Givón 1989).
3. Many languages furnish examples of cognition verbs as metaphoric extensions of speech verbs,
albeit internal speech.
4. A phonologically more conservative form of ‘say’, tia, has grammaticalized as a quotative suﬃx
in Yaqui, the footprint of an earlier cycle of co-lexicalization. Lindenfeld (1973) notes that the
quotative use of ‘say’ is optional for indirect quotes but obligatory for direct quotes:
aapo hunen hia ke hu hamut tutu’uli(-tia)
he thus say subord this woman pretty(-say)
‘He says that this woman is pretty’
in kuna (hia) si yuk-ne-tia
my husband (say) much rain-irr-say
‘My husband says: “It’s going to rain a lot”’
90 Syntax
5. For the Spanish examples here, I am indebted to Sylvia Romero, Karen Coral, Juana Marín and
Linda Cruz-Givón (in personal communication). Example (85b) may be unacceptable in standard
peninsular Spanish.
6. This obviously does not apply to ‘for’, which is already a grammaticalized preposition.
7. This aﬃxation of one verb to another is sometimes called predicate raising in the discussion of
morphological causativization.
8. The same is true in the case of the auxiliary ‘have’ (111b). In whose original construction, the
object bore its GR to ‘have’, e.g.: ‘They have their supper eaten’. Only subsequent restructuring
brought the two verbs together, and only later on was the construction generalized to intransitive
complements (‘They have left’).
</TARGET "12">
<TARGET "13" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "De-transitive voice"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 13
De-transitive voice
13.1 Overview
13.1.1 Major themes
In this chapter we survey a cluster of constructions traditionally associated, in one way or
another, with de-transitive voice. The approach pursued here will on occasion diverge
from the traditional,1
and will be guided by a set of partially converging assumptions.
These assumptions are in the main a matter of common sense to functionalists and
typologists, and are all well known in their respective domains. I will note them brieﬂy in
order.
•The complex functional domain of voice
Whatever has been meant traditionally by grammatical voice, passive voice or diathesis is
part and parcel of a vast multi-dimensional functional domain, that of transitivity and de-
transitivization.
•The multiplicity of de-transitive constructions
The functional domain of de-transitive voice is coded, in any particular language, by a
family of syntactic constructions whose number and functional distribution may vary
considerably from one language to the next. The most universals aspects of de-transitive
voice remain its underlying functional sub-domains.
•Semantic vs. pragmatic de-transitivity
The functional domain of de-transitive voice pertains to two distinct aspects of transitivi-
ty, one primarily semantic, the other primarily pragmatic. The family of de-transitive
constructions found in any particular language can be thus divided into constructions
whose import is primarily semantic, and those whose import is primarily pragmatic. This
does not preclude well-known interactions between the two, or diachronic change from
one to the other.2
The major sub-domains of de-transitive voice, those that are most commonly coded
by distinct syntactic constructions cross-linguistically, are:
(1) Sub-domains of de-transitive voice
a. Primarily semantic
•reﬂexive
•reciprocal
•middle-voice
•adjectival-resultative
92 Syntax
b. Primarily pragmatic
•passive
•antipassive
•inverse
Each of these in turn contrasts with the active-transitive voice, the neutral unmarked
clause type.
•The diachronic perspective on typology
De-transitive constructions, most conspicuously the passive, commonly arise via re-
grammaticalization of some functionally-related construction. Some of the precursors to
the passive, for example, are other de-transitive voice constructions, either semantic or
pragmatic. Others belong to functional domains that partially overlap with the passive.
The most common of the latter are:
•impersonal-subject constructions
•nominalizations
•left dislocation
•Y-movement
•adjectival resultative
The diachronic connections of the passive and other de-transitive voice constructions are
important in two ways. First, they shed considerable light on the functional aspects of de-
transitive voice, since — much like in biological evolution — the functional extension of
syntactic constructions is driven primarily by functional similarity.
Second, the diachronic perspective explains much of the synchronic typological
variation, both cross-linguistically and within the very same language. Typological
diversity within any particular functional domain is due to the fact that a complex
domain, being multi-featured, overlaps with several others and can thus be ‘colonized’ by
any of them via re-grammaticalization.
As elsewhere in grammar, typological diversity is but the reﬂection of diachronic-
source diversity, thus of possible functional overlaps among related domains. Syntactic
typology, in turn, is but the enumeration of the most common diachronic sources that
can grammaticalize a particular functional domain (Vol.I, §1.6).
13.1.2 The functional domain of de-transitive voice
13.1.2.1Semantics vs. pragmatics: Relevant context
In distinguishing between semantic and pragmatic voice constructions, our guiding
criterion is the same one observed throughout this work — the scope of the relevant
context on which the functional deﬁnition of a construction depends. Primarily semantic
voice constructions are those whose functional deﬁnition does not depend on entities
outside the boundaries of the event-clause. Primarily pragmatic voice constructions are
those whose functional deﬁnition depends on some facets of the wider, extra-clausal,
discourse context.
De-transitive voice 93
13.1.2.2The semantics of de-transitive voice
Of the multiple semantic dimensions that exhibit strong statistical associations with the
active–transitive clause (Hopper and Thompson 1980), three are central to the deﬁnition
of the transitive prototype, each corresponding to one central cognitive-semantic aspect
of the prototypical transitive event (Vol.I, §3.1.5.1):
(2) Prototype transitive event
a. Agent: The prototype transitive event involves a volitional, controlling,
active, initiating agent responsible for the event — the salient cause.
b. Patient: The prototypical transitive event involves a non-volitional, inactive,
non-controlling patient that registers the event’s changes-of-state — the
salient eﬀect.
c. Verb: The verb of the prototypical transitive clause codes an event that is telic
(compact), perfective (bounded), sequential (non-perfect) and realis (non-
hypothetical). The prototype transitive event is thus fast-paced, completed,
real, and cognitively salient.
Primarily-semantic de-transitive voice constructions are those that tamper with transitivi-
ty in terms of these three main semantic parameters:
•decreased agentivity of the agent/subject
•decreased aﬀectedness of the patient/object
•decreased telicity or perfectivity of the verb
13.1.2.3The pragmatics of de-transitive voice
In surveying pragmatic voice constructions, one notes ﬁrst that the very same semantical-
ly-transitive event, coded by the very same prototypical telic verb, active agent and
aﬀected patient — our transitive event ‘theme’ — can be rendered by several de-transitive
voice constructions (‘variations’). Clearly, the semantics of transitivity is not aﬀected in
such constructions. Rather, they render the same semantically-transitive event from
diﬀerent pragmatic perspectives. These perspectives turn out to involve, primarily
although not exclusively, the relative topicality of the agent and patient.
The deﬁnition of the four main pragmatic de-transitive voices was developed ﬁrst in
Cooreman (1982, 1985, 1987, 1988) and Cooreman et al. (1984), and then elaborated in
many subsequent cross-language studies of voice constructions (Rude 1985; Thompson
1987a, 1978b,c, 1989; Tsunoda 1985, 1987; Zavala 1994; Givón ed. 1994a; inter alia).
(3) Relative topicality of the agent and patient in the four main pragmatic voice
constructions
Voice Relative topicality
active-direct
inverse
passive
antipassive
Agt > Pat
Agt < Pat
Agt << Pat
Agt >> Pat
94 Syntax
The neutral, unmarked transitive voice, the active-direct, is deﬁned pragmatically as the
voice construction in which both the agent and the patient are topical, but the agent is
more topical than the patient. Relative to this benchmark, the three main pragmatic de-
transitive voices are deﬁned as:
(4) Functional deﬁnition of main de-transitive voices
a. Inverse: The patient is more topical than the agent but both agent and
patient are topical.
b. Passive: The agent is extremely non-topical (‘suppressed’, ‘demoted’), so
that the patient is the surviving topical argument in the clause.
c. Antipassive: The patient is extremely non-topical (‘suppressed’,
‘demoted’), so that the agent is the surviving topical argument in the
clause.
In deﬁning the main pragmatic voices as in (3)/(4) above, one must keep in mind that
these are but the most commonly attested prototypes, the ones most likely to receive
distinct syntactic coding cross-linguistically. As Thompson (1989) has noted, many more
subtle voice contrasts can be grammaticalized in a particular language, so that a language
may have several passives, several inverses, several antipassives — let alone several direct-
active — voice constructions.
13.1.2.4Syntactic correlates of voice
The syntax of voice will be discussed in considerable detail further below, in the context
of the cross-language typology of various voice constructions. At this point, only a few
highlights need to be mentioned.
First, the active-direct construction is most commonly coded as the prototype
syntactically-transitive construction. In this clause-type the agent, being the most topical
argument, has the strongest claim to the GR subject, with the rest of the participants
ranking lower in the familiar access-to-GRs hierarchy (Vol.I, §4.4.2.2).
Agt > Dat/Ben > Pat > others
In turn, the most common grammatical object in the prototype syntactically-transitive
clause is the patient, in spite of the fact that in head-on competition it defers to the dative-
benefactive.3
In the passive voice, some non-agent — most often the patient — is the most topical
clausal argument. Unlike in the active clause, however, the grammatical subjecthood of
the topical argument in the passive cannot be taken for granted. Rather, it is the subject
of a major typological variation between two main types — promotional vs. non-promo-
tional passive. Only in promotional passives, those in which a non-agent becomes the
subject, is the case-hierarchy of access to GRs relevant (excluding the agent):
Dat/Ben > Pat > others
GRs and transitivity in the antipassive voice, like in the passive, is again subject to
considerable typological variation. In some language types — or in some antipassive types
De-transitive voice 95
— the patient may lose its direct-object status. When the patient of the antipassive is thus
‘demoted’, the antipassive clause is syntactically intransitive, lacking a direct object.
Finally, inverse constructions are subject to a similar typological variation as passives,
so that the more topical non-agent argument may be promoted to subjecthood in some
languages (or in some inverse types) but not in others.
13.2 Semantic de-transitive voice constructions
13.2.1 Reﬂexives and reciprocals
Since there are strong functional and syntactic parallelisms between reﬂexive and
reciprocal clauses, to the point where in many languages they share their grammatical
morphology, we will treat them under the same roof.
13.2.1.1Semantic dimensions
The semantic deﬁnition of reﬂexive events or states is given below in a way that also
includes some elements of reﬂexive syntactic structure. This inclusion is precipitated by
the central role grammatical relations play in the control of reﬂexive and reciprocal
constructions (see further below).
(5) Semantic deﬁnition of reﬂexives
The subject and object of the event or state, regardless of their semantic roles,
are co-referent. That is, the subject acts upon (or relates to) itself.
The neutral active–transitive in (6a), in which the subject and object are not co-referent,
contrasts with the reﬂexive (6b), in which the subject and object are co-referent, and
where the object is represented by a reﬂexive pronoun:
(6) a. Active–transitive
She cut her (she π her)
b. Reﬂexive
She cut herself (she = herself)
The reﬂexive clause (6b) may be represented schematically in tree diagram (7):
(7) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
V Obj
[NP]
She cut herself
Reﬂexive events, even those involving semantically-transitive verbs such as ‘cut’ in (6)/(7),
are semantically lower in transitivity for two main reasons. First, the semantic deﬁnition
96 Syntax
of transitive event (2) requires two highly distinct participants, an agent and a patient, of
radically diﬀerent semantic properties. But the co-reference condition on the reﬂexive
clause perforce requires that the very same semantic argument-type — either human/
agent in (8a) below, non-human/non-agent in (8b), or human non-agent in (8c) —
occupies both the subject and object roles:
(8) a. Marvin killed himself
b. The house doesn’t resemble itself (anymore)
c. Mary saw herself (in the mirror)
The reﬂexive conﬁguration, whether an action (8a), a state (8b) or a non-agentive event
(8c), thus strongly diverges from the rigid semantic-role polarity of the transitive
prototype (2).
Second, reﬂexive clauses need not be transitive, neither semantically nor syntactically.
Thus consider:
(9) a. Semantic Tr, syntactic Tr
She cut herself
b. Semantic Intr, syntactic Tr
She loves herself
c. Semantic (partial) Tr, syntactic Intr
She talks to herself
d. Semantic Intr, syntactic Intr
She looks like herself
Indeed, because of the co-reference requirement of reﬂexives, reﬂexive events or states
tend to be rather atypical transitives: only verbs that can take the same semantic partici-
pant type as both subject and object can be reﬂexivized. Consequently, many of the most
prototypical semantically-transitive verbs can be reﬂexivized only metaphorically:
(10) a. ?She broke herself
b. ?She made herself
c. ?He built himself
d. ?He folded himself
e. ?She cooked herself
f. ?She boiled herself
The semantic — and again partially syntactic — deﬁnition of reciprocals, given in (11)
below, closely parallels that of reﬂexives.
(11) Semantic deﬁnition of reciprocals
Two (or more) like events, coded by the very same verb, are represented jointly
in a single clause, with the subject of the ﬁrst being the object of the second, and
vice versa. The two participants are thus reciprocally co-referent. They act upon
(or relate to) each other.
De-transitive voice 97
The neutral active–transitive in (12a) below, in which the subject and object are not
reciprocally co-referent, contrasts with the reciprocal (12b), in which the subject and
object are, and where the object is represented by a reciprocal pronoun:
(12) a. Active–transitive
Mary and John fed them (Mary and John π them)
b. Reciprocal
Mary and John fed each other (May and John = each other)
The reciprocal clause (12b) may be represented schematically in tree-diagram (13):
(13) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
V Obj
[NP]
fed each other
NP Conj NP
Mary and John
Much like reﬂexives, reciprocal events — even those involving semantically transitive
verbs such as ‘feed’ in (12)/(13) — are semantically of lower transitivity, and for the same
two main reasons. Once again, the reciprocally co-referent arguments of the reciprocal
clause must be of the very same semantic-type — either human/agent (14a), non-human/
non-agent (14b), or human non-agent (14c) — in order to occupy the subject role in one
event and the object role in the reciprocal converse:
(14) a. Marvin and Susan kicked each other
b. The two houses resemble each other
c. They saw each other
The reciprocal conﬁguration, whether an action (14a), a state (14b) or a non-agentive
event (14c), thus diverges just as strongly as the reﬂexive from the semantic-role polarity
of the transitive prototype.
Likewise, reciprocal clauses need not be transitive, neither semantically nor syntact-
ically:
(15) a. Semantic Tr, syntactic Tr
They shot each other
b. Semantic Intr, syntactic Tr
They knew each other
c. Semantic (partial) Tr, syntactic Intr
They voted for each other
d. Semantic Intr, syntactic Intr
They are similar to each other
98 Syntax
Much like reﬂexives then, reciprocal events or states tend to be non-prototypical transi-
tives, and many of the most prototypical semantically-transitive verbs can be rendered as
reciprocal only metaphorically:
(16) a. ?They broke each other
b. ?They made each other
c. ?They built each other
d. ?They folded each other
e. ?They cooked each other
f. ?They drank each other
In sum, the co-reference constraints on reﬂexives and reciprocals make it much more
natural for reﬂexive and reciprocal clauses — even with active verbs — to involve dative,
benefactive or associative arguments. Such semantically less-transitive conﬁgurations make
it possible for both constructions to abide by their co-reference constraints:
(17) a. She sent herself a letter (Agt-Dat)
b. They talked to each other (Agt-Dat)
c. He did himself a favor (Agt-Ben)
d. They made each other Christmas presents (Agt-Ben)
e. She competed only with herself (Agt-Assoc)
f. He knew himself (Dat-Pat)
g. She talked regularly (Agt-Assoc)
h. They met regularly (Agt-Assoc)
i. They danced (together) regularly (Agt-Assoc)
j. They saw each other regularly (Dat-Dat)
k. She hated herself (Dat-Pat)
l. They agreed with each other (Dat-Assoc)
m. He doesn’t trust himself (Dat-Pat)
When the subject-object is not human, the reﬂexive or reciprocal verb is often stative-
intransitive, with a patient-subject, as in:
(18) a. These two houses resemble each other
b. This number equals itself
Indeed, it is natural to use reﬂexives with a patient subject as the functional equivalent of
agentless passives (§13.3.2.1):
(19) a. His suggestion proved itself useful
(= His suggestion was proven to be useful)
b. One rock dislodged itself from the cliﬀ-face
(= One rock was dislodged oﬀ the cliﬀ-face)
c. The trees distributed themselves rather evenly around the meadow
(= The trees were distributed rather evenly)
De-transitive voice 99
The seemingly innocuous co-reference constraints on reﬂexive and reciprocal thus turn
out to conspire so that the typical reﬂexive or reciprocal clause is semantically less-
transitive, with either a non-agent subject or non-patient object. In the following section,
we will see how syntactic factors conspire just as strongly to push reﬂexives and recipro-
cals in the same de-transitive direction.
13.2.1.2Syntactic and typological dimensions
13.2.1.2.1Non-distinct arguments. On the face of it, the syntactic structure of reﬂexives and
reciprocals demands at the very least a two-argument predicate, thus potentially transi-
tive. Indeed, one-argument intransitive predicates cannot be reﬂexivized:
(20) a. *The woman slept herself
b. *The woman cried herself
c. *The woman talked herself
In spite of this apparent pull toward syntactic transitivity, reﬂexive and reciprocal
constructions tend to exhibit clear features of syntactic intransitivity. This has little to do
with an abstract principle of iconicity that would somehow motivate an isomorphism
between syntax and semantics. Rather, explicit syntactic mechanisms push reﬂexive and
reciprocal clauses toward syntactic intransitivity.
To begin with, reﬂexive and reciprocal clauses both abide by the same rigid relational
constraint on pronominalization or zero anaphora:
(21) Relational constraints on reﬂexives-reciprocals
a. The co-referent object is the only argument that receives pronominal, re-
duced or zero coding.
b. The co-referent subject is the controller for such pronominalization, reduc-
tion or zeroing.
Constraints (21) is evident in:
(22) a. Mary loves herself
b. *Herself loves Mary
c. Joe and Mary love each other
d. *Each other love Joe and Mary
The pronominal, reduced or zero object is thus the non-distinct argument in reﬂexive or
reciprocal clauses (Langacker 1976). In some languages, as in English, this argument may
be rendered as an inﬂected pronoun with two distinct elements — the invariable reﬂexive
marker (‘self’) that must agree in number with the controller subject, and the pronominal
inﬂection that must agree in person and gender:
(23) a. Mary loves her-self
b. John loves him-self
c. You love your-self
d. I love my-self
100 Syntax
e. We love our-selve-s
f. You love your-selve-s
g. They love them-selve-s
The co-referent non-distinct argument of the reciprocal clause in English has no person
or gender agreement, but is inherently plural, thus technically still agreeing with the
number of the controller subject:
(24) a. They saw each other
b. We saw each other
c. You saw each other
d. *I/he/she saw each other
e. Mary and Joe kissed
f. We kissed
g. *I/he/she kissed
In Bantu languages, the co-referent non-distinct argument in reﬂexive clauses is coded by
an invariant marker on the verb, technically occupying the object pronoun slot but with
no pronominal agreement whatever with the controller subject. In reciprocal clauses, the
non-distinct argument is zeroed out. The verb, now syntactically intransitive, is marked
with an invariant derivational suﬃx, historically the conjunction ‘with’/‘and’. Thus, from
Swahili:
(25) a. Active–transitive
a-li-ona Juma
s/he-past-see Juma
‘S/he saw Juma’
b. Active–transitive, anaphoric
a-li-mu-ona
s/he-past-him-see
‘S/he saw him/her’
c. Active–transitive, anaphoric
a-li-ni-ona
s/he-past-me-see
‘S/he saw me’
d. Reﬂexive
a-li-ji-ona
s/he-past-refl-see
‘S/he saw herself/himself’
e. Reﬂexive
ni-li-ji-ona
I-past-refl-see
‘I saw myself’
De-transitive voice 101
f. Reﬂexive
tu-li-ji-ona
we-past-refl-see
‘We saw ourselves’
g. Reﬂexive
wa-li-ji-ona
they-past-refl-see
‘They saw themselves’
h. Reciprocal
wa-li-ona-na
they-past-see-recip
‘They saw each other’
i. Reciprocal
tu-li-ona-na
we-past-see-recip
‘We saw each other’
In Spanish, the non-distinct argument in both the reﬂexive and reciprocal is marked by
the normal object pronouns for 1st and 2nd person subjects. Only for the third person is
there a special reﬂexive/reciprocal pronoun. When the controller subject is plural, a
potential ambiguity exists between a reﬂexive and reciprocal interpretation.
Disambiguation is achieved by augmentation with complex markers, some of whose
elements may be pronominal and require their own subject-controlled agreement. Thus,
for the unambiguous singular reﬂexives ﬁrst:
(26) a. Active–transitive
María le-vió
Mary 3sg/dat-saw
‘Mary saw him/her’
b. Active–transitive
María lo-vió
Mary 3sg/obj-saw
‘Mary saw it’
c. Active–transitive
María me-vió
Mary 1sg/obj-saw
‘Mary saw me’
d. Active–transitive
María les-vió
Mary 3pl/dat-saw
‘Mary saw them’
102 Syntax
e. Reﬂexive
María se-vió en el espejo
Mary 3/refl-saw/3sg in the mirror
‘Mary saw herself in the mirror’
f. Reﬂexive
(Yo) me-ví en el espejo
(I) 1sg/obj-saw/1sg in the mirror
‘I saw myself in the mirror’
g. Reﬂexive
(tu) te-viste en el espejo
(you) 2sg/obj-saw/2sg in the mirror
‘You saw yourself in the mirror’
When the co-referent argument is plural, an augmenting element is used to disambiguate
between reﬂexive and reciprocal interpretation:
(27) a. Reﬂexive/reciprocal
nos-vimos en el espejo
1pl/obj-saw/1pl in the mirror
‘We saw ourselves in the mirror’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘We saw each other in the mirror’
b. Reﬂexive (augmented)
nos-vimos a nos mismos
1pl/obj-saw/1pl obj 1pl self/masc/pl
‘We saw ourselves’
c. Reciprocal (augmented)
nos-vimos el uno al otro
1pl/obj-saw/1pl the one/masc obj/the other/masc/sg
‘We saw each other’
d. Reﬂexive/reciprocal
se-vieron en el espejo
3/refl-see/3pl in the mirror
‘They saw themselves in the mirror’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘They saw each other in the mirror’
e. Reﬂexive (augmented)
se-vieron a si mismos
3/refl-saw/3pl obj 3/refl self/masc/pl
‘They saw themselves’
f. Reciprocal (augmented)
se-vieron el uno al otro
3/refl-saw/3sg the one/masc dat/the other/masc/sg
‘They saw each other’
De-transitive voice 103
In Semitic languages, the reﬂexive, reciprocal and joint-action are often marked by the
same invariant — non-pronominal — derivational verb preﬁx. In Israeli Hebrew,
following much restructuring of the older system, the reﬂexive use of the joint marker
now requires augmentation with a complex pronoun, as in Spanish. The older Biblical
Hebrew system has undergone considerable reanalysis and lexicalization:4
(28) a. Active
Miryam katv-a le-Yosef
Mary wrote-3sg.fem to-Joseph
‘Mary wrote to Joseph’
b. Associative
Miryam hit-katv-a im-Yosef
Mary refl-wrote-3fem.sg with-Joseph
‘Mary corresponded with Joseph’
c. Associative
ani hit-katav-ti it-a
I refl-wrote-1sg with-3fem.sg
‘I corresponded with her’
d. Reciprocal
anaxnu hit-katav-nu
we refl-wrote-1pl
‘We corresponded (with each other)’
e. Reciprocal
hem hit-katv-u
they refl-wrote-3pl
‘They corresponded (with each other)’
f. Reﬂexive (augmented)
hi hit-katv-a im-atsm-a
she refl-wrote-3sg.fem with-self-3fem.sg
‘She corresponded with herself’
g. Reﬂexive (augmented)
ani hit-katav-ti im-atsm-i
I refl-wrote-1sg with-self-1sg
‘I corresponded with myself’
h. Reﬂexive (augmented)
hem hit-katv-u im-atsm-am
they refl-wrote-3sg with-self-3masc.pl
‘They corresponded with themselves’
Much of the restructuring and lexicalization in Israeli Hebrew involves the shift of the
unaugmented reﬂexive form towards the passive or middle-voice, as in:
104 Syntax
(29) a. Old active
hu qarav eley-ha
he approached/3masc.sg to-her
‘He approached her’ (obsolete)
b. New middle-voice/inchoative
hu hit-qarev eley-ha
he refl-neared to-her
‘He got near her’
(hist.: ‘He got himself near her’)
c. Old active
hu zaqan
he grew.old/3masc.sg
‘he became old’ (obsolete)
d. New middle-voice/inchoative
hu hiz-daken
he refl-got.old/3masc.sg
‘He grew old’, ‘he became old’
(hist.: ‘He got himself old’)
e. Active
hem kilkel-u et-ze
they spoiled/3pl acc-it
‘they spoiled it’
f. Passive or middle-voice/inchoative
ze hit-kalkel
it refl-spoiled/3masc.sg
‘It got spoiled’
(hist.: ‘it spoiled itself’)
g. Active
hi gilgel-a et-ze
she rolled-3fem.sg acc-it
‘she rolled it’
h. Middle-voice/inchoative
ze hit-galgel (ba-atsm-o)
it refl-rolled/3masc.sg by-self-3masc.sg
‘It rolled (all by itself)’
(hist.: ‘it rolled itself’)
In sum, it thus appears that in addition to the semantic factors that render reﬂexive and
reciprocal constructions semantically less transitive, equally strong syntactic pressures also
conspire to de-transitivize these constructions syntactically. These pressures center
around what Langacker (1976) has called non-distinct arguments, i.e. the fact that the co-
referent object of the two constructions is either pronominal, reduced or zeroed out.
De-transitive voice 105
Reﬂexive and reciprocal constructions in most languages are most typically objectless,
thus syntactically intransitive.
The wide-spread diachronic reanalysis of objectless reﬂexives as middle-voice
inchoatives and/or passives (Kemmer 1988, 1989) is only natural, given that the surviving
subject/agent of the reﬂexive clause is semantically also its patient. Thus compare:
(30) a. Reﬂexive
The rock fell and lodged itself in a small bush
b. Inchoative
The rock fell and lodged in a small bush
c. Passive
The rock was lodged in the ground
d. Reﬂexive
John squeezed himself into the tunnel
e. Inchoative
John squeezed into the tunnel
f. Passive
John was squeezed into the tunnel
g. Reﬂexive
The plane crashed itself to the ground
h. Inchoative
The plane crashed to the ground
i. Passive
The plane was crashed to the ground
The semantic overlap between reﬂexive and passive senses is even more striking with non-
volitional verbs or verbs of adverse eﬀect:
(31) a. Reﬂexive
Mary hurt herself in an accident
b. Passive
Mary was hurt in an accident
We will return to the syntactic-typological implications of this semantic overlap further
below.
13.2.1.2.2Possessive-reﬂexives. A variant reﬂexive structure, the possessive reﬂexive, is found
in many languages, abiding by the following semantic deﬁnition:
(32) Semantic deﬁnition of possessive reﬂexives
The subject is the possessor of the object.
Possessive reﬂexives exhibit the same lax constraints on transitivity, both semantic and
syntactic, as reﬂexives and reciprocals:
106 Syntax
(33) a. Semantic Tr, syntactic Tr
(i) Non-reﬂexive
He shot her mother
(ii) Reﬂexive
He shot his (own) mother
b. Semantic Intr, syntactic Tr
(i) Non-reﬂexive
She didn’t know his address
(ii) Reﬂexive
She didn’t know her (own) address
c. Semantic (partial) Tr, syntactic Intr
(i) Non-reﬂexive
They voted for our man
(ii) Reﬂexive
They voted for their (own) man
d. Semantic Intr, syntactic Intr
(i) Non-reﬂexive
She forgot about his suggestion
(ii) Reﬂexive
She forgot about her (own) suggestion
A schematic tree diagram of the possessive reﬂexive (33a-ii) above is given in:
(34) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
He
V
shot
Obj
[NP]
Poss NP
his-own mother
Since the subject and the object of possessive reﬂexive clauses are not coreferential, such
constructions tend to be semantically much more transitive than ‘true’ reﬂexives. And
since the object NP is neither pronominalized nor deleted, possessive-reﬂexives of
semantically-transitive verbs tend to be also syntactically more transitive, as compared to
‘true’ reﬂexive.
In English, the possessive reﬂexive morpheme is optional, and is restricted to
emphatic or counter-normative contexts. Thus, consider:
(35) a. Mary adored her mother
b. ?Mary adored her own mother
c. Mary killed her mother
d. Mary killed her own mother
De-transitive voice 107
The reason why (35b) is odd is because adoring one’s mother is normative. The reason
why (35d) is not odd is because killing one’s mother is counter-normative. Likewise:
(36) a. John carried his bags to the plane
b. John carries his own bags to the plane
c. ?President Carter used to carry his bags to the plane
d. President Carter used to carry his own bags to the plane
The reason (36a) is not odd is because regular folks normally carry their bags to the plane,
so that (36b) is felicitous only when there is something counter-normative about John
doing so. In contrast, (36c) is odd because the President normally does not carry his own
bags to the plane, so that the counter-normative (36d) is more felicitous.
In other languages, the use of the reﬂexive-possessive pronoun is obligatory under co-
reference condition (32). As an illustration, consider Ute (Uto-Aztecan). In this language,
the invariant reﬂexive-possessive suﬃx -av marks the possessed object in such construc-
tions, as in (Givón 1980a):
(37) a. Non-reﬂexive
mamach tuach-i-’u pu
=nikya-pu
=ga
woman/subj child-obj-3sg see-rem
‘The woman saw his/her child’ (> not her own)
b. Reﬂexive
mamach tuach-i-av pu
=nikya-pu
=ga
woman/subj child-obj-own see-rem
‘The woman saw her own child’
c. Non-reﬂexive
nu
=’ tuach-i-’u pu
=nikya-pu
=ga
I/subj child-obj-3sg see-rem
‘I saw his/her child’
d. Reﬂexive
nu
=’ tuach-i-av pu
=níkya-pu
=ga
I/subj child-obj-own see-rem
‘I saw my own child’
As in English, the possessive-reﬂexive construction in Ute can also involve indirect objects:
(38) a. mamach tuach-i-vaa-cu
=-av nu
=ka’ni
woman/subj child-obj-loc-dir-own listen/imm
‘The woman is listening to her own child’
b. mamach wiich-i-m-av tu
=kuav-i cu
=xavi’na-y
woman/subj knife-obj-instr-own meat-obj cut-imm
‘The woman is cutting meat with her own knife’
c. mamach kani-vaa-tugwa-av paghay’wa-y
woman/subj house/obj-loc-to-own walk-imm
‘The woman is walking toward her own house’
108 Syntax
13.2.1.2.3Reciprocal vs. joint action. As seen earlier above, the subject or reciprocal clause
may be either a conjoined NP, a dual or a plural. In many languages, the very same
morpho-syntactic structure is also used to code non-reciprocal joint action. As an illustra-
tion, consider Swahili, ﬁrst with a verb that is a semantically incompatible with reciproca-
tion:
(39) a. Transitive (Sg)
a-li-ki-soma kitabu
s/he-past-it-read book
‘S/he read the book’
b. Transitive (Pl)
wa-li-ki-soma kitabu
they-past-it-read book
‘They read the book’ (> not necessarily together)
c. Joint action (transitive)
wa-li-ki-soma-na (kitabu)
they-past-it-read-recip book
‘They read (the book) together’
With a verb that allows reciprocation, the reciprocal suﬃx can be used to code two distinct
structures:
(40) a. Transitive (Sg)
a-li-mu-ona mtoto
s/he-past-him/her-see child
‘S/he saw the child’
b. Transitive (Pl)
wa-li-mu-ona mtoto
they-past-him/her-see child
‘They saw the child’
(> not necessarily together)
c. Joint action
wa-li-mu-ona-na mtoto
they-past-him/her-see-recip child
‘They saw the child together’
d. Reciprocal
wa-li-ona-na
they-past-see-recip
‘They saw each other’
13.2.1.2.4‘Light’ vs. ‘heavy’ reciprocal marking. A distinct group of transitive verbs are
inherently reciprocal. In many languages, such verbs may be expressed with conjoined or
plural subjects and carry a reciprocal meaning without any explicit reciprocal marking.
Typical inherently-reciprocal verbs are:
De-transitive voice 109
(41) a. Joe and May kissed
b. They met for lunch
c. Her parents fought over her
d. Their hands touched
e. They argue all the time
f. Mary and Jane quarreled
g. The made love
Kemmer (1988, 1989) has noted that many languages have two reciprocal morphemes, one
‘light’ or less-marked, the other ‘heavy’ or more-marked. When such a double marking
pattern exists, the ‘light’ morpheme marks only inherently reciprocal verbs as in (41), while
the ‘heavy’ morpheme marks non-inherent reciprocals. As illustration consider (Kemmer
1989):
(42) German
a. Light: Sie haben sich gesehen
they have/pl lr seen
‘They met’
b. Heavy: Sie haben einander gesehen
they have/pl hr seen
‘They saw each other’
(43) Turkish
a. Light: Gör-üsh-tü-ler
see-lr-past-3pl
‘They met’
b. Heavy: Birbiri-ni gör-dü-ler
hr-acc see-past-3pl
‘They saw each other’
In Swahili, the same reciprocal suﬃx -na is used for both ‘heavy’ and ‘light’ reciprocals.
Thus contrast (40) above with:
(44) a. Transitive (Sg)
a-li-mu-busu
s/he-past-him/her-kiss
‘S/he kissed him/her’
b. Transitive (Pl)
wa-li-mu-busu
they-past-him/her-kiss
‘They kissed him/her’
(> not necessarily together)
c. Joint action (transitive)
wa-li-mu-busia-na
they-past-him/her-kiss-recip
‘They kissed him/her together’
110 Syntax
d. Reciprocal
wa-li-busia-na
they-past-kiss-recip
‘They kissed (each other)’
In languages where the two patterns are distinct, as in English, it is the ‘light’ pattern —
unmarked in English — that is also used to code joint action. Thus contrast:
(45) a. LR, reciprocal
John and Mary fought regularly
b. LR, joint action
John and Mary fought the IRS
c. HR, reciprocal
John and Mary fought each other
d. *HR, joint action
*John and Mary fought each other the IRS
In some languages, the two reciprocal patterns, light and heavy, share a common marker
which when used by itself codes ‘light’ reciprocals. The ‘heavy’ reciprocal is then obtained
by augmentation with an added marker. This may be seen in Manam (Austronesian;
Lichtenberk 1985):
(46) a. Light: di-e-boábu-ru
3pl-recip-embrace-du
‘They embraced’
b. Heavy: di-e-boabu-í-ru
3pl-recip-embrace-hr-du
‘They embraced each other (brieﬂy)’
The general marking pattern of reciprocals may thus be summarized in terms of both
morpheme size and syntactic location:
(47) Markedness and location of reciprocal morphemes
Light reciprocals Heavy reciprocals
size:
locus:
zero or small
verb aﬃxes
marked or large
independent NPs
The iconicity of (47) is fairly transparent: Inherently reciprocality is a lexical-semantic
feature of verbs. ‘Light’ reciprocal marking, whether zero or a small verbal aﬃx, tags such
verbs as lexically governed. ‘Heavy’ reciprocal marking is the more general syntactic
pattern. Being lexically unrestricted, this pattern is less likely to be verb-coded, and the
marker is more likely to be an independent morpheme, most commonly occupying the
normal object slot in the clause.
De-transitive voice 111
Lastly, the semantic diﬀerence between the two reciprocal patterns can be further
illustrated by noting that ‘light’ reciprocals must be interpreted as single events, while
heavy reciprocals may also be interpreted as successive separate events. Thus contrast:
(48) a. LR, inherent
John and Mary kissed
(i) Simultaneously
(ii) *First he kissed her, then she him
b. HR, inherent
John and Mary kissed each other
(i) Simultaneously
(ii) First he kissed her, then she him
c. HR, non-inherent
John and Mary hit each other
(i) Simultaneously
(ii) First he hit her, then she him
d. *LR, non-inherent
*John and Mary hit
In a somewhat similar vein, the verbal preﬁx se- in Spanish marks both ‘light’ and ‘heavy’
reciprocals, often ambiguously. The independent reciprocal pronoun can be added to
disambiguate the pattern, but the sense of the disambiguation diﬀers slightly pending on
whether the verb is inherently reciprocal or not:
(49) a. LR, inherent
se-reunieron ayer
recip-met/3pl yesterday
‘They met yesterday’
(> a single reciprocal event)
b. HR, inherent
se-reunieron el uno al otro
recip-met/3pl the one dat/the other
‘They met each other, pair-wise’
(> multiple reciprocal events)
c. LR, non-inherent
se-mataron
recip-killed/3pl
‘they killed themselves’ (reﬂexive)
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘they killed each other’ (single event reciprocal)
d. HR, non-inherent
se-mataron el uno al otro
recip-killed/3pl the one dat/the other
‘They killed each other’ (single event)
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘They killed each other pair-wise’ (multiple events)
112 Syntax
The ‘light’ pattern in (49a) induces the inherent-reciprocal sense of ‘meet’, and can only be
interpreted as a single event. The ‘heavy’ pattern with the same verb in (49b) induces a
multiple-event interpretation. With a non-inherent verb, the ‘light’ pattern is ambiguous
(49c), interpreted as either a reﬂexive or a single-event reciprocal. And the heavy pattern
(49d) is ambiguous, either the single-event reciprocal or a multiple-event reciprocal.
13.2.1.2.5Reﬂexives, reciprocals and grammatical relations. As has become obvious from the
preceding discussion, reﬂexive and reciprocal clauses are both relationally governed
constructions. In both, the grammatical relations of subject vs. non-subject constrain the
syntactic behavior of the clause. What makes these de-transitive patterns ‘semantic’ is that
their relational constraints — (5), (11), (21) — are deﬁned within the conﬁnes of the same
clause, requiring no reference to cross-clausal contexts. These syntactic constructions are
thus an important tool for probing the limits of clausehood and grammatical relations. In
this section we will note some of the potentials of this tool.
Consider ﬁrst the use of reﬂexives and reciprocals in equi-subject complements of
modality verbs:
(50) a. Joe wanted to kill himself
b. Joe and Mary wanted to kill each other
Since the subject of the complement verb is also the subject of the main verb, the constraint
on co-reference for both constructions remains intra-clausal. That is, it can be formulated
purely in terms of GRs in the complement clause.
Consider next the use of reﬂexives and reciprocals in the complements of manipula-
tion verbs in English:
(51) a. Mary told Bill to kill himself
b. *Mary told Bill to love herself
c. Mary told Bill and Sue to love each other
d. *Mary and Sue told Bill to love each other
Since the object of the main verb is also the subject of the complement clause, the
constraints on co-reference here are again deﬁned in purely intra-clausal terms.
Relational constraints on reﬂexivization in English become more complex when one
turns to the possessive-reﬂexive. Without the optional emphatic own, either reﬂexive or
not-reﬂexive interpretations are possible, and in the latter co-reference is not relationally
governed:
(52) a. Mary told Joe to invite his mother
b. Mary told Joe to invite her mother
c. Mary told Joe to invite their mother
d. As for Bill and Suzy, Mary told Bill to invite only their mother
The fact that one of those interpretations (52b) happens to be reﬂexive is incidental.
With the emphatic own, the interpretation becomes obligatorily reﬂexive, and control
of co-reference in English is once again restricted to the subject of the complement clause:
De-transitive voice 113
(53) a. Mary told Joe to ignore his own mother
b. *Mary told Joe to ignore her own mother
c. ?Mary told Joe to ignore their own mother
d. *As for Bill and Suzy, Mary told Bill to invite only their own mother
The intra-clausal nature of constraints (5), (11), (21) in English also applies to reﬂexive-
possessives in the complements of PCU verbs:
(54) a. Joe knew that Mary loved
Ï *herself ¸
Ì ˝
Ó *himself ˛
b. Joe knew that Mary loved his/her mother
c. Joe knew that Mary loved mother
Ï *her own ¸
Ì ˝
Ó *his own ˛
In other languages, the control of co-reference in possessive-reﬂexives may be diﬀerent. In
Ute, for example, the use of the reﬂexive-possessive is obligatory ((37), (38)). In comple-
ments of manipulation verbs, whether with full clause-union (55b) or incomplete clause-
union (55a), the main-clause subject controls the co-reference of reﬂexive-possessives in
the complement clause. That is, the relational control appears to be inter-clausal, the
reverse of English. Thus (Givón 1980a):
(55) a. mamach ta’wach-i máy-kya tuach-i-av magha-vaa-ku
woman/subj man-obj say-ant child-obj-own feed-irr-comp
‘The woman told the man to feed child’
Ï *her ¸
Ì ˝
Ó *his ˛
b. mamach ta’wach-i tuach-i-av magha-ti-kya
woman/subj man-obj child-obj-own feed-caus-ant
‘The woman made the man feed child’
Ï *her ¸
Ì ˝
Ó *his ˛
When the non-reﬂexive possessive pronoun is used in the complement clause, control of
co-reference is in principle ungoverned — with one caveat: Due to the obligatory nature
of possessive-reﬂexive marking in Ute, the possessive pronoun cannot be governed by the
normal reﬂexive controller, the main-clause subject. In a seeming about-face, it can now
be governed either intra-clausally, by the complement-clause subject, or is relationally
unconstrained:
(56) a. mamach ta’wach-i máy-kya tuach-i-’u magha-vaa-ku
woman/subj man-obj say-ant child-obj-3sg feed-irr-comp
‘The woman told the man to feed child’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
Ï *his ¸
Ì ˝
Ó *her ˛
‘The woman told the man to feed someone else’s child’
114 Syntax
b. mamach ta’wach-i tuach-i-’u magha-ti-kya
woman/subj man-obj child-obj-3sg feed-caus-ant
‘The woman made the man to feed child’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
Ï *his ¸
Ì ˝
Ó *her ˛
‘The woman made the man feed someone else’s child’
In complements of PCU verbs, the main-clause subject in Ute again controls co-reference
of the reﬂexive-possessive pronoun (57a), and is explicitly barred from such control of the
non-reﬂexive possessive pronoun (57b):
(57) a. mamach puchuchugwa-y
woman/subj know-imm
’áapach-i sarich-i-av táa-ka-na-y
boy-gen dog-obj-own kick-ant-comp-obj
‘The woman knows that the boy kicked dog’
Ï *her ¸
Ì ˝
Ó *his ˛
b. mamach puchuchugwa-y
woman/subj know-imm
’áapach-i sarich-i-’u táa-ka-na-y
boy-gen dog-obj-3sg kick-ant-nom-obj
‘The woman knows that the boy kicked dog’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
Ï *his ¸
Ì ˝
Ó *her ˛
‘The woman knows that the boy kicked someone else’s dog’
The relational control of possessive reﬂexivization seems even more problematic when one
notes that not only the object, but also the subject of the complement clause can be targeted
for reﬂexivization. In English, such reﬂexivization is relationally ungoverned:
(58)
a. Joe told Mary that mother was sick
Ï his own ¸
Ì ˝
Ó her own ˛
b. As for Bill, Joe told Mary that even his own mother couldn’t recognize him.
In Ute, as one would suspect, control of such reﬂexivization remains ﬁrmly vested in the
subject of the main clause. The ungoverned pattern — again excluding the main-clause
subject — is still reserved for the non-reﬂexive possessive pronoun:
(59) a. mamach ta’wach-i máy-kya tuach-i-av pichu
=-ka-na-y
woman/subj man-obj say-ant child-gen-own come-ant-nom-obj
‘The woman told the man that child had arrived’
Ï *her own¸
Ì ˝
Ó *his own ˛
De-transitive voice 115
b. mamach ta’wach-i máy-kya tuach-i-’u picu
=-ka-na-y
woman/subj man-obj say-ant child-gen-3sg come-ant-nom-obj
‘The woman told the man that child had arrived’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
Ï *his ¸
Ì ˝
Ó *her ˛
‘The woman told the man that someone else’s child had arrived’
The Ute facts are indeed puzzling, at ﬁrst glance suggesting a wide latitude of cross-
language diversity in the relational control of possessive reﬂexivization. Note, however, that
clause-union — the syntactic integration of complement into main clause — is much more
extensive in Ute than in English (see Ch.11,12). The subject in Ute complement clauses
retains fewer subject properties. The complements of PCU verbs are nominalized and case-
marked as object, with their subject case-marked as genitive or object.5
Superﬁcial diversity notwithstanding, Ute and English seem to adhere to the same
spirit of local — intra-clausal — control of reﬂexivization. Where they diﬀer profoundly,
however, is in their degree of clause-union, and thus in the exact interpretation of ‘syntactic
locality’ or ‘same clause’. This is not surprising, given our earlier observations concerning
the profoundly scalar nature of clause-union (Ch.12). Since the nominalized verbal
complements of Ute are much more integrated into their main clauses than the more ﬁnite
complements of English, local control of reﬂexivization is merely extended in Ute across
what in other languages may seem to be the relevant clausal boundary.
As noted earlier (Vol.I, Ch.4), grammatical subjecthood can also be, at least in
principle, a matter of degree (Keenan 1975, 1976; Givón 1995a: Ch.6). Relational control
of reﬂexivization may be thus expressed more realistically:
(60) Subject properties and control of reﬂexivization
The closer the clausal subject is to the prototype of grammatical subject, the
more likely it is to retain control of co-reference in reﬂexivization.
The degree of clause-union may also be reﬂected in the locus of the reﬂexive morpheme,
especially if it is pronominal. In Spanish, for example, when predicate-raising — full clause
union — occurs in complementation, the reﬂexive-passive pronoun that semantically
belongs to the complement-clause may be ‘raised’ to the main verb. Thus consider (from
Don Quixote):
(61) a. viendo-se parar de aquella manera
seeing-refl stop/inf gen such manner
‘seeing himself being stopped in such a way’
(‘seeing that he (himself) was stopped in such a way’)
b. el propuso de hacer-se armar caballero
he proposed gen make-refl arm/inf knight
‘he proposed arming himself as a knight’
(‘he proposed that he himself be armed as a knight’)
116 Syntax
c. se-oyeron llamar “doncellas”
refl-heard call/inf damsels
‘they heard themselves being called “damsels”’
(‘they heard that they were called “damsels”’)
Such ‘raising’ of the reﬂexive/passive pronoun would have been inappropriate in the ﬁnite-
complement equivalents of (61), respectively:
(62) a. viendo que se-paró de aquella manera
seeing sub refl-stopped/3sg gen such manner
‘Seeing that he was stopped in such a way’
b. *se-viendo que (le-)paró de aquella manera
refl-seeing sub him-stopped/3sg gen such manner
c. oyeron que se-llamaba “doncellas”
refl-heard sub refl-called/3sg damsels
‘they heard that they were called “damsels”’
d. *se-oyeron que (les-)llamaba “doncellas”
refl-heard sub refl-called damsels
13.2.2 Middle-voice constructions
13.2.2.1Semantic characterization
Middle-voice constructions are a cluster of variants on semantically-transitive verbs, most
commonly involving a shift of the semantic focus away from the agent. As a result, a verb
that can be used to depict agent-initiated actions is now used to construe either:
•the patient’s change during an event
•the patient’s potential state for such change
•the patient’s resulting state following an event.
Thus, from the active–transitive (63a) one may derive the middle-voice variants (63b–e):
(63) a. Active–transitive
She broke the window
b. Non-agentive event
The window broke
c. Potential state
This window breaks real easy
d. Potential state
The window is breakable
e. Resulting state
The window is broken
The semantic nature of agent de-focusing in middle-voice clauses becomes clear when one
contrasts them with the BE-marked passive in English, a voice construction in which the
De-transitive voice 117
agent is not de-focused semantically, but only pragmatically. To begin with, the agent may
be overtly expressed in the passive, but not in the various middle-voice constructions:
(64) a. BE-passive
The window was broken by Mary
b. Non-agentive MV
*The window broke by Mary
c. Potential-state MV
*This window breaks real easy by Mary
d. Potential-state MV
*The window is breakable by Mary
e. Resulting-state MV
*The window is broken by Mary
Second, agent-oriented adverbs of intent are compatible with the passive but not with the
middle-voice constructions:
(65) a. BE-passive
The window was broken on purpose
b. Non-agentive MV
*The window broke on purpose
c. Potential-state MV
*This window breaks real easy on purpose
d. Potential-state MV
*The window is breakable on purpose
e. Resulting-state MV
*The window is broken on purpose
Third, agent-oriented instrumentals are compatible with the passive but much less so with
the middle-voice constructions:
(66) a. Passive
The window was broken with a hammer
b. Non-agentive MV
*The window broke with a hammer
c. Potential-state MV
?This window breaks real easy with a hammer
d. Potential-state MV
?The window is breakable with a hammer
e. Resulting-state MV
*The window is broken with a hammer
Fourth, agent-oriented benefactives are compatible with the passive but not with the
middle-voice constructions:
118 Syntax
(67) a. Passive
The window was broken for Mary
b. Non-agentive MV
*The window broke for Mary
c. Potential-state MV
*This window breaks real easy for Mary
d. Potential-state MV
*The window is breakable for Mary
e. Resulting-state MV
*The window is broken for Mary
Finally, agent-oriented purpose clauses are compatible with the passive but not with the
middle-voice constructions:
(68) a. Passive
The window was broken in order to enter the house
b. Non-agentive MV
*The window broke in order to enter the house
c. Potential-state MV
*This window breaks real easy in order to enter the house
d. Potential-state MV
*The window is breakable in order to enter the house
e. Resulting-state MV
*The window is broken in order to enter the house
One must note, however, that some middle-voice constructions are still agentive. This is
most conspicuous in verbs that can be reﬂexivized, i.e. where the agent can also be the
patient, as in:
(69) a. Active–transitive
She moved her kids to Phoenix
b. Reﬂexive
She moved herself to Phoenix
c. Active-inchoative middle-voice
She moved to Phoenix
The agentive nature of active-inchoative middle-voice clauses such as (69c) is further
underscored by their compatibility with all the agent-focusing phrases in (65), (66), (67),
(68) above. Their incompatibility with the agent-phrase is due to the fact that they already
have an agent as their subject:
(70) a. She moved there on purpose
b. She moved there with a big van
c. She moved there for the sake of her kids
De-transitive voice 119
d. She moved there in order to be closer home
e. *She moved there by John
The similarity between active-inchoative middle-voice clauses and reﬂexives is neither
spurious nor purely semantic. In many languages, it is also a diachronic derivational
relation. Thus for example, the GET-marked passive in English and related inchoative
middle-voice constructions have been all derived historically from the reﬂexive of the
GET-marked causative construction, as in (schematically; Yang and Givón 1994):
(71) a. Active causative
She got him (to be) ﬁred
b. Reﬂexive
She got herself (to be) ﬁred
c. GET-passive
She got ﬁred
d. Active causative
She got him into the barn
e. Reﬂexive
She got herself into the barn
f. Inchoative middle-voice
She got into the barn
g. Active causative
She got him (to be) angry
h. Reﬂexive
She got herself (to be) angry
i. Inchoative middle-voice
She got angry
Likewise in Spanish, the se-marked reﬂexive has given rise historically to two passive
variants and an active-inchoative middle-voice construction:
(72) a. Active transitive
los brujos le-curaron a María
the sorcerers her-cured/3pl obj Maria
‘the sorcerer cured Mary’
b. Reﬂexive, active-inchoative or promotional passive
los brujos se-curaron
the sorcerers refl-cured/3pl
‘the sorcerers cured themselves’ (reﬂexive)
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘the sorcerers got cured/got well’ (inchoative)
‘the sorcerers were cured (by someone)’ (passive)
120 Syntax
c. Impersonal passive
se-curó a los brujos
refl-cure/3sg obj the sorcerers
‘the sorcerers were cured (by someone)’
13.2.2.2Syntactic dimensions
Parallel with the semantic de-transitivization of middle-voice constructions is their
syntactic de-transitivization. They are typically intransitive, objectless clauses in which the
patient occupies the subject position. Even active-inchoative clauses, in which the subject
is both agent and patient, are still syntactically intransitive, with a ‘non-distinct’ object,
much like that of reﬂexives. Thus, for (69c) above:
(73) S
Subj VP
She moved
Loc
[PP]
P NP
to Phoenix
V
The morphological marking of middle-voice constructions depends entirely on the vagaries
of their diachronic derivation. Thus in Spanish, the reﬂexive-derived middle voice (72)
retains its reﬂexive pronominal marking. In English active-inchoatives derived from the
reﬂexive-causative ‘get’ (71) retain ‘get’ as their auxiliary marker, much like in the
GET-passive, but don’t retain the reﬂexive marker. Likewise, adjectival-resultative middle
voice clauses in English retain the auxiliary ‘be’ as their morphological marker.
Since middle-voice derivations change active–transitive verbs into either non-agentive,
stative or inchoative meanings, the lexicalization of such constructions, turning them into
lexical derivations, is only a matter of time. Thus, consider the following derivatives of the
active–transitive ‘break’ in Hebrew, some still somewhat syntactic, others fully lexical,
others somewhere in the midst of re-analysis:
(74) a. Active–transitive
hi shavr-a et-ha-bakbuk
she broke-3fem.sg acc-the-bottle
‘she broke the bottle’
b. Passive (obsolete)
?ha-bakbuk ni-shbar be-yadey-a
the-bottle pass-broke/3masc.sg by-hands/of-her
?‘the bottle was broken by her’
De-transitive voice 121
c. Ex-passive inchoative MV
ha-bakbuk ni-shbar
the-bottle pass-broke/3masc.sg
‘the bottle broke’
d. Ex-passive potential-stative MV
ha-bakbuk ha-ze ni-shbar be-kalut
the-bottle the-this pass-break/masc with.ease
‘this bolle breaks real easy’
e. Ex-reﬂexive inchoative MV
ha-bakbuk hi.sh.t-aber
the-bottle refl-broke/3masc.sg
?‘the bottle broke itself’
‘the bottle broke into small pieces’
f. Adjectival, resultative state MV
ha-bakbuk ha-ze (hu) shavur
the-bottle the-this is/3masc.sg broken
‘the bottle is broken’
g. Adjectival, potential state MV
ha-bakbuk ha-ze (hu) shavir
the-bottle the-this is/3masc.sg breakable
‘this bottle is breakable’
In most core-Bantu languages, middle-voice verbs, all syntactically intransitive, are
suﬃxally marked, much like passives and reciprocals (Swahili):
(75) a. Active–transitive
a-li-ki-ona
s/he-past-it-see
‘s/he saw it’
b. Reciprocal
wa-li-on-ana
they-past-see-recip
‘they saw each other’
c. Passive
ki-li-on-ewa
it-past-see-pass
‘it was seen (by someone)’
d. Middle-voice inchoative or stative
ki-li-on-eka
it-past-see-stat
‘it was visible’
‘it appeared’
122 Syntax
e. Middle-voice stative
y-a-on-ek-ana ya kuwa…
it-hab-see-stat-recip sub sub
‘it appears that…’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘it is obvious that…’
13.3 Pragmatic de-transitive voice constructions
13.3.1 Preliminaries
13.3.1.1Functional dimensions
As noted earlier (§13.1.2.3), pragmatic de-transitive voice constructions are those in which
semantic transitivity is not an issue. This is so because these constructions can apply to
semantically-transitive verbs that code semantically-transitive events. And the three main
of semantic transitivity — active volitional agent, salient aﬀected patient, and telic
perfective verb — seem largely unaﬀected by the change from active–transitive to de-
transitive voice.
The use of a pragmatic de-transitive voice construction, rather than the neutral
‘unmarked’ active–transitive, is prompted by diﬀerences in discourse-pragmatic perspec-
tive on the event, deﬁned in terms of the relative topicality of the two main event partici-
pants. Within this framework, the pragmatic-functional deﬁnition of the four main
pragmatic voices, given earlier above, is reproduced below:
(3) Relative topicality of agent and patient in the four main
pragmatic voice constructions
Voice Relative topicality
active-direct
inverse
passive
antipassive
Agt > Pat
Agt < Pat
Agt << Pat
Agt >> Pat
The neutral, unmarked transitive voice, the active-direct, is thus the functional-pragmatic
benchmark vis-as-vis which the three main de-transitive voices are then deﬁned.
(4) Functional deﬁnition of main pragmatic voices
Transitive
a. Active-direct:
The agent is more topical than the patient, but both are topical.
De-transitive
b. Inverse: The patient is more topical than the agent but both are topical.
c. Passive: The agent is extremely non-topical (‘suppressed’, ‘demoted’), so
that the patient is the only topical argument in the clause.
De-transitive voice 123
d. Antipassive: The patient is extremely non-topical (‘suppressed’, ‘demoted’),
so that the agent is the only topical argument in the clause.
The text-based methods used to assess the topicality of referents in discourse, cataphoric
persistence (CP) and anaphoric distance (AD), were discussed in Vol.I, in the context of the
grammar of cataphoric and anaphoric reference (§10.5, 10.6.4). These methods, admittedly
heuristic and indirect, have been tested extensively on voice constructions in many
languages (Cooreman 1982, 1985, 1987, 1988; Cooreman et al. 1984; Rude 1985, 1988,
1994; Thompson 1987a, 1978b,c, 1989; Tsunoda 1985, 1987; Zavala 1994; Givón ed. 1994a;
Kawasha 2000).
To recapitulate brieﬂy, the cataphoric persistence (CP) method measures how many
times a referent recurs in the next 10 clauses, following its use in a particular construction.
The heuristic rational for this measure is that more topical, important referents are talked
about in the subsequent discourse.
As an example of the application of the CP measure to voice constructions, consider
the percent distribution of high-persistence (average CP>2) vs. low-persistence (average
CP0–2) agents and patients in the main pragmatic voice constructions in Acatec (Mayan;
Zavala 1994).
(76) Percent of agents and patients with CP values 0–2 (low topicality) and > 2
(high topicality) in the various Acatec voice constructions (Zavala 1994)
Agent Patient
Voice 0–2 > 2 0–2 > 2
Active-direct
Inverses
agented ‘passive’
inverse
Impersonal passive
Antipassives:
absolutive AP
VP nominalization
7.8
29.5
25.0
96.3
2.4
/
92.2
70.5
75.0
3.7
97.6
100.0
59.0
17.6
33.4
37.0
100.0
77.8
41.0
82.4
66.6
63.0
/
22.2
The relative reversal in agent vs. patient CP values between the direct-active and the
inverse, the extreme drop in the agent’s CP values in the passive, and the extreme drop in
the patient’s CP values in the antipassive, are all typical of this measure (Givón ed. 1994a).
The method of anaphoric distance (AD) measures the gap, in a number of clauses,
between the referent’s current appearance in a particular construction and its last previous
occurrence in the text. A less reliable heuristic, this method assesses when the referent has
been last topical in the preceding discourse, and thus presumably how mentally active it
remains in the current construction.
As an illustration, consider the percent distribution of low AD (1–3; highly accessible)
vs. low-AD (>3; less accessible) agents and patients in the various pragmatic voice
constructions of Acatec (Zavala 1994).
124 Syntax
(77) Percentage of agents and patients with AD values 1–2–3 (high access) vs.
> 3 (low access) in the various Acatec voice constructions (Zavala 1994)
Agent Patient
Voice 1–3 > 3 1–3 > 3
Active-direct
Inverses
Agented ‘passive’
Inverse
Impersonal passive
Antipassive
Absolutive AP
VP nominalization
91.5
70.5
77.8
7.4
92.9
100.0
8.5
29.5
22.2
92.6
7.1
/
54.6
77.4
88.9
81.4
/
33.3
45.4
23.6
11.1
18.6
100.0
66.7
Again,therelative reversalintheaverageagent vs.patient ADvaluesbetweenthedirect-active
andinverse,theextreme shiftof agentADvaluesinthepassive, and theextremeshift ofpatient
AD values in the antipassive, are typical of the use of this measure (Givón ed. 1994a).
13.3.1.2Text distribution
The text distribution of pragmatic voice constructions is another diagnostic that helps in
their identiﬁcation. This is particularly important when a language has a number of
structurally similar and/or functionally-related voice constructions (Cooreman 1982, 1985,
1987; Zavala 1994; Hidalgo 1994). It is also important in cases involving ongoing or recent
diachronic change, especially functional re-analysis of voice constructions (Cooreman
1988; Cooreman et al. 1984; Mithun 1994; Brainard 1994; Gildea 1994; T. Payne 1994;
Rude 1988b, 1991, 1994; Tsunoda 1985, 1987).
A typical frequency distribution of the main pragmatic voice constructions in action-
oriented oral narrative in Chamorro was given in Cooreman (1987):
(78) Frequency distribution of various voices in Chamorro narrative text
(Cooreman 1987)
Voice construction N %
active-ergative
passive
inverse
antipassive
601
35
134
64
72.0
4.2
16.1
7.7
This distribution underscores the status of the active–transitive clause as the neutral
unmarked voice type, conforming to our general observation (Vol.I, §1.8.2) about the
strong correlation between syntactic and functional markedness and use-frequency
(Greenberg 1976; Givón 1991c).
De-transitive voice 125
One must note that diﬀerent text types may have diﬀerent frequency distributions of
pragmatic voices. As an illustration, consider the frequency distribution of the BE-passive
vs. active–transitive voice in four English text-types (Givón 1979a: Ch.2).
(79) Relative frequency of actives and passives in main-declarative-aﬃrmative
clauses in written English text (Givón 1979a)
Active Passive
Text type N % N %
non-ﬁction
ﬁction
news
sports
49
177
45
64
82
91
92
96
11
18
4
3
18
9
8
4
13.3.2 Passive voice
13.3.2.1Pragmatic function: Agent suppression
As suggested above (§13.3.1.1) and following Shibatani (1985), the prototypical passive
voice is used primarily for agent suppression or de-topicalization. The fact that a non-agent
argument — most commonly the patient — is then topicalized is but the default conse-
quence of agent suppression. The fact that some passives are also semantically de-transi-
tivized, either in terms of lower perfectivity or lower agentivity, is predictable from the
diachronic antecedence of some passive types (see further below), and is not a general
functional feature of all passives.6
A wide range of pragmatic contexts may motivate agent suppression. The agent may be
unknown or unrecoverable, as in (Jespersen 1924:167):
(80) “…He was killed in the Boer war…”
It may be anaphorically given, and thus requiring no further mention, as in:
(81) The soldiers invaded the village.
Soon the place was burned down.
It may be cataphorically given in the subsequent discourse and thus again superﬂuous, as
in (Trout 1974: 39–40):
(82) “…There was no telling what might have happened if he had not been interrupt-
ed. The dog had been whimpering and whining…”
The agent may be generically-predictable and stereotypical, as in (ibid.):
(83) “…The plane was brought down safely…”
Planes are habitually ﬂown and landed by their pilots.
The agent may be predictable on universal grounds and thus again superﬂuous, as in
(ibid.):
126 Syntax
(84) “…as everybody knew, dogs were psychic… Now, it was known that these were
actually ﬁfth-dimensional objects…”
Or the agent may also be predictable as the author of the text, as in (Jespersen 1924: 167):
(85) “…Enough has been said here of a subject which will be treated more fully in a
subsequent chapter…”
Even when the agent is overtly mentioned in the passive clause, it may be of low thematic
import, as in (ibid.):
(86) “…the house was struck by lightning… …his son was run over by a motorcar…”
Examples such as (86), with overtly-expressed agents, are rather atypical as passive clauses.
In most languages, the agent is excluded from the passive clause by a rule of grammar. In
relatively few languages such as English, agented passive clauses may be grammatical, but
their text frequency is still low, and often they may be better analyzed functionally as
inverse clauses (see further below).
As an illustration of the high text frequency of agentless passives, consider the ﬁgures
from four languages below.
(87) Percent of non-anaphoric zero agents in active and passive clauses
in narrative text
Voice construction
Language Active Passive
Chamorro (Cooreman 1987)
Modern Greek (Roland 1994)
Karao (Brainard 1994)
English (Givón 1979a)
0%
0%
0%
/
93.5%
93.0%
90.5%
80.0%
One may indeed suggest that the paucity of overtly-expressed agents in passive clauses is a
vivid iconic manifestation of the most salient functional-pragmatic feature of the passive
voice — agent suppression (Givón 1991a).
13.3.2.2The syntax and typology of passive clauses
13.3.2.2.1Functional domains and typological diversity. In this section we deal with the
typological diversity of passive voice constructions. As elsewhere in typology, we will take
it for granted that what unites these constructions — what makes them sub-types of the
same super-type — is the fact that they all code roughly the same functional domain (see
Ch.1 §1.6.1). Their structural diversity is then due primarily to the fact that they arise from
diﬀerent diachronic source constructions that were used earlier to coded diﬀerent
functional domains.
While this is true in the main, one must bear in mind that the notion of ‘same function-
al domain’ is relative rather than absolute, and that a larger domain often divides into
De-transitive voice 127
several sub-domains. The best argument for this derives from the fact that a language may
have both a promotional and a non-promotional passive, and indeed more than one of
each, as is the case in English:
(88) a. Direct-active
His boss ﬁred him
b. Promotional BE-passive
He was ﬁred (by his boss)
c. Promotional GET-passive
He got ﬁred (?by his boss)
d. Non-promotional ‘impersonal’ passives
They ﬁred him yesterday
One ﬁres people occasionally
You ﬁre them if you have to
It is highly unlikely that all these passive constructions code exactly the same semantic-
pragmatic function, even when their common denominator remains agent suppression.
Still, many languages have only one passive-voice construction, either promotional or non-
promotional.
Much like functional extension in biological evolution, the re-grammaticalization of
various source constructions into passive voice clauses is driven by the partial functional
similarity between their erstwhile domains and the passive. Their structural diversity, on
the other hand, is due to the syntactic diversity of their diachronic sources. This is so
because in grammaticalization as in biological evolution, functional re-analysis leads the
way as the adaptive motivating force, while structural re-adjustment lags — often far —
behind.
We will begin by outlining the main dichotomy in the typology of passive constructions,
between the promotional and non-promotional passive. As elsewhere in taxonomy and
categorization, the more major a type is, the more predictive it is in terms of a largerer
number of associated features.
13.3.2.2.2Main typological split: Promotional vs. non-promotional passives. The main
typological features that distinguish promotional from non-promotional passive clauses is
the presence vs. absence, respectively, of profound re-adjustment in grammatical relations
— thus in overall syntactic structure — in the passive clause, relative to the direct-active
clause. In this connection, it is useful to note that earlier treatments of the passive by both
Generative (Chomsky 1965; Marantz 1983) and Relational grammarians (Perlmutter and
Postal 1977) have tended to assume that only promotional passives, such as the BE-passive
of English, are ‘true’ passives. This assumption is an unfortunate by-product of non-
functional, non-typological approaches to syntax.
From the perspective pursued here, the two major types of passive-voice constructions
may be deﬁned as follows:
128 Syntax
(89) Prototype promotional passive
Main feature
a. The non-agent topic-of-passive undergoes full promotion to subjecthood.
Associated features
b. The subject/agent of the active can appears in the passive clause, in which case
it bears an oblique case-marking.
c. Consequently, the syntax of the passive clause tends to diverge rather mark-
edly from that of the direct-active.
d. The range of non-agent case-roles that can become the subject/topic of the
passive is highly restricted, most commonly either to the semantic patient or
the grammatical direct object.
e. Consequently, passivization tends to be restricted to transitive verbs.
(90) Prototypical non-promotional passive
Main feature
a. The non-agent topic-of-passive does not undergo full promotion to
subjecthood, but rather retains its characteristic active-clause grammatical
role.
Associated features
b. The agent/subject of the active is typically missing.
c. Consequently, the syntax of the passive clause tends to resemble that of the
direct-active.
d. There is no restriction on the non-agent case-roles that can become the topic
of the passive.
e. Consequently, passivization can also apply to intransitive verbs.
We will exemplify these two prototypes with, respectively, English and Ute.
a.
Promotional: The English BE-passive
The ﬁrst three structural features of the English promotional BE-passive, (89a–c), may be
seen in the contrast between the direct-active (88a) and the BE-passive (88b) above,
reproduced below together with their syntactic phrase-structure representation:
(91) Direct-active
S
Subj
[NP]
VP
His-boss Wred
Obj
[NP]
V
him
De-transitive voice 129
(92) Promotional BE-passive
S
Subj
[NP]
VP
He
IO
[PP]
VP
Aux V
was Wred
P NP
by his-boss
Features (89d,e) of the promotional passive may be illustrated by observing the restrictions
on the promotion of various non-agent arguments to subjecthood of the BE-passive in
English:
(93) a. Active
He saw her on the beach
b. Pat-DO subject of passive
She was seen on the beach
c. *Loc-IO Subj of passive
*The beach was seen him on
d. Active
She gave him a book
e. Dat/Ben-DO Subj of passive
He was given a book
f. Active
She wrote a letter with the pen
g. *Instr-IO Subj of passive
*The pen was written a letter with
h. Active
He went there with the kids
i. *Assoc-IO Subj of passive
*The kids were gone there with
j. Active
She walked fast
k. *Mann-IO Subj of passive
*Fast was walked
b.
Non-promotional: The Ute impersonal passive
Ute (Uto-Aztecan) has no promotional passive, but only one non-promotional
‘impersonal’ passive. The non-agent topic of the passive retains its active-clause case-
marking (90a). The subject/agent of the active cannot appear in the passive clause (90b).
130 Syntax
The passive verb is marked with the suﬃx -ta. Thus consider (Givón 1980a, 1981a):
(94) a. Active
ta’wach sivaatuch-i pakha-pu
=ga
man/subj goat-obj kill-rem
‘The man killed the goat’
b. Passive
sivaatuch-i pakha-ta-pu
=ga
goat-obj kill-pass-rem
‘Someone killed the goat’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘The goat was killed’ (by someone)
The passive clause in Ute retains another feature characteristic of the active — plural
subject agreement. That is, the demoted, obligatorily-deleted subject-of-active continues to
control number agreement on the verb. Thus:
(95) a. Active
táata’wachi-u sivaatuch-i pakha-qa-pu
=ga
men/subj-pl goat-obj kill-pl-rem
‘The men killed the goat’
b. Passive
sivaatuch-i pakha-qa-ta-pu
=ga
goat-obj kill-pl-pass-rem
‘Some persons killed the goat’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘The goat was killed’ (by some persons)
Unlike number agreement, pronominal agreement is optional in Ute, and is governed by
discourse-pragmatic considerations. The more topical participant controls pronominal
agreement, and is often also fronted. In the active clause, either the subject or the object
can control pronominal agreement, depending on which is more topical:
(96) a. Subject/agent more topical
táata’wachi-u sivaatuchch-i pakha-qa-pu
=ga-am
men/subj-pl goat-obj kill-pl-rem-they
‘The men killed the goat’
b. Object/patient more topical
sivaatuch-i táata’wachi-u pakha-qa-pu
=gay-’u
goat-obj men-subj-pl kill-pl-rem-him
‘The goat, the men killed it’
In the passive only the topic-of-passive can be co-referent with the clitic pronoun, never
the underlying subject/agent. Thus compare:
(97) a. Topic-of-passive pronominal agreement
sivaatuch-i pakha-qa-ta-pu
=gay-’u
goat-obj kill-pl-pass-rem-him
‘The goat was killed’ (by some persons)
De-transitive voice 131
b. *Subject/agent of active pronominal agreement
*sivaatuch-i pakha-qa-ta-pu
=ga-am
goat-obj kill-pl-pass-rem-they
Finally, any verb type regardless of transitivity can be passivized in Ute (90d,e), and thus
any case-role can become the topic of the passive, often by default. Thus consider:
(98) a. Active
ta’wach wiich-i-m tu
=ka-qa-’u
man/subj knife-obj-instr eat-ant-he
‘The man ate with a knife’
b. Instr topic-of-assive
wiich-i-m tu
=ka-ta-qa-ax
knife-obj-instr eat-pass-ant-it
‘Someone ate with a knife’
c. Active
mamach tu
=vupu
=-vwan ’avi-kya-’u
woman/subj ground-obj-on lie-ant-she
‘The woman lay on the ground’
d. Loc topic of passive
tu
=vu-pu
=-vwan ’avi-ta-qa-ax
ground-obj-on lie-pass-ant-it
‘Someone lay on the ground’
e. Active
máamchi-u ’áapach-i-wa wú
=u
=ka-qa-qa-am
women/subj-pl boy-obj-with work-pl-ant-they
‘The women worked with the boy’
f. Assoc topic of passive
’áapach-i-wa wú
=u
=ka-qa-ta-qa-’u
boy-obj-with work-pl-pass-ant-he
‘Some persons worked with the boy’
g. Active
mamach pú
=ka wú
=u
=ka-qa-’u
woman/subj hard work-ant-she
‘The woman worked hard’
h. Mann topic of passive
pú
=ka wú
=u
=ka-ta-qa
hard work-pass-ant
‘Someone worked hard’
i. Active
mamach tu
=ka-vaa-ch yu
=ga-qa-’u
woman/subj eat-irr-nom arrive-ant-she
‘The woman came in order to eat’
132 Syntax
j. Purp topic of passive
tu
=ka-vaa-ch yu
=ga-ta-qa
eat-irr-nom arrive-pass-ant
‘Someone came in order to eat’
13.3.2.2.3Most common sub-types: The diachronic connection. Both promotional and non-
promotional passives may arise from diverse diachronic sources. As a result, the syntactic
properties of the various passive types often harkens back to their source constructions.
a. Promotional passive sub-types
13.3.2.2.3.1The predicate-adjective source: The English BE-passive.
The English BE-passive arose from an adjectival-resultative clause with the main verb ‘be’,
with the adjective being a perfective derivative of the complement verb (Estival 1986). The
older usage survives to this day in the English so-called ‘lexical’ passives, a middle voice
construction (99a). A ‘perfect passive’ construction (99b) was probably involved as
intermediate in the rise of the ‘syntactic’ BE-passive (99c). Thus, schematically:
(99) a. Adjectival-resultative (‘lexical passive’)
(The came in and looked, and) the window was broken
They came in and saw a broken window
b. ‘Perfect passive’
(They came in and saw that) the window had been broken
c. ‘Syntactic passive’
The window was broken (by John)
The most salient syntactic features of the English BE-passive — promotion of the non-
agent to subjecthood and the restriction to patient/object and thus to transitive verbs —
are derived directly from the source adjectival middle-voice construction (99a). Only
toward the tail end of the diachronic extension was the optional agent by-phrase added,
no-doubt by analogy with non-passive instrumental constructions with agentive senses (‘by
the grace of God’, ‘by hand’, ‘by sheer eﬀort’, ‘by two witnesses’).
13.3.2.2.3.2The reﬂexive source (i): The English GET-passive. The English promotional
GET-passive is the tail end of a protracted 700-year diachronic evolution, whose ﬁnal
stages can be given schematically as (Yang and Givón 1994):
(100) a. Causative with active complement
She got them to ﬁre him
b. Causative with passive complement
She got him (to be) ﬁred
c. Reﬂexive-causative
He got himself ﬁred
d. GET-passive
He got ﬁred
De-transitive voice 133
The fact that the object of the active is promoted to subject of the passive (89a) is a direct
consequence of the fact that in reﬂexive clauses it is the subject, rather than the object, that
survives as a distinct argument. Among conservative users of this still-evolving construc-
tion, the agent by-phrase (89b) is still atypical, although it is moving in among younger
speakers, probably by analogy with the BE-passive, which it seems to be replacing.
Many semantic properties of the GET-passive are also predictable from the agentive
nature of its reﬂexive subject. Thus, for example, it can be embedded in complements of
command verbs, unlike the BE-passive (Bolinger 1966; Lakoﬀ 1971):
(101) a. *They told him to be treated by a doctor
b. They told him to get treated by a doctor
Likewise, with the interpretation of adverbs of intent:
(102) a. John was deliberately shot by Mary
(… Mary acted deliberately)
(…
/ John acted deliberately)
b. John got treated by the wrong doctor deliberately
(> John acted deliberately)
(…
/ The doctor acted deliberately)
The more agentive nature of the subject of the GET-passive is also evident from the fact
that only human-agentive patients of the active can be the subjects of this passive:
(103) a. Mary was promoted fast
b. The house was razed to the ground
c. Mary got promoted fast
d. *The house got razed to the ground
13.3.2.2.3.3The Philippine verb-coding passive: Bikol. If Philippine languages are interpreted
as nominative, which probably was an earlier stage preceding the well-documented current
drift to ergativity (T. Payne 1982; Verhaar 1983a,b; Cooreman et al. 1984; Brainard 1994;
Mithun 1994), then the passive clause in Philippine languages, with its distinctive verb
morphology coding the semantic role of the nominative NP, must be described as a
promotional passive. As such, it violates associated properties (89d,e), in that passivization
is not restricted to the patient/object and transitive verbs.
In the Philippine passive, the subject grammatical role is coded on the NP, while the
semantic role of the subject is coded on the verb. Thus, from Bikol (M. Factora, i.p.c.):
(104) a. Active
nag-ta’o ’ang-lalake ning-libro sa-babaye
agt-give nom-man pat-book dat-woman
‘The man gave a book to the woman’
b. PAT subject (passive-i)
t-in-a’o kang-lalake ’ang-libro sa-babaye
pat-give agt-man nom-book dat-woman
‘The book was given to the woman by the man’
134 Syntax
c. DAT subject (passive-ii)
na-ta’o-an kang-lalake ning-libro ’ang-babaye
dat-give-dat agt-man pat-book nom-woman
‘The woman was given a book by the man’
d. Active
nag-putul ’ang-lalake ning-tubu gamit(-’ang)-lanseta
agt-cut nom-man pat-cane instr-knife
‘The man cut sugar-cane with a knife’
e. INSTR subject (passive-iii)
pinag-putul kang-lalake ning-tubu ’ang-lanseta
instr-cut agt-man pat-cane top-knife
‘The knife was used by the man to cut sugarcane’
f. Active
nag-bakal ’ang-lalake ning-kanding para-sa-babaye
agt-buy nom-man pat-goat ben-dat-woman
‘The man bought a goat for the woman’
g. BEN subject (passive-iv)
pinag-bakal-an kang-lalake ning-kanding ’ang-babaye
ben-buy-dat agt-man pat-goat nom-woman
‘The woman was bought a goat by the man’
Further below (§13.3.2.2.4.1) we will see why the seeming violation of the promotional
passive prototype in Philippine languages is both possible and natural. The Philippine
verb-coding strategy may have arisen diachronically via the re-analysis of erstwhile
nominalizations, whereby nominalized complement clauses ‘surfaced’ as main clauses due
to the grammaticalization of erstwhile main verbs into tense–aspect markers (see Egerod
1975, Mead 1998 for Austronesian; Gildea 1998 for Cariban; Girardello 1999 for Trumai).
In the case of Philippine languages, clefting and/or relativization may have been part of the
mechanism that led to the reanalysis.
b. Non-promotional passive sub-types
13.3.2.2.3.4The zero subject passive: Sherpa. The simplest, most iconic and least grammati-
calized type of passive clause is formed on the principle that zero-marking of arguments
can be prompted by two distinct motivations:
•high anaphoric accessibility
•low cataphoric importance
In Sherpa (Tibeto-Burman), zero-subject constructions can be interpreted — given the
appropriate discourse context — as either active–transitive anaphoric subject clauses or as
impersonal passive clauses, with no additional grammatical marking to diﬀerentiate the
two uses. Thus (K. Lama, i.p.c.):
De-transitive voice 135
(105) a. Active–transitive
ti mi-ti-gi chenyi chax-sung
def man-def-erg cup/abs break-perfv
‘The man broke the cup’
b. Zero subject
chenyi chax-sung
cup/abs break-perfv
(i) Anaphoric pronoun
‘s/he broke the cup’
(ii) Impersonal passive
‘Someone broke the cup’
‘The cup was broken’
(iii) Middle-voice
‘The cup broke’
Not surprising, the zero-subject passive can apply to all verb-types regardless of transitivity,
as in:
(106) a. Active intransitive
ti mi-ti yambur-la lep-sung
def man-def/abs Katmandu-loc come-perfv
‘The man came to Katmandu’
b. Zero subject
yambur-la lep-sung
Katmandu-loc come-perfv
(i) Anaphoric pronoun
‘s/he came to Katmandu’
(ii) Impersonal passive
‘Someone came to Kathmandu’
c. Active intransitive
ti mi-ti cham-sung
def man-def/abs dance-perfv
‘The man danced’
d. Zero subject
cham-sung
dance-perfv
(i) Anaphoric pronoun
‘s/he danced’
(ii) Impersonal passive
‘someone danced’
13.3.2.2.3.5Impersonal subject pronoun: English, French, Athabaskan. The impersonal-
pronoun passive is fundamentally the same as the zero-subject strategy, with the exception
that a real pronominal morpheme rather than a zero marks the suppressed subject/agent.
136 Syntax
We have already noted this passive type in English with examples such as:
(107) a. They ﬁred him yesterday
b. One ﬁres people occasionally
c. You ﬁre them if you have to
This non-promotional impersonal passive is unconstrained by verb-type and transitivity:
(108) a. They dance in the street there
b. One goes to the market every Friday
In French, the impersonal pronoun is derived historically from the generic noun homme
‘man’ (vis. the German man), and the construction is just as permissive in terms of verb-
type and transitivity:
(109) a. on l-a vu dans la rue
impers him-have seen in the street
‘one saw him in the street’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘he was seen in the street’
‘we saw him in the street’
b. on y dance
impers there dance
‘one dances there’
Finally, in Tolowa-Athabaskan the impersonal subject pronoun, like other de-transitive
operators (reﬂexive, reciprocal, antipassive) occupies the erstwhile object pronoun slot, in
a construction that is otherwise a typical non-promotional passive. With the exception of
the impersonal subject pronoun itself, the passive clause maintains all the syntactic features
of the active. Thus (Givón and Bommelyn 2000):
(110) a. Active transitive (3 > 1)
shu
=-R-tu
=R
1sg/obj-l-kick
‘s/he is kicking me’
b. Active transitive (3 > 3)
yu
=-R-tu
=R
3sg/obv/obj-l-kick
‘s/he is kicking him/her’
c. Impersonal passive
shu
=-tr’u
=-R-tu
=R
1sg/obj-pass-l-kick
‘someone is kicking me’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘I am being kicked’
De-transitive voice 137
d. Active intransitive
dee-yu
=n
th-sing/impf
‘s/he is singing’
e. Impersonal passive
sr-dee-yu
=n
pass-thm-sing/impf
‘someone is singing’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘singing is being done’
13.3.2.2.3.6Agent-excluding VP nominalization: Ute. We have already noted the syntactic
characteristics of Ute non-promotional passive (§13.3.2.2.2). The passive suﬃx -ta is the
same one marking subject-excluding VP nominalizations, as in (Givón 1980a, 1988d):
(111) a. Impersonal passive
múusach-i pakha-ta-pu
=ga
cat-obj kill-pass-rem
‘someone killed the cat’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘the cat was killed’
b. VP nominalization
múusa-pakha-ta ka-’ay-wa-t ’ura-’ay
cat-kill-nom neg-good-neg-nom be-imm
‘Cat-killing is bad’
13.3.2.2.3.7The reﬂexive source (ii): Spanish. As noted in the earlier discussion of the
English GET-passive, one would predict from general considerations that a reﬂexive-
derived passive clause would be promotional, given the universal trend to preserve the
subject and delete the object in reﬂexive clauses. This is indeed true in the reﬂexive-derived
passive in many languages, including Semitic languages and Modern Greek (Manney 1998,
2000). The Spanish se-marked impersonal passive is thus somewhat of an anomaly, but one
that is also attested in Russian, Polish and Finnish.
The marker se- was originally the reﬂexive — and then also reciprocal — pronoun,
going back to the Latin sui (Monje 1955):
(112) a. Reﬂexive
se armó de todas sus armas
ref arm/3sg with all his weapons
‘he armed himself with all his weapons’
b. Reciprocal
donde se combatían
where recip ﬁght/impf/3pl
‘where they fought each other’
138 Syntax
Four important features of Spanish syntax conspired in the reanalysis of the se-marked
reﬂexive into a non-promotional impersonal passive. First, the existence of an impersonal-
subject construction, with neutral 3rd person plural agreement, roughly like the still extant:
(113) le-vieron en la calle
3sg/obj-saw/3pl in the street
‘They saw him in the street’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘He was seen in the street’
Second, the se-marked reﬂexive also evolved into a middle-voice construction, as in:
(114) a. Active
quebraron las ventanas
broke/3pl the windows
‘they broke the windows’
b. Middle-voice or impersonal passive
se-quebraron las ventanas
refl-broke/3pl the windows
‘the windows were broken’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘the windows broke’
Third, word-order ﬂexibility in Spanish allows placing the subject post-verbally. In a VO
language, the word-order diﬀerence between subject and object is thus eﬀectively neutral-
ized:
(115) a. VO order, active
curaron los caballos
cure/past/3pl the horses
‘They cured the horses’
b. VS order, middle
se-curaron los caballos
ref-cure/past/3pl the horses
‘The horses got well’
Fourth, in earlier times human objects in Spanish did not require the dative preposition a,
nowadays an obligatory human direct-object marker (Marín 1989a,b; from El Poema de
Mio Cid):
(116) a. veremos vuestra mugier
see/fut/1pl your woman
‘We will see your wife’
b. veré a la mugier
see/fut/1sg dat the woman
‘I will see (my) wife’
The diﬀerence between subject and object was thus neutralized not only in terms of word-
order but also of case-marking.
De-transitive voice 139
These four factors conspired to neutralize the reﬂexive, middle-voice and impersonal-
passive interpretations of the se-marked clause in a period prior to the obligatory
a-marking of human objects:
(117) se-cur-aron los brujos
ref-cure/past-3pl the sorcerers
a. Reﬂexive: ‘The sorcerers cured themselves’
b. Middle: ‘The sorcerers got well’
c. Passive: ‘The sorcerer were cured’
Eventually, a non-promotional impersonal-passive construction evolved, with the topic-of-
passive marked as object, and a neutral 3rd-person singular verb agreement, as in (118a)
below. But a promotional passive survives to this day with plural subjects, as in (118b):
(118) a. Impersonal passive
se-curó a los brujos
ref-cure/3sg dat the sorcerer
‘Someone cured the sorcerers’
b. Promotional passive or middle
se-venden bien los apartamentos
ref-sell/3pl well the apartments
‘Apartments sell well’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘Apartments are sold well’
The use of an oblique agent in the se-marked passive in Spanish is odd to this day, although
the beginning of such a pattern can be seen in both the promotional and the impersonal
passive, respectively (De Mello 1978):
(119) a. Promotional se-passive
las pirámides se-construyeron por esclavos
the pyramids ref-constructed/3pl by/with slaves
‘The pyramids were constructed by/with slaves’
b. Non-promotional (‘impersonal’) se-passive
se-destruyó a la nación por los malos gobernantes
ref-destroyed/3sg dat the nation by the bad rulers
‘The nation was destroyed by the bad rulers’
The ambiguity of por as either ‘because’ or ‘by’ no doubt facilitated this development.
13.3.2.2.3.8The L-dislocation cum impersonal pronoun blend: Lunda. In a number of Bantu
languages on the common border of Zambia, Angola and the Congo (Kimbundu, Lovale,
Chokwe, Lunda), the traditional core-Bantu promotional passive with the suﬃx -wa has
been replaced by a seemingly non-promotional passive that bears all the marks of its recent
origin as a blend between two non-promotional de-transitive constructions — the object
topicalizing L-dislocation and the subject-suppressing impersonal pronoun ‘they’. This
construction will be illustrated with data from Lunda (Kawasha and Givón 2000):
140 Syntax
(120) a. Active–transitive
Joni w-a-mona Mari
J. s/he-past-see M.
‘John saw Mary’
b. Anaphoric object
Joni w-a-mu-mona
John s/he-past-him/her-see
‘John saw him/her’
c. Anaphoric object (Pl subject)
anyaana a-a-mu-mona
children they-past-him/her-see
‘the children saw him/her’
d. Anaphoric subject & object
a-a-mu-mona
they-past-him/her-see
‘they saw him/her’
e. Object L-dislocation
Mari, Joni w-a-mu-mona
Mary John s/he-past-him/her-see
‘Mary, John saw her’
f. Ambiguous passive/L-dislocation
Mari, a-a-mu-mona
Mary they-past-him/her-see
‘Mary, they saw her’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘Mary, she was seen’
‘Mary was seen’
g. Unambiguous passive (VO)
a-a-mu-mona Mari kudi-Joni
they-past-him/her-see Mary dat-John
‘Mary was seen by John’
h. Unambiguous passive (OV)
Mari a-a-mu-mona kudi-Joni
Mary they-past-him/her-see dat-John
‘Mary was seen by John’
In spite of its impersonal subject pronoun ‘they’ and object pronominal agreement on the
verb controlled by the topic-of-passive, the Lunda passive is a rather odd non-promotional
construction. To begin with, the strongly preferred pre-verbal position of the topic-of-
passive (120h) is a subject-like order in this rigid SVO language. Further, unlike the
prototype non-promotional passive, the Lunda passive admits an optional oblique-marked
agent (120g,h). What is more, it also exhibits the restrictions on object type and transitivity
characteristic of promotional passives:
De-transitive voice 141
(121) a. Active
Joni w-a-ya kudi-Mari
John 3sg-past-go dat-Mary
‘John went to Mary’
b. *Passive
*Mari a-a-mu-ya kudi-Joni
Mary they-past-him/her-go dat-John
(*‘Mary was gone to by John’)
c. Active
Joni w-a-ya ku-Lusaka
John 3sg-past-go loc-Lusaka
‘John went to Lusaka’
d. *Passive
*Lusaka a-a-ku-ya kudi-Joni
Lusaka they-past-loc/obj-go dat-John
(*‘Lusaka was gone to by John’)
e. Active
Mari w-a-zuña na-Joni
Mary 3sg-past-ﬁght with-John
‘Mary fought with John’
f. *Passive
*Joni a-a-mu-zuña kudi-Mary
John they-past-him/her-ﬁght dat-Mary
(*‘John was fought with by Mary’)
g. Active
Joni w-e-enda na-mbwechi
John 3sg-past-walk with-cane
‘John walked with a cane’
h. *Passive
*mbwechi a-a-y-eenda kudi-Joni
stick they-past-it-walk dat-John
(*‘the stick was walked with by John’)
However uncharacteristic, these restrictions are nonetheless predictable from one of the
diachronic sources of this schizophrenic construction — object L-dislocation, which applies
only to direct objects, thus only to transitive verbs. As we shall see below, the Lunda topic-
of-passive also displays some subject-like behavior-and-controls properties.
13.3.2.2.4Passives and grammatical relations.
13.3.2.2.4.1The functional dilemma of passivization: Semantic vs. pragmatic case-marking.
The typology of passive constructions outlined above is better understood, indeed
illuminated, in the context of an old functional dilemma, one noted earlier (Vol.I, Ch.4)
142 Syntax
during our discussion of case-marking typology: the conﬂict between semantic and
pragmatic case-marking. This dilemma — the fact that nominal morphology accommo-
dates either semantic or pragmatic case morphemes but seldom both — is resolved, as we
noted earlier, in three major ways: two extreme typological solutions and one middle-
ground compromise. Respectively:
•The nominative typological solution
pragmatically-oriented case-marking
•The active-stative solution
semantically-oriented case-marking
•The ergative solution
transitivity-oriented case-making
The functional dilemma of case-marking the topic-of-passive is similar, and likewise
receives two extreme typological solutions:
(122) a. Non-promotional solution: Semantics over pragmatics
The non-agent topic-of-passive retains its active-clause case-marking, be it
that of secondary topic (DO) or semantic role (patient, dative, instrumental,
associative etc.). In foregoing promotion to subject, it also forgoes pragmat-
ic marking as primary topic.
b. Promotional solution: Pragmatics over semantics
The non-agent topic-of-passive is promoted to subject of the passive clause,
receiving the pragmatic marking of primary topic. As a result it must — like
nominative subjects elsewhere — forego the marking of its semantic role.
The relational restrictions on promotional passives in terms of verb-type, transitivity and
access to subjecthood (90), as well as the various violations of those restrictions, may be
now viewed as various adaptive strategies of having one’s cake and eating it too. That is,
these restrictions and their selective ‘violations’ make it possible for a language to have a
pragmatically-oriented case-marking in the passive clause, while still deciphering the
semantic role of the topic-of-passive. We will survey three such variants.
a.
The Philippine solution
In the Philippine-type passive (§13.3.2.2.3.3 above), the dilemma is resolved by splitting
case-marking morphology between NPs and verbs. By marking the verb for the semantic
role of the nominative subject, the language by-passes the original dilemma altogether,
allowing the subject NP to retain its pragmatically-oriented nominative marking. The fact
that no relational restrictions are imposed on the Philippine-type passive underscores our
suggestion that those restrictions are motivated by the need for semantic-role resolution.
b.
The English solution
As noted earlier (§13.3.2.2.2), the English promotional BE-passives are highly restricted by
verb-type and transitivity (93). Essentially, only direct objects can be made topic-of-passive.
In addition, promotion of oblique objects to DO is highly constrained in English, essential-
ly to only the dative-benefactive, whose promotion is near obligatory (Givón 1984a):
De-transitive voice 143
(123) Selective access to DO
a. Dat IO: He gave the book to Mary
b. Dat DO: He gave Mary a book
c. Ben IO: She built the house for John
d. Ben DO: She built John a house
e. Loc IO: He put the book on the table
f. *Loc DO: *He put the table a book
g. Instr IO: She cut the meat with a knife
h. *Instr DO: *She cut the knife (the) meat
i. Assoc IO: He built the house with Mary
j. *Assoc DO: *He built Mary a house7
k. Mann IO: She built the house fast
l. *Mann DO: *She built fast a house
The direct-object-only restriction on BE-passivization is even stricter, eliminating the
benefactive. Thus compare access to subject-of-passive (124) to access to object-of-active
(123), respectively:
(124) Selective access to subject-of-passive
a. Pat subject: The book was given to mary
b. Dat subject: Mary was given a book
c. Pat subject: The house was built for John
d. *Ben subject: *John was built a house (for)
e. Pat subject: The book was put on the table
f. *Loc subject: *The table was put a book (on)
g. Pat subject: The meat was cut with a knife
h. *Instr subject: The knife was cut the meat (with)
i. Pat subject: The house was built for mary
j. *Ben subject: *Mary was built a house (for)
k. Pat subject: The house was built fast
l. *Mann subject: *Fast was built the house
The direct-object-only restriction in English BE-passives, and the puzzling exception in the
case of the benefactive, is easily seen as a cogent strategy for computing the semantic role
of the subject-of-passive:
(125) a. If the verb takes a dative semantic argument, the semantic role of the sub-
ject-of-passive must be that of dative.
b. Otherwise, the semantic role of the subject-of-passive must be that of pa-
tient.
But why the exception on the benefactive, which is promoted to DO just as easily as the
dative? The answer is disarmingly simple: The dative is an obligatory semantic argument of
the verb; the benefactive is an optional argument, whose semantic role cannot be predicted
from the verb’s semantic frame.
144 Syntax
c.
The KinyaRwanda solution
The hallmark of the KinyaRwanda solution, also found in Nez Perce (Rude 1985) and
partially in many other languages (Givón 1984a), is a stringent direct-object-only restric-
tion very much like that of English. However, unlike English, most oblique objects can be
promoted to DO in KinyaRwanda. What is more, this promotion involves case-marking
the verb with the semantic role of the promoted DO. The promotion of the dative-
benefactive is obligatory, of the other obliques optional (Kimenyi 1976):
(127) a. *Dative-benefactive IO
*Yohani y-ooher-eje ibaruwa ku-Maria
John/subj he-send-asp letter/obj dat-Mary
b. Dative-benefactive DO
Yohani y-ooher-er-eje Maria ibaruwa
John/subj he-send-ben-asp Mary/obj letter/obj
‘John sent Mary a letter’
c. Locative IO
umugore y-ooher-eje umubooyi ku-isoko
woman/subj she-send-asp cook/obj loc-market
‘The woman sent the cook to the market’
d. Locative DO
umugore y-ooher-eke-ho isoko umubooyi
woman/subj she-send-asp-loc market/obj cook/obj
‘The woman sent to the market the cook’
e. Instrument IO
umugabo ya-tem-eje igiti n-umupaanga
man/subj he-cut-asp tree/obj instr-saw
‘The man cut the tree with a saw’
f. Instrument DO
umugabo ya-tem-ej-eesha umupaanga igiti
man/subj he-cut-asp-instr saw/obj tree/obj
‘The man used the saw to cut the tree’
g. Manner IO
Maria ya-tets-e inkoko n-agahiinda
Mary/subj she-cook-asp chicken/obj mann-sorrow
‘Mary cooked the chicken regretfully’
h. Manner DO
Maria ya-tek-an-ye agahiinda inkoko
Mary/subj she-cook-mann-asp sorrow/obj chicken/obj
‘Mary regretfully cooked the chicken’
i. Associative IO
umuhuungu ya-riimb-jye ururiimbi na-umugore
boy/subj he-sing-asp song/obj assoc-woman
‘The boy sang the song with the woman’
De-transitive voice 145
j. Associative DO
umuhuungu ya-riimb-an-ye umugore ururiimba
boy/subj he-sing-assoc-asp woman/obj song/obj
‘The boy sang with the woman a song’
The verb-coding feature of promotion to DO bypasses the functional dilemma of the
promotional passive. Promotion to direct object is a prerequisite to passivization in
KinyaRwanda. Any oblique role can be now promoted to subject-of-passive, provided it is
ﬁrst promoted to direct object. Thus compare with (126) above, respectively:
(127) a. Dative-benefactive (cf. (126b))
Maria y-ooher-er-ej-we ibaruwa
Mary/subj she-send-ben-asp-pass letter/obj
‘Mary was sent a letter’
b. Patient (cf. (126c))
umubooyi y-ooher-ej-we ku-isoko
cook/subj he-send-asp-pass loc-market
‘The cook was sent to the market’
c. Locative (cf. (126d))
isoko ry-ooher-ej-we-ho umubooyi
market/subj it-send-asp-pass-loc cook
*‘The market was sent the cook to’
‘Someone sent the cook to the market’
d. Instrument subject-of-passive (cf. (126f))
umupaanga wa-tem-eesh-ej-we igiti
saw/subj it-cut-instr-asp-pass tree/obj
‘The saw was used to cut the tree’
e. Manner subject-of-passive (cf. (126h))
agahiinda ga-tek-an-w-e inkoko
sorrow/subj it-cook-mann-pass-asp chicken
*‘Regret was cooked the chicken with’
‘Someone cooked the chicken regretfully’
f. Associative subject-of-passive (cf. (126j))
umugore ya-riimb-an-w-e ururiimbi
woman/subj she-sing-assoc-pass-asp song/obj
*‘The woman was sung a song with’
‘Someone sang a song with the woman’
The stringent DO-only restriction on the KinyaRwanda promotional passive turns out, on
closer inspection, to yield the very same have-your-cake-and-eat-it-too solution as the
Philippine promotional passive, splitting the case-marking load between the verb (semantic
role) and the nominative subject NP (pragmatic role).
146 Syntax
13.3.2.2.4.2Partial promotion. So far, we have dealt mostly with reasonably unambiguous
types of either promotional (English BE, English GET, Philippine, KinyaRwanda) or non-
promotional (Sherpa, English/French/Tolowa, Ute, Spanish) passives, whereby the topic-
of-passive is either the subject or non-subject. In this section one must face up to the
considerable residue of relational mess. The mess is of course a matter of factual record, a
record which motivated the prototype approach to GRs, and thus their potential non-
discreteness. Our Pandora Box was ﬁrst left ajar by Keenan’s pioneering observations on
partially-promotional passives (Keenan 1975), and his subsequent basket-of-properties
deﬁnition of the GR subject (Keenan 1976a).
Keenan (1975) ranked the three overt coding properties of ‘subject’ according to the
likelihood of their being acquired by the topic-of-passive. His ranking, modiﬁed to include
behavior-and-control properties, may be expressed in the implicational hierarchy:
(128) Implication hierarchy of overt ding properties of the subject-of-passive
(Keenan 1975; Givón 1995a)
Behavior and control properties >
Nominative word-order >
Nominative pronominal agreement >
Nominative case-marking >
In the following section we will discuss two languages which exhibit a partially-promotion-
al passive. In the ﬁrst, Nepali, the passive resembles, on balance, the non-promotional
prototype. In the second, Lunda, the passive has many more features of the promotional
prototype.
a.
Nepali passive/inverse
Nepali (Indic), in an Ergative SOV language from Nepal. The verb in the Nepali de-
transitive clause is marked by the suﬃx -i, and the construction probably functions as both
passive and inverse (see below). The topic-of-passive retains its original case-marking
(non-promotional). But the agent can be overtly mentioned in an oblique case (promo-
tional). The active-clause word-order is retained (non-promotional). But under some
conditions the topic-of-passive can control verb agreement (promotional).
A wide range of objects can become topic-of-passive in Nepali, few restrictions on verb-
type or transitivity (non-promotional). Thus (R. Shresta, i.p.c.):
(129) Patient topic-of-passive
a. Active-ergative
Raj-le Ram-lay mar-yo
Raj-erg Ram-do/dat kill-past/3sg.masc
‘Raj killed Ram’
b. PAT topic-of-passive (Agt-Pat)
Raj-dwara Ram-lay mar-i-yo
Raj-obl Ram-do/dat kill-pass-past/3sg.masc
‘Ram was killed by Raj’
De-transitive voice 147
c. Active
Ram tyo bichfuna-ma sut-yo
Ram(abs) that bed-loc sleep-past/3sg.masc
‘Ram slept in that bed’
d. Loc topic-of-passive
Ram-dwara tyo bichfuna-ma sut-i-yo
Ram-obl that bed-loc sleep-pass-past/3sg.masc
‘That bed was slept in by Ram’
e. Active
Raj-le Ava-ko-lagi nac-yo
Raj-erg Ava-gen-ben dance-past/3sg.masc
‘Raj danced for Ava’
f. Ben topic-of-passive
Raj-dwara Ava-ko-lagi nac-i-yo
Raj-obl Ava-gen-ben dance-pass-past/3sg.masc
‘Ava was danced-for by Raj’
g. Active
Ram-le Ava-lay kita:b di-yo
Ram-erg Ava-dat book(abs) give-past/3sg.masc
‘Ram gave Ava a book’
h. Dat topic-of-passive
Ram-dwara Ava-lay kita:b di-i-yo
Ram-obl Ava-dat book(abs) give-pass-past/3sg.masc
‘Ava was given a book by Ram’
i. Active
Ram(-le) Raj-sf
fngf
f khel-yo
Ram(-erg) Raj-assoc play-past/3sg.masc
‘Ram played with Raj’
j. Assoc topic-of-passive
Ram-dwara Raj-sf
fngf
f khel-i-yo
Ram-obl Raj-assoc play-pass-past/3sg.masc
‘Raj was played-with by Ram’
k. Active
Raj chito dogu-yo
raj/abs fast run-past/3sg.masc
‘Raj ran fast’
l. Mann topic-of-passive
Raj-dwara chito dogu-i-yo
Raj-obl fast run-pass-past/3sg.masc
‘There was fast running by Ray’
148 Syntax
Instrumentals can also be made topic-of-passive, but only if the agent is deleted. This is due
to the case-marking identity of the instrumental and ergative:
(130) a. Active
Raj-le d
» oid
» -le uphr-yo
Raj-erg rope-instr jump-past/3sg.masc
‘Raj jumped with a rope’
b. Instr topic-of-passive
(*Raj-dwara) d
» od
» i-le uphr-i-yo
(*Ray-obl) rope-instr jump-pass-past/3sg.masc
‘The rope was used to jump with (*by Raj)’
There is a strong tendency to neutralize verb agreement in the Nepali passive into the 3rd-
sg-masculine form. The -yo past-tense ending used in all the examples above is indeed that
form. However, such neutralization does not occur when the topic-of-passive is a human
DO or dative, thus marked by the dative post-position -lay. Such NPs assume the control
of verb agreement:
(131) a. Active (ERG control)
Raj-le Ava-lay hirka-y-o
Raj-erg Ava-do/dat hit-past-3sg.masc
‘Raj hit Ava’
b. Passive (human DO control)
Raj-dwara Ava-lay hirka-i-y-in
Raj-obl Ava-do/dat hit-pass-past-3sg.fem
‘Ava was hit by Raj’
c. Active (ERG control)
Ava-le Raj-lay hirka-y-in
Ava-erg Raj-do/dat hit-past-3sg.fem
‘Ava hit Raj’
d. Passive (human DO control)
Ava-dwara Raj-lay hirka-i-y-o
Ava-obj Raj-do/dat hit-pass-past-3sg.masc
‘Raj was hit by Ava’
b.
The Lunda passive
In our earlier discussion of the Lunda passive, we noted that its overt coding properties
split between those that conform to the promotional and those that conform to the non-
promotional prototype. To summarize:
De-transitive voice 149
(132) Overt coding properties of the Lunda passive
Property Promotional Non-promotional
Nom word-order
Obj verb agr.
impersonal Subj pronoun
oblique Agt present
verb-type restrictions
×
×
×
×
×
In this section we note how the behavior-and-control — relationally governed —
properties of the Lunda passive reﬂect a similar non-discreteness. The three properties we
will survey are:
•equi
•reﬂexive
•relativization.
The most readily available context for equi-subject zero is that of purpose clauses, where
the topic-of-passive behaves like a grammatical subject, i.e. as if the passive were promo-
tional (Kawasha 1999; Kawasha and Givón 2000):
(133) a. Active main clause
Mari w-e-enka mwaana mukaanda
Mary 3sg-past-give child book
‘Mary gave the child a book’
b. Active Purp-clause
Mari w-a-lond-eli kw-iinka mwaana mukaanda
Mary 3sg-past-come.for-asp inf-give child book
‘Mary came to give the child a book’
c. Active Purp-clause, Obj pronoun
Mari w-a-lond-eli kw-mw-iinka mukaanda
Mary 3sg-past-come.for-asp inf-3sg/obj-give book
‘Mary came to give him/her a book’
d. Passive main clause
mwaana a-a-mw-eenka mukaanda kudi-Mari
child 3sg-pass-give book dat-Mary
‘the child was given a book by Mary’
e. Passive Purp-clause
w-a-lond-eli ku-mw-iinka mukaanda kudi-Mari
3sg-past-come.for-asp inf-3sg/obj-give book dat-Mary
‘s/he came in order to be given a book by Mary’
What is, of course, puzzling about the embedded passive in (133e) is that if one removes
the optional agent phrase (‘by Mary’), the clause becomes indistinguishable from the active
(133c). In other words, the only surviving clue for passive structure in the non-ﬁnite
complement clause is the oblique-marked agent.
150 Syntax
The Lunda reﬂexive applies only to direct objects, due to the fact that the reﬂexive
pronoun occupies the DO pronominal slot. Indirect objects thus do not reﬂexivize:
(134) a. Direct object NP
w-a-mona mwaana
1sg-past-see child
‘s/he saw the child’
b. Anaphoric DO
w-a-mu-mona
3sg-past-3sg/obj-see
‘s/he saw him/her’
c. DO reﬂexive
w-a-di-mona
3sg-past-refl-see
‘s/he saw himself/herself’
d. Dat object NP
w-a-hosha kudi-Mari
3sg-past-talk dat-Mary
‘s/he talked to Mary’
e. *Dat reﬂexive
*w-a-di-hosha (kudi-yeena)
3sg-past-refl-talk dat-3sg
(*‘s/he talks to himself/herself’)
f. Assoc object NP
w-a-zuña na-Joni
3sg-past-ﬁght with-John
‘s/he fought with John’
g. *Assoc reﬂexive
*w-a-di-zuña (n-iindi)
3sg-past-3sg/obj-ﬁght with-3sg
(*‘s/he fought with himself/herself’)
Reﬂexive-passives are unacceptable in Lunda:
(135) a. Active
mwaana w-a-di-mona
child 3sg-past-refl-see
‘the child saw himself/herself’
b. Passive
mwaana a-a-mu-mona kudi-Mari
child 3pl-past-3sg/obj-see dat-Mary
‘the child was seen by Mary’
De-transitive voice 151
c. *Reﬂexive-passive
*mwaana a-a-di-mona (kudi-yeena)
child 3pl-past-refl-see dat-3sg
(*‘the child was seen by himself/herself’)
The Lunda passive thus behaves like the English promotional passive, where reﬂexivization
is just as odd:
(136) a. She saw herself
b. She was seen by someone
c. *She was seen by herself
d. She gave herself a present
e. She was given a present by someone
f. *She was given a present by herself
In contrast, non-promotional ‘impersonal’ passives readily admit reﬂexivization:
(137) English
a. I ﬁnd myself often in such a bind
b. One ﬁnds oneself often in such a bind
(138) French
a. Reﬂexive
il se-voit dans le miroir
he refl-sees in the mirror
‘he sees himself in the mirror’
b. Impersoinal anaphoric
on le-voit dans la rue
impers him-sees in the street
‘one sees him in the street’
c. Impersonal reﬂexive
on se-voit dans le miroir
impers refl-ﬁnd in the mirror
‘one sees oneself in the mirror’
(139) Spanish
a. Reﬂexive
María se-vio en el espejo
Maria refl-see/past/3sg in the mirror
‘Maria saw herself in the mirror’
b. Impersonal anaphoric
se-le-vio (a-María) en la calle
impers-3sg/dat-see/past/3sg (obj-Maria) in the street
‘Mary was see in the street’
152 Syntax
c. Impersonal-reﬂexive
uno se-ve (a si mismo) en el espejo
one refl-see/3sg (obj refl self) in the mirror
‘one sees oneself in the mirror’
(140) Ute (Givón 1980a)
a. Active
mamach tuaci punikyay-kya
woman/subj child/obj see-perf
‘the woman saw the child’
b. Reﬂexive
mamach nanöös punikyay-kya
woman/subj refl see-perf
‘the woman saw herself’
c. Passive
mamach(i) punikya-ta-kha
woman/obj see-pass-perf
‘someone saw the woman’
d. Reﬂexive-passive
nanöös punikya-ta-kha
refl see-pass-perf
‘someone saw himself/herself’
(141) Tolowa-Athabaskan (Givón & Bommelyn 2000)
a. Active (3 > 1)
shu
=-R-tu
=R ‘s/he is kicking me’
1sg/obj-l-kick
b. Active (3 > 3)
yu
=-R-tu
=R ‘s/he is kicking him/her’
3sg/obv-l-kick
c. Reﬂexive (3)
du
=-R-tu
=R ‘s/he is kicking her/himself’
refl-l-kick
d. Reﬂexive (1)
du
=-sh-tR-tu
=R ‘I am kicking myself’
refl-1sg/subj-l-kick
e. Impersonal
shu
=-tr’u
=-R-tu
=R ‘someone is kicking me’
1sg/obj-pass-l-kick
f. Impersonal-reﬂexive
du
=-tr’u
=-R-tu
=R ‘someone is kicking themselves’
refl-pass-l-kick
De-transitive voice 153
Let us now turn to relativization, where Lunda has three distinct pronominal patterns —
for subject, direct object, and indirect object(s). Subject-REL morphology is nearly
indistinct from that of the simple clause (Kawasha and Givón 2000):
(142) a. Simple
mwaana w-a-mona chisalu
child 3sg-past-see mat
‘the child saw the mat’
b. Subject Rel
mwaana ona w-a-mona chisalu
child that 3sg-past-see mat
‘the child who saw the mat’
Direct-object relativization exhibits two main patterns, one for 3rd-person subjects, the
other for 1st/2nd person subjects:
(143) a. Direct-object Rel (3rd person Subj)
chisalu ch-a-mona-yi (mwaana)
mat it/obj-past-see-3sg/subj child
‘the mat that s/he (the child) saw’
b. Direct-object Rel (1st/2nd person Subj)
chisalu chi-n-a-mona
mat it/obj-I-past-see
‘the mat that I saw’
The 3rd-person pattern (143a) thus has two striking features:
•the subject clitic pronoun shifts to a V-suﬃx position
•the subject NP is placed post-verbally (VS)
In relativizing passive clauses, the impersonal pronoun ‘they’ assumes the V-suﬃx
pronominal slot of the subject/agent of the active in object Rel-clauses. The topic-of-
passive — object of the active — cannot take the old DO pre-verbal pronoun slot of the
active, which it the main-clause pattern. Nor can it take the already-occupied V-suﬃx
subject/agent pronominal slot. Rather, it can only take the external preﬁx position
characteristic of the active object-Rel-clause:
(144) a. Main-clause passive
chisalu a-a-chi-mona kudi-Mari
mat 3pl-past-it/obj-see dat-Mary
‘the mat was seen by Mary’
b. Rel-clause passive
chisalu ch-aa-mona-wu kudi-Mari
mat 3sg/obj-past-see-3pl/subj dat-Mary
‘the mat that was seen by Mary’
154 Syntax
The behavior-and-control properties of the Lunda topic-of-passive are again mixed — one
conforming to the promotional, two to the non-promotional prototype. Table (132) above
may thus be augmented as:
(145) Relational properties of the Lunda passive
(Kawasha and Givón 2000)
Property Promotional Non-promotional
Overt coding properties
Nom word-order
Obj verb agr.
Impersonal Subj pronoun
oblique Agt present
verb-type restrictions
B&C properties
equi zero contro (Subj)
reﬂexivization (Subj)
relativization (Obj)
×
×
×
×
×
×
×
×
Does the apparent non-discreteness of GRs in the Lunda passive destroy the validity of a
universalist approach to the GRs subject and object? Before jumping to this easy conclu-
sion, a few reﬂections are perhaps in order. First, only a few clause types — most conspicu-
ously the passive, inverse and existential-presentative — exhibit serious ambiguities and
non-discrete GRs.
Second, clauses with ambiguous, non-discrete GRs are highly marked clause-types that
also deviate from the unmarked active–transitive prototype in two other respects:
•the agent is not the main topic (passive/inverse)
•the subject is not anaphoric (existential-presentative)
Third, all three clause types are rather infrequent in discourse. The GRs subject and object
thus seem to be viable as high-frequency prototypes. The fact that at the low-frequency
margins of the system these categories may be less stable and less discrete is just another
reﬂection of their being natural categories.
13.3.3 The inverse voice
13.3.3.1Preamble
Unlike the passive, the inverse voice was for many years considered a typological oddity
found only in some exotic language families, to the point where a functionally-based
universal typological approach to inversion is to this day rejected by many. This recalci-
trance is due, in part, to the considerable functional overlap between the inverse and the
passive, i.e. the fact that both topicalize a non-agent. As a result, inverse clauses in many
languages are often considered ‘just another passive’ (cf. Cooreman 1982, 1985, 1987).
Further, some inverse clauses resemble the traditional Eurocentric idea of the ‘canon-
ical’ passive: The non-agent is promoted to subject, the agent is demoted and marked by
De-transitive voice 155
an oblique case. Indeed, in many languages the very same clause-type may perform both
passive and inverse functions (English, Spanish, Acatec, Salish).
The reluctance to recognize the universal functional category ‘inverse’ is due in part to
the abiding recalcitrance of good old structuralism: Inverse constructions were ﬁrst
christened as such in Algonquian languages (Bloomﬁeld 1962; Wolfart 1973; Rhodes 1976;
Goddard 1979; Dahlstrom 1986). So unless a construction resembles structurally the
Algonquian inverse, it is not considered an inverse. In this vein, even the rather classical
Athabaskan pronominal inverse, with its telltale semantic hierarchies of generic topicality,
was considered by many a passive (Hale 1972; Frishberg 1972).
What will be attempted here is a certain measure of restoring the balance, following the
same procedures applied to other domains of syntactic typology:
•Deﬁne the domain functionally, independently of language-speciﬁc structures.
•Describe the diversity of structural types that code the domain cross-language as well as
within the same language.
•Let the typological chips, in terms of form-function pairings, fall as they may.
•Strive to understand and explain why some forms pair more consistently with some
functions.
13.3.3.2Functional dimensions
13.3.3.2.1Pragmatic inversion: Relative topicality. As noted earlier above (§13.1.2.3), inverse
voice constructions are used in discourse contexts when the patient outranks the agent in
topicality, thus contrasting with the agent-topicalizing active-direct; but the agent-of-
inverse remains topical, thus contrasting with the radically suppressed agent-of-passive.
Thus recall (Cooreman 1987):
(3) Relative topicality of the agent and patient in the four main
pragmatic voice constructions
Voice Relative topicality
active-direct
inverse
passive
antipassive
Agt > Pat
Agt < Pat
Agt << Pat
Agt >> Pat
The high frequency of overtly-coded agents in the inverse, as against the categorial or near-
categorial agent-deletion in the passive, is a direct reﬂection of the higher topicality of the
agent-of-inverse, as compared with the agent-of-passive. Thus, compare the percent of
non-anaphoric zero agents in passive and inverse clauses in Chamorro (Austronesian;
Cooreman 1987) and Sahaptin (Penutian; Rude 1994):
156 Syntax
(146) % of non-anaphoric agent deletion in passive vs. inverse
clauses in Chamorro and Sahaptin
Language Passive Inverse
Chamorro
Sahaptin
90.5%
100.0%
3.6%
0.0%
While inverse clauses are often more frequent in discourse than passive clauses, the text
frequency of both is typically low relative to the direct-active, underscoring the fact that
both are marked, de-transitive constructions. Thus recall:
(78) Frequency distribution of Various Voices in Chamorro Narrative Text
(Cooreman 1987)
Voice construction N %
active-ergative
passive
inverse
antipassive
601
35
134
64
72.0
4.2
16.1
7.7
13.3.3.2.2Semantic inversion: Generic topic hierarchies. In many languages, inversion is
triggered obligatorily by the reversal of generic semantic ‘norms’ for agents vs. patients.
These ‘norms’ involve the inherent topicability of several semantic or grammatical
categories. In most languages, this inherent tendency is reﬂected only at the text-frequency
level, where particular semantic or grammatical categories are more likely to occupy the
more-topical subject/agent slot. But in languages with obligatory semantic inversion, this
tendency has grammaticalized. So that when the ‘norm’ is followed and the agent outranks
the patient along a relevant hierarchy, the direct-active is used. When the norm is reversed
and the patient outranks the agent, the inverse is used. This may be expressed in terms of
the semantic conditions for obligatory inversion:
(147) Reversal of the generic topicality hierarchies leading to
obligatory semantic inversion
Category AGT PAT
person
deﬁniteness
anaphoricity
animacy
humanity
age
gender
3
indeﬁnite
full NP
inanimate
non-human
child
female
1, 2
deﬁnite8
anaphoric PRO8
animate
human
adult
male
In diﬀerent languages, obligatory semantic inversion is triggered by diﬀerent topicality
hierarchies (147), with the probability of a hierarchy triggering inversion descending in the
order:
De-transitive voice 157
person > deﬁniteness > animacy > gender > age
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
anaphoricity humanity
13.3.3.2.3Switch reference. Since both clausal arguments are topical in the inverse clause but
one — the non-agent — is more topical than the other, inversion is often used as a switch-
reference device. In a two-participant narrative, one of the participants is typically more
topical than the other. The direct-active form is used as long as the more topical —
proximate — argument continues as the subject. When for a short stretch the less-topical
— obviate — participant becomes subject, the inverse form is used, thus signalling that the
non-agent is more topical than the agent. As an illustration of this, consider the following
examples from Sahaptin narrative (Rude 1994):
(148) Use of direct vs. inverse verb-form in Sahaptin narrative
a. Continuity with ‘proximate’ subject
kúuu-xi vwána-pa shushansh i-q’ínunu
=-xan-a
thus-same river-loc stealhead 3/nom/dir-see-hab-past
‘…the same way he [prox] would see a stealhead [obv] in the river
ku i-pú
=tya-xan-a kwn-kínk
and 3/nom/dir-spear-hab-past that-instr
and [prox] would spear it [obv] with it (the spear)…’
b. Switch from ‘proximate’ to ‘obviate’ subject
kuuk á-q’inun-a xwú
=saat inch’u-sha,
then 3/abs/dir-see-past old.man sleep-impfv
‘…then he [prox] saw an old man [obv] sleeping,
kuuk xwú
=saat pá-q’inuun-a
then old.man inv-see-past
the the old man [obv] saw him [prox]
ku pá-’n-a:…
and inv-say-past
and [obv] said to him [prox]:…’
c. Switch back from ‘obviate’ to ‘proximate’ subject
íkush pá-’u
=n-a xwú
=saat-in
thus inv-say-past old.man-obv
‘…thusly the old man [obv] said to him (Wild Cat) [prox].
ku áw-n-a:…
and 3/abs/dir-say-past
And he (Wild Cat) [prox] said to him (old man) [obv]:…’
A similar account of the use of the inverse for switch-reference in Kutenai narratives is
given by Dryer (1994). The use of the inverse for switch reference is so widespread that
linguists occasionally assume — erroneously, I think — full equivalency between the two
constructions (cf. Hale 1991).
158 Syntax
13.3.3.3Syntactic typology of inverse constructions
In this section we will outline and illustrate some of the core syntactic dimensions that
underlie the typological diversity of inverse constructions.
13.3.3.3.1Verbal, pronominal and nominal morphology: Plains Cree. Inverse clauses may be
morphologically coded by either one of three means or their various combinations:
•voice-marking morphemes on the verb
•pronominal aﬃxes on the verb
•case-makers on NPs.
As an example of a system in which all three elements are combined, consider the classical
Algonquian inverse system of Plains Cree. The general mapping of semantic, pragmatic and
grammatical roles given by Dahlstrom (1986) suggests a non-promotional inverse construc-
tion, where the topical (proximate) patient remains the grammatical object. This contrasts
with the promotional passive of Plains Cree, where the topical patient becomes the
grammatical subject.
(149) Semantic role, grammatical case and pragmatic role in the direct-active,
inverse and passive voice in Plains Cree (Dahlstrom 1986)
Clause type Semantic role Grammatical case Pragmatic role
direct
inverse
passive
agent
patient
agent
patient
agent
patient
subject
object
subject
object
(deleted)
subject
prox (Top)
obv (Non-top)
obv (Non-top)
prox (Top)
obv (Non-top)
prox (Top)
The diﬀerence between the direct and inverse clause is coded in three morphological loci
in Plains Cree:
•the verb is marked as either direct or inverse
•the obviate argument controls pronominal agreement on the verb
•the obviate argument, when present as full NP, is marked by an oblique suﬃx in both
direct and inverse. (The proximate NP is morphologically unmarked).
In the passive, a one-argument intransitive clause, verb pronominal agreement is con-
trolled by the single (proximate) argument.
The three-way contrast between direct-active, inverse and passive in Plains Cree is
illustrated in (Dahlstrom 1986):
De-transitive voice 159
(150) a. Direct-active
aya.hciyiniw-ah nisto e.h-nipaha.t awa na.pe.sis
Blackfoot-obv three kill/dir-3/obv this boy
‘This boy [prox] killed three Blackfoot [obv]’
b. Inverse
osa.m e.-sa.khikot ohta.wiy-ah aw o.skini.kiw
much love/inv-3/obv his-father-obv this young.man
‘(for) his father [obv] loved this young man [prox] too much’
c. Passive
awa na.pe.sis e.kwa aw o.skini.kiw mawi.hka.ta.wak
this boy and this young-man mourn/pass/3pl/prox
‘This boy and this young man are being mourned’
When both arguments are 3rd persons, as in (150) above, the Plains Cree inverse is a
pragmatic inverse, triggered by considerations of relative topicality:
(151) a. Subject inherently more topical (1 > 3) = direct
ni-wa.pam-im-a.-w-a o-kosis-a
1-see-obv-dir-3-inv 3-son-obv
‘I [prox] see his son [obv]’
b. Object inherently more topical = inverse
ni-wa.pam-iko-yi-w-a o-kosis-a
1-see-inv-obv-3-obv 3-son-obv
‘His son [obv] sees me [prox]’
But the very same inverse clause is also used in obligatory semantic inversion (Dahlstrom
1986).
13.3.3.3.2Strictly pronominal inverse: Athabaskan. In Athabaskan languages, illustrated by
Koyukon (Thompson 1987a, 1989, 1994), the contrast between the direct-active and
inverse voice is coded only by anaphoric pronouns on the verb, with no case-marking
diﬀerentiation between proximate and obviative full NP. The verb itself in the inverse
clause retains the same voice marker (‘classiﬁer’) as in the direct-active. The proximate 3rd
person pronoun is zero in the direct-active and passive, and be- in the inverse. The 3rd
person obviate pronoun is ye- in both direct-active and inverse. This distribution of
pronominal aﬃxes in Koyukon is summarized in (Thompson 1987a):
(152) Anaphoric 3rd-person pronouns in Koyukon
Voice clause
Semantic role Direct Inverse Passive
agent
patient
zero- (Prox)
ye- (Obv)
ye- (Obv)
be- (Prox)
(absent)
zero (Prox)
160 Syntax
The Koyukon (and in general, Athabaskan) pronominal inverse is non-promotional, with
the agent remaining the grammatical subject. Further, it is only used when both agent and
patient are 3rd persons. As illustration, consider (Thompson 1987a):
(153) a. Direct-active (NP agent)
John ye-ni-R-’an
John 3obj/obv-thm-l-see
‘John [prox] is watching her [obv]’
b. Direct-active (PRO agent)
ye-ni-R-’an
3obj/obv-thm-l-see
‘He [prox] is watching at her [obv]’
c. Inverse (NP agent)
John be-ni-R-’an
John 3obj/plrox-thm-l-see
‘John [obv] is watching her [prox]’
d. Inverse (PRO agent)
be-ye-ni-R-’an
3obj/plrox-3subj/obv-thm-l-see
‘He [obv] is watching her [prox]’
In the promotional, agentless passive, where the verb is further marked by the de-transitive
D-preﬁx (‘classiﬁer’), the proximate patient is the grammatical subject (Thompson 1987a):
(154) a. Active-direct
ye-ni-R
R-’an
3obj/obv-thm-l-see
‘He [prox] is watching her [obv]’
b. Passive
ni-l-’an
thm-d/l-see
‘She [prox] is being watched’
As suggested by both Frishberg (1972) and Hale (1972), the use of the Athabaskan inverse
can be triggered, at least in Navajo, by norm-reversals along the generic topicality
hierarchies (147). Whether such semantic inversion is obligatory remains to be seen. But
it clearly skips over the most common hierarchy that can trigger semantic inversions —
that of persons (1/2>3). This is so because the Athabaskan ye-/be- pronominal alternation
applies only to third persons.
One could perhaps argue that the fact that inversion is impossible with 1st or 2nd or
person agents/subjects in Athabaskan reﬂects the negative half of the condition for
obligatory semantic inversion. It is the other, positive, half of the condition for semantic
inversion that is missing.
De-transitive voice 161
13.3.3.3.3Promotional vs. non-promotional inverse. As noted above, the Koyukon inverse is
non-promotional, in this respect resembling the Plains Cree inverse. Rhodes (1976 and
i.p.c) has suggested that in Ojibwe, another Algonquian language, the inverse is promo-
tional. That is, the proximate patient is the grammatical subject of the inverse clause.
Whether the diﬀerence between Plains Cree and Ojibwe goes beyond an argument over
criteria for subjecthood remains to be seen. Given what was said above about the potential-
ly murky relational status of both passive and inverse clauses, the disagreement between
Dahlstrom and Rhodes is not all that surprising.
In languages with a promotional passive that also performs the pragmatic inverse
function, the relational status of the inverse clause may be a bit clearer. Such a situation has
been described in Spanish (Hidalgo 1994) and Acatec (Zavala 1994). A diachronic
reﬂection of the same situation may be seen in Salish, where the very same de-transitive
construction can function as a passive in one language (Squamish, Jacobs 1994) but an
inverse in another (Bella Coola, Forrest 1994). Indeed, there is a plausible conjecture that
the English agented BE-passive clause also functions as an inverse. That is:
(155) a. Direct-active
The Viet Cong [prox] killed him [obv]
b. Inverse
He [prox] was killed by the Viet Cong [obv]
c. Passive
He [prox] was killed (in Vietnam)
Semi-promotional inverses are just as likely as semi-promotional passives. Thus for
example, the Nepali de-transitive clause, described earlier as a semi-promotional passive,
probably performs the pragmatic function of both passive (when agentless) and inverse
(when agented). The obviate agent in Nepali is marked by an oblique post-position, and
verb pronominal agreement is neutralized in the passive/inverse (into 3sg.masc). Thus
recall (R. Shresta, i.p.c.):
(156) a. Active-ergative (‘direct’)
Omi-le Ram-lay mar-yin
Omi-erg Ram-do/dat kill-past/3sg.fem
‘Omi [prox] killed Ram [obv]’
b. Inverse (agented passive)
Omi-dwara Ram-lay mar-i-yo
Omi-obl Ram-do/dat kill-detr-past/3sg.masc
‘Omi [obv] killed Ram [prox]’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘Ram [prox] was killed by Omi [obv]’
c. Agentless passive
Ram-lay mar-i-yo
Ram-do/dat kill-detr-past/3sg.masc
‘Ram [prox] was killed’
162 Syntax
13.3.3.3.4Word-order inverse. In many languages, the pragmatic function of inverse is
carried out by word-order alternation between the agent and patient, with the most topical
argument invariably preceding. Most commonly, this alternation does not change
grammatical relations, thus yielding various types of non-promotional inverse. Thus for
example, two well-known object topicalizing constructions, Y-movement and L-disloca-
tion, can and should be considered pragmatic inverses (see Ch.15,16):
(157) a. Direct-active (SVO)
Mary saw John
b. Y-movement (OSV)
(She was looking for both John and Bill).
John she saw in the street,9
Bill she never found.
c. L-dislocation (OSV)
Now as for John, Mary saw him in the street a few days later and…
The detailed morpho-syntactic structure of word-order inverses depend on the word-order
typology of the language and other typological variants. The most common trends,
couched in terms of the neutral word-order in active-direct clauses, are listed below.
(158) Most common word-order inverse patterns
Word order
Direct-active Inverse Language
SOV
SVO
SVO
VO
VSO
VSO
VAP
OSV
OSV
OVS
OVS
OVS
VOS
VPA
(Korean; Lee-Kwok 1994)
(English)
(Dzamba; Bokamba 1971, 1976)
(Spanish; Bolinger 1954)
(Modern Greek; Roland 1994)
(Biblical Hebrew; Givón 1977)
(Maasai; D. Payne et. al 1994)
(Cebuano; T. Payne 1994)
As an example, consider word-order inversion in Spanish:
(159) a. Direct (SVO)
María cur-ó a los brujos
M. cured/3sg obj the sorceres
‘Mary [prox] cured the sorcerers [obv]’
b. Inverse (OVS)
Pero a los brujos no cur-ó nadie
but obj the sorceres neg cured/3sg nobody
‘But the sorcerers [prox] nobody [obv] cured’
One might as well note that the agented BE-passive in English, if indeed it does function as
a pragmatic inverse, is also a word-order inverse, albeit a more grammaticalized, promo-
De-transitive voice 163
tional one with changes in both nominal case-marking and pronominal verb agreement.
Still, it displays the alternation of AGT-V-PAT (direct) vs. PAT-V-AGT (inverse):
(160) a. Active-direct (AGT-V-PAT)
Mary [prox] is watering her ﬂowers [obv]
b. Inverse (PAT-V-AGT)
The ﬂowers [prox] are being watered by Mary [obv]
In §13.3.3.3.6 below we will see how word-order inversion can trigger changes in the
pronominal aﬃxes on the verb, thus lead to pronominally-marked inversion.
13.3.3.3.5Morphological vs. word-order inverse: Maasai. We noted above that the same de-
transitive construction in Plains Cree and Athabaskan can be used as both a pragmatic and
a semantic inverse. In some languages, the two types of inversion are split between two
distinct constructions. We will illustrate this pattern with Maasai (Nilotic), in which this
functional dichotomy is associated with a common typological distinction, that of
morphologically-coded vs. word-order-coded inversion. The obligatory semantic inverse
in Maasai is strictly morphological, coded by a distinct set of pronominal aﬃxes on the
verb. The pragmatic inverse is accomplished by word-order change with no further
morphological ramiﬁcations, as in Spanish (159).
Obligatory semantic inversion in Maasai is triggered by the person hierarch (1/2>3) in
a complex way involving various morphemic neutralization and portmanteau pronominal
preﬁxes. As a somewhat simpliﬁed example, consider (D. Payne at al. 1994):
(161) a. Direct (3 > 3)
e-nyal-a
dir/3 > 3
‘s/he [prox] insulted him/her [obv]’
b. Inverse I (2 > 1; 3 > 2)
kí-nyal-a
inv/2>1/3>2-spoil
‘You [obv] insulted me [prox]’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘s/he [obv] insulted you [prox]’
c. Inverse II (3 > 1)
áá-y-nyal-a
dir/3>1-ii-spoil-pfv
‘She [obv] insulted me [prox]’
In the pragmatic inverse in Maasai, the grammatical case-roles subject and object are
tonally marked (D. Payne et al. 1994):
(162) a. Direct (VSO; LOC object)
n-é-pik ol-kítok en-kúmóto
seq-3-put.in m-big.one/nom f-hole/acc
‘The big one (elephant) [prox] put (it) in the hole [obv]’
164 Syntax
b. Inverse (VOS; LOC object)
n-é-pik en-kúmotó ol-kítok
seq-3-put.in f-hole/acc m-big.one/nom
‘The hole [prox], the big one [obv] put it in there’
c. Direct (VO; PAT object)
n-é-pik ol-któk en-kúmóto
seq-3-put.in m-big.one/acc f-hole/acc
‘S/he [prox] put the big one [obv] in the hole’
13.3.3.3.6Y-movement inverses: Dzamba. In Dzamba (Bantu), the Y-movement construc-
tion can be considered a pragmatic word-order inverse. The pre-verbal subject/agent of the
active-direct (SVO) must be post-posed in this inverse construction (OVS). In addition, it
also relinquishes control of pronominal agreement on the verb. The L-dislocation inverse
construction, on the other hand, displays neither syntactic adjustment, but only object
fronting (OSV). Thus (Bokamba 1971, 1976):
(163) a. Active (SVO)
o-Poso a-tom-aki mukanda
def-Poso he-send-past letter
‘Poso sent a letter’
b. Active-direct (anaphoric Obj PRO)
o-Poso a-mu-tom-aki
def-Poso he-it-send-past
‘Poso sent it (the letter)’
c. Inverse (OVS)
i-mukanda mu-tom-aki o-Poso
def-letter it-send-past def-Poso
‘The letter Poso sent (away)’
d. *Inverse without pronominal adjustment
*i-mukanda a-mu-tom-aki o-Poso
def-letter he-it-send-past def-Poso
e. *Inverse without subject post-posing
*i-mukanda o-Poso mu-tom-aki
def-letter def-Poso it-send-past
f. L-dislocated (OSV)
i-mukanda o-Poso a-mu-tom-aki
def-letter def-Poso he-it-send-past
‘The letter, Poso sent it’
What is intriguing here is that the Dzamba inverse, much like the Lunda passive, shows
rather vividly how word-order inversion of a rather common sort, in a language with a rich
verbal pronominal conjugation, can easily give rise to a pronominal inverse. In Dzamba
(and Lunda, see earlier above), the topical (proximate) non-agent argument in the de-
De-transitive voice 165
transitive clause takes control of verb pronominal agreement from the subject/agent. The
pronominal markers on the de-transitive verb are the object pronominal markers of the
direct-active.
13.3.3.3.7The deictic connection. A semantic inverse can also arise from a rather wide-
spread deictic construction used to mark the contrast between action directed toward vs.
away from the speaker. The serial verbs ‘come’ (toward the speaker) and ‘go’ (away from
the speaker) are the most common source of such constructions, as in Tok Pisin (Givón
1991b):
(164) a. Trans-locative (away)
em i-wakabaut i-go
s/he pred-walk pred-go
‘She is walking that-a-way’
b. Cis-locative (toward)
em i-wakabaut i-kam
s/he pred-walk pred-come
‘She is walking this way’
In many Tibeto-Burman languages, this serial-verb deixis is found without further re-
grammaticalization, as in Newari (Delancey 1985):
(165) a. Away from here = ‘go’
jhãgo bwa-ya wf
fn-f
bird/abs ﬂy-part go-perf
‘The bird is ﬂying away’
b. Towards here = ‘come’
jhãgo bwa-ya wal-f
bird/abs ﬂy-part come-perf
‘The bird is ﬂying this way’
In other languages, the directional contrast is re-grammaticalized into semantic inversion:
‘go’ = 1>2/3; ‘come’ = 2/3>1. In Lahu, the same distinction is coded by the contrast
between ‘come’ (2/3>1)) and ‘give’ (1>2/3) (Matisoﬀ 1972):
(166) a. Direct = ‘give’ (1/2 > 3)
yamie’ chi ta kf’ pi-’
girl this neg scare give-imper
‘Don’t you [prox] scare this little girl [obv]!’
b. Inverse = ‘come’ (2/3 > 1)
]a a’ ta kf’ la-’
I obj neg scare come-imper
‘Don’t you [obv] scare me [prox]!’
In Nocte, ﬁnally, the contrast is grammaticalized to the point where only one aﬃx
(inverse), survives, contrasting with the zero-marked direct-active (Delancey 1981):
166 Syntax
(167) a. Direct (1 > 2)
]a-ma na] hetho-e
I-erg you/abs teach-1/pl
‘I [prox] will teach y’all [obv]’
b. Inverse (2 > 1)
na]-ma ]a hetho-h-a]
you-erg I/abs teach-inv-1sg
‘Y’all [obv] will teach me [prox]’
c. Direct (3 > 1)
]a-ma ate hetho-a]
I-erg he/abs teach-1sg
‘I [prox] will teach him [obv]’
d. Inverse (3 > 1)
ate-ma ]a-na] hetho-h-a]
he-erg I-acc teach-inv-1sg
‘He [obv] will teach me [prox]’
The diachronic drift in Tibeto-Burman suggests a natural diachronic pathway for the
grammaticalization of semantic inverse systems from erstwhile deictic-directional markers.
But in at least one language, such a system may have evolved further into a pragmatic
inverse. This has been described by Rude (1988b, 1994) for Sahaptin (Penutian), where the
verbal preﬁx pa- marks both the semantic and pragmatic inverse. Rude (1988b) suggests
that pa- was diachronically derived from a cis-locative — ‘hither’ — marker. If so, the
Sahaptin pragmatic inverse, as seen earlier above, must have evolved ﬁrst as an obligatory
semantic inverse, as in (Rude 1994):
(168) a. Direct (1 > 2)
áw-mash twána-ta
now-1>2 follow-fut
‘Now I (prox] will follow you [obv]’
b. Inverse (2 > 1)
ku-nam áw pá-yk-sha
and-2>1 now inv-hear-impf
‘and now you [obv] hear me [prox]’
c. Direct (1 > 3)
cháw-nash mish á-mi-ta u
=wínsh-nan
neg-1sg how 3/abs-do-fut man-obj
‘maybe I [prox] will not do anything to the man [obv]’
d. Inverse (3 > 1)
i-q’íntu-sha-ash u
=winsh-nu
=m
inv/3/nom-see-impf-1sg man-obv
‘the man [obv] sees me [prox]’
De-transitive voice 167
13.3.3.3.8Passive-to-inverse and inverse-to-passive. We noted that in a number of languages
— English, Spanish, Acatec — the agented passive clause may also serve the inverse
pragmatic function. This suggests a passive-to-inverse diachronic pathway of re-grammati-
calization. The fact that in Salish one ﬁnds the same de-transitive clause used as an inverse
in one language (Bella Coola) and passive in another (Squamish) reinforces the possibility
without necessarily resolving the issue of directionality.
The Lunda de-transitive clause may have also begun as an inverse, reminiscent of the
Dzamba inverse, and later became strictly a passive (Kawasha 2000). This suggests that the
opposite diachronic pathway — inverse-to-passive — is also possible. Either development
is presumably driven by the partial overlap between the inverse and passive pragmatic
functions.
13.3.3.3.9From inverse to Ergative. A passive-to-ergative diachronic pathway has in the past
been taken for granted, with proponents pointing out to the origin of many ergative-NP
markers as erstwhile oblique markers of the passive agent-NP (Anderson 1977). This
observation is in urgent need of rethinking, since as noted above the prototypical passive
clause is agentless or with an extremely non-topical agent, while the agent of the active-
ergative clause is highly topical (Cooreman et al. 1984; Cooreman 1988; Tsunoda 1985,
1987). In light of what we know now about the inverse pragmatic function, I suggest that
it is really the inverse clause that must have been the source of all those putatively ex-
passive ergatives. The inverse precursor of these ergatives must have had an obliquely-
marked obviate agent NP. And perhaps the passive clause in the languages in question may
have also carried the inverse function — when agented.
The inverse-to-ergative shift has been documented extensively in Philippine, Indonesian
and other Austronesian languages (Egerod 1975; T. Payne 1982; Verhaar 1983a,b;
Cooreman et al. 1984; Mead 1998; inter alia). Similar developments have been documented
in Cariban (Gildea 1998) and Sahaptian (Rude 1988, 1991).
Finally, the inverse-to-ergative drift is further supported by the otherwise-puzzling fact
that some recently-reanalyzed ergative languages exhibit the very same semantic-hierarchic
constraints on the ergative clause that are found in semantic inversion (Silverstein 1976;
Dixon 1977):
•When the agent is higher on the relevant topicality hierarchy, the transitive
clause is coded as nominative. When it is lower, it is coded as ergative.
This restriction makes no sense whatever in an ergative language, where it is but a fossilized
relic. But it makes perfect sense in an inverse clause, the diachronic precursor of the
ergative.
13.3.3.3.10From pragmatic to semantic inversion?. We have noted above at least one clear
case, that of Sahaptin (Rude 1988, 1991, 1994), where semantic inversion appears to have
given rise to pragmatic inversion. A less clear case is that of Dzamba and Lunda, where
word-order pragmatic inversion seems to have produced pronominally-marked inversion.
One restriction on the Lunda passive — a constraint against 1st and 2nd person agents —
168 Syntax
evokes the familiar hierarchic constraints on semantic inversion (147). So while the Lunda de-
transitive clauseisfunctionallyapassive(Kawasha2000),it mayhaveoriginatedasaninverse.
In the past (Givón 1994b), I have argued for the pragmatic-to-semantic diachronic
pathway largely on theoretical grounds, namely that more conventionalized semantics tend
to be the grammaticalized product of high-usage-frequency pragmatics (Givón 1979a;
Traugott 1982; DuBois 1987; Langacker 1987). But absent clear evidence of an actual
developmental mechanism, this suggestion, however theoretically attractive, cannot be
pushed much further.
13.3.4 The antipassive voice
13.3.4.1Functional dimensions
13.3.4.1.1Pragmatics:Patientsuppression.Wehavealreadynoted thatthepragmaticfunction
of the antipassive is the converse of the passive — radical de-topicalization, suppression or
demotion of the patient. Expressing a semantically-transitive event in an antipassive
construction is done in discourse contexts when the patient in unimportant, non-topical,
non-persistent, non-anaphoric, stereotypical or generically predictable. The following are
typical antipassive usages in English, all compared with the active–transitive (169a):
(169) a. Active–transitive
She read Burton’s Book of the Sword
b. Stereotypical object
She read [Ø] voraciously
(Obj = books, magazines, newspapers)
c. Unindividuated object
She read books by the dozen
d. Habitual, non-referring object
She used to read a book before retiring
e. Habitual, non-referring object
She did a lot of book-reading
f. Irrealis, non-referring object
Has she ever read a book?
The more semantic correlates of antipassivization — plurality, indeﬁniteness and non-
reference of the object — are predictable consequences of non-topicality. On occasion, the
object in an antipassive clause may be semantically referring or even deﬁnite and thus
anaphoric, but still non-topical and unlikely to persist in the subsequent (cataphoric)
discourse.
13.3.4.1.2Semantic correlates. As is fairly obvious from examples (169), a number of
semantic or grammatical features are strongly correlated with the pragmatics of non-
De-transitive voice 169
topical patient, features that some people have proposed as criterial for antipassives
(Hopper and Thompson 1980):
•plurality (non-individuation)
•low aﬀectedness
•non-referentiality
•indeﬁniteness
•habitual aspect
•irrealis modality.
Without exception, these features are also predictable correlates of non-topical (pragmati-
cally non-referring) arguments (Vol.I, Ch.10). In a particular language, any of these
features can be the grammaticalized trigger for antipassivization. Thus for example, in
Philippine languages interpreted as ergative, indeﬁniteness of the object is an automatic
trigger for antipassivization. Ultimately, these semantic correlates of the antipassive are not
criterial features of the antipassive. Rather, their connection to it is mediated — by the
pragmatics of topicality or referentiality.
13.3.4.2Syntactic and typological dimensions
13.3.4.2.1Non-anaphoric object deletion. Non-anaphoric object deletion is one of the most
common antipassive syntactic devices, rendering the clause objectless and thus syntactically
intransitive, as in (169b) above as well as:
(170) a. He drank [Ø] like a ﬁsh (alcohol)
b. They hunt [Ø] every winter (game animals)
c. They trapped [Ø] up the McKenzie (fur animals)
d. She paints (pictures)
One may as well note that object-deleting antipassives are just as natural and iconic as
agent-deleting passives.
13.3.4.2.2Object incorporation. An equally common and again rather iconic antipassive
device is object incorporation, whereby the object lexical stem — usually shorn of its
inﬂections (articles, classiﬁers, number markers) becomes part of the verbal word, again
making the clause objectless and syntactically intransitive. This is a common antipassive
device in Ute (Givón 1980a):
(171) a. Active–transitive
ta’wach ’u kwanach-i ’uway pakhá-pu
=ga
man/subj def/subj eagle-obj/an def/obj kill-rem
‘The man killed the eagle’
170 Syntax
b. Antipassive
ta’wach ’u kwana-pakhá-pu
=ga
man/subj def/subj eagle-kill-hab
‘The man killed eagles’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘The man did some eagle-killing’
Object incorporation is also used in Ute nominalizations, which have the same object-
suppressing antipassive ﬂavor as their English counterparts:
(172) a. Agent nominalization
ta’wach kwana-pakha-mi-t ’ura-’ay
man/subj eagle-kill-hab-nom be-imm
‘The man is an eagle-killer’
(> He kills eagles in general)
b. Action nominalization
kwana-pakha-ta ka-’ay-wa-t ’ura-’ay
eagle-kill-nom neg-good-neg-nom be-imm
‘Eagle-killing is bad’
(> The killing of eagles in general)
These clauses do not refer to a token object or a speciﬁc event, but rather to the type of
event and object.
13.3.4.2.3Plural, indeﬁnite or non-referring objects. Given the discussion above concerning
the semantic correlates of the antipassive voice, one must consider the marking of objects
as plural, non-referring or indeﬁnite as antipassive devices, at least in nominative languages
such as English (e.g. examples (169c,d,f) above).
13.3.4.2.4Object demotion into an oblique case. The object in an antipassive clause may be
also ‘demoted’ from the characteristic direct-object case into an oblique case, a device seen
most conspicuously in ergative languages. As an example, consider Inuit Eskimo (Kalmár
1979, 1980):
(173) a. Ergative-transitive
inu-up qimmiq taku-v-a-a
man-erg dog/abs see-indic-trans-3sg/3obj
‘The man saw the dog’
b. Antipassive-intransitive
inu qimmir-mik taku-v-uk
man/abs dog-obl see-indic-intrans/3sg
‘The man saw a dog/some dogs/dogs’
c. Active-intransitive
inu tikip-p-up
man/abs arrive-mn-intrans/3sg
‘The man arrived’
De-transitive voice 171
But a nominative language can also display this device, at least under certain conditions.
Thus in English, an object may be demoted into an oblique case to render a sense of low
aﬀectedness:
(174) a. Transitive
He shot the deer
b. Antipassive intransitive
He shot at the deer
c. Transitive
She kicked the mule
d. Antipassive intransitive
She kicked at the mule
e. Transitive
They shouted him down
f. Antipassive intransitive
They shouted at him
And many dative-shifting alternations have the same eﬀect, marking a less-aﬀected dative/
benefactive or even patient as an oblique (indirect) object:
(175) a. More aﬀected dative (DO)
They robbed him of his money
b. Less aﬀected dative (Obl)
They stole the money from him
c. More aﬀected dative (DO)
They threw him some food
d. Less aﬀected dative (Obl)
They threw some food at him
e. More aﬀected patient (DO)
He sprayed the wall with paint
f. Less aﬀected patient (Obl)
He sprayed the paint on the wall
g. More aﬀected patient (DO)
They shot him with three bullets
h. Less aﬀected patient (Obl)
They shot three bullets at him
The morphological demotion of the non-topical patient — from the direct object to an
oblique case — is of course reminiscent of the morphological demotion of the agent-of-
passive. One must note, however, that the direct-object (‘absolutive’) case may be
morphologically marked in an ergative language, as is the case in Nez Perce. In this
language, objects are morphologically demoted in the antipassive by losing their DO case-
marker (Rude 1985):
172 Syntax
(176) a. Ergative-transitive
yu’s-ne pú-ut’eye piyée-pim
poor-do 3/erg-whip/perf brother-erg
‘The older brother whipped the poor one’
b. Antipassive-intransitive
kíi wít’e ha-aniya tílaaki
this/abs canoe/abs 3/nom-make/perf woman/abs
‘The woman made a canoe’
c. Active-intransitive
h-ipáayna háama
3nom-arrive/asp man/abs
‘The man arrived’
d. Passive-intransitive
koná h-iwc’éeye han-yíin tumáalwit
there 3nom-become make-pass law/abs
‘There the law was made’
13.3.4.2.5The antipassive, GRs and transitivity. Since Eskimo and Nez Perce are both
ergative languages, examples (173), (176) also serve to illustrate the fact that the morpho-
syntactic consequences of antipassivization are much more profound in ergative than in
nominative languages. In a nominative language, losing an object in the antipassive clause
— via either deletion, incorporation or demotion to oblique — aﬀects the morpho-syntax
of neither the verb nor the subject-agent. The clause may be objectless and thus
syntactically intransitive, but the morpho-syntactic ramiﬁcations of intransitivity are
conﬁned to the object alone: A syntactically intransitive clause is a clause without a direct
object. Nominative morphosyntax is highly sensitive to the pragmatics of topicality, much
less so to transitivity (see Vol.I, Ch.4). The morphosyntax of ergative languages, on the
other hand, is hyper-sensitive to transitivity, registering its minute ﬂuctuations in all three
major foci of the clause — subject/agent, object/patient, and verb.
Notes
1. By ‘traditional’ I mean primarily the various structuralist schools, self-declared or otherwise, in
their treatment of passive voice. So-called Traditional Grammar is closer in spirit to the approach
pursued here (Jespersen 1924). Among contemporary functionalists, Langacker and Munro (1975)
list three major syntactic properties of ‘prototypical passives’ — verb stativization, unspeciﬁed agent/
subject and object topicalization — that closely recapitulate the three main functional domains of
transitivity and thus de-transitivization (Givón 1981a). Shibatani (1985) recognizes the same three
domains, but ranks agent suppression highest in the passive prototype, I think correctly. Keenan
(1975), while conceding the functional relatedness of all passive voice constructions, restricts his
discussion to ‘basic’ — promotional — passive. Comrie (1977) argues for including impersonal
constructions within the passive domain. Hopper and Thompson’s (1980) work on the multi-
dimensionality of transitivity is presupposed here. Lastly and regrettably, both the Generative and the
De-transitive voice 173
Relational Grammar literature (cf. Chomsky 1965; Perlmutter and Postal 1977) remain the most
narrow, structure-bound and Euro-centric in their treatment of passive voice.
2. In one aspect of grammaticalization, the rise of grammatical morphology from lexicon, the
extension from semantic to pragmatic is much more widely attested than its reverse (Hopper and
Traugott 1993). On the other hand, in the development of constructions, the rise of semantics out of
pragmatics is better attested (Givón 1979a; Traugott 1982; DuBois 1975; Langacker 1987).
3. The majority of semantically-transitive verbs in all languages have an obligatory patient. While
verbs with an obligatory dative are extremely important cognitively and culturally, their number is
relatively small. And the benefactive is an optional clausal argument that is not involved in the
semantic sub-categorization of verbs. The overall eﬀect of this is that in terms of text frequency, the
vast majority of direct objects in transitive clauses are semantic patients.
4. In Israeli Hebrew, the reﬂexive-reciprocal pattern has become irregular and lexicalized, with the
old preﬁx often coding various other de-transitive derivatives of the verb. In this way, the move from
reﬂexive to intransitive resembles, at least in part, the diachronic drift in Spanish (García 1975; Marín
1989a,b). The new reﬂexive pattern is rather similar to that of English, with possessive pronouns
joined with the noun ‘self’ (lit. *‘bone’).
Thus:
(i) Yosef raa et-Miryam
Joseph saw/3sg.masc acc-Mary
‘Joseph saw Mary’
(ii) Yosef raa et-atsm-o (ba-rei)
Joseph saw/3sg.masc acc-self-his (in/the-mirror)
‘Joseph saw himself (in the mirror)’
(iii) ani raiti et-atsm-i (ba-rei)
I saw/1sg acc-self-my (in/the-mirror)
‘I saw myself in the mirror’
5. The Ute genitive and accusative suﬃxes have neutralized, most likely with the genitive displacing
an older accusative (Givón 1990a).
6. In Givón (1981a) I erroneously suggested that patient topicalization and semantic stativization
were equal partners in the universal functional characteristics of passives. That conclusion was
certainly premature, or at the very least conﬁned to only some passive types.
7. This example is of course perfectly acceptable if the direct object is interpreted as a benefactive.
8. In the case of these two grammatical features, the status of the agent is largely irrelevant.
Obligatory inversion is triggered by the status of the patient alone.
9. The OSV order in Y-movement clauses is rather odd with full subject NPs in English. Other VO
languages opt for the OVS order in such inverse constructions, as in Spanish, Greek, Dzamba,
Biblical Hebrew or Classical Arabic.
</TARGET "13">
<TARGET "14" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Relative clauses"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 14
Relative clauses
14.1 Orientation
Relative clauses (henceforth REL-clauses) are clause-size modiﬁers embedded in the noun
phrase. To some extent their syntax parallels that of the other major type of subordinate
clauses — verbal complements embedded in the verb phrase (Ch.12). Functionally,
REL-clauses, together with other noun modiﬁers, partake in the grammar of referential
coherence, furnishing either anaphoric or cataphoric clues for referent identiﬁcation (see
Vol.I, Ch.9,10). Their linear position vis-a-vis the head noun has already been discussed
in the context of word-order typology (Vol.I, Ch.5) and the grammar of noun phrases
(Ch.11).
14.2 Functional dimensions
The discussion below will be initially conﬁned to restrictive REL-clauses, and will be further
divided according to the deﬁniteness and reference status of the modiﬁed head noun.
14.2.1 Deﬁnite head nouns: Referential accessibility, presupposition,
and anaphoric grounding
In the grammar of referential coherence, a referent is coded as deﬁnite when the speaker
assumes that it is accessible to the hearer but is not currently activated (in working memory/
attention). The hearer’s task is then to ground (connect) the referent, either to its previous
anaphoric trace in episodic memory or to some other accessible trace, and then to re-
activate it in working memory.
Deﬁnite full-NPs contrast with anaphoric pronouns and zeros, which code referents
that are currently activated, and thus require neither anaphoric grounding nor re-
activation but only continuation of the current activation state.
The communicative context for using a restrictive REL-clause to modify a deﬁnite
noun is a bit more complex. As in the use of simple deﬁnite nouns, the speaker still
assumes that the referent is accessible and not currently activated. But the referent’s
accessibility is more problematic here, for reasons of either referential competition or
thematic complexity. To compensate for the added complexity, the hearer is furnished with
an explicit clue — a proposition, packaged as a REL-clause, that depicts a state or event in
176 Syntax
which the referent participated as subject, direct object, indirect object, etc. The REL-clause
acts as the anaphoric grounding clue, guiding the hearer to the exact text-location in
episodic memory where the referent is to be grounded. In employing such a device, the
speaker must assume that the state or event coded in the REL-clause is familiar to the
hearer (accessible in his/her episodic memory), a familiarity that is sometimes referred to
as pragmatic presupposition.
The functional deﬁnition of restrictive REL-clauses thus has two distinct conditions.
The ﬁrst is narrow-scoped or semantic, having to do with the co-reference relation between
the head noun and its co-referent in the REL-clause:
(1) Semantic condition on REL-clauses
A relative clause codes a state or event one of whose participants is
co-referent with the head noun modiﬁed by the clause.
The scope of condition (1) does not exceed the bounds of the clause within which the
REL-clause is embedded. What is more, the condition applies to both restrictive and non-
restrictive REL-clauses, and to all types of head nouns, regardless of deﬁniteness or
reference.
The second condition applies narrowly, only to restrictive REL-clauses modifying
deﬁnite nouns. This condition is pragmatic in two distinct senses. First, it grounds the
referent to a much wider discourse context. And second, it pertains to the propositional
modality — thus the communicative intent — of the REL-clause.
(2) Pragmatic condition on restrictive REL-clauses modifying deﬁnite head nouns
The speaker does not assert the proposition in the REL-clause, but rather presup-
poses it to be known or familiar to the hearer, thus accessible in the hearer’s
episodic memory of the current text.1
As an illustration, consider:
(3) The man who married my sister is a crook
a. Main clause (asserted)
The man is a crook
b. Subordinate clause (presupposed)
The man married my sister
In (3), the subject of the main clause (‘man’) is the head noun modiﬁed by the REL-clause
whose full propositional value is given in (3b), in which the co-referent noun is the subject.
But the head noun may also be co-referent with the direct or indirect object of the
REL-clause, as in (4) and (5) below, respectively:
(4) The man my sister married is a crook
a. Main clause (asserted)
The man is a crook
b. Subordinate clause (presupposed)
My sister married the man
Relative clauses 177
(5) The man my sister lives with is a crook
a. Main clause (asserted)
The man is a crook
b. Subordinate clause (presupposed)
My sister lives with the man
14.2.2 REF-indeﬁnite head nouns: Cataphoric grounding
As noted earlier (Vol.I, Ch.10), REF-indeﬁnite NPs code topical new referents upon their
ﬁrst introduction into the discourse. Being topical, such new referents are likely to recur in
the subsequent discourse. Restrictive REL-clauses are a common device for grounding such
referents upon their ﬁrst introduction, supplying a salient initial description that facilitates
subsequent reference.
The semantic co-reference condition (1) still applies to REL-clauses modifying
REF-indeﬁnite head nouns. It is the pragmatic condition (2) that cannot strictly apply here,
because the referent is being introduced into the discourse for the ﬁrst time, and thus has
no anaphoric trace in the hearer’s episodic memory. The communicative task facing both
speaker and hearer here is that of establishing the referent’s initial — cataphoric —
grounding into the yet-unfolding text — in anticipation of subsequent reference.
Further, the event/state coded in the restrictive REL-clause that modiﬁes
REF-indeﬁnite head nouns cannot be presupposed as known or familiar to the hearer. Like
the REF-indeﬁnite head noun, this event/state is new information to the hearer. Still, its
pragmatic status shares an important feature with presupposition — it is not being
asserted, and thus is not intended to be challengeable. Rather, it serves as grounding
information. The pragmatic condition for such REL-clauses is thus:
(6) Pragmatic condition on restrictive REL-clauses modifying REF-indeﬁnite
head nouns
The speaker assumes that the proposition in the REL-clause is new information to
the hearer. However, the proposition is not asserted, but is intended as unchal-
lengeable grounding information.
As an illustration, consider:
(7) A man who said he loved my sister came by yesterday and…
a. Main clause (asserted)
A man came by yesterday and…
b. Subordinate clauses (unchallengeable)
The man said he loved my sister
The role of the REL-clause in supplying salient cataphoric grounding information may be
illustrated by the following contrasts:
(8) a. A woman with two heads came into my oﬃce…
b. ?A woman with one head came into me oﬃce…
178 Syntax
c. A man wearing one shoe came into my oﬃce…
d. ?A man wearing two shoes came into my oﬃce…
e. A woman speaking no English came into my oﬃce…
f. ?A woman speaking ﬂuent English came into my oﬃce…
In (8a,c,e), the information supplied by the REL-clause is unpredictable, counter-
normative and highly salient, creating an eﬃcient initial mental representation of the
referent in episodic memory (Gernsbacher 1990). In (8b,d,f), on the other hand, the
information is predictable, highly normative, redundant and non-salient. It is thus unlikely
to serve as an eﬃcient initial mental representation for subsequent reference.
To further clarify the distinction between deﬁnite and REF-indeﬁnite head nouns,
consider the contrast:
(9) a. A woman you met last year just called
b. The woman you met yesterday just called
In both (9a,b), the speaker is obviously talking about an event that should be familiar to
the hearer. In (9a), that event is suﬃciently remote, so that the speaker does not expect the
hearer to identify the referent with ease. Given such negative expectations, coding the
referent as deﬁnite (as in (9b)) would be communicatively counter-productive. And so
‘woman’ in (9a) is introduced as REF-indeﬁnite, as if it were totally new information. Still,
a restrictive relative clause relating the hearer’s past experience is used — for initial referent
identiﬁcation. That relative clause presumably establishes in the hearer’s mind a salient
mental representation for the new referent. But the grounding of that coherence relation
is cataphoric rather than anaphoric. That is, the combination of indeﬁnite referent plus
restrictive REL-clause does not instruct the hearer to search in episodic memory of past
experience. Rather, it alerts the hearer as to what the new referent is like — as a type.
14.2.3 Non-referring head nouns: Irrealis and the problem of strict co-reference
Restrictive REL-clauses can also modify non-referring head nouns, a situation that requires
some reconsideration of our semantic co-reference condition (1). This is so because the
two ‘co-referents’ are both non-referring, and thus can only ‘co-refer’ in a hypothetical
universe.
Further, the REL-clause depicting the hypothetical state/event is under irrealis modal
scope, and thus cannot be, strictly speaking, presupposed to be known or familiar to the
hearer. The pragmatic condition (2) must be once again be modiﬁed, this time to:
(10) Pragmatic condition on restrictive REL-clauses modifying
non-referring heads nouns
The speaker assumes that the proposition in the REL-clause is new information
to the hearer. The proposition now falls under the modal scope of irrealis, and
is not asserted. Rather, it is intended as unchallengeable grounding information.
As an illustration, consider:
Relative clauses 179
(11) Any man who marries my sister would be asking for trouble
a. Main clause (asserted)
?Any man would be asking for trouble
b. Subordinate clauses (unchallengeable)
?The man marries my sister
Both the main clause (11a) and the REL-clause (11b) are under the modal scope of irrealis.
Neither makes much sense in isolation. Indeed, it is only with the REL-clause that the
overall expression can be made coherent. And likewise in:
(12) a. I know no man who would do this
b. Women who love too much and the men they marry
14.2.4 Non-restrictive relative clauses
Not all languages code non-restrictive REL-clauses — or their functional equivalents — as
REL-clauses. Functionally, they abide by the semantic co-reference condition (1), but not
by the pragmatic condition (2). That is, the head noun is indeed co-referential with some
participant in the state/event coded in the REL-clause. But that state/event is typically not
presupposed, but is rather asserted as new information.
Most typically, non-restrictive REL-clauses have the communicative intent of
parenthetical assertions, conveying information that the speaker may deem less central for
the main thematic thrust of the discourse. Being less-central or ‘backgrounded’, the
information may again serve to ground the referent either anaphorically, with deﬁnite head
nouns, or cataphorically, with REF-indeﬁnite head nouns. Both uses are illustrated in (13)
below.
(13) a. Anaphoric grounding (deﬁnite head)
The woman, who was standing next to the door, pulled a gun and…
b. Cataphoric grounding (REF-indeﬁnite head)
A good friend of mine, whom I hope you’ll meet some day, just called and
said…
However, non-restrictive REL-clauses cannot modify non-referring head nouns. Thus
compare (11), (12) above with:
(14) a. *Any man, who marries my sister, would be asking for trouble
b. *I know no man, who would do this
c. ?Women, who love too much, and the men, they marry
The status of (14c) is somewhat murky. Generic arguments, in either the subject or object
role, can indeed be modiﬁed by non-restrictive REL-clauses, and thus seem to behave as
referring head nouns:
(15) a. Generic subject
Women, who love too much, are often disappointed
180 Syntax
b. Generic object
We study elephants, which are large mammals
We have noted earlier (Vol.I, Ch.10) that the grammar of reference in language is not
sensitive to the semantics of denotation, but rather to the pragmatics of topicality. Generic
NPs may be topical even though, strictly speaking, they refer not to individual tokens but
rather to types.
The functional diﬀerence between restrictive and non-restrictive REL-clauses may be
further illustrated with referentially unique heads, such as proper names, pronouns or
unique deﬁnite nouns. Such heads cannot be modiﬁed by restrictive REL-clauses, but only
by non-restrictive ones:
(16) a. John, who is my friend, is a poet
b. *John who is my friend is a poet
c. I, whom you all know, wish to speak now
d. *I whom you all know wish to speak now
e. The President, who will retire soon, is taking it easy
f. ?The president who will retire soon is taking it easy
Restrictive modiﬁers are indeed superﬂuous with uniquely-referring NPs, since most
typically such modiﬁers are used to ground non-unique nouns by converting them into
uniquely-referring expressions.
14.3 Syntactic dimensions
14.3.1 Deletion under co-reference and the case recoverability problem
As noted earlier above, a restrictive REL-clause is, syntactically, a subordinate clause
embedded as noun modiﬁer in the NP. A common indication of such dependency is that
the REL-clause is said to be ‘missing one argument’, the one that is co-referential with the
head noun. Traditionally, this has been often described as another case of deletion under co-
reference, analogous to the zero-coded subjects of verb complements.
As illustrations, consider (17) and (18) below, one where the missing argument is the
subject of the REL-clause, the other in which it is the object. Respectively:
Relative clauses 181
(17) Subject REL-clause
S
Subj
[NP]
VP
Pred
[NP]
Cop
Det N
a crook
Det N Rel
[S]
the man
Subj
[NP]
[ ]
Ø
VP
is
V Obj
[NP]
Det N
my sister]
married
[who
(18) Object REL-clause
S
Subj
[NP]
VP
Pred
[NP]
Cop
DET N
a crook
Det N Rel
[S]
the man
Subj
[NP]
VP
is
V
Det
Obj
[NP]
N
married [ ]]
Ø
sister
[my
Because of the strict co-reference condition on REL-clauses, the referential identity of the
missing argument inside the REL-clause is fully recoverable from the head noun itself. But
the case-role of the missing argument cannot be likewise recovered, because the head noun
bears its case-role, be it semantic or grammatical, in the main clause. And the missing co-
referent noun may have occupied any case-roles within the REL-clause:2
(19) a. Subject
The man who died…
182 Syntax
b. Direct object
The man John saw…
c. Indirect object
The man to whom Suzy gave the ﬂower…
d. Nominal predicate
The woman who was my ﬁrst-grade teacher…
e. Possessor
The man whose car I borrowed…
This potential diversity of roles, coupled with the deletion under co-reference characteristic
of REL-clauses, gives rise, at least in principle, to the case recoverability problem. The
syntactic typology of REL-clauses may be viewed as the typology of the various strategies
employed by languages to solve this problem.3
14.3.2 The typology of REL-clauses: Case-recoverability strategies
14.3.2.1The non-embedding strategy
One may view the creation of a grammaticalized, tightly-bound construction, packed
under a single intonation contour with the main clause, as a strategy for automated,
speeded-up discourse processing. It is under such a syntactic coding strategy that co-
referent arguments tend to go missing (‘deleted’), most likely as a time-saving measure.
The down-side of such time saving is the case-recoverability problem. One may as well
remember, however, that the coherence function of REL-clauses can also be performed by
a paratactic strategy, one which displays the following characteristics:
•The modifying subordinate proposition retains its own main-clause structure;
•it is unembedded in an NP of the main clause;
•it comes under a separate intonation contour;
•the coreferent noun is not necessarily deleted; and
•the coreferent noun retains its characteristic case-marking as in the typical main
clause.
The coreferent noun in such paratactic ‘REL-clauses’ may be coded as an anaphoric
pronoun, provided the REL-clause follows the main clause. If the REL-clause precedes the
main clause, the coreferent argument is often expressed as a full NP in the REL-clause, and
as an anaphoric pronoun in the main clause.
In many languages, the non-embedding strategy is optional, used most often in
informal, colloquial speech. To illustrate this brieﬂy, consider the following from English:
(20) a. Embedded (‘syntactic’)
The man you met yesterday is a crook
b. Unembedded (‘paratactic’), post-posed
That man is a crook, y’know, see, you met him yesterday, right? …
Relative clauses 183
c. Unembedded (‘paratactic’), pre-posed
That, uh… you met that guy yesterday, right? Well, he is a crook…
The non-embedding strategy solves the case recoverability problem by side-stepping it
altogether. The co-referent argument — in either the main clause or the REL-clause —
retains its characteristic main-clause position and case-marking. At most, it is expressed as
an anaphoric pronoun, subject to whatever case-marking strategy that applies to such
pronouns in main clauses (object in the ‘REL-clause’ in (20b), subject in main clause in
(20c)).
In some languages, non-embedding is the main — or even the only — relativization
strategy available. As an illustration of a language with a preferred non-embedding strategy,
consider Bambara (Mande; Niger-Congo). REL-clauses in Bambara look exactly like main
clauses, with the exception that a special morpheme — the noun-suﬃx min (historically
the demonstrative ‘that’) — follows the co-referent noun in the REL-clause. Anaphoric
pronominalization most commonly applies to the coreferent noun in the main clause, as
in (I. Coulibaly, i.p.c.):4
(21) a. Unembedded, pre-posed (Subj-rel, Obj-main)
c7 min ye muru san, n ye o ye
man rel past knife buy I past him see
‘The man who bought the knife, I saw him’
b. Unembedded, post-posed (Subj-rel, Obj-main)
n ye o ye, c7 min ye muru san
I past him see man rel past knife buy
‘I saw him, the man who bought the knife’
c. Unembedded, pre-posed (Obj-rel, Obj-main)
n ye so min ye, c7 be o dyf
I past house rel see man prog it build
‘The house that I saw, the man is building it’
d. Unembedded, post-posed (Obj-rel, Obj-main)
c7 be o dyf, n ye so min ye
man prog it build I past house rel see
‘The man is building it, the house that I saw’
Anaphora may also occur in Bambara in the REL-clause itself, in this case as zero pronomi-
nalization, as in (Bird 1968):
(22) c7 ye muru san, n ye min [Ø] ye
man past knife buy I past rel see
‘The man bought the knife, the one I saw’
Bambara also allows what looks like embedding, a less common strategy. This strategy is
somewhat peculiar: At the very location where the head noun should be in the main clause,
the entire REL-clause — which includes the ‘head’ noun — is placed. Thus compare (Bird
1968):
184 Syntax
(23) a. Simple clause
n ye c7 ye
I past man see
‘I saw the man’
b. With REL-clause
I ye c7 min ye muru san ye
I past man rel past knife buy see
‘I saw the man who bought the knife’
(lit.: ‘I that man bought the knife saw’)
On the surface, (23b) may be analyzed as containing the object head noun c7 ‘man’
modiﬁed by the post-nominal REL-clause min ye muru san ‘who bought the knife’.
However, other conﬁgurations of the same type cannot be likewise analyzed. Thus compare
(Bird 1968):
(24) a. Simple clause
c7 ye muru san
man past knife buy
‘The man bought the knife’
b. With REL-clause
n ye c7 min ye ye muru san
I past man rel see past knife buy
‘The man that I saw bought the knife’
(lit.: ‘I saw that man bought the knife’)
In (24b), n ye ‘I past’ — which is technically part of the REL-clause — precedes the ‘head’
noun. The entire relative clause is thus scattered on both sides of the ‘head’. Bambara thus
has no real embedded REL-clauses, either before or after a head noun. Rather, what
appears as ‘embedding’ is a replacement of the head noun by an unreduced clause. Within
this clause, the ‘head’ noun is one of the NPs, with no special grammatical status — except
for being marked by the demonstrative min.
14.3.2.2The gap (‘zero’) strategy
The case-role of the missing co-referent argument in an embedded REL-clause can also be
recovered without any morphological provisions. That is, the coreferential argument may
go missing (‘deleted’) without a trace. In recovering the case-role of the missing argument
under such conditions, the following information is presumably available to the hearer:
•the lexical-semantic case-frame of the subordinate verb;
•the lexical identity of the missing argument — read oﬀ the head noun; and
•the case-roles of the other arguments in the REL-clause, which are still present and
case-marked in the normal way.
Given such information, the hearer presumably infers by subtraction the case-role of the
missing argument. We will illustrate this strategy with Japanese, a rigid SOV language with
pre-nominal REL-clauses (K. Akiba, i.p.c.):5
Relative clauses 185
(25) a. Main clause
otoka-ga onna-ni tegami-o kaita
man-subj woman-dat letter-acc sent
‘The man sent a letter to the woman’
b. Subject REL-clause
onna-ni tegami-o kaita otoka-wa…
woman-dat letter-acc sent man-top
‘the man who sent a letter to the woman…’
c. Accusative/object REL-clause
otoka-ga onna-ni kaita tegami-wa…
man-subj woman-dat sent letter-top
‘the letter that the man sent to the woman…’
d. Dative REL-clause
otoka-ga tegami-o kaita onna-wa…
man-subj letter-acc sent woman-top
‘the woman to whom the man sent a letter…’
The gap strategy is most commonly found in languages with rigid word-order, where
inferring the missing argument’s case-role is probably easier. What the existence of such a
strategy suggests, I believe, is that given enough processing time, access to context,
redundant information and compensatory strategies, a highly grammaticalized morpho-
syntactic strategy is not an absolute must. A language can always resort to a more pidgin-
like strategy. Put another way, not all functional domains need ever be fully
grammaticalized.
It may well be that the gap/zero relativization strategy is more likely to be used in
languages that use zero anaphoric pronouns, such as Japanese and Chinese. Such languages
may simply extend their discourse anaphora strategy to the more syntactic environment of
REL-clauses. As we shall see directly below, the same extension may be found in languages
with unstressed anaphoric pronouns.
14.3.2.3The anaphoric pronoun strategy
The anaphoric pronoun strategy is used most commonly in post-nominal REL-clauses. The
beginning of the REL-clause in such constructions is often signalled by an invariant
subordinator. The missing co-referent noun within the REL-clause is then replaced by the
very same case-marked anaphoric pronoun used in cross-clausal (‘discourse’) anaphora.
Co-reference in the REL-clause is thus treated the way it is in chained main clauses. This
may explain the common association of an invariant subordinator with this relativization
strategy: The subordinator helps distinguish the REL-clause from a mere main clause with
an anaphoric pronoun — which REL-clauses of this type would otherwise resemble.
The anaphoric pronoun relativization strategy may be illustrated with Israeli Hebrew,
where it is the main pattern:
186 Syntax
(26) Subject REL-clause
a. Main-clause anaphora
hi ba-a hena etmol
she came-she here yesterday
‘She came here yesterday’
b. REL-clause
ha-isha she-ba-a hena etmol…
the-woman rel-came-she here yesterday
‘the woman who came here yesterday…’
(27) Direct object
a. Main-clause anaphora
Yoav ohev ot-a
Yoav loves acc-her
‘Yoav loves her’
b. REL-clause
ha-isha she-Yoav ohev (ot-a)…
the-woman rel-Yoav loves acc-her
‘the woman that Yoav loves…’
(28) Indirect object
a. Main-clause anaphora (dative)
Yoav natan l-a et-ha-sefer
Yoav gave-he to-her acc-the-book
‘Yoav gave her the book’
b. REL-clause (dative)
ha-isha she-Yoav natan l-a et-ha-sefer…
the-woman rel-Yoav gave-he to-her acc-the-book
‘The woman to whom Yoav gave the book…’
c. Main-clause anaphora (locative)
Yoav yashav al-av
Yoav sat-he on-it
‘Yoav sat on it’
d. REL-clause (locative)
ha-shulxan she-Yoav yashav al-av…
the-table rel-Yoav sat-he on-it
‘the table on which Yoav sat…’
e. Main-clause anaphora (instrumnental)
Mira shavra it-o et-ha-xalon
Mira broke with-it acc-the-window
‘Mira broke the window with it’
f. REL-clause (insrtrumental)
ha-patish she-Mira shavra it-o et-ha-xalon…
the-hammer rel-Mira broke with-it acc-the-window
‘The hammer Mira with which broke the window…’
Relative clauses 187
(29) Genitive
a. Main-clause anaphora
Yoav saxar et-ha-bayit shel-a
Yoav rented-he acc-the-house of-her
‘Yoav rented her house’
b. REL-clause
ha-isha she-Yoav saxar et-ha-bayit shel-a…
the-woman rel-Yoav rented-he acc-the-house of-her
‘The woman whose house Yoav rented…’
From an information processing perspective, the anaphoric pronoun strategy is only
minimally disruptive. No new processing provisions are made beyond those already
existing for anaphoric pronouns in chained main clauses, and the preferred serial order —
antecedent before pronoun — is maintained.
14.3.2.4The relative pronoun strategy
The REL-pronoun strategy involves the use of case-marked pronouns peculiar only to
REL-clauses — relative pronouns. Such pronouns are distinct from normal anaphoric
pronouns, even if they may have developed historically from them, or from stressed
demonstrative pronouns.
Unlike anaphoric pronouns, relative pronouns tend to appear not in the normal
position of the argument in the main clause, but rather at the clause boundary. Indeed,
they are most commonly fronted, i.e. appear at the beginning of the clause. In languages
with post-nominal REL-clauses, relative pronouns thus perform, in combination, two
distinct coding functions in relativization:
•They act as the relative subordinator morphemes, marking the
boundary of the REL-clause.
•They also mark the case-role of the missing coreferent noun.
We will illustrate this strategy with the post-nominal REL-clauses of German (Borgert and
Nyhan 1976):
(30) Nominative
a. Main clause
Der Mann kam
the/nom man came
‘The man came’
b. REL-clause
der Mann der kam…
the/nom man that/nom came…
‘the man who came…’
188 Syntax
(31) Accusative
a. Main clause
Ich kenne den Mann schon lange
I know the/acc man already long
‘I’ve known the man for a long time’
b. REL-clause
der Mann den ich schon lange kenne…
the/nom man that/acc I already long know
‘the man that I’ve long known…’
(32) Dative
a. Main clause
ich habe dem Mann das Buch gegeben
I have the/dat man the/acc book given
‘I gave the book to the man’
b. REL-clause
der Mann dem ich das Buch gegeben habe…
the/nom man that/dat I the/acc book given have
‘the man to whom I gave the book…’
When an indirect object requires a preposition, it is combined in relativization with the
case-marked REL-pronoun. Thus consider (Borgert and Nyhan 1976):
(33) a. Main clause
Ich sprach mit dem Herrn
I spoke with the/dat gentleman
‘I spoke with the man’
b. REL-clause
Der Herr mit dem ich sprach…
the/nom gentleman with that/dat I spoke
‘the gentleman with whom I spoke…’
One may consider the preposition plus REL-pronoun in (33) as a single complex marker
that performs the two coding functions in relativization, subordinator and case-marked
pronoun.
Case-marked relative pronouns may also arise historically from case-marked interroga-
tive pronouns, as in English:
(34) a. Subject: The man who stopped by
b. Object: The man whom she married
c. Place: The village where she lived
d. Time: When he arrived
e. Manner: How she did it
f. Reason: The reason why he left
Relative clauses 189
14.3.2.5Verb agreement and the gap strategies
An interesting twist on the gap/zero strategy, above, is found in Asheninka (So. Arawak).
In this language, all arguments in the main clause require obligatory pronominal agree-
ment on the verb. While these pronouns are not morphologically case-marked, the subject
pronoun is a preﬁx and all object pronouns are suﬃxes, with the direct-object pronoun
preceding the indirect. In REL-clauses, no morphological provision is made for recovering
the case-role of the missing co-referent noun. However, the bound pronoun corresponding
to the missing co-referent noun inside the REL-clause is also missing. And the verb in the
REL-clause is marked by a suﬃxal subordinator (David Payne, i.p.c.):
(35) a. Main clause
i-p-ak-e-na-ro kaniri syira]pari
3masc-give-perf-real-1-3fem manioc man
‘The man gave me the manioc’
b. Subject REL-clause
syira]pari p-ak-e-na-ro-ri kaniri…
man give-perf-rel-1-3fem-sub manioc
‘The man who gave me the manioc…’
c. Object REL-clause
kaniri i-p-ak-e-na-ri syira]pari…
manioc 3masc-give-perf-real-1-sub man
‘The manioc that the man gave me…’
d. Dative REL-clause
syira]pari no-p-ak-e-ro-ri kaniri…
man 1-give-perf-real-3fem-sub manioc
‘The man to whom I gave the manioc…’
One may say that in Asheninka the gap strategy for full nouns is supplemented by a parallel
gap strategy for bound-pronouns. If the verb is marked by the subordinator suﬃx, then if
the subject pronoun is missing, the missing co-referent noun in the REL-clause must have
referred to the subject. For simple transitive verbs, if the object pronoun is missing, the
missing co-referent noun must have referred to the object. For bi-transitive verbs, when
one object is missing, its case-role must be recovered via semantic inferences.
14.3.2.6The word-order strategy
As noted above, the gap/zero strategy depends, at least to some extent, on rigid word-order.
This is so presumably because in order to compute which argument is missing from the
REL-clause, the presence of the other arguments in predictable positions is a useful piece
of ‘redundant’ information.
Japanese is indeed a rigid verb-ﬁnal language, where all clausal arguments tend to
precede the verb. However, subject and object arguments in Japanese have considerable
ordering ﬂexibility among themselves. Word-order alone is thus, in all likelihood, not the
determinative factor in computing the case-role of the missing argument. Rather, the fairly
190 Syntax
dependable nominal case-marking may play a more dominant role in the presumed
computation.
In languages with morphologically unmarked subject and object, word-order may be
more important for case-recoverability in relativization. Thus in English, the use of object
REL-pronouns is optional, and in non-standard dialects the use of REL-pronouns is also
optional in subject REL-clauses:
(36) a. Subject REL-clause
The guy (who) married my sister is a crook
b. Object REL-clause
The book John read is terriﬁc
Presumably, intonation plays a major role in tagging the NP-V-NP sequence in (36a) as a
head-noun-plus-subject-REL-clause, rather than a main clause. But further, the object
REL-clause in (36b) is now distinguished from(32a) by word-order: The sequence NP-NP-V,
aberrant for English main clauses, may serve as perceptual clue for identifying an object
REL-clause (Fodor and Garrett 1967), again in combination with intonation. The eﬃcacy of
such a strategy depends crucially on the rigid SVO word-order of English main clauses.
14.3.2.7The nominalization strategy
In many languages, REL-clauses (as well as other dependent clauses such as verb comple-
ments and adverbial clauses) are all nominalized, so that only main clauses have fully ﬁnite
syntax. Such languages often make a morphological distinction between subject and object
nominalizations, a distinction that may then serve as a case-recoverability strategy in
relativization.
Let us consider ﬁrst Turkish, a V-ﬁnal language with pre-nominal REL-clauses. Two
alternative nominalizing suﬃxes, for subject and object, can mark the REL-clause verb. In
object relativization, further, the subject is marked as genitive, as is the case in nominalized
clauses. Further, the verb in object REL-clauses must carry — in addition to the nominal
suﬃx — also a possessive-pronoun agreeing with the genitive subject. In other words, the
verb is treated as a head noun possessed by the subject (see §11.7). Thus consider (Slobin
1986):
(37) a. Main clause
adam ev-i gör-dü
man house-acc see-past
‘The man saw the house’
b. Subject REL-clause
ev-i gör-en adam
house-acc see-s/nom man
‘the man who saw the house…’
(lit.: ‘the house-seeing man’
Relative clauses 191
c. Object REL-clause
Adam-nin gör-düg-u ev
man-gen see-O/nom-3sg.poss house
‘the house that the man saw…’
(lit.: ‘the house of the man’s his seeing’)
In Turkish and other languages with nominalizer REL-clauses, this strategy can only
diﬀerentiate between subject and object REL-clauses. To further diﬀerentiation between
direct and indirect object REL-clauses requires the use of case-marking morphology, an
extension of the strategy that will be illustrated with Ute data.
The verb in subject REL-clauses in Ute is marked with the subject nominalizing suﬃx
-t(u
=). The verb in object REL-clauses is marked with the non-subject nominalizing suﬃx
-n(a), and the subject then appears in the genitive case. In indirect-object relativization, the
subordinator pu
=- carries the relevant post-position. Thus (Givón 1980a):
(38) a. Main clause
mamach tu
=pu
=ych-i tu
=ka’na-pu
=-vwan wacu
=-ka
woman/subj rock-obj table-obj-on put-perf
‘The woman put the rock on the table’
b. Subject REL-clause
mamach ’u tu
=pu
=ych-i tu
=ka’na-pu
=-vwan wacu
=-ka-t…
woman/subj det rock-obj table-obj-on put-perf-nom/subj
‘the woman who put the rock on the table…’
c. Direct object REL-clause
tu
=pu
=y-ch ’ur mamach-i tu
=ka’na-pu
=-vwan wacu
=-ka-n…
rock/subj det woman-gen table-obj-on put-perf-nom/obj
‘the rock that the woman put on the table…’
(lit.: ‘the rock of the woman’s putting on the table’)
d. Indirect object REL-clause
tu
=ka’na-p ’ur pu
=-vwan mamach-i tu
=pu
=y-ci wacu
=-ka-n…
table-subj det rel-on woman-gen rock-obj put-ant-nom/obj
‘the table on which the woman put a rock…’
(lit.: ‘the table of the woman putting the rock on’)
A language using the nominalization strategy may also have a more expanded inventory of
nominalizers, so that a wider range of case-roles may be distinguished via the nominalizing
morpheme alone. We will illustrate this with data from Lhasa Tibetan. In this language, in
relativization, the suﬃx -mkhan is used for the actor; the suﬃx -sa for the locative (and by
extension also the dative-benefactive); the ‘default’ suﬃx -yag is used for the patient and
instrumental (in the non-perfective); and the suﬃx -pa is used for non-actors (in the
perfective).
As nominalizers, -mkhan (historically ‘teacher’ or ‘expert’) is found in many actor
derivations and -sa (historically ‘earth’, ‘ground’ and thus by extension ‘place’) in place
derivations. Thus (Delancey 1988):
192 Syntax
(39) a. Actor/subject derivation
s’i’n-mkhan ‘carpenter’
wood-expert
b. Place derivation
yod-sa ‘place of residence’
live-place
The derivations in (39) have been originally been lexical compounds. To illustrate the use
of these suﬃxes in relativization, consider (Delancey 1988; Mazaudon 1978):
(40) a. Actor REL-clause
stag gsod-mkhan mi…
tiger kill-a/nom man
‘the man who killed the tiger…’
(hist.: ‘tiger-killer man’)
b. Locative REL-clause
kho sdod-sa-’i khan’=pa…
he/abs live-loc/nom-gen house
‘the house where he lives…’
(hist.: ‘his living-place house’)
c. Instrument REL-clause
kho-s stag gsdod-yag-gi me=mda…
he-erg tiger kill-instr/nom-gen gun
‘the gun with which he killed the tiger…’
(hist.: ‘his tiger-killing-tool gun’)
d. Patient REL-clause
kho-s bsad-pa-’i stag
he-erg kill-obj/nom-gen tiger
‘the tiger that he killed…’
(hist.: ‘his killing tiger’)
Since the case-role marker — the nominalizing suﬃx — actually appears on the verb, one
may consider the Tibetan relativization strategy a weaker version of the verb-coding
strategy (see below). The same may be said, though to a lesser degree, for the Turkish and
Ute nominalizing strategies.
14.3.2.8The equi-case strategy
The use of an equi-case constraint as an exclusive case-recoverability strategy would result
in drastic reduction of expressive power in relativization. However, this strategy can still be
put to partial use. As an illustration, consider the following examples from Israeli Hebrew.
In forming indirect-object REL-clauses in Hebrew, the anaphoric pronoun is case-
marked with the appropriate preposition. However, the preposition and the anaphoric
pronoun may be dispensed with altogether if the case-role of the co-referent argument in
the REL-clause is the same as in the main clause. Thus consider (Givón 1975b):
Relative clauses 193
(41) a. No equi-case (main = Subj, Rel = Dat)
ha-ish she-Yoav natan l-o et-ha-sefer neelam
the-man rel-Yoav gave/he to-him acc-the-book disappeared
‘The man that Yoav gave the book to disappeared’
b. *ha-ish she-Yoav natan et-ha-sefer neelam
the-man rel-Yoav gave/he acc-the-book disappeared
(*‘The man that Yoav gave the book disappeared’)
c. Equi-case (main & Rel = Dat)
l-a-ish she-Yoav natan (l-o) et-ha-sefer
to-the-man rel-Yoav gave/he (to-him) acc-the-book
eyn kesef
neg/be money
‘The man that Yoav gave the book to has no money’
14.3.2.9Verb-coding strategies: The interaction between relativization
and promotion rules
14.3.2.9.1Preamble. There exist several variants of the verb-coding strategy of relativization,
all displaying one central feature: The case-role of the missing co-referent argument in the
REL-clause is marked on the verb in the REL-clause. How a language may develop and
implement such a strategy may vary. We have already seen a weak variant of this in
languages that use the nominalization strategy (Turkish, Ute, Lhasa Tibetan).
Most commonly, the verb-coding relativization strategy is coupled to some syntactic
process that ‘promotes’ arguments to a higher slot on the well known case-hierarchy SUBJ
> DO > IO. The two main types of such ‘promotion rules’ — dative-shifting and passivi-
zation (see Ch.13) — aﬀect in some languages the verb-coding of the semantic case-role
of the promoted argument. By coupling such a promotion rule to relativization, verb-
coding of the case-role of the missing argument can be achieved.
14.3.2.9.2Relativization and passivization: The “subject-only”constraint (Philippine). As
noted earlier (Ch.13), the semantic role of the subject noun in a Philippine language (when
interpreted as a nominative pattern) is morphologically coded on the verb. This is true for
the agent subject of the active clause as well as for the non-agent subjects of various
passives. The Bikol passivization data cited in Ch.13 are reproduced below (M. Factora,
i.p.c.):
(42) a. Agent-topic (‘active voice’)
nag-ta’o ’ang-lalake ning-libro sa-babaye
agt-give top-man pat-book dat-woman
‘The man gave a book to the woman’
194 Syntax
b. Patient-topic (‘passive-1’)
na-ta’o kang-lalake ’ang-libro sa-babaye
pat-give agt-man top-book dat-woman
‘The book was given to the woman by the man’
c. Dative-topic (‘passive-2’)
na-ta’o-an kang-lalake ning-libro ’ang-babaye
dat-give-dat agt-man pat-book top-woman
‘The woman was given a book by the man’
(43) a. Agent-topic (‘active voice’)
nag-putul ’ang-lalake ning-tubu gamit(-’ang)-lanseta
agt-cut top-man pat-cane instr-knife
‘The man cut sugar-cane with a knife’
b. Instrument-topic (‘passive-3’)
pinag-putul kang-lalake ning-tubu ’ang-lanseta
instr-cut agt-man pat-cane top-knife
‘The knife was used by the man to cut sugarcane’
(44) a. Agent-topic (‘active voice’)
nag-bakal ’ang-lalake ning-kanding para-sa-babaye
agt-buy top-man pat-goat ben-dat-woman
‘The man bought a goat for the woman’
b. Benefactive-topic (‘passive-4’)
pinag-bakal-an kang-lalake ning-kanding ’ang-babaye
ben-buy-dat agt-man pat-goat top-woman
‘The woman was bought a goat by the man’
To gain verb-coding of the semantic role of the missing co-referent argument in relativi-
zation, two restrictions are imposed in Bikol:
•Only subject REL-clauses can be formed
•Passivization (promotion to subject/topic) is an obligatory feeder to relativization.
These restrictions, coupled with the verb-coding of the subject’s semantic role in main
clauses, eﬀectively transfer the verb-coding strategy of Bikol from main clauses to
REL-clauses (M. Factora, i.p.c.):
(45) a. Agent REL-clause
marai ’ang-lalake na nag-ta’o ning-libro sa-babaye
good top-man rel agt-give pat-book dat-woman
‘The man who gave a book to the woman is good’
b. Patient REL-clause
marai ’ang-libro na na-ta’o kang-lalake sa-babaye
good top-book rel pat-give agt-man dat-woman
‘The book that was given to the woman by the man is good’
Relative clauses 195
c. Dative REL-clause
marai ’ang-babaye na na-ta’o-an kang-lalake ning-libro
good top-woman rel dat-give-dat agt-man pat-book
‘The woman that was given a book by the man is good’
d. Instrument REL-clause
marai ’ang-lanseta na pinag-putul kang-lalake ning-tubu
good top-knife rel instr-cut agt-man pat-cane
‘The knife that the man to cut sugarcane with is good’
e. Benefactive REL-clause
marai ’ang-babaye
good top-woman
na pinag-bakal-an kang-lalake ning-kanding
rel ben-buy-dat agt-man pat-goat
‘The woman for whom the man bought a goat is good’
The subject-only restriction on relativization is found only in languages that gain verb-
coding in passivization, such as Philippine languages or their close relatives (Toba-Batak,
Malagasy). This restricted distribution reinforces the interpretation that the restriction is
motivated primarily by case-recoverability considerations.6
14.3.2.9.3Relativization and promotion to direct object: the “direct-object-only constraint”
(KinyaRwanda). As noted earlier (Ch.13), coding the semantic role of arguments on the
verb may also be done in some languages through promotion to direct object (‘dative
shifting’). Much like passivization, this grammatical process can be capitalized on for
relativization, to yield a coherent case-recoverability strategy. In this case, the strategy
involves only object REL-clauses, since only object arguments can gain verb-coding of their
semantic role via promotion to DO.
In a language that utilizes the promotion-to-DO system in relativization, the situation
is analogous to the Philippine case, above:
•Only direct objects can be relativized.
•In order for an indirect object to become the coreferent argument in
a REL-clause, it must be ﬁrst promoted to DO.
We will illustrate this strategy with KinyaRwanda, ﬁrst reproducing the data showing the
extensive system of promotion to DO in this language (Kimenyi 1976):
(46) Locative
a. DO = patient
umugore y-ooher-eje umubooyi ku-isoko
woman she-send-asp cook loc-market
‘The woman sent the cook to the market’
196 Syntax
b. DO = locative
umugore y-ooher-eke-ho isoko umubooyi
woman she-send-asp-loc market cook
‘The woman sent to the market the cook’
(47) Instrument
a. DO = patient
umugabo ya-tem-eje igiti n-umupaanga
man he-cut-asp tree instr-saw
‘The man cut the tree with a saw’
b. DO = instrument
umugabo ya-tem-ej-eesha umupaanga igiti
man he-cut-asp-instr saw tree
‘The man used the saw to cut the tree’
(48) Manner
a. DO = patient
Maria ya-tets-e inkoko n-agahiinda
Mary she-cook-asp chicken mann-sorrow
‘Mary cooked the chicken regretfully’
b. DO = manner
Maria ya-tek-an-ye agahiinda inkoko
Mary she-cook-mann-asp sorrow chicken
‘Mary regretfully cooked the chicken’
(49) Associative
a. DO = patient
umuhuungu ya-riimb-jye ururiimbi na-umugore
boy he-sing-asp song assoc-woman
‘The boy sang the song with the woman’
b. DO = associative
umuhuungu ya-riimb-an-ye umugore ururiimbi
boy he-sing-assoc-asp woman song
‘The boy sang with the woman a song’
In the case of one semantic role, the dative/benefactive, promotion to DO is obligatory:
(50) Dative-benefactive (obligatory promotion)
a. *DO = patient
*Yohani y-ooher-eje ibaruwa ku-Maria
John he-send-asp letter dat-Mary
b. DO = dative-benefactive
Yohani y-ooher-er-eje Maria ibaruwa
John he-send-ben-asp Mary letter
‘John sent Mary a letter’
Relative clauses 197
In subject and patient-DO REL-clauses, no verb-coding occurs. One may argue that a
word-order strategy similar to that of English is used here:
•NP-V = subject REL-clause
•NP-NP-V = object REL-clause
Thus:
(51) a. Subject REL-clause
umugabo u-a-kubis-e abagore…
man he/rel-past-hit-asp women
‘the man who hit the women…’
b. Patient-DO REL-clause
abagore umugabo y-a-kubis-e…
women man he-past-hit-asp
‘the women that the man hit…’
In indirect object relativization, the non-patient object is ﬁrst promoted to DO, and thus
gains verb-coding of its semantic role:
(52) a. Locative REL-clause
isoko umugore y-ooher-eke-ho umubooyi…
market woman she-send-asp-loc cook
‘The market the woman sent the cook to…’
b. Instrument REL-clause
umupaanga umugabo ya-tem-ej-eesha igiti…
saw man he-cut-asp-instr tree
‘The saw the man cut the tree with…’
c. Manner REL-clause
agahiinda Maria ya-tek-an-ye inkoko
sorrow Mary she-cook-mann-asp chicken
‘the regret with which Mary cooked the chicken…’
d. Associative REL-clause
umugore umuhuungu ya-riimb-an-ye ururiimbi…
woman boy he-sing-assoc-asp song
‘The woman with whom the boy sang the song…’
e. Dative-benefactive REL-clause
umugore Yohani y-ooher-er-eje ibaruwa…
woman John he-send-ben-asp letter
‘the woman that John sent the letter to…’
Wherever one ﬁnds the direct-object-only restriction on object relativization, it always
involve a language where promotion to DO yields verb-coding of the semantic role of the
promoted object — thus also, because of the obligatory coupling of the two processes, of
the semantic role of the missing co-referent argument in the REL-clause.7
198 Syntax
The typological prediction about use of the verb-coding case-recoverability strategy in
relativization may be summarized as follows (Givón 1979: Ch.4):
(53) Prediction concerning the “subject-only” and “DO-only” restrictions
in relativization
A language will impose the Subj-only or DO-only restriction in relativization only
when it gains verb-coding of case-role of the promoted argument in passivization
or promotion to DO, respectively.
14.3.2.10The stranded case-marking strategy
In English, a variant relativization strategy can be used for all indirect-objects, whereby the
case-marking preposition remains stranded in the very same location where the missing
indirect object would have been:
(54) a. Locative
She put the book on the table
b. Locative REL-clause
the table she put the book on…
c. Instrumental
She cut the meat with a knife
d. Instrumental REL-clause
the knife she cut the meat with…
e. Benefactive
She bought the house for her mother
f. Benefactive REL-clause
the person she bought the house for…
g. Dative
She gave the book to Joe
h. Dative REL-clause
the man she gave the book to…
i. Associative
She bought the house with Joe
j. Associative REL-clause
the man she bought the house with…
14.3.3 Mixed relativization strategies
As noted earlier, a language may use a mix of relativization strategies, each speciﬁc to one
or more case-roles. English serves as a good example of this, with a mix of word-order, gap,
REL-pronoun and stranded case-marker. Bambara, as noted earlier, also has a mix of
relativization strategies.
Relative clauses 199
Mixed strategies can also be found in the use of verb-coding. As an illustration,
consider the case of Ponapean (Micronesian), a strict SVO language with unmarked subject
and direct object. REL-clauses follow the head noun in Ponapean and are morphologically
double-bracketed — beginning with the subordinator me and ending with a demonstrative
which must agree in number with the head noun. Subject and direct-object relativization
is unproblematic, presumably relying on the same word-order clues as in English (Carlson
1985):
(55) a. Main clause
lii kilang ool
woman see man
‘The woman saw the man’
b. Subject REL-clause
lii me kilang ool-o,
woman rel see man-dem
‘The woman who saw the man…’
c. Direct object REL-clause
ool me lii kilang-o,
man rel woman see-dem
‘the man that the woman saw…’
Indirect-object relativization follows two strategies. For indirect objects that can be
promoted to DO and in the process gain of verb-coding of their semantic role, the verb-
coding strategy is used, much as in KinyaRwanda:
(56) Dative-benefactive
a. Main clause (obligatory promotion)
lii ki-f
fng serapein-o puung
woman give-dat girl-def book
‘The woman gave the girl a book’
b. REL-clause (obligatory promotion)
serapein-o me lii-o ki-f
fng puuk-o…
girl-def rel woman-def give-dat book-dem
‘the girl that the woman gave a book to…’
c. *serapein-o me lii-o ki puuk-o…
girl-def rel woman-def give book-dem
(57) Directional-locative
a. Main clause, patient DO
ool-f pwilikiti puuk-f nan iim-o
man-def put book-def loc house-def
‘The man put the book in the house’
200 Syntax
b. Main clause, locative DO
ool-f pwilikiti-f
fng iim-o puuk
man-def put-loc house-def book
‘The man put in the house a book’
c. REL-clause, obligatory promotion
iim-o me ool-f pwiikiti-f
fng puuk-f
f…
house-def rel man-def put-loc book-dem
‘the house where the man put the book…’
d. *iimo me ool-f pwiikiti puuk-f
f…
house rel man-def put book-dem
(58) Instrumental
a. Main clause, patient DO
ool-f sfrff utuk-f ki-naip
man-def cut meat-def with-knife
‘The man cut the meat with a knife’
b. Main clause, instrument DO
ool-f sfrff-ki naip utuk
man-def cut-instr knife meat
‘The man used the knife to cut meat’
c. REL-clause, obligatory promotion
naip-f me ool-f sfrff-ki utuk-f
f…
knife-def rel man-def cut-instr meat-dem
‘the knife with which the man cut the meat…’
d. *naip-f me ool-f sfrff utuk-f
f…
knife-def rel man-def cut meat-dem
No other oblique case can be promoted to DO in Ponapean. In the relativization of such
case-roles, the anaphoric pronoun strategy is used (as in Hebrew):
(59) Associative
a. Main clause
ool-f yang-lii-f tftffk
man-def with-woman-def work
‘The man worked with the woman’
‘The man and the woman worked’
b. REL-clause
lii-f me ool-f yaang-i tftffk-f
f…
woman-def rel man-def with-her work-def
‘the woman that the man worked with…’
(lit.: ‘the woman that the man worked with her…’)
Relative clauses 201
(60) Complex locative
a. Main clause
ool-f mwoot pee-f-n seer-f
man-def sit top-its-lig chair-def
‘The man sat on the chair’
(lit.: ‘The man sat on top of it, the chair’)
b. REL-clause
seer-f me ool-f mwoot pee-wee-u…
chair-def rel man-def sit top-its-dem
‘the chair on top of which the man sat…’
(lit.: ‘the chair that the man sat on top of it…’)
(61) Genitive
a. Main clause
ih kelang iim-a-n ool-f
I see house-his-lig man-def
‘I see the man’s house’
(lit.: ‘I see his house, the man’s)
b. REL-clause
ool-f me ih kelang iim-a-u…
man-def rel I see house-his-dem
‘the man whose house I saw…’
(lit.: ‘the man that I saw his house…’)
14.3.4 Oblique role relativization and head-noun speciﬁcity
In the relativization of oblique ‘adverbial’ cases, such as time, manner, reason, purpose and
occasionally even place, languages with explicit recoverability strategies for other arguments
often revert to a gap/zero strategy. As a concomitant, the head noun (or relative pronoun)
speciﬁes — through its lexical meaning — its own semantic role. As an illustration,
consider English:
(62) a. The time he was supposed to meet me…
b. When she ﬁnally showed up…
c. Where he went next…
d. The place he sat…
e. The reason I did this was…
f. Why I did this was…
g. The way he did it was…
h. How we’re planning to do this is…
One may wish to call this the ‘lexical head strategy’, acknowledging all along that it is rather
limited in scope, most naturally to non-topical, non-referring case-roles.
202 Syntax
14.3.5 Relativization and grammatical relations: Summary
With the conspicuous exception of the two least grammaticalized relativization strategies
— non-embedding (Bambara) and gap/zero (Japanese) — REL-clauses appear to be
strongly governed by the GRs subject, direct-object and occasionally indirect-object. Most
relativization strategies noted above are conspicuously dependent in their deﬁnition on
GRs. Indeed the main theme in the typology of REL-clauses — case recoverability — is
itself a profoundly relational theme.
While in general the government of relativization by GRs is coherent, on occasion it is
not. As an illustration, compare the treatment of English bi-transitive verbs in passivization
and relativization. Criteria of word-order and other considerations (see Vol.I, Ch.3) make
it fairly clear that dative-shifting in English indeed promotes the dative argument to DO,
as in:
(63) a. Patient DO
She gave the book to Joe
b. Dative DO
She gave Joe a book
From each variant in (63), only the DO is accessible to becoming the subject of the
promotional passive, the patient from (63a), the dative from (63b):
(64) a. The book was given to Joe
b. *Joe was given a book to
c. Joe was given a book
d. *The book was given Joe
In relativization, however, both direct and indirect object are accessible from variant (63a),
but only the patient — presumably not the DO — is accessible from variant (63b):
(65) a. the book she gave to Joe…
b. the man she gave the book to…
c. the book she gave Joe…
d. *the man she gave the book…
What is involved here, I suspect, is the interaction between GRs and case-recoverability.
Option (65b) preserves the clue for recovering the case-role of the missing dative — the
stranded preposition. Option (65d) does not.
14.3.6 The syntax of non-restrictive REL-clauses
The typological discussion so far dealt almost exclusively with restrictive REL-clauses. This
was so because the bulk of structurally well-deﬁned, embedded clausal modiﬁers tend to be
restrictive. Non-restrictive ‘parenthetical’ clauses are not only placed under a separate
intonation contour but often are not even formally REL-clauses. Thus consider:
Relative clauses 203
(66) a. The woman, who was sitting quietly, …
b. The woman, whom I’ve never seen before, …
c. The man, with whom I had a conversation earlier, …
d. The woman — she was sitting and waiting quietly — …
e. The woman — nobody knew her there — …
f. The woman — I have no idea where she came from — …
Only three of these non-restrictive clauses above (66a–c) formally resemble a REL-clause.
And there seem to be no principled syntactic constraints on the structure of such paren-
thetic expressions, but only pragmatic constraints on their coherence. To illustrate the role
of coherence here, compare:
(67) a. The woman — and she was sitting and waiting there all that time — pulled
out a gun and…
b. The woman — and I don’t care if you believe this or not — pulled out a
gun and…
c. ?The woman — and the price of lettuce was really going up fast then —
pulled out a gun and…
The parenthetical clause in (67a) still involves strict co-reference — thus referential
coherence — and could have easily been expressed as a REL-clause. But the coherence of
(67b) and incoherence of (67c) have little to do with reference.
The use of REL-clause structure in parenthetical non-restrictive slots is rigidly con-
strained even in a language where it is found. Some restrictions seem purely structural and
diachronically motivated. For example, non-restrictive REL-clauses in English tolerate
‘true’ REL-pronouns, but not the subordinator ‘that’:
(68) a. The woman who arrived early…
b. The woman, who arrive early, …
c. The woman that arrived early…
d. *The woman, that arrived early, …
Other restrictions may be meaning-based, as for example those that involve the referenti-
ality of the head noun. We noted earlier above that non-restrictive REL-clauses cannot
modify non-referring heads. Notice now that prototypically referring arguments such as
subject, direct object and dative-benefactive are readily admissible as the missing argument
in non-restrictive REL-clauses, as in e.g. (66a–c). It is the oblique roles, those that are
prototypically non-referring, that seem much less natural in this slot:
(69) a. The way he said it was real nasty.
b. *The way, he did it, was real nasty.
c. The reason why he left was because…
d. *The reason, why he left, was because…
e. The time he came was awkward.
f. *The time, he came, was awkward.
204 Syntax
In some languages, the contrast between restrictive and non-restrictive modiﬁers is
morphologically well marked, thus better grammaticalized. We will illustrate this with
Bemba (Bantu), where the same morphological contrast applies to adjectives, possessive
modiﬁers, ordinals, modifying locative phrases and subject REL-clauses.
Restrictive modiﬁers in Bemba use the cv- variant of the pronominal subject preﬁx.
Non-restrictive modiﬁers use the vcv- version of the preﬁx (Givón 1972a):
(70) Possessives modiﬁers
a. Restrictive
abaana ba-andi… ‘my children…’
children cv-my
b. Non-restrictive
abaana, aba-andi, … ‘the children, mine, …’
children vcv-my
(71) Modifying adjectives
a. Restrictive
umuana mu-suma… ‘the good child…’
child cv-good
b. Non-restrictive
umuana, umu-suma, … ‘the child, the good one, …’
child vcv-good
(72) Subject REL-clauses
a. Restrictive
abaana ba-a-ishile… ‘the children who came…’
children cv-past-come
b. Non-restrictive
abaana, aba-a-ishile, … ‘the children, who came, …’
children vcv-past-come
The vcv- pronominal preﬁx in Bemba codes referring nominals (Vol.I, Ch.10). Headless
subject REL-clauses, which are always referring, for example, can only take vcv- preﬁx,
never cv-:
(73) a. aba-a-ishile baa-suma
pro-past-come pro-good
‘The ones who came are good’
b. *ba-a-ishile baa-suma
c. aba-suma ba-a-ishile
pro-good pro-past-come
‘The good ones came’
d. *ba-suma ba-a-ishile
e. umu-andi muu-suma
pro-my pro-good
‘mine is good’
Relative clauses 205
f. *mu-andi muu-suma
pro-my pro-good
The pronominal equivalents of the vcv- preﬁxes of Bemba are seen in English in the use of
‘the one’ in non-restrictive REL-clauses in English:
(74) a. The man, the one who came yesterday, then left.
b. The knife, the one I you gave me, was dull.
c. The table, the one I bought last year, was broken.
d. *I didn’t see any man, the one who came yesterday.
e. *I didn’t use a knife, the one you gave me.
f. *I saw no table there, the one I bought last year.
As noted earlier (Vol.I, Ch.10), the contrast of vcv- vs. cv- preﬁxal contrast in Bemba serves
to mark the contrast between referring vs. non-referring NPs, respectively. The fact that
non-restrictive REL-clauses cannot modify non-referring head nouns is consonant with the
unacceptability of ‘the one’ in (74d–f) above.
14.3.7 Headless relative clauses
We have thus far dealt primarily with relative clauses modifying lexical head nouns. But a
relative clause can also modify pronouns or function themselves as pronouns. In some
languages this yields the surface appearance of a headless REL-clause. This phenomenon can
be shown in English, where it is partially constrained by case-role, in a way that is initially
somewhat baﬄing. Thus compare the ‘headed’ restrictive REL-clauses in (75) with their
headless versions in (76):
(75) Headed restrictive REL-clauses
a. The man who came to dinner left.
b. The man (whom) I saw is a crook.
c. The woman with whom I had lunch is an old friend.
d. The child to whom John gave the book is an orphan.
e. The thing (that) I saw was ugly.
f. The place (where) he stood was near the curb.
g. The time (when) I saw her last she was sick.
h. The reason (why) she told me is not clear.
i. The way (*how) she did it was by working hard.
(76) Headless (restrictive) REL-clauses
a. *Who came to dinner left.
b. *Whom I saw is a crook.
c. *With whom I had lunch is an old friend.
d. *To whom John gave the book is an orphan.
e. What I saw was ugly.
f. Where he stood was near the curb.
g. When I saw her last she was sick.
206 Syntax
h. Why she told me is not clear.
i. How she did it is by working hard.
The pattern of restrictions may be tentatively summarized as follows: The case-roles that
consistently reject the headless REL-clause pattern are typically the most topical referring
ones. And under conditions that induce a non-referential interpretation of such case-roles,
the proscribed headless forms in (76) seem to be acceptable — provided the pronoun is a
stressed interrogative pronoun:
(77) a. WHO comes to dinner is none of your business!
b. WHO I see is my own aﬀair.
c. With WHO we meet depends on who’s available.
d. To WHO he leaves his fortune is still wide open.
What we see here may be once again the footprints of diachronic change. The REL-pro-
nouns used optionally in English restrictive REL-clauses are historically derived from
interrogative pronouns, which are by deﬁnition highly non-referring (see Ch.17) and
indeﬁnite. Their exclusion from the more topical case-roles in (76a–d) may be a lingering
reﬂection of their diachronic origin.
That the restriction on highly referring case-roles has little to do with headless
REL-clauses per se is further supported by the existence of alternative, highly referring,
pronouns that are fully acceptable in headless REL-clauses, ‘the one’ and ‘those’, as in:
(78) a. The one who came to dinner left.
b. The one I saw is a crook.
c. The one I had lunch with is an old friend.
d. The one John gave the book to is an orphan.
e. Those who came to dinner…
f. Those I saw…
g. Those I had lunch with…
h. Those John gave books to…
In languages with a more explicit REL-pronoun morphology that is not derived from
wh-pronouns, forming headless REL-clauses is less problematic. Thus for example in
Bemba, the vcv- pronominal preﬁx marking non-restrictive subject REL-clauses (72) is also
used to mark headless subject REL-clauses (73). And a regular set of demonstrative
pronouns are used obligatorily in headless object REL-clauses. Thus compare (Givón
1972a):
(79) a. uu-a-ishile… ‘The one who came…’
3sg/1/2-past-come/asp
b. aba-a-ishile… ‘The ones who came…’
3pl/1/2-past-come/asp
c. úo n-a-mweene… ‘The one I saw…’
dem/3sg/1/2 I-past-see/asp
Relative clauses 207
d. ábo n-a-mweene… ‘The ones I saw…’
dem/3pl/1/2 I-past-see/asp
e. ícyo n-a-mweene… ‘The one I saw…’ (cl. 7)
dem/3sg/7/8 I-past-see/asp
f. ífyo n-a-mweene… ‘The ones I saw…’ (cl. 8)
dem/3pl/7/8 I-past-see/asp
g. úko a-a-ile… ‘Where he went…’ (cl. 17)
dem/loc/17 he-past-go/asp
14.3.8 Extraposed relative clauses
The REL-clauses discussed thus far, particularly the restrictive ones, are adjacent to their
head noun and fall under the same intonation contour. Such adjacency is one of the most
transparently iconic devices in directing the hearer’s attention to the head noun that is co-
referent with the missing argument inside the REL-clause.
But there is a variant, extraposed REL-clause, that is not adjacent to the head noun, but
rather is ‘ejected’ to the end of the main clause. In this section we will outline some of the
salient features of this construction, using English data.
14.3.8.1Restrictiveness
Only restrictive REL-clauses can be extraposed:
(80) a. Adjacent
A man who lost his wallet came in yesterday.
b. Extraposed
A man came in yesterday who lost his wallet.
c. Adjacent
The woman I told you about came in yesterday.
d. Extraposed
The woman came in yesterday that I told you about.
In contrast, non-restrictive REL-clauses cannot be extraposed, and the best way to demon-
strate this is with pronouns or names, which as we noted earlier cannot take restrictive
REL-clauses:
(81) a. Adjacent, non-restrictive
John, who lost his wallet, came yesterday.
b. *Extraposed
*John came yesterday(,) who lost his wallet.
c. Adjacent, non-restrictive
You, who have been here a while, know the answer.
d. *Extraposed
*You know the answer(,) who have been here a while.
208 Syntax
Another indication that extraposed REL-clauses are restrictive is the permissibility of the
subordinator ‘that’. As noted earlier, this neutral subordinator cannot be used in non-
restrictive REL-clauses. Thus compare:
(82) a. Restrictive, adjacent
A man that I met last year came in yesterday and…
b. Restrictive, extraposed
A man came in yesterday that I met last year and…
c. *Non-restrictive, adjacent
*Mary, that I told you about, came in yesterday and…
d. *Non-restrictive, extraposed
*Mary came in yesterday, that I told you about, and…
14.3.8.2Deﬁniteness and reference
Bolinger (1991) notes that extraposed REL-clauses can have either referring or non-
referring head nouns:
(83) a. REF-indeﬁnite
A guy came in who oﬀered to do it for less, so we hired him
b. Non-ref
If someone comes in who oﬀers to do it for less, hire them.
c. Non-ref
Nobody came in who would do it for less, so we hired the same guy as last
year.
The fact that non-referring heads can take extraposed REL-clauses is another indication
that such REL-clauses are restrictive, since non-restrictive REL-clauses can only modify
referring head nouns.
Bolinger (1991) also suggests that the heads of extraposed REL-clauses tend to be
indeﬁnite. This is suggested by examples such as:
(84) a. Non-ref
Nobody ever came over that John couldn’t fool.
b. REF-indeﬁnite
A man came over once that even John couldn’t fool.
c. Deﬁnite
?The man came over once that even John couldn’t fool.
(85) a. Non-ref
I’ve found no book by a new author
that I think would please my sister.
b. REF-indeﬁnite
I’ve found a book by a new author
that I think would please my sister.
Relative clauses 209
c. Deﬁnite
?I’ve found the book by a new author
that I think would please my sister.
Bolinger (1991) also notes two exceptions to the seeming restriction on deﬁnite heads.
First, a deﬁnite-marked head may still be non-referring, as in:
(86) a. The man is yet to be born that John could not fool.
b. The problem is yet to be found that Mary could not solve.
Second, if a deﬁnite head is introduced with the appropriate presentative verb, it can be
modiﬁed by an extraposed REL-clause. Thus, with the presentative verb ‘come in’:
(87) a. Adjacent
The woman I told you about ﬁnally came in and…
b. Extraposed, presentative
The woman ﬁnally came in that I told you about.
Now compare (87) with the non-presentative verb ‘got more and more upset’:
(88) a. Adjacent
The woman they were talking about got more and more upset.
b. Extraposed
*The woman got more and more upset that they were talking about.
Examples such as (87) and (88) suggest that the preference for indeﬁnite heads when the
REL-clause is extraposed has nothing to do with deﬁniteness per se. Rather, it has to do
with the following two related factors:
•Extraposed REL-clauses have a presentative function in discourse.
•Presentative clauses tend to involve, most typically referring-indeﬁnite NPs.
14.3.8.3Extraposition and presentative function
Presentative clauses will be discussed in some detail in Chapter 16, below. Brieﬂy, they are
constructions used to introduce a new topical participant into the discourse for the ﬁrst
time. As such, they tend to be paragraph-initial (or episode-initial) rather than paragraph
medial. And the introduced participant, being brand new, tends to be referring-indeﬁnite.
Presentative clauses typically display a strong bias toward verbs of entry into the scene. The
new participant is introduced most commonly as the subject of ‘live’, ‘be’, ‘exist’, ‘appear’,
‘come in’, ‘enter’. But it may also be introduced as the object of ‘(I) have’, ‘(we) met’, ‘(we)
got’, or ‘(I) know’.
As can be seen from examples (80) through (88) above, extraposed REL-clauses
typically make sense as presentative clauses. So that one could easily construct examples
with infelicitous extraposed clauses modifying REF-indeﬁnite head nouns — by making
the verb unlikely as a presentative verb. Thus consider (Bolinger 1991):
210 Syntax
(89) a. Typical presentative
A guy came on stage that I used to know back in Milwaukee and…
b. Atypical presentative
*A guy gave a long speech that I used to know back in Milwaukee and…
As Bolinger (1991) notes, presentative predicates are ﬁnely adapted to speciﬁc nouns. Thus
compare:
(90) a. Typical presentative
A spot was materializing that had a pretty ominous look.
b. Atypical presentative
?A spot was getting bigger that had a pretty ominous look.
c. Typical presentative
A pain was setting in that I could hardly stand.
d. Atypical presentative
?A pain was getting worse that I could hardly stand.
The distribution of extraposed REL-clauses may be now summarized as follows:
•Restrictive REL-clauses can be used as a presentative device, especially when modify-
ing REF-indeﬁnite nouns.
•Extraposed REL-clauses are often used as a presentative device.
•When used as a presentative device, extraposed REL-clauses typically introduce a
new participant into the discourse. That is why their head nouns are typically
REF-indeﬁnite.
•But extraposed REL-clauses, unlike other presentative devices, may also be used to
modify a known — deﬁnite — participant back into the scene.
14.3.8.4Extraposition and syntactic complexity
The extraposition of REL-clauses is often sensitive to considerations of syntactic complexi-
ty. In particular, longer REL-clauses are more likely to be extraposed, otherwise they tend
to split the main clause down the middle and defer its complete processing. As illustration
of this, compare:
(91) a. Long, extraposed
He bought a rug from his uncle’s estate that cost him a small fortune that he
couldn’t really aﬀord but went ahead and spent anyway.
b. Long, adjacent
?He bought a rug that cost him a small fortune that he couldn’t really aﬀord
but went ahead and spent anyway away from his uncle’s estate.
c. Short, adjacent
He bought a rug he liked from his uncle’s estate.
The avoidance of referential ambiguity may also constrain extraposition, in conjunction
with semantic considerations that often help in resolving potential ambiguities. Thus:
Relative clauses 211
(92) a. He gave a diamond ring to some woman that he found at the party.
b. He gave a diamond ring that he found at the party to some woman.
c. He gave a diamond ring to some woman that was made for his wife years ago.
In (92a), the REL-clause is at least in principle ambiguous, being semantically compatible
with either ‘diamond ring’ or ‘woman’. Given this potential ambiguity, the interpretation
is most likely dictated by adjacency. That is, the REL-clause is more likely to modify
‘woman’. An extraposed interpretation, with the REL-clause modifying ‘diamond ring’, is
less likely. For the REL-clause were to modify ‘diamond ring’ unambiguously, it must be
placed adjacent to it, as in (92b). The REL-clause in (92c), on the other hand, is semanti-
cally compatible only with ‘diamond ring’ but not with ‘woman’. An extraposed interpreta-
tion is thus acceptable.
Consider ﬁnally:
(93) a. He gave the ring to Mary that he found at the party
b. He gave a ring to her that he found at the party
c. He gave a ring to Mary, whom he met at the party
Unlike in (92a), the REL-clause in (93a,b) could only be interpreted as extraposed, i.e. as
modifying ‘ring’. This is so because restrictive REL-clauses cannot be used with
referentially unique heads. The REL-clause in (93c), being semantically incompatible with
‘ring’, is easy to interpret as modifying the adjacent ‘Mary’ — but only as a non-restrictive
modiﬁer.
14.4 Relative clauses and syntactic complexity
14.4.1 Preamble
Restrictive REL-clauses are embedded within noun phrases that, in turn, belong to some
other clause. Embedding one clause within another is by deﬁnition an increase in the
syntactic complexity of the ‘host’ clause. And while a language may possess the formal
grammatical apparatus for creating such complex structures, and for recursively creating
more complex yet multiple embeddings, the occurrence of such complexity in actual,
especially oral, communication is highly constrained.
Constraints on multiple-embedding are most likely motivated by some in-built limits
on cognitive complexity. While such limits are more apparent in speech perception, there
is no reason to assume that they do not also apply in speech production. In this section we
will discuss two types of multiply-embedded structure, both associated with relativization.
Both seem to point out, in one way or another, to the cognitive correlates of syntactic
complexity.
14.4.2 Ross’s complex-NP constraint
There is a class of syntactic structures, including relativization itself, that can apply to an NP
inside a main clause, but are rather problematic when applied to an NP inside a clause that
is itself embedded. Ross (1967) labeled the proscription on such operations the Complex-
212 Syntax
NP Constraint, and it applies to REL-clause as well as to several other complex modiﬁers in
the noun phrase (see e.g. cleft-focus clauses, Ch.15 and wh-questions, Ch.17).
As an illustration of Ross’s constraint, consider the embedding of proposition (94b)
below as a REL-clause modiﬁer of the object NP in proposition (94a), to yield the complex
structure (94c):
(94) a. Main proposition
The woman saw a dog
b. Subordinate proposition
The dog bit a man
c. Embedding conﬁguration
The woman saw the dog [that [Ø] bit the man]
Both NPs in the main clause in (94a) can be made the ‘missing’ co-referent argument in a
REL-clause, as in:
(95) a. The dog [(that) the woman saw [Ø]]…
b. The woman [who [Ø] saw the dog]…
The syntactic structure of (95a) may be given as:
(96) NP
Det Rel
[S]
N
the dog
Subj
[NP]
VP
Det N
V Obj
[NP]
the woman saw [Ø]
[(that)
The syntactic structure of (95b) may be given as:
Relative clauses 213
(97) NP
Det Rel
[S]
N
the woman [Ø]
Subj
[NP]
VP
V Obj
[NP]
saw
[who
Det N
the dog]
In the examples above, the zero symbol [Ø] inside the REL-clause occupies the position of
the missing co-referent NP.
Relativization may also proceed when one of the NPs in the main-clause is already
modiﬁed by a REL-clause. We will consider two examples of this pattern. The ﬁrst involves
two REL-clauses modifying the same head NP:8
(98) The dog [[that [Ø] the woman saw] [that [Ø] bit the man]]…
The syntactic structure of (98) may be given in tree-diagram in (99):
(99) NP
Det N
the dog
Rel
[S]
Subj
[NP]
VP
Det N
V Obj
[NP]
the
[(that) woman saw [ ]]
Ø
Rel
[S]
man]
N
the
Det
Obj
[NP]
bit
V
VP
[ ]
Ø
Subj
[NP]
[that
Equally acceptable is a conﬁguration where the second REL-clause may modify an NP
inside the ﬁrst one, as in:
(100) The woman [who [Ø] saw the dog [that [Ø] bit the man]]…
The syntactic structures of (100) may be represented in tree diagram (101):
214 Syntax
(101) NP
Det N
the woman
Rel
[S]
Subj
[NP]
VP
V Obj
[NP]
[who [ ]
Ø saw
Det
dog
the
N
Rel
[S]
man]
N
the
Det
Obj
[NP]
bit
V
VP
[Ø]
Subj
[NP]
[that
Multiple embeddings of REL-clauses as in (100)/(101) can proceed further, seemingly
without any problems of processability. That is:
(102) This is the cat [that [Ø] chased the rat [that [Ø] ate the cheese [that…]]]
The common denominator of permissible complex structures of this type is that the head
noun is adjacent to the REL-clause where its co-referent zero (‘missing argument’) is found.
Seemingly much harder to process are multiple embeddings where the distance between
the head noun and its co-referent zero extends further and crosses more that one clausal
boundary. That is, when the REL-clause containing the co-referent zero is not adjacent to
its head noun. As an illustration of this, consider:
(103) *The man [that the woman saw the dog [that [Ø] bit [Ø]]]…
The complex embedded structure in (103) may be represented by the tree diagram:
Relative clauses 215
(104) NP
Det N
the man
Rel
[S]
Subj
[NP]
VP
V
Det
Obj
[NP]
N
[that saw
woman
the
Det
dog
the
N
Rel
[S]
Obj
[NP]
bit [ ]]]
Ø
V
VP
[ ]
Ø
Subj
[NP]
[that
Similarly hard to process is the complex embedded structure in:
(105) *The dog [that the woman saw the man [that [Ø] bit [Ø]]]…
The tree diagram representing (105) is given in (106) below:
216 Syntax
(106) NP
Det N
the dog
Rel
[S]
Subj
[NP]
VP
V
Det
Obj
[NP]
N
[that saw
woman
the
Det
man
the
N
Rel
[S]
Obj
[NP]
bit [ ]]]
Ø
V
VP
[ ]
Ø
Subj
[NP]
[that
In both (103)/(104) and (105)/(106), the gap between the head noun and its co-referent
zero ranges over an intervening clause to reach into a non-adjacent REL-clause. In non-
standard dialects of English, such structures are in fact attested — provided an anaphoric
pronoun (rather than a zero) codes the co-referent argument inside the REL-clause. Thus
consider (Elgin 1972):
(107) a. The man [that the woman saw the dog [that [Ø] bit him]]…
b. The dog [that the woman saw the man [that it bit [Ø]]]…
The missing co-referent that is adjacent to its head noun — ‘dog’ in (107a) and ‘man’ in
(107b) — is still represented by zero inside the REL-clause, as in simple relativization. But
the non-adjacent co-referent must be represented by an anaphoric pronoun.
There is indeed a whole class of languages that can systematically break Ross’s
constraint, and they all use the anaphoric pronoun strategy in relativization (see §14.3.2.3
above). As an illustration, consider again Israeli Hebrew (Givón 1973b, 1975b):
(108) a. ha-ish [she-Miryam raa-ta et-ha-kelev [she-nashax oto]]
the-man [rel-Mary saw-she acc-the-dog [rel-bit/he him]]
lit.: ‘The man that Mary saw the dog that bit him’
b. ha-kelev [she-Miryam raa-ta et-ha-ish [she-hu nashax]]
the-dog [rel-Mary saw-she acc-the-man [that-he bit/he]]
lit.: ‘The dog that Mary saw the man that it bit’
Relative clauses 217
That the use of anaphoric pronouns in Hebrew indeed functions to overcome the syntactic
complexity of multiple embedding is obvious from the following fact: Such pronouns are
optional in single-embedding object REL-clauses, as in (109) below. But they become
obligatory in double-embedding REL-clauses such as (108) above (Givón 1975b):
(109) a. ha-ish [she-ha-kelev nashax (oto)]…
the-man [that-the-dog bit/he (him)]
‘The man that the dog bit…’
b. ha-kelev [she-nashax et-ha-ish]…
the-dog [rel-bit/he acc-the-man]
‘The dog that bit the man…’
If one were to eliminate the anaphoric pronoun from either (108a) or (108b), they would
become unacceptable. Similar observations about non-standard English were made by
Elgin (1972).
One may wish to argue that the constraints on co-reference relations in relativization
involve physical distance between the head noun and its co-referent zero inside the
REL-clause, rather than the more syntactic constraint on crossing more than two clausal
boundaries. But at least some facts seem to suggest that an intervening clause — rather than
an intervening string of words — is at issue. Thus compare:
(110) a. A foreign oﬃcial came into a congressional committee hearing yesterday
who didn’t speak any English.
b. *A foreign oﬃcial told us yesterday that the situation was desperate who
didn’t speak any English.
The phonological distance between the head noun ‘foreign oﬃcial’ and the REL-pronoun
‘who’ in the extraposed REL-clause is roughly equal in (110a) and (110b). But the interven-
ing material is a whole clause in the unacceptable (110b), and not a clause in the acceptable
(110a).
14.4.3 Recursive center embedding
The increased processing diﬃculty that accompanies multiple embedding can also be
illustrated with the pattern known as center embedding (‘self embedding’, ‘nested embed-
ding’), as in:
(111) a. The rat died.
b. The rat [that the cat chased [Ø]] died.
c. The rat [that [Ø] was chased by the cat] died.
d. *The rat [that the cat [that the dog hated [Ø]] chased [Ø]] died.
e. The rat [that [Ø] was chased by the cat [that [Ø] was hated by the dog]]
died.
The simple clause (111a) is unproblematic. With one cycle of center embedding, as in the
active (111b) and the passive (111c), the missing co-referent noun is still inside an adjacent
clause. Both (111b) and (111c) are acceptable, although the passive (111c) — with the co-
218 Syntax
referent noun closer to its antecedent — is clearly easier to process. With one more
embedding cycle, example (111d) — with the co-referent zero now inside a non-adjacent
clause — is unacceptable. But its passive version (111e), where the co-referent zero is still
inside an adjacent clause, is acceptable
There are two alternative explanations why center embedded constructions such as
(111d) are hard to process. First, a surface pattern appears there that may be schematically
given as:
(112) NP [NP [NP VP] VP] VP
Within this pattern, except for the innermost clause, the subject of the clause is separated
from its predicate (VP) by a whole clause. Note, however, that in (111b) a similar — if
smaller — gap exists between the ﬁrst subject and its predicate, seemingly without creating
any processing diﬃculty.
An alternative explanation notes, as we have done above, that co-reference relations in
relativization, between a head noun and its co-referent zero, hold only across adjacent
clauses. In the center-embedded construction (111d), the head noun ‘cat’ is separated from
the location of its co-referent zero inside the REL-clause by an intervening clause.
One may as well note that Chomsky (1965) interpreted the unacceptability of
recurrent center-embedding structures such as (111d) as an example of a constraint on
performance but not on competence, suggesting that (111b) and (111d) were formally
identical, but diﬀered only in degree of complexity. What comes out of our discussion
above, however, is that (111b) and (111d) are not formally identical at all. Rather, a clearly
grammatical constraint is involved in making (111d) unacceptable, one that governs the
use of zero-coded co-reference in relativization in other multiple-embedding types as well.
It would of course be less than surprising if this grammatical constraint (‘competence’)
turned out to be motivated by processing complexity factors (‘performance’).
14.4.4 Parataxis as a mechanism for decreased complexity
To some extent, the problem of multiple embedding is more apparent than real. This is so
because in actual communication, particularly in face-to-face oral discourse, provisions are
made for simplifying potential complexity that would otherwise yield multiple embedding.
Such provisions involve the use of alternative non-embedded — paratactic — strategies of
clause juxtaposition. When such strategies are employed, ‘missing’ co-referent arguments
are not missing at all, but rather are marked by anaphoric pronouns. In such constructions,
subjects are kept contiguous to their predicate, and anaphoric pronouns in clauses adjacent
to their antecedent nouns. For example, the conceptual structure of the mind-boggling
(111d) above may be rendered more clemently as:
(113) The rat, well, y’know, the cat chaced it, see?
Well the cat, y’know, the dog hated her, remember?
Well that rat, it just died.
Relative clauses 219
But even in written language, many options are available for expressing complex ideas by
using syntax that is rich in both REL-clauses and verb complements, but without necessari-
ly employing cumbersome multiple embeddings.
Notes
1. As noted in our earlier discussion of deﬁniteness (Vol.I, Ch.10), the grounding of deﬁnite
referents to their anaphoric trace in the episodic memory of the current text is but the most common
type of deﬁnite reference. The two other grounds are deictic grounding to the current speech
situation, and frame-based grounding to generic-lexical knowledge. Thus for example, in a situation
where several men are present on the scene and one of them is standing next to a tree, the speaker
may felicitously utter:
The man standing next to the tree is my brother
without any prior reference in the discourse to either ‘man’ or ‘tree’. Likewise, the speaker may
felicitously utter either (3), (4), (5) as frame-based deﬁnite descriptions, given the normative invited
inferences (Lewis 1979):
•men often have female siblings
•women often get married
•women most commonly marry men
2. In order for the case-role of the missing co-referent argument to be recovered from that of the
head noun, one would have to impose an equi-case constraint on relativization, by which main-clause
subjects may be modiﬁed by only subject REL-clauses, main-clause objects by only object REL-clauses,
etc. This would entail a great reduction in expressive power, one that apparently no language has
attempted to impose. The equi-case strategy is still used as a partial strategy (see further below).
3. As noted in Ch.13, promotional passives present a somewhat similar conundrum, in that the
topical non-agent is promoted to the subject role, and thus loses its semantic-role marking. Not
surprisingly, some of the typological solutions found in relativization echo those found in passivi-
zation.
4. See also Bird (1968). Other languages that employ the non-embedding strategy either exclusively
or partially are Hindi (Keenan and Comrie 1977), Diegeño and Navajo (Gorbet, 1974), Hittite
(Justus 1976) and Mojave (Munro 1974).
5. See also Kuno (1973). A similar strategy, again with pre-nominal REL-clauses, is used in Mandarin
Chinese, with the nominal subordinator de used to separate the REL-clause from the head noun (Li
and Thompson 1981).
6. Keenan and Comrie (1977) have suggested that the restriction is motivated by a universal case-
accessibility hierarchy — Subj > DO > IO — by which subjects are more ‘accessible’ to syntactic
processes than non-subjects. If their interpretation were correct, languages other than Philippine-
type or their immediate genetic/typological relatives ought to show the restriction, which is not the
case. Fox (1987) attempted to resurrect the Keenan-Comrie approach on more substantive grounds,
suggesting that the restriction reﬂects some universal properties of discourse-functional organization.
Fox neglects to explain, however, in what way the small group of languages that abide by the “subject
only constraint” diﬀer from the vast majority of languages that don’t. Citing a universal constraint
that is then instantiated mysteriously in only a few languages is somewhat vacuous.
7. Keenan and Comrie (1977) use the existence of languages such as KinyaRwanda and Indonesian
to support the second segment of their accessibility hierarchy (DO>IO). The limitation of the “DO
220 Syntax
only constraint” to languages that gain verb-coding in promotion to DO again supports a substantive
interpretation of the restriction, rather than a formal abstract constraint.
8. Here we will deliberately gloss over the possibility that the two restrictive REL-clauses may come
in either of two conﬁgurations. The ﬁrst conﬁguration is ‘stacked’, with the ﬁrst REL-clause
restricting the head noun and the second further-restricting the previously-modiﬁed NP. The second
conﬁguration is conjoined, with both REL-clauses restricting the head noun on a par. That is:
Stacked: The woman who promised to come who didn’t
(> there were two women involved; both promised to come; one did, the other
didn’t).
Conjoined: The woman who promised to come but didn’t
(there was only one woman involved; she promised to come but didn’t)
In some languages this diﬀerence is coded grammatically (Walusimbi and Givón 1970).
</TARGET "14">
<TARGET "15" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Contrastive focus constructions"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 15
Contrastive focus constructions
15.1 Orientation
The term focus has been subjected to multiple uses in linguistics, out of which this chapter
deals primarily with one — contrastive focus. A second, that of focus of assertion (see Vol.I,
§7.5; §8.4) indeed bears an interesting relation to contrastive focus, one that was interpret-
ed by Dwight Bolinger as:
“…every semantic peak is contrastive…” (Bolinger 1961:87)
A more careful survey of the facts, suggests that a bi-conditional conﬂation of the two
senses of ‘focus’ would be misleading (Chafe 1976:34), and that the conditional association
between the two is just the opposite of the one suggested by Bolinger. That is:
•Every contrastive focus is also the focus of assertion, but not vice versa.
The term ‘focus’ has also been used in the discussion of the Philippine voice system
(Longacre 1968), a usage that will not be considered here.
In the discussion of contrastive focus, a certain overlap with other domains of
grammar is unavoidable. This is so partly because complex functional domains are bound
to intersect. Thus for example, many contrastive devices overlap with the domain of ‘topic’
(Ch.16).
In spite of the substantial discreteness of grammatical organization, the notion contrast
is neither a grammatically nor cognitively discrete. Rather, it rests upon the more funda-
mental cognitive dimensions of informational predictability and its converse, counter-
expectancy, both of which are at least in principle scalar. While grammatical constructions
do not code promiscuously-many points along a functional-cognitive scalar domain, they
often code more than a single binary split.
15.2 The functional domain of contrastive focus
15.2.1 Predictability, expectation and contrast
As noted earlier (Vol.I, Ch.8, Ch.10), verbal clauses may carry several chunks of informa-
tion, each of varying level of predictability. Some are assumed to be identiﬁable to the
hearer, as deﬁnite referents or as presupposed information, either way more predictable.
222 Syntax
Others are non-identiﬁable, as indeﬁnite referents or as asserted information, either way
less predictable.
But informational predictability is not interchangeable with either deﬁniteness or
presupposition. Rather, it depends on the communicative context — perspective — within
which the information is transacted. In the appropriate context, a chunk of identiﬁable
information can be unpredictable and contrastive, and a chunk of new information can be
predictable and non-contrastive. As a simple illustration, consider:
(1) a. Joe lent me a bike
b. It was Joe who lent me a bike (rather than Mary)
c. It was a bike that Joe lent me (rather than a car)
Either the deﬁnite subject of or indeﬁnite object of (1a) may be placed in contrastive focus,
as in (1b), (1c), respectively. Their unpredictability arises from expectations established in
the local discourse context, given in parentheses in (1b) and (1c). That is, the unpredict-
ability arises from the speaker’s assessment of what the hearer’s expectations are in the
particular context. Deﬁniteness and identiﬁability per se are not the decisive factors in
placing chunks of information under contrastive focus (Chafe 1976).
Conversely, in (1b) the indeﬁnite ‘a bike’ falls under the scope of presupposition, much
like the deﬁnite ‘Joe’ in (1c). Clearly, both identiﬁability and presupposition are indepen-
dent of the contrastive focus (as well as of each other; see directly below).
15.2.2 Identiﬁability vs. presupposition
The distinction between ‘deﬁnite’ and ‘indeﬁnite’ is not interchangeable with the distinc-
tion between ‘presupposed’ and ‘asserted’. To begin with, their domains of applicability are
rather diﬀerent. Deﬁniteness pertains primarily to referents; presupposition pertains most
commonly to propositions. Thus, just as either deﬁnite or indeﬁnite referents may fall under
the scope of presupposition, as in (1b,c) above, either may also fall under the scope of
assertion:
(2) a. Context: Who did you give the book to?
b. Response: I gave it to Mary
c. Context: What did you give Mary?
d. Response: I gave her a book
The speciﬁc contexts set up by the interrogatives in (2a) and (2c) establish the propriety of
either the deﬁnite proper name in (2b) or the indeﬁnite noun in (2d), respectively, falling
under the — this time non-contrastive — scope of assertion.
15.2.3 Assertion scope vs. contrastive focus
Even apart from narrowed contrastive focus, only a portion of most propositions
(‘clauses’) tends to fall under the scope of assertion. Further, clauses in natural discourse
tend to have, on the average, only one chunk of asserted information per clause (Givón
1975c; DuBois 1987; Chafe 1994). The rest of the information in the clause is not asserted.
Contrastive focus constructions 223
As noted earlier, asserted information is not necessarily contrastive. However,
information under contrastive focus, is always also under the scope of assertion. Thus, a
one-way conditional association holds between ‘contrastive focus’ and ‘assertion focus’:
(3) Conditional association between contrastive focus and focus of assertion
contrastive focus … assertion focus
One may thus say that contrastive focus ‘attracts’ the focus of assertion (see further below).
15.2.4 Normative expectations vs. contrast
When theassertedinformationis notundercontrastive focus,wetend to considertheclause
pattern ‘neutral’, an intuitive notion that bears some scrutiny. Broadly speaking, any assert-
ed information is transacted by the speaker in the context of some expectations about the
hearer’s knowledge. These expectations may range anywhere between two extreme points:
(4) Extreme points of speaker’s expectations about hearer’s knowledge
a. Ignorance: The hearer does not know the information
b. Contrary belief: The hearer holds strong contrary beliefs
Between these two extreme points there exists, at least in principle, a vast number of
intermediates, all having to do either with the speaker’s assessment of the hearer’s degree
of ignorance, or with the speaker’s assessment of the hearer’s strength of contrary belief.
The two extreme points may be illustrated by two conventional contexts: An information
question (for ignorance) and a mistaken assertion (for contrary belief):
(5) a. Ignorance
Context: When did she leave?
Response: She left at eight. (non-contrastive)
b. Contrary belief
Context: She left at seven.
Response: No, she left AT EIGHT. (contrastive)
It is fairly clear that the extreme context (5b) — expressed contrary belief — precipitates
the placing of the relevant chunk of information in contrastive-focus, coded here by
contrastive stress. It is much less clear that the extreme context (5a) — total ignorance —
should be designated ‘neutral’ or ‘normative’. To begin with, it must be demonstrated
empirically that there is a statistical correlation between this ‘normative’ context and text
frequency. Otherwise, the notion of ‘norm’ is vacuous (Greenberg 1974; Givón 1991c).
Further, it is doubtful that asserted clauses in connected discourse are ever transacted on
the background of an idealized total ignorance. The accretion of new information in
discourse is a gradual process, characterized by two salient features (Givón 1995b):
•The amount of new information added per clause is relatively small (‘one chunk per
clause’); and
•The amount of relevant background knowledge vis-a-vis which the new chunk of
information must cohere is relatively large.
224 Syntax
To the extent that the notion ‘neutral context’ is to be made both meaningful and useful,
it must await more precise empirical deﬁnition. In the same vein, the existence of a variety
of contrastive devices in grammars, and their yet-to-be-determined discourse distribution,
functional nuances and text frequency, need to be taken into account before the issue of
neutral (‘unmarked’) assertion focus can be resolved.
15.2.5 Contrastive strength
15.2.5.1Preamble
In this section we will brieﬂy illustrate with English data the fact that a language may have
a variety of contrastive grammatical devices. These constructions may be functionally
related, but they are by no means interchangeable. Still, in spite of the variety, some
unifying functional dimensions, or even general principles, may be discerned.
One may rank-order all contrastive devices in a language by their contrastive strength.
In this section, three levels of contrastiveness will be considered, coded by three distinct
grammatical devices, all apparently ranking above ‘neutral’.
15.2.5.2Contrastive stress devices
At the very top of scale in English we ﬁnd three devices, all characterized by strong
contrastive stress on the focused constituent — stress-focus, cleft, and pseudo-cleft. Thus
compare:
(6) a. Neutral
Joe will milk the goat
b. Stress-focus
JOE will milk the goat (subject)
Joe WILL milk the goat (auxiliary))
Joe will MILK the goat (verb)
Joe will milk the GOAT (object)
c. Cleft
It’s JOE who will milk the goat (subject)
It’s the GOAT that Joe will milk (object)
d. Pseudo-cleft
The one who will milk the goat is JOE (subject)
What Joe will do to the goat is MILK it (verb)
What Joe will do is MILK THE GOAT (VP)
What Joe will milk is the GOAT (object)
Stress-focus in English (6b) is least constrained, applying not only to nouns but also to
verbs, not only to lexical but also to grammatical morphemes, not only to free morphemes
but also to bound ones. In contrast, cleft constructions in English (and, as we shall see, also
elsewhere) are the most constrained, applying primarily to nominal arguments (subjects,
objects, predicates).
Contrastive focus constructions 225
Pseudo-cleft seems to apply more permissively than cleft. However, there are grounds
for suspecting that it is not per se a contrastive focus device, since it is contrastive only
when the nominal predicate is stressed, an optional feature of this construction. Pseudo-
clefts can thus be considered a sentence with
•a headless REL-clause functioning as subject; and
•a nominal predicate.
The predicate noun of this construction may be given contrastive stress, but there is no
reason to treat this option diﬀerently than contrastive stress in general. By comparison, the
fronted predicate noun of cleft-focus constructions is always stressed.
Contrastive stress devices always involve a strong assumption of hearer’s contrary
belief. The grounds for the speaker making such an assumption may vary. It may be due to
the hearer’s overt assertions (as in (5b)). It may also be due to the speaker deliberately
leading the hearer to such contrary expectations, as in:
(7) Contrastive focus due to speaker-generated expectations
Context: I went through the whole family — mom, dad, my three brothers,
two sisters, the lot — you’d have thought someone would oﬀer to
help, but heck, they all refused….
Continuation: …It was MY GREAT AUNT who ﬁnally stepped in and…
In ﬁrst ticking oﬀ in (7) the list of family members that declined to help, the speaker sets
up strong negative expectations concerning the probability of any family member pitching
in. On that normative background, the rescue by a peripheral family member is contrasted
as counter-norm.
15.2.5.3Y-movement
Consider next the device variously referred to as Y-movement or contrastive topicalization.
Much like cleft clauses, it is restricted to primarily nominal arguments of the clause. It
often involves fronting of the contrasted topic — if it is normally in a non-initial position
in the clause. When the contrasted topic is normally at the clause-initial position, it is
merely stressed.
The stress level accorded to the focused constituent in Y-movement is considerably
lower, as compared to the three stress-focus devices, above. Further, the context that
motivates contrary expectations in Y-movement clauses is typically set up by the speaker.
To illustrate the contextual diﬀerence between Y-movement and cleft-focus, consider:
(8) a. Context: She has two brothers, Tom and Jerry.
She likes Tom a lot…
b. Continuation: (i) …Jerry she can’t stand.
(ii) …?It’s JERRY that she can’t stand.
In the case of Y-movement, normative expectations are most typically created by listing
various members of a group (type, genus) whose members are expected to display similar
behavior, or receive similar treatment. The contrast then arises from breaking their implicit
expectations.
226 Syntax
The contextual incompatibility of the clefted version (8bii) suggests that in Y-move-
ment the contrast does not involve the stronger condition of erroneous belief. When that
context is set up, the reverse acceptability is seen:
(9) a. Context: She can’t stand Tom.
b. Response: (i) …No, it’s JERRY that she can’t stand.
(ii) …*Jerry she can’t stand.
15.2.5.4Restrictive modiﬁers
So far we have seen three levels of contrastive strength — neutral, Y-movement, and stress-
focus. One could demonstrate the existence of at least one more above-neutral level by
citing the diﬀerence between restrictive and non-restrictive noun modiﬁers.
As noted earlier (Ch.11, Ch.14), restrictive modiﬁers narrow the domain of the referent
noun, while non-restrictive ones do not. Restrictive modiﬁers may be either stressed or
unstressed. Non-restrictive modiﬁers tend to be unstressed. To illustrate this, consider:
(10) a. Unstressed
The tall man left
(i) NR-interpretation
There was only one man there, a tall one, who left
(ii) R-interpretation
Of the men there, only one was tall, and only he left
b. Stressed
The TALL man left
(i) R-interpretation
Of the several men there, only one was tall, and only he left (Context:
The speaker assumes that the hearer believed that one of the short
men left)
(ii) *NR-interpretation
*There was only one man there, a tall one, who left
In the use of (10b), the feature ‘restrictive’ is obligatorily added to the feature ‘contrast’,
suggesting the following one-way conditional association between the two:
(11) Conditional association between restriction and contrast
Contrastive … Restrictive
This association is hardly spurious. Rather, it arises from the fact that restrictive modiﬁers
are used in contexts of a certain, if low, level of counter-expectancy, probably lower than
that associated with Y-movement.
That restrictive modiﬁers carry higher-than-neutral stress, even when not under stress-
focus, is also clear from cross-language data. Thus in Ute, restrictive demonstratives
precede the noun, are stressed, and display the full three-way deictic range. Non-restrictive
demonstratives follow the noun, are unstressed, and display a reduced deictic range —
from three to one. And the surviving one is a semantically bleached deﬁnite article. Thus
compare (Givón 1980a):
Contrastive focus constructions 227
(12) a. Restrictive (demonstratives)
’ín mamach ‘this woman’
má mamach ‘that woman’ (vis.)
’ú mamach ‘that woman’ (invis.)
b. Non-restrictive (article)
*mamach ’in
*mamach ma
mamach ’u ‘the woman’
Non-restrictive modiﬁers often incorporate into the head noun (Ch.11), a sign of loss of
independent lexical stress. Thus, again from Ute:
(13) a. Non-restrictive
sá-gava
white-horse
‘a white horse’
b. Restrictive
kava sá-gharu
=-m
horse white-adj/sg-an
‘a white horse’
15.2.6 Contrastive focus, reference and topicality
15.2.6.1Reference and topicality
So far we have considered primarily the functional dimension of contrast. But most
contrastive devices also involve the dimension of topicality, being part and parcel of the
grammar of referential coherence. In this section we will brieﬂy survey the topicality and
reference properties of two contrastive devices — cleft or stress-focus, and Y-movement.
By reference we mean here semantic reference, i.e. whether a referent does or does not
refer to some entity established verbally in the universe of discourse (Vol.I, Ch.10). As
noted earlier, the semantics of reference is a narrower sub-case of the pragmatics of
topicality. By topicality we mean primarily two pragmatic aspects of reference:
•referential accessibility (anaphoric)
•thematic importance (cataphoric).
To recapitulate brieﬂy, referential accessibility pertains to the speaker’s judgement about
how accessible a referent is to the hearer, given the preceding (‘anaphoric’) discourse
context. In choosing appropriate grammatical devices to code the referent, the speaker cues
the hearer about the search for and retrieval of a presumably accessible referent in one of
three relevant mental models:
•shared world-view (semantic memory)
•shared speech situation (working memory)
•shared current text (episodic memory).
228 Syntax
Thematic importance pertains to the cues the speaker gives the hearer about the attentional
activation of the referent in the subsequent (‘cataphoric’) discourse context. In choosing
appropriate referent-coding devices, the speaker signals to the hearer how important the
referent is going to be in the subsequent discourse, so that the thematic structure of yet-
unfolding discourse may be organized around the important referent.
15.2.6.2Referentiality and contrast
Both cleft-focus and Y-movement tend to apply primarily to highly topical, anaphorically
accessible arguments. Semantically, the NP under contrastive focus may be either deﬁnite-
referential or generic, but not referential-indeﬁnite (Sun and Givón 1985). Pragmatically,
therefore, these constructions are not used to introduce new participants into the dis-
course. As illustration of this restriction, consider ﬁrst cleft-focus in Hebrew, a language
that marks REF-indeﬁnite NPs with the numeral ‘one’ (Vol.I, Ch.10):
(14) a. Non-referring (generic)
ze ish she-raiti (lo isha)!
it man rel-saw/I (neg woman)
‘It’s a man that I saw (not a woman)!
b. REF-deﬁnite
ze ha-ish she-raiti (lo ha-isha)!
it the-man rel-saw/I (neg the-woman)
‘It’s the man that I saw (not the woman)!
c. *REF-indeﬁnite
*ze ish-xad she-raiti (lo isha-xat)!
it man-one rel-came (neg woman-one)
(*‘It’s a man that I saw, not a woman’)
The English equivalent of the starred (14c) is of course perfectly acceptable, but only in the
non-referring sense of (14a). That is, only in an attributive sense (Donellan 1966).
Standard English marks both referring and non-referring indeﬁnites with the indeﬁnite
article (Vol.I, Ch.10). But if one uses the colloquial unstressed ‘this’ as a REF-indeﬁnite
marker (Wright and Givón 1987), the restriction becomes clearer in English:
(15) a. Non-referring
It’s a man I saw, not a woman!
b. Deﬁnite
It’s the man I saw, not the woman!
c. *REF-indeﬁnite
*It’s this man I saw, not this woman!
The very same restriction bars REF-indeﬁnite nouns in Y-movement contrasts:
(16) a. Non-referring (generic)
(I don’t like tomatoes), potatoes I like
Contrastive focus constructions 229
b. Deﬁnite
(I don’t like him), her I adore
c. REF-indeﬁnite
*(I saw a man sitting there,) a woman I didn’t see
Notice, now, that the very same contrast also applies to the most common topicalization
rule, L-dislocation:
(17) a. Non-referring (generic)
As for men, she didn’t like them/any
b. Deﬁnite
As for John, she didn’t like him
c. *REF-indeﬁnite
*As for a man, she didn’t like one/him
The shared restriction suggests that it is cataphoric topicality rather than contrast that is at
the bottom of the restriction on REF-indeﬁnite NPs in all these constructions.
15.2.6.3Topicality and contrast
The restrictions on REF-indeﬁnite nouns in cleft, Y-movement and L-dislocation suggest
that the referent coded by these constructions must be anaphorically accessible, i.e.
established in the preceding discourse. This is borne out by distributional discourse studies.
Thus Fox (1983; Biblical Hebrew) and Sun and Givón (1985; Mandarin) have noted that
the anaphoric distance for the contrasted/topicalized NP in Y-moved clauses is typically 2–3
clauses back. That is, Y-moved topics tend to be established in the 2–3 clauses preceding
the Y-moved clause.
Clefted referents seem to be also anaphorically accessible. This is borne out by the fact
that they are rather odd in discourse-initial or paragraph-initial contexts. Thus, it is
perfectly acceptable to introduce a topic for the ﬁrst time with a pseudo-cleft construction
in a discourse-initial context (18a), but rather odd with a cleft (18b) — unless the
contrasted NP has been already topicalized in the preceding discourse (18c):
(18) a. Pseudo-cleft (initial)
What we’re going to talk about today is love.
b. Cleft (initial)
?It’s LOVE that we’re going to talk about today.
c. Cleft (medial)
You thought we were going to speak of charity, but it’s LOVE that we’re
going to talk about today.
Before a referent is coded by a cleft-focus, a certain buildup of contrary expectations must
take place in the preceding portion of the current thematic unit, most likely in the same
paragraph/chain. This is so because contrary expectations must either be overtly expressed
by the hearer in his/her directly-preceding contribution to the discourse, or else be set up
by the speaker in his/her directly-preceding discourse.
230 Syntax
A paragraph boundary tends to obliterate the eﬃcacy of the buildup of contrary
expectations. Thus compare (Givón 1995b):
(19) a. Expectations set up within the current paragraph
…you think that the maid was killed by the butler, and it sure makes sense,
I admit. Still, you’re dead wrong. It was the gardener who killed her…
b. Expectations set up across paragraph boundary
…you think that the maid was killed by the butler, and it sure makes sense,
I admit. Still, you’re dead wrong.
?It was the gardener who killed her…
The upshot of this discussion is to support our earlier suggestion (§15.1) that there appears
to be a one-way conditional association between contrastive focus and topicality:
(20) Conditional association between ‘contrastive focus’ and ‘topic’
Contrastive focus … Topic
In other words, a constituent under contrastive focus is also an anaphorically accessible
topic.
15.2.7 Assertion scope and contrastive focus: Negation and yes/no-questions
15.2.7.1Optional constituents and focus attraction
In this section we consider the interaction of two speech-acts — negation and yes/no-
question — with both contrastive focus and assertion focus. One by-product of the
discussion would be to re-conﬁrm our earlier suggestion concerning the one-way condi-
tional association between these two types of ‘focus’. The discussion depends crucially on
the behavior of optional constituents.
Optional constituents of the clause, in particular optional case-roles and various
adverbials, tend to attract the focus of assertion (Vol.I, Ch.7,8). That is, when they are
present in the clause, the scope of assertion tends to narrow down to the optional element
alone, excluding — in particular — the verb. Typically, in a clause that does not have such
optional elements, the verb — or verb phrase — tends to fall under the scope of the
assertion. In contrast, when an optional element is present, the verb tends to be excluded
from the scope of assertion.
The attraction of assertion-focus to an optional constituent is, in all likelihood, another
reﬂection of the processing principle of “one chunk of new information per clause” (Givón
1975c; DuBois 1987; Chafe 1994), in this case coupled with the normative-pragmatic
inference:
(21) Pragmatic inference concerning informational status
of optional clausal constituents
If an optional element is mentioned in a clause, it must be itself the focus
of the asserted information.
Contrastive focus constructions 231
15.2.7.2Negation and focus attraction
Inference (21), in the case of aﬃrmative declarative clauses, is normative and probabilistic.
It becomes to all intent and purpose obligatory (‘grammaticalized’) in the case of negative
clauses. To illustrate this, consider the negative clause in (22) below, which has no optional
constituent:
(22) Joe didn’t kill the goat (> the goat was not killed)
When uttered without contrastive stress, the most likely inference to be drawn from (22)
is that the event ‘killing the goat’ did not take place. In other words, the entire verb phrase
is under the scope of negation. In the presence of an optional constituent, on the other
hand, the normative inference changes radically. The scope of the negated assertion
narrows down, to exclude everything except the optional constituent:
(23) a. Joe didn’t kill the goat deliberately (> it was an accident)
b. Joe didn’t kill the goat on Sunday (> but at some other time)
c. Joe didn’t kill the goat in anger (> but in cold blood)
d. Joe didn’t kill the goat in the barn (> but elsewhere)
e. Joe didn’t kill the goat for Mary (> but for someone else)
As noted earlier (Vol.I, Ch.8), negation is itself a contrary speech-act. In the case of clauses
with no optional constituents, the negative contrast has the widest scope. In the presence
of optional constituents, a contrastive interpretation of any other element in the clause is
odd. Thus, consider:
(24) a. Joe didn’t kill the goat deliberately (> but rather accidentally)
b. ?JOE didn’t kill the goat deliberately (> someone else did it deliberately)
c. ?Joe didn’t KILL the goat deliberately (> he kicked it deliberately)
d. ?Joe didn’t kill the GOAT deliberately (> he killed the cow deliberately)
When negation applies to a clause without an optional constituent, on the other hand, any
clausal constituents may be in negative-contrastive focus. Thus compare:
(25) a. JOE didn’t kill the goat (someone else did)
b. Joe didn’t KILL the goat (he only kicked it)
c. Joe didn’t kill the GOAT (he killed the cow)
15.2.7.3Yes/no-question and focus attraction
A similar narrowing of scope and attraction of contrastive focus — thus the focus of
question — occurs in yes/no-questions. When the clause has only obligatory arguments, the
scope of a yes/no-question is wide open, and certainly can take the entire VP, including
even the subject. Thus:
(26) Did Joe kill the goat? (> Was the goat killed?)
Once an optional constituent is present, it attracts the focus of the yes/no-question, even
without contrast. Thus compare:
232 Syntax
(27) a. Did Joe kill the goat deliberately? (or accidentally?)
b. Did Joe kill the goat on Sunday? (or on Monday?)
c. Did Joe kill the goat in anger? (or in cold blood?)
d. Did Joe kill the goat in the barn? (or on the lawn?)
e. Did Joe kill the goat for Mary? (or for Sue?)
As in the case of negation, when an optional constituent is present, contrastive stress-focus
is more naturally placed on it, rather than on an obligatory constituent. Thus compare:
(28) a. Did Joe kill the goat ON PURPOSE? (or accidentally)?
b. ?Did JOE kill the goat on purpose? (or did someone else do it on purpose?)
c. ?Did Joe KILL the goat on purpose? (or did he kick it on purpose?)
d. ?Did Joe kill the GOAT on purpose? (or did he kill the cow on purpose?)
And as in negation, when a clause with no optional constituents is questioned, contrastive
focus may apply to any constituent. Thus:
(29) a. Did JOE kill the goat (or did someone else)?
b. Did Joe KILL the goat (or did he only kick it)?
c. Did Joe kill the GOAT (or did he kill the cow)?
In sum, when either negation or yes/no-question is applied to a clause with an optional
constituent, focus attraction is revealed in two ways. First, in the narrowing of the focus of
assertion or question to the optional constituent. And second, in the conﬁnement of
contrastive focus to the focus of assertion. The systematic behavior of both negation and
yes/no-questions thus further corroborate our suggestion (3) concerning the one-way
conditional association between contrastive focus and the focus of assertion.
15.2.8 Other focus-attracting devices
In the preceding section we saw how optional constituents attract both the focus of
assertion and contrastive focus. Other grammatical elements display similar behavior,
which will be considered brieﬂy in this section.
15.2.8.1Wh-questions
As we will note below, there are strong syntactic connections between contrastive focus and
wh-questions. Not surprisingly, the connections are also functional. Much like contrastive
focus, wh-questions involve a proposition or clause that is almost entirely presupposed —
except for one focal constituent. In declarative contrastive-focus clauses, that element is
asserted contrastively. In wh-questions, the identity of that element is queried.
As in cleft clauses, the contrastive focus in wh-questions tends to be attracted to the
wh-word itself, rather than to other constituents. Thus consider:
(30) a. WHO killed the goat?
b. ?Who killed the GOAT?
c. ?Who KILLED the goat?
Contrastive focus constructions 233
d. What did Joe kill?
e. ?What did JOE kill?
f. ?What did Joe KILL?
It has been noted, however (Dwight Bolinger, in personal communication) that in some
elaborate contexts, the contrastive focus in wh-questions may go on a constituent other
than the wh-word, as in:
(31) A: Jerry threw mud at his sister and broke a window and left the kitchen sink
all icky.
B: Oh yeah? And what did YOU do?
While such examples are indeed possible, they do not represent the most normative
contexts for wh-questions (see Ch.17).
15.2.8.2Contrastive quantiﬁers
Some noun modiﬁers seem to attract contrastive focus almost obligatorily. We have noted
those earlier (Ch.11), such as ‘even’, ‘all’, ‘every’, ‘other’, ‘ﬁrst’, ‘only’, ‘self’, ‘really’ or
‘just’. There are grounds for believing, however, that these quantiﬁers do not attract the
stronger contrastive focus, as in cleft, but rather the weaker one, as in Y-movement. This
suggestion comes from a text-distribution study of spoken Mandarin Chinese (Sun and
Givón 1985), where almost the entire sample of Y-moved object NPs was shown to contain
either these contrastive modiﬁers or negation.
As noted earlier, Y-movement usually involves the building up of contrastive expecta-
tions within the last 2–3 clauses in the preceding discourse. The strong association between
negation, contrastive quantiﬁers and Y-movement suggests that these quantiﬁers indeed
involve contrastive expectations within a similarly short anaphoric range. As typical
examples consider:1
(32) a. Context: It was going to be hard to kill the cat.
Contrast: …we hit and killed it with only one strike…
b. Context: We didn’t want to kill Mom’s cat.
Contrast: …so we killed another one…
c. Context: It was a complex, multi-factored subject.
Contrast: …if you understood it only with logic it wouldn’t have been
any good…
d. Context: One respects one’s mate’s privacy in a crowded apartment.
Contrast: …he suddenly barged into the room without even a knock…
e. Context: It was a tough subject to master.
Contrast: …you had to really learn the stuﬀ…
f. Context: The ticket was for someone else.
Contrast: …we paid the money ourselves ﬁrst, then gave the tickets to
him…
g. Context: They came home after work expecting to ﬁnd some food.
Contrast: …and there were no dates left…
234 Syntax
15.3 Syntactic and typological dimensions
15.3.1 Preamble
In this section we deal with the syntactic coding of contrastive focus. As elsewhere in
syntax, three concrete coding elements are available, in various combinations, to create
contrastive structures: Word order, morphology and intonation. In the course of our cross-
linguistic survey, a number of recurrent generalizations emerge, concerning the use of these
three coding means. Two of these devices are of particular interest, since they reﬂect some
of the most persistent iconicity principles of the grammatical code:
(33) Iconic devices used in contrastive focus constructions
a. Word-order: Focused elements tend to be fronted
b. Intonation: Focused elements tend to be stressed
Tendency (33a) is manifest in the universality of cleft and Y-movement constructions.
Tendency (33b) is manifest in the universal association between contrastive focus and
stress (Bolinger 1978a, 1985).
The use of morphology in contrastive focus constructions is less obviously iconic,
dependent as it is on the available diachronic pathways via which the focus constructions
may grammaticalize. Cleft-marking morphemes most commonly arise from erstwhile
copular verbs (Givón 1974a). Y-movement only rarely involves morphology, and the
diachronic source of such morphology, when it does appear, is much less predictable.
15.3.2 Contrastive focus and relativization
The syntactic connection between focus constructions — particularly cleft and pseudo-
cleft — and relativization has been documented extensively (Schachter 1971). As noted
earlier, cleft constructions combine a fronted focused element with a presupposed clause,
a clause that shares the pragmatic property of presuppositionality or backgroundedness of
restrictive REL-clauses. Not surprisingly, the presupposed clause in cleft constructions also
shares many of the syntactic properties of REL-clauses. Thus compare:2
(34) a. Subject REL-clause
The man who killed the goat…
b. Subject cleft
It’s JOE who killed the goat
c. Object REL-clause
The goat that Joe killed…
d. Object cleft
It’s the GOAT that Joe killed
The syntactic parallelism between focus constructions and REL-clauses may go even
further. For example, Takizala (1972) has observed that in Kihungan (Bantu), REL-clauses
contrast with main clauses in three major syntactic properties:
Contrastive focus constructions 235
•The subject agreement preﬁx:
ka- in main clauses vs. a- in REL-clauses
•The negative morpheme:
lo in main clauses vs. -khoon ‘fail’ in REL clauses
•The position of the subject NP:
SV in main clauses vs. VS in Obj-REL-clauses
That is:
(35) a. Main clause, aﬃrmative
Kipes ka-swiim-in kit
K. he-buy-past chair
‘Kipes bought a chair’
b. Main clause, negative
Kipes lo ka-swiim-in kit
Kipes neg he-buy-past chair
‘Kipes didn’t buy a chair’
c. Obj-REL-clause, aﬃrmative
kit ki a-swiim-in Kipes…
chair dem he-buy-past K.
‘The chair that Kipes bought…’
d. Obj-REL-clause, negative
kit ki a-khoon-in ku-suum Kipes…
chair dem he-fail-past to-buy K.
‘The chair that Kipes didn’t buy…’
(lit.: ‘The chair that Kipes failed to buy…’)
The very same three syntactic peculiarities also mark clefts, pseudo-clefts and stress-focus
constructions in Kihungan (Takizala 1972):
(36) a. Object stress-focus, aﬃrmative
Kipes a-swiim-in kít
K. he-buy-past chair
‘Kipes bought a CHAIR’
b. Object stress-focus, negative
Kipes a-khoon-in ku-suum kít
K. he-fail-past to-buy chair
‘Kipes didn’t buy a CHAIR’
c. Object cleft, aﬃrmative
(kwe) kít ki a-swiim-in Kipes
(be) chair dem he-buy-past K.
‘It’s a CHAIR that Kipes bought’
236 Syntax
d. Object cleft, negative
(kwe) kít ki a-khoon-in ku-suum Kipes
(be) chair dem he-fail-past to-buy K.
‘It’s a CHAIR that Kipes didn’t buy’
(lit.: ‘It’s a CHAIR that Kipes failed to buy’)
e. Object pseudo-cleft, aﬃrmative
(kiim) ki a-swiim-in Kipes kwe kít
(thing) dem he-buy-past K. be chair
‘What Kipes bought yesterday is a chair’
f. Object pseudo-cleft, negative
(kiim) ki a-khoon-in ku-suum Kipes (kwe) kít
(thing) dem he-fail-past to-buy K. (be) chair
‘What Kipes didn’t buy is a CHAIR’
(lit.: ‘What Kipes failed to buy is a CHAIR’)
The appearance of REL-clause structural features in cleft and pseudo-cleft constructions is
hardly surprising, given that an overt REL-clause is present in such constructions. The
Kihungan data also demonstrate, that the stress-focus construction must have been derived
historically from a REL-clause-containing construction such as cleft or pseudo-cleft,
through later simpliﬁcation. As Takizala (1972) notes, this simpliﬁcation is gradual and
may involve a number of structural intermediates, all still synchronically attested in
Kihungan:
(37) a. Subject cleft
Kwe Kípes wu a-swiim-in kit
be K. dem he-buy-past chair
‘It’s KIPES who bought the chair’
b. Intermediate
Kwe Kípes a-swiim-in kit
be K. he-buy-past chair
‘It’s KIPES (who) bought the chair’
c. Stress-focus
Kípes a-swiim-in kit
K. he-buy-past chair
‘KIPES bought the chair’
Similarly:
(38) a. Object cleft
Kwe kít ki a-swiim-in Kipes
be chair dem he-buy-past K.
‘It’s a CHAIR that Kipes bought’
Contrastive focus constructions 237
b. Intermediate
Kwe kít Kipes a-swiim-in
be chair K. he-buy-past
‘It’s a CHAIR (that) Kipes bought’
c. Intermediate
Kít Kipes a-swiim-in
chair K. he-buy-past
‘(It’s) a CHAIR Kipes bought’
d. Stress-focus
Kipes a-swiim-in kít
K. he-buy-past chair
‘Kipes bought a CHAIR’
15.3.3 Focus and wh-questions
It has been widely observed (Heny 1971; Myers 1971; Takizala 1972; Givón 1979a: Ch.6,
inter alia) that wh-questions often share many of the syntactic characteristics of cleft or
stress-focus constructions, including the attendant REL-clause structure. In this section we
will brieﬂy survey some of the factual basis of this phenomenon, as well as some of its
theoretical implications.
After noting the close syntactic parallelism between contrastive focus and relativi-
zation, Takizala (1972) went on to observe that wh-questions in Kihungan also display
many syntactic properties of REL-clauses. The sharing of those properties depended on the
degree of syntactic simpliﬁcation: The more cleft-like the wh-question is, the more it
displays REL-clause properties. Thus:
(39) a. Cleft form object-wh question
kwe khi ki ka-swiim-in Kipes?
be wh dem he-buy-past K.
‘It’s WHAT that Kipes bought?’
b. Intermediate
khi ki ka-swiim-in Kipes?
wh dem he-buy-past K.
‘WHAT (is it) that Kipes bought?’
c. Simpliﬁed wh-question
khi Kipes ka-swiim-in?
wh K. he-buy-past
‘What did Kipes buy?’
(40) a. Cleft form subject-wh question:
kwe na wu ka-mweene Kipes?
be wh dem he-see/past K.
‘It’s WHO that saw Kipes?’
238 Syntax
b. Intermediate
na wu ka-mweene Kipes?
wh dem he-see/past K.
‘WHO (is it) who saw Kipes?’
c. Simpliﬁed wh-question
na ka-mweene Kipes?
wh he-see/past K.
‘Who saw Kipes?’
Wh-questions in Kihungan, even the most simpliﬁed ones as in (39c) or (40c), take
REL-clause-type negation. Thus:
(41) a. khi Kipes ka-khoon-in ku-suum?
wh K. he-fail-past to-buy
‘What didn’t Kipes buy?’
(lit.: ‘What did Kipes fail to buy?’)
b. na ka-khoon-in ku-mon Kipes?
wh he-fail-past to-see K.
‘Who didn’t see Kipes?’
(lit.: ‘Who failed to see Kipes?’)
Some structural features associated with REL-clauses, and thus with cleft and pseudo-cleft,
linger in these wh-questions long after considerable syntactic simpliﬁcations had occurred.
But languages — and constructions within one language — may diﬀer widely in the degree
of their syntactic conservatism. Morphological traits of focus constructions (and wh-ques-
tions) that harken back to REL-clause structure may either be transparently present, as in
Kihungan, or less conspicuous, as in English, where they are still conspicuous in cleft and
pseudo-cleft clauses but not in stress-focus or wh-questions.
15.3.4 Diachronic simpliﬁcation and the vestigial copula
We noted earlier above that the morpheme that marks both contrastive focus and
wh-questions is often traced back to a copula, sometime an older copula (Givón 1974a).
Given what was noted above, such association is only to be expected. If both focus
constructions and wh-questions are derived historically from the simpliﬁcation of cleft or
pseudo-cleft, then one common surviving relic of such simpliﬁcation, after stripping away
the REL-clause structure, is the cleft-marking copular verb itself.
As an illustration, consider ﬁrst copular constructions in Bemba (Bantu). The old
Bantu copula ni has disappeared almost entirely in Bemba, except in a small set of
grammatical environments. In nominal predicates, ni survives only before defective
(preﬁx-less) nouns, pronouns and names. In such environments, the vestigial ni occurs
regardless of whether the current copula -li is or is not present (Givón 1972a, 1974a):
Contrastive focus constructions 239
(42) a. Regular locative predicate
umuana a-li kuno
child he-be here
‘The child is here’
b. Regular nominal predicate (Ref)
umuana a-li umu-puupu
child he-be ref-thief
‘The child is the thief’
c. Regular nominal predicate (Non-ref)
umuana múu-puupu
child nref-thief
‘The child is a thief’
d. Defective nominal predicate (Non-ref)
umuana ni-kaleemba
child be-writer
‘The child is a writer’
e. Demonstrative predicate (Ref)
umupuupu a-li ni-uyu
thief he-be be-this
‘The thief is this one’
f. Personal pronoun predicate
umupuupu a-li ni-iwe
thief he-be be-you
‘The thief is you’
The same vestigial ni also appears in cleft constructions in Bemba, again limited to the
same exceptional environments:
(43) a. Regular noun (Non-ref)
muu-puupu n-aa-mweene
nref-thief I-past-see/asp
‘It’s a THIEF that I saw’
b. Defective noun (Non-ref)
ni-kalulu n-aa-mweene
be-hare I-past-see/asp
‘It’s a HARE that I saw’
c. Demonstrative (Ref)
ni-uyu n-aa-mweene
be-this I-past-see/asp
‘It’s THIS (one) that I saw’
d. Personal pronoun (Ref)
ni-iwe n-aa-mweene
be-you I-past-see/asp
‘It’s YOU that I saw’
240 Syntax
Wh-question words in many Bantu languages begin with n — a vestigial reﬂex of ni, as in
Lomongo (Hulstaert 1966):
(44) n-a ‘who?’
n-ko ‘what?’
ele-n-ko ‘which one?’
ba-n-ga ‘how many?’
More recently Bergvall (1988) has suggested that these diachronic observations also have
synchronic import. That is, that both cleft and wh-questions should be considered
synchronically embedded, double-clause constructions. This interpretation ignores the
considerable structural simpliﬁcation that occurs over time. Through such simpliﬁcation,
what often starts as a parataxis of two clauses becomes condensed into a single clause, to
varying degrees still complex, but falling under a single intonation contour.
Most embedded syntactic constructions, including REL-clauses and verb comple-
ments, arise historically from looser, unembedded parataxis. Kihungan itself provides
examples of such looser paratactic counterparts of both the current cleft and current
wh-question constructions. Thus consider (Takizala 1972):
(45) a. Paratactic cleft-focus
kwe kít, kiim ki a-swiim-in Kipes
be chair thing dem he-buy-past K.
‘It’s a CHAIR, the thing that Kipes bought’
b. Paratactic wh-question
kwe khi, kiim ki a-swiim-in Kipes?
be wh thing dem he-buy-past K.
‘It’s WHAT, the thing that Kipes bought?’
The same option can be found in Spanish (Dwight Bolinger, in personal communication):
(46) a. Paratactic cleft-focus
es esto, lo que quiero
be this that sub want/I
‘It’s this, that which I want’
b. Paratactic wh-question
es qué, lo que quieres?
be what that sub want/you
‘It’s WHAT, that which you want?’
15.3.5 Other typological features of contrastive focus
15.3.5.1Overlapping functions of the focus morpheme
To some extent, the diachronic rise of focus-marking morphemes from the copula
guarantees at least some overlap of focus-marking with other functions. Of more interest,
however, are less predictable overlaps. One such sharing of morphology can be seen in
Contrastive focus constructions 241
Krio,3
where the same particle — na — has four distinct uses, three of which are fairly
predictable from the discussion above:
(47) a. Locative preposition
di ticha fes di buk na di skul
the teacher took the book loc the school
‘The teacher brought the book to school’
b. Copula (rare):4
…bot bifo denh kil-am, denh-sef foh si sey
…but before they kill-him they-self for see say
‘…but before they killed him, they themselves wanted to make sure that
denh tri minin-ya-so na tru…
those three meaning-here-so be true
those three meanings were indeed the right ones…’
c. Cleft
na di ticha we fes di buk na di skul
be the teacher rel take the book loc the school
‘It’s THE TEACHER who brought the book to school’
d. Topic marker in L-dislocation
na-in di ticha, i fes di book na di school
top-him the teacher he take the book loc the school
‘So the teacher, he brought the book to school’
(lit.: ‘So then he the teacher, he brought the book to school’)
Of particular interest is the extension of na to mark L-dislocated topics (47d). There are
two likely diachronic pathways for this extension:
•From the use of na as a conjunction
and John left ﬁ Top-John, he left
•From the use of na as cleft-marker
it’s-John who left ﬁ Top-John, he left
The use of na as a conjunction in Krio is not currently well attested, although it cannot be
discounted as an older stage. In many Niger-Congo languages, the locative preposition na
— or its precursor locative serial verb ‘be’ — eventually developed an associative sense
‘with’, which then also becomes an NP conjunction, and eventually a clausal conjunction
(Lord 1973; Givón 1975d).
The putative pathway from cleft to L-dislocation would presumably rely on the
common denominator between the two topicalizing and contrastive-focus constructions
— topicalization. Through such a process, the construction would de-marked, with
‘contrast’ bleached out the and ‘topic’ retained.
A similar instance of the sharing of contrastive morphology with an overlapping
functional domain, again due to gradual diachronic extension, may be seen in Yagua
(Amazonian Peru). In this language, the morpheme jíí(ta) is used to mark contrastive
topicalization (Y-movement), as in (Doris Payne 1989):
242 Syntax
(48) Contrastive topic shifting
A: …ra-a jaachi-dii-tyéé-níí kíí?…
1sg-irr spear-antic-ints-3sg q
‘…Shall I [Mocayu] spear him, huh?
B: néé. naay-jíí-ra jaachi-ñíí…
neg 1pl.exc-cont-irr spear-3sg
No, we [the Wasp Twins] will spear him…’
Payne (1989) notes that the very same morpheme also marks the onset of new paragraphs.
Both contexts indeed involve discontinuity or unpredictability, but at diﬀerent levels — the
ﬁrst referential, the second thematic. A similar overlap — an extension from the thematic
to the referential level — will be noted in Ch.18, below.
15.3.5.2Word-order and contrastive focus
There are grounds for believing that the fronting of topical constituents is a pragmatic
universal (Givón 1988). The widespread occurrence of cleft-focus, Y-movement, L-dis-
location and fronted-wh constructions supports this idea.
In some languages it is said that contrastive stress — the most universal feature of
contrastive focus — coincides with the constituent post-posing rather than fronting. Thus
Dreizin (1980) suggests that in Russian the unmarked position for focused negation is
clause-ﬁnal:
(49) a. Aﬃrmative
Ivan jego ubil
Ivan him killed
‘Ivan killed him’
b. Neutral (or verb-focus) negation
Ivan jego ne ubil
Ivan him neg killed
‘Ivan didn’t kill him’
(or ‘Ivan didn’t KILL him’)
c. Subject-focus negation
jego ubil ne Ivan
him killed neg Ivan
‘IVAN didn’t kill him’
d. Object-focus negation
Ivan ubil ne jego
I. killed neg him
‘Ivan didn’t kill HIM’
Bernard Comrie (“General discussion”, in Chisholm ed. 1984) has further suggested that
the post-posing of focused elements in Russian applies not only to focused negation, but
to contrastive focus in general.5
Contrastive focus constructions 243
In many languages, on the other hand, focused negation requires fronting of the
focused constituent, thus conforming to the more common word-order pattern of
contrastive focus and topicalization. As an illustration, consider the following from Bikol
(Philippine; M. Factora, i.p.c.):
(50) a. Aﬃrmative
nag-gadán ’ang-laláke ning-kandíng
agt-kill top-man acc-goat
‘The man killed a goat’
b. Neutral (or verb-focus) negation
da’í nag-gadaán ’ang-laláke ning-kandíng
neg agt-kill top-man acc-goat
‘The man didn’t kill a goat’
(or: ‘The man didn’t KILL the goat’)
c. Subject-focus negation
da’í ’ang-laláke nag-gadán ning-kandíng
neg top-man agt-kill acc-goat
‘The MAN didn’t kill a goat’
d. Object-focus negation
da’í ’ang-kandíng g-in-adán kang-laláke
neg top-goat acc-kill agt-man
‘The man didn’t kill the GOAT’
Some languages, so far only languages with rigid SOV word-order, avoid cleft construc-
tions altogether, marking contrasted constituents either by stress alone or by stress cum
pseudo-cleft. Taken at face value, such languages seem to prefer placing contrast-focused
elements toward the end of the clause, i.e. post-pose them. As an example, consider the
following from Nepali (Indic; R. Shresta, i.p.c.):
(51) a. Neutral
Raj-le kukur-lai hirka-yf
Raj-erg dog-do hit-past/3sg.masc
‘Raj hit the dog’
b. Subject stress focus
Raj-le kukur-lai hirka-yf
Raj-erg dog-do hit-past/3sg.masc
‘RAJ hit the dog’
c. Object stress focus
Raj-le kukur-lai hirka-yf
Raj-erg dog-do hit-past/3sg.masc
‘Raj hit the DOG’
d. Subject pseudo-cleft
kukur-lai hirka-eko, Raj-le thi-yf
dog-do hit-perf/rel Raj-erg be-past/3sg.masc
‘The one who hit the dog was RAJ’
244 Syntax
e. Object pseudo-cleft
Raj-le hirka-eko, kukur-lai thi-yf
Raj-erg hit-perf/rel dog-do be-past/3sg.masc
‘What Raj hit was the DOG’
f. *Subject cleft
*Raj-le thi-yf kukur-lai hirka-eko,
Raj-erg be-past/3sg.masc dog-do hit-perf/rel
(‘It’s RAJ who hit the dog’)
g. *Object cleft
*kukur-lai thi-yf Raj-le hirka-eko,
dog-do be-past/3sg.masc Raj-erg hit-perf/rel
(‘It’s the DOG that Raj hit’)
On the face of it, Nepali and other SOV languages go against widespread iconic tendency
of fronting contrastive-focused and topicalized constituents. This violation may be more
apparent than real. To begin with, the presupposed portion of the pseudo-cleft is frequent-
ly dispensed with in connected discourse, given its high predictability in context. When
that occurs, only the copular predicate phrase is overtly expressed — with the focused
noun thus being at the front of the clause in an SOV language:
(52) a. Raj-le thi-yf
Raj-erg be-past/3sg.masc
‘It was RAJ’
b. kukur-lai thi-yf
dog-dat de-past/3sg.masc
‘It was the DOG’
Further, Nepali, like most languages, may resort to either one of two paratactic alternatives
in coding the presupposed clause of the contrastive-focus construction: L-dislocation or
R-dislocation. Either way, within its own clause, the focused element appears ﬁrst:6
(53) a. L-dislocated presupposed clause
kukur-lai hirka-ekf, Raj-le thi-yf
dog-do hit-perf/rel Raj-erg be-past/3sg.masc
‘The one who hit the dog, it was RAJ’
b. R-dislocated presupposed clause
Raj-le thi-yf, kukur-lai hirka-ekf
‘It was RAJ, the one who hit the dog’
The focus construction (53a) is a paratactic equivalent of the syntactic pseudo-cleft, while
(53b) is the paratactic equivalent of the syntactic cleft.
It has also been suggested that in many rigid SOV languages, the preferred position for
focused constituents is directly before the verb.7
This, like the Russian preference for
clause-ﬁnal focus, seems to again violate our focus/topic fronting principle. Once again,
however, the violation is perhaps more apparent than real. In connected discourse, most
clausal arguments tend to be expressed anaphorically, i.e. as zeros or unstressed/clitic
Contrastive focus constructions 245
pronouns. This should particularly hold true for the highly topical (‘presupposed’)
portions of focus constructions, which are highly predictable from the anaphoric context.
Under such conditions in connected discourse, a pre-verbal position of the focus element
in an SOV language is indistinguishable from a clause-initial position.
15.3.5.3Verb clefting
As noted earlier, stress-focus in English can apply to any constituents of the clause,
including grammatical bound morphemes. In contrast, the application of clefting is
severely limited. To some extent the limitation is predictable on morpho-syntactic
grounds: Clefting (or pseudo-clefting) can only apply to free lexical constituents; and
further, to ones that ﬁt into a copular predicate slot — either nouns, adjectives or locative
phrases. Clefting thus tends to be restricted to nominal arguments — noun phrases or
prepositional phrases. Thus:
(54) a. It’s JOE who killed the goat
b. It’s the GOAT that Joe killed
c. It’s at HOME that she works
d. It’s YESTERDAY that she did it
f. It’s on PURPOSE that she dropped the glass
g. ?It’s ACCIDENTALLY that he died
h. *It’s TALL that Joe is
i. *It’s KILLING that Joe did to the goat
j. ?It’s KILLING THE GOAT that she did
The clefting of verbs seems to be a bit more acceptable when they are the sole constituents
of the verb phrase. Clefting the entire VP also seems to be easier than clefting the verb
alone. Thus:
(55) a. *It’s GOING that he then did to the market
b. ?It’s GOING TO THE MARKET that he then did
c. ?It’s WORKING that he did yesterday
There are three explanations that one may advance in trying to account for the restrictions
on verb-clefting:
•Functional: Clefting involves topicalization, a function that is typically applicable
to nominal arguments rather than to non-referring predicates.
•Structural: Clefting would extract the core of the clause, the verb, leaving the rest
of the clause hard to process. Further, the concomitant REL-clause
structure cannot be obtained without a verb.
•Diachronic: Clefting, as noted above, arises from a copular predicate structure,
one into which a verb does not ﬁt naturally.
The restriction on verb-clefting is perhaps easier to interpret when one considers the few
languages — or contexts — where verb-clefting is allowed. The salient structural features
of verb-clefting, when it does occur, are:
246 Syntax
•The cleft-focused verb takes a non-ﬁnite, nominalized form.
•In the presupposed portion of the construction, the verb is then repeated in its ﬁnite
form, and in its neutral position.
The Kwa languages of the Niger-Congo family all demonstrate these two features in verb-
clefting, as does the Kwa-substratum Creole language Krio. The following examples are
from Yoruba (Stahlke 1974):
(56) a. Neutral
ajá kpa aìd7,
dog kill chicken
‘The dog killed the chicken’
b. Subject cleft
ajá ni kpa aìd7,
dog be kill chicken
‘It’s the DOG that killed the chicken’
c. Object cleft
aìd7
7, ni ajá kpa
chicken be dog kill
‘It’s the CHICKEN that the dog killed’
d. Verb cleft
kpe-kpe ni ajá kpa aìd7,
kill-kill be dog kill chicken
‘It’s KILLING that the dog did to the chicken’
(lit.: ‘It’s KILLING that the dog killed the chicken’)
The Kwa verb-cleft pattern is compatible with all three explanations of the rarity of verb-
clefting:
•Nominalizing the verb makes it a noun, thus syntactically compatible with a nomi-
nal predicate slot.
•By recapitulating the verb in a ﬁnite form further down in the clause, the neutral
processing strategy is preserved.
Our explanation of the rarity of verb-clefting is further supported by the cross-linguistic
distribution of focused negation (Vol.I, Ch.8) and focused yes/no-questions (Ch.17). Such
focus constructions typically involve less syntactic tampering with the neutral clause
structure, and in particular no REL-clause syntax. Focused yes/no-questions may involve
morphology cum word-order variation, as in Russian (49), Bikol (50) or Ute (Givón
1980a). They may also involve morphology alone, as in Turkish focused yes/no-questions
(Erguvanli 1976). But they are otherwise less tampered with that cleft clauses — verb-
focusing in such constructions is much less problematic.
As an illustration of the relative distributional freedom of focused yes/no-questions,
consider the following from Navajo (Schauber 1978):
Contrastive focus constructions 247
(57) a. Neutral
Jáan chidí yiyííhlchf
John car 3/3/dir/wreck
‘John wrecked the car’
b. Subject yes/no-q
Jáan-ísh chidí yiyííhlchf
John-q car 3/3/dir/wreck
‘Did JOHN wreck the car?’
(or did someone else wreck it?)
c. Object yes/no-q
Jáan chidí-ísh yiyííhlchf?
John car-q 3/3/dir/wreck
‘Did John wreck the CAR?’
(or did he wreck the boat?)
d. Verb yes/no-q
Jáan chidí yiyííhlchf-’ish
John car 3/3/dir/wreck-q
‘Did John WRECK the car?’
(or did he do something else to it?)
Finally, the much wider distributional freedom in English and elsewhere of stress-focus,
where the neutral clause structure is left largely intact, also supports our interpretation of
the more stringent restrictions on clefting.
15.4 The use of intonation, word-order and morphology in contrastive-focus
constructions: Some typological predictions
As noted earlier, contrastive focus is coded by three coding devices:
•intonation (stress or tone)
•word-order
•morphology
The three may appear in various combinations, but such combinations are highly
constrained. Intonation is by far the most universal of the three, and is always present
regardless of the simultaneous use of word-order or morphology. In this section we will
consider all possible combinations of the three coding elements.
15.4.1 Three-way coding
In both cleft and pseudo-cleft constructions one ﬁnds the maximal combination of all
three coding elements: The focused noun is either fronted or post-posed; the copula or its
grammaticalized vestige serves as grammatical morphology; and the ubiquitous contrastive
stress is always there.
248 Syntax
15.4.2 Two-way coding
Of the three mathematically-possible two-way combinations, only two are attested:
a.
Intonation and word-order
The combination of stress and word-order without morphology may be seen in Russian
and Kihungan. In Russian, stress is combined with a clause-ﬁnal position, as in (Dreizin
1980):
(58) a. Verb focus
Ivan jego ubil
Ivan him killed
‘Ivan KILLED him’
b. Subject focus
jego ubil Ivan
him killed Ivan
‘IVAN killed him’
c. Object focus
Ivan ubil jego
I. killed him
‘Ivan killed HIM’
In Kihungan, high tone is combined with the clause-initial position in the ‘simpliﬁed-cleft’
intermediate construction, as in (Takizala 1972):
(59) a. Neutral
Kipes ka-swiim-in kit
K. he-buy/past chair
‘Kipes bought a chair’
b. Subject focus
Kípes a-swiim-in kit
Kipes he-buy/past chair
‘KIPES bought the chair’
c. Object focus
Kít Kipes a-swiim-in
chair K. he-buy-past
‘Kipes bought a CHAIR’
The clause-initial focus position in Kihungan is a relatively recent diachronic development
from the full-ﬂedged cleft construction. It may well be that, likewise, the Russian clause-
ﬁnal focus position is an older diachronic development from pseudo-cleft. Russian’s
preference for a clause-ﬁnal focus position may thus turn out to be merely the last stage of
diachronic simpliﬁcation of the more elaborate pseudo-cleft focus.
Contrastive focus constructions 249
b.
Intonation and morphology
The two-way combination of intonation and morphology may be illustrated by the focused
yes/no-question pattern in Turkish (Erguvanli 1976):
(60) a. Neutral or verb-focus
Ali arslan-i gör-dü-mü?
Ali lion-acc see-past-q
‘Did Ali see a lion?’ (without verb stress)
‘Did Ali SEE a lion?’ (with verb stress)
b. Subject-focus
Ali-mi arslan-i gör-dü?
Ali-q lion-acc see-past
‘Did ALI see a lion?’
c. Object focus
Ali arslan-mi gör-dü?
Ali lion-q see-part
‘Did Ali see a LION?’
The two-way combination of word-order and morphology will probably remain unattest-
ed, given the ubiquitous use of contrastive intonation.
15.4.3 One-way coding
As far as can be determined, only intonation is ever used by itself to code contrastive focus.
The one-way use of either word-order or morphology is unattested and unlikely, given
again the ubiquitous nature of contrastive intonation.
15.5 Cognitive-iconic considerations
15.5.1 Attention and contrastive stress
As noted above, the most common device in coding contrastive focus is the assignment of
perceptually prominent intonation to the focused constituent. Whether other coding
elements are present, this most iconic coding device is always there. Its iconicity may be
given as an instance of the code quantity principle (Givón 1985a):
(61) The code quantity principle
The less predictable the information is, or the more important, the more
prominent, distinct or large will be the code element(s) that convey it.
As Bolinger (1985) notes, intonation is probably the most consistently and transparently
iconic coding device in language, a device whose roots reach back to the gestural system. Its
iconic power resides in the cognitive dimension of attention and memory:
250 Syntax
(62) Code-quantity, attention and memory
•More prominent and more distinct coding attracts more attention.
•Information that attracts more attention is memorized, stored
and retrieved more eﬃciently.
15.5.2 Attention and word-order
The use of word-order in the coding of contrastive focus is almost — though not quite —
as wide-spread as the use of intonation. Relatively few partial exceptions to the general
tendency of focus fronting (Russian, Nepali) can be found, but the cross-linguistic trend
points to a strong association between contrastive focus and a fronted position. This
association may be given as an instance of the principle that governs the pragmatics of
word-order (Givón 1988a):
(63) The pre-posed order principle
The less predictable the information is or the more important, the more likely it
is to be placed earlier in the clause (or in whatever relevant unit of structured
information).
The cognitive basis of the focus-fronting principle (63) is well grounded in the psychology
of attention and memory. In may be summed up as (Gernsbacher and Hargreaves 1988;
Gernsbacher 1990):
(64) Word-order, attention and memory
•The earlier a chunk of information is placed within its relevant unit, the
more attention it attracts.
•Information that attracts more attention is memorized, stored and retrieved
more eﬃciently.
The great universality of the pragmatic use of word-order attests to its solid cognitive
underpinning.
Notes
1. All translated from the spoken Mandarin text studied in Sun and Givón (1985).
2. An even more obvious parallelism holds between pseudo-clefts and REL-clauses.
3. Krio is an English-based Creole in a largely Niger-Congo substratum. The Copula na was most
likely borrowed from some Niger-Congo source, where its distribution as either locative serial verb,
copula, locative preposition or conjunction is almost universally attested (Lord 1973). Krio has
almost entirely lost the copular use of na, which survives in the cleft-marker use. Unless otherwise
indicated, the data here are taken either from Williams (1971) or come from Sori Yilla (in personal
communication).
4. This passage is taken from a story by Quintin Golley titled (in English) “Why you should never
trust a woman” and published in Hancock (ed. 1972).
Contrastive focus constructions 251
5. “…You can translate literally ‘The one who came was John’. But no Russian would ever say it that
way. In Russian what you would get would simply be ‘Came John’. ‘John’ in ﬁnal position has focus,
so functionally you have got across the idea — ‘The one who came was John’…” (Chisholm, ed.
1984:287).
6. Gernsbacher and Hargreaves (1988) have demonstrated experimentally that the primacy eﬀect of
a fronted nominal applies only within the clause. When the fronted noun was inside another clause,
such as a pre-posed adverbial clause, the eﬀect disappeared. As Chafe (1987) and others have noted,
the relevant unit in information processing is the clause that falls under a single intonation contour.
7. The explicit claim was made for wh-question words in Kartvalian (Georgian) by Alice Harris
(“General Discussion”, in Chisholm, ed., 1984:272); see also Harris (1981).
</TARGET "15">
<TARGET "16" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Marked topic constructions"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 16
Marked topic constructions
16.1 Orientation
The notion of topicality has been dealt with repeatedly in a number of previous chapters,
in the context of the grammar of referential coherence ﬁrst outlined in Vol.I, Ch.10. The
grammatical devices dealt with in Ch.10 involved, primarily, morphology:
•the contrasts between zeros, pronouns and full NPs;
•the use of case-markers, articles, numerals and classiﬁers that mark full NPs to
signal referentiality, topicality and deﬁniteness.
Several subsequent chapters then dealt with various syntactic constructions that code more
subtle aspects of referential coherence:
•pragmatic voice (Ch.13)
•relative clauses (Ch.14)
•contrastive focus (Ch.15)
This chapter deals with another group of constructions that partake in the grammar of
referential coherence.
If the topic-coding constructions covered here share a common theme, it is the
pragmatic use of word-order. Why this is not always apparent, is because other coding
devices (morphology, intonation) are often also involved. The constructions to be
discussed here are:
•Existential-presentative clauses
•Y-movement
•L-dislocation
•R-dislocation
•Dative-shifting
•Raising
16.2 Topicality: A brief recapitulation
Topicality pertains to nominal participants (‘referents’; most commonly subjects or
objects) of clauses. The propositional information coded in state/event clauses is typically
254 Syntax
about some topical participant(s) in the state/event. Such topical participants are most
commonly the subject, direct-object or indirect-object of the clause, and thus most
commonly noun phrases (‘entities’) rather than verbs (‘events’) or adjectives (‘states’).
When whole events or states are made topical, they are almost always nominalized (Ch.11).
That is, they are made to look morpho-syntactically like nominals.
In spite of being grammatically manifest at the clause level, topicality is not a clause-
level property of referents, but rather a discourse-dependent one. This is often masked by
the fact that one can examine a well-coded clause out of context, and observe all the
grammatical devices that mark participants as referring, topical, deﬁnite etc. But such
isolated clauses are only artifacts. What makes their participants topical is not the fact that
they are grammatically coded as topical (subject, object) in the self-contained clause.
Rather, they are so coded grammatically because they are topical across a certain span of
multi-propositional discourse. Their topicality is thus due to their being recurrent referents
in some larger discourse.
16.2.1 Referent accessibility and thematic importance
Earlier above (Vol.I, Ch.10; Ch.15), we noted that the topicality of clausal arguments in
connected discourse involves twoaspects ofreferential coherence,one anaphoric,the other
cataphoric:
•Anaphoric: Referential accessibility
•Cataphoric: Thematic importance
By ‘anaphoric’ one means the accessibility of the referent in mental representation (‘map’,
‘model’) of the preceding discourse. Grammatical devices that are anaphorically oriented
instruct the hearer how to locate the referent within his/her mental representation.
By ‘cataphoric’ one means the referent’s importance in the subsequent discourse.
Grammatical devices that are cataphorically oriented instruct the hearer about how
important the referent is likely to be in the yet-unfolding discourse, and how to create an
eﬃcient mental representation of the referent in that in-coming discourse. The grammar
of referential processing is sensitive to both aspects of topicality, with diﬀerent grammatical
devices skewed more toward one or the other.
16.3 Marked topic constructions
16.3.1 Preamble
By ‘marked’ topic-coding constructions one means constructions that code referents of
relatively low accessibility. Their low accessibility may be due to being new in the discourse,
i.e. being introduced for the ﬁrst time. It may be due to their being re-introduced into the
discourse after a considerable gap of absence. Or it may be due to referential competition or
contrast, along the lines discussed in Ch.15. Typically, then, marked topic constructions
further elaborate the grammar of discontinuous topics, and thus apply primarily to full NPs.
In this they contrast with unstressed pronouns and zeros, which code continuous referents.
Marked topic constructions 255
16.3.2 Existential-presentative constructions
16.3.2.1Functional dimensions
Existential-presentatives (henceforth EPCs), also known as indeﬁnite subject constructions,
are typically used to introduce important new referents into the discourse. We will
illustrate this by citing the cataphoric persistence ﬁgures of indeﬁnite referents introduced
by various devices in colloquial English, assuming that more persistent referents are likely
to be thematically more important (Zubin 1979; Givón ed. 1983a; Wright and Givón 1987).
Morphologically, indeﬁnite referents in colloquial American English are coded by
either the indeﬁnite article ‘this’ or ‘a’, and either as subjects or as objects. The four
relevant combinations of these two contrasts are as follows (Wright and Givón 1987):
(1) a. Subject with ‘this’ (EPC)
‘…there’s this guy…’
b. Subject with ‘a’ (EPC)
‘…and there was a ﬂy to ﬁrst base…’
c. Object with ‘this’
‘…he saw this great bear…’
d. Object with ‘a’
‘…he saw this monkey holding a candy bar…’
The average cataphoric persistence (CP) ﬁgures for the four coding combinations are given
in (2) below:
(2) Average cataphoric persistence (CP) of indeﬁnite referents in spoken
English, introduced as subject or object, with the article ‘this’ or ‘a’
(Wright and Givón 1987)
Topic-coding device Mean CP in # of clauses
out of the next 10 clauses
subject + ‘this’
object + ‘this’
subject + ‘a’
object + ‘a’
6.95
2.40
1.54
0.56
The cataphoric persistence of referents introduced in indeﬁnite subject clauses — EPCs —
is much greater than for indeﬁnite objects. The same study also noted that of the indeﬁnite
referents introduced as subjects, 67% were important (CP 2 or above), and 33% unimpor-
tant (CP below 2). In contrast, of the indeﬁnites introduced as objects, 94% were unimpor-
tant and only 6% important.
16.3.2.2Syntactic dimensions
16.3.2.2.1Verb type. Most commonly, the verb in EPCs is either the existential ‘be’ or
‘have’. But other verbs of being on or emergence onto the scene are also used on occasion,
256 Syntax
most typically locational verbs such as ‘sit’, ‘stand’, ‘lie’, ‘live’, ‘stay’ or ‘remain’, or entrance
verbs such as ‘come’, ‘arrive’, ‘appear’ or ‘approach’. Thus consider:
(3) a. Existential ‘be’ (English)
There is a man who wants to see you
b. Existential ‘have’ (Spanish)
hay mucha gente allá que no conozco
have/3sg many people there rel neg know/I
‘There are many people there that I don’t know’
In standard German one ﬁnds the use of ‘give’ as the existential verb, but in the southern
dialects the more predictable ‘have’ is used. Thus compare (H. Burmeister, i.p.c.):
(4) a. Existential ‘give’ (standard German)
es gibt ein Buch das Sie lesen müssen
it give/3sg one book rel you read must
‘There’s a book that you must read’
b. Existential ‘have’ (southern German)
da hat(e)s viele Baüme
there has/3sg many trees
‘There are many trees’
16.3.2.2.2Pronominal agreement. A number of structural peculiarities are associated with
EPCs. Often, a locative element — such as ‘there’ in (3a) or (4b) — introduces the
construction. Further the existential verb ‘be’/‘have’ most commonly does not agree with
its indeﬁnite subject, but rather assumes neutral agreement, as in Hebrew:
(5) Neutral agreement of ‘be’ (Hebrew)
a. yesh sham ish-exad she rots-e…
be there man-one that want-3sg.masc
‘There’s a man there who wants…’
b. yesh sham kama nashim she-rots-ot…
be there some women that-want-3fem.pl
‘There’re some women there who want…’
Or in Spanish:
(6) Neutralized agreement of ‘have’ (Spanish)
a. hay una mujer allá que no quiere hablar
have(3sg) one woman there that neg want/3sg speak
‘There’s a woman there who doesn’t want to speak’
b. hay muchos amigos allá que no saben…
have(3sg) many friends there that neg know/3pl
‘There’re many friends there who don’t know…’
In some languages, the existential verb ‘be’/‘have’ controls locative pronominal agreement.
This may be illustrated by contrasting the normal DEF-subject pronominal agreement of
Swahili (Bantu) with the locative agreement found with indeﬁnite subjects of EPCs:
Marked topic constructions 257
(7) Deﬁnite subject
a. mtoto a-li-kuwa nyumba-ni
child s/he-past-be house-loc
‘The child was in the house’
b. watoto wa-li-kuwa nyumba-ni
children they-past-be house-loc
‘The children were in the house’
c. kikapu ki-li-kuwa mesa-ni
basket it-past-be table-loc
‘The basket was on the table’
d. vikapu vi-li-kuwa mesa-ni
basket they-past-be table-loc
‘The baskets were on the table’
(8) Locative agreement with indeﬁnite subject
a. nyumba-ni ku-li-kuwa na mtoto mmoja
house-loc loc-past-be with child one
‘In the house there was a child’
b. nyumba-ni ku-li-kuwa na watoto wengi
house-loc loc-past-be with children many
‘In the house there were many children’
c. mesa-ni ku-li-kuwa na kikapu kimoja
table-loc loc-past-be with basket one
‘On the table there was a basket’
d. mesa-ni ku-li-kuwa na vikapu vingi
table-loc loc-past-be with baskets many
‘On the table there were many baskets’
16.3.2.2.3Word-order. A more controversial issue involves word-order in existential-
presentative clauses. It has been taken for granted for a long time that rigid SV languages
(SVO, SOV) exhibit the inverse order VS in EPCs (Hetzron 1971, 1975; Givón 1976b,c,
inter alia). This interpretation was reinforced by another assumption — the Prague School
idea that the natural pragmatic word-order is topic-comment, i.e. old information before
new information, and that in EPCs the indeﬁnite subject is non-topical and thus post-
posed. As noted repeatedly above (e.g. Vol.I, Ch.5, Ch.10; Ch.15), the pragmatic principle
that controls word-order has relatively little to do with fronting old information, but rather
with fronting important information.
The claim that VS is the characteristic word-order in EPCs has rested upon one
implicit assumption — that the presentative verb ‘be’ or ‘have’ is indeed the information-
bearing predicate in the indeﬁnite-subject clause. In the following space we will recapitu-
late the reasons why this assumption needs to be questioned, following the argument in
Givón (1988a).
258 Syntax
16.3.2.2.4Grammaticalization of the existential verb. As noted above for Hebrew and
Spanish, the existential verb often tends to lose verbal inﬂections and becomes a grammati-
calized neutral particle, with neutralized pronominal agreement and reduced tense–aspect-
modal morphology. In colloquial English too, the unstressed monosyllabic there’s is used
with both singular or plural indeﬁnite subjects:
(9) a. There’s a guy there who’s waiting…
b. There’s lots of people there who’re waiting…
Similarly in French, the existential ‘have’ construction il-y-a (lit. ‘it-there-has’) contracts
in the colloquial into the invariant particle ya (Lambrecht 1987):
(10) a. …ya un camarade d’usine qui m’ramène…
…have a friend from-factory that me-bring-back
‘…there’s a friend from the factory who drives me back…’
b. …ya des camarades qui…
…have some friends that
‘…there’s some friends who…’
16.3.2.2.5The semantic predicate of the EPC. The existential verb ‘be’ or ‘have’ in the EPC
has no lexical-semantic contents, it is semantically bleached. If this is indeed the case, what
functions as a lexical verb in EPCs? R. Fox (1985) has found that consistently, at the level
of 99% in written English, some other predicate is always present with the indeﬁnite-
subject clauses. That predicate comes under the same intonation contour of the EPC, as
indicated by the fact that no comma separates it from the rest of the clause in written
English. It is most commonly either a REL-clause, an adjective, a LOC-phrase, a noun
complement, a genitive or an associative phrase. And it most commonly follows the
indeﬁnite subject. Typical examples are (R. Fox 1985):
(11) a. REL-clause
…there were big wrought-iron planters placed along the sea-wall…
b. Adjective
…There was a sudden explosion…
c. LOC-phrase
…there were about thirty in the two countries…
d. N-complement
…there was still doubt about the nature of…
e. Possessive phrase
…there was the sound of rushing water…
f. Associative phrase
…there was a large park with gardens and shade trees…
The extra predications that tend to appear with EPCs are used to establish the relevance or
cataphoric coherence of the newly introduced referent to the particular junction of the
discourse where it is introduced (Fox and Thompson 1990). This is consonant with the use
of restrictive REL-clauses as cataphoric presentative devices (Ch.14).
Marked topic constructions 259
16.3.2.2.6EPCs in V-ﬁrst languages. Rigid V-ﬁrst languages resist placing nominal
constituents in front of the verb. But even the most rigid ones, such as Jacaltec, Malagasy
or Bikol, break this rigidity in three conspicuous cases (Givón 1988a):
•Clefted NPs;
•Wh-question particles;
•Indeﬁnite subjects (EPCs).
In the latter, an invariant existential ‘particle’ — historically a grammaticalized existential
verb — precedes the indeﬁnite subject NP. But the real information-bearing verb in the
clause follows the indeﬁnite subject. This may be illustrated from Bikol (Philippine; M.
Factora, i.p.c.):
(12) a. Deﬁnite subject (V-ﬁrst)
nag-gadan ’ang-lalake ning-kanding
agt-kill top-man acc-goat
‘The man killed a goat’
b. Indeﬁnite subject (BE-S-V)
marai lalake na nag-gadan ning-kanding
exist man sub agt-kill acc-goat
‘A man killed a goat’
(lit.: ‘There’s a man who killed a goat’)
16.3.2.2.7Indeﬁnite subject in ﬂexible-order languages. EPCs as grammaticalized construc-
tions are typically found in rigid-order languages. In contrast, ﬂexible-order languages tend
to not have them. Rather, they tend to front the indeﬁnite subject. To illustrate this
contrast, consider the following from Papago (Doris Payne 1987), where the verb ‘sit’
functions as the existential verb marking the indeﬁnite subject:1
(13) a. DEF-subject
k-maak g-ceoj g-gogs g-cuukhung
conj-give def-man def-dog def-meat
‘The man is giving meat to the dog’
b. INDEF-subject
’imhab si’al-taagio dahy ’o’odham c-g ’uwi s-behidag
here east-toward sit man ss-rel woman af-get
‘There was a man in the east who was good at getting women’
As Doris Payne (1987) notes, 89% of indeﬁnite subjects in Papago are pre-verbal, while
that 95% of deﬁnite subjects are post-verbal.
In sum, the seeming VS order in EPC’s with indeﬁnite subjects does not reﬂect a
synchronic order, but rather is the consequence of the diachronic pathway of grammatical-
ization. Like cleft constructions, EPCs arise through the condensation of two erstwhile
verbal clauses into a single one, in which the erstwhile verb of being in location has lost
both its semantic and grammatical verbal properties, and is now a grammaticalized
morpheme that serves to mark the construction.
260 Syntax
16.3.2.2.8Grammatical relations in EPCs. An indeﬁnite subject is clearly non-prototypical,
given that subjects are overwhelmingly deﬁnite and anaphoric (Keenan 1976a; Givón
1976b). The existential verb’s de-verbal status and its irregular pronominal agreement
already suggest that the historical subject of this verb — the indeﬁnite subject of the EPC
— is not a prototypical subject.
Noting the aberrant overt coding properties of the indeﬁnite subject of EPCs, Bresnan
and Kanerva (1988) proposed that the subject of such construction, at least in some Bantu
languages, is the locative that controls grammatical agreement. Thus recall the Swahili
EPCs:
(14) a. DEF subject (Sg)
mtoto a-li-kuwa nyumba-ni
child s/he-past-be house-loc
‘The child was in the house’
b. DEF subjec (Pl)
watoto wa-li-kuwa nyumba-ni
children they-past-be house-loc
‘The children were in the house’
c. INDEF subject (Sg)
nyumba-ni ku-li-kuwa na mtoto mmoja
house-loc loc-past-be with child one
‘In the house there was a child’
d. INDEF subject (Pl)
nyumba-ni ku-li-kuwa na mtoto mmoja
house-loc loc-past-be with child one
‘In the house there was a child’
There are several reasons why the assignment of subjecthood to the locative constituent of
EPCs is untenable. First, the locative constituent of EPCs has no functional (reference,
topicality) subject properties (Keenan 1976a). Rather, it is the indeﬁnite subject of EPCs
that is highly topical (Wright and Givón 1987).
Second, the locative is indeed fronted in many EPCs, but locative and other adverbs
can be fronted in other chain-initial discourse contexts that have nothing to do with EPCs
or indeﬁnite subjects (see Ch.18).
Third, while EPCs exhibit locative pronominal agreement in Bantu, in most languages
they exhibit neutralized agreement.
Fourth, locative agreement in EPCs in Bantu is possible even if the locative is not
fronted, as in (Swahili):
(15) ku-li-kuwa na mtoto mmoja nyumba-ni
loc-past-be with child one house-loc
‘There was a child in the house’
Fifth, many EPCs have no locative constituent whatever, but in a Bantu language they still
command locative subject agreement, as in (Swahili):
Marked topic constructions 261
(16) ku-li-kuwa na mtoto mmoja a-li-ye-kaa na…
loc-past-be with child one 3sg-past-rel-live with
‘there was (once) a child who lived with…’
Finally, neither the locative nor the indeﬁnite subject of EPCs exhibit typical subject
behavior-and-control properties.
(17) Main clause
a. DEF subject:
The house was near the barn
b. INDEF EPC subject:
There was a house near the barn
Raising
c. DEF subject
He expected the house to be near the barn
d. INDEF EPC subject:
?He expected a house to there be near the barn
e. LOC EPC subject:
*He expected (near) the barn to there be a house (near)
Equi in complementation
f. DEF subject
She wanted the house to be near the barn
g. INDEF EPC subject
*She wanted a house to there be near the barn
h. LOC EPC subject
*She wanted (near) the barn to there be a house(near)
Relativization
i. DEF subject
the house that was near the barn…
j. INDEF EPC subject
*the/a house that there was near the barn…
k. LOC EPC subject
?the barn that there was a house near (it)…
We have noted throughout (Vol.I, Ch.4; Ch.13) that grammatical relations involve a
cluster of properties (Keenan 1976a) and may thus, at least in principle, involve gradation.
We also noted (Ch.13) that the subject of some highly-marked constructions (passive) may
be less prototypical and thus exhibit fewer subject properties; just as the object of the
antipassive may exhibit fewer object properties.
In the case of the passive, we dealt with subjects that violate the norm of agent =
subject. In the case of the antipassive, we dealt with objects that violate the unmarked norm
of object = referring, topical. In the case of EPCs, we deal with subjects that violate the
262 Syntax
unmarked norm of subject = deﬁnite, anaphoric. The fact that such indeﬁnite subjects of
EPCs reveal fewer subject properties is only to be expected.
16.3.3 Y-movement (‘contrastive topicalization’)
Y-movement (‘contrastive topicalization’) was discussed in considerable detail in
Chapter 15, in the context of contrastive focus. It was also discussed in some detail in
Ch.13, in the context of inverse constructions. We will re-evaluate this construction now
in the context of the grammar of topicality and referential coherence.
16.3.3.1Functional dimensions
We have already noted that Y-movement is used typically when a referent is contrasted
with another referent of roughly the same semantic class. The ﬁrst referent creates certain
expectations, which the Y-moved referent then counters.
We have also noted that, in addition to being contrastive, Y-moved referents also tend
to be typically topical and anaphorical. Like other anaphoric topicalizing constructions,
they tend to be overwhelmingly deﬁnite or generic, but not REF-indeﬁnite. Their ana-
phoric predictability is also underscored by their characteristic low anaphoric distance.
Typically, their discourse antecedent is found within the preceding 2–3 clauses.
Further, the referential interference measure of Y-moved referents is usually high, a fact
that is predictable from the presence of a contrasting topic in their immediately-preceding
discourse environment. To underscore these discourse properties, consider the following
tabulation of two text-based measures of the anaphoric topicality of Y-moved objects in
two rigid VO languages — Biblical Hebrew (Fox 1983) and Mandarin Chinese (Sun and
Givón 1985).
(18) Anaphoric topicality of Y-moved (OV) and neutral (VO) NPs in Biblical
Hebrew and Mandarin Chinese (following Sun and Givón 1985)
Written Mandarin Biblical Hebrew
Measure OV VO OV VO
anaph. distance
(scale 1–20)
referential interference
(scale 1.0–2.0)
3.0
1.47
10.0
1.09
2.5
2.00
12.1
1.69
It was further noted that Y-moved objects in Mandarin Chinese were about 90% deﬁnite
(and the rest non-referring).
16.3.3.2Syntactic and typological dimensions
The name Y-movement is somewhat of a misnomer, since word-order variation is involved
here only when the constituent is non-initial.2
In an SVO language, contrastive topicali-
zation of an object is a ‘movement’, but that of subjects is marked only with stress, since
the subject is already clause-initial. Thus compare:
Marked topic constructions 263
(19) a. Direct object contrast (‘movement’ plus stress)
I saw John there. MARY I never saw.
b. Indirect object contrast (‘movement’ plus stress)
I gave it all to Mary. To JOAN I gave nothing.
c. Subject contrast (stress alone)
John saw me there. MARY never did.
Likewise in an SOV language, such as Korean, where a ‘topic’ suﬃx may also partake in
marking the contrasted NP (Lee-Kwok 1994):
(20) a. Object contrast (‘movement’ plus stress)
ki̧ so-li̧l nȩi halpȩci-ka chac-ass
the cow-obj your grandfather-subj search-past
‘the COW your grand father looked for’
b. Subject contrast (stress plus topic marker)
nȩi halpȩci-ni̧n ki̧ so-li̧l chac-ass
your grandfather-top the cow-obj search-past
‘your GRANDFATHER looked for the cow’
In V-ﬁrst language, on the other hand, both subject and non-subjects are ‘moved’ to a pre-
verbal position, as in Biblical Hebrew:
(21) a. Pre-verbal object (OVS)
…ve-’et-ha-kvasim hifrid Ya’aqov…
and-acc-the-sheep divide/perf Jacob
‘…and the SHEEP Jacob divided up…’
(Genesis 30:40)
b. Pre-verbal subject (SVO)
ve-ha-’arets hayta tohu va-vohu
and-the-earth was chaos and-confusion
‘and the EARTH was chaos and confusion’
(Genesis 1:2)
An important property of Y-movement clauses is that they fall under a single intonation
contour. In this way, they contrast with L-dislocation (see below), where the fronted
constituent is separated from the rest of the clause by a pause.
The contrasted constituent in Y-movement most commonly retains its neutral-clause
case-marking, rather than revert to some neutral (or nominative) case, as can be seen in
(19) above. An exception to this is found in languages with a special topic-marking
morpheme, where the topic-marker may replace the neutral-clause case marker of
contrasted NPs. Thus in Japanese, the case-marking suﬃx -wa is used in a variety of
topicalizing contexts, including Y-movement (Kuno 1972):
264 Syntax
(22) a. Subject contrast
John-wa sono hon-o yonda-ga, Mary-wa yomanakatta
John-top that book-obj read-prt Mary-top read/neg
‘John read the book, but MARY didn’t’
b. Object contrast
…hon-wa Mary-ga yomanakatta
book-top Mary-subj read/neg
‘…but the BOOK Mary didn’t read’
In some languages with strict SVO neutral word-order, object Y-movement requires subject
post-posing, as well as a switch from subject to object pronominal agreement. We have
already seen this construction in Dzamba (Bantu; Ch.13,15), where it functions as an
inverse clause, as in (Bokamba 1971, 1976):
(23) a. Neutral or subject contrast (SVO)
o-Poso a-tom-aki mukanda
def-Poso he-send-past letter
‘Poso sent a letter’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘POSO sent a letter’
b. Object contrast (OVS)
i-mukanda mu-tom-aki o-Poso
def-letter it-send-past def-Poso
‘The LETTER Poso sent’
What subject post-posing suggests is that a principle of limited capacity may be involved in
topicalization, with only one main-topic slot per clause, in this case the pre-verbal position
(see also Vennemann 1973). The same limit is also apparent in the most prevalent
restriction of only one nominative/subject per clause (Vol.I, Ch.4). This principle is of
course consonant with what is known about the limited capacity of attention (Posner and
Snyder 1974; Schneider and Shiﬀrin 1977; inter alia).
A piece of indirect evidence supports the notion of competition for topicality or
attention. In Dzamba, subject post-posing and the loss of subject agreement apply to
Y-movement and other object-topicalizing constructions, but not to L-dislocation. Thus
compare (23b) above with (Bokamba 1971, 1976):
(24) Object L-dislocation (O, SV)
imukanda, o-Poso a-mu-tom-aki
imukanda, def-Poso he-it-send-past
‘The LETTER, Poso sent it’
The lack of competition in L-dislocation, one suspects, is due to the fact that the relevant
structural unit for competition for attention-focus is the clause under the same intonation
contour. The clause intonation unit includes the subject in (23b), but excludes it in (24).
This conclusion is supported by the experimental work of Gernsbacher (1990) and
Gernsbacher and Hargreaves (1988).
Marked topic constructions 265
16.3.4 Left dislocation
16.3.4.1Functional dimensions
L-dislocation is typically a device to mark topical referents, most commonly deﬁnite and
anaphoric ones, that have been out of the focus of attention for a while and are being
brought back into the discourse. That the L-dislocated referent must be anaphorically
topical is attested by the fact that it may be either deﬁnite or generic but never REF-indeﬁn-
ite (see Ch.15).
As an example of the use of L-dislocation in English conversation, consider (Givón
1983b):
(25) H: …Well my dad was born in Sherman, that’s close to where […] is. He was
born in Sherman in 1881, and he died in ‘75. Yeah. And ah, so, ah of
course, my great grandfather, they came in there, I think, y’know, part of
them from Tennessee and part of them from Illinois.
And I don’t really know much about that far back, Tom. But my grand-dad,
he was a hard-shelled Baptist preacher, and he just, y’know, farmed and
ranched.
T: In Texas?
H: Yeah, yeah.
T: So he was already in Texas?
H: They must’ve come there when he was small, y’know, ’cause he spent…
T: Your great grandfather moved and your grandfather was really raised in
Texas.
H: Yeah, yeah. In other words, about three generations of us… were in Tex-
as…
T: In Texas…
H: And of course we eh, my dad, all he ever did was farm and ranch…
The anaphoric distance (AD) of L-dislocated referents is one of the highest of all referent-
coding devices. Thus, compare the mean AD values of the subjects in ﬁve such devices in
spoken English — Zero anaphora, anaphoric pronouns, neutral DEF-nouns, L-dislocated
DEF-nouns and R-dislocated DEF-nouns (Givón 1983b):
(26) Average AD values for deﬁnite referents in spoken English
(Givón 1983b)
Topic-coding device Mean RD Median RD
zero anaphora
anaphoric pronoun
R-dislocation
neutral DEF-noun
L-dislocation
1.0
1.6
1.0
10.0
15.3
1.0
1.0
1.0
8.5
19.5
L-dislocation has a distinct use in the turn-taking management in conversation. Thus
Duranti and Ochs (1979) note that L-dislocation in Italian conversation is often used as a
266 Syntax
turn-initial device, allowing a new speaker to wrest the ﬂoor away from the previous
speaker. This use in turn-taking is predictable from the use of L-dislocation in referent
tracking: When a speaker takes over the ﬂoor and re-introduces a topical referent, such re-
introduction must necessarily follow a gap of absence of at least one turn, a context typical
for using L-dislocation in referent tracking. In narrative, L-dislocation is typically a chain-
initial device (cf. (25) above).
16.3.4.2Syntactic and typological dimensions
L-dislocation typically involves the following three syntactic characteristics:
•A separate intonation contour for the dislocated NP
•Neutralization of the case-marking of the topic NP
•An anaphoric pronoun resumption of the topic NP within the clause
English, where this device is restricted almost entirely to the informal spoken register,
exhibits all three features. In other languages, the structural distinction between L-dis-
location and Y-movement may be partially neutralized. Consider ﬁrst Japanese, where
anaphoric pronouns are typically zero-coded, and the topic suﬃx -wa is used in both
Y-movement and L-dislocation, so that consequently case-marking neutralization and lack
of marked pronoun characterize both constructions. Thus, compare the L-dislocation
examples in (27) below to the Y-movement examples in (22) (Kuno 1972):
(27) a. Subject L-dislocation (generic)
kuzira-wa, honyuu-doobutu desu
whale-top mammal be
‘Whales, they are mammals’
b. Subject L-dislocation (deﬁnite)
John-wa, sono hon-o yonda
John-top def book-acc read
‘John, he read the book’
c. Object L-dislocation (generic)
okane-wa, John-ga hosii
money-top John-subj want
‘Money, John wants some’
d. Object L-dislocation (deﬁnite)
hon-wa, John-ga yonda
book-top John-subj read
‘The book, John read it’
Y-movement and L-dislocation in Japanese are distinguished only by intonation.
A similar partial neutralization of the two constructions can be seen in languages with
obligatory subject or object pronominal agreement. Thus in Spanish, the anaphoric
pronoun automatically occurs in both L-dislocation and Y-movement, so that they are
again distinguished only by intonation:
Marked topic constructions 267
(28) a. Subject L-dislocation
Juan, no ha visto el libro
John neg have/3sg seen the book
‘John, he hasn’t seen the book’
b. Subject Y-movement
JUAN no ha visto el libro
John neg have/3sg seen the book
‘JOHN hasn’t seen the book’
c. Object L-dislocation
el libro, Juan no lo ha visto
the book John neg it has seen
‘The book, John hasn’t seen it’
d. Object Y-movement
pero el LIBRO no lo ha visto nadie
but the book neg it has seen nobody
‘But the BOOK nobody has seen’
Finally, in some languages the L-dislocated NP — at least when an independent pronoun
— is case-marked as object rather than as subject. This seems to be the case in both
colloquial English and French:
(29) a. moi, je ne fais pas ça
me, I neg do neg this
‘Me, I don’t do this’
b. lui, il est malad
him he is sick
‘Him, he’s sick’
It may well be that the object case assignment here is predictable from an earlier diachronic
source of the dislocated NP as a prepositional phrase, as in comme à moi, ‘speaking of him’,
‘as for her’, or even a direct object, as in ‘now take her’.
16.3.5 Right dislocation
16.3.5.1Functional considerations
Early studies, such as Hyman (1975), Byarushengo et al. (1976) or Tenenbaum (1977) took
R-dislocation to be an afterthought or repair device. Roughly, it was suggested that speakers
used R-dislocation when they:
•assumed that the referent is highly accessible, thus to be coded as an anaphoric
pronoun;
•but then, after brief reﬂection (represented by a pause), decided that maybe the
referent was not quite as accessible, and so was better re-coded as full NP.
268 Syntax
It is indeed clear that the discourse contexts for anaphoric pronouns and R-dislocation are
somewhat similar, as can be seen from their identical mean anaphoric distance values (26)
— 1.0 clause back. The text frequency of R-dislocation in spoken English was found to be
roughly a 1/10th of that of L-dislocation (Givón 1983b). Whether this has any bearing on
the function of these constructions remains to be seen.
There are some indications that the communicative diﬀerence between R-dislocation
and simple anaphoric pronouns involves their cataphoric context. Thus for example, in
Ute, R-dislocation is used to indicate the end of a thematic chain/paragraph, signalling to
the hearer the cataphoric discontinuity of both the referent and the theme (Givón 1983c).
A similar suggestion has also been made for Japanese (Fujii 1989).
16.3.5.2Syntactic and typological dimensions
The same three syntactic features that characterize L-dislocation — anaphoric pronoun,
intonation break and neutralized case-marking — also tend to apply to R-dislocation.
Thus, as a typical example from English:
(30) a. R-dislocation, subject
…so he comes over, John does, and…
b. R-dislocation, object
…so we saw him come over, John, and…
It has been noted (Byarushengo et al. 1976; Tenenbaum 1977) that the characteristic pause
associated with R-dislocation may be in fact only an intonation dip. In a language like
Spanish, with obligatory pronominal agreement and ﬂexible VS/SV order, the diﬀerence
between subject R-dislocation and post-verbal subject may thus be neutralized:
(31) a. R-dislocation
…luego se murió, Juan, y…
then ref died/3sg John and
‘…then he died, John, and…’
b. VS word-order
…luego se murió Juan y…
then ref died/3sg John and
‘…then John died and…’
Likewise, in languages with zero anaphora such as Japanese, R-dislocation involves no
pronouns, much like L-dislocation. Given the typological characteristics of languages with
zero anaphora or with obligatory pronominal agreement, and given that a perceived ‘pause’
may in fact be only a tonal or intonational clue, there may be little diﬀerence between
R-dislocation and simply placing an NP post-verbally, especially in ﬂexible-order languages.
Marked topic constructions 269
16.3.6 Dative-shifting
Dative shifting, or promotion to DO, has been discussed extensively earlier (Vol.I, Ch.3,4).
It was noted there that direct objects are consistently more topical than indirect objects. A
fairly extensive syntactic typology of this device was also given there. The interaction of
dative-shifting with passivization (Chapter 13) and relativization (Chapter 14) has also
been noted, in both cases supporting the idea that the direct object is more topical.
16.3.6.1Functional characterization
The higher topicality of the DO vis-a-vis the IO is underscored by the functional distribu-
tion of topic-coding devices across the direct and indirect-object populations in a text. For
example, in a study of written English text (Givón 1984a) it was found that the typically
human dative-benefactive object, the most topical object type, appears 84% of the time as
direct object and only 16% as indirect object. In contrast, the non-human locative object
appears 100% as IO. Of dative-benefactives coded as DO, 89% were anaphoric pronouns,
the remaining 11% names — both high-topicality categories. In contrast, 100% of the
dative-benefactive coded as IO were full NPs.
In another text-based study, the two heuristic topicality measures, anaphoric distance
(AD) and cataphoric persistence (CP) were applied to direct and indirect objects in Nez
Perce (Sahaptian; Rude 1985, 1987). The results, summarized in (32) below, again reveal
the higher topicality of the DO over IO.
(32) Topicality of direct and indirect objects in Nez Perce
(from Rude 1985, 1987)
Average AD (scale 1–20) Average CP (scale 0–3)
Object semantic role
Object type Patient Other Patient Other
direct object
indirect object
1.7
8.3
2.2
10.1
2.3
0.6
1.5
0.4
16.3.6.2Syntactic and typological dimensions
16.3.6.2.1Word-order. As noted earlier (Vol.I, Ch.4), the cross-linguistic common
denominator of promotion to DO is word-order, whereby the more topical DO most
commonly precedes the less topical IO. To illustrate this, compare Hebrew, where
promotion to DO as no morphological consequences, with KinyaRwanda, where the
promotion to DO has strong morphological consequences (Ch.13,14):
270 Syntax
(33) Hebrew
a. Patient DO
Yoav natan et-ha-sefer le-Dvora
Yoav gave acc-the-book to-Deborah
‘Yoav gave the book to Deborah’
b. Dative DO
Yoav natan le-dvora et-ha-sefer
Yoav gave to-Deborah acc-the-book
‘Yoav gave Deborah the book’
(34) KinyaRwanda
a. Patient DO
ya-tem-eje igiti n-umupanga
he/past-cut-asp tree with-saw
‘He cut the tree with a/the saw’
b. KinyaRwanda, instrument DO
ya-tem-ej-esha umupanga igiti
he/past-cut-asp-instr saw tree
‘He used the saw to cut a/the tree’
The rather uniform placement of more topical objects (DO) before the less topical one
(IO) once again supports the validity of the cognitively-based principle of word-order
(Givón 1988a; Gernsbacher 1990; Gernsbacher and Hargreaves 1988):
(35) Topicality and word-order
The more important referent is placed ﬁrst.
16.3.6.2.2Verb agreement. In languages with a rich system of pronominal agreement on the
verb, it is possible to code the relative topicality of the direct and indirect objects by the
presence vs. absence of verb-bound pronouns. We will illustrate this with data from
Asheninka (So. Arawak; Peru). This VSO language displays preﬁxal subject pronouns and
suﬃxal object pronouns. Subject pronouns are obligatory, while the presence of object
pronouns depend on topicality. Thus, deﬁnite or more topical direct objects require
pronominal agreement, while indeﬁnite ones do not (David Payne, i.p.c.):
(36) a. All participants anaphoric
i-p-ak-e-na-ro
3masc-give-perf-real-1-3fem
‘He gave it (fem) to me’
b. Deﬁnite patient
n-am-ak-e-mi-ro kaniri
1-bring-perf-real-2-3fem manioc
‘I brought you the manioc (fem)’
Marked topic constructions 271
c. Indeﬁnite or non-topical patient
n-am-ak-e-mi kaniri
1-bring-perf-real-2 manioc
‘I brought you some manioc’
The human dative-benefactive object seems to be topicalized by default in Asheninca as
elsewhere, and requires pronominal agreement. When a non-human patient is topical, it
also displays such agreement. When it is non-topical, it does not. Thus (David Payne,
i.p.c.):
(37) a. Topical patient
h-a-ak-e-ri syi]ki,
3masc-grab-perf-real-3masc corn
‘He got the corn (masc)
h-omisyitow-ak-e-ne-ri ir-iniro
3masc-take.out-perf-real-3-3masc 3masc-mother
and took it out to his mother’
[the following clauses continue about the corn]
b. Non-topical patient
h-a-ak-e syi]ki,
3masc-grab-perf-real corn
‘He got some corn (masc)
h-omisyitow-ak-e-ro ir-iniro
3masc-take.out-perf-real-3fem 3masc-mother
and took some out to his mother’
[the following clauses continue about the mother]
It is almost impossible to ﬁnd two full NP (non-pronominal) objects on the same verb in
Asheninka text. The use of word-order in dative-shifting, i.e. to indicate the relative
topicality of the two objects, is thus not much of an option in this language. In the rare
cases where two overt NPs must be mentioned, Asheninka speakers resort to repeating the
verbal clause — ﬁrst with one NP, then with the other. Thus consider (David Payne, i.p.c.):
(38) h-ooso-i-t-ak-e-ri kasyekari
3masc-tie-pass-&-perf-real-3masc jaguar
‘The jaguar (masc) was tied’
h-ooso-t-ako-i-t-ak-e-ne-ri anta-ro mapi
3masc-tie-&-to-pass-&-perf-irr-3-3masc big-fem rock
‘it was tied to the big rock (fem)’
Finally, the gender-neutral 3rd person pronoun -ne functions as the topical indirect object
pronoun, as in (38). When a 3rd person indirect object is not a human dative-benefactive,
it may also be non-topical, in which case -ne is not used. Thus (David Payne, i.p.c.):
272 Syntax
(39) h-ooso-i-t-ak-e-ri kasyekari
3masc-tie-pass-&-perf-real-3masc jaguar
‘The jaguar (masc) was tied
h-ooso-t-ako-i-t-ak-e-ri anta-ro mapi
3masc-tie-&-to-pass-&-perf-irr-3masc big-fem rock
it was tied to a big rock (fem)’
16.3.7 Raising
16.3.7.1Preliminaries
Raising is one of the most curious phenomena in syntax. It may be ﬁrst described as a
synchronic grammatical process in the following terms:
•A verb of mental activity — knowledge, perception, intention and the like — has
two senses, one involving a nominal argument, the other a proposition argument.
•Within the propositional argument, one NP is the important topic, most commonly
the clausal subject.
•That important topic is foregrounded through raising, and is converted from an
argument of the subordinate clause to a grammatical argument — either subject or
object — of the main clause.
One may also describe raising, alternatively, as a process of diachronic analogical extension,
by which the syntactic form of the verb-sense that takes a nominal object is extended to the
verb-sense that takes a propositional object. Many verbs in the various sub-groups that
allow raising have precisely such dual sense distribution, as in:
(40) a. John wanted an apple
b. John wanted to eat an apple
c. John knew Mary
d. John knew that Mary had left
e. Mary saw John
f. Mary saw that John left
g. That John did it is wrong
h. John is wrong
As a synchronic grammatical process, raising is a heterogenous mix of related phenomena,
found in some languages but not in others, and in some complement-taking verbs but not
in others. Wherever it is found, raising falls into two related sub-divisions:
•Raising to object
•Raising to subject
We will describe some of the more common patterns ﬁrst.
Marked topic constructions 273
16.3.7.2Raising to object
It has been traditionally assumed that the ‘raised’ version is semantically just a trivial
‘stylistic variant’ of the propositional complement sense (Postal 1974). Indeed, the
Generative discussion of raising considered this an ‘optional transformation’.
Raising to object most commonly involves verbs of intention, perception or cognition
whose subject is typically a dative-experiencer. Typical verbs in this group are ‘see’, ‘know’,
‘believe’, ‘say’, ‘want’ or ‘consider’. The raised version is a syntactic blend of the structure
of the verb’s two main senses — the one involving a nominal object, and the one involving
a clausal complement:
(41) a. Nominal Obj
She saw Joe
b. Clausal Comp
She saw that Joe left
c. Raised (‘blend’)
She saw Joe leave
d. Nominal Obj
I believed her
e. Clausal Comp
I believed that she was a crook
f. Raised (‘blend’)
I believed her to be a crook
g. Nominal Obj
She wanted him
h. Clausal Comp
She wished that he would leave
i. Raised (‘blend’)
She wanted him to leave
j. Nominal Obj
We considered him (as candidate)
k. Clausal Comp
We considered that he was honest
l. Raised (‘blend’)
We considered him honest
m. Nominal Obj
She expected a miracle
n. Clausal Comp
She expected that he would leave
o. Raised (‘blend’)
She expected him to leave
274 Syntax
16.3.7.3Raising to subject
Raising to subject sometimes involves the passive variant of raising to objects, as in:
(42) a. Semantic leitmotif
He is honest
b. Unraised verbal Comp
We consider that he is honest
c. Raised to object
We consider him honest
d. Raised to subject
He is considered honest
The Generative approach, which considered raising to object as a transformational
prerequisite to raising to subject, collapses in the case of verbs that allow raising to subject
but not raising to object:
(43) a. Semantic leitmotif
She left
b. Unraised verbal Comp
He said that she left
c. *Raised object
*He said her to have left
d. Raised subject
She is said to have left
The passive-marked raised-to-subject variant may on occasion involve a diﬀerent, though
semantically or diachronically related, lexical verb, as in the pairing of ‘see’ and ‘seem’:
(44) a. Semantic leitmotif
John was leaving
b. Unraised verbal Comp
We saw that John was leaving
c. Raised object
We saw John leaving
d. Raised subject
John seemed (to us) to be leaving
John was seen leaving
Raising to subject may also occur with some evaluative adjectives, whose intransitivity
precludes raising to object. Here one can divide the adjectives involved into two major sub-
groups. In the ﬁrst group, with adjectives such as ‘easy’ and ‘hard’, the adjective focuses
semantically on someone other than the raised NP. That other person is the subject of the
semantic leitmotif proposition, whose object is the raised NP:
Marked topic constructions 275
(45) a. Semantic leitmotif
X pleases John
b. Unraised verbal subject
To please John is diﬃcult (for X)
c. Post-posed verbal Subject/Comp
It is diﬃcult (for X) to please John
d. Raised subject of Comp
John is diﬃcult (for X) to please
The most common use of the raised pattern in (45d) involves an impersonal subject in the
leitmotif proposition. That is, the subject of the leitmotif proposition is suppressed. This
fact is important in understanding the peculiar syntactic behavior of this raising pattern.
The other sub-group includes evaluative adjectives such as ‘right’ and ‘wrong’. The
semantic focus here is on the subject of the leitmotif proposition, and it is that subject that
is topical and raised:
(46) a. Semantic leitmotif
John left Mary
b. Unraised verbal subject
For John to leave Mary was wrong
c. Post-posed verbal Subject/Comp
It was wrong for John to leave Mary
d. Raised subject of Comp
John was wrong to leave Mary
16.3.7.4Functional considerations
16.3.7.4.1Semantic correlates: Raising and aﬀectedness. In his monumental volume, Postal
(1974) allots 13 pages (out of 447) to possible meaning correlates of raising. The only
correlates he notes there have to do, if one may rephrase them a bit, with consequences of
having vs. not having a direct object that is directly encountered or experienced by the
main-clause subject; that is, with the patient-role property of aﬀectedness. Thus, consider
Postal’s example (1974:357), reproduced as (47) below, where the raised variant (47b)
could have been uttered only by someone who had encountered the object in person:
(47) a. Un-raised
It struck me that Julius Caesar was honest
b. Raised
Julius Caesar struck me as honest
Semantic eﬀects not altogether dissimilar have been noted in our discussion of comple-
mentation (Chapter 12), in contrasting the syntax of ‘wish’/‘want’ and ‘see’, as in:
276 Syntax
(48) a. Unraised (‘wish’)
She wished that he had left
b. Raised (‘want’)
She wanted him to leave
c. Unraised ‘see’
She saw that he left
d. Raised ‘see’
She saw him leave
It was noted earlier that (48b), with ‘want’ and a ‘raised’ object, is more likely to be used
when the subject has direct manipulative contact with the object. In contrast, (48a), with
‘wish’ and an ‘unraised’ subject is more likely to be used when no such direct contact has
taken place. Likewise, in (48d) with the raised object ‘see’ it is a verb of perception, while
in (48c) with the unraised subject it is a verb of inference.
16.3.7.4.2Pragmatic correlates: Raising and topicality. There are strong reasons for
suspecting that raising a referent from a dependent clause to a grammatical argument role
in the main clause has the topicalizing pragmatic eﬀect noted for other promotion rules —
dative shifting and passivization. The general principles that seem to govern all three
constructions seem to be:
•Promoted referents are more topical than their unpromoted counterparts.
•Referents promoted to subject are more topical than those promoted to object.
We will survey the argument in order.
a. Deﬁniteness and referentiality
Much like Y-movement, L-dislocation and clefting, raising (at least with most verbs) seems
to select deﬁnite or generic referents but reject REF-indeﬁnites. Thus consider:3
(49) Raising to object
a. Generic
We consider visitors family
b. Deﬁnite
We consider this woman family
c. REF-indeﬁnite
*We consider a woman family
(50) Raising to subject
a. Generic
People are hard to please
b. Deﬁnite
This woman is hard to please
c. REF-indeﬁnite
*A woman is hard to please
Marked topic constructions 277
(51) Raising to subject from ‘it’-complements
a. Generic
Romans strike me as honest
b. Deﬁnite
Julius Caesar struck me as honest
c. REF-indeﬁnite
*A woman strikes me as honest
b. Subjecthood, GRs and accessibility
Under most circumstances, it is impossible to raise an NP to object unless it is the subject
of the leitmotif (‘underlying’) clause:
(52) Raising to object
a. Unraised version
I believe that John liked Mary
b. Raised subject of active
I believed John to have liked Mary
c. *Raised object of active
*I believed Mary to John have liked (her)
d. Raised subject of passive
I believed Mary to have been well liked (by John)
Similarly, most verbs or adjectives that allow raising to subject require the raised NP to be
the subject of the leitmotif (‘underlying’) clause:
(53) Raising to subject (verb)
a. Unraised version
It seems that Mary dislikes John
b. Raised subject of active
Mary seems to dislike John
c. *Raised object of active
*John seems to Mary dislike (him)
d. Raised subject of passive
John seems to be disliked (by Mary)
(54) Raising to subject (adjective)
a. Unraised version
It was wrong for John to leave Mary
b. Raised subject of the active
John was wrong to leave Mary
c. *Raised object of active
*Mary was wrong for John to leave (her)
278 Syntax
The subject-only restriction on raising has been taken to be part of its structural deﬁnition.
This is not much of an explanation, only a statement of the facts. A more likely explanation
is this: If raising is indeed a pragmatic operation of increasing topicality, then the more
topical case-role in the clause — the subject — should have preferred access to it. We have,
in fact, noted a similar case with passivization (Ch.13), where less-topical indirect objects
require promotion to DO before they it could become the subject-of-passive.
An intriguing further support for the topicality argument comes from the two
conspicuous instances where the subject-only constraint is violated. Consider ﬁrst the
raising of leitmotif objects with ‘hard’ and ‘easy’. The normal interpretation of the raised
expressions is that of an impersonal subject of the leitmotif clause — i.e. a subject whose
topicality is downgraded.
But even when the leitmotif subject is overtly mentioned, there are reasons to believe
that its topicality is low: The semantic focus of the adjectives ‘hard’ and ‘easy’ is on the
inherent properties of the object, not on the performer-subject. Thus consider:
(55) a. Unraised
It’s easy (for John) to please Mary
b. Raised
Mary is easy (for John) to please
A well-known exception to the subject-only restriction on raising was reported in
ChiChewa (Bantu). Apparently, an object can be raised from the complement clause to
become a main-clause object in ChiChewa — without ﬁrst becoming the subject-of-
passive. The raised object can only be the direct object of the complement clause. And it
must be ﬁrst topicalized, in a way that may be interpreted as either L-dislocation or object
pronominal agreement. Object agreement by itself is optional in ChiChewa, serving to mark
the object as more topical or deﬁnite, and only direct objects can command pronominal
agreement (Trithart 1976):
(56) Simple clause
a. Oblique object
John a-na-lemba ndi peni
John he-past-write with pen
‘John wrote with a pen’
b. Object promoted to DO
John a-na-lemb-era peni
John he-past-write-app pen
‘John used a pen to write’
c. Object pronominal agreement
John a-na-yi-lemb-era peni
John he-past-it-write-app pen
‘John used the pen to write’
Marked topic constructions 279
d. Object L-dislocation
peni, John a-na-yi lemb-era
pen John he-past it-write-app
‘The pen, John used it to write’
With the leitmotif clause as complement:
(57) Unraised
a. Oblique object
ndi-ganiza kuti John a-na-lemba ndi peni
I-think sub John he-past-write with pen
‘I think that John wrote with a pen’
b. Object promoted to DO
ndi-ganiza kuti John a-na-lemb-era peni
I-think sub John he-past-write-app pen
‘I think John used a pen to write’
c. Object pronominal agreement
ndi-ganiza kuti John a-na-yi-lemb-era peni
I-think sub John he-past-it-write-app pen
‘I think John used the pen to write’
d. Object L-dislocation (external)
peni, ndi-ganiza kuti John a-na-yi-lemb-era
pen I-think sub John he-past-it-write-app
‘The pen, I think John used it to write’
e. Object L-dislocation (internal)
ndi-ganiza kuti peni, John a-na-yi-lemb-era
I-think sub pen John he-past-it-write-app
‘I think that the pen, John used it to write’
And with raising to object:
(58) Raised
a. With pronominal agreement
ndi-ganiza peni kuti John a-na-yi-lemb-era
I-think pen sub John he-past-it-write-app
‘I believe about the pen that John wrote with it’
b. *Raised without pronominal agreement
*ndi-ganiza peni kuti John a-na-lemb-era
I-think pen sub John he-past-write-app
c. *Raised without promotion to DO
*ndi-ganiza peni kuti John a-na-lemba
I-think pen sub John he-past-write
280 Syntax
One may wish to argue that (58a) is better interpreted as a L-dislocation variant, i.e. a
variant of (57e). However, such an interpretation is precluded in at least one pattern, where
the direct object pronoun also marks the main verb:
(59) ndi-yi-ganiza peni kuti John a-na-yi-lemb-era
I-it-think pen sub John he-past-it-write-app
‘I believe it about the pen that John used it to write’
c. The use of raising in text
The best argument that raising is a topicalizing device comes from observing the distribu-
tion of raising constructions in text. Raising constructions are not common in spoken
English, nor are they that frequent in ﬁction. Where one ﬁnds them in relative abundance
is in the news sections of newspapers. Raising to subject appears to be the predominant
type there. Typically, a raised NP is either:
•Globally topical: It is mentioned in the headline as the main topic of the report; or
•Locally topical: It is mentioned as an important topic in the clauses preceding the
raised construction; or both.
Consider for example:4
(60) MAN’S BEARD GETS HIM MISTAKEN FOR BEAR AND SHOT IN LEGS,
CHEST
“…Nixon said he didn’t know what the man was doing in the Libby area but
that he may have been picking huckleberries. He is thought to be from Moyie
Springs, Idaho, the Sheriﬀ said…”
Similarly:5
(61) ISRAEL PLANS BIG DEFICIT
“…In addition, the Government suddenly reduced, from 250,000 to 200,000,
the ﬁgure it is using for the number of soviet Jews that is expected to arrive
here next year. The shift appears to be largely a budgetary maneuver…”
Similarly:6
(62) CONOCO JET CARRYING 12 AMERICANS REPORTED MISSING OVER
MALAYSIA
“…Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, Sept. 4 (AP) A Du Pont Company jet carrying 12
Americans was reported missing over Malaysia today, oﬃcials said…”
Similarly:7
(63) WIDOW OF COUP CONSPIRATOR ALSO TAKES LIFE, SOVIETS SAY
“…According to this account, Mrs. Pugo picked up her husband’s pistol but
botched her suicide attempt. She was found alive, covered with blood and
slumped near his body, the paper said…”
Similarly:8
Marked topic constructions 281
(64) HARDLINERS’ LAST CHANCE MAY BE SOVIET CONGRESS
“…They are keeping quiet now, but are very likely to get together against Gor-
bachov and against Democracy…”
Similarly:9
(65) SOVIET LEADER SAYS HIS WIFE IS RECOVERING
“…During the live CNN interview, the Russia word for “bout” was translated as
“heart attack”. But Raisa Gorbachov does not appear to have suﬀered a heart
attack…”
Similarly:10
(66) A FLYING TIGER FLIES HIGH
“…The post-war US military never oﬃcially recognized them as part of the war
eﬀort. Historians say that’s because the brass never stopped resenting Gen.
Claire Chenault, the outspoken army renegade who led the Tigers in
China…Meanwhile, controversial Chenault, a career Army oﬃcer and pilot,
had resigned his Army Air Corps commission in 1937… Chenault, who would
be proven correct in World War II, had his own ideas about ﬁghting tactics…”
Finally, in some cases the raising appears in the headline itself, as in:11
(67) EX SALOMON TRADER SAID TO SEEK LEGAL AID
“The trader at the center of the Salomon Brothers scandal has approached the
government about the possibility of negotiating a deal, Wall Street lawyers said
yesterday…”
Of the 28 instances found in 2 issues of the local paper and one issue of a national
newspaper, only two involved rasing to object, both within 5 lines of each other in the same
article:12
(68) BUSH STEPS UP CAMPAIGN AS BUCHANAN LAYS OUT AN AGENDA
“…Public opinion surveys taken over the last few days show the president with a
commanding lead over Mr. Buchanan… similar polls conducted by The Globe
last month found Mr. Bush leading his rival by 58 percent to 28 percent…”
Somewhat predictably, raising to subject involved, in all 26 instances studied, a suppressed
unspeciﬁed agent. This is consistent with the overwhelming passive or stative nature of
‘raising’ predicates, as well as with the nature of the passive as an agent-suppressing device
(Ch.13). In contrast, neither of the raising-to-object instances in (68) involved agent-
suppression.
The distribution of the various ‘raising’ predicates in the three newspapers studies is
given in (80) below:13
282 Syntax
(69) ‘Raising’ predicates in newspaper English
Raising predicate N %
raising to subject
stative predicates
‘seem’
‘appear’
‘be likely’
passive verbs:
‘be expected’
‘be believed’
‘be supposed’
‘be proven’
‘be enabled’
‘be reported’
‘be found’
‘be thought’
‘be known’
‘be said’
6
4
4
3
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
sub-total: 26 92.5
raising to object
‘show’
‘ﬁnd’
1
1
sub-total: 2 7.5
TOTAL: 28 100.0
The conclusions that one may draw from this discussion harken back to the major theme
of our communicative approach to grammar: One syntactic structure is unlikely to be a
‘mere’ stylistic variant of another. However subtle, variant grammar entails a variant
communicative eﬀect, and thus presumably also a variant communicative goal. Subtle
options of style are nothing but subtle options in the communicative use of grammar.
16.3.7.5Typological dimensions of raising
English may be the most promiscuous language when it comes to raising.14
Other
languages, even when typologically rather close to English, allow little or no raising. Thus,
for example, Modern Hebrew allows no raising to object:
(70) a. Unraised
ani rotse she-hi te-lex
I want sub-she 3sg.fem/irr-go
‘I wish that she would go’
Marked topic constructions 283
b. *Raised
*ani rotse ota la-lexet
I want her to-go
*‘I want her to leave’
c. Unraised
anaxnu yodim she-hi harga oto
we know/3masc.pl sub-she killed/3fem.sg him
‘We know that she killed him’
d. *Raised
*anaxnu yodim ota she-harga oto
we know/3masc.pl her sub-killed/3fem.sg him
(*‘We know her to have killed him’)
e. Unraised (passive Comp)
anaxnu yodim she-hu neherag bi-ydey-hem
we know sub-he killed/3masc.sg by-hands/of-their
‘We know that he was killed by them’
f. *Raised
*anaxnu yodim oto she-neherag bi-ydey-hem
we know him sub-killed/3masc.sg by-hands/of-their
(*‘We know him to have been killed by her’)
Nor does Hebrew allow raising from subject to subject:
(71) a. Unraised
ze yadua she-hi harga oto
it known/3masc.sg sub-she killed/3fem.sg him
‘It is known that she killed him’
b. *Raised
*hi yedua she-harga oto
she known/3fem.sg sub-killed/3fem.sg him
(*‘She is known to have killed him’)
c. Unraised
ze nexmad she-hu asa et-ze
it sweet sub-he did/3masc.sg acc-this
‘It’s nice that he’s done this’
d. *Raised
*hu nexmad la-asot et-ze
he sweet inf-do acc-this
(*‘He’s sweet to have done it’)
Raising from object to subject with ‘hard’/‘easy’ is equally problematic in Hebrew:
284 Syntax
(72) a. Unraised nominal Obj
kashe li-kro et-ha-sefer ha-ze:
hard inf-read acc-def-book def-this
‘It’s quite hard to read this book’
b. *Raised to subject
*ha-sefer ha-ze hu kashe li-kro
def-book def-this it hard inf-read
(*‘This book is hard to read’)
There is, of course, a clean way of rendering the intended (‘raised’) meaning of (72b). The
topical object of the leitmotif clause may be Y-moved, as in:
(73) et-ha-sefer ha-ze kashe li-kro
acc-the-book the-this hard/3masc.sg inf-read
‘This book is hard to read’
The adjective ‘hard’ in (73) does not agree with the topical object, but rather takes the
neutral, invariant 3sg masculine gender. This may be seen a bit more clearly in (74) below,
where the topical Y-moved object is feminine:
(74) et-ha-maxberet ha-zot kashe li-kro
acc-the-notebook/f the-this/f hard/3masc.sg inf-read
‘This notebook is hard to read’
The typological variables that control a language’s propensity for raising or not raising
remain unclear. One possible factor may involve the availability of the appropriate non-
ﬁnite structures to code the clause out of which an argument has been raised (or
‘extracted’). In Hebrew, for example, structures such as in (75) below are simply nonexis-
tent:
(75) a. to have known Mary
b. to have been eaten by Seymour
Although simple inﬁnitival structures do exist, as in (73), (74).
At the root of this type of explanation lies the idea that analogy needs an established
pattern to extend from, one that is suﬃciently similar — both syntactically and semantical-
ly — to the pattern it would preempt. As noted above, raising cannot be considered a
synchronic ‘transformation’, but rather a diachronic analogical extension.
Another typological variable that may control a language’s propensity for raising is
lexical structure. As one may recall, we deﬁned raising broadly as a process of analogical
extension, where the verb-sense that takes a propositional object adjusts its structure to
resemble the structure of the verb-sense that takes a nominal object. Any process of
analogical extension requires an analogical pathway. In this instance, this pathway involves
the availability of a lexical verb that has both requisite senses. But in many languages those
two senses are coded by two separate lexical verbs. The Hebrew example (71) above is a case
in point: Where English has a single verb ‘know’ taking either nominal or clausal objects,
Hebrew (as Spanish or French) has two:
Marked topic constructions 285
(76) a. Propositional knowledge
hu yada she-hi halxa
he knew/3masc.sg dub-she went/3fem.sg
‘He knew that she had gone’
b. Object acquaintance
hu hikir ot-a
he knew/3masc.sg acc-her
‘He knew her’
Hebrew, Spanish and French thus lack the analogical pathway for raising with ‘know’.
Another explanation is also partly lexical. The verb ‘believe’ in Hebrew can take a
nominal object — but not in the direct object case. Thus consider:
(77) a. Indirect (Loc)
hi maamina b-o
she believes in-him
‘She believes in him’
b. Indirect (Dat)
hi maamina l-o
she believes to-him
‘She believes him’
c. Clausal Comp
hi maamina she-hu yavo
she believes that-he come/fut/3masc.sg
‘She believes that he’ll come’
d. *Direct/accusative
*hi maamina ot-o
she believes acc-him
An analogical pathway for syntactically blending the two patterns (77b,c), as in English,
does not exist in Hebrew. The extent to which these explanations can be generalized
remains to be seen.
Notes
1. Other languages with a similar use of word-order ﬂexibility are Iroquois (Mithun 1987), Nez Perce
(Rude 1985), Klamath (Sundberg 1985), Ojibwa (Tomlin and Rhodes 1979), Hungarian
(McWhinney, Pléh and Bates 1985) or Biblical Hebrew (Fox 1983), inter alia.
2. Tradition attributes the name ‘Y-movement’ to Paul Postal, who interpreted this device as
characteristic of Yiddish speakers (hence Yiddish-movement), apparently not being aware of its wide
currency elsewhere.
3. If a non-referring generic sense can be contemplated, the indeﬁnites in (49c), (50c), (51c) are of
course acceptable.
286 Syntax
4. The Register Guard, Eugene (OR), 9–10–91, Section A (news).
5. The New York Times, 9–5–91, Section A (news).
6. Ibid.
7. Ibid.
8. The Register Guard, Eugene (OR), 9–2–91, Section A (news).
9. Ibid.
10. Ibid.
11. The New York Times, 9–17–91, Section A (news).
12. Ibid.
13. Part of the promiscuity may be ascribed, I suspect, to English-speaking linguists. Thus, among the
multitude of unstarred sentences that, I suspect, most non-initiates would shudder at, one ﬁnds the
following cyclic progression in Postal (1974:198; quoting from Lakoﬀ 1967):
b. Max expected Irving to believe the bagel to have been eaten by Seymour.
c. Max expected the bagel to be believed by Irving to have been eaten by Seymour.
d. The bagel was expected by Max to be believed by Irving to have been eaten by Seymour.
</TARGET "16">
<TARGET "17" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Non-declarative speech-acts"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 17
Non-declarative speech-acts
17.1 Introduction
Up to this point, we have dealt almost exclusively with declarative speech-acts. That is, with
clauses where the speaker’s main communicative goal was informative. This extended focus
on the declarative, reﬂecting a long tradition in linguistics and philosophy, is somewhat
paradoxical, being both necessary and misleading. The necessity arises from two distribu-
tional facts:
•Type diversity: The widest variety of grammatical devices that code semantic and
pragmatic function are found in declarative clauses. Non-declaratives, by compari-
son tend to display a smaller sub-set of morpho-syntax.
•Text frequency: At least in some types of discourse, such as everyday informal conver-
sation and narrative, declarative clauses predominate in terms of text frequency.
These distributional facts may or may not be causally linked.1
But taken together, they to
some extent explain, though do not necessarily vindicate, the traditional preoccupation
with declaratives.
The near-exclusive preoccupation with declarative speech-acts has also been the
Achilles heel of epistemology and philosophy of language, a tradition that dates back to the
dawn of post-Socratic philosophy. Pre-Socratics, such as the Sophists, were both familiar
with and interested in non-declarative speech-acts. In this connection, Haberland (1985)
observes:
“…Protagoras distinguishes four parts of discourse…, namely “wish, question,
answer and command”…Protagoras seems to have been interested in speech acts,
not sentences in modern parlance. But… it is statements Plato is interested in…”
(1985:381; italics added)
Plato’s role in narrowing the focus of philosophical interest to the exclusive study of
declarative propositions is well documented. Haberland (1985) identiﬁes Plato’s motiva-
tion as follows:
“…For Plato…true knowledge — which, as he argues in this connection, does not
coincide with perception — cannot aim at context-dependent truths; the truth of
a sentence should not depend on who says it, in which situation, and to whom, and
it should not, more speciﬁcally, depend on what the sentence is an answer to… But
288 Syntax
this interest of Plato’s in statements…is again only understandable from a series of
premises that are no longer self-evident. The ﬁrst of these is that truth is the main
concern of the philosopher. The second is that analysis of language is ancillary to
philosophical pursuits. As a corollary from these two premises, we get that
linguistic analysis is mainly concerned with truth as well. The third premise is that
truth is timeless and independent of context…” (1985:381–382; italics added).
The structure of this chapter will diverge to some extent from our usual format. Rather
than discuss the entire functional domain of speech-acts at the very start, we will divide the
domain into smaller chunks and then proceed to outline, for each of those, ﬁrst its
functional and then its syntactic-typological dimensions. As the discussion progresses,
however, it will become clear that the traditional dichotomy between declarative and non-
declarative speech-acts, or between various non-declarative speech acts, is far from
absolute. Rather, one deals here once again with prototypes around which variants cluster.
The traditionally recognized speech-acts are but the categorial peaks along the underlying
multi-dimensional continuum.
The interaction between the continuum space of speech-acts and its categorial peaks
is far from haphazard. Three or four major prototypes turn out to be most distinctly and
most consistently grammaticalized in most human languages. These persistent prototypes
are:
•declarative
•interrogative
•yes/no-question
•wh-question
•imperative
The remarkable cross-language persistence of these major speech-act prototypes may some
day receive systematic explanation. At relevant points throughout, we will note the more
subtle speech-act variants (minor types) that are either sub-types of the major prototypes,
or straddle the continuum space between them.2
Toward the end of the chapter, we will
return to a number of themes that seem to tie together the entire speech-act domain.
One theme that runs through the theory of speech-acts is their strong interaction with
propositional modalities. As noted earlier (Vol.I, Ch.6), the various modalities are best
understood in terms of the communicative contract that deﬁnes the mutual expectations
that bind the speaker and hearer engaging in meaningful communication. These normative
expectations may be couched in terms of the speaker’s perspective regarding:3
•the speaker’s own current belief and intention states;
•the speaker’s mental representation of the hearer’s current belief and intention states.
Diﬀerent clusters of such beliefs — or mental models — characterize diﬀerent speech-act
prototypes or sub-types. Since both belief and intentionality are involved in all speech-acts,
both the epistemic and deontic aspects of modality underlie all speech-acts.
Non-declarative speech-acts 289
17.2 Communicative focus, presupposition and speech-act prototypes:
The truth-value test
The logician’s distinction between declarative and non-declarative speech-acts revolves
around the notion of truth: Declarative speech-acts can have a truth value; questions and
commands cannot. In this section we will brieﬂy cover some traditional grounds that were
re-introduced into the linguistic discussion by the Ordinary Language Philosophers
beginning with Austin (1962). We will consider ﬁrst the balance between the focal and
presupposed portions of the utterance associated with the major speech-act prototypes. In
the case of the declarative, the focal portion is, of course, being asserted.
In comparing the most common speech-act prototypes in (1) below, one ﬁrst observes
that only the declarative (1a) can be meaningfully challenged by the negative (1e), thus
attacking the truth value of the asserted portion of the corresponding aﬃrmative. In
contrast, neither the interrogatives (1b,c) nor the imperative (1d) can be challenged this
way, presumably because they have no truth value.
(1) a. Declarative
Joe ate the salami.
b. Yes/no-question
Did Joe eat the salami?
c. Wh-question
Who ate the salami?
d. Imperative
Eat the salami!
e. Negative
No, you’re wrong.
It is more meaningful — felicitous, appropriate — to challenge a non-declarative speech-
act in terms of its implicit presuppositions. Thus, in (2) below, various presuppositions
associated with the yes/no-question (2a) are challenged:
(2) a. Did John eat the salami?
b. Who says anybody did?
c. How should I know?
d. You were watching him yourself, so why ask?
e. Why should I tell you? What’s in it for me?
In (2b), the tacit presupposition ‘Someone may have eaten the salami’ is challenged. In
(2c), the tacit presupposition that the hearer knows the answer. In (2d), the tacit presuppo-
sition of the speaker’s ignorance. In (2e), the tacit presupposition of the hearer’s obligation
to respond.
In the same vein, the various presuppositions associated with the imperative speech-
acts (3a) can be challenged:
290 Syntax
(3) a. Eat the salami!
b. I see no salami here.
c. I’ve already eaten it.
d. Who are you to tell me?
e. But I am bound and gagged!
In (3b), the tacit presupposition ‘there is some salami there’ is being challenged, thus by
inference also the presuppositions that the hearer is free to act. In (3c), the presupposition
that the act has not yet been performed is challenged, again with the inference that the
hearer is free to act. In (3d), the speaker’s status and authority to command the hearer is
being challenged, and in (3e) the speaker’s power to act.
Indeed, the presuppositions associated with the declarative speech act can be chal-
lenged in the very same vein. Thus:
(4) a. Joe ate the salami.
b. Who the hell is Joe?
c. What salami?
d. How would you know when you weren’t there?
e. Why should I care?
In (4b,c) the presupposition that the subject and object of (4a) are accessible to the hearer
is challenged. In (4d), the tacit presupposition that the speaker had access to the informa-
tion. In (4e), the tacit presupposition that the hearer wants to know.
The presuppositions associated with all speech-acts underscore the fact that the
epistemics of truth, belief or doubt in asserted or presupposed information is but a small
portion of the functional domain underlying speech-acts. The social-interactional deontics
of status and intent, ability, power, need or obligation are also involved. Nonetheless, since
the truth of the focal information is a moot issue in non-declarative speech-acts, the
deontic aspects of the communicative contract have tended to stand out here a bit more
conspicuously.
17.3 Epistemics and deontic features of declarative speech-acts
In our earlier discussion of propositional modalities and the communicative contract
(Vol.I, Ch.6), we emphasized the epistemic aspects of the modalities that underlie the
declarative speech-acts. We characterized there three main epistemic modes of presupposi-
tion, realis-assertion and irrealis-assertion in terms of two binary distinctions:
•The information is either taken for granted (presupposed) or is not (asserted).
•If the latter, then the information is either asserted strongly (realis) or weakly
(irrealis).
But even in the most prototypical declarative speech-act, some deontic features remain part
of the communicative contract. Of the many clauses in the contract (Grice 1968/1975), at
the very least the following general conventions are involved:
Non-declarative speech-acts 291
(5) Conventions governing declarative speech-acts
Epistemic
a. The speaker assumes that the various presuppositions associated with the
utterance are suﬃciently acceptable to the hearer and will prompt no chal-
lenge.
b. The speaker has relatively high certainty in the asserted portion of the
information.4
c. The speaker assumes the hearer’s ignorance of the asserted portion of the
utterance.
Deontic
d. The speaker’s communicative intent is to supply information to the hearer.
e. The speaker assumes that the hearer will welcome, or at least won’t object to,
being informed.
All the features in (5) are, at least in principle, scalar. As we shall see further below (§17.5),
this scalarity is characteristic of the functional space that underlie all speech-acts.
17.4 Interrogative speech-acts
17.4.1 Epistemic and deontic features
The mix of epistemic and deontic conventions that characterize the portion of the
communicative contract that is relevant to interrogative speech-acts must include at least
the following:
(6) Conventions governing interrogative speech-acts
Epistemic
a. The speaker assumes that the various presuppositions associated with the
utterance are suﬃciently acceptable to the hearer and will prompt no chal-
lenge.
b. The speaker has relatively low certainty in, or may be altogether ignorant of,
the queried portion of the utterance.
c. The speaker assumes that the hearer knows the queried information.
Deontic
d. The speaker’s communicative intent is to request and receive information
from the hearer.
e. The speaker assumes that the hearer is willing to part with the information.
Conventions (6) presumably underlie all interrogative speech-acts. In the space below we
will deal separately with the two major interrogative prototypes.
292 Syntax
17.4.2 Yes/no-questions
17.4.2.1Functional dimensions
17.4.2.1.1Truth and epistemic bias. The traditional logician’s rendition of a yes/no-question
as speech-act runs roughly as follows:
(7) Given proposition P, tell me whether it is true or false.
Sadock and Zwicky (1985) give a somewhat more ﬂexible rendition:
“…the yes/no (nexus) question, one that seeks comments on the degree of truth of
the questioned proposition…” (1985:179)
Within this tradition, both questions (8a,b) below presuppose, presumably without bias,
that either the aﬃrmative declarative (8c) or its corresponding negative (8d) is true. The
overtly expressed interrogative speech-act then bids the hearer to select which one:
(8) a. Did John eat the salami?
b. Didn’t John eat the salami?
c. John ate the salami.
d. John did not eat the salami.
As Bolinger (1978b) points out, however, yes/no-questions are not merely open alternative
questions. Rather, aﬃrmative yes/no-questions such as (8a) involve a systematic bias
toward the negative response (8d); while negative yes/no-questions, such as (8b), involve a
systematic bias toward the aﬃrmative response (8c). Indeed, the presupposition implicit
in yes/no-questions, the speaker’s epistemic bias toward either the aﬃrmative or negative
declarative response, is probably even more ﬁnely graded:
(9) strongest bias toward the negative
a. John didn’t eat the salami, did he?
b. Did John eat the salami?
c. Didn’t John eat the salami?
d. John did eat the salami, didn’t he?
strongest bias toward the aﬃrmative
In other words, the tag questions (9a,d) are even more strongly biased than the simple
yes/no-questions (9b,c).
17.4.2.1.2Alternative questions. A variant of yes/no-questions that is much closer to the
logician’s traditional deﬁnition (7) is the alternative question form, where both the
aﬃrmative and negative, or even a longer list of alternatives, are overtly expressed:
(10) a. Is it raining, or is it not?
b. Is it raining, or is it snowing?
c. Is it raining, or did someone leave the sprinklers on?
Non-declarative speech-acts 293
d. Is it raining, snowing, or hailing?
e. Did Bill do it, or did Harry, or Joe?
f. Would you like to have coﬀee, tea or milk?
Overtly expressed alternatives may not necessarily be exclusive of each other, but may
rather be hierarchically organized as a progressive search procedure. With the conjunction
‘or (just)’, the search seems to progress from the speciﬁc to the generic, as in:
(11) a. Have you ever been to Europe, or just to the East Coast?
b. *Have you ever been to the East Coast, or just to Europe?
c. Do you ever go out for italian food, or go out for another type of ethnic
stuﬀ, or just go out at all?
d. *Do you ever go out at all, or go for ethnic food, or just for Italian food?
e. Have you ever been a boy scout, or a member of a youth group, or any
social organization?
f. *Have you ever been a member of any social organization, or just a youth
group, or just the boy scouts?
Other conjunctions, such as ‘or (maybe) like’, seem to direct the search from the generic
to the speciﬁc, as in:
(12) a. Have you ever been a member of any social organization, like maybe a
youth group, or like the Boy Scouts?
b. *Have you ever been a member of the Boy Scouts, like maybe a youth group,
or maybe like a social organization?
17.4.2.1.3Focused yes/no-questions. Focused yes/no-questions have been noted earlier
(Ch.15). The type of yes/no-questions considered so far in this chapter are the most neutral
regarding the exact source of the speaker’s ignorance. Such questions are used, presumably,
when all the speciﬁc elements of the putative state/event — verb, subject, object(s) — are
well known, but the event/stat’s epistemic status remains in doubt. Such neutral questions,
as in (13a) below, presumably stand for their more expanded version, as in (13b):
(13) a. Did Joe kill the goat?
b. Did the event Joe killed the goat take place?
Frequently, however, yes/no-questions are used when the epistemic doubt concerning the
state/event is more speciﬁc. That is, when a state/event is assumed to have occurred, but a
particular component element of it — subject, object, verb, adverb — is not fully known
to the speaker. This element is thus the crux of a focused yes/no-question. As illustrations,
consider questions (14) below, where contrastive stress is used to mark the focus elements:
(14) a. Did Joe kill the goat?
(> or did someone else do it?)
b. Did Joe kill the goat?
(> or did he only kick it?)
294 Syntax
c. Did Joe kill the goat?
(> or did he kill some other animal?)
As noted earlier (Ch.15), the focus element in a yes/no-question can also be coded by
word-order or morphology.
As noted in Chapter 15, when an optional constituent is present in a declarative clause,
the focus of assertion tends to be attracted to it. Such focus attraction also occurs in yes/no-
questions. Thus, for example, the yes/no-questions in (15) below are obligatorily focused
questions:
(15) a. Did Joe kill the goat deliberately?
(> or accidentally?)
(*> or did he not kill it?)
b. Did Joe kill the goat on Sunday?
(> or some Monday?)
(*> or did he not kill it?)
c. Did Joe kill the goat in anger?
(> or in cold blood?)
(*> or did ne not kill it?)
d. Did Joe kill the goat in the barn?
(> or on the lawn?)
(*> or did he not kill it?)
e. Did Joe kill the goat for Mary?
(> or for Sue?)
(*> or did he not kill it?)
The attraction of yes/no-question focus to optional constituents is obvious from the fact
that stressing another constituent in the presence of an optional constituent is normally
odd. Stressing the optional constituent itself, on the other hand, is natural:
(16) a. Did Joe kill the goat on PURPOSE?
(> or did he do it accidentally)?
b. *Did JOE kill the goat on purpose?
(*> or did someone else do it on purpose?)
c. *Did Joe KILL the goat on purpose?
(*> or did he kick it on purpose?)
d. *Did Joe kill the GOAT on purpose?
(*> or did he kill another animal on purpose?)
17.4.2.2Syntactic and typological dimensions
17.4.2.2.1The use of intonation, morphology and word-order in the coding of yes/no-ques-
tions. To code a yes/no-question distinctly vis-a-vis the declarative norm, a language may
resort to all three overt syntactic coding devices — intonation, morphology and word-
order. Of the three, intonation is probably the most universal. Morphology and word-
Non-declarative speech-acts 295
order, either separately or together, are added to intonation in some, but by no means all,
languages.5
To illustrate the use of intonation alone, consider yes/no-questions in Israeli
Hebrew:
(17) a. Declarative:
²²²²²²-----------------------²²²²²²
hu gamar li-vnot et-ha-bayit
he ﬁnished to-built acc-def-house
‘He ﬁnished building the house’
b. Yes/no-question:
²²²²²²--------------------------¯¯¯¯
hu gamar li-vnot et-ha-bayit?
he ﬁnished to-build acc-def-house
‘Did he ﬁnish building the house?’
As an example of adding morphology to intonation (here left unmarked), consider Swahili:
(18) a. Declarative
Juma a-li-kwenda mji-ni
Juma he-past-go town-loc
‘Juma went to town’
b. Yes/no-question
Je, Juma a-li-kwenda mji-ni?
q Juma he-past-go town-loc
‘Did Juma go to town?’
As an example of combining intonation with word-order, consider German, where the VS
word order is characteristic of yes/no-questions, as against the more likely SV order of
declaratives. Thus (Sadock and Zwicky 1985:166; with intonation again left unmarked):
(19) a. Declarative (SV order)
ich sehe zwei Papageien
I see two parrots
‘I see two parrots’
b. Yes/no-questions (VS order)
sehe ich zwei Papageien?
see I two parrots
‘Do I see two parrots?’
Finally, some languages combine all three devices in constructing yes/no-questions. This is
the case in present-day English, where the VS word-order (as in German, above), remains
applicable to only auxiliaries and the copular ‘be’. The old emphatic perfective auxiliary
‘do’, erstwhile rather frequent in declaratives, has become the grammaticalized morphology
of yes/no-questions when no other auxiliaries are present:6
296 Syntax
(20) a. Declarative with Aux
John is eating dinner
b. Yes/no-question
Is John eating dinner?
c. Declarative without Aux
John ate dinner
d. Yes/no-question
Did John eat dinner?
17.4.2.2.2Shared interrogative morphology. Occasionally, the morpheme used to mark
yes/no-questions is also used to mark wh-questions. This can be seen in Swahili, where the
question morpheme je is very frequent in yes/no-questions (see (18) above), but much less
frequent in wh-questions:
(21) a. Declarative
Juma a-li-kwenda mji-ni
Juma he-past-go town-loc
‘Juma went to town?’
b. Wh-question
(je,) nani a-li-kwenda mji-ni?
(q) who he-past-go town-loc
‘Who went to town?’
The less frequent use of the generalized question morpheme in wh-questions is of course
understandable: wh-questions are already well-marked by their interrogative pronoun(s).
Only in a few languages, all with bound question morphemes, is the general question
morpheme obligatory in wh-questions. As illustration of this, consider Greenlandic Eskimo
(Sadock and Zwicky 1985:184):
(22) a. Declarative
piniar-p-oq
hunt-asp-indic
‘He is hunting’
b. Yes/no-question
piniar-p-a?
hunt-asp-q
‘Is he hunting?’
c. Wh-question
kina piniar-p-a?
wh hunt-asp-q
‘Who is hunting?’
Non-declarative speech-acts 297
17.4.2.3The syntax of focused yes/no-questions
As noted earlier above, English uses only intonation to mark the focus constituent of
focused yes/no-questions. Other languages add morphology, word-order or both, while
retaining the use of intonation. To illustrate the combination of intonation plus morpholo-
gy, consider Turkish (Erguvanli 1976):
(23) a. Declarative
Mehmet Ankara-ya git-ti
Mehmet Ankara-to go-past
‘Mehmet went to Ankara?’
b. Yes/no-q, neutral (or verb focus)
Mehmet Ankara-ya gít-ti-mi?
Mehmet Ankara-to go-past-q
‘Did Mehmet go to Ankara?’
c. Yes/no-q, subject focus
Mehmét-mi Ankara-ya git-ti?
Mehmet-q Ankara-to go-past
‘Did Mehmet go to Ankara?’
d. Yes/no-q, object focus
Mehmet ánkara-ya-mi git-ti?
Mehmet Ankara-to-q go-past
‘Did Mehmet go to Ankara?’
The combination of intonation plus word-order to mark focused yes/no-questions can be
seen in Spanish, where post-posing the focused constituent in yes/no-questions is possible
though perhaps optional:
(24) a. Declarative
María (le) Mató a Juan
Mary (him) killed/3sg obj John
‘Mary killed John’
b. Yes/no-q, verb focus (or neutral)
A Juan, le mató?
obj John him killed/3sg
‘As for John, did she kill him?’
c. Yes/no-q, subject focus
A Juan, le mató María?
obj John him killed/3sg Mary
‘As for John, did Mary kill him?’
d. Yes/no-q, object focus
le mató a Juan?
him killed/3sg obj John
‘Did she kill John?’
298 Syntax
Finally, the combination of all three coding devices to mark focused yes/no-questions is
found in Ute, where the focused element is then pre-posed and the yes/no-question
morpheme is suﬃxed to it. Thus consider (Givón 1980a, 1984b):
(25) a. Declarative
’áapach sivaatuch-i pakh-kwa-pu
=ga
boy/subj goat-obj kill-asp-rem
‘The boy killed the goat’
b. Yes/no-q, verb focus
pakha-kwa-pu
=ga-aa (sivaatuch-i)?
kill-asp-rem-q (goat-obj)
‘Did s/he kill it (the goat)?’
c. Yes/no-q, subject focus
’áapach-aa siváatuch-i pakha-kwa-pu
=ga?
boy/subj-q goat-obj kill-asp-rem
‘Did the boy kill the goat?’
d. Yes/no-q, object focus
siváatuch-i-aa pakha-kwa-pu
=ga?
goat-obj-q kill-asp-rem
‘Did s/he kill the goat?’
17.4.2.3.1Clefted Yes/no-questions. In addition to the focused patterns described above,
most languages can also use the stronger focusing device of cleft structure (Ch.15) to mark
focused yes/no-questions. As in:
(26) a. Declarative
Joe killed the goat
b. Yes/no-q, subject cleft
Was it Joe who killed the goat?
c. Yes/no-q, object cleft
Was it the goat that Joe killed?
d. Yes/no-q, verb cleft
?Was it killing that Joe did to the goat?
In more formal terms, cleft structures such as (26b–d) may be viewed as those where the
yes/no-question focuses on the predicate noun of the corresponding aﬃrmative cleft clause,
respectively:
(27) a. Subject cleft
It was Joe who killed the goat
b. Object cleft
It was the goat that Joe killed
c. Verb cleft
?It was killing that Joe did to the goat
Non-declarative speech-acts 299
In French, this use of cleft structure has been de-marked and grammaticalized, so that non-
focused yes/no-questions can be expressed either with word-order inversion, or with the
frozen particle traceable to the erstwhile cleft structures. Thus compare:
(28) a. Declarative
Vous êtes fou
you are mad
‘You are mad’
b. Yes/no-q, VS order
êtes-vous fou?
are you mad
‘Are you mad?’
c. Yes/no-q, cleft morphology
est-ce-que vous êtes fou?
is-it-that you are mad
‘Are you mad?’
17.4.2.3.2The syntax of alternative choice questions. As noted earlier above, the conjunction
‘or’ is used in English to mark alternative choice in yes/no-questions. When a binary choice
is involved, i.e. a selection between an aﬃrmative and its corresponding negative, the
negation marker joins or, as in:
(29) Is he coming or not?
In Mandarin Chinese, such questions are coded by the negative morpheme alone, as in (Li
and Thompson 1984:52–53):
(30) a. Declarative aﬃrmative
ta zài jia
3sg be/at home
‘S/he is at home’
b. Declarative negative
ta bu zài jia
3sg neg be/at home
‘S/he is not at home’
c. Yes/no-q, long form
ta zài jia bu zài jia?
3sg be/at home neg be/at home
‘Is s/he home or (is s/he) not at home?’
d. Yes/no-q, short form
ta zài jia bu zài?
3sg be/at home neg be/at
‘Is s/he at home or (is s/he) not?’
300 Syntax
The alternative-choice pattern contrasts in Mandarin with the biased yes/no-question,
which is marked by a clause-ﬁnal question morpheme (Li and Thompson 1984:54):
(31) a. Declarative
zhang-san cháng kàn diànying
Z.-S. often see movie
‘Z.-S. sees a movie often’
b. Interrogative
zhang-san cháng kàn diànying ma?
Z.-S. often see movie q
‘Does Z.-S. see a movie often?’
Another way of marking alternative-choice questions may be seen in Japanese, where the
question morpheme is repeated after both alternatives, as in (Hinds 1984:160):
(32) a. Declarative
sono hon-wa omoshiroi desu
that book-top interesting be
‘That book is interesting’
b. Alternative yes/no-q
sono hon-wa omoshiroi desu-ka omoshiroku-nai desu-ka?
that book-top interesting be-q interesting-neg be-q
‘Is that book interesting or not?’
17.4.3 Wh-questions
17.4.3.1Functional dimensions
17.4.3.1.1Focus and presupposition. As already noted earlier (Ch.15), wh-questions (also
called ‘constituent questions’) are used typically when the speaker presupposes that the
hearer shares with them the knowledge of a state/event, but the speaker still misses one
element of that state/event. That missing element may is then the focus of the wh-question,
the rest is its presupposed portion. The focus element of the wh-question can be the
subject, object, verb, predicate, adverb, indirect object, time, place, manner, reason etc. In
principle, any case-role — nominal, oblique or adverbial — speciﬁed by the grammar may
be placed under wh-focus. In many but not by any means all languages, the verb may also
be placed under wh-focus. Thus consider:
(33) a. Declarative
Yesterday John sneakily gave a kiss to Mary in the barn
b. Subject wh-question
Who gave mary a kiss?
c. Object wh-question
What did John give to Mary?
Non-declarative speech-acts 301
d. Indirect-object wh-question
To whom did John give a kiss?
e. Manner wh-question
How did John give Mary a kiss?
f. Time wh-question
When did John give Mary a kiss?
g. Place wh-question
Where did John give Mary a kiss?
h. Verb wh-questions
What did John do to Mary?
i. Reason wh-question
Why did John give Mary a kiss?
j. Possessor
Whose barn was it?
Most languages tend to display a set of interrogative pronouns (‘wh-question words’) to be
used in this pattern. But in some languages the set is rather limited, and the information
about case-role of the wh-focused element may be marked elsewhere in the clause.
17.4.3.1.2Semantic distinctions in interrogative pronouns. The set of interrogative pronouns
found in any particular language tends to display, through explicitly marked morphology,
a subset of the four most universal nominal inﬂectional categories. In descending order of
probability these are:
•case-roles
•gender/class
•number
•reference and/or deﬁniteness
In English (33), for example, case-role is the most widespread morphological distinction
in wh-questions. Animacy, on the other hand, is marked only sparse, in the distinction
between ‘who’/‘whom’ (human) vs. ‘what’ (non-human). But semantic classiﬁcation can
be added to either deﬁnite or non-referring interrogative pronouns in English (see (34),
(35) below). Similarly, number is unmarked in the wh-pronouns of English, but can be
added when the pronouns are used for deﬁnite or non-referring questions (see again
(34),(35)).
English marks reference and deﬁniteness distinctions in a fairly systematic way, by
augmenting the interrogative pronouns with appropriate quantiﬁers or nouns. To illustrate
this, consider the restrictions on possible answers to the wh-questions (34a–c):
302 Syntax
(34) a. Unrestricted wh-pronoun
Who murdered Smith?
(i) Deﬁnite
Joe.
(ii) REF-indeﬁnite
Some woman I used to know.
(iii) Non-Ref
A pervert.
b. Deﬁnite wh-pronoun
Which one did it?
(i) Deﬁnite
Joe.
(ii) *REF-indeﬁnite
*Some woman I know.
(iii) *Non-ref
*A pervert.
c. Non-referring (‘type’) wh-question
What kind of a person did it?
(i) *Deﬁnite
*Joe.
(ii) *REF-indeﬁnite
*Some woman I know.
(iii) Non-ref
A pervert.
In both the deﬁnite (34b) and non-referring (34c) questions above, number and class/type/
gender distinctions may be added. Thus compare:
(35) a. Which man did it? (Def, Sg, human)
b. Which houses did you see? (Def, Pl, inan.)
c. What kind of a town is this? (Non-ref, Sg, inan.)
d. What kind of people are they? (Non-ref, Pl, human)
In other languages, gender, number and reference or deﬁniteness may be built into the
pronominal system itself. To illustrate this, consider the interrogative pronouns of Ute
(Givón 1980a, 1984b):
(36) Interrogative pronouns in Ute
Subject Object
Gender/# Ref Non-ref Ref Non-ref
an-sg
an-pl
inan
’áa
’áa-m(u
=)
’agha-r(u
=)
’ín(i)
’iní-u
’íp(u
=)
’áa-y
’áa-mu
=
’agha-ru
=
’ini
’ini-u
’ipu
=
Non-declarative speech-acts 303
In both English and Ute, the marking of indirect-object case-roles usually requires
supplementing the wh-pronoun system with the normal case-markers. The pronouns used
for this purpose come, almost universally, from the object set. In English, prepositions are
added to the indirect-object wh pattern, either adjacent to the pronouns or post-verbally.
These two alternative patterns echo the situation of English relativization (Ch.14):
(37) a. To whom did you give the book?
b. Who did you give the book to?
c. With what did he do it?
d. What did you do it with?
e. With whom did she work?
f. Who did she work with?
g. In which box did you put it?
h. Which box did you put it in?
Some oblique/adverbial wh-pronouns have their own unique forms, such as the English
‘where’, ‘when’, ‘why’ or ‘how’. But alternative combinatorial patterns as in (37) can
sometime be found, as in:
(38) a. Where did you send here?
b. What place did you send her to?
c. Why did you do it?
d. What did you do it for?
In a language where the wh-pronouns themselves are marked for gender/class, number, or
reference distinctions, those are carried over to the indirect-object wh-question paradigm.
Thus, compare the Ute wh-pronouns in (36) with the various indirect-object roles coded
by post-positions (Givón 1980a, 1984b):
(39) a. Associative (Ref, An-Sg)
’áa-wa wú
=u
=ka-kha?
wh-accomp work-ant
‘Who did s/he work with?’
b. Instrumental (Non-ref, Inan)
’ipu
=-m tu
=kuav-i cikavi’na-kha?
wh-instr mean-obj cut-ant
‘What did s/he cut the meat with?’
c. Locative (Non-ref, Inan)
’ipu
=-naagh karu
=-y?
wh-inside sit-imm
‘Inside what is s/he sitting?’
d. Comparative (Ref, An-Pl)
’áa-mu
=-pani paghay’wa-r?
wh-pl-compar walk-hab
‘Who-all does s/he walk like?’
304 Syntax
In some languages, the range of semantic features that are coded on the wh-pronoun is
rather restricted. Information about features that are not coded explicitly in the wh-pro-
nouns, particularly case-role, must be thus either marked elsewhere in clause or inferred
from clause-level semantic considerations. As an illustration of one extreme case, consider
Asheninka (So. Arawak; see Ch.15,16).
The subject and object NPs in Asheninka are morphologically unmarked. Topical
nominals are obligatorily coded on the verb by gender-marked pronouns. The question
suﬃx in Asheninka is shared by yes/no- and wh-questions. In forming a wh-question, an
invariant wh-word is added at the clause-initial position. When case-role is not verb-coded,
it is inferred from various clause-level semantic considerations (David Payne, i.p.c.):
(40) a. Subject
tsika i-tim-i-ka iri-]ta?
wh 3masc-be-real-q he-there
‘Who is he (that one)?’
b. Direct object
tsika pi-pai-t-a-ka eero-ka?
wh 2-name-&-real/refl-q you-here
‘What do you name yourself?’
c. Intransitive locative object
tsika o-saik-i-ka?
wh 3fem-sit-real-q
‘Where is she?’
d. Bi-transitive locative object
tsika p-a-ak-e-ro-ka?
wh 2-get-perf-real-3fem-q
‘Where did you get it (fem)?’
e. Manner
tsika i-ka]t-ai-t-i-ro-ka ’choclo’?
wh 3masc-say-pass-&-real-3fem-q corn
‘How do you say “corn”?’
f. Quantity
tsika i-kara-t-i-ka iri-ka?
wh 3masc-be/pl-&-real-q 3masc-here
‘How much is it?/How many are there?’
The pronominal aﬃxes on the verb play an important role in making the subject vs. object
distinction in wh-questions, as may be seen in the following contrast (David Payne, i.p.c.):
(41) a. Subject wh-question
tsika i-tim-i-ka a-ak-e-ro-ri?
wh 3masc/subj-be-real-q take-perf-real-3fem/obj-rel
‘Who took it?’
(lit.: ‘Who is it that took it?’
Non-declarative speech-acts 305
b. Object wh-question
tsika o-pai-t-a-ka h-a-ak-e-ri?
wh 3fem/subj-name-y-real/refl-q 3masc-take-perf-real-rel
‘What did he take?’
(lit.: ‘What does it call itself that he took?’)
In the subject wh-question (41a), the main information-bearing verb (‘take’) carries no
preﬁxal subject pronoun, since the subject is not part of the presupposed clause, but is
rather under wh-focus.7
The suﬃxal object pronoun is present being part of the presuppo-
sition. In the object wh-question (41b) the situation is reversed. Only the subject pronoun
is present, but not the object pronoun.
Some oblique case-roles in Asheninka are verb-coded, and thus automatically furnish
the relevant case-role information in wh-questions, as in (David Payne, i.p.c.):
(42) tsika p-ira-a]
]t-i-ka?
wh 2-cry-purp-real-q
‘Why are you crying?’
17.4.3.1.3Quantiﬁed wh-questions. Wh-questions can also be applied to quantiﬁers, to
extent adverbs and modifying predicate adjectives, as well as to extent manner adverbs that
modify verbs. In terms of constituency, such questions focus narrowly on sub-parts of NPs
or adverbs, a fact that can be illustrated by comparing quantiﬁed wh-questions with their
corresponding declaratives:
(43) a. Quantiﬁer (count)
(i) She saw three mules.
(ii) How many mules did she see?
b. Quantiﬁer (mass)
(i) He drank lots of water.
(ii) How much water did he drink?
c. Predicate adjective
(i) It is very big.
(ii) How big is it?
(iii) How big a house is it?
d. Manner adverbs
(i) She worked very hard.
(ii) How hard did she work?
17.4.3.1.4Multiple wh-questions. The most common strategy in wh-questions is to
presuppose the entire clause except for one element and then question that focused
element. However, at least in some languages, it is possible to formulate multiple-wh
questions, as in:
(44) a. Who gave what to whom?
b. Who said what, did you say?
306 Syntax
Wachowicz (1975) points out that this pattern is used when the speaker has failed to hear
the information in the preceding turn, particularly when that preceding turn had identiﬁed
a group of two or more parallel events. While this is a possible pattern, it is clearly atypical.
This is so because the narrow, single focus of wh-questions merely recapitulates the general
trend in language processing of accruing one chunk of new information per clause (Givón
1975c, 1995b; DuBois 1987; Chafe 1994).
17.4.3.2Syntactic and typological dimensions
17.4.3.2.1Preamble. One syntactic common denominator of all wh-questions is that the
queried element is represented (‘replaced’) by an interrogative pronoun. In addition, a
marked word-order may be also involved, often several possible orders. Another common
variation involves the use of cleft structure (see Ch.15), with the attendant REL-clause
morphology. In many languages, this strategy was used historically, and has left its
footprint on the synchronic morpho-syntax of wh-questions.
17.4.3.2.2The position of the wh-pronoun. The position of wh-pronouns mirrors, in most
languages, the position of contrastively-focused elements (see Chapter 15). As in the case
of the focused element, the most common position for the wh-pronoun is clause-initial
(‘fronted’). The English and Ute examples in (38) and (39) above illustrate such fronting.
The seeming naturalness of wh-fronting is underscored by the fact that in strict V-ﬁrst
languages, such as Malagasy, Jacaltec, Bikol or Luo, one of the few constituent types that
can be fronted is the wh-pronoun (the others are cleft and Indef-subject; see Givón 1988a).
Another fairly typical pattern, found mostly in rigid SOV languages, is to place the
wh-pronoun pre-verbally. This is the most common pattern in Georgian (Caucasian),
though the clause-initial position is also possible in some discourse contexts. Thus consider
(Harris 1984):
(45) a. Declarative
rezom dedas vardebi achuka
Rezo mother/dat roses (he)gave(her/them)
‘Rezo gave roses to Mother’
b. Subject wh-question
dedas vardebi vin achuka?
mother/dat roses who gave?
‘Who gave roses to Mother?’
c. Dative wh-question
rezom vardebi vis achuka?
Rezo roses who/dat gave
‘To whom did Rezo give roses?’
d. Object wh-question
rezom dedas ra achuka?
Rezo mother/dat what gave
‘What did Rezo give Mother?’
Non-declarative speech-acts 307
As in the case of the pre-verbal placement of focused constituents, it may very well be that
the Georgian wh-question pattern developed from an earlier paratactic construction, where
the non-focused (‘presupposed’) participants were topicalized (see Ch.15). As already
noted, much of the wh-question clause is presupposed, so that its nominal arguments are
highly anaphoric. Such arguments may be expressed as pronominal aﬃxes on the verb, a
conﬁguration that would again leave neutralized the diﬀerence between the fronted and
pre-verbal wh-pronoun positions. This may be illustrated in English:
(46) a. Topicalized paratactic wh-question
As for Rezo, and the roses, WHO did he give them to?
b. Anaphoric pronoun wh-question
WHO gave them to her?
17.4.3.2.3Word-order in wh-questions. As noted earlier, English requires VS word-order, a
species of subject post-posing or Subject-Aux inversion, when a non-subject wh-pronoun
is fronted. In the absence of auxiliaries, this inversion applies to the auxiliary ‘do’:
(47) a. Where is John?
b. What did you see?
c. How will she do it?
d. Whom has John seen?
It is likely that the VS order in English wh-questions is the consequence of the fronting of
a non-subject wh-pronoun. We have noted this pattern earlier (Ch.16) in languages with
ﬂexible subject position (Biblical Hebrew, Givón 1977), as well as in some rigid SVO
languages (Dzamba; Bokamba 1971, 1976; German; Vennemann 1973)). The VS
(‘inverted’) order in English wh-questions may thus be a frozen relic of an erstwhile period
of pragmatically controlled word-order.
The connection between wh-fronting and VS-order is further underscored by noting
the variant wh-question pattern in English without any wh-fronting. It is used in surprise
or disbelief contexts, with a proper intonation — and is conspicuously devoid of any
Subject-Aux inversion (VS):
(48) a. She went where?
b. He will do what?
c. She is coming when?
d. John has seen who?
17.4.3.2.4Cleft and pseudo-cleft wh-questions. It has been frequently observed (e.g. Heny
1971; Myers 1971; Takizala 1972; inter alia) that wh-questions often share many of the
syntactic characteristics of cleft or pseudo-cleft constructions, including the attendant
REL-clause structure (see again Ch.15). This is not altogether surprising, given that the
wh-pronoun is in fact the focus of requested new information. It is thus natural to render
wh-questions as either cleft or pseudo-cleft, two of the most common focus constructions -
(Ch.15). As an illustration, compare the focus and wh-question constructions below:
308 Syntax
(49) Focus clauses
a. Neutral declarative
John saw Mary
b. Subject cleft
It’s JOHN who saw Mary
c. Object cleft
It’s MARY that John saw
d. Subject pseudo-cleft
The one who saw Mary was JOHN
e. Object pseudo-cleft
The one John saw was MARY
(50) Wh-questions
a. Neutral declarative
John saw Mary
b. Subject cleft-wh
It’s WHO that saw Mary?
c. Object wh-cleft
It’s WHO that John saw?
d. Subject pseudo-cleft-wh
The one that saw Mary was WHO?
e. Object pseudo-cleft-wh
The one that John saw was WHO?
This seemingly systematic connection between wh-questions and cleft constructions is
important for understanding the naturalness of either the pre-posed or post-posed position
of ‘simple’ wh-pronouns cross-linguistically. Two mutually-compatible explanations of
such parallelism may be oﬀered. First, one may note the semantic parallelism between
focus and wh-questions, then suggest that both are equally sensitive to the pragmatics of
word-order.
Second, one may suggest that the reason why the wh-pronoun in ‘simple’ wh-questions
is either pre-posed or post-posed is due to the diachronic origin of wh-questions: They
tend to come from simpliﬁcation (‘de-marking’) of earlier paratactic cleft or pseudo-cleft
constructions such as (50b–e). Thus recall the Kihung’an data seen earlier (Ch.15) and
reproduced below (Takizala 1972):
(51) a. Clefted object wh-question
kwe khi ki ka-swiim-in Kipes?
be wh dem he-buy-past Kipes
‘It’s WHAT that Kipes bought?’
Non-declarative speech-acts 309
b. Semi-simpliﬁed
khi ki ka-swiim-in Kipes?
wh dem he-buy-past Kipes
‘WHAT (is it) that Kipes bought?’
c. Fully simpliﬁed
khi Kipes ka-swiim-in?
wh Kipes he-buy-past
‘WHAT did Kipes buy?’
(52) a. Clefted subject wh-question
kwe na wu ka-mweene Kipes?
be wh dem he-see/past Kipes
‘It’s WHO that saw Kipes?’
b. Semi-simpliﬁed
na wu ka-mweene Kipes?
wh dem he-see/past Kipes
‘WHO (is it) who saw Kipes?’
c. Fully simpliﬁed
na ka-mweene Kipes?
wh he-see/past Kipes
‘WHO saw Kipes?’
A similar parallelism between focus clauses and wh-questions is seen in the most paratactic
version of both constructions in Kihung’an (Ch.15; Takizala 1972):
(53) a. Paratactic object-cleft
kwe kit, kiim ki a-swiim-in Kipes
be chair thing dem he-buy-past Kipes
‘It’s a CHAIR, the thing that Kipes bought’
b. Paratactic object wh-question
kwe khi, kiim ki a-swiim-in Kipes?
be wh think dem he-buy-past K.
‘It’s WHAT, the thing that Kipes bought?’
In some languages, a wh-question pattern that incorporates REL-clause structure is
obligatory, at least for some verb types. Thus for example, in Asheninka (So. Arawak)
wh-questions with most transitive verbs require this complex pattern, as in (David Payne,
i.p.c.; see earlier above):
(54) a. tsika o-pai-t-a-ka p-a]t-i-ri?
wh 3fem-name-&-real/refl-q 2-do-real-rel
‘What are you doing?’
(lit.: ‘What does it call itself that you do?’)
310 Syntax
b. tsika i-tim-i-ka a-ak-e-ro-ri?
wh 3masc-be-real-q take-perf-real-3fem-rel
‘Who took it?’
(lit.: ‘Who is it that took it?’)
c. tsika o-pai-t-a-ka h-a-ak-e-ri?
wh 3fem-name-y-real/refl-q 3masc-take-perf-real-rel
‘What did he take?’
(lit.: ‘What does it call itself that he took?’)
It may well be that in other languages as well, pre-posed wh-question patterns arose
through the diachronic simpliﬁcation of an earlier paratactic cleft construction. And that
likewise, post-posed wh-question patterns arose through the diachronic simpliﬁcation of
an earlier paratactic pseudo-cleft construction.
17.4.3.3Embedded wh-questions
A certain group of complement-taking perception/cognition verbs allow, in addition to
their normal indicative complements, also wh-question complements. As illustration
consider:
(55) a. I know who did it
b. She guessed why it happened
c. He discovered where the key was
d. She suggested to me whom I should see
e. I forgot how it was done
f. *I thought who did it
g. *She regretted why it happened
h. *He hoped where the key was
i. *He said whom I should see
j. *I wish how it was done
Semantically, verbs that allow such wh-complements (55a–e) are all epistemic
(‘knowledge’) verbs. Further, they are all verbs that can take a nominal object with a
REL-clause, whose meaning is then deceptively close to that in (55a–e) above. Thus
compare, respectively:
(56) a. I know the man who did it
b. She guessed the reason why it happened
c. He discovered the place where the key way
d. She suggested to me the person whom I should see
e. I forgot the way how it was done
It may well be that the seeming wh-question structures in (55a–e) arose as headless
REL-clauses, and that structures such as (56a–e) served as the analogical templates for such
syntactic extension. Some support for this comes from the fact that one structural feature
of wh-question in English — subject-AUX inversion — is absent in these wh-complements.
Thus, compare, respectively:
Non-declarative speech-acts 311
(57) a. (I know who did it)
b. *She guessed why did it happen
c. *He discovered where the key was
d. *She suggested to me whom should I see
e. *I forgot how was it done
Note, ﬁnally, that the same seeming wh-question structures can also occupy the subject
position for predicates that take clausal subjects (Ch.12). Here again, subject-AUX
inversion is not used, a fact that again suggests that these structures may be better
interpreted as headless REL-clauses:
(58) a. Who did it remains a mystery
b. Why it happened is not clear
c. Where the key was perplexed her
d. Whom I should see is still a question
e. How is was done was never discovered
17.5 Manipulative speech-acts
17.5.1 Preamble
Under the generic umbrella of imperative fall a potentially large number of manipulative
speech-acts. The common denominator of all of them has to do with intended manipula-
tion. They are all verbal acts by which the speaker attempts to get the hearer to act.
17.5.2 Functional dimensions
17.5.2.1Conventions under the communicative contract
Manipulative speech-acts are verbal acts through which the speaker attempts to manipulate
the behavior of the hearer, with the goal being that of eliciting action rather than informa-
tion. One can therefore subsume, at least trivially, the interrogative under the manipulative
speech-act, with the added provision that the second aims to elicit verbal acts of informa-
tion, i.e. declarative speech-acts (Moravcsik 1971; Pope 1973).
Like all speech-acts, manipulatives are governed by various sub-clauses (‘conventions’)
of the communicative contract. Of those, the ones most central to manipulative speech-
acts are, at the very least:8
(59) Conventions governing manipulative speech-acts
Epistemic
a. Present state of the world
Some present state of the world is presupposed to exist.
b. Intended state of the world
Some diﬀerent state of the world, the goal of the manipulation, does not yet
exist.
312 Syntax
Deontic
c. Manipulee’s power to act
The manipulee (hearer) is free to act in the proposed direction (bring about
(59b)).
d. Manipulator’s authority
The manipulator (speaker) has legitimate authority over the manipulee.
All these conventions are part of the pre-conditions that make a manipulative speech-act
felicitous. Two of them pertain to the epistemic modalities of presupposition (59a) and
irrealis assertion (59b). The other two pertain to the deontic modalities of ability (59c) and
power (59d). To illustrate how they govern the manipulative speech-act, consider the
imperative in (60a) below and the various objections to it that a manipulee may felicitously
raise (60b–e):
(60) a. Slice the salami!
b. But I see no salami.
c. But it is already sliced.
d. But both my hands are tied behind my back.
e. Who are you to tell me what to do?
Objection (60b) challenges the presupposed present state of the world (59a). Objection
(60c) challenges the intended state of the world (59b), asserting that it is already extant.
Objection (60d) challenges the manipulee’s ability to act (59c). Objection (60e) challenges
the manipulator’s authority to command (59d).
17.5.2.2Manipulation, status and power
As noted above, clause (59d) that governs verbal manipulation involves the social-personal
relations between the speaker and hearer. The exact variant manipulative speech-act to be
selected is determined by the status, power, and obligation gradients between the manipu-
lator and the manipulee. Questions of politeness, propriety, fear or respect, and of potential
social consequences of improper usage, are all germane to the choice of appropriate
manipulative construction. These factors are not independent of each other, but rather
interact in predictable ways that may be summarized as conditional implications:
(61) a. Higher speaker’s power/status …
•greater hearer’s obligation to comply
•lesser speaker’s need to be deferent
b. Higher hearer’s power/status …
•lesser hearer’s obligation to comply
•greater speaker’s need to be deferent
While predictions (61) appear rather universal, many culture-speciﬁc conventions govern
inter-personal verbal manipulation in speciﬁc languages. In all cases, the grammar of verbal
manipulation shades into the grammar of deference, honoriﬁcation and even of epistemic
certainty. As an illustration of the wide range available even in one language, consider the
following gradation of manipulative speech-acts in English:
Non-declarative speech-acts 313
(62) highest manipulative force
a. Get up!
b. Get up, will you.
c. Could you please get up?
d. Would you mind getting up?
e. Do you think you could perhaps get up?
f. I wonder if you’d mind if I asked you to get up?
g. Wouldn’t it be awfully nice if you could perhaps get up?
lowest manipulative force
The gradation in (62) reveals a number of coding principles that are used cross-linguistical-
ly to weaken manipulative speech-acts:
(63) Devices for weakening manipulative force
a. increased length
b. use of question form
c. overt mention of the manipulee pronoun
d. use of irrealis
e. use of negation
f. embedding under modality or cognition verbs
The various devices that tone-down manipulative force are closely related to the universals
of politeness and indirection discussed by Brown and Levinson (1978).
17.5.3 Syntactic and typological dimensions
In this section we will discuss the most common syntactic devices used in the coding of
various manipulative speech-acts. Many of them are inversely related to the weakening
devices noted in (62)/(63).
17.5.3.1Finiteness
Topping the scale of manipulative force, the imperative form of the verb tends to exhibit
a highly restricted range of pronominal aﬃxes and tense-aspect-modal distinctions. In
English, for example, this reduction in ﬁnite verbal morphology goes all the way to zero.
And in many other languages, the imperative form of the verb is the least marked of all
major speech-acts.
Both aspects of reduced ﬁniteness — subject marking and tense–aspect modality —
are predictable, given the norms of face-to-face verbal manipulation. In such a contexts,
the subject — manipulee/hearer — is uniquely identiﬁed from the speech situation. The
aspectuality is most commonly telic or perfective. And the modality is invariably irrealis.
In some languages, some pronominal marking on the imperative verb is possible. Thus
in Biblical Hebrew, the singular-plural and masculine-feminine (second-person) distinc-
tions are also found in the imperative, as in the four forms for ‘sit!’:
314 Syntax
(64) Masculine Feminine
sg
pl
shev
shvu
shvi
shevna
When the imperative takes a future/irrealis inﬂection, it is but the vestige of a diachronic
extension from an erstwhile subjunctive form, as is the case for many verbs in spoken
Modern Hebrew, where the older imperative forms have been displaced by the 2nd person
future/irrealis forms:
(65) a. sg-masculine:
ta-vi et-ze le-kan!
2-bring/fut acc-it to-here
‘Bring it over!’
b. sg-feminine
ta-vi-i et-ze le-kan!
3-bring/fut-sg.fem acc-it to-here
‘Bring it over!’
c. pl
ta-vi-u et-ze le-kan!
2-bring/irr-pl acc-it here
‘Bring it over!’
The very same future/irrealis verb form is also used in Modern Hebrew as the subjunctive
form in complements of manipulative verbs (see Ch.12), and likewise in the hortative:
(66) a. Subjunctive Comp (sg/masc)
hi amra l-o she-ya-vo le-sham
she told/3sg.fem to-him sub-3sg.masc-come/irr to-there
‘She told him to come there’
b. Subjunctive (sg/fem)
hi amra l-a she-ta-vo le-sham
she told/3sg.fem to-her sub-3sg.fem-come/irr to-there
‘She told her to come there’
c. Subjunctive Comp (pl)
hi amra la-hem she-ya-vo-u le-sham
she told/3sg.fem to-them sub-3masc-come/irr-pl to-there
‘She told them to come there’
d. Hortative (sg/masc)
she-ya-vo kvar!
sub-3sg.masc-come/irr already
‘Let him come then!’
Non-declarative speech-acts 315
e. Hortative (sg/fem)
she-ta-vo kvar!
sub-3sg.fem-come/irr already
‘Let her come then!’
f. Hortative (pl)
she-ya-vo-u kvar!
sub-3masc-come-pl already
‘Let them come then!’
And likewise in the exhortative:
(67) a. Exhortative (sg/masc)
bo ne-shev sham!
come/imp/2sg.masc 1pl-sit/irr there
‘Let’s (we-2) sit there!’
b. Exhortative (sg/fem)
bo-i ne-shev sham!
come/imp/2sg.fem 1pl-sit/irr there
‘Let’s (we-2) sit there!’
c. Exhortative (pl)
bo-u ne-shev sham!
come/imp/2-pl 1pl-sit/irr there
‘Let’s (we-all) sit there!’
When a language has both imperative and subjunctive forms of command, the more ﬁnite
subjunctive form, the one used in complements of weaker manipulation verbs, is used to
tone down the coercive force of the manipulation (Vol.I, Ch.7,8; Ch.12; Givón 1994d). As
an illustration, consider Spanish:
(68) a. Imperative (non-deferent, informal)
ven!
come/2sg
‘Come!’
b. Subjunctive (deferent, formal)
venga!
come/subjunct/2sg
‘Come!’ (deferent)
Subjunctive verb-forms of manipulative speech-acts, being more ﬁnite, tend to be marked
for more tense–aspect distinctions than the imperative. This may be illustrated with Bemba
(Bantu), where the subjunctive of manipulation is also used as the hortative. Of the 24
independent tense–aspect combinations used in main clauses in Bemba, the subjunctive
displays only ﬁve (Givón 1972a: Ch.4):
316 Syntax
(69) a. Perfective (‘unmarked’)
a-iimb-e!
3sg-sing-subjun
‘Let him/her sing!’
b. Imperfective
a-lèé-iimba
3sg-impf/subjun-sing
‘Let him/her keep singing!’
c. Tomorrow/perfective future
a-kà-iimb-e
3sg-fut-sing-subjun
‘Let him/her sing (tomorrow)!’
d. Tomorrow/imperfective future
a-kà-lèé-iimba
3sg-fut-impf/subjun-sing
‘Let him/her keep singing (tomorrow)!’
e. Beyond tomorrow/perfective future
a-ká-iimb-e
3sg-fut-sing-subjun
‘Let him/her sing (after tomorrow)!’
17.5.3.2Aberrant case-marking in manipulative clauses
In a number of Uto-Aztecan languages, a seeming ‘reversal’ of the neutral main-clause case
marking is found in some manipulative clauses, where the object receives nominative case
marking, while the subject receives accusative/genitive marking. This pattern is seen in
some subjunctive-obligative clauses in Ute (Givón 1980a, 1994c):
(70) a. Neutral declarative pattern
ta’wach sivaatuch-i pakha-vaa-ni
man/nom goat-acc kill-irr-fut
‘The man will kill the goat’
b. Subjunctive of uncertainty
ta’wach-i sivaatuch pakha-vaa-p(u
=)
man-gen goat/nom kill-irr-nom
‘The man should/must/may have killed the goat’
c. Obligative
ta’wach-i sivaatuch pakha-vaa-n(a)
man-gen goat-nom kill-irr-nom
‘The man must kill the goat’
It is fairly clear that this ‘reversed’ case-marking pattern is due, at least in part, to the
nominalized origin of these constructions, all of them historically subordinate clauses. As
noted earlier (Ch.11), the subject of nominalized clauses is often marked as genitive. In
Non-declarative speech-acts 317
most Numic languages (Ute, Paiute, Shoshone) as well as in other Uto-aztecan languages
(Yaqui, Huichol, Tarahumara), most subordinate clauses are nominalized. What is more,
the accusative and genitive cases on nouns in most of these languages have collapsed
together. Consequently, the subjects of clauses that were erstwhile subordinate and thus
nominalized appear to take the object case (Givón 1990a, 1994c).9
17.5.3.3Prohibitives or negative-imperatives
Negative-imperative clauses follow, in the main, the variety of manipulative patterns noted
above. In many languages, the same negation pattern is used in the imperative (and other
manipulatives) as in declaratives, as in Spanish:
(71) a. Declarative
usted viene mañana
you come tomorrow
‘You are coming tomorrow’
b. Neg-declarative
usted no viene mañana
you neg come tomorrow
‘You are not coming tomorrow’
c. Subjunctive (‘polite imperative’)
venga mañana
come/subjunc tomorrow
‘Come tomorrow’
d. Neg-subjunctive
no venga mañana
neg come/subjunc tomorrow
‘Don’t come tomorrow’
A language may have a special negation pattern for imperatives or other manipulatives.
Such a dual pattern is found in Modern Hebrew. The verb itself may take the very same
irrealis form in the future and imperative. When used as a future-declarative, the
NEG-preﬁx is lo-. In the imperative, the NEG-preﬁx is al-:
(72) a. Declarative
ata ta-vo hena
you/sg.masc 2sg.masc-come/irr here/all
‘You will come here’
b. Neg-declarative
ata lo-ta-vo hena
you neg-2sg.masc-come/irr here/all
‘You will not come here’
318 Syntax
c. Imperative
ta-vo hena!
2sg.masc-come/irr here/all
‘Come here!’
b. Neg-imperative
al-ta-vo hena!
neg/imper-2sg.masc-come/irr here/all
‘Don’t come here!’
17.6 The speech act continuum
17.6.1 Preamble: Syntactic prototypes vs. functional continuum
As noted above, most languages code grammatically at least four major speech-act
prototypes that diﬀer from each other markedly in terms of their communicative goals:
•Declarative: Goal = imparting information
•Imperative: Goal = eliciting action
•Interrogative: Goal = eliciting information; either
•Wh-question: to conﬁrm the identity of a missing item; or
•Yes/no-question: to conﬁrm the truth of a proposition.
Traditional speech-act analysis has tended to describe these well-coded prototypes as
absolute and discrete functional entities (Austin 1962; Searle 1970; Grice 1968/1975, inter
alia). This tradition deals with the major prototypes without paying too much attention to
the continuum between them. While not unprecedented in linguistics, such a tradition
tends to incur certain costs, which are particularly visible in the analysis of the so-called
indirect speech acts.
Explicitly or implicitly, the literature on indirect speech-acts identiﬁes them as
“speech-acts that mean one thing but masquerade as another” (Sadock 1970; Green 1970,
1975; Gordon and Lakoﬀ 1971; Searle 1975; Davison 1975; inter alia). That is, bizarre
coding infelicities that perform one function under the structural guise of another. This is
in spite of a considerable body of data (Brown and Levinson 1978) suggesting that the so-
called masquerade is relatively systematic across languages. That is, that the same range of
‘indirect’ constructions are used in unrelated languages to perform the same range of
intermediate speech-act functions.10
There are strong grounds for suspecting that the three or four major well-coded
speech-acts are just the most common, conventionalized (‘grammaticalized’) prototypes.
These prototypes distribute along a multi-dimensional continuum space organized along
a number of social-psychological dimensions. As noted above (see (5), (6), (59)), all these
dimensions are at least in principle scalar. In the following sections we will show how the
syntactic coding of the minor speech-act variants that span the continuum between the
four main prototypes upholds this scalarity.
Non-declarative speech-acts 319
17.6.2 From imperative to interrogative
Consider ﬁrst the continuum in (73) below, between prototypical imperative and
interrogative speech-acts:
(73) prototypical imperative
a. Pass the salt.
b. Please pass the salt.
c. Pass the salt, would you please?
d. Would you please pass the salt?
e. Could you please pass the salt?
f. Can you pass the salt?
g. Do you see the salt?
h. Is there any salt around?
i. Was there any salt there?
prototypical interrogative
The extreme points of scale, (73a) and (73i), correspond to the well-coded prototypes. The
mid-points on the scale — (73c–e) — exhibit intermediate features both functionally and
syntactically. Finally, intermediate (73b) is more like the imperative prototype (73a), and
intermediates (73f–h) are closer to the interrogative prototype (73i).
One may consider the intermediate points (73b–h) as a continuum of metaphoric
extensions between the prototypes of imperative and interrogative. Felicity conditions
under which such extensions are appropriate have been discussed in the speech-act
literature (Grice 1968/1975; Gordon and Lakoﬀ 1971; inter alia).
The exact nature of the socio-psychological dimensions that underlie this continuum
is yet to be determined, by methods that should transcend the traditional linguistic and
philosophical ones.11
One would assume that the epistemic and deontic features that
underlie both manipulative and interrogative speech-acts, noted above, are involved.
17.6.3 From imperative to declarative
Consider next the scale in (74) below, spanning the continuum between the prototypes of
imperative and declarative:
320 Syntax
(74) prototypical imperative
a. Wash the dishes!
b. You better wash the dishes!
c. You might as well wash the dishes.
d. I suggest you wash the dishes.
e. It would be nice if you could wash the dishes.
f. It would be nice if someone could wash the dishes.
g. The dishes need to be washed.
h. The dishes are dirty.
i. The dishes were dirty.
prototypical declarative
Extreme points (74a) and (74i) are the syntactic prototypes of imperative and declarative,
respectively, while the intermediate points (74b–h) code a gradual shift from one prototype
to the other. Again, one would assume that the underlying multi-dimensional continuum
space involves the epistemic and deontic features that underlie both the imperative and
declarative speech-acts.
17.6.4 From declarative to interrogative
A graded continuum also exists between the prototypes of declarative and interrogative
(yes/no-questions), as in:
(75) prototypical declarative
a. Joe is at home.
b. Joe is at home, I think.
c. Joe is at home, right?
d. Joe is at home, isn’t he?
e. Is Joe at home?
prototypical interrogative
Some languages may code continuum (75) with a much larger set of distinct points. This
may be seen in the Japanese speech-act particle system, where up to 15 distinct verbal
suﬃxes code a ﬁne gradation between the most assertive declarative and the most solicitous
yes/no-question (Tsuchihashi’s 1983; Hinds 1984).
Finally, a continuum may be shown between declarative and wh-question:
Non-declarative speech-acts 321
(76) prototypical declarative
a. Joe called, and…
b. What’s-his-name called, and…12
c. Whoever it was that called, tell them…
d. I don’t know who called.
e. Who knows who called…
f. Who called?
prototypical interrogative
A realistic theory of speech-acts, whenever it ﬁnally emerges, will have to take account of
both the distinct major prototypes and the intermediate minor types that spans the
continuum between them. In such a theory, so-called indirect speech-acts will not be
considered as aberrant instances of mis-alignment between form and meaning, but rather
as ﬁner-grained modulations of the form along the gradients of meaning.
17.7 The interaction between epistemic and deontic aspects of speech-acts
17.7.1 Preamble
As noted earlier above, the traditional discussion of propositional modalities, from
Aristotle down, has taken for granted a clear division between the epistemic and the
deontic. Among the former, irrealis is the well recognized modality of lower certainty. But
as noted in our discussion of modality (Vol.I, Ch.6,7), the two sub-modes of irrealis, the
epistemic and deontic, exhibit a one-way conditional association, so that:
(77) deontic … epistemic
In terms of markedness, then, the epistemic irrealis sub-mode of uncertainty is the
unmarked aspect of irrealis, and is always present in the deontic sub-modes of irrealis, such
as intent, ability, power, need or obligation.
We have noted, further, that deontic sub-modes of irrealis are part of the multi-
dimensional continuum that underlies all speech acts, even the declarative (cf. (5), (6),
(59)). While the association between the epistemic and deontic sub-modes of irrealis is easy
to deﬁne logically (77), their intimate association in human communication transcends
mere logical analysis, involving many pragmatic inferences about various norms and
likelihoods that govern social interaction.
In our earlier discussion of the clauses of the communicative contract that govern
declarative speech-acts, we noted that the speaker-anchored low certainty (epistemics)
seemed to entail the hearer-anchored probable challenge (deontic). That is:
(78) low certainty … high probability of challenge
or:
The lower is the speaker’s certainty in P, the higher is the speaker’s
probability-assignment that the hearer will challenge P.
322 Syntax
17.7.2 Certainty, power and status
One chain of pragmatic norms that seem to govern human communicative interaction may
be given as:
(79) a. knowledge … certainty
b. certainty … power
c. power … status
Consider ﬁrst the case of the Japanese epistemic particles that span the continuum between
declarative and interrogative (§17.6.4 above). As Tsuchihashi (1983) has noted, these
particles scale rather coherently along the dimensions of subjective certainty and probabili-
ty of challenge. On both scales, the one particle that can be only used by women ranks
considerably below the prototypical male-used strong assertion (realis) particles. In other
words, the deontic feature of lower status/power is associated with the epistemic feature of
lower certainty.
In a more general vein, Syder and Pawley (1974) observe that in facing an interlocutor
of higher power, status or authority, speakers tend to scale down their expression of
certainty, by using hedges that bump their assertions down into a lower epistemic range of
irrealis. This is not done, necessarily, because of perceiving a contrary attitude on the part
of the high-status interlocutor. Rather, toning down is a hedge against the possibility that
the higher authority might hold a contrary belief. Such epistemic deference is a pervasive
feature of many, perhaps all cultures (Brown and Levinson 1978).
Questions of politeness and deference, with their complex and oft culture-speciﬁc
detail, indeed intrude rather persistently into the epistemics of certainty, so much so that
Syder and Pawley (1974) have proposed a modesty principle, by which speakers in at least
some cultures as a matter of course claim to know less than they do, especially when the
information may reﬂect favorably on their personal stature. While this tendency may be
somewhat culture-speciﬁc, it may reﬂect a more universal principle, already noted above
(see also Lewis 1979):
(80) Subjective certainty vis-a-vis higher authority
In communicating to an interlocutor of higher status, one downgrades one’s
own subjective certainty.
17.7.3 Negation, authority and politeness
Negative assertions are a contrary, denying speech act (Vol.I, Ch.8). One would thus
expect its use to be extremely sensitive to the perceived social status of the interlocutor.
This is borne out in the seemingly-universal use of NEG-assertions in contexts when the
interlocutor is perceived to be of higher status or power. In such social contexts, speakers
tone down their disagreement, couching contrary opinions in a variety of ‘softening’
devices. Many of these are sub-varieties of irrealis, as in:
Non-declarative speech-acts 323
(81) a. Quite, quite.
b. Yes, I see.
c. I see what you mean.
d. I suppose you got a point there.
e. Perhaps not quite so.
f. Perhaps you may wish to consider an alternative.
g. Well, I’m not sure about that, maybe…
h. Now if it were up to me, I would suggest…
In more traditional cultures, it is not always easy to ﬁnd an overtly-marked negation in
speech directed toward perceived superiors, outsiders, or even bona ﬁde members of the
intimate social group. Contrariness has its obvious social costs in the stable, closely-knit
society of intimates (Givón and Young, forthcoming).
Somewhat paradoxically, negation can itself be used as a softening device in the face of
perceived higher authority. This toning down function of negation seems to apply to both
the epistemic and the manipulative mode. Thus consider:
(82) a. Won’t you come in please?
(> Do come in)
b. I suppose he isn’t done yet.
(> I wonder if he’s done)
c. I don’t suppose he’s done yet?
(> I wonder if he’s done)
d. Wouldn’t it be better if…
(> It’d be better if…)
e. I suppose you couldn’t spare a ﬁver…
(> I wish you could)
This epistemic use of negation, often in conjunction with other irrealis operators such as
modals, subjunctives, conditionals and yes/no-question markers, is wide-spread cross-
linguistically (Brown and Levinson 1978; Salisbury 1986). Its deference value may derive
from the overlap between negation and irrealis along the psychological dimension of
subjective certainty.
17.7.4 Certainty, responsibility and blame
In many cultures, claiming direct personal responsibility for asserted information may be
a serious social error, to be strictly avoided in any but the most intimate social contexts.
Strong claims to direct authorship of transmitted information, with the attendant marking
of high subjective certainty and strong evidential support, are all to be avoided. In carrying
out communication under these cultural constraints, a variety of highly conventionalized
strategies are used, including indirection, disclaimer, oblique attribution, impersonalizat-
ion, coding assertions as yes/no-questions, negatives or irrealis.
324 Syntax
While the structural devices may be the same as in some of the cases of low-status and
deference cited above, the guiding principle is perhaps diﬀerent, roughly (Givón and
Young, forthcoming):
(83) The hazardous information principle
a. Knowledge entails power, but power entails responsibility.
b. Information may be coveted, it may also be hazardous and socially destabi-
lizing.
c. Transmitting new information may entail social advantage, but it also incurs
risks.
d. Therefore, being identiﬁed explicitly as the author of information may be
unwise, and must be avoided.
Principle (83) is most conspicuous in small, rural, geographically scattered communities,
where residents of isolated homesteads are adept at cajoling fresh gossip, preferably
malicious, out of the occasional visitor. In spite of their geographic scatter, such communi-
ties are often intimate social units, where one’s business is everybody’s business, and where
the most mundane news disseminates with lightning speed. The transmission of fresh
gossip may be the real purpose of a visit. Yet the would be transmitter must tread lightly,
lest he be later on pointed at — often accusingly and by the very same host who wormed
the information out of him/her — as the explicit author of socially sensitive information.
Notes
1. There may be a weak correlation between the usage-frequency of constructions in communication,
and their prevalence in grammars. In Givón (1985a) this correlation was suggested as a general
principle that relates pragmatic need and code coherence:
“…The more important a facet of experience is to the organism or culture, the more distinctly it is
coded in language…” (Givón 1985a:210)
2. Sadock and Zwicky’s (1985) distinction between ‘sentence types’ and ‘attitude markers’ appear,
up to a point, to correspond to our distinction here between major prototypes and minor sub-types.
Their treatment, in discussing Matisoﬀ’s (1973) grammar of Lahu, is couched purely in terms of
exclusivity of co-occurrence: Sentence types are exclusive of each other; attitude markers — when
semantically compatible — can co-occur with sentence types, or with each other. The latter claim is
probably too strong, since the contrast among ﬁner sub-variants (‘attitudes’) may involve not single
markers, but rather their various combinations. The distinction between ‘sentence types’ and
‘attitudes’ is a somewhat inelegant way of handling non-discreteness and multi-dimensionality of the
functional substratum of speech-acts.
3. While the approach pursued here is cognitive rather than normative, I am more than happy to
acknowledge its indebtedness to the normative philosophical tradition culminating in Grice’s maxims
(1968/1975).
4. The relativity here is due to the fact that it spans the range from irrealis (low certainty) to realis
(high certainty), thus yielding a continuum. See further below.
5. The same universal is found in the use of these three devices to code contrastive focus (Ch.15).
Non-declarative speech-acts 325
6. As in negation, in similar grammatical contexts (Vol.I, Ch.8).
7. Contrastive focus and relativization in Asheninka work the same way (Ch.14,15).
8. For a traditional view of the conventions governing imperatives and other speech acts, see Gordon
and Lakoﬀ (1971).
9. Comrie (1982) observed the same synchronic pattern in Huichol, but chose to interpret it in
purely synchronic terms, as a ‘reversal’ of grammatical relations.
10. See discussion in Levinson (1983), pp.263–278. The lone exception seems to be Lyons
(1977:753–768), where the shading from epistemic doubt (i.e. irrealis) to interrogative speech-acts
is acknowledged, and where questions are considered grammaticalized features of doubt.
11. For suggestions in the traditional literature see Grice (1968/1975), Gordon and Lakoﬀ (1971) or
Searle (1975), inter alia.
12. The use of wh-pronouns to code epistemic uncertainty is wide-spread. Thus, for example, in Ute
any wh-pronoun can be used in low-certainty declarative sentences, if the speaker is unsure of either
the token-identity or type-identity of a nominal. Such expressions are usually translated into English
as ‘what’s-his-name’, ‘what-cha-ma-call-it’, ‘who knows’, etc.
</TARGET "17">
<TARGET "18" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Inter-clausal coherence"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 18
Inter-clausal coherence
18.1 Introduction
18.1.1 Subordination vs. coordination
The subordinate clauses described thus far were, for the most part, embedded in well
deﬁned syntactic positions inside other clauses:
•clausal subjects or objects (Ch.11,12)
•verbal complements inside the VP (Ch.12)
•relative clauses inside the NP (Ch.14)
Such clauses are syntactically bound to — or dependent on — their main clauses in three
major respects:
(1) Major syntactic devices signaling clause dependence
a. Intonational integration
Dependent clauses tend to fall under a single intonation contour with the
main clause, without an intervening pause.
b. Relational government
Dependent clauses tend to be relationally governed by the main-clause’s
subject or object, in a way that constrains both possible co-reference relations
and obligatory zero anaphora or pronominalization.
c. Reduced ﬁniteness
Dependent clauses tend to exhibit reduced ﬁnite marking, in terms of
pronominal agreement and tense–aspect-modality on the verb, or case-
marking and determiners on the subject or object.
The inter-clausal connections surveyed in this chapter are much looser, and involve two
major clause-types:
•subordinate adverbial clauses
•coordinate chained clauses
Of these, the former have been traditionally described as dependent vis-a-vis their main
clauses, the latter independent main clauses.
But dependence, both functional and syntactic, is not an absolute discrete property but
rather a matter of degree. To begin with, no clause in connected, coherent discourse is
328 Syntax
functionally 100% independent of its local (‘linear’) or even global (‘hierarchic’) context.
This is, after all, the very deﬁnition of coherence. And discourse coherence always has some
grammatical consequences that, however subtle, tend to be uni-directional, and thus
rightly couched in terms of dependence, government, or control.
In the same vein, an absolute binary distinction between subordinate (‘dependent’)
and coordinate (‘independent’) clauses is woefully untenable. As noted in our earlier
discussion of verbal complements (Ch.12), the functional dimension of event integration
and the syntactic dimensions of clause integration (‘clause union’) formed two parallel
isomorphic scales. Subordinate/adverbial and coordinate/chained clauses are but the
natural extension of those scales. Along the functional continuum, the propositional-
semantic features of event integration shade gradually into the more discourse-pragmatic
features of cross-event coherence. Along the parallel syntactic continuum, the grammatical
bonds of inter-clausal dependence become gradually looser.
The two major clause-types surveyed in this chapter join the overall functional-
syntactic continuum of event- and clause-integration towards its lower end:
(2) Continuum of inter-clausal dependency
most dependent (‘semantic’)
•verbal complements
•subordinate/adverbial clauses
•coordinate/chained clauses
least dependent (‘pragmatic’)
As we shall see below, the very same syntactic devices (1) that signal stronger inter-clausal
dependence in V-complement clauses also signal the stronger dependence of subordinate/
adverbial and coordinate/chained clauses — but to a smaller degree, in diﬀerent ratios,
with greater ﬂexibility or weaker control.
Ultimately, it seems, the very same iconic meta-principle governs inter-clausal
connectivity along the bottom of the dependency scale (2) that also governed cross-clausal
connectivity at the top (Ch.12). Recapitulated in more general terms (Givón 1991b):
(3) Isomorphism between semantic-pragmatic connectivity
and syntactic dependency
The stronger is the semantic or pragmatic connectivity between two events/states,
the stronger will be the syntactic dependencies between the two clauses that code
them.
18.1.2 Coherence and grounding
Coherence may be deﬁned, at this point heuristically, as continuity:1
(4) Coherence as continuity
Coherence is the continuity or recurrence of some element(s) across a
contiguous span of multi-propositional discourse.
Inter-clausal coherence 329
Of the many elements that can recur across a span of coherent discourse, the most
concrete, grammatically or lexically well-marked, and thus easiest to track are:
(5) Well-marked elements of discourse coherence
a. referents (‘participants’)
b. location
c. temporality
d. aspectuality
e. modality
f. perspective (‘narrative voice’)
g. action/events
Of these, referential coherence (5a) and tense–aspect-modal coherence (5c–e) are well-
coded by grammar (see Vol.I, Ch.9,10; Ch.6,7; respectively). Event coherence (5g) is
coded primarily by lexical verbs. While spatial coherence (5b) and coherence of perspective
(5f) are coded by a mix of lexical and grammatical clues (Givón 1995b, 1999b). But it is
important to emphasize that the concrete stands in (5) are woven together into an overall
tapestry of thematic coherence, and that many of the grammatical devices surveyed in this
chapter are keyed to signalling this more-holistic aspect of coherence.
This paradoxical nature of text coherence — multiple-stranded yet still a whole — is,
one suspects, what Aristotle had in mind in his treatment of coherence in the Poetics,
insisting ﬁrst on diversity:
“…The unity of plots does not consist, as some suppose, of having one man as its
subject. An inﬁnity of things befall that one man, some of which it is impossible to
reduce to unity; and in like manner there are many actions of one man which
cannot be made to form one action…”(Aristotle, Poetics 8, p.2322).
but still on an ultimate unity:
“…the story […] must represent one action, a complete whole, with its several
incidents so closely connected that the transposition or withdrawal of any one of
them will disjoin and dislocate the whole. For that which makes no perceptible
diﬀerence by its presence or absence is no real part of the whole…” (ibid.)2
The study of coherent discourse, whether oral or written, suggests that the mental
representation of a coherent text must involve a network of nodes and connections whose
structure is both linear (‘local’) and hierarchic (‘global’; see Kintsch 1974, 1977, 1982a,b;
Anderson et al. 1983; Trabasso et al. 1984, 1995; Trabasso and Sperry 1985; Gernsbacher
1990; Givón 1995b; Goodwin 1995).
Coherent mental representation of text is the chief guarantor of reliable, rapid access
to mentally-stored episodic information during both text production and text comprehen-
sion. The guarantee lies in the connectivity or grounding of each node to other nodes in the
network. From the perspective of the hearer, such grounding insures subsequent access and
retrieval. From the perspective of the speaker, the connectivity makes it possible to produce
a text that the hearer can comprehend — i.e. store coherently and accessibly (Gernsbacher
1990).
330 Syntax
18.2 Adverbial subordinate clauses
18.2.1 Functional dimensions
The distinction between coordination and subordination, however problematic, is
nonetheless a useful point of departure for describing the various semantic links that bind
dependent ADV-clauses to their main clauses. By ‘semantic’ one means here ‘local’, i.e.
relations between two adjacent clauses irrespective of the wider (‘global’) discourse context.
In this respect, these relations resemble the semantic bonds between main verbs and their
verbal complements (Ch.12). As we shall see further below, adverbial clauses also have
wider-scoped discourse-pragmatic connectivity.
18.2.1.1Local semantic links of adverbial clauses
18.2.1.1.1Temporal adverbial clauses. A large number of grammaticalized connectives can
specify the temporal relation of an adverbial clause to its main clause. Some of the most
common ones are:
(6) Temporal links of adverbial clauses
a. Precedence: Before she came, he left
b. Subsequence: After she came, he left
c. Simultaneity: While she was working, he left
d. Point coincidence: As she was coming, he saw her
e. Terminal boundary: Till she left, he worked steady
f. Initial boundary: From the minute she came, he ignored her
g. Intermediacy: Between her starting the project and her quitting in a huﬀ,
nobody slept
Quite often, a more general (‘unmarked’) temporal subordinator, such as ‘when’ in
English, is used when more speciﬁc temporal relations are in fact intended. Such de-
marked coding strategy succeeds when the semantic speciﬁcity of the temporal relation can
be inferred from other features of the two clauses — most commonly from the verb and its
tense–aspect-modality. As an illustration, consider:
(7) a. Precedence: When she came, he had already left
b. Subsequence: When he got up, she did too
c. Simultaneity: When she lived there, everybody was real friendly
d. Point coincidence: When he opened the door, she shot him
e. Terminal boundary: When you’re done, tell me
f. Initial boundary: When you start, just keep going
g. Intermediacy: When he’s done and she’s not yet started, that’s when you
should enter
18.2.1.1.2Conditional adverbial clauses. Conditional ADV-clauses are divided into two main
types:3
Inter-clausal coherence 331
•irrealis conditionals
•counter-fact conditionals
We will consider them in order.
a.
Irrealis conditionals
Irrealis conditional clauses fall under the scope of non-fact modality. Much like irrealis
clauses elsewhere, they thus have no truth value. Rather, their truth value depends on the
truth value of their associated main clause — which most typically is also under irrealis
scope and thus has no truth value either.
Typically, irrealis conditionals have an implied futurity, with the main clause itself
marked by either future, modal or some other irrealis operator. As illustrations consider:
(8) a. Modal: If you ﬁnish on time, you can have this
b. Future: If she comes, you will see her
c. Imperative: If you see him, please tell him that…
d. Indirect request: If she comes, I would like to know
e. Certainty marker: If she comes, then I think we’re in good shape
The pending truth value of the irrealis conditional clause persists even when it is marked
with the past tense. Thus consider:
(9) a. If she really did it, it should be a coup.
b. If they arrived that late, they must be tired.
c. If she really was there, then she knows as much as I do.
d. If she was there, then she did see it.
Whether preceding overtly-marked (9a,b) or unmarked (9c,d) main clauses, a sense of the
irrealis sub-mode of prediction persists in all such cases, so that (9c,d) may be rendered
more fully as, respectively:
(10) a. If she was there, then it must be the case that she knows as much as I do.
b. If she really was there, she must have seen it.
The pending truth value of the irrealis conditional clause also persists in the habitual mode/
aspect:
(11) a. If he works that hard, he has no time for this.
b. If she lives here, she’ll show up sooner or later.
c. If this goes on here regularly, then we had better quit right now.
d. If you work here, how come I never see you?
Again, overt irrealis operators are used in some of the main clauses above (11b–d). But
even the unmarked main clause in (11a) carries a distinct sense of irrealis, and may be
more fully rendered as, e.g.:
(12) If he works that hard, then surely he has no time for this.
332 Syntax
In many languages, irrealis conditionals and irrealis when-clauses share their grammatical
marking, so that the slight meaning diﬀerence between them is inferred from the context.
Such an overlap is also possible in English, as in:
(13) When you bring it to me, I’ll pay you.
Under a conditional interpretation of (13), the speaker has lower epistemic expectations
concerning the eventual truth of the conditional clause. Under a temporal interpretation,
the speaker has higher epistemic expectations. What the two interpretations share is the
logical structure of irrealis conditionals, one that stands at some variance from the
deceptively similar bi-conditional logical connector:4
(14) a. Temporal
When you bring it, I will pay you
(… Until you bring it, I won’t pay you)
b. Conditional
If you bring it, I will pay you
(… If you don’t bring it, I won’t pay you)
That is, both the irrealis ‘if’ and the irrealis ‘when’ behave like bi-conditional connectors,
allowing the inference:
(15) (a = b) … (Neg-a … Neg-b)
A language may also possess a special NEG-conditional subordinator that in a way
combines the meaning “if not” (Thompson and Longacre 1985:196). Thus, consider the
rough equivalence in English of (16a) and (16b):
(16) a. Unless you pay up, we’ll have you arrested.
b. If you don’t pay up, we’ll have you arrested.
Finally, it has been suggested (Haiman 1978) that conditional clauses are ‘topics’, i.e. that
they are pragmatically presupposed in spite of having no truth value. The argument is
probably applicable only to pre-posed conditionals, and probably applies equally well to all
pre-posed adverbial clauses (see §18.2.3.2 below).
b.
Counter-fact (‘hypothetical’) conditionals
Unlike irrealis conditionals, whose truth value is pending, counter-fact conditionals fall
under the ﬁrmer, negative epistemic scope of non-fact. This conditional type involves
propositions that could, would or should have been true — if other propositions were also
true. But since those other propositions turn out to be false, the conditionally-marked
proposition is also false. Thus:
(17) a. If she had known, she would have done it.
b. If I had only met her then, my life would have been rather diﬀerent.
The counter-fact modality is not associated only with conditional ADV-clauses, but also
with main clauses or verbal complements:
Inter-clausal coherence 333
(18) a. Main clause
You should have told me he was here.
b. Main clause
I would have loved to see him.
c. Complement clause
She knew that it could have been her.
d. Complement clause
I wish you were here.
In addition to whatever subordinators that may mark them, counterfact clauses cross-
linguistically tend to be marked by a combination of two semantically conﬂicting verbal
inﬂections:
•the prototypically realis past, perfective or perfect.
•the prototypically irrealis future, subjunctive, conditional or modal.
In the English examples (17), (18) above, one ﬁnds in (17) the perfect ‘have’ combined
with the past in the subordinate clause, while the main clause combines the perfect ‘have’,
the past and a modal. In (18a–c), the counterfact clause combines past, ‘have’ and a modal.
While (18d) again illustrates the counter-fact use of the past by itself — used as a subjunc-
tive form.
The speciﬁc counter-fact marking combinations may vary from language to language,
depending on the availability of inﬂectional morphology. Thus for example, Spanish
counter-fact conditionals employ the past subjunctive:
(19) Si fuera mi amigo…
if be/past/subjun/3sg my friend
‘If he were my friend, …’
Modern Hebrew counter-fact conditionals combine the past of ‘be’ with the imperfective:
(20) im hu haya ose et-ze…
if he be/past/3masc.sg do/hab/3masc.sg acc-it
‘If he had done it…’
The most transparent counter-fact marking combination is found in Creoles, where the
irrealis-future and the perfect-anterior markers are combined, as in (Hawaii English
Creole; D. Bickerton’s transcripts; see also Bickerton 1981):
(21) i bin go order am, see
he perf irr order them see
‘…he would have ordered them, see…’
c.
Conditionals with intermediate truth value
As Thompson and Longacre (1985) note, in addition to the two extreme modal points on
the semantic dimension of conditionals — irrealis (‘possibly true’) and counter-fact (not
true), many languages allow ﬁner gradation, most particularly of events/states that are
334 Syntax
judged to be unlikely but not altogether impossible. Whether such clauses display a special
grammatical form remains at issue. Often, the very same combination of forms —
perfective cum irrealis — that are used in the coding of counter-fact clauses are also used
to code low-probability conditionals, thus subjunctive mode (Vol.I, Ch.6), as in e.g.
English:
(22) a. Low likelihood
If I did this, I would surely die.
If I were to do this, I would die.
If I had done this, I would die.
b. Counter-fact
If I did this, I would have died.
If I was to have done this, I would have died.
If I had done this, I would have died.
While the forms marking the subordinate clauses in (22a) and (22b) are nearly identical,
the marking of the main clauses is diﬀerent: Only irrealis operators appear in the low-
probability conditionals (22a), but a combination of irrealis and perfective is used in the
counter-fact conditionals (22b).
A similar situation can be seen in Early Biblical Hebrew, where the perfect can be used
by itself to mark low-likelihood (subjunctive) clauses, subordinate/conditionals as well as
main clauses. The poly-synthetic verbal morphology of EBH makes it impossible to
combine irrealis and perfect; the two verb forms are mutually exclusive. To render the
sense of dire injunctions or unthinkable but still possible events, the ﬁrst clause in the
passage is marked with irrealis, the rest with the perfect. The two markers are thus
combined over a chain rather then in one clause (Givón 1977):
(23) a. …pen yishal »»
h yad-o
…lest 3masc.sg/send/irr hand-his
‘…Lest he sent his hand
b. ve-laqa »»
h me-’ets ha- »
hayim
and-take/perf/3masc.sg from-tree/of the-life
and took from the tree of life
c. ve-’axal ve- »»
hay le-’olam…
and-eat/perf/3masc.sg and-live/perf/3masc.sg for-world
and ate and lived forever…’
(Genesis 3:22)
d.
Concessive conditionals
Concessive conditional clauses involve combinations equivalent to the English ‘even if’. In
some languages, such a connection is marked by a special morpheme (rather than by the
combination of ‘even’ and ‘if’), as in Mandarin Chinese (Li and Thompson 1981):
Inter-clausal coherence 335
(24) a. Irrealis-conditional (suﬃxal marker)
ta song gei wo-de-hua, wo dou bu yao
he give to me-nom-if I still neg want
‘If he gives it to me, I still don’t want it’
b. Concessive conditional (preﬁxal marker)
jiushi ta song gei wo, wo dou bu yao
even.if he give to me I still neg want
‘Even if he gave it to me, I still wouldn’t want it’
18.2.1.1.3Cause and reason adverbial clauses. In most languages, no morpho-syntactic
distinction is made between ‘cause’ and ‘reason’ clauses. Semantically, one may of course
argue that the two are non-identical but rather exhibit a one-way conditional association,
so that ‘cause’ is a sub-species of ‘reason’:
(25) cause … reason
It may well be that ‘cause’ prototypically involves external motivation, while reason may
also involve various internal motivations:
(26) a. Cause
Some external factor either impels an agent to act, or causes a state to become.
b. Reason
Either (a) above, or the speaker (or another human human referent) has a
reason for acting, speaking or thinking in a particular way.
To illustrate this general division as well as some of its subtleties, consider ﬁrst some of the
more obvious distinctions:
(27) a. Agentive external cause for event
Because he bumped me, I dropped the glass.
b. Non-agentive external cause for event
Because it was freezing, the water-pipes broke.
c. Eventive external reason for action
Because she showed up there, I left.
d. Non-eventive external reason for action
Because it was cold, I put my coat on.
e. Eventive internal reason for action
Because my leg began to hurt, I stopped running.
f. Non-eventive internal reason for action
Because it was boring, I left.
The invocation of ‘reason’ is often subtle or opaque. Consider, for example, the multiplicity
of ‘because’ answers that may be used as answers to the same ‘why?’ question:
336 Syntax
(28) A: –This is a bad idea.
B: –Why?
A: –Because you made a mistake in your assessment.
–Because it’s not this kind of a problem.
–Because I plainly don’t see how it could work.
–Because suppose you were right, where can we go next?
–Because the boss won’t like it.
–Because I can detect a fallacy right here.
–Because I don’t like it.
–Because I say so.
–Because Joe told me all about it.
The inferential complexity of ‘reason’ clauses seems wholly unconstrained, except by the
pragmatics of relevance.
18.2.1.1.4Concessive adverbial clauses. Concessive clauses involve a presupposed contrast or
counter-expectancy, with the ADV-clause supplying the grounds for the counter-expecta-
tion, and the main clause supplying the unexpected or less-likely event or state. Thus
consider:
(29) a. Although he liked her, he stayed away.
b. In spite of liking him, she spoke harshly.
c. In spite of the fact that she liked him, she spoke harshly.
d. Even though she disapproved, she went along.
e. No matter what he did, she forgave him.
f. Except for her meddling in his aﬀairs, John loved Susan dearly.
18.2.1.1.5Substitutive adverbial clauses. Closely akin to concessive clauses are substitutive
clauses. Here the ADV-clause codes an event or state that is expected, via some pragmatic
presupposition, however subtle, to be the case but in fact isn’t, as in:
(30) a. Rather than do the dishes, he watched TV
b. Instead of doing her homework, she loafed
John Haiman (in personal communication) points out that the main diﬀerence between
substitutive and concessive clauses has to do with exclusivity: The main clause is not
mutually exclusive in concessive clauses, but only unexpected. In contrast, the main clause
is mutually exclusive with a substitutive clause. Thus compare:
(31) a. Concessive
In spite of being tall, Joe was quite agile
(… Joe was both tall and agile)
b. Substitutive
Instead of being tall, John was short
(… Joe was not tall, but rather short)
Inter-clausal coherence 337
18.2.1.1.6Additive adverbial clauses. In at least some languages, English included, additive
clauses can be coded distinctly, as in (Thompson and Longacre 1985):
(32) a. In addition to having your hand stamped, you must show your ticket stub
b. Besides missing my bus, I got my feet all wet
The subjects of the additive clauses in (32) are co-referent with that of the main clauses,
and the clauses that display a less-ﬁnite, participial verbal morphology (see §18.2.2.8
below). But an additive clause may have an overtly expressed non-co-referent subject, as
in:
(33) Not only did I miss the bus, but the driver who ﬁnally picked me up turned out
to be a jerk
18.2.1.1.7Purpose clauses. Purpose clauses, with their subject most typically co-referential
with that of the main clause, signal the purpose of the agent for acting as they did in the
event coded by the main clause. The main clauses are thus typically active/agentive, as in:
(34) a. He went out to look for his boy
b. To go there, you must take the train
c. In order to ﬁnish on time, she had to cut corners
The semantic restriction on the main clause is not so much that it must code an action, but
rather that it must involve choice or control. Thus, stative main clauses can take purpose
clauses, provided some plausible inference of control by the subject of the main clause is
possible:
(35) a. To do this, you must be brave.
b. To play basketball, one had better be tall.
As Thompson (1985) points out, the exact scope of ‘purpose’ is rather diﬀerent when the
clause is pre-posed, as in (34b,c) or (33a,b), as against when it follows the main clause
(34a). Post-posed purpose clauses most typically code the intent of the main-clause agent
in performing his/her action. Pre-posed purpose clauses typically have a broader, more
diﬀuse scope, not necessarily referring to the main-clause agent’s purpose. As a brief
illustration of the diﬀerence, contrast:
(36) a. Pre-posed
To illustrate this, consider the following passage
b. Post-posed
*Consider the following passage to illustrate this
c. Pre-posed
*To ﬁx the plumbing then he went out
d. Post-posed
Then he went out to ﬁx the plumbing
338 Syntax
The purpose in the pre-posed (36a) is obviously not that of the implicit main-clause agent
(‘you’), but rather that of the implicit speaker. For this reason presumably, (36b) is odd.
Likewise, the purpose in the post-posed purpose clause in (36d) is the main-clause agent’s,
and for this reason (36c) is now odd. In the main, the grammar of purpose clauses closely
parallel that of the verbal complements of equi-subject modality verbs (Ch.12).
18.2.2 Participial adverbial clauses
18.2.2.1Finiteness and cross-clausal integration
Like complements of modality and manipulation verbs (Ch.12), participial ADV-clauses
are tightly integrated with their main clause. Functionally ﬁrst, this integration involves
two major components of coherence:
•Referential coherence: Participial ADV-clauses tend to have the same-subject as their
main clause.
•Temporal coherence: Participial ADV-clauses tend to exhibit rigid tense-aspect-modal
restrictions vis-a-vis their main clause, most commonly either:
•Simultaneity: imperfective aspect
•Anteriority: perfect aspect
Of the two conditions, referential coherence — the equi-subject conditions — may be
relaxed in some cases, in contexts where the other components of coherence take over (see
below).
Syntactically, participial ADV-clauses most typically display less-ﬁnite features. But as
noted earlier (Ch.11,12), ﬁniteness is complex, a scalar dimension. Along the ﬁniteness
continuum, participial clauses tend to occupy an intermediate position in most languages
— more ﬁnite than inﬁnitival V-complements but less ﬁnite than main clauses.
Of the cluster of morpho-syntactic features that code ﬁniteness (see (1c) above), the
following four are most relevant here:
•verb marking
•tense–aspect-modality
•pronominal agreement
•nominal marking
•zero-marking of NPs
•genitive case-marking of NPs
To recapitulate our earlier discussion of the scalarity of ﬁniteness, compare the gradation
of ﬁnite morphology in not-fully-ﬁnite subordinate clauses in English:
(37) a. Lexical nominal
Her rejection of the job was unexpected
b. ing-inﬁnitive/nominal
His rejecting the job was never contemplated
Inter-clausal coherence 339
c. For-to inﬁnitive
For her to reject the job was a mistake
d. Inﬁnitival V-complement
He wanted to reject the job
e. Imperfective participial adverb
Rejecting the job, she moved to Atlanta
f. Perfect participial adverb
Having rejected the job, she went on vacation
The use of morpho-syntactic features of ﬁniteness in ranking these six English construc-
tions in (37) may be summarized as, respectively:
(38) Ranking of less-ﬁnite clauses (English)
Morpho-syntactic marking
Clause-type Verb Object Subject
a. LEX-NOM
b. ING-NOM
c. FOR-TO
d. V-COMP
e. IMPFV-PART
f. PERF-PART
nominal
ing-INF
to-INF
to-INF
IMPFV-aspect
PERF-aspect
genitive
accusative
accusative
accusative
accusative
accusative
genitive
genitive
benefactive
(Ø-anaphor)
(Ø-anaphor)
(Ø-anaphor)
It is worth noting, ﬁnally, that ﬁnite verbal marking (or lack thereof) strongly correlates
with cross-clausal tense–aspect-modal coherence. Finite nominal marking (or lack
thereof), in turn, correlates with cross-clausal referential coherence (see §18.3.3.7 below).
18.2.2.2Imperfective participial adverbial clauses
Imperfective (‘progressive’) participial ADV-clauses tend to code events or states that are
simultaneous (co-temporal) with the main clause. In most languages, and across many
discourse types, such clauses — especially when pre-posed vis-a-vis their main clause —
tend to convey background information. This contrasts with foregrounded, main clauses
in discourse, which tend to code sequential events (Hopper 1979; Hopper and Thompson
1980). The imperfective aspectuality of the verb in these participial clauses is thus signiﬁ-
cant, in that events tend to be temporally compact and thus more likely to be sequential,
while states are temporally diﬀuse and thus more amenable to simultaneity.
In English and many other languages, the progressive aspectual verb-form (-ing) also
functions as a nominal or inﬁnitive form. This sometimes gives rise to ambiguity, whereby
sequential, foregrounded, chained clauses are coded by the same participial-inﬁnitive verb
form as imperfective ADV-clauses (see further below). Therefore, when the -ing verb-form
is used in English to code sequential chained clauses, it denotes neither the imperfective
aspect nor simultaneity nor backgrounding.
To illustrate the contrast between the two usages of the -ing verb-form in English,
consider the eﬀect of order alternation on the interpretation of imperfective participial
340 Syntax
clauses. Technically, such clauses can occur either before (pre-posed to) or after (post-
posed to) the main clause. But when they are post-posed, an imperfective, simultaneous
interpretation seems much more natural. When they are pre-posed, a sequential, chained
interpretation seems more natural. Thus compare:
(39) Pre-posed vs. post-posed -ing-marked participials
a. He stayed home all day doing his tax-returns
(> He did his tax returns while at home)
b. ?Doing his tax returns, he stayed home all day
(?> He ﬁrst did his tax returns, then stayed home)
c. Turning the corner, she slowed down
(> She ﬁrst turned, then slowed down)
d. ?She slowed down turning the corner
(?> She slowed down as she was turning)
e. Walking slowly, he arrived
(> He walked slowly, then ﬁnally arrived)
f. He arrived walking slowly
(> He was walking slowly as he arrived)
g. Leaving the house, she called her oﬃce
(> She ﬁrst left, then called)
h. ?She called her oﬃce leaving the house
(?> She called as she was leaving)
Now note that the odd combinations (39b), (39d) and (39f) become acceptable if the right
aspectuality is marked more explicitly; respectively:5
(40) a. Perfective
Hav-ing do-ne his tax return, he stayed home all day.
b. Imperfective
She slowed dow as she was turning the corner.
c. Imperfective
She called her oﬃce as she was leaving the house
The perfective, sequential, chained nature of pre-posed -ing-marked participial adverbs in
English is even more apparent when several clauses precede one main clause:
(41) Coming out,
stopping to check the mailbox,
taking a look at the driveway
and pausing to adjust his hat,
he turned and walked to his car.
Not one of the -ing-coded clauses in (41) is aspectually imperfective (progressive).
Together, they form a chain of telic, perfective, sequential events whose end is marked by
the ﬁnite ‘main’ clause. We will return to this rather common type of clause-chaining
further below.
Inter-clausal coherence 341
18.2.2.3Perfect participial adverbial clauses
Perfect participial ADV-clauses code events that have been terminated prior to those coded
in the main clause. The verb in the ADV-clause is then marked by the perfect-anterior
aspect, which redundantly denotes antecedence and thus sequentiality, regardless of surface
order:
(42) a. Having ﬁnished dinner, he left
b. He left, having (ﬁrst) ﬁnished dinner
One may thus suggest that the perfect participial clause is the marked case as compared to
the unmarked imperfective participial clause.
Perfect participial ADV-clauses in English may also appear in chained sequences, as the
-ing-marked participials in (41) above. While clearly temporally sequenced, such chains do
not seem to convey the same tightly-packed thematic coherence as the chained
-ing-marked participials (41). Thus compare:
(43) Having ﬁrst tended toward the oﬀer,
and having then vacillated for two weeks,
and having written a withdrawal letter,
he ﬁnally accepted.
Finally, while chained -ing-marked participials must maintain their temporal sequence
across the entire chain, chained perfect participials may, in keeping with their perfect-
anterior aspectuality, violate the sequential order — as long as they are all anterior to the
main clause. Thus consider:
(44) Having been tending toward the oﬀer,
in spite of having earlier vacillated for two weeks
and having earlier yet even written a withdrawal letter,
she ﬁnally accepted the job.
18.2.2.4The equi-subject constraint on participial clauses:
Referential vs. thematic coherence
The participial ADV-clauses we have surveyed thus far share the same subject with their
main clause. But in many languages, and under some conditions even in English, participi-
al clauses may display diﬀerent subjects than their main clause. Note ﬁrst that the subject
of the participial ADV-clause may be possessed — as either part or relation — by the main-
clause subject-possessor:
(45) a. His heart pounding, Joe opened the box.
b. His wife sick and his children gone, he disappeared.
c. Her mother following behind her, Sarah barged in.
d. Her career in shambles, Wendy went home.
Similarly, with perfect participials:
342 Syntax
(46) a. His wife having left, Joe moved in with Myrna
b. His quest having been concluded, the knight rested
The possessive relation need not be grammatically marked, but could be implicit. And
‘possession’ trails oﬀ into the increasingly vague relation of relevance:
(47) a. The house being old, Joe sold it for a pittance
(> it was Joe’s house)
b. The war having been won, they were all discharged
(> they fought in the war)
c. Food being scarce, they foraged in the bush
(> for them to eat)
d. English being too easy, she switched to Math
(> for her to learn)
In some languages, syntactic provisions are made for telling apart same-subject (SS) from
diﬀerent-subject (DS) participial clauses. Thus, recall the following from Latin (Thompson
and Longacre 1985):
(48) a. SS participial clause
ab oppid-o duct-a,
from town-abl lead/past/part-nom
‘Having been brought from the town,
femin-a prope templ-um habita-ba-t
woman-nom near temple-acc live-impf-3sg
the woman lived near the temple’
b. DS participial clause
Caesar, accept-is litter-is,
Caesar-nom receive/past/part-abl letter-abl
‘Caesar, the letter having been received,
nunti-um misi-t
messenger-acc send/perf-3sg
sent a messenger’
This use of the case-marking system to code the SS/DS distinction in clause chaining will
be discussed further below (§18.3.3.7.2).
18.2.3 Discourse-pragmatic connectivity of adverbial clauses
18.2.3.1Preamble
In the preceding sections we described the more local, semantic links between adverbial
and their adjacent main clauses. In this section we deal with the other major type of
connections that bind ADV-clauses to both their local and global context — their
discourse-pragmatic connectivity. Several of the observations made above, concerning
referential and thematic coherence, sequential chains, and the eﬀect of serial order on the
Inter-clausal coherence 343
interpretation of adverbial clauses, already impinge upon the domain of discourse-
pragmatics. The treatment below is more explicitly.
18.2.3.2Coherence and grounding
18.2.3.2.1Local (semantic) vs. global (pragmatic) grounding. Pre-posed ADV-clauses seem
to be attested in all languages, but many languages have no post-posed ADV-clauses. When
a language allows both options, as in English, the grounding properties of the two turn out
to be quite diﬀerent. The diﬀerence may be summarized at two levels:
(49) Correlation between the order of ADV-clauses and their connectivity
a. Semantics
A post-posed ADV-clause tends to have more local, semantic connections to
its main clause, and is thus more closely integrated into its semantic structure.
b. Pragmatics
A pre-posed ADV-clause tends to have more global, diﬀuse pragmatic
connections to its discourse context, and is thus less integrated into the
semantic structure of the main clause.
The distinction between semantic and pragmatic connectivity, as noted earlier, often
coincides with the distinction between more local and more global coherence, respectively.
But that distinction too remains, in principle, a matter of degree. Thus, in the earlier
chapters of Vol.I, we tended to consider intra-clausal relations as semantic and inter-
clausal relations as pragmatic. But in the case of both verbal complements and
ADV-clauses, we shifted the cut-oﬀ point, treating the more local connectivity between
adjacent clauses as semantic and the more global connectivity between non-adjacent
clauses as pragmatic.
An added complexity, already noted above, stems from the eﬀect of word-order on the
type of connectivity to adjacent clauses. Thus, -ing-marked participials in English were
more likely to be interpreted as simultaneous-imperfective when they followed the main
clause, but sequential-perfective when they preceded it.
Further, the pre-posing of ADV-clauses can render their connectivity more global and
pragmatic. And one may thus argue that co-temporality of two events means stronger
event integration, while sequentiality (lack of co-temporality) means weaker event
integration.
What is more, as noted above (see also Thompson 1985), post-posed purpose clauses
tend to refer to the motivation of the agents of their adjacent main-clause, while pre-posed
purpose clauses often have a wider, more diﬀuse scope of reference, including even the
purpose of the speaker, some other discourse participant, or even some generic-impersonal
entity. This again points out to the more local, semantic connectivity of post-posed
ADV-clauses, as against the more global, pragmatic connectivity of pre-posed
ADV-clauses.
344 Syntax
18.2.3.2.2Anaphoricity, backgrounding and ‘topicality’. Turning now to the more clearly
pragmatic connectivity of ADV-clauses, both Haiman (1978) and Thompson and Longacre
(1985) suggest that ADV-clauses, or at least pre-posed ADV-clauses, function as topical or
backgrounded clauses.6
This seems to be supported by examples such as:
(50) a. Backgrounded (‘topical’) main clause
Context: When did he leave?
Response: (i) He left when she called
(ii) ?When she called, he left
b. Backgrounded (‘topical’) ADV-clause
Context: What did he do when she called?
Response: (i) When she called, he left
(ii) ?He left when she called
Another indication of the more ‘topical’ status of pre-posed ADV-clauses comes from their
morphological marking. Some languages mark ADV-clauses (as well as other topical or
presupposed clauses) with the same topicalizing marker used to mark topicalized NPs. As
illustration, consider the following from Isthmus Zapotec (Thompson and Longacre 1985):
(51) a. Topicalized NP (L-dislocation)
ngiiu-ke-la, bigapa ba’du-ke
man-that-top hit child-that
‘The man, he hit the child’
b. Topicalized time-ADV clause
laga kayuni be-nga-la, bedanda hnaa-be
while do/prog he-that-top arrive/compl mother-his
‘While he was doing that, his mother arrived’
c. Topicalized because-ADV clause
kumu wara be-la, naa uyaa’
because sick he-top go/compl I
‘Because he was sick, I went’
The problem of calling pre-posed ADV-clauses ‘topics’ (rather then ‘backgrounded’) is
two-fold. First, using the functional label ‘topic’ does not absolve one from having to
specify the exact discourse-pragmatic function of the construction. Clearly, the function of
backgrounded clauses is not the same as that of topical referents, even if the two construc-
tions share some functional and grammatical features. As elsewhere, partial similarity (one-
way conditional) need not mean identity (two-way conditional).
Second, as noted earlier (Vol.I, Ch.10), the topicality of nominal referents can be
factored out into two distinct features:
•Anaphoric accessibility: being a ‘given’, accessible argument in the preceding dis-
course.
•Cataphoric importance: being a recurrent, important argument in the subsequent
discourse.
Inter-clausal coherence 345
Of these two features of topicality, only anaphoric accessibility (‘givenness’, ‘background-
edness’) applies to pre-posed ADV-clauses. But unlike topical NPs, pre-posed ADV-clauses
are seldom recurrent or important, either cataphorically or anaphorically. Their cataphoric
connectivity is strictly local, ending with the adjacent main clause.
One must conclude, then, that calling pre-posed ADV-clauses ‘topics’ is another
unfortunate legacy of the Praguean tradition that blurred the distinction between the two
cognitive-pragmatic aspects of topicality. This tradition has tended to confuse the high
statistical association between the two features of topicality with logical identity (Givón
1988a).
As noted earlier (Vol.I, Ch.10), the two aspects of topicality can easily be dissociated
even in the case of referent NPs. Thus, for example, REF-indeﬁnite NPs are cataphorically
topical but anaphorically inaccessible. And many anaphorically accessible deﬁnite NPs,
such as oblique-case referents, remain cataphorically unimportant. Only some grammatical
devices — pronouns, deﬁnite subjects, L-dislocation, Y-movement and cleft — tend to
combine both features of topicality.
18.2.3.2.3Anaphoric grounding and thematic re-orientation. Two studies, Thompson (1985)
and Ramsay (1987), compared the discourse-pragmatic connectivity of pre-posed and
post-posed ADV-clauses in written English. Their results, compatible with the ‘given’
pragmatic status of pre-posed ADV-clauses, shed further light on the use of ADV-clauses
for anaphoric grounding.
First, both studies suggest that post-posed ADV-clauses have a narrow, local, semantic
connectivity, primarily to their adjacent main clause. They are, for example, more likely to
display referential coherence (equi-subject) with their main clause.
Syntactically too, post-posed ADV-clauses are more strongly integrated with their main
clause, and less likely to be separated from it by a pause. Most revealing, post-posed
ADV-clauses tend to appear at chain-medial positions, i.e. in contexts of high thematical
continuity.
In contrast, pre-posed ADV-clauses tend to have wider-scoped, diﬀuse, anaphoric
grounding. Both their referential and thematic links project far into the preceding chain,
paragraph or episode.
Syntactically, pre-posed ADV-clauses are more likely to be separated from their main
clause by a pause. Finally, they are typically chain initial, thus also paragraph- and episode-
initial. That is, they appear in contexts of high thematic discontinuity.
As an illustration of the contrast between pre-posed and post-posed ADV-clauses,
consider ﬁrst their occurrence in the following written English narrative (cited from
Thompson 1985:62):7
(52) “…The Brendan was rushing madly farther and farther out to sea. To slow her
down, we streamed a heavy rope in a loop from the stern and let it trail in the
water behind us to act as a brake…”
The pre-posed purpose ADV-clause in (52) is chain-initial, is followed by a pause, and
refers anaphorically to both a referent (‘The Brendan’) and events beyond the chain’s
346 Syntax
boundary. The post-posed purpose ADV-clause is chain-medial, is intonationally merged
with the main clause, and codes the motives of the subject/agent of the adjacent main
clause.
At ﬁrst glance, the local cataphoric connectivity of the pre-posed ADV-clause to its
main clause in (52) seems to be just as speciﬁc and local as the local anaphoric connectivity
of the post-posed clause. For example, both ADV-clauses hold the same co-reference
relation with the subject of the main-clause (‘we’). However, both the anaphoric connec-
tivity and syntactic government of pre-posed ADV-clauses can be much more diﬀuse, as
can be seen in the following passage from the same narrative (Thompson 1985:63):
(53) “…Tedium became our new enemy. Once or twice we glimpsed enough sun to
make it worthwhile to hang the sleeping bags in the rigging and to try to dry
our clothes. But usually the weather was too foggy or too damp for any success.
And it was so cold that the next migrant to land on The Brendan, another water
pipit, also failed to survive the night and perished. To pass the time, there was a
shipboard craze for fancy rope work…”
The pre-posed ADV-clause ‘To pass the time’ refers to neither a speciﬁc event nor a speciﬁc
subject/agent in the preceding 4-chains, but rather to the thematic whole, a meta-distilla-
tion of the entire passage. Nor is there a clear syntactic equi-subject constraint vis-a-vis the
subsequent main clause, itself a subjectless impersonal clause with only an implicit subject
(‘we’, ‘the crew’).
Essentially the same contrast between pre-posed vs. post-posed conditional (‘if’) and
temporal (‘when’) ADV-clauses was shown by Ramsay (1987). Thus compare (examples
from pp.388, 405, respectively):
(54) a. Pre-posed
“…The early rehearsals tend to be in Italian. Mike Turner, the company’s
director, who was to conduct, was insistent on this. If they knew Italian, this
would smooth things over the early rehearsal with Julia Contini…”
b. Post-posed
“…You can only split up if you’ve been going together…”
In the same vein, compare the use of the two ‘if’ ADV-clauses in the very same passage, one
pre-posed and reaching diﬀusely back across several preceding chains, the other post-posed
and tightly focused on the main clause (L’Amour 1962:2):
(55) “…The riﬂes spoke again from the sounding board of the rocks, racketing away
down the canyons to fade at the desert’s rim.
Motionless upon a sun-baked slope, he waited while the sweat found thin
furrows through the dust on his cheeks, but there was no further sound, no
further shot, nor was there movement within the range of his vision… merely
the lazy circle of a buzzard against the heat-blurred sky.
If they had not seen him already, they would not see him if he remained still,
and Shalako his learned his patience in a hard school…”
Inter-clausal coherence 347
18.2.3.2.4Pre-posed adverbial clauses as chain-initial coherence bridges. Pre-posed
ADV-clauses may be viewed as coherence bridges, used at major thematic breaks — chain-
initial, paragraph initial of episode-initial positions. Their bridging capacity is facilitated by
their two-directional connectivity: cataphoric semantic links to the subsequent main
clause, anaphoric pragmatic links to the preceding discourse. The grounding function of
such ADV-clauses may be summarized as (Givón 1987a):
(56) Grounding functions of pre-posed ADV-clauses
chain- nal
clause
W coherence-bridge
clause
chain-initial
clause
predecing chain subsequent chain
, ,
di use
anaphoric
links
V
local
cataphoric
link
One may as well note that a similar chain-initial coherence bridge function is also
performed by shorter adverbials, with a similar contrast between the pre-posed and post-
posed ordering. Thus compare:
(57) a. Pre-posed
In december she decided to quit her job.
b. Post-posed
She decided to quit her job in December.
c. Pre-posed
In the big agency, she worked as an account.
d. Post-posed
She works as an accountant in a big agency.
e. Pre-posed
On the contrary, she succeeded beyond expectations.
f. Post-posed
?She succeeded beyond all expectation on the contrary.
The anaphoric connectivity of pre-posed adverbials may be underscored by noting their
deﬁniteness and reference restrictions, which parallel restrictions on topicalizing construc-
tions (Ch.15,16). Thus compare:
(58) a. Deﬁnite
In the big agency, she worked as an account.
b. Non-referring
In agencies, she worked as an accountant
348 Syntax
c. *REF-indeﬁnite
*In an agency, she worked as an accountant.
No such restriction applies to the post-posed adverbial (57d).
To illustratetheuse ofthiscontrastinnatural text,considerpassage(59) below,inwhich
the temporal reference of the pre-posed adverbial reaches back rather diﬀusely through an
entire page of preceding narrative stasis. In contrast, the post-posed imperfective temporal
ADV-clause focuses narrowly on its adjacent main clause (L’Amour 1962:3):
(59) “…The roan gelding was a mountain-bred horse and could survive on cholla or
prickly pear if the spines were burned away, but water and grass lay within that
opening in the hills, and Shalako had no intention of skirting the mountain
unless circumstances insisted. Yet the sound of shots had come from that
direction.
After a while he made, with sparing movements, a cigarette, his eyes holding
on the far, blue mountains brieﬂy, then surveying the country while he worked
with the small, essential movements…”
The pre-posed element can also be a nominal argument of the verb, as in the chain-initial
locative-presentative construction in (60) below, with its ‘inverted’ OVS syntax (see Ch.16;
L’Amour 1962:2):
(60) “…Movement attracts the eye, draws the attention, renders visible. A motionless
object that blends with the surroundings can long remain invisible even when
close by, and Shalako was not moving.
About him lay vast immeasurable distances, pastel shadings of salmon, pink
and lemon broken by the deeper reds of rock…”
18.2.4 Conjoined (‘chained’) clauses
18.2.4.1Preamble
We have already noted above (§18.1.1) that the traditional clean dichotomy between
‘independent’ and ‘dependent’ clauses is unrealistic both functionally and syntactically.
Rather, our analysis must deal more speciﬁcally with degrees — and types — of semantic-
pragmatic connectivity (2) on the one hand, and syntactic dependency, ﬁniteness or
control (1) on the other.
While the diﬀerent types of conjoined clauses may vary among themselves in the degree
and type of their connectivity, their pragmatic links tend to be local (narrow scoped). In
this, they contrast with pre-posed adverbials but resemble the post-posed ones.
18.2.4.2Coherence and thematic continuity
Most languages have a number of conjunction morphemes that signal the degree and type
of connectivity — or cataphoric transition — to the next clause. In written discourse,
punctuation marks (period, colon, semi-colon, comma, parentheses or hyphens) are part
of the system that codes inter-clausal connectivity, being a weak replica of intonational
cues. To illustrate this gradation brieﬂy, consider:
Inter-clausal coherence 349
(61) a. Comma-‘and’ conjunction
She came in, [Ø] stopped, [Ø] looked around and froze.
b. Period conjunction
She came in, [Ø] stopped and looked around. She froze.
c. Period-‘then’ conjunction
She came in and looked around. Then she froze.
d. Period-pre-posed-adverbial conjunction
…She froze. Later on she woke up in a strange house…
The cataphoric thematic continuity following the conjunction is highest in (61a), lower in
(61b), lower yet in (61c) and lowest in (61d). Such thematic continuity may be expressed
in terms of the probability of change in the main strands of thematic coherence, repro-
duced below:
(5) Well-marked elements of discourse coherence
a. referents (‘participants’)
b. location
c. temporality
d. aspectuality
e. modality
f. perspective (‘narrative voice’)
g. action/events
Consider, for example, the statistical correlation between the use of various conjunctions
(including punctuation marks) and cataphoric subject (5a) continuity in written English
(Hayashi 1989):
(62) Cataphoric referential continuity associated with zero punctuation, comma, period
and paragraph indentation with ‘and’ and ‘then’ in English (Hayashi 1989)
Conjunction type % subject switch (DS)
across the conjunction
and
, and
. And
15
70
81
and then
, and then
. and then
16
36
100
, then
. Then
. PARAG/Then
50
56
100
comma (alone)
period (alone)
10
72
The punctuation devices are ranked in a predictable, iconic, order:
350 Syntax
(63) highest cataphoric continuity
zero
comma
period
paragraph indentation
lowest cataphoric continuity
18.2.4.3Continuative vs. contrastive junctions
There appears to be a systematic connection between the use of contrastive conjunctions,
thematic discontinuity, and referential discontinuity. Thus in English, the continuative
conjunction ‘and’ codes greater cataphoric continuity than the contrastive conjunction
‘but’. Thus compare:
(64) a. He gutted the ﬁsh, cleaned it and cut oﬀ the head
b. ?He gutted the ﬁsh, cleaned it but cut oﬀ the head
c. He gutted the ﬁsh, cleaned it, but then stopped
d. ?He gutted the ﬁsh, cleaned it and stopped
One could of course dream up a presuppositional background that would render (64b,d)
more felicitous and (64a,c) odd; as, for example:
(65) Background: We love eating ﬁsh-heads.
But (65) is at clear variance with the cultural norms that render (64a,c) more likely.
The strong statistical association between contrastive conjunctions and referential
discontinuity, and between continuative conjunctions and referential continuity, has been
shown in Hayashi’s (1989) study of English:
(66) Cataphoric referential continuity and contrastive conjunctions
in written English (Hayashi 1989)
Conjunction type % subject switch (DS)
across the conjunction
and (all punctuations)
, while
but (all punctuations)
, though
. Yet
29
77
85
100
100
The contrastive ‘while’, ‘but’, ‘though’ and ‘yet’ are strongly associated with switch-subject
(DS), while the continuative ‘and’ is strongly associated with equi-subject (SS).
Similar results have been reported by Carlson (1987) for Sup’ire (Senufu), where the
non-contrastive conjunction maá ‘and’ is associated 99% of the time with cataphoric
referential continuity, while the contrastive conjunction kà (‘but’) is associated 98% of the
time with cataphoric referential discontinuity. Similar strong associations have been
Inter-clausal coherence 351
reported by Frajzyngier (1986) for Polish and Li (1988) for Green Hmong, albeit without
quantiﬁcation.
The correlations noted above should not be taken to mean that various conjunctions
and punctuation devices signal the degree of referential continuity. Rather, they signal
primarily degrees of thematic coherence. As noted earlier, however, thematic coherence is
a multi-strand phenomenon, and one of its most visible, concrete, important strands is
referential continuity. While the sub-strands of coherence may be conceptually distinct,
they tend to be strongly associated in connected discourse.
Thematic contrasts usually involve at least the predicate, but often both the predicate
and a referent. Thus compare:
(67) a. Switch verb
Mary sat down, but didn’t eat
b. Switch verb and subject (negation)
Joe came, but Sally didn’t
c. Switch verb and object (negation)
I found Sally, but not Joe
d. Switch verb and subject
Mary sat down, but Bruce stayed on his feet
e. Switch verb and object
Mary loved lettuce, but loathed spinach
f. Switch verb, subject & object
Mary played chess, but Bruce detested board-games
As elsewhere, ‘contrast’ is always embedded in a context of some pre-set expectations about
states, activities, subjects or objects that are expected to behave in a certain way but in fact
don’t. The expectations may be normative-cultural, as in (68a) below, or else set up for the
speciﬁc occasion in the preceding discourse, as in (68b):
(68) a. Generic-cultural expectations
Mary had an IQ of 72 but still was a famous physicist
(Expectation: Physicists need high IQ)
b. Anaphorically-set expectations
Mary sat down but Bruce stayed on his feet
(Expectation: Mary and Bruce are similar or closely linked, thus expected to
behave alike.)
352 Syntax
18.3 Syntactic and typological dimensions of inter-clausal connectivity
18.3.1 Finiteness and control
18.3.1.1Recapitulation
As noted earlier (Ch.11), ﬁniteness is a clausal phenomenon that may be coded at multiple
sites on either the verb or subject and object NPs. Its most conspicuous features may be
discussed in terms of two extreme prototypes — the verbal (ﬁnite) vs. nominal (non-ﬁnite).
(69) The morpho-syntax of the ﬁnite vs. non-ﬁnite prototypes
Finite
(verbal)
Non-ﬁnite
(nominal)
a. Verbal inﬂections
•tense–aspect-modality
•pronominal aﬃxes
•nominalizers
•determiners
•classiﬁers, number
b. Nominal inﬂections
•case-markers
•obligatory zero-anaphors
+
+
−
−
−
Nom/Acc
−
−
−
+
+
+
Gen
+
Since ﬁniteness is coded at multiple sites and each of those may involve multiple markers,
ﬁniteness is in principle not a discrete binary distinction but rather a scalar dimension
(Ch.11,12). Our survey of the clause-types that make up connected discourse, however
complex it may seem at times, ultimately revolves around the leitmotif of degree of
ﬁniteness.
18.3.1.2Finiteness and adverbial clauses
As noted earlier above, one type of adverbial clauses, equi-subject participial clauses, tend
to display less-ﬁnite syntax in most languages, in terms of reduced tense–aspect-modal
marking (most commonly just the aspectual contrast of imperfective vs. perfect), participi-
al/nominalized verbal morphology, lack of subject/object pronominal inﬂections, and
obligatory zero subject.
In some language families, such as Indo-European, Bantu, Senufu or Athabaskan,
ADV-clauses, particularly the non-participial ones, are syntactically much closer to the
ﬁnite prototype. But even in these, strong restrictions on the distribution of tense–aspect-
modality are observed, so that the range of ﬁnite verbal morphology is sharply reduced.
Other language families, such as Uto-Aztecan, Turkic, Cariban or Tibeto-Burman,
present more extreme cases of radically non-ﬁnite syntax in ADV-clauses — as well as in
other subordinate clauses. We will illustrate this ﬁrst with data from Ute (Uto-Aztecan),
where three of the features of non-ﬁnite syntax listed in (69) characterize most
ADV-clauses:
Inter-clausal coherence 353
•genitive case-marking on the subject
•nominalizing morpheme on the verb
•severely reduced tense–aspect marking on the verb
As an illustration of this, consider (Givón 1980a, 1994c):
(70) Nominal ADV-clauses in Ute
a. Main clause
ta’wach sarich-i magha-qa
man-subj dog-obj feed-ant
‘The man fed the dog’
b. ‘If’/‘when’ ADV-clause
ta’wach-i sarich-i magha-kwa…
man-gen dog-obj feed-sub
‘If/when the man feeds/fed/will feed the dog…’
c. ‘After’/‘because’ ADV-clause
ta’wach-i sarich-i magha-kway-kwa…
man-gen dog-obj feed-ant-sub
‘After/because the man feeds/fed/will feed the dog…’
d. Subjunctive purpose ADV-clause
ta’wach-i sarich-i magha-vaa-kwa…
man-gen dog-obj feed-irr-sub
‘In order that the man feed the dog…’
e. Equi-subject purpose ADV-clause
ta’wach yu
=ga-qa sarich-i magha-vaa-ci
man/subj enter-ant dog-obj feed-irr-sub
‘The man came in to feed the dog’
f. Concessive ADV-clause
ta’wach-i sarich-i magha-kwa-sap…
man-gen dog-obj feed-sub-mod
‘Even though the man has fed/may feed/is feeding the dog, …’
g. Counterfact conditional
náaghasu
=ni ta’wach-i sarich-i magha-kway-kwa,
mod man-gen dog-obj feed-ant-sub
‘If the man had fed the dog,
mamach págh-kwa-vaa-qa-t(u
=)
woman/subj leave-go-irr-ant-nom
the woman would have left’
A language may begin to grammaticalize ADV-clauses via a nominalization pathway, but
then gradually add more ﬁnite tense–aspect-modal morphology. This diachronic process
of re-ﬁnitization has indeed been going on in Ute (Givón 1994c), and has also been
described in Cariban (Gildea 1998) and Kham (Tibeto-Burman; Watters 1998). We will
354 Syntax
illustrate this process by contrasting the nominalized ADV-clauses of Early Biblical Hebrew
with their fully-ﬁnite Modern Hebrew equivalents:
(71) Non-ﬁnite EBH adverbial clauses
a. be-yom ’asot YHWH ’et-ha-shamayim…
loc-day/of make/inf/of YHWH acc-the-heavens
‘on the day that God made the sky…’
(lit.: ‘on the day of God’s making of the sky…’)
(Genesis 2:4)
MH equivalent
ba-yom she-YHWH ’asa ’et-ha-shamayim
at-day rel-YHWH make/perf/3masc.sg acc-the-heavens
b. be-hibar’-am
loc-pass/create/inf-their
‘when they were created’
(lit.: ‘at their being created’)
(Genesis 2:4)
MH equivalent
ke-she-hem nivre’-u
when-rel-they create/pass/perf-3masc.pl
c. ’ad shuv-xa ’el ha-’adamah
time/of return/inf-your to the-earth
‘till you return to the earth’
(lit.: ‘until your return to the earth’)
(Genesis 3:19)
MH equivalent
’ad-she-ta-shuv ’el ha-’adamah
till-rel-3masc.sg-return/irr to the-earth
d. ’axarey holid-o ’et-Mahal’el
behind/of sire/inf-his acc-Mahal’el
‘after he sired Mahal’el’
(lit.: ‘after of his siring Mahal’el’)
(Genesis 5:13)
MH equivalent
’axarey she-hu’ holid ’et-Mehal’el
after rel-he sire/perf/3masc.sg acc-Mehal’el
e. ki-shmo’a malxey ha-’emorim
as-hear/inf/of kings/of the-Emorites
‘when the Emorite kings heard’
(lit.: ‘upon the hearing of the Emorite kings’
(Joshua 5:1)
MH equivalent
ke-she-sham’-u malxey ha-’emorim
as-rel-hear/perf-3masc.pl kings/of the-Emorites
Inter-clausal coherence 355
f. ki-lh.ox ha-shor ’et-yereq ha-sadeh
as-chew/inf/of the-ox acc-grass/of the-ﬁeld
‘the way the ox chews the grass of the ﬁeld’
(lit.: ‘like the ox’s chewing the ﬁeld grass’)
(Num. 22:4)
MH equivalent
kemo she-ha-shor melaxex ’et-yereq ha-sadeh
like rel-the-ox chew/impf/masc.sg acc-grass/of the-ﬁeld
The change from non-ﬁnite to ﬁnite subordinate clauses had already begun in Biblical
Hebrew, and was essentially complete by the Mishnaic period (200 AD). It aﬀected
REL-clauses ﬁrst, then spread by analogy into the ADV-clauses paradigm, given that both
clause-types shared essentially the same nominalized structure (Givón 1991d).
18.3.2 Finiteness and clause-chaining
18.3.2.1Clauses, chains, and paragraphs
As noted earlier, the traditional view of inter-clausal connectivity, heavily weighted by the
study of English-like languages, took for granted the contrast between clausal subordina-
tion and coordination (‘conjunction’), as well as the assumption that clause-chains were
sequences of conjoined clauses (or even conjoined verb phrase).
But the term clause chaining itself, due to Longacre (1983, 1985), was taken initially as
a suggestion that a radically diﬀerent system of clause-combining existed, one in which the
traditional distinction between subordinate and coordinate was either irrelevant or
superseded.
As in many other cases of so-called radical departures, the radicalism turns out to be in
part the product of terminological murk, and in part the product of lingering Platonic
essentialism in one’s approach to categories, taxonomy and thus typology.
The terminological murk arises from the oft-overlapping use of the terms sentence,
paragraph and chain, and can be dispatched with relative ease by eliminating the term
‘sentence’ altogether. The term ‘clause’ — simple or complex — is then reserved for
syntactic units packed under a single intonation contour.8
The clause-chain, the smallest unit of coherent multi-propositional discourse, combines
clauses that are packed under separate intonation contours and have the tightest, most
continuous cross-clausal coherence links. In written discourse, inter-clausal junctures
within the chain are most commonly marked with a coma, and inter-chain junctures with
a period. These punctuation conventions correspond closely to intonational units in spoken
discourse (Givón 1991b). While chains in coherent discourse are typically multi-clausal, a
chain can also on occasion be of a single clause.
The paragraph is the next-higher thematic coherence unit, most commonly made out
of a number of chains, but on occasion of only a single chain. The episode, under whatever
guise, is the next-higher thematic coherence level, grouping paragraphs.
At ﬁrst glance, the hierarchic organization of clauses, chains, paragraphs and episodes
seems to pertain most narrowly to the thematic structure of narrative discourse, in which
356 Syntax
perspective and thus coherence is controlled by a single speaker. However, the thematic
organization of conversation can be just as hierarchic, complex and global, in spite of the
repeated shifts between speakers in control of perspective. Thus, collaborative conversation
is characterized by a high degree of thematic coherence across successive turns (Goodwin
1995; Chafe 1997; Coates 1997; Ervin-Tripp and Küntay 1977; Linell and Kirolija 1997,
inter alia). And natural oral narrative can easily be chaotic, choppy and downright
incoherent.
The second problem with the typological radicalism that takes clause-chaining systems
to be utterly unique is, paradoxically, a mirror image of the Platonism inherent in the
traditional English-based clean split between subordination and coordination. This
approach takes for granted that the English-type chaining strings together conjoined
independent clauses with neither syntactic dependency, nor gradients of ﬁniteness, nor
switch-reference devices.
The approach pursued here is neither radical nor traditional, but only factual. While
recognizing the typological variability of clause-chaining systems, it does not let go of the
search for both functional and syntactic universals and explanatory principles.
18.3.2.2Clause-types within the chain
The most general feature of clause-chaining systems, thus of the grammar of thematic
coherence, is the distinction between chain-grounding, chain-initial, chain-medial and
chain-ﬁnal clauses. This distinction is signiﬁcant ﬁrst at the functional level of thematic
coherence.
•Chain-grounding clauses must perform the coherence-bridge function so characteristic
of pre-posed adverbials, L-dislocation, existential-presentatives and similar devices.
They code both the global anaphoric links of the new chain to the preceding discourse,
and the local cataphoric links to the subsequent chain-initial clause. Their ﬁniteness is
often unpredictable, although in many languages they are nominalized, at least
historically. And many chains, especially paragraph-medial ones, lack this clause-type
all together, presumably because the thematic continuity within the paragraph is high
enough so that a conjunction or short adverbial will suﬃce to signal thematic reorienta-
tion.
•Chain-initial clauses launch the new chain, initiating its major thematic strands (topical
referent(s), tense–aspect-modality, perspective). Their anaphoric connectivity is low or
strictly local, primarily to the chain-grounding clause, and their cataphoric coherence
is maximal. At least in one major clause-chaining type, this is grammatically the most
elaborately marked, thus most ﬁnite clause-type in the chain.
•Chain-medial clauses carry the bulk of sequential new information in the chain, and
display the highest degree of cross-clausal coherence. Their grammatical marking is the
most minimal, since most threads of thematic coherence (topical referents, temporality,
aspectuality, modality, perspective) remain the same. Thus in spite of earlier claims to
the contrary, this is syntactically the least ﬁnite clause-type in the chain.
•Chain ﬁnal clauses terminate the thematic unit. Their coherence properties are just the
opposite of those of chain-initial clauses: maximal anaphoric continuity, minimal
Inter-clausal coherence 357
cataphoric continuity. Indeed, their grammar often signals the impending major
thematic break and, most commonly, the initiation of a new chain. And at least in one
major clause-chaining type this is the most ﬁnite clause type.
In our treatment of the typology of clause-chaining systems, we will divide them ﬁrst into
two major types:
•SOV-type chaining (chain-ﬁnal = most ﬁnite clause)
•VO-type chaining (chain-initial = most ﬁnite clause)
For each type, the attested sub-types will be then described in the now-familiar terms of
diachronic pathways of grammaticalization.
18.3.2.3The SOV clause-chaining type
The most salient syntactic feature of this type of clause-chaining is the assignment of most
ﬁnite grammatical marking to the chain-ﬁnal clause. While the correlation with word-
order is not absolute, this clause-chaining type is found most conspicuously in SOV
languages. We will nonetheless illustrate its most simple sub-type with a rigid SVO
language (English), where this chaining type is optional and of limited use.
18.3.2.3.1The simple participial equi-subject chain. As noted earlier, English has pre-posed
equi-subject participial ADV-clauses. Such clauses, with their rigid cataphoric SS (equi-
subject) constraint, lend themselves rather naturally to being grammaticalized into one of
the most rudimentary and wide-spread clause-chaining system. This is done by the simple
extension — or iteration — of the clause’s cataphoric SS constraint, while ditching its
anaphoric coherence-bridge function. The resulting structure is now a sequential,
maximally-continuous, equi-subject chain:
(72) a. Coming out of the house,
b. stopping to check the mailbox,
c. taking a look at the driveway
d. and pausing to adjust his hat,
e. Marvin turned around
f. and froze.
The participial clauses (72a–d) are all chain-medial (non-ﬁnal), signalling equally the very
same maximal thematic continuity. Only clause (72e), technically pre-ﬁnal in the chain,
has fully ﬁnite grammar (verbal inﬂections, non-zero subject), serving at the same time as
the more-ﬁnite chain-initial clause of the VO-type short chain that ends with a slightly less-
ﬁnite (zero subject) chain-ﬁnal clause (72f). As we shall see below, this simple system
partakes repeatedly in more elaborate variants of the SVO clause-chaining type.
18.3.2.3.2Adding a chain-medial cataphoric-DS (‘switch-reference’) clause. The most
common further elaboration of the simple participial cataphoric-SS chaining system may
be seen in Miskitu (Misumalpan; Chibchan), where a chain-medial cataphoric switch-
reference (cataphoric-DS) clause-type has been added.
358 Syntax
In Misumalpan languages, the participial/inﬁnitive/nominal suﬃx -i marks non-ﬁnite
clauses in a variety of grammatical contexts (Hale 1988, 1991):
(73) a. Complement of modality verb
naha nani w-a-m-tla maki-i ta krik-ri
we pl house-your build-inf end break-past/1
‘We began to build your house’
b. Serial verb constructions
baha uku-ka pal-i wa-n
that vulture-cnstr ﬂy-inf go-past/3
‘The vulture ﬂew away’
(lit.: ‘The vulture left ﬂying’)
c. ‘Complement’ of aspectual auxiliary
kuh puht-i saak-yang
ﬁre blow-inf stand-1
‘I am blowing the ﬁre’
(lit.: ‘I stand blow the ﬁre’)
d. Serial verb plus auxiliary
yang nani utla kum mak-i banghw-i s-na
I pl house one build-inf join-inf be-1
‘We are building a house togehter’
(lit.: ‘We are joining to build a house’)
In clause-chaining, the -i-suﬃxed verb-form codes chain-medial cataphoric-SS clauses, as
in the simple participial system. A ﬁnite verb form, marked with past tense and subject
pronoun, has been grammaticalized as the chain-medial cataphoric-DS clause. The
tense–aspect and subject agreement marking in such clauses remain the same as in past-
marked chain-ﬁnal clauses. Thus (Hale 1988, 1991):
(74) a. Same-subject
baha ulu-ka baut-i ik-amna
that wasp-constr hit-inf kill-fut/1
‘I will swat that wasp and kill it’
b. Diﬀerent subject
man sula kum kaik-ram plap-an
you deer one see-past/2 run-past/3
‘You saw a deer and it ran’
c. Diﬀerent subject
yang sula kum kaik-ri plap-an
I deer one see-past/1 run-past/3
‘I saw a deer and it ran’
Inter-clausal coherence 359
d. Diﬀerent subject
aisi-k-i Bilwi-ra ai blik-an wa-ri
father-cnstr-1 B.-to me send-past/3 go-past/1
‘My father sent me to Bilwi (Puerto Cabezas)’
(lit.: ‘My father sent me — and I went — to P.C.’)
The logic of the diachronic rise of the Miskitu cataphoric-DS clause is easy to discern. In
the SOV-type clause-chaining system, fully-marked ﬁnite clauses are typically chain-ﬁnal.
Such clauses signal cataphorically the impending thematic break. And thematic breaks, as
noted above, are strongly associated with referential discontinuity, thus switch-subject or
switch-reference.
One may sum up the Misumalpan clause-chaining system as the product of two dia-
chronic cycles of ‘recruitment’. In the ﬁrst, a chain-grounding cataphoric-SS non-ﬁnite
clause (participial adverbial) was recruited to extend its referential continuity function
into the chain-medial positions. In the second, a chain-ﬁnal cataphoric-DS ﬁnite clause
was recruited to extend its referential discontinuity function into a chain medial position.
That is:
•chain-grounding-SS ﬁ chain-medial-SS
•chain-ﬁnal-DS ﬁ chain-medial-DS
Both developments capitalized on the universal tendency, indeed the very deﬁnition of
thematic chains, to maintain tight coherence within the chain and allow breaks only
between chains. But the second development is much less common than the ﬁrst, given
that the chain-medial position is overwhelmingly a topic continuity position.
18.3.2.3.3The use of ﬁnite adverbial clauses in chain-medial switch-reference. An alternative
diachronic route to developing a chain-medial cataphoric-DS clause can be seen in Kanite
(Papuan Highlands). In this language, the verb in chain-medial cataphoric-SS clauses is
marked only by a subject pronoun (‘subject agreement’) that agrees both anaphorically and
cataphorically.
A ﬁnite ADV-clause is then used in two capacities, both signaling switch reference
(cataphoric-DS). First, as a chain-grounding clause, where its verb displays two diﬀerent
suﬃx pronouns, the ﬁrst anaphoric (‘subject agreement’), the second cataphoric and
‘agreeing’ with the next clauses’s subject (cataphoric-DS). An additional suﬃx is sand-
wiched between the two pronouns, historically most likely a conjunction or subordination
marker (Haiman 1983, 1987). In its second capacity, the ﬁnite ADV-clause is used in a
chain-medial cataphoric-DS capacity, but without its now-superﬂuous anaphoric pronoun.
Only the chain-ﬁnal clause in Kanite is marked by ﬁnite morphology (anaphoric subject
pronoun, tense–aspect-modality, speech-act). As an illustration, consider the chain
(Longacre 1985):
(75) a. his-u’a-ke-’ka
do-we-ds-you
‘…If we do this,
360 Syntax
b. naki a’nemo-ka hoya ali-’ka
so women-you garden work-you
you women work the garden,
c. naki ali ha’noma hu-ne’atale-’ka
so work ﬁnish do-compl-you
then you ﬁnish,
d. inuna kae-’ka
weeds burn-you
and burn the weeds
e. popo hu-’ka
hoe do-you
and hoe,
f. naki ha’no hu-talete-ke-ta’a
so ﬁnish do-compl-ds-we
and when you ﬁnish,
g. naki viemoka-ta’a keki’yamo’ma ha’noma nehis-i-ana
so men-we fence ﬁnish make-it-irr
then we men will ﬁnish making the fence…’
The logic of the rise of the Kanite system is complex but still coherent. Fully ﬁnite chain-
initial ADV-clauses, unlike their participial counterparts, have non-local anaphoric
connections and signal an impending (cataphoric) major thematic and referential break.
The conjunction/subordination marker is part of the morphology signaling the break, and
in an OV language such markers tend to be V-suﬃxes (see §18.3.2.7).
The pronoun that follows the conjunction and codes the subject of the next clause must
have belonged initially to that subsequent clause, as a topic-switching independent
pronoun, perhaps in an L-dislocation structure. The use of both devices for switch-
reference is wide-spread cross-linguistically (Ch.16; Vol.I, Ch.9).
When the ﬁnite ADV-clause was pressed into service in the chain-medial cataphoric-SS
slot, all it lost was its anaphoric pronoun (‘subject-agreement’), now superﬂuous in the
new chain-medial slot. Otherwise, the conjunction and cataphoric pronoun continue to
signal the same cataphoric-DS function they had in the chain-initial position.
As an illustration of combining the two discontinuity devices, conjunction and
independent pronoun, consider the following from Krio (English-based Creole; Sierra
Leone). In this strict SVO language, where the conjunction na in combination with a
pronoun is used in subject switching L-dislocation clauses (Givón 1984c):
(76) …di pikín den jis de-se, den kam fo, den kam fo…
…the child them just prog-say they come for they come for
…the children just kept saying (that) they came for, they came for…
na-in di mamí taya, en se mek den go on…
and-her the woman tired she say make them go home
but the woman got tired, so she told them to go home…’
Inter-clausal coherence 361
18.3.2.3.4The use of chain-grounding clauses. Chuave, another Papuan Highlands language
related to Kanite, codes morpho-syntactically four positions in the chain. In ascending
order of degree of ﬁniteness:
•chain-initial grounding (optional)
•chain-medial cataphoric-SS
•chain-medial cataphoric-DS
•chain-ﬁnal ﬁnite clauses
Chain-medial cataphoric-SS and chain-ﬁnal clauses in Chuave are near-identical to their
counterparts in Kanite. The minor diﬀerences lie in, ﬁrst, the systematic use of chain-pre-
initial grounding clauses; and second, the clause-type recruited for the chain-medial
cataphoric-DS (switch reference) function.
Functionally, chain-grounding clauses in Chuave code backgrounded, presupposed
information with strong anaphoric connections, thus conforming to our proﬁle of
‘coherence bridge’. But the range of backgrounded clauses they code is broad, includes not
only ADV-clauses, but also REL-clauses, V-complements and other ‘topic clauses’.
Syntactically, Chuave chain-grounding clauses are marked with the nominalizing suﬃx
-g/-k and sometimes also a determiner. They are further marked aspectually as either
simultaneous or sequential (imperfective -i, perfect -a, respectively) vis-a-vis the subse-
quent main clause. They thus closely resemble participial ADV-clauses, albeit without their
rigid cataphoric equi-subject constraint. Thus, all four examples in (77) below involve
switch-subject between the chain-initial and subsequent clause; and the chain-grounding
clause is always followed by a ﬁnite chain-ﬁnal clause. That is, these examples involve short
chains (Thurman 1978):
(77) a. REL-clause (in English)
gan moi-n-g-u-a,
child be-he-nom-him-perf
‘The child (who) is here,
Gomia tei awi d-i
Gomia there send leave-impfv
send (him) to Gomia!’
(or: ‘Send the child who’s here to Gomia!’)
b. V-complement (in English)
kasu di-in-g-a,
lie say-they-nom-perf
‘That they told a lie,
fai-ke-[Ø]-m-a
right-neg-past-it-emph
(it’s) not right’.
(or: ‘It’s not right that they told a lie’)
362 Syntax
c. ADV-clause (in English)
ne iki-num moi-n-g-i,
you house-your be-you-nom-impfv
‘While you are in your house,
tei u-na-y-e
there come-fut-I-declar
I will come there’.
(or: ‘I’ll come over when you’re at home’)
d. Topic clause (in English)
koma du-pun-g-a-rai
before say-we-top-nsim-that
‘Concerning that talk we had before,
niki do-[Ø]-m-e
bad be-past-it-declar
it was no good’.
In longer chains, medial clauses are marked only for the contrast between cataphoric-SS
and cataphoric-DS. The chain-medial cataphoric-SS marker is -re/-ro, historically the 3sg
subject pronoun (see Tairora, below). The chain-medial cataphoric-DS marker -go/-ge is
added before the pronoun, most likely arising from the very same conjunction as in Kanite,
above. Thus (Thurman 1978):
(78) a. ka-i-k-a-i
see-I-nom-perf-that
‘When I looked,
b. kiapu guwai-nom-i muro furuwai bei-de-in-goro,
oﬃcer thing-their-that all stew do-leave-3pl-ds
they were strewing all the oﬃcers’ stuﬀ about,
c. niki-de ﬁ-i-y-e
bad-thing be-perf-I-decl
and I got angry’
As can be seen in (78b) above, the erstwhile 3sg subject pronoun (-ro/-re) is not function-
ing as a pronoun any more, because the chain-medial-DS clause carries its own subject
pronoun, in this case 3pl. To further illustrate the contrast between SS-medial that carry
no synchronic subject pronoun and DS-medial clauses that do, consider the longer chain
fragment in (Thurman 1978):
(79) a. …meina i-ne-ro,
…money take-eat-ss
‘…(I) took the money,
b. ena tekoi u-re
then again come-ss
then came back again
Inter-clausal coherence 363
c. iki moi-i-koro,
house stay-I-ds
and stayed home,
d. tekoi u-boi-n-goro,
again call-exit-3sg-ds
so then he sent for me again,
e. inako-de-ro
return-come-ss
and so (I) came back
f. fu-i-goro,
go-I-ds
and went there,
g. tokoi numba lin-lin numba-i naro-[Ø]-m-e
again number one-one number-that give-me-perf/3sg-decl
and again he made me foreman (of the work-line)…’
The development of the chain-medial system of cataphoric-SS vs. cataphoric-DS marking
in Chuave is again well motivated. As in Kanite, the least-marked, most frequent clause-
type, medial-SS, is coded by an erstwhile anaphoric pronoun, here projecting only
cataphoric switch-reference but with no pronominal value. As in Kanite, combining such
a pronoun with a conjunction yields the cue for chain-medial cataphoric-DS (switch-
reference). But the clause-type that brought the conjunction in was not the chain-initial
grounding clause, but most likely a chain-medial clause.
18.3.2.3.5The recruitment of pronouns to mark chain-medial-SS clauses. Tairora, a related
Papuan Highlands language, sheds some light on the rise of the chain-medial marking
system in Chuave. The normal anaphoric pronouns (‘subject agreement’) are used in
Tairora in both chain-medial-SS and chain-ﬁnal clauses. The two clause-types exhibit few
formal diﬀerences except for perhaps tense–aspect restrictions. One of the suﬃx pronouns
in Tairora is the 3sg pronoun -ro, which is cognate with the Chuave chain-medial-SS
marker.
Chain-medial-DS clauses in Tairora display two pronouns, as in Kanite, one anaphoric
(‘subject agreement’), the other cataphoric, agreeing with the subject of the following
clause. Unlike Kanite, however, no conjunction is involved here, although the very same
conjunction as in Kanite (-ke) is available. Finally, while SS-medial and chain-ﬁnal clauses
often dispense with tense–aspect markers, DS-medial clauses always retain them. Thus
consider (Vincent 1973; Givón 1991b):
(80) a. SS-medial and chain-ﬁnal clauses
…rori vare-ro vi katari-ra tu’a-ira vate-ro…
…axe take-3sg go tree-gen root-loc put-3sg
‘…he takes the axe and puts it at the base of the tree…’
364 Syntax
b. DS-medial clauses
…saavori-vata paepae-vata vata-iva-ro,
…shovel-conj machete-conj put-past/3sg-ds/3sg
‘…he puts down the shovel and the machete,
saavori vi-va hi’int-iva-ro,
shovel dem-subj fall-past/3sg-ds/3sg
the shovel falls down,
vara vaavi ara-ke-ro vate-ro…
take over stand-conj-3sg put-3sg
so he props it up there again and…’
The logic of the diachronic recruitment of chain-medial clauses in Tairora is complex but
still transparent. First, normal anaphoric pronouns (‘subject agreement’) code, by default
of high frequency, the chain-medial cataphoric-SS function, as well as chain-ﬁnal. Both
functions are motivated by the high frequency of referential continuity within chains.
Next, a second pronoun is added, one that refers explicitly, cataphorically, to the subject
of the next clause. Most likely, this pronoun arises through L-dislocation in the subsequent
clause. In a rather unproblematic way, as in Kanite, this second pronoun signals the chain-
medial cataphoric-DS function.
Finally, since the cataphoric-DS clause is the most ﬁnite in the Tairora chaining system,
it was most likely recruited from the chain-ﬁnal position, as in Misumalpan, above. This
makes it even more plausible that the cataphoric pronoun arose from a subsequent
L-dislocation clause, since this topic-shifting construction is typically chain-initial.
18.3.2.3.6Finiteness in chain-medial-DS clauses. To illustrate how the complexity of the
SOV-type clause-chaining system can increase further, adding ﬁner thematic distinctions
and ﬁner gradations of ﬁniteness, consider the chaining system of Kalam (Papuan
Highlands). Following our main prediction, above, chain-ﬁnal clauses in Kalam are the
most ﬁnite, and chain-medial cataphoric-SS the least ﬁnite, displaying not even a pronomi-
nal suﬃx (‘subject agreement’). Thus (Pawley 1966; Givón 1991b):
(81) Chain-ﬁnal clauses
a. Perfective-past
…bi-nak ak spet omi]al dand sa]d-ip…
…man-your def spade two carry leave-perf/3sg
‘…The man carries away two spades…’
b. Present-progressive
…mon kamb ak yupiri-sap…
…wood heap def gather-impfv/3sg
‘…she’s gathering the wood-pile…’
Inter-clausal coherence 365
(82) Chain-medial-SS clauses
a. Sequential-SS
…nyaip nyilung ak d-iy, ko]am tik-iy…
…knife small def take-seq/ss throat cut-seq/ss
‘…she picks a knife, cuts its throat and…’
b. Irrealis-SS (V-complement)
…nying mal-ning gi-sap…
…water ﬁll-irr/ss do-pres
‘…she intends to ﬁll (it with) water…’
c. Irrealis-SS (V-complement)
…mindak kind nuk pik-juw-ning…
…later back her hit-dislocate-irr/ss
‘…later he aims to dislocate her back…’
Chain-medial cataphoric-DS clauses in Kalam, as in Miskitu, Kanite and Tairora, display
some tense–aspect-modal marking as well as obligatory subject pronouns. But the two
most common major tense–aspects, the perfective/past (81a) and present/progressive
(81b), cannot appear in chain-medial-DS clauses:
(83) Chain-medial clauses
a. Non-sequential-DS (recent-past)
…kikaruk am-nak-ni]
] nuk kimb-iy…
…chicken go-rpast/3sg-sim/ds she leave-seq/ss
‘…with the chicken having run away, she leaves…’
b. Sequential-DS, remote-past (followed by simultaneous-DS immediate-past)
…ny-ek, nuk dand korip ow-ak-ni]
]…
…give-rpast/ss/seq/ds/3sg she carry house come-rpast/3sg-sim/ds
‘…(he) having given it to her, she brings it over to the house…’
c. Non-sequential-SS (followed by chain-ﬁnal present-progressive)
…kikaruk gok tangiy-ying a-sp-ay akan, …
…chicken some walk-sim/ss say-pres-3pl q
‘…(maybe) the chicken walking and making noise…’
Unlike Chuave, Kalam has no explicitly-marked background clauses. However, chain-
medial-DS clauses can be interpreted, at least for the purpose of English translation, as pre-
posed ADV-clauses, as in (83a,b) above.
18.3.2.4Finiteness gradients: Interim summary
We have noted earlier that the most salient feature of the SOV-type clause-chaining system
is the concentration of the most ﬁnite marking in the chain-ﬁnal clause. In the course of
surveying the various sub-types, a ﬁner gradation of the distribution of ﬁnite morpho-
syntax in the chain may be discerned, albeit tentatively. Not surprising, the degree of
ﬁniteness of the various clause-types correlates, in an interesting way, with the degree of
their thematic continuity.
366 Syntax
(84) Distribution of ﬁnite syntax and thematic continuity in
the various clause-types in the chain
Syntactic marking Thematic continuity
Least ﬁnite Anaphoric Cataphoric
chain-medial-SS
chain-initial
chain-medial-DS
chain-ﬁnal
+
−
+
+
+
+
−
−
most ﬁnite
The correlations in (84) may be summed up as follows:
•The highest continuity (in both directions) correlates best with reduced ﬁniteness
(chain-medial-SS vs. all others).
•Cataphoric continuity correlates better than anaphoric continuity with reduced
ﬁniteness (chain-initial vs. chain-ﬁnal & chain-medial).
•Multiple-strand discontinuity correlates better with reduced ﬁniteness than single-
strand discontinuity (chain-ﬁnal vs, chain-medial-DS).
These correlations reveal two underlying governing principles, a transparent quantity
principle (85a), and a less transparent directionality principle (85b):
(85) Principles governing the correlation between thematic discontinuity
and ﬁniteness
discontinuity less ﬁnite more ﬁnite
a. quantity
b. direction
both directions
multiple strands
cataphoric
one direction
single strand
anaphoric
18.3.2.5The VO-type clause-chaining system
18.3.2.5.1Reduced ﬁniteness in non-initial clauses. As noted earlier above, the most salient
feature of the VO-type clause-chaining system is the assignment of maximal ﬁnite morpho-
syntactic marking to the chain-initial clause. However, the chain-initial clause that is
maximally ﬁnite in this system is not the anaphorically-anchored grounding clause
(‘coherence-bridge’), but rather the subsequent clause that opens the sequential main line
of the new thematic unit (§18.3.3.2 above).
To illustrate the contrast between the SOV-type and VO-type, compare the use of the
latter in English in (72), reproduced below, with its translation into the more common
VO-type (86):
Inter-clausal coherence 367
(72) a. Coming out of the house,
b. stopping to check the mailbox,
c. taking a look at the driveway
d. and pausing to adjust his hat,
e. Marvin turned around
f. and froze.
(86) Having ﬁnished packing, (coherence bridge)
a. Marvin came out of the house,
b. [Ø] stopped to check the mailbox,
c. [Ø] took a look at the driveway,
d. [Ø] paused to adjust his hat,
e. [Ø] turned around
f. and [Ø] froze.
The chain-initial clause (86a) is the most ﬁnite in terms of fully-marked subject. All
subsequent clauses are less marked, but the chain-ﬁnal clause (82f) carries a special
cataphoric marker, the conjunction ‘and’, indicating the impending thematic break.
The lack of overtly-marked subject in the non-initial clauses (86b–f) seems to be a
minor detail since, due to the inﬂectional nature of the English perfective-past, there is no
reduction in verbal inﬂections of the non-initial clauses. However, a quick inspection will
demonstrate that whenever tense–aspect modality in English is non-inﬂectional, i.e.
marked by auxiliaries, it marks only the chain-initial clause.
Consider ﬁrst the distribution of the imperfective auxiliary ‘be’ in (87):
(87) Maximally-coherent imperfective-aspect chain
a. She was writing to her parents,
b. telling them about her new ﬂat,
c. describing the furniture
d. and poking fun at the neighbors.
Break in aspectual coherence
e. She also told them…
Unacceptable alternative following the break
e. *, also told them…
The shift in aspectual coherence between (87d) and (87e) dictates the termination of a
chain with a period. The new tense–aspect is now fully marked, and the subject is reinstat-
ed with, at least, a pronoun in the new chain-initial clause (83e).
In the same vein, consider the eﬀect of a break in aspectual continuity, and the
distribution of perfective-past vs. the pluperfect auxiliary ‘have’, in:
(88) Maximally-coherent perfective-aspect chain
a. He came into the room,
b. stopped,
c. saw the woman on the couch,
d. looked at her brieﬂy
e. and wondered why she was there.
368 Syntax
Break in action sequentiality
f. He had been told about her…
Unacceptable alternative following the break
f. *, had been told about her…
And likewise, consider the eﬀect of breaking modal continuity, and thus the distribution
of the modals ‘should’ and ‘can’, in:
(89) Maximally coherent initial sequence
a. She should go there,
b. stop by,
c. pick up a pound of salami
d. and take it home.
Break in modal continuity
e. She can rest then…
Unacceptable alternative after the break
e. *, can rest then…
Finally, consider the eﬀect of a break in referential continuity, as in:
(90) Maximally coherent initial sequence
a. He came into the room,
b. stopped,
c. saw the woman on the couch,
d. looked at her brieﬂy
e. and wondered why she was there.
Break in referential continuity
f. After a minute she looked at him and…
Unacceptable alternative after the break
f. *, (she) looked at him and…
As noted in example (88) above, the reduction of ﬁnite tense–aspect-modal marking in
English cannot proceed beyond the fused verbal inﬂections. This may be seen again in (91)
below, where the two auxiliary verbs do not recur in non-initial clauses, but the inﬂectional
verbal suﬃx still persists:
(91) a. Mary has been coming here every summer,
b. gathering plants,
c. watching birds,
d. collecting rocks
e. and just resting
f. and having a quiet time.
In sum, the tense–aspect-modal and overt-subject features of ﬁniteness go hand in hand in
the VO-type clause-chaining system of English, with the chain-initial clause carrying the
most ﬁnite marking.
Inter-clausal coherence 369
18.3.2.5.2The ‘consecutive’ aspect as reduced ﬁniteness. Many VO languages have a ‘conse-
cutive’ aspectual marker that marks, either obligatorily or optionally, the verbs in all non-
initial clauses. Such a marker, grounded anaphorically to the preceding (and ultimately
chain-initial) clause, signals maximal tense–aspect-modal anaphoric continuity, much like
zero-marking of auxiliaries in English, above.
As an illustration, consider ﬁrst Swahili (Bantu), a strict SVO language with two such
markers, -ka- and -ki-. In (92) below, the past tense appears only in the chain-initial clause,
the ‘consecutive’ in all other clauses (Mbotela 1934; see also Ashton 1944):
(92) a. …wa-Ingereza wa-li-wa-chukua wa-le maiti,
…pl-British 3pl-past-3pl-take 2pl-dem corpses
‘…then the British took the corpses’
b. wa-ka-wa-tia katika bao moja,
3pl-cons-3pl-put on board one
put them on a ﬂat board,
c. wa-ka-ya-telemesha maji-ni kwa utaratibu w-ote.
3pl-cons-them-lower water-loc of in-order 3pl-all
and lowered them steadily into the water…’
The very same chain can be easily converted into the future tense:
(93) a. …wa-Ingereza wa-ta-wa-chukua wa-le maiti,
…pl-British 3pl-fut-3pl-take 2pl-dem corpses
‘…then the British will take the corpses’
b. wa-ka-wa-tia katika bao moja,
3pl-cons-3pl-put on board one
put them on a ﬂat board,
c. wa-ka-ya-telemesha maji-ni kwa utaratibu w-ote.
3pl-cons-them-lower water-loc of in-order 3pl-all
and lower them steadily into the water…’
Or into the progressive:
(94) a. …wa-Ingereza wa-na-wa-chukua wa-le maiti,
…pl-British 3pl-prog-3pl-take 2pl-dem corpses
‘…then the British are taking the corpses
b. wa-ka-wa-tia katika bao moja,
3pl-cons-3pl-put on board one
putting them on a ﬂat board,
c. wa-ka-ya-telemesha maji-ni kwa utaratibu w-ote.
3pl-cons-them-lower water-loc of in-order 3pl-all
and lowering them steadily into the water…’
And the ‘consecutive’ can also be used with the perfect, as in (Mbotela 1934):
370 Syntax
(95) a. Asubuhi siku ya pili
morning day of two
‘In the morning of the second day
b. tu-me-kwenda mto-ni Ruvu,
we-perf-go river-loc Ruvu
we went to the Ruvu river,
c. tu-ka-mw-ita mwenye mitumbwi
we-cons-him-call owner canoes
called the owner of the canoes
d. tu-ka-mw-ambia: “Haya, lete mitumbwi”,
we-cons-him-tell “exhort bring-imper canoes
and told him: “Hey, bring the canoes”,
e. tu-ka-vuka wote pia
we-cons-cross all complete
and then crossed all together
wapagazi na wanyampara na tajiri.
porters and guards and trader
with porters, guards and trader.’
In Akan (Benue-Congo), a strict SVO language, one tense–aspect, the progressive, cannot
be reduced to the consecutive marker, but all the others can. Further, both anaphoric 3rd
person subject and object display zero anaphora in highly continuous non-initial clauses.
Thus (Osam 1994):
(96) Progressive-marked chain (irreducible)
a. Koﬁ re-pra dan-no-mu,
Koﬁ prog-sweeb room-def-in
b. ro-hor ndemba-no,
prog-wash clothess-def
c. na re-ye edziban-no.
and prog-make food-def
‘Koﬁ is sweeping the room, washing the clothes and cooking the food’
In the past/perfective, the use of the consecutive marker is optional:
(97) Past-marked chain (unreduced)
a. Araba tf-f
f dwow,
Araba buy-past yam
b. kyew-e,
fry-past
c. tfn-e
sell-past
‘Araba bought yam, fried it, and sold it’
Inter-clausal coherence 371
(98) Past chain with the consecutive
a. Araba tf-f
f dwow,
Araba buy-past yam
b. à-kyew,
cons-fry
c. à-tfn
cons-sell
‘Araba bought yam, fried it, and sold it’
And likewise in the future:
(99) Future-marked chain (unreduced)
a. Koﬁ b7
7-pra dan-no-mu,
Koﬁ fut-sweep room-def-in
b. bo-hor ndemba-no,
fut-wash clothes-def
c. na be-ye edziban-no.
and prog-make food-def
‘Koﬁ will sweep the room, wash the clothes and cooking the food’
(100) Future chain with the consecutive
a. Koﬁ b7
7-pra dan-no-mu,
Koﬁ fut-sweep room-def-in
b. a-hor ndemba-no,
cons-wash clothes-def
c. na a-ye edziban-no.
and cons-make food-def
‘Koﬁ will sweep the room, wash the clothes and cooking the food’
18.3.2.5.3Referential vs. thematic coherence in switch-reference systems. As noted above,
thematic coherence is a multi-strand phenomenon, within which referential coherence is
but the most concrete, visible strand. It is traditionally assumed that the grammar of
cataphoric switch-reference — and thus of the degree of ﬁniteness of conjoined medial
clauses — is governed by strict considerations of referential continuity. In this section we
will survey evidence suggesting that the ﬁniteness of conjoined clauses is ultimately
governed by considerations of thematic coherence. The central, highly visible position of
referents within the overall tapestry of discourse coherence, and the high statistical
coincidence between referential and thematic continuity, merely make it appear that the
clause-chaining grammatical system is about reference.
Consider ﬁrst the Swahili consecutive marker -ka, as in (92), (93), (94), (95) above. It
seems to be used in contexts of maximal continuity, both referential and aspectual. But is
it geared speciﬁcally to referential continuity? The answer may be found in the long
narrative passage in (101) below. When tense–aspect and thematic continuity is disrupted,
as in (101f), (101h), (101m), a ﬁnite tense–aspect must be re-established. When only
referential continuity is disrupted but thematic continuity is maintained, as in (101i),
(101j), (101l), the use of the ‘consecutive’ -ka persists (Mbotela 1934:37):
372 Syntax
(101) a. …Asubuhi siku ya pili
…morning day of two
‘In the morning of the second day
b. tu-me-kwenda mto-ni Ruvu,
we-perf-go river-loc Ruvu
we went to the Ruvu river,
c. tu-ka-mw-ita mwenye mitumbwi
we-cons-him-call owner canoes
called the owner of the canoes
d. tu-ka-mw-ambia: “Haya, lete mitumbwi”,
we-cons-him-tell “exhort bring-imper canoes
and told him: “Hey, bring the canoes”,
e. tu-ka-vuka wote pia
we-cons-cross all complete
and then crossed all together
wapagazi na wanyampara na tajiri.
porters and guards and trader
with porters, guards and trader.
f. Tu-li-po-toka Ruvu,
we-past-rel-leave Ruvu
When we were done with the Ruvu,
g. tu-li-kwenda Bigiro kambi moja.
we-past-go Bigiro camp one
we went to a camp in Bigiro.
h. Tu-li-po-ﬁka,
we-past-rel-arrive
When we arrived,
i. ni-ka-wa-ambia wapagazi: “Pang-eni mizigo”,
I-cons-them-tell porters “arrange-imper loads
I told the porters: “Line up your loads”,
j. Wa-ka-leta mizigo,
they-cons-bring loads
so they brought over their loads,
k. wa-ka-i-panga mahali pamoja,
they-cons-them-arrange place together
arranged them together,
l. ni-ka-wa-ambia tena: “Haya…”.
I-cons-them-tell again “exhort
and I told them: “Now…”.
m. Siku ya pili tu-me-kwenda Viranzi,
day of two we-perf-go Viranzi
The following day we moved on to Viranzi,
Inter-clausal coherence 373
n. ya tatu tu-ka-enda Kangeni…
of three we-cons-go Kangeni
and the next one on to Kangeni…’
The transition from (101f) to (101g) and from (101h) to (101i) is of great interest. In the
former, the transition between a chain-grounding ADV-clause (‘coherence bridge’) and the
main clause is considered enough of a thematic break to re-instate the very same ﬁnite
tense in (101g). In the latter, a similar transition cum switch reference is nevertheless
considered too minor, hence the ‘consecutive’ marker in (101i).
The Swahili ‘consecutive’ has never been claimed to be part of a grammaticalized
switch-reference system. But a strong statistical correlation between thematic and
referential coherence has already been noted in the case of clausal conjunctions (Hayashi
1989; Carlson 1987). And as Haiman’s (1987) suggests, discontinuous conjunctions —
perhaps together with topic-switching independent pronouns — have the diachronic
potential of becoming switch-reference markers.
A case in point is Scancarelli’s (1989) study of the previously-assumed switch-reference
system of Pima-Papago, where the clause-initial conjunction k/c has been traditionally
described as coding referential continuity (SS), contrasting with the conjunction ku that
was assumed to mark witch-reference. That is (Munro 1983):
(102) a. SS-conjunction with k/c
hegai ’uuvi ’a-t ’am şohnyi hegain ceoj
that woman 3/aux-pf hit/pf that man
‘The woman hit the man
c-’am şoşa
ss-loc cry
and (she) cried’
b. DS-conjunction with ku
hegai ’uuvi ’a-t ’am şohnyi hegain ceoj
that woman 3/aux-pf hit/pf that man
‘The woman hit the man
ku-t ’am şoşa
ds-pf loc cry
and he cried’
As Scancarelli (1989) argues, in connected discourse ku signals neither switch-subject nor
switch-topic (cf. Hale 1983), but rather switch-theme, as in (Scancarelli 1989):
(103) a. ’iida cuuvi ’a-ş si voho s-’eebeny
this rabbit 3/aux-qt int really aff-scared
‘This jackrabbit was very frightened
b. c-’a-ş hab ’e ’aag:
ss-3/aux-qt thus rf say
and said to himself:
374 Syntax
c. “M-an-t habş va meeḑad
“intr-1sg/aux-pf just mod dur/run
“I’ll just keep running
d. cem ’an-s o s-geevko”,
mod 1sg/aux-dub fut aff-tired
even though I’m tired”,
e. n-a-ş pi ’iida cuuvi wuḑ ge
qin-3/aux-qt neg this rabbit cop very
because he was a very old rabbit,
f. keli cuuvi…
old-man rabbit
an old rabbit…
g. Ku-ş ’am ’i meeḑaḑ…
ds-qt loc pct dur/run
While he was running, …’
The thematic chain (103a–f) clearly trails oﬀ with the stative clauses (103e,f). When the
action resumes in a new chain, with a pre-posed ADV-clause in (103g), the conjunction ku
is used even without any break in referential continuity.
Finally, the eﬀect of thematic coherence on the grammar of referential continuity has
also been demonstrated experimentally by Anderson et al. (1983) and Tomlin (1987b).
These studies fully support the suggestion that major thematic breaks signal the severance
of all coherence threads, thus also the re-instatement of the referent — even when it is,
strictly speaking, continuous (Vol.I, Ch.10).
18.3.2.5.4Where do chain-medial-DS clauses come from?. One clause-type seems to be
conspicuously missing from the VO-type clause-chaining system surveyed thus far — the
chain-medial-cataphoric-DS clause. This is the clause type that signals switch-reference
within the chain, i.e. without breaking thematic continuity. In this section we will brieﬂy
recapitulate earlier discussion of three such devices.
18.3.2.5.4.1Inverse clauses. As noted earlier (Ch.13), some languages recruit the inverse
clause into coding switch-reference in chain-medial contexts. The logic of such recruitment
is fairly transparent: Inverse clauses are used in contexts where the subject — the previous
topical referent — is still somewhat topical, but the object is more topical. This device thus
topicalizes a referent that was not the previous main topic, thus also not the previous
subject. Like other marked topicalizing devices, such as Y-movement, L-dislocation or
existential-presentatives, inverse clauses signal cataphorically the switch to a new topic that
is currently not the subject.
As an illustration, recall the Sahaptin examples cited in Ch.13 (Rude 1994):
Inter-clausal coherence 375
(104) a. Continuity with ‘proximate’ subject
kúuu-xi vwána-pa shushansh i-q’ínunu
=-xan-a
thus-same river-loc stealhead 3/nom/dir-see-hab-past
‘…the same way he [prox] would see a stealhead [obv] in the river
ku i-pú
=tya-xan-a kwn-kínk
and 3/nom/dir-spear-hab-past that-instr
and [prox] would spear it [obv] with it (the spear)…’
b. Switch from ‘proximate’ to ‘obviate’ subject
kuuk á-q’inun-a xwú
=saat inch’u-sha,
then 3/abs/dir-see-past old.man sleep-impfv
‘…then he [prox] saw an old man [obv] sleeping,
kuuk xwú
=saat pá-q’inuun-a
then old.man inv-see-past
the old man [obv] saw him [prox]
ku pá-’n-a:…
and INV-say-past
and [obv] said to him [prox]: …’
c. Switch back from ‘obviate’ to ‘proximate’ subject
íkush pá-’u
=n-a xwú
=saat-in
thus inv-say-past old.man-obv
‘…thusly the old man [obv] said to him (Wild Cat) [prox].
ku áw-n-a:…
and 3/abs/dir-say-past
And he (Wild Cat) [prox] said to him (old man) [obv]: …’
A similar use of the inverse for switch-reference is found in Kutenai (Dryer 1994).
18.3.2.5.4.2Stressed independent pronouns. As noted earlier (Vol.I, Ch.9,10), stressed
(contrastive) independent pronouns are widely used as switch-referent devices, chain
initially as well as chain medially. Thus recall the contrast in English between the unstressed
anaphoric pronoun (or zero) and the stressed pronoun:
(105) a. Cataphoric-SS = unstressed PRO (or zero)
Bill saw Marvin, then he went home and [Ø] slept.
b. Cataphoric-DS = stressed pronoun
Bill saw Marvin, then HE went home and [Ø] slept
A more systematic use of the stressed pronoun as cataphoric-DS markers may be seen in
Ute oral narratives, where the independent subject pronoun is used in combination with
the noun to mark the chain-initial introduction of a referent (106a,b,h), or by itself to
signal chain-medial DS (106d,f). Thus (Givón ed. 1985b):
376 Syntax
(106) a. ’uwas ’ura-pu
=ga Sinawav…
3sg/subj be-rem Sinawav/subj
‘There was once that one, Sinawav…
b. ’umu
= chakuura-y-u ‘umu
=-kway…
3pl/gen crane-gen-pl 3pl-mod
and those cranes, whoever…
c. ’umu
=-aa… pu
=-paay-am ya-tagha-kway-pu
=…
3pl/obj rel-loc-2pl/subj red-cry-perf-nom
whatever it was that they were crying to them…
d. ’uwas-’ura ’avi-pu
=ni-gya…
3sg/subj-top lie-look-impfv…
well he had been lying on his back looking
(up at the cranes)…
e. ’umu
= Sinawavi-u yúaa-va-t
3pl/obj Sinawav-pl plains-loc-dir
toward the country of those Sinawavs
tavi-navici-pu
=ga, ’um chakuura-u, ’uwa-vaa-cu
=.
step-mass-rem 3pl/subj crane-pl 3sg/obj-loc-dir
they ﬂocked and landed, those cranes, toward him.
f. ’uwas-’ura: “agha-paa poro-xwa-y ’ani-kh”
3sg/subj-top “wh-dir go/pl-impf-imm do-imm
so HE: “where are you ﬂocking like that?”
g. may-pu
=ga ’uwas.
say-rem 3sg/subj
he asked them.
h. ’umu
=s-’ura chakuura-u may-kya-pu
=ga:….
3pl/subj-top crane-pl say-pl-rem
so those cranes said (to him):…’
18.3.2.6The recruitment of case-markers into switch-reference morphology
18.3.2.6.1Preamble. In some languages, an interaction develops between the grammar of
referential coherence and case-marking. Earlier reports of this phenomenon involved
Yuman languages, where in certain dependent clauses the SS-marker was etymologically
related to the nominative case, and the DS-marker to the accusative (Munro 1976). But in
Yuman languages this system is conﬁned to the links between subordinate and main
clauses.
In this section we will note how such system may be extended to indicate referential
coherence — both SS and DS — in chain-medial clauses. This development capitalizes on
the conﬂation of three distinct grammatical-typological trends:
•treating participial ADV-clauses as noun modiﬁers;
•case-agreement of modiﬁers with the head noun;
•the recruitment of participial-ADV clauses into the chain-medial position.
Inter-clausal coherence 377
18.3.2.6.2Case-agreement in Latin participial clauses. We have already noted earlier
(§18.2.2.8.4) the treatment of Latin participial ADV-clauses as noun modiﬁers for the
purpose of case agreement. What makes such a system amenable to becoming a grammati-
calized chain-medial switch-reference system is the great potential for participial clauses,
especially in SOV languages, to become chain-medial clauses. Recall now example (48),
reproduced as (Thompson and Longacre 1985; Haiman 1983):
(48) a. SS participial clause
ab oppid-o duct-a,
from town-abl lead/past/part-nom
‘Having been brought from the town,
femin-a prope templ-um habita-ba-t
woman-nom near temple-acc live-impf-3sg
the woman lived near the temple’
b. DS participial clause
Caesar, accept-is litter-is,
Caesar-nom receive/past/part-abl letter-abl
‘Caesar, the letter having been received,
nunti-um misi-t
messenger-acc send/perf-3sg
sent a messenger’
In (48a), the participial clause modiﬁes (and agrees with) the nominative subject (‘woman’)
of the subsequent main clause (SS). In (48b), the participial clause modiﬁes (and agrees
with) its own ablative object (‘letter’), thus signaling the switch to the subject of the main
clause (‘Caesar’).
In Latin, this system already functions as a rudimentary grammaticalized switch-
reference system (Haiman 1983), although the use of the Ablative — rather than any other
non-Nominative case — to mark switch-reference is yet to be explained. The diachronic
potential is certainly there, in treating participial clauses as case-marked noun modiﬁers.
What is missing is their more extensive recruitment into a chain-medial system.
18.3.2.6.3Case agreement and switch-reference in Jiwarli subordinate clauses. In Jiwarli, a
West-Australian aborigine language, several types of dependent clauses must be marked for
referential congruence (SS) or incongruence (DS) vis-a-vis their main clause. In addition,
thecase-marking system is pressed into servicefor a more exact pinpointing of co-reference:
When the dependent clause is marked as SS, its verb agrees with case-marking of the co-
referent argument in the main clause. When the dependent clause is marked as DS, its verb
agrees with the case-marking of the other argument — if the switch is to another argument
of the main clause. Consider ﬁrst SS-imperfective clauses (Austin 1988, 1992):
(107) a. SS-imperfective
nhurra-kara-lu thika-nma yarrukarri-ngu-ru-thu
you-pl-erg eat-imper want-impf/ss-erg-def
‘You eat it if (you) want it!’
378 Syntax
b. SS-imperfective
panhalu-ru yukarri-ngu-ru ngatha-nha nhanya-nyja
he-erg stand-impf/ss-erg I-acc see-past
‘He — while (he was) standing up — saw me’
c. SS-imperfective
manthara-lu kurrpirli-nha pinya-nyja yanga-rnu-ru
man-erg kangaroo-acc spear-past chase-imperf/ss-erg
‘The man speared the kangaroo while (he was) chasing it’
d. SS-imperfective
mantharta kumpa-inha wurnta-wu yinka-rnu
man/abs sit-pres shield-dat adz-impf/ss/abs
‘The man sits adzing a shield
e. juma-wu nhanya-ngu-ru
child-dat see-impf/ss-erg
while watching the children’
In the ﬁrst dependent clause in (107d), the verb agrees with the absolutive case of the main-
clause subject. In the second dependent clause (107e), the verb agrees with the ergative case
of the preceding transitive clause’s ergative subject — even with zero-anaphora subject.
Consider now DS-imperfective clauses (Austin 1988, 1992):
(108) a. DS-imperfective
tharla-nma yinha julyu-nha kamu-rri-ya-nha
feed-impf this old.man-acc hunger-inch-impf/ds-acc
‘Feed this old man who is getting hungry’
b. DS-imperfective
payalpa-nthu-rru ngatha nhanya-nyja
at.last-again-now I see-past
‘At last I saw
wirntu ngurnta-iniya-nha
dead lie-impf/ds-acc
(him) lying dead’
c. DS-imperfective
ngatha nhanya-nyja ngatha-nha malu
I see-past I-acc shadow
‘I saw my shadow
yukerri-ya-nha papa-ngka
stand-impf/ds-acc water-loc
standing in the water’
d. DS-imperfective
wuru ngunha tharrpa-rninyja ngarti-ngka
stick that insert-past inside-loc
‘(He) inserted the stick inside
Inter-clausal coherence 379
kajalpu-la ngarri-ngka ngurntha-iniya-la
emu-loc ashes-loc lie-impf/ds-loc
the emu (who was) lying in the ashes’
The recruitment of dependent clauses into the chain-medial switch-reference system in
Jiwarli is, as in Latin, an extension of noun-modiﬁer case-agreement. Normal head-
modiﬁer case agreement in Jiwarli may be seen in (Austin 1988, 1992):
(109) ngatha mana-nyja yanya-nha mantharta-nha Ngurtirti-nha
I get-past other-acc man-acc Ngurtirti-acc
‘I got another man Ngurtirti’
Although the Jiwarli system seems to be primarily used to code the referential coherence of
dependent clauses vis-a-vis their main clause, a relatively trivial diachronic extension of
such a system can recruit its morphology into chain-medial conjoined clauses.
There are grounds for suspecting that such a change has already happened in Jiwarli.
Word-order in this as well as many other Australian languages is ﬂexible, i.e. pragmatically
controlled. Dependent participial clauses may either precede or follow their main clauses,
and — like other noun modiﬁers — may be ‘scattered’ away from their head nouns. And
case agreement is obligatory when modiﬁers, including participial clauses, are ‘scattered’
(Hale 1976; see discussion in Ch.11). The reanalysis of ‘scattered’ participial clauses as
conjoined chain-medial clauses may have already happened in Swahili, obscured by the
grammar-bound translation of all participial clauses as subordinate ADV-clauses.9
18.3.2.6.4Case-agreement and switch-reference in Cavineña. Cavineña is a ﬂexible order ex-
SOV language of the Takanan family, spoken in the Amazonian north-eastern region of
Bolivia. It has an ergative-absolutive case-marking morphology, with the absolutive either
unmarked or marked with the suﬃx -ke as in (Guillaume 2000):
(110) a. Transitive (ERG subject)
Tata Crisanto-ra bakwa iye-kware
Mr. Crisanto-reg viper/abs kill-rem
‘Mr. Crisanto killed the viper’
b. Intransitive (unmarked ABS subject)
Roberto etare-ju judiru-kware
Roberto/abs house-loc arrive-rem
‘Roberto arrived at the house’
c. Transitive (marked ABS object)
ba-chine sawa-ke
see-rec ﬁsh-abs
‘(we) saw a ﬁsh’
When the NP includes modiﬁers, case-markers appear as suﬃxal clitics on the NP-ﬁnal
constituent. NP-ﬁnal modiﬁers thus display, in essence, obligatory case agreement with
their NP — even if the head-noun is unmarked for case. Thus consider:
380 Syntax
(111) a. ekwana nei dyake arida-ra a-kware
1pl/abs rain very big-erg do-rem
‘A very big rain got us’
b. chapa kwana-ra dadi-diru-kware awada
dog many-erg ﬁnd-go-rem tapir/abs
‘the dogs found a tapir (on their way)’
c. beta pere arida-ke-tu bute-kware
two raft big-abs-cl go.down.river-rem
‘two big rafts went down the river’
d. ba-chine sawa dyake arida-ke
see-rec ﬁsh very big-abs
‘(we) saw a very big ﬁsh’
The perfect and imperfective aspects can mark main clauses with no further tense-marking:
(112) a. i-ke epu-ju kwa-ya
1sg-abs village-loc go-impf
‘I am going to the village’
b. tu-ke tupujuyda kwanubi jeti-ya
him-abs behind animal come-impf
‘some animals were coming behind him’
c. shidiritana-wa i-ke warasha-eke
slip-perf 1sg-abs bridge-from
‘I slipped oﬀ the bridge’
d. e-kwe ebakwa kwana bakwe tawi-wa
1sg-gen child many emph sleep-perf
‘my children had been sleeping’
Participial clauses, either perfect or imperfective, may appear in chain-initial slots as equi-
subject (SS) ADV-clauses; in which case they display obligatory case-agreement with the
subject of the main clause:
(113) a. kwa-ya-ke, pakaka-nati-kware
go-impf-abs fall-go-rem
‘As (I) was going, (I) fell’
b. kwa-ya-ra, tu-ke ba-nati-kware awada
go-impf-erg it-abs see-go-rem tapir/abs
‘As (he) was going, (he) saw the tapir’
The same subject-agreeing participial clause, signaling cataphoric-SS, is being extended
into the chain-medial slot:
(114) a. peadya ekwita [Esperanz-ju ani-ya]-ke, jekutana-kware
one man [Esperanza-loc live-impf]-abs got.scared-rem
‘A man living in Esperanza got scared’
Inter-clausal coherence 381
b. ekwana peadya ekwita-ra kwaba-tswere kati-kware
then one man-erg canoe-with fetch-rem
‘then one man with his canoe fetched (us)
Esperanza-ju ani-ya-ra
Esperanza-loc live-impf-ereg
who was living in Esperanza’
c. mare-dadi-kware waburu [kueti-ya]-ke
shoot-go-rem boar [pass-impf]-abs
‘(I) shot a pig while it was passing’
d. tuke tuwajudya paq-tu barepa [kayumati-wa]-ke jietana-tsu
go there rep-cl weather worsen-perf]-abs improve-ss
‘the weather, having deteriorated, got better and…’
In contrast, participial clauses marked by the locative-allative case signal switch-reference
(DS), as in:
(115) a. [tu-ke kwinana-diru-ya]-ju,
[it-abs exit.go-impf]-loc
‘While it (tapir) was jumping out,
tu-ja epititsaju-ju kwita atsa-kware kuchiru-tsewe
it-gen spine-loc emp reach-rem knife-with
(I) reached its spike with my knife’
b. [e-ra tapa-ya]-ju,
[I-erg step.on-impf]-loc
‘As I was stepping on it,
nere kwinana ju-kware matuja
suddenly exit do-rem crocodile
the crocodile suddenly went out (of the water)’
c. [kareeketi-wa]-ju, ekwana nei ebari-ra a-kware
[cross-perf]-loc 1pl/abs rain big-erg do-rem
‘As (we) were crossing, a big rain got us’
While it is not clear that the participial clauses of Cavineña have fully assumed the function
of chain-medial clauses, their wide latitude of position, often detached from and most
commonly preceding the main clause, certainly points out in this direction.
18.3.2.6.5Case agreement as cataphoric signal of transitivity in Amahuaca (Panoan). The last
variant on the use of case agreement in the grammar of cataphoric coherence may be seen
in Amahuaca (Panoan; Amazonian Peru). Amahuaca is an SOV ergative-absolutive
language with a marked ergative subject and unmarked absolutive subject or object. Case
makers on chain-medial clauses signal cataphorically the transitivity of the following clause:
•Abs = next clause is intransitive;
•Erg = next clause is transitive.
382 Syntax
Since intransitive clauses have an absolutive subject and transitive clauses an ergative
subject, this marking is a transparent diachronic extension of treating participial clauses as
noun modiﬁers, including case-agreement with the head noun in the main clause. But case-
agreement here cuts across the SS vs. DS distinction, signalling neither. Thus consider (M.
Chávez, i.p.c.; see also Sparing-Chávez 1998).
(116) a. SS: ABS-S to ABS-S = ABS agreement
hino nincaa-tan-mun yohinna, jonu-u-qui-nhu
dog/abs hear-seq/abs-top animal-abs hide-refl-3pl/perf
‘As soon as the animal heard the dog, it hid itself’
‘The animal heard the dog and hid itself’
b. SS: ABS-S to ERG-S (ERG agreement)
chaii nihii ca-xo-n, yohinna ha-ti-mun-nhu
far woods go-3sg/seq-erg game-abs kill-can-top-decl
‘if one goes far in the woods, one can kill game’
‘one goes far into the woods and kills game’
c. DS: ABS-O to ABS-S (ABS agreement)
jato hii-n tuca-ha
them-abs stingray-erg sting-impf-abs
after a stingray stings them,
the stingray stings them
jaa yovaa-vaux-mun hishi-nox-can-qui-nhu,
those great-emph/pl/abs-top cry-hab-3pl-dur-decl
even the adults cry (in pain)’
and even the adults cry in pain’
d. DS: ABS-S to ABS-Obj (ABS agreement)
nihii ca-xo-mun hiya hina-n pi-xo-nhu
woods go-3sg/seq/abs-top me-abs tiger-erg bite-3sg/seq-decl
‘(I) having gone (hunting), a tiger bit me’
‘I went hunting and a tiger bit me’
A somewhat similar system, but integrated with markers of cataphoric SS vs. DS, has been
described in Shipibo-Kanibo, a related Panoan language (Valenzuela 2000). In suggesting
that the system in Shipibo-Kanibo has nothing to do with case agreement, Valenzuela
(2000) raises two arguments. First, she suggests that Shipibo has no case agreement of
modiﬁers, but rather an NP-ﬁnal case marking. But as in Cavineña, since modiﬁers in S-K
often follow the head-noun, they are indeed case-marked even if their head-noun is not.
They simply agree with the case of their noun phrase. Second, Valenzuela (2000) then
observes that:
“…(in)transitivity agreement morphology on S-K adverbials does not correspond
to [the current] regular case-markers, but to same-subject markers in complex
sentences…”
Inter-clausal coherence 383
This still leaves the possibility of an interaction, at the very least historically, between case
agreement and switch-reference morphology. Thus, the ‘regular’ ergative (and genitive)
case suﬃx in S-K is -nin, the Amahuaca ergative marker is -n, and the cataphoric transitive
marker on ADV-clauses (and other adverbials) in S-K is -xon.
Further, in another Panoan language, Matsees, the ergative suﬃx is -n (as in
Amahuaca); and the four cataphoric markers that signal that the next clause is ergative/
transitive are transparently a fusion of various ‘conjunctions’ — most likely arising from
perfective (sequential) and imperfective (simultaneous) aspectuals — with that ergative
suﬃx. Thus (D. Fleck, i.p.c.):
(117) a. ademibi Matses-n sh7ktenam7 cues-e-c,
similar Matsees-erg peccary kill-nonpast-ind
‘…Also, Matsees kill the white-lipped peccary,
istuid-shu-n, mun-ke-sho tantia-shu-n…
ﬁnd-after-erg onom-say-while hear-then-erg
after ﬁnding them while hearing them say “mun”…’
b. aid Matses-n subu-ua-nu-n cut-hab
one Matsees-erg house-make-after-erg cut-hab
‘in order to make a house, the Matsees cut that one’
c. acte nantan mish-ki-n
stream inside touch-while-erg
‘while feeling them inside the stream,
d7co pe-quid sh7cten ne-e-c
snail eat-agt/sub peccary be-nonpast-indic
it’s the peccaries who eat the water-snails’
The ‘conjunction’ -nu(n) and -shu (n) of Matsees are transparent cognates of the Shipibo-
Kanibo -ni(n) and -xo(n), respectively.
18.3.2.7Clause chaining, ﬁniteness and word-order
As noted above, the two major types of clause-chaining systems correlate consistently, if
not absolutely, with the OV vs. VO word-order dimension. In the ﬁrst type, ﬁnite marking
gravitates to the chain-ﬁnal clauses; in the second, to the chain-initial clause.
Another morpho-syntactic feature that also correlates with the two types, adding to the
cluster of ﬁnite morphology at the chain-ﬁnal or chain-initial position — the conjunction
or subordinator morpheme that codes various junctures of thematic coherence. In OV
languages, this morpheme tends to be a clause-ﬁnal clitic and thus verb suﬃx, cataphoric-
ally signaling the thematic transition to the next clause; or, in chain-ﬁnal positions, to the
next chain. In VO languages, this morpheme tends to be a clause-initial clitic, signalling the
thematic transition to the very clause it is attached to; or, in chain-initial positions, to the
next chain. Most commonly, this morpheme is a verb preﬁx, given the high frequency of
subject anaphora.
To recapitulate the diﬀerence between the two types, compare the following examples
from Nepali, rigid OV, with their English glosses. The Nepali subordinator may be either
384 Syntax
a real subordinator, as in (118a), the participial/nominal suﬃx, as in (118b), or a serial verb
functioning as subordinator, as in (118c). Thus (Leman 1985):
(118) a. Ram-le Sham-lay kura gfr-i rfh-eko-bela,
Ram-erg Sham-dat talk do-part stay-perf/masc-while
‘While Ram was talking to Sham,
kukur dekh-yo
dog see-past/3sg.masc
he saw a dog’
c. Ram a-yo bhfn-e, Sham jan-chf
Ram come-past/3sg.masc say-part Sham leave-pres/3sg.masc
‘If Ram came, Sham leaves’
d. Ram nf-gf-yeko huna:-le, Maya-le gali gfr-yin
Ram neg-go-perf/masc be-instr Maya-erg scold do-past/3sg.fem
‘Because Ram had not gone, Maya scolded him’
In longer clause-chains in connected narrative, the conjunction morpheme joins the
participial suﬃx in chain-medial junctures, leaving the ﬁnite morphology at the end to
signal the cross-chain transition:
(119) …us-le ka:g-lay dekh-e-rf
f,
…3sg-erg crow-dat see-part-conj
‘…he saw the crow
“timi-le mf-lay rozi din-chf…” bhon-e-rf
f,
“2sg-erg 1sg-dat bread give-pres say-part-conj,
and: “If you give me bread…” (he) said,
phfka-yo.
bribe-past/3sg.masc
and (thus) bribed him’.
A schematic rendition of the locus of ﬁnite morphology in the two types of clause-chaining
may be given as:
(120) a. OV clause-chaining
…MED, FIN. • INI, MED, MED, FIN. • INI, MED, MED, FIN. • INI,
MED…
b. VO clause-chaining
…MED, FIN. • INI, MED, MED, FIN. • INI, MED, MED, FIN • INI, MED…
The superﬁcial diﬀerences between the two types mask their fundamental functional-
cognitive unity. In the OV chaining type, the cataphoric morphology cliticizes at the very
end of the preceding chain. In the VO type, it cliticizes at the very beginning of the
following chain. One way or another, in both types ﬁnite morphology clusters at the inter-
chain break, signaling the impending — cataphoric — thematic transition.
The ﬁnite morphology that gravitates to the thematic juncture between clause-chains is
the most grammaticalized signal of thematic discontinuity or cognitive re-orientation. In
Inter-clausal coherence 385
this capacity, grammatical morphology merely joins and supplements the highly universal
pre-grammatical system of intonational cues and pauses.10
18.3.3 Finiteness, dependence and control
We turn back, once again, to the grand theme of ﬁniteness, and its relation to two near-
synonymous syntactic notions — dependence (‘subordination’) and control. The two main
features of ﬁniteness relevant here are:
•zero-marked co-referent NPs
•ﬁnite verbal inﬂections (T-A-M, pronouns)
In the discussion in three previous chapters (Ch.11,12,14), we noted that zero-marked co-
reference in four types of dependent clauses was governed by the subject or object of the
main clause. This has been the traditional view of subordination. But our subsequent survey
of clause-chaining, and in particular of grammaticalized cataphoric switch-reference
morphology, has unearthed a similar relational control, in this case exercised by arguments
in a preceding chained clause over a subsequent one. In other words, within the syntactic
conﬁguration of coordination.11
All these GR-controlled relations are summarized below.
(121) Relational control of co-reference or zero anaphora
Clause type controller
(Main cl.)
controlee
(Subord. cl.)
complements of modality verbs
complements of manipulation verbs
participial ADV-clauses
REL-clauses
chain-medial cataphoric-SS/DS clauses
S
O
S
S/O
S
S
S
S
S/O
S
In many languages with chain-medial cataphoric switch-reference morphology, this
control is fully grammaticalized only in cataphoric-SS clauses (cf. the English OV-type
participial chains). In a smaller set of languages, grammaticalized cataphoric-DS clauses
are added to the cataphoric-SS system (Miskitu, Cavineña, Gorokan languages, Kalam).
And in a smaller-yet set, other grammaticalized signals are added, signalling transitions
such as S>S, O>S, S>O or O>O, or the transitivity of the subsequent clause (Latin,
Jiwarli, Panoan).
The statistical distribution of these types is far from random. The primacy of grammati-
calized cataphoric-SS morphology merely echoes the text-distribution facts — even
languages with no rigidly grammaticalized switch-reference morphology reveal the
predominance of subject continuity (S>S) in chain-medial contexts (Givón ed. 1983a).
Intra-chain coherence is, after all, the hallmark of human multi-propositional discourse.
Once again, the well-known correlation between text-frequency and grammaticalization
is revealed (Givón 1979a; DuBois 1987).
386 Syntax
In the very same ﬁve clause-types with GR-governed zero-marked co-reference (121)
one also ﬁnds the other major feature of lower ﬁniteness — reduced verbal inﬂections.
What is more, in clause-chaining systems, this reduction follows a scale that correlates
rather naturally with two other dimensions — degree of thematic discontinuity and the
probability of intonational breaks (pauses; Givón 1991b). This three-way correlation may
be summed up, for three types of chained clauses, as:
(122) Correlation between ﬁnite verbal morphology, pause probability and
thematic discontinuity
Pause probability Thematic discontinuity
least ﬁnite
chain-medial-SS clauses
chain-medial-SD clauses
chain-ﬁnal position
most ﬁnite
lowest
higher
highest
lowest
higher
highest
Finite marking, much like inter-clausal pauses, turns out to correlate with informational
unpredictability. We have noted earlier (Vol.I, Ch.10) that zero-coding of referents occurs
in context of highest continuity, thus highest predictability. The un-marking of pronomi-
nal inﬂections on the verb is one expression of this trend. And unmarked tense–aspect-
modal and speech-act inﬂections on the verb likewise reﬂect the high thematic continuity
— predictability — of chain-medial contexts.
Note, ﬁnally, that tense–aspect-modal predictability is also found in participial
ADV-clauses (§18.2.2.8), as well as in the two GR-governed V-complement types (Ch.12).
What is more, the three types of subordinate clauses where co-reference is least restrictive
— REL-clauses (Ch.14), complements of PCU verbs (Ch.12) and non-participial
ADV-clauses — consistently display more ﬁnite T-A-M inﬂections.
The two controlled features of ﬁniteness, zero-coding of co-referent NPs and reduced
tense–aspect-modality marking, reﬂect the very same iconic quantity principle (Givón
1985a):
•Information is left unmarked when it is either predictable or unimportant.
One feature of reduced ﬁniteness, the marking of subject or object arguments as genitives,
is not explained by informational predictability. Rather, it must be explained in terms of
nominalization as a process of syntactic analogy. This feature crops up invariably when
verbal clauses are placed in prototypically nominal (NP) syntactic slots — subject or object.
In such alien contexts, verbal clauses are treated by analogy as NPs.
Inter-clausal coherence 387
Notes
1. Our heuristic treatment here deals primarily with the more concrete elements of coherence that
can be tracked across an oral or written text. It is fairly clear, however, that a more profound and
ultimately more realistic notion of coherence involves the mind that produces and interprets such
texts. From such a cognitive perspective, coherence is understood in terms of the network of mental
nodes and connections, formed during language processing in and across the three main mental
representational areas responsible for language processing — working memory, episodic memory
and semantic memory. Our treatment of the grammar of referential coherence (Vol.I, Ch.10) was
already cast in such terms. A more detailed discussion of the neuro-cognitive aspects of discourse
pragmatics may be found in Givón (1993, 1997c, 2001a).
2. Being the incorrigible empirical methodologist that he was, Aristotle pointed out here to a method
of substitution and elimination that has proven reliable to this day in both discourse studies and
experimental psycholinguistics.
3. Haiman (1978) also lists a third type, ‘given’ conditionals. It is not clear that this is a separate
semantic link, rather than a pragmatic connection that is associated, potentially, with all adverbial
subordinate clauses (see further below).
4. The one-way conditional of logic would disallow such inference from (12), allowing only the
proper modus tolens; that is:
(a … b) … (Neg-b … Neg-a)
5. The interpretation of post-posed participial clauses is also aﬀected by the presence vs. absence of
a pause, written as a comma. Without a pause, a post-posed participial clause tends to be interpreted
as co-temporal; with a pause it is more likely to be interpreted as sequential. Thus contrast:
He ran out chasing the cat
He ran out, chasing the cat
The iconic nature of this eﬀect is of course transparent: Pauses — or lower clause-integration —
signal lower event-integration. And two co-temporal events are more integrated than two events in
sequence.
6. Neither papers make this distinction explicit, but all their examples involve pre-posed
ADV-clauses.
7. From T. Severin (1978) The Brendan Voyage, NY: McGraw-Hill
8. The traditional ‘sentence’ is used ambiguously for either a simple clause, a complex clause or a
clause-chain.
9. As noted earlier above, many cataphoric-DS medial clauses in Kalam, particularly the non-
sequential ones, receive an ADV-clause interpretation in English translation.
10. For the role of intonation and pauses in inter-clausal and cross-chain junctures, see Givón
(1991b). For the correlation between pauses and cognitive discontinuity, see Eisler-Goldman (1968).
11. One could, of course, re-christen chained clauses — and thus clausal conjunction in general —
as ‘subordinate’ whenever they display GR-governed control on zero-marked co-reference, as was
done in Finer (1985). However, this is a rather dubious formal manoeuver, one that is designed to
salvage the formal requirements imposed by a ubiquitous Generative formalism — the insistence that
GRs can only be read oﬀ PS-tree conﬁgurations.
</TARGET "18">
References
<TARGET "ref" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "References"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Anderson, A., S.C. Garrod and A.J. Sanford (1983) “The accessibility of pronominal antecedents as
a function of episode shifts in narrative”, Quarterly J. of Experimental Psychology, 35A.
Anderson, S.R. (1977) “On mechanisms by which languages become ergative”, in C. Li (ed., 1977).
Aristotle, Poetics, tr. by I. Bywater, in J. Barnes (ed 1984) The Complete Works of Aristotle, Vol.II,
Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.
Ashton, M. (1944) Swahili Grammar, London: Longmans.
Austin, J. (1962) How to Do Things with Words, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Austin, P. (1988) “Cases and clauses in Jiwarli, Western Australia”, La Trobe University, Bundoora,
Vic. (ms).
Austin, P. (1992) “Cases and clauses in Jiwarli, Western Australia”, La Trobe University Working
Papers in Linguistics, 5.
Bergvall, V. (1988) “Questions, cleft and COMP in two Bantu languages: Kikuyu and Duala”, Paper
read at the Nineteenth Conference on African Linguistics, Boston University, April 1988 (ms).
Bickerton, D. (1981) Roots of Language, Ann Arbor: Karoma.
Bird, C. (1968) “Relative clauses in Bambara”, J. of West African Languages, 5.
Bloomﬁeld, L. (1962) The Menomini Language, C.F. Hockett (ed.), New Haven: Yale University
Press.
Bokamba, G. (1971) “Speciﬁcity and deﬁniteness in Dzamba”, Studies in African Linguistics, 2.3.
Bokamba, E.G. (1976) Question Formation in Some Bantu Languages, PhD dissertation,
Bloomington: Indiana University (ms).
Bolinger, D. (1954) “Meaningful word-order in Spanish”, Boletin de Filología, tomo 8, Santiago:
Universidad de Chile.
Bolinger, D. (1961) “Contrastive accent and contrastive stress”, Language, 37.
Bolinger, D. (1966) unpublished letter to F. Householder, by courtesy of the late Dwight Bolinger
(ms).
Bolinger, D. (1978a) “Intonation across languages”, in J. Greenberg, C. Ferguson and E. Moravcsik
(eds) Universals of Human Language, Vol.2: Phonology, Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Bolinger, D. (1978b) “Yes-no questions are not alternative questions”, in H. Hiz (ed.) Questions,
Dordrecht: Reidel.
Bolinger, D. (1985) “The inherent iconism of intonation”, in J. Haiman (ed. 1985).
Bolinger, D. (1991) “The role of accent in extraposition and focus” (ms).
Bommelyn, L. and T. Givón (1998) “Internal reconstruction in the Tolowa Athabaskan verb”, Cuarto
Encuentro Internacional de Linguística en el Noroeste, Universidad de Sonora, Hermosillo, Son.
Borgert, U.H.G. and C.A. Nyhan (1976) A German Reference Grammar, Sydney: Sydney University
Press.
Brainard, S. (1994) “Voice and ergativity in Karao”, in T. Givón (ed. 1994a).
Bresnan, J. and J. Kanerva (1988) “Locative inversion in ChiChewa: A case study of factorization in
grammar”, Linguistic Inquiry, 20.1.
390 References
Brown, P. and S. Levinson (1978) “Universals in language usage: Politeness phenomena”, in E.
Goody (ed.) Questions and Politeness: Strategies in Social Interaction, Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Byarushengo, E., L. Hyman and S., Tenenbaum (1976) “Tone, accent and assertion in Haya”, BLS 2,
U.C. Berkeley: Berkeley Linguistics Society.
Byrne, F. (1987) Grammatical Relations in a Radical Creole, Creole Language Library #3, Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Byrne, F. (1992) “Tense, scope and spreading in Saramaccan”, J. of Pidgin and Creole Languages, 7.2.
Carlson, R. (1985) “Relative clauses in Ponapean”, University of Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Carlson, R. (1987) “Narrative connectives in Sup’ire”, in R. Tomlin (ed., 1987).
Carlson, R. (1994) A Grammar of Supyire, Berlin/NY: Mouton De Gruyter.
Chafe, W. (1976) “Givenness, contrastiveness, deﬁniteness, subject, topic and point of view”, in C.
Li (ed., 1976).
Chafe, W. (1987) “Cognitive constraints on information ﬂow”, in R. Tomlin (ed., 1987).
Chafe, W. (1994) Discourse, Consciousness and Time: The Flow and Displacement of Conscious
Experience in Speaking and Writing, Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Chafe, W. (1997), “Polyphonic topic development”, in T. Givón (ed. 1997b).
Chafe, W. and J. Nichols (eds 1986) Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology, Norwood,
NJ: Ablex.
Chisholm, W. (ed. 1984) Interrogativity, TSL #4, Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Chomsky, N. (1957) Syntactic Structures, The Hague: Mouton.
Chomsky, N. (1965) Aspects of the Theory of Syntax, Cambridge: MIT Press.
Coates, J. (1977) “The construction of collaborative ﬂoor in women’s friendly talk”, in T. Givón (ed.
1997b).
Cole, P. (1977/1984) “The grammatical role of the causee in universal grammar”, I.J.A.L., 49.2.
Cole, P. and J. Morgan (eds, 1975) Speech Acts, Syntax and Semantics 3, NY: Academic Press.
Comrie, B. (1976) “The syntax of causative constructions: Cross- language similarities and diver-
gences”, in M. Shibatani (ed., 1976a).
Comrie, B. (1977) “In defense of spontaneous demotion: The impersonal passive”, In P. Cole and J.
Sadock (eds) Grammatical Relations, Syntax and Semantics 8, NY: Academic Press.
Comrie, B. (1982) “Grammatical relations in Huichol”, in P. Hopper and S. Thompson (eds 1982).
Comrie, B. and S. Thompson (1965) “Lexical nominalizations”, in T. Shopen (ed., 1985, Vol.III).
Cooper, W. and J.R. Ross (1975) “World order”, Papers from the Parasession on Functionalism,
University of Chicago, Chicago Linguistics Society.
Cooreman, A. (1982) “Topicality, ergativity and transitivity in narrative discourse: Evidence from
Chamorro”, Studies in Language, 6.3.
Cooreman, A. (1985) Transitivity and Discourse Continuity in Chamorro Narratives, PhD dissertation,
University of Oregon, Eugene.
Cooreman, A. (1987) Transitivity and Discourse Continuity in Chamorro Narratives, Berlin: Mouton
de Gruyter [revised].
Cooreman, A. (1988) “Ergativity in Dyirbal discourse”, Linguistics, 26.
Cooreman, A., B. Fox and T. Givón (1984) “The discourse deﬁnition of ergativity”, Studies in
Language, 8.1.
Dahlstrom, A. (1986) Plains Cree Morphosyntax, PhD dissertation, UC at Berkeley (ms).
Dahlstrom, A. (1987) “Discontinuous constituents in Fox”, in P. Kroeber and R. Moore (eds.) Native
American Languages and Grammatical Typology, Bloomington: Indiana University Linguistics
Club.
Davison, A. (1975) “Indirect speech acts and what to do with them”, in P. Cole and J. Morgan (eds,
1975).
References 391
Delancey, S. (1981) “The category of direction in Tibeto-Burman”, Linguistics of the Tibeto-Burman
Area, 6.1.
Delancey, S. (1985) “The analysis-synthesis-lexis cycle in Tibeto- Burman: A case study in motivated
change”, in J. Haiman (ed. 1985b).
Delancey (1988) “Relativization and nominalization in Tibetan and Newari”, University of Oregon,
Eugene (ms).
De Mello, G. (1978) “On the use of ‘por’ plus agent with ‘se’ constructions”, Hispanica, 61.
Dickinson, C. and T. Givón (1997) “Memory and conversation: Toward an experimental paradigm”,
in T. Givón (ed. 1997b).
Dixon, R.M.W. (ed. 1976) Grammatical Categories in Australian Languages, Canberra: Australian
Institute of Aboriginal Studies.
Dixon, R.M.W. (1977) “The syntactic development of Australian languages”, in C. Li (ed., 1977).
Donellan, K. (1966) “Reference and deﬁnite description”, The Philosophical Review, 75.3.
Dreizin, A. (1980) “The ﬂavor of Russian negation: Some notes on and around”, Haifa University
(ms).
Dryer, M. (1994) “The discourse function of the Kutenai inverse”, in T. Givón (ed. 1994a).
DuBois, J. (1987) “The discourse basis of ergativity”, Language, 63.4.
Duranti, A. and E. Ochs (1979) “Left-dislocation in Italian conversation”, in T. Givón (ed. 1979b).
Egerod, S. (1975) Paper read at the 8th Sino-Tibetan Conference, UC Berkeley, October 1975 (ms).
Eisler-Goldman, F. (1968) Psycholinguistics: Experiments in Spontaneous Speech, NY: Academic Press.
Elgin, S. (1972) “The crossover constraint and Ozark English”, in J. Kimball (ed.) Syntax and
Semantics, I, NY: Academic Press.
Erguvanli, E. (1976) Scope of Presupposition in Turkish Interrogative, MA Thesis, UCLA (ms).
Ervin-Tripp, S. and A. Küntay (1997) “The occasioning and structure of conversational stories”, in
T. Givón (ed 1997b).
Estival, D. (1986) The Passive in English: A Case of Syntactic Change, PhD dissertation, University of
Pennsylvania (ms).
Finer, D. (1985) “The syntax of switch reference”, Linguistic Inquiry, 16.
Fodor, J. and M. Garrett (1967) “Some syntactic determinants of sentential complexity”, Perception
and Psychophysics, 2.
Fox, A. (1983) “Topic continuity in Biblical Hebrew narrative” in T. Givón (ed. 1983a).
Fox, R. (1985) “Existential clauses in written English discourse”, University of Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Fox, B. (1987) “The noun phrase accessibility hierarchy revisited”, Language, 63.4.
Fox, B. and P. Hopper (eds 1994) Voice: Form and Function, TSL #27, Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Fox, B. and S. Thompson (1990) “A discourse explanation of the grammar of relative clauses in
English conversation”, Language, 66.
Forrest, L. (1994) “The de-transitive clause in Bella Coola: Passive vs. inverse”, in T. Givón (ed.
1994a).
Frajzyngier, Z. (1986) “Grammaticalization through analysis: A case of switch reference”, in S.
DeLancey and R. Tomlin (eds) Proceedings of the Second Annual Meeting, Paciﬁc Linguistics
Conference, Eugene: University of Oregon.
Frishberg, N. (1972) “Navajo object markers and the great chain of being”, in J. Kimball (ed.) Syntax
and Semantics I, NY: Academic Press.
Fujii, N. (1989) Right Dislocation in Japanese Discourse, Ma Thesis, University of Oregon, Eugene
(ms).
García, E. (1975) On the Role of Theory in Linguistic Analysis: The Spanish Pronoun System, Amster-
dam: North Holland.
Gernsbacher, M.A. (1990) Language Comprehension as Structure Building, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
392 References
Gernsbacher, M.A. and D. Hargreaves (1988) “Accessing sentence participants: The advantage of
ﬁrst mention”, J. of Memory and Language, 27.
Gernsbacher, M.A. and T. Givón (eds 1995) Coherence in Spontaneous Discourse, TSL #31, Amster-
dam: John Benjamins.
Gildea, S. (1994) “‘Inverse alignment’ and ‘inverse voice’ in Carib of Surinam”, in T. Givón (ed.
1994a).
Gildea, S. (1998) On Reconstructing Grammar: Comparative Cariban Morphosyntax, Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Girardello, R. (1999) A Reference Grammar of Trumai, PhD dissertation, Rice University, Houston,
Texas (ms).
Givón, T. (1970) “The resolution of gender conﬂicts in Bantu conjunction: When syntax and
semantics clash”, CLS 6, University of Chicago, Chicago Linguistics Society.
Givón, T. (1971) “Historical syntax and synchronic morphology: An archaeologist’s ﬁeld trip”, CLS
#11, University of Chicago: Chicago Linguistics Society.
Givón, T. (1972a) Studies in ChiBemba and Bantu Grammar, Studies in African Linguistics, supple-
ment #3.
Givón, T. (1973b) “Complex NPs, word-order and resumptive pronouns in Hebrew”, CLS #9, The
Chicago Which-Hunt, University of Chicago: Chicago Linguistics Society.
Givón, T. (1974a) “Syntactic change in Lake-Bantu: A rejoinder”, Studies in African Linguistics, 5.1.
Givón, T. (1975a) “Cause and control: On the semantics of inter-personal manipulation”, in J.
Kimball (ed.) Syntax and Semantics 4, NY: Academic Press.
Givón, T. (1975b) “On the role of perceptual clues in Hebrew relativization”, Afroasiatic Linguistics,
2.8.
Givón, T. (1975c) “Focus and the scope of assertion: Some Bantu evidence”, Studies in African
Linguistics, 6.2.
Givón, T. (1975d) “Serial verbs and syntactic change: Niger-Congo”, in C. Li (ed., 1975).
Givón, T. (1976a) “Some constraints on Bantu causativization”, in M. Shibatani (ed., 1976a).
Givón, T. (1976b) “Topic, pronoun and grammatical agreement”, in C. Li (ed. 1976).
Givón, T. (1976c) “On the VS word-order in Israeli Hebrew: Pragmatics and typological change”, in
P. Cole (ed.) Studies in Modern Hebrew Syntax and Semantics, Amsterdam: N. Holland.
Givón, T. (1977) “The drift from VSO to SVO in Biblical Hebrew: The pragmatics of tense–aspect”,
in C. Li (ed. 1977).
Givón, T. (1979a) On Understanding Grammar, NY: Academic Press.
Givón, T. (ed. 1979b) Discourse and Syntax, Syntax and Semantics 12, NY: Academic Press.
Givón, T. (1980a) Ute Reference Grammar, Ignacio, CO: Ute Press.
Givón, T. (1980b) “The binding hierarchy and the typology of complements”, Studies in Language,
4.3.
Givón, T. (1981a) “Typology and functional domains”, Studies in Language, 5.2.
Givón, T. (ed. 1983a) Topic Continuity in Discourse: Quantiﬁed Cross-Language Studies, TSL #3,
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Givón, T. (1983b) “Topic continuity in spoken English”, in T. Givón (ed., 1983a).
Givón, T. (1983c) “Topic continuity and word-order in Ute”, in T. Givón (ed., 1983b).
Givón, T. (1984a) “Direct object and dative shifting: Semantic vs. pragmatic case”, in F. Plank (ed.)
Objects, London: Academic Press.
Givón, T. (1984b) “Ute interrogatives”, in W. Chisholm (ed., 1984).
Givón, T. (1984c) “The Krio numeral ‘one’ and the pragmatics of reference”, African Studies Journal,
Johannesburg: Witwatersrand University Press.
Givón, T. (1985a) “Iconicity, isomorphism and non-arbitrary coding in syntax”, in J. Haiman (ed.,
1985b).
References 393
Givón, T. (ed. 1985b) Ute Traditional Narratives, Ignacio, CO: Ute Press.
Givón, T. (1987a) “Beyond foreground and background”, in R. Tomlin (ed. 1987a).
Givón, T. (1988a) “The pragmatics of word-order: Predictability, importance and attention”, in M.
Hammond, E. Moravcsik and J. Wirth (eds 1988).
Givón, T. (1988b) “Tale of two passive: Internal reconstruction in Ute”, in M. Shibatani (ed. 1988).
Givón, T. (1989) Mind, Code and Context: Essays in Pragmatics, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Givón, T. (1990a) “On reconstructing the object and genitive suﬃxes in Ute”, Fonción, 3.1.
Givón, T. (1991a) “Isomorphism in the grammatical code: Cognitive and biological considerations”,
Studies in Language, 15.1.
Givón, T. (1991b) “Some substantive issues concerning verb serialization: Grammatical vs. cognitive
packaging”, in C. Lefebvre (ed. 1991).
Givón, T. (1991c) “Markedness in grammar: Distributional, communicative and cognitive correlates
of syntactic structure”, Studies in Language, 15.2.
Givón, T. (1991d) “The evolution of dependent clause morphosyntax in Biblical Hebrew”, in E.
Traugott and B. Heine (eds 1991).
Givón, T. (1993) “Coherence in text, coherence in mind”, Pragmatics and Cognition, 2.1.
Givón, T. (ed. 1994a) Voice and Inversion, TSL #30, Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Givón, T. (1994b) “The pragmatics of de-transitive voice: Functional and typological aspects of
inversion”, in T. Givón (ed. 1994a).
Givón, T. (1994c) “Nominalized clauses in Ute: The diachronic seasaw of ﬁnite structure”, Proc. of
the II Encuentro de Linguistica en el Noroeste, Hermosillo, Mexico: Universidad de Sonora.
Givón, T. (1994d) “Irrealis and the subjunctive”, Studies in Language, 18.2.
Givón, T. (1995a) Functionalism and Grammar, Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Givón, T. (1995b) “Coherence in text vs. coherence in mind”, in M.A. Gernsbacher and T. Givón
(eds 1995) .
Givón, T. (ed. 1997a) Grammatical Relations: A Functionalist Perspective, TSL #35, Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Givón, T. (ed. 1997b) Conversation: Cognitive, Communicative and Social Perspectives, TSL #34,
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Givón, T. (1997c) “Toward a neuro-cognitive interpretation of ‘context’”, TR 97-08, University of
Oregon: Institute of Cognitive & Decision Sciences.
Givón, T. (1999a) “The bounds of generativity and the demise of competence, I: The mirage of
(non-)conﬁgurationality”, Symposium on Frequency Eﬀects in Emergence, Carnegie-Mellon
University, May 1999 (ms).
Givón, T. (1999b) “The usual suspects: The grammar of perspective in narrative ﬁction”, Estudios
Ingleses de la Universidad Complutense (Madrid), 7.
Givón, T. (2000a) “Internal reconstruction: As method, as theory”, in S. Gildea (ed.) Reconstructing
Grammar: Comparative Linguistics and Grammaticalization, TSL 43, Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Givón, T. (2001a) “The role of grammar in discourse processing”, in A. Graesser, M.A. Gernsbacher
and S. Goldman (eds) Handbook of Discoiurse Processes.
Givón, T. and L. Bommelyn (2000) “The evolution of transitive voice in Tolowa Athabaskan”,
Studies in Language, 24.1.
Givón, T. and A. Kimenyi (1974) “Truth, belief and doubt in KinyaRwanda”, Studies in African
Linguistics, supplement 5.
Givón, T. and P. Young (Forthcoming) “Cooperation and inter-personal manipulation in the society
of intimates”, in M. Shibatani (ed.) Causatives and Inter-Personal Manipulation, Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Goddard, I. (1979) Delaware Verbal Morphology, NY: Garland.
394 References
Goodwin, C. (1995) “The negotiation of coherence within conversation”, in M.A. Gernsbacher and
T. Givón (eds 1995).
Gorbet, L. (1974) Relativization and Complementation in Diegeño: Noun Phrases as Nouns, PhD
dissertation, UC San Diego (ms).
Gordon, D. and G. Lakoﬀ (1971) “Conversational postulates”, CLS #7, University of Chicago,
Chicago Linguistics Society.
Green, G. (1970) “Whimperatives: Schizophrenic speech acts”, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
(ms).
Green, G. (1975) “How to get people to do things with words: The whimperative question”, in P.
cole and J. Morgan (eds 1975).
Greenberg, J. (1974) “The relation of frequency to semantic features in a case language (Russian)”,
Working Papers in Language Universals, 16, Stanford: Stanford University.
Greenberg. J. (1976) Language Universals, With Special Reference to Feature Hierarchies, The Hague:
Mouton.
Grice, H.P. (1968/1975) “Logic and conversation”, in P. Cole and J. Morgan (eds 1975).
Gruber, J. (1967) Functions of the Lexicon in Formal Descriptive Grammars, Santa Monica, CA:
Systems Development Corporation.
Guillaume, A. (2000) “Participials, case agreement and switch reference in Cavineña”, University of
Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Haberland, H. (1985) “Review of Klaus Heinrich’s Dahlemere Vorlesungen I, J. of Pragmatics, 9.
Haiman, J. (1978) “Conditionals are topics”, Language, 54.3.
Haiman, J. (1983) “On some origins of switch-reference marking”, in J. Haiman and P. Munro (eds
1983).
Haiman, J. (1985a) Natural Syntax, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Haiman, J. (ed. 1985b) Iconicity in Syntax, TSL #6, Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Haiman, J. (1987) “One some origins of medial verb morphology in Papuan languages”, Studies in
Language, 11.2.
Haiman, J. and P. Munro (eds 1983) Switch Reference and Universal Grammar, TSL #2, Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Hale, K. (1972) “A note on subject-object inversion in Navajo”, in B. Kachru et al. (eds) Issues in
Linguistics: Papers in Honor of Henry and Renée Kahane, Urbana: University of Illinois Press.
Hale, K. (1976) “Person marking in Walbiri”, in R.M.W. Dixon (ed. 1976).
Hale, K. (1983) “Papago k/c” I.J.A.L., 49.
Hale, K. (1988) “Misumalpan verb sequencing constructions”, paper read at the Chibchan Session,
AAA Annual Meeting, Phoenix (ms).
Hale, K. (1991) “Misumalpan verb-sequencing constructions”, in C. Lefebvre (ed. 1991).
Hammond, M., E. Moravcsik and J. Wirth (eds 1988) Studies in Syntactic Typology, TSL #17,
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Hancock, I. (ed., 1972) The Journal of the Krio Literary Society, 1.1.
Harris, A. (1981) Georgian Syntax: A Study in Relational Grammar, Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Harris, A. (1984) “Interrogatives in Georgian”, in W. Chisholm (ed. 1984).
Hayashi, L. (1989) “Conjunctions and referential continuity”, University of Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Heine, B., U. Claudi and F. Hünnemeyer (1991) Grammaticalization: A Conceptual Framework,
Chicago: University of Chicago Pres.
Heny, F. (1971) “Focus and interrogative in Bali” (UCLA, ms).
Hennesy, P. (1996) “Adverbial clauses in Tolowa”, University of Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Hetzron, R. (1971) “Presentative function and presentative movement”, Studies in African Linguistics,
Supplement #2.
References 395
Hetzron, R. (1975) “The presentative movement, or why the ideal word-order is V.S.O.P.”, in C. Li
(ed. 1975).
Hidalgo, R. (1994) “The pragmatics of de-transitive voice in Spanish: From passive to inverse?”, in
T. Givón (ed. 1994a).
Hinds, J. (1984) “Japanese interrogatives”, in W. Chisholm (ed., 1984).
Hopper, P. (1979) “Aspect and foregrounding in Discourse”, in T. Givón (ed. 1979b).
Hopper, P. and S. Thompson (1980) “Transitivity in grammar and discourse”, Language, 56.
Hopper, P. and S. Thompson (eds 1982) Studies in Transitivity, Syntax and Semantics 15, NY:
Academic Press.
Hopper, P. and S. Thompson (1984) “The discourse basis for lexical categories in universal
grammar”, Language, 60.
Hopper, P. and E. Traugott (1993) Grammaticalization, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Hulstaert, G. (1966) Grammaire du Lomongo, 3-iem Prt: Syntax, Tervuren: Musée Royal de l’Afrique
Centrale, serie IN-8, #58.
Hyman, L. (1975) “On the change from SOV to SVO: Evidence from Niger-Congo”, in C. Li (ed.,
1975).
Jelinek, E. (1986) “Yaqui minus control”, in S. DeLancey and R. Tomlin (eds) Papers from the Second
Paciﬁc Linguistics Conference (PLC II), University of Oregon, Eugene.
Jespersen, O. (1924) The Philosophy of Grammar, NY: Norton [1965 edition].
Justus, C. (1976) “Topicalization and relativization in Hittite”, in C. Li (ed., 1976).
Kachru, Y. (1976) “On the semantics of causative constructions in Hindi-Urdu”, in M. Shibatani (ed.
1976a).
Kalmár, I. (1979) Case and Context in Inuktitut (Eskimo), Publication #49, Ottawa: National Museum
of Man.
Kalmár, I. (1980) “The antipassive and grammatical relations in Eskimo”, in F. Plank (ed.) Ergativity:
Toward a Theory of Grammatical Relations, NY: Academic Press.
Karttunen, L. (1970) “The logic of English predicate complements”, Langages.
Karttunen, L. (1971) “Some observations on factivity”, Papers in Linguistics, 4.
Karttunen, L. (1974) “Presupposition and linguistic context”, Theoretical Linguistics, 1.2.
Kawasha, B. (1999) Some Aspects of Lunda Grammar, MA thesis, University of Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Kawasha, B. (2000) “The pragmatic function of the Lunda passive: A quantitative text-based study”,
University of Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Kawasha, B. and T. Givón (2000) “Indiscrete grammatical relations: The Lunda passive”, University
of Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Keenan, E. (1975) “Some universals of passive in relational grammar”, CLS #11, University of
Chicago: Chicago Linguistics Society.
Keenan, E.L. (1976a) “Toward a universal deﬁnition of ‘subject’”, in C. Li (ed. 1976).
Keenan, E. and B. Comrie (1977) “Noun phrase accessibility and universal grammar”, Linguistic
Inquiry, 8.
Kemmer, S. (1988) The Middle Voice: A Typological and Diachronic Study, PhD dissertation, Stanford
University (ms).
Kemmer, S. (1989) “Reciprocal marking”, in D. Payne et al. (eds) Papers from the Fourth Paciﬁc
Linguistics Conference (PLC-4), Eugene, OR: University of Oregon.
Kimenyi, A. (1976) A Relational Grammar of Kinyarwanda, Ph D. dissertation, Los Angeles:
University of California (ms).
Kintsch, W. (1974) The Representation of Meaning in Memory, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Kintsch, W. (1977) “On comprehending stories”, in M.A. Just and P. Carpenter (eds) Cognitive
Processes in Comprehension, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
396 References
Kintsch, W. (1982a) “Psychological processes in discourse production”, in H.W. Dechter and M.
Raupach (eds) Psycholinguistic Models of Production, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Kintsch, W. (1982b) “Memory for text”, in A. Flammer and W. .
Kuno, S. (1972/3) The Structure of the Japanese Language, Cambridge: MIT Press.
Lakoﬀ, G. (1967) “Deep and surface grammar”, Cambridge, Harvard University (ms).
Lakoﬀ, R. (1971) “Passive resistance”, CLS #7, University of Chicago: Chicago Linguistics Society.
Lambrecht, K. (1987) “On the status of canonical SVO sentences in the structuring of stories”, in R.
Tomlin (ed. 1987).
L’Amour, L. (1962) Shalako, NY: Ballantine.
Langacker, R. (1976) Non-Distinct Arguments in Uto-Aztecan, Linguistics publication #82, Berkeley:
UC Press.
Langacker, R. (1987) Foundations of Cognitive Grammar, Vol.I, Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Langacker, R. and P. Munro (1975) “Passives and their meaning”, Language, 51.
Lee-Kwok, I. (1994) “The pragmatics of voice in Korean”, in T. Givón (ed. 1994a).
Lefebvre, C. (ed. 1991) Serial Verbs: Grammatical, Comparative and Cognitive Approaches, SSLS #8,
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Leman, E. (1985) “Interclausal conjunctions in Nepali”, University of Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Levinson, S. (1983) Pragmatics, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lewis, D. (1979) “Score keeping in language games”, J. of Philosophical Logic, 8.
Lewis, G.L. (1967) Turkish Grammar, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Li, C. (ed. 1975) Word Order and Word Order Change, Austin: University of Texas Press.
Li, C. (ed. 1976) Subject and Topic, NY: Academic Press.
Li, C. (ed. 1977) Mechanisms of Syntactic Change, Austin: University of Texas Press.
Li, C. (1988) “From conjunction to switch reference in Green Hmong”, paper read at the Symposium
on Grammaticalization, University of Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Li, C. and S. Thompson (1981) Mandarin Chinese: A Functional Reference Grammar, Berkeley: UC
Press.
Li, C. and S. Thompson (1984) “Mandarin interrogatives”, in W. Chisholm (ed., 1984).
Lichtenberk, F. (1985) “Multiple uses of reciprocal constructions”, Australian J. of Linguistics, 5.1.
Lindenfeld, J. (1973) Yaqui Syntax, University of California Publications in Linguistics, #76, Berkeley:
UC Press.
Linell, P. and N. Korolija (1997) “Coherence in multi-party conversation: Episodes and contexts in
interaction”, in T. Givón (ed 1997b).
Longacre, R. (1968) Discourse, Paragraph and Sentence Structure in Selected Philippine Languages,
Vol.3 (Final Report on HEW Research Contract OE-08-062838-0391), Santa Ana: SIL
Publication #21.
Longacre, R. (1983) “Switch reference systems in two distinct linguistic areas: Wojokeso (Papua New
Guinea) and Guanano (Northern South America)”, in J. Haiman and P. Munro (eds 1983).
Longacre, R. (1985) “Sentences as combinations of clauses”, in T. Shopen (ed., 1985, Vol.II).
Lord, C. (1973) “Serial verbs in transition”, Studies in African Linguistics, 4.3.
Lyons, J. (1977) Semantics, Vols 1,2, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
MacWhinney, B., C. Pléh and E. Bates (1985) “The development of sentence interpretation in
Hungarian”, Cognitive Psychology.
Manney, L. (1998) “The reﬂexive archetype and its various realization in Modern Greek”, Studies in
Language, 22.1.
Manney, L. (2000) Middle Voice in Modern Greek, Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Marantz, A. (1983) “Comments on Givón’s Typology and Functional Domains”, Proc. XIII Interna-
tional Congress of Linguists, Tokyo, August 1982; edited by S. Hatori and K. Inue, The Hague:
CIPL.
References 397
Marín, J. (1989a) “Functions of se in the Poema del Mio Cid”, University of Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Marín, J. (1989b) “Functions of se in El Quijote”, University of Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Matisoﬀ, J. (1972) A Grammar of Lahu, Berkeley: UC Press.
Mazaudon, M. (1978) “La formation des propositions relatives en tibétain”, Bulletin de la Société de
Linquistique de Paris, 73.1.
Mbotela, J. (1934) Uhuru wa Watumwa, London: Nelson [1966 reprinting].
Mead, D. (1998) Proto-Bungku-Tolaki: Reconstruction of its Phonology and Aspects of its Morpho-
syntax, PhD dissertation, Rice University, Houston, Texas (ms).
Mithun, M. (1986) “Evidential diachrony in Northern Iroquois”, in W. Chafe and J. Nichols (eds
1986).
Mithun, M. (1987) “Is basic word-order universal?”, in R. Tomlin (ed., 1987).
Mithun, M. (1991) “The role of motivation in the emergence of grammatical categories: The
grammaticalization of subjects”, in E. Traugott and B. Heine (eds 1991).
Mithun, M., (1994) “The implication of ergativity for a Philippine voice system”, in B. Fox and P.
Hopper (eds 1994).
Monje, F. (1955) “Las frases pronominal de sentido impersonal en Español”, Archivo de Philología
Aragonesa, VII, Zaragoza: Institución “Fernando el Católico” (C.S.I.C.).
Moravcsik, E. (1971) “Some cross-linguistic generalizations about yes-no questions and their
answers”, Working Papers in Language Universals, 7, Stanford University.
Munro, P. (1974) Topics in Mojave Syntax, PhD dissertation, UC at San Diego (ms).
Munro, P. (1976) Mojave Syntax, NY/London: Garland Publ.
Munro, P. (1983) Sketch of Pima Grammar, Los Angeles, CA, UCLA (ms).
Myers, A. (1971) “On the similarities between interrogatives and emphatics in Kikuyu”, Studies in
African Linguistics, Supplement #2.
Osam, E.K. (1994) Aspects of Akan Grammar: A Functional Perspective, PhD dissertation, University
of Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Osam, E.K. (1997) “Grammatical relations in Akan”, in T. Givón (ed. 1997).
Pawley, A. (1966) The Structure of Karam: A Grammar of a New Guinea Highlands Language, PhD
dissertation, Auckland University, Auckland, NZ (ms).
Payne, Doris (1987) “Information structure in Papago”, Language, 63.4.
Payne, Doris (1989) “Discontinuity vs. continuity in Yagua narrative”, University of Oregon, Eugene
(ms).
Payne, Doris, M. Hamaya and P. Jacobs (1994) “Active, inverse and passive in Maasai”, in T. Givón
(ed. 1994a).
Payne, J. (1985) “Complex phrases and complex sentences”, in T. Shopen (ed. 1985, Vol.II).
Payne, T. (1988) “Role- and reference-related subject properties and ergativity in Yu’pik Eskimo and
Tagalog”, Studies in Language, 6.1.
Payne, T. (1994) “The pragmatics of voice in a Philippine language: Actor-focus and goal-focus in
Cebuano narrative”, in T. Givón (ed. 1994a).
Perlmutter, D. and P. Postal (1977) “Toward a universal characterization of passivization”, BLS, 3,
Berkeley: Berkeley Linguistics Society.
Pope, E. (1973) “Question answering systems”, CLS #9, University of Chicago, Chicago Linguistics
Society.
Posner, M.I. and C.R. Snyder (1974) “Attention and cognitive control”, in R.L. Solso (ed.)
Information Processing and Cognition: The Loyola Symposium, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Postal, P. (1974) On Raising, Cambridge: MIT Press.
Pu, M.-M. (1997) “Zero anaphora and grammatical relations in Mandarin” in T. Givón (ed. 1997a).
Ramsay, V. (1987) “The functional distribution of pre-posed and post-posed ‘if’ and ‘when’ clauses
in written discourse”, in R. Tomlin (ed. 1987a).
398 References
Redden, J. (1966) “Walapai II: Morphology”, I.J.A.L., 32.
Rhodes, R. (1976) The Morphosyntax of the Central Ojibwa Verb, PhD dissertation, University of
Michigan, Ann Arbor (ms).
Roland, K. (1994) “The pragmatics of Modern Greek voice: Active, inverse and passive”, in T. Givón
(ed. 1994a).
Ross, J.R. (1967) Constraints on Variables in Syntax, PhD dissertation, MIT (ms).
Rude, N. (1985) Studies in Nez Perce Grammar and Discourse, PhD dissertation, University of
Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Rude, N. (1987) “Topicality, transitivity and the direct object in Nez Perce”, I.J.A.L..
Rude, N. (1988a) “Ergative, passive and antipassive in Nez Perce: A discourse perspective”, in M.
Shibatani (ed. 1988).
Rude, N. (1988b) “Possible sources of the Sahaptin inverse preﬁx pa-”, University of Oregon, Eugene
(ms).
Rude, N. (1991) “Origin of the Nez Perce Ergative NP suﬃx”, I.J.A.L., 57.1.
Rude, N. (1994) “Direct, inverse and passive in Northwest Sahaptin”, in T. Givón (ed. 1994a).
Sadock, J. (1970) “Whimperatives”, in J. Sadock and A. Vanek (eds) Studies Presented to R.B. Lees,
Edmonton: Linguistic Research.
Sadock, J. and A. Zwicky (1985) “Speech act distinctions in syntax”, in T. Shopen (ed. 1985), Vol.I.
Salisbury, M. (1986) “Negation and irrealis in Pukapukan”, Anthropology Department, Auckland
University, Auckland, NZ (ms).
Saxena, A. (1988) “On the grammaticalization of the verb ‘say’: A typological and diachronic study”,
in S. DeLancey and R. Tomlin (eds) Papers from the Third Paciﬁc Linguistics Conference (PLC II),
Eugene: University of Oregon.
Scancarelli, J. (1989) “Marking discontinuity in Pima and O’odham (Papago)”, U. of Kentucky (ms).
Schachter, P. (1971) “Focus and relativization”, Language, 47.
Schauber, E. (1978) The Syntax and Semantics of Questions in Navajo, Rowley, Mass.: Newbury
House.
Schneider, W. and R.M. Shiﬀrin (1977) “Controlled and automated human information processing,
I: Detection, search and attention”, Psychological Review, 84.
Searle, J. (1970) Speech Acts, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Searle, J. (1975) “Indirect speech acts”, In P. Cole and J. Morgan (eds, 1975).
Shibatani, M. (1973) “Semantics of Japanese causativization”, Foundations of Language, 9.
Shibatani, M. (ed. 1976a) The Grammar of Causative Constructions, Syntax and Semantics 6, NY:
Academic Press.
Shibatani, M. (1976b) “The grammar of causative constructions: A conspectus”, in M. Shibatani (ed.
1976a).
Shibatani, M. (1985) “Passive and related constructions: A prototype analysis”, Language, 61.4.
Shibatani, M. (ed. 1988) Passives and Voice, TSL #16, Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Shibatani, M. (ed. Forthcoming) Causatives and Inter-personal Manipulation, Amsterdam: John
Benjamins.
Shopen, T. (ed. 1985) Language Typology and Syntactic Description, 3 volumes (Vol.II: Complex
Constructions), Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Silverstein, M. (1976) “Hierarchy of features and ergativity”, in R.M.W. Dixon (ed. 1976).
Slobin, D. (1986) “The acquisition and use of relative clauses in Turkic and Indo-European
languages”, in D. Slobin and K. Zimmer (eds.) Studies in Turkish Linguistics, TSL #8, Amster-
dam: John Benjamins.
Sparing-Chávez, M. (1998) “Interclausal reference in Amahuaca”, in D.C. Derbyshire and J. Pullum
(eds) Handbook of Amazonian Languages, Vol.4.
Stahlke, H. (1974) “Pronouns and islands in Yoruba”, Studies in African Linguistics, 5.2.
References 399
Svedova, N.J. (1970) Grammatika Sovremennogo Russkogo Literaturnogo, Moscow: Nauka.
Sun, C.-F. and T. Givón (1985) “On the so-called SOV word-order in Mandarin Chinese: A
quantiﬁed text study and its implications”, Language, 61.2.
Sundberg, K. (1985) “Word-order in Klamath: The eﬀect of topic continuity in determining pre- and
post-verbal position”, University of Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Syder, F. and A. Pawley (1974) “The reduction principle in conversation”, Anthropology Depart-
ment, Auckland University, Auckland, NZ (ms).
Takizala, A. (1972) “Focus and relativization in Kihungan”, Studies in African Linguistics, 3.2.
Tenenbaum, S. (1977) “Left and right dislocation”, in E. Byarushengo, A. Duranti and L. Hyman
(eds) Haya Grammatical Structure, SCOPIL 6, Los Angeles: University of Southern California.
Thompson, C. (1987), “Pronouns and voice in Koyukon Athabaskan”, IJAL.
Thompson, C. (1989) Voice and Obviation in Athabaskan and Other Languages, PhD dissertation,
University of Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Thompson, C. (1994) “Passive and inverse constructions”, in T. Givón (ed. 1994a).
Thompson, S. (1985) “Grammar and written discourse: Initial vs. ﬁnal purpose clauses in English”,
in T. Givón (ed.) Quantiﬁed Studies in Discourse, Text, 5.1/2.
Thompson, S. (1991) “That deletion in English from a discourse perspective”, in E. Traugott and B.
Heine (eds 1991).
Thompson, S. and R. Longacre (1985) “Adverbial clauses”, in T. Shopen (ed. 1985), Vol.I.
Thurman, R. (1978) Interclausal Relations in Chuave, MA Thesis, University of California, Los
Angeles (ms).
Tomlin, R. (ed. 1987a) Coherence and Grounding in Discourse, TSL #11, Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Tomlin, R. (1987b) “Linguistic reﬂections of cognitive events”, in R. Tomlin (ed. 1987a).
Tomlin, R. and R. Rhodes (1979) “An introduction to information distribution in Ojibwa”, CLS 15,
Chicago: Chicago Linguistics Society.
Trabasso, T., T. Secco and P. van Broek (1984) “Causal cohesion and story coherence”, in H. Mandl,
N.L. Stein and T. Trabasso (eds) Learning and Comprehension of Text, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Trabasso, T. and L.L. Sperry (1985) “Causal relatedness and importance of story events”, J. of
Memory and Language, 24 cohesion and story coherence”, .
Trabasso, T.S. Suh and P. Payton (1995) “Explanatory coherence in understanding and talking about
events”, in M.A. Gernsbacher and T. Givón (eds).
Traugott, E. (1982) “From propositional to textual and expressive meaning: Some semantic-
pragmatic aspects of grammaticalization”, in W.P. Lehmann and Y. Malkiel (ed.) Perspectives
on Historical Linguistics, Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Traugott, E. and B. Heine (eds 1991) Approaches to Grammaticalization, TSL #19.1/2, Amsterdam:
John Benjamins.
Trout, K. (1974) Venus on the Half Shell, NY: Dell (ppbk).
Tsuchihashi, M. (1983) “The speech-act continuum: An investigation of Japanese sentence-ﬁnal
particles”, J. of Pragmatics, 7.4.
Tsunoda, T. (1985) “Ergativity and coreference in Warrungu discourse”, Nagoya University Working
Papers in Linguistics, 1.
Tsunoda, T. (1987) “Ergativity, accusativity and topicality”, Nagoya University Working Papers in
Linguistics, 2.
Valenzuela, P. (1996) “Tolowa relative clauses”, University of Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Valenzuela, P. (2000) “Adverbials, transitivity and switch- reference in Shipibo-Kanibo”, University
of Oregon, Eugene (ms).
Vennemann, T. (1973) “Topic, subject and word-order: From SXV to SVX via TVX”, paper read at
the First International Congress of Historical Linguistics, Edinburgh (Sept. 1973; ms).
400 References
Verhaar, J. (1983a) “Two aspects of pragmatics: Topicality and iconicity”, in S. Hattori and K. Inoue
(eds) Proceedings of the XIIIth International Congress of Linguists, Tokyo, 1982, The Hague: CIPL.
Verhaar, J. (1983b) “Ergativity, accusativity and hierarchy”, Sophia Linguistica, 11.
Vincent, A. (1973) “Tairora verb structure”, in H. McKaughan (ed.) The Languages of the Eastern
Family of the East New Guinea Highlands Stock, Seattle: University of Washington Press.
Wachowicz, C. (1975) “Double wh-questions”, Language Universals Project, Stanford University
(ms).
Walusimbi, L. and T. Givón (1970) “Conjoined vs. stacked restrictive relative clauses: Deep and non-
so-deep constraints in light of some Luganda data”, Studies in African Linguistics, 1.2.
Watson, R. (1966) “Clause to sentence gradation in Pacoh”, Lingua, 16.
Watters, D. (1998) The Kham Language of West-Central Nepal (Takale Dialect), PhD dissertation,
Eugene: University of Oregon (ms).
Weber, D. (1996) Una Gramatica del Quechua del Huallaga, Seria Linguística Peruana 40, Lima,
Perú: Instituto Linguístico de Verano.
Williams, W. (1971) “Serial verb constructions in Krio”, Studies in African Linguistics, Supplement
#2.
Williamson, K. (1965) A Grammar of the Kolokuma Dialect of Ijo, West African Language Monogr-
aph #2, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Wilson, S. (1999) Co-verbs and Complex Predicates in Wagiman, Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Wolfart, C. (1973) Plains Cree: A Grammatical Study, Philadelphia: Transactions of the American
Philosophical Society, New Series, 63.5.
Wright, S. and T. Givón (1987) “The pragmatics of indeﬁnite reference: Quantiﬁed text-based
studies”, Studies in Language, 11.1.
Yang, L. and T. Givón (1994) “The rise of the English GET- passive”, in B. Fox and P. Hopper (eds
1994).
Zavala, R. (1994) “Acatec voice constructions: A functional analysis”, University of Oregon, Eugene
(ms).
Zubin, D. (1979) “Discourse function of morphology: The focus system in German”, in T. Givón
(ed. 1979b).
</TARGET "ref">
Index
<TARGET "index" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Index"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "220"
WIDTH "150"
VOFFSET "4">
A
active direct voice 93, 122, 155
active-stative solution 142
adjectival phrase 6
adjectival-resultative 132
adjectives 6
adverbial clauses 342, 352
adverbial subordinate clauses 330
aﬀectedness 275
agentive control 45, 46
agent deletion 156
agent suppression 125
agreement 22
alternative questions 298
alternative choice questions 299
anaphoric 254
anaphoric accessibility 344
anaphoric grounding 175, 345
anaphoric pronoun strategy 185
anaphoricity 344
anteriority 338
antipassive 93, 94, 122, 155, 170, 172
antipassive voice 168
assertion scope 222, 230
attention 249,250
Austin 377
authority 322
B
backgrounding 344
BE-passive 128
blame 323
C
case agreement 377, 379, 381
case-bumping hierarchie 78
case-marking 32, 60, 66, 74, 77, 316, 376
case recoverability 180
case recoverability strategies 182
case roles 301
cataphoric 254
cataphoric grounding 177
cataphoric importance 344
causativazation 7
cause 335
chain 356
chain-ﬁnal clauses 356
chain-grounding clauses 356, 361
chain-initial clauses 356
chain-medial clauses 356
chain-medial-DS clauses 357, 364, 374
chain-medial-SS clauses 363
chain-medial switch-reference 359
clause-chaining 355, 383, 384
clause types 356
clause union 39, 59, 74, 79, 87
certainty 322, 323
cleft 224, 234, 307, 308
clefted Yes/no-questions 298
coercive power 44
coherence 328, 343, 348
coherence bridges 347
coincidence 330
Cole 78
co-lexicalization 63, 74
co-temporality 44, 49
co-reference 44
code quantity principle 249
complementation scale 43, 65, 71
complex noun phrases 15
complex NP constraint 211
complexity 218
Comrie 77, 78, 242
communicative contract 311
concessive adverbial clauses 336
concessive conditionals 334
conditional 332
conditional adverbial clauses 330, 330
402 Index
conjunction 15
conjunction morpheme 22
conjoined (‘chained’) clauses 348
connectivity 328
consecutive aspect 369
constituency 3
continuative 350
continuity 328
contrary belief 223
contrast 221, 223
contrastive conjunctions 350
contrastive focus 221, 222, 230, 234, 242, 247
constrastive quantiﬁers 233
contrastive strength 224
contrastive stress 249
contrastive topicalization 262
control 44, 352, 385
coordinate 327
coordination 327
Cooreman 124, 155
Counter-fact (‘hypothetical’) conditionals 332
Cross-clausal integration 338
D
dative-shifting 269
declarative 288, 295, 318, 319, 320
deictic 165
deﬁnite 175
deﬁniteness 208, 301
deletion under co-reference 180
deontic 54, 290, 291, 312, 321
dependence 385
dependent 327
determiners 4, 6
de-transitive constructions 91
de-transitive voice 91, 92
diachronic perspective 92
diachronic simpliﬁcation 238
direct active voice 159
direct contact 44, 48
direct manipulation 47
direct quote 53
discourse-pragmatic connectivity 342
DO-only restriction 145
double-genitive 32
E
Eisler-Goldman 387
embedded wh-questions 310
embedding languages 80, 83
epistemic 51, 52, 290, 291, 311, 321
ergative 170, 172
ergative solution 142
equi-case strategy 192
equi-subject (SS) 80, 149
equi-subject chain 357
equi-subject constraint 341
event integration 40, 44, 56
existential-presentative 154, 255
expectation 221
external speech 53
extraposed relative clauses 207
extraposition 209
F
ﬁnite 26
ﬁnite ADV-clause 359
ﬁnite adverbial clauses 359
ﬁnite verbal clause 25
ﬁnite verbal morphology 60, 68, 386
ﬁniteness 24, 313, 338, 339, 352, 355, 383,
385
ﬁniteness gradients 365
ﬂexible-order languages 259
focus 237, 300
focus attraction 230, 231
focus morpheme 240
focused yes/no-questionss 293
functional dilemma 141
functional markedness 124
G
gap strategies 189
gap zero strategy 184
GET-passive 132
gender/class 301
genitive case-marking 27
Gernsbacher 250
Greenberg 124
grammatical relations 61, 112, 203
grammaticalization 79, 87
grounding 328, 343
group nouns 22
H
Haberland 287
habitual aspect 169
habituality 57
Index 403
Haiman 371
Hale 15, 157, 358
Hazardous information principle 324
head 1
headless relative clauses 205
I
identiﬁability 222
ignorance 223
imperative 288, 318, 319
imperfect 380
imperfective participial 339
impersonal passive 129
impersonal pronoun 139
impersonal subject pronoun 135
implicativity 56
implicative 44
inchoative 105
inchoative middle-voice 118
indeﬁnite subject 259
indeﬁniteness 169
independent 327
independent pronouns 375
indirect manipulation 47
indirect speech 53
indirect speech-acts 318
indirect-quote 53
inﬁnitive 69
inﬁnitival complements 51
informational unpredictability 386
initial boundary 330
intentionality 44, 45, 57
inter-clausal coherence 327
inter-clausal connectivity 352
inter-clausal dependency 328
intermediate truth value 333
internal speech 53
interrogative 288, 318, 319, 320
interrogative pronouns 301
interrogative speech-acts 291
intonation 247, 294
intonational integration 327
intransitive 170, 172
inverse voice 93, 94, 122, 154, 155, 159
inverse clauses 374
inverse construction 158
inverse-to-Ergative 167
inverse-to-passive 167
irrealis conditionals 331
irrealis modality 169
K
Kemmer 105, 108
know-how 57
L
Latin participial clauses 377
L-dislocation 139, 264
left dislocation 265
light vs heavy reciprocal 108
linear order 3
locative-allative 381
Longacre 359
low aﬀectedness 169
M
manipulation 312
manipulation verbs 40, 41
manipulative speech-acts 50, 311
manipulee 66, 77
Matisoﬀ 165
marked topic 253, 254
memory 250
middle-voice 106, 118
middle-voice constructions 120
Mithun 29
mixed relativization strategies 198
modality verbs 40, 54
modiﬁers 1
morphology 247, 294
morphological causatives 75
multiple embedding 214
multiple wh-questions 305
N
negation 231
negative imperatives 317
nominalization 24
nominalization strategy 190
nominalized structure 26
nominalizer suﬃx 27
nominative typological solution 142
non-declarative speech-acts 287
non-distinct arguments 99
non-embedding strategy 182
non-implicative 44
non-promotional 142, 161
non-promotional passive 127, 128, 151
404 Index
non-referentiality 169
non-referring head nouns 178
non-referring object 168, 170
non-restrictive modiﬁers 10
non-restrictive Rel-clauses 11, 179, 202
normative expectations 222
noun complements 9, 35
noun compounds 8
noun modiﬁers 382
noun phrase conjunction 15
noun phrases 1
number 301
O
object deletion 169
object demotion 170
object incorporation 169
oblique case 170
oblique adverbial cases 201
order of conjoined NPs 16
optional constituents 230
OV clause chaining 384
P
parataxis 218
paratactic 308
participial clauses 341, 380, 384
participial ADV clauses 357
participial adverbial clauses 338
passive 93, 94, 105, 122, 155, 159, 173
passive/inverse 146, 154
passive-to-inverse 167
passive voice 125
passives and grammatical relations 141
partial promotion 146
patient suppression 168
pause probability 386
perfect 380
perfect participial 341
perfect passive 132
Perlmutter 127
PCU verbs 41, 42
Plato 287
plurality 169
politeness 322
Postal 127
potential state 106, 286
possessive reﬂexives 105, 106, 107
post-nominal modiﬁers 9
power 312, 322
pragmatic case-marking 141
pragmatic de-transitivity 91
pragmatic inversion 155
pragmatic presupposition 176
pragmatics of de-transitive voice 93, 122
precedence 330
predictability 221
predicate adjective 132
preference 50
pre-nominal modiﬁers 4
pre-posed ADV-clause 346, 347
pre-posed order principle 250
presentative function 209
presupposition 175, 222, 289, 300
prohibitives 317
promotion to direct object 195
promotional 142, 161
promotinal inverse 159
promotional passive 127, 128, 151
pronouns 363
Protagoras 287
proximity principle 64
prototype noun phrase 25
pseudo-cleft 224, 307, 308
punctuation 349
purpose clauses 337
Q
quantiﬁers 4
quantity principle 386
R
raising 273
raising in text 280
raising to subject 274
re-analysis of GRs 87
reason 335
reciprocals 95, 96, 99, 108
recursive center embedding 217
reduced ﬁniteness 327, 366
REF-indeﬁnite head nouns 177
reference 209, 227, 301
referent accessibility 254
referential accessibility 175
referential coherence 338
referential cohesion 56
referentiality 228
reﬂexive 132, 137, 150
Index 405
reﬂexives 95, 99, 105
reﬂexivization 105, 151
relational control 385
relational government 327
relational properties 154
relative clauses 9, 175
relative pronoun strategy 187
relativization 234
relativization and passivization 193
resistance 48
restrictive modiﬁers 10, 226
restrictive Rel-clauses 11, 106, 177
restrictiveness 207
responsibility 323
resulting state 106
rigid SOV word-order 243
right dislocation 267
Ross 17, 211
Rude 155, 157, 166
S
scattered NPs 13
semantic inversion 156
semantics of de-transitive voice 93, 95
serial-verb languages 82, 85
simultaneity 330, 338
single-genitive 33
SOV clause-chaining 357
speech-act continuum 318
speech-act prototypes 289
status 212, 322
stereotypical object 168
stranded case-marking 198
stress-focus 224
strict co-reference 178
subject properties 105
subjunctive 60, 69
subjunctive complements 51
subordinate 327
subordinating morphemes 71
subordination 327
subordinators 72
subsequence 330
substitutive adverbial clauses 336
success 57
successful causation 49
successful (implicative) manipulation 42
switch reference 157, 357, 376, 377, 379, 381
switch reference systems 371
switch-subject (DS) 83
syntactic amalgamation 18
syntactic coding 59
syntactic complexity 211
syntactic dependency 328
T
temporal 332
temporal coherence 338, 371
temporal integration 46
terminal boundary 330
text distribution 124
thematic continuity 348
thematic discontinuity 386
thematic re-orientation 345
topicality 227, 229, 253, 256, 344
topicality hierarchies 156
transitive event 93
truth value test 289
typology of passive 126
typology of REL-clauses 182
typological diversity 126
U
unindividuated object 168
use-frequency 124
V
verb agreement 189, 270
verb clefting 245
verb-coding passive 133
verb-coding strategies 193
verbal complements 39
verb-phrase nominalization 36, 137
vestigial copula 238
V-ﬁrst languages 259
VO clause chaining 366, 384
voice 91
W
Wh-questions 232, 288, 297, 300, 318
Wh-pronouns 303, 306
word-order 242, 247, 250, 257, 269, 294, 307,
383
word-order inverse 162
word-order strategy 169
406 Index
Y
Y-movement 164, 225, 262
Yes/no-questions 231, 237, 288, 292, 295, 318
Z
Zavala 123
zero subject passive 134
</TARGET "index">
