The functional approach to language and the typological approach to grammar 11
(9) a. Having failed to kill the butler
b. despite the constant abuse,
c. the maid was ﬁnally driven insane [upon realizing that]
d. she had hidden the knife in the fridge the night before.
The relation between propositional information and discourse coherence is thus also an
inclusion relation, or a one-way conditional. That is:
One can understand the meaning of clauses independent of the discourse in
which they are embedded; but one cannot understand the discourse without
understanding the propositions that make it up.
1.2.2 Peripheral sensory-motor codes
The peripheral sensory-motor codes of human language are the domain of phonetics,
phonology and neurology, and will not be dealt in much detail here. They presumable
involve both coding (speech production) and decoding (speech perception) operations,
and are adjusted to pertinent perceptual and motor modalities.
1.2.3 The grammatical code
1.2.3.1What grammar is
The grammatical code is probably the latest evolutionary addition to the arsenal of human
communication (Givón 1979a, 1995; Lieberman 1984; Bickerton 1981, 1990). While the
evolutionary argument remains conjectural, it is supported by a coherent body of
suggestive evidence.
Ontogenetically, both through hearing and signing, children acquire the lexicon and
then pre-grammatical — pidgin — communication much earlier than grammar (see
further below). Natural second language acquisition follows the very same course (Bicker-
ton and Odo 1976; Bickerton 1981, 1990; Givón 1990a). And in the natural communica-
tion of pre-human species, the existence of lexical-semantic concepts of both entities
(nouns) and events (verbs) must be taken for granted if one is to make sense of behavior,
communicative as well as secular (Perrett et al. 1989). Such lexical concepts are already
well-coded in the natural communication of some non-human species (Cheney and
Seyfarth 1990; Marler et al. 1991; inter alia).
Further, birds, dogs, horses, primates and other species are easily taught auditory or
visual lexical code-labels for nouns, verbs and adjectives (Premak 1971; Gardner and
Gardner 1971; Fouts 1973; Terrace 1985; Pepperberg 1991; Savage-Rumbaugh, Shanker
& Taylor 1998; inter alia). And the seeming ease with which such lexical learning takes
place strongly suggests that the underlying cognitive and neurological structures are
already in place.
In non-human primates, the supporting neurology for both semantic and episodic
memory is essentially the same one as in humans (Squire 1987; Petri and Mishkin 1994).
However, observing the natural use of anything remotely resembling human grammar —
12 Syntax
morphology and syntax — in communicating animals, or teaching it to them, has been
almost a uniform failure (Premak 1971; Terrace 1985).
Grammar is a much more abstract and complex code than the sensory-motor codes of
the lexicon. At its most concrete, the primary grammatical signal involves four major
coding devices:
(10) Coding devices of the primary grammatical signal
a. Morphology
b. Intonation:
•clause-level melodic contours
•word-level stress or tone
c. Rhythmics:
•pace or length
•pauses
d. Sequential order of words or morphemes
Some coding devices — morphology (10a), intonation and stress (10b) — are more
concrete. They involve the very same physical signals (sounds, gestures, letters) that code
lexical meaning. But these concrete devices are integrated into a complex whole with the
more abstract elements of the code — rhythmics (10c) and sequential order (10d). These
more abstract elements of the grammatical code are probably second-order constructs,
inferred from more concrete signals.
From the primary grammatical signals in (10), yet more abstract levels of grammatical
organization must be inferred:
(11) More abstract levels of grammatical organization
a. Hierarchic constituency organization
•morphemes into words
•words into phrases
•phrases into clauses
b. The grammatical category-labels
•noun, verb, adjective
•noun phrase, verb phrase
c. Scope and relevance relations
•operator–operand relations
•noun–modiﬁer relations
•subject and object relations
d. Government and control relations
•agreement
•coreference
•modality
•ﬁniteness
The levels of clausal organization listed in (11) are the more abstract components of
grammar. How they are extracted from the more concrete signals of grammar (10) is a
central question in the study of language processing.
The functional approach to language and the typological approach to grammar 13
1.2.3.2What grammar does
Grammar codes, simultaneously, both propositional semantics and discourse coherence
(pragmatics). This is indeed one of the most baﬄing facts about grammar-as-code:
Although it is located wholly in the clause, its functional scope is not primarily about the
propositional information couched in the clause in which it resides. Rather, grammar is
predominantly about the coherence relations between the propositional (clause) and its
wider discourse context.
The traditional structuralist methodology, of examining (or experimenting on)
isolated clauses, has tended to obscure this overwhelming fact about what grammar does.
Some of the major grammatical sub-systems that code primarily discourse pragmatics are:
(12) Major discourse-oriented grammatical sub-systems
a. grammatical roles (subject, direct object)
b. deﬁniteness and reference
c. anaphora, pronouns and agreement
d. tense, aspect, modality and negation
e. de-transitive voice
f. topicalization
g. focus and contrast
h. relativization
i. speech acts
j. clausal conjunction and subordination
The distinctness of propositional semantics from discourse pragmatics does not mean lack
of overlap or interaction between the two. Thus, for example, morphological case-marking
codes both the discourse-pragmatic functions of subject (nominative) and direct object
(accusative), and the propositional-semantic functions of agent, patient, dative, locative,
instrumental or associative cases (see Chapters 3, 4). In the same vein, tense, aspect,
modality and negation display both propositional semantic and discourse pragmatic
functions (see Chapters 6, 7, 8). And the grammar of de-transitive clauses ranges over both
propositional semantic and discourse-pragmatic functions (see Chapter 12).
1.3 Grammatical vs. pre-grammatical communication
As noted earlier above, humans can, under a variety of developmental or neurological
conditions, communicate in pre-grammatical pidgin, using a well-coded lexicon together
with some rudimentary combinatorial rules. Such pidgin communication is found in three
distinct contexts:
•early child language;
•adult second-language pidgin;
•agrammatic (Broca’s) aphasia.
14 Syntax
As an example of coherent pre-grammatical child narrative, consider the following, from
a 2 year old boy (Givón 1990):
(13) Context: Anticipating a trip
In atnga. Sit dawn. tan ki.
in airplane sit down turn key
‘(We’ll go) in the airplane, sit down, turn the key,
Vruum vruum! Tan tu da rayt. Atnga!
vr. vr. turn to the right airplane
And vroom vroom! (We’ll) turn to the right. Airplane (ﬂies)!’
As an example of coherent adult second-language pidgin, consider the personal narrative
of an 80 year old Japanese-English pidgin speaker in Hawaii (Bickerton and Odo 1976):
(14) Context: Coming to Hawaii
“…oh me?…oh me over there…
nineteen-twenty over there say come…
store me stop begin open… me sixty year…
little more sixty year… now me ninety…
nah ehm… little more… this man ninety-two…
yeah, this month over… me Hawaii come-desu…
nineteen seven come… me number ﬁrst here…
me-wa tell… you sabe gurumeru?…
you no sabe gurumeru?…
yeah this place come…
this place been two-four-ﬁve year…
stop, ey… then me go home… Japan…
by-n-by… little boy… come…
by-n-by he been come here… ey…
by-n-by come…
by-n-by me before Hui-Hui stop…
Hui-Hui this… eh… he… this a…
Manuel… you sabe-ka…”
As an example of a coherent narrative produced by an agrammatic aphasia patient,
consider (Menn 1990, p.165):
(15) Context: Experiencing a stroke
“…I had stroke… blood pressure… low pressure…
period… Ah… pass out… Uh… Rosa and I, and…
friends… of mine… uh… uh… shore… uh drink,
talk, pass out…”
“…Hahnemann Hospital… uh, uh I… uh uh wife, Rosa…
uh… take… uh… love… ladies… uh Ocean uh Hospital
and transfer Hahnemann Hospital ambulance… uh…
The functional approach to language and the typological approach to grammar 15
half’n hour… uh… uh it’s… uh… motion, motion…
uh… bad… patient… I uh… ﬂat on the back…
um… it’s… uh… shaved, shaved… nurse, shaved me…
uh… shaved me, nurse… [sigh]… wheel chair… uh…
Hahnemann Hospital… a week, a week… uh… then uh…
strength… uh… mood… uh… up… uh… legs and
arms, left side uh… weak… and… Moss Hospital…
two week… no, two months…”
The diﬀerence — structural, functional and cognitive — between pre-grammatical and
grammaticalized communication are summarized below:
(16) Pre-grammatical vs. grammatical discourse processing
(after Givón 1979b: Ch.5; 1989: Ch.7; 1995: Ch.9)
Properties Grammatical mode Pre-grammatical mode
structural
a.Grammatical morphology
b.Syntactic constructions
c.Use of Word-order
d.Pauses
abundant
complex/embedded
grammatical (subj/obj)
ﬂuent
absent
simple/conjoined
pragmatic (topic/comment)
halting
functional
e.Processing speed
f.Mental eﬀort
g.Error rate
h.Context dependence
fast
eﬀortless
lower
lower
slow
laborious
higher
higher
cognitive
i.Processing mode
j.Acquisition
k.Evolution
automated
late
late
attended
early
early
Slow and analytic, pre-grammatical communication is heavily vocabulary-dependent and
knowledge-driven (Kintsch 1992). This tallies with the fact that vocabulary emerges before
grammar in both ﬁrst and second language acquisition. Pre-grammatical children, adult
pidgin speakers and agrammatical aphasics all comprehend and produce coherent multi-
propositional discourse, albeit at slower speeds and higher error rates than those character-
istic of grammaticalized communication. The identiﬁcation of grammar as an automated,
streamlined, conventionalized, speeded-up language processing system has long been
noted (Givón 1979a: Ch.5; 1989: Ch.7; 1995: Ch.8,9; Blumstein and Milberg 1983;
Lieberman 1984; Schnitzer 1989; inter alia).
16 Syntax
1.4 The limits of conscious reﬂection
The most common descriptive method used in grammatical analysis has been that of
studying isolated clauses (sentences) outside their discourse context. Like all methods, this
one has both drawbacks and strengths. On the drawback side ﬁrst, if grammar is indeed
used primarily to code inter-clausal coherence, this method — studying grammar outside
its communicative context — skirts the very data that may help establish the pragmatic
function of morphemes and constructions. Indeed, one may argue that this method has
made the structuralist thesis of autonomous syntax possible.
While noting the drawbacks of the clause-in-isolation method, one should not ignore
its usefulness. To begin with, one cannot begin analyzing natural discourse without having
ﬁrst gained some preliminary knowledge of word structure (morphology) and clause
structure. One would simply not know where to start and how to segment the stream of
natural speech.
Further, the clause-in-isolation ﬁeld method, in its proper domain, has always rested
on unimpeachable empirical foundations. To determine the semantic correlates of a form,
you hold all variables constant — but one. You then manipulate that one variable, and
record the semantic eﬀect of the manipulation. Or, alternatively, you manipulate one
semantic variable while holding all others constant, and then record the structural eﬀect of
the manipulation.
As a simple illustration of this method, consider the following elicitation of Swahili
verbal paradigms:
(17) a. Manipulated variable = subject pronoun:
ni-limuona = ‘I saw him/her’
ku-limuona = ‘You saw him/her’
a-limuona = ‘S/he saw him/her’
b. Manipulated variable = tense-aspect:
ni-li-muona = ‘I saw him/her’
ni-na-muona = ‘I see him/her’
ni-ta-muona = ‘I will see him/her’
ni-me-muona = ‘I have seen him/her’
c. Manipulated variable = object pronoun:
a-li-ni-ona = ‘S/he saw me’
a-li-ku-ona = ‘S/he saw you’
a-li-mu-ona = ‘S/he saw him/her’
a-li-ki-ona = ‘S/he saw it’
d. Manipulated variable = verb stem:
a-li-ki-ona = ‘S/he saw it’
a-li-ki-piga = ‘S/he hit it’
a-li-ki-amba = ‘S/he said it’
The functional approach to language and the typological approach to grammar 17
e. Manipulated variable = transitivity:
a-li-ki-on-a ‘S/he saw it’
a-li-mu-on-ea ‘S/he saw it for him/her’
ki-li-on-ewa ‘It was seen’
ki-li-on-eka ‘It was visible’
a-li-mu-on-esha ‘S/he showed him/her’
wa-li-on-ana ‘They saw each other’
Such manipulations yield valid data on the various form-meaning associations coded in the
verbal word. But the validity of our results rests upon the two related assumptions:
a. The meaning of the manipulated forms is accessible to conscious reﬂection.
b. All speakers will respond uniformly.
Another method, that of studying grammar in its natural communicative context, is
designed to take over precisely where assumption (a) is so weak that assumption (b)
becomes untenable.
As will be noted directly below (§1.5), one of the most striking facts noted by
grammarians, be they Aristotle, Franz Bopp, Otto Jespersen, Leonard Bloomﬁeld, Lucien
Tesnière, Zelig Harris or Noam Chomsky, is that roughly-the-same propositional-semantic
contents can be packaged into a wide array of diﬀerent syntactic clause-types.
Consider, for example, proposition (18a) below, identifying an agent (Marla), a patient
(Henry) and a verb (hit). With some allowances, the same propositional contents recurs in
all the variant clauses (18b–p):
(18) a. Marla hit Henry
b. Marla didn’t hit Henry
c. (hey you,) Hit Henry!
d. Who hit Henry?
e. Did Marla hit Henry?
f. Marla has hit Henry
g. She hit Henry
h. Marla hit him
i. Henry was hit by Marla
j. The woman who hit Henry (was Marla)
k. The man whom Marla hit (was Henry)
l. We told Marla to hit Henry
m. We suspected that Marla hit Henry
n. We suspected Marla of hit-ing Henry
o. As for Henry, Marla hit him
p. Having hit Henry, (Marla left)
Now, when one asks a naive speaker in what communicative context a particular clause
type in (18) is used, one tends to get an interesting split: Speakers have little trouble telling
us why they use variants (18b–e) rather than (18a). That is, the communicative intents
18 Syntax
associated with negation and non-declarative speech-acts seems to be readily available for
conscious reﬂection.
But the communicative intent of the structural variants in (18f–p) turns out to be
much less accessible to conscious reﬂection. Speakers ‘know the rule’. That is, they seem to
follow fairly uniformly the same automatic processing habits. But they cannot tell you why
a particular form is used. Though in each case they can still report, rather accurately, on the
propositional-semantic contents of the clause (Marla hitting Henry).
This is where, in studying the communicative function of grammar, the clause-in-
isolation method becomes unreliable, and must be supplemented with the study of
grammar in its natural communicative context.
1.5 The theme-and-variation approach to syntax
The preceding section already outlined one major characteristic of our approach to syntax,
one that owes a considerable debt to both Zelig Harris and Noam Chomsky. In this
approach, the notion of syntactic construction (clause-type) occupies center stage in
grammatical description. We owe Harris (1956) the observation that all clause-types in (18)
above share, more or less, the same propositional semantic theme. Harris, as a good
structuralist,couchedthisobservationintermsofco-occurrencerelations.Chomsky(1965)
re-christened the propositional-semantic theme as the ‘syntactic’ deep-structure of clauses,
said to support (‘be isomorphic to’) their logical structure (‘propositional information’).
One had better note that our notion of syntactic construction, or clause-type, is rather
rich. It does not only involve constituency and hierarchy (11a), category labels (11b),
rhythmics (10c) and sequential order (10d), but also the grammatical morphology (10a)
and intonation pattern (10b) associated with the construction. It also involves the more
abstract behavioral constraints on scope and relevance (11c) and government and control
(11d) typical of the construction.
We will take it for granted here that all these elements of clausal grammar are
cognitively real, although some may be perceptually more accessible, while others are
higher-order constructs or inferences. Though it is perhaps worth noting that Chomsky has
more recently disavowed the reality of constructions in the sense suggested above:
“…[Early generative grammar proposed that] each language is a rich and intricate
system of rules that are, typically, construction-particular and language-particular…
The principles-and-parameters approach that has developed in recent years, and that
I assume here, breaks radically with this tradition… The notion of grammatical
construction is eliminated, and with it, construction-particular rules. Constructions
such as verb phrase, relative clause, passive, etc., are taken to be taxonomic artifacts,
collections of phenomena explained through the interaction of the principles of UG,
with the values of parameters ﬁxed…”
(Chomsky, “A Minimalist Program for Linguistic Theory”, 1992, p.3; italics added)
The various clause-types — structural variants — found in the grammar of a language, as
in (18) above, are nothing but diﬀerential grammatical packaging of propositional-semantic
The functional approach to language and the typological approach to grammar 19
contents in diﬀerent discourse-pragmatic functional domains. Constructions, or clause-
types, are thus the grammatical coding instruments that signal discourse-pragmatic
function.
The privileged cognitive position of one clause-type, the main, declarative, aﬃrmative,
active clause (18a), is what made it possible for Chomsky (1965) to identify this clause-type
as the ‘syntactic’ deep structure of all other clause-types, a use of ‘syntax’ aptly rejected by
Ross and Lakoﬀ (1967). In our terms, this so-called neutral or basic clause (Keenan 1976)
is just one clause-type, used in a particular functional domain. The basis for its privileged
status in grammar and discourse will be discussed in §1.8 below.
The fact that clausal grammar codes simultaneously propositional-semantic informa-
tion and discourse-pragmatic function has far reaching consequences. For the coding
requirements of the two are often in conﬂict, so that the resulting structure is an adaptive
compromise between the competing functional pressures. As an illustration, consider the
two clauses (19a,b) below. Both share the very same propositional-semantic information,
but are used in diﬀerent discourse-pragmatic contexts. Typically, (19a) may occur 5–10
clauses prior to (19b):
(19) Neutral-pattern main clause
a. (then) she cut the meat with a knife (and)
Indirect-object relative clause
b. well, the knife with which she cut the meat [Ø] (was dull)
c. *well, the knife she cut the meat [Ø] (was dull)
d. well, the knife she cut the meat with [Ø] (was dull)
One adaptive pressure manifest in the relative clause (19b) is that of avoiding undue
repetition, i.e. time saving. Given that the instrument in (19a) (‘a knife’), is co-referent
with the head noun in (19b) (‘the knife’), one dispenses with it in the relative clause (19b),
coding it as zero.
Now, however, the zero-coded instrument in (19b) precipitates a problem in process-
ing the propositional-semantic information of that clause. For the indirect object in (19a)
is now missing in (19b), where its co-referent (‘the knife’) is coded as the subject of another
clause (‘the knife was dull’). In (19b), a compensatory strategy is now used, whereby the
preposition ‘with’ and the object relative pronoun ‘which’ are inserted between the head
noun and the relative clause, to help us reconstruct the semantic role (instrument) of the
missing indirect object.
The infelicity of (19c) suggests that such compensatory strategy is necessary. And the
acceptability of the more colloquial (19d) suggests that the preposition by itself will do the
job, provided it is placed at the locus where the missing indirect object appears in the neutral
main clause (19a). And the overall syntax of (19b,d) has some features prompted by the
need to code the clauses’ propositional-semantics (‘with’), some prompted by the need to
code its discourse-pragmatic context (zero), and some prompted by a combination of both.1
20 Syntax
1.6 The typological approach to grammar: Functional domains, cross-language
diversity and universals
By taking for granted the arbitrariness of grammar, structuralists ever since Aristotle
dispensed with the need to look for grammatical universals. The apparent great diversity
of the structural means by which human languages can execute the same — or broadly
similar — communicative functions has been taken as prima facie evidence against
universals. This is most succinctly expressed by Leonard Bloomﬁeld:
“…North of Mexico alone there are dozens of totally unrelated groups of languages,
presenting the most varied types of structure. In the stress of recording utterly strange
forms of speech, one soon learns that philosophical presuppositions were only a
hindrance…The only useful generalizations about language are inductive generaliza-
tions…” [Bloomﬁeld, Language, 1933, pp.19–20]
In this section I will note the strong association — indeed the necessary convergence —
between the functional, typological, and diachronic aspects to grammar.
1.6.1 The functional basis of grammatical typology
The typological approach to cross-language grammatical diversity has been historically
associated with a functionalist perspective on grammar, from von Humboldt down to
Greenberg. What I would like to demonstrate ﬁrst is that a cross-linguistic grammatical
typology is utterly meaningless unless it is based on an independent non-structural
deﬁnition of the functional domain to be ‘typed’.
All cross-language typologists, regardless of theoretical orientation, make the very same
fundamental logical assumption underlying all taxonomies:2
(20) The logical assumption of taxonomy
In diﬀerent languages we ﬁnd diﬀerent types of structures that somehow must
be grouped together as members of more general meta-types.
But meta-types of what?
The tacit structuralist assumption, whether articulated or not, has always been that the
typologist groups types of structures into meta-types of structures. But a brief examination
of the facts will suﬃce to convince us that this strictly-logical approach to grammatical
typology — grouping structural sub-types into their structural meta-types — could not
possibly work for grammar.
In attempting to construct a grammatical typology by purely structural means, one
must ﬁrst decide why structure A (in language a) and structure B (in language b) should be
grouped together as sub-types of structural meta-type I; while structure C (in language c)
and structure D (in language d) should be grouped together as sub-types of structural
meta-type II.
Now, one may indeed argue that a purely structural criterion for such sub-grouping
does exist — structural similarity. One can now go on and observe the pattern of structural
The functional approach to language and the typological approach to grammar 21
similarities between structures A,B,C,D, and then group them accordingly. While this
procedure indeed sounds feasible in principle, a single concrete example will illustrate the
total bankruptcy of such an approach to grammatical typology.3
Consider the cross-linguistic typological diversity of passive constructions. A quick
survey would reveal the following major structural types:
A.
Adjectival-stative
In some languages, such as English, a passive clause arose diachronically from, and still
resembles structurally, predicate-adjective (stative-resultative) clauses, as in:
(21) a. Passive: It was broken (by someone)
b. Adjectival-stative: It is broken
c. Perfect-resultative: It has been broken
d. Predicate-adjective: It is big
B.
Nominalization
In some languages, such as Ute, a passive clause arose diachronically from, and still
resembles structurally, a nominalized clause, as in (Givón 1980):
(22) a. Passive
múusa-ci paxá-ta-pu
=ga
cat-obj kill-pass-rem
‘The cat was killed’
b. Verb-phrase nominalization
múusa-paxá-ta ka-’áy-wa-t ’ura-’ay
cat-kill-nom neg-good-neg-nom be-imm
‘Cat-killing is bad’
C.
Reﬂexive
In some languages, such as Spanish, a passive clause arose diachronically from, and still
resembles structurally, a reﬂexive-reciprocal middle-voice clause, as in:
(23) a. Impersonal passive
se-curó a los brujos
ref-cure/3sg obj the sorcerer
‘Someone cured the sorcerers’
b. Reﬂexive
se armó de todas sus armas
ref arm/3sg with all his weapons
‘he armed himself with all his weapons’
c. Reciprocal
se combatían
recip ﬁght/imperf/3pl
‘they fought each other’
22 Syntax
d. Middle-voice
se curaron los brujos
ref cure/past/3pl the sorcerers
‘The sorcerers got well’
‘The sorcerers cured themselves’
D.
L-dislocation plus impersonal ‘they’
Finally, in some languages, such as Kimbundu, a passive construction arose diachronically
from, and still resembles structurally, a left-dislocation construction plus the impersonal
pronoun ‘they’, as in (Givón 1995: Ch.3):
(24) a. Passive
Nzua a-mu-mono kwa meme
John they-him-saw by me
‘John was seen by me’
(lit.: ‘John, they saw him by me’)
b. L-dislocation
Nzua, aana a-mu-mono
John children they-him-saw
‘John, the children saw him’
c. Impersonal-subject with L-dislocation
Nzua, a-mu-mono
John they-him-saw
‘John, they saw him’ (anaphoric/active)
‘John, he was seen’ (impersonal/passive)
What gave rise to the typological diversity of passive constructions is the fact that each
passive type A–D arose diachronically from a diﬀerent source construction. That source
construction, however, shares some functional features with the passive, in the relevant
sub-domains of de-transitivity. This partial functional similarity — partial overlap — is
what makes possible the diachronic extension from the various source domains towards
the target passive function.
Now, while the synchronic function of these re-analyzed constructions is roughly
similar, that of passive voice (see Chapter 13), their diverse structures still reﬂect many
features of their diachronic source constructions. This is because in diachronic change —
grammaticalization — invariably structural reanalysis lags far behind functional extension
(Givón 1971a, 1979a: Ch.6; Heine et al. 1991; Hopper and Traugott 1993).
Therefore, if we were to construct a taxonomy of the passive sub-types A-D by means
of structural similarity, we would group the English passive (A) with the other adjectival
copular constructions in (21). We would group the Ute passive (B) with the agent-
suppressing verb-phrase nominalization in (22). We would group the Spanish se-marked
passive (C) with the reﬂexive, reciprocal and middle-voice constructions in (23). And we
would group the Kimbundu passive (D) with the L-dislocation and impersonal-‘they’
clauses in (24).
The functional approach to language and the typological approach to grammar 23
The alternative to the structuralist approach to grammatical typology is to recognize
explicitly what has been implicit in the practice of grammatical typology ever since its
inception by the great 19th Century comparativists: that in human language there is always
more than one structural means of aﬀecting the same communicative function. And that
grammatical typology is the study of the diversity of structures that can perform the same
type of function. That is:
(25) In grammatical typology, one enumerates the main structural means by which
diﬀerent languages code the same functional domain.
A meaningful grammatical typology, so it appears, cannot be practiced by adhering to
Saussure’s arbitrariness dogma. Of course, linguists can and often do persist in referring to
the various domains to be ‘typed’ by purely structural labels. They can do this for two
partially-overlapping reasons. First, they often rely on an implicit functional organization
of grammar-coded domains. And second, due to the partial isomorphism between
grammatical structures and communicative functions, it is sometimes possible to assemble
a coherent functional domain by the criterion of structural similarity — the demonstration
above notwithstanding (see §1.8 below).
One may as well note that principle (25) closely echoes the practice of structural
typology in biology. Consider, for example, the main types of ambulation:
•swimming (with ﬁns);
•walking (with legs);
•slithering (with the body);
•ﬂying (with wings).
The reason why these behaviors — and their supporting structures — are grouped together
in a meaningful comparative set is because they all perform a similar function, that of
ambulation. Comparing the bat’s wings and the elephant’s ears on grounds of structural
similarity would be nonsensical. As would be the comparison of the bat’s wing with the
human prehensile ﬁngers, its evolutionary homolog. To echo Aristotle, function provides
the relevant context for classifying biologically-based structures.
1.6.2 The diachronic underpinnings of grammatical typology
As is rather transparent from the preceding discussion, the study of grammatical typology
is meaningless as a purely synchronic enterprise. This is so because the sum-total of the
various structural types that can code a particular target functional domain is nothing but
the sum total of the various diachronic grammaticalization pathways from possible —
functionally similar — source domains.
From this follows a related observation. While synchronic grammatical structure and
its typological diversity can and should be studied on its own terms, a profound under-
standing of the principles that govern typological variation in grammar cannot be arrived
at without studying the diachronic process of grammaticalization (Bybee 1985; Heine et
al. 1991; Heine and Traugott, ed. 1991; Hopper and Traugott 1993; inter alia).
24 Syntax
The analogy between the diachronic rise of grammar and evolutionary biology is again
striking. The comparison of the bat’s wings with its evolutionary homolog, the human
hand, is indeed meaningful, albeit developmentally. For it may yield a more profound
understanding of how both could arise through functional extension of the mammal
foreleg — toward diﬀerent functional domains. Extension by functional similarity,
homoplasy, is indeed central to evolutionary thinking. Thus, Ernst Mayr observes:
“…Another entirely diﬀerent and much more dramatic way by which evolutionary
novelties can be acquired is a change in the function of a structure. Here an existing
structure, let us say the [sensory] antennae of Daphnia, acquires the additional
function of a swimming paddle and, under new selection pressure, becomes enlarged
and modiﬁed…During a succession of functions, a structure always passes through a
stage when it can simultaneously perform both jobs…”
(Mayr 1997, This is Biology, pp.184–185)
In biology, as in grammatical typology, the inventory of extant variants is but the inventory
the evolutionary pathways that gave rise to them. Understanding the ﬁrst without the
second is indeed nonsensical. A meaningful grammatical typology, so it appears, cannot be
practiced by adhering to Saussure’s separation dogma either.
1.6.3 Typology and universals of grammar
The apparent vastness of cross-language diversity has given rise to two extreme approaches
to language universals. On the one hand, following Aristotle, Saussure and Bloomﬁeld in
the matter of arbitrariness, one may elect to overestimate diversity, to the point of giving
up on universals altogether. On the other, following Plato’s, Saussure’s and Chomsky’s
penchant for idealization, one may elect to dismiss apparent diversity as superﬁcial,
ephemeral, epiphenomenal or idealized — eida, langue, competence — and posit extremely
elaborate and abstract (or formal) universals.
The typological approach to grammar that re-emerged in the 1960’s, beginning with
Greenberg (1966a,b, 1974, 1976, 1978, 1979), follows an empirical and pragmatic middle-
ground. First, it recognizes that universals need not be absolute, but may sometimes be a
matter of degree or tendency. This is due to the great complexity of biologically-based
(cognitive, communicative, grammatical) sub-systems, where multiple factors interact in
complex and often competing ways.
For example, in phonology, perceptual transparency competes with ease of articula-
tion. The ﬁrst motivates slowed-down processing and sound dissimilation. The second
motivates speeded-up processing and sound assimilation. Both motivations are adaptive
and universal, but they predict conﬂicting surface behaviors. In the same vein in gram-
mar, form-function transparency (isomorphism, iconicity; see §1.7 below) competes with
economic motivation (Haiman 1983, 1985a; see §1.8 below).
Universals of grammar are not always overtly-observed features of language, such as:
•having nouns, verbs and adjectives;
•having a particular word-order;
The functional approach to language and the typological approach to grammar 25
•having a particular morphology;
•having the same passive-clause structure.
Quite often they are the factors or sub-systems that underlie such overt features; or the often-
conﬂicting principles that govern their interaction. And these controlling principles often
manifest themselves developmentally — in evolution, diachrony or acquisition. So that
synchronic structure or behavior merely reﬂects their cumulative impact.
An obvious feature of the typological approach to grammar has already been noted
above — that languages can code the same functional domain by more than one structural
means. But the diversity of structure-types that may code the same domain is surprisingly
constrained, seldom exceeding 5–7 major types.4
Given that the number of mathematically — or even biologically — possible structures
is much larger than the rather sparse inventory of attested types, a serious theory of
universals seeks to explain this seeming paucity of extant types. That is, it is honor-bound
to ask:
(26) Theoretical explanation of constrained diversity
What are the adaptive factors — be they cultural, communicative, developmen-
tal, cognitive, neurological or biological — that constrain diversity so severely?
For as long as an explanatory theory of language and grammar is to remain empirical, it
cannot conﬁne itself to purely formal universals. So that whenever formal structures or
principles are discovered, they themselves must be explained substantively, that is
adaptively. This does not preclude the fact, however, that complex structure sometimes
become partially ritualized; or that their functional explanation may be complex or
indirect; or that on occasion biologically-based systems produce excess structure (see
discussion in §1.8 below).
Theinsistence onsubstantive, adaptive,functionalexplanations isdue inpart tothe fact
that biologically-based systems are complex and interactive, often defying formalization.
More crucially, however, the evolution, development and synchronic workings of complex
biological systems are all adaptively motivated. So that theoretical understanding of such
systems must likewise be grounded in substantive, adaptive explanation. Formalization is,
in principle, not an explanation but rather a more generalized, concise description (Givón
1979: Ch.1).
1.6.4 Ranges of typological variation
As noted above, languages may diﬀer typologically in the way they code the very same
functional domain by diﬀerent structural means. But, cross-language typological variation
may also arise from two other systematic sources:
•coding density along the same complex domain;
•functional organization of the same complex domain.
Many grammar-coded domains are complex and multi-dimensional, with the underlying
dimensions being, at least in principle, scalar. But grammatical coding is usually sparse and
26 Syntax
categorial, picking up only portions, or selected points, on a scalar functional domain,
while leaving other portions un-coded. As a result, one language may over-code a
particular functional domain, while another may under-code it.
As an illustration, consider the coding of past and future tense in English and Bemba.
In Bemba, both the present and the future are split into four morphologically-marked
divisions (Givón 1972: Ch.4):
•within a few hours from now
(a few hours ago, in a few hours)
•further within today
(earlier today, later today)
•within the day next to today
(yesterday, tomorrow)
•beyond the day next to today
(before yesterday, after tomorrow).
English, on the other hand, codes only one division of past or future — before vs. after
time-of-speech, respectively. In comparison with Bemba, then, English clearly under-codes
the domain of tense. Put another way, the coding-density of tense in Bemba is much
greater than in English.
But languages can also display considerable diﬀerences in the way they organize, or
carve-up, grammar-coded functional domains. For example, in Athabaskan and Tibeto-
Burman languages, the major dimension along which the tense-aspect-modality system is
organized is that of perfectivity (see Chapters 6, 7, below):
•perfective = completed (past)
•imperfective = not yet completed (present, future, habitual).
In Austronesian languages, on the other hand, the major division is typically that of
modality (see Chapters 6, 7, below):
•realis = at a speciﬁc time (past, present)
•irrealis = not at any speciﬁc time (future, habitual).
This kind of cross-language variability, referred to by Harder (1996) as ‘the structure of
function’, highlights the non-trivial role of grammar as an organizing principle. Not only
is grammar a superﬁcial coding-device, slapped over identically-organized, universal
functional domains for the purpose of communication. Quite often it is also the very
means for diﬀerential functional organization of those domains.
The functional approach to language and the typological approach to grammar 27
1.7 Generativity and variation
1.7.1 The bounds of rule-governedness
In a well-known paper titled “On the notion ‘rule of grammar’”, Chomsky (1961) outlined
his formal, logical-mathematical perspective on the structure of language, one that haunts
generative linguistics to this day:
“…By “grammar of the language L” I will mean a device of some sort (that is, a set of
rules) that provides, at least, a complete speciﬁcation of an inﬁnite set of grammatical
sentences of L and their structural description. In addition to making precise the
notion “structural description”, the theory of grammar should meet requirements of
the following kind. It should make available:
(1) a. a class of possible grammars G1, G2…
b. a class of possible sentences S1, S2…
c. a function f such that f(i, j) is a set of structural descriptions of the
sentence Si that are provided by the grammar Gj,
d. a function m(i) which evaluates Gi,
e. a function g such that g(i, n) is the description of a ﬁnite automaton
that takes sentences of (b) as input and gives structural descriptions
assigned to these sentences by Gi…”
(Chomsky 1961, p.6)
Chomsky’s vision of grammar as an algorithm, a logic machine, likened rules of grammar
to rules of logic and mathematics or, for that matter, physics. Like those, rules of grammar
were asserted to be exceptionless and governed by necessary and suﬃcient criteria.
A diametrically opposed view of grammar is oﬀered by Paul Hopper, in the context of
his concept of emergent grammar:
“…The notion of emergence is a pregnant one. It is not intended to be a standard sense
of origins or genealogy, not a historical question of “how” the grammar came to be the
way it “is”, but instead it takes the adjective emergent seriously as a continual move-
ment toward structure, a postponement or “deferral” of structure, a view of structure as
always provisional, always negotiable, and in fact as epiphenomenal…Structure, then,
in this view is not an overarching set of abstract principles, but more a question of a
spreading of systematicity from individual words, phrases and small sets…”
(Hopper 1987, p.142; italics added)
Purple prose aside, Hopper seems to suggest that grammar is totally ﬂexible and always
negotiated for the occasion. In other words, it is 100% dependent on its communicative
context. Whatever systematicity, rigidity or generality that may be detected in grammar,
are but a mirage of the linguist’s capricious analytic habits.
While diametrically opposed in their concept of rule-governedness, the two extreme
positions articulated by Chomsky and Hopper nonetheless share the very same logically-
ﬂawed reasoning. In Chomsky’s case, the implicit inference goes like this:
28 Syntax
•rules of grammar are not 100% ﬂexible;
•therefore rules of grammar must be 100% rigid.
Hopper’s implicit reasoning appears to be:
•rules of grammar are not 100% rigid;
•therefore rules of grammar must be 100% ﬂexible.
Thus, Chomsky and Hopper seem to share the Platonic bias toward generalizations:
•a rule is only a rule if it is 100% applicable.
This fallacious reasoning is surprisingly common among linguists, and can be found in,
e.g., Givón (1982a) and Dryer (1995, 1997).
The two extreme positions to generativity can only be sustained by a selective access to
the facts of human communication. In Chomsky’s case, we have already noted that his
notion of competence allows him to dismiss all variable and unruly data of real communica-
tive behavior as reﬂecting mere performance. Hopper, in contrast, cites actual textual data,
but only selectively, citing only instances that uphold his point. And both extreme
positions to generativity evade the fundamental question of frequency distribution:
•What is the distribution of rule-governedness vs. variability in human communication?
It behooves us to note that a third, middle-ground, position has existed in linguistics for a
long time. This position recognizes that both Chomsky and Hopper are right — but only
partially. This is the position articulated by both Edward Sapir and Otto Jespersen.
Consider ﬁrst Sapir’s (1921) celebrated quotation:
“…Were a language ever completely “grammatical”, it would be a perfect engine of
conceptual expression. Unfortunately, or luckily, no language is tyrannically consis-
tent. All grammars leak…” (Sapir, Language, 1921, p.38; italics added)
If I am not misinterpreting Sapir, I believe he did not assert here that all rules of grammars
leak all the time, but rather that no grammar is totally leak-free. A similar perspective was
expressed by Jespersen (1924), in his discussion of lexical classes:
“…Most of the deﬁnitions given in even recent books are little better than sham
deﬁnitions in which it is extremely easy to pick holes…Not a single one of these
deﬁnitions is either exhaustive or cogent…”
(Jespersen 1924, The Philosophy of Grammar, pp.58–59)
Again, it seems that Jespersen does not reject the existence of some rigidity in grammatical
generalizations (‘rules’), but only the tyrannical assumption that all rules of grammar are
exceptionless and squeaky clean.
The approach to grammar pursued here is founded upon the middle-ground position
of Sapir and Jespersen. It recognizes that grammar is a categorizing, discretizing instrument
par excellence. A code is, manifestly, always sparser and more abstract than what it codes. It
is therefore hardly a surprise that a high degree of rule-governedness — generativity — crop
up when one studies the frequency distribution of grammar in text (Givón 1999). But this
The functional approach to language and the typological approach to grammar 29
should not blind us to the fact that grammar is seldom if ever 100% rule-governed. Or that
the residual ﬂexibility, graduality and variability of grammar are adaptively well motivated.
1.7.2 Categories, continua and prototypes
The two extreme approaches to the rule-governedness of grammar, Chomsky’s and
Hopper’s, are but the latest recapitulations of similar extreme postures in philosophy and
psychology. In the following sections I will ﬁrst outline the antecedents of the two
approaches in philosophy and psychology. I will then describe an alternative — the
empirical middle-ground position — and point out its obvious adaptive foundations.
1.7.2.1Philosophical antecedents
In philosophy, Chomsky’s position can be traced back to Plato’s essentialist doctrine of
meaning, as depicted by Plato’s Cratylus and other dialogues (Bostock 1994; Williams 1994;
see §1.1 above). Categories of meaning within the Platonist tradition are clean and discrete,
with no possible hedges, ambiguities or gradations. This idealization was passed down
through an illustrious tradition, via St. Augustine, Descartes and the Logical Positivists
(Russell 1956).
The Platonic approach to categories can be illustrated with a Venn-diagram, where
individuals can be either members or non-members in a category — but never part-
members along a continuum (of, say, similarity):
(27) B
A
C
In terms of the distribution of the populations of token-members of two diﬀerent category-
types across the categorial continuum-space, it is implicit in the Platonic approach that all
members cluster together at the categorial mean. No ambiguity or ‘degree of membership’
is tolerated. That is:
30 Syntax
(28)
% of members
within subsegments
of the category space
Categorial space
Location of all
members of
category A
Location of all
members of
category B
The philosophical antecedent of Hopper’s position can be traced back to passages in both
Aristotle and Plato, but has been most forcefully expressed in this century by Ludwig
Wittgenstein. Wittgenstein (1953) argued that meaning is profoundly context-dependent
and usage-driven:
“…A move in chess doesn’t consist simply in moving a piece in such-and-such way on
the board — nor yet in one’s thoughts and feelings as one makes the move; but in the
circumstances that we call “playing a game of chess”, “solving a chess problem”, and so
on…” (Wittgenstein 1953, Philosophical Investigation, 33, p.17; italics added).
“…For a large class of cases — though not for all — in which we employ the word
“meaning” it can be deﬁned as thus: the meaning of a word is its use in language…”
(ibid, 43, p.2O; italics added).
What is more, meaning is non-discrete, i.e. involves graded continua. Wittgenstein’s
celebrated metaphor of semantic relatedness as ‘family resemblance’ runs as follows:
“…(we) can see how similarities crop up and disappear. And the result of this examina-
tion is this: we see a complicated network of similarities overlapping and criss-
crossing, sometimes overall similarities, sometimes similarities of detail. I can think of
no better expression to characterize these similarities than “family resemblances”; for
the various resemblances between members of a family: build, features, colour of eyes,
gait, temperament etc. etc. overlap and criss-cross in the same way. — And I shall say:
‘games’ form a family…” (ibid, 66, 67, p.32.; italics added)
Expressed as a Venn-diagram, Wittgenstein’s ‘family resemblance’ approach to meaning
categories may be given as:
The functional approach to language and the typological approach to grammar 31
(29)
A B C D
The frequency distribution of token-members of Wittgensteinean categories along the
categorial continuum-space may be given as, alternatively:
(30)
% of members
within subsegments
of the category space
Categorial space
1.7.2.2Antecedents in psychology
The very same dichotomy, between approaches of extreme discreteness and extreme
continuum, also crops up in psychology. A close analog of the discrete, Platonic approach
may be seen in the work of Smith et al. (1974), where lexical-semantic concepts are
characterized in terms of lists of their discrete, atomic features. Semantic similarity between
words is then expressed in terms of their containing one or more identical features.
A close analog to the Wittgensteinean account of meaning can be seen in the semantic
networks cum spreading activation model of Collins and Quillian (1972) and Collins and
Loftus (1975). Concepts are likened in this model to nodes in a connected network.
Adjacent nodes activate each other, and such activation can, at least in principle, spread on
and on. Such spreading activation is reminiscent of both Wittgenstein’s ‘family resem-
blance’ and Lakoﬀ’s (1987) radial categories. Semantic similarity within such a system can
be expressed in terms of distance, i.e. the number of intervening connections between two
nodes. In principle, at least, this approach views meaning as graded and non-discrete.
1.7.2.3Prototypes: The empirical middle ground
The elaboration of the pragmatic middle ground in both psychology and linguistics is due
to the work of Eleanor Rosch (1973, 1975). Rosch’s position may be viewed as an intellec-
tual extension of the Collins and Quillian (1972) network model, but with some crucial
diﬀerences. Its salient properties are:
32 Syntax
a.
Multiple criterial features
Membership in a natural category, unlike that in a logical category, is not determined by
a single either/or criterion, but rather by a potentially large basket of features. And some of
those features may be ‘more criterial’, so that more members will display them.
b.
Prototypes and graded membership
The most prototypical member of a category is the one displaying the largest number of
criterial features. But other members may display fewer features and still be members.
c.
Strong feature association
The criterial features of a natural category tend to be strongly associated; so that in the
majority of instances, having one feature implies having many of the others.
d.
Clustering around the categorial mean (prototype)
As a logical consequence of strong feature association (c), the vast majority of token-
members of a natural category will cluster around the categorial mean, i.e. the prototype.
Outliers and ambiguous members tend to be a relatively small minority of the total
population.
Properties (a), (b) of prototype-based categories represent the Wittgensteinean aspect of
Rosch’s model, allowing for graded membership. Properties (c), (d) represent its Platonic
aspect, i.e. its substantial discreteness. The model thus predicts the that the vast majority
of the members of one category will be easily distinguishable from the vast majority of the
members of a contrasting category along the continuum.
A Venn-diagram representation of Roschean categories may be given as:
(31) b
c
d
a
The frequency distribution of token-members of Roschean categories along the categorial
continuum may be given as:
The functional approach to language and the typological approach to grammar 33
(32)
Categorial space
% of
population
mean of
category A
mean of
category B
overlapping
fringes
1.7.2.4The adaptive foundations of prototypes
The hybrid nature of prototype-based categories — partly Platonic, partly Wittgensteinean
— is not a philosophical choice. Rather, it is an adaptive compromise designed to
accommodate two conﬂicting demands on biologically-based information processing.
The ﬁrst demand is that of rapid processing of categories that are either very frequent
and thus highly predictable, or carry great adaptive urgency. In biological organisms, the
processing of such information tends to become highly automated. And automated
processing is heavily dependent of clear, discrete, hierarchized structures (Posner and
Warren 1972; Posner and Snyder 1974; Schneider and Shiﬀrin 1977; Chase and Ericsson
1981, 1982).
The most salient adaptive pressure toward automated processing is the need to draw
rapid conclusions about category membership from a relatively quick scan of few salient,
observable features. In a nut shell, the need to stereotype. This is precisely where features
(c) and (d) of prototype-based categories becomes a crucial adaptive advantage.
The more prototypical members of a category tend to be processed automatically.
Since they comprise the vast majority of the population, this is where the heavy investment
in the development of automaticity yields its highest dividends.
As an illustration, consider the task of deciding, when walking in the bush, whether a
tiger-size animal with the characteristic tiger-like stripes, viewed only brieﬂy and scantily,
is a dangerous predator or not. While encounters with tigers may be infrequent, there is a
powerful, highly predictable association between the innocuous visual feature “stripes” and
the lethal behavioral feature “dangerous predator”. This informational predictability,
coupled with a highly adaptive urgency of avoiding tigers, is what impels us to react
rapidly, indeed automatically, to the mere perception of the telltale stripes, and thus extract
‘tiger’ from ‘stripes’ with little regard to graded ﬁneries of the speciﬁc context.
The second, and conﬂicting, adaptive demand on categorial decisions is that of ﬁne
discrimination. In contexts of low frequency, low predictability, high uncertainty but,
paradoxically, again high adaptive relevance, categorization decisions tend to be slow and
conscious. Finer features and subtle contextual shades must be scanned and analyzed,
carefully and slowly. The characteristic modus operandi here is that of attended processing
(Posner & Warren 1972; Posner & Snyder 1974; Schneider & Shiﬀrin 1977).
Attended, context-dependent processing is the more Wittgensteinean facet of
information processing, where the organism must perform context-sensitive tasks of subtle
34 Syntax
discriminations along the phenomenological continuum. Marginal, non-prototypical
members of a category, those that tend to occupy the ambiguity-plagued inter-categorial
space, are precisely the ones that tend to be processed slowly, in an attended, context-
dependent fashion.
Why doesn’t the organism just ignore the small ambiguous minority, thus ‘write it oﬀ
for a loss’? Sometimes it indeed does. But on occasion the minority, however small, may be
just as crucial adaptively as the more prototypical majority. In performing delicate brain
surgery, for example, one operates slowly, deliberately and consciously, scanning multiple
contextual nuances, weighing multiple options, remaining attentive to contingencies and
alternative strategies.
But another, broader and highly adaptive context also depends on the more ﬂexible,
graded aspect of categorization. Change, learning, development and evolution thrive on
subtle, gradual re-interpretation of categorial boundaries. Cognitively, learning is heavily
dependent on judgements of similarity, analogy and metaphoric extension. Such judge-
ments are, in principle, impossible to accommodate within a rigid, discrete categorial
system. It is only the residual ﬂexibility of prototype-based categories that can accommo-
date growth and learning, historical change and, ultimately, phylogenetic evolution.
1.8 Iconicity, naturalness and markedness
1.8.1 Iconicity vs. arbitrariness
As noted earlier above, the functional approach to grammar is founded on the assumption
that grammar, like all biologically-based systems, is adaptively motivated and thus in
principle non-arbitrary. The issue of the naturalness of grammar resurfaced in the 1980’s
under the banner of iconicity (see Haiman (1980, 1983, 1985a,b; Slobin 1985; Givón 1989,
1991a; inter alia).
The resurgent interest in iconicity in the 1980’s was inspired by earlier work of the
American philosopher C.S. Peirce (1934, 1940), who observed:
“…In the syntax of every language there are logical icons of the kind that are aided by
conventional rules…” (Peirce, The Philosophy of Peirce, 1940, p.106)
As Peirce had noted, the iconicity of grammar is not absolute, but rather a matter of
degree. In most grammatical constructions, more iconic devices (or principles) are
intermingled with more arbitrary, conventionalized, symbolic devices (or rules).
Among the principles of iconic grammatical organization noted in the resurgent
iconicity literature of the 1980’s, sometimes referred to as the ‘rules’ of proto grammar, one
may count:
(33) Intonation rules
a. Stress and predictability
“Less-predictable information chunks are stressed”
The functional approach to language and the typological approach to grammar 35
b. Melody and relevance
“Information chunks that belong together conceptually are packed together
under a uniﬁed melodic contour”.
c. Pause and rhythm
“The size of the temporal break between information chunks corresponds
to the size of the cognitive or thematic distance between them”.
(34) Spacing rules
a. Proximity and relevance
“Information chunks that belong together conceptually are kept in close
spatio-temporal proximity”.
b. Proximity and scope
“Functional operators are kept closest to the operand to which the are
relevant”.
(35) Sequence rules
a. Order and importance
“A more important information chunk is fronted”.
b. Occurrence order and reported order
“The temporal order in which events occurred will be mirrored in the lin-
guistic report of the events”.
(36) Quantity rules
a. Zero expression and predictability
“Predictable — or already activated — information will be left un-
expressed”.
b. Zero expression and relevance
“Unimportant or irrelevant information will be left unexpressed”.
These iconic principles, or ‘rules’ of proto-grammar, are attested in pre-grammatical pidgin
communication (see §1.3 above), which is devoid of more conventionalized, symbolic
grammatical devices. But the very same ‘rules’ are also attested in grammaticalized
language, where the ‘rules’ of proto-grammar are integrated with the more symbolic
machinery — morphology, hierarchic-syntactic constructions, grammatical word-order
and various formal constraints (see §1.2.3.1 above).
As a brief illustration of the mixed — part iconic, part symbolic — nature of mature
grammar, consider the treatment of the agent in three voice constructions in English: the
neutral-active, the agented passive (‘inverse’), and the agentless passive:
(37) most topical agent
a. Neutral-active: The woman shot the deer
b. Agented passive: The deer was shot by the woman
c. Agentless passive: The deer was shot (yesterday)
least topical agent
36 Syntax
In terms of the discourse-pragmatic function of topicality, the three constructions are
scaled: The agent is most topical in the neutral-active (37a), less in the agented passive
(‘inverse’) (37b), and least in the agentless passive (37c).
The syntactic coding-scale in (37) reﬂects the use of two iconic principles. The
sequential-order principle (35a) is pressed into service in both (37a) and (37b). In (37a), the
more-topical agent occupies the clause-initial position, the less-topical patient the clause-
ﬁnal position. In (37b) the order is reversed. The quantity principle (36b) is pressed into
service in the agentless passive (37c), where the non-topical agent is absent altogether.
But in addition, the scale in (37) also reﬂects the more symbolic conventions of case-
marking. In the neutral-active (37a), the agent is coded as the subject and the patient as the
object. In both passives (37b,c), the patient is coded as the subject. And in (37b), in
addition, the agent is coded with the oblique instrumental case (‘by’).
As noted earlier above, the doctrine of the arbitrariness harkens back to Aristotle,
Saussure and Bloomﬁeld. It has been expressed most succinctly, however, by Chomsky
(1968), who contrasts the symbolic nature of human language with the iconicity of animal
communication:
“…every animal communication system that is known… either consists of a ﬁxed,
ﬁnite number of signals, each associated with a speciﬁc range of behavior… or it
makes use of a ﬁxed, ﬁnite number of linguistic dimensions, each of which is associat-
ed with a particular non-linguistic dimension in such a way that selection of a point
along the linguistic dimension determines and signals a point along the associated
non-linguistic dimension… When I make an arbitrary statement in human lan-
guage… I am not selecting a point along some linguistic dimension that signals a
corresponding point along an associated non-linguistic dimension…”
(Chomsky, Language and Mind, 1968, pp.69–70)
Almost as extreme a position, that grammar is 100% isomorphic to communicative
function, has been occasionally been expressed by functionalists (e.g. Garcia 1979; Hopper
and Thompson 1984; inter alia).
The facts once again seem to support a middle-ground position, somewhere along the
lines hinted at by Peirce. Grammaticalization, whether in childhood or in history, entails
a marked increase in arbitrariness, as more conventional rules are added to and blended
with the more iconic principles of proto-grammar. Indeed symbolicity and routinization
are part of the price one pays for the development of an automated processing system
(Givón 1989: Ch.7; Haiman 1991).
The balance in grammar between iconicity and arbitrariness is, once again, a classical
adaptive compromise between conﬂicting functional pressures. In grammaticalization, one
gains processing speed via automaticity, while giving up a certain portion of code transpar-
ency, via increased arbitrariness.
Adaptive compromises are ubiquitous in biological design. Thus, for example, a higher
speed of motion is enhanced by bulkier musculature. But beyond a certain point, muscle
weight retards speed and agility. Likewise, ﬂight is extremely adaptive as a means of evading
earth-bound predators and obstacles. But gravity-defying ﬂight is also much more energy-
The functional approach to language and the typological approach to grammar 37
consuming, requiring more developed chest muscles and a concomitant increase in body
weight, which in turn demands more intensive metabolism and higher food demands.
A certain measure of structural arbitrariness is also found in complex biological codes,
under the label of excess structure. As complex structures evolve, their very complexity
introduces a measure of arbitrariness. This has been described in the linear chemical code
of nucleic acid (DNA, RNA) chains. Some nucleotide triplets in the DNA or RNA chain
map directly — are isomorphic to — corresponding amino acids in the protein chain.
Others, however, do not map directly onto the linear structure of protein. Rather, they
perform more abstract or global functions, such as processing instructions, blocking,
deletion, splicing or recombining. And some may be just plain ﬁllers, dumb concomitants
of structural complexity.
While nominally a linear chain, DNA is in fact a rhythmic-hierarchic structure. More
general controlling loci map onto their respective functions in a less iconic, more abstract
fashion. While lower levels of the hierarchy constitute a more isomorphic code (Leder
1982; Tonegawa 1985; Alt et al. 1987; Rajewsky et al. 1987; see also Futuyma 1986: Ch.3).
Excess structure in biology has been described by S.J. Gould in terms of ‘spandrels’.
Unfortunately, excess structure is sometimes cited as an argument against the adaptive
nature of evolution, a position seemingly articulated by Gould and Lewontin (1979) and
Gould (1997), or by people who misinterpret their ﬁndings. A more mature way of
interpreting excess structure, however, is to view it as a necessary consequence of the
evolution of complex structures; that is, a necessary concomitant to the rise of more-
transparently-adaptive features.
Finally, in the diachronic evolution of grammar, many instances can be seen of how
perfectly motivated and thus inherently adaptive diachronic processes can yield, sometimes
rather predictably, seemingly arbitrary, spectacularly counter-iconic and thus presumably
maladaptive synchronic structures (Givón 1979a: Ch.6). This in no way obviates the
adaptive nature of grammar or grammaticalization. Rather, it points out to the unavoid-
able penalty biological systems pay for complexity.
1.8.2 Markedness, complexity and frequency
1.8.2.1Background
The notion of markedness is implicit in the theme-and-variations approach to syntax
outlined above (§1.5 above). Under one guise or another, its intellectual roots go back to
antiquity. Markedness underlies the time-honored tradition of describing declaratives
before imperatives and interrogatives, actives before passives, main clauses before
subordinate clauses, and aﬃrmatives before negatives. Thus for example, in opening his
discussion of negation, Aristotle says:
“…The ﬁrst statement-making sentence is the aﬃrmation, next is the negation…”
(Aristotle, De Interpretatione; in J. Barnes, ed. 1984, p.26).
It would have been indeed bizarre for Aristotle to have said instead: “…The ﬁrst statement-
making sentence is the negation, next is the aﬃrmation…”.
38 Syntax
An explicit notion of markedness entered structural linguistics via the Prague School
(see Jakobson 1932/1971, 1939/1962, 1974; Jakobson and Waugh 1979; Jakobson and
Pomorska 1980; also discussion in Greenberg 1966b, 1976; Andersen 1966, 1973, 1974,
1979; Shapiro 1983). It was initially meant to be a reﬁnement of Saussure’s notion of valeur
linguistique in binary oppositions. The Pragueans noted that binary distinctions in
phonology and grammar were systematically skewed, or asymmetrical. One member of the
contrasting pair acted as the presence of a property, the other as its absence. What is more,
the systematic skewing of linguistic contrasts was a necessary reﬂection of the hierarchic
nature of linguistic structures (Shapiro 1983).
Structuralists often content themselves with the more formal aspect of markedness,
that of structural complexity, observing that the marked case is more complex, and the
unmarked case less. To functionalists, however, observing a systematic bias in formal
complexity is but the phenomenology, i.e. facts that still demand explanation.
In attempting to understand the biased distribution of structural complexity in
grammatical construction, the most striking feature it correlates with is a parallel skewing
in frequency distribution. Most typically, that is, the marked category is less frequent in text,
and the unmarked one more frequent. This was demonstrated most succinctly over a wide
range of phonological, semantic and grammatical categories by Greenberg (1976).
But the association between the structural complexity and use frequency of grammati-
cal categories is a fact that itself demands explanation. And the explanation must invoke
more substantive grounds, be those cognitive, communicative, socio-cultural, neuro-
biological, developmental or evolutionary.
Ultimately, markedness may be viewed as the governing meta-principle of iconicity,
expressing the correlation — admittedly not always perfect — between structural and
functional complexity (Givón 1991b):
•Categories that are structurally more marked tend to also be substantively
more marked.
1.8.2.2The context-dependence of markedness
One may as well note that markedness is a context-dependent phenomenon par excellence.
The very same structure may be marked in one context and unmarked in another. This
may be illustrated with two simple examples.
Clausal subjects are characteristically deﬁnite, referring and topical. Instrumentals are
characteristically indeﬁnite, non-referential and non-topical. Consequently, it is much
more common to ﬁnd (38a) than (38b) in natural communication:
(38) a. She cut the meat with a knife
b. A woman cut the meat with it
If one were now to inquire: Which determiner category is the marked case, deﬁnite or
indeﬁnite? The answer would be context-dependent: In the context of the clause’s subject,
indeﬁnite is the marked category; in the context of the instrumental, deﬁnite.
The functional approach to language and the typological approach to grammar 39
In a similar vein, active-voice clauses, as in (39a) below, predominate, in terms of
frequency, in oral communication about everyday human aﬀairs. Passives-voice (39b) and
impersonal-subject clauses (39c), on the other hand, predominate in academic discourse
about abstract topics:
(39) a. She wrote the book last year
b. The book was written last year
c. One writes books (all the time)
Which clause-type is the marked case then, and which the unmarked? In the context of
everyday oral communication, the passive is marked. In the context of written academic
discourse, the active.
Markedness thus pertains to not only linguistic categories, but also to the commu-
nicative contexts within which they are embedded. And it is probably reasonable to assume
that formal, written, academic communication is the marked discourse-type, and everyday
face-to-face oral communication the unmarked. Or, as noted by Jespersen:
“…I am ﬁrmly convinced many of the shortcomings of current grammatical theory are
due to the fact that grammar has been chieﬂy studied in connexion with ancient
languages known only through the medium of writing, and that a correct apprehen-
sion of the essential nature of language can only be obtained when the study is based
in the ﬁrst place on direct observation of living speech and only secondarily on written
and printed documents…” (Jespersen, The Philosophy of Grammar, 1924, p.1)
One important logical consequence of the context dependence of markedness is that
substantive explanations of markedness must be domain-speciﬁc. That is, the cognitive,
communicative, socio-cultural or biological correlates of markedness may vary from one
domain to the next. Thus, the preference for placing the agent in the subject (topic) role in
transitive-clauses, thus making the active clause the unmarked case, probably reﬂects a
cultural norm,thatoftalkingmoreaboutpurposefulactantslikeourselvesthanaboutdumb
objects. On the other hand, the fact that deﬁnite referents are more frequent in discourse
than indeﬁnites probably reﬂects a communicative norm, that of talking about the same
topic over long equi-topic chains of clauses. And the fact that voiced vowels are the
unmarked norm in phonology no doubt reﬂects some perceptual universal of the human ear.
1.8.2.3Theme-and-variation syntax and the markedness of clause types
It is hardly an accident that the transformational formats of Harris (1956) and Chomsky
(1965) chose the main, declarative, aﬃrmative, active clause as the reference-point (deep
structure, theme) from which all other clause-types are derived by transformations. This is
nothing but the traditional grammarian’s intuition dressed up in formal garb.
In his ground-breaking work on grammatical relations, Edward Keenan (1975, 1976a)
observed that the subjects of basic (theme) clauses have the highest number of possible
subject properties, as against the subjects of non-basic clauses (variations). In other words,
the subject of the ‘theme’ clause is the most prototypical subject.
In (40) below, the theme-and-variation list given in (18) above is re-cast in some
more detail:
40 Syntax
(40) Main-declarative-aﬃrmative-active/transitive (theme)
a. Marla broke the glass
Negative
b. Marla didn’t break the glass
Non-declarative
c. Break the glass! (imperative)
d. Who broke the glass? (wh-interrogative)
e. Did Marla break the glass? (yes/no-interrogative
De-transitives
f. The glass was broken (by Marla) (passive)
g. As for Henry, Marla hit him (inverse)
h. Marla breaks things (antipassive)
i. The glass is broken (middle-voice)
j. Marla broke herself (reﬂexive)
Subordinate
k. (The woman) who broke the glass… (relative clause)
l. (Marla wanted) to break the glass (verb complement)
m. (He said) that Marla hit Henry (verb complement)
n. When Marla broke the glass (adverbial clause)
o. Having broke the glass, (Marla…) (adverbial clause)
p. Marla’s breaking of the glass… (nominalized)
Chomsky’s (1965) format of deriving all variant clause-types (40b–p) by syntactic
transformations from their syntactic deep-structure (the theme (40a)) turns out to have
been a formal book-keeping manoeuver with little empirical consequences. Nevertheless,
his observation that the theme shared with the variants much of its propositional-semantic
contents remains sound. As does the observation that if the theme is, by a whooping order
of magnitude, the most common clause-type in human discourse, then it is likely to have
a privileged cognitive status.
The following tables illustrate the kind of biased frequency distribution of theme vs.
variant clause-types that can be found in various text-types (Givón 1991b).
(41) Frequency distribution of main vs. subordinate clauses in English narrative
written–academic oral–informal
conjoined subordinate total conjoined subordinate total
N % N % N % N % N % N %
43 36% 77 64% 120 100% 120 86% 20 14% 140 100%
The functional approach to language and the typological approach to grammar 41
(42) Frequency of non-declarative clauses in English oral narrative
and conversation
narrative conversation
non-decl. declar. total non-decl. decl. total
N % N % N % N % N % N %
/ / 109 100% 109 100% 46 46% 53 53% 99 100%
(43) Frequency of non-declarative clauses in English written narrative
and embedded dialogue
narrative dialogue
non-decl. declar. total non-decl. decl. total
N % N % N % N % N % N %
/ / 81 100% 81 100% 22 16% 115 84% 137 100%
(44) Frequency distribution of aﬃrmative and negative clauses
in written English narrative
clause type aﬃrmative negative total
text N % N % N %
academic
ﬁction
096
142
95%
88%
05
20
05%
12%
101
162
100%
100%
(45) Frequency distribution of active and passive clauses in written English
clause type active passive total
text N % N % N %
academic
ﬁction
news
sports
049
177
045
064
82%
91%
92%
96%
11
18
04
03
18%
09%
08%
04%
060
195
049
067
100%
100%
100%
100%
1.9 On the use, and uses, of this book
This book has been written for multiple audiences, and is thus itself an adaptive compro-
mise. Its intended uses are:
42 Syntax
•An introduction to syntax/grammar for students who have had only a one-course
introduction to linguistics.
•A guide to ﬁeld work in descriptive grammar.
•A general reference book to grammatical phenomena and their functional
correlates.
As a textbook for rank beginners, the book presupposes a teacher who is either well versed
in the material, or is willing to immerse her/himself in it and supplement it with appropri-
ate analytic problems.
The task of sequencing is a notoriously hard nut to crack, since grammatical sub-
systems, like organs of the biological organism, are profoundly inter-connected. To the
extent possible, I have attempted to present the grammar of simple — main, declarative,
aﬃrmative, active — clauses in Volume I, and that of complex clauses in Volume II.
My valiant intentions, however, have been subverted almost from the start by the
inherent paradox of grammatical morphology. Most morphological sub-systems found
even in the simplest clause — grammatical case (Chapter 4), tense-aspect-modality
(Chapters 6,7), pronouns and agreement (Chapter 9) and reference and deﬁniteness
(Chapter 10) — in fact pertain functionally to discourse-pragmatics. That is, their
functional scope transcends the clause in which they reside.
What I have done to oﬀset this problem, as well as other problems inherent in the
connectivity of grammar, is indulge in extensive cross-referencing throughout both
volumes. While rendering the book somewhat ungainly, this practice was deemed a
necessary adaptive compromise, thus perhaps an apt metaphor for grammar itself.
Notes to Chapter 1
1. The relative pronoun ‘which’ identiﬁes the missing instrument as some type of an object (proposi-
tional semantics), but only in the discourse context that prompts relative clauses (discourse
pragmatics).
2. For a logical treatment of this, see Russell’s Theory of Types (1908; reprinted in Russell 1956,
p.175).
3. Of course, the classical problem of similarity won’t go away, being rooted in the need to
distinguish between diﬀerences in kind and diﬀerences in degree. Such a determination depends on
notions of relevance, perspective, or intended context, thus on pragmatic judgement-calls. In observing
that “…tin is like silver in color, and gold is like ﬁre in so far as it is yellow or red…” (Metaphysics,
p.206), Aristotle seem to suggest that the question “Is gold like silver or like ﬁre?” depends on
whether the intended context of the question is similarity in consistency (like silver) or in color (like
ﬁre). Plato, through Socrates, makes a similar point in discussing the context-dependency of
comparison: “…and didn’t Heraclitus, whom you yourself bring in, say the same thing too, that ‘the
wisest of men is seen to be but a monkey when compared to God in wisdom and ﬁneness and
everything else’?…” (Hippias Major, pp.10–11; in Woodruﬀ (tr. 1982)).
4. As noted in note 3, above, the diﬀerence between ‘kind’ and ‘degree’ is in principle a matter of
perspective.
<TARGET "2" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "The lexicon"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 2
The lexicon
Words and morphemes
2.1 Preliminaries
“…The limits of my language mean the limits of my world…”
L. Wittgenstein Tractatus Logico Philosophicus (1918, p.115)
“…To imagine a language is to imagine a form of life…”
L. Wittgenstein Philosophical Investigations (1953, p.8)
2.1.1 Recapitulation: Meaning, information, discourse
This chapter covers what has been called traditionally parts of speech. In studying grammar,
we deal with clauses (propositions) from two complementary perspectives:
•Internal: How they are constructed from a vocabulary;
•External: How they are combined together into discourse.
As noted in Chapter 1 above, the three main components of human communication —
words, clauses, discourse — are related to each other in a concentric fashion. That is:
(1) words
clauses
discourse
Sound-coded words stand for concepts, which have meaning. Grammar-coded clauses
stand for propositions, which are made out of words and convey information. And clauses
are most often strung together into grammar-coded multi-propositional discourse, which
has coherence.
44 Syntax
2.1.2 Semantic features and semantic ﬁelds
The meaning of words has both internal and external aspects. Internally, while words (or
morphemes) are the smallest code units in language, they are not the smallest units of
meaning. Most commonly, the meanings of words are complex clusters of semantic features.
Externally, the semantic features of words determine their classiﬁcation (or storage
location) in the mental lexicon. The semantic features of words thus deﬁne the overall
network structure of the mental lexicon, i.e. its organization into semantic ﬁelds.
Consider for example the word ‘elephant’. Its semantic features make it a member of
many semantic ﬁelds, such as:
(2) Semantic features of ‘elephant’
mammal, herbivore, large, tusks, ivory, trunk, hunting, poaching, circus,
Africa/India, etc.
But these semantic features may partake in the lexical meaning of other words in addition
to that of ‘elephant’.
The semantic ﬁelds that intersect in ‘elephant’, corresponding to the semantic features
listed above, are respectively:
(3) Semantic ﬁelds intersecting in ‘elephant’
bio-classiﬁcation, food, size, teeth, tooth-material, nose, hunting, poaching,
entertainment, geography, etc.
Each one of these semantic ﬁelds has other members in addition to ‘elephant’. The mental
lexicon may thus be viewed as a network of semantic ﬁelds, where individual words — the
nodes in the network — occupy the intersections of various ﬁelds. The notions of semantic
feature and semantic ﬁeld are thus fundamentally one and the same, but viewed from two
diﬀerent perspectives:
•The individual word: A concept ‘contains’ many semantic features.
•The lexicon as a whole: The lexicon is a network of many semantic ﬁelds.
2.2 Lexical vs. grammatical vocabulary
2.2.1 Words and morphemes
In referring to words earlier above, we deliberately allowed a certain measure of imprecision
in the discussion. This imprecision must be now removed. The vocabulary of languages can
be divided into two major types, one of which is further split into two:
•lexical (‘content’) words;
•non-lexical (‘function’) words:
•grammatical morphemes;
•derivational morphemes.
The lexicon 45
The three resulting classes — lexical words, grammatical morphemes and derivational
morphemes — diﬀer substantially as to their function within the communication system:
•Lexical words
What was said earlier about words, concepts and meaning in fact applies more precisely to
lexical vocabulary. Lexical words code stable, culturally-shared concepts, or types of
experience we encounter. Taken together as an interlocking network, they represent our
shared physical, cultural and internal universe.
•Grammatical morphemes
As noted in Chapter 1 above, grammatical morphemes partake in the grammatical
structure of clauses. They thus partake in the coding of both propositional information and
discourse coherence.
•Derivational morphemes
Derivational morphemes are used to create (derive) new lexical words from existing ones.
We will have relatively little to say about derivational morphology here, since it lies
primarily in the domain of lexicography rather than grammar.
In (4) below, we list the criteria ordinarily used to distinguish lexical words from
morphemes — both grammatical and derivational.
(4) Diﬀerences between lexical words and morphemes
Criterion Lexical words Non-lexical morphemes
a.
morphemic status
b.
phonological size
c.
stress
d.
semantic size
e.
class size
f.
class membership
g.
function
free
large
stressed
complex
speciﬁc
large
open
world-view
bound
small
unstressed
simple
general
small
closed
grammar or word-derivation
•Morphemic status
Lexical words tend to be free, independent words.1
Grammatical and derivational
morphemes tend to be bound morphemes, i.e. aﬃxes attached to the stems of lexical words.
•Phonological size
Lexical words tend to be phonologically larger (longer). Grammatical and derivational
morphemes tend to be phonologically smaller (shorter).
•Stress
Lexical words tend to carry more prominent intonation or stress. Grammatical and
derivational morphemes tend to be unstressed.
•Semantic size
Lexical words tend to be semantically complex. That is, they are clusters of many, highly
speciﬁc semantic features. Each lexical word is thus a member of many semantic ﬁelds.
Grammatical and derivational morphemes, on the other hand, tend to be semantically
46 Syntax
simpler and more general. Often they may code a single feature, or a small cluster of highly
classiﬁcatory features.
•Class size
Lexical words come in few large classes. Grammatical and derivational morphemes come
in many small classes.
•Membership
The membership of a lexical class is relatively open. New members join periodically, and old
members drop out, as new words are coined or the meaning of old words changes. Change
in cultural world-view is the prime cause of addition or subtraction of lexical vocabulary.
The membership of a grammatical class, on the other hand, is relatively closed. The
addition or subtraction of members is possible, and is indeed one aspect of grammatical
change. Like most other types of grammatical change, however, changes in the membership
of grammatical classes do not reﬂect cultural change, but rather are changes in the commu-
nicative instrument itself, most likely under the following types of adaptive pressure:
•creative elaboration of the code;
•truncation of code elements for faster processing;
•simpliﬁcation of code:message relations.
As an illustration of the diﬀerence between lexical words and grammatical morphemes,
consider the following three renditions of a short passage from Larry McMurtry’s novel
Leaving Cheyenne (1962, p.109). Version (5a) below retains only the lexical vocabulary.
Version (5b) retains only the grammatical morphology. Version (5c) is the original text:
(5) a. One afternoon about ten day Dad die
decide ought look ranch.
course be over every inch hundred time,
be Dad ranch.
b. -s after -ed
I -ed to the.
Of I had -en over of it a -s,
but it had -en -s then, and not mine.
c. One afternoon about ten days after Dad died
I decided I ought to look over the ranch.
Of course I had been over every inch of it a hundred times,
but it had been Dad’s ranch then, and not mine.
Version (5a) in fact approximates a pidgin rendition of the text. While cumbersome, the
skeleton of the intended communication (5c) is at least discernible. In contrast, version
(5b) conveys none of the message. Its various elements are indeed extremely helpful in
elucidating the precise message — when combined with the lexical vocabulary as in (5c).
On its own, however, the grammatical morphology in (5b) communicates nothing. The
following cartoon pokes innocent fun at this.
The lexicon 47
DOONESBURY © 1984 G.B. Trudeau. Reprinted with permission of UNIVERSAL PRESS SYNDICATE. All rights reserved.
48 Syntax
2.2.2 Morphemic status, morphotactics, and writing systems
A caveat needs to be added to the criterion of morphemic status (4a). In general, it is true
that grammatical and derivational morphemes are overwhelmingly aﬃxes, cannot stand on
their own as words, and must be either attached to lexical word-stems, or clusters together
into words with other morphemes. When grammatical morphemes are written as
independent words, as is customary for many of them in English, these writing conventions
are due to the intercession of two factors:
•All morphology arises historically, directly or indirectly, from lexical words via
grammaticalization.
•Writing systems are notoriously conservative, tending to represent older
historical states.
Still, some cross-language diﬀerences in morphotactics are not quite that superﬁcial. For
example, in many languages the bare stems of nouns, verbs and adjectives cannot appear
as full independent words. Rather, they must always be attached to some other mor-
pheme(s), be those grammatical or derivational. This may be brieﬂy illustrated by
contrasting English with Swahili (Bantu).
(6) English Swahili
child m-toto
child-ren wa-toto
knife ki-su
knive-s vi-su
small m-dogo (for a child)
wa-dogo (for children)
ki-dogo (for a knife)
vi-dogo (for knives)
sing ku-yimba ‘to sing’, ‘singing’
a-li-yimba ‘s/he sang’ (child)
wa-ta-yimba ‘they will sing’ (children)
fall ku-anguka ‘to fall’, ‘falling’
ki-li-anguka ‘it fell’ (knife)
vi-ta-anguka ‘they will fall’ (knives)
The noun stems ‘child’ and ‘knife’ can appear as independent words in English, but not in
Swahili, where their near-equivalent, the noun-stems -toto and -su, respectively, must
always carry a number-and-class preﬁx (m-, wa-, ki-, vi-, etc.).
Likewise, the adjective stem ‘small’ can appear as an independent word in English, but
not in Swahili, where its near-equivalent, the adjective-stem -dogo, must always carry the
same number-and-class preﬁx as the noun to which it pertains (m-, wa-, ki-, vi-, etc.).
The lexicon 49
Similarly, the verb stems ‘sing’ and ‘fall’ can appear as independent words in English,
but not in Swahili, where some grammatical or derivational aﬃxes must accompany their
near-equivalents (-yimba, -anguka) in order to yield an independent phonological word.
2.3 Major lexical word-classes
The bulk of this chapter deals with the four major classes of lexical words that appear most
widely across languages:
•Nouns;
•Verbs;
•Adjectives;
•Adverbs.
Of the four, nouns and verbs are major lexical classes in all languages. Adjectives may or
may not appear in all languages as a distinct word-class. Nonetheless, both their diachronic
rise as a sub-class of either nouns or verbs, or their synchronic semantic and syntactic
behavior when lacking their own class, are to some extent predictable. Adverbs are the least
universal lexical class.
2.3.1 Membership criteria
In conformance with what was noted in Chapter 1 above concerning natural categories,
membership in each major word-class is not deﬁned by a single (Platonic) necessary-and-
suﬃcient feature, but rather by three baskets of criteria:
•Semantic criteria: The kind of meanings (‘semantic features’) that tend to be coded
by words of a particular class.
•Morphological criteria: The kind of bound morphemes — both grammatical and
derivational — that tend to be aﬃxed to words of a particular class.
•Syntactic criteria: The typical position(s) in the clause that words of a particular
class tend to occupy.
In using a prototype-clustering approach to the membership of lexical categories, rather
than rigid Platonic deﬁnitions, one merely acknowledges that lexical categories, like natural
categories elsewhere, may include members that display less than 100% of the criterial
properties. That is, some members are more prototypical, while others are less prototypical
but still members.
The most universally predictive criteria are semantic. Syntactic criteria are also highly
universal. It is morphological criteria that show the highest degree of cross-language
diversity. One may thus say that nouns, verbs or adjectives in one language may be more
prototypical than in another. That is, they may display a higher complement of criterial
properties, particularly when it comes to morphology.
50 Syntax
2.3.2 Pragmatic limits of semantic taxonomies
One needs to bear in mind that semantic classiﬁcation, like all taxonomies, may have no
natural cutoﬀ point. In principle, one may go on recognizing more and more minor
classiﬁcatory features, yielding smaller and smaller classes, ultimately perhaps even ‘classes’
with a single member.
While semantic analysis to the level of individual words is indeed an appropriate task
for the lexicographer, the grammarian’s involvement in lexical semantics is governed by
three pragmatic considerations. His classiﬁcatory features must:
•yield classes rather than individuals;
•show clear grammatical consequences;
•show clear cross-linguistic relevance.
With respect to the ﬁrst consideration, as already noted, single-member classes tend to be
the province of the lexicographer, while grammar typically pertains to large classes.
With respect to the second, grammarians are bound to ask a simple question: Does a
feature, or the whole taxonomy, predict coherent classes of grammatical morphemes,
constructions, or rule-governed behavior? While the cutoﬀ-point here is never absolute,
the question is nonetheless pertinent.
With respect to the third, one needs to keep in mind that the grammatical consequenc-
es of a semantic taxonomy are also subject to some typological variability. This is because
a semantic feature may have grammatical consequences in one language but not another.
For example, noun-classifying features beyond concreteness, countability, animacy and
humanity and gender have relatively few grammatical consequences in English, but
extensive ramiﬁcations in the grammar of Bantu, Mayan, Oceanic or Athabaskan languages.
2.3.3 Semantic criteria: An overview
Of the four major lexical word-classes we will survey here, three — nouns, adjectives, verbs
— can be set apart initially by a cluster of four semantic criteria. These criteria are the most
generic, or classiﬁcatory, semantic features of our conceptual lexicon. They are, most likely,
at the very top of the hierarchy of semantic features by which humans classify their
experience. These features are:
•temporal stability (rate of change over time);
•complexity (number of deﬁning sub-features);
•concreteness (physicality);
•spatial compactness (degree of spatial scatter).
While analytically distinct, these features exhibit strong associations, so that in many
instances a feature is partially predictable from one or more of the others. Nevertheless, the
feature of time stability is in some sense primus inter pares, giving coherence to the cluster
as a whole.
Nouns, verbs and adjectives may be placed on the scale of time-stability of coherently
bundled experience. By ‘coherently-bundled’ one means compactness: either spatial
The lexicon 51
contiguity or temporal simultaneity or both. That is, the individual features bundled
together in a single coherent experience are either spatially contiguous or temporally
simultaneous or both.2
2.3.3.1Nouns
•Temporal stability
The prototype of the class noun occupies the most time-stable end of the scale. That is, the
properties of prototypical nouns change only little over repeated perceptual scans. If it is
a chair now, it is still likely to be a chair in ﬁve minutes, an hour, or a day — in size, shape,
color, texture, consistency or usage. Of course, a ﬁne internal gradation still exists, so that
a child may change faster than a tree, and that faster than a house, and that faster than a
rock, etc.
•Complexity
One important reason for the great temporal stability of prototype nouns is that they are
multi-featured bundles of experience. Further, like all natural categories, they exhibit strong
feature-association (see Chapter 1 above). For example, the noun horse has prototypical
size, shape, color, weight, sound, smell, part-whole composition, behavioral propensities,
cultural uses, etc. Consequently, when either rapid change or deviance crop up in one
feature, the relative stability of the rest insures that a deviant individual remains within a
reasonable range (standard deviation) of the population’s prototype (mean). A miniature
horse is still a horse; as is a pink horse, or a three-legged horse, or a horse that has been
trained to moo like a cow or walk upright, or a horse that refuses to be ridden.
•Concreteness
The time-stability of prototype nouns also owes much to the fact that they are concrete,
and made out of relatively-durable materials. Their bundled — co-experienced —
properties, such as size, color, shape or consistency, thus change relatively slowly as
individual features as well.
•Compactness
The fact that prototype nouns tend to be spatially compact rather than scattered all over
the perceptual space is in part a consequence of their spatial coherence. That is, all sub-parts
of a prototype noun entity tend to occupy contiguous space. Thus, while scattered nouns
do exist (‘the celebration’, ‘Tuesday’, ‘the rain’), they tend to be non-prototypical in other
ways as well, i.e. abstract, mass, or temporally non-durable.
•Countability
One important consequence of prototype nouns being compact, is that they also tend to be
relatively small, thus ﬁgures occupying a small portion of the total perceptual ﬁeld or
ground. This is how they stand out vis-a-vis their ground. Several like noun entities may
thus occupy a portion of the ﬁeld, with the consequence that prototype nouns tend to be
countable, as against non-prototypical mass nouns (‘rain’, ‘love’, ‘water’, ‘sand’, ‘freedom’).
52 Syntax
2.3.3.2Verbs
•Temporal instability
Prototype verbs occupy the other end of the time-stability scale. They are coherent bundles
of experience of relatively short duration. Prototype verbs code rapid changes in either the
state, condition or spatial location of some noun-coded entity — ‘shoot’, ‘kick’, ‘break’,
‘jump’, ‘leave’, ‘drop’, etc.
As elsewhere, a certain range of variation is observed in this category as well, so that
some verbs are less prototypical, and may code events of longer duration — ‘work’, ‘read’,
‘walk’, ‘depreciate’, ‘cool oﬀ’, etc. Other verbs, less prototypical yet, may even code longer-
enduring states, such as ‘dream’, ‘sleep’, ‘sit’, ‘love’, ‘know’, ‘want’, ‘regret’, ‘mourn’, etc.
•Temporal compactness
While the prototype noun is spatially compact but temporally durable, the prototype verb
is just the opposite — temporally compact but spatially more diﬀuse. The temporal
compactness of verbs is but another way of acknowledging their low temporal stability.
•Concreteness
The experiential phenomena typically bundled as verbs are most typically events that
involve concrete participant nouns. The verbs then code either the physical action, or
physical change, or spatial motion of those participants. But this is again a matter of degree.
Thus, ‘shoot’, ‘kick’, ‘break’ or ‘run’ are fairly concrete. But the less-prototypical ‘listen’
codes an invisible mental event, with no discernible action. And the even less prototypical
‘depreciate’, ‘elapse’, ‘mean’ or ‘equal’ are even less concrete, involving abstract notions,
conventions or inferences.
•Complexity and spatial diﬀuseness
While not quite as multi-featured as nouns, prototype verbs often exhibit considerable
complexity. This is due to in part the fact that prototypical events or actions may involve
several distinct participants. Thus, for example, a typical event of ‘giving’ involves a giver
(agent), a gift (patient) and a recipient (dative), all distributed over space and each an
individuated, spatially compact, temporally durable entity in its own right.
Many verbs also have complex temporally-sequenced sub-components, as in, for
example, ‘build’, ‘cook’, ‘compose’, ‘carve’, ‘draw’, ‘hunt’ etc. But here again one may ﬁnd
gradation, so that some verbs are less temporally complex, involving only a single feature
of change, as in ‘cool oﬀ’, ‘elongate’, ‘fall’, ‘wake up`
’, etc.
•Agentiveness and mental activity
Many prototype verbs code actions, i.e. events initiated deliberately by a human or animate
agent capable of volition. Such verbs are, for example, ‘talk’, ‘leave’, ‘walk’, ‘attack’,
‘explain’, ‘argue’, etc.
Other verbs may involve no action, but some conscious mental activity, as in ‘want’,
‘know’, ‘understand’, ‘think’, ‘regret’, ‘dream’, etc. Such verbs often denote the mental
states of a human or animate participant, but neither change nor volition nor action.
Finally, some verbs code events or state that involve neither action nor metal activity,
as in ‘fall’, ‘heat up’, ‘deteriorate’, ‘dry up’, ‘break down’, ‘elapse’, ‘be’, etc.
The lexicon 53
2.3.3.3Adjectives
While prototype nouns code bundles of experienced features (‘horse’, ‘chair’, ‘woman’,
‘tree’), the cognitive status of adjectives is a bit more murky. In some respects, adjectives
echo one feature of the verbs: the fact that a verb-coded event (‘break’, ‘walk’, ‘talk to’,
‘give’, etc.) cannot be experienced — makes no sense — independently of its noun-coded
participants.
In a somewhat similar vein, prototype adjectives are not experienced directly qua
adjectives. They are, rather, single properties of prototype noun entities, analytically
abstracted from those more complex bundles of experience. This facet of adjectives was
alluded to, albeit obliquely, in the passage from Russell (1956) cited in Chapter 1:
“…The universal whiteness is a concept, whereas a particular white patch is a percept….
Such general qualities as whiteness never exist in time, whereas the things that do exist
in time are all particular [percept]s…”
(Russell, Relations of universals & particulars; reprinted in Russell 1956, p.122)
If one translates Russell’s ‘percept’ into ‘experience’, then it may be said that ‘white’ is only
experienced directly when it is bundled coherently, together with all other properties, into
a noun-coded white entity, such as ‘horse’, ‘wall’, ‘egg’, ‘cloud’, ‘snow’, etc. From this
central fact about adjectives follow most of their other major semantic properties.
•Temporal stability
Many languages do not code durable single properties of nouns as adjectives, but rather as
verbs (see examples further below) and occasionally even nouns. But as Dixon (1982) has
noted, if a language has the lexical category adjective at all, it tends to include at least the
most durable physical properties of prototype nouns: size, shape, color, consistency,
texture, weight, smell, taste. This supports our view (and Bertrand Russell’s) that prototype
adjectival concepts are abstracted from the direct experience of prototype noun-coded
entities. It also explains why prototype adjectives occupy the same extreme time-stable end
of our temporal stability scale as prototype nouns.
Still, the fact that adjectives code only single features of experienced nouns also makes
them, at least potentially, less time-stable: A change in this single feature changes the whole
nature of the adjective.
Less-prototypical adjectives may code inherent, possibly durable but non-physical states
or character traits, such as ‘good’, ‘bad’, ‘brave’, ‘cowardly’, ‘helpful’, ‘impetuous’, ‘contem-
plative’, ‘thoughtful’, ‘conservative’, etc. The fact that these states are mental or evaluative
rather than physical presumably contributes to making them not quite as durable.
Likewise, less-prototypical adjectives may also code temporary states, such as tempera-
ture (‘hot’, ‘cold’), feelings (‘happy’, ‘sad’, ‘angry’, ‘cheerful’, ‘attentive’, ‘distracted’, etc.),
health (‘well’, ‘sick’) or social states (‘busy’, ‘idle’, ‘unavailable’, etc.).
•Simplicity
As noted above, even the most prototypical adjectives are single-feature concepts,
abstracted out of more complex bundles of experience. This fact accounts, at least in part,
for their lower time-stability, as compared with prototype nouns.
54 Syntax
•Concreteness
The most prototypical, time-stable adjectives denote durable physical properties of
concrete nouns. However, their single-feature status, i.e. their simplicity, already makes
them more abstract.
•Inherentness
Since the perceptible physical properties of nouns tend to be their most time-stable
features, we tend to also consider them inherent noun properties. To some extent, this
carries over into non-physical adjectives, particularly those that code evaluative judgements
of character traits, such as ‘good’, ‘bad’, ‘brave’, ‘thoughtful’, ‘nice’, ‘mean’, etc. By analogy
with the prototype physical adjectives, these too tend to be considered inherent to the
human (or animate) personality. The cultural ontology implicit here is that character traits,
like physical traits, are largely ﬁxed for the duration of one’s life.
Our scale of temporal stability may be summarized as follows (Givón 1979a: Ch.8;
Pustet, in preparation):
(7) The scale of temporal stability
most stable.............................................................................. least stable
tree, green sad, know work shoot
noun adj adj verb verb verb
In the bulk of the chapter, below, the four main lexical classes will be treated in more detail.
2.3.4 Morphotactics: Aﬃxes, clitics and inﬂections
As noted above (§2.3.1), by morphological characterization of a word-type we mean the
types of bound morphemes that typically cluster around it as inﬂections, aﬃxes, or clitics.
These morphemes may be either grammatical or derivational, and may either precede their
stem (preﬁx) or follow it (suﬃx).
The diﬀerence between inﬂection, aﬃx and clitic is essentially diachronic, having to do
with the age of the morpheme. The ﬁrst formal stage in the rise of a morpheme out of a
lexical word is that of cliticization, whereby the new morpheme is de-stressed and attached
to an adjacent lexical word within the construction where it arises (see Heine et al. 1991;
Hopper and Traugott 1993; Givón 1971a, 1999). English articles and prepositions are good
examples of this, appearing in the noun phrase as preﬁxal clitics (proclitics):
(8) Proclitic articles in the noun phrase
a. a-child (to the head noun)
b. the-small child (to an adjective)
c. a-rather small child (to an adverb)
d. the-three children (to a numeral)
The lexicon 55
(9) Proclitic prepositions in the noun phrase
a. to-children (to the head noun)
b. with-small children (to an adjective)
c. by-rather small children (to an adverb)
d. from-three children (to a numeral)
e. for-Joe’s children (to a possessor)
f. on-the-children (to an article)
As an example of suﬃxal clitics, consider Ute, where subject and object pronouns become
post-clitics to the ﬁrst word in the clause (Givón 1980):
(10) a. paxha-ux-kway-’u (verb clitic)
kill-asp-perf-him/her
‘s/he killed it/him/her’
b. sivaatuchi-’u paxa-ux-kwa (object clitic)
goat/obj-s/he kill-asp-perf
‘s/he killed the goat’
c. wiitu
=s-’ura-’u paxa-ux-kwa (adverb clitic)
past-top-him/her kill-asp-perf
‘long ago she killed it/him/her’
d. ta’wach-’ura-’u sivaatuchi paxa-ux-kwa (subject clitic)
man-top-s/he goat/obj kill-asp-perf
‘the man (is the one who) killed the goat’
In the early stages of grammaticalization, the morphemic slot of the new morphemes is
deﬁned in terms of the construction (phrase, clause) within which it arises. After a while,
a clitic may change into an aﬃx — preﬁx or suﬃx. This occurs when its location has ceased
to be deﬁned in terms of a construction, and has stabilized onto a particular word-type
(noun, verb, adjective, adverb). And, moreover, it now appears in a ﬁxed order with other
morphemes attached to that word (see Bybee 1985).
An inﬂection, ﬁnally, is a phonologically-degraded former aﬃx that has fused with its
carrier stem, or with other aﬃxes on the stem, to the point where it is impossible to draw
their exact boundary.
2.4 Nouns
2.4.1 Semantic characterization
The most general semantic features of nouns have already been noted above. In addition,
some of the major classiﬁcatory semantic features of nouns yield a hierarchy of increasing
markedness, which may be represented as in (11) below.
56 Syntax
(11) Markedness hierarchy of major semantic features of nouns
entity (noun)
abstract temporal
non-spatial spatial (concrete)
inanimate animate
non-human human
female male
The markedness feature of the hierarchy (11) is evident in the validity of the chain of one-
way conditional implications (‘if…then…’) given in (12) below:
(12) female … human … animate … spatial … temporal … entity
That is, if an entity is female, it must also be human; if human, it must also be animate; if
animate, it must also be spatial (concrete); etc. But not necessarily vice versa.
•Concreteness
As can be seen from (11) and (12) above, the feature concrete can be re-analyzed with more
precision as two hierarchic features, temporality and spatiality. Abstract entities such as
‘freedom’, ‘dignity’, ‘size’, ‘whiteness’, ‘goodness’, ‘refusal’, etc. exist neither in time nor in
space. Temporal entities such as ‘July’, ‘day’, ‘Sunday’, ‘anniversary’, etc. exist in time but
not in space. While fully concrete entities such as ‘knife’, ‘tree’, ‘woman’, ‘house’, ‘hill’,
‘sun’ etc. exist in both space and time. The markedness hierarchy is again evident in the
fact that entities that exist in space must also exist in time. Put another way, time is a more
general feature than space.
•Animacy, humanity and gender
As noted above, animacy and/or humanity are further speciﬁcations of concreteness. That
is, concrete nouns may be also animate; if not, they are considered by default as inanimate.
In most languages, the classiﬁcatory boundary animate vs. inanimate or human vs.
non-human has huge grammatical consequences. First, in terms of what predicates (verbs,
adjectives) can go with what subject or object nouns. As an illustration, consider the
restrictions that render (13b,d,f) below odd:
(13) a. The happy woman
b. *The happy tree
c. The woman solved the equation
d. *The dog solved the equation
e. He hurt the dog
f. *He hurt the rock
The lexicon 57
Second, in terms of the use of the appropriate corresponding pronoun. Thus in English, the
major pronominal division is between human (male or female) and non-human:
(14) a. She saw the man and he…
b. She saw the girl and she…
c. She saw the cow/dog/cat and it…
In Ute (Uto-Aztecan), on the other hand, the major pronominal division is between
animate (including human), as in (15a–c) and inanimate (15d), with no gender distinction
for animates (Givón 1980):
(15) a. ta’wachi pu
=nikya-pu
=ga, tata’a-pu
=gay-’u
man see-past kick-past-him/her
‘(s/he) saw the man, and kicked him’
b. mamachi pu
=nikya-pu
=ga, tata’a-pu
=gay-’u
woman see-past kick-past-him/her
‘(s/he) saw the woman, and kicked her’
c. sarichi pu
=nikya-pu
=ga, tata’a-pu
=gay-’u
dog see-past kick-past-him/her
‘(s/he) saw the dog, and kicked it’
d. tu
=pu
=ychi pu
=nikya-pu
=ga, tata’a-pu
=gay-ax
rock see-past kick-past-it
‘(s/he) saw the rock, and kicked it’
•Artifactness
Inanimate nouns can be further divided into either natural entities (‘grass’, ‘tree’, ‘hill’,
‘rock’, ‘water’, etc.) vs. human-made artifacts (‘house’, ‘rope’, ‘knife’, ‘car’, ‘computer’,
etc.).
•Countability or individuation
Both concrete and abstract nouns may be either count nouns, i.e. individuated entities, or
mass nouns, i.e. groups of individuals or indivisible masses. Thus compare:
(16) a. Count
Concrete: man, stone, horse, grain, drop, ounce
Abstract: right, love, appearance, aﬀair
b. Mass
Concrete: sand, water, blood, air
Abstract: right, love, appearance, control
Some nouns, particularly abstract ones as in (16), may have either a count or a mass sense.
That is:
58 Syntax
(17) a. Count
This is one right you cannot take away.
She was an old love of his.
He made an appearance.
We instituted a number of controls.
b. Mass
He’s here by right.
She’s full of love.
For the sake of appearance.
We lost control over the situation.
The diﬀerence between count and mass nouns has strong consequences in two major
grammatical areas. First, in the use of appropriate quantiﬁers:
(18) a. Give me one book (count, sg)
b. Give me many books (count, pl)
c. *Give me many book (count, sg)
d. *Give me much book(s) (count, sg/pl)
e. Give me much water (mass)
f. *Give me one water (mass)
g. *Give me many water (mass)
Second, in the use of the appropriate pronouns:
(19) a. She read the book and liked it/*them
b. She read the books and liked them/*it
c. She read some poetry and liked it/*them
Third, in the use of other modiﬁers that must agree with the number feature of the noun
they modify:
(20) a. this book
b. these books
c. that horse
d. those horses
e. this water
f. *these water
•Generality and reference
Nouns (‘common nouns’) do not refer to individual entities (‘tokens’), but only connote
classes (‘types’) of entities. Names (‘proper nouns’), on the other hand, refer to individual
entities (or speciﬁc groups). Thus, compare the type-coding nouns in (21a) with the
corresponding token-coding names in (21b):
(21) a. Nouns
man, state, month, holiday, sword, horse, theory
The lexicon 59
b. Names
John, Oregon, July, Halloween, Excalibur, Rosinante, The University of
Oregon, The Theory of Relativity
•Size, shape and manipulability
Many languages may have further noun classiﬁcation based on the size, shape and
manipulability of concrete objects. Object can be classiﬁed as, for example ‘small and/or
round’, ‘long & rigid’, ‘slender & ﬂexible’, ‘heaped mass’, ‘spreadable/ﬂat sheet’, ‘brittle/
breakable’, ‘soft/malleable’, etc. Such classiﬁcations are often based on the use or manipu-
lation of objects by the human hand. For much language-speciﬁc detail, see Craig (ed.
1986b), as well as discussion in §2.3.4.1 below.
•Cultural classiﬁcations
In addition to gender, human nouns may also be classiﬁed by socio-cultural features, such
as age, profession, social standing, religious status, kinship and more. For much language-
speciﬁc detail, see again Craig (ed. 1986b), as well as further discussion in §2.4.3.1 below.
2.4.2 Syntactic characteristics
By syntactic characteristics of nouns one means two related combinatorial properties:
•grammatical role (case-role) in the clause (Chapters 4, 5);
•syntactic role in the noun phrase (Chapter 11).
Nouns most typically to assume the clausal grammatical role of subject, direct object,
indirect object or predicate noun, as in:
(22) a. Subject, direct object or indirect object
The woman gave the book to the child
(Subj) (D-Obj)(I-Obj)
The boy cut the meat with a knife
(Subj) (D-Obj) (I-Obj)
b. Predicate noun
This is a desk
(Pred)
Technically speaking, it is not the noun but rather the noun phrase that assumes the various
grammatical roles in (22). However, within the noun phrase, a noun is typically the
syntactic and semantic head, deﬁning the type of entity involved. All other elements in the
noun phrase are modiﬁers of that head noun (Chapter 11). Thus in examples (23) below,
the head noun child is accompanied by diﬀerent modiﬁers:
(23) a. Modiﬁed by an article
the child
b. Modiﬁed by an adjective
the big child
60 Syntax
c. Modiﬁed by a Rel-clause
the child I saw yesterday
d. Modiﬁed by a numeral and a pluralizer
three child-ren
e. Modiﬁed by a possessor
Joe’s child
the child-ren of Sanchez
Lastly, a noun could itself be the modiﬁer of another head noun within the noun phrase,
as in:
(24) Modiﬁer noun
a. the delivery truck
b. a dog-house
c. trout-ﬁshing
2.4.3 Morphological characteristics
2.4.3.1Grammatical morphology
a.
Class or gender markers
Most commonly, noun classifying morphology begins its life as a relatively coherent system
of semantic classiﬁcation. Over time, however, it may gradually restructure and modify
itself, eventually loosing much of its early semantic coherence. Many classiﬁcation systems
have thus become a mere structural, seemingly arbitrary feature of synchronic grammar,
with few semantic correlates.
As an example of a diachronically-early classiﬁer system, consider Jacaltec (Mayan),
where the historical source of many of the classiﬁers as erstwhile nouns is often still
transparent.
The Jacaltec system conﬂates two distinct principles of classiﬁcation: Social interaction
(for humans), and physical properties and/or use (for non-humans). Some of the more
common classiﬁers in this system are (Craig 1986a):
The lexicon 61
(25) Social interaction Physical/Use
morpheme value morpheme value
cumam
cumi7
ya7
naj
ix
ho7
xo7
unin
‘male deity’
‘female deity’
‘respected human’
‘male non-kin’
‘female non-kin’
‘male kin’
‘female kin’
‘infant’
no7
metex’
te7
ixim
tx’al
k’ap
tx’otx’
ch’en
atz’am
ha7
k’a7
‘animal’
‘dog’
‘plant’
‘corn’
‘thread’
‘cloth’
‘soil/dirt’
‘rock’
‘salt’
‘water`
’
‘ﬁre’
Syntactically, Jacaltec classiﬁers also serve as pronouns and articles, and are still
noun–phrase clitics. Thus (Craig 1986a):
(26) a. xul naj-Pel b’oj ya7-Malin
came cl-Peter with cl-Mary
‘Peter came with Mary’
b. caj te7 tahnaj ixpix
red cl ripe tomato
‘the tomato is ripe’
c. xil naj-Xuwan no7-lab’a
saw cl-John cl-snake
‘John saw the snake’
d. xil naj no7
saw cl/he cl/it
‘he (John) saw it (snake)’
e. xtxoñ ix-ix ixim-b’itx
sold cl-girl cl-tamales
ther girl sold the tamales’
f. xtxoñ ix ixim
sold cl/she cl/it
‘she (girl) sold them (tamales)’
Consider next the noun-class system of Bantu languages, where each class has a pair of
obligatory noun-preﬁxes, singular and plural. The system has undergone extensive
semantic reanalysis, to the point of near semantic arbitrariness. Syntactically, however, it
is extremely viable, with essentially the same preﬁxes or their reﬂexes being used extensively
as pronoun or agreement morphemes (see Chapter 9). An older, semantically coherent
system has been reconstructed, one that apparently predates many of the singular-plural
pairings (Givón 1970; Denny and Creider 1986). As an illustration, consider the Bemba
system (Givón 1972):
62 Syntax
(27) semantic value
class singular plural current earlier
1/2
3/4
5/6
7/8
9/10
11/10
12/13
14
15/16
umu-ana ‘child’
umu-ti ‘tree’
ili-bwe ‘stone’
ame-enshi ‘water’
ici-ti ‘stick’
in-koko ‘chicken’
ulu-imbi ‘song’
aka-nwa ‘mouth’
ubu-ushi ‘honey’
uku-twi ‘ear’
uku-imba ‘to sing’
aba-ana
imi-ti
ama-bwe
iﬁ-ti
in-koko
iny-imbi
utu-nwa
/
ama-twi
/
human
/
/
/
/
/
dimin.
abstract
/
inﬁnitive
??
long/plants
round/fruits
liquids
artifacts
animates
extended
small/round
solid mass
paired body-parts
mass (?)
Another historically much-restructured and reduced noun classiﬁcation is found in Semitic
languages, where the noun-suﬃxal system again conﬂates class and number, as in Hebrew:
(28) class singular plural
masculine
feminine
yeled ‘boy’
sefer
yald-a ‘girl’
erets ‘country’
yelad-im
sfar-im
yelad-ot
arats-ot
(animate)
(inanimate)
(animate)
(inanimate)
The masculine-feminine gender distinction of Semitic is semantically relevant only to
animates. A broadly similar system is found in Romance languages.
Another historically much-restructured classiﬁcation system is found in Eastern
Nilotic languages, where a more extensive earlier system has been collapsed into a three-
gender system, again conﬂated with number. While the current three-way classiﬁcation is
preﬁxal, a large number of surviving suﬃxes hint at a more extensive older system. Thus,
from Toposa (Angelo Lovale Lokoro Loirria, in personal communication):
(29) class singular plural
masculine
feminine
neuter/small
nye-mong ‘ox’
nye-mukur-a ‘hill’
nya-beru ‘woman’
nya-kalup-ot ‘grain’
nyi-toon ‘person’
nyi-bore ‘thing’
]
]i-mong-in ‘oxen’
]
]i-mukur ‘hills’
]
]a-berr(u) ‘women’
]
]a-kalup ‘grains’
]
]i-tung-a ‘persons’
]
]i-bore-kei ‘things’
A very common classiﬁer system is associated with numerals and quantiﬁers within the
noun phrase. It is wide-spread in Asia and the Paciﬁc, as in Mandarin (Erbaugh 1986),
Japanese (Downing 1986), Thai (Delancey 1986) and Austronesian. Semantically, such
systems often arise to classify the shape, size or manipulability of usable hand-held objects.
The lexicon 63
Over a long history, they are commonly extended and modiﬁed to yield less-than-coherent
classes. As an illustration, consider Japanese (Downing 1986):
(30) a. mukasi-mukasi soki-ni i-hitori-no ryooshi-ga arimashita
long.ago there-loc 1/person-gen ﬁsherman-subj was
‘long ago there was one ﬁsherman (who) lived there’
b. mizu-wa ni-hon-no kiri-ni natte
water-top 2-long.thin-gen midst-dat become
‘the water became two streams of mist’
c. ume i-ppon ‘one plum branch/tree’
plum 1-long.thin
d. ume i-kko ‘one plum’
plum 1-small.round
e. ume iti-rin ‘one plum bossom’
plum 1-ﬂower
As Downing (1986) notes, such classiﬁers are extensively used as anaphoric pronouns, as in:
(31) san-nin-ga keidai-ni tuku-to
3-person-subj temple.grounds-loc arrive-sub
‘when the three (of them) arrived at the temple grounds’
In Mandarin Chinese, a similar system has been extended within the noun phrase, so that
classiﬁers are required not only in quantifying phrases, but also with determiners. Thus (Li
and Thompson 1981):
(32) a. san-ge ren ‘three people’
3-cl person
b. wu-jia feiji ‘ﬁve airplanes’
5-cl airplane
c. yi-ben shu ‘one book’
1-cl book
d. ji-jian yifu ‘how many garments?’
quant-cl garment
e. zheng-ge fangzi ‘a whole house’
whole-cl house
f. zhei-zhan deng ‘this lamp’
this-cl lamp
g. nei-men pao ‘that cannon’
that-cl cannon
b.
Number
We already noted above how in Bantu, Semitic, Nilotic and Romance languages the marking
of number is conﬂated with the noun-classifying morphology. But number morphemes
can also be speciﬁcally dedicated. Most commonly, the unmarked stem codes the singular,
and the morphologically-marked form codes the plural (or dual), as in English:
64 Syntax
(33) girl-s
book-s
church-es
child-ren
ox-en
In some languages, only animate nouns can be marked for plurality, while plural inani-
mates share the same form as the singular. As an example, consider Ute (Uto-Aztecan;
Givón 1980):
(34) sarich(i) ‘dog’ sarichi-u ‘dogs’
tuach(i) ‘child’ tuachi-u ‘children’
toghoav(i) ‘snake’ toghoavi-u ‘snakes’
kan(i) ‘house’, ‘houses’
wiich(i) ‘knife’, ‘knives’
The less-marked status of the singular is further illustrated by the fact that in some
languages, nouns are pluralized by reduplicating either the whole singular stem or one of
its syllables. In Ute, where this must have been the older pluralization pattern, some
animate nouns still display ﬁrst-syllable reduplication (or its historical residue, stress-
shifting to the left) alongside with the currently more regular suﬃxation (Givón 1980):
(35) ta’wách(i) ‘man’ táa-ta’wachi-u ‘men’
mamách(i) ‘woman’ máa-m(a)chi-u ‘women’
nanápu
=ch(i) ‘old man’ náa-n(a)pu
=chi-u ‘old men’
n’achich(i) ‘girl’ náa-n(a)’(a)chichi-u
Nouns such as those in (35), admittedly a small minority, also allow a dual vs. plural
distinction to be made, where the current plural suﬃx by itself marks the dual, but in
combination with reduplication then yields the plural:
(36) a. suwiini mamách(i) ‘one woman’
b. wayini mamachi-u ‘two women’
c. payini máa-m(a)chi-u ‘three women’
A plausible historical conjecture here is that the current plural suﬃx was originally a dual
marker, eventually replacing the older, decaying pluralization process of ﬁrst-syllable re-
duplication. A similar situation can be shown in Hebrew, where the old dual suﬃx -im, still
found in inherently-dual noun (as well as, more intact, in Arabic), eventually became the
masculine-plural suﬃx. Thus compare the inherently dual (37a–f) with the plurals (37g–i):
(37) a. ’ayn ‘eye’ ’eyn-ayim ‘eyes’
b. yad ‘hand’ yad-ayim ‘hands’
c. regel ‘foot’ ragl-ayim ‘feet’
d. shan- *‘repeat’ shn-ayim ‘two’
e. pa’am ‘once’ pa’am-ayim ‘twice’
f. ’ofan ‘wheel’ ’ofan-ayim ‘bicycle’
g. sefer ‘book’ sfar-im ‘books’
The lexicon 65
h. bayit ‘house’ bat-im ‘houses’
i. yeled ‘boy’ yelad-im ‘boys’
c.
Articles
Deﬁnite and indeﬁnite articles, or reference markers (Chapter 10), often become noun
phrase clitics, although their morphemic status may be obscured by the writing system
(as in English, German, Spanish, etc). Given the appropriate syntactic conﬁguration,
articles can also become noun aﬃxes or even inﬂections. As an illustration, consider the
deﬁnite preﬁx and indeﬁnite suﬃx in Modern Hebrew:
(38) a. Non-referring indeﬁnite: sefer ‘book’
b. Referring indeﬁnite: sefer-xad ‘a book’
c. Referring deﬁnite: ha-sefer ‘the book’
In Bemba (Bantu), the noun preﬁx, in addition to class and number, also functions as an
article. It does not, however, code the distinction between deﬁnite and indeﬁnite, but
rather of referring vs. non-referring (Chapter 10). Thus, consider (Givón 1972):
(39) a. Referring (deﬁnite or indeﬁnite)
n-dee-fwaaya ici-tabo
I-pres-want ref-book
‘I want the a/the book’ (a particular one)
b. Non-referring (indeﬁnite)
n-dee-fwaaya ci-tabo
I-pres-want n/ref-book
‘I want a/some book’ (not any particular one)
d.
Case-role markers
Morphologically-marked case may pertain to either semantic roles (agent, patient,
recipient, instrument, location etc.) or grammatical roles (subject, direct object, indirect
object), a distinction that will be made more precise in Chapters 3 and 4.
English prepositions, for example, can mark a wide range of semantic roles, but only
of the syntactic indirect objects:
(40) a. She stayed in the house (location)
b. He went to the store (direction)
c. They are at school (location)
d. It was under one roof (location)
e. She lives near the corner (location)
f. He did it for Mary (beneﬁciary)
g. They rested for a while (duration)
h. She left on Tuesday (time)
i. It happened during the day (time)
j. He broke it with a hammer (instrument)
k. Do it with patience (manner)
l. She came with her brother (associate)
m. It was done by mistake (manner)
66 Syntax
n. She ﬁghts like a tiger (manner)
o. He was nabbed by the FBI (agent)
In other languages, case-markers can also mark the grammatical roles of subject and direct
object, as in the case-marking post positions of Japanese (Katsue Akiba, in personal
communication):
(41) otoko-ga onna-ni tegami-o kaita
man-subj woman-dat letter-acc wrote
‘the man wrote a letter to the woman’
Just as transparent a preﬁxal case-marking morphology is found in Bikol (Philippine), as
in (Manuel Factora, in personal communication):
(42) nag-ta’o ’ang-babaye ning-libro sa-lalake
act-give subj-woman acc-book dat-man
‘The man gave a book to the woman’
As noted earlier above, case markers can over time fuse into the stem to become inﬂections,
often conﬂated — as portmanteau morphemes — with other nominal inﬂections such as
class/gender, number or articles. As an example, consider the nominal so-called declensions
of Classical Greek (White 1896):
(43) singular ﬁrst masc. declension ﬁrst fem. declension
subject (nom) tamí-as ‘steward’ xóra ‘land’
object (acc) tamí-an ‘steward’ xóra-n ‘land’
recipient (dat) tamí-a̧ ‘to a steward’ xóra̧ ‘to a land’
possessor (gen) tamí-ou ‘of a steward’ xóra-s ‘of a land’
plural
subject (nom) tamí-ai ‘stewards’ xôra-i ‘lands’
object (acc) tamí-as ‘stewards’ xóra-s ‘lands’
recipient (dat) tamí-ais ‘to stewards’ xóra-is ‘to lands’
possessor (gen) tamí-ôn ‘of stewards’ xor-ôn ‘of lands’
e.
Possessor pronouns
Possessor pronouns commonly cliticize as noun–phrase clitics and eventually also noun
aﬃxes. As an example of possessor suﬃxes, consider Biblical Hebrew (Weingreen 1959):
(44) báyit ‘house’
bet-í ‘my house’ bet-énu ‘our house’
bet-xá ‘your (masc) house’ bet-xém ‘your (masc.pl) house’
bet-éx ‘you (fem) house’ bet-xén ‘your (fem.pl) house’
bet-ó ‘his house’ bet-ám ‘their (masc) house’
bet-á ‘her house’ bet-án ‘their (fem) house’
As an example of possessor preﬁxes, consider Toposa (Nilotic), where these are sandwiched
between the class-and-number preﬁxes and the noun stem (Angelo Lovale Lokoro Loirria,
in personal communication):
The lexicon 67
(45) nye-mong ‘ox’
nye-qaa-mong ‘my ox’ nye-yoq-mong ‘our (excl) ox’
nye-qoni̧-mong ‘you ox’ nye-qosi-mong ‘our (incl) ox’
nye-qee-mong ‘his/her ox’ nye-kus-mong ‘your (pl) ox’
nye-kech-mong ‘their ox’
2.4.3.2Derivational morphology
While grammatical morphology is more central to this book, derivational morphology is
just as useful as a morphological criterion for word-class membership. Most commonly,
lexical derivation — with or without an attendant morphology — changes the semantic
class of a lexical word, either in terms of its membership in a major class (noun, verb,
adjective, adverb), or in terms of more minor sub-classiﬁcation. We may thus characterize
derivational morphemes as semantic classiﬁers, each deﬁned by the input and output to
the derivation:
•Input: the word-class to which the derivation applies;
•Output: the word-class resulting from the derivation.
As a criterion for lexical-class membership, of course, only the derivation’s output is
counted.
English may serve as a good example here, since it has a rich array of morphologically-
marked noun derivations. Some of those change verbs into nouns, others change adjectives
into nouns, while others yet change one type of noun into another. The complex restric-
tions on the applicability of particular derivations to particular classes or sub-classes of
input words are in part semantic, in part historical, and in part idiosyncratic and word-
speciﬁc. The treatment here is merely illustrative, and for a more extensive discussion, see
Marchand (1965).
(46) Verb-to-noun derivations (nominalizations)
input output
derive
drive
govern
write
remove
know
interfere
deliver
conform
deriv-ation
driv-er
govern-or
writ-ing
remov-al
know-ledge
interfer-ence
deliver-y
conform-ity
68 Syntax
(47) Adjective-to-noun derivations
input output
kind
wide
serene
kind-ness
wid-th
seren-ity
(48) Noun-to-noun derivations
input output
king
governor
president
child
*foli(um)
anarchy
king-dom
governor-ship
presiden-cy
child-hood
foli-age
anarch-ist
An intermediate case of derivation, indeed its historical precursor, is compounding, where
a noun, a verb, or an adjective modiﬁes a noun to form a derived meaning. Noun-
compounding arises from particular syntactic constructions, most commonly a
noun–phrase in which the head noun classiﬁes the compound. Thus, for example,
noun–noun compounds arise from modifying nouns preceding a head noun, as in:
(49) Noun–noun compounds
mail-man
delivery-truck
garbage-collector
bird-house
ski-lift
And adjective–noun compounds arise from modifying adjectives preceding a head noun,
as in:
(50) Adjective-noun compounds
black-bird
blue-beard
blue-blood
red-skin
white-head
Verb–noun compounds arise from the same pattern as noun–noun, with the verb ﬁrst
having ﬁrst been derived into noun by nominalization, and then used as a modifying noun,
as in:
(51) Verb-with-noun-compounding
delivery-man
race-car
The lexicon 69
ﬁshing-boat
walking-cane
Finally, noun–verb compounds in English arise from verb-phrase nominalizations
(Chapter 11). The nominalized verb phrase yields a noun phrase in which the erstwhile
verb is the head noun and the erstwhile object noun its modiﬁer, as in:
(52) Nominalized object–verb compounds
They hunt foxes ﬁ fox-hunt
They chase steeples ﬁ steeple-chase
he stalks deer ﬁ deer-stalker
she commands a company ﬁ company-commander
he ﬁnds paths ﬁ path-ﬁnder
2.5 Verbs
2.5.1 Semantic characterization
Beyond the more general features noted in §2.3.3.2 above, the detailed semantic descrip-
tion of verbs will be deferred to Chapter 3. This is so because verbs constitute the semantic
core of propositions, thus of clauses. In classifying the propositional-semantics structure of
simple clauses, we perforce also classify the main semantic types of verbs.
2.5.2 Syntactic characterization
The full syntactic classiﬁcation of verbs will also be given in Chapter 3. This is so because
verbs do not only occupy the semantic core of propositions, but also the syntactic core of
clauses. The semantic type of the verb thus dictates, to quite an extent (up to a certain
classiﬁcatory depth) its syntactic behavior.
Clause-types and their characteristic argument structure are thus, to quite an extent,
determined by the semantic (thus also syntactic) class of the verb at their core. This is,
incidentally, a fair example of form-function isomorphism, one that (as noted in Chap-
ter 1) was tacitly conceded by Chomsky (1965).
2.5.3 Morphological characterization
2.5.3.1Grammatical morphology
Three major grammatical-inﬂectional systems that most often cluster around the verb (or
verb phrase) in simple clauses will be given their own dedicated chapters:
•tense, aspect and modality (Chapters 6, 7);
•negation (Chapter 8);
•pronouns and agreement (Chapter 9).
70 Syntax
Other types of verb-clustered grammatical morphology will be covered in considerable
detail in the relevant chapters of Volume II, where complex syntactic constructions and
their attendant morphology are described. The treatment of the various systems here is
thus, of necessity, illustrative.
a.
Tense, aspect, modality
Tense-aspect-modality morphemes may appear as verb suﬃxes, as in Ute (Uto-Aztecan;
Givón 1980):
(53) a. wu
=u
=ka-y ‘s/he is working’ (progressive/immediate)
b. wu
=u
=ka-ka ‘s/he (has) worked’ (perfect/past)
c. wu
=u
=ka-vaani ‘s/he will work’ (future/irrealis)
d. wu
=u
=ka-pu
=ga ‘s/he worked long ago’ (remote past)
They may appear as distinct verb preﬁxes, as in Swahili (Bantu):
(54) a. ni-na-soma ‘I am reading’ (present progressive)
b. ni-ta-soma ‘I will read’ (future)
c. ni-me-soma ‘I have read’ (perfect)
d. ni-li-soma ‘I read’ (past)
e. n-a-soma ‘I read’ (habitual)
When the verb inﬂectional system is older, tense-aspect morphemes may merge into
portmanteau morphemes, conﬂating with other verb-bound inﬂections. This can be seen
in Spanish, where tense-aspect-mood is conﬂated with subject pronouns/agreement:
(55) trabajar-é ‘I will work’
trabajar-ás ‘you will work’
trabajar-á ‘s/he will work’
trabaj-é ‘I worked’
trabaj-áste ‘you worked’
trabaj-ó ‘s/he worked’
trabaj-o ‘I work’
trabaj-as ‘you work’
trabaj-a ‘s/he works’
Diachronically older yet tense-aspect morphemes, nearing their ﬁnal decay, may appear as
stem-internal vowel changes, as in Germanic languages such as English:
(56) sit/sat
ride/rode/ridden
sing/sang/sung
see/saw/seen
In a similar vein, decayed tense-aspect-modal morphology may also appear as a combina-
tion of vowel changes and consonant syncopation, as in the consonantal verb-root of
Semitic languages, such as Hebrew, where this system also interacts with the subject
pronouns:
The lexicon 71
(57) a. ’oved ‘(s/he is) working/works’ (imperfective)
b. ’avad ‘he worked’ (perfect/past, 3sg.masc)
c. ’avd-a ‘she worked’ (perfect/past, 3sg.fem)
c. ya-’avod ‘he will work (future, 3sg.masc)
e. ya-’avd-u ‘they will work’ (future, 3pl.masc)
At the other end of the diachronic continuum, the early rise of tense-aspect-modal systems,
they may appear as auxiliary verbs, still displaying many morphemic and syntactic
characteristics of their source verbs. Quite often, however, one may already consider them
verb (or verb-phrase) clitics, since they are de-stressed and adjacent to the verb (Givón
1999). In their capacity as auxiliaries, tense-aspect-modal markers often share their
functional load with the older inﬂectional system, as in English:
(58) a. She c-ould have be-en do-ing it
modal-past perf prog-perf v-prog
b. She ha-d do-ne it
perf-past v-perf
c. She was do-ing it
prog/past v-prog
d. She did it
v/past
The more recently added modal (‘can’), perfect (‘have’) and progressive (‘be’) auxiliaries
still co-exist, in a complex and not-always-tidy system, with the old suﬃxal marking system
of tense, perfect and progressive. The ﬁrst element in the verb phrase, be it an auxiliary
(58a–c) or the main verb (58d), receives the ﬁnite tense marking.3
b.
Negation
Negation-marking morphemes cliticize to the verb or verb phrase, often in the same
complex as tense-aspect-modality. The may appear as verb preﬁxes, as in Bemba (Bantu;
Givón 1972):
(59) a. Aﬃrmative
ba-à-boomb-ele ‘they worked’
they-past-work-asp
b. Negative
ta-ba-à-boomb-ele ‘they didn’t work’
neg-they-past-work-asp
They may also appear as verb suﬃxes, as in Japanese (Yuko Yanagida, in personal
communication):
(60) a. Aﬃrmative
bin-o Kowasai-dalo ‘(s/he) will break the bottle’
bottle-acc break-fut
72 Syntax
b. Negative
bin-o kowasa-nai-dalo
bottle-acc break-neg-fut ‘(s/he) won’t break the bottle’
Occasionally one may ﬁnd double negation, as in Ute (Uto-Aztecan; Givón 1980):
(61) a. Aﬃrmative
wu
=u
=ka-y ‘(s/he) is working’
work-imm
b. Negative
ka-wu
=u
=ka-wa-y ‘(s/he) isn’t working’
neg-work-neg-imm
Older negative inﬂections often fuse with other verbal aﬃxes into joint portmanteau
morphemes. This may be seen in Ute with the negative suﬃxes for the perfect and remote-
past aspects, as in (Givón 1980):
(62) a. wu
=u
=ka-ka ‘(s/he) has worked’
work-perf
b. ka-wu
=u
=ka-na ‘(s/he) hasn’t worked’
neg-work-perf/neg
c. wu
=u
=ka-pu
=ga ‘(s/he) worked’
work-rem
d. ka-wu
=u
=ka-pu
=a ‘(s/he) didn’t work’
neg-work-rem/neg
A negative marker may also fuse with pronominal inﬂections, as in the case with the
Swahili (Bantu) ﬁrst person singular subject pronoun:
(63) a. ni-ta-soma ‘I will read’
I-fut-read
b. si-ta-soma ‘I won’t read’
neg/I-fut-read
Finally, more recently-grammaticalized negative markers may appear as verb-phrase clitics,
as is the case in Spanish, where the negation marker attaches to the ﬁrst element of the verb
phrase, or in English, where they are suﬃxes of the ﬁrst verbal element in the verb phrase.
Thus compare:
(64) a. no pod-ía hacer-lo
neg can-past/imperf/3sg do-it
‘s/he could-n’t to do it’
b. no lo-pod-ía hacer
neg it-can-past/imperf/3sg do
‘s/he could-n’t to do it’
c. no há trabaj-ado
neg have work-perf
‘s/he has-n’t worked’
The lexicon 73
d. no está trabaj-ando
neg be/3sg work-prog
‘s/he is-n’t working’
e. no est-aba allá
neg be-past/imperf/3sg there
‘s/he was-n’t there’
c.
Subject and object pronouns (verb agreement)
Pronominal verb aﬃxes will be covered in considerable detail in Chapter 9. Subject and
object pronominal aﬃxes are some of the most salient members of the verb’s inﬂectional
paradigm. Thus, verbs are traditionally said to ‘agree with their subject’ or, less often, ‘agree
with their object’. Verb-aﬃxed pronouns may be preﬁxal, as in Swahili (Bantu):
(65) Subject pronoun/agreement
ni-li-soma ‘I read’ tu-li-soma ‘we read’
I-past-read we-past-read
u-li-soma ‘you read’ m-li-soma ‘y’all read’
you-past-read you/pl-past-read
a-li-soma ‘s/he read’ wa-li-soma ‘they read’
s/he-past-read they-past-read
(66) Object pronouns/agreement
wa-li-ni-ona ‘they saw me’
they-past-me-see
wa-li-ku-ona ‘they saw you
they-past-you-see
wa-li-mu-ona ‘the saw him/her’
they-past-him/her-see
wa-li-tu-ona ‘they saw us’
they-past-us-see
wa-li-wa-ona ‘they saw them’
they-past-them-see
They may also be suﬃxal or even mixed, as in Hebrew, where an aspect-determined split
can be seen. In the Perfect/Past verbal paradigm of Biblical Hebrew, both subject and
object pronouns are suﬃxal (Weingreen 1959):
(67) a. r’i-ti-hu ‘I saw him’
see/past-I-him
b. ra’/a-ni ‘he saw me’
see/past/he-me
c. ra’a-ta-nu ‘she saw us’
see/past-she-us
d. ra’-u-xa ‘they saw you (sg.masc)’
see/past-they-you
74 Syntax
In the preterit/future paradigm, however, subject pronouns are mostly preﬁxal, while the
object pronouns remain suﬃxal:
(68) a. ’e-r’e-hu ‘I will see him’
I-see/fut-him
b. yi-r’e-ni ‘he will see me’
he-see/fut-me
c. ti-r’e-nu ‘she will see us’
she-see/fut-us
d. yi-r’-u-xa ‘they will see you (sg.masc)’
he-see/fut-pl-you
d.
Non-pronominal verb agreement
Occasionally, verb-agreement with some classiﬁcatory feature(s) of the subject or object is
totally independent of the pronominal system. This is the case with plural subject-
agreement in Ute (Uto-Aztecan), where the optional clitic pronouns on the verb may agree
with either the subject or the object, but an obligatory verb agreement with the plurality of
the subject, via a suﬃx, represents a much older layer of the verbal morphology. Thus
consider (Givón 1980):
(69) a. kani pu
=nikya-pu
=gay-’u
house/obj see-rem-s/he
‘s/he saw a house’
b. kani ’uru pu
=nikya-pu
=gay-ax
house/obj that/obj see-rem-it
‘s/he saw the house’
c. kani pu
=nikya-xa-pu
=ga-am
house/obj see-pl-rem-they
‘they saw a house’
d. kani ’uru pu
=nikya-xa-pu
=gay-ax
house/obj that/obj see-pl-rem-it
‘they saw the house’
In Athabaskan languages, suppletive forms of some verbs must be chosen depending on the
semantic class of the subject (for an intransitive verb) or object (for a transitive verb).
While the diachronic origin of such a system is starkly diﬀerent from that of pronominal
systems, synchronically it does represent a subject-or-object agreement of verbs. Thus, the
verb ‘be at’ in Tolowa Athabaskan has multiple stems, depending on the semantic class of
the subject. As in (Loren Bommelyn, in personal communication; see also Bommelyn 1997):
(70) a. Animate (horizontal)
tr’á̧a̧xe hat s-ti̧
woman there asp-be/anim.horiz.
‘the woman is (lying) there’
The lexicon 75
b. Animate (vertical)
tr’á̧a̧xe hat s-tł-ti̧
woman there asp-l-be/animate
‘the woman is (standing) there’
c. Thin, ﬂat, ﬂexible
st’e’ hat s-tł-chu
=ms
blanket there perf-l-be/ﬂat.ﬂex
‘the blanket is there’
d. Liquid
taagha’srna hat s-tR
Re
water there perf-be/imperf/liquid
‘The water is there’
e. Heaped mass
téełi hat s-nu
=R
R
snow there perf-be/mass
‘The snow-pile is there’
f. Long and ﬂexible or strands
łts’is hat s-tR
Resh
pants there perf-be/imperf/long.ﬂex.
‘The pants are there’
g. Long and rigid (horizontal)
k’wéech’u
=tk’asr hat s-ti̧i̧sh
corn-ear there perf-be/imperf/long.rigid
‘The corn-ear is (lying) there’
h. Bundled plant matter
chaame hat s-sru
=’sr
herbs there perf-be/plant.bundle
‘The bundled herbs are there’
i. Single, round and compact
xaats’a hat s-’u
=sh
basket there perf-be/imperf/round.compact
‘The basket is there’
When the very same stems are used in transitive constructions, they agree with — ‘classify’
— their object. Thus compare:
(71) a. Animate (horizontal)
tr’á̧a̧xe na-y-ti̧
woman loc-tr-be/anim.horiz.
‘(he) has a woman (prone)’
76 Syntax
b. Animate (vertical)
tr’á̧a̧xe na-y-tł-ti̧
woman loc-tr-l-be/animate
‘(he) has a woman’
c. Thin, ﬂat and ﬂexible
st’e’ na-y-tł-chu
=ms
blanket loc-tr-l-be/ﬂat.ﬂex
‘(s/he) has a blanket’
d. Liquid
taagha’srna na-y-tR
Re
water loc-tr-be/imperf/liquid
‘(s/he) has water’
e. Heaped mass
téełi na-y-nu
=R
R
snow loc-tr-be/mass
‘(s/he) has a snow-pile’
f. Long and ﬂexible or strands
łts’is na-y-tR
Resh
pants loc-tr-be/imperf/long.ﬂex.
‘(s/he) has a pair of pants’
g. Long and rigid (horizontal)
k’wéech’u
=tk’asr na-y-ti̧i̧sh
corn-ear loc-tr-be/imperf/long.rigid
‘(s/he) has a corn-ear (lying)’
h. Bundled plant matter
chaame na-y-sru
=’sr
herbs loc-tr-be/plant.bundle
‘(s/he) has a herb-bundle’
i. Single, round and compact
xaats’a na-y-’u
=sh
basket loc-tr-be/imperf/round.compact
‘(s/he) has basket’
e.
Transitivizing and de-transitive morphology
Morphemes that either make a verb (more) transitive (causatives; see Chapter 12) or de-
transitivize it (Chapter 13) tend to come as verbal morphology. As an illustration, consider
Bemba (Bantu), where most such morphemes are suﬃxal:
(72) a. Simple verb
a-à-mona ichitabo
s/he-past-see book
‘s/he saw a/the book’
The lexicon 77
b. Causative
a-à-mon-esya umuana icitabo
s/he-past-see-caus child book
‘s/he showed the child a/the book’
c. Passive
icitabo ci-à-mon-wa (no-omuana)
book it-past-see-pass (by-child)
‘the book was seen (by the child)’
d. Middle-voice (stative)
icitabo ci-à-mon-eka
book it-past-see-stat
‘the book appeared/was visible’
e. Reciprocal
ba-à-mon-ana
they-past-see-recip
‘they saw each other’
f. Reﬂexive
a-à-i-mona
s/he-past-refl-see
‘s/he saw herself/himself’
f.
Case-marking morphemes
As noted earlier above, case-markers most typically become nominal morphology. But on
occasion one ﬁnds them as verbal aﬃxes, a situation described more extensively in
Chapter 4. The dative-benefactive — sometimes also called applicative — is the most
common case-marker found on verbs, as in Ute (Uto-Aztecan; Givón 1980):
(73) a. Simple pattern
mamach(i) tuaci magha-pu
=ga
woman/subj boy/obj feed-rem
‘the woman fed the boy’
b. With an optional beneﬁciary
mamach(i) ta’wachi tuachi magha-ku
=-pu
=ga
woman/subj man/obj boy/obj feed-ben-rem
‘the woman fed the boy for the man’
g.
Deﬁnitizing morphemes
Articles are also typically nominal morphology, but on occasion they can be stranded on
the verb, particularly if they pertain to the object. Thus, in Swahili (Bantu), the object
pronoun has become the deﬁnite marker for non-human objects, as in:
(74) a. Indeﬁnite object
a-li-soma kitabu ‘s/he read a book’
s/he-past-read book
78 Syntax
b. Anaphoric pronoun
a-li-ki-soma ‘s/he read it (the book)’
s/he-past-it-read
c. Deﬁnite object
a-li-ki-soma kitabu ‘s/he read the book’
s/he-past-it-read book
h.
Speech-act markers
As an illustration, consider Chuave (Papuan; Thurman 1978):
(75) a. Declarative
guwai-i furuwai bei de-im-ie
things-dem scatter do go-they-declar
‘they were scattering those things about’
b. Imperative
nuwi ko-ra-ro f-o!
water ﬁll-fut-ss go-imp
‘go ﬁll the water-jug!’
c. Interrogative
niki-de ﬁ-y-o?
bad-like think-I-interrog
‘Am I angry?’
d. Emphatic
mora di mari do-pun-ia!
enough say tell be/like-we-emph
‘We have told them all!’
e. Uncertain
nimi su-wa-m-bo si-ke-na-m-bo ﬁ-ke-y-e…
rain hit-3sg/obj-fut-or hit-neg-3sg/obj-fut-or think-neg-I-uncert
‘Whether it will rain or not I don’t know…’
i.
Clausal conjunctions, subordinators and switch-reference markers
Conjunctions, subordinators and switch-reference markers often become verbal morphol-
ogy (or verb-phrase clitics), particularly in subject–object–verb (SOV) languages. Such
clause-linking morphology is discussed extensively in Chapter 18. Example (75e) above
already illustrates how the disjunction ‘or’, linking two successive clauses, is marked as the
verb suﬃx -bo on both clauses. Further illustrations are again taken from Chuave (Papu-
an), where all subordinate clauses share one suﬃx, and are in addition marked as either
simultaneous or non-simultaneous with the following (‘main’) clause (Thurman 1978):
(76) a. Subordinate, simultaneous
ne iki-num moi-n-g-i
you house-your be-you-sub-sim
‘while you were at your house’
The lexicon 79
b. Subordinate, non-simultaneous
kan-i-k-a-i
see-I-sub-non.sim-dem
‘after I looked (at it)’
Conjoined clauses in Chuave code events in temporal sequence, and — when they are
chain-medial — their verbs are marked with either one of two cataphoric switch-reference
suﬃxes, one signalling subject continuity in the following clause (SS), the other discontinu-
ity (DS) (Thurman 1978):
(77) ena tekoi u-i-re, iki moi-i-koro, tekoi uboi-n-goro,
then again come-I-ss house be-I-ds again call-he-ds
ena tekoi de-i-ie;
then again go-I-declar
‘then I came (back here) again, and I stayed at home, then he called me again,
and I went (there) again’
j.
Incorporated objects, adverbs and instruments
Objects, instruments and adverbs often incorporate into the verbal word, and may in time
evolve into verbal inﬂections or eventually even merge with the verb stem. Typically, the
incorporated items are non-referring (see Chapter 10), and may partake in either the anti-
passive pattern (Chapter 13) or the causative (Chapter 12). Thus, consider the following
examples from Ute (Uto-Aztecan; Givón 1980):
(78) a. Referring object
sarichi ‘uway paxa-pu
=gay-’u
dog/obj that/obj kill-rem-him
‘he killed the dog’
b. Non-referring object (anti-passive)
sari-paxa-na-pu
=ga
dog-kill-hab-rem
‘he used to kill dogs’
c. Referring instrument
wiici-m ’uru chu
=ku
=r’a-pu
=gay-ax
knife/obj-instr that/obj cut-rem-it
‘he cut it with the knife’
d. Non-referring instrument
wii-chu
=ku
=r’a-na-pu
=gay-ax
knife-cut-hab-rem-them
‘he used to cut them with a knife’
e. Referring adverbial
mamaci-pani ’uway paghay’wa-y
woman/obj-like that/obj walk-immed
‘he is walking like that woman’
80 Syntax
f. Non-referring adverbial
mama-paghay’wa-y
woman-walk-imm
‘he is walking like a woman’
2.5.3.2Derivational morphology
English may again serve as an illustration here, since English verbs can be derived from
nouns, from adjectives or from other verbs. In each case, characteristic derivational
morphology may be involved, although some derivations are morphologically unmarked.
(79) Adjective to verb
input output
large
hard
solid
little
active
enlarge
harden
solidify
belittle
activate
(80) Noun to verb
input output
tomb
circle
theory
energy
circle
vaccine
capsule
class
villain
fang
bug
entomb
encircle
theorize
energize
circulate
vaccinate
encapsulate
classify
vilify
defang
debug
The least constrained noun-to-verb derivation in English is morphologically unmarked,
applying whenever input and output may make pragmatic sense, as in:
The lexicon 81
(81) Unmarked noun-to-verb derivation
input output
can
dust
dust
water
chair
phone
knife
nail
knee
hand
can (‘put … into a can’)
dust (‘remove dust from…’)
dust (‘put dust on…’)
water (‘give water to…’)
chair (‘occupy the presiding chair at a meeting’)
phone (‘call…by phone’)
knife (‘cut…with a knife’)
nail (‘pin…like a nail’)
knee (‘hit…with the knee’)
hand (‘give…with the hand’)
Several derivational patterns are used to derive verbs from verbs, including a few examples
of the old causative pattern with vowel changes in the verb-stem, as well as an unmarked
causative pattern:
(82) Verb to verb
Pattern input output
Negative
Causative
stabilize
do
rise
sit
drink
fall
lie
move
turn
burn
stand
de-stabilize
un-do
raise
set/seat
drench
fell
lay
move
turn
burn
stand
2.6 Adjectives
2.6.1 Semantic characterization
We have noted earlier above (§2.3) some of the more general semantic characteristics of
adjectives. Following the discussion there, one may divide adjectives into the more
prototypical ones that code inherent, concrete, relatively stable qualities of entities; and the
less prototypical that code more temporary or less concrete states.
82 Syntax
2.6.1.1Prototypical adjectives
a.
Size
Size adjectives most commonly coming as antonym pairs, may denote various spatial
dimensions:
(83) a. General size: big/small
b. Horizontal extension: wide/narrow
c. Thickness: thick/thin, fat/skinny
d. Vertical extension: tall/short
e. Vertical elevation: high/low
f. Length: long/short
b.
Color
Color adjectives are either antonym pairs for brightness, or cover the rainbow and beyond,
as in:
(84) a. Brightness: dark/light, dark/bright, black/white
b. Color: violet, blue, green, yellow, orange, red, brown, beige, etc.
c.
Auditory qualities
Auditory adjectives, often coming in antonym pairs, may cover several auditory properties,
such as:
(85) a. Loudness: loud/soft, noisy/quiet
b. Absolute pitch: high/low
c. Relative pitch: sharp/ﬂat
d. Harmony: mellow/harsh
e. Melody: melodious/cacophonous
d.
Shape
Shape adjectives may describe the shape of noun-coded objects in one-, two- or three-
dimensional space, as in:
(86) a. One-dimensional: straight, crooked, bent, curved, twisted
b. Two-dimensional: round, square, oval, triangular, rectangular, trapezoid
c. Three-dimensional: spherical, cubic, conical, cylindrical, pyramidal
e.
Taste
Taste adjectives code the various tastes, such as:
(87) sweet, sour, salty, acid, bitter
f.
Tactile
Tactile adjectives code various tactile dimensions:
(88) a. Texture: rough/smooth
b. Resistance: hard/soft
c. Pointedness: sharp/dull
The lexicon 83
2.6.1.2Less prototypical adjectives
Less prototypical adjectives signal either less concrete properties or more transitory states.
a.
Evaluative
Evaluative adjectives, often in antonymic pairs, signal subjective judgements of desirability
along physical or social dimensions, pertaining to either inherent traits or temporary states:
(89) good/bad
pretty/ugly
nice/lousy,
desirable/undesirable
b.
Transitory states
Adjectives of this heterogenous group describe external, internal, social or mental
temporary states, such as:
(90) a. Mental-internal: angry, tired, happy, sad, content, disgusted, alert, etc.
b. External activity: busy/idle
c. External condition: dirty/clean
d. Speed of motion: fast/slow
e. Temperature: hot/warm/tepid/lukewarm/cold
c.
States of living
Adjectives in this group describe various states of animate beings, such as:
(91) a. Age: young/old, new/old
b. Life: alive/dead
c. Health: healthy/sick, ill/well
d. Business: busy/idle, employed/unemployed
2.6.1.3Polarity of antonymic adjective pairs
As noted above, many adjectives in various semantic sub-classes come as antonymic pairs.
That is, each connotes the opposite of the other on what is, at least potentially, a scalar
property. The opposition is, however, asymmetrical. Of the two members of the pair, one
usually acts as the positive member, connoting the presence (or greater extent) of the
quality. The other one acts as the negative member, connoting the absence (or smaller
extent) of the quality. Typical matched positive/negative pairs are:
84 Syntax
(92) Antonym adjective pairs
quality positive negative
size
length
width
thickness
height (position)
height (size)
speed
loudness
roughness
weight
brightness
big
long
wide
thick
high
tall
fast
loud
rough
heavy
bright
small
short
narrow
thin
low
short
slow
quiet
smooth
light
dark
The asymmetry in the behavior of the positive vs. negative member has several semantic
and grammatical consequences. First, the positive member most commonly gives the name
to the general quality underlying the scale. So that one ﬁnds ‘length’ but not ‘shortness’,
‘width’ but not ‘narrowness’, ‘thickness’ but not ‘thinness’, ‘height’ but not ‘lowness’,
‘loudness’ but not ‘quietness’, ‘roughness’ but not ‘smoothness’, ‘brightness’ but not
‘darkness’. The negative member, on the other hand, gives the name to only the negative
end of the scale.
The asymmetry is further evident in the way we form extent questions:
(93) a. Positive question: How tall is she?
b. Possible answer: –Very tall.
–Very short.
c. Negative question: How short is she?
d. Possible answer: –Very short.
–*Very tall.
The positive member, it seems, is used to question the entire scale of the quality. The
negative member, on the other hand, is used to question only the negative end of the scale.
In terms of markedness, then, one may say that the positive is the unmarked (general)
member of the pair, while the negative one is the marked (restricted) one.
2.6.2 Syntactic characterization
Adjectives tend to appear in two main syntactic contexts in clauses:
•as predicates in copular clauses (see Chapter 3);
•as modiﬁers in the Noun Phrase (see Chapter 11).
(94) a. Predicate adjective
Mary is tall
b. Modifying adjective
The tall woman
The lexicon 85
In some languages, some adjectives may also appear in some less characteristic syntactic
positions, involving more complex verb-like patterns. In English, for example, some
adjectives may take verbal complements (Chapter 12), as in:
(95) a. You were wrong to say that
b. It’s so good of you to come
c. It was hard to forget her
d. It’s incredible that she showed up
e. She was anxious to leave
f. He is easy to please but hard to forget
g. We are aware of your predicament
h. Don’t be afraid to jump
As already noted earlier, state or quality concepts that are coded as adjectives in
English may be coded as verbs in other languages. For example, in Eastern Nilotic
languages, all such concepts are coded as intransitive verbs (see Chapter 3), exhibiting all
the relevant syntactic and morphological characteristics of such verbs. Thus compare:
(96) verb adjective
a-loz-i ‘I go’
1-go/imperf-sg
i-loz-i ‘you go’
2-go/imperf-sg
e-loz-i ‘s/he goes’
3-go/imperf-sg
ki-loz-ete ‘we go’
1pl-go/imperf-pl
i-loz-ete ‘y’all go’
2-go/imperf-pl
e-loz-ete ‘they go’
3-go/imperf-pl
a-polo-t ‘I am big’
1-big/imperf-sg
i-polo-t ‘you are big’
2-big/imperf-sg
e-polo-t ‘she is big
3-big/imperf-sg
ki-polo-q ‘we are big’
2pl-big/imperf-pl
i-polo-q ‘y’all are big’
2-big/imperf-pl
e-polo-q ‘they are big’
3-big/imperf-pl
2.6.3 Morphological characteristics
2.6.3.1Grammatical morphology
One type of grammatical morphology that may appear on adjectives are comparative and
superlative markers, as in English:
(97) short short-er short-est
cold cold-er cold-est
far far-ther far-thest
good bett-er b-est
In many languages, adjectives exhibit the same grammatical morphology as nouns, even in
copular predicate constructions. Thus in many Bantu languages, predicate adjectives
display the same morphology as predicate nouns, both contrasting with verbal predicates.
86 Syntax
As in Bemba (Givón 1972):
(98) a. Verbal clause with stative verb
umuana a-à-shipa ‘the child is brave’
child s/he-perf-brave
abaana ba-à-shipa ‘the children are brave’
children they-perf-brave
b. Copular clause with predicate noun
umuana muu-buyi ‘the child is a thief’
child cl/sg-thief
abaana baa-buyi ‘the children are thieves’
children cl/pl-thief
c. Copular clause with predicate adjective
umuana muu-suma ‘the child is good’
child cl/sg-good
abaana baa-suma ‘the children are good
children cl/pl-good
The sharing of nominal morphology by adjectives may be even more striking when adjec-
tives are used as modiﬁers in the noun phrase. In such a context, they often ‘agree’ morpho-
logically with various features or the noun (or noun phrase) (Chapter 9). Thus, consider
the case, number and gender agreement of the Latin adjective alt- ‘high’ (Wilson 1968):
(99) sg pl
case masc fem neut masc fem neut
nom
acc
dat
gen
altus
altum
altō
altı̄
alta
altam
altae
altae
altum
altum
altō
altı̄
altı̄
altōs
altı̄s
altōrum
altae
altās
altı̄s
altārum
alta
alta
altı̄s
altōrum
Likewise, consider the gender, number and deﬁniteness agreement of Modern Hebrew
adjectives:
(100) a. ha-yeled ha-gadol ‘the big boy’
the-boy the-big
b. ha-yald-a ha-gdol-a ‘the big girl’
the-boy-fm the-big-fm
c. ha-yelad-im ha-gdol-im ‘the big boys’
the-boy-pl the-big-pl
d. ha-yelad-ot ha-gdol-ot ‘the big girls’
the-boy-fm the-big-fm
2.6.3.2Derivational morphology
The vast majority of adjectives in many languages, including English, are derived from
The lexicon 87
either nouns or verbs. Their meaning thus owes some to the meaning of the original
(‘input’) noun or verb, and some to the semantic derivation type. Some examples of noun-
to-adjective derivation in English are:
(101) Noun to adjectives
noun adjective
circle
cleric
republic
rigor
disaster
law
pain
circul-ar
cleric-al
republic-an
rig-id
disastr-ous
law-ful
pain-less
Some examples of verb-derived adjectives in English are:
(102) Verb to adjectives
noun adjective
abuse
read
break
burn
twist
spin
abus-ive
read-able
brok-en
burn-t
twist-ed
spinn-ing
Finally, several derivational morphemes derive negative adjectives from their unmarked
aﬃrmative counterparts, in the process generating more antonymic pairs:
(103) Derived negative adjectives
positive negative
willing
wise
possible
tolerable
agreeable
un-willing
un-wise
im-possible
in-tolerable
dis-agreeable
2.7 Adverbs
2.7.1 Preamble
Of the four major lexical word-classes, adverb is the least homogenous, semantically,
morphologically and syntactically; it is also, perhaps not surprisingly, the least universal
cross-linguistically. The same adverbial meaning may be coded as a bound grammatical
88 Syntax
morpheme in one language, an independent word in another, or a whole syntactic
construction — phrases or even clauses — in another (see Chapters 3, 18). As a grammati-
cal category, adverbs thus span the continuum between morphology, lexicon and syntax.
As an illustration of this, consider the three near-equivalent stylistic options in English:
(104) a. He may leave tomorrow
b. He will probably leave tomorrow
c. It is very likely that he’ll leave tomorrow
In (104a), the adverb is coded as a modal auxiliary, already a verb clitic and thus on its way
to becoming bound morphology. In (104b) it is coded as a lexical word. In (104c) the
adjective ‘likely’ is the core of a clause that, as a whole, functions as the adverb. The
classiﬁcation given below is primarily semantic-functional. With each class, a certain range
of possible morpho-syntactic diversity will be noted.
2.7.2 Semantic classiﬁcation
2.7.2.1Manner adverbs
Manner adverbs typically modify, or add to, the meaning of the verb. The semantic range
of such modiﬁcation is wide and heterogenous, depending on the speciﬁc meaning of the
verb. Typical one-word manner adverbs in English are:
(105) a. He ran fast.
b. They fought hard.
c. She whistled softly.
d. She easily defeated him.
e. They dealt with her rather harshly.
f. He did it intentionally.
g. She dismissed him thoughtlessly.
h. He advanced carefully.
Many manner adverbs can also be constructed syntactically as prepositional phrases (see
Chapter 3), as in:
(106) a. She fought like a tiger.
b. They did it on purpose.
c. He came there by mistake.
d. They deal with adversaries without mercy.
e. He did it with care.
f. She stood at ease.
g. He replied with great candor.
Again, in many cases both syntactic options are available as stylistic variants, as in:
(107) a. She made it by hand.
b. You do this manually.
c. She learned about it by accident.
The lexicon 89
d. She learned about it accidentally.
e. They attacked him with words.
f. They attacked him verbally.
g. She proceeded with caution.
h. She proceeded cautiously.
Manner adverbs may also be constructed as full verbal clauses, often resembling participial
adverbials (Chapter 18), with a verb at their semantic core, as in:
(108) a. She went on without thinking about it.
b. He stood there confused about what to do next.
c. Floating down-river she bumped into the body.
When the manner adverb is a lexical word, its position in the clause may sometimes be
ﬂexible, with the order variations yielding subtle shades of scope or emphasis. Thus
compare:
(109) a. Quickly she made him open the door.
b. She quickly made him open the door.
c. She made him quickly open the door.
d. She made him open the door quickly.
Manner adverbs may also incorporate into the verb, much like non-referring objects or
instruments. Thus, in Ute (Uto-Aztecan), noun, verb or adjective stems can be incorporat-
ed as manner adverbs (Givón 1980):
(110) a. mama-paghay’wa-y (mama-ch(i) ‘woman’)
woman-walk-imm
‘s/he is walking like a woman’
c. pia-’apagha-na-pu
=ga (pia-gha-r(u
=) ‘sweet’)
sweet-talk-hab-rem
‘s/he used to sweet-talk’
d. tu
=na-vöri-y (tu
=na-vach ‘to hunt’)
hunt-walk-imm
‘s/he walks about hunting’, ‘s/he hunts about’
Single-word adverbs may on occasion display derivational morphology, as in the adjective-
to-adverb derivation with -ly in English. However, -ly-marked adverbs are semantically
heterogenous, spanning manner as well as epistemic or deontic modality. Thus consider:
90 Syntax
(111) adjective adverb
manner:
brave
purposeful
deliberate
careful
sudden
manual
verbal
epistemic-modal:
supposed
possible
certain
deontic-modal:
fortunate
disasterous
felicitous
brave-ly
purposeful-ly
deliberate-ly
carefull-ly
sudden-ly
manual-ly
verbal-ly
supposed-ly
possib-ly
certain-ly
fortunate-ly
disasterous-ly
felicitous-ly
2.7.2.2Instrumental adverbs
It is not always easy to set a ﬁrm boundary between manner and instrumental adverbs. One
may indeed suggest that the more abstract manner is but a metaphoric extension of the
more concrete instrument. As an illustration, compare the use of with-marked preposition-
al phrases in English:
(112) a. Instrument: She killed him with a knife.
b. Manner: She killed him with kindness.
c. Instrument: They treated him with antibiotics.
d. Manner: They treated him with respect.
e. Instrument: He fought with a broad sword.
f. Manner: He fought with rare skill.
Instrument-like adverbs may be constructed as prepositional phrases, as in (106) and
(112). But like manner adverbs in (110), they can also be incorporated into the verbal
word. And once incorporation takes place, the potential for the incorporated item to fuse
with the verb-stem — co-lexicalization — and eventually to become an inherent verbal
semantic feature — is very high.
The tail end of this diachronic process may be found in the Hokan-Penutian languages
of N. California and E. Oregon, as well as in neighboring Numic (No. Uto-Aztecan)
languages, such as N. Paiute (Thornes 1996):
(113) a. ka-tu
=-pongosa ma-tabui-na (ma- ‘hand’)
acc-poss-arrow hand-create-asp
‘(they) hand-made their arrows’
b. tu
=-tama-ma o-gu
=-pada-na (gu
=- ‘bite’)
poss-teeth-instr 3-bite-bend-asp
‘(they) bend it by biting with their teeth’
The lexicon 91
c. i-kaazi to-noyoi (to- ‘ﬁst’)
my-car ﬁst-move
‘(you) push my car’
d. du
=-gu-hani (gu- ‘ﬁre’)
my/asp-ﬁre-prepare
‘(s/he) cooks for me’
e. ta-hani (ta- ‘foot’)
foot-prepare
‘herd (sheep/cattle)’
f. ku-pi-suki (ku- ‘ﬁre’, pi- ‘back’)
ﬁre-back-warm
‘warm one’s back at the ﬁre’
g. pa-ko-ma-ma’i (pa- ‘water’, ko- ‘face’, ma- ‘hand’)
water-face-hand-wash
‘wash one’s face’
h. tsa-noyoi (tsa- ‘grasp’)
grasp-move
‘pull’
i. i-giki-kuba wi-ni-u (wi- ‘long’)
my-foot-on long-step-asp
‘(s/he) stepped on my foot’
j. kosso-kimaba a-tsi-kwini-ki (tsi- ‘sharp’)
ﬁre-beside ??-sharp-stand/pl-asp
‘stick (the sticks) along the ﬁre’
2.7.2.3Time and aspectuality adverbs
Adverbs may also code a point in time, or various temporal aspects of events. Their
semantic scope is thus not the verb alone, but rather the entire event-clause (proposition).
As with other adverbial types, the morpho-syntax of such adverbs is rather heterogenous,
spanning the scale from morphology to word to phrase to clause. For example, the single-
word adverbs of frequency and aspectuality in English, as in (114), may be coded in both
English and other languages as auxiliaries or tense-aspect-modal aﬃxes (Chapters 6, 7).
Likewise, the single-word temporal adverbs in English (115) may be coded as tense-aspect-
modal morphology in other languages (Chapters 6, 7):
(114) Aspectuality
a. She comes here often.
b. They seldom miss the game.
c. She is always late.
d. Sometimes she felt funny.
e. They did it again.
f. He repeatedly refused to comply.
g. They continuously disrupted her presentation.
h. We argued on and on.
92 Syntax
(115) Temporal-point
a. Yesterday it rained.
b. He’s coming tomorrow.
c. She left Wednesday.
d. Soon it’ll be Spring.
e. Do it today.
Toward the other end of the scale, temporal and aspectual adverbs may also be nominal or
prepositional phrases, as in:
(116) a. The election is next Tuesday.
b. We see them the following week.
c. She’ll see you some other time.
d. Every day I see her walking to work.
e. In two months we’ll let you know.
f. At that point I said ‘no’.
g. She doesn’t come in on Tuesday.
h. They’ll be back in a minute.
i. In the months that followed, they heard nothing from him.
Finally, time adverbs may also appear as adverbial subordinate clauses (Chapter 18),
depicting more fully the event that serves as temporal reference point:
(117) a. When my brother comes back, we’ll see what we can do.
b. Upon her return from the city, she rented a house.
c. After she came back, we left.
d. While he was gone, she worked harder.
e. She left two weeks after he came back.
2.7.2.4Epistemic adverbs
The semantic scope of epistemic notions ranges, much like that of time adverbs, over the
entire proposition (clause). Most typically, they denote the speaker’s attitude toward the
truth, certainty or probability of the state or event. Their morpho-syntactic status is also
extremely heterogenous, ranging between grammatical modal morphology (Chapters 6, 7),
single-word adverbs or phrasal syntactic constructions. Single-word epistemic adverbs in
English are seen in (note also (111) above):
(118) a. He is certainly wrong.
b. Perhaps she’ll come.
c. Maybe you’re right.
d. This is possibly his greatest invention.
e. She ﬁnished supposedly two weeks ago.
f. Probably nothing will happen.
g. Undoubtedly they’ll be here.
h. She had told him, presumably.
The lexicon 93
But the very same notions may be also coded as clitic modal auxiliaries, as in:
(119) a. She may have left already.
b. He might be at the bar.
c. This can’t be right.
d. She could have come some other time.
e. He must have left already.
Further, certain verb types spread epistemic-modal scope over their complement clauses
(Chapters 6, 7, 12), and thus in fact act as epistemic-modal operators over those clauses,
as in:
(120) a. They say he’s back in town. (indirect evidence)
b. I guess/suppose she’s not in. (low certainty)
c. I think you’re wrong. (low certainty)
d. I hear they’re angry. (indirect evidence)
e. She saw that they had left. (inference)
f. They knew she was there. (high certainty)
2.7.2.5Deontic-evaluative adverbs
The semantic scope of evaluative adverbs again ranges over the entire proposition, convey-
ing the speaker’s valuative attitudes, i.e. judgements of preference for or desirability of a
state or event. We have already noted evaluative adverbs derived with -ly from adjectives
(111). Others may appear as prepositional phrases, as in:
(121) a. With luck, she’ll ﬁnish before dark.
b. As a happy consequence, he escaped censure.
c. For the love of Gods, leave her alone.
As in the case of epistemic adverbs, deontic notions can also be coded by modal auxiliaries
(122), evaluative verbs and adjectives (123), or other constructions that spread their modal
scope over a complement clause (124) (see also Chapters 6, 7, 12). Thus compare:
(122) a. She should have done it.
b. It need not have turned out this way.
c. They had better be on time.
(123) a. I’m afraid we ran out of luck.
b. I’d rather you don’t do this.
c. Nothing wrong, I hope?
d. I wish that she hadn’t done that.
e. They prefer that you quit now.
(124) a. God willing, he’ll live.
b. If all goes well, she’ll pass with honors.
c. God forbid they quit now!
d. It’s good that you were there.
e. How awful she didn’t make it.
94 Syntax
f. It is nice that he’s still around.
g. It is terrible that he did that.
h. Wouldn’t it be nice if you could come?
2.7.2.6Adverbs modifying adjectives
A distinct class of adverbs are used to quantify the extent of adjectives. They may apply
either to predicate adjectives, as in (125), or to noun-modifying adjectives, as in (126):
(125) With predicate adjectives
a. She is very lucky.
b. That was rather stupid.
c. It was quite impressive.
d. This is much more interesting.
e. It was truly bizarre.
(126) With modifying adjectives
a. a very tall man
b. an incredibly naive suggestion
c. an altogether thorough review
d. an unbelievably bad move
e. a rather unfortunate accident
f. a highly unusual move
2.7.2.7Emphatic ‘adverbs’
Several grammatical operators (‘function words’) in English are used in emphatic,
contrastive capacity, a function that is not easy to classify in a precise way. For lack of a
better label, one may consider them a sub-class of adverbs, as in:
(127) a. I just know she’s right.
b. We really don’t understand.
c. I only came because I thought…
d. They absolutely abhor violence.
e. She did exactly that.
In other languages, however, the same functions may be performed by grammatical
morphology or intonation (see Chapter 15).
2.8 Minor word classes
2.8.1 Preamble
In this section we survey brieﬂy several types of grammatical operators whose morphemic
status is sometimes murky. The murk is due to three familiar sources:
The lexicon 95
•diachronic change and cliticization;
•the conservatism of writing systems;
•unmarked stress in written language.
Since all unstressed, cliticized grammatical morphemes arise historically from stressed
independentwords, quite often over-relianceon written dataobscures the synchronic status
of newly grammaticalized operators as unstressed cliticized morphemes. The example of
the English articles, prepositions, unstressed anaphoric pronouns and aspectual-modal
auxiliaries is a notorious case in point, already noted above (see also Givón 1999).
Nonetheless, some grammatical morphemes retain stress and do not cliticize — unless they
change grammatical function.
2.8.2 Adpositions
As will be seen later on (Chapter 5), nominal case-markers arise historically from two lexical
sources, locational nouns and serial verbs. During the early stages of cliticization, they may
retain some structural properties of their erstwhile lexical source, including word stress.
A case in point are English prepositions, some of which are old, short and most often
unstressed (128a). Others are younger, longer and more often stressed (128b). And other
are younger and longer yet, still stressed, and still reveal their constructional origin as
complex nominal phrases:
(128) a. Short, unstressed
to, from, for, on, oﬀ, at, in, with, by,
b. Long, mostly stressed
before, behind, after, under, above, upon, between, inside
c. Construction-like, stressed
on top of, in front of, in the middle of, at the bottom of, in the back of, at
the center of, outside (of), out (of)
Syntactically, all three types precede the noun phrase in English, and are — at least
potentially — proclitics to the ﬁrst word in the noun phrase, as in:
(129) a. at home
b. behind the store
c. across big rivers
d. on top of the house
e. in her beautiful new downtown oﬃce
A similar situation is found in Ute (Uto-Aztecan), where a few older postpositions are short
unstressed suﬃxes, sometimes coming in pairs, as in (Givón 1996):
(130) a. Instrumental
wiici-m ‘with a knife’
knife-instr
96 Syntax
b. Associative
mamaci-wa ‘with the woman’
woman-assoc
c. Locative
yúaa-va ‘in/over/at the open country’
ﬁeld-at
kani-vaa-t(u
=) ‘at/toward the house’ (orientation)
house-at-dir
kani-va-n(a) ‘on the house’
house-at-on
mamaci-vaa-cu
= ‘to the woman’ (orientation)
woman-at-dir
This rather sparse, eroded system has been enriched more recently with newly-grammati-
calized postpositions, most of them out of motion verbs, but a few from locational nouns.
These new postpositions are longer and still stressed (Givón 1996):
(130) a. mamáci-vaa-cúxw(a) ‘(motion) to the woman’ (cugwa- ‘meet’)
woman-loc-meet
b. kaní-vaa-túxw(a) ‘(motion) to the house’ (tugwa- ‘go to’)
house-loc-go
c. kani-na-kwa-pa’ágh(a) ‘up from the house’ (kwa- ‘go’)
house-up-go-ascend (pa’agha- ‘ascend’)
d. kaní-náagh(a) ‘in the house’ (naagha- ‘enter’)
house-enter
e. páa-naagh(a)-túx(wa) ‘into the water’ (naagha- ‘enter’)
water-enter-go (tugwa- ‘go’)
f. ‘u-vwáa-cáw(i) ‘down there’ (cawi- ‘descend’)
there-loc-descend
g. kaní-vaa-tu
=-maná-kway ‘from the house’ (mana- ‘leave’)
house-loc-dir-leave-go (kwa- ‘go’)
h. ma-na-tarúxw(a) ‘up on there’ (tarugwa- ‘climb’)
there-on-ascend
i. kaní qováa-va ‘in front of the house’ (qova- ‘face’)
house/gen face-loc
j. kaní tugú-tuxw(a) ‘on top of the house’ (tugu- ‘sky’)
house/gen sky-go (tugwa- ‘go’)
k. kaní tú
=raa-va ‘out of the house’ (tú
=raa- ‘oudoors’)
house/gen outdoors-loc (va- ‘at’)
l. kaní tu
=rágwaa-va ‘in the middle of the house’
house/gen center-loc (tu
=rágwa- ‘center’)
The lexicon 97
2.8.3 Determiners
The class of determiners includes a number of noun or noun–phrase operators, each one
with its own speciﬁc functions (Chapters 9, 10) and morpho-syntactic behavior in the
noun phrase (Chapter 11). Further, many of those are unstressed grammatical morphemes,
cliticized on the noun or noun phrase (see §2.4.3 above). They thus should not be counted
as a lexical word-class. Our treatment here would be rather cursory.
2.8.3.1Demonstratives (‘deictics’)
Fuller treatment of these grammatical operators will be deferred till Chapters 9, 10 and 11.
Typically, demonstratives code the orientation (deixis) of a noun vis-a-vis some spatial
reference point, most commonly the location of the speaker or hearer, as in Swahili (Bantu):
(131) a. mtu huyu ‘this man next to me’
b. mtu huyo ‘that man next to you’
c. mtu yule ‘that person way over there’
In many languages, the spatial orientation of demonstratives can be expanded into
temporal orientation vis-a-vis some reference point in time, an evolution that transforms
them rather naturally into articles (§2.8.3.2 below). Thus consider the change in Swahili of
the distal demonstrative determiner (131c) into a deﬁnite article (132). In its new capacity,
the erstwhile demonstrative is de-stressed and is devoid of any hint of spatial deixis:
(132) yule mtu ‘the man’
In the same vein, note the temporal deixis use of the English demonstratives ‘this’ and ‘that’:
(133) That’s all I can tell you. (anaphoric past reference)
Now this’s what you can do: (cataphoric future reference)
Demonstratives are often unstressed and cliticized when used as determiners. In that capacity,
they resemble articles and other determiners (see further below). When used as pronouns,
however, demonstratives are most commonly stressed independent words. Thus contrast:
(134) a. Demonstrative determiners
She’s read that book already.
This house is not for sale.
b. Demonstrative pronouns
She’s read THAT already.
THIS is not for sale.
2.8.3.2Articles
While most often evolving diachronically from determiners or other noun modiﬁers,
deﬁnite and indeﬁnite articles are most typically unstressed, bound morphology, cliticized
either to the noun or the noun phrase. They are treated extensively in Chapters 10 and 11,
within the context of reference and deﬁniteness. Counting them as a word-class is inappro-
priate, reﬂecting the conservatism of the English writing system:
98 Syntax
(135) Deﬁnite: I saw the (red) book(s)
Indeﬁnite: I want a (red) book
I saw some (red) books
Non-referring: I don’t want any (red) book(s)
I want no (red) book(s)
2.8.3.3Possessive pronouns
Possessive pronouns, much like demonstratives, may be either unstressed determiners
cliticized to the noun or noun phase, or stressed independent pronouns:
(136) a. Unstressed determiner
This is his-house
b. Stressed independent pronoun
This house is HIS
In English, unfortunately, the diﬀerence is often obscured by the writing system. In their
capacity as bound determiners, possessive pronouns are a morphological rather than lexical
class (see §2.4.3 above).
In other languages, the diﬀerence between clitic and independent pronouns is often
more sharply drawn. Thus in Ute (Uto-Aztecan), the unstressed possessive pronouns are
small noun suﬃxes that can only be used with inherently-possessed nouns (kinship terms,
body parts). Independent possessive pronouns, on the other hand, are larger stressed words:
(137) suYxed pronouns independent pronouns
a.pía-n ‘my mother’
b.pía-m ‘your mother’
c.pía-’u ‘his/her mother’
d.pía-am ‘their mother’
nú
=nay ‘mine’
‘u
=mú
=y ‘yours’
‘uwáyas ‘his/hers’
‘umú
=as ‘theirs’
Possessive pronouns, being obligatorily deﬁnite, sometimes ﬁt into the determiner slot like
other articles in the grammar of the noun phrase. Thus in English (see more in Chapter 11):
(138) the horse
my horse
a horse
*my the horse
*the my horse
*my a horse
*a my horse
In other languages, possessive determiners may occupy other slots, and may co-exist with
the deﬁnite article, as in Hebrew, where two alternative forms are possible:
(138) a. ha-sefer shel-i ‘my book’ (colloquial)
the-book sub-my
The lexicon 99
b. sifr-i ‘my book’ (old fashioned)
book-my
c. *ha-sifr-i
the-book-my
2.8.4 Independent subject and object pronouns
The functional and morpho-syntactic diﬀerences between unstressed clitic pronouns and
stressed independent pronouns will be discussed extensively in Chapter 9. As noted above,
both demonstratives and possessive pronouns can be used as stressed independent
pronouns. In addition, subject and object pronouns can also be stressed, thus serve as
independent pronouns, in the appropriate discourse context.
Once again, the diﬀerence is obscured in the English writing system, a fact that has
given rise to much mischief in Anglocentric grammatical analysis (Givón 1999). As an
illustration of clitic (unstressed) vs. independent (stressed) subject and object pronouns in
English, consider:
(139) a. Unstressed clitic pronouns
…so she-told-him to leave…
Bill invited Joe over. Then he-left. (Bill left)
b. Stressed independent object pronouns
I didn’t see HER, I saw HIM.
c. Stressed independent subject pronouns
HE didn’t do it. SHE did.
Bill invited Joe over. Then HE left. (Joe left)
2.8.5 Inter-clausal connectives
Inter-clausal connectives are grammatical morphemes par excellence, usually becoming
either clause-ﬁnal or clause-initial clitics. In verb-ﬁnal (SOV) languages, this commonly
means that they are verb suﬃxes, joining there with tense-aspect-modal, pronominal,
speech-act and switch-reference markers (see §2.5.3.1 above). Like all other grammatical
morphemes that arise from the grammaticalization of erstwhile lexical words or even
phrases, their clitic status often goes unrecognized by linguists relying solely on conserva-
tive-written data.
Occasionally, inter-clausal connectives arise from more complex adverbial construc-
tions, and may for a while persist as such before truncation and cliticization. Their status
as lexical word-classes is at best problematic, and our treatment here will be cursory.
2.8.5.1Conjunctions
The topic of clausal conjunction will be discussed extensively in Chapter 18, where
conjunctions are shown to form a complex system with inter-clausal pauses (punctuation).
Phrasal conjunction will be treated in Chapter 11. English exhibits a fairly wide range of
conjunction markers, as in:
100 Syntax
(140) a. Simple conjunctions
and, but, or, so, then
b. Complex conjunctions
and so, so then, later on, and then, so later on, etc.
c. Historically complex conjunctions
however, moreover, furthermore, nevertheless, albeit
Used as clausal conjunctions, they may be seen in:
(141) a. She ﬁrst came over, then changed her mind and left.
b. He left. However, later on he came back, but then left again
Their use of phrasal conjunctions may be seen in:
(142) a. Mary and John didn’t see either Henry or Marla
b. Neither Henry nor Marla was there
2.8.5.2Subordinators
Clausal of phrasal subordinator are part of the grammatical morphology attached to
particular embedded and/or subordinate clauses, and will be noted in relevant chapters
throughout (Chapters 11, 12, 14, 18). We have already noted the high probability of their
appearing as verbal morphology (see §2.5.3.1 above). Some examples from English are:
(143) a. Adverbial-clause subordinators (Ch.18)
When Leno came back from work…
If she’s right…
Although he is blind…
b. Relative-clause subordinators (Ch.14)
the woman who came at the end…
the chair that he broke…
the place where they found him…
c. Verb-complement subordinators (Ch.12)
She thought that he was her friend.
He planned to leave early.
She didn’t know if it was relevant.
d. Noun-complement subordinators (Ch.11)
The fact that she’s still there…
His decision to quit his job…
Their indecision about when to start…
2.8.6 Quantiﬁers, numerals and ordinals
Quantiﬁers, numerals and ordinals are small classes of noun modiﬁers that code notions
of quantity, extent, number or serial order. They all partake in the grammar of noun
phrases (Chapter 11).
The lexicon 101
(142) a. Quantiﬁers
some of her books
all his money
many friends
few teachers
a few of them
much talk
lots of water
little peace
only the brave
even she
b. Numerals
one book
two houses
three times
c. Ordinals
the ﬁrst book
the second house
the third time
Languages vary a great deal in their numeral and ordinal systems, both in terms of their
semantic organization, but also in terms of how these modiﬁers are integrated into the
grammar morphologically and syntactically. Further, addition, subtraction, multiplication
and division operators may involve complex verbal constructions. To illustrate just a bit of
the potential complexity, in particular the logic of deriving higher numerals from lower
ones, consider the Ute (Uto-Aztecan) numerals from one to ten, all followed by the subject
suﬃx peculiar to numerals (Givón 1980):
(143) 1. súu-is 6. naváy-ni
one-subj split-subj
(split from the ﬁrst hand)
2. wá-ini 7. naváy-kya-va-ini
two-subj split-pl-fut-subj
(two split from the full hand)
3. pá-ini 8. wá-whchúwi-ini
three-subj two-two-??-subj
(two fours)
4. wh-chúwi-ini 9. suwá-rogho-ma-súwi-ini
two-??-subj almost-straight-hand-other-subj
(two twos?) (almost ten)
5. ma-nú
=gi-ini 10. toghó-ma-súwi-ini
hand-??-subj straight-hand-other-subj
(full hand?) (the other hand straight)
In the object form of the numerals, the suﬃx is -ku-(s).
102 Syntax
2.8.7 Auxiliary verbs
As noted earlier above (§2.5.3.1), auxiliary verbs are an early stage of the grammaticali-
zation of verbs into tense-aspect-modal markers, thus into verbal morphology. They will
be discussed further in Chapter 7.
2.8.8 Interjections
Interjections are a heterogenous class with a broad range of functions, most of them
expressive or interactive. Some of them may signal epistemic notions such as assent or
disagreement with the interlocutor. Others may tilt more toward the deontic, expressing
valuative judgement about states or events, including the interlocutor’s past or future
actions. Others may signal surprise, incomprehension, query, uncertainty, social
insecurity and more.
Interjections are a transition area in grammar, connecting it to the various cultural
conventions that govern social and inter-personal behavior — interaction, public conduct,
status, power, politeness and deference, the ﬂow of conversation, greetings, curses,
endearments, etc. Their morpho-syntactic status varies enormously across languages and
even within the same language, straddling the continuum from lexicon to morpho-syntax
to intonation. Some of the more common items classiﬁed as interjections in English are:
(144) yes, no, oh, oh?, huh, huh?, uh-huh, uh-uh, wow, really? right, y’know, I see,
okay, okay? well, now, no way!
But there is no principled way of excluding more complex constructions from the
functional domain(s) of interjections, as in:
(145) a. wait-a-minute!
b. now hold it!
c. now let’s see…
d. if you don’t mind,
e. if you really think so…
f. it would be nice if…
g. if it’s all the same to you…
h. take it easy now…
i. no way José!
j. beg your pardon?
k. I’m sorry.
l. Excuse me.
m. My sweetheart,
n. Dear colleague,
o. Most sincerely,
p. Your humble servant,
q. Your Majesty,
r. Dear God!
The lexicon 103
s. Most incredible!
t. How strange!
Notes to Chapter 2
1. At this juncture we will deliberately gloss over the fact that in many languages a lexical word-stem
cannot be used without at least some obligatory grammatical morphology; see further below.
2. Recognizing the primacy of time and space in the categorization of experience is but a belated
recapitulation of Immanuel Kant. In his Critique of Pure Reason, Kant singled out the features of time
and space as the most basic features of human experience. Indeed, he considered them as synthetic
apriori or presupposed (in a more modern parlance, wired in) prerequisites for all other features of
experience to be possible:
“…the representation of space must be presupposed. The representation of
space cannot, therefore, be empirically obtained from the relations of outer
appearance. On the contrary, this outer experience is itself possible at all only
through that representation…” (N.K. Smith, Kant’s Critique of Pure Reason,
1929/1973, p.68)
3. Chomsky’s (1957, 1965) description of the English auxiliary complex as a strictly rule-governed
grammatical system vastly over-represents its generativity, in addition to misrepresenting the
intricacies of English tense. The reanalysis of past-marked modal verbs as non-past mood markers
(Bybee 1995), the constant addition of new modal and progressive auxiliaries, and the behavioral
gradation between older and more recent auxiliaries, all play havoc with the purported neatness of
this still-evolving system (Givón 1993: Vol.I, Ch.4).
<TARGET "3" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Simple verbal clauses and argument structure"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 3
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure
3.1 Preliminaries
3.1.1 Orientation
This chapter deals with the structure of the simple clause. As noted earlier, the simple —
main, declarative, aﬃrmative, active — clause serves as the reference point for grammatical
description. It is the theme vis-a-vis which all other clause-types may be seen as variations.
Describing the various types of simple clauses is tantamount to describing the various
types of verbs, or predications, used in language. This is so because verbs, or predicates,
make up the semantic core of clauses, deﬁning their semantic type.
Verbs are characterized semantically ﬁrst by the obligatory semantic roles of the
participants in the state or event they code. Each verb — and verb type — has a character-
istic cluster of such obligatory participants.
In addition to their assigned semantic roles in the state or event, participants also
assume characteristic grammatical roles in the clause, such as subject, direct object or
indirect object (see §3.1.4 below). Thus, while semantic roles deﬁne the state or event
semantically, grammatical roles deﬁne the clause syntactically.
Simple clauses are thus deﬁned in terms of their two matching templates or frames, one
semantic, the other syntactic:
(1) Deﬁning frames of the simple clause
a. Semantic: semantic frame of participant roles
(semantic structure of state/event-types)
b. Syntactic: syntactic frame of grammatical roles
(syntactic structure of clause-types)
The fact that the syntactic structure of simple clauses is described in terms of the grammat-
ical roles — grammatical relations — assumed by event participants is of course partly a
matter of deﬁnition. But there is more to it. As noted earlier (Ch.1, §1.8), simple clauses
exhibit the strongest isomorphism between semantics and syntax, as compared to all other
clause types. This isomorphism is expressed, in large part, in terms of the systematic
mapping between the semantic roles of the participants in the state/event and their
grammatical roles in the clause.
The systematic mapping between these two parallel systems — semantic roles and
grammatical relations (GRs) — lies at the core of the grammatical structure of simple
106 Syntax
clauses. The characteristic cluster of semantic roles of each verb have their ‘preferred’
mapping into grammatical relations in the simple clause. This is what some people call
preferred argument structure.
The upshot of this is that in describing the syntax of simple clauses in this chapter, we
cannot avoid referring to grammatical relations. Nonetheless, our discussion of GR’s here
will remain, of necessity, brief and informal, deferring the more explicit and extensive
treatment to Chapter 4.
3.1.2 States, events, and actions
A proposition may signify a state, involving no change over time. The state may be either
temporary (of limited duration), or permanent (of relatively long duration), or of some
intermediate duration.
A proposition may also signify an event, involving change from one state to another over
time. The change may be fast and bounded, thus construed as a change from a distinct initial
state to a distinct terminal state. Or it may be slow and unbounded, i.e. construed as an on-
going process without focusing on the event’s temporal boundaries. Some events, further,
are deliberately initiated by an active agent. Such events are called actions.
Typical examples of states, events and actions are:
(2) a. Temporary state: She was angry
b. Permanent state: She was tall
c. Bounded event: The ball dropped
d. Unbounded event: The ball rolled downhill
e. Bounded action: She dropped the ball
f. Unbounded action: She rolled the ball downhill
3.1.3 Semantic roles
As noted above, clauses are divided into types according to the types of the verb that
occupies their semantic and syntactic core. And verbs, in turn, are divided into semantic
types according to the semantic roles of the participants in the state or event coded by the
clause. The array of semantic roles typically associated with each verb thus deﬁnes the
propositional-semantic frame of the verb, the state/event, and the clause.
In characterizing the major types of event participants (semantic roles) relevant to
grammatical description, we must recall the earlier caution concerning the limits of
deﬁnitions and taxonomies:
(3) Limits of semantic-role taxonomy
•The deﬁnitions given below pertain to major participant types, thus major
semantic roles. But each type may have ﬁner and ﬁner sub-types, in
principle ad inﬁnitum.
•The distinction between a major type and a minor sub-type is not a
principled one, but rather a matter of pragmatic judgement. As noted in
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 107
Chapter 2, above, a major semantic feature (or type) is simply one that has
more extensive grammatical consequences.
•In deﬁning each semantic role, we only deﬁne a prototype. Most members
of a natural class tend to conform, more or less, to the class’s prototype. But
every natural population also has less prototypical members that ﬁt the
prototype less well. Fortunately, such less prototypical members are — by
deﬁnition — a minority (Ch.1, §1.7.2).
In principle, thus, if one probes deep enough, each verb deﬁnes its own unique proposi-
tional frame, thus its own unique array of semantic roles. The major semantic roles
typically taken by event/state participants are:
(4) Deﬁnitions of main semantic roles
•agent = the participant, typically animate, who acts deliberately to initiate
the event, and thus bears the responsibility for it (Agt)
•patient = the participant, either animate or inanimate, that either is in a
state or registers a change-of-state as a result of an event (Pat)
•dative = a conscious participant in the event, typically animate, but not the
deliberate initiator (Dat)
•instrument = a participant, typically inanimate, used by the agent to per-
form the action (Instr)
•benefactive = the participant, typically animate, for whose beneﬁt the
action is performed (Ben)
•locative = the place, typically concrete and inanimate, where the state is,
where the event occurs, or toward which or away from which some partici-
pant is moving (Loc)
•associative = an associate of the agent, patient or dative of the event, whose
role in the event is similar, but who is not as important (Assoc)
•manner = the manner in which an event occurs or an agent performed the
action (Mann)
Some typical examples of these semantic roles in simple state or event clauses are:
(5) a. Agent (subject): Mary kicked John
b. Patient of state (subject): Mary is tall
c. Patient of state (object): Mary saw John
d. Patient of change (subject): John’s arm broke
e. Patient of change (object): Mary broke John’s arm
f. Dative (subject): John knew Mary
g. Dative (object): John scared Mary
h. Dative (indir. object): John talked to Mary
i. Instrument: She chopped ﬁrewood with an axe
j. Benefactive: He ﬁxed the roof for his mother
k. Locative state: She lives in Philadelphia
l. Locative motion: He went to the store
108 Syntax
m. Associative: She worked with her father
n. Manner: He left in a hurry
The system of semantic roles described here follows, broadly, Fillmore (1968) and Chafe
(1970). A sparser, more abstract system has been proposed by Anderson (1971), one that
conﬂates agent (5a) with instrument (5i), and dative (5h) with benefactive (5j) and locative
(5l). The grammatical consequences of such a system, however, are limited in two respects.
First, it predicts best one morphological aspect of grammatical relations, case-marking, but
leaves more behavioral properties (see Chapter 4, §4.3.2) largely unaccounted for. Second,
even this system’s morphological predictions tend to be conspicuous only in one major
case-marking system (ergative; see Chapter 4, §4.4.3.3).1
3.1.4 Grammatical relations
As noted above, participants in states or events, in whatever semantic role, can also assume
some grammatical relation in the clause. Of those, the most universally attested are:
(6) a. subject
b. direct object
c. indirect object
d. predicate
e. adverb
Of the ﬁve grammatical relations in (6), the last two (1d,e) are clearly more peripheral, in
that they display fewer grammatical consequences in fewer languages. The ﬁrst two (1a,b)
are clearly the most central and display more grammatical consequences in more languag-
es. Indirect object (6c) occupies an intermediate status, in terms of number of languages
and of grammatical consequences.
As a brief illustration of the ﬁve grammatical relations listed in (6), consider:
(7) a. The woman gave a book to the child
subj obj io
b. Mary is a teacher
subj pred
c. She stopped working at ﬁve
adv
Even the most cursory look at the examples of semantic roles given in (5) above would point
to the striking fact that the mapping from semantic roles to grammatical relations in the
simple clauses is far from random. At the very least, the following generalizations emerge:
(8) Constraints on mapping from semantic roles to grammatical relations
in simple clauses
a. An agent can only be the subject.
b. A patient can only be a subject or direct object.
c. A dative can be a subject, direct object or indirect object.
d. All other semantic roles can only be indirect objects.
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 109
While these generalizations are subject to some cross-language variation, in the main they
are surprisingly stable. In part, this is of course the consequence of the way we deﬁne what
is and what isn’t a simple clause (see §3.1.5.2 below as well as Ch.1, §1.5, 1.8). But it is also
the consequences of the pragmatic dimension of topicality that underlie grammatical
relations (see Chapter 4, §4.3.4).
3.1.5 Transitivity
3.1.5.1Semantic deﬁnition
Simple clauses — and thus verbs — are either transitive or intransitive. Transitivity is a
complex phenomenon involving both semantic and syntactic components. We will deal
with both more fully in Chapters 4 and 13. The treatment here is thus preliminary, and will
be couched in terms of the prototype transitive event.
The prototype transitive event is deﬁned by the semantic properties of the agent,
patient and verb in the event-clause; respectively (Hopper and Thompson 1980):
(9) Semantic prototype of transitive event
a. Agentivity: Having a deliberate, active agent.
b. Aﬀectedness: Having a concrete, aﬀected patient.
c. Perfectivity: Involving a bounded, terminated, fast-changing event in
real time.
All three semantic features are, at least in principle, a matter of degree, something already
noted in Chapter 2.
3.1.5.2Syntactic deﬁnition
The semantic prototype of a transitive event will ﬁgure repeatedly in subsequent discus-
sions, since it has many grammatical consequences (see Chapters 4, 13). The syntactic
deﬁnition of transitive clauses — and thus of transitive verbs — is subjected to a certain
measure of cross-language typological variation (see Chapter 4). Nonetheless, for most
languages it boils down to a single syntactic feature:
(10) Syntactic prototype of transitive clause
Clauses and verbs that have a direct object are syntactically transitive. All others
are syntactically intransitive.
The relative simplicity and discreteness of the syntactic deﬁnition (10), as compared to the
complexity and scalarity of the semantic deﬁnition (9), indeed illustrates a general point:
•Grammatical form is much more schematic, reductive and discrete than semantic or
pragmatic function.
While the two deﬁnitions of transitivity, semantic (9) and syntactic (10), seem independent
of each other, there is in fact a strong overlap between the populations of events and clauses
they predict. That is, in most languages, the vast majority of simple clauses that are seman-
tically transitive are also syntactically transitive. This is of course hardly a coincidence, but
rather a consequence of the way we have deﬁned simple clause, the theme in syntactic
110 Syntax
description (Ch.1, §1.5), as an active-transitive clause. We can now translate this informal
practice into a more formal observation:
(11) Prototypical mapping between semantic and syntactic transitivity
If the simple clause codes a semantically transitive event (9), the event’s agent
will be the clause’s subject, and the event’s patient the clause’s direct object (10).
Observation (11) sits at the very core of the systematic mapping between semantic roles
and grammatical relations in simple clauses. It is part of the wider predictability noted in
(8) above. It entails, for example, that of the two semantically-equivalent clauses in (12)
below, the active transitive (12a) will be considered the simple (unmarked) clause, and the
passive de-transitive (12b) the complex (marked) clause:
(12) a. Simple, unmarked (active transitive)
Mary broke the glass
b. Complex, marked (passive de-transitive)
The glass was broken by Mary
3.2 Phrase structure and tree diagrams
3.2.1 What the formalism is good for
The formalism we will employ here for describing the syntactic structure of simple
clauses is that phrase-structure (PS) tree diagrams, in the main following Chomsky
(1957, 1965). PS tree diagrams represent, rather elegantly, the following syntactic
properties of simple clauses:
(13) Natural domain of PS tree diagrams
a. constituency
b. hierarchy
c. category labels of nodes
d. linear order
We will discuss those in order.
a.
Constituency
A clause is not made out of a mere linear sequence of the words and morphemes coding the
verbandthe participants.Rather,it hasamorecomplex,hierarchicconstituentstructure.That
is, the clause is divided into major parts, which in turn are sub-divided into sub-parts. The
depth of this hierarchic structure is one measure of the clause’s complexity, depending in part
on the obligatory constituents called for by the verb or event-type, and in part on whatever
optional constituents partaking in the event.
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 111
The diﬀerence between obligatory and optional constituents is roughly as follows:
Obligatoryconstituentsareindispensableforthesemanticdeﬁnitionoftheverborevent-type.
Optional constituents, either lexical or grammatical, are added for the occasion, but are not
indispensable for the semantic deﬁnition of the verb or event-type.
Consider ﬁrst a simple clause with only two constituents, a subject (here a proper
name) and a predicate verb:
(14) Mary slept
We may represent clause (14) initially as the PS tree-diagram in (15):
(15) S
Subj Verb
Mary slept
b.
Hierarchy
In example (14)/(15) both the subject and the predicate verb are single words. But both
may also be larger phrases, each with its own optional sub-constituents, as in:
(16) The tall woman was sleeping peacefully
subj noun-phrase verb phrase
In a hierarchic structure, the whole — the clause (S) — is the top of the hierarchy,
dominating all constituents. Its proper parts are then directly dominated by it, and their
proper sub-parts are in turn directly dominated by them.
Clause (16) has two proper sub-parts, the subject noun phrase (NP) and verb phrase
(VP). But the subject NP in clause (16) contains three sub-parts of its own, the article (Art)
‘the’ and the modifying adjective (Adj) ‘tall’, in addition to the head noun (N) ‘woman’.
Together, the three combine into the noun phrase (NP). Likewise, the verbal predicate in
clause (16) contains the optional auxiliary (Aux) ‘be’, the verb (V) ‘sleeping’, and an
optional manner adverb (Adv) ‘peacefully’. Together the three combine into the verb
phrase (VP).
Clause (16) is now represented by the PS tree-diagram in (17), with the two obligatory
constituents — the noun in the subject NP and the verb in the VP — highlighted:
(17) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
Aux V Adv
was sleeping peacefully
Art Adj N
the tall woman
112 Syntax
c.
Nodes and their category labels
In our PS tree-diagram formalism, each constituent is a node, dominated by the constitu-
ent-node of which it is a part, and dominating the constituent-nodes that make up its own
proper sub-parts. Each node is labeled according to its syntactic category — S (clause),
Subj/NP (subject noun phrase), VP (verb phrase), N (noun), V (verb), Art (article), Adj
(adjective), Aux (auxiliary), or Adv (adverb).
Some of the nodes in the PS tree-diagram directly dominate the vocabulary, be it
lexical (words) or grammatical (morphemes). These ‘lower’ nodes, which name various
lexical or grammatical categories, are relatively easy to justify. They are, in a sense, the
more concrete nodes, justiﬁed by the classes of lexical words or grammatical morphemes
directly dominated by them. The validity of that classiﬁcation, in terms of various
grammatical consequences, justiﬁes these ‘lower’ nodes.
But ‘higher’ nodes, such as NP and VP or even S, are more abstract, dominating
directly no well-justiﬁed words or morphemes but rather other abstract syntactic nodes.
But the labels of these higher nodes cannot be chosen capriciously, and their validity as
syntactic categories must still be justiﬁed. We will not get into this justiﬁcation at this
juncture beyond a few preliminary comments.
As a consequence of what we have learned about the structure of (16)/(17), the
syntactic description of clause (14) must now be readjusted, from (15) above to the more
precise (18). But as one can see, the readjustment does not involve the hierarchic structure
itself, but only the category labels of more abstract nodes:
(18) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
Name V
Mary slept
The PS tree-diagraming conventions we use here deﬁne all noun modiﬁers, both lexical
and grammatical, as parts of the noun phrase. Likewise, auxiliaries, manner adverbs and
direct and indirect objects are all deﬁned as parts of the verb phrase. In doing this, we
deliberately gloss over the fact that auxiliaries, like articles, are grammatical morphemes
rather than lexical words (Ch.2). Some comments about this glossing over will be made
further below.
If the noun phrase has a head noun, it can stand alone without any modiﬁers. But the
entire noun phrase may also consist of either a name (as in (14)/(15)/(18)), or a pronoun,
as in (19) below:
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 113
(19) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
PRO V
She slept
Again, we will gloss here over the fact that unstressed anaphoric pronouns are, even in
English, bound aﬃxes or clitics (Ch.2).
The head of the verb phrase is the verb itself, its obligatory constituent. Thus, the VP
in (14)/(15)/(18) requires no other constituents except for the verb ‘sleep’. But other verbs
do, so that the verb phrase in clauses containing them may have an obligatory direct object
and/or indirect object. As illustrations of such clauses, consider (20a–c) below:
(20) a. Mary read the book (Obj)
b. Mary talked to John (IO)
c. Mary gave the book to John (Obj, IO)
The PS tree-diagrams corresponding to (20a–c) are given in (21), (22) and (23) below,
respectively:
(21) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
Name
Mary
V Obj
[NP]
Art N
the
read book
(22) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
Name
V IO
[PP]
P NP
Name
John
to
talked
Mary
114 Syntax
(23) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
Name
V Obj
[NP]
IO
[PP]
Art P
N NP
Name
book John
the to
gave
Mary
d.
Serial order
One happy consequence of the PS tree-diagram formalism is that it automatically assigns
a strict serial order to nodes at all levels of the hierarchy. The left-to-right order in our
paper-bound formalism is isomorphic to the temporal order of spoken words and
morphemes. Its two dimensions thus represent, simultaneously, temporal order from left
to right, and hierarchic constituency from bottom to top.
3.2.2 What the formalism is not good for
While the tree-diagram formalism has been rather successful at representing constituency,
hierarchy, node labels and serial order, it has generated considerable grief when called
upon to represent other features of morpho-syntax. Some of the problems were already
apparent when the formalism was unveiled by Chomsky (1957, 1965). Others emerged
later on, as Generative grammarians insisted on loading more and more dimensions of
semantics, pragmatics and morpho-syntax onto this frail two-dimensional formal
instrument. In this section we will survey some of the areas of syntax where the formalism
has been less successful, without attempting an ultimate resolution. Some of the theoretical
issues implicit in the discussion will be revisited in subsequent chapters.
a.
Morphology
The PS tree-diagram formalism is incapable of making a distinction between lexical and
grammatical entities. Its two-dimensionality leaves it no recourse but to accord them
equal treatment in terms of constituency, hierarchic rank and serial order. For morphemes
near their diachronic point of origin, this limitation of the formalism appears at ﬁrst glance
less damaging. They still resemble lexical words — large, concrete constituents with their
own independent phonetic bulk. They still occupy transparent positions in the serial order.
And one is tempted to assume that their hierarchic rank in the PS tree — their node-
branching locations — is transparent. This assumption, however, turns out to be false, as
two rather mundane examples of grammaticalization will illustrate, one from Swahili, the
other from English.
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 115
(24) a. mtoto a-na-taka ku-la
child s/he-pres-want inf-eat
‘The child wants to eat’
b. mtoto a-ta-ku-la
child s/he-fut-inf-eat
‘the child will eat’
(25) a. He’s going to the store
b. He’s gonna walk to the store
In both (24a) and (25a), the semantic scope of the lexical verb ranges over the verb phrase
alone. In the grammaticalized (24b) and (25b), on the other hand, the scope of the future
tense has widened to range over the entire proposition. One may choose to still graft the
new tense-aspect node at its original hierarchic level in (24a) and (25a), i.e. as the head
verb of the VP. This solution may still reﬂect the superﬁcial facts of English (25b).
Alternatively, one may choose to graft it at a lower level, as a preﬁxal sub-constituent of the
verb, a solution that better represents its morphemic status in Swahili (24b). But both
solutions still misrepresent its semantic scope as a future tense.
As morphemes cliticize and shrink over time, their hierarchic level and serial position
in the PS tree becomes more and more problematic, as clitics become aﬃxes, then
inﬂections, then merged portmanteau morphemes, then telltale morphophonemic
alternations on other stems (or morphemes), and ﬁnally just plain zeros. Their semantic or
pragmatic scope may widen to range over the phrase or the clause, but their morphemic
position becomes more and more narrowly localized, or even nonexistent.
The two-edged conundrum of grammaticalization won’t go away. If PS trees are to do
justice to a morpheme’s functional scope, they must misrepresent its concrete morphemic
location and/or its syntactic constituency. If they are to do justice to the morpheme’s con-
crete location and/or syntactic constituency, they must misrepresent its functional scope.
In the prevailing Generative formalism of Government and Binding (Chomsky 1981),
real morphemic status, actual serial position and concrete syntactic constituency have been
sacriﬁced in favor of allegedly universal semantic and pragmatic scopes. This preference
has two consequences:
•PS tree-diagrams have become abstract and extravagant, bearing scant resemblance
to the physical facts of morphosyntax.
•PS trees appear highly universal, reﬂecting no cross-language typological variation.
b.
NP and PP vs. grammatical relations
At ﬁrst glance, the problem of the NP and PP node-labels seems a transparent oﬀshoot of
the problem of morphology. However, it reaches far beyond morphology into the
theoretical status of grammatical relations in syntax.
As one may have noticed in the tree-diagrams above, the subject, object and indirect
object nodes have been double-labeled. The label NP was added in brackets underneath
Subj and Obj, and PP under IO. What is the justiﬁcation for such a peculiar practice?
Generative grammarians ever since Chomsky (1957, 1965) have chosen to not
represent grammatical relations in their PS tree-diagrams. Rather, subjects, direct object
116 Syntax
and indirect objects have been represented as noun phrases (NP) when not morphological-
ly case-marked, or as prepositional phrases (PP) when case-marked by a preposition or
postposition. Grammatical relations were then ‘read oﬀ’ the conﬁguration of the PS tree:
•the subject is the NP (or PP) dominated by the clause node (S);
•the object is the NP (or PP) dominated by the verb phrase node (VP).
To my best knowledge, this practice has never been justiﬁed on principled grounds, dating
as it is back to Chomsky’s glaring inattention to grammatical relations in his early work
(1957, 1965). But a cursory comparison of English, Japanese and Latin would suﬃce to
demonstrate how capricious the traditional practice is.
(26) a. English: The man gave a book to the boy
b. Japanese: Onna-ga otoko-ni tegami-o kaita
woman-subj man-dat letter-obj write
‘The woman wrote a letter to the man’
c. Latin: vir[Ø] puero librum dedit
man/nom boy/dat book/acc gave
‘The man gave a book to the boy’
The subject and direct object in English are morphologically unmarked. In Japanese they
are marked by postposition, and in Latin by portmanteau inﬂections that may be zero in
some case-roles or for some nouns (as in the nominative vir ‘man’ in (26c)). But as noted
above, case-markers are not words but rather morphology, ranging on the diachronic
morphemic scale from large adpositions to zero. Consequently, the diﬀerence between NP
and PP is a matter of morphology rather than syntax. It cannot be nailed down with
precision even within a single language (Latin).
Consequently, the overriding grammatical property of subjects and objects is that they
are headed by a noun, or a name, or a pronoun. That is, regardless of the diachronic
vagaries of their case-marking morphology, subjects and objects are all nominal phrases —
NPs. Therefore PP is not a valid syntactic node.
Since grammatical relations, as we will note repeatedly, are the most fundamental core
properties of clausal syntax, the historical custom of ‘reading them oﬀ’ their PS-tree
conﬁguration is an empty formal gesture, and a rather bizarre one at that. One might as
well accord grammatical relations their rightful syntactic label at the outset.
c.
Semantic and pragmatic scope
As noted earlier, Generative grammarians have gradually given up on formalisms that
represent actual morphological and syntactic facts of real constructions in particular
languages. Rather, PS trees have come to represent highly abstract if allegedly universal
mental structures (Chomsky 1992). With the formalism thus liberated from actual
morpho-syntax, Generative grammarians are now free to graft any semantic or pragmatic
operator into the PS tree at any hierarchic level or serial position, regardless of where it
might be found in the actual construction — as a portmanteau inﬂection in (27f), a
morpheme in (27e), a word in (27d), a phrase in (27c) or a clause in (27a,b). With such
license, it is hard to see what could constrain the grammarian from representing the
semantically near-equivalent (27a–f) as syntactically identical:
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 117
(27) a. I think that she’ll come tomorrow
b. It is possible that she’ll come tomorrow
c. In all likelihood she’ll come tomorrow
d. Maybe she’ll come tomorrow
e. She may-come tomorrow
f. (Quizá) venga mañana
(maybe) come/subj/3sg tomorrow
‘Maybe she’ll come tomorrow’
In the same vein, pragmatic notions such as topic and focus may now be grafted into the PS
tree at any desired level, regardless of their actual morpho-syntactic manifestation in a
particular language.
Alternatively, one might propose to graft the topic and focus ‘nodes’ into the PS tree
according to the syntax of a particular language, as was suggested by Rice (1991) or Aissen
(1992). But this solution lets the highly universal functional scope of pragmatic notions be
obscured by the facts of morpho-syntax.
Topic and focus are indeed highly relevant to syntax and exhibit strong interactions
with it (see Chapters 9, 10, 13, 15, 16). But interaction does not mean identity, nor is it a
suﬃcient ground for squeezing all features that interact in grammar into a single syntactic
formalism, one that was clearly not designed to represent them.2
d.
Complex clauses
Finally, one might as well note that the PS tree formalism is best suited for reﬂecting the
syntactic structure of simple clauses, where the isomorphism between semantic and
syntactic structure is most transparent. While several types of complex clause do not
tamper with this isomorphism too much, many others do. Thus, of the complex clauses in
(28), (28b,c) can be described by our PS tree formalism with relative ease. While (28d–h)
are much less amenable to the formalism.
(28) a. She gave the book to Mary (simple)
b. She wanted to give the book to Mary (verb complement)
c. The book she gave to Mary… (relative clause)
d. The book was given to Mary (passive)
e. As for the book, she gave it to Mary (L-dislocation)
f. What did she give to Mary? (wh-question)
g. Did she give the book to Mary? (yes/no-question)
h. It’s a BOOK that she gave Mary (cleft-focus)
3.3 The classiﬁcation of verbs and simple clauses
3.3.1 Dummy-subject verbs
Verbs in this class code states or events involving mostly natural conditions or weather
phenomena. They are clearly intransitive in that they have no object. What is more, they
seem to have no other semantic participant either. One may in fact say that the state or
118 Syntax
event they represent is indistinct from — or is itself — the participant. Such non-distinct-
ness is only to be expected, since the phenomena in question are not spatially localized
prototypical states or events, but rather spatially diﬀuse. Verbs in this class often take a
syntactic subject, but it most commonly turns out to be a non-prototypical dummy subject.
In many languages, the ‘dummy’ is a pronoun, but one that refers to no entity in particular,
and cannot be assigned a clear semantic role. It thus merely but ﬁlls a formal syntactic
role.3
Syntactically, the verb phrase in dummy-subject clauses may be either adjectival (see
§3.3.2 below) or verbal:
(29) Adjectival dummy-subject clauses
a. It’s hot (in here)
b. It was cold (last summer)
c. It’s so nice (here)
d. It was terrible (there)
Verbal dummy-subject clauses
e. It rained (all over the county)
f. It froze (last week)
g. It was hailing (hard)
In some languages, all predicates in this class are formally verbs, as is the case in Ute (Uto-
Aztecan), where the dummy pronoun is the inanimate -ax (‘it’; Givón 1980):
(30) a. ‘uwa-y-ax
rain-imm-it
‘it’s raining’
b. nú
=a-y-ax
wind-imm-it
‘it’s windy’
c. nu
=vwa-y-ax
snow-imm-it
‘it’s snowing’
d. turu’ni-y-ax
whirlwind-imm-it
‘it’s whirl-winding’
e. ku
=turuuci-y-ax
hot-imm-it
‘it’s hot’
f. su
=ti-y-ax
cold-imm-it
‘it’s cold’
The noun form of ‘rain’, ‘wind’ or ‘snow’ is derived in Ute by nominalization from the
verbs in (30a–c), respectively:
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 119
(31) ‘uwa-r(u
=) ‘rain’
nú
=a-r(u
=) ‘wind’
nu
=vu
=a-r(u
=) ‘snow’
In some languages, the world may be the formal dummy subject of verbs in this group, as
is the case in spoken Palestinian Arabic, where ‘world’ is a feminine noun:
(32) Gd-dunya tG
G-shti
the-world 3sg.masc-rain
‘it is raining’ (lit.: ‘the world is raining’)
But the noun form denoting the condition may also be used as the dummy subject, as in:
(33) a. The rain is falling/pouring
b. The wind is blowing/howling
c. Snow is falling/blowing
d. The temperature is rising
e. The heat is stiﬂing
A PS tree-diagram corresponding to the dummy-subject clause (29g) above, including the
optional manner adverb, is given in (34) below:
(34) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
Aux V Adv
PRO
It was hailing hard
Tree diagrams corresponding to adjectival dummy-subject clauses are given in the next
section.
3.3.2 Copular clauses and copular verbs
3.3.2.1Copular verbs and their predicates
Semantically, copular clauses represent permanent or temporary states. Their subject
occupies the semantic role of either a patient or dative of state. What is more, most of the
lexical-semantic load of the predication is not carried by the copular verb itself, but rather
by its non-verbal predicate — either an adjective (or adjectival phrase; AP) or a noun (or
noun phrase; NP), as in:
(35) a. Nominal (NP) predicate
He is a (lousy) teacher
b. Adjectival (AP) predicate
She is (very) tall
120 Syntax
The copular verb is thus often itself a dummy verb, acting as the syntactic head of the verb
phrase but carrying a reduced lexical-semantic load. As we shall see further below,
however, in many languages the copular verb may carry distinct grammatical features.
The PS tree-diagrams representing the copular clauses in (35a,b) are given in (36) and
(37) below, respectively:
(36) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
Cop Pred
NP
Art Adj N
a lousy teacher
is
be
PRO
He
(37) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
Cop Pred
AP
Adv Adj
very tall
is
be
PRO
She
3.3.2.2Zero copulas
In many languages, copular clauses may appear without their copular head verb (‘be’), at
least in the present or habitual tense-aspects. But they often reappear in other tense-aspects,
as in Hebrew:
(38) a. Hu ra’ev ‘he is hungry’
he hungry/sm
b. Hi mora ‘she is a teacher’
she teacher/sg.fem
c. Hu haya ra’ev ‘he was hungry
he be/past/3sg.masc hungry
d. Hi ti-hye mora ‘she’ll be a teacher’
she 3sg.fem-be/fut teacher/sg.fem
In some languages, the non-present/habitual tense marker can become a bound aﬃx
directly on the adjective or noun predicate. Sometimes that aﬃx is an erstwhile copula that
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 121
has itself become grammaticalized, often as the tense-aspect marker. In Turkish, for
example, an older verb ‘be’ may be used optionally in the present/habitual as suﬃx on
noun or adjective predicates (Pelin Hennesy, in personal communication):
(39) a. Verb: Ayshe uyu-yor ‘Ayshe is sleeping’
Ayshe sleep-prog
b. Adjective: Ali büyük(-tür) ‘Ali is big’
Ali big(-*be)
c. Noun: Ayshe sekreter(-dir) ‘Ayshe is a secretary’
A. secretary(-*be)
The verbal past-tense marker is suﬃxed directly to both noun and adjective predicates,
without a copula:
(40) a. Verb: Ayshe uyu-du ‘Ayshe slept’
A. sleep-past
b. Adjective: Ali büyük-tü ‘Ali was big’
A. big-past
c. Noun: Ayshe sekreter-di ‘Ayshe was a secretary’
A. secretary-past
Only in the future is a ﬁnite copular verb (‘become’) used obligatorily as the ‘head’ of the
verb phrase:
(41) a. Verb: Ayshe uyu-yacak ‘Ayshe will sleep’
A. sleep-fut
b. Adjective: Ali büyük ol-acak ‘Ali will be big’
A. big become-fut
c. Noun: Ayshe sekreter ol-acak ‘A. will be a secretary’
A. secretary become-fut
3.3.2.3Inherent qualities vs. temporary states
As noted earlier above (Ch.2), prototype nouns tend to code time-stable entities with
durable inherent qualities. Adjectives, on the other hand, can code either noun-like durable
qualities or temporary states, where they may overlap with stative verbs.
Some temporary states, further, may be mental, and thus can be experienced by a
human (or animate). The experiencer of such a mental state is semantically a dative.
Otherwise, the subjects of copular predicates are patients or state.
122 Syntax
(42) example subject’s semantic role pred. type
Permanent-inherent quality
a.He is tall/Irish/smart
b.The tree is tall/green/bushy
c.She is clever
d.He is an Irishman
e.She is a teacher
f.He is a crook
Temporary state
g.She is angry/sad/busy
h.She suﬀered/meditated
i.The door was closed
j.They were lost
patient
patient
patient
patient
patient
patient
dative
dative
patient
patient
adjective
adjective
adjective
noun
noun
noun
adjective
verb
adjective
adjective
In some languages, two diﬀerent copular verbs are used in copular clauses, one for coding
permanent qualities or conditions, the other temporary states. Thus, in Spanish the copula
ser must be used with predicate nouns, with adjectives denoting permanent-inherent
quality, and with durable point of origin:
(43) permanent-inherent qualities predicate type
a.Es profesora ‘she is a teacher’
b.Es pintor ‘he is a painter’
c.Es azul ‘it is blue’
d.Es española ‘she is Spanish’
e.Es de España
noun
noun
adjective
adjective
point of origin
The other copula, estar, is used in Spanish to code temporary states, including temporary
locations and temporary verbal states (the progressive aspect), as in:
(44) temporary states predicate type
a.Está muy enojado ‘s/he very angry’
b.Está muy triste ‘s/he is very sad’
c.Está muy caliente ‘it is very hot’
d.Está en la casa ‘s/he is at home’
e.Está estudiando ‘s/he is studying’
adjective
adjective
adjective
location
verbal state
Several adjectives allow both a permanent and a temporary sense, with the contrast now
coded by the two copulas:
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 123
(45) temporary state (estar) permanent condition (ser)
a. Está triste
‘s/he is sad’
b. Está feliz (ahora)
‘she’s happy (now)’
c. Está loco
‘he’s acting crazy’
d. Está enfermo
‘he is sick’
e. Está muy caliente
‘it’s very hot (now)’
f. Está muy ocupado
‘he’s very busy (now)’
Es triste
‘s/he is a sad person’
Es feliz
‘s/he’s a happy person’
Es loco
‘he is mentally ill’
Es enfermo
‘he is an invalid’
Es muy caliente aquí
‘it’s (always) hot here’
Es muy ocupado
‘he’s a very busy person’
3.3.2.4Referring vs. non-referring nominal predicates
In all languages, a nominal predicate can perform either a referential (referring) or an
attributive (non-referring) function, a topic that will be dealt with in considerable detail in
Chapter 10. In English, where the diﬀerence is not fully coded by grammar, an indeﬁnite
nominal predicate can have either interpretation, depending on the context:
(46) a. Attributive
Context: What does she do for a living?
Response: She is a teacher
b. Referring
Context: Who is this woman?
Response: She is a teacher I used to know.
Deﬁnite predicate nouns naturally tilt the interpretation towards the referring sense:
(47) a. She is the teacher I told you about
b. She is my teacher
Some languages code this diﬀerence more explicitly. As an illustration consider Bemba
(Bantu), in which both nominal and adjectival preﬁxes code the Ref/Non-Ref contrast
(Givón 1972):
(48) a. Attributive nominal predicate
uyu-umuuntu muu-puupu
this-person nonref-thief
‘this person is a thief ’
b. Attributive adjective predicate
uyu-umuuntu muu-suma
‘this person is good’
124 Syntax
c. Referring nominal predicate
uyu-umuuntu umu-puupu
‘this person is the/a thief (I told you about)’
d. Referring adjectival predicate
uyu-umuuntu umu-suma
‘this person is the/a good one (I told you about)’
3.3.2.5Multiple copular verbs
As noted above, in Spanish two copular verbs split the predicate domain along clear
semantic lines. Many other languages have two or more copular verbs, by which one means
verbs that take either nominal or adjectival predicates and thus answer to the syntactic
description (36) and (37) above. In English, for example, ‘get’ splits the domain roughly —
but not precisely — along the same inherent vs. temporary lines as ser and estar in Spanish:
(49) a. He got angry/sad/busy (temporary, adj)
b. *He got Irish/kind (*inherent, adj)
c. *She got a teacher (*inherent, nom)
d. *She got my mother (*inherent, nom)
The copular verb ‘become’, on the other hand, seems as permissive as ‘be’:
(50) a. She became angry/sad/busy (temporary, adj)
b. He became Irish/kind (inherent, adj)
c. She became a teacher (inherent, nom)
d. He became my mother (inherent, nom)
And ‘seem’ and ‘sound’ appear to split the domain between adjectival and nominal
predicates:
(51) a. She seems/sounds angry/sad/busy (temporary, adj)
b. They seem/sound Irish/kind (inherent, adj)
c. *She seems/sounds a teacher (*inherent, nom)
d. *He seems/sounds my mother (*inherent, nom)
3.3.2.6Languages with no adjectives
As noted earlier above (Ch.2), some languages code all states, even inherent physical
qualities, as verbs, as does Toposa (Nilotic; Ch.2, 2.6.2). Other languages split the time-
stability scale into two coherent segments, with temporary states coded as verbs and
inherent qualities as adjectives. This can be seen in Ute (Uto-Aztecan; Givón 1980):
(52) Temporary states (verbs)
a. naghami-y ‘(s/he) is ill/sick’
sick-imm
b. nasötaay-’ay ‘(s/he) is sad’
sad-imm
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 125
c. suwaay-kya ‘(s/he) is happy’
happy-perf
d. naay-’ay ‘(s/he) is angry’
angry-imm
e. togho-yi-n ‘I am well’
well-imm-I
(53) Inherent qualities (adjectives)
a. saa-gha-r(u
=) ’ura-’ay ‘(it/inan) is white’
white-have-nom be-imm
b. sigu
=-ka-r(u
=) ’ura-’ay ‘(it/inan) is sour’
sour-have-nom be-imm
c. payu-gwa-r(u
=) ’ura-’ay ‘(it/inan) is soft’
soft-have-nom be-imm
d. ‘avat(u
=) ’ura-’ay ‘(it/inan) is big’
big/nom be-imm
e. miipu
=-c(i) ’ura-’ay ‘(it/inan) is small’
small/nom-nom be-imm
f. ‘iyapu
=-ni ’ura-’ay ‘(it/inan) is ugly’
ugly/nom-adj be-imm
3.3.3 Simple intransitive verbs
Verbs in this class may code either states, events or actions. Their subject may be either an
agent, patient or dative. Typical examples are:
(54) Agent subject (action verb)
a. He worked (hard)
b. She sang/danced (for an hour)
c. She walked (around)
d. They spoke (eloquently)
e. He urinated (on the sand)
(55) Dative subject (mental-state verb)
a. She meditated (on the porch)
b. He suﬀered (quietly)
c. She dreamed (for hours)
(56) Patient-of-state subject (state verb)
a. He slept (for two hours)
b. It stood/lay/sat (there)
(57) Patient-of-change subject (process verb)
a. She fell/slipped/died/grew up
b. It grew/broke/dried up/heated up
The syntactic structure of simple intransitive clauses is illustrated in tree diagram (58):
126 Syntax
(58) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
PRO V
She fell
3.3.4 Simple transitive verbs
3.3.4.1Transitivity: A recapitulation
As noted above (§3.1.5), prototypical transitive verbs — and clauses — conform to both
the semantic prototype of transitive event and the syntactic prototype of transitive clause,
reproduced below:
(9) Semantic prototype of transitive event
a. Agentivity: Having a deliberate, active agent.
b. Aﬀectedness: Having a concrete, aﬀected patient.
c. Perfectivity: Involving a bounded, terminated, fast-changing event in
real time.
(10) Syntactic prototype of transitive clause
Clauses and verbs that have a direct object are syntactically transitive. All others
are syntactically intransitive.
We also noted that languages tend to abide, at least in simple clauses, by a constraint on
mapping between semantic and syntactic transitivity:
(11) Prototypical mapping between semantic and syntactic transitivity
When the simple clause codes a semantically transitive event (9), the event’s
agent will be the clause’s subject, and the event’s patient the clause’s direct object
(10).
While the prototypes (9) and (10) are indeed valid in all languages, and while the bulk of
syntactically transitive verbs in most languages indeed abide by mapping constraint (11),
languages nonetheless diﬀer enormously in how closely they adhere to mapping constraint
(11). That is, in how rigid or lax they may be in allowing non-agents to be the subjects of
syntactically-transitive verbs, and non-patient to be their direct objects.
Part of the cross-language variation is predicted by case-making typology, and will be
discussed in some detail in Chapter 4. But considerable variation can be already seen
among nominative languages, among whom English is probably as permissive in ﬂouting
constraint (11) as can be found.
The procedure we will follow here is to present prototype transitive verbs ﬁrst, then
show various deviations from the prototypes. That is, verbs with non-agent subjects or
non-patient objects.
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 127
3.3.4.2Prototypical transitive verbs
The various sub-types of prototypical transitive verbs classify the types of change under-
gone by the patient-object. Some verbs denote physical creation of an object where none
existed before, as in:
(59) a. He built a house
b. She painted a picture
c. He made a coﬀee table
d. She drew a sketch of the bridge
Others denote the physical destruction of a previously-existing object, as in:
(60) a. They demolished the house
b. She smashed the glass
c. He carefully evaporated the solvent
d. She gobbled up her breakfast
Others denote a considerable change in the object’s physical condition, as in:
(61) a. She cracked/broke the pot
b. He enlarged the living-room
c. They chopped wood
d. He baled the hay
e. She cut her hair
f. They bent the front bumper
g. He twisted his ankle
h. They killed two prisoners
Some transitive verbs may denote a change in the object’s physical location, as in:
(62) a. They moved the barn
b. She shifted her leg
c. He dropped the ball
d. She gathered the acorns
f. They scattered the sheep
Others may denote changes in the surface conditions of the object, as in:
(63) a. He washed his shirt
b. She bleached her hair
c. They painted the walls
d. He sanded the ﬂoors
Others yet may denote a change in some less visible internal qualities of the objects, as in:
(64) a. He heated up a cup of soup
b. She chilled the gaspacho
c. They magnetized the door
128 Syntax
Some prototypical transitive verbs, in addition to the change aﬀecting the patient-object,
also involve an incorporated manner sense, as in:
(65) a. She murdered him (kill deliberately)
b. He smashed the glass (break completely)
c. They shredded the documents (tear into small pieces)
d. He wolfed his dinner (eat ravenously)
Others denote, in addition to the change, an incorporated instrument sense, as in:
(66) a. She knifed him (stab with a knife)
b. They hooked a huge shark (catch with a hook)
c. He elbowed the guy ahead (hit with the elbow)
d. She slapped him (hit with the palm)
Others may denote an incorporated location sense, as in:
(67) a. She housed them all winter (keep in the house)
b. He bagged the apple (put in a bag)
c. They imprisoned them (put them in prison)
The syntactic structure of transitive verbs with a subject and direct object may be given as
the tree diagram in (68) below, representing (61h) above:
(68) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
V Obj
[NP]
Num N
two
killed prisoners
PRO
They
3.3.4.3Less prototypical transitive verbs
As suggested earlier, English is rather promiscuous in allowing many verbs that do not
conform to the semantic prototype of transitive event (9) to nevertheless assume the
syntactic structure of the prototype transitive clauses (10), i.e. the structure of (68). Such
laxity is not totally capricious, and may be viewed as various metaphoric extensions of the
prototype of semantically transitive event in terms of either the agent or patient. In this
section we will discuss some of the more common sub-types.
a.
Dative-subject verbs
The agent-subject of the prototype transitive verb is both conscious (having volition) and
active (initiating the event). Dative subjects, on the other hand, are conscious participants
in the event without either intending or actively initiating it.
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 129
By making a dative participant the subject of a syntactically-transitive verb, one makes
it appear as if it is somehow more active, more involved or more responsible. In other
words, it is made to metaphorically resemble an agent. Typical transitive verbs with a dative
subject are:
(69) a. He saw her
b. She felt no remorse
c. They heard the music
d. She understood the problem
e. They know the answer
f. He wanted two oranges
One consequence of this seemingly innocent metaphoric extension can be shown in ex-
tending the use of such verbs to contexts where the subject seems to be considered responsi-
ble for initiating action. The following expressions, for example, are all framed in contexts
which suggest that the dative-subject somehow has the control or choice of a real agent:
(70) a. You better see her ﬁrst thing in the morning!
b. Feel the energy radiating through you!
c. She better hear what I have to say!
d. You must understand this!
e. You better know the answer before you get there!
f. You have to want it real hard to really get it!
Another feature of dative-subject verbs, as in (69), (70), is that their object is also the less-
prototypical patient of state, rather than the prototype patient of change. It is neither
physically aﬀected, nor undergoes a change, and is often abstract (cf. ‘music’, ‘problem’,
‘answer’, ‘remorse’). What is more, the dative-subject verb is most commonly a state verb.
Downgrading one aspect of the transitive prototype seems, at least in this case, to invite —
or at least coincide with — tampering with the others.
b.
Dative-object verbs
The patient of the prototype transitive event, typically concrete and visibly aﬀected patient,
may be metaphorically extended toward a dative participant, whose involvement in events
is typically mental rather than physical. Making a dative the syntactic object of the clause
somehow makes it appear more visibly aﬀected, thus metaphorically more patient-like.
Typical transitive verbs with dative objects are:
(71) a. They insulted her
(> producing visible agitation)
b. She spoils him rotten
(> his overt behavior shows it)
c. He amused them
(> they roared in laughter)
d. She shocked them
(> they froze in visible disbelief)
130 Syntax
e. She entertained the crowd
(> they applauded wildly)
f. He taught them by example
(> they emulated him)
(> they demonstrated proﬁciency)
c.
Patient-subject/cause with dative object
The very same dative-object verbs in (71) may be used to further extend the transitive-
subject prototype. In (71) their subjects are deliberate human agents. But their subject can
also be a non-human cause, thus a patient of state, as in:
(72) a. The oﬀer insulted him
b. This knowledge spoiled his appetite
c. The idea amused him
d. The new regulations shocked everybody
e. The joke entertained them for hours
f. The accident taught them a harsh lesson
The last metaphoric extension, from agent-causer to patient-cause, may also be found in
metaphoric extensions of more prototypical transitive verbs:
(73) a. The epidemic attacked the entire village
b. Curiosity killed the cat
c. Hard work ﬁnally broke his back
d. His bad luck broke his will to live
e. The beer quenched her thirst
f. Her faith saved her
g. Deep doubts assailed him
h. The idea struck him as insane
i. Panic drove them away
Again, the metaphoric extension of the transitive-subject prototype — from agent to
patient — is accompanied by relaxation of the transitive-object prototype, in that the
objects in (73) are not prototypical patients.
d.
Instruments as transitive subjects
A variant of the metaphoric pattern in (73) involves letting an instrument take the subject
position of a prototypical transitive verb. The agent — user of the instrument — is not
mentioned even when it may have clearly existed:
(74) a. The hammer smashed the window
(> She smashed the window with the hammer)
b. Her ﬁst hit him full force
(> She hit him full force with her ﬁst)
c. Penicillin ﬁnally cured them
(> The doctors cured them with penicillin)
d. The bomb killed seventeen civilians
(> The terrorists killed them with the bomb)
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 131
The eﬀect — intended or inadvertent — of placing the instrument in the subject position
is to shield the unspeciﬁed agent from responsibility for the event. By virtue of a subtle
inference, the instrument occupying the subject position of a prototypical transitive verb
acquires the semantic aura of an agent.
e.
Goal or source locatives as direct-objects
Some syntactically-transitive verbs extend the patient-object prototype to a locative
participant, one that is ordinarily coded as indirect object in the simple clause. By
metaphoric extension, the locative object becomes patient-like, appearing to be more
aﬀected by the event:
(75) a. She approached the house
(> She moved toward the house)
b. She swam the channel
(> She swam across the channel)
c. They entered the house
(> They went into the house)
d. He rode the horse
(> He sat on the horse)
e. They breached the walls
(> The moved through the walls)
f. They penetrated the fort
(> They moved into the fort)
g. She escaped him
(> She escaped from him)
h. They deserted her
(> The moved away from her)
i. She left him
(> She moved away from him)
When one rides a horse (75d), the horse is controlled, dominated, aﬀected. When one sits
on a horse, the horse is merely a location. In breaching a wall (75e) one punctures it in the
face of resistance. Moving through the wall carries no such connotations. By penetrating a
fort (75f) one violates it against resistance. The mere movement into a fort carries no such
connotations. In escaping someone (75g) one overcomes their resistance, not merely move
away from them. Deserting a person (75h) may leave them distraught and helpless, while
merely moving away may not.
f.
Verbs with associative direct objects
Some non-prototypical transitive verbs involve the extension of patient-object prototype
to an associative participant, i.e. to a co-agent of what is, strictly speaking, a reciprocal event
(see Chapter 13). The semantic eﬀect of such extension is to downgrade the associative
object from co-agent to, metaphorically, aﬀected patient. In the process, the agent-subject
is upgraded from co-agent to sole responsible agent. As illustrations, consider:
(76) a. He met Sylvia (in the garden)
(vs. He met with her, and she with him)
132 Syntax
b. She fought him (to a draw)
(vs. She fought with him, and he with her)
c. He joined her (for lunch)
(vs. He joined with her, and she with him)
g.
Verbs with incorporated patients
Some non-prototypical transitive verbs involve an implied patient whose sense is somehow
‘incorporated’ into the meaning of the verb. The overt object in such cases is often the
location vis-a-vis which the implied patient moves. This non-prototypical object somehow
assumes patient-like aﬀectedness. As illustrations, consider:
(77) a. He fed the cows
(> He gave food to the cows)
b. She stoked the furnace
(> She put wood in the furnace)
c. They irrigated/watered the orchard
(> They brought water to the orchard)
d. They harvested the ﬁeld
(> They removed the crops from the ﬁeld)
e. She dusted the table
(> She removed the dust from table)
f. They robbed her
(> They took things from her)
g. He painted the wall
(> He spread paint on the wall)
h.
Verbs with cognate objects
Some verbs extend the patient-object prototype towards an abstract product, activity, or
mental event. By inference, the object metaphorically assumes the properties of a physical-
ly-created patient. Such metaphoric created objects are called cognate objects, since often
they are nominalized forms of the verb, or at least of its implicit sense. And that implicit
sense is often that of an intransitive event. Thus consider:
(78) a. She sang a song
(> She sang; her singing = a song)
b. They danced the rumba
(> They danced; their dancing = the rumba)
c. He gave a brief speech
(> He spoke; his speaking = his speech)
d. She uttered a sharp cry
(> She cried; her crying = a cry)
e. They gave a great performance
(They performed; their performing = a performance)
f. He made an abrupt decision
(He decided abruptly; his deciding = a decision)
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 133
g. She gave the signal
(She signalled; her signalling = the signal)
h. He took the oath of oﬃce
(He swore; his swearing = the oath)
i. She gave him a kiss
(She kissed him; her kissing = a kiss)
By objectivizing the intransitive activity one somehow endows it with patient-like
properties, viewing it as the event’s product. In the process, ‘song’, ‘dance’, ‘speech’, ‘cry’,
‘performance’, ‘decision’, ‘signal’, ‘oath’ or ‘kiss’ may be captured on paper, tape or ﬁlm
and thus objectivized as patients.
The activity that is objectivized may also be a transitory spatial motion, as in:
(79) a. They made a sharp turn
(> They turned sharply; their turning = a turn)
b. She took a leap
(> She leaped; her leaping = a leap)
c. He made a circle around them
(> He circled around them; his circling = a circle)
d. She took a plunge
(She plunged; her plunging = a plunge)
Similarly, the verb may code a mental event whose objectivized metaphoric patient is rather
abstract:
(80) a. I made an error
(I erred; my erring = an error)
b. She made a suggestion that…
(> She suggested that…; her suggestion
c. I had an idea
(> I thought; my thinking = an idea)
d. He made a last-ditch attempt
(> He tried; his trying = an attempt)
e. She took a calculated risk
(> She risked…; her risking = a risk)
f. They made a promise
(> They promised; their promising = a promise)
g. She gave it some thought
(> She thought about it; her thinking = a thought)
h. He tendered his resignation
(> He resigned; his resigning = his resignation)
i. They took a break
(> They broke; their breaking = a break)
j. She never gave a hint
(She never hinted; her hinting = a hint)
134 Syntax
i.
Verbs of possession
In many languages, ownership or possession is coded with a transitive verb such as ‘have’.
Since possession is a state rather than an event, with neither a typical agent nor a typical
patient, transitive ‘have’ verbs clearly break the prototype. Most commonly, such verb are
derived historically from prototypical transitive verbs such as ‘take’, ‘grab’, ‘seize’, ‘hold’,
or ‘obtain’. In the course of the derivation, the implicit end result of taking possession —
having possession — becomes the core meaning of the verb. In other words, the change
seems to be driven by the inference:
•If one has taken possession, one has possession.
The semantic scope of possession verbs may vary widely from one language to the next,
with English being predictably rather permissive:
(81) a. She has a big house
b. They have two children
c. We had a beautiful relationship
d. I’ve got something to tell you
e. He had a date with Destiny
f. I got an idea
g. Their house has three bedrooms
h. This problem has no easy solution
Many languages distinguish between inherent (‘inalienable’) and incidental (‘alienable’)
possession. Thus in Ute (Uto-Aztecan), two ‘have’ constructions exist. In the one that
codes inherent (‘inalienable’) possession, the verb ‘have’ has grammaticalized as a suﬃx on
the possessed noun, often on the bare noun-stem, as in (Givón 1980):
(82) Intimate (inherent) possession (suﬃx -ga-)
a. kwasi-gya-t(u
=) ‘s/he has a tail’; ‘the Devil’
tail-have-nom
b. möchö-kwa-t(u
=) ‘he has a mustache’; ‘a bearded man’
mustache-have-nom
c. puwa-gha-t(u
=) ‘s/he has medicine Power’; ‘medicine-man’
power-have-nom
d. piwa-gha-t(u
=) ‘s/he has a spouse’; ‘a married person’
spouse-have-nom
e. tua-ci-gya-t(u
=) ‘s/he has children’
child-obj-pl-have-nom
f. wii-ci-gya-t(u
=) ‘he has a (personal) knife’
knife-obj-have-nom
g. puku-gwa-t(u
=) ‘s/he has a (personal) horse’; ‘a horseman’
horse-have-nom
h. kani-gya-t(u
=) ‘she has a (personal) house’; ‘a homeowner’
house-have-nom
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 135
In the construction that codes incidental (‘alienable’) possession, the etymologically-
related verb ‘have’ is still an independent verb, and the possessed noun retains its suﬃx.
Thus compare:
(83) Incidental possession (verb ‘aga-)
a. panaqa-ru
= ’aagha-t(u
=) ‘s/he has money’
money-obj have-nom
b. wii-ci ’aagha-t(u
=) ‘s/he owns (many) knives’
knife-obj have-nom
c. kava-yu ’aagha-t(u
=) ‘s/he owns (many) horses’
horse-pl have-nom
d. kani ’aagha-t(u
=) ‘s/he owns (many) houses’
house/obj have-nom
e. kwasi-vi ’aagha-t(u
=) ‘s/he owns (detached) tails’
tail-obj have-nom
f. puwa-vu
= ’aagha-t(u
=) ‘s/he owns lots of medicine’
power-obj have-nom
In addition to transitive possession constructions, many languages have syntactically
intransitive possession construction, of two types. In the ﬁrst type, the core verb in the
clause is ‘be’, the grammatical subject is the possessed noun, and the possessor is marked as
a dative. Such a possessed subject can then control the pronominal subject agreement on
the verb, as is the case in Hebrew in non-present tenses:
(84) a. le-Yo’av yesh bayit gadol
to-Yoav be/pres house big
‘Yoav has a big house’
b. hay-a l-a bayit gadol
be/past-1sg.masc to-her house big
‘she had a big house’
c. hay-u l-a kama batim
be/past-3pl to-her some houses
‘she had several houses’
One must note, however, the tendency in the colloquial language to re-analyze the
possessed noun back to direct object, as is apparent in (85) below, where the plural
possessed noun takes the deﬁnite-accusative (object) preﬁx, the verb agrees with the
inappropriate neutral third-person-singular, while the possessor is still marked as a dative:
(85) lo hay-a l-a et-ha-sfarim ha-’ele
neg be/past-1sg.masc to-her acc-the-books the-those
‘she didn’t have those books’
The second type of intransitive possession construction, also headed by the verb ‘be’, is
found in Bantu languages. Here the possessor is coded as the subject and the possessed as
an associative indirect object, as in Bemba (Givón 1972):
136 Syntax
(86) a. n-di no-omuana ‘I have a child’
I-be with-child
b. u-li na-abaana ‘you have children’
you-be with-children
c. a-li ne-ecitabo ‘s/he has a book’
s/he-be with-book
d. tu-li ne-eﬁtabo ‘we have books’
we-be with-books
3.3.4.4Transitivity and unspeciﬁed objects
As noted above, some languages can code many verbs with a non-prototypical patient as
syntactically transitive. But the converse is also possible. That is, many semantically-
transitive verbs that normally take a patient object can be used — in appropriate discourse
contexts — without their object, thus becoming syntactically intransitive. In most such
cases, a patient is in some sense implicit, but is either stereotypical, habitual, predictable,
non-referring or unimportant. This pattern will be discussed in further detail under the
label of antipassive (Chapter 13). As illustrations, consider:
(87) a. They ate (early)
(> Obj = food)
b. She drinks (too much)
(> Obj = liquor)
c. They hunted (for two weeks)
(> Obj = game animals)
d. He traps (every winter)
(> Obj = animals)
e. She drove (too fast)
(> Obj = her car)
f. He plowed all day
(Obj = ﬁeld)
g. He used to teach (at the highschool)
(> Obj = some subject matter)
(> IO = to the students)
h. She preached in the street
(> Obj = the Gospel)
(> IO = to people)
i. We gave at the oﬃce
(> Obj = money)
(> IO = to some charity)
3.3.5 Intransitive verbs with an indirect object
Verbs in this group take a subject and an indirect object, with the latter most commonly
marked by an adposition. They may be further divided into a number of semantic sub-
types, not all of which fall into the same syntactic type in all languages.
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 137
3.3.5.1The prototype: Verbs with a locative indirect object
Verbs in this sub-group are in some sense the prototype of intransitive verbs with an
indirect object. Their subject is either an agent or a patient, and their indirect-object is a
locative. Some of these verbs code events of motion, where the subject moves toward or
away from the locative object. Others code states of location, whereby the subject is at, on,
under, in, outside, in front of, or behind the locative object. The locative object is thus the
spatial reference point vis-a-vis which the subject either moves (event) or is located (state).
We have already noted that verbs belonging to this group semantically may be coded
syntactically as transitive (§3.3.4.3). When they belong syntactically in this group, their
object is most commonly case-marked with an adposition, aﬃx or inﬂection that speciﬁes
the locative-object’s exact semantic role. Typical examples of motion event-verbs in this
class, with agent subjects, are:
(88) Events of spatial motion
a. She walked into the yard
b. He came from Buﬀalo
c. She arrived at the house
d. They went to the market
e. It jumped over the fence
f. She slid under the couch
g. They ran up/down the street
h. He swam across the river
i. They climbed up the slope
j. She descended down the ladder
Typical examples of stative verbs of being in location are:
(89) States of spatial location
a. The book is on/under/behind/in front of the table
b. She is at/inside/out/near the house
c. They sat on/under/behind/in front of the couch
d. She lay on/under/inside/next to/away from the box
e. He stood on top of/next to/inside the house
f. They remained in the state
g. It ﬂoated on the water
Locative case-marking morphemes may be semantically rich, as in English, coding a wealth
of spatial and directional information. But they may also be semantically impoverished
(bleached), leaving the verb itself to carry much of the speciﬁc spatial information. As an
illustration, consider the four verbs ‘come’ and ‘go’ in Bemba (Bantu; Givón 1972):
(90) a. a-a-ya ku-mushi
s/he-past-go.to loc-village
‘s/he went to the village’
138 Syntax
b. a-a-shya ku-mushi
s/he-past-go.from loc-village
‘s/he went from the village’
c. a-a-isa ku-mushi
s/he-past-come.to loc-village
‘s/he came to the village’
d. a-a-fuma ku-mushi
s/he-past-come.from loc-village
‘s/he came from the village’
There are indeed languages with scant or no nominal case-marking. In such languages, all
information about the semantic role of the indirect object is coded in the verbal word, either
as part of the verb-stem meaning, or by speciﬁc aﬃxes. As an example of such an extreme
case, consider Machiguenga (Campa Arawak), were only one nominal case-marker exists,
a semantically-bleached locative suﬃx. Machiguenga is a verb–subject–object (VSO)
language with obligatory subject pronominal agreement on the verb, by a preﬁx. Object
pronominal agreement, by a suﬃx, is optional and depends on whether the object is topical
(thus the direct object) or not. Thus consider (Betty Snell, in personal communication):
(91) a. Intransitive (no DO)
impogini i-kam-ana-i o-ime
then 3masc-die-dir-real 3fem-husband
‘then her husband died’
b. Transitive (topical patient = DO)
i-ma-ig-an-ak-a-ro-tyo o-tineri iroro-ri
3masc-do.same-pl-dir-perf-tr-3fem-exc 3fem-son.in.law her-conj
‘her son-in-law treated her the same way and’
c. Intransitive (non-topical patient)
i-aga-vage-t-i-ra o-tineri i-vatsa
3masc-get-dur-ep-real-sub 3fem-son-in-law 3masc/cl-meat
‘when her son-in-law got meat’
d. Transitive (topical Assoc = DO)
o-mag-imo-t-a-i-ri o-tineri
3fem-sleep-assoc-ep-hab-real-3masc 3fem-son.in.law
‘she was living with her son-in-law’
e. Intransitive (non-topical Assoc)
o-mag-imo-ig-a-i o-ishinto
3fem-sleep-assoc-pl-hab-real 3fem-daughter
‘she was living with her daughters’
f. Transitive (topical Dat = DO)
o-gi-ako-t-ak-e-ri o-tineri
3fem-wait-dat-ep-perf-ep-3masc 3fem-son.in.law
‘she waited for her son-in-law’
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 139
g. Intransitive (no DO)
o-gi-ak-i anta
3fem-wait-perf-real there
‘she waited there’
h. Transitive (topical Dat = DO)
o-netsa-ako-vage-t-ak-i-ro o-shinto
3fem-yearn-dat-cont-ep-perf-real-3fem 3fem-daughter
‘she was yearning for her daughter’
i. Intransitive (non-topical Dat; no DO)
o-netsa-ako-vage-t-ak-i kamona
3fem-yearn-dat-cont-ep-perf-real chonta.palm
‘she was yearning for some chonta-palm’
j. Locative (no DO)
o-a-t-i anta kaara-se-ku
3fem-go.to-ep-real there garbage-dens-loc
‘she went to the garbage dump’
k. Locative (no DO)
o-pok-i kaara-se-ku
3fem-come.to-real garbage-dens-loc
‘she came to the garbage dump’
l. Locative (no DO)
no-m-mag-ak-e-tyo anta kaara-se
1-irr-sleep-real-ep-excl there garbage-dens
‘I’ll lived at the garbage dump’
m. Bi-transitive (topical Dat = obligatory DO)
o-m-p-u-t-e-na no-shinto kamona
3fem-irr-give-dir-ep-irr-1 1-daughter chonta.palm
‘my daughters may give me chonta-palm’
With all this kept in mind, we will for the moment go along with the clearly outdated
convention that the syntactic structure of clauses such as (88) and (89) involves a preposi-
tional phrase (PP) in the indirect object slot. Given what we have just seen in Machiguenga,
as well as our earlier general discussion (§3.2.2), we know that the diﬀerence between
direct and indirect object need not be a matter of case-marking morphology (see also
Chapter 4, §4.3.4). Still, for (88d):
140 Syntax
(92) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
V IO
[PP]
went
PRO
They
P NP
to
Art N
the market
3.3.5.2Verbs with dative or patient indirect object
Verbs in this sub-group take an indirect object, and thus ﬁt the syntactic frame (92).
Semantically, however, they diverge from the locative indirect-object prototype. This
semantic departure may again be viewed as a metaphoric extension of the locative
prototype. Many verbs in this sub-group involve mental activity, with the subject being
either an agent or a dative, and the object either dative or patient. Marking such objects
with a directional-locative case marking somehow makes it possible to construe them
metaphorically as spatial target — or source — of the subject’s metaphoric motion. The
moving entity, however, is not the subject itself but rather the subject’s voice, vision,
attention, feelings or thoughts. As illustrations, consider:
(93) a. She looked at him
b. He listened to her/the music
c. They thought/knew/talked/learned about him
d. She was angry/disappointed/mad at him
e. He shouted/screamed at him
f. They talked to her
g. I’ll attend to that
h. She heard from him last night
The metaphoric sense of motion involved in constructions such as (93) can be shown by
contrasting two pairs of semantically related verbs, respectively:
(94) a. She saw him
b. She looked at him
c. She heard him
d. She listened to him
Verbs such as see and hear code states. Their subject is a conscious dative, not an active
agent. Whatever moves, however metaphorically (light, sounds), moves from the object to
the subject. In contrast, verbs such as look at and listen to code events. Their subject is an
active agent, and whatever moves — visual or auditory attention — is more aptly con-
strued as moving from the agent-subject to the object.
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 141
3.3.5.3Verbs with an associative indirect object
Some syntactically intransitive verbs code reciprocal events, where the subject is an agent
and the indirect object an associative co-agent. Quite often, these verbs may take two other
patterns:
•A transitive pattern with the associative as direct object;
•A reciprocal pattern with the two participants conjoined as co-subjects.
Thus consider:
(95) a. Intransitive: Mary fought with her mother
b. Transitive: Mary fought her mother
c. Conjoined: Mary and her mother fought (each other)
(96) a. Intransitive: Bill met with John
b. Transitive: Bill met John
c. Conjoined: Bill and John met (each other)
(97) a. Intransitive: Susan joined with Bill (in the project)
b. Transitive: Susan joined Bill (for lunch)
c. Conjoined: Susan and Bill joined (together)
Some potentially-reciprocal verbs may prefer one syntactic pattern over the other, as in the
case with embrace and kiss in English:
(98) a. Intransitive:*Mary embraced with John
b. Transitive: Mary embraced John
c. Conjoined: Mary and John embraced
d. Intransitive:*Mary kissed with John
e. Transitive: Mary kissed John
f. Conjoined: Mary and John kissed
3.3.6 Bi-transitive verbs
3.3.6.1Preamble
Bi-transitive verbs code events with three obligatory participants, one taking the role of
syntactic subject, the other two of objects. Of the two objects, one assumes the syntactic
role of direct object, the other of indirect object, although a certain amount of cross-
language variation sometimes obscures this.
The subject of bi-transitive verbs is typically an agent, and one of the objects most com-
monly a patient. Bi-transitive verbs thus conform, in the main, to our transitive prototype,
although metaphoric extensions of various kinds are possible and indeed are common.
The indirect object of bi-transitive verbs may code a variety of semantic roles, whose
classiﬁcation is highly predictive of the bi-transitive verb’s syntactic behavior. Unfortunate-
ly, we are not yet in the position to enter into much of the syntactic detail here, which
presupposes a more systematic treatment of grammatical relations and, in particular, of
direct objecthood. These issues will be treated more explicitly in Chapter 4 (§4.5).
142 Syntax
3.3.6.2The bi-transitive prototype: Locative indirect object
Verbs in this sub-group code events in which a deliberate agent (the subject) causes the
movement of the patient (direct object) to or from some location (indirect object). Typical
examples are:
(99) a. He put the book on the table
b. She sent the merchandise to the store
c. They took the book oﬀ the shelf
d. They removed him from the premises
e. She brought the horse into the barn
f. He poured the water out of the cup
g. They carries her across the river
h. She planted the seedlings in the ground
The syntactic structure of such bi-transitive clauses is given in the tree-diagram (100)
below, representing (99a):
(100) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
V IO
[PP]
put
PRO
He
P NP
on
book
the
Art N
the table
Obj
[NP]
Art N
3.3.6.3Dative-Benefactive objects
Bi-transitive verbs in this group code events in which one object is a dative or benefactive
participant, the other a patient that moves to or from the dative-benefactive. Since the
event itself is often an abstract metaphor on physical motion, the patient is often also more
abstract and metaphoric.
Some verbs in this group retain the sense of concrete motion — transfer — to or from
a location. Diachronically, these verbs may have well been the metaphoric bridge that made
the further extension from the locative prototype possible.
In many languages, verbs in this group show a systematic alternation of direct-object
assignment between the patient and the dative-benefactive, a variation less likely in the bi-
transitive locative prototype:
(101) a. She gave the book to him (DO = patient)
b. She gave him a book (DO = dative)
c. She sent the book to him (DO = patient)
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 143
d. She sent him the book (DO = dative)
e. They brought the message to her (DO = patient)
f. They brought her a message (DO = dative)
g. He shipped the books to her (DO = patient)
h. He shipped her two books (DO = dative)
i. He took the food to her (DO = patient)
j. He took her some food (DO = dative)
k. She sold the house to them (DO = patient)
l. She sold them a house (DO = dative)
The variant construction with dative DO (101b,d,f,h,j,l) is often referred to as dative-
shifted. But some verbs superﬁcially in this group do not show it, and thus seem to behave
— at least in English — like the bi-transitive locative prototype. For example, verbs coding
transfer from the dative object allow no such variation in English:
(102) a. She received a book from him
b. *She received him a book
c. She took the book from him
d. *She took him a book
e. He bought the house from them
f. *He bought them a house
Example (102d) is perfectly acceptable, but it can only be interpreted as motion to (as in
(101j)), but not as the paraphrase of (102c). Likewise, (102f) is perfectly acceptable with a
goal dative-benefactive sense, but not with a source sense.
Physical transfer verbs such as ‘send’ or ‘take’ can only show the dative-shifted variant
if their locational goal is human. With a non-human goal, they revert to the locative
prototype of put. Thus compare:
(103) a. She sent the box to the store
b. *She sent it the box
c. She took the hay to the barn
d. *She took it the hay
e. He put the book on the table
f. *He put it a book
The more abstract verbs in this group readily show the dative-shifted variant, as in:
(104) a. He told the story to his son
b. He told him a story
c. She showed the house to him
d. She showed him the house
e. They taught French to their children
f. They taught them French
g. He promised the car to her
h. He promised her a car
144 Syntax
i. She did a favor for him
j. She did him a favor
k. They asked a question of him
l. They asked him a question
In many languages, the verbs in (104), as well as all others in this group that require a
human goal, can only appear in the dative-shifted construction. That is, the dative-
benefactive is obligatorily their direct object. As an illustration, consider Lunda-Ndembu
(Bantu; Kawasha 1999):
(105) a. n-e-enka mwaana mukaanda
I-past-give child book
‘I gave the child a book’
b. n-a-mw-inka mukaana
I-past-him/her-give book
‘I gave him/her a book’
c. *n-e-enka mukaanda mwaana
I-past-give book child
(*‘I gave a book to the child’)
d. *n-a-w-inka mwaana
I-past-it-give child
(*‘I gave it to the child’)
e. n-a-mw-inka-wu
n-past-him/her-give-it
‘I gave it to him/her’
f. *n-a-w-inka-yi
I-past-it-give-him/her
The very same restriction is shown when a simple transitive verb takes an optional
benefactive object:
(106) a. n-a-teleka mbutu
I-past-cook seeds
‘I cooked the seeds’
b. n-a-telek-ila mwana mbutu
I-past-cook-ben child seeds
‘I cooked the child some seeds’
c. *n-a-telek-ela mbutu mwana
I-past-cook-ben seeds child
(*‘I cooked the seeds for the child’)
d. n-a-mu-telekk-ela mbutu
I-past-him/her-cook-ben seeds
‘I cooked him/her some seeds’
e. *n-a-zhi-telek-ela mwana
I-past-them-cook-ben child
(*‘I cooked them for the child’)
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 145
f. n-a-mu-telekek-ela-zhu
I-past-him/her-cook-ben-it
‘I cooked them for him’
g. *n-a-zhi-telek-ela-yi
I-past-them-cook-ben-him
In contrast, prototype bi-transitive verbs with locative objects, such as put, allow no dative-
shifting. And verbs like send or carry behave like put when their object is a non-human
locative, as in:
(107) Non-human location
a. n-a-twala mbutu ku-mukala
I-past-take seeds loc-village
‘I took the seeds to the village’
b. n-a-zhi-twala ku-mukala
I-past-them-took loc-village
‘I took them to the village’
c. *n-a-twala-ku mbutu
I-past-take-loc seeds
(*‘I took there the/some seeds’)
d. (mbutu,) n-a-zhi-twala-ku
(seeds,) I-past-them-take-loc
‘(the seeds,) I took them there’
e. *n-a-ku-twala-zhu
I-past-there-take-them
(*‘I took there them’)
When the goal-object is a human recipient, on the other hand, dative shifting is a viable
option, but requires the same benefactive verb suﬃx as in (106):
(108) Human recipient
a. n-a-twala mbutu kudi-taata
I-past-take seeds loc/hum-father
‘I took the seeds to my father’
b. n-a-zhi-twala kudi-taata
I-past-them-take loc/hum-father
‘I took them to my father’
c. *n-a-mu-twala mbutu
I-past-him-take seeds
d. n-a-twal-ila taata mbutu
I-past-take-ben father seeds
‘I took father some seeds’
e. *n-a-twal-ile mbutu taata
I-past-take-ben seeds father
146 Syntax
f. n-a-mu-twal-ila mbutu
I-past-him-take-ben seeds
‘I took him some seeds’
g. *n-a-zhi-twal-ila taata
I-past-them-take-ben father
(*‘I took them my father’)
h. n-a-mu-twal-ila-zhu
I-past-him-take-ben-them
‘I took him some of them’
i. *n-a-zhi-twal-ila-yi
I-past-them-take-ben-him
(*‘I took them to him’)
The variant structures with the dative-benefactive as indirect object share the same
syntactic structure as (100) above. The dative-shifted variants, in both English and Lunda,
must be characterized as:
(109) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
V IO
[NP]
Art N
a book
him
gave
She
Obj
[NP]
PRO
PRO
Dative-shifted constructions make it clear once again that case-making morphology is not
by itself a determining factor in characterizing an object syntactically as either direct or
indirect.
3.3.6.4Alternating instrumental-locative objects
Bi-transitive verbs of this sub-group have one locative and one instrumental object. In
English, these verbs are often paired, and then code semantically near-identical events. One
member of the pair takes the instrumental as its indirect object and the locative as direct.
The other shows the reverse pattern, with the locative as indirect object and the instrumen-
tal as direct. Thus consider:
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 147
(110) locative io instrumental io
a.put/pour x into y
b.take x out of y
c.put/spread x on y
d.take x from y
e.steal x from y
e.give x to y
f.wrap/tie x around y
g.place x around y
h.stick/thrust x into y
i.spray x on y
ﬁll y with x
empty y of x
cover y with x
deprive y of x
rob y of x
supply y with x
wrap/tie y with x
surround y with x
stab/pierce y with x
spray y with x
In other languages, this alternation is found without any verb alternation. As an illustration
of this, consider Bemba (Bantu; Givón 1972):
(111) a. n-a-cimine ifumo mu-muti
I-past-stick spear in-tree
‘I stuck the spear in the tree’
b. n-a-cimine umuti ne-efumo
I-past-pierce tree with-spear
‘I pierced the tree with the spear’
c. n-a-kaka insalu ku-lukasa lwaakwe
I-wrap cloth loc-foot his
‘I wrapped the cloth around his foot’
d. n-a-kaka ulukasa lwaakwe ne-ensala
I-past-wrap foot his with-cloth
‘I wrapped his foot with cloth’
e. n-a-kupa insalu pa-nshi
I-past-spread cloth on-ground
‘I spread the cloth on the ground’
f. n-a-kupa inshi ne-ensalu
I-past-cover ground with-cloth
‘I covered the ground with cloth’
g. n-a-loonga ameenshi mu-mupika
I-past-pour water in-put
‘I poured the water into the pot’
h. n-a-loonga umupika na-ameenshi
I-past-ﬁll pot with-water
‘I ﬁlled the pot with water’
While the paired variants in (110) and (111) seem to code virtually the same physical
events, they code it from two diﬀerent perspectives. Semantically ﬁrst, the participant
coded as direct object is somehow viewed as more aﬀected, thus more like the prototype
patient. This can be illustrated with the alternation in:
148 Syntax
(112) a. She sprayed the paint on the wall
b. She sprayed the wall with paint
Variant (112a) implies that all the paint was used up, but not necessarily the entire wall
painted. The direct object paint is thus construed as being more thoroughly aﬀected. In
contrast, variant (112b) implies that the entire wall was painted, but not necessarily all the
paint used up. The direct object wall is now construed as more aﬀected.
Pragmatically too, the participant coded as direct object tends to be more topical than
the one coded as indirect object. This may be illustrated by adding some context to
(112a,b), thus topicalizing either one object or the other:
(113) a. Context: What did you do with the paint?
(i) I sprayed it on the wall.
(ii)?I sprayed the wall with it.
b. Context: What did you do to the wall?
(i) I sprayed it with paint.
(ii)?I sprayed the paint on it.
3.3.6.5Verbs with two apparent direct objects
As noted above, the fact that two objects are similarly marked (or unmarked) by morphol-
ogy does not, of itself, make both direct (or indirect) objects. Word order, pronominal
agreement and other grammatical criteria (see Chapter 4) commonly tag only one of them
as the direct object. In (114) below, for example, the semantic role of the second object
seems to be that of a predicate noun:
(114) a. They elected Mary President
(> to be the President)
b. They appointed Mary Chair
(> to be the Chair)
c. They consider this man their chief
(> to be their chief)
d. She deemed her marriage a ﬁasco
(> to be a ﬁasco)
Of the two morphologically-unmarked apparent objects in (114), only the ﬁrst can be
made an anaphoric pronoun:
(115) a. They elected her President
b. *They elected him/it Mary
c. They appointed her Chair
d. *They appointed him/it Mary
e. They consider him their chief
f. *They consider him/it this man
g. She deemed it a ﬁasco
h. *She deemed it her marriage
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 149
Likewise, only the ﬁrst object can be made the subject of a passive clause:
(116) a. Mary was elected President
b. *The President was elected Mary
c. Mary was appointed Chair
d. *The chair was appointed Mary
e. This man was considered their chief
f. *Their chief was considered this man
g. Her marriage was deemed a ﬁasco
h. *A ﬁasco was deemed her marriage
3.3.6.6Three-object verbs?
A number of verbs, all coding transactions or exchange events, seem to have three
semantically-obligatory objects: The transferred patient, most commonly the syntactic
direct object; a human-dative source or goal; and the exchange commodity. Both of the latter
can be marked syntactically as indirect objects, although the goal object may be made the
direct object via dative-shifting:
(117) a. He bought the book from Mary for ﬁve dollars
b. They sold the house to Jane for peanuts
(They sold her the house for peanuts)
c. She traded her old Honda to Joe for his Chevy
(She traded him her Honda for his Chevy)
In actual usage, these verbs most commonly appear with only one of their indirect objects.
That is, as syntactically bi-transitive verbs:
(118) a. She bought the book for ﬁve dollars
b. She bought a book from Joe
c. She bought a book for her daughter
3.3.7 Verbs with clausal (verbal) complements
The syntax and semantics of verbs that take a clause — thus another predicate — as their
complement will be treated in considerable detail in Chapter 12. At this juncture, we will
divide these verbs into their major semantic and syntactic sub-types.
3.3.7.1Modality verbs
Modality verbs form a coherent group, both in terms of the range of meanings they code
and their syntactic structure. Semantically, the group as a whole may be characterized as:
(119) Semantic characterization of modality verbs
a. The complement clause is semantically a proposition, coding a state
or an event.
b. The subject of the main clause is co-referent to — i.e. refers to the same
discourse entity as — the subject of the complement clause.
150 Syntax
c. The main verb codes either inception, termination, persistence, success,
failure, attempt, intent, obligation or ability — by the subject of the main
clause — to perform the action or be in the state that is depicted in the
complement clause.
Syntactically, modality verbs may be characterized as:
(120) Syntactic characterization of modality verbs
a. The co-referent subject of the complement clause is left unexpressed (zero).
b. The complement-clause verb may appear, in many languages, in an inﬁni-
tive or nominalized form (see Chapter 12), commonly lacking any tense,
aspect, modality or pronominal (agreement) morphology.
c. The complement clause tends to appear in the characteristic object posi-
tion, and is normally packed under the same intonation contour with the
main clause.
As a prototypical modality verb, consider want:
(121) Mary wanted to leave the house
complement
The complex construction in (121) harbors, at least implicitly, two separate clauses, each
with its implicit event/state proposition and argument structure:
(122) a. Main clause: Mary wanted [Comp]
b. Complement clause: Mary leave(s) the house
c. Combination: Mary wanted to leave the house
d. Main clause: Marvin ﬁnished [Comp]
e. Complement clause: Marvin do(es) the dishes
f. Combination: Marvin ﬁnished doing the dishes
The syntactic structure of (121) is given in the tree-diagram:
(123) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
V
Subj
[NP]
Comp
[S]
VP
V Obj
[NP]
Art N
the
to-leave
[ ]
Ø
wanted
Mary house
Name
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 151
Modality verbs may be further divided into two major semantic sub-groups:
•Modal attitude: volition, intent, attempt, ability, necessity, probability;
•Aspectuality: initiation, duration, achievement, termination.
Modal attitudes may be further divided into positive and negative ones:
(124) a. Positive modal attitude
want, intend, plan, hope, expect, decide, agree, try, can/could, must, shall/
should, may/might
b. Negative modal attitude
refused, be afraid, be reluctant
Aspectual verbs may be divided into a number of semantic sub-groups:
(125) a. Initiation: start, begin, commence
b. Duration: continue, persist, go on, keep doing, be doing
c. Termination: ﬁnish, stop
d. Success: succeed, manage, remember, be able
e. Failure: fail, avoid, decline, forget, shirk
Most of the verbs of modal attitude (124) fall into a non-implicative logical pattern
(Karttunen 1971), whereby the truth of the main clause does not necessarily imply the
truth of the complement clause:
(126) a. Mary wanted to leave …
/ Mary left
b. Mary was reluctant to leave …
/ Mary didn’t leave
In contrast, most aspectual verbs fall into an implicative logical pattern, where the truth of
the main clause does imply the truth of its complement:4
(127) a. She started working … She worked
b. She continued to work … She worked
c. She ﬁnished working … She has worked
d. He managed to leave … He left
e. They failed to arrive … They didn’t arrive
3.3.7.2Manipulation verbs
Manipulation verbs form a coherent group both semantically and syntactically. They may
be deﬁned semantically as:
(128) Semantic deﬁnition of manipulation verbs
a. The main clause has a human agent that manipulates the behavior of an-
other human, the manipulee.
b. The agent of the complement clause is co-referential with the manipulee of
the main clause.
c. The complement clause codes the target event to be performed by the
manipulee.
152 Syntax
Syntactically, manipulation verbs may be deﬁned as:
(129) Syntactic deﬁnition of manipulation verbs
a. The agent of the main clause is the subject.
b. The manipulee of the main clause is either the direct object or indirect object.
c. The manipulee is also the coreferent-subject of the complement clause,
where it is left unexpressed (zero).
d. The complement-clause verb often appear in a non-ﬁnite or nominalized
form, lacking any tense, aspect, modality or pronominal agreement
morphology.
The entire complex clause — main clause and its complement — again harbors, at least
implicitly, two separate clauses, each with its implicit event/state proposition and argument
structure:
(130) a. Main clause: She told John [Comp]
b. Complement clause: John leave(s) the house
c. Combination: She told John to leave the house
d. Main clause: He made Mary [Comp]
e. Complement clause: Mary do(es) the dishes
f. Combination: He made Mary do the dishes
A tree-diagram of the syntactic structure of the complex clause (130c) is given in:
(131) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
V
Subj
[NP]
Comp
[S]
VP
V NP
Art N
the
to-leave
[Ø]
John
told
She house
PRO
Obj
[NP]
Name
Manipulation verbs are further sub-divided according to their semantic properties.
(132) a. Successful manipulation
cause, make, have, force, trick, help, let, persuade, enable, tempt
b. Successful prevention
prevent, block, stop, dissuade, scare out of, talk out of
c. Attempted manipulation
tell, order, permit, allow, ask, suggest, encourage, beg, want, expect
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 153
d. Attempted prevention
forbid, tell not to, enjoin from
Verbs of successful manipulation are logically implicative, in that the truth of the main
clause implies the truth of its complement:
(133) a. She made him leave … He left
b. She prevented him from leaving … He didn’t leave
Verbs of attempted manipulation, on the other hand, are logically non-implicative, in that
the truth of the main clause does not necessarily imply the truth of its complement:
(134) a. He told her to leave …
/ She left
b. He forbade her to leave …
/ She didn’t leave
3.3.7.3Perception, cognition or utterance (PCU) verbs
3.3.7.3.1General characteristics. The subject of verbs in this important group either perceives
or cognizes a state or event, or utter a proposition concerning a state or event. The
perceived, cognized or uttered proposition is coded in the complement clause. The
complement clause thus functions, in a way, as the object of the mental or verbal activity
depicted in the main-clause, although there are good syntactic reasons for not assigning it
the direct-object role (see Chapter 12).
The semantic deﬁnition of PCU verbs is:
(135) Semantic deﬁnition of PCU verbs
a. The verb in the main clause codes either a mental state or event (perception,
cognition) or a verbal act (utterance).
b. The subject of the verb is either a dative or agent.
c. The complement-clause state or event is the object of the main-clause state
or event.
The syntactic deﬁnition of PCU verbs is:
(136) Syntactic deﬁnition of PCU verbs
a. No co-reference restrictions hold between the subject or object of the main
and the subject of the complement clause.
b. The complement clause is more likely to have the normal ﬁnite structure of
a main clause (no zero subject).
c. The subordinate clause may be preceded by a subordinator morpheme.
Typical examples of constructions with PCU verbs and their clausal complements are:
(137) main complement
a.Perception: She saw
b.Cognition: He knew
c.Utterance: The say
(that) she was leaving
(that) she had done it
(that) she’s going to recover
154 Syntax
The syntactic structure of such complex clauses is given in the tree-diagram (138) below,
corresponding to (137b):
(138) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
V Comp
[S]
knew (that) she had done it
PRO
He
In terms of their logical properties, PCU verbs may be further divided into factive and non-
factive verbs. Factive verbs are those whose complement is true when the main clause is
either true or false (positive-factive); or false when the main clause is either true or false
(negative-factive). Thus compare (Karttunen 1971):
(139) Positive-factive
a. She knew that John loved her
(… John loved her)
b. She didn’t know that John loved her
(… John loved her)
Negative-factive
c. He pretended that he knew her
(… He didn’t know her)
d. He didn’t pretend that he knew her
(… He didn’t know her)
Non-factive verbs, on the other hand, carry no such presupposition. That is:
(140) a. She thought that he was a liar
(…
/ He was a liar)
b. She didn’t think that he was a liar
(…
/ He wasn’t a liar)
The most common verbs (or verb senses) in the various logical sub-groups are:
(141) a. Factive
(i) Positive: know, understand, learn, ﬁnd out, see, remember, forget,
regret, be aware
(ii) Negative: pretend, lie
b. Non-factive
(i) Positive: think, believe, guess, suspect, suppose, assume, be sure, hope,
decide, wish, agree, hear, feel, say, claim, ask, demand, hope, expect
(ii) Negative: doubt, wonder, be afraid, deny
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 155
PCU verbs can be further divided into those that carry a purely epistemic modality, i.e. code
various shades of truth, knowledge, belief or certainty; and those that carry a deontic
modality, i.e. code preference or valuation. While factive verbs tend to carry mostly an
epistemic modality, non-factive verbs may carry either:
(142) a. Epistemic: think, doubt, believe, guess, suspect, assume, be sure, decide,
hear, feel, say, claim, ask, agree, suppose, wonder, deny, (expect)
b. Deontic: wish, hope, be afraid, demand, (expect)
Finally, one may as well note that the perception verbs in this group — see, hear, feel — do
not necessarily code direct sensory perception, but often mental inference or indirect
perception. This may bee seen by comparing two types of complements, one of direct
perception (143a,c,e), the other of inference or indirect perception (143b,d,f):
(143) a. She saw him leaving the store
b. She saw that he had left the store
c. He heard her singing in the garden
d. He heard that she was singing in the garden
e. She felt his constant rudeness
f. She felt that he was constantly rude
3.3.7.3.2Direct-quote complements. The complements of PCU verbs described above were
all of the indirect-quote type. However, utterance verbs can — and in many languages indeed
must — take direct-quote complements. The contrast between the two types may be seen in:
(144) a. Indirect quote
She said (that) she wasn’t sure.
b. Direct quote
She said: “I’m not sure”.
Predictably, direct quote complements (144b) constitute a more verbatim rendition of the
quoted speech, with the speaker-quoter taking more responsibility — and legal culpability
— for the exact form of the quotation, often including mimicry and gestures. Somewhat
paradoxically, while taking responsibility for the exact form, the speaker also disclaims
responsibility for the contents of the direct-quoted information.
In contrast, indirect quotes such as (144a) are much more heavily edited by the speaker,
and are not meant to represent the exact form of the quoted speech. They thus display
more of the quoter’s interpretation of the quoted information. While not taking great
responsibility for the form of the indirectly-quoted speech, the speaker now takes more
responsibility for its contents.
The diﬀerence in responsibility for the contents of the quoted information is highlighted
by the anchoring of deictic operators such as speaker-hearer pronouns, demonstrative
and deictic adverbs. Those placed inside a direct-quote complement are indexed to the
main-verb’s subject. Those inside indirect-quote complements are indexed to the speaker.
Thus compare:
156 Syntax
(145) a. Mary said: “I hate you!”
(I = Mary; you = Mary’s interlocutor)
b. Mary said that I hated you
(I = me; you = my interlocutor)
c. Joe said: “She’s not here, she’s there!”
(here = near Joe; there = away from Joe)
d. Joe said that she’s not here but there
(here = near me; there = away from me)
e. Mary said: “I’d rather have this one than that one”
(this = near Mary; that = away from Mary)
f. Mary said that she’s rather have this one than that one
(this = near me; that = away from me)
g. Joe said: “I wanted it then, not now!”
(then = before Joe’s speech-time; now = at Joe’s speech time)
h. Joe said that he didn’t want it then but rather now
(then = before my speech time; now = at my speech time)
There are cogent reasons for suspecting that direct-quote complements should not be
described as syntactically embedded, but we will not pursue the issue here.
3.3.7.3.3Embedded questions as complements. A sub-set of PCU verbs can also take
embedded question complements, in addition to the declarative complements described
above. They seem to be mostly epistemic verbs of lower certainty, although their exact
semantic characterization is not exhausted by this observation. The two sub-types of such
complements correspond to the two main question types, yes/no-questions and wh-ques-
tions (Chapter 17).
Embedded yes/no-question complements may be better described as embedded
conditional clauses (Chapter 18), which in many languages diﬀer syntactically from yes/no-
questions. Thus in English, yes/no-questions exhibit word-order inversion (or the use of the
auxiliary do), but embedded yes/no-question complements don’t:
(146) Embedded yes/no-question (conditional) complements
a. She didn’t know if it was going to work
b. He doubted if it would pass
c. I wonder whether she is still there
d. I’m not sure if they really did that
Corresponding yes/no-questions
e. Was it going to work?
f. Will it pass?
g. Is she still there?
h. Did they really do that?
wh-question complements indeed resemble wh-questions, but at least in English they diﬀer
syntactically, again in terms of word-order and the auxiliary do:
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 157
(147) Embedded wh-question complements
a. I didn’t know who did it
b. She wasn’t sure who he saw
c. Do you remember where she was?
d. I forget when she is supposed to come
Corresponding yes/no-questions
e. Who did it?
f. Who did he see?
g. Where was she?
h. When is she supposed to come?
3.3.7.3.4Information verbs. A number of PCU verbs, all seemingly utterance or communi-
cation verbs such as tell, inform, ask, convince, persuade or lie to, can take a dative direct or
indirect object in addition to their clausal complement, as in:
(148) a. She told him (that) she was leaving
b. He informed her (that) she lost her job
c. They didn’t tell him why it happened
d. She asked him whether he was ready to quit
e. They didn’t tell him who did it
The syntactic structure of such clauses is given in the tree-diagram (149), representing
(148a) above:
(149) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
V Comp
[S]
told (that) she was leaving
PRO
She
Obj
[NP]
him
3.3.7.4Verbs with clausal subjects
A number of predicates, both verbs and adjectives, may take an event or state proposition
as their clausal subject. Being abstract and inanimate, the clausal subject must be consid-
ered as a semantic patient of state. The clausal subject may appear syntactically as a full-
ﬂedged clause in the characteristic subject position, or in the position normally reserved for
clausal complements. When the second pattern appears, a dummy pronoun most common-
ly occupies the syntactic subject position, one that should be considered as co-referential
with the clausal complement. These constructions may be further divided into intransitive
and transitive ones.
158 Syntax
3.3.7.4.1Intransitive clausal-subject constructions. The predicates in this group are semanti-
cally stative and syntactically intransitive. In English, most of them are lexical adjectives,
and may be further sub-divided into three semantic sub-classes:
(150) a. Epistemic: be true, be false, be likely, be improbable, be incredible, be
expected, seem, appear, sound
b. Evaluative: be nice, be good, be terrible, be terriﬁc, be shocking
c. Diﬃculty: be diﬃcult, be easy, be impossible
Quite often, a dative-experiencer participant is implicit in these constructions, one that is
responsible for the epistemic or evaluative judgement. In the case of the epistemic and
evaluative predicates, that implicit participant is usually the speaker. And their clausal
complements are full-ﬂedged ﬁnite clauses, of the same general form as complements of
PCU verbs. That is:
(151) Epistemic
a. That he did it is incredible (to me)
b. It is incredible (to me) that he did it
Evaluative
c. That you came is nice (for me)
d. It is nice (for me) that you came
The PS tree-diagrams representing the two syntactic variants, for (151a) and (151b), are
given in (152) and (153) below, respectively:
(152) S
VP
Subj
[NP]
Cop Adj
be
is incredible
That he did it
(153) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
Cop Comp
[S]
is that he did it
PRO
It
Adj
incredible
be
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 159
In the case of diﬃculty predicates, the implicit dative participant is semantically the agent
of the clausal subject. That subject may be either the speaker or a generic ‘one’, in which
case it is most commonly left unexpressed. But it can also be, and often is, a speciﬁc third
party. In which case it is explicitly coded either in the complement-clause itself or
elsewhere in the construction. Thus compare:
(154) Implicit speaker/generic subject
a. To do it is easy (for me/one)
b. It is easy to do it (for me/one)
Explicit speciﬁc subject
c. For her to do it was easy
d. It was easy for her to do it
The co-reference condition in such constructions, whether implicit or explicit, makes their
complement clauses resemble more the non-ﬁnite complements of modality or manipula-
tion verbs. The tree-diagrams representing such structures are given in (155) and (156)
below, corresponding to (154a) and (154b), respectively:
(155) S
VP
Subj
[S]
Cop Adj
be
is easy
For her to do it
(156) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
Cop Comp
[S]
was for her to do it
PRO
It
Adj
easy
be
3.3.7.4.2Transitive clausal-subject constructions. Semantically, the verbs in this group tend
to have a dative direct object, thus one that is mentally aﬀected by the state or event in the
clausal subject. Verbs in this class express either epistemic or evaluative (deontic) attitudes:
(157) a. Epistemic: surprise
b. Evaluative: shock, horrify, please, disappoint, gratify
Two syntactic patterns are again possible here, with the clausal subject appearing either as
the syntactic subject or the complement, as in:
160 Syntax
(158) a. Clausal subject
That she did it shocked him
b. Clausal complement
It shocked him that she did it
The tree-diagrams representing the two alternative patterns in (158a) and (158b) are given
in (159) and (160) below, respectively:
(159) S
VP
Subj
[S]
V Obj
[NP]
shocked him
That she did it
PRO
(160) S
Subj
[NP]
VP
V Comp
[S]
shocked that she did it
PRO
It
Obj
[NP]
him
One may as well note, lastly, that for both the intransitive and transitive verbs with a
semantic clausal subject, most languages allow only the complement syntactic pattern. This
preference may be illustrated in Swahili (Bantu), where verbs in this class are regularly
derived with the stative suﬃx -ikana:
(161) a. Clausal complement
y-a-wez-ekana kuwa Juma a-li-kufa
it-hab-can-stat sub Juma s/he-past-die
‘It is possible that Juma died’
b. Clausal subject
*kuwa Juma a-li-kufa y-a-wez-ekana
sub Juma s/he-past-die it-hab-can-stat
3.3.8 Multiple membership in verb classes
Quite a few verbs can belong to more than one semantic — thus also syntactic — verb-
class. Such multiple membership is often systematic, in the sense that many verbs may
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 161
reveal the same multiple membership pattern. For example, tell or ask may be either simple
transitive verbs like kill, manipulation verbs like force, or information verbs. That is:
(162) a. Transitive: She told him a story
b. Manipulation: She told him to bug oﬀ
c. Informative: She told him that his timing was oﬀ
Similarly, know or say may be either simple transitive verbs or a PCU verbs, as in:
(163) a. Transitive: He said his prayers
b. Utterance: He said that there was no juice left
Likewise, forget or remember may either be simple transitive verbs, intransitive with an
indirect object, modality verb, or PCU verbs. Respectively:
(164) a. Transitive: She forgot her husband
b. Intransitive: She forgot about dinner
c. Modality: She forgot to cook dinner
d. Cognition: She forgot that dinner was at nine
Similarly, ‘want/wish’ may be either a simple transitive verb, a modality verb, a manipula-
tion verb or a cognition verb. Respectively:
(165) a. Transitive: He wanted a new car
b. Modality: He wanted to leave
c. Manipulation: He wanted her to leave
b. Cognition: He wished that she would leave
The gist of this discussion is that semantic and syntactic characterization is not assigned to
the verb as a sequence of sounds, but rather to a particular sense of the verb. And verbs, like
other words, may be polysemous, and their various senses may be systematically related.
3.4 Optional participant case-roles
Most verbal clause-types, both transitive and intransitive, can take, in addition to their
obligatory participants, also some optional arguments. Most commonly, these are added
as indirect objects, but at least one of them commonly claims the direct-object slot,
displacing the obligatory patient.
The most commonly found optional participant roles are, ﬁrst with intransitive verbs:
(166) a. Benefactive: He works for his uncle
b. Instrument: She ran with Nike shoes
c. Associative: He escaped with his brother
d. Manner: She ate like a pig
e. Locative: He smoked in the kitchen
f. Temporal: She slept during the day
162 Syntax
And with intransitive verbs:
(167) a. Benefactive: He washed two shirts for her
b. Instrument: She chopped wood with an old axe
c. Associative: He managed the ranch with his sister
d. Manner: They ﬁnished supper in a hurry
e. Locative: She killed him in the barn
f. Temporal: He met her at noon
There are strong grounds for suspecting that at least four types of optional case-roles —
benefactive, instrumental, associative and manner — are verb-phrase constituents,
although we will not review the argument in detail here. In contrast, optional locatives and
temporals are most likely clause-level constituents. Indeed, optional locatives and temporals
can be contrasted with obligatory locative and temporal objects, which presumably are VP
constituents:
(168) VP constituent (no fronting)
a. She went to Mexico
b. *To Mexico, she went
S constituent (fronting OK)
c. She chased butterﬂies in Mexico
d. In Mexico, she chased butterﬂies
VP constituent (no fronting)
e. They waited the whole of Tuesday looking for her
f. *The whole of Tuesday, they wasted looking for her
S constituent (fronting OK)
g. They kept looking for her on Tuesday
h. On Tuesday, they kept looking for her
At least in some languages, optional benefactive, instrumental, associative and manner
participant can be optionally coded as — or ‘promoted to’ — the direct object syntactic
role. Further, in most languages optional benefactives undergo such ‘promotion’ obligato-
rily, as seen for Lunda-Ndembu (§3.3.6.3). We will return to this topic in Chapter 4.
3.5 Distributed lexical verbs
So far we have restricted ourselves in this chapter to discussing clause types in which a
single verb (or predicate) carries the bulk of the functional load of coding the event’s
semantic type, although the load is obviously shared by the case-marking morphology. But
in many languages, the verb’s functional load is shared by two or more lexical morphemes.
Some of these are either synchronically or diachronically other verbs. Others may be
nouns, adjective, adverbs, adpositions or even ideophonic sounds.
In some languages, or in some instances in the same language, these extra lexical verb-
augmenting elements are distributed as words or constructions across the clause. In other
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 163
languages or instances, they are distributed — or incorporated — across the verbal word,
joining there the (sometime historic) verb stem. And there are excellent grounds for
suggesting that the second type arose diachronically from the ﬁrst, via either grammatical-
ization or lexicalization, often in that order.
Distributed verbs of either kind represent a considerable analytic headache for both the
semantic and syntactic analysis of clausal grammar. In the course of protracted historical
re-analysis, both their syntactic and semantic status often become murky. The semantic
and syntactic constraints on their combinations become chaotic and unpredictable. And
the matching between semantic and syntactic predication classes likewise becomes opaque.
In this section we will survey brieﬂy some of the major types of distributive verbal
clauses, often referred to as complex predicates, without attempting to resolve the theoreti-
cal havoc they almost always leave in their wake.
3.5.1 Complex predicates distributed across the clause
3.5.1.1Serial verb constructions
Serial verb constructions in some languages seem like an alternative mechanism for coding
the semantic roles of various objects (see also Chapter 4, §4.6). This pattern can be seen in
many Kwa (Niger-Congo) languages, as in (Givón 1975a):
(169) a. iywi awa utsi iku (patient; Yatye)
boy took door shut
‘the boy shut the door’
b. mo ﬁ ade ge naka (instrument; Yoruba)
I took machete cut wood
‘I cut the wood with the machete’
c. o ﬁ ogbon ge igi (manner; Yoruba)
he took cleverness cut tree
‘he cleverly cut the tree’
d. mo so fun o (dative; Yoruba)
I say give you
‘I said to you’
e. nam utom emi ni mi (benefactive; Eﬁk)
do work this give me
‘Do this work for me!’
f. o gbara gaa ahya (locative; Igbo)
he ran go market
‘He ran to the market’
But in many languages serial verb constructions may have a much wider semantic scope.
Thus Kalam (Papua-New Guinea) has only about 95 lexical verb stems. Consequently,
many conventional events must be coded by various serial-verb combinations, some of
them fairly ﬁxed, others assembled for the occasion. Thus consider (Givón 1991c):
164 Syntax
(170) a. tuw band dand sand-ip
axe piece carry leave-perf/3sg
‘he carries the axe away’
b. mon kamb ak d-ap ay-ip
wood heap def take-come put-perf/3sg
‘he brings it over to the wood-pile’
c. gok ak tapin timb rik-sap
those def too chop cut-pres/3sg
‘he’s cutting those (pieces) too’
d. kongay nep timb rik tip pang yok-sap
much very chop cut chop break throw-pres/3sg
‘he’s chopping and cutting and throwing much more’
e. mon tip pang kom moch g-ip
wood chop break roll crush do-perf/3sg
‘he cuts and chops and rolls and crushes the wood’
f. mon d-angiy-ek yin-imb
wood take-light-rpast/se/ds/3sg burn-perf/3sg
‘she lights the wood’
(lit.: ‘she takes & lights the wood & it burns’)
g. wong ak yim-ek ar-an-jap…
garden def plant/rpast/3sg/ds/3sg rise-grow-pres/3sg
‘he is planting (his) garden’
(lit.: ‘he’s planting the garden & it rises & grows’)
Many serial-verb combinations have become so stable, recurrent and predictable, that
adjacent verbs sooner or later co-lexicalize. The tail end of such co-lexicalization may be
seen in Mandarin Chinese, where erstwhile serial two-verb combinations have become
lexical verb-compounds (Thompson 1973):
(171) a. ta la-kai le men
s/he pull-open perf door
‘s/he opened the door’
b. ta chi-bao le fan
s/he eat-full perf rice
‘s/he gorged himself on rice’
c. ta sha-shi le ren
s/he kill-die perf person
‘s/he killed someone’
d. ta yun-zou le fan
s/he ship-go perf rice
‘s/he shipped the rice’
e. ta ya-bian le
s/he press-ﬂat perf
‘s/he ﬂattened (it)’
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 165
3.5.1.2Cognate object constructions
Cognate object constructions have already been noted above (§3.3.4.3) in the context of
oﬀ-prototype direct objects. But such constructions also represent a widespread type of
multiple predicates distributed over the clause. A relatively small group of verbs seem to
head these constructions, followed by a nominalized verb, a noun, an adjective, an adverb
or even an exclamation. A few of these combinations in English are:
(172) a. Give: give a speech/talk/lecture/demonstration/performance, give a hint,
give it a thought, give a kiss, give a signal, give a break, give chase, give a try,
give a shot
b. Put: put an end, put some thought into, put one’s mind to, put some eﬀort
into, put a question to, put to a vote, put to ﬂight/sleep/work/good use, put
in a good word for, put a question to
c. Make: make a decision/eﬀort/attempt/try/decision/error/ suggestion/
mistake/promise/pass, made a turn/ circle/top/start, make do without,
make haste, make believe, make the grade, make good time, make eyes at,
make a joke, make sense
d. Pay: pay attention, pay heed, pay ones respect, pay a visit
e. Throw: throw a ﬁt/party/question/suggestion/curve
f. Take: take an oath/break/leap/plunge/turn/look/leak/crap/ risk, take heart,
take stock of, take time to, take care of, take sick, take eﬀect, take a stand
g. Have: have a feast/ball/party/cry/laugh/doubt/idea/pity, have a problem,
have a second thought have lunch, have a meeting
h. Get: get busy/mad/sad/happy/wild/corny/old/young (etc.), get going, get on
in years, get along with, get to the point
i. Do: do justice to, do…out of, do good, do injury, do a disservice, do a
service, do a favor, do a show, do a song, do without
j. Go: go nuts/mad/hungry, go well with, go too far, go ﬁfty-ﬁfty on the deal,
go to a lot of trouble, go against the grain, go back on one’s word, go oﬀ like
a rocket, go kapow!, go bang!, go dutch,
k. Come: come clean/loose/true, come to an understanding, come into blows,
come to a halt, come along, come to think/believe/understand/know/realize
l. Stand/stay: stand accused/guilty/tall/corrected, stand to gain/loose, stand
trial, stand one’s ground, stand to reason, stand close scrutiny, stay
put/healthy/alive/active/alert/in touch
m. Turn/become: turn yellow/green/white/red/blue/hostile
n. Utterance verbs: utter a cry/curse, say a prayer/blessing, cry uncle, talk
sense into, talk rubbish, sing the praise of
While such compound expressions are often referred to as idioms, they nonetheless represent
the type of distributed verbal constructions that in other languages, where this is a more
massive phenomenon, goes under the label of complex predicates. Their syntactic pattern
in English is, at least in one respect, rather consistent: Only the main verb is ﬁnite and acts
as the head of the verb phrase. The added predicates bear no ﬁnite verbal morphology.
166 Syntax
3.5.1.3Co-verb constructions
In Wagiman (Australia), only 45 so-called light verbs can head the verbal constructions,
take a full range of ﬁnite verbal morphology, and code states or events without any added
predicates. They form a small, closed lexical class. The list of light verbs in Wagiman
includes all the verbs found in cognate-verb constructions in English. Those are italicized
below (Wilson 1999):
(173) hit, eat, stand, come, cut, take, put, get, turn/become, burn, step on, be, become,
hear, throw, spear, cry, go, bite, cook, dream, cause, name/beget, leave/go, lose,
make, tell lies, have/keep, follow, sew, love oneself, fuck, chase, see, give, fear,
look for, bring, tell oﬀ, sing, stay
The bulk of events/states in Wagiman are coded by combining one or more non-ﬁnite co-
verbs with at least one light verb. Semantically, a co-verb may be an intransitive state verb
(‘be sick’), an intransitive event verb (‘swell’), an intransitive motion verb (‘run’), a
communication verb (‘talk’), a bodily function verb (‘yawn’), a transitive verb of impact
(‘kick’) or possession (‘hold’), a bi-transitive transfer verb (‘pour’), an environmental
phenomena verb (‘thunder’), or a manner adverb (‘quickly’). The co-verb class is large
and wide open, and they can take one semantically-bleached ‘aspectual’ suﬃx and a
number of derivational suﬃxes. Some typical examples are, with the light-verb italicized
(Wilson 1999):
(174) a. liri-ma nga-ya-naggi munybaban
swim-asp I-go-past other.side
‘I swam to the other side’
b. bewh-ma nga-bu-ni boran
cross-asp I-hit-past river
‘I crossed the river’
c. guk-ga nga-ge-na gahan warri-buga?
sleep-asp I-put-past that child-pl
‘did you put the children to sleep?’
d. ngarrmen lem du-ng
hollow.log be/prfv 3sg/cut-past/prfv
‘it entered the hollow log’
e. gabarn-na wek-ga ga-ra-n
quickly-asp swallow-asp 3sg-throw-past/prfv
‘he swallowed it quickly’
For the moment, it is not clear whether co-verb constructions in Wagiman are syntactically
all that distinct from serial verb constructions elsewhere (§3.5.1.1 above). Thus, for
example, the most common serial verbs cross-linguistically — take, give, go, come, make/do,
carry, put, say — are also the most common ‘light verbs’ (and cognate verbs).
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 167
3.5.1.4Ideophone constructions
In So. Bantu languages, hundreds of complex predicates may be built by combining a single
light verb — say/do — with ideophones that carry a large variety of meaning, quite a few of them
manneradverbial.Manyideophonesarederivedbysuﬃxationfromknownverbstems.Others
are clearly onomatopoeic sounds, and many are of undetermined origin. The light verb say/do
is the only ﬁnite verb in the ideophonic clause. The ideophones themselves carry no verbal
morphology. As a scant illustration, consider (Tswana; Cole 1955):
(175) a. dithupa dine ts-arobega ts-a-re kgothu kgothu
stick those they-broke they-past-say id id
‘the sticks broke going “snap” “snap”’
b. (ona) a-ntse a-re na na na
(he) he-walking he-say id id id
‘(he) walking very softly’
c. pula e-ne entse e-re gwaa
rain it-fall on.ground it-say id
‘the rain fell heavily’
d. ba-bo-tsaya ba-bo-re goro fafa-tse
they-it-pour.out they-it-say id on-ground
‘they poured it down on the ground’
e. logadima lono lo-gaketse lo-re lai lai
lightning that it-ﬁerce it-say id id
‘the lightning was ﬁerce, ﬂashing repeatedly’
f. mme rraagwe a-mo-tshwaara a-mo-re thusu thusu thusu kamoretlwa
father his he-him-caught he-him-say id id id stick
‘his father caught him and hit him swish swish swish with a stick’
g. yo-le a-didimala fela a-re tuu
she-be she-quiet complete she-say id
‘she said nothing, keeping very quiet’
3.5.2 Multiple stems distributed across the verbal word
As noted above, multiple predicates distributed over a single clause have a high potential
for co-lexicalizing into a single verbal word. In this section we will note brieﬂy some of the
better known patterns of such co-lexicalization, noting whenever possible the diachronic
mechanism responsible for the rise of such patterns.
3.5.2.1Incorporated objects, instruments and adverbs
It was noted earlier (Ch.2, §2.5.3.1.j) that objects, instruments and manner adverbs can
incorporate into verbs. It was also noted (Ch.2, §2.7.2.2) that such a process can give rise,
over time, to discontinuous verb stems, where the old stem and the incorporated element
each contribute its share to the overall state or event sense. The example of incorporated
instrumental preﬁxes in No. Paiute, given earlier, is reproduced below (Thornes 1996):
168 Syntax
(176) a. ka-tu
=-pongosa ma-tabui-na (ma- ‘hand’)
acc-poss-arrow hand-create-asp
‘(they) hand-made their arrows’
b. tu
=-tama-ma o-gu
=-pada-na (gu
=- ‘bite’)
poss-teeth-instr 3-bite-bend-asp
‘(they) bend it by biting with their teeth’
c. i-kaazi to-noyoi (to- ‘ﬁst’)
my-car ﬁst-move
‘(you) push my car’
d. du
=-gu-hani (gu- ‘ﬁre’)
my/asp-ﬁre-prepare
‘(s/he) cooks for me’
e. ta-hani (ta- ‘foot’)
foot-prepare
‘herd (sheep/cattle)’
f. ku-pi-suki (ku- ‘ﬁre’, pi- ‘back’)
ﬁre-back-warm
‘warm one’s back at the ﬁre’
g. pa-ko-ma-ma’i (pa- ‘water’, ko- ‘face’, ma- ‘hand’)
water-face-hand-wash
‘wash one’s face’
h. tsa-noyoi (tsa- ‘grasp’)
grasp-move
‘pull’
i. i-giki-kuba wi-ni-u (wi- ‘long’)
my-foot-on long-step-asp
‘(s/he) stepped on my foot’
j. kosso-kimaba a-tsi-kwini-ki (tsi- ‘sharp’)
ﬁre-beside ??-sharp-stand/pl-asp
‘stick (the sticks) along the ﬁre’
In many Hokan-Penutian languages of western North America, elements coding spatial
direction or motion have also been incorporated into compound verbs, forming scores —
sometime over a hundred — augmenting aﬃxes, with meanings such as (Delancey 1999b):
(177) southward, hither from the hill, upriver, into an enclosure, downhill, down
over an edge, into water, across water, into water-hole, into container, out of
water, onto a vertical surface, around in a circle, around all over, oﬀ, away,
through, etc. (Washo; Jacobsen 1980) up against, to the shore, on the head/
hair, around, embracing, closing, on the buttocks, alongside, on coals, roasting,
through a tube, on the male genitals, by the ﬁre, downhill, into a socket, up-
ward, over, etc. (Klamath; Delancey 1999a)
While many of the aﬃxes involved are too old to determine their etymology, it is most
likely that they have been derived from incorporation — of nouns, adjectives or verbs —
into formerly-simple verbs.
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 169
3.5.2.2The Athabaskan ‘adverbial’ preﬁxes
In Athabaskan languages, the lexical sense of the verb is obtained compositionally from
combinations of old verb stems with ‘adverbial’ preﬁxes that may have begun their life as
verbs, then grammaticalized as post-positions, and eventually incorporated into the verbal
word (Underriner 1997; Givón 2000). As an illustration of many of those with a single verb,
consider an example from Tolowa Athabaskan, involving the oldest of those preﬁxes (-na-
‘motion’) augmented by more recent ones (Bommelyn 1997):
(178) a. na-ł-da ‘s/he runs’ (-na ‘move around’)
mov-l-run
b. waa-na-ł-da ‘s/e runs that-a-way’ (-wa ‘go’)
c. yaa-ł-da ‘s/he runs through (it)’ (-ya ‘go’)
d. daa-na-ł-da ‘s/he runs into (it)’ (-da ‘sit/live’)
e. k’wee-na-ł-da ‘s/he is running behind (it)’
f. tr’ee-na-ł-da ‘s/he runs down’
g. see-na-ł-da ‘s/he runs up’
h. tee-na-ł-da ‘s/he runs under water’
i. yee-na-ł-da ‘s/he runs under (it)’
j. ch’aa-ł-mu
=s ‘s/he runs oﬀ (road)’ (-ch’a ‘leave’)
k. łee-na-y’-ł-da ‘we-2 run together’ (ł- reciprocal)
l. ł-ch’aa-na-ł-da ‘s/he runs apart’
m. taa-na-ł-da ‘s/he runs outward’ (-ta ‘push away’)
n. ’ee-na-ł-da ‘s/he runs in a circle’
o. k’wu
=t-na-ł-da ‘s/he runs upon (it)’
p. ts’ee-na-ł-da ‘she runs out there’
q. gee-na-ł-da ‘s/he runs away’
r. xaa-na-ł-da ‘s/he begins to run’ (-xa ‘lift up’)
3.5.2.3Incorporated case markers
In some languages, the incorporation of adpositions into the verb is a diachronically recent
and still ongoing process, so that the governing mechanism can be still observed. One such
case in Rama (Chibchan) is described by Craig and Hale (1987), where post-positional
phrases, coding various indirect objects, can either follow the verb or precede it. When they
precede the verb, the object noun may be zeroed out, in the context of either pronominal
anaphora (Chapter 9) or stereotypicality (antipassive; Chapter 13). The remaining post-
position, sitting adjacent to the verb, then incorporates as a verbal preﬁx.
(179) a. ngang an-tangi Juan-ya
bed they-gave John-dat
‘they gave the beds to John’
b. ngang Juan-ya an-tangi
bed John-dat they-gave
‘they gave John a bed’
170 Syntax
c. Rama ya-an-tangi
Rama dat-they-gave
‘they gave (it) to some Rama person’
d. ngang ya-an-tangi
bed dat-they-gave
‘they gave him a bed’
The footprints of the very same process are found all over Germanic and Romance
languages, where prepositions have been incorporated as preﬁxes into verbs, presumably
under a similar typological (SOV word-order) and functional (zeroed indirect-object)
conditions as in Rama. Thus consider (with the suggested old stem meanings):
(180) ‘close’ ‘hold’ ‘build’ ‘call’ ‘press’
in-clude
ex-clude
pre-clude
con-clude
pre-clude
main-tain
ob-tain
de-tain
re-tain
per-tain
con-tain
at-tain
enter-tain
abs-tain
con-struct
de-struct
in-struct
ob-struct
ex-claim
de-claim
re-claim
pro-claim
ac-claim
dis-claim
ex-press
im-press
de-press
re-press
com-press
op-press
‘carry’ ‘bend’ ‘pull’ ‘breathe’ ‘form’ ‘throw’
com-port
ex-port
im-port
de-port
re-port
ex-tend
in-tend
con-tend
dis-tend
at-tend
ex-tract
de-tract
re-tract
con-tract
at-tract
in-spire
ex-spire
re-spire
con-spire
a(d)-spire
re-form
in-form
de-form
con-form
e-ject
in-ject
ob-ject
re-ject
de-ject
pro-ject
Finally, the same process is still ongoing in English with various so-called verb-particle
constructions:
(181) a. The window broke
b. The meeting broke up (early)
c. Her car broke down (on the freeway)
d. Her skin broke out (in a rash)
e. He turned (and left)
f. (So ﬁnally) he turns up (in Las Vegas)
g. They turned in (for the night)
h. It turned out (that she was right)
i. She worked (hard)
k. It worked out (just ﬁne)
Simple verbal clauses and argument structure 171
l. They worked out (in the gym)
m. He worked up a sweat
n. They broke the furniture
o. She broke up their engagement
p. They broke him in (gradually)
q. He broke it down (for them into small pieces)
r. He turned the key
s. He turned the key over (to her)
t. They turned her down (for the job)
u. She turned in her report (and went home)
v. They shut the door
w. She shut him up
x. They shut the plant down
y. We shut them out completely (ten to nothing!)
z. He shut the water oﬀ.
These ‘stranded’ prepositions in English, while semantically part of the verb sense, have not
yet fully incorporated into the verb morpho-syntactically. For one thing, they still retain
their lexical stress. For another, in many contexts they are not adjacent to the verb, so that
the order variation V-DO-Prep vs. V-Prep-DO is functionally signiﬁcant (Chen 1986).
Notes
1. One needs to nevertheless recognize that due to the ultimate verb-speciﬁcity of semantic roles, the
advantages and disadvantages of a more abstract vs. more concrete system of semantic roles involve
a trade-oﬀ: What one gains in generality with a more abstract system one looses in ﬁner language-
speciﬁc detail. At the other end of the scale lies, aptly enough, a system that would recognize as
universal all semantic roles in all languages, so long as they have at least some grammatical
consequences, however minor, in at least one language. The system adopted here is once again an
adaptive compromise between these two extremes.
2. To the extent that the cognition and neurology of language are relevant to the choice of formal-
ism, one may as well note that morphological, syntactic, semantic and pragmatic aspects of grammar
are most likely distributed over several brain mechanisms and locations (‘modules’), each with its
own structure. But these mechanisms interact massively in the overall complex operations of
grammar. If there is an empirical issue in the choice of formalism, it may well hinge on our
understanding of the formal organization of grammar’s various sub-modules and their interaction.
In other words, the formal architecture of the processor.
3. While having no semantic role in the state/event, the dummy pronoun often has some pronominal
semantic features. For example, it clearly stands for neither a male nor a female entity, but rather an
inanimate or non-human one. And in many languages it is singular rather than plural. These
observations are not absolute, however, as may be seen in the traditional call ‘Thar she blows!’.
4. Termination and success verbs often imply the truth of their complement only prior to termina-
tion, just as initiation verbs imply the truth of the complement only after initiation (Givón 1973a).
<TARGET "4" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Grammatical relations and case-marking systems"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 4
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems
4.1 Orientation
In the preceding chapter we used the notions of subject, direct object and indirect object
extensively but informally in order to give an account of preferred argument structure; that
is, of the mapping between the semantic structure of states or events and the syntactic
structure of simple clauses. This mapping turned out to hinge, for each verb-type, on the
mapping of semantic roles onto grammatical relations.
In this chapter we deal more explicitly with grammatical relations (henceforth GRs).
Following a brief recapitulation of the dissociation between semantic roles and GRs, we will
outline a framework designed to accomplish three related tasks:
•Outline a general approach to the formal properties of GRs.
•Describe the relation between GRs and the pragmatic function of topicality.
•Survey the main parameters of cross-language typological diversity in the morpho-
syntactic treatment of GRs.
4.2 Semantic roles vs. grammatical relations: The dissociation test
To demonstrate, even in the most superﬁcial way, that the morpho-syntactic properties —
morphology, word-order — of a nominal argument in the clause depend on its GR as
subject or object rather than its semantic role as agent, patient etc., one must demonstrate
a clear dissociation between the two. That is, one must show that the same morpho-
syntactically coded GR admits more than one semantic role. As a standard demonstration
of such a dissociation, consider English, where both subject and object are morphologically
unmarked and the word-order is SVO:
(1) Multiple semantic roles of the GR ‘subject’
a. Patient of state
She is tall
b. Patient of change
She is falling asleep
c. Dative
She is dreaming
174 Syntax
d. Agent
She is writing a letter
(2) Multiple semantic roles of the GR ‘direct object’
a. Patient of state
He saw her
b. Patient of change
He pushed her
c. Allative
He approached her
d. Ablative
He left her
e. Ingressive
He entered the house
f. Dative
He gave her a book
g. Benefactive
He built her a house
The dissociation tests above may be contrasted with two simple-minded negative demon-
strations of failed dissociation. The ﬁrst involves indirect objects marked with the
preposition into:
(3) a. She ran into the house
b. They injected the medicine into her
c. He elected to go into medicine
The indirect object in (3a) is a concrete inanimate, it is a human animate in (3b) and an
abstract inanimate in (3c). None of these change its ingressive semantic role (‘movement
into’), the abstract metaphoric sense of (3c) notwithstanding.
The second case, at ﬁrst glance one of successful dissociation, involves the various
semantic roles marked by the preposition ‘by’:
(4) a. She found it by the door (locative)
b. He found it by chance (manner)
c. It was found by a tracker (agent)
While the preposition by indeed codes multiple semantic roles, the ‘indirect object’ is not
a GR. It has no unifying grammatical properties except the absence of either subject or
direct-object properties.
There are, of course, languages in which the GRs subject and/or direct object are not
marked by a unifying morphology. The two most conspicuous language-types that display
this feature, Ergative-Absolutive and Active-Stative languages, will be discussed further
below (§4.4.3). What will be shown there is that in most such cases, non-morphological
criteria still point out to the uniﬁed GR status of both the subject and direct object.
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 175
In the same vein, in many languages — perhaps even most — the case-marking usually
referred to as direct-object or accusative is conﬁned, more or less, to patient direct-objects,
so that a case-marking dissociation between the GR object and the semantic role patient is
hard to demonstrate. Again, other formal criteria above and beyond morphology reveal the
formal unity of the GR direct-object in such cases, morphology notwithstanding.
4.3 Formal properties of grammatical relations
In this section we follow closely Keenan’s (1975, 1976a) work on the properties of
grammatical subjects, extending his framework to GRs in general. The formal properties
of GRs are divided ﬁrst into two main types:
•overt coding properties;
•behavior-and-control properties.
We will discuss them below in order.
4.3.1 Overt coding properties
The overt coding properties of GRs are perceptually discernible features of the grammatical
code, such as morphology, intonation or word-order. Of those, the most relevant to GRs
universally are:
(5) Overt coding properties of grammatical subjects
a. Word-order
The NP’s position in the clause vis-a-vis other
GR-bearing arguments and the verb (Chapter 5)
b. Verb agreement
The NP’s control of pronominal aﬃxes on the verb
(Chapter 9)
c. Nominal morphology
The NP’s morphological case-marking
In the following examples of transitive clauses from 9 languages, we note the presence and
type of rigid word-order, of nominal case-marking, and of pronominal verb agreement.
(6) a. Japanese (SOV)
sensei-ga tegami-o kai-ta
teacher-subj letter-obj write-past
‘the teacher wrote the/a letter’
b. Mandarin Chinese (SVO)
wo he-le san bei kafei le
I drink-pfv three cup coﬀee crs
‘I drank three cups of coﬀee’
176 Syntax
c. Swahili (SVO)
mtoto a-li(-ki)-soma kitabu
child s/he-past-it-read book
‘the child read a/the book’
d. Modern Hebrew (SVO)
Yoav ra’-a (et-ha-)sefer
Yoav read/past-he obj-the-book
‘Yoav read a/the book’
e. Ute (free word-order)
tuaci-u mamac-i pu
=nikya-kha-pu
=gay-(’u/-am)
child-pl woman-obj catch-pl-past-her/-they
‘the children saw the woman’
f. Machiguenga (VSO)
i-ma-ig-an-ak-a(-ro)-tyo o-tineri iroro-ri
he-do.same-pl-dir-perf-tr(-her)-exc 3fem-son.in.law her-conj
‘her son-in-law treated her the same way and…’
g. Early Latin (SOV)
vir[Ø] puero librum ded-it
man/nom boy/dat book/acc give/past-he
‘The man gave a book to the boy’
h. Nepali (SOV)
Raj-le citthi lekh-yo
Raj-erg letter write/past-he
‘Raj wrote the/a letter’
i. Spanish (VO, free subj order)
le-vi-eron los muchachos a-Juan
him-see/past/they the guys obj-John
‘the guys saw John’
In Table (7) below we summarize the use (+) vs. non-use (−) vs. partial use (+/−) of the
three overt coding properties in the marking of the grammatical subject and direct object
in each language. We award the score of 1 for the use of a feature, 0 for its non-use, and
0.5 for its partial use. The scores are then added up for the subject, direct-object, and
combined total.
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 177
(7) The use of overt coding properties in 9 languages
word-order case-marking verb agr. score
language subj obj subj obj subj obj subj obj tot.
Japanese
Mandarin
Swahili
Hebrew
Ute
Machiguenga
Latin
Nepali
Spanish
+
+
+
+
−
+
+
+
−
+
+
+
+
−
+
+
+
+
+
−
−
−
−
−
+
+
−
+
−
−
+/−
+
−
+
+/−
+/−
−
−
+
+
+/−
+
+
+
+
−
−
+/−
−
+/−
+/−
−
−
+/−
2
1
2
2
0.5
2
3
3
1
2
1
1.5
1.5
1.5
1.5
2
1.5
2
4
2
3.5
3.5
2.0
3.5
5
4.5
3
highest score possible 3 3 6
What this brief exercise demonstrates is that none of the three overt coding properties of
GRs is absolute. Both the subject and the object can miss at least two of them without
necessarily losing their GR status. What we have here is a vivid demonstration of the fact
that the grammaticalization of the two main GRs may be a matter of degree. That is, either
the subject or the direct object in a particular language — or in a particular clause-type —
may be closer to or farther from the idealized prototype. In this way, GRs follow closely
what we have observed earlier on about prototype-based categories (Ch.1, §1.7.2).
Pidgin communication is the only linguistic mode in which all three overt-coding
features of GRs are totally absent. At best, Pidgins code the topicality of event participants
(see §4.4.2 below). But what our table (7) suggests is that between the Pidgin, with the
combined score of 0, and the maximal possible score of 6, the nine languages in our
admittedly minuscule and haphazardly-gathered sample range in their GR grammatical-
ization score from 2 (Ute, Mandarin) to 5 (Latin). As we shall see directly below, other
formal properties of GRs are still there in non-pidgin languages even when overt coding
properties are largely absent.
4.3.2 Behavior-and-control properties
4.3.2.1Preliminaries
Behavior-and-control properties of GRs are, in practical terms, a list of the syntactic
constructions — or ‘processes’ — whose behavior can be governed, at least potentially, by
the GRs subject and/or direct-object. In the main, these are various types of complex
clauses whose detailed description is strewn all over various subsequent chapters, mostly
in Volume II. Our treatment of these here is thus, of necessity, rudimentary.
Following Keenan (1976a), the grammatical constructions — or ‘processes’ — whose
behavior is most likely to be governed by either the subject or direct-object GR are:
178 Syntax
(8) Syntactic constructions most commonly demonstrating
behavior-and-control properties of GRs
a. promotion to direct object (Ch.4)
b. demotion from direct object (Ch.13)
c. passivization (Ch.13)
d. reﬂexivization (Ch.13)
e. causativization (Ch.12)
f. equi-NP reference in complementation (Ch.12)
g. raising (Ch.12)
h. possessor raising (Ch.4)
i. anaphoric co-reference in chained clauses (Ch.9, Ch.18)
j. relativization (Ch.14)
k. wh-questions (Ch.17)
l. cleft-focus constructions (Ch.15)
m. participial adverbial clauses (Ch.18)
The applicability of these properties of GRs in a particular construction in a particular
language is determined by the answer to the question:
“Does one have to mention the subject and/or direct-object GR in describing the
grammatical behavior of a particular construction?”
If the answer is yes, the construction (or ‘process’) can serve as behavior-and-control
property of a GR. If the answer is no, it cannot.
But the government of grammatical constructions by GRs, much like the overt coding
properties of GRs, displays an enormous cross-language variation and gradation. As in the
case of overt coding properties, we ﬁnd languages in which the vast majority of the
constructions in (8) are governed by GRs (English); languages with very few GR-governed
constructions (Seneca), and anywhere inbetween. This variability may be again expressed
in terms of prototypicality and degree of grammaticalization.
Before going into some of the ramiﬁcations of this variability, however, we need to ﬁrst
illustrate how GRs are indispensable to the characterization of some common grammatical
constructions. That is, how the constructions in (8) can be governed by GRs.
Consider ﬁrst the two variant syntactic frames of the verb give in English:
(9) a. He gave the book to Mary
b. He gave Mary a book
Both overt coding properties of relevant English objects, word-order (post-verbal, verb-
adjacent) and case-marking (no preposition), clearly tag the book as the DO in (9a). One
of those criteria, case-marking, is useless in (9b), where both objects are equally unmarked.
But word-order still tags Mary as the DO in (9b).
The variation between (9a) and (9b), taken as a ‘grammatical process’, is called
promotion to DO or dative-shifting (8a). This means that the dative IO in (9a) is ‘promoted
into the DO’ in (9b). The GR direct-object (or its absence) thus clearly governs this
process. One could not deﬁne or describe it without referring to the DO.
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 179
Next, trying to make either one of the two objects in (9a,b) the subject of a passive
clause (8c) will reveal a systematic bias:
(10) a. The book was given to Mary
b. *Mary was given the book to
c. Mary was given a book
d. *A book was given Mary
Out of construction (9a), only the book (DO) can be made the subject of the passive (10a),
but not Mary (IO) (10b). Out of construction (9b), only Mary (DO) can be made the
subject of the passive (10c), but not a book (IO) (10d).
Our conclusion about the DO and passivization is further strengthened by data
showing that other IO types also cannot be made the subject of the passive:
(11) a. Mary saw John
b. John was seen by Mary
c. Mary went to John
d. *John was gone (to) by Mary
e. Mary worked with John
f. *John was worked (with) by Mary
g. Mary walked with a cane
h. *The cane was walked (with) by Mary
Passivization (8c) in English is thus governed by both GRs.
Consider next the active (11a) and passive (11b) above, when placed in the position of
verbal complement following the modality verb ‘continue’. Such a construction requires an
equi (coreferent) subject in the complement clause (8f), obligatorily expressed as zero:
(12) a. Mary continued [Ø] to see John
b. *John continued Mary to see [Ø]
c. John continued [Ø] to be seen by Mary
In (12a) Mary, the subject of the main clause, is also the subject of the active complement
clause, satisfying the equi-subject condition of this construction. In (12b), John is the
subject of the main clause but the object of the active complement. The equi-subject
condition is violated, and the construction is faulty. In (12c), the complement is now a
passive clause, John is now the subject of both clauses, and once again satisfying the equi-
subject condition of the construction. Modality verb complementation (8f) in English is
clearly governed by the GR subject.
In the same vein, consider complement of ‘see’, a construction that conforms the
syntactic pattern of manipulation verbs (‘make’ and ‘have’):
(13) a. She saw Mary [Ø] examine John
b. She saw herself [Ø] examine John
c. *She saw John Mary to examine [Ø]
d. She saw John [Ø] being examined by Mary
180 Syntax
In (13a) Mary, the object of the main clause, is also the subject of the complement, thus
satifying the equi-subject/object condition of this construction. In (13b), she is not only the
subject of the main clause but also its object, and in addition also the subject of the
complement clause. The equi-subject/object condition is again satisﬁed. In (13c), John is
the object of the main clause but now the object of the complement. The equi-subject/
object condition of the construction is thus violated. Finally in (13d), with passivization
restoring John to subjecthood in the complement clause, the equi-subject/object condition
is once again satisﬁed. Clearly then, this complementation pattern is governed by both GRs
— the object of the main clause and the subject of the complement.
Lastly, consider reﬂexivization (8d) in English:
(14) a. Mary hates John
b. *Mary hates Mary
c. Mary hates herself
d. *Herself hates Mary
e. Mary was hated by John
f. *Mary was hated by herself
g. Mary talks to John
h. Mary talks to herself
i. Mary plays with John
j. Mary plays with herself
k. Mary sent a letter to John
l. Mary sent a letter to herself
To deﬁne the conditions that govern reﬂexivization, one must mention the GR subject vs.
non-subject. Further, it is the non-subject that is replaced by the reﬂexive pronoun
(herself), hence the infelicity of (14d). But that non-subject need not be the DO, as is evident
from the acceptability of (14h,j,l) where various IOs are replaced by the reﬂexive pronoun.
Still, the GR subject is apparently not quite enough to deﬁne the reﬂexive construction,
as is evident from the infelicity of the reﬂexive-passive (14f). It thus seems that only the
active clause allows reﬂexivization in English. Clearly then, reﬂexivization in English is
governed not only by the GR subject, but also by some syntactic property of transitivity.
4.3.2.2Variations in the applicability of behavior-and-control properties
4.3.2.2.1Within-language variation. As noted above, behavior-and-control properties of
GRs are not always applicable across the board. Within the same language, ﬁrst, some
constructions may be governed only by the subject GR, or only to the object GR, or by
both, or by neither.
Consider ﬁrst promotion to or demotion from direct-object (8b). In English this
process is governed only by the direct-object, leaving the subject unaﬀected, as can be seen
in (9a,b), reproduced below as (15a,b). Either variant can be made the equi-subject
complement of ‘want’, as in (15c,d):
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 181
(15) a. He gave the book to Mary
b. He gave Mary a book
c. He wanted [Ø] to give the book to Mary
d. He wanted [Ø] to give Mary a book
In the same vein, compare the three verbal complements in (16) below. With a modality
main verb (16a), the construction is governed by the subject of both main and complement
clauses. With a manipulation main verb (16b), the construction is governed by the object
of the main clause and the subject of the complement. With a cognition main verb (16c),
the construction is governed by neither GR:
(16) a. She wanted [Ø] to leave the room
b. She told him [Ø] to leave the room
c. She knew that he had left the room
Likewise in adverbial clauses in English, no GR governs if and when clauses (17a,b). But the
GR subject — of both the adverbial and main clause — governs participial adverbial
clauses (17c,d):
(17) a. When she left, he started cleaning
b. If she leaves, he won’t
c. [Ø] Leaving early, she took the bus and…
d. [Ø] Having left early, she had plenty of time to…
Finally, both the subject and object GRs govern the English BE-passive, as seen in (11)
above. But the impersonal passive in English (18b) is governed by neither GR. It involves
no change in GRs as compared to the active (18a), and the impersonal pronoun one
remains its grammatical subject, in terms of both its pre-verbal position and control of
verb agreement:
(18) a. Active: The girls ride their horses there
b. Impersonal: One rides horses there
The fact that one is still the formal subject of the impersonal-passive (18b) is further
conﬁrmed by placing the impersonal clause as an equi-subject complement (19b), where
it behaves like the active-clause subject (19a), both contrasting with the BE-passive
complement (19c):
(19) a. Active equi-Subj complement
*The horse wanted Mary to ride [Ø]
b. Impersonal passive equi-Subj complement
*The horse wanted one to ride [Ø]
c. BE-passive equi-Subj complement
The horse wanted [Ø] to be ridden by Mary
4.3.2.2.2Cross-language variation. Across languages, a wide range of variability is observed
in the government of syntactic constructions by GRs. Quite commonly, a particular
182 Syntax
construction may be governed by GRs in one language, but its functional equivalent in
another language is ungoverned by GRs, or governed diﬀerently. A few selected examples
will illustrate this point.
a.
Zero anaphora in chained clauses
The use of zero anaphora as a pronominal device to mark co-reference in clause-chaining
(Ch. 9, Ch.18) is conﬁned in English to the subject GR. First, a zero in a chained
(‘conjoined’) clause could only be governed by the subject of the preceding clause (20a),
not by its object (20b):
(20) a. Mary met Joe, [Ø] talked to him, and…
b. *Mary met Joe, [Ø] talked to her, and…
What is more, the governed zero could only be the subject of the chained (‘conjoined’)
clause, not its object:
(21) a. Mary met Joe, he talked to her, and…
b. *Mary met Joe, she talked to [Ø], and…
c. Mary came over and Joe talked to her
d. *Mary came over and Joe talked to [Ø]
In Mandarin Chinese, on the other hand, zero anaphora in chained clauses need not be
governed by either GR, allowing — at least in principle — both zero subject and zero
object, and both subject control and object control of those zeros. Thus, the ﬁrst zero in
(22b) below is a subject governed by the subject of the preceding clause (Abbot). The
second zero in (22b), however, is an object governed by the object of the preceding clause
(Zhi-Sheng) (Li and Thompson 1979):
(22) a. Quing-zhang-lao jiang Zhi-Sheng ken qu.
abbot see Z.-S. want go
‘The Abbot saw that Z.-S. was willing to go.
b. jiu [Ø] liu [Ø] zai fangzhang-li xie-le.
then [Ø] keep [Ø] be chamber-in rest-asp
Then he kept him in the chamber to rest up’.
In (23b) below, a zero object is governed by the zero subject of the preceding clause (Yang-
Zhi), and the adjacent zero possessor is governed by that zero object (Yang-Zhi). In (23c),
next, the zero subject is governed by the zero object and/or possessor of the preceding
clause (Yang-Zhi), and the zero object is governed by the subject of the preceding clause
(Porter). Finally, in (23d) the zero subject is governed by the zero object of the preceding
clause (Porter):
(23) a. [Ø] an-xi xia.
[Ø] settle down
‘(Yang-Zhi) settled down.
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 183
b. zhuang-ke jiao-huan [Ø] [Ø] dan-r.
porter give-back [Ø] [Ø] luggage
The porter then gave him back his luggage.
c. [Ø] yu-le [Ø] xie yin-liang.
[Ø] give-asp [Ø] some money
Y.-Z. then gave him some money.
d. [Ø] zi hui-qu-le.
[Ø] refl return-asp
The porter then went back by himself’.
As Li and Thompson (1979) explain, subtle semantic and pragmatic considerations govern
zero anaphora in examples such as (22) and (23). But GRs, of themselves, seem irrelevant.1
b.
Relative clauses in Japanese and Ute
Consider next relative clauses in Japanese and Ute. In Japanese, the same zero coding
strategy is used for all Rel-clauses, regardless of whether the focus of relativization is
subject, DO or IO (A. Hayashi, i.p.c.):
(24) a. Main clause
otoko-ga onna-ni tegami-o kaita
man-subj woman-dat letter-acc sent
‘The man sent a letter to the woman’
b. Subject Rel-clause
[Ø] onna-ni tegami-o kaita otoko-wa…
[subj] woman-dat letter-acc sent man-top
‘the man who sent a letter to the woman…’
c. Accusative (DO) Rel-clause
otoko-ga onna-ni [Ø] kaita tegami-wa…
man-subj woman-dat [do] sent letter-top
‘the letter that the man sent to the woman…’
d. Dative (IO) Rel-clause
otoko-ga [Ø] tegami-o kaita onna-wa…
man-subj [io] letter-acc sent woman-top
‘the woman to whom the man sent a letter…’
Relativization in Japanese is thus not governed by GRs. In Ute, on the other hand, two
major relativization strategies exist, one for subjects, with the verbal Rel-suﬃx -tu
=, the
other for object — DOs and IOs alike — with the verbal Rel-suﬃx -na. Further, the subject
in object Rel-clauses is marked with the genitive suﬃx. Finally, a further distinction is made
for IO relativization, where the relative pronoun pu
=- carries the relevant post-position
(Givón 1980):
(25) a. Main clause
tuach pö’ökwatu
= tu
=ka’napu
=-vwan wachu
=-ka
child/subj book/obj table-on put-perf
‘the child put the book on the table’
184 Syntax
b. Subject Rel-clause
tuach-’u [Ø] pö’ökwatu
= tu
=ka’nap-vwan wachu
=-ka-t(u
=)
child-the [subj] book/obj table-on put-perf-rel/subj
‘the child who put the book on the table’
c. Direct-object Rel-clause
pö’ökwat-’ur tuach-i [Ø] tu
=ka’napu
=-vwan wachu
=-ka-n(a)
book-the child-gen [do] table-on put-perf-rel/obj
‘the book that the child put on the table’
d. Indirect-object Rel-clause
tu
=ka’nap-’ur tuach-i pö’ökwatu
= pu
=-vwan wachu
=-ka-n(a)
table-the child-gen book/obj rel-on put-perf-rel/obj
‘the table on which the child put the book’
Clearly, relativization in Ute is governed by both GRs, subject and DO, and even the IO.
c.
Raising from subject to object in English, Hebrew and ChiChewa
Consider next the so-called raising to object (8g) construction. English has, most likely, the
greatest array of such constructions, which are governed by both the object of the main
clause and the subject of the subordinate clause:
(26) a. Unraised
They declared that he won the war
b. Raised (active subject)
They declared him to have won the war
c. *Raised (active object)
*They declared the war to he has won
d. Raised (passive subject)
They declared the war to have been won (by him)
e. Unraised
They expected that she would win the war
f. Raised (active subject)
They expected her to win the war
g. *Raised (active object)
*They expected the war she to win
h. Raised (passive subject)
They expected the war to be won (by her)
In Hebrew no such raising is possible:
(27) a. Unraised
hem hixriz-u she hu haya ha-menatseax
they declared-3pl sub he was the-winner
‘they declared that he was the winner’
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 185
b. *Raised
*hem hixriz-u oto (li-hyot) ha-menatseax
they declared-3pl him (to-be) the-winner
(*‘they declared him the winner’)
c. Unraised
hem tsip-u she hu yi-hye ha-menatseax
they expected-3pl sub he 3sg.masc-be/irr the-winner
‘they expected that he would be the winner’
d. *Raised
*hem tzip-u oto (li-hyot) ha-menatseax
they expected-3pl him (to-be) the-winner
(*‘they expected him to be the winner’)
Finally, in many Bantu languages, raising seems possible, but is a bit strange, in that the
subject of the complement clause retains its subject role even as it gains an object role in
the main clause. What is more, in ChiChewa it seems that the object of the active clause can
also be raised in such constructions, as in (Trithart 1977):
(28) a. Unraised
ndi-ganiza kuti mnyamata a-ma-lima chimanga
I-think sub boy he-hab-farm corn
‘I think the boy farms corn’
b. Raised subject-of-active
ndi-mu-ganiza mnyamata kuti a-ma-lima chimanga
I-him-think boy sub he-hab-farm corn
lit.: ‘I think him the boy that he farms corn’
c. Raised object-of-active
ndi-chi-ganiza chimanga kuti mnyamata a-ma-chi-lima
I-it-think corn sub boy he-hab-it-farm
lit.: ‘I think it the corn that the boy farms it’
d. Raised subject-of-passive
ndi-chi-ganiza chimanga kuti ch-ma-lim-idwa (ndi mnyamata)
I-it-think corn sub it-hab-farm-pass (by boy)
lit.: ‘I think it the corn that it is farmed (by the boy)’
d.
Passivization in English and Tolowa
Compare next the BE-passive of English which, as noted in (10)/(11) above, is governed by
both the subject and DO, with the impersonal passive in Tolowa Athabaskan, which is
governed by neither GR (Givón and Bommelyn 2000):
(29) a. shu
=-ł-tu
=ł
1sg/obj-l-kick
‘s/he is kicking me’
186 Syntax
b. ’u
=-sh-tł-tu
=ł
th-1sg/subj-l-kick
‘I am kicking it’
c. tr’u
=-ł-tu
=ł
pass-l-kick
‘someone is kicking it’, ‘it is being kicked’
d. sh-tr’u
=-ł-tu
=ł
1sg/obj-pass-l-kick
‘someone is kicking me’, ‘I am being kicked’
As can be seen from (29d), the patient topic-of-passive is not promoted to subjecthood,
but rather retains its object pronoun status. What is more, the passive can apply to intransi-
tive clauses that have no direct object:
(30) a. dee-sh-yu
=n
th-1sg/subj-sing/imperf
‘I am singing’
b. sr-dee-yu
=n
pass-thm-sing/imperf
‘someone is singing’, ‘singing is happening’
c. tra̧a̧xe d-aa na-’-sh-’a
woman 3sg-ben mov-ap-1sg/subj-talk
‘I am talking for the woman’
d. tra̧a̧xe d-aa na-sr’-’a
woman 3sg-ben mov-pass-talk
‘someone is talking for the woman’
‘the woman is talked for’
e.
Possessive-reﬂexives in English and Ute
Consider the government of the possessive-reﬂexive construction (8d) in English and Ute.
In simple clauses, is seems to be governed in both languages by the subject GR:
(31) a. mamach(i) tuachi magha-kha
woman/subj child/obj feed-perf
‘the woman fed the child’
b. mamach(i) tuachi-’u magha-kha
woman/subj child/obj-3sg feed-perf
‘the woman fed his/her child’ (not her own)
*‘the woman fed her own child’(not anybody else’s)
c. mamach(i) tuachi-av magha-kha
woman/subj child/obj-3sg/refl feed-perf
‘the woman fed her own child’ (not anybody else’s)
*‘the woman fed his/her child’(not her own)
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 187
In (31b), with the non-reﬂexive possessive pronoun -’u ‘his/her’, a reﬂexive-possessive
interpretation is impossible in Ute. In (31c), with the reﬂexive-possessive pronoun -av,
only a reﬂexive interpretation is possible in Ute.
Consider next what happens when the possessive-reﬂexive clause is embedded as a verb-
complement. In English, subject control remains local, i.e. within the complement clause:
(32) a. The woman told the man [Ø] to feed his own child
b. *The woman told the man [Ø] to feed her own child
In Ute, the exact opposite control pattern turns out to be the case. With non-reﬂexive
possessors (33a), the control can be local, i.e. by the subject of the same, complement,
clause. But with the reﬂexive-possessor (33b), control must be ceded to the subject of the
main clause:
(33) a. mamach(i) ta’wachi may-kya tuachi-’u magha-vaa-ku
woman/subj man/obj tell-ant child/obj-3sgan feed-irr-sub
‘The woman told the man to feed his child’
*‘The woman told the man to feed her child’
b. mamach(i) ta’wachi may-kya tuachi-av magha-vaa-ku
woman/subj man/obj tell-ant child/obj-refl feed-irr-sub
‘The woman told the man to feed her child’
*‘The woman told the man to feed his child’
In other words, the controller of the reﬂexive-possessor pronoun in complement clauses
is the subject of the main clause.
The same government pattern persists in the looser complements of perception and
cognition verbs:
(34) a. mamach(i) puchuchugwa-y ’áapachi sarichi-’u táa-ka-nay
woman/subj know-imm boy/gen dog/obj-3sg.an kick-ant-sub
‘The woman knows that the boy kicked his dog’
*‘The woman knows that the boy kicked her dog’
b. mamach(i) puchuchugwa-y ‘áapachi sarichi-av táa-ka-nay
woman/subj know/imm boy/gen dog/obj-refl kick-ant-sub
‘The woman knows that the boy kicked her dog’
*‘The woman knows that the boy kicked his dog’
Cross-language diﬀerences in behavior-and-control properties of GRs can also extend to
the scope — local vs. non-local — of government of grammatical constructions.
f.
Equi-subject/object complements in English and Tolowa
As noted earlier above (16), in English complements of modality and manipulation verbs
are strongly governed by GRs, while complements of perception-cognition-utterance
(PCU) verbs are not. In Tolowa Athabaskan, on the other hand, complements of modality
and manipulation verbs are as ﬁnite as main clauses, and as complements of PCU verbs,
and are thus ungoverned by GRs, at least in so far as verb-forms are concerned. Thus
compare (Bommelyn and Givón 1998):2
188 Syntax
(35) a. tra̧a̧nxe tee-s-ii-’í̧-’
woman th-perf-1sg/subj-observe-perf
‘I observed the woman’
b. tra̧a̧nxe tee-s-ii-’í̧-’ ’aa-w-í-ł-te
woman th-perf-1sg/subj-observe-perf thm-des/perf-1sg/subj-l-want
‘I wanted to observe the woman’
(lit.: ‘I wanted I observed the woman)
c. tra̧a̧xe sh-te-s-’í̧-’
woman 1sg/obj-th-perf-observe-perf
‘the woman observed me’
d. tra̧a̧xe sh-te-s-’í̧-’ y-u-s-tł-te
woman 1sg/obj-th-perf-observe-perf tr-des-perf-l-want
‘the woman wanted to observe me’
(lit.: ‘The woman wanted she observed me’)
e. tra̧a̧xe sh-te-s-’í̧-’ ’aa-w-ii-ł-nu
=n
woman 1sg/obj-th-perf-observe-perf th-u/perf-1sg/subj-l-tell
‘I told the woman to observe me’
(lit.: ‘I told the woman she observed me’)
f. tra̧a̧nxe tee-s-ii-’í̧-’ sh-ghi̧-ł-nu
=n
woman th-perf-1sg/subj-observe-perf 1sg/obj-perf-l-tell
‘the woman told me to observe her’
(lit.: ‘The woman told me I observed her’)
The situation is not totally clear-cut, however, since one may cogently argue that when all
arguments are third persons, zero subjects in the complements are indeed governed by GRs:
(36) a. ch’u
=sne ya̧a̧xu
=shchuh yu
=-s-tł-tr’i̧nt’
man sasquatch tr-perf-l-kill
‘the man killed the sasquatch’
b. ch’u
=sne ya̧a̧xu
=shchuh yu
=-s-tł-tr’i̧nt’ [Ø] y-u-s-tł-te
man sasquatch tr-perf-l-kill subj tr-des-perf-l-want
‘the man wanted to kill the sasquatch’
(lit: ‘the man wanted he killed it the Sasquatch’)
c. ch’u
=sne y-u-ł-nu
=n [Ø] ya̧a̧xu
=shchuh yu
=-s-tł-tr’i̧nt’
man tr-perf-l-tell subj sasquatch tr-perf-l-kill
‘s/he told the man to kill the sasquatch’
(lit.: ‘s/he told the man he killed it the sasquatch’)
4.3.2.2.3Interim summary: Prototypicality and gradation. As seen above, behavior-and-
control properties of GRs, much like overt coding properties, display a wide range of both
cross-language and intra-language variability. To underscore the possible range of such
variation, consider table (37) below, in which we summarize, for three languages, the
applicability of the subject and direct-object GRs to the 13 potentially governed construc-
tions listed earlier in (8).
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 189
(37) Scope of rule-government by GRs in 3 languages
English Tolowa Japanese
B&C property Subj Obj Subj Obj Subj Obj
a.promotion to DO
b.demotion from DO
c.passivization
d.reﬂexivization
e.causativization
f.equi-complements
g.raising
h.possessor raising
i.zero anaph. (chains)
j.relativization
k.wh-question
l.cleft-focus
m.participial Advs
−
−
+
+
−
+
+
−
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
+
−
−
+
+
+
−
+
+
+
−
−
−
−
+
−
+/−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
+/−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
−
+
+
+
+
−
−
−
−
+
+
+
−
−
+
−
+
+
−
−
−
−
+
+
−
total scores: 9 9 1.5 0.5 7 5
The remarkably low score for Tolowa Athabaskan — 1.5/13 for subject and 0.5/13 for
object — is due in part to one salient grammatical feature of this language, indeed of the
Athabaskan family in general: It has virtually no non-ﬁnite constructions. Even nominal-
ized clauses are ﬁnite in Tolowa (Givón and Bommelyn 2000). Governed constructions,
especially subordinate ones, tend to be less ﬁnite in languages such as English. Other
families which share the Athabaskan penchant for ﬁniteness are Iroquois and So. Arawak.
4.3.2.3Conﬂicts between overt-coding and behavior-and-control properties of GRs
With some well-known exceptions, overt coding properties and behavior-and-control
properties of GRs tend to coincide. That is, regardless of how highly grammaticalized the
subject and object are in a particular language, in most languages — and in most grammat-
ical constructions — GR properties tend to cluster together coherently around the same
argument, be it the subject or object.
In this section we will discuss brieﬂy some of the more notorious exceptions to this
strong tendency. We will suggest that among both languages and clause-types, these
exceptions are relatively rare, and that rather than being counter examples to the universal-
ity of GRs, these exceptions merely point the way towards a more complex approach to
universals of GRs, one that would take into account both the synchronic functions of
GR-governed constructions and the diachronic processes via which they arise; that is,
grammaticalization.
a.
Morphologically Ergative languages
Without going into details at this juncture, morphologically Ergative (or ‘surface-ergative’)
languages display a well-known misalignment between case-marking morphology and
behavior-and-control properties of their subjects and DOs. Brieﬂy, while the morphology
190 Syntax
of these languages does not reveal uniﬁed categories of subject and DO, behavior-and-
control properties clearly reveal them to be uniﬁed categories. This issue will be discussed
in some detail further below (§4.4.3.3.4), where the diachronic roots of the misalignment
will be noted.
b.
Passive and/or inverse clauses
In his well-known paper on passives and grammatical relations, Keenan (1975) noted that
subjects of passive clauses are often less prototypical than those of active clauses, displaying
only a sub-set of the overt coding properties of active-clause subjects. As an illustration of
this, compare the active and passive clauses of Lunda-Ndembu (Bantu), a language with a
strict SVO word-order. Neither the subject nor DO are case-marked in this language, but
each controls a distinct pronominal agreement slot on the verb (Kawasha and Givón 1999):
(38) a. Active (Sg subject)
Joni w-a-mona Mari
children 3pl-past-see M.
‘John saw Mary’
b. Active (Pl subject)
Anyaana a-a-mona Mari
children 3pl-past-see M.
‘The children saw Mary’
c. Active, anaphoric object
anyaana a-a-mu-mona
children 3pl-past-3sg/obj-see
‘the children saw him/her’
d. Active, anaphoric object & subject
a-a-mu-mona
3pl-past-3sg/obj-see
‘they saw him/her’
e. Passive (SV)
Mari a-a-mu-mona kudi-Joni
Mary 3pl-past-3sg/obj-see dat-Joni
‘Mary was seen by John’
(lit.: ‘Mary, they saw her by John’)
f. Passive (VO)
a-a-mu-mona Mari kudi-Joni
3pl-past-3sg/obj-see Mary dat-John
‘Mary was seen by John’
(lit.: ‘They saw her Mary by John’)
As can be seen, the topical NP of the Lunda passive has acquired, at least optionally, the
characteristic active-clause subject position (SV; (38g)). But it still controls object
pronominal agreement on the verb. Further, behavior-and-control properties of the topical
NP in the passive clause are also divided (Kawasha and Givón 1999):
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 191
(39) Split GR properties of the Lunda topic-of-passive
Properties Subject Object
Overt coding
position
anaphoric pronoun
Behavior & control
EQUI
Reﬂexive
Relativization
Functional properties
topicality
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
Total: 4 3
Similar split GR properties also characterize inverse clauses in many other languages
(Givón ed. 1994a).
The less subject-like nature of the non-agent topic of the passive or inverse clause is
fairly understandable in terms of syntactic transitivity (Ch.3): In the simple clause, the
agent tends to be the more topical argument, and is thus most often grammaticalized as the
subject. Subject properties overall are keyed to this strong norm. But both passive and
inverse clauses violate this norm (see Chapter 13). It is thus not an accident that their
topical argument shows weakened subject properties.
c.
Existential-presentative clauses
Another clause-type that is notorious for mixed GR properties is the existential-presentative
construction, as in:
(40) a. Neutral clause
The ﬂy landed in my soup
b. Existential-presentative clause
There was a ﬂy in my soup
The ‘logical’ subject of the existential clause is, in all languages, a rather non-prototypical
subject as compared to the neutral-clause subject (Hetzron 1975; Givón 1976; Bresnan and
Kanerva 1989, inter alia).
As an example of the mixed GR properties of existential-presentatives, consider again
Lunda-Ndembu where, as is typical in Bantu languages, the locative argument in the
existential-presentative clause controls the subject pronominal agreement on the verb:
(41) a. Neutral-clause locative
anyaana a-di mu-itala
children 3pl/subj-be in-house
‘the children are in the house’
192 Syntax
b. Existential-presentative (fronted locative)
mu-itala mu-di anyaana
in-house in/subj-be children
‘in the house there are children’
c. Existential-presentative (unfronted locative)
mu-di anyaana mu-itala
in/subj-be children in-house
‘there are children in the house’
But the locative apparent-subject in Lunda reveals itself to be rather non-prototypical when
tested for its behavior-and-control properties. Thus, for example, neither argument in the
existential clause can be relativized (42c,d). This contrasts sharply with the neutral clause,
out of which both the subject (42a) and the locative object (42b) can be relativized:
(42) a. Neutral, subject Rel-clause
ana anyaana a-di mu-itala…
those children 3pl/subj-be in-house
‘the children who are in the house…’
b. Neutral, locative-Obj Rel-clause
muna mu-itala mu-a-di-wu anyaana…
that in-house loc-3pl-be-3pl children
‘in the house where there are children
c. *Existential, logical-Subj Rel-clause
*ana anyaana mu-di mu-itala….
those children in/subj-be in-house
*(the) children that there are in the house…’
d. *Existential, locative Subj/Obj rel
muna mu-itala mu-di anyaana…
there in-house in/subj-be children
‘In-there in the house there are children’ (main clause)
*‘the in-the-house where there are children…’ (Rel)
Likewise, in testing for equi-subject complementation:
(43) a. Neutral clause
anyaana a-e-ekal-ili mu-itala
children 3sg/subj-past-live-asp in-house
‘the children lived in the house’
b. Equi, subject
w-a-yi-keeñ-eli anyaana ku-ikala mu-itala
3sg-past-3pl/obj-live-asp children inf-live in-house
‘he wanted the children to live in the house’
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 193
c. Existential-presentative
mu-itala mu-e-ekal-ili anyaana
in-house in/subj-past-live-asp children
‘in the house there lived children’
d. *Equi, locative
*w-a-mu-keñ-eli mu-itala ku-ikala-(mu) anyaana
3sg-past-in/loc-want-asp in-house inf-live-(in) children
(*‘he wanted for the house to there live children’)
The rather weak subjecthood of the locative ‘subject’ of existential-presentative clauses is
not surprising, given that the prototypical subject of neutral clauses is overwhelmingly
deﬁnite, anaphoric, recurrent and topical (Chapters 9, 10). The subject of existential-
presentative clauses, on the other hand, is an indeﬁnite non-anaphoric referent that is
being introduced into the discourse for the ﬁrst time (see Chapters 10, 16).
d.
Possession clauses
As noted earlier on (Ch.3, §3.3.4.3.(i)), possession clauses in many languages have mixed
GRs, splitting subject properties between the more topical human-dative possessor and the
less topical possessed patient. Thus recall the Hebrew examples, in which even overt coding
properties in these constructions are mixed:
(44) a. hay-a l-a sefer-xad
was-3sg.masc dat-3sg.fem book-one
‘she had a book’
b. hay-u l-a harbe sfarim
was-3pl dat-3sg.fem many books
‘she had many book’
c. lo hay-a l-a et-ha-sefer ha-ze
neg was-3sg.masc to-her acc-the-book the-this
‘she didn’t have this book’
c. lo hay-u/a l-a et-ha-sfarim ha-ele
neg be/past-3pl/3sg.masc to-her acc-the-books the-these
‘she didn’t have these books’
Indeﬁnite possessed NPs (44a,b) control subject pronominal agreement on the verb.
Deﬁnite possessed NPs (44c,d) are marked with the DO preposition, and may or may not
control verb agreement (44d). Examples like (44c,d) thus suggest at the very least a partial
re-alignment of the possessed patient as direct object of a transitive construction. However,
the behavior-and-control properties of the dative possessor of this construction still do not
reach prototype subject properties. To illustrate this, compare the equi-subject construc-
tions with a transitive (45a), BE-intransitive (45b), and possession-clause (45c) in the
complement position:
(45) a. hi rats-ta li-kro’ et-ha-sefer
she wanted-3sg.fem inf-read acc-the-book
‘she wanted to read the book’
194 Syntax
b. hi rats-ta li-hyot b-a-bayit
she wanted-3sg.fem inf-be at-the-house
‘she wanted to be at home’
c. *hi rats-ta li-hyot l-a et-ha-sefer
she wanted-3sg.fem inf-be dat-3sg.fem acc-the-book
(*‘she wanted to have the book’)
d. hi rats-ta she-yi-hye l-a et-ha-sefer
she wanted-3sg.fem sub-3sg.masc-be/fut dat-3sg.fem acc-the-book
‘she wished that she would have the book’
The conﬂict in grammatical relations of course mirrors a conﬂict in topicality, as the
construction pits its possessed-patient, clinging somewhat desperately to grammatical
subjecthood, against the more topical dative-possessor.
e.
Dative subject clauses
Consider ﬁnally the mixed properties of dative-subjects in Spanish. While morphologically
case-marked as datives and ceding subject pronominal agreement to the seeming ‘object’,
they nonetheless behave as subjects for the purpose of equi in complement clauses:
(46) a. Main clause, NOM subject
Yo quier-o el sol
1sg/subj love-1/subj.sg the sun
‘I want/love the sun’
b. Main clause, DAT subject
a-mi me-gus-a el sol
dat-1sg 1sg/dat-please-3sg/subj the sun
‘I like the sun’, ‘the sun pleases me’
c. Equi, NOM subject
quier-o hacer-lo
want-1sg/subj do-it
‘I want to do it’
d. Equi, DAT subject
me-gust-a hacer-lo
1sg/dat-please-3sg/subj do-it
‘I like to do it’, ‘it pleases me to do it’
Subject — and object — properties in these clauses are thus split between the two
arguments, the more topical human dative and the less topical inanimate patient. Once
again, this wide-spread split is understandable in general terms, revealing the conﬂict
between letting the morphology represent semantic roles (dative), and letting it represent
pragmatic roles (main topic), grammaticalized as subject (see §4.3.4 below)
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 195
4.3.3 Universality and variation: The prototype approach to grammatical relations
We have surveyed above great variability, both among languages and between clause-types,
in the way GRs govern particular grammatical constructions. We have also surveyed well-
documented cases of mixed GR properties in particular clause-types. One is thus entitled
to ask: Is there anything universal about grammatical relations? The answer is that there are
plenty of universal principles that govern GRs in all languages, provided one’s approach to
GRs is compatible with an empirical approach to categorization in general.
In his pioneering basket-of-properties work on GRs, Keenan (1975, 1976a) pointed the
way toward an approach that would accommodate both variability and universality. This
approach is fully consonant with Greenberg’s (1966a) work on typological universals and
predictive implicational hierarchies. It is also fully compatible with the prototype approach
to cognitive and linguistic categories (Ch.1, §1.7.2).
The prototype approach to GRs diverges sharply from the deﬁnitional, either-or,
Platonic approach to categories. Followers of Platonic approaches may, explicitly or
implicitly, treat GRs in two extreme ways. First, following Chomsky (1981, 1992), they can
make GR properties so pristine and abstract that, cleansed of all intra-language mess and
cross-language variability, they are then pronounced 100% universal. Alternatively,
following Dryer (1995, 1997), one could assert that only 100% uniformity is good enough
for universality, thereby — in deﬁance of all that is known about biological and cognitive
categories — pronouncing GRs non-universal.
In his work on the overt coding properties of the subject of passive clauses, Keenan
(1975) made the following universal prediction, couched in terms of an implicational
hierarchy:
(47) Implicational hierarchy of overt coding properties (Keenan 1975)
case-marking > pronominal agreement > word-order
The predictions of hierarchy (47) run as follows: If the subject of the passive clause has the
case-marking typical on the subject of the active, it is also likely to have its typical pronom-
inal verb agreement. And if it has that agreement, it is also likely to have its typical word-
order. But not vice versa. Keenan thus tagged word-order as a more universal overt
subject-coding property, verb agreement as less universal, and case-marking as least. In
doing so, Keenan also made it possible to accommodate the mixed GR status of the subject
or object of some clause-types within a theory that has not given up on universals. That is,
the possibility of gradation in the grammaticalization of GRs (see further below).
4.3.4 Functional correlates of grammatical relations
In his subsequent paper on subject properties, Keenan (1976a) listed the functional
properties of the grammatical subject:
(48) Functional properties of grammatical subjects
a. independent existence
b. indispensability
196 Syntax
c. absolute, presupposed or persistent reference
d. deﬁniteness
e. topicality
f. agentivity
Of these, agentivity (48f) is an obvious miscast, as has been demonstrated by the dissocia-
tion test in (1) above. The rest of Keenan’s functional properties are all reference-related,
and can be reduced to — or derived from — a single discourse-pragmatic property —
topicality. That is, they are all various reﬂections of the fact that the clausal subject is the
grammaticalized primary topic of the discourse at the time when the clause is being
processed, and the direct object is the grammaticalized secondary topic (see Chapters 9, 10).
The behavior-and-control properties of GRs (8)/(37) are transparently linked to
topicality and referential continuity, a subject that will be treated in considerable detail in
many subsequent chapters. Of the three overt coding properties of GRs, both word-order
(Chapter 5) and pronominal agreement (Chapter 9) are transparently associated with the
coding of topicality.
Keenan’s (1975) predictions may be now included within a broader generalization:
•The more closely a formal property of subjects and objects is associated with their
pragmatic function of topicality, the more universal it is likely to be in its cross-
language distribution.
Keenan’s predictive implicational hierarchy (47) may now be extended to all properties of
GRs (Givón 1995: Ch.6):
(49) Ranking of all properties of GRs according to universality
and functional transparency
most universal (most transparent)
a. Functional reference-and-topicality properties
b. Behavior-and-control properties
c. Word-order
d. Grammatical agreement
e. Nominal case-marking
least universal (least transparent)
This ranking suggests a well-known fact from the study of grammaticalization: Morpholo-
gy is the least universal trait of grammatical constructions. It is the most grammaticalized,
and thus potentially the most arbitrary feature of grammar. This is so because it is the most
diachronically recalcitrant, conservative feature of grammar (Givón 1971a, 1979a, 1995,
2000; Haspelmath 1999). It thus has the highest potential for dissociation from semantic
and pragmatic function — in this case the topicality function of GRs (see §4.4.2 below).
Syntactic behavior-and-control properties of GRs, on the other hand, are more universal
precisely because they are more directly attuned to the topicality function of GRs.3
Finally, the most universal properties of GRs are their functional properties. This
conclusionisfullyconsonantwithDryer’s(1995,1997)observations,provided onedoesnot
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 197
subscribe to the proposition that less-than-100% universality means no universality at all.
The prototype approach to GRs and their universality, much like the prototype
approach to categorization elsewhere, is a middle-ground approach between two rather
unsatisfactory extremes. Within such a framework, a subject or object may be a GR in a
particular language without necessarily displaying the entire basket of formal GR proper-
ties. That is, the subject or object in one language may be more extensively grammatical-
ized than in another (Mithun 1991).
Likewise, the subject or object of one construction within the same language may
display fewer GR properties and thus be less grammaticalized, than the subject or object of
another construction. But this does not necessarily make it loose its status as a GR.
Finally, a small number of constructions — or languages — may display mixed GR
properties of their subjects or objects without necessarily falsifying the universality of GRs.
In dealing with complex biologically-based systems such as cognition and language, one
must not only accept but indeed expect universals that accommodate gradation and non-
prototypical minorities. Rather than destroying purported generalizations, such exceptions
merely testify to the complex, multi-factored nature of cognition and language.
The validity of a prototype-based categorial system is its coverage of the overwhelming
majority of the cases, while allowing for minorities that represent either conﬂicting
functional demands, ongoing diachronic change, or recalcitrant diachronic relics. Such
minorities must then be explained with reference to coherent general principles. The
behavior of GRs in most grammatical constructions and in most languages indeed passes
both tests.
4.4 The typology of case-marking systems
4.4.1 Preliminaries
In this section we deal primarily with the morphological overt-coding properties of
grammatical relations; that is, with nominal case-marking and pronominal verb agreement.
We will begin by noting the three adaptive-functional imperatives that motivate grammati-
calized case-marking of event participants. We will then discuss brieﬂy the pragmatic-
functional correlates of GRs. We will then describe the three main types of case-marking
systems as, responding, each, more strongly to one of the three adaptive imperatives.
Three potentially-conﬂicting adaptive pressures motivate the grammatical case-marking
of clausal arguments:
(50) Functional-adaptive imperatives of case-marking
a. the need to code semantic roles
b. the need to code pragmatic function
c. the need to code transitivity
As often happens in cases of conﬂicting adaptive pressures, what various language-types or
individual languages do is ﬁnd their own viable adaptive compromise point among these
competing demands.
198 Syntax
One fairly general compromise, practiced by almost all languages, involves case-marking
above and beyond the two grammaticalized GRs, subject and direct object:
•Most languages dedicate their indirect objects case-marking almost exclusively to
marking semantic roles.
But even here, as we shall see below, there are two glaring extreme variants. The ﬁrst
extends semantically-oriented case-marking even to the direct object. The second
withdraws semantically-oriented case-marking even from indirect objects.
4.4.2 Topicality and grammatical relations
4.4.2.1Cognitive prominence and discourse persistence
As suggested earlier, the subject and DO of clauses may be viewed as the grammaticalized
primary and secondary topics of the discourse at the time when the clause in which they
partake is being processed.
It is important to emphasize that the pragmatic function topic, like almost all other
pragmatic functions coded by grammar, is in principle not an event-related feature but
rather a discourse-related one. That is, topic is not an intra-clausal but rather and extra-
clausal function, relating to the clause’s discourse context. However, like the rest of
grammar, topicality is grammaticalized inside the clause, a fact that has often led to rather
unfortunate conclusions about the functional scope of grammar.
The distinction between cognitive (event-focused) and communicative (discourse-
focused) prominence of participants is blurred by some functionalists, who conﬂate
cognitive (‘semantic’) prominence in the event with communicative (‘pragmatic’)
prominence in the discourse. Some of them then subsume communicative under cognitive
prominence (e.g. Langacker 1987, 1990), while others subsume cognitive under communi-
cative prominence (e.g. Hopper and Thompson 1984).
Topicality is fundamentally a cognitive dimension, having to do with the focus of
attention on one or two important events-or-state participants during the processing of
multi-participant clauses. Since attention is a limited mental capacity, complex multi-
participant situations force its selective deployment.4
This is presumably the reason why only
one or two event participants bear the grammaticalized topic marking of subject or DO.
It is somewhat premature to discuss here the experimental cognitive study of attention.
What is more, the use of the GRs subject and DO to code topicality is embedded within a
wider complex system in which many other grammatical sub-systems interact.
For these reasons, we will note at this juncture only two of the more heuristic, text-
distributional properties of topical arguments in discourse:
a.
Cataphoric persistence
Arguments marked as more topical, by whatever grammatical means tend to persist much
longer in the subsequent discourse.
b.
Anaphoric accessibility
For at least some topic-coding grammatical devices, arguments marked by them will tend
to have already been topical in the preceding discourse.
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 199
The use of these heuristic measures of topicality can be illustrated by contrasting the
subject with the DO and the DO with the IO in connected discourse. In table (51) below
we summarize the cataphoric persistence of subjects and direct objects in ﬁve languages.
Persistence is expressed in terms of the % of arguments that recur either twice or less (0–2;
less topical), or more than twice (>2; topical) in the next 10 clauses following their
appearance, as subjects or objects, in a clause.
(51) Cataphoric persistence of subjects and objects of transitive clauses in
Sahaptin, Panare, Bella-Coola, Korean and Spanish (Givón ed. 1994)
occurrences in the following % clauses
0–2 >2 total
language N % N % N %
Sahaptin
subj
obj
Panare
subj
obj
Bella Coola
subj
obj
Korean
subj
obj
Spanish
subj
obj
9
21
9
19
27
82
53
106
19
70
19.6%
61.8%
31.0%
65.5%
21.4%
65.1%
35.3%
72.0%
19.0%
70.0%
37
13
20
10
99
44
97
44
81
30
80.4%
38.4%
69.0%
34.5%
78.6%
34.9%
64.7%
28.0%
81.0%
30.0%
46
34
29
29
126
126
150
150
100
100
100.0%
100.0%
100.0%
100.0%
100.0%
100.0%
100.0%
100.0%
100.0%
100.0%
Similar measures have been performed to establish the more topical status of the DO over
indirect objects (Givón ed. 1983a; Rude 1987).
4.4.2.2The topicality hierarchies of clausal arguments
In Chapter 3, above, we discussed the preferred argument structure found in simple clauses.
That is, the mapping from semantic roles to the GRs subject and DO. We noted there two
universal constraints, reproduced below:
(52) Constraints on mapping from semantic roles to grammatical relations in
simple clauses
a. An agent can only be the subject.
b. A patient can only be a subject or DO.
c. A dative can be a subject, DO or IO.
d. All other semantic roles can only be IOs.
200 Syntax
(53) Prototypical mapping between semantic and syntactic transitivity
If the simple clause codes a semantically transitive event, the event’s agent will
be the clause’s subject, and the event’s patient the clause’s direct object.
We noted, further, that these constraints are in part a matter of deﬁnition, being partly the
consequence of our deﬁning the main, declarative, aﬃrmative, active clause as the
unmarked, neutral clause type in syntax. We are now in the position to further generalize
on these constraints, in terms of the hierarchy of topicality of semantic roles:
(54) Hierarchy of topicality of semantic roles
(Hawkinson and Hyman 1974; Givón 1976)
Agt > Dat/Ben > Pat > Loc > others
Hierarchy (54) is interpreted in terms of preferred accessibility to the GRs of subject and
DO in the simple clause:
(55) a. Access to subject GR
If the simple clause has an agent argument, it has the highest claim to the
subject GR. Otherwise the claim passes down hierarchy (54) in order.
b. Access to object GR
If the simple clause has a dative/benefactive argument, it has the highest
claim to the direct object GR. Otherwise the claim passes down hierarchy
(54) in order.
Given our suggestion that the subject and direct-object GRs are the grammaticalized
primary and secondary topic in the clause, respectively, constraints (55a,b) represent a
clear bias in human language toward considering the event’s human/animate actor-
initiator (Agt) the most topic-worthy in discourse; the mentally-engaged human partici-
pant (Dat/Ben) as next in line; the participant displaying the most salient impact of the
event (Pat) as next in line; the event’s spatial frame (Loc) as next in line; and all others
further down the line. The fact that the agent is out of the competition for direct
objecthood (55b) is merely the consequence of its winning the top prize in the more
important competition to subjecthood (55a).
The primacy of the agents at the top contender to subjecthood in the simple clause is
upheld by the fact that only in passive, inverse or other de-transitive voice clauses
(Chapter 13) can the agent be demoted from subjecthood.
The primacy of the dative as the next in line in the competition for subjecthood in the
simple clause is supported by the grammatical behavior of clauses with dative but no agent
participant, even when they are case-marked as dative-objects, as in (46) above.
The primacy of the dative-benefactive in the competition for direct-objecthood is
supported by the fact that in most languages it is obligatorily made the DO. And in the few
languages such as English where it can be either the DO or IO, it is nonetheless overwhelm-
ingly the DO at the level of text frequency (see §4.5.2 below).
Finally, the primacy of the patient as next in line to subjecthood, following the dative,
is upheld be the fact that no other semantic role further down the hierarchy (54) can be the
subject of simple clauses. And the patient’s primacy as next in line to direct objecthood,
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 201
following the dative-benefactive, is upheld by the fact that, absent a dative-benefactive
participant, the patient is the preferred DO in simple clauses. As well as by the great text-
frequency of transitive clauses with patient DOs.
4.4.3 Major types of case-marking systems
The three main types of case-marking systems select one of the three functional-adaptive
imperatives (50) as the primary principle governing the case-marking of subjects and
objects:
•coding semantic roles;
•coding pragmatic function;
•coding transitivity.
We will describe these three systems in order, noting some of the most common sub-
variants.
4.4.3.1Semantically-oriented case-marking: The so-called active-stative system
As noted above, most languages already orient the case-marking of IOs towards coding
semantic roles. But the languages belonging to the active-stative type also orient the case-
marking of their subjects and direct-objects this way. As an example, consider Chickasaw
(Western Muskogean), in which a three-way distinction — agent vs. patient vs. dative —
is coded only in the pronominal aﬃxes of the verb (Munro and Gordon 1982):
(56) a. AGT subject, Pat object of transitive
[Ø]-kisili-li
3/pat-bite-1/agt
‘I bite him/her’
b. AGT subject of intransitive
chokma-li
good-1/agt
‘I act good’
c. PAT subject of transitive
sa-chokma
1/pat-good
‘I am good’
d. DAT subject, PAT object
paska [Ø]-in-champoli
bread 3/pat-3/dat-like
‘s/he likes bread’
One major variant of this system marks the contrast between agent and non-agent, with the
latter conﬂating together patient and dative. As an illustration, consider Seneca (Iroquois),
202 Syntax
where this distinction is marked primarily on pronouns, most commonly the pronominal
aﬃxes on the verb (Chafe and Mithun 1995):
(57) a. AGT subject
wa’-k-atënyë-?
fact-1sg/aft-save-pfv
‘I saved it’
b. DAT subject
wak-ka’h-as nae ni’
1sg/nagt-like.taste-impv emph I
‘I myself like the taste of it’
c. PAT subject & object
‘iya-ni-ma-ha̧kecha
that-2/nagt-1/nagt-be.long
‘I am as long as you are’
d. AGT subject, DAT object
‘I talked to you/her’
But the case-marking in active-stative systems can involve full NPs, as is the case in Laz
(Caucasian), where it is again a two-way distinction between agent and non-agent (Harris
1985):
(58) a. AGT and PAT of transitive
kochi-k doqvilu gheji
man-agt 3sg.kill.3sg dog/nagt
‘the man killed the dog’
b. AGT subject of intransitive
jogho-epe-k-ti lales
dog-pl-agt-too 3pl.bark
‘the dogs bark too’
c. AGT subj, LOC IO
bere-k isteru ghoji-s
child-agt 3sg.play yard-loc
‘the child plays in the yard’
d. PAT subject of intransitive
kochi doghuru
man/nagt 3sg.died
‘the man died’
e. AGT subject, PAT DO & DAT IO of bi-transitive
baba-k cxeni mechu sikiri-s
father-agt horse/nagt 3sg.give.3sg.3sg child-loc
‘the father gave a horse to the child’
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 203
While the morphology of case-marking is indeed semantically oriented in active-stative
languages, behavior and control properties can re-unify the categories of subject and direct
object. This can indeed be shown in active-stative Caucasian languages such as Laz (58).
In other languages, the argument may be a bit more murky. Thus, for example, Mithun
(1991) has noted that Iroquois languages such as Seneca (57), as well as some other
languages with strong semantically-oriented case-marking, have few if any GR-governed
constructions, since all clause-types are ﬁnite. She goes on to conclude that the GRs subject
and DO remain ungrammaticalized in such languages.
The extreme ﬁniteness of Iroquois languages is reminiscent of Tolowa Athabaskan,
noted in (35)/(36) above. However, one may perhaps argue that the control of zero
appearance of full NPs in complement clauses in all these languages is still governed by the
subject or DO of their main verb. This argument was indeed raised for Tolowa (37),
though it is perhaps weaker in languages with obligatory subject and object pronominal
marking on the verb, such as Iroquois. In principle, at any rate, our prototype approach to
GRs accommodates languages in which GRs go ungrammaticalized.
4.4.3.2Pragmatically-oriented case-marking: The nominative-accusative system
4.4.3.2.1Some common patterns. We have already seen and discussed, albeit informally,
nominative-accusative languages such as English, Japanese, Tolowa-Athabaskan, Ute of
Lunda-Ndembu. In such languages, the case-marking morphology is keyed towards coding
the grammaticalized subject (nominative) and direct-object (accusative), regardless of
semantic roles or transitivity. Examples (1) and (2) above, showing the dissociation of the
subject and DO from semantic roles are precisely the types of examples that establish a
language as having grammaticalized subject and DO, thus having a nominative-accusative
case-marking system.
There are several main sub-variations of the nominative-accusative case-marking
system. A language may have case-marking on full NPs but not on pronouns or verbal
pronominal aﬃxes, as in Japanese:
(59) a. Intransitive subject
sense-ga tooku-e itta
teacher-nom away-loc went
‘the teacher went away’
b. Transitive subject & object
otoko-ga onna-ni tegami-o kaita
man-nom woman-dat letter-acc sent
‘the man sent a letter to the woman’
c. Transitive, anaphoric subject & object
[Ø] onna-ni [Ø] kaita
s/he woman-dat it sent
‘s/he sent it to the woman’
204 Syntax
A language may have no grammatical case-marking on full NPs but only on pronouns, as
in English:
(60) a. Mary slept (intransitive Subj)
b. Mary left John (transitive Subj & Obj)
c. She left him (trans., anaphoric Subj & Obj)
d. He left her (trans., anaphoric Subj & Obj)
A language may have no marking on the full-NP subject but marking on the full-NP object,
plus full marking on pronouns and aﬃxes, as in Hebrew:
(61) a. Intransitive subject
Yoav halax ha-bayt-a
Y. went/3sg.masc/nom def-house-all
‘Yoav went home’
b. Transitive subject & object
Yoav ahav et-Rachel
Y. loved/3sg.masc/nom acc-R.
‘Yoav loved Rachel’
c. Transitive (anaphoric Subj & Obj)
hu ahav ot-a
3sg.masc/nom loved/3sg.masc/nom acc-3sg.fem
‘he loved her’
d. Transitive (anaphoric Subj & Obj)
hi ahav-a ot-o
3sg.fem/nom loved-3sg.fem/nom acc-3sg.masc
‘she loved him’
A language may have no case-marking on full NPs but distinct case-marking on verbal
pronominal aﬃxes, at least for 1st and 2nd persons, as in Tolowa-Athabaskan (Bommelyn
1997):
(62) a. Intransitive subject
ch’u
=sne dee-[Ø]-yu
=n
man thm-3sg-sing
‘the man sings’
b. Transitive subject & object
ch’u
=sne ya̧a̧xu
=shchuh [Ø]-yu
=-s-[Ø]-tł-tr’i̧nt’
man sasquatch 3sg/acc-tr-perf-3sg/nom-l-kill
‘the man killed the sasquatch’
c. Transitive (anaphoric Subj & Obj)
[Ø]-yu
=-s-[Ø]-tł-tr’i̧nt’
3sg/acc-tr-perf-3sg/nom-l-kill
‘s/he killed him/her’
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 205
d. Intransitive subject
du
=-sh-yu
=n
thm-1sg-sing
‘I sing’
e. Intransitive subject
du
=
¸ u
=
¸ -[n]-yu
=n
thm-2sg/nom-sing
‘you sing’
f. Transitive subject & object
nn-tu
=-sh-’í̧
2sg/acc-thm-1sg/nom-observe
‘I observe you’
g. Transitive subject & object
sh-tu
=
¸ u
=
¸ -[n]-’í̧
1sg/acc-thm-2sg/nom-observe
‘you observe me’
To my knowledge, there are no nominative-accusative languages with a morphologically-
marked subject but an unmarked object. But at least in principle this is a possible type,
derived diachronically from re-analysis of another well-known type, the ergative-absolutive
system (§4.4.3.3 below).
4.4.3.2.2The dative-subject incursion. As noted earlier above (§4.3.2.3) dative subjects
constitute a well-know distortion in the nominative case-marking orientation, in the sense
that the primary topic in the clause is marked for its semantic role of dative rather than for
its pragmatic role of subject. We have noted, further, that in a nominative language this
creates mixed GR properties, at least so far as overt coding properties are concerned.
Dative subjects crop up, under one guise or another, in many if not most nominative
languages. They represent a lacuna in the topicality-oriented case-marking system, where
semantic-role orientation takes over the case-marking of some verbs. The fact that English
only recently reanalyzed verbs such as ‘want’, ‘think’, ‘know’, ‘fear’, ‘need’ etc. from dative
subject to nominative subject is but one testimony to the ubiquity of this phenomenon. The
fact that in strongly-nominative languages such as Spanish, English, Hebrew or Japanese
one ﬁnds either nominative or dative marking of semantically near-identical predicates is
further testimony to the emergent potential of this conﬂicting pattern. Thus compare:
(63) Spanish
a. NOM subject
Juan quier-e las montañas
John want-3sg/nom the mountains
‘John loves the mountains’
206 Syntax
b. DAT subject
a-Juan le-gust-an las montañas
dat-John 3sg/dat-please-3pl/nom the mountains
‘John likes the mountains’
(64) English
a. NOM subject
I think you’re right
b. DAT subject
It seem-s to-me that you’re right
3sg/inan/nom seem-3sg/nom dat-1sg/dat …
(65) Hebrew
a. NOM subject
hi tsrix-a et-ze
she need-sf acc-this
‘she needs this’
b. DAT subject
naxuts l-a et-ze
necessary/sm dat-3sg.fem acc-this
‘this is necessary for her’
c. NOM subject
hi lakx-a et-a-sefer
3sg.fem/nom take/past-3sg.fem/nom acc-the-book
‘she took the book’
d. DAT subject
hay-a l-a et-ha-sefer
be/past-3sg.masc/nom dat-3sg.fem acc-the-book
‘she had the book’
e. DAT subject
hay-u l-a et-ha-sfarim
be/past-3pl dat-3sg.fem acc-the-books
‘she had the books’
The conﬂict between semantic and pragmatic control of overt coding properties of GRs is
particularly vivid in Hebrew possession clauses, where the non-topical argument may still
control the nominative (Subj) pronominal agreement on the verb, but — when deﬁnite —
is marked as accusative (DO), and claims the object slot in this SVO language.
A variant resolution of the conﬂict may be seen in Kannada (Dravidian). In this rigid
SOV-ordered language, dative subjects claim the subject slot but are marked with the
dative suﬃx. The non-topical argument occupies the object slot but is marked as nomina-
tive and controls nominative-subject verb agreement (Sridhar 1976):
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 207
(66) a. makkal»u-ge bayarike agide
children-dat thirst/nom happened/3sg/nom
‘the children were thirsty’
(lit.: ‘to the children thirst happened’)
b. makkal»u-ge nagu baratte
children-dat laughter/nom come/3sg/nom
‘the children are cheerful’
(lit.: ‘to the children laughter comes’)
c. aval»i-ge ibbaru makkal»u iddaru
she-dat two children/nom be/3pl/nom
‘she has two children’
(lit.: ‘to her there are two children’)
d. makkal»u-ge i vicara gotta?
children-dat this matter/nom be-known/3sg/nom/q
‘Do the children know this?’
(lit.: ‘Is this known to the children?’)
e. makkal»u-ge tayiya jnapaka bantu
children-dat mother/gen memory/nom came/3sg/nom
‘the children remembered his mother’
(lit.: ‘to the children the memory of his mother came’)
Indeed, the contrast between a nominative and dative subject is often used in Kannada to
code the diﬀerence between intended and unintended events (Sridhar 1976):
(67) a. NOM subject
avanu javara barisi-kond
» a
he/nom fever/acc come-caused/3sg.masc/nom
‘He got the fever (intentionally)’
b. DAT subject
avani-ge jvara bantu
he-dat fever/nom came/3sg/nom
‘He caught the fever (unintentionally)’
(lit.: ‘to him fever came’)
c. NOM subject
avanu i suddi til»idu-kond
» anu
he/nom this news/acc know-caused/3sg.masc/nom
‘he learned of this news (deliberately)’
d. DAT subject
avani-ge i suddi til»iyitu
he-dat this news/nom become.known/3sg/nom
‘he came to know the news (unintentionally)’
(lit.: ‘the news became known to him’)
208 Syntax
4.4.3.3Transitivity-oriented case-marking: The ergative-absolutive system
The ergative-absolutive case-marking system is governed by the principle of transitivity. It
is, ﬁrst and foremost, a system where case-marking codes the syntactic distinction between
transitive and intransitive clauses. However, given the strong correlation in many languages
between semantic and syntactic transitivity, factors that are to begin with semantic —
agentivity, aﬀectedness, perfectivity — turn out to have strong clause-level syntactic conse-
quences in ergative languages.
4.4.3.3.1Overall characteristics. In an ergative-absolutive language answering to the
‘classical’ description (Comrie 1978; Dixon 1979), the subject of the transitive clause
displays ergative case-marking, while both the object of the transitive and the subject of the
intransitive clause share an absolutive case-marking, most commonly zero. As an example
consider Nepali (Indic; R. Shresta, i.p.c.):
(68) a. Transitive (masc. subj)
manis-le aymay dekh-yo
man-erg woman/abs see-perf/3sg.masc
‘the man saw a/the woman’
b. Transitive (fem. subject)
aymay-le manis dekh-yin
woman-erg man/abs see-past/3sg.fem
‘the woman saw a/the man’
c. Simple intransitive (masc. subject)
manis uphr-yo
man/abs jump-perf/3sg.masc
‘the man jumped’
d. Simple intransitive (fem. subject)
aymay uphr-yin
‘the woman jumped’
e. Locative intransitive (masc. subject)
manis gho̧r-ma go̧-yo
man/abs house-to go-perf/3sg.masc
‘the man went to the house’
f. Locative intransitive (fem. subject)
aymay gho̧r-ma go̧-yin
woman/abs house-to go-3sg.fem
‘the woman went to the house’
As can be seen, while nominal case-marking in Nepali indeed follows the ‘classical’
ergative-absolutive pattern, pronominal subject agreement on the verb is controlled by a
nominative principle, i.e. by the subject regardless of transitivity.
But the ergative-absolutive system can involve both the full-NP arguments and the verb
pronominal aﬃxes, as is the case in Yu’pik (Eskimo; Chafe and Mithun 1995):
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 209
(69) a. Intransitive
angun kitur-tu-q
man/abs pass-intran-3sg/abs
‘the man passed by’
b. Intransitive
kitur-tu-a
pass-intran-1sg/abs
‘I passed by’
c. Transitive
angute-m luqruuyak ner-a-a
man-erg pike/abs eat-trans-3sg.erg/3sg.abs
‘the man ate the pike’
d. Transitive
uqruuyak ner-a-ku
pike/abs eat-trans-1sg.erg/3sg.abs
‘I ate the pike’
In the intransitive (69a,b) the verb is marked with an intransitive-indicative suﬃx and
agrees only with the absolutive subject. In the transitive (69c,d) the verb is marked with the
transitive-indicative suﬃx and agrees with both the ergative subject and absolutive object.
But ergative-absolutive morphology may also be conﬁned to the verb pronominal
morphology, as is the case in Mayan languages. Thus, from Jacaltec (Craig 1976, 1977):
(70) a. Intransitive
x-[Ø]-to-pax naj-winay
perf-3sg/abs-go-back the/cl-man
‘the man returned’
b. Transitive
x-[Ø]-y-acañ naj-winaj te’-ñah
perf-3sg/abs-3sg/erg-build the/cl-man the/cl-house
‘the man built the house’
The morphological unity of the absolutive NP, grouping the subject of intransitive with the
object of transitive clauses, is not a necessary feature of ergative languages. Thus, in Nez
Perce (Sahaptian) the absolutive subject of the intransitive is morphologically a zero, while
the absolutive object of the transitive is marked as direct object with a suﬃx (Rude 1984):
(71) a. Intransitive
haama hi-paanya
man/nom 3sg/nom-come/perf
‘the man came’
b. Transitive
haama-nm pee-’wiye wewukiye-na
man-erg 3sg/erg-shoot/perf elk-do
‘the man shot the elk’
210 Syntax
The pronominal agreement on the verb in Nez Perce also follows an ergative-absolutive
split, though of a diﬀerent type than that of Jacaltec (70). The absolutive subject of the
intransitive clause controls one set of verb pronominal aﬃxes (71a). The ergative subject
of the transitive controls another (71b). A reminiscent situation is found in Newari, Nepali,
and in general in Indic languages, where the dative suﬃx has expanded its role towards
marking more topical patients — thus direct objects.
One must note, ﬁnally, that there may be some languages where the ergative-absolutive
principle applies to word-order. Thus Gildea (1998) reports that in some otherwise-
nominative Carib languages, the rigid word-order of transitive clauses is O-V-S, while in
intransitive clauses is S-V. In other words the absolutive (Subj of intransitive, Obj of
transitive) has the pre-verbal slot, the ergative (Subj of transitive) the post-verbal slot. That
is (Panare; Gildea 1998):
(72) a. Transitive
O V S
arakon petyuma-ne ku
=h ku
=n
monkey hit-t/a aux s/he
‘s/he’s gonna hit the monkey’
b. Intransitive
S V
ake wu
=-tu
=-n
snake intr-go-t/a
‘the snake goes’
In a somewhat similar vein, in many otherwise-nominative languages, noun incorporation
into the verb is governed by an absolutive — thus ergative — principle (Mithun 1984).
This may be seen in English nominalized noun–verb compounds, as in:
(73) a. Intransitive
S V
Caribou-migration (Caribou migrate)
b. Transitive
O V
caribou-hunting (Someone hunts caribou)
4.4.3.3.2Split ergative-nominative morphology: Gradients of transitivity. Designating a
language as ergative-absolutive does not mean it displays ergative-absolutive morphology
in all contexts. But this is only to be expected in line of what was noted earlier about the
three conﬂicting adaptive pressures that motivate grammatical case-marking. We have
noted, for example, that almost all languages regardless of case-marking typology let the
behavior-and-control properties of GRs to be governed by the discourse-pragmatic
principle of topicality. In the same vein, we noted that many otherwise-nominative
languages allow a lacuna of semantic-role-governed GRs in the domain of dative subjects.
Indeed, this lacuna is also found in otherwise-ergative languages, as can be seen in Sherpa:
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 211
(74) a. Intransitive
ti mi-ti cham-sung
the man-def/abs dance-perf
‘the man danced’
b. Transitive (Agt subject)
ti mi-ti-gi chenyi chax-sung
the man-def-erg cup/abs break-perf
‘the man broke the cup’
c. Transitive (Dat subject)
ti mi-ti-la chenyi go-kyaa-sung
the man-def-dat cup/abs want-aux-perf
‘the man wanted the cup’
In this section we will survey so-called split ergativity. That is, various contexts in which
otherwise-ergative languages may revert to nominative-accusative case-marking. While the
splits are not identical in all ergative languages, their directionality is highly predictable,
and may be expressed as an implicational hierarchic prediction:
(75) Transitivity and ergative-absolutive morphology
If a language has ergative-absolutive morphology in a less transitive context, it
will also have it in a more-transitive context; but not vice versa.
The predictive principle (75) may be translated into more concrete transitivity hierarchies:
(76) Syntactic transitivity
a. Simple clause: transitive > intransitive
b. Passive de-transitive: topical Agt > non-topical Agt
c. Antipassive de-transitive: topical Pat > non-topical Pat
Semantic transitivity
d. Agentivity (subject): Agt > Non-Agt
e. Aﬀectedness (object): more aﬀected > less aﬀected
f. Perfectivity (verb): perfective > imperfective
g. Modality (verb): real > unreal
Pragmatic topicality
h. Topicality of subject: topical > non-topical
a.
Simple clauses
We have already deﬁned the ergative-absolutive cause-marking as one that appears only in
transitive clauses, while intransitive clauses remain governed by the pragmatic adaptive
imperative — i.e. nominative syntax. One may consider this as the core manifestation of
split ergativity, following prediction (76a).
b.
De-transitive clauses
In all ergative languages, passive clauses, in which the agent is de-topicalized ((76b);
Chapter 13), and antipassive clauses, in which the patient is de-topicalized ((76c);
212 Syntax
Chapter 13), revert back to nominative case-marking and, when applicable, to intransitive
marking on the verb. As an illustration, consider Nez Perce (Sahaptian; Rude 1984):
(77) a. Intransitive
haama hi-paanya
man/nom 3sg/nom-come/perf
‘the man came’
b. Transitive
haama-nm pee-’wiye wewukiye-na
man-erg 3sg/erg-shoot/perf elk-DO
‘the man shot the elk’
c. Antipassive (de-topicalized PAT)
haama hi-’wiye (wewukiye)
man/nom 3sg/nom-shoot/perf elk
‘the man shot (an/some elk)’
d. Passive (de-topicalized AGT)
wewukiye ‘ewy-iin hi-weeke
elk/nom shoot-stat 3sg/nom-be/perf
‘the elk was shot’
Both in terms of case-marking and verbal morphology, the passive (77c) and antipassive
(77d) in Nez Perce display the intransitive clause’s nominative pattern.
c.
Agentivity
In some ergative languages, more agentive subjects of syntactically intransitive clauses will
display ergative marking, and less agentive subjects of transitive clauses may display
absolutive/nominative marking. In Nepali (Indic), for example, semantically-dative
subjects may take either an ergative or a dative marking, depending on whether the mental
activity was intended or not (R. Shresta, i.p.c.):
(78) a. Ava-le Nepali thaha-pa-yin
R.-erg Nepali/abs know-get-perf/3sg.fem
‘Ava learned Nepali (actively)’
b. Ava-lay Nepali thaha-bho̧-yo
R.-dat Nepali/abs know-become-perf/3sg.masc
‘Ava came to know Nepali (passively)’
c. Ava-le Nepali chin-chin
A.-erg Nepali/abs know-impv/3sg.fem
‘Ava knows Nepali (actively)’
d. Ava-lay Nepali awuñ-cho
Ava-dat Nepali/abs come-impv/3sg.masc
‘Ava is acquainted with Nepali (passively)’
Sometimes the same variation is used in Nepali to indicate pragmatic focus on the subject
vs. lack thereof, even with an intransitive verb:
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 213
(79) a. Context: ‘Who got angry?’
Raj-le risa:-yo
R.-erg angry-perf/3sg.masc
‘Raj got angry’
b. Context: ‘What happened to Raj?’
Raj-lay risa:-yo
R.-dat angry-perf/3sg.masc
‘Raj got really angry’
Finally, the extension of the ergative subject marker to many intransitive verbs with agentive
subjects is widespread in Nepali, provided the subject is human and acts intentionally:
(80) a. manis-le bhuñy-ma sut-yo
man-erg ﬂoor-on sleep-perf/2sg.masc
‘the man slept on the ﬂoor (deliberate act)’
b. manis bhuñy-ma sut-yo
man/abs ﬂoor-loc sleep-perf/2sg.masc
‘the man slept on the ﬂoor (mere location)’
c. Ram-le gho̧r cho̧d-yo
R.-erg house/abs leave-perf/3sg
‘Ram left the house (deliberate act)’
d. Ram gho̧r-bato̧ a-yo
Ram/abs house-from come-perf/3sg
‘Ram came from the house (mere motion)’
e. Ram-le po̧har-mathi cho̧dh-yo
Ram-erg mountain-top climb-perf/3sg.masc
‘Ram climbed on top of the mountain (deliberate act)’
f. Ram po̧har-ma go̧-yo
Ram/abs mountain-loc go-perf/3sg.masc
‘Ram went to the mountain (mere motion)’
d.
Aﬀectedness
In some ergative languages, transitive verbs with less-aﬀected patients (76e) may lose their
ergative-absolutive marking and revert to intransitive (nominative) marking. As an
illustration, consider Newari (Tibeto-Burman), in which this phenomenon is intertwined
with perfectivity (see directly below). Transitive verbs with a prototypical visibly-aﬀected
patient requires ergative-transitive marking in all tense-aspects (H. Dhaubhadel, i.p.c.):
(81) a. manu-na̧ jhya ta̧jya-ta̧
man-erg window/abs break-perf
‘the man broke a window’
b. manu-na̧ jhya ta̧jya-yi co-gu du
man-erg window/abs break-imperf be-nom be
‘the man is breaking a window’
214 Syntax
c. manu-na̧ jhya ta̧jya-yi
man-erg window/abs break-imperf
‘the man will break a window’
Transitive verbs with less-visibly aﬀected patients take the ergative marking obligatorily in
the perfective/past, but only optionally in the imperfective present or future:
(82) a. manu-na̧ la̧ to-na̧
man-erg water/abs drink-perf
‘the man drank water’
b. manu(-na̧) la̧ to-ni co-gu du
man(-erg) water/abs drink-imperf be-nom be
‘the man is drinking water’
c. manu(-na̧) la̧ to-ni
man(-erg) water/abs drink-imperf
‘the man will drink water’
Finally, transitive verbs with a cognate object — clearly not an aﬀected patient — take
ergative morphology in the perfective, nominative morphology in the imperfective present,
and either in the future:
(82) a. manu-na̧ me ha-la̧
man-erg song/abs sing-perf
‘the man sang a song’
b. manu me ha-yi co-gu du
man/nom song/abs sing-imperf be-nom be
‘the man is singing a song’
c. manu(-na̧) me ha-yi
man-erg song/abs sing-imperf
‘the man will sing a song’
e.
Perfectivity and modality
Probably the best-known split in ergative morphology is that conditioned by perfectivity
(76f) and modality (76g), whereby transitive clauses will display ergative-absolutive
morphology only in the perfective (realis, past), but will revert to nominative morphology
in the imperfective (progressive, habitual) or irrealis (future, conditional). As an illustration,
consider Sherpa (Tibeto-Burman; K. Lama, i.p.c.):
(83) a. Perfective/past
ti mi-ti-gi chenyi chaax-sung
the man-def-erg cup break-perf/3sg
‘the man broke the cup’
b. Imperfective/progressive
ti mi-ti chenyi chaax-ki-no
the man-def/abs cup break-aux-imperf/3sg
‘the man is breaking the cup’
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 215
c. Imperfective/future
ti mi-ti chenyi cho-ki-wi
the man-def/abs cup break-aux-imperf/3sg
‘the man will break the cup’
f.
Topicality of subject
One might note, lastly, that gradients in the topicality of the subject (76h) may, at least in
some ergative languages, aﬀect ergative marking of the clause even without syntactic
detransitivization. Thus Foster (1985) reports that in Timbe (Papuan) ergative marking
may appear in intransitive clauses when their subject is more topical, in the sense
discussed in §4.4.2 above. The expected contrast between a transitive (84a) and an
intransitive (84b) clause is indeed there when the intransitive subject does not persist
beyond its own clause (84b). But more persistent intransitive subjects (84c,d) take the
ergative suﬃx (Foster 1985):
(84) a. Transitive
nga-nge nanang sokoweo
I-erg child/abs carry/mod/1sg
‘I must carry the child’
b. Intransitive (non-persistent topic)
amba are bamb-i, …
women those/abs leave/perf/ds 
‘the women left, (and someone else…)’
c. Intransitive (persistent topic)
dua are-nge togo-m, kalap me-m, lamun-do, …
dog that-erg come-ss ﬁre hold-ss strike.spark-ds 
‘the dog came, held the ﬁre, and struck sparks,
(and then someone else…)’
d. Intransitive (persistent topic)
pelak are-nge ga-m, ingon arim-bo, …
insect that-erg descent-ss down go-ds 
‘the insect descended, going down there,
(and then someone else…)’
4.4.3.3.3Other hierarchies. In a well-known paper, Silverstein (1976) reported that in many
ergative languages the following hierarchic control of split ergativity is found:
(85) Silverstein’s ergativity feature hierarchies
a. Anaphoricity: NP > PRO
b. Deﬁniteness: Indef > Def
c. Number: Pl > Sg
d. Person: 3rd > 2nd > 1st
Hierarchies (85) are interpreted as follows: The likelihood of ergative-absolutive marking
of transitive clauses is highest when the agent and/or patient are at the top — left — of the
216 Syntax
hierarchic scale. As an illustration of one of these hierarchies (85d), consider the person
split in Nez Perce (Sahaptian; Rude 1984):
(86) a. 3rd > 3rd = Erg
’ip-nim pee-wi’y (wewukiye-ne)
3sg-erg erg/3-shot (elk-DO)
‘s/he shot it (the elk)’
b. 1st > 3rd = Erg
’ii-n ’e-’wiye (wewukiye-ne)
1sg-erg erg/1-shot (elk-DO)
‘I shot it (the elk)’
c. 2nd > 3rd = Erg
’e-’wiye (wewukiye-ne)
erg/2-shot (elk-DO)
d. 3rd > 1st = Nom
’ip hi-’wiye ’ii-ne
3sg/nom nom/3-shot 1sg-DO
‘s/he shot me’
e. 2nd > 1st
[Ø]-’wiye ’ii-ne
nom/2-shot 1sg-DO
‘you shot me’
On the face of it, the predictions of hierarchies (85) don’t make a tremendous amount of
sense for either the patient or agent of transitive events. This is so because they consistently
predict that ergative-transitive morphology is more likely with participants lower on the
topicality of the hierarchy. One cannot but wonder why these predictions pan out only in
some ergative languages but not in others, especially that one of them (85a) even contra-
dicts what was noted for Mayan (and many other ergative languages), where the ergative
marking appears only in the pronominal system but not in full-NPs.
As Rude (1984, 1985) points out, however, the ergative-active pattern in Nez Perce arose
historically from an old inverse clause, used when the patient/object is higher on the
topicality hierarchy than the agent/subject (Chapter 13). In the inverse clause in Sahaptin,
closely related to Nez Perce, the less-topical agent is marked by the obviate suﬃx, which
became the ergative suﬃx in Nez Perce. In other words, Silverstein’s topicality hierarchies
make better sense in inverse clauses, where they are indeed wide-spread (see Dahlstrom
1986 for Algonquian; Thompson 1989 for Athabaskan; Givón ed. 1994a).
The fact that constraints normally associated with inverse clauses show up in ergative
languages is due, most likely, to the diachronic rise of ergative clauses from the reanalysis
of inverse clauses (Shibatani 1985; Givón 1995: Ch.6). This source of ergative clauses was
previously mis-identiﬁed as passive clauses (Anderson 1977; Chung 1977; Estival & Myhill
1984, inter alia), which often overlap functionally with the inverse (Givón ed. 1994b). This
is another example of how functional re-analysis outpaces the more conservative, recalci-
trant morphology in diachronic change (see also §4.4.3.3.4, directly below).
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 217
4.4.3.3.4Morphological vs. syntactic ergativity. As Anderson (1976) has noted, in most
ergative languages the ergative-absolutive pattern of transitive clauses conﬁnes itself to just
the morphology — either nominal case-marking or pronominal agreement or both.
Behavior-and-control properties in most ergative languages are controlled by the GRs
subject and DO regardless of transitivity. Most ergative languages are thus ‘surface’ ergative
languages, whose ergativity involves only the overt coding properties of GRs. Their ‘deeper’
behavior-and-control properties abide by the nominative-accusative principle. Such mis-
alignment is indeed a notorious case of conﬂict between overt coding properties (5) and
behavior-and-control properties (8) of GRs.
In a few — so called ‘syntactic’ or ‘deep’ — ergative languages, however, several
behavior-and-control properties align with the ergative-absolutive morphology. This ‘deep’
ergativity was ﬁrst described in Dyirbal (Dixon 1972) and Eskimo (Woodbury 1977).
As an illustration of ergative-absolutive control of syntactic processes, consider Karao
(Philippine), where the basic voice-clauses display an ergative-absolutive pattern morphol-
ogy in the transitive, contrasting with the nominative (absolutive) morphology of the
various intransitives (Brainard 1997):
(87) a. Intransitive (nominative)
’on-jo’kow ’i-nga’nga
pat/irr-sleep abs-child
‘the child will sleep’
b. Transitive (ergative)
kapkaf-en na-nga’nga ’i-mangka
chop-agt/irr erg-child abs-mango
‘the child will chop the mangoes’
c. Antipassive de-transitive (nominative)
men-gapkap ’i-nga’nga na-mangka
agt/irr-chop abs-child obl-mango
‘the child will chop mangoes’
d. Passive de-transitive (nominative)
me-kapkap ’i-mangka (na-nga’nga)
pat/pass/irr-chop abs-mangoes obl-child
‘the mangoes will be chopped (by the child)’
As Brainard (1997) points out, zero marking in several equi-subject clauses —
complementation, raising from subject to object — proceeds alike for both ergative and
absolutive subjects of the complement. In other words, equi is controlled by the nomina-
tive:
(88) a. Abs subject of intransitive Comp
piyan-ko ’a-jo’kow-ak
want-1sg/erg sub-sleep-1sg/abs
‘I want to sleep’
218 Syntax
b. Erg subject of transitive Com
piyan-ko ’a-kapkap-ko ’i-mangka
want-1sg/erg sub-chop-1sg/erg abs-mangoes
‘I want to cut the mangoes’
On the other hand, relativization in Karao is controlled by the absolutive GR, i.e. along an
ergative-absolutive pattern. The subject-agent of the transitive can only be relativized out
of the antipassive de-transitive clause, where it is an absolutive subject (89a), much like the
intransitive subject in (89c). The object-patient, on the other hand, is relativized out of the
ergative-transitive clause (89b), where it is also the absolutive argument:
(89) a. Transitive Subj relativization
m-iy-tak-ko ’i-nga’ngen ’eng-omas na-’amayo
agt/perf-see-1sg/erg abs-child/sub perf/ap-break obl-toy
‘I saw the child who broke the toy’
b. Transitive Obj relativization
m-iy-tak-ko’ ’i-nga’ngen ’omas-iy na-nga’nga
agt/perf-see-1sg/erg abs-child/sub break-agt/perf obl-child
‘I saw the toy that the child broke’
c. Intransitive Subj relativization
m-iy-tak-ko ’i-nga’ngen ’on-jo’kow
agt/perf-see-1sg/erg abs-child/sub pat/irr-sleep
‘I saw the child who will sleep’
In nominative languages, zero anaphora in clause chaining is typically controlled by the
nominative NP, as in English:
(90) a. Mary met Joe and [Ø] greeted him
b. *Mary met Joe and he greeted [Ø]
c. Mary came over and [Ø] greeted Joe
d. *Mary came over and Joe greeted [Ø]
In Karao, on the other hand, the absolutive NP controls 100% of zero anaphora in clause
chaining (Brainard 1997):
(91) a. ’-iy-ala na-nga’nga ’i-mangka ’et k-iy-akan-to [Ø]
agt/perf-get erg-child abs-mango and agt/perf-eat-3sg/erg [Ø]
‘The child got the mango and ate it’
(lit.: ‘The child got the mango and he ate’)
b. ’in-toro na-maistara ’i-nga’nga ’et ’iyan-kansion [Ø]
agt/perf-point erg-teacher abs-child and agt/perf-sing [Ø]
‘the teacher pointed at the child and s/he (the child/*the teacher) sang’
The misalignment between overt coding and behavior-and-control properties in most
(‘surface’) ergative languages, as against the — at least partial — alignment between the
two in a few (‘deep’) ergative languages, once again ﬁnds a natural diachronic explanation:
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 219
•Behavior-and-control properties are strongly motivated by topicality, and are thus
most naturally expected to reﬂect nominative control.
•In grammatical change, functional properties change ﬁrst, with morphology lagging
far behind.
•Most ergative languages are old ergative languages. Their behavior-and-control
properties have had enough time to realign themselves with the nominative control
principle. Only their morphology remains a relic of their old syntax. Hence their
‘surface’ ergativity.
•‘Deep’ ergative languages, in Australia, Eskimo, Philippine and Indonesia, have
become ergative relatively recently. Their behavior-and-control properties thus still
reﬂect those of an inverse clause in a nominative language.
Indeed, some behavior-and-control properties — such as zero marking under equi in
raising and complementation — retain their nominative control even in the ‘deepest’
ergative languages, such as Karao.
Note ﬁnally, how the zero-anaphora pattern in (90b,d), unacceptable in a nominative
language, would make perfect sense if the transitive clause were re-interpreted as an
inverse/passive:
(92) a. *Mary met Joe and he greeted [Ø]
b. Mary met Joe and [Ø] was greeted by him
c. *Mary came over and Joe greeted [Ø]
d. Mary came over and [Ø] was greeted by Joe
4.5 The typology of direct objects
4.5.1 Overt coding properties: Degree of grammaticalization
Much like the subject, the direct object GR displays considerable cross-language variation.
One aspect of this variation involves the degree of grammaticalization of the DO, and the
extent to which the object GR marked by word-order and morphology is dissociated from
the most common semantic role that tends to occupy it, the patient. In many languages —
Latin, Japanese, Sherpa, Hebrew — the distinction between direct and indirect object is
made by word-order without morphology. As an illustration, compare English (93) with
Hebrew (94):
(93) a. Context: PAT-topic
Who did she give the book to?
b. Response: PAT = DO
She gave it to Joe.
c. Context: DAT-topic
What did she give Joe?
d. Response: DAT = DO
She gave him the book.
220 Syntax
(94) a. Response: PAT = DO
hi natna ot-o le-Yosef
she gave acc-it to-Y.
‘She gave it to Joseph’
b. Response: DAT = DO
hi natna l-o et-ha-sefer
she gave to-him acc-the-book
‘She gave him the book
In English, the diﬀerence between (93b) and (93d) is coded by both word-order and
morphology. In Hebrew, the equivalent functional diﬀerence between (94a) and (94b) is
coded only by word order. This cross-language typological diﬀerence indeed abides by
Keenan’s (1975) hierarchic predictions (47), reproduced below:
(47) Implicational hierarchy of overt coding properties (Keenan 1975)
case-marking > pronominal agreement > word-order
That is, we ﬁnd languages with only word-order overt coding of the DO (Latin, Hebrew,
Japanese, Sherpa), or languages with both word-order and case-marking (English, Lunda-
Ndembu, KinyaRwanda), but no languages with only case-marking but no word-order
coding of the DO.
In the same vein, we ﬁnd languages with both word-order and verb-pronominal coding
of the DO but no case-marking, such as Machiguenga (So. Arawak; B. Snell, i.p.c.):
(95) a. Topical Dat DO
i-m-p-u-t-e-ro tsinane kamona
3masc-irr-give-dir-ep-irr-3fem woman chonta.palm
‘he may give the woman chonta-palm’
b. Topical Pat DO
i-m-p-u-t-e-ri kamona tsinane
3masc-irr-give-dir-ep-irr-3masc chonta.palm woman
‘he may give chonta-palm to the woman’
But, so far as can be ascertained, no language has verb-pronominal coding of the DO
without word-order coding.
4.5.2 Morphological promotion-to-DO and the topicality hierarchy
4.5.2.1Preliminaries
When the DO is a morphologically-marked category, a common dimension of cross-
language variation is which non-patient argument can be made — or ‘promoted to’ — the
DO.5
As noted in (55b) earlier above, the competition for the DO slot follows the implicat-
ional predictions of the topicality hierarchy (54). The prediction relevant to the DO, (55b),
is reproduced below:
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 221
(55) b. Access to the direct-object GR
If the simple clause has a dative/benefactive argument, it has the highest
claim to the direct object GR. Otherwise the claim passes down hierarchy
(54) in the order:
Dat/Ben(/Gen) > Pat > Loc > Assoc/Instr > others
4.5.2.2Optional promotion of dative/benefactives
The hierarchy in (55b) predicts that if a language can morphologically ‘promote’ any non-
patient to direct object, it would be the dative-benefactive. This ‘promotion’ is optional
in English:
(96) a. PAT DO, DAT IO (‘unpromoted’)
He gave the book to Mary
b. PAT DO, BEN IO (‘unpromoted’)
He built a house for his mother
c. DAT DO, PAT IO
He gave her the book
d. BEN DO, PAT IO
He built her a house
Note, however, that in English such promotion is restricted, occurring only with transitive
verbs. Intransitive verbs don’t allow it:
(97) a. He talked to Mary
b. *He talked her
c. He worked for Mary
d. *He worked her
4.5.2.3Obligatory promotion of dative-benefactives
In many languages, the promotion of dative-benefactives to DO is obligatory. That is, if a
dative-benefactive object is at all present in the clause, it can only be the DO. Even in
English, this is almost true at the text-frequency level, where ca. 90% of dative-benefactive
objects appear as DOs (Givón 1984a).
As an illustration of obligatory promotion, consider Lunda-Ndembu (Bantu). In this
language, only the DO can claim the pre-verbal pronoun slot. Overt coding properties of
DO involve word-order, zero case-marking and preﬁxal object pronoun on the verb
(Kawasha 1999; Kawasha and Givón 1999):
(98) a. Obligatorily promoted DAT
n-e-enka mwaana mukaanda
1sg-past-give child book
‘I gave the child a book’
222 Syntax
b. Unpromoted DAT
*n-e-enka mukaanda (kudi-)mwaana
1sg-past-give book dat-child
(*‘I gave the book (to) the child’)
c. Promoted DAT, DAT pronoun
n-a-mw-iinka mukaanda
1sg-past-3sg/obj-give book
‘I gave him/her a book’
d. Unpromoted DAT, PAT pronoun
*n-a-w-iinka (kudi-)mwaana
1sg-past-it/obj-give dat-child
(*‘I gave it (to) the child’)
The same obligatory promotion is accorded to optional benefactive arguments, where the
benefactive (‘applied’) verb suﬃx -ila/-ela must be used:
(99) a. Transitive, PAT DO
w-a-tuña itala
3sg-past-build house
‘s/he built a house’
b. Transitive, PAT-DO pronoun
w-a-di-tuña
3sg-past-it/obj-build
‘s/he built it’
c. Obligatory promotion of BEN
w-a-tuñ-ila Mari itala
3sg-past-build-ben Mary house
‘s/he built Mary a house’
d. Unpromoted BEN
*w-a-tuñ-ila itala kudi-Mari
3sg-past-build-ben house dat-Mary
(*‘s/he built a house for Mary’)
e. Promoted BEN, BEN pronoun
w-a-mu-tuña-ila itala
3sg-past-3sg/obj-build-ben house
‘s/he built her/him a house’
f. Unpromoted BEN, PAT pronoun
*w-a-di-tuña-ila kudi-Mari
3sg-past-it/obj-build-ben dat-Mary
(*‘s/he built it for Mary’)
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 223
4.5.2.4Promotion of possessor-of-object
In some languages with an obligatory promotion of dative-benefactives to DO, the
possessor-of-object can or even must be likewise promoted to DO. This pattern has been
reported for Tzotzil (Mayan; Aissen 1979). Such a language lumps together the dative-
benefactive and genitive (possessor) at the same point on hierarchy (55b), presumably
following the reasoning that the human possessor of the object is more important than the
possessed object, and is mentally aﬀected — like a dative-benefactive.
In Lunda-Ndembu, the promotion of the possessor-of-object to DO is optional, thus
establishing its rank on hierarchy (55b) below the dative-benefactive:
(100) a. Unpromoted POSS
w-o-ocha itala d-a mwaana
3sg-past-burn house poss child
‘he burned the house of the child’
b. Promoted POSS
w-a-och-ela mwaana itala d-iindi
3sg-pa-kill-ben child house poss-3sg
‘s/he burned the child’s house’
(lit.: ‘S/he burned the child his/her house’)
c. Wrong word-order
*w-a-och-ela itala d-iindi mwaana
3sg-pa-burn-ben house poss-3sg child
(*‘s/he burned his/her house on the child’)
d. Promoted POSS, pronoun
w-a-mu-och-ela itala d-iindi
3sg-pa-3sg/obj-kill-ben house poss-3sg
‘s/he burned his/her house’
(lit.: ‘s/he burned him/her his/her house’)
e. Wrong (PAT) pronoun
*w-a-d-och-ela mwaana
3sg-past-it/obj-burn-ben child
(*‘s/he burned it on the child’)
The only other semantic role that can be, optionally, promoted to DO in Lunda is the
locative, and only when it is human — i.e. dative. With an inanimate locative, no such
promotion is possible, thus upholding the lower position of the locative on hierarchy
(55b):
(101) a. Unpromoted inanimate LOC
n-a-twaala wuña ku-mukala
1sg-past-take ﬂour loc-village
‘I took the ﬂower to the village’
224 Syntax
b. *Promoted inanimate LOC
*n-a-twaala ku-mukala wuña
1sg-past-take loc-village ﬂour
(*‘I took (to) the village ﬂour’)
c. Unpromoted inanimate LOC, PAT pronoun
n-a-wu-twaala ku-mukala
1sg-past-it/obj-take loc-village
‘I took it to the village’
d. *Promoted inanimate LOC, LOC pronoun
*n-a-ku-twaala wuña
1sg-past-loc/obj-take ﬂour
(*‘I took it the ﬂour’)
With a human goal, promotion is optional and mimics the dative-benefactive pattern, with
the same obligatory benefactive verb suﬃx:
(102) a. Unpromoted human LOC
n-a-twaala wuña kudi-taata
1sg-past-take ﬂour loc-father
‘I took the ﬂower to my father’
b. Promoted human LOC
n-a-twaal-ila taata wuña
1sg-past-take-ben father ﬂour
‘I took father some ﬂower’
c. Unpromoted human LOC, PAT pronoun
n-a-wu-twaala kudi-taata
1sg-past-it/obj-take dat-father
‘I took it to my father’
d. Promoted human LOC, DAT/DO pronoun
n-a-mu-twaal-ila wuña
1sg-past-3sg/obj-take-ben ﬂour
‘I took him/her some ﬂour’
4.5.2.5Marked vs. unmarked direct objects
A similar but more intriguing pattern of ‘promotion’ to DO is found in Indonesian
(Austronesian). Bi-transitive verbs with obligatory dative or optional benefactive objects
allow two variant constructions — i.e. dative-shifting — depending on whether the patient
is or isn’t the direct object. The verb suﬃx -kan is used with one of the variants. However,
with verbs that take a semantically obligatory dative (‘give’, ‘show’, ‘tell’), -kan is used when
the patient is the direct object, as in (103b) below. With verbs that take an optional
benefactive, -kan is used when the benefactive is the direct object, as in (103c) (Purwo 1997):
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 225
(103) a. Dative DO
John mem-beri Mary buku itu
J. men-give M. book that
‘John gave Mary the book’
b. Patient DO (marked)
John mem-beri-kan buku itu kepada Mary
J. men-give-kan book that to M.
‘John gave the book to Mary’
c. Benefactive DO (marked)
John mem-beli-kan Mary buku itu
J. men-buy-kan M. book that
‘John bought Mary the book’
d. Patient DO
John mem-beli buku itu untuk Mary
J. men-buy book that for M.
‘John bought the book for Mary’
Purwo (1997) interprets this pattern to mean that the suﬃx -kan signals the marked case,
the counter-norm, while its alternant signals the unmarked case, the norm. He further notes
that with bi-transitive verbs with a locative-instrumental alternation (Ch.3, §3.3.6.4), the
variant taking the locative as DO (104b) is the unmarked one, without -kan. While the
variant with the instrumental as DO (104a) is the unmarked one, with -kan:
(104) a. Instrument DO (marked)
John menikam-kan belati ke harimau
J. men-stab-kan dagger loc tiger
‘John stuck the dagger into the tiger’
b. Locative DO
John menikam harimau dengan belati
J. men-stab tiger instr dagger
‘John stabbed the tiger with a dagger’
Purwo’s interpretation supports the predictions of the topicality hierarchy (54), (55b), in
placing the locative above the instrumental in accessibility to DO.
4.5.3 Promotion to DO and verb-coding of semantic roles
Only in relatively few languages is there an unconstrained ‘promotion’ of all non-patient
semantic roles to DO. This extensive promotional pattern was ﬁrst described in two
languages KinyaRwanda (Bantu; Kimenyi 1976) and Nez Perce (Sahaptian; Rude 1985). But
Philippine languages (e.g. Karao; Brainard 1997) and Indonesian languages (e.g. Salayerese;
Mithun 1991), when interpreted as ergative languages, exhibit a very similar pattern.
226 Syntax
The promotion of dative-benefactives to DO in both KinyaRwanda and Nez Perce is
obligatory, as in Lunda-Ndembu, above. The promotion of all other non-patients is
optional. Thus, from KinyaRwanda (Kimenyi 1976):
(105) Dative-benefactive
a. *DO = patient
*Yohani y-ooher-eje ibaruwa ku-Maria
John he-send-asp letter dat-Mary
b. DO = dative-benefactive
Yohani y-ooher-er-eje Maria ibaruwa
John he-send-ben-asp Mary letter
‘John sent Mary a letter’
(106) Locative
a. DO = patient
umugore y-ooher-eje umubooyi ku-isoko
woman she-send-asp cook loc-market
‘The woman sent the cook to the market’
b. DO = locative
umugore y-ooher-eke-ho isoko umubooyi
woman she-send-asp-loc market cook
‘The woman sent to the market the cook’
(107) Instrument
a. DO = patient
umugabo ya-tem-eje igiti n-umupaanga
man he-cut-asp tree instr-saw
‘The man cut the tree with a saw’
b. DO = instrument
umugabo ya-tem-ej-eesha umupaanga igiti
man he-cut-asp-instr saw tree
‘The man used the saw to cut the tree’
(108) Manner
a. DO = patient
Maria ya-tets-e inkoko n-agahiinda
Mary she-cook-asp chicken mann-sorrow
‘Mary cooked the chicken regretfully’
b. DO = manner
Maria ya-tek-an-ye agahiinda inkoko
Mary she-cook-mann-asp sorrow chicken
‘Mary regretfully cooked the chicken’
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 227
(109) Associative
a. DO = patient
umuhuungu ya-riimb-jye ururiimbi na-umugore
boy he-sing-asp song assoc-woman
‘The boy sang the song with the woman’
b. DO = associative
umuhuungu ya-riimb-an-ye umugore ururiimbi
boy he-sing-assoc-asp woman song
‘The boy sang with the woman a song’
What is typologically distinctive in all the languages with such an extensive promotion-to-
DO system, is that when a non-patient is ‘promoted’ to DO, the verb is marked with a
special aﬃx that signals the DO’s semantic role. This is so because the nominal case-
marking on the DO in such languages — zero-marked in KinyaRwanda, a post-position in
Nez Perce, the absolutive preposition in Karao and Selayarese — cannot be counted on to
mark semantic role, given the extensive range of non-patients that can occupy the DO slot.
As we shall see further on (Chapters 13, 14, 15), this promotion-cum-verb-marking
combination has extensive ramiﬁcations throughout the rest of the grammar.
4.6 Serial verbs, case-marking and grammatical relations
We have noted earlier (Ch.3, §3.5.1.1) that serial verbs have a diachronic potential for
developing into object case-markers. While it is true that they can and in many cases do
grammaticalize as prepositions or postpositions (Givón 1975a, 1991c), quite often they
retain many formal properties of verbs long after changing their function.
As an illustration of the wide range of object case-marking functions that can be
assumed by serial verbs, consider Akan (Niger-Congo). The verb ‘give’, when used by itself,
takes the dative argument as its obligatory direct object, much like the obligatory ‘promo-
tion’ in Lunda and KinyaRwanda, above. To get the patient as the more topical object, the
serial verb ‘take’ must be added to the clause (Osam 1997):
(110) a. Dat = DO (no SV)
Koﬁ ma-a papa no sika
Koﬁ give-past man the money
‘Koﬁ gave the man money’
b. Pat = DO (SV)
Koﬁ de sika no ma-a papa no
Koﬁ take money the give-past man the
‘Koﬁ gave the money to the man’
(lit.: ‘Koﬁ took the money and gave (it) to the man’)
Various locative roles are marked by serial verbs, with ‘take’ marking the patient (111a):
228 Syntax
(111) a. Patient
Esi de ekutu no to-o famu8
Esi take orange def put-past ﬂoor
‘Esi put the orange on (the) ﬂoor’
b. Ablative (‘from’)
Koﬁ yi-i tam no ﬁ-i pon no do
Koﬁ take-past cloth def leave-past table def on
‘Koﬁ took the cloth oﬀ the table’
c. Allative (‘to’)
Ebo soa-a adaka no ko̧-o̧ skuul
Ebo carry-past box the go-past school
‘Ebo carried the box to school’
d. Ingressive (‘into’)
Esi hue-e nsu gu-u ankora no mu
Esi pour-past water put.in-past barrel def in
‘Esi poured water into the barrel’
The serial verb ‘give’ marks the optional benefactive:
(112) Benefactive
a. Esi tur-r abofra no ma-a maame no
Esi carry-past child def give-past woman def
‘Esi carried the child for the woman’
b. Esi twitwa-a Koﬁ ne tsir ma-a no
Esi cut-past Koﬁ 3sg/poss hair give-past 3sg
‘Esi cut Koﬁ’s hair for him’
Both the optional instrumental and manner are marked with the same serial verb ‘take’ that
can also mark the patient:
(113) a. Instrumental
Koﬁ de sekan no twa-a ahoma no
Koﬁ take knife def cut-past rope def
‘Koﬁ cut the rope with the knife’
b. Manner
Akosua de abotare twitwa-a ntȩtea no
Akosua take patience cut-past ant def
‘Akosua dissected the ant patiently’
Finally, the serial verb ‘join’ marks the associative:
(114) Associative
a. Koﬁ nye aberwa no dzi-i edziban no
Koﬁ join/past old.woman def eat-past food def
‘Koﬁ ate the food with the old woman’
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 229
With the exception of de ‘take’, the most grammaticalized, all serial verbs in Akan take the
ﬁnite tense-aspect marking as main verbs in the clause. Indeed, it is hard to ﬁnd formal
criteria for deciding which verb in a serial clause is the ‘main’ verb and which is the
grammaticalized ‘serial’ verb. It is equally hard to decide which object in the multi-verb
clause is the DO, and which the IO. Indeed, as Osam (1997) points out, all post-verbal
objects in the multi-verb clause answer equally well to the criteria of direct objecthood.
This is true of both their overt-coding and behavior-and-control properties:
•following directly after the verb;
•taking the post-verbal pronominal slot;
•behaving as direct object in relativization;
•behaving as direct object in clefting.
Similar conclusions were drawn about serial verbs and their objects in Saramacan, a
Caribbean Creole (Byrne 1987, 1992).
What these studies point out is that regardless of the grammaticalized function that
serial verbs may take in the clause, their formal properties often lag behind, reﬂecting their
diachronic source construction, the clause-chain (Chapter 18). For example, two of the
tense-aspects in clause chains in Akan, the perfective past and the present perfect, spread to
all verbs in the chain (Osam 1997):
(115) Spreading tense-aspects
a. Past
Araba to̧-o̧ nam, kyew-ee, to̧n-ee nya-a sika
A. buy-past ﬁsh fry-past sell-past get-past money
‘Araba bought ﬁsh, fried it, sold it and got money’
b. Perfect
Araba á-to̧ nam, á-kyew, á-to̧n é-nya sika
A. perf-buy ﬁsh perf-fry perf-sell perf-get money
‘Araba has bought ﬁsh, fried it, sold it and got money’
The other two tense-aspects, the progressive and future, mark only the ﬁrst verb in the
chain, after which a neutral ‘narrative’ preﬁx marks the verbs in the following clauses:
(116) Non-spreading tense-aspects
a. Progressive
Araba ro-to̧ nam, a-kyew, a-to̧n e-nya sika
A. prog-buy ﬁsh nar-fry nar-sell nar-get money
‘Araba is buying ﬁsh, frying it, selling it and getting money’
b. Future
Araba bo̧-to̧ nam, a-kyew, a-to̧n e-nya sika
A. fut-buy ﬁsh nar-fry nar-sell nar-get money
‘Araba will buy ﬁsh, fry it, sell it and get money’
The very same distributional restrictions on tense-aspects show up inside serial-verb
clauses.
230 Syntax
In terms of formal syntactic properties, thus, one is justiﬁed in describing the serial-verb
clause in a language like Akan as having multiple VPs, a conclusion broadly similar to
Byrne’s (1987, 1992), Larson’s (1991) and Givón’s (1995). That is:6
(117) S
Subj VP
VP
V Obj V Obj
de
take
sekan-no
knife-def
twa-a
cut-past
ahoma-no
rope-def
Ko
Ko
W
W
‘Ko cut the rope with the knife’
(Diachronic source:
W
W
‘Ko took the knife and [he] cut the rope’)
(118) S
Subj VP
VP
V Obj V Obj-Post
yi-i
take-past
tamo-no
cloth-the
W
past
-i
leave-
pon-no-don
table-the-on
Esi
Esi
‘Esi took the cloth o the table’
(Diachronic source:
V
‘Esi took the cloth and [it] left the table’)
4.7 Verb-coding of case-roles
We already noted above (§4.5.3) that in KinyaRwanda, whenever a non-patient object is
‘promoted’ to DO, its semantic function is coded on the verb. This extensive verb-coding
system is but an expansion of the more limited pattern seen earlier in Lunda-Ndembu
(§4.5.2), where only one non-patient argument — the dative-benefactive — can be
promoted to DO with similar verb-coding. We also noted earlier (Ch.3, §3.3.5.1) that in
Machiguenga (So Arawak), a language with no nominal case-marking, the semantic roles
of all non-patient objects are verb-coded.
In at least one language family, Austronesian, we ﬁnd languages in which the coding of
semantic roles on the verb is also extended to subjects. This pattern is most conspicuous in
Philippine languages, where in the ergative-active clause it applies only to direct objects,
which are themselves marked with an absolutive preﬁx, as in (120a,b), (121a,b), (122a,b),
below. However, in the antipassive and other intransitive clauses, the absolutive-marked
subject is verb-coded, as in (119a,b), below. This pattern is illustrated with Bikol (M.
Factora, i.p.c.):
Grammatical relations and case-marking systems 231
(119) a. Intransitive
nag-batok ’ang-ayan
agt/r-bark abs-dog
‘the dog barked’
b. Antipassive-intransitive
nag-ta’o ’ang-lalake ning-libro sa-babaye
agt/r-give abs-man pat-book dat-woman
‘The man gave a book to the woman’
(120) a. Ergative-transitive, Pat = DO
t-in-a’o kang-lalake ’ang-libro sa-babaye
pat/r-give erg-man abs-book dat-woman
‘The book was given to the woman by the man’
b. Ergative-transitive, Dat = DO
na-ta’o-an kang-lalake ning-libro ’ang-babaye
dat/r-give-dat erg-man pat-book abs-woman
‘The woman was given a book by the man’
(121) a. Ergative-transitive, Pat = DO
p-in-utul kang-lalake ’ang-tubu gamit-lanseta
pat/r-cut erg-man abs-cane instr-knife
‘The man cut sugar-cane with a knife’
b. Ergative-transitive, Instr = DO
pinag-putul kang-lalake ning-tubu ’ang-lanseta
instr/r-cut agt-man pat-cane top-knife
‘The knife was used by the man to cut sugar-cane’
(122) a. Ergative-transitive, Pat = DO
b-in-akal kang-lalake ’ang-kanding para-sa-babaye
pat/r-buy erg-man abs-goat ben-dat-woman
‘The man bought a goat for the woman’
b. Ergative-transitive, Ben = DO
pinag-bakal-an kang-lalake ning-kanding ’ang-babaye
ben/r-buy-dat erg-man pat-goat abs-woman
‘The woman was bought a goat by the man’
Case-marking the verb in a sense violates universal predictions made in Chapter 1,
concerning the relevance of case-marking to nouns rather than verbs. Still, verb-coded
case-marking demonstrates once again the competitive interaction between conﬂicting
adaptive demands. For reasons that have to do with the diachronic history of case-markers,
most languages allow only one case-marker per argument. Since, as noted earlier, case-
marking can respond to three adaptive pressures — semantic role, pragmatic topicality, or
transitivity — the grammaticalization of either the subject (nominative) and DO (accusa-
tive) tilts nominal case-marking toward the pragmatics of topicality. The marking of
semantic roles — beyond the default roles of agent (subject) and patient (DO) — on the
verb is thus an attempt to accommodate both competing motivations.
232 Syntax
Notes
1. As Pu (1997) points out, this is not quite the whole story. In her text-frequency study of zero
anaphora in Mandarin Chinese, the vast majority of zero anaphors (93.5%) were still shown to be
subjects. And while 40.4% of subjects were coded as zero anaphors, only 6.2% of objects were. At the
text-frequency level, zero anaphora in Mandarin Chinese seems almost as RG-governed as in English.
2. There is at least one other family like that — So. Arawak. What it also has in common with
Athabaskan is an extremely elaborate verbal morphology. Indeed, the verbal words and clausal order
of the two families are virtual mirror-images of each other — SOV and a string of preﬁxes in
Athabaskan, VSO and a string of suﬃxes in So. Arawak.
3. In his study of conﬂicts of GR properties in Japanese, Shibatani (1977) showed how when two
NPs compete for subjecthood, the ﬁrst marked by the topic suﬃx -wa, the second by the subject
suﬃx -ga, behavior-and-control subject properties always point out to the ga-marked NP as the
grammatical subject.
4. For the classical attention vs. automaticity literature, see Posner and Snyder (1974) and Schneider
and Shiﬀrin (1977). For the relation between attention and the grammar of referential coherence, see
Givón (1995: Ch.8).
5. The term ‘promotion’ is a terminological leftover from the transformational parlance, where the
variant with a non-patient DO was considered to be the marked case, derived from the unmarked
variant with the patient DO. The realization that in many languages the dative-benefactive is
obligatorily the DO made this derivational concept somehow silly, but the term has stuck.
6. Byrne (1987, 1992) attempts to give a much more elaborate, ‘deeper’ PS-tree characterization of
(117) and (118), endeavoring to account for the diﬀerence between the continuing subject (117) and
switch subject (118) in the diachronic source construction (see Givón 1995: Ch.6). There is no
syntactic evidence to support such a description. And its semantic support only draws on the original
clause-chained construction, which in the serial clause is already reanalyzed via grammaticalization
and semantic change. It is only some of the more formal properties of the chained clauses that have
survived in the conﬂated serial clause.
<TARGET "5" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Word order"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 5
Word order
5.1 Preliminaries
In dealing with grammatical relations in the preceding chapter, we noted that both
morphology and word-order are used, often in combination, to code the grammatical roles
of the subject and object. Still, the bulk of our typological discussion thus far focused either
on the morphology of case-marking, or on the behavior-and-control properties of subjects
and objects.
In this chapter we return, in considerably more detail, to the grammatical (‘syntactic’)
use of word-order. The discussion will center initially on word-order in simple — main,
declarative, aﬃrmative, active — clauses. But we will inevitably stray far beyond this initial
focus. In doing so, we will need to consider clause-types covered more fully in several
chapters of Volume II: either complex clauses (chs 11, 12, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18) or noun
phrase (Ch.11).
In referring to the grammatical use of word-order, one simply means the temporal-
sequential order of three core constituents of the clause vis-a-vis each other:
•verb;
•subject;
•object.
The grammatical relations subject and object as deﬁned in the preceding chapter are thus
taken for granted in our discussion of word-order typology.
A typology, as noted in Chapter 1 (§1.6), is only worth its name if it predicts reliable
associations between a main typological feature (‘independent variable’) and one or more
secondary features (‘dependent variables’). The more such predictions one can make from
the single main feature, the more profound is the typology.
In the study of word-order typology, the traditional division of variables has been
(Greenberg 1966a):
(1) Variables of word-order typology
Independent variable
a. word-order in simple (‘unmarked’) clauses
234 Syntax
Dependent variables
b. word-order in complex or subordinate (‘marked’) clauses
c. word-order in the noun phrase
d. morphotactics — order of morphemes vis-a-vis lexical word-stems.
While this division has always been taken for granted, as a gut-level intuition, it turns out
to rest on solid empirical foundations.
One can certainly approach the determination of which typological feature is the
independent (main) variable and which are the dependent ones from a purely synchronic
perspective, by observing the patterns of association and dissociation — strong or weak,
one-way conditional, bi-conditional — between the variables. But understanding —
explaining — why these patterns of association or dissociation are the way they are is
another matter. Theoretical understanding requires moving from description to explana-
tion, and in this case most explanations turn out to be diachronic. They involve the
processes that give rise to morpho-syntactic constructions, in this case complex or
subordinate clauses, noun phrases, and bound morphology. Our understanding of
typology thus turns out to hinge on our understanding of grammaticalization (see again
Ch.1, §1.6).
There is another reason why explaining synchronic word-order typology is so tightly
intertwined with the diachrony of grammaticalization. Many of the exceptions to even the
strongest typological generalizations one may observe turn out to be diachronically
motivated. Diachrony — grammaticalization — is thus the source of both the regularities
(strong correlations) and irregularities (exceptions) in word-order typology (Greenberg
1978, 1979; Givón 1971a, 1979a: Chs5,6).
5.2 Scalarity, consistency and purity of types
When we say that a certain language has a particular word-order, and when we classify the
various types of rigid word-order found among human languages, we need to bear in mind
that no language has an absolutely uniform rigid word-order in all its constructions. Well-
known variant order constructions exist even in the most rigidly-ordered language.
Conversely, when we say a language has ﬂexible word-order, such ﬂexibility is also a
matter of degree. To some extent, a graded scale can be found between the most extreme
rigidity and the most extreme ﬂexibility in clausal word-order. This scalarity does not
prevent us from discovering many of solid generalizations about word-order, provided we
remember two leitmotifs we have already alluded to:
•We are once again dealing with a complex multi-variable domain, where many of
the generalizations will be scalar or implicational-hierarchic rather than absolute.
•A recalcitrant residue of diachronically-motivated exceptions will continue to haunt
even the most powerful synchronic generalizations we can ﬁnd.
Greenberg’s (1966a) initial observations (see (1) above), are indeed a case in point:
Word order 235
(2) a. Word-order in complex/subordinate clauses tends to conform to that of
simple/main clauses.
b. The order of modiﬁers vis-a-vis the head noun in the NP tends to conform
to that of the object vis-a-vis the verb in the VP.
c. Languages with VP word-order of object–verb (OV) tend to have suﬃxal
morphology, while those with the VP order verb–object (VO) tend to have
preﬁxal morphology.
Several people have attempted to explain these generalizations by reference to abstract
synchronic principles such as harmony (Lehmann 1973, 1978a), early immediate constituen-
cy (Hawkins 1983, 1988a, 1990) or consistency (Vennemann 1973, 1974, 1983). In one way
or another, these approaches presuppose — whether explicitly or implicitly — a rather
abstract, domain-free operator-operand ‘deep’ structure, part and parcel of some
Chomskyan competence, a structure that somehow drives the behavioral analogy between
the independent variable (1a) and the three dependent variables (1b–d). In the process,
they tend to ignore the profoundly diachronic causality — the process of grammaticali-
zation — that turns out to drive all three correlations as well as the exceptions to them.
5.3 Rigid word-order types
5.3.1 Rigid word-order in simple (main) clauses
In this section we survey our independent variable in word-order typology, word-order in
simple clauses, describing the main types of rigid ordering of the verb, subject, and object.
5.3.1.1Subject–verb–object (SVO) — English
Modern English is one of the most consistent rigid SVO languages, at least in terms of its
main-clause order. Still, it displays variant word-orders in several more marked clause-
types, (focus clauses, Ch.17; topicalizing clauses, Ch.16; questions, Ch.17). English may
thus serve as an example of the upper limits of rigid word-order.
(3) Main-clause SVO word-order in English
a. The boy slept (S-V)
b. The man hit the ball (S-V-DO)
c. The woman went to the house (S-V-IO)
d. The girl gave the book to her brother (S-V-DO-IO)
e. They thought that he was crazy (S-V-Comp)
f. The boy wanted to leave (S-V-Comp)
g. The woman told the man to leave (S-V-DO-Comp)
h. He was mowing the lawn (S-Aux-V-O)
i. The girl was tall (S-Cop-Pred)
j. He was a teacher (S-Cop-Pred)
236 Syntax
(4) Marked-clause variant word-orders in English
a. Existential-presentative (IO-V-S), (V-S-IO)
Near the bridge (there) stood a willow tree
There’s a ﬂy in the ointment
b. L-dislocation (topicalization) (O, S-V-PRO)
As for John, the guys never saw him
c. R-dislocation (topicalization) (PRO-V-O, S)
She left the house early, Mary
d. Y-movement (contrastive topicalization) (O-S-V)
That one I really hate
e. Cleft-focus (O-S-V)
It’s Mary that they like
f. Yes/no-question (Cop-S-Pred), (Aux-S-V-O)
Was Mary tall?
Did John quit his job?
Can Mary do this?
g. Wh-question (O-Cop-S), (O-Aux-S-V)
Where is Mary?
Who did they see?
What can she do?
5.3.1.2Subject–object–verb (SOV) — Nepali
Nepali is the main Indic language of Nepal. As noted earlier (Ch.4), it is a morphologically
ergative language. The word-order in simple clauses may be seen in (R. Shresta, i.p.c.):
(5) Main-clause SOV word-order in Nepali
a. manis sut-yo (S-V)
man/abs sleep-perf/3sg.masc
‘the man slept’
b. manis bhũy-ma sut-yo (S-IO-V)
man/abs ﬂoor-loc sleep-perf/3sg.masc
‘the man slept on the ﬂoor’
c. Ava-le Raj(-lay) dekh-yin (S-O-V)
Ava-erg Raj(-dat) see-3sg.fem
‘Ava saw Raj’
d. Ava-le Raj-lay kitab di-yin (S-Dat/DO-Acc/IO-V)
Ava-erg Raj-dat book give-perf/3sg.fem
‘Ava gave Raj the/a book’
e. Kukur ramro cho̧ (S-Pred-Cop)
dog/abs good be/imperf
‘the dog is good’
Word order 237
f. aymay bidhyarti hun (S-Pred-Cop)
woman student be/imperf/3sg.fem
‘the woman is a student’
g. Omi-le Maya-le bhat poka-yin bho̧n-than-yin
Omi-erg Maya-erg dinner cook-perf/3sg.fem say-think-perf/3sg.fem
‘Omi thought that Maya had cooked dinner’ (S-Comp-V)
h. Omi-le bhat pokau-no̧ chod-yin (S-Comp-V)
Omi-erg dinner cook-nom quit-perf/3sg.fem
‘Omi quit cooking dinner’
i. Ram-le Ava-lay ru-no̧ log-a-yo (S-O-Comp-V)
Ram-erg Ava-dat cry-nom put-caus-perf/3sg.masc
‘Ram made Ava cry’
Word-order variants in several types of more marked clauses can be seen in:
(6) Marked-clauses variant word-orders in Nepali
a. Variant order for verbal complements (S-V-Comp)
Omi-le icha-yin kii Raj-le bhat
Omi-erg wish-perf/3sg.fem comp Raj-erg dinner
poka-os
cook-subj/3sg.masc
‘Omi wished that Raj would cook dinner’
b. (Contrastive) topicalization/L-dislocation (O-S-V)
boka Raj-le mar-yo
goat Raj-erg kill-perf/3sg.masc
‘The goat(,) Raj killed (it)’
c. Wh-question (Dat/O-S-Acc/IO-V)
kos-lay Omi-le kitab di-yin?
wh-dat Omi-erg book/abs give-perf/3sg.fem
‘Who did Omi give the book to?’
d. Inverse/passive (Dat/O-Acc/IO-Agt/S-V)
Omi-lay kitab Raj-dwara di-i-yo
Omi-dat book/abs Raj-agt give-inv/pass-perf/3sg
‘Omi was given a book by Raj’
e. Pseudo-cleft/focus (O-V-S-Cop)
kukur-lay hirka-ne Raj-le thi-yo
dog-dat hit-nom Raj-erg be-perf/3sg.masc
‘The one who hit the dog was Raj
’
‘It was Raj who hit the dog’
5.3.1.3Verb–subject–object (VSO) — Jacaltec
Jacaltec is a Mayan language spoken in Guatemala, exhibiting a fairly rigid VSO word-
order in its simple clauses (Craig 1977):
238 Syntax
(7) Main-clause VSO word-order in Jacaltec
a. x’apni naj (V-S)
arrived he
‘he arrived’
b. jahtoj naj yibaH no’-cheh (V-S-IO)
climbed he on the-horse
‘he climbed on the horse’
c. xil naj ix (V-S-O)
saw he her
‘he saw her’
d. xa’ ix te’-hum wet an (V-S-O-IO)
gave she the-book to/me 1pl
‘she gave the book to me’
e. sonlon naj (Pred-S)
marimba-player he
‘he is a marimba player’
f. c’ul ye ix (Pred-Cop-S)
good be she
‘she is ﬁne’
g. ay no’-hin-txitam (Cop-S)
be cl-my-pig
‘I have a pig’ (lit.: ‘be my pig’)
h. xal hin-mam an chubil xcam no’-cheh (V-S-Comp)
said my-father 1pl comp died the-horse
‘My father said that the horse died’
j. s-kan hin-c’ul ∆-w-il-a’ naj (V-S-Comp)
erg.3-want my-stomach abs.3-erg.1-see-irr him
‘I’d like to see him’
(lit.: ‘my stomach wants that I will see him’)
k. x-0-y-impze ix xo’ ∆-s-t’ah-a’ xil-kape
asp-abs3-erg-3-force she her abs3-erg3-wash-fut the-clothes
‘She forced her to wash the clothes’ (V-S-O-Comp)
(lit.: ‘She forced her that she would wash the clothes’)
(8) Marked-clauses variant word-orders in Jacaltec
a. Existential-presentative (Cop-S-V-O)
ay sonlon mac xa-x’htoj yiban no’-cheh
be marimba-player rel asp-arrive on the-horse
‘there’s a marimba player who’s already climbed on the horse’
b. Subject cleft-focus (Foc-S-V-O)
ha’-naj xmak-ni ix
foc-he hit-suV her
‘it was he who hit her’
Word order 239
c. Object cleft-focus (Foc-O-V-S)
ha’-ix smak naj
foc-her hit he
‘it was her that he hit’
d. Subject L-dislocation (S, V-S-O)
naj-Pel smak naj ix
cl-Peter hit he her
‘As for Peter, he hit her’
e. Object L-dislocation (O, V-S-O)
ix-Malin, smak naj ix
cl-Mary hit he her
‘As for Mary, he hit her’
f. Subject wh-question (S-V-O)
mac xwat’e-n te’-mexa tu’
WHO made-suV cl-table that
‘Who made that table?’
g. Object wh-question (O-V-S)
tzet xwat’e-n naj-Pel
WHAT made-suﬀ cl-Peter
‘What did Peter make?’
5.3.1.4Verb–object–subject (VOS) — Malagasy
Malagasy, an Austronesian language spoken in Madagascar, is a rigid VOS-ordered
language. Main-clause order can be seen in (Keenan 1976b):
(9) Main-clause VOS word-order in Malagasy
a. lasa ny-mpianatra (V-S)
left the-students
‘the students left’
b. mitomanyi an-trano-ko ny-zaza (V-IO-S)
crying at-house-my the-child
‘the child is crying at my house’
c. manasa lamnba Rasoa (V-O-S)
washed clothes Raosa
‘Rasoa is washing clothes’
d. nanome vola an-Rabe aho (V-Acc/O-Dat/O-S)
gave money obj-Rabe I
‘I gave money to Rabe’
e. mihevitra Rabe fa handeha-ho any Antsirabe (V-S-Comp)
think Rabe comp go-fut there Antsirabe
‘Rabe thinks that he’ll go to Antsirabe’
f. manaiky manasa ny-zaza Rasoa (V-Comp-S)
agree wash the-baby Rasoa
‘Rasoa agreed to wash the baby’
240 Syntax
g. mampa manasa lamba an-Rasoa aho (V-Comp-O-S)
make wash clothes obj-Rasoa I
‘I made Rasoa wash clothes’
h. lava ny-tongon-d-Rabe (Pred-S)
long the-foot-poss-Rabe
‘Rabe’s feet are long’
A number of word-order variants, predominantly involving fronted subjects or objects, are
found in more-marked clauses in Malagasy, as in (Keenan 1976b):
(10) Marked-clauses variant word-orders in Malagasy
a. Existential presentative (Cop-S-V)
misy zaza mitomany
exist child cry
‘there’s a child (who’s) crying’
‘a child is crying’
b. L-dislocation, subject (S, V-O)
Rasoa dia manasa lamba
Rasoa top wash clothes
‘As for Rasoa, she’s washing clothes’
c. L-dislocation, object (O, V-O-S)
lamba io dia mbola manasa azy Rasoa
clothes that top still wash it Rasoa
‘As for the clothes, Rasoa is still washing them’
d. Cleft-focus, subject (S-V-O)
Rasoa no manasa ny-lamba
Rasoa foc wash the-clothes
‘It’s Rasoa who’s washing the clothes’
e. Cleft-focus, object (O-V-S)
ny-lamba io no manasa Rasoa
the-clothes that foc wash Rasoa
‘It’s the clothes that Rasoa is washing’
f. Wh-question (cleft pattern), object (O-V-S)
inina no ataon’-ny ankizy?
WHAT foc do/pass-the children
‘What are the children doing?’
g. Wh-question (cleft-pattern), IO (IO-V-O-S)
amin-’inona no manasa lamba Raosa
with-WHAT foc wash clothes Rasoa
‘What did Rasoa wash clothes with?’
One may as well note that the few known languages with VOS order tend to crop up in
families where the more common word order is VSO. One may just view VOS as a
diachronic extension of the more common V-ﬁrst order, VSO. Such alternate word-orders
may be found in Austronesian, Mayan, Nilotic, Salish and perhaps other families.
Word order 241
5.3.1.5Object–verb–subject (OVS) — Hixkaryana
In at least one language family, Carib, the presence of a relatively rigid O-V-S order has
been reported (Derbyshire 1977; Derbyshire and Pullum 1981). Examples from main
clauses are:
(11) a. kana yanu
=mno bu
=ryekomo (O-V-S)
ﬁsh he/caught/it boy
‘The boy caught a ﬁsh’
b. “u
=tohra exko Waraka-yakoro” kelnano rohetxe (Comp-V-S)
neg/go be Waraka-with she/said/it my/wife
‘“Don’t go with Waraka” said my wife’
A further study of word-order variation and its pragmatic motivation in Hixkaryana
(Derbyshire 1985) seem to suggest, that O-V-S is not a rigid word-order in the language.
Rather, the language is indeed a rigid OV language, but the subject NP may be either
clause-initial (S-OV) or clause-ﬁnal (OV-S). We will discuss this type in §5.6.2.3, below.
Finally, Derbyshire (1981) notes that the OVS word-order in Hixkaryana is a recent
diachronic development from the SOV order that is the earlier word-order of the Carib
family. This suggestion is further corroborated in Gildea (1998).
5.3.1.6Semantically-controlled word-order? — Bikol
So far, we have described rigid-order languages where the controlling principle was that of
grammatical roles — grammaticalized subject and object. But at least in one language sub-
family, Philippine (Austronesian), it appears that the controlling principle may be that of
semantic roles — agent, patient, dative.
Philippine languages are fairly rigid V-ﬁrst languages, much like Jacaltec and Malagasy.
In addition, they allow considerable word-order freedom for the post-verbal subject and
object, an option presumably controlled by pragmatic considerations of topicality (see T.
Payne 1994). Above and beyond that, however, it seems that following the verb, the most
common preference is for the order Agt-Pat-Dat, regardless of subjecthood. This prefer-
ence can be discerned regardless of whether the language is interpreted as nominative or
ergative. Thus consider the following data from Bikol (M. Factora, i.p.c.):
(12) a. Ergative-active clause
t-in-a’o kang-lalake ‘ang-libro sa-babaye
pat-gave erg-man abs-book dat-woman
‘The man gave the book to the woman’
b. Antipassive clause
nag-ta’o ‘ang-lalake ning-libro sa-babaye
agt-gave abs-man acc-book dat-woman
‘the man gave a book to the woman’
c. Dative-topic clause
na-ta’o-han kang-lalake ning-libro ‘ang-babaye
dat-gave erg-man acc-book abs-woman
‘the man gave the woman a book’
242 Syntax
However, since the agent tends to be the primary topic in transitive clauses even in ergative
languages (Cooreman, Fox and Givón 1984; Cooreman 1988), and thus assume many
grammatical subject properties, at the level of actual discourse — text frequency — the
diﬀerence between calling the preferred order V-S-O-IO and V-Agt-Pat-Dat may not be all
that signiﬁcant.
5.3.2 Rigid word-order in the noun phrase
5.3.2.1Preliminaries
In his original work on word-order typology, Greenberg (1966a) noted a strong correlation
between clausal word-order (O-V vs. V-O) and NP word order (Mod-N vs. N-Mod,
respectively). That is:
(13) clausal order NP order
OV …
VO …
Mod-N (pre-nominal modiﬁers)
N-Mod (post-nominal modiﬁers)
As noted earlier (§5.2), these correlations have nothing to do with harmony, consistency
or purity of abstract types, but rather are diachronically mediated. What is more, many
people have noted (e.g. Dryer 1988) that these correlations are often weak, partial or uni-
directional, with some languages or language types (OV) exhibiting them more consistent-
ly, while others (VO) much less so. In this section we will ﬁrst exemplify the two major
patterns in languages that display them rather consistently. In subsequent sections, we will
survey ‘inconsistent’ or ‘mixed’ patterns.
5.3.2.2Pre-nominal modiﬁers: Japanese
Japanese, a rigid SOV language, is probably as consistent a language as one may ﬁnd with
pre-nominal modiﬁers, i.e. Mod-N order in the NP. It thus conforms well to Greenberg’s
(1966a) correlations (13). Thus (K. Akiba, i.p.c.):
(14) a. ooki hito-wa (Adj-N)
big man-top
‘the big man’
b. sono onna-wa (Dem-N)
that woman-top
‘that woman’
c. san-satsu-no hon-o (Num-N)
three-cl-gen book-obj
‘three books’
d. watashi-no hon-o (Poss-N)
I-gen book-obj
‘my book’
Word order 243
e. kaisha-no sacho-wa (N-N)
company-gen president-top
‘company president’
f. Fukuda Takeo (Surname-First name)
Fukuda Takeo
‘Takeo Fukuda’ (former prime-minister)
g. onna-o mitta hito-wa (Rel-N)
woman-obj saw person-top
the person who saw the woman’
5.3.2.3Post-nominal modiﬁers: Modern Hebrew
Modern Hebrew, a rigid SVO language, is rather consistent in its use of post-nominal
modiﬁers (N-Mod), though with some interesting exceptions. On the whole, it thus
conform to Greenberg’s (1966a) correlations (13). Thus consider:
(15) a. ha-ish ha-gadol (N-Adj)
the-man the-big
‘the big man’
b. ha-isha ha-zot (N-Dem)
the-woman the-this
‘this woman’
c. yeled exad (N-Num)
boy one
‘one boy’
d. shtey yeladot (Num-N)
two/of girls
‘two girls’
e. yeladot rabot (N-Quant)
girls many
‘many girls’ (literary)
f. harbe yeladot (Quant-N)
many/of girls
‘many girls’ (colloquial)
g. ha-bayit shel-Tamar (N-Poss)
the-house gen-Tamar
‘Tamar’s house’
h. beyt Tamar (N-Poss)
house/of Tamar
‘Tamar’s house’ (old pattern)
i. beyt ha-sefer (N-N/Poss)
house/of the-book
‘the school’ (lit. ‘house of the book’)
244 Syntax
j. Natan Yalin-Mor (First Name-Surname)
Nathan Yalin-Mor
‘Nathan Yalin-Mor’
k. ha-bayit she-b-o hi gara (N-Rel)
the-house rel-in-it she lives
‘the house where she lives’
l. ha-dod mi-Yrushalayin (N-Prep/Comp)
the-uncle from-Jerusalem
‘the uncle from Jerusalem’
The two exceptions to the N-Mod order in Hebrew are the numerals above one (14d) and
many of the quantiﬁers (14f). These exceptions are due to the intervention of diachronic
re-analysis, in this case of a construction whose original status was that of a possessed head
noun followed by a possessor modiﬁer, as in (14h,i). The numerals from 2 up, and many
quantiﬁers, were originally head nouns in such constructions. Over time, the constructions
were re-analyzed towards their current Mod-N status. But the frozen old order of the two
constituents persists. This is a fairly clear example of how diachronic change can determine
either ‘consistent’ or ‘inconsistent’ word-order. English, directly below, furnishes similar
examples.
5.3.2.4Mixed word-order in the noun phrase: English
English, Mandarin Chinese and many other VO languages present a perennial problem for
people who insist on taking Greenberg’s (1966a) prediction (13) at its synchronic face
value. In Mandarin, the consistent NP word-order is Mod-N, thus failing entirely to
‘harmonize’ with the VO clausal order. In English, the ‘OV-harmonic’ order Mod-N
applies to smaller modiﬁer — words or clitic morphemes. Larger — phrasal or clausal —
modiﬁers conform to the ‘VO-harmonic’ order N-Mod:
(16) Small pre-nominal modiﬁers
a. this house (Dem-N)
b. a house (Art-N)
d. her car (Poss-N)
e. Mary’s car (Poss-N)
f. many friends (Quant-N)
g. two horses (Num-N)
h. a tall mountain (Adj-N)
i. bird-house (N-N)
(17) Large post-nominal modiﬁers
a. the man I saw yesterday (N-Rel)
b. the woman who left early (N-Rel)
c. his passion for climbing mountains (N-Comp)
d. his gift of two paintings to the museum (N-Comp)
e. the man from U.N.C.L.E. (N-PP)
f. the woman in that picture (N-PP)
g. the people of Venice (N-Poss)
Word order 245
This inconsistency in English nominal word-order is surprising only for those who believe
in abstract synchronic ‘harmony’, a principle devoid of plausible cognitive mechanisms. A
more realistic approach to the ‘inconsistency’ of both Mandarin and English would note
the following diachronic considerations:
•Both languages changed from SOV to SVO.
•In both languages, some noun modiﬁers acquired their word-order pattern
during the older OV syntax, while others grammaticalized later, during the period
of VO syntax.
•While there is some analogical extension of patterns across modiﬁers, analogy has
never been demonstrated as a universal mechanism for increased ‘harmony’.
•In principle, each modiﬁer in the NP grammaticalizes on its own, following its own
diachronic trajectory that may or may not be determined by clausal (OV vs. VO)
syntax (Givón 1971a).
As an illustration of how grammaticalization and diachronic re-analysis can aﬀect NP
word-order, consider the relatively recent rise of complex spatial prepositions in English,
a process extremely common in languages throughout the world:
(18) a. in the middle of the forest
b. *in middle of the forest
c. at the top of the mountain
d. on top of the house
e. *on top the house
f. out of the house
g. out the door
h. under the house
i. *under of the house
At the point of origin of this pattern, the locative noun is the head of the construction,
modiﬁed by pre-nominal prepositions and articles and a post-nominal possessor NP. That
is, syntactically it may be analyzed as (for (18a)):
(19) PP
P NP
Det Poss/PP
the
in
N
middle
P NP
Det N
forest
the
of
Structure (19) conformed to the current English preference for post-nominal phrasal
modiﬁers (17g). Various intermediate cases along the continuum (18) display the way
246 Syntax
various original components of the constructions — preposition, article, ‘of’ — gradually
drop out. So that by later stages, certainly by (18h), the erstwhile locative noun has become
a locative preposition, and the erstwhile post-nominal modifying possessor noun is now
the head noun. The new syntactic structure is then (for (18h)):
(20) PP
P NP
Det N
the
under house
5.4 Mixed word-orders
In the preceding section we noted that the notion of ‘mixed’ or ‘inconsistent’ word-order
presupposes an abstract synchronic principle of ‘harmony’, thus a questionable interpreta-
tion of Greenberg’s (1966a) correlations. In this section we will illustrate more extensively
both the synchronic phenomenon and its diachronic underpinnings.
5.4.1 Mixed clausal order
5.4.1.1Diﬀerent main-clause vs. subordinate-clause order
As noted earlier above, the tacit assumption of Greenberg’s (1966a) observed correlations
was that word-order in complex and/or subordinate clauses conforms to that of the simple/
main clause. But many languages do not abide by this presumed universal, displaying one
word-order in their main clause, another one in (some or all of) their subordinate clauses.
Quite often, this apparent ‘disharmony’ is the result of word-order change, initiated in
main clauses but not yet extended to subordinate clauses. As a result, subordinate clauses
in such cases display a more conservative word-order. This may be ﬁrst illustrated with data
from Kru (Niger-Congo), in which SVO is the current main-clause order, but SOV lingers
on in several types of subordinate clauses (Givón 1975a; Hyman 1975a):
(21) a. Main clause (SVO)
nyino-na bla nyeyu-na
woman-def hit man-def
‘The woman hit the man’
b. Verb complement (SOV)
nyino-na jila boe nyeyu-na bla
woman-def want sub man-def hit
‘the woman wants to hit the man’
Word order 247
c. Verb complement (SOV)
n-pni nyino-na boe nyeyu-na bla
I-squeeze woman-def sub man-def hit
‘I forced the woman to hit the man’
d. Grammaticalized future auxiliary (old main verb) (SOV)
nyino-na mu nyeyu-na bla
woman-def fut man-def hit
‘The woman will hit the man’
e. Grammaticalized negative marker (old main verb) (SOV)
nyino-na si nyeyu-na bla
woman-def neg man-def hit
‘the woman didn’t hit the man’
What examples (21d,e) illustrate is that when the main verb grammaticalizes, the conserva-
tive OV word-order of complement clauses automatically becomes the main-clause order.
A similar situation has been long noted in German, where traditional description
ascribes the more conservative OV order to all types of subordinate clauses, contrasting
with the more innovative VO in main clauses, as in (A. Meyer, i.p.c.; see also Borgert and
Nyhan 1976):
(22) a. Main clause (VO)
der Mann isst den Apfel
the/nom man eats the/acc apple
‘the man eats the apple’
b. Relative clause (OV)
der Mann der den Apfel isst
the/nom man sub the/acc apple eats
‘the man who eats the apple…’
c. Adverbial clause (OV)
wenn der Mann den Apfel isst
if the/nom man the/acc apple eats
‘if the man eats the apple…’
d. Cognition-verb complement (OV)
ich weiss dass der Mann den Apfel isst
I know sub the/nom man the/acc apple eats
‘I know that the man eats the apple’
e. Manipulation-verb complement (OV)
sie erlaubte mir den Apfel zu essen
she allowed me the/acc apple to eat
‘she allowed me to eat the apple’
248 Syntax
f. Modality-verb complement (OV)
ich wünsche den Apfel zu essen
I wish the/acc apple to eat
‘I’d like to eat the apple’
As in Kru, when modality verbs grammaticalize into tense-aspect-modal auxiliaries in
German, the conservative OV order of their complements ‘surfaces’ into various main
clauses, as in (A. Meyer, i.p.c., spoken Austrian dialect):
(23) a. ‘want’ Fut:
der Mann wird den Apfel essen
the man want the apple eating
‘the man will eat the apple’
b. ‘have’ Perf Past:
der Mann hat den Apfel gegessen
the man has the apple eaten
‘the man has eaten/ate the apple’
c. ‘be’ Prog:
der man ist der Apfel am essen
the man is the apple at eating
‘the man is eating the apple’
d. ‘be’ Passive:
der Apfel wurde von dem Mann gegessen
the apple was by the man eaten
‘the apple was eaten by the man’
A more extensive case of such ‘surfacing’ of subordinate-clause syntax into main-clause
syntax has been described, for the Carib family, by Gildea (1998).
5.4.1.2Diﬀerent direct-object vs. indirect-object order
In several erstwhile-SOV languages, a fairly stable word-order is found where the direct
object precedes the verb (OV) and the indirect object follows (VO). This has been reported
in the Mende (Mendeic, Niger-Congo), in the neighboring Senufu languages (Voltaic,
Niger-Congo), in the Chibchan family in Central America (Young and Givón 1990; Craig
1991), and in Hixkaryana (Carib; Derbyshire 1981). As an example of rigid S-O-V-IO
order, consider the following from Kpelle (Mende; W. Welmers, i.p.c.):
(24) a. è kâli kaa
he hoe saw
‘he saw the hoe’
b. è li kâlong-pi̧
he went chief-to
‘he went to the chief’
Word order 249
c. è sȩng-kâu tèe kâlong-pi̧
he money sent chief-to
‘he sent the money to the chief’
d. è wúru tee bóa-à
he stick cut knife-with
‘he cut the stick with a knife’
This ‘disharmonious’ word-order was ascribed in earlier studies to gradual word-order
change, whereby the indirect object preceded the direct object in the drift from OV to VO
(Hyman 1975; Givón 1975a). More recent studies have unearthed a much more detailed
mechanism responsible for this change — the reanalysis of serial verb (object–verb) sub-
clauses into post-positional phrases, due to the grammaticalization of the verbs (Young and
Givón 1990; Craig 1991; Carlson 1991). Indirect objects did not shift their word order from
OV to VO.
5.4.1.3Diﬀerent referring object vs. non-referring object order
The incorporation of object noun-stems into verbs is a well-known mechanism for coding
non-referring objects (a sub-type of the antipassive construction; see Ch.13). In some
languages, this pattern was set during an earlier diachronic stage with one word-order, after
which clausal word-order changed. The result is that referring objects appear on one side
of the verb, while non-referring ones — ‘trapped’ in the incorporating pattern — appear
on the other. As an illustration, consider Ute (Uto-Aztecan), in which incorporated objects
are pre-verbal (OV), but the current word-order is ﬂexible, allowing post-verbal objects
(Givón 1980):
(25) a. Referring object (VO)
ta’wach ’u pakha-ux-pu
=ga sivaatuchi ‘uway
man/nom def/nom kill-asp-rem goat/acc def/acc
‘the man killed the goat’
b. Referring object (OV)
ta’wach ’u sivaatuchi ‘uway pakha-ux-pu
=ga
man/nom def/nom goat/acc def/acc kill-asp-rem
‘the man killed the goat’
c. Non-referring object (antipassive; OV)
ta’wach ’u sivaatu-pakha-na-pu
=ga
man/nom def/nom goat-kill-hab-rem
‘that man used to kill goats’
d. Non-referring object in agent nominalization (OV)
ta’wach ’u sivaatu-pakha-mi-t
man/nom def/nom goat-kill-hab-nom
‘that man is a goat-killer’
250 Syntax
e. Non-referring object in action nominalization (OV)
sivaatu-pakha-ta ka-’ay-wa-t ’ura-’ay
goat-kill-nom neg-good-neg-nom be-imm
‘goat-killing is bad’
A reminiscent pattern is found in English, as is evident from the glosses to (25d,e) above.
However, the English pattern is conﬁned to nominalizations, and has not been generalized
into main-clause antipassive constructions, though it certainly has the potential for such
development.1
Again, the pre-verbal locus of incorporated object in English harkens back
to the older SOV order of Anglo-Saxon (Old English), contrasting with the more innova-
tive current SVO clausal order.
5.4.1.4Diﬀerent nominal object vs. verbal complement order
In many otherwise-rigid SOV languages, verbal complements, especially those of percep-
tion-cognition-utterance verbs, either optionally or obligatorily follow the verb, thus
displaying VO order. As an illustration, consider Sherpa (Tibeto-Burman; K. Lama, i.p.c.):
(26) a. Nominal object (OV)
nyee cenyi caaq-yin
I/erg cup break-perf
‘I broke the cup’
b. Verbal complement (VO)
nyee si-kyaa-yin lagha kyaa-yin
I/erg say-do-perf work do-perf
‘I said that I worked’
It is doubtful whether one needs to consider this a typological ‘inconsistency’. Larger
clausal constituents, regardless of word-order type, are often extracted from their main
clause. Such extraction is probably motivated by a principle of contiguity — keeping the
main-clause subject and object adjacent to their proper verb (see §5.7 below).
5.4.1.5Diﬀerent ﬁnite vs. nominalized order
We have already noted above (§5.4.1.3) that the word order in VP nominalizations in
English is OV, reﬂecting an older historical order, while the current ﬁnite main-clause
order is VO. A converse case can be seen in Akkadian (Semitic), where an older VSO order
changed to SOV under the impact of contact with an older sub-stratum (Sumerian). As a
result, ﬁnite clausal order in Akkadian is OV, while the frozen order in nominalization is
VO (Bucellati 1970):
(27) Finite clauses (OV)
a. ina idi amma-niya illaku
at side/of troops-my go/3pl
‘they go alongside my troops’
Word order 251
b. anna šharr-im ikrub
for king-gen prayed/3sg
‘he prayed for the king’
c. abull-am inassar
gate-acc guard/3sg
‘he guards the gate’
d. dull-am ippesh
work-acc do/3sg
‘he does work’
(28) Nominalizations (VO)
a. Alikūt did amma-niya
goers side troops-my
‘goers at the side of my troops’
b. ikrib šharr-i
prayer/poss king-gen
‘prayer for the king’
c. maššaar abul-im
watcher/poss gate-gen
‘gate-keeper’
d. apish dull-im
doer/poss work-gen
‘worker’
Once again, ‘disharmony’ in word-order ﬁnds a natural diachronic explanation.
5.4.1.6Diﬀerent nominal vs. pronominal order
In many languages, bound clitic (or inﬂectional) pronouns appear on the opposite side of
the verb than the corresponding subjects or object full-NPs. Technically, such situations
should not be counted as ‘disharmony’ in word-order, since cliticized morphemes, once
frozen in place are not independent words.
The position of clitic pronouns — and thus eventually pronominal inﬂections — on
the verb is determined by the interaction of three factors, two of them diachronic, the third
synchronic (Givón 1976):
i. Unstressed anaphoric pronouns are derived historically from stressed, often
contrastive independent pronouns.
ii. When nominal word-order changes over time, bound morphology remains in
place.
iii. The position of stressed pronouns vis-a-vis the verb is often determined by the
pragmatics of focusing, and is sometimes at variance with the prevalent full-NP
order.
While factors (i), (ii) are rather universal, factor (iii) is subject to considerable cross-
language diversity, having to do with the type of contrastive-pronoun constructions
available in a language, as well as the contrastive use of stress. This may be seen in the use
of object pronouns in English:
252 Syntax
(29) a. Nominal object (VO)
She saw the boy
b. Stress-focused object pronoun
She saw HIM
c. Unstressed anaphoric (clitic) object pronoun
She saw-him
d. Stressed contrastive-topic object pronoun
HIM she saw, HER she didn’t
When independent pronouns become de-stressed and anaphoric and then cliticize, their
clitic position may reﬂect their erstwhile order as stressed, contrastive independent
pronouns. This was, presumably, the situation in Spanish, where the current pre-verbal
position of the clitic object pronoun arose during a period of VO syntax, and thus cannot
be explained as frozen relics of earlier OV order (as erroneously suggested in Givón 1971).
Rather, the pre-verbal position of object clitic pronouns most likely reﬂects their position
as erstwhile fronted stressed contrastive pronoun, comparable to the English (29d) above,
as in (30c) below:
(30) a. Nominal object (VO)
ví a María
saw/I obj M.
‘I saw Mary’
b. Unstressed object clitic (OV)
la-ví
her-saw/I
‘I saw her’
c. Stressed contrastive independent pronoun (OV)
a ella (la-)hé visto
obj she (her-)have/I seen
‘HER I’ve (already) seen’
One diachronic factor that often aﬀects the morphotactic position of subject pronouns on
the verb is the grammaticalization of tense-aspect-modality markers, from modality verbs
preceding or following a non-ﬁnite equi-subject complement. In the early stages of such
grammaticalization, the erstwhile verb becomes a ﬁnite auxiliary, carrying the clitic subject
pronoun (or inﬂection). When the auxiliary cliticizes on the verb, it pulls the subject
pronoun with it. This may be illustrated with the Spanish ‘be’ and ‘have’ auxiliaries, which
themselves carry an old suﬃxal pronominal conjugation:
(31) a. est-oy hablando ‘I am talking’
be-I speaking
est-ás hablando ‘you are talking’
be-you speaking
est-á hablando ‘s/he is talking’
be-s/he speaking
Word order 253
b. lo-h-é visto ‘I have seen it’
it-have-I seen
la-h-as visto ‘you have seen her’
her-have-you seen
los-h-á visto ‘s/he has seen them’
them-have-s/he seen
The cliticization of the auxiliaries to the lexical verb in Spanish, now ongoing (though
obscured by the conservative writing system), yields a rather unwieldy ‘sandwich’ slot for
the subject pronominal inﬂections — between the new tense-aspect-modal marker and the
verb stem. The new T-A-M marker — old auxiliary — itself will be now sandwiched
between the subject and object pronouns.
A somewhat similar synchronic situation can be seen in Bantu languages, where the
cliticization of both object pronouns and tense-aspect-modal markers is a bit more
advanced. Thus, from Swahili, currently an SVO language:
(32) a. a-li-ki-soma
s/he/-past-it-read
‘s/he read it (the book)’
b. ni-me-vi-soma
I-perf-them-read
‘I read them (the books’)
c. u-ta-mw-ona
you-fut-him/her-see
‘you’ll see him/her’
While the erstwhile verbs that grammaticalized as T-A-M markers in Swahili brought their
preﬁxal subject pronouns with them, the pre-verbal object pronouns have their own
speciﬁc history, perhaps similar to that of the object clitics in Spanish, above.
Another example of discrepancy between frozen pronominal order and current
nominal word-order may be seen in Amharic, an SOV language in which the clitic
pronominal order in the perfect conjugation harkens back to the old Semitic V-S-O order:
(33) a. Nominal order (SOV)
setwa wämbär säbbär-ach
woman chair broke-she
‘the woman broke a chair’
b. Pronominal order (VSO)
säbbär-ach-u
=w
broke-she-it
‘she broke it’
Finally, in Biblical Hebrew the preterit conjugation exhibits an S-V-O pronominal order
but rigid VSO nominal order. The perfect conjugation, on the other hand, exhibits a V-S-O
pronominal order but an S-V-O or O-V-S nominal order (an inverse construction, see
Ch.13), as in:
254 Syntax
(34) a. Preterit nominal order (VSO)
va-ya-r’ ’elohim ’et-ha-’or
and-he-saw God acc-the-light
‘and God saw the light’ (Gen. 1:4)
b. Preterit pronominal order (S-V-O)
va-yi-r’e-hu
and-he-saw-him
‘and he saw him’
c. Perfect nominal order (Adv-V-S-O; inverse)
be-re’shit bara’ ’elohim ’et-ha-shamayim
in-beginning create/perf/he God acc-the-heavens
‘In the beginning God created the heaven…’ (Gen. 1:1)
d. Perfect nominal order (SVO)
ve-ha-’ada yad-a’
’ ’et-Hava ’ist-o
and-the-man knew-he acc-Eve wife-his
‘And Adam knew his wife Eve’ (Genesis 4:1)
e. Perfect pronominal order (VSO)
yed a’
’-ah
knew he-her
‘he knew her’
Finally, in languages with so-called second position clitics, the suﬃxing of subject or object
pronouns to the ﬁrst word in the clause is altogether independent of nominal word-order.
As an example consider Ute, ex-SOV but currently a ﬂexible-order language:
(35) a. ’aavu
=-n tu
=ka-y
now-I eat-imm
‘now I’m eating’
b. kaci-n tu
=ka-wa
neg-I eat-neg
‘I am not eating’
c. tu
=kuavi-n ’uru tu
=ka-y
meat/obj-I that/obj eat-imm
‘I am eating the meat’
d. tu
=ka-yi-n
eat-imm-I
‘I am eating’
e. nu
=-’ura-ax tu
=ka-y
I-top-it eat-imm
‘I’m the one who’s eating it’
f. kac-ax tu
=ka-wa
neg-it eat-neg
‘(I am) not eating it’
Word order 255
g. tu
=ka-y-ax
eat-imm-it
‘(I am) eating it’
The gist of all this is to suggest that ‘disharmony’ between nominal and pronominal word-
order are common, are natural, and are almost always the result of complex interaction
between synchronic and diachronic factors.
5.4.2 Mixed word-order in the NP
5.4.2.1Orientation
In §5.3.2.4 above we noted two presumed inconsistencies in English NP word-order:
•An internal inconsistency in having both pre-nominal and post-nominal
modiﬁers in the NP.
•A typological ‘disharmony’ between the Mod-N order in the NP and VO
order in the VP.
We noted, further, that the presumption of inconsistency or ‘disharmony’ is rooted in a
certain Platonic mind-cast that assumes, without specifying a clear causal mechanism, that
languages would somehow tend toward ‘harmony’ between VP and NP syntax.2
In this section we return to discuss in more detail the profoundly diachronic underpin-
ning of word-order correlation. Taken together, the cases we survey suggest the causal
explanation to both the ‘harmonious’ and ‘disharmonious’ cases: The diachronic pathway
of grammaticalization via which particular constructions arose. Taken as a whole, our
discussion here constitutes a head-on challenge to abstract ‘consistency’ and ‘harmony’ as
explanatory notions in syntax. As we shall see further below (§5.5), the very same
argument can be raised for bound morphology.
5.4.2.2Consequences of word-order change: Akkadian
Akkadian, a classical Semitic language of Mesopotamia, changed from VO to OV clausal
order through massive contact with an older Sumerian (SOV) substratum. Its NP word-
order, however, has remained unaﬀected by the change in clausal syntax, retaining the
characteristic Semitic order N-Mod. Thus consider (Bucellati 1970):
(36) a. Simple main clause (SOV)
awil-um alp-am di’âsh-im îgur
man-nom ox-acc threshing-gen hired
‘The man hired the ox for threshing’
b. Rel-clause (OV) and NP (N-Rel)
awil-um sha eli-shu kish-î iddu
man-nom rel upon-him magic-acc/pl cast
‘the man who cast magic upon him’
256 Syntax
c. Noun phrase (N-Adj)
rê’u damaguti
shepherd good
‘the good shepherd’
d. Noun phrase (N-Dem)
awil-um shu
man-nom this
‘this man’
Akkadian thus constitutes the converse case of Mandarin Chinese, where clausal order
changed from the characteristic Tibeto-Burman OV to the current VO, presumably
through contact with an Austro-Asiatic (SVO) substratum. The entrenched Mod-N order
in the NP has survived in Mandarin, presumably as a relic of the older OV syntax.
5.4.2.3The ordering of genitive/possessive modiﬁers
One of the stronger Greenbergian correlations between OV/VO clausal syntax and Mod-N/
N-Mod in the NP involves genitive modiﬁers, both pronominal and nominal. But even this
strong correlation turns out to be diachronically mediated.
To begin with, there exist well-known grammaticalization pathways for creating either
the Gen-N or N-Gen NP order altogether independently of the OV/VO dichotomy. They
involve the ‘condensation’ of loose paratactic structures — either L-dislocation and
R-dislocation (Givón 1976, 1979a) — into tighter syntactic constructions. Thus consider
(for Ute see Givón 1980; for Chuave see Thurman 1978):
(37) a. L-dislocation
 Gen-N in a VO language (Krio)
John, in-hosﬁ John in-hos
John his-house John his-house
‘John, his house’ ‘John’s house’
b. R-dislocation
 N-Gen in a VO language (Hebrew)
bet-o, shel-Yosefﬁ bet-o shel-Yosef
house, of-Joseph house-his of-Joseph
‘his house, Joseph’s ‘Joseph’s house’
c. L-dislocation Gen-N in an OV language (Ute)
máayas, Núumaroghomapu
=gatu
= kan ﬁ
his God/gen house
‘his, God’s house’
máayas Núumaroghomapu
=gatu
= kan
his God’s house
‘God’s house’
d. R-dislocation
 N-Gen in an OV language (Chuave)
na-non, nam-iﬁ na-non nam-i
my-pig my-that my-pig my-that
‘my pig, mine’ ‘my pig’
Word order 257
In fact, the current English pattern ‘John’s house’ (37a) arose via the very same diachronic
pathway as in Krio (Janda 1978).
Even when the Greenbergian correlations are strong, they turn out to still be dia-
chronically mediated. Consider verb-phrase nominalizations that transform a VP into an
NP. In the nominalized resulting structure, the erstwhile verb is the head noun and the
erstwhile object its genitive modiﬁer. Thus, in Hebrew (SVO):
(38) a. Finite clause, referring object; V-O
hi ro’-a ‘et-ha-tso’n
she herds/imperf.v-sf acc-the-sheep
‘she herds the sheep’
b. Nominalized VP, referring object; N-Gen
ro’a-t ha-tzo’n
herder/sf-of the-sheep
‘the herder of the sheep’
c. Nominalized VP, non-referring object; N-Gen
ro’a-t tso’n
herder/sf-of sheep
‘sheep-herder’
The two nominalized patterns in Hebrew, (38b) and (38c), yield the same N-Gen word-
order, since both were grammaticalized during a period of VO syntax. In English, the
compound Gen-N pattern (38c) was set up during an earlier OV period of Anglo-Saxon,
and is indeed a relic of that older syntax. The second N-Gen pattern (38b), on the other
hand, was set up during the much later VO period of Middle English, and thus still
conforms to Greenberg’s generalization.
In Japanese (SOV), the very same process of VP nominalization will yield Gen-N
word-order in the NP, as in (A. Hayashi, i.p.c.):
(39) a. Finite clause (OV)
shika-o koro-shita
deer-acc kill-past
‘(he) killed the deer’
b. Nominalized VP, referring object (Gen-N)
shika-o koro-su-koto
deer-acc kill-imperf.v-nom
‘the killing of deer’
b. Nominalized VP, non-referring object (Gen-N)
shika-goro-shi
deer-kill-nom
‘deer-killing’, ‘deer-killer’
The earlier historical use of the genitive suﬃx in pattern (39c) has been discontinued.
Once a pattern of modiﬁcation of a head noun by a genitive modiﬁer has been
258 Syntax
established, it can easily serve as a beach-head for analogical extension to other N-N
compounds, including ‘true’ possessives and even Adj-N compounds, as in:
(40) a. swords-man, woods-man, helms-man, cocks-man, guards-man
b. land-lord, wine-bottle, horse-back
c. bigfoot, greybill, blackbird, hotsprings
The genitive suﬃx has been zeroed out in most English N-N compounds (40b) surviving
only in older relic forms (40a).
In languages in which adjectives are morphologically noun-like, i.e. carry the same
gender/number and case-marking morphology, the Gen-N pattern can be further extended
to adjectival modiﬁers. Unlike the abstract x-bar principle (‘harmony’), these analogical
extensions are much more concrete and plausible, driven by close morphological and
syntactic similarities.
5.4.2.4The ordering of Rel-clause in the NP
Likesomegenitivemodiﬁers,relative clausesoftenestablishtheirsyntacticpositionvis-a-vis
the head noun by ‘condensation’ from an earlier paratactic construction, in which they are
either pre-posed (L-dislocated) or post-posed (R-dislocated) vis-a-vis the main clause. Both
patterns may be seen in Bambara, a rigid OV language (Mendeic, Niger-Congo; Bird 1968):
(41) a. Unembedded, pre-posed
cȩ min ye muru san, n ye o ye
man that past knife bought I past him see
‘That man bought the knife, I saw him’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘The man who bought the knife, I saw him’
b. Unembedded, post-posed
n ye o ye, cȩ min ye muru san
I past him see man that past knife bought
‘I saw him, that man bought the knife’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘I saw him, the man who bought the knife’
When such paratactic constructions are condensed into embedded syntactic structures, a
major process in grammaticalization (Givón 1979: Ch.5, 1991d), the demonstrative min
‘that’ is re-interpreted as a relative pronoun, still retaining its clause-internal position after
the head noun. For example, in the condensation of either (41a) or (42b), the subject of the
main clause is placed — or left — at the clause-initial position (SOV) and the anaphoric
pronoun is dispensed with. In the process, the entire erstwhile-pre-posed (or post-posed)
Rel-clause is left at the characteristic object position (OV):
(42) a. n ye [cȩ min ye muru san] ye
I past [man that past knife bought] saw
‘I saw the man who bought the knife’
(lit.: ‘I [that man bought the knife] saw’)
The fact that the relative clause now seems to follow the head noun in (42) is but a
consequence of a series of diachronic adjustments from the loose parataxis of (41) to the
Word order 259
tight embedded syntax of (42). But the process of condensation can also yield stranger
structures, in which the Rel-clause seemingly spreads on both sides of the head noun, as
occurs when that modiﬁed noun is the subject of the main clause in Bambara:
(43) [n ye cȩ min ye ye] muru san
[I past man that past see] knife buy
‘The man that I saw bought the knife’
(lit.: ‘[I saw that man] bought the knife’)
In German, a post-posed Rel-clause pattern has been grammaticalized during a VO-order
period by a similar condensation, in the process re-analyzing a stressed demonstrative
pronoun into an unstressed relative pronoun, as in (T. Vennemann, i.p.c.):
(44) a. Paratactic non-restrictive Rel-clause
der Mann, den ich schon lange kenne, …
the/nom man, that/acc I already long know 
‘the man, that one I’ve known for a long time, …’
b. Syntactic restrictive Rel-clause
der Mann den ich schon lange kenne…
the/nom man that/acc I already long know
‘the man whom I’ve known for a long time, …’
Once again, the position of the modiﬁer — in this case the Rel-clause — vis-a-vis the head
noun is predictable from the diachrony of its grammaticalization, which in this case is
independent of the VO/OV dimension of clausal syntax.
5.4.2.5The ordering of modifying adjectives
In many languages, adjectives can either precede or follow the head noun, with the
variation often coding, at least initially, the pragmatic diﬀerence between restrictive an
non-restrictive modiﬁcation (see Vol. II, Ch.11). As an illustration, consider the following
examples from Spanish (VO), where the variation often invites a further semantic shift in
the meaning of the adjective:
(45) a. Pre-nominal (non-restrictive)
es un pobre hombre ‘he’s a miserable man’
3sg/be a poor man
es un gran mujer ‘she’s a great woman’
3sg/be a big woman
b. Post-nominal (restrictive)
es un hombre pobre ‘he’s a poor man’
3sg/be a man poor
es una mujer grande ‘she’s a big woman’
3sg/be a woman big
If one wants to use the adjective contrastively, only the restrictive pattern (45b) can be
used, as in:
260 Syntax
(46) a. es un hombre (muy) pobre, no es rico
3sg/is a man (very) poor neg 3sg/be rich
‘he’s a (very) poor man, not a rich one’
b. es una mujer (muy) grande, no es pequeña
3sg/be a woman very big neg 3sg/be small
‘she’s a (very) big woman, not a small one’
In contrast, the non-restrictive pattern (45b) can only be contrasted as a compound unit:
(47) a. fue un pobre hombre, no fue un (pobre) mujer
was/3sg a poor man neg was/3sg a (poor) woman
‘it was a miserable man, not a (miserable) woman’
In Ute, a language recently changed from SOV to ﬂexible word-order, the exact same
variation can be observed (Givón 1980):
(48) a. Pre-nominal; compound (non-restrictive)
sá-gava ‘a white-horse’
white-horse
b. Post-nominal; separate words (restrictive)
kava sa-gha-ru
=-m ‘a white horse’
horse white-have-adj-an
As in Spanish, only post-nominal adjectives (48b) can be used contrastively in Ute. Pre-
nominal adjectives form a compound with the modiﬁed head noun.
The gist of the argument remains the same: Whether a language develops pre-nominal
or post-nominal modifying adjectives may depend on grammaticalization patterns that are
altogether independent on VO/OV clausal order.
5.5 Word-order and bound morphology
5.5.1 Reorientation
We return now to Greenberg’s (1966a) last correlation (2c), the one predicting an associa-
tion between OV syntax and suﬃxal morphology, as against VO syntax and preﬁxal
morphology. Once again, an examination of the diachronic pathways of grammaticali-
zation, via which bound morphemes arise out of erstwhile lexical words, suggests that no
abstractprincipleof‘harmony’ isinvolvedhereeither.Rather,ineach individualcaseabout
which etymological and diachronic evidence is available, the morphotactic position of the
morpheme vis-a-vis the lexical word-stem to which it cliticizes is fully explained by its
peculiar diachronic history. That is, provided enough information is available concerning:
•the lexical word, particularly the word-type, that gave rise to the morpheme;
•the syntactic construction within which that lexical word found itself at the time of
grammaticalization and cliticization;
Word order 261
•the word-order in that construction at the time of grammaticalization and cliticization;
•any subsequent word-order change.
In the following sub-sections we will survey some of the better-known types of
grammaticalization.
5.5.2 Case-marking morphology on nouns or NPs
There are two major venues for the primary grammaticalization of case marking, the ﬁrst
de-verbal, the second de-nominal. The de-verbal pathway involves serial verb constructions
in which the verb becomes re-analyzed as a case-marker on its object NP. If the verb
precedes the object in the source construction (VO), it cliticizes as a preﬁx on it. If it
follows the object (OV), is cliticizes as a suﬃx.
As an illustration of the SVO-ordered pattern, consider Akan (Niger-Congo;
Osam 1997):
(49) a. Accusative ‘take’
Koﬁ de sika-no maa papa-no
Koﬁ take money-the gave man-the
‘Koﬁ gave the money to the man’
b. Dative/benefactive ‘give’
Esi turr abofra-no maa maame-no
Esi carried child-the gave woman-the
‘Esi carried the child for the woman’
c. Ablative ‘leave’
Esi yii tam-no ﬁi pon-no-do
Esi took cloth-the left table-the-on
‘Esi took the cloth oﬀ the table’
d. Allative ‘go’
Ebo soaa adaka-no ko̧o̧ skuul
Ebo carried box-the went school
‘Ebo carried the box to school’
e. Instrumental ‘take’
Koﬁ de sekan-no twaa ahoma-no
Koﬁ take knife-the cut rope-the
‘Koﬁ cut the rope with the knife’
f. Associative ‘join’
Esi nye aberwa-no dzii edziban-no
Esi joined old.woman-the ate food-the
‘Esi ate the food with the old woman’
g. Manner ‘take’
Maame-no de aningye wee nam-no
woman-the take joy chewed ﬁsh-the
‘The woman ate the ﬁsh with relish’
262 Syntax
As an illustration of the SOV order, consider Ijo (Niger-Congo; Williamson 1965):
(50) a. Accusative ‘take’
yé akí-ni u bé
thing take-asp him tell
‘tell him a thing’
b. Instrumental ‘take’
erí ogidi akí-ni indi pei-mi
he machete take-asp ﬁsh cut-asp
‘he cut the ﬁsh with the machete’
c. Dative/benefactive ‘give’
dúma tuna-ni a píri
song sing-asp her give
‘sing a song for her’
d. Allative ‘go’
erí uwóu dùo wéni-mi
he road go walk-asp
‘he walked to the road’
e. Ablative ‘come’
erí amá dùo you bo-mí
he town go paddle come-Asp
‘he paddling over from town’
f. Traversive ‘cross’
erí okí mu toru bein-mi
he swim go river cross-asp
‘he swam across the river’
g. ‘Circle’
erí áru-bi òki yoro-mi
he canoe-the swim circle-asp
‘he swam around the canoe’
The second, de-nominal, source of case-markers involves body-part or locational nouns,
initially in a construction where they are the head noun modiﬁed by a genitive ‘possessor’
(see (18), (19) above). Out of such constructions, the locational noun grammaticalizes as
locative case-marker. When the word-order in the source nominal construction is N-Gen,
the grammaticalized locational noun yields a preﬁx vis-a-vis its original ‘possessor’ noun.
As an illustration of this order, consider Bemba (Bantu; Givón 1972):
(51) a. pa-isaamba lyaa-ngaanda ‘under the house’
at-bottom of-house
b. ku-muulu waa-ngaanda ‘on top of the house’
to-sky of-house
Word order 263
c. mu-kati kaa-ngaanda ‘in the middle of the house’
in-center of-house
d. pa-ntaanshi yaa-ngaanda ‘in front of the house’
at-face of-house
e. kuu-nse yaa-ngaanda ‘out of the house’
to-exterior of-house
f. ku-mbali yaa-ngaanda ‘alongside the hose’
to-shade of-house
g. kuu-nshi yaa-ngaanda ‘to the bottom of the house’
to-ground of-house
In a language with Gen-N word-order in the NP, the very same grammaticalization process
yields the opposite order of cliticization. As an example, consider Kru (Niger-Congo;
Givón 1975a):
(52) a. sra-kpo(n) ‘on top of the house’
houe-top
b. tun-na-sonti ‘under the tree’
tree-the-ground
c. sra-ju ‘in front of the house’
house-front
d. sra-wakaey ‘near the house’
house-side
e. sra-bweti ‘under the house’
house-bottom
f. bloku(n)-kli ‘inside the box’
box-innards
g. sra-de ‘behind the house’
house-back
As one can see, the causative link to morphotactics here is not the VO/OV clausal order,
but rather the N-Gen/Gen-N nominal order. To the extent that the latter correlates with
the former (as in Bemba or English), there is an indirect link to VP order. But in Kru
(SVO) this correlation does not exist synchronically, although it did exist earlier on, before
the language changed from OV to VO.
One must note that the two diachronic channels described above, de-verbal and de-
nominal, are only the most likely direct routes for the grammaticalization of case-marking
morphemes. Once a case-marker is in place, several well-known pathways exist for its re-
grammaticalization. Thus, for example, the instrumental is easily extended into either
manner or associative. The benefactive often extends into the dative, or vice-versa. The
allative often extends into the dative, and then onward into the accusative. And either the
instrumental, the dative, or the genitive can extend into the agent-of-passive/inverse, then
into ergative, and ultimately also into the nominative.
264 Syntax
5.5.3 Tense-aspect-modal morphology
Probably the most reliable correlation between clausal word-order — at the time of gram-
maticalization — and order of morphemes vis-a-vis stems is found in the cliticization of
tense-aspect-modal morphemes on the verbal word. This is because the overwhelming
majority of such morphemes comes from the reanalysis of a relatively small group of verbs
(Givón 1971a, 1972, 1973a, 1975a, 1979a; Traugott and Heine eds 1991; Heine 1993; Bybee
et al. 1994). The contributory verbs are modal-aspectual or directional-deictic verbs that
take equi-subject verbal complements (see Ch.3, §3.3.7.1). In VO languages, the comple-
ment tends to follow the main verb, so when the main verb grammaticalizes, it cliticizes as
a preﬁx on the erstwhile complement verb. In OV languages, the complement tends to
precede the main verb, so the main verb cliticizes as a suﬃx on the erstwhile complement
verb.
As an illustration of the VO grammaticalization pattern, consider Swahili (Bantu;
Givón 1972):
(53) a. Order in complementation (V-Comp)
a-na-taka ku-soma
s/he-prog-want inf-read
‘s/he wants to read’
b. Past tense (-*li ‘be’)
a-li-soma
s/he-past-read
‘she read’
c. Perfect (-*maala/-meele ‘ﬁnish’)
a-me-soma
s/he-perf-read
‘s/he has read’
d. Progressive (-*na ‘have’)
a-na-soma
s/he-prog-read
‘s/he is reading’
e. Future (-*taka ‘want’)
a-ta-soma
s/he-fut-read
‘s/he will read’
As an illustration of an OV order at the time of grammaticalization, consider Ute (Uto-
Aztecan; Givón 1980):
(54) a. Order in complementation (Comp-V)
wu
=u
=ka-vaa-ch ’asti-’i
work-irr-nom want-imm
‘(s/he) wants to work’
Word order 265
b. Perfect (-*ka ‘have’)
wu
=u
=ka-kha
work-perf
‘(s/he) had worked’
c. Remote past (-*pu
=-ga ‘nom-have/be’)
wu
=u
=ka-pu
=ga
work-rem
‘(s/he) worked’
d. Imperfective/distributive (-*paghay ‘walk’/‘go’)
wu
=u
=ka-paghay-pu
=ga
work-distr-rem
‘(s/he) kept working here & there’
e. Future (-*pa/-va ‘go’; -*ni ‘do’)
wu
=u
=ka-vaani
work-fut
‘(s/he) will work’
f. Habitual (-*miya ‘go’/‘walk’)
wu
=u
=ka-mi(ya)
work-hab
‘(s/he) always works’
g. Inceptive (-*kuca ‘start’)
wu
=u
=ka-ucha
work-incep
‘(s/he) is about to work’
One must note that this correlation is strongest when the main modal-aspectual verb is
ﬁnite and the complement non-ﬁnite or nominalized, as indeed is the case in Swahili (53a)
and Ute (54a). In such a pattern, the main verb grammaticalizes ﬁrst into a ﬁnite auxiliary,
as in English or Spanish. When it cliticizes next, it carries its ﬁnite verb morphology with
it into the merged verbal word.
The very same semantic process of grammaticalization may also occur in serial-verb
languages. But there, the predictability between clausal order and the eventual order of
tense-aspect-modal cliticization is much weaker. To begin with, the grammaticalized
modal-aspectual verb can appear in a serial clause either before or after the ‘complement’
verb, so that if cliticization occurs, both preﬁxes and suﬃxes can arise out of either VO or
OV syntax. What is more, in serial-verb languages there is often no sharp diﬀerence in
ﬁniteness between the main and ‘complement’ verb. For this reason, semantically-
grammaticalized auxiliaries may be just as ﬁnite or even less ﬁnite as their ‘complement’.
As an illustration of this, consider ﬁrst Tok Pisin (Neo-Melanesian Pidgin), a rigid-
SVO language where aspectual and directional auxiliaries arise from serial phrases that
follow the ‘complement’ verb. Some of those auxiliaries are just as ﬁnite as their ‘comple-
ments’, but one is less ﬁnite. And further, when the main verb is transitive, the auxiliary is
separate from it by the object NP, and thus cannot easily cliticize on the main verb. Thus
consider (Givón 1991c):
266 Syntax
(55) a. i-wokabaut i-go (*go > ‘away’)
pred-move pred-away
‘s/he walked away (from it)’
b. tromwe tik i-go (*go > ‘away’)
throw stick pred-go
‘(s/he) threw the stick away’
c. i-wokabaut i-kam… (*come > ‘toward’)
pred-walk pred-toward
‘s/he walked over (toward it)’
d. em karim tik i-kam (*come) > ‘toward’)
s/he carry stick pred-toward
‘s/he brings the wood over (toward the place)’
e. em brukim i-stap… (*stop > ‘iterative’)
he break pred-be
‘s/he keeps breaking (it)’
f. em wokim paya pinis (*ﬁnish > ‘completive’)
s/he make ﬁre comp.let
‘s/he manages to start the ﬁre’
The converse may be seen in Supyire (Senufu, Niger-Congo), a rigid-SOV serial-verb
language. In Supyire, modal-aspectual auxiliaries that are derived from serial verbs may
either precede or follow their ‘complement’. The rigid word-order in Senufu languages is
S-Aux-O-V-IO. Most old tense-aspect markers are derived from pre-verbal auxiliaries, and
should have thus cliticized as preﬁxes on their ‘complements’, rather than as suﬃxes as one
would expect in an SOV language. Indirect objects (post-positional phrases), on the other
hand, follow the main verb, and are also derived historically from transitive serial-verb
constructions. Thus (Carlson 1991):
(56) a. u-à pyi-a kàrè
s/he-perf past-nf go
‘s/he had gone’
b. u-à jà-a njyi-ngi lyi
s/he-perf can-nf food-the eat
‘s/he was able to eat the food’
c. u-na njyi-ngi lyi
s/he-prog food-the eat/imperf.v
‘s/he is eating the food’
d. u-à pa kanha-nà
s/he-perf come village-loc
‘s/he came to the village’
e. u-a njyi-ngi lwo̧-à kan mìì-á
s/he-perf food-the take-nf give me-to
‘s/he (took and) gave it to me’
Word order 267
Auxiliaries would have a hard time cliticizing as verb-preﬁxes in Supyire, however, because
whenever their ‘complement’ is transitive (56b,c,e), the intervening object NP blocks
cliticization of the tense-aspect marker on the following verb. What is more, some modal-
aspectual serial verbs may appear either before or after their ‘complement:
(57) a. u-à kù tà’a-a kwo̧
s/he-perf it put-nf ﬁnish
‘s/he ﬁnished cooking it’
‘s/he had already cooked it’
b. mà kwo̧-a yyèèlà-a kù to̧o̧ga-a wìì
and ﬁnish-nf stoop-nf it pinch-nf look.at
‘and (s/he) stooped down and pinched it’
In sum, the ordering of modal-aspectual auxiliaries vis-a-vis the semantic main verb in
Supyire has little to do with the expected Comp-V word-order of an SOV language.
Complementation is a serial construction in Supyire, and its ordering depends on the
complex diachronic process via which clause-chains have been condensed into serial-verb
clauses, i.e. the type of clause union one ﬁnds in serializing languages (see Vol. II, Ch.12, as
well as Givón 1995: Ch.6). In such languages, ordering constraints on complementation
harken back to ordering in the clause chain that gave rise to clause union.
Finally, in Supyire as well as in many other languages, tense-aspect-modal morphemes
may appear as second position clitics, i.e. suﬃxed to the ﬁrst word in the clause, often the
subject, as in (56) above. In fact, this can also happen in a non-serializing SVO language
such as English, as in:
(58) a. John’ll do it if it’s going to help
b. Mary’s left, and’ll report back soon
c. They’re here, but’d rather not be seen
5.5.4 Negation morphemes
The grammaticalization of negation markers follows two widely-attested diachronic
pathways, one conforming to Greenberg’s (1966a) typological predictions, the other going
in the opposite direction. In both cases, clausal word-order is indeed fully determinative of
the resulting morphotactics, provided the diachronic source of the negation marker is
speciﬁed. This is, thus, as good an example as one could produce of how the correlation
between clausal order (VO vs. OV) and morphotactics (preﬁx vs. suﬃx) is mediated by the
diachronic process of grammaticalization.
The ﬁrst universal source of negation-marking morphemes are inherently negative
modality verbs such as ‘fail’, ‘lack’, ‘refuse’, ‘decline’, or ‘avoid’. In the process of gram-
maticalization, their more speciﬁc semantic features are bleached out, leaving only their
negative inference:
(59) a. He failed to pass … He didn’t pass
b. She avoided doing it … She didn’t do it
c. They refused to come … They didn’t come
268 Syntax
Since the syntactic construction in which the grammaticalization occurs is that of main
verb over its verbal complement, in OV languages the negative modality verb would tend
to grammaticalize as a suﬃx, and in VO languages as a preﬁx. As an illustration of this
process in the midst of happening, consider Bemba (Bantu), a strict SVO language, where
the verb uku-bula (‘lack’, ‘avoid’) is in the process of being grammaticalized as negation
marker, albeit so far in restricted environments. Thus consider (Givón 1972):
(60) a. uku-bula ‘to avoid’, ‘to lack’
inf-avoid
b. uku-boomba ‘to work’
inf-work
c. n-a-bula uku-boomba ‘I avoided working’
I-past-avoid inf-work
d. uku-bulaa-boomba ‘not to work’
inf-avoid-work
e. n-a-bulaa-boomba ‘I didn’t work’, ‘I failed to work’
I-past-neg-work
The second universal source of negation markers are emphatic negative intensiﬁers, arising
out of the transitive object slot. Initially, such intensiﬁers are added to existing negative
constructions for emphasis or further speciﬁcation. Once entrenched, they can give rise to
a non-emphatic double negation construction. In such a construction, they eventually lose
their stress and cliticize. Eventually, they go on to replace the old negative marker, which
is by now phonologically eroded.
It is now obvious why this source of negation gives rise to morphemes that contradict
Greenberg’s (1966a) prediction: In a VO language, the erstwhile object would cliticize as
a verb suﬃx, while in an OV language as a preﬁx. As an illustration, consider French, in
which a series of semantically speciﬁc object nouns were recruited into emphatic negation:
(61) a. je ne march pas (pas ‘step’)
I neg march step
‘I don’t march’
(Hist.: ‘I don’t march even a step’)
b. je ne connais personne (personne ‘person’)
I neg know person
‘I don’t know anybody’
c. je ne sais rien (*ren ‘thing’)
I neg know thing
‘I don’t know anything’
While (61b,c) retain their emphatic sense, the locative intensiﬁer pas (61a) eventually
became generalized, so that it is now obligatory in non-emphatic double negation, as in:
(62) a. je ne connais pas cet homme
I neg know neg this man
‘I don’t know this man’
Word order 269
b. je ne le sais pas
I neg it know neg
‘I don’t know it’
Finally, in informal colloquial usage the unstressed ne is commonly dropped out, with the
verbal suﬃx pas now becoming the sole negation marker, a suﬃx arising under VO order:
(63) a. je-le-sais-pas
I-it-know-neg
‘I don’t know it’
b. je-connais-pas ce mec
I-know-neg this guy
‘I don’t know this guy’
The opposite development in an OV language can be seen in Ute (Uto-Aztecan), where the
old negative suﬃx -wa was augmented with a pre-verbal intensiﬁer kach-. At the current
state of the language, both are obligatory. However, the intensiﬁer kach- can still appear as
a clause-initial independent word if it carries some second-position clitic. Otherwise, it too
cliticizes, but as a preﬁx (Givón 1980):
(64) a. kach-in ’uni-wa-ax
neg-I do-neg-it
‘I don’t do it’
b. kach-ax-’ura-’u ’uni-na
neg-it-top-s/he do-perf/neg
‘s/he didn’t do it’
c. Tumiikux-’ura-n ka-wu
=u
=ka-pu
=-a
Sunday-top-I neg-work-rem-neg
‘Sunday I didn’t work’
The precise etymology of the negative suﬃx and preﬁx in Ute is yet to be ascertained. Since
they both arose during a period of OV syntax, it is most likely that -wa was a negative
modality verb, perhaps with a longer form -wa’a, as its morpho-phonemic variations
suggest. A nominal object source for kach is also plausible. To begin with, kach still carries
the nominal suﬃx (-ch(i)) when used as an independent word (64a,b). What is more, like
all incorporated objects in Ute, ka- looses its suﬃx when preﬁxed to the verb. Finally,
incorporated objects in Ute are always non-referring (antipassive), precisely what one
would expect of Neg-intensifying objects, as in French (61).
One may as well note that the history of the French double-negative construction
recapitulates some of the early history of English negation. In early Middle English (VO),
the old and highly eroded negative preﬁx ne- was augmented by the emphatic negative
object ne-ought ‘no-thing’, which later cliticized as the verb suﬃx nought and eventually
de-emphasized and reduced to not. Next, the unstressed preﬁx ne dropped out altogether.
The contracted not now cliticized as a verb suﬃx, including auxiliary verbs. The aﬃrmative
emphatic auxiliary ‘do’/‘did’ also took the suﬃx not, yielding a new pattern of emphatic
negation, which eventually also became de-emphasized. Since auxiliaries precede the main
270 Syntax
verb in a VO language, the negative don’t or didn’t is now a preﬁxal negation marker. The
entire sequence of changes can be given schematically as:
(65) a. Non-emphatic negation
she ne-see this
she neg-see this
‘She doesn’t see this’
b. Emphatic double negation
she ne-see ne-ought
she neg-see neg-thing
‘She doesn’t see anything’
c. De-emphasized suﬃxal negation
she sees-nought this
she sees-neg this
‘She doesn’t see this’
d. Emphatic negation with preﬁxal auxiliary
she does-not see this
she emph-neg see this
‘She does not see this’
e. De-emphasized preﬁxal negation
she doesn’t-see this
she neg-see this
‘She doesn’t see this
Negation with the suﬃxal not alone still survives in the simple negation of ‘be’ and all
auxiliaries, as in:
(66) a. She is-n’t here
b. He is-n’t working
c. We have-n’t ﬁnished
d. They could-n’t leave
e. He left, but she did-n’t
And the old post-verbal object negation pattern still survives in emphatic non-referring
negation, as in:
(67) a. She loves no-body
b. He understands no-thing
c. They got no-where
d. I see no reason to do this
e. She spared no eﬀort
f. They had no time for her
Word order 271
5.6 Flexible word-order
5.6.1 Reorientation
So far, we have dealt with languages whose word-order is relatively rigid, and is sensitive
mostly, if not exclusively, to the grammatical relations subject and object. Indeed, in such
languages word-order is one of the overt coding properties of GRs.
We noted, further (§5.3.1), that even in the most rigid SVO, SOV, VSO or VOS
languages, some word-order variability can be found in a few ‘marked’ clause-types,
presumably motivated by pragmatic considerations such as ‘topic’ or ‘focus’.
The ﬂexible-order languages discussed in this section may be viewed as extending the
limited pragmatically-motivated ﬂexibility found in rigid-order languages. Instead of being
restricted to a small number of ‘marked’ clause types, word-order variation in ﬂexible-
order languages is a much more massive phenomenon. This is true ﬁrst in terms of the
frequency of variant word-orders in text, where often no variant is dominant. It is also true
in terms of the wider range of clause-types exhibiting word-order variation. It is true,
ﬁnally, in terms of the more extensive range and subtlety of pragmatic operations per-
formed by word-order variation; although at this point the exact nature of the pragmatic
motivation of word-order variation remains a matter of some debate.
Since word-order rigidity is not absolute even at its apex, it would hardly be a surprise
to note that word-order ﬂexibility is a matter of degree as well. This may be true ﬁrst
synchronically, in that the number of variant-order constructions, above and beyond the
rock-bottom small group already noted above, may diﬀer from one ﬂexible-order language
to another. But the synchronic gradation may ultimately represent, once again, a dia-
chronic continuum. This is so because a period of word-order ﬂexibility is often part and
parcel of the diachronic mechanism via which one rigid word-order changes into another
(Givón 1983a). Indeed, word-order change may yield two separate gradients, one charac-
teristic of the early stages, the other of the late stages of the process. Respectively:
•A gradual construction-by-construction relaxation of the older rigid order,
with a gradual increase in the number of clause-types allowing variant orders.
•A gradual re-rigidiﬁcation of the new word-order, with a gradual increase
in the number of constructions that exhibit the new rigid order.
While we will not delve too extensively here into word-order change, one had better keep
in mind that the typology of word-order ﬂexibility, just as syntactic typology elsewhere, is
profoundly intertwined with the diachrony of word-order change.
5.6.2 Types of ﬂexible-order languages
5.6.2.1Total ﬂexibility: Ute
Ute is a member of the Numic sub-family, northernmost branch of Uto-Aztecan. All
evidence suggests that Numic languages have changed from SOV to ﬂexible order fairly
recently, so that most grammatical constructions and morphology appear to have
grammaticalized during the preceding long period of SOV syntax. Word-order ﬂexibility
272 Syntax
in Ute may be illustrated by the following examples, all simple clauses falling under the
same intonation contour, all taken from a recorded traditional narrative (Givón 1985a):
(68) a. ’iya-na mu
=n-’ura agha-paa pörö-xwa-gha ’ani-kh?
here-loc you/pl/nom-top wh-dir walk/pl-go-ger do-imm
loc subj loc ger-adv v
‘Where are y’all going ﬂocking through here?’
b. mu
=n-’ura nu
=nay kac ’u-vwaa-tu
= nöö’wa-y-’ura
you/nom-top me/acc neg there-dir carry-imm-top
subj obj loc v
‘Won’t you please carry me there?”
c. ’umu
=aat ya-yagha-pu
=ga ’avaa-am
one/part/nom red-cry-rem there-they
subj v loc
‘One of them kept crying there’
d. ’uru may-puga ’umu
=s
that/acc say-rem they/nom
obj v subj
‘they said it’
e. ’uwas-’ura payu-kwa-pu
=ga ’u mamac-’u
she-top return-go-rem that woman-the
subj v subj
‘So she returned home, that woman’
f. mavaa-tugwa-su
=-ni mawisi-vaani mama-’ayh-pu
=c
there-to-conj-adj appear-fut woman-child-dim
loc v subj
‘A young woman will appear right there’
g. ’umu
=s-nukw-’ura-’uru suwa-kwaa-xwa-pu
=ay-aghay-’u
they-emph-top-that almost-win-asp-rem-concl-him
subj v
’uwayas sinawavi
him/acc Sinawav/acc
obj
‘they almost beat Sinawav (in the race)’
h. ’uni-kya-pu
=ga ’umu
=s ‘uru
do-pl-rem they/nom that/acc
v subj obj
‘so they did that’
At the text-frequency level, the following distribution of the various orders may be found
in Ute narrative (Givón 1983a):
Word order 273
(70) dir-object loc-object total
word-order N % N % N %
SVO
VSO
OSV
VOS
OVS
SOV
13
9
13
/
27
32
94
13.8
9.5
13.8
/
28.8
34.1
100.0
7
9
4
/
18
64
102
6.9
8.8
3.9
/
17.6
62.8
100.0
20
18
17
/
45
96
196
10.2
9.2
8.6
/
23.0
49.0
100.0
As one can see, while the historically older SOV is by far the most frequent in text, it does
not approach the level of 80%-90% characteristic of the dominant word-order in rigid-
order languages.
5.6.2.2VO order with ﬂexible subject position: Spanish
Spanish is as rigid a VO language as English, Jacaltec or Malagasy. However, the subject
position is much less rigid, and is presumably sensitive to discourse-pragmatic consider-
ations. The relative frequency of the SV vs. VS order in Spanish is subject to wide variation,
pending historical period, dialect, genre, degree of formality and literacy. The language has
been, most likely, drifting toward a rigid SVO order, thus recapitulating a similar historical
drift in English and French.
Consider ﬁrst examples from Don Quijote (early 16th Century), where the VS order is
used in a wide variety of clause-types (Cervantes-Saavedra, pp.69–83):
(70) a. Existential-presentative
En un lugar de la Mancha,
in a place of La Mancha
‘In a locality of La Mancha,
de cuyo nombre no quiero acordarme,
of whose name neg want.I remember.me
whose name I would rather not remember,
vivía un hidalgo
lived a gentleman
there lived a gentleman’
b. Chain initial main clause
Imaginábase el pobre ya coronado
imagined.refl the poor already crowned
‘The poor man imagined himself already crowned’
c. Adv-clause
quando salga a luz la verdadera historia
when exit/subj to light the true story
‘when the true story should come out’
274 Syntax
d. Finite verb complement
dar señal… que llegaba caballero
give signal that came/imperf knight
‘give signal… that a knight was coming’
e. Fronted locative
si a aquel punto no saliera el ventero
if at that point neg exited/subj the shop-keeper
‘if at that very moment the shop-keeper had not come out’
f. Fronted oblique
del poco dormir y del mucho leer se-le-secó el cerebro
of little sleep and of much reading refl-dat-dried the mind
‘from little sleep and much reading his mind dried up’
g. Locative Rel-clause
de donde, como queda dicho, tomaron los autores
from where as remains said took the authors
‘from where, as it is said, the authors took (it)’
h. Object Rel-clause
como los que compuso el famoso Feliciano de Silva
like those that composed the famous Feliciano de Silva
‘like those that the famous F. de S. had composed’
Examples of the SV order in Don Quijote may be seen in (Cervantes-Saavedra, pp.69–83):
(71) a. Chain initial
Pero esto importa poco
but this is.important little
‘But this is of little importance’
b. Main clause
ningunos no le-parecían tan bien como los que…
none neg him-appeared so good as those that
‘none appeared to him as good as those…’
c. Object Rel-clause
las heridas que don Belianís daba y recibía
the wounds that don B. gave and received
‘the wounds that don B. gave and received’
d. Adv-clause
si otros mayores y continuos pensamientos
if other great and continuous thoughts
no se-lo-estorbaran
neg refl-him-disturbed
‘if other great and continuous thoughts had not gotten in his way’
Word order 275
e. Finite verb complement
decía que el Cid Ruy Díaz había sido muy buen caballero
said/he that el Cid Ruy Díaz had been very good knight
‘he said that El Cid Ruy Díaz had been a very good knight’
Object NPs in Don Quijote are overwhelmingly post-verbal (VO), with the two lone
examples of pre-verbal object (OV) in the counted text being:
(72) a. El resto della concluían sayo de velarte, calzas de…
the rest of.it comprised smock of wool hose of
‘A woolen smock, hose of… (etc.) comprised the rest of it (his attire)’
b. Mucho agrevio me-habedes fecho
much aggravation me-have.you done
‘you have given me much grief’
The distribution of the VS/SV and OV/VO word-orders in the ﬁrst 14 pages of Don Quijote
is given in (73) below:
(73) Frequency distribution of VS/SV and OV/VO orders in Don Quijote
(Cervantes-Saavedra, pp.69–83)
subject N % object N %
VS
SV
39
34
53.4
46.6
OV
VO
2
88
2.2
97.8
total: 73 100.0 total: 90 100.0
While Modern Spanish remains a rigid VO language, the text frequency of the VS vs. SV
orders has changed, revealing a marked drift toward SV. The following examples are taken
from the lead article in a contemporary newspaper (El País, weekly international edition,
February 2–8, 1999, pp.1, 11, 12):
(74) a. Clause-initial, main clause (SV)
Arenas ofreció diálogo
A. oﬀered dialog
‘Arenas oﬀered a dialog’
b. Object Rel-clause (VS)
la initiativa que baraja el PSOE…
the initiative that considered the PSOE
‘the initiative that the PSOE considered’
c. Fronted oblique (VS)
entre estas novedades ﬁgura el ministro Josep Piqué
among these novelties ﬁgures the minister J. P.
‘among these new ones one ﬁnds the minister Josep Piqué’
The two lone examples of pre-verbal objects (OV) found in the same text were:
276 Syntax
(75) a. La primera arremetida contra el PSOE la-concertó…
the ﬁrst attack against the PSOE it-set.up/3sg
‘He set up he ﬁrst attack against the PSOE…’
b. Su ultimo aliento como un secretario general lo-empleó…
his last breath as a secretary general it-employed/3sg
‘He took his last breath as secretary general…’
Both examples suggest the same pattern of contrastive object fronting noted in English
(SVO) and Jacaltec (VSO), above.
The frequency distribution of the VS/SV and OV/VO orders in the contemporary
Spanish text is given in (76) below:
(76) Frequency distribution of VS/SV and OV/VO orders in contemporary Spanish:
subject N % object N %
VS
SV
20
56
26.3
73.7
OV
VO
2
75
2.6
97.4
total: 76 100.0 total: 77 100.0
5.6.2.3OV order with ﬂexible subject position: Hixkaryana
Hixkaryana (Carib) is a rigid OV language that was ﬁrst described as having a rigid OVS
order (Derbyshire 1981; Derbyshire and Pullum 1981). A subsequent text-based study by
Derbyshire (1985)reveals a morecomplex situation, wherebyOV is indeed a rigid order,but
the subject position — SOV vs. OVS — is sensitive to discourse-pragmatic factors. Thus:
(77) a. Intransitive, SV
xofrye heno n-oseryehokekonu
=
sloth dead 3-be.upset/dp
‘poor old sloth was upset’
b. Intransitive, VS
n-oseryehokekonu
=, xofrye
3-be.upset/dp sloth
‘sloth was upset’
c. Transitive, SOV
kurumyana komo, xofrye heno y-anotometxonu
=
vulture.kin coll sloth dead 3sg>3o-employ/imperf/dp
‘the volute people used to employ poor old sloth’
d. Transitive, OVS
tkokemu
= rma tu
= y-onahyatxkonu
= ha kurumyana
rotten/nom cont hsy 3sg>3o-eat/coll/dp ints vulture.kin
‘the vulture people were eating the rotten thing’
The frequency distribution of the SV/VS and OV/VO orders in Hixkaryana narrative may
be given in (78) below:
Word order 277
(78) Distribution of word-order variants in Hixkaryana
(from Derbyshire 1985)
subject N % object N %
VS
SV
105
28
78.9
21.1
OV
VO
98
9
91.5
8.5
total: 133 100.0 total: 107 100.0
Derbyshire (1985) goes on to study the pragmatics of the SV/VS variation, showing a
higher referential persistence (topicality) of pre-verbal (SV) subjects.
5.6.3 The pragmatics of word-order ﬂexibility
The communicative use of word-order, above and beyond grammaticalized GRs, is a vast
topic that is beyond the scope of this chapter. The comments made below should be
considered only preliminary.
An early tradition, going back to the Prague School (Bolinger 1954; Halliday 1967;
Firbas 1966, 1974; inter alia) had suggested that when word-order is used above and
beyond the signaling of GRs, a universal tendency existed to place the topic or theme earlier
in the clause and the focus or rheme later. Unfortunately, this tradition had never come up
with a coherent deﬁnition of ‘topic’ or ‘theme’, nor had it submitted its assertions to
quantitative empirical testing.
Two distinct functional aspects of ‘topic’, when applied to nominal referents, may be
extracted out of the traditional literature. One pertains to the predictability or accessibility
of a referent; the other to its importance. Thus (Givón 1988):
(79) a. Referential predictability
Topical referents are old, known, predictable, accessible or presupposed
information.
b. Referential importance
Topical referents are important or central information, about which the
predication is given.
Accessibility is an anaphoric property of referents, having to do with their availability in
some pre-existing memory representation. Importance is a cataphoric property of referents,
having to do with the requisite attention assigned to them for building up new memory
representation (Gernsbacher 1990; Gernsbacher and Hargreaves 1988; Givón 1991e).
In some grammatical constructions, these two traditional aspects of ‘topicality’ may
coincide, but in others they are in conﬂict, often head-on conﬂict. For example, zero
anaphora (80a) is used when the referent is maximally accessible, being the topical referent
in the preceding clause. But zero by itself does not signal importance (cataphoric persis-
tence) in subsequent discourse. So that a zero-coded referent near the beginning of the
equi-topic chain may be highly persistent, but the one at the end non-persistent (see Ch.10
as well as Vol. II, Chapter 18). Still, both may be marked by zero.
278 Syntax
L-dislocating a deﬁnite referent (80b) signals its importance (thus persistence) in
subsequent discourse, as well as its accessibility in some older (episodic) memory. But it
also signals that the referent was not activated in the preceding clause or clauses (working
memory).
Finally, placing a referring-indeﬁnite referent in an existential-presentative clause
signals importance (cataphoric persistence), but neither accessibility in episodic memory
nor in working memory.
(80) a. So Mary came in, [Ø] looked around, [Ø] found a seat, [Ø] walked over
and [Ø] sat down.
b. As for John, he wasn’t there but [Ø] showed up later and [Ø] joined them
and before long he…
c. There was a woman there who nobody could understand, even though she
spoke perfectly serviceable English and [Ø] sounded quite intelligent, but
still, she…
For a while, a number of cross-language studies seemed to suggested that just the opposite
of the Prague School claims was true. That is, if anything, fronted referents tended to be
indeﬁnite, thus new information (Meyer 1992; Mithun 1992; Payne 1992; Tomlin and
Rhodes 1992). Subsequent analysis (Payne 1992; Givón 1988; Givón 1991e), however,
suggested that it was not any indeﬁnite NP that was fronted, but only important indeﬁnites.
A supporting piece of evidence involves the use of referent fronting in ‘marked’
topicalizing or contrastive constructions that seem to be attested in all languages, regardless
of type and degree of word-order rigidity. The contrastive ones among these devices —
Y-movement, cleft-focus — are also topicalizing in the sense of marking the referent more
important or cataphorically persistent (see Vol. II, chs 15, 16).
The convergence of all the evidence thus suggests that the pragmatic principle that
controls word-order ﬂexibility has more to do with the importance — cataphoric atten-
tional activation — aspect of topicality (79b) than with accessibility in pre-existing
memory (79a).
Before closing the discussion, one more word-order variation needs to be considered.
It involves the post-posing of subjects in otherwise strict SVO languages when a non-
subject is either topicalized, relativized or is placed in contrastive focus. As an illustration,
consider the following examples from Dzamba (Bantu; Bokamba 1976):
(81) a. Simple clause (SVO)
oPoso a-tomaki i-mukanda
Poso he-sent the-letter
‘Poso sent the letter’
b. L-dislocation (broken intonation; O, SV)
i-mukanda, oPoso a-mu-tomaki
the-letter Poso he-it-sent
‘The letter, Poso sent it’
Word order 279
c. Object topicalization/Y-movement (OVS)
i-mukanda mu-tomaki oPoso
the-metter it-sent Poso
‘the letter Poso sent (as against the book, which he didn’t)’
d. Object Rel-clause (VS)
i-mukanda i-mu-tomaki oPoso…
the-letter rel-it-sent Poso
‘the letter that Poso sent…’
e. Focused wh-question (VS)
eembaka nde i-mu-tomaki oPoso
thing what rel-it-sent Poso
‘What thing was it that Poso sent?’
The pragmatic motivation for subject post-posing in Dzamba and other SVO-ordered
Bantu languages (Kihungan, Lunda-Ndembu) may not directly involve the topicality of the
subject itself, but rather the topicalization, often contrastive, of some non-subject NP.
There seems to be a constraint in such languages that allows only one pre-verbal NP per
clause (under the same intonation contour). When a non-subject NP is topicalized by
Y-movement, relativization or wh-question, the subject must be post-posed. A similar
phenomenon can be found in Biblical Hebrew, Classical Arabic, Spanish and German.
5.7 So-called non-conﬁgurationality
Beginning in the early 1980s, an attempt was made by a group of generative linguists (see
in particular Hale 1980, 1982, 1983, 1992; Jelinek 1984; Payne 1993, inter alia) to suggest
that somehow languages with ﬂexible word-order possessed a special kind of syntactic
deep-structure that was radically diﬀerent from that of rigid-order languages, a so-called
non-conﬁgurational structure. They claimed that in ﬂexible-order languages, the subject
and object were not ‘real’ independent syntactic constituents (‘nodes’), but rather were
‘indexed in the verb’.
In order to support this assertion, two types of purported facts were ﬁrst cited:
•Unstressed anaphoric subject and object pronouns of so-called conﬁgurational
languages do have the status of independent constituents (‘nodes’).
•The anaphoric subject and object pronouns of so-called non-conﬁgurational
languages were not independent syntactic constituents (‘nodes’), but rather
either zero anaphors or verb-aﬃxed pronouns or inﬂections.
Both claims were founded upon a number of rather questionable interpretations of the
empirical evidence. To begin with, many perfectly rigid-order languages have either zero
anaphoric pronouns (Japanese, SOV; Chinese, SVO; Philippine, VSO) or verb-aﬃxed
pronouns (Athabaskan, SOV; Bantu, SVO; Mayan, Arawak, Nilotic, VSO).
Second, the interpretation of anaphoric pronouns in English (SVO), French (SVO) or
280 Syntax
German (SVO/SOV) as independent constituent is based solely on the conservative written
form of the language. A study of spontaneous spoken language, as used in natural communi-
cation, would have revealed that unstressed anaphoric subject and object pronouns in
English, for example, are overwhelmingly verb-clitic (Croft 1997; Givón 1998).
Perhaps the most curious aspect of the comparison was the stark contrast between the
languages and genres compared: All the prototypical ‘non-conﬁgurational’ languages
turned out to be the languages of oral, pre-literate, non-western societies. All the proto-
typical ‘conﬁgurational’ languages turned out to be spoken in literate, industrial Western
societies — English, French, German. Put another way, the promulgators of ‘(non-)conﬁg-
urationality’ compared the data of oral performance with the data of written or intuited
competence.
The theoretical motivation for the entire enterprise is more interesting yet, springing
as it does out of the early generative approach to grammatical relations (Chomsky 1957,
1965). Rather than recognize GRs as syntactic primes, the generative tradition insists, to
this day, on ‘deriving’ them from PS-tree conﬁgurations, in which both Subj and Obj nodes
were marked as just NPs. For example, for an SVO language such as English, the subject is
‘the NP directly dominated by an S node’, and the object ‘the NP directly dominated by a
VP node’, as in:
(82) S
NP
[Subj]
VP
V NP
[Obj]
John
saw
Mary
This conﬁgurational deﬁnition of GRs would also work well for SOV, VOS and OVS
languages, as in:
(83) S S S
NP
[Subj]
NP
[Subj]
NP
[Subj]
VP VP VP
NP
[Obj]
NP
[Obj]
V
V V NP
[Obj]
John John John
Mary Mary Mary
saw saw saw
But rigid VSO languages (Mayan, Austronesian, Nilotic, Salish, Arawak) present a vexing
problem, due to the apparent non-adjacency of the verb and object:
Word order 281
(84) S
NP
[Subj]
VP
V
NP
[Obj]
John
saw Mary
Flexible-order languages seem to exacerbate the problem of the VSO order, by displaying
many text instances of non-adjacency of verb and object in the VP, as well as non-
adjacency between of head nouns and modiﬁers in the NP. Somehow labeling such
languages ‘non-conﬁgurational’ was meant to ‘solve’ this problem, which is wholly self-
induced by the peculiarities of the formalism itself (see Ch.3, §3.2.2).
The non-adjacency of constituents governed by the same higher node is of course a
well-known problem in natural communication, since it violates one of the most general
iconicity principles of syntax; it is attested in one way or another in all human languages
(Haiman 1985a,b; Bybee 1985; Givón 1985a, 1991a):
(85) The adjacency principle
“Items that are closer functionally or cognitively tend to be placed closer in the
linguistic code”.
Principle (85) predicts constituent adjacency in both syntax and morphology — in the
main. But like many general principles interacting in a complex system, it is seldom
absolute. And the exceptions to it represent, most commonly, cases of conﬂict between
equally valid general principles. What is more, exceptions to principle (85) are not limited
to ﬂexible-order languages, a point that will be illustrate with three examples.
In the ‘super-conﬁgurational’ English, extraposed restrictive Rel-clauses are a staple of
both the spoken and written register (see Vol. II, Ch.14). Thus compare:
(86) a. Extraposed Rel-clause
A guy came by yesterday who spoke no English, and…
b. Adjacent Rel-clause
A guy who spoke no English came by yesterday and…
c. Adjacent Rel-clause
She went to see a movie she liked with a friend
d. Adjacent Rel-clause, no extraposition allowed
She went to see a movie with a friend she liked
… she liked the friend
…
/ she liked the movie
e. Adjacent Rel-clause
She went to a restaurant she owned with a friend
f. No extraposition allowed
?She went to a restaurant with a friend she owned
282 Syntax
The main conﬂict here is between the adjacency of either the head and modiﬁer in the NP,
the subject and predicate in the main clause, or the verb and object in the VP. In (86a), the
subject NP is scattered but the main-clause subject and predicate are adjacent. In (86b), the
reverse. In (86c), the head and modiﬁer in the object NP are adjacent, but the indirect
object is scattered from the rest of the VP. In (86d), due to potential semantic ambiguity,
the extraposed interpretation is barred, and all three constituents — S-Pred, V-Obj,
N-Mod — are adjacent. In (86e) once again N-Mod adjacency in the NP overrides
adjacency of the VP. Finally, (86f) is barred not because of semantic ambiguity, but rather
semantic incompatibility: The adjacent-NP interpretation of ‘a friend she owned’ somehow
overrides the semantically-compatible extraposed interpretation.
Consider next the interaction between the adjacency principle (85) and another well-
know syntactic device for indicating constituents that ‘belong together’ — the morphologi-
cal binding of predicates to their subjects and modiﬁers to their head nouns by (pronomi-
nal) agreement (see Ch.9). In Walpiri, a ﬂexible-order ‘non-conﬁgurational’ language,
when a modiﬁer is adjacent to the head noun, case-agreement between the head and
modiﬁer is optional. When the head noun and modiﬁer are non-adjacent (scattered), case
agreement becomes obligatory (Hale 1980; Austin and Bresnan 1996):
(87) a. Scattered subject NP, obligatory Erg-case agreement
kurdu-rlu ka maliki wajili-nyi wita-rlu
child-erg pres dog/abs chase-nonpast small-erg
‘the small child chased the dog’
b. Scattered object NP, obligatory Abs-case agreement
kurdu-rlu ka maliki wajili-nyi wita
child-erg pres dog/abs chase-nonpast small/abs
‘the child chased the small dog’
*‘the small child chased the dog’
c. Adjacent subject NP, optional Erg-case agreement
wita kurdu-rlu ka maliki wajili-nyi
small child-erg pres dog/abs chase-nonpast
‘the small child chased the dog’
*‘the child chased the small dog’
What we see here is an interaction between two ways of signaling the noun-modiﬁer
relation, i.e. NP constituency — by adjacency (principle (85)), or by morphological binding,
(case and/or gender/number agreement). Both principles are universal, but they can play
against each other, so that when one is violated, the other becomes obligatory.
Re-consider ﬁnally the data of contrastive object topicalization, relativization and
focusing in Dzamba (Bantu), an otherwise strict SVO language with both subject and
object pronouns marked as verb-preﬁxes (Bokamba 1976):
Word order 283
(88) a. Simple clause (SVO)
oPoso a-tomaki i-mukanda
Poso he-sent the-letter
‘Poso sent the letter’
b. L-dislocation (O, SV)
i-mukanda, oPoso a-mu-tomaki
the-letter Poso he-it-sent
‘The letter, Poso sent it’
c. Object topicalization/Y-movement (OVS)
i-mukanda mu-tomaki oPoso
the-letter it-sent Poso
‘the letter Poso sent (as against the book, which he didn’t)’
d. Object Rel-clause (VS)
i-mukanda i-mu-tomaki oPoso…
the-letter rel-it-sent Poso
‘the letter that Poso sent…’
e. Focused wh-question (VS)
eembaka nde i-mu-tomaki oPoso
thing what rel-it-sent Poso
‘What thing was it that Poso sent?’
In the L-dislocated clause (88b), the adjacency of the VP is violated, in order to accommo-
date another universal principle, that of fronting a topicalized referent. But the non-
adjacency of the object is compensated in the Bantu verb morphology, with the object
pronoun on the verb replicating the noun preﬁx. In (88c–e) topicalization of the object, by
whatever means, forces subject post-posing, including loss of the otherwise-obligatory
subject agreement on the verb. The pragmatic word-order principle of ‘one topical NP per
clause’ is obeyed, as well as the morphological binding of the VP. But the de-topicalized
subject loses its morphological binding to the predicate.
One should note, in passing, that none of the studies purporting to describe
(non-)conﬁgurationality have ever supported their claims with comparative frequencies of
adjacent vs. non-adjacent VPs and NPs in ‘conﬁgurational’ vs. ‘non-conﬁgurational’
languages — in texts from any genre. In contrast, two studies of frequency of non-
adjacency of VPs (V-Obj) and NPs (Head-Mod) comparing spoken English and a spoken
‘non-conﬁgurational’ language (Wardaman, Croft 1997; Ute, Givón 1999) have shown a
considerable frequency of non-adjacency in both the NP and VP of spoken English, a
frequency roughly comparable to that found in the comparison ‘non-conﬁgurational’
language.
More recent studies of ‘(non-)conﬁgurationality’ (Baker 1991; Jelinek and Demers
1994; Austin and Bresnan 1996; Nordlinger 1998; Kiss 1995; inter alia) have rejected some
of the hastily-claimed typological correlations of the early ‘conﬁgurationality’ literature.
Still, to this date these studies have cited no comparative text frequency data of any kind.
So that their ﬁndings remained rooted in selective examples of ‘competence’.
284 Syntax
Notes
1. Currently one can say ‘he goes dear-hunting in the fall’ or ‘in the summer she does a lot of fruit-
canning’. But one can easily foresee further generalization to, respectively, ‘he deer-hunts every fall’,
‘in the summer she fruit-cans a lot’.
2. As suggested in Givón (1971a), the real culprit here was the abstract formal principle of x-bar.
That is, the assumption — as far as I can tell apriori and with scant empirical justiﬁcation — that
languages treat the verb–object conﬁguration in the VP as somehow analogous to the noun-modiﬁer
conﬁguration in the VP, with the verb and the noun being, in some abstract sense, the heads of their
respective constructions.
<TARGET "6" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Tense, aspect and modalityI"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 6
Tense, aspect and modalityI
Functional organization
6.1 Introduction
In this chapter we deal with the functional organization of one the most complex sub-
systems in grammar, tense, aspect and modality (henceforth TAM). As noted in Ch.2,
above, TAM as a morphological system is most likely to grammaticalize on the verbal
word, where it interacts, often intensively, with several other verb-inﬂectional sub-systems:
•negation markers (Ch.8);
•pronominal agreement (Ch.9);
•speech-acts markers (Vol. II, Ch.17);
•cross-clausal connectives (Vol. II, Ch.18).
Like other obligatory components of the simple clause — case-marking, pronouns,
determiners — TAM systems illustrate the paradoxical status of much of grammar: While
the morphology itself is part of clausal structure, its functional scope is not the proposi-
tional semantics of the atomic event or state, but rather the pragmatics, or connectivity, of
the clause vis-a-vis its discourse context.
Our discussion of TAM will be split into two chapters. In this chapter, we deal with the
universal functional domains of tense, aspect and modality. In Chapter 7, we deal with the
cross-linguistic typology of TAM systems, as well as with their interaction with other
grammatical sub-systems.
6.2 Tense
The category tense involves the systematic coding of the relation between two points along
the ordered linear dimension of time:
•reference time;
•event time.
The unmarked (‘default’) temporal reference point vis-a-vis which event/state clauses are
anchored is the time of speech. Temporal anchoring to this default reference point is called
absolute tense.
286 Syntax
It is easy to see that tense is fundamentally a pragmatic — rather than propositional-
semantic — phenomenon, anchoring the proposition to a temporal point outside itself. In
the case of absolute tense, the clause, as it is uttered, is anchored to the current speech-act,
performed by a particular speaker at the very time the clause is uttered. Temporal
anchoring, in this case absolute tense, may be represented diagrammatically as:
(1) Tense and temporal anchoring
Event-time:
speech-time
reference time
past present future
Given diagram (1), one may distinguish three major tense divisions, plus a fourth whose
status is a bit murky:
(2) Major tense divisions
a. Past: An event (or state) whose event-time preceded the time of
speech
b. Future: An event (or state) whose event-time follows the time of speech
c. Present: An event (or state) whose event-time is right at the time of
speech
d. Habitual: An event (or state) that either occurs always or repeatedly, or
whose event-time is left unspeciﬁed.
Examples from English are:
(3) a. Past: She watched the whale
b. Future: She will watch the whale
c. Present: She is watching the whale
d. Habitual: She always watches whales
As suggested above, the status of the habitual (2d)/(3d) is indeed murky. Habitual
expressions are not about any particular event, thus not about any particular event-time,
thus lacking a crucial ingredient of tense. There are indeed grounds for treating the
habitual as a sub-category of the imperfective aspect, whereby, like other imperfectives, it
can intersect with various tenses (see §6.3.2 below).
Further, the habitual also has a healthy interaction with the irrealis modality (see
§6.4.3.4 below). So that individual languages may lump it together as either a sub-category
of the imperfective or of irrealis (see Ch.7).
In addition to absolute tense, above, a language can also take the very same tense
divisions (‘present’, ‘past’, ‘future’) and anchor them to a temporal reference-point
preceding (past) or following (future) the time of speech. This is called relative tense, a
Tense, aspect and modalityI 287
phenomenon more conspicuous in English aspects (see below). Finally, a language may
also have sub-divisions of tense, such as remote vs. recent past or immediate vs. distant
future. The discussion of those will deferred to Chapter 7.
6.3 Aspect
In this section we deal with three aspectual contrasts:
•perfectivity: perfective vs. imperfective;
•sequentiality or relevance: perfective vs. perfect;
•immediacy: remote vs. vivid.
6.3.1 Perfectivity: boundedness and duration
The aspectual dimension of perfectivity involves two features that most often coincide, but
can also be dissociated:
•temporal boundaries: sharp vs. diﬀuse;
•duration: short vs. long.
These two features can be already observed in the inherent aspectuality of lexical verbs (or
predicates). Since such inherent aspectuality is a useful tool for understanding the behavior
of grammatical aspects, we will deal with it ﬁrst. A sketchy reference to inherent aspect was
made in Chapter 2, in our discussion of the time-stability scale.
6.3.1.1Inherent perfectivity of verbs (‘Akzionart’)
Perfectivity is to begin with, above and beyond grammatical aspect, an inherent property
of all lexical verbs (or predicates). What is more, one cannot fully understand what
grammatical aspect does to verbs without understanding ﬁrst their inherent aspectuality.
The verbs (or predicates) in the lexicon of all languages can be divided into four major
groups in terms of their inherent aspectuality:
•Compact (short duration) verbs: At one extreme of the perfectivity scale one
ﬁnds verbs that depict temporally compact events of extremely short duration.
Events coded by such verbs are also sharply bounded at both ends — inception and
termination.
•Accomplishment (completion) verbs: Verbs in this group code the accomplishment
or completion of an event. The event itself may be of longer duration than in the case
of compact verbs. But the communicative perspective here is on the event’s sharp
terminal boundary — unless duration is brought into focus by the use of a speciﬁc
grammatical aspect.
•Activity (process) verbs: The bulk of the verbs in the lexicon of most languages
seem to depict activity or process events. The event coded by such verbs may be of
considerable duration, but its duration is not the focus of the communicative per-
288 Syntax
spective — unless the verb is marked by a speciﬁc grammatical aspect (durative).
Likewise, the coded event may in fact have sharp initial and terminal boundaries.
But the boundaries are not focused on — unless the verb is marked with a speciﬁc
grammatical aspect (perfective or perfect).
•Stative verbs: Finally, at the other extreme of the perfectivity scale, one ﬁnds stative
verbs or adjectives, depicting states of relatively long duration whose initial and
terminal boundaries are not focused on — unless the verb is marked by a speciﬁc
grammatical aspect (perfective or perfect).
Typical examples of verbs in the four groups are:
(4) a. Compact short-duration verbs
spit, blink, cough, shoot, kick, snap, jump, hit, slap
b. Accomplishment-completion verbs
arrive/come, leave/go, ﬁnish, accomplish/succeed, obtain/get, fall, die, be
born, sit down, stand up
c. Activity-process verbs
shorter: break, smash, bend, twist, step
longer: walk, work, read, dance
d. Stative verbs
temporary: be sad, be happy, be angry, be hot, be cold know, want, believe,
have, be there, be sitting, be lying down, be standing
long-lasting: be tall, be big, be red, be female, be furry
As one can see, at the two extreme ends of the perfectivity scale, boundedness and duration
can be strongly associated: Compact verbs (4a) have sharp boundaries and short duration.
Stative verbs (4d) have long duration but no boundaries. Accomplishment verbs (4b), on
the other hand, may have both duration and a sharp terminal boundary — though the
duration is usually not in focus. Likewise, activity/process verbs (4c) may have both, but
their communicative perspective focus depends on the choice of grammatical aspect.
The best way to observe the inherent aspectuality of verbs is to combine them with
various grammatical aspects. Unlike inherent aspect, grammatical aspect is the adding of
communicative perspective to states or events above and beyond their inherent aspectuality.
6.3.2 Perfective vs. imperfective
The grammar of perfectivity involves, primarily, the binary distinction between the
perfective and imperfective aspects:
•perfective: •perspective focus on termination and boundedness;
•strong association with the past tense;
•imperfective: •perspective focus away from termination and boundedness.
The metaphor of photographic lenses, through which the event is viewed as an object, is
most useful for explaining the contrast between the communicative perspective of the
Tense, aspect and modalityI 289
perfective and imperfective aspects. Like a zoom lense, grammatical aspects can impose
varying perspectives on the very same event.
Using the perfective aspect is akin to observing an event from far away, thus through a
narrow-angle zoom lens. The event is so far that it appears small, compact and well-
bounded.
(5) Perfective lens focus
point of view
Using the imperfective aspect is akin to observing the event from nearby, through a wide-
angle (‘ﬁsh-eye’) lens. The event is so near that its boundaries are outside the lens’s ﬁeld
of vision. All one can see is a continuous unbounded stretch.
(6) Imperfective lens focus
point of view
The imperfective category is often sub-divided into two main divisions:
•progressive-durative-continuous: ongoing process;
•habitual-repetitive: repeated events.
By using a grammatical imperfective aspect, a lexically-inherent event can be converted into
a state — in perspective. Conversely, by using a grammatical perfective aspect, a lexically-
inherent state can be converted into an event — in perspective. But the speciﬁc impact of
grammatical perfective and imperfective aspects depends on the inherent perfectivity of the
lexical verb.
Compact verbs appear much more commonly in discourse in the perfective aspect.
When combined with an imperfective, a rare occurence in discourse, they tend to yield a
repetitive sense. This aspectual contrast can be obtained, at least in principle, in various
tenses:
290 Syntax
(7) a. Past-perfective: He shot the gun
(> one shot)
b. Past-progressive: He was shooting the gun
(> repeated shots)
c. Past-habitual: He used to shoot the gun
(> repeated shots)
d. Present-progressive: He is shooting the gun
(> repeated shots)
e. Habitual: He always shoots the gun
(> repeated shots)
Spanish has two grammaticalized imperfectives in the past, the so-called imperfect and the
progressive, both contrasting with the perfective preterit. When a compact verb is marked
with either — the uncommon, marked perspective for such verbs — it yields either a
repetitive or habitual interpretation:
(8) a. Preterit-past: lo-tiró
3sg/obj-shot/pret/3sg
‘s/he shot it’ (once)
b. Imperfect-past: lo-tiraba
3sg/obj-shoot/imperf/3sg
‘s/he shot it repeatedly’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘s/he used to shoot it’ (several times)
c. Progressive-past: lo-estaba tirando
it-be/imperf/3sg shoot/part
‘s/he was shooting it’ (several times)
When an accomplishment verb is combined with the imperfective aspect — again less-
common combination — whatever duration that is imparted to the event does not apply
to the sharp terminal boundary, but rather to the preceding process leading to that
terminal boundary:
(9) a. Past-perfective: She left the house
(> she was there, then gone)
b. Past-progressive: She was leaving the house
(> ongoing process before leaving)
c. Past habitual: She used to leave the house
(> repeated)
d. Present-progressive: She is leaving the house
(> ongoing process before leaving)
e. Habitual: She always leaves the house
(> repeated)
In Spanish, the two imperfective-past aspects yield diﬀerent eﬀects with accomplishment
verbs. Combined with the imperfect, only a habitual-repetitive interpretation is possible.
Tense, aspect and modalityI 291
The progressive, on the other hand, imparts a sense of duration — of the process preceding
the terminal boundary (as it does in English, see (9) above). Thus:
(10) a. Preterit-past: llegó a la case
arrive/pret/3sg loc the house
‘s/he arrived at the house’
b. Imperfect-past: llegaba a la case
arrive/imperf/3sg loc the house
‘s/he used to arrive at the house’
‘she repeatedly arrived at the house’
*‘she was arriving at the house’
c. Progressive-past: estaba llegando a la casa
be/imperf/3sg arrive/part loc the house
‘s/he was arriving at the house’
When an activity/process verb is marked with a grammatical imperfective aspect, it yields
a state, either ongoing or habitual-repetitive:
(11) a. Past-perfective: She read the book
(> and ﬁnished)
b. Past-progressive: She was reading the book
(> ongoing)
c. Past-habitual: She used to read the book
(> ongoing or repeated)
d. Present-progressive: She is reading the book
(> ongoing)
e. Habitual: She reads the book
(> ongoing or repeated)
In Spanish, combining activity/process verbs with either imperfective aspect yields either a
habitual-repetitive or a progressive interpretation:
(12) a. Preterit-past: lo-leó
3sg/obj-read/pret/3sg
‘s/he read it’ (and ﬁnished)
b. Imperfect-past: lo-leía
3sg/obj-read/imperf/3sg
‘s/he used to read it’ (diﬀerent times)
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘s/he kept reading it’ (one stretch)
c. Progressive-past: lo-estaba leyendo
it-be/imperf/3sg read/part
‘s/he was reading it’ (one stretch)
Finally, stative verbs (or adjectives) tend to reject the perfective interpretation of the
English past tense, automatically taking an imperfective interpretation. They also reject
the progressive aspect, presumably because their perspective is already focused on the
ongoing state:
292 Syntax
(13) a. Past (*perfective): He knew John well
(> ongoing state)
(*He came to know John well)
John was tall
(> long-lasting state)
(*John became tall)
b. *Progressive-past: *He was knowing John well
*He was being tall
c. Habitual-past: He used to know John well
(> habitual state)
He used to be tall
(> long-lasting state)
d. *Progressive present: *He is knowing John well
*He is being tall
e. Habitual: He knows John well
(> habitual state)
He is tall
(> long-lasting state)
In Spanish, a similar interaction takes place, but with somewhat diﬀerent results, due to the
availability of an extra imperfective aspect in the past. Stative verbs retain their inherent
aspectuality in the imperfect, which is their most common, unmarked aspect in the past. On
the few occasions when they are used in the preterit, they change their meaning to related
non-stative senses — a diﬀerent verb in English translation. And, just as in English, they
cannot take the progressive aspect, neither in the past nor in the present:
(14) a. Preterit: Conoció (*bien) a Juan
met/imperf/3sg (*well) obj John
‘s/he met John (*well)’
b. Imperfective-past: Conocía bien a Juan
know/imperf/3sg well obj John
‘He knew John well’
c. *Progressive-past: *estaba conociendo (bien) a Juan
be/imperf/3sg know/part (well) obj John
d. *Progressive-pres.: *está conociendo (bien) a Juan
be/prog/3sg know/part (well) obj John
The ‘change of meaning’ observed in many inherently-stative verbs in Spanish when they
are combined with the preterit grammatical aspect is fairly systematic, as can be seen in
(15) below. It does not only suggest an interaction between inherent-lexical and grammati-
cal aspect, but also demonstrates a general typological phenomenon — that what one
language codes lexically, another language may code grammatically.
Tense, aspect and modalityI 293
(15) Lexical vs. grammatical perfectivity in Spanish
verb imperfect preterit
conocer
saber
querer
creer
parecer
gustar(se)
‘know’
‘know’
‘want’
‘believe’
‘be apparent’
‘like’
‘meet’, ‘get to know’
‘learn’, discover’, ‘ﬁnd out’
‘conceive a wish’
‘come to believe’
‘become apparent’
‘get to like’
6.3.3 The perfect
The perfect is functionally the most complex and most subtle grammatical aspect. It
involves four features whose clustering in the same form is natural and fairly common but by
nomeansuniversal.Inparticularlanguages,oneﬁndsvariousfeaturesoftheperfectdetached
fromeachotherandlumpedwithothertense-aspects,suchasthepast,recentpast,immediate/
vivid or present progressive. The four features of the perfect are:
•anteriority;
•perfectivity;
•counter-sequentiality;
•lingering relevance.
They are best described by contrasting the perfect with the perfective-past (preterit), with
which it shares some features. We will use the English perfect, in which the four features
indeed coincide, as an illustration.
6.3.3.1Anteriority
The perfect aspect bears a strong but not absolute similarity to the past tense. In both, the
event’s or state’s initiation point precedes the temporal reference point. The association is
not absolute, however. While the past has only one (‘absolute’) reference point, the time of
speech, the perfect can assume all three main temporal reference points:
•time of speech (‘present perfect’);
•prior to time of speech (‘past perfect’);
•following time of speech (‘future perfect’).
With respect to whatever reference point, the perfect codes an event that either occurred,
or at the very least was initiated, prior to the temporal reference point. Thus consider:
(16) a. Present perfect
(As I am speaking now,) She has (already) eaten
b. Past perfect
(When he arrived,) She had (already) eaten
c. Future perfect
(When he arrives,) She will have (already) eaten
294 Syntax
These three temporal conﬁgurations may be represented diagrammatically as, respectively:
(17) Present perfect
event
time
reference
time
time of
speech
(18) Past perfect
event
time
reference
time
time of
speech
(19) Future perfect
event
time
reference
time
time of
speech
6.3.3.2Completion and terminal boundary
Quite often, the perfect also shares with the perfective past the feature of completion or
accomplishment — thus terminal boundary — prior to reference time. As an illustration,
consider the following exchanges:
(20) A: –Why don’t you go and wash your hands?
B: –I’ve already washed them.
A: –Are you hungry?
B: –No, I’ve already eaten.
However, the terminal boundary associated with the perfect can, under some conditions,
be moved near to — or even up to — the reference time. The presence vs. absence of
completion prior to reference time can often be predicted from the inherent perfectivity of
the verb. Thus compare:
(21) a. She’s ﬁnally shot him
(> terminal boundary)
b. They’ve just arrived
(> terminal boundary)
c. She’s written that book long ago
(> terminal boundary)
d. I’ve known her for ages
(> and still do; no terminal boundary)
e. He’s been here all day
(> and still is; no terminal boundary)
f. She’s been tall ever since she was 8
(> and still is; no terminal boundary)
Tense, aspect and modalityI 295
While a terminal boundary, and a temporal gap between it and reference time, is possible
with compact verbs (21a), accomplishment verbs (21b), and activity verbs (21c), stative
verbs (21d–f) allow neither.
6.3.3.3Counter-sequentiality
A feature of the perfect that is seldom noticed, unless one studies the use and distribution
of this aspect in connected discourse, involves the contrast between an event recounted in
its natural temporal order, and an event presented out ofsequence. The grammatical contrast
here is between the unmarked, more frequent past-perfective (preterit), used to present
events in their natural sequence, and the much less frequent perfect or pluperfect (past-
perfect), used to code out-of-sequence events. As illustration, compare (22) and (23) below:
(22) Past-perfective
a. She came back into the room,
b. looked around,
c. spotted the buﬀet
d. and went to get a sandwich….
(23) Past-perfect
a. She came back into the room
b. and looked around.
c. She had (already) spotted the buﬀet beforehand.
d. So she went to get a sandwich…
In narrative (22), the events are all recounted in the order in which they occurred, with all
verbal clauses marked with the past-perfective. In narrative (23), the very same chain of
events is described. However, event (23c) is now out-of-sequence, recounted after (23b)
though in reality it occurred before it. The verb in (23c) — the out-of-sequence link in the
temporal chain — is marked with the perfect aspect. What is more, the oﬀ-sequence
placement of (23c) precipitates a thematic break in the discourse, signalled by a period
punctuation in both (23b) and (23c).
The diﬀerence between the in-sequence (perfective) and out-of-sequence (perfect)
aspect may be given diagrammatically as:
(24) a. Order of events
…A,B,C,D…
b. Order of narration in the perfective-past
…A,B,C,D…
c. Order of narration with the perfect
…A,C,B,D…
Chunks of oﬀ-sequence narrative can encompass more than one event-clause. When that
occurs, the oﬀ-sequence events may be themselves recounted in the natural sequential
order. As a chunk, they remain oﬀ-sequence vis-a-vis the preceding in-sequence events. As
an illustration of this, consider the following passage of narrative ﬁction:1
296 Syntax
(25) “…He circled it wearily as a wolf, studying it from all angles, and when ﬁnally he
stopped within a dozen feet of the dead man, he knew much of what had hap-
pened at this place.
The dead man had ridden a freshly shod horse into the playa from the
north, and when shot he had tumbled from the saddle and the horse had gal-
loped away. Several riders on unshod ponies had then approached the body
and one had dismounted to collect the weapons…”
In the second paragraph in (25), the main sequence of events — an elaboration of the
preceding perfect-marked “what had happened” — is recounted in the natural sequence in
which they occur. Since taken together they are oﬀ-sequence vis-a-vis the events in the
preceding paragraph, they are marked with the perfect.
6.3.3.4Deferred (‘lingering’) relevance
A major pragmatic feature associated with the perfect has to do with the judgement of
when the information in the perfect-marked clause is relevant. Here again it is most
instructive to ﬁrst contrast the perfect with the perfective, both in the past:
(26) a. Perfective
She came in and ate dinner.
b. Perfect
She came in. She had already eaten dinner.
When marked with the more common perfective (26a), the event is construed as relevant
at the time when it occurred, i.e. event time. By marking an event with the less-common
perfect (26b), one shifts the time when the event is relevant to some subsequent reference
time. Indeed, the reason the perfect-marked event is presented oﬀ-sequence, i.e. later that
the time it actually occurred, is no doubt because it was deemed more relevant at that
subsequent time than at the time when it occurred. This is presumably why the oﬀ-sequence
and deferred relevance features of the perfect are so strongly associated.
The contrast between the perfective-past (26a) and the perfect-past (26b) may be given
diagrammatically in (27) and (28) below, respectively:
(27) Perfective past
event
time
relevance
time
time of
speech
(28) Perfect-past
event
time
relevance
time
time of
speech
Tense, aspect and modalityI 297
The temporal reference point to which the perfect-marked event is relevant may also be
ﬁxed in the present or future:
(29) a. Present perfect
She is coming in. She has already eaten.
b. Future perfect
When she gets there, she will have already eaten.
The relevance contrast between the perfective-past and the present-perfect can on occasion
be rather subtle. Compare, for example:
(30) a. He wrote seven books before he died
b. He has written seven books
(> He is still alive)
c. *He has written seven books before he died
The use of the present-perfect in (30b) strongly implies that the writer is still alive at the
time of speech, which is the temporal reference point for the lingering relevance of the
perfect-marked event; hence the infelicity of (30c).
The conﬁguration of speech-time, event-time and relevance-time in (29a,b) are given
diagrammatically in (31) and (32) below. Respectively:
(31) Present-perfect perspective
(32) Future perfect perspective
event
time
relevance
time
time of
speech
The similarities and diﬀerences between the perfective (past) and perfect are summarized
in (33) below.
(33) feature past perfect
anteriority
absolute ref.
perfectivity
termination
lingering relevance
sequentiality
+
+
+
+
−
+
+
−
+
+/−
+
−
298 Syntax
6.3.4 The immediate aspect: Remote vs. vivid
In many languages, a subtle aspectual contrast can be made, in otherwise perfective-coded
narrative of past events, between a remote vs. vivid perspective on the event or sequence
of events.
This distinction is reminiscent of the contrast between perfective (narrow lens-angle)
and imperfective (wide lens-angle). However, since the past-perfective can be further
marked as either remote or vivid, we are clearly dealing here with a more subtle further
elaboration of perspective.
The remote vs. vivid distinction can be seen in English in the contrast between the past
and the simple — normally habitual — form of the verb, when used in past-tense
narrative, the so-called ‘historical present’. In both spoken and written English, the use of
this form of past-perfective renders the events more immediate and vivid, as if one is
somehow present on the scene and thus emotionally more engaged.
As an illustration of this contrast, compare the same ‘objective’ piece of narrative
rendered in both aspects:
(34) a. Remote
…So I gave him his instructions, and I told him to go ahead and do it.
And he said he would. Y’know, I really trusted the guy, I had known him
for a long time. Plus, he was taking notes all along. So I ﬁgured… Well,
what the heck…
b. Vivid
…So I give him his instructions, and I tell him I say go ahead and do it.
And he says he will. Hey, I really trust the guy, I’ve known him for such a
long time. Plus he’s taking notes and all. So I ﬁgure… oh, what the heck…
There is a partial overlap between the aspectual contrast vivid vs. remote and the genre
contrast oral vs. written discourse. The vivid aspect is no doubt used much more frequently
in oral narrative, and perhaps more commonly grammaticalized in pre-literate cultures.
But literary usage has borrowed the contrast, to the point where whole stories, essays and
novels may be written in the immediate aspect. As an example of a highly literary usage,
consider the following passage from a short story (Barthelme 1981):
(35) “…His gifts this morning include two white jade tigers, at full scale, carved by
the artist Lieh Yi, and the Emperor himself takes brush in hand to paint their
eyes with dark lacquer; responsible oﬃcials have suggested that six thousand
terra-cotta soldiers and two thousand terra-cotta horses, all full scale, be buried,
for the defense of his tomb; the Emperor in his rage orders that three thousand
convicts cut down all the trees on Mt. Hsiang, leaving it bare, bald, so that
responsible oﬃcials may understand what is possible; the Emperor commands
the court poets to write poems about immortals, pure beings, and noble spirits
who by their own labor change night to day, and these sung to him; everyone
knows that executions should not be carried out in the spring, even a child
knows it, but in certain cases…”
Tense, aspect and modalityI 299
The ﬁrst line of narrative (35) also exhibits a common associated feature of the vivid aspect:
When used under its scope, grammatical deictic markers that anchor a referent vis-a-vis
either the speaker’s location or time of speech (see Chapter 10), tend to use the proximate
marker — ‘this’ rather than ‘that’, ‘here’ rather than ‘there’, ‘now’ rather than ‘then’.
As illustration of the use of the vivid aspect in a more colloquial written genre, consider
the following example of direct-quoted uneducated speech, with the remote and vivid
alternating in the very same passage:2
(36) “…See, what happened… This’s at the time I’m getting ‘Freaks’ ready for
production. I’ve got a script, but it needs work, get rid of some of the more
expensive special eﬀects. So I go see my writer and we discuss revisions.
Murray’s good, he’s been with me, he wrote all my ‘Grotesque’ pictures, some
of the others. He’s done I don’t know how many TV scripts, hundreds. He’s
done sitcoms, westerns, sci-ﬁ, did a few ‘Twilight Zone’s… Only now he can’t
get any TV work ‘cause he’s around my age and the networks don’t like to hire
any writers over forty. Murray has kind of a drinking problem, too, that doesn’t
help. Likes the sauce, smokes four packs a day… We’re talking — get back to
what I want to tell you — he happens to mention a script he wrote years ago
when he was starting out and never sold. I ask him what it’s about. He tells me.
It sounds pretty good, so I take the script home and read it.” Harry paused.
“I read it again, just to be sure. My experience, my instinct, my gut, tells me I
have a property here, that with the right actor in the starring role, I can take to
any studio in town and practically write my own deal. This one, I know, is
gonna take on heat fast. The next day I call Murray, tell him I’m willing to
option the script…”
In addition to the use of the proximate ‘this’ (vs. ‘that’), one also ﬁnds in this passage the
use of the proximate ‘now’ (rather than ‘then’). Another feature of the informal, colloquial,
less-educated speech-style is also found here: The oﬀ-sequence perfect aspect is now split;
the present-perfect (‘has done’) codes minor oﬀ-sequence digressions — from the strict
temporal sequence but not from the central thematic line of the narrative. While the
perfective-past (‘wrote’, ‘sold’, ‘was’) replaces the past-perfect in marking digressions that
go back to much earlier times and events. This includes the opening line ‘See what
happened’ that is by deﬁnition oﬀ-sequence,3
as well as the digression back to the author’s
voice (‘Harry paused’).
One consequence of our metaphor of narrow vs. wide camera-angle, shared by the
imperfective and immediate aspects, is of particular interest. In the visual construction of
space, a wide lens-angle represents either a large or a near-by object. From the imperfective-
aspect perspective, an on-going event is scrutinized from near by, with all gory detail
visible. It is as if the observers is placed right at the scene. In contrast, from a bounded,
perfective, narrow-angle perspective the event is viewed from a remote vantage point. The
observer is removed from the scene and its minute details.
The similarity in perspective between the imperfective and immediate aspects can
actually lead to joint grammaticalization of the two. Thus in Ute (Uto-Aztecan; see Ch.7,
300 Syntax
§7.8), the very same suﬃx codes three tense-aspects:
•present-progressive;
•present-perfect;
•vivid-past.
The common denominator between the three ought to be obvious — here and now. The
present-progressive codes events actually occurring right now. The present-perfect codes
events that may have occurred earlier but are relevant right now. The vivid past codes
events in the past as-if they are occurring right now.
6.4 Modality and mood
6.4.1 Preamble: Propositional modalities
The propositional modality associated with a clause may be likened to a shell that encases
it but does not tamper with the kernel inside. The propositional frame of clause — semantic
and grammatical roles, predication type and transitivity — as well as the actual lexical
items that ﬁll the various slots in the frame, remain largely unaﬀected by the modality
wrapped around the proposition. Rather, the modality codes the speaker’s attitude toward
the proposition. By attitude one means here primarily two types of judgement made by the
speaker concerning the propositional information carried in the clause:
•Epistemic judgement: truth, probability, certainty, belief, evidence.
•Evaluative (‘deontic’) judgement: desirability, preference, intent, ability, obligation,
manipulation.
These two sub-modalities are not always mutually exclusive, and indeed intersect in highly
speciﬁc ways (see below).4
As a simple-minded illustration of how changes in modality
leave the propositional frame relatively unaﬀected, consider:
(37) a. Darla shot the tiger
b. It’s too bad that Darla shot the tiger
c. If Darla shoots the tiger, …
d. Darla didn’t shoot the tiger
e. He told Darla that she should shoot the tiger
f. Shoot the tiger, Darla!
g. Did Darla shoot the tiger?
In (37a–g), the event clause is encased in a diﬀerent modal envelope each time. But the
propositional kernel identifying ‘Darla’ as the subject-agent, ‘the tiger’ as the object-
patient, and ‘shoot’ as the transitive event, is left relatively untampered throughout.
Both the epistemic and evaluative/deontic sub-modalities admit, at least in principle,
shading and gradation, within as well as across category (Palmer 1979, 1986; Coates 1983;
Ransom 1986). But the range of grammar-coded modalities in any speciﬁc language is a
limited sub-set of the universally-possible set (see Ch.7, §7.9). What is more, at least in one
Tense, aspect and modalityI 301
major area, that of the irrealis modality, the epistemic and evaluative modes overlap to
quite an extent and often share their grammatical coding.
6.4.2 Epistemic modalities
Four propositional modalities display the strongest functional and grammatical conse-
quences in human language. While the deﬁnition of the epistemic modalities used in
natural language is more appropriately given in terms of their cognitive and/or communi-
cative functions, one may as well acknowledge the long logical tradition that passed these
modal categories on to us, a tradition going all the way back to — at least — Aristotle. This
tradition, with its near-exclusive preoccupation with the epistemic aspects of modality, has
indeed run its natural course. But it did manage to come up with modal notions that bear
close resemblance to our communicatively-deﬁned modalities.
The four traditional epistemic modalities are (Aristotle, see Ackrill 1963; Carnap 1947):
(38) Epistemic modalities
logical tradition communicative equivalent
a.necessary truth
b.factual truth
c.possible truth
d.non-truth
presupposition
realis assertion
irrealis assertion
negative assertion
The logical tradition treated modality as a property of propositions detached from their
communicative context, although later exponents conceded it to be pragmatic rather than
semantic (Montague 1970). The communicative-pragmatic interpretation of the four
modalities, on the other hand, recasts them in terms of the epistemic states and communi-
cative goals of the two participants in the communicative transaction — speaker and hearer.
This approach in linguistics owes a certain historical debt to several post-Wittgensteinean
philosophers, such as Austin (1962), Searle (1969) and Grice (1968/1975). The present re-
formulation follows Givón (1982b, 1989, 1994, 1995):
(39) The communicative re-deﬁnition of epistemic modality
a. Presupposition
The proposition is taken for granted to be true, either by deﬁnition, prior
agreement, generic culturally-shared convention, by being obvious to all
present at the speech situation, or by having been uttered by the speaker
and left unchallenged by the hearer.
b. Realis assertion
The proposition is strongly asserted to be true. But challenge from the hear-
er is deemed appropriate, although the speaker has evidence or other strong
grounds for defending their strong belief.
302 Syntax
c. Irrealis assertion
The proposition is weakly asserted to be either possible, likely or uncertain
(epistemic sub-modes), or necessary, desired or undesired (valuative-deon-
tic sub-modes). But the speaker is not ready to back up the assertion with
evidence or other strong grounds; and challenge from the hearer is readily
entertained, expected or even solicited.
d. Negative assertion
The proposition is strongly asserted to be false, most commonly in contra-
diction to the hearer’s explicit or assumed beliefs. A challenge from the
hearer is anticipated, and the speaker has evidence or other strong grounds
for backing up their strong belief.
One unfortunate legacy of the logical tradition is the deﬁnition of the contrast between
realis and irrealis as a contrast between, respectively, real and unreal events; that is,
assertions with or without truth value, respectively. When realis and irrealis are deﬁned in
cognitive and communicative terms, the focus of the contrast shifts in two important ways:
•Cognitively: From matters of logical truth to matters of subjective certainty.
•Communicatively: From speaker-oriented semantics to interactive pragmatics, involv-
ing social negotiation between speaker and hearer.
While the more pragmatic, interactive aspects of modality have been long recognized in the
evaluative-deontic domain of irrealis, they turn out to be just as ubiquitous in the
epistemic domain (Grice 1968/1975).
6.4.3 The distribution of modality in grammar
6.4.3.1Preliminaries
There are relatively few languages where the grammatical — primarily morphological —
marking of all modalities is totally uniform. The one obvious exception here is negation,
which is fairly uniformly marked in all languages (see Ch.8). But individual languages may
show uniform marking of either presupposition, realis, or irrealis (see Ch.7).
The lack of total uniformity in the morphological marking of modality is due to the fact
that the three less-uniformly marked modalities — presupposition, realis and irrealis —
can arise diachronically, i.e. be grammaticalized, from a wide variety of source domains.
And this variety is, in turn, due to the fact that these three propositional modalities appear
in multiple grammatical contexts. So that more than one context can act as the source-
domain for their grammaticalization.
Unlike the oft-unpredictable nature of modality-marking morphology, the distribution
of the four main modalities across grammatical contexts is highly predictable and
universal. The main grammatical context to be discussed in this section are:
•inherent modality of lexical verbs;
•tense-aspect and auxiliaries;
•modal adverbs;
Tense, aspect and modalityI 303
•clause type:
•main declarative aﬃrmative clauses;
•verb-complement clauses;
•relative clauses;
•adverbial clauses;
•non-declarative speech acts.
6.4.3.2The reference test for modality
One of the most sensitive cross-linguistic tests for modality involves the referential
behavior of NPs under various modal scopes (see Ch.10). For the purpose of applying this
test, the four propositional modalities are grouped into two super-modalities:
•Fact: presupposition and R-assertion;
•Non-fact: Irr-assertion and Neg-assertion.
The general prediction that one can make then is (Givón 1973b):
(40) Reference and propositional modality
a. Under the scope of non-fact, NPs can be interpreted as either referring or
non-referring.
b. Under the scope of fact, NPs can only be interpreted as referring.
Since the application of this test presupposes some familiarity with reference and deﬁnite-
ness (Ch.10), the discussion here will be of necessity rudimentary. Consider the three
possible types of nominals that can appear in a predicate-nominal construction:5
(41) a. Referring-deﬁnite (Ref-Def)
She’s the teacher I told you about yesterday.
b. Referring-indeﬁnite (Ref-Indef)
She’s a teacher I’d like you to meet.
c. Non-referring (Non-Ref)
She’s a teacher. That’s what she does for a living.
The three types of nominal predicates in (41) are set in diﬀerent discourse contexts,
respectively:
(42) a. Ref-Def: The referent has already been identiﬁed.
b. Ref-Indef: The referent is being introduced for the ﬁrst time.
c. Non-Ref: The nominal predicate is not used to refer to a particular individual
(token), but rather to describe his/her/its inherent attributes (type).
In the following sections, we will apply the reference test and predictions (40a,b) to test the
distribution of propositional modalities in various grammatical contexts.
6.4.3.3Inherent modality of lexical verbs
Much like inherent aspects, lexical verbs (or adjectives) also carry some inherent modality
— either presupposition, realis, irrealis or negation. This can easily be revealed by applying
304 Syntax
the reference test, since verbs spread their modal scope over their object NPs. The most
useful test is that of how an indeﬁnite object is interpreted. Thus consider:
(43) a. Fact: He has a dog
(> a particular dog; Ref)
(*> any dog; *Non-Ref)
b. Irrealis: He wants a dog
(> a particular dog; Ref)
(> any dog; Non-Ref)
c. Negation: He lacks a dog
(> any dog; Non-Ref
(*a particular dog; *Ref)
The vast majority of verbs carry an inherently realis modality, so that — unless under an
explicit non-fact operator with irrealis or negation scope — their indeﬁnite object can only
be interpreted as referring. It is thus more economical to list the relatively few lexical verbs
with irrealis, negation, or presupposition scope, such as:
(44) a. Inherent irrealis verbs
want, like, look for, dream of, think of, believe in
b. Inherent negative verbs
lack, refuse, decline, miss
c. Inherent presuppositional verbs
know, forget, regret
Many of these verbs, as well as other verbs, can also take verbal complements, and thus
spread their non-fact or presupposition modal scope over their complement clause (see
§6.4.3.6.1, below). Note ﬁnally that deﬁnite objects, which are referring by default, are
admissible under the modal scope of all modalities. Thus:
(45) a. Realis: She had the dog (for two years)
b. Irrealis: She wanted the dog (real bad)
c. Negation: She refused the dog
d. Presupposition: She knew the dog
6.4.3.4Modality and tense-aspect
The reference test, when applied to tense-aspect, establishes the following correlations
between modality and tense-aspect:
Tense, aspect and modalityI 305
(46) Distribution of modality in tense-aspects
modality tense aspect
fact
non-fact
past
present
future
perfective
perfect
progressive
habitual
repetitive
The reference test, applied only to verbs with inherent fact modality, supports this
distribution. Thus, examples (47) below allow only a referring interpretation of ‘a
sandwich’. That is, if the proposition is true, then the speaker must have intended a speciﬁc
sandwich to exist.
(47) a. Past: He ate a sandwich
b. Past-perfect: He had eaten a sandwich
c. Present perfect: He has eaten a sandwich
d. Present progressive: He is eating a sandwich
On the other hand, examples (48) allow a non-referring interpretation of the object.
Indeed, in the case of negation (48c) that is the only possible interpretation:6
(48) a. Future: He will eat a sandwich
b. Habitual: He always eats a sandwich (for lunch)
c. Negation: He did not eat a sandwich
The modal status of the habitual tense-aspect is somewhat murky. All other things being
equal, habitual clauses tend to be just as strongly asserted as realis, and thus share its
communicative-pragmatic features (39). However, the most important feature of realis
assertions, that they pertain to speciﬁc events occurring at some speciﬁc time, is lacking in
habitual assertions. Still, a habitual assertion may be a well-founded generalization
supported by knowledge of many speciﬁc past instances — hence its high subjective
certainty.
6.4.3.5Irrealis adverbs
Most epistemic adverbs such as ‘maybe’, ‘probably’, ‘possibly’, ‘likely’, ‘supposedly’,
‘presumably’, ‘surely’ or ‘undoubtedly’ cast an irrealis scope over the proposition in which
they are lodged. The presence of these irrealis operators overrides the modality of realis
tense-aspects. Again, the reference test suggests that an indeﬁnite object in a clause under
the scope of these irrealis operators can be interpreted as non-referring. Thus, note the
eﬀect of the epistemic adverbs in (56a–e) as compared with (56a):
(56) a. She ate a sandwich
b. Maybe she ate a sandwich
c. He is probably eating a sandwich
d. She has undoubtedly eaten a sandwich
e. She had most likely eaten a sandwich
306 Syntax
The same is also true of many evaluative adverbs, some of which, such as ‘hopefully’, indeed
cast realis scope over the clause:
(57) a. He bought a new car this time
(> a speciﬁc car)
b. Hopefully, he bought a new car this time
(> any car)
Some evaluative adverbs, such as ‘preferably’ and ‘ideally’ are strictly future-projecting, and
thus incompatible with realis tense-aspects. Thus compare:
(58) a. Preferably he should buy a new car tomorrow.
b. *Preferably he bought a new car yesterday.
c. *Preferably she is buying a new car right now.
Finally, some evaluative adverbs, such as ‘fortunately’, ‘unfortunately, ‘regrettably’, ‘sadly’,
‘happily’, seem to posses an inherent fact modality, that of presupposition, and thus do not
cast irrealis scope:
(59) Fortunately, she ate a sandwich (beforehand)
(> a speciﬁc one)
(*> any sandwich)
Semantically, these adverbs are related to factive predicates such as ‘regret’, ‘be terrible’, ‘be
nice’, ‘be sad’, ‘be terriﬁc’, ‘be happy’ etc., all of which cast presupposition modal scope over
their complement clauses (see §6.4.3.6.1 below). The pragmatic inference that seems to
motivate presuppositional modality here is:
(60) In order for one to be sad or happy about an event, that event must have al-
ready occurred.
6.4.3.6Modality and clause type
The unmarked clause-type in language — the main, declarative, aﬃrmative clause7
— has,
by default, a realis modal status. As we have seen above, several grammatical or lexical
operators can cast an irrealis, negation or presupposition modal scope over a main clause.
In this section we thus deal primarily with the distribution of modality in subordinate,
non-declarative or negative clauses.
6.4.3.6.1Verb complements.
a.
Modality verbs and modal auxiliaries
As noted earlier above, verbs have their own inherent modality, with the vast majority
belonging to the unmarked category of inherent realis. A relatively small minority of verbs
possess an inherent irrealis, negation or presupposition modality. But among modality
verbs, the proportion of those with inherent irrealis is quite high, since this group
constitutes the lexical reservoir from which tense, aspect and modal operators are often
grammaticalized.
Tense, aspect and modalityI 307
Modality verbs reveal the same three-way distinction of inherent modality as other
lexical verbs. However, their modal scope is cast not only over their object, but over their
entire complement clauses. They are divided into three groups, according to the modality
they cast over their complement (see Ch.3, §3.3.7.3, as well as Karettunen 1971, 1974):
(61) Modal scope of complements of modality verbs
verb type modality of complement
implicative
non-implicative
neg-implicative
realis assertion
irrealis assertion
Neg-assertion
Once the modality of a complement clause is determined by the modality verb under whose
scope it falls, the referential status of NPs in the complement abides by general rule (40),
allowing non-referring interpretation of NPs only under the scope of non-fact. That is, in
complements of either non-implicative or Neg-implicative modality verbs. Thus compare:
(62) a. Simple clause (realis)
She ate a sandwich
(> a speciﬁc one)
b. Implicative = realis complement
She managed to eat a sandwich
(> She ate a sandwich)
(> a speciﬁc sandwich)
c. Non-implicative = irrealis complement
She wanted to eat a sandwich
(…
/ She ate a sandwich)
(> a speciﬁc sandwich)
(> any sandwich)
d. Neg-implicative = negative complement
She failed to eat a sandwich
(… She didn’t eat a sandwich)
(> no sandwich)
The most typical implicative, non-implicative and Neg-implicative modality verbs were
listed in Ch.3, §3.3.7.3.
As noted in Chapter 5, above, modality verbs can easily grammaticalize, ﬁrst into tense-
aspect-modal auxiliaries, and eventually into bound T-A-M morphology. It is thus not
surprising to ﬁnd irrealis operators in many languages that are derived from non-implicat-
ive modality verbs. In German, for example, these modal operators still retain their
grammatical status as modality verbs, regardless of their new semantic status. In English,
on the other hand, these verbs form their own special class of modal auxiliaries, such as
‘can’, ‘could’, ‘may’, ‘might’, ‘will’, ‘would’, ‘shall’, ‘should’ and ‘must’
308 Syntax
Initially, all English modal auxiliaries had evaluative-deontic senses, such as intent,
ability, necessity, obligation, permission or preference. Over time, many of them acquired
epistemic senses, such as lower certainty or lower probability (Traugott 1989). It is thus
natural that the yet-evolving new modals — ‘have-to’, ‘got-to’, ‘need-to’, ‘be-able-to’ —
have only deontic but not yet any epistemic senses.
It is clear, further, that evaluative-deontic sub-modes of irrealis always involve an
irreducible core sense of epistemic uncertainty — but not vice versa. The relation between
the epistemic and evaluative-deontic sub-modes of irrealis is thus a one-way conditional,
whereby the valuative-deontic represents further marking of the epistemic:
(63) If evaluative, then epistemic (but not vice versa)
or
If intention, then uncertainty (but not vice versa)
The diachronic rise of epistemic senses out of deontic ones may thus be viewed as an
instance of semantic bleaching, whereby the more marked category is lost but the
unmarked is retained.
The one-way conditional relation between the two main sub-modes of irrealis is due to
the fact that intention, ability, preference, permission and obligation are all future
projecting, and that the future is by deﬁnition an irrealis epistemic mode. The epistemic
aspect of irrealis is thus its common denominator, to which an evaluative-deontic aspect
may be added.
The epistemic common denominator of irrealis may help explain the common occur-
rence of shared grammatical marking of the two sub-modalities of irrealis (see Ch.7). This
is indeed the case in the grammar of English modals. Many English modals code more than
one irrealis sub-mode, but ‘can’ and ‘may’ can yield three, as in:
(64) a. Ability: If he tries hard, he can do it
(> he has the ability to do it)
b. Probability: The guy who did it could also be insane
(> it is likely that he is insane)
c. Permission: If he pays the fee, he can join
(> he is permitted to join)
Other — seemingly more deontic — modals such as ‘should’ and ‘must’, can still signal
either obligation or probability:
(65) a. Obligation: She should stop wasting her time on it
(> she had better stop)
b. Probability: He should be there by now
(> it is likely that he is)
c. Obligation: You must do it right away
(> you had better)
d. Probability: She must be there by now
(> she is probably there)
Tense, aspect and modalityI 309
b.
Manipulation verbs
As noted in Chapter 3 (§3.3.7.3), manipulation verbs are divided into the same three
modal-semantic classes as modality verbs (61). So that the modal scope they cast over their
complements is just as predictable, with the implicative ones casting the fact modality, the
non-implicative ones irrealis, and the Neg-implicative ones negation. Thus compare:
(66) a. Simple clause (realis)
He ate a sandwich
(> a speciﬁc one)
b. Implicative = realis complement
She made him eat a sandwich
(… He ate a sandwich)
(> a speciﬁc sandwich)
c. Non-implicative = irrealis complement
She told him to eat a sandwich
(…
/ He ate a sandwich)
(> a speciﬁc sandwich)
(> any sandwich)
d. Neg-implicative = negative complement
She prevented him from eating a sandwich
(… He didn’t eat a sandwich)
(> no sandwich)
For obvious semantic reasons, the irrealis sub-mode of manipulation verbs is always
valuative-deontic.
c.
Perception-cognition-utterance (P-C-U) verbs
As noted in Chapter 3 (§3.3.7.3), P-C-U verbs are divided into three modal-semantic
classes (Kiparski and Kiparski 1968; Karttunen 1971, 1974), according to the modal scope
they cast over their complements:
(67) Modal scope of complements of P-C-U verbs
verb type modality of complement
factive
non-factive
Neg-factive
presupposition
irrealis assertion
Neg-assertion
To illustrate the modal and referential properties of P-C-U verbs, consider:
(68) a. Simple clause (realis)
He ate a sandwich
(> a speciﬁc sandwich)
310 Syntax
b. Factive = presupposed complement
She knew that he ate a sandwich
(… He ate a sandwich)
(> a speciﬁc sandwich)
c. Non-factive = irrealis complement
She thought that he ate a sandwich
(…
/ He ate a sandwich)
(> a speciﬁc sandwich)
(> any sandwich)
d. Neg-factive = negative complement
She lied that he ate a sandwich
(… He didn’t eat a sandwich)
(> no sandwich)
6.4.3.6.2Modality in relative clauses. Restrictive Rel-clauses that modify referring head
nouns, whether deﬁnite or indeﬁnite, fall under the scope of presupposition (Ch.3,
§3.3.7.3), unless some marked non-fact operator intervenes. When modifying non-
referring head nouns, restrictive Rel-clauses fall under the scope of non-fact. Non-
restrictive Rel-clauses, which as a rule can only modify referring head nouns, fall under the
scope of realis. Thus compare:
(69) Restrictive Rel-clauses
a. Ref-deﬁnite head noun
I saw the woman who came in late
(… the woman came in late)
(> a speciﬁc woman)
b. Ref-indeﬁnite head noun
There’s a woman who came in late and…
(… a woman came in late)
(> a speciﬁc woman)
c. Non-Ref head noun
I know of no woman who came in late
(… no woman came in late)
(> no woman)
(70) Non-restrictive Rel-clause
a. Ref-deﬁnite head noun
I saw the woman, who came in late, leave early
(… the woman came in late)
(> a speciﬁc woman)
b. Ref-indeﬁnite head noun
*There’s a woman, who came in late, and…
Tense, aspect and modalityI 311
c. Non-Ref head noun
*I know of no woman, who came in late, and…
6.4.3.6.3Modality in adverbial clauses. Adverbial subordinate clauses tend to come under
the scope of either presupposition or irrealis or negation, depending on the type of subordi-
nation involved (see Vol. II, Ch.18). Typical presupposition-scoped Adv-clauses in
English are:
(71) a. Past-perfective temporal Adv clause
When she found a house, it was too expensive
(… she found a house)
b. Past-perfect temporal Adv-clause
When she had found a house, she bought it
(… she found a house)
c. Concessive Adv clause
Although she found a house, she refused to buy it
(… she found a house)
d. Cause Adv clause
Because he met a new guru, he left the church
(… he met a new guru)
e. Reason Adv clause
Since she has a job, she can aﬀord it
(… she has a job)
Typical irrealis-scope adverbial clauses are:
(72) a. Future time Adv clause
When you get a loan, I’ll sell you my car.
(…
/ you got a loan)
b. Conditional Adv clause
If you get a loan, I’ll sell you my car
(…
/ you got a loan)
c. Purpose Adv clause
In order for you to get a loan, I’ll have to co-sign it
(…
/ you got a loan)
Finally, one type of Adv clause, the counterfact conditional, falls under the modal scope of
negation:
(73) Counter-fact conditional Adv clause
If you had got a loan, I would have sold you my car.
(… you didn’t get a loan)
312 Syntax
6.4.3.7Modality in non-declarative speech acts
So far, we have dealt exclusively with the modality of declarative clauses. Of the three main
types of non-declarative clauses (see Vol. II, Ch.17), two — manipulatives and yes/no-
question — fall under the modal scope of irrealis.
Manipulative speech acts, such as command, request or exhortation, are associated with
irrealis because, like modality-verbs and manipulation-verbs, they deal with future events
that are yet to occur. What is more, manipulative speech acts are associated with the
evaluative-deontic sub-mode of irrealis.
The strong association of yes/no-questions with irrealis is due to their low epistemic
certainty. As illustration of irrealis-connected non-declarative clauses, consider:
(74) a. Command
Turn oﬀ the light!
b. Request
Could you please turn oﬀ the light?
c. Exhortation
Let’s turn oﬀ the light.
d. Yes/no-question
Did she turn oﬀ the light?
The third main type of non-declarative speech act, wh-questions (Vol. II, Ch.17), has a
strong association with the modality of presupposition, although the presupposed state or
event is missing one component — the identity of one of its arguments:
(75) a. Who bit the dog?
(> Someone bit the dog)
b. What did the dog bite?
(> The dog chewed something)
c. Where did she put the book?
(> She put the book somewhere)
d. When did he leave the house?
(> He left the house some time)
e. Why did she quit her job?
(> She quit her job for some reason)
6.4.4 Irrealis and the subjunctive mood8
One ﬂesh; to lose thee were to lose myself. (John Milton, Paradise Lost)
6.4.4.1Preliminaries: Mood and modality
The grammatical category mood, and within it the subjunctive, is often been as less-than-
universal. The most obvious reasons for this are, in all likelihood:
Tense, aspect and modalityI 313
•inattention to the functional basis of the subjunctive;
•lack of coherent theory of modality and irrealis;
•myopic focus on the verbal morphology of individual languages.
Once these self-imposed handicaps are removed, it is relatively easy to identify the two
main semantic domains where the category ‘subjunctive’ most often grammaticalizes cross-
linguistically. This is so because the two turn out to occupy distinct loci within the two sub-
modes of irrealis — epistemic and valuative-deontic:
•Epistemic: lower certainty;
•Valuative-deontic: weaker manipulation.
Both of these sub-modes of irrealis are profoundly scalar, and it is at the lower range of
both scales where subjunctives tend to grammaticalize. The predictive power of this
identiﬁcation has the familiar ring of a one-way conditional association and implicational-
hierarchic generalizations:
(76) Prediction about grammaticalized subjunctives
a. If a language has a grammaticalized subjunctive at all, then it will appear at
two distinct foci — lower certainty and/or weaker manipulation — along
the scale of the two irrealis sub-modes.
b. If a language uses a subjunctive form at a higher point on the certainty or
manipulation scale, it will also use it on the lower point; but not vice versa.
Being a one-way conditional, the logical relation between subjunctive and irrealis is
therefore that of inclusion, whereby the subjunctive is a sub-set — sub-category, further
speciﬁcation — of irrealis. And one should thus not expect the reverse prediction (75a,b):
(77) a. *Since all languages have those semantic loci along the two main irrealis sub-
modes, all languages should display a grammaticalized subjunctive.
b. *If a language uses a subjunctive form at a lower point on the certainty or
manipulation scale, it will also use it at higher points.
Predictions about grammaticalization patterns almost always have this one-way-condition-
al pattern, whereby one can predict that if a grammaticalized pattern is found, it will most
likely appear ﬁrst at a highly speciﬁc locus — diachronic beach-head — along the function-
al domain, and may then spread in a speciﬁc direction. What one cannot predict is whether a
particular pattern of grammaticalization will or will not take place in a particular language.
Put another way, one can predict how languages will grammaticalize particular domains,
but seldom whether they will or will not grammaticalize them. Indeed, one major type of
cross-linguistic variation is just that — the degree or density of grammaticalization of
particular functional domains.
6.4.4.2Distribution of the subjunctive in irrealis contexts
In §6.4.3 above we surveyed the various grammatical contexts in which various modalities
are found. Among those, we need now to consider only contexts falling under the scope of
irrealis:
314 Syntax
•main declarative clauses with irrealis operators
(future, modal adverbs, modal auxiliaries);
•irrealis non-declarative speech-acts;
•irrealis V-complement clauses;
•irrealis Rel-clauses modifying Non-Ref heads;
•irrealis Adv clauses.
In the following space we will survey the distribution of subjunctive forms in Spanish, a
language in which the same form is used to code both the subjunctive of lower certainty
and the subjunctive of weaker manipulation. The comparison with the English translations
will highlight the use of English modals in both capacities.
6.4.4.2.1The subjunctive of low certainty in main declarative clauses. In Spanish, the
subjunctive can be used in main declarative clauses only if irrealis epistemic adverbs such
as quizá (‘maybe’), tal vez (‘perhaps’) puede ser (‘may be’) etc. are also used. The resultant
epistemic certainty gradient along the irrealis range is then:
(78) a. Future without Adv; (highest certainty)
vendrá.
come/3sg/fut
‘s/he will come’
b. *Subjunctive without epistemic Adv
*venga.
come/3sg/subjun
(*‘s/he might come’)9
c. Future with epistemic Adv (lower certainty)
Quizá vendrá.
Maybe come/3sg/fut
‘Perhaps he’ll come’.
d. Subjunctive with epistemic Adv (lowest certainty)
Quizá venga.
maybe come/3sg/subjun
‘Perhaps he might come’.
In English, the old past form of the modals reveals itself as the subjunctive marker (Bybee
1995). However, the epistemic range covered by English modals is not identical with that
of the Spanish subjunctive, since English modals may be used without epistemic adverbs,
thus in a way imparting the sense of those:
(79) a. Future alone (higher certainty)
He will come.
b. Simple modal form (lower certainty)
He may/can/shall come.
c. ‘Past’ modal-subjunctive (lowest certainty)
She would/might/could/should come.
Tense, aspect and modalityI 315
Spanish also has past subjunctive forms, used in irrealis contexts of lower epistemic
certainty. Without any epistemic adverbs in the main clause, again only the past
(‘indicative’) form can be used:
(80) a. Past with no epistemic Adv:
estaba esperando
be/3sg/past/imperf wait/part
‘s/he was waiting’
b. *Subjunctive with no epistemic adverb
*estuviera esperando
be/3sg/past/imperf/subjun wait/part
The use of epistemic adverbs again licenses the contrast between past (‘indicative’) and
subjunctive (Butt and Benjamin 1988):10
(81) a. Past (‘indicative’)
tal vez me-estaba esperando
perhaps me-be/3sg/past/imperf wait/part
‘perhaps s/he was waiting for me’
b. Past subjunctive
tal vez me-estuviera esperando
perhaps me-be/3sg/past/imperf/subjun wait/part
‘(perhaps) she might/may/could have been waiting for me’
In (81b) above the English modals, now combined with the perfect auxiliary ‘have’ to
compensate for the demise of theold past form, again codethe subjunctive of lower certainty.
6.4.4.2.2The subjunctive in non-declarative speech acts.
a.
Yes/no-questions
Yes/no-questions are certainly under irrealis scope of lower epistemic certainty. Nonethe-
less, they don’t admit the subjunctive of epistemic uncertainty in Spanish, hence the
infelicity of (82b) below. The subjunctive form can still be used in yes/no-questions with
the added subordinator que (82c), but then it can only be interpreted as deontic, i.e.
indicating obligation or permission:
(82) a. Future (‘indicative’)
Va a partir mañana?
go/3sg/ind to leave/inf tomorrow
‘Is s/he going to leave tomorrow?’
b. *Epistemic subjunctive
*Vaya a partir mañana?
go/3sg/subjun to leave/inf tomorrow
316 Syntax
c. Deontic subjunctive
Que vaya a partir mañana?
sub go/3sg/subjun to leave/inf tomorrow
‘Should/may s/he leave tomorrow?’
*‘Is s/he really going to leave tomorrow?’
The English equivalent of the Spanish subjunctive, the past-form modals, can indeed be
used in yes/no-questions. But — with the exception of the future modal will — all English
modals seem to lose their epistemic sense in this context, retaining only their (older)
deontic sense. Thus compare:
(83) a. Will she do it? (epistemic)
b. Would she do it? (willingness)
c. Can she do it? (ability, permission)
d. Could she do it? (ability, permission)
e. May she do it? (permission)
f. Might I suggest that…? (permission)
g. Shall we do it? (permission, exhortation)
h. Should she do it? (permission, obligation)?
i. Must she do it? (obligation)
A similar narrowing of the modal-sense range of English modals has been noted in negative
clauses (Givón 1979a: Ch.3).
b.
Manipulative speech-acts
In Spanish, the contrast between the imperative and the subjunctive is used for coding the
relative strength of the manipulative speech-act. The informal, familiar, less polite
imperative codes stronger manipulations, while the more tentative, formal or deferent
subjunctive codes weaker manipulations:
(84) a. Imperative (‘familiar’)
Ven!
come/2sg/imp
‘Come!’
b. Subjunctive (‘formal’)
Venga.
come/2sg/subjun
‘Do come.’
With 3rd person subjects, the Spanish subjunctive shades into the weaker-yet deontic range
of hortative, hope, weak preference or permission, often in combination with other modal
operators:
Tense, aspect and modalityI 317
(85) a. Hortative
Que venga!
sub come/3sg/subjun
‘Let him/her come!’
‘S/he may come’
‘S/he should come
b. Subjunctive of hope
Ojalá que venga!
hope sub come/subjun
‘Let’s hope s/he comes!’
‘Let’s hope s/he may come’
c. Subjunctive of preference
Mejor que venga pronto.
Better sub come/3sg/subjun soon
‘S/he had better come soon’
‘S/he should come soon’
‘S/he might as well come soon’
In English, a predictable three-way contrast between the imperative, simple modal and
‘past’ modal codes the strength of direct manipulative speech-acts:
(86) a. Strongest manipulation: Imperative
Leave!
b. Weaker manipulation: Simple modal
You may/can leave.
c. Weakest manipulation: ‘Past’-modal
You might/could leave
(87) a. Imperative
Come!
b. Weaker manipulation
You can/may come now.
c. Weakest manipulation
You might/could come.
Though the yes/no-question forms (83) are also used in direct manipulative speech acts:
(88) Will/would/can/could you leave now?
In this speech-act context, even will loses its epistemic value and reverts to its older deontic
sense.
6.4.4.2.3The subjunctive in verb complements. As noted above (§6.4.3.6.1), all three classes
of complement-taking verbs include some verbs that cast irrealis scope over their comple-
ments. This is precisely where subjunctive forms, coding either weaker manipulation or
lower certainty, can be found.
318 Syntax
a.
Complements of manipulation verbs
The complement of implicative verbs of manipulation or perception in Spanish, such as
hacer (‘make’) or ver (‘see’), falls under the scope of realis. Predictably, the subjunctive
cannot be used in here, but only the inﬁnitive:10
(89) a. Inﬁnitive complement
le hicieron callar a Juan
3sg/obj made/3pl shut.up/inf obj John
‘they made John shut up’
b. *Subjunctive complement
*le hicieron a Juan que callara
3sg/obj made/3pl obj John sub shut.up/past/subjun/3sg
(*‘They made John that he should keep quiet’)
c. Inﬁnitive complement
le vieron pasar a Juan
3sg/obj saw/3pl pass/inf obj John
‘they saw John pass by’
d. *Subjunctive complement
*le vieron a Juan que pasara
3sg/obj saw/3pl obj John sub pass/past/subjun/3sg
(*‘They saw John that he might have passed by’)
The complements of non-implicative verbs, as noted earlier, fall under irrealis scope. As
expected, the subjunctive can be used in such complements, often to further modulate the
strength of the manipulation. With some non-implicative verbs, such as mandar (‘order’)
and aconsejar (‘advise’), one ﬁnds a contrast between inﬁnitive and the subjunctive, coding,
respectively, stronger vs. weaker manipulations (Butt and Benjamin 1988):
(90) a. Inﬁnitive complement (stronger)
le mandaron callar-se
3sg/obj ordered/3pl shut.up/inf-ref
‘They ordered him to shut up’
b. Subjunctive complement (weaker)
le mandaron que se callara
3sg/obj ordered/3pl sub refl be.quiet/past/subjun/3sg
‘They told him that he should keep quiet’
c. Inﬁnitive complement (stronger)
le aconsejaron no decir nada
3sg/obj advised/3pl neg say/inf nothing
‘They advised him to say nothing’
d. Subjunctive complement (weaker)
le aconsejaron que no diciera nada
3sg/obj advised/3pl sub neg say/past/subjun/3sg nothing
‘They advised him that he should not say anything’
Tense, aspect and modalityI 319
Finally, verbs of weaker-yet manipulation in Spanish, such as decir (‘tell’) and pedir
(‘ask’), can take only the subjunctive complement form, but not the inﬁnitive (Butt and
Benjamin 1988):
(91) a. *Inﬁnitive complement (stronger)
*le dijeron seguir-les
3sg/obj told follow/inf-them
b. Subjunctive complement (weaker)
le dijeron que les siguiera
3sg/obj told/3pl sub them follow/past/subjun/3sg
‘They told her that she should follow them’
c. *Inﬁnitive complement (stronger)
*le pidieron seguir-les
3sg/obj told follow/inf-them
d. Subjunctive complement (weaker)
le pidieron que les siguiera
3sg/obj asked/3pl sub them follow/past/subjun/3sg
‘They asked her if she could follow them’
‘They ask that she follow them’
In English, verbs such as ‘tell’ and ‘ask’ can still take inﬁnitive complements, thus suggest-
ing that they can be used to code stronger manipulations. One needs to go down to a
lower-yet deontic range in English, with weaker verbs such as ‘prefer’, ‘suggest’, ‘wish’ or
‘insist’, before inﬁnitive complements become unacceptable:
(92) a. I prefer that she leave (subjunctive)
b. *I prefer her to leave (*inﬁnitive)
c. ?I prefer that she leaves (?indicative)
d. I suggest that she (should) leave (subjunctive)
e. *I suggest her to leave (*inﬁnitive)
f. ?I suggest that she leaves (?indicative)
g. He wished that she would leave (subjunctive)
h. *He wished her to leave (*inﬁnitive)
i. *He wished that she left (*indicative)
j. She insists that he (should) leave (subjunctive)
k. *She insisted him to leave (*inﬁnitive)
l. ?She insists that he leaves (?indicative)
b.
The subjunctive in complements of P-C-U verbs
As noted earlier above (§6.4.3.6.1), verbs of perception, cognition or utterance (P-C-U
verbs) divide into three modal groups — factive, non-factive and Neg-factive. Since factive
verbs spread a fact scope over their complements, one would not expect to ﬁnd the
subjunctive in their complements. This is indeed true of factive verbs with strict epistemic
modalities, such as ‘know’ or ‘forget’:
320 Syntax
(93) a. Indicative complement
sabían que se murió
knew/3pl sub ref die/pret/3sg
‘They knew that s/he (had) died’
b. *Subjunctive complement
*sabían que se muriera
knew/3pl sub ref die/subjun/3sg
(‘They knew that s/he may have died’)
c. Indicative complement
ahora me acuerdo que se murió
now ref remember/1sg sub refl die/pret/3sg
‘Now I remember that s/he died’
d. *Subjunctive complement
*ahora me acuerdo que se muriera
now ref remember/1sg sub ref die/subjun/3sg
(‘Now I remember that she may have died’)
The diﬀerence between Spanish and English, evident in the felicitous English glosses of (93b)
and (93d), is instructive. English modals do not only serve as the equivalent of the Spanish
subjunctive, but can also be used by themselves, without epistemic adverbs, to create the
kind of irrealis scope that in Spanish requires the use of epistemic adverbs. Thus compare:
(94) a. *Ahora venga.
now come/3sg/subjun
(‘He might be coming now’)
b. *Viniera ayer.
come/3sg/past/subjun yesterday
(‘He may have come yesterday’)
The subjunctive in Spanish is readily used in complements of non-factive verbs of lower
epistemic certainty. Thus, the higher-certainty creer (‘think’/‘believe’) allows only the
indicative, while the lower-certainty no creer (‘not believe’), dudarse, (‘doubt’) and no saber
(‘not know’) allow only the subjunctive:
(95) a. Indicative complement
creo que salió
believe/1sg sub leave/3sg/pret
‘I think s/he left’
b. *Subjunctive complement
*creo que saliera
believe/1sg sub leave/3sg/past/subjun
c. *Indicative complement
*me dudo si/que salió
ref doubt/1sg if/sub leave/3sg/pret
Tense, aspect and modalityI 321
d. Subjunctive complement
dudo si saliera
doubt/1sg if leave/3sg/past/subjun
‘I doubt that s/he left’
The deontic-oriented ‘wish’, ‘hope’ or ‘fear’ are low enough on the irrealis scale so as to
require subjunctive complementation in Spanish:
(96) a. *Indicative complement
*quiero que vendrá
want/1sg sub come/3sg/fut
(*‘I wish that she will come’)
b. Subjunctive complement
quiero que venga
want/I sub come/3sg/subjun
‘I wish that he would come’
c. *Indicative complement
*espero que vendrá
hope/1sg sub come/3sg/fut
(‘I hope that s/he will come’)
d. Epistemic anxiety
espero que venga
hope/I comp come/3sg/subjun
‘I hope that he would come’
Finally, there is a group of bona ﬁde factive predicates that nonetheless either require or at
least allow subjunctive complements in Spanish. These are either verbs of deontic
judgement (‘it is good that’, ‘it is terrible that’, ‘regret’, ‘be happy’) or epistemic surprise (‘be
surprised’, ‘it is astounding’, ‘be shocked’). What we have here, I believe, is a conﬂict
between the two features of irrealis, epistemic high certainty vs. deontic counter-expectan-
cy, with the deontic prevailing.11
When the complement is under fact modal scope, the subjunctive is obligatory in
Spanish (Butt and Benjamin 1988):
(97) a. Les sorprendió que no lo supiera
them surprised/3sg sub neg it know/3sg/past/subjun
‘They were surprised that s/he didn’t know it’.
b. Me molesta que te quejes tanto
me bother/3sg sub refl complain/2sg/subjun so
‘It bothers me that you should complain so much’.
c. Me alegra que te guste
refl cheer/3sg sub you please/3sg/subjun
‘I’m happy that you like (it)’.
d. Es natural que le conozca
be/3sg natural sub him know/3sg/subjun
‘It’s only natural that s/he should know him/her’.
322 Syntax
f. Fué una lástima que no me lo dijeras
was/3sg one pity sub neg me it say/2sg/past/subjun
‘It was a pity that you didn’t tell me!’
g. Qué rabia que no nos suban el sueldo
what nuisance sub neg us raise/3pl/subjun the salary
‘What a nuisance that they aren’t raising our salary!’
h. Lo siento que esté enfermo.
it regret/I sub be/3sg/subjun sick
‘I’m sorry that s/he is sick’.
When the complement is under irrealis scope, a contrast between indicative and subjunc-
tive complementation is possible, signalling the predictable diﬀerence of degree of certainty
(Butt and Benjamin 1988):
(98) a. Indicative complement (stronger conviction)
Mejor lo dejamos para más tarde
better it leave/1pl/ind for more late
‘We had better leave it for later’
b. Subjunctive (weaker conviction)
Es Mejor que lo dejemos para más tarde
be better sub it leave/1pl/subjun for more late
‘It would be better if we left it for later’
But on occasion it is possible to obtain such contrasts even with fact complements, as in
(Butt and Benjamin 1988):
(99) a. Indicative (less emotion/surprise)
Se horrorizaba de que la trataban así
3sg be/shocked/imperf of sub her treat/imperf/ind so
‘S/he was shocked that they treated her this way’
b. Subjunctive (more emotion/surprise)
Se horrorizaba de que la trataran así
3sg be/shocked/imperf of sub her treat/past/subjun so
‘S/he was shocked that they should treat her this way’
c. Indicative (less surprise)
Lo increíble era que Pedro no lo sabía
it incredible was sub Pedro neg it know/imperf/ind
‘The incredible thing was that Pedro didn’t know it’
d. Subjunctive (more surprise)
Lo increíble era que Pedro no lo supiera
it incredible was sub Pedro neg it know/past/subjun
‘The incredible thing was that Pedro should not know it’
Tense, aspect and modalityI 323
6.4.4.2.4The subjunctive in relative clauses. As noted earlier above (§6.4.3.6.2), restrictive
Rel-clauses modifying non-referring head nouns fall under the scope of irrealis. Not
surprising, the contrast between the indicative and the subjunctive in the Rel-clause is used
rather eﬀectively in Spanish to code the contrast referring vs. non-referring head noun.
Respectively (Butt and Benjamin 1988):
(100) a. Indicative (referring head)
Coge la maceta que mas te gustaba
take/imp the ﬂower-pot sub most you please/3sg/imperf
‘Take the ﬂower pot you liked best’.
b. Subjunctive (non-referring head)
Escoge la maceta que mas te guste.
choose/imp the ﬂower-pot sub most you please/3sg/subjun
‘Pick whichever ﬂower pot you may like best’.
c. Indicative (referring head)
Busca a una mujer que conoce a su madre.
seek/3sg obj one woman sub know/3sg/ind obj his mother
‘He’s looking for a woman who knows his mother’.
(> a particular woman)
d. Subjunctive (non-referring head)
Busca a una mujer que conozca a su madre.
seek/3sg obj one woman sub know/3sg/subjun obj his mother
‘He’s looking for a woman who might know his mother’.
(> any such woman)
e. Indicative (referring head)
Buscaba a una mujer que conocía a su madre.
seek/imperf obj one woman sub knew/imperf obj his mother
‘He was looking for a woman who knew his mother’.
(> a particular woman)
f. Subjunctive = non-referring head
Buscaba a una mujer que conociera a su madre.
seek/imperf obj one woman sub knew/subjun obj his mother
‘He was looking for a woman who might have known his mother’.
(> any such woman)
6.4.4.2.5The subjunctive in adverbial clauses.
“…Honey, I have an uh… unusual request… uh… Y’see, I’ve been on this uh…
island… for a long time without uh… the companionship of a uh… female… So I been
wonderin’… uh… if I gave you two coconuts…” Ed Sanders as “Robinson Crusoe”
The Fugs, It Crawled into my Hand, Honest, Reprise Records RS-6305 (ca. 1967)
As noted earlier above (§6.4.3.6.3), many types of adverbial clauses fall under irrealis scope.
In such clauses, one ﬁnds the subjunctive coding, predictably, lower epistemic certainly
than other ‘indicative’ irrealis forms.
324 Syntax
The epistemic modal space of irrealis Adv-clauses is often sub-divided into a three-
point scale:
(101) Most common modal scale of irrealis Adv-clauses
epistemic certainity grammatical form
a.Higher certainty
b.Lower certainty
c.Lowest certainty
future/modal marking
subjunctive/modal marking
counter-fact marking
In speciﬁc languages, the diﬀerencebetween points (101a) and (101b) maybe coded bytwo
distinct subjunctive forms, by two diﬀerent modal forms, or by a contrast between subjunc-
tive and non-subjunctive form. Sometimes the contrast is not coded in the Adv-clause itself,
but rather by diﬀerent irrealis forms in the associated main clause. The diﬀerence between
point (101b) and (101c) may be marked by subjunctive vs. non-subjunctive form, by
diﬀerent modal forms, or by diﬀerent irrealis marking in the main clause.
In English, the old past form of the verb is one of the subjunctive forms used in irrealis
Adv-clauses, in addition to modals. With ‘when’-irrealis clauses included, the scale of
epistemic certainty in English irrealis Adv-clauses in English can be given as a four-
point scale:
(102) Certainty scale for irrealis Adv-clauses in English
highest certainty
a. Irrealis ‘when’
When she comes, we will consider it.
b. Irrealis ‘if’
If she comes, we will/may consider it.
c. Subjunctive ‘if’
If she ever came, we would/might consider it.
d. Counterfact ‘if’
If she had come, we would have/might have considered it.
lowest certainty
As one might predict, the contrast between the indicative and the subjunctive is found in
many irrealis Adv-clauses in Spanish. In such contexts, the indicative signals higher
epistemic certainty and the subjunctive lower certainty (Butt and Benjamin 1988):
(103) a. Present indicative (higher certainty)
Me saludará cuando llega
me greet/fut/3sg when arrive/3sg/pres
‘She’ll greet me when she arrives’.
b. Present subjunctive (lower certainty)
Me saludará quando llegue
me greet/3sg when arrive/3sg/subjun
‘She’ll greet me whenever she may arrive’.
Tense, aspect and modalityI 325
c. Indicative-past (realis)
Tan pronto como se acabó la huelga,
as soon as refl end/3sg/pret the strike
‘As soon as the strike ended,
todo se arregló.
all refl arrange/3sg/pret
everything became alright’.
d. Subjunctive-present (irrealis)
Tan pronto come se acabe la huelga,
as soon as refl end/3sg/subjun the strike
‘As soon as the strike is over,
las cosas marcharán mejor
the things go/3pl/fut better
things will go better’.
e. Indicative-past (realis)
A medida que iban entrando,
at measure sub go/3pl/past/imperf entering
‘As they came in,
se lo decía
them it told/imperf/I
I told it to them’.
f. Subjunctive-present (irrealis)
A medida que vayan entrando, se lo diré
at measure sub go/3pl/subjun entering them it say/fut/I
‘As they come in, I will tell it to them’.
g. Indicative-past (realis)
Hasta que no llegó a ser ministro
till sub neg come/3sg/pret to be minister
‘Until he became minister,
no se quedó contento.
neg refl stay/3sg/pret satisﬁed
he wasn’t satisﬁed’.
h. Subjunctive-present (irrealis)
Hasta que no llegue a ser ministro
until sub neg come/3sg/subjun to be minister
‘Until he becomes a minister,
no se quedará contento
neg refl stay/3sg/fut satisﬁed
he won’t be satisﬁed’.
In conditional clauses marked with the subordinator si (‘if’), Spanish displays a three-point
epistemic scale. The present-subjunctive form cannot be used here, but the past-subjunctive
now assumes an irrealis modal value, as in English (102). Thus (Butt and Benjamin 1988):
326 Syntax
(104) a. Higher certainty (present indicative)
Si viene, me quedaré
if come/3sg/pres 1sg stay/1sg/fut
‘If he comes, I will stay’.
b. Lower certainty (past-subjunctive)
Si viniera, me quedaría
if come/3sg/past/subjun refl stay/1sg/cond
‘If he came, I would/might stay’.
c. Counter-fact (perfect-subjunctive)
Si hubiera venido, me habría quedado.
if have/3sg/past/subjun come refl have/cond stayed
‘If he had come, I would have stayed’.
6.4.5 Evidentiality
The phenomenon of evidentiality overlaps to quite an extent with epistemic modality.
Still, in many languages the two form distinct grammatical sub-systems. Rather than
pertaining directly to subjective certainty, grammaticalized evidential systems code ﬁrst
and foremost the source of the evidence available to back up an assertion, and only then,
implicitly, its strength. It is that implicit connection that, in turn, links evidentiality to
subjective certainty.
The relation between evidentiality and epistemic modality can be thus given as the
mediated causal chain:
evidential source > evidential strength > epistemic certainty
In this section we will deal with some of the more universal semantic distinctions that
underlie grammaticalized evidential systems. A more extensive discussion can be found in
Givón (1982b) and Chafe and Nichols (eds 1996).
Asnotedearlier abovein thediscussionof epistemicmodalities (§6.4.2),ofthe fourmain
propositional modalities in language, only two — R-assertion and Neg-assertion — involve
the availability of supporting evidence, or other grounds for making a strong assertion. The
communicative re-deﬁnition of the four epistemic modalities is reproduced below:
(39) The communicative re-deﬁnition of epistemic modality
a. Presupposition
The proposition is taken for granted to be true, either by deﬁnition, by prior
agreement, by generic culturally-shared convention, by being obvious to all
present at the speech situation, or by having been uttered by the speaker
and left unchallenged by the hearer.
b. Realis assertion
The proposition is strongly asserted to be true. But challenge from the hearer
is deemed appropriate, although the speaker has evidence or other strong
grounds for defending their strong belief.
Tense, aspect and modalityI 327
c. Irrealis assertion
The proposition is weakly asserted to be either possible, likely or uncertain
(epistemic sub-modes), or necessary, desired or undesired (valuative-
deontic sub-modes). But the speaker is not ready to back up the assertion
with evidence or other strong grounds; and challenge from the hearer is
readily entertained, expected or even solicited.
d. Negative assertion
The proposition is strongly asserted to be false, most commonly in contra-
diction to the hearer’s explicit or assumed beliefs. A challenge from the
hearer is anticipated, and the speaker has evidence or other strong grounds
for backing up their strong belief.
Presupposition is exempt from the need for supporting evidence because it is founded on
some pre-existing agreement with the hearer — deﬁnitions, general conventions, shared
beliefs, prior unchallenged discourse or downright telepathy or divination. In languages
where presupposition is distributed most conspicuously in subordinate clauses, evidential
marking skips over such clauses.
Irrealis is so weak and tentative that it falls below the threshold of the need to bother
with evidence. Grammaticalized evidential systems tend to either skip over irrealis clauses,
or change their semantic valuation to epistemic certainty.
Grammaticalized evidential morphology is thus reserved primarily for ﬁner epistemic
quantiﬁcation of strong assertions, be they realis or negative, where they seem to serve a
similar modulating function as the subjunctive and other devices serve in the modal range
of irrealis.
Evidential systems tend to grammaticalize as part of the tense-aspect-modality
inﬂectional complex on the verb. The most common distinctions made by such systems
divide the source of information into categories such as:
•access: direct experience vs. hearsay vs. inference;
•sensory modality: visual vs. auditory vs. others.
Languages then rank the strength or reliability of evidence along the following universal
hierarchies:
(105) Hierarchies of evidential strength
a. Access hierarchy
direct sensory experience > inference > hearsay
b. Sensory sub-hierarchy
vision > hearing > others
c. Personal deictic hierarchy
speaker > hearer > 3rd person
d. Spatial deixis
near > far
328 Syntax
e. Temporal deixis
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
present >
perfect
> remote past
immediate past
The most common binary contrast in grammaticalized evidentiality, between directly-
experienced and indirect evidence — either hearsay or inference — can be seen in Turkish,
where two past-tense suﬃxes contrast (Slobin and Aksu 1982):
(106) a. Past, directly-witnessed
gel-di
come-past/dir.ev
‘s/he came (as I directly witnessed)’
b. Past, hearsay or inferential
gel-miş
come-past/indir.ev
‘he came (as I hear, as they say)’
‘he came (as I infer)’
‘he came (to my surprise)’
One may as well note that the Turkish evidentiality contrast also carries an associated
contrast, sometimes called mirativity (Delancey 1997, 1999c). In plain English, this means
a contrast between surprising vs. predictable information. Thus, the directly-experienced
evidential form (106a) above also tags the information as unsurprising or predictable.
While the hearsay/inference form (106b) may also code the information as surprising or
unexpected (Slobin and Aksu 1982; Mithun 1986). In most languages with
grammaticalized evidentiality, mirativity is a possible associated distinction. In some
languages, however, the two systems may grammaticalize distinctly at least in some
contexts (Dickinson 1999).
In many languages with a grammaticalized evidential system, a clause with ﬁrst person
subject (or object) is exempt from need to display evidential marking, presumably because
the speaker — being a participant in the event — is presumed to have had direct access to
it (see (105c)). Thus, in Sherpa (Tibeto-Burman), for example, in both the perfective/past
and the progressive present, the evidentiary contrast is marked for third person subjects,
but neither for ﬁrst person nor in future/irrealis (Givón 1982b):
(107) a. Third person, past (direct evidence)
ti-gi cenyi caaq-sung
3sg-erg cup break-perfv/dir.ev
‘s/he broke the cup’
b. Third person, past (hearsay or inference)
ti-gi cenyi caaq-no
3sg-erg cup break-perfv/indir
‘s/he broke the cup’
Tense, aspect and modalityI 329
c. First person, past (no distinction)
ngyee cenyi caaq-yin
I/erg cup break-past/1sg
‘I broke the cup’
d. Third person, present (direct evidence)
ti lagha ki-yin no
3sg/abs work do-impfv be/dir.ev
‘s/he is working’
e. Third person, present (hearsay or inference)
ti lagha ki-yin way
3sg/abs work do-impfv be/indir
‘s/he is working’
f. First person, present (no contrast)
nga lagha ki-yin way
I/abs work do-impfv be/1sg
‘I am working’
g. Third person, irrealis (no contrast)
ti lagha ki-wi
3sg/abs work do-fut
‘s/he will work’
In most grammaticalized evidential systems, the terms at the top of hierarchies (105) are
the unmarked case semantically, and are often also unmarked morphologically. It is the
lower terms in the hierarchy — information that is less directly available or surprising —
that requires explicit marking (Mithun 1986). It thus seems that the cognitive-communica-
tive norm is that reported new information should (Slobin and Aksu 1982; Aksu-Koç and
Slobin 1986):
•be directly witnessed;
•conforms to expectations.
Finally, we noted above that evidentiality, while in principle distinct from epistemic
modality, nonetheless interacts with it, often quite intensively. It is easy to see that the top
of the evidential-strength hierarchies (105) also marks higher epistemic certainty. In many
languages, further, the very same morphological system can code an evidentiality contrast
in some contexts but an epistemic-certainty contrast in others. Such interaction has been
described in Newari (Tibeto-Burman; Hargreaves 1983) and Iroquois (Mithun 1986), inter
alia.
330 Syntax
6.5 Communicative and cognitive aspects of tense, aspect and modality
6.5.1 Markedness
The mostly-binary contrasts underlying tense-aspect-modal systems exhibit a certain
asymmetry that is characteristic of both linguistic and cognitive categories: One member
of the pair acts as the unmarked case, the absence of the category, the general norm. While
the other member acts as the marked case, the presence of the category, the counter-norm.
The facts that support such a distinction in language come from three distinct areas of
behavior (Givón 1991b):
(108) Criteria for markedness
a. Structural complexity
The marked case is more complex.
b. Discourse distribution
The marked case is less frequent.
c. Cognitive complexity
The marked category is harder to process.
In the space below we will deal ﬁrst with the discourse distribution of tense-aspect-
modality, and with what it implies about the communicative and cognitive correlates of
tense-aspect-modality. The fact that the three criteria for markedness (108a–c) tend to
correlate in a systematic fashion is of considerable theoretical interest, but is discussed
elsewhere (Givón 1991b).
The markedness status of the binary distinctions that underlie tense-aspect-modality are
summarized in (109) below:
(109) Markedness of tense-aspect-modal categories
category unmarked marked
a.Modality
b.Perfectivity
(i) Completion
(ii) Boundedness
(iii) Compactness
c.Perfectness
(i) Sequentiality
(ii) Relevance
realis
perfective
completed
bounded
compact
simple past
in-sequence
event-anchored
irrealis
imperfective
incompletive
unbounded
durative
perfect
oﬀ-sequence
speech-anchored
6.5.2 Frequency text-distribution
The general considerations in support of the markedness scheme in (109) have been
discussed in considerable detail in Hopper and Thompson (1980) and elsewhere. Brieﬂy,
the realis, terminated, compact, completive, in-sequence verb-form tends to be the most
commonly used one in human discourse. This distributional norm is to some extent genre-
Tense, aspect and modalityI 331
dependent, and is most characteristic of human oriented, action-focused, spoken narrative
or conversation. In these two discourse genres, which are in some sense prototypical,
people tend to talk more about:
•events and actions (rather than states);
•real events in real time (rather than imaginary ones);
•accomplished events (rather than pending ones);
•events relevant at the time of their occurrence (rather than at a later time);
•events in the natural sequence in which they occurred (rather than in a scrambled
sequence).
Diﬀerent discourse genres may show diﬀerent distributional characteristics. For example,
both academic and procedural discourse tend to be oriented toward the habitual tense-
aspect, which is a sub-category of both irrealis and imperfective. And oral conversation
tends to have a higher ratio of irrealis than oral narrative.
As an illustration of these genre diﬀerences, consider the distribution of verbal
modalities in action-oriented low-brow ﬁction and in academic writing, summarized in
(110) below. The ﬁction text included both narrative and direct-quoted dialogue. While
written, it nevertheless remains fairly close to the oral genre.
(110) The distribution of tense-aspect-modality in low-brow ﬁction and academic
text in English11
academic ﬁction
category N % N %
realis-past
realis-progressive
irrealis
habitual
perfect/realis
2
/
18
62
7
2
/
20
70
8
74
43
8
/
8
56
32
6
/
6
total: 89 100 133 100
Of some interest is the distribution of tense-aspect-modality in backgrounded and/or
subordinate clauses. As an example, consider the high frequency of the perfect and
imperfective-participial in subordinate clauses in Early Biblical Hebrew:
332 Syntax
(111) The distribution of tense-aspects in main and subordinate
clauses in Early Biblical Hebrew (Givón 1991d)
clause type
main subordinate total
tense/aspect N % N % N %
perfect
preterit
irrealis
participial
nominal
42
279
41
7
/
49.5
100.0
80.4
26.9
/
43
/
10
19
16
50.5
/
19.6
73.1
100.0
85
279
51
26
16
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
These distributions suggest, predictably, that the perfective-past (preterit) — the main
venue of realis, sequential new information — is conﬁned to main clauses (100%), while
irrealis appears predominantly in main clauses (80%). On the other hand, the imperfect-
ive-participial appears predominantly (73%) in subordinate clauses (75), while the past-
perfect distributes equally in main and subordinate clauses.
6.5.3 Cognitive considerations
6.5.3.1Modality
The status of realis as the unmarked category of modality may be due to both cognitive and
socio-cultural factors. Events that have occurred in real time, or are occurring at the time
of speech, are cognitively more salient, i.e. more vivid and accessible in the mind, than
events that did not occur, or might occur at some future time. Directly experienced states
or events are presumably more memorable than unexperienced ones.
Information stored in episodic memory about real events — whether due to direct
experience or the account of a reliable witness — is more salient, better stored, and
retrieved faster than information about potential, hypothetical, future events. The un-
marked status of realis may also be due to its higher relevance: Events that did happen, or
are happening, are more likely to aﬀect one’s life more than possible, hypothetical, future
events.
6.5.3.2Perfectivity
Sharply-bounded, compact, fast-changing events are cognitively more salient. They are
thus likely to be better attended to, memorized and retrieved.
6.5.3.3Sequentiality
It is presumably easier to encode, store in episodic memory and retrieve a chain of events
that are narrated in a coherent sequence, as compared to an incoherent sequence. The
strong preference in human communication toward a sequential order of reported events
is most visible in the case of temporal coherence and causal coherence. The strong
preference toward both text production and text interpretation is:
Tense, aspect and modalityI 333
(112) a. Temporal sequence: earlier > later
b. Causal sequence: cause > eﬀect
Thereis,inaddition,aninherenttemporalbiasincomplex,coherenthumanaction.Action
sequencestendto comeinroutinized,culturally-sharedscriptsorschemata.Theseschemata,
as well as the general principles used in constructing them, are part of our permanently-
stored, communally-shared knowledge of the physical and cultural universe. Event
sequences that violate these schemata are harder to interpret, encode, store and retrieve.
Such schemata are so ubiquitous, and permeate our life to such an extent, that we tend to
ignore them as we do all presupposed background information. Consider, for example, the
normative script of “frying bacon and making a BLT sandwich”. The script is told ﬁrst in
the normative order (113a), then in a scrambled counter-normative order (113b):
(113) a. In sequence
He took the bacon out of the fridge, cut it, put it in a pan, lighted the stove,
put the pan on the stove, fried the bacon to a dark crisp, drained it on a
paper towel, and made himself a BLT sandwich.
b. Out of sequence
?He fried the bacon to a dark crisp, lighted the stove, put the bacon in a pan,
cut it, made himself a BLT sandwich, took the bacon out of the fridge,
drained it on a paper towel, and put the pan on the stove.
Culturally shared scripts are part and parcel of our lexically coded and permanently stored
knowledge of possible entities, states and events, i.e. permanent semantic memory. Such
scripts constitute an ever-present constraint on the coherence of text.
6.5.3.4Relevance
There is a strong preference in discourse production toward recounting events in a manner
— and order — that unites their relevance-time and occurrence-time. This preference is the
human communicative norm, as can be seen from the low frequency of the counter-
sequence perfect in both genres in table (108) — 6%-8%. The relatively few events that are
deemed relevant at some other time — say speech-time (‘present perfect’) or some past
time after the event (‘past perfect’) — are counter normative, thus marked cases, coded by
the oﬀ-sequence perfect.
It may well be that detaching the event’s relevance-time from its occurrence-time
constitutes an added cognitive burden in speech comprehension. In processing an event
that occurred earlier (at its natural script-point) but is recounted oﬀ-sequence, the hearer
may face a more costly speech-processing task. The costliness of this task is perhaps due to
the fact that in the processing of oﬀ-sequence events, two separate but equally-valid aspects
of text coherence come into sharp conﬂict. The ﬁrst involves a contingent pragmatic
judgement by the speciﬁc producer of a speciﬁc text at a speciﬁc speech situation. The
second involves universal semantic choices. The two are:
•the current relevance-point of the event;
•the natural script-coherence of the event.
334 Syntax
In the vast majority of normal (‘unmarked’) cases, these two aspects of text coherence go
hand in hand. That is, an event is deemed relevant — and is thus recounted — at its
natural script-point (as in (111a) above). But a narrator may also decide that an event is
more relevant at some oﬀ-sequence point, one that diverges from the event’s natural script-
location. When such an option is exercised, the two aspects of text coherence — pragmatic
and semantic — are brought into sharp conﬂict. Such a conﬂict presumably incurs added
cognitive costs.12
6.5.4 The discourse correlates of aspect: Perfective/imperfective vs.
simultaneous/sequential
The progressive perspective on an event is often established through bringing the observer
onto the scene in the middle of the event, when it is already going on. This is most
commonly accomplished by depicting — in an adjacent clause — the entry of a witness
onto the scene, as in:
(114) a. When I came in, he was kicking the couch
b. When he looked up, she was blinking her eyes rapidly
c. They saw that he was hitting the door with both hands
d. The police caught them shooting at the house
This juxtaposition of two event-clauses, the one compact and representing the observer’s
entry or perspective, the other an event-in-progress, indeed involves a pragmatic dimen-
sion of the progressive aspect. The contrast of simultaneous vs. sequential here is
‘pragmatic’ in the sense that it cannot be deﬁned without reference to the clause’s
discourse context.
As a more explicit illustration of this, compare the two underscored clauses in (115a,b)
below, representing the same ‘objective’ sequence of events:
(115) a. Bounded past
After she came home, he cooked dinner,
and they ate and went to bed.
b. Progressive past
When she came home, he was cooking dinner.
Then they ate and went to bed.
One could further suggest that the pragmatic feature of simultaneity is implicit even in the
single-clause use of the progressive. That is, that a simultaneous point-of-reference is
always implicit in the discourse context of a progressive-coded clause. Consider, for
example, the typical elicitation of progressive-coded single-clause responses:
(116) a. Question (context)
What is he doing (now, as we are talking)?
b. Response
He’s eating supper.
Tense, aspect and modalityI 335
c. Question (context)
What was he doing (then, when you entered the room)?
d. Response
He was eating supper.
The discourse contexts ‘now’ (116a) and ‘when you entered the room’ (116c) establish the
temporal reference-point that is simultaneous with the on-going event in the responses
(116b) and (116d), respectively. Granted, not all contexts for progressive-marked clauses
are as explicit as (116a,c). Nevertheless, it is possible that the seeming absence of the
pragmatic feature of simultaneity in isolated progressive-marked clauses is the mere
consequence of ignoring their natural discourse context.
In connected discourse, the bounded-perfective aspect — as in (115a) — is most
typically used to code temporally sequential events. In contrast, the progressive-imperfect-
ive aspect — as in (115b) — is typically used to depict events as simultaneous vis-a-vis a
contiguous event-clause.
Notes
1. From L’Amour (1962, p.7).
2. Leonard (1990, pp.86–87).
3. This overlap in usage between the perfect and perfective-past often leads to the replacement of the
perfective-past form by the perfect, with the surviving marker now coding both aspectual functions
(cf. spoken French, Modern Hebrew, spoken German dialects). See discussion further below.
4. The valuative-deontic sub-modality has also been called “agent-oriented”; see Bybee et al. (1994),
Heine (1995).
5. Donellan (1966) labeled the contrast ‘referential’ (Ref) vs. ‘attributive’ (Non-Ref), taking into
account only nominal predicates. But this is only one of the many grammatical contexts where,
under the scope of irrealis, this contrast may be found.
6. In the case of the habitual, the real-world pragmatics of the verb-object combination precludes
a referring interpretation of ‘a sandwich’. Other verb-object combinations may perhaps allow it.
Thus compare:
She always washes a car when I drive by
(> any car; Non-Ref)
(> the same car; Ref)
It remains true that a non-referring interpretation is much more natural here, and the referring
interpretation is much better conveyed here with a deﬁnite object, as in:
She always washes her/the car when I drive by
7. The other major clause-type dimension, the active-passive voice distinction, has no particular
bearing on modality.
8. This section follows loosely the treatment in Givón (1994b), where further details may be found.
336 Syntax
9. This form can be interpreted as a felicitous subjunctive of manipulation, however, with the gloss
‘do come’, ‘please come’ or ‘you may come’. See further below.
10. The examples of the Spanish subjunctive throughout follow loosely Butt and Benjamin (1988),
where all examples are derived from written texts. For an extended discussion of the grammar of
complementation, see Vol. II, Ch.12.
11. The academic text was Haiman (1985a, pp.21–23). The ﬁction text was L’Amour (1962,
pp.83–85).
12. Current relevance is a pragmatic judgement imposed on the narrated event by a particular
speaker, producing a particular text on a particular occasion. Script-coherence, on the other hand,
is a generic-lexical property of the event, shared by all interlocutors who are members of the same
speech community, and on all occasions. Suppose ﬁrst that events are stored in episodic memory in
the order of their natural script-coherence, i.e. in the natural order of their occurrence regardless of
the order of narration. In constructing an episodic memory representation of a narration containing
an oﬀ-sequence (perfect-marked) event, the speech receiver must reverse the order encoded in
working memory (‘short term memory’), where storage is verbatim. That is, the speaker must re-
position oﬀ-sequence events from working memory into their natural script-coherent order in
episodic memory. This assumption seems natural for the following reason: When the current hearer
next chooses to retrieve and/or narrate the script, it will be done under diﬀerent communicative
circumstances — a diﬀerent speaker, hearer, purpose — and thus a diﬀerent judgement of current
relevance. Storing the narration in episodic memory in its natural script-coherent order allows us to
retain maximum ﬂexibility in re-telling it under diﬀerent circumstances later on. What is more, in
the vast majority of cases events are narrated in their natural script-coherent order. Suppose instead
that events were stored in the hearer’s episodic memory in their narrated order, i.e. according to the
speaker’s judgement of their current-relevance. In that case, the orders in working memory and
episodic memory would indeed match. The speech-receiver would store events in episodic-memory
in an order that was judged by the original speaker to be relevant at that time and under those cir-
cumstances. In consequence: (a) The events are now stored in an order that clashes with their generic
script-coherence order. (b) When the speech-receiver next retrieves the event from storage, s/he faces
a script that must be ﬁrst re-ordered to regain its natural script-coherence. And (c) the speech
receiver’s judgement of current relevance — at this time and in this new communicative context —
may be rather diﬀerent from the original narrator’s judgement. In this new context, episodic storage
in verbatim order of narration yields neither script-coherence nor the current relevance.
<TARGET "7" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Tense, aspect and modalityII"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 7
Tense, aspect and modalityII
Typological organization
7.1 Reorientation
In the preceding chapter we dealt with the various functional parameters that underlie the
grammar of tense, aspect, modality and evidentiality in language. The morpho-syntactic
marking of tense, aspect, modality and evidentiality is often combined together into an
overall system that can be and often is extremely complex, the verb inﬂectional system.
Within such an overall system, T-A-M morphology often combines with other verb-
inﬂections, such as speech-act markers, clausal conjunctions/subordinators and bound
subject and object pronouns (see Ch.2, §2.5.3.1).
Each component of the verb-inﬂectional system may of itself be widespread and highly
universal, in the sense that it grammaticalizes in many or even most languages. But diﬀerent
components of the overall system may arise independent of each other — at diﬀerent
times, through diﬀerent grammaticalization pathways, following diﬀerent diachronic
dynamics. Sometimes several sub-components arise jointly, sharing part of their diachronic
trajectory. This is the case, for example, when a main ﬁnite verb that already carries a range
of verbal inﬂections becomes grammaticalized, and consequently pulls its old inﬂections
with it into the complex system, in addition to becoming itself a grammatical marker.
What is more, the very same functional sub-components ofthe complex system may arise
through diﬀerent diachronic pathways. And universally available semantic/pragmatic
distinctions may or may not grammaticalize in a particular language, leaving some languages
under-grammaticalized and some over-grammaticalized in particular functional domains.
The amount of cross-language variation that can arise from such complexity is
enormous, making the resulting typology less than predictive, so that it is not entirely a
‘typology’ in the proper sense of the term.1
For this reason, much of the typological
discussion in this chapter is, of necessity, incomplete and tentative. Individual components
may indeed grammaticalize in highly predictable ways, but the way the whole system is put
together — or gerry-built — often bears the footprints of multiple diachronic accidents.2
In spite of this complexity, one must strive, as valiantly as one can, to highlight some of the
main typological themes that run as leitmotifs through the complex grammar of tense-
aspect-modality.
338 Syntax
7.2 The Creole prototype
One of the most distinct T-A-M systems to be found is that of Creole languages. The social
history of such languages, whether found in West Africa, the Caribbean basin or Hawaii,
is roughly this: A multilingual group of displaced workers or slaves were forced to learn the
language of their plantation bosses or slave owners. Being all adult speakers of some other
languages, they wound up acquiring a rather rudimentary pre-grammatical Pidgin.
The ﬁrst generation of children born to these Pidgin speakers, receiving only Pidgin
linguistic input (lexicon but no grammar), invented the Creole grammar during the
course of ﬁrst-language acquisition (Bickerton 1975, 1976, 1977, 1981; Bickerton and Odo
1976, 1977).
Creolization, this seemingly instant grammaticalization, is indeed one of the very few
known cases where an entire grammatical system, or at least its major components, arose
simultaneously out of pre-grammar. It thus contrasts both with normal ﬁrst-language
acquisition in which an approximation of adult grammar is acquired in interaction with
adult input, as well as with the more normal diachronic process of protracted, piecemeal
grammaticalization.
The order of Creole T-A-M markers — auxiliaries — vis-a-vis the verb reﬂects, to
quite an extent, universals of semantic or pragmatic scope of the kind suggested by Bybee
(1985). To some extent also, the choice of the particular sub-domains for early
grammaticalization, remarkably uniform across Creoles, reﬂects more clearly universal
adaptive priorities in the grammaticalization of T-A-M sub-domains. This is so because
grammaticalization in ‘normal’ languages, with a long, cumulative history of diachronic
change, is a piecemeal process of replacement, depending on the diﬀerential erosion and
decay of older grammatical constructions.
We will illustrate the T-A-M system of Creoles with data from Hawaii English Creole.
As in the standard Creole T-A-M system, three marked auxiliaries contrast with the
unmarked (zero) verb form (Givón 1982c; following Bickerton 1975, 1977, 1981):
(1) T-A-M markers in Hawaii English Creole
marker value discourse function
Ø
stay
go(n)
bin
perfective
imperfective
irrealis
perfect
sequential
simultaneous
counter-sequence, anterior
The contrast between the perfective-sequential zero-marked form and the bin-marked
perfect-anterior is illustrated in (courtesy of D. Bickerton, tape K-22, side 2):
(2) a. …I go out of the way,
b. I ﬁx that dog up —
c. that dog bin come nice an’ fat,
d. all the hair bin grow —
e. I spray-im with malathion an’ all,
Tense, aspect and modalityII 339
f. I bring-im down the beach…
‘…So I went out of my way, I ﬁxed that dog up — the dog had become nice
and fat, all his hair had grown back — I sprayed him with malathion, I
brough him down to the beach…’
Predictably, the out-of-sequence bin-marked perfect crops up rather frequently in
subordinate clauses, which are by deﬁnition oﬀ-sequence (Ch.18, §18.2), as in (tape B-152,
p.43 of transcript):
(3) a. Verb-complement
…main thing I get some receipt, ey, showin’ that I bin pay-im…
‘…the main thing is, I got some receipt, hey, showing that I had paid him…’
b. Adv-clause
…because y’know, the time I bin go to borrow money…
‘because you know, the time when I had gone to borrow money…’
c. Rel-clause
…the vinyl he bin show me…
‘the vinyl that he had shown me…’
The use of the irrealis auxiliary go/gon in a number of irrealis context may be seen in (ibid):
(4) a. Future-in-past
…the guy say he gon ﬁx me up with, da kine, vinyl ﬂoor…
‘…the guy said he was going to ﬁx me up with that kind of vinyl ﬂooring…’
b. Past conditional
…that’s two hundred somethin’ dollar I can save if he gon get-im for me…
‘…that’s two hundred or so dollars I could save if he was going to get it
for me…’
c. Imperative
…but the guy tell the Mescan boy: Go ask the guy for downpayment…’
‘…but the guy told the Mexican boy: Ask the guy for downpayment…’
The use of the imperfective stay in a number of contexts can be seen in (ibid):
(5) a. Past habitual/repetitive
…I don’ know, he stay come in…
‘…I don’t know, he kept coming in…’
b. Present/habitual copula
…I no blame-im tho, he stay in business, no?…
‘…I don’t blame him though, he is in business, isn’t he?…’
c. Progressive/potential
…so I bump into-im, he tell me: Yeah, stay come, stay come…
‘…so I bumped into him and he told me: Yes, it’s coming, it’s coming…’
340 Syntax
d. Habitual/progressive
…so the Mescan guy, he stay work for me…
‘…so the Mescan guy kept/was working for me…’
The combinatorial order of the T-A-M auxiliaries in most Creole language is ﬁxed as:
(6) (perf) (mod) (dur) V
Various possible combinations in Hawaii English Creole may be seen in (after Bickerton
1975; see also ibid):
(7) a. Mod-Dur-V
…what I save from the house rent, I go stay pay…
‘…whatever I save from the house-rent, I will keep paying…’
b. Perf-Dur-V
…you know where we bin stay go before?…
‘…you know where we had been going before…’
c. Perf-Mod-V
…ah, I say, I bin go order, see…
‘…uh, so I said, I had been meaning to order, you see…’
d. Perf-Mod-Dur-V
…no, shit, I go bin stay ﬁgure only about twenty…
‘…no, shit, I would have been ﬁguring on only about twenty…’
The relatively universal rigid order of Creole T-A-M auxiliaries may reﬂect a universal of
progressively wider scope:
•durative — narrowest (verb/action) scope;
•modal — wider (clause) scope;
•perfect — widest (cross-clausal, discourse) scope.
Such ordering reﬂects a well-known iconicity universal (Bybee 1985; Givón 1985a):
•The narrower the scope of an operator, the closer it will tend to appear to its operand.
7.3 T-A-M auxiliaries and their grammaticalization
As noted earlier (Ch.5, §5.5.3), T-A-M morphemes arise almost universally from modal-
aspectual main verbs that grammaticalize — become ‘operators’ on — and eventually
cliticize to their complement — ‘operand’ — verbs. In serial-verb languages, such modal-
aspectual verbs often do not cliticize at all, or do not cliticize on their proper ‘operand’
verbs, for reasons that have little to do with their function as T-A-M markers.
In embedding languages, modal-aspectual verbs most commonly ﬁrst become
auxiliary verbs, carrying all ﬁnite verbal morphology. Their ‘operand’ complement verbs,
to which auxiliaries eventually cliticize, take some non-ﬁnite form devoid of most verbal
Tense, aspect and modalityII 341
inﬂections. As noted earlier, when auxiliary verbs do cliticize, they tend to pull all their
ﬁnite verbal inﬂections with them into the new verbal word (Heine 1993).
As an illustration of the two extreme stages in the life of auxiliary verbs, consider the
contrast between the fully cliticized future suﬃx in Spanish (8a), derived historically from
the post-verbal auxiliary ‘have’ in its deontic obligation sense, with the more recently
grammaticalized pre-verbal perfect-marking auxiliary ‘have’ (8b):
(8) a. Future suﬃx ‘have’
lo-ver-é ‘I’ll see it’
lo-ver-ás ‘you’ll see it’
lo-ver-á ‘s/he’ll see it’
lo-ver-emos ‘we’ll see it’
lo-ver-án ‘they’ll see it’
b. Perfect auxiliary ‘have’
lo-h-é visto ‘I have seen it’
lo-h-ás visto ‘you have seen it’
lo-h-á visto ‘s/he has seen it’
lo-h-émos visto ‘we have seen it’
lo-h-án visto ‘they have seen it’
In the initial stage, that of complementation, the object pronoun can appear as either a
suﬃx on the non-ﬁnite complement verb, as in (9a) below, or as a preﬁx on the main verb,
as in (9b) below or (8b) above:
(9) a. quier-o ver-lo
want-pres/1sg see/inf-it
‘I want to see it’
b. lo-quier-o ver
it-see-pres/1sg see/inf
‘I want to see it’
Auxiliaries may be thus viewed as a transitory diachronic morpho-syntactic stage, spanning
the gap between complement-taking main verbs (9) and T-A-M aﬃxes (8a).
7.4 The expansion of tense
In addition to the three main divisions of tense (past, present, future), some languages
display ﬁner sub-divisions of past and future tense according to temporal distance from the
reference point (most commonly time-of-speech). As an illustration of this, consider the
T-A-M system of Bemba (Bantu), where four concentric temporal sub-divisions exist in
both the past and future. In most past and future tenses, an added contrast of perfective vs.
imperfective (durative) can also be marked. And two of the past tenses also allow a marked
perfect aspect. Thus (Givón 1972):
342 Syntax
(10) Past tenses
a. Before yesterday
(i) Perfective: ba-à-boomb-ele
3pl-rem-work-perfv
‘they worked’
(ii) Durative: ba-à-léé-boomba
3pl-rem-dur-work
‘they were working’
(iii) Perfect: ba-à-lí-boomba
3pl-rem-work
‘they have worked’
b. Yesterday
(i) Perfective: ba-á-líí-boomb-ele
3pl-rec-work-perfv
‘s/he worked’
(ii) Durative: ba-á-léé-boomba
3pl-yest-dur-work
‘they were working’
c. Earlier today
(i) Perfective: ba-àcí-boomba
3pl-tod-work
‘they worked’
(ii) Durative: ba-àcí-láá-boomba
3pl-tod-dur-work
‘they were working’
(iii) Perfect: náá-ba-boomba
perf-3pl-work
‘they have worked’
d. Within 3–4 hours: ba-á-boomba
3pl-immed-work
‘they (have) just worked’
(11) Present/habitual
a. Repetitive: ba-là-boomba
3pl-rep-work
‘they repeatedly work’
b. Durative: ba-léé-boomba
3pl-dur-work
‘they are working’
c. Impending: ba-cílíí-boomba
3pl-impnd-work
‘they are not yet working’
Tense, aspect and modalityII 343
(12) Future tenses
a. Within 3–4 hours
(i) Perfective: ba-áláá-boomba
3pl-immed-work
‘they will work’
(ii) Durative: ba-ákùláá-boomba
‘they will be working’
b. Later today: ba-léé-boomba
3pl-tod-work
‘they will work’
c. Tomorrow
(i) Perfective: ba-kà-boomba
3pl-fut-work
‘they will work’
(ii) Durative: ba-kà-láá-boomba
3pl-fut-dur-work
‘they will be working’
d. After tomorrow
(i) Perfective: ba-ká-boomba
3pl-remfut-work
‘they will work’
(ii) Durative: ba-kà-láá-boomba
3pl-remfut-dur-work
‘they will be working’
7.5 The scope-of-assertion aspect
The T-A-M system of Bemba reveals another aspectual contrast, that of scope of assertion.
Five contrastive pairs of this aspect distribute unevenly in the non-future divisions of the
system. What is at issue here is whether the verb itself is or isn’t included under the scope
of asserted new information. As an illustration, contrast the remote perfect (10a)(iii)
above, recapped as (13a) below, in which the verb falls under the scope of assertion, with
its counterparts (13b–e) in which the verb is excluded, i.e. treated as presupposed informa-
tion. The respective contexts within which the two types of assertion are transacted
highlight their scope diﬀerence (Givón 1975b):
(13) a. V-included
Context: What did they do?
Response: ba-à-lí-boomba
3pl-rem-incl-work
‘they worked’
344 Syntax
b. V-excluded
Context: How (hard) did they work?
Response: ba-à-boomba saana
3pl-rem-work hard
‘they worked hard’
c. V-excluded
Context: Where did they work?
Response: ba-à-boomba mu-mushi
3pl-rem-work in-village
‘they worked in the village’
d. V-excluded
Context: When did they work?
Response: ba-à-boomba bulya bushiku
3pl-rem-work that day
‘they worked the day before yesterday’
e. V-excluded
Context: Who worked?
Response: abakashi ba-à-boomba
women 3pl-rem-work
‘the women worked’
The scope-of-assertion focus phenomenon is not a mere wild piece of exotica. There is
indeed is a strong general tendency in language to make optional clausal constituents the
default focus of assertion, following the pragmatic inference that (see Ch.8, §8.4):
•If optional information is added to the clause, it must be the focus of the new
information.
What one sees in Bemba as well as in a number of other Bantu languages is the grammati-
calization of this universal tendency.
The verb-excluding focus aspect in (13b–d) cannot be used when the verb is the only
word on the verb phrase. This is so because the subject is typically the continuing topic and
thus presupposed and excluded from the scope of asserted new information. A single-
argument verb such as ‘work’ would render its clause ungrammatical when appearing by
itself:
(14) *ba-à-boomba
3pl-rem-work
When the verb has obligatory objects, the aspectual focus contrast is similar, with the verb-
excluding variant placing the direct or indirect object under the scope of assertion:
Tense, aspect and modalityII 345
(15) a. V-included
Context: What did they do?
Response: ba-à-lí-soma icitabo
3pl-rem-incl-read book
‘they read the book’
b. V-excluded
Context: What did they read?
Response: ba-à-soma icitabo
3pl-rem-read book
‘they read the book’
c. V-included
Context: What happened then?
Response: ba-à-lí-isa ku-mushi
3pl-rem-incl-come dir-village
‘they came to the village’
d. V-excluded
Context: Where did they come then?
Response: ba-à-isa ku-mushi
3pl-rem-came dir-village
‘they came to the village’
7.6 Perfective/imperfective-based systems
In many languages, indeed in whole language families (Tibeto-Burman, Athabaskan), the
entire T-A-M system is assembled around the main distinction between perfective and
imperfective. All other T-A-M elaborations are then done as further markings of these
two basic forms of the verb. The most general scheme of such further elaborations is then:
•Perfective: past, perfect, past-progressive;
•Imperfective: present-progressive, future, habitual.
We will illustrate this perfective/imperfective-based system with data from Tolowa
Athabaskan. In this language, the older Athabaskan perfective-imperfective suﬃxal
contrast has been supplanted, for most verbs, by a contrast between the invariant ‘basic’
stem-form (imperfective) and its augmentation by various perfective preﬁxes. The old
suﬃxal contrast survives only in a small group of irregular verbs, where suﬃxal changes
parallel the alternation between the ‘basic’ stem-form (imperfective) and its preﬁxation
(perfective). Thus (Bommelyn 1997; Givón 2000a):
346 Syntax
(16) Irregular verb stems in Tolowa Athabaskan
imperfective perfective meaning
-’a
-sri
-na
-yu
-’u
=sh
-’a
-tí̧sh
-sru
=sr
-lesh/lu
=sh
-łe
-tesh
-tu
=sh
-tu
=n
-ł-tí̧
-shi
-le ‘become’
-su
=ł
-tu
=n
-li
-yu
=n
-tu
=ł
-ne ‘say’
-da
-yu
-lesh
-’í̧
-ni
-na
-mish
-k’wu
=sr
-yił
-tu
=sh
-’a̧
-srí̧
-na’
-yu’
-’u
=
¸
-’a̧
-ta̧
-sru
=’sr
-la
-łek
-tí̧sh
-ti̧
-ta̧
-ł-tí̧’
-shí̧
-lí̧
-seł
-ta̧
-li’
-yu
=n’
-tał
-nu
=n
-t’a
-yu’
-ya
-’í̧’
-ni’
-na’
-mi̧sh
-k’wu
=’sr
-ya̧
-ti̧
‘speak’
‘do/make’
‘drink’
‘wear beads’
‘be’ (V-cl; compact sg. obj)
‘have’ (V-cl; compact sg. obj)
V-cl (rigid/long obj)
V-cl (loose matter)
V-cl (composites)
V-cl (liquid)
V-cl (animate prone)
‘take to’ (V-cl; anim. obj.)
‘stir’ (V-cl; long obj)
‘ﬁnd’ (V-cl; anim. obj)
‘call/name’
‘be’
‘throw’
‘stir up/whistle’
‘tie knot’
‘sing’
‘travel hard’, ‘kick’
‘tell’
‘sit’
‘wear beads’
‘build ﬁre’
‘see’
‘advise’, ‘help’
‘be well’, ‘undulate’, ‘ﬂop’
‘hang’
‘hang’(tr.)
‘grow’ (intr.)
‘carry’ (a person)
The pattern of suﬃxal alternations in (16) may be reconstructed into two old suﬃxes
(Givón 2000a):
•perfective: -n or -’
•imperfective: -sh or -ł
In active verbs that still preserve the old perfective-imperfective suﬃxal alternation, the
primary T-A-M contrast is then as in, for example:
Tense, aspect and modalityII 347
(17) a. Imperfective
‘u
=-sh-tł-tu
=ł
th-1sg-l-kick/impfv
‘I kick it’ (habitual)
‘I am kicking it’ (progressive)
b. Perfective
s-ii-ł-tał
perf-1sg-l-kick/perfv
‘I kicked it’ (perfective past)
Other T-A-M elaborations are then added as suﬃxes to the imperfective form of the verb,
and involve primarily either imperfective of irrealis elaborations, as in:
(18) a. Imperfective
naa-ch’-í̧i̧-’a ‘you talk’
adv-ap-2sg-talk
b. Imperfective participial
naa-ch’í̧i̧-’aa-du
=n ‘while you talk/are talking…’
adv-ap-2sg-talk-part
c. Habitual past
naa-ch’-í̧i̧-’aa-nu
=m ‘you used to talk’
adv-ap-2sg-talk-hab
d. Progressive past
naa-ch’-í̧i̧-’aa-la ‘you were talking’
adv-ap-2sg-talk-prog
e. Iterative
naa-ch’-í̧i̧-’aa-srí̧ ‘you talk a lot’
adv-ap-2sg-talk-iter
f. Future
naa-ch’-í̧i̧-’aa-te ‘you will talk’
adv-ap-2sg-talk-fut
g. Emphatic future
naa-ch’-í̧i̧-’aa-wáa-te ‘you will deﬁnitely ‘talk’
adv-ap-talk-emph
h. Conditional
naa-ch’-í̧i̧-’aa-de’ ‘if you talk…’
adv-ap-2sg-talk-cond
i. Obligative
naa-ch’-í̧i̧-’aa-he’-na ‘you must talk’
adv-ap-2sg-talk-oblig
j. Modal
naa-ch’-í̧i̧-’aa-tée-wu
=n ‘you would talk’
adv-ap-2sg-talk-mod
348 Syntax
k. Modal
na-ch’-í̧i̧-’aa-daa-wa ‘you might talk’
adv-ap-2sg-talk-mod
l. Hortative
na-’-’aa-le’ ‘let him talk’
adv-ap-talk-hort
m. Past-imperfective
na-’-s-’a̧a̧-la ‘he was talking’
adv-ap-perf-talk/perf-imperf
As can be seen, at least one suﬃxal elaboration (18m) is added to the perfective form,
rendering it past-imperfective (in active verbs).
7.7 A four-way dichotomy
In Early Biblical Hebrew, a rather rudimentary T-A-M system is organized around the
four-way contrast shared by three aspectual forms, two of which then share the functional
load of the fourth category, irrealis:
•perfective: preterit past (sequential);
•perfect: past-perfect (oﬀ-sequence, inverse);
•imperfective: present-progressive, habitual;
•irrealis: future, conditional.
The most common venue for perfective-past narrative is the preterit (preﬁxal conjuga-
tion),3
used to mark sequential continuity of action, as in (see also Givón 1991d):
(19) va-yis’
’u me-Rﬁdim va-yavo’u midbar Sinay
and-3pl/travel from-Rﬁdim and-3pl/came desert/of Sinai
‘and they travelled from Reﬁdim and entered the Sinai desert
va-ya »»
hnu sham, va-ya »»
hen sham Yisra’el
and-3pl/camped there and-3sg/camp there Israel
and camped there, and the Israelites camped there
neged ha-har…
against/of the-mountain
and camped there against the mountain’ (Exodus, 19:2)
The perfect, a much less frequent aspect, alternates with the preterit in carrying the
perfective-past load under two closely-related conditions of discontinuity:
•oﬀ-sequence: temporal discontinuity (oﬀ sequence);
•topic switching: referential discontinuity (inverse).
The use of the perfect in topic switching is illustrated in (20) below, a direct continuation
of the narrative in (19) above:
Tense, aspect and modalityII 349
(20) …u-Moshe ’
’ala ’el ha-’elohim va-yikra’
and-Moses ascend/perf/3sg toward the-God and-called/3sg
‘…And Moses acended toward God and called out…’
(Exodus, 19:3)
The ﬁrst verb in (20) is cast in the perfect, marking the switch from ‘the people of Israel’ to
‘Moses’. The second verb, with Moses now the continuing topic, reverts back to the preterit.
The use of the perfect to mark oﬀ-sequence clauses is seen most clearly in subordinate
clauses. Thus, in the relative clauses in (21) below, the continuous, sequential narrative is
rendered in the preterit-marked main clauses, while the two Rel-clauses depict prior, oﬀ-
sequence events:
(21) Relative clauses
va-yxal ’elohim b-a-yom ha-shvi’i mla’xt-o
and-ﬁnish/3sg God on-the-day the-seventh work-his
‘And God ﬁnished on the seventh day all the work
’asher ’
’asa, va-yishbot b-a-yom ha-shvi’i
sub do/perf/3sg and-rested on-the-day the-seventh
that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day
mi-kol mla’xt-o ’asher ’
’asa
from-all work-his sub do/perf/3sg
from all the work that he had done’ (Genesis, 2:2)
Similarly in (22) below, where oﬀ-sequence information is lodged in a ‘because’
Adv-clause, contrasting with the sequential information in the preceding main clauses:
(22) Adverbial clause
ve-xol sia »
h ha-sade »
terem yihye b-a-’arets,
and-all bush/of the-ﬁeld not-yet was/pret/3sg on-the-earth
‘and all the wild bushes were not yet on the earth,
ve-xol ’esev ha-sade »
terem yitsma »
h,
and-all grass/of the-ﬁeld not-yet grew/pret/3sg
and all the wild grass had not yet grown,
ki-lo’ him»»
tir YHWH ’elohim ’al ha-’arets
because-neg rain/perf/3sg Jehova God on the-earth
for God had not yet rained upon the earth’. (Genesis, 2:5)
This example also conﬂates the features of oﬀ-sequence and topic-switching.
Likewise in (23) below, where oﬀ-sequence information is lodged in verb-complement
clauses, again contrasting with the preterit-marked sequential narrative in the preceding
main clauses, and again conﬂating oﬀ-sequence and topic-switch:
(23) Verb complement
a. va-yo’mer ’elohim l-a-’isha: ma zo’t ’
’asit…
and-said/pret/3ms God to-the-woman what this do/perf/2fs
‘and God told the woman: “What is it that you have done?”
350 Syntax
va-to’mer ha-’isha: ha-na »
hash hisi’a-ni
and-said/3fs the-woman the-snake trick/perf/3ms-me
so the woman said: “The snake had tricked me
va-’oxel
and-1sg/eat/irr
into eating’ (Genesis, 3:13)
b. va-yar’ ve-hine »»
harvu pney ha-’adama
and-saw/pret/3ms and-lo dried.up/perf/3pl face/of the-earth
‘and he saw that, lo, the surface of the earth had dried up’ (Genesis, 8:13)
The two imperfective sub-aspects, progressive and habitual, are conﬂated in EBH into one
form, the nominal-participial, historically a subject nominalization and by extension also
an adjectival form. The more precise valuation of the imperfective is then read oﬀ the
marked tense-aspectual context:
(24) a. Progressive (past)
va-yishm’u ’et-kol ha-’eohim
and-heard/pret/3pl acc-voice/of the-God
‘and they heard the sound of God
mithalex b-a-gan
walk/particp/3masc.sg in-the-garden
walking in the garden’ (Genesis, 3:8)
b. Habitual
va-yivra’ ’elohim ’et-ha-taninim ha-gdolim
and-created/pret/3masc.sg God acc-the-whales the-big
‘and God created all the big whales
ve-’et-kol nefesh ha-haya ha-romeset
and-acc-all spirit/of the-live/nom/fem.sg the-slither/nom/fem.sg
and all the living souls that slither’ (Genesis, 1:21)
c. Imperfective (past)
ve-nahar yotse’ me-’eden la-hashkot ’et-ha-gan
and-river exit/nom/masc.sg from-Eden to-irrigate acc-the-garden
‘and a river (was) coming/comes out of Eden to water the garden’
(Genesis, 2:10)
The functional domain of irrealis in EBH is split, rather surprisingly, between the two past
forms of the verb. The most common irrealis form is marked by the preterit (preﬁxal
conjugation), which may represent a historical merger of two distinct earlier conjugations,
realis and irrealis.4
The irrealis sub-functions marked by the preﬁxal conjugation are
future, simple conditional, hortative, permissive and others. In (25a) below, for example,
the very same verb-form of ‘be’ is used in two capacities, ﬁrst as the irrealis-hortative, then
immediately afterwards as the preterit-past:
Tense, aspect and modalityII 351
(25) a. Hortative
va-yo’mer ’elohim: yhi ’or.
and-said/3masc.sg God 3masc.sg/be/irr light
va-yhi ’or
and-was/pret/3sg light
‘and God said: “let there be light”. And there was light’ (Genesis, 1:2)
b. Permissive
mi-kol ’ets ha-gan ’exol to’xel
from-all tree/of the-garden eating 2masc.sg/irr/eat
‘from all the trees of the garden you may eat’ (Genesis, 2:16)
c. Future-modal
’e’
’se l-o ’ezer ke-negd-o
1sg/irr/make dat-him help loc-side-his
‘I shall make him a help-mate’ (Genesis, 2:18)
d. Future-in-past
va-yave’ ’el ha-’adam li-r’ot
and-brought/pret/2masc.sg to the-man to-see
ma yikra’ lo
what 3masc.sg/irr/call dat-it
‘and he brought (them) to Adam to see what name he would call them’
(Genesis, 2:19)
e. Future-modal
ve-hu’ yimshal b-ax
and-he 3masc.sg/irr/rule over-you/2fem.sg
‘and he shall rule over you’ (Genesis, 3:16)
Finally, the preterit and perfect forms split the irrealis conditional domain, where the
perfect often marks the subjunctive of lower-certainty:
(26) a. Predictive preference
’al-ken ya’
’azov ’ish ’et-av-iv
on-thus 3masc.sg/irr/leave man acc-father-his…
‘for this reason a man shall leave his father…
ve-davaq be-’isht-o
and-stick/perf/3masc.sg to-wife-his
so that he might stick to his wife
ve-hayu le-basar ’e »
had
and-be/perf/3pl dat-ﬂesh one
so that they would become one ﬂesh’ (Genesis, 2:24)
b. Dire consequences
ki be-yom ’axal-xem mimen-o ve-nifq »»
hu
for on-day/of eating-your from-it and-open/perf/3pl
‘for on the day you eat from it, your eyes would open,
352 Syntax
’eyney-xem ve-hayitem ke-’elohim
eyes-your and-be/perf/2masc.pl like-God
and you would become then like God’ (Genesis, 3:5)
c. Subjunctive conditional
ve-’ata pen yishla »»
h yad-o ve-laqa »»
h
and-now if 3masc.sg/irr/send hand-his and-take/perf/3masc.sg
‘and now if he sent his hand and took (fruit)
me-’ets ha-Hayim ve-’axal ve- »»
hay
from-tree/of the-life and-eat/perf/3masc.sg and-live/perf/3masc.sg
from the tree of life and ate (it) and lived
le-’olam
dat-world
forever’ (Genesis, 3:22)
The use of past or perfect forms to code the subjunctive will be discussed further in
§7.10 below.
7.8 The conﬂation of perfect, durative and immediate
As noted in Ch.6 (§6.3.3), the present progressive, present perfect and immediate aspects
share a common feature — focus on the time of speech. In the present progressive, the
event itself is occurring at the time of speech. In the present perfect, the event may have
occurred earlier but is relevant at the time of speech. In the immediate aspect, a past event
is presented as if it is occurring in front of one’s eyes — at the time of speech. A shared
feature need not imply shared or identical morphology, but at least in one language this is
the case.
In Ute (Uto-Aztecan), the T-A-M system distinguished ﬁrst between realis and irrealis,
with the latter marked in most grammatical contexts by the suﬃx -vaa-. Thus (Givón 1980):
(27) a. Future
wú
=u
=ka-vaa-ni
work-irr-fut
‘(I) will work’
b. Non-implicative modality verb complement
wú
=u
=ka-vaa-ch ’asti-kya
work-irr-nom want-perf
‘(I) want to work’
c. Non-implicative manipulation verb complement
’uway wú
=u
=ka-vaa-ku may-kya
3sg/acc work-irr-nom tell-perf
‘(s/he) told him/her to work’
Tense, aspect and modalityII 353
d. Hortative
wú
=u
=ka-vaa-ram(i)!
work-irr-du/incl
‘let’s (you and I) work!’
e. Intentional or uncertain
wú
=u
=ka-vaa-ch
work-irr-nom-1sg
‘(s/he) intends/is about to work’
‘maybe (s/he) is working’
f. Counterfact
wú
=u
=ka-vaa-ka-t(u
=)
work-irr-perf-nom
‘(s/he) should/could/would have worked (but didn’t)’
g. Predictive
wú
=u
=ka-vaa-p(u
=)
work-irr-nom
‘he may/might/could/should work’
Sequential information in the perfective/past — realis — can be given in two aspects, the
remote or the immediate. The remote aspect, with the suﬃx -pu
=ga, codes events as if they
are done, ﬁnished and viewed from a long distance. The immediate aspect, with the suﬃx
-y, codes past events as if they happen in front of one’s eyes, from near by. Thus compare:
(28) a. Remote
wíitu
=s ’ura-pu
=ga, Sinawav ’ura-pu
=ga,
past be-rem S. be-rem
‘…it was long time ago, there was Sinawav,
mu
=i-ta-s ’um(u
=) wicici-u núuci-u ’ura-qa-pu
=ga
early-par-conj they bird-pl human-pl be-pl-rem
and in those early days the birds were still human.
’u-vway ’uwas-’ura máy-pu
=ga…
there-loc he-top say-rem
So then he (Sinawav) said…’
b. Immediate
nu
=-’ura kani-naagh-tux yu
=ga-y,
I-top house-in-to enter-imm
‘…So I go into the house,
mamachi-’ura máay pu
=nikya-y,
woman/acc-top that/vis/acc see-imm
and I see this woman,
máas-’ura ma-vaa-t(u
=) ’avi-i,
s/he-top there/vis-loc-nom lie-imm
and she’s lying right there,
354 Syntax
máay-’ura máy-kh(i)…
that/acc-top say-imm
so I tell her…’
A salient feature of the use of the immediate to code past events is the use of the visible
deictic ma- ‘that/visible’ as the pronoun of the deﬁnite article in (28b), contrasting with the
use of the invisible deictic ’u- ‘that/invisible’ in the remote-coded (28a).
The immediate aspect is also used as the present progressive in Ute, in appropriate
contexts:
(29) Context: What are you doing now? (over the phone)
Response: tu
=ka-yi-n
eat-imm-I
‘I’m eating’
The immediate aspect is also used in Ute in context calling for the present perfect in English,
as in:
(30) Context: Would you like to eat?
Response: kaci-n, wíitu
=s tu
=ka-y
neg-I already eat-imm
‘No, I’ve already eaten’
Finally, a marked perfect suﬃx can be used to code either oﬀ-sequence past events (pluper-
fect) or simple past for isolated clauses.5
In its former capacity, this suﬃx can combine with
either the remote or immediate aspect. Thus note the modiﬁcations of (28) above:
(31) a. Remote
wíitu
=s ’ura-pu
=ga, Sinawav ’ura-pu
=ga,
past be-rem S. be-rem
‘…it was long time ago, there was Sinawav,
mu
=i-ta-s ’um(u
=) wicici-u núuci-u ’ura-qa-pu
=ga
early-par-conj they bird-pl human-pl be-pl-rem
and in those early days the birds were still human.
’uwas-’ura ’umu
= máy-kya-pu
=ga…
he-top those/acc say-perf-rem
He (Sinawav) had already told them (the birds)…’
b. Immediate
nu
=-’ura kani-naagh-tux yu
=ga-y,
I-top house-in-to enter-imm
‘…So I go into the house,
mamachi-’ura máay pu
=nikya-y.
woman/acc-top that/vis/acc see-imm
and I see this woman.
Tense, aspect and modalityII 355
ma-vaa-t(u
=) ’avi-kya-y,
there/vis-loc-nom lie-perf-imm
She has been lying there…’
7.9 The grammaticalization of modality
As noted earlier (Ch.6, §6.4.3), the distribution of propositional modalities across
grammatical environments is highly predictable on universal grounds. Of the main four
modalities, realis is the universal unmarked category, thus the least likely to display
grammaticalized marking, being merely the default or ‘elsewhere’ modal category. At the
other extreme, negation is the most highly marked modality, whose fairly uniform
grammaticalization in all languages would be hardly surprising (see Ch.8). The two
modalities whose grammaticalization pattern is of more interest are thus presupposition and
irrealis assertion.
7.9.1 Marking presupposed vs. asserted information
Relatively few languages have grammaticalized the distinction between presupposition and
realis-assertion. This is presumably because of the rather predictable distribution of
presupposition in highly speciﬁc grammatical environments — restrictive relative clauses,
cleft-focus clauses, wh-questions, complements of factive verbs, past/perfect-marked
adverbial clauses. Nevertheless, some languages can grammaticalize this modal distinction.
We have already noted one relevant case above, that of the assertion-focus aspect in
Bemba (§7.5). A special aspectual marker is used in this language (as well as in some other
Bantu languages) to code clauses in which the verb is excluded from the scope of assertion
and is instead part of the presupposed information (together with the clause’s subject).
Presuppositional clauses in Bemba allow only this verb-excluding aspect, but not its
counterpart which marks the verb as part of the asserted new information in the clause.
In some Papuan languages in the New Guinea highlands, the clause-chaining system
tags all presupposed or backgrounded clauses with a special marker, and then restricts them
to chain-initial positions (see Ch.18, §18.3.2.3). As an example, consider Chuave, where
backgrounded clauses that translate into English as either Adv-clauses, restrictive
Rel-clauses, V-complements or ‘topic clauses’ share the same non-ﬁnite suﬃx, originally
a nominalizer, and are restricted to the chain-initial position (Thurman 1978):
(32) a. Imperfective Adv-clause
ne iki-num moi-n-g-i
you house-2sg be-2sg-nom-def
‘While you are in your house,
teu u-na-y-e
there come-irr-1sg-decl
I’ll come over there’
356 Syntax
b. Perfective Adv-clause
kan-i-k-a-i
see-I-nom-perf-def
‘When I looked,
kiapu guwai-nom-i muruwo furuwai-bei
oﬃcer thing-3sg-that all scatter-do/decl
they were scattering all the oﬃcers’ things about’
c. Rel-clause
gan moi-n-g-u-a
child be-3sg-nom-3sgo-perf
‘The child who is here,
Gomia tei awi d-o
Gomia there send leave-imp
send him to Gomia!’
d. V-complement
kasu di-in-g-a
lie say-there-nom-perf
‘That they told a lie
fai-ke-m-a
right-neg-3sg-emph
is not right’
In another Papuan Highlands language, Menya, the verbal morphemes that mark modality
do not quite correspond to the clean four-way modal division we have seen thus far. At
ﬁrst glance, a special preﬁx marks realis (strong) assertions. Negation is marked by another
preﬁx, but the negated verb is then nominalized, and another — ﬁnite — verb in the clause
is now the main verb. And that verb is in turn marked by the realis-assertion preﬁx. Irrealis
is then left as the unmarked category. Thus consider (Whitehead 1985):
(33) a. Realis (strong assertion), perfective
i-qu a-n-t-q-i
that-3sg ass-1sg.o-say-perf-3sg
‘He (just) spoke to me’
b. Realis (strong assertion), progressive
i-qu a-i-q-i
that-3sg ass-do-perf-3sg
‘He is working’
c. Neg-assertion
i-quaa ta-qi maa-pamaa-q-a ass-j-ng-a
that-3pl this-loc neg-be-nom ass-put-perf-3pl
‘They are not here’
Tense, aspect and modalityII 357
d. Irrealis (habitual)
ye quaaipa ta-u w-e-nqa-i
1sg straight this-loc go-1sg/irr-goal-ind
‘We go along this straight place’
e. Irrealis (future)
nyi aanga mat-m-ni-nqa
1sg house build-1sg/irr-?-goal
‘I will build a house’
f. Irrealis (modal)
i-quaa manga q-p-nqa
that-3pl axe rub-3pl/irr-goal
‘they would shape the axe-head’
The main grammaticalized modal distinction in Menya thus seems to distinguish strong
assertions (realis, negation) from the two other modes. This simple picture, however,
dissolves under further scrutiny. To begin with, irrealis clauses can also take the strong
assertion preﬁx — but only in manipulative irrealis clauses. The use of the strong assertion
preﬁx thus switches the value of an irrealis clause from epistemic to deontic. In this vein,
the preﬁx-less normal imperative can be contrasted with the seemingly stronger 1st or 3rd
person exhortation, as in (Whitehead 1985):
(34) a. Imperative
quaama pamaa-p
seated be-2pl/irr
‘(you-all) sit down!’
b. Imperative
maaqa-na w-t
quick-fcs go-2sg/irr
‘(you) go quickly!’
c. Exhortative
ne aanga naaqa-nanga hun-qu a-mat-aa-na
1pl house big-very one-3sg ass-build-1pl/irr-qt
‘Let’s build a very big house!’
d. Hortative
i-quaa quaama a-paama-p
that-3pl seated ass-be-3pl/irr
‘Let them sit!’
Finally, there are some indication that the strong assertion preﬁx also marks presupposed
clauses in Menya, at least in some grammatical contexts. For example, one ﬁnds it in
perfective wh-questions, as in:
(35) a. yaqueeqa i-qu ta-qu a-pak-k-qaqa-wa?
pig that-3sg this-3sg ass-hit-perf-3sg-q
‘Who killed the pig?’
358 Syntax
b. aka-gi a-u-quaatamau-k-nga-i
wh-loc ass-3obj-leave-perf-2sg-ind
‘Where did you leave him?’
Likewise, the strong-assertion preﬁx also marks at least one type of perfective yes/no-
questions, those indicating a strong bias — i.e. presupposition — toward the aﬃrmative
alternative, as in:
(36) i-qu yaaqueqa a-pak-k-qaqa-taa
that-3sg pig ass-hit-perf-3sg-ynq
‘Didn’t he kill the pig?’
As we shall see later on (Ch.17), yes/no-questions are most commonly presuppositional, in
the sense that the speaker has a strong bias toward either the aﬃrmative answer (in one
pattern) or the negative one (in another).
Grammaticalized modality-marking in Menya seems to group together clauses of high
epistemic certainty, including realis assertions, negation, and various presupposed clauses
— all in the perfective/past. Within this grouping, negation and questions require further
marking, while realis remains the least marked. The very same preﬁx, however, can switch
its modal value from epistemic to deontic, and mark stronger manipulative (irrealis)
clauses. This sharing of a modal marker of higher strength between the epistemic and
deontic sub-modes is reminiscent of the sharing of the grammaticalized subjunctive, a
marker of lower strength, in the modality system of many languages (see §7.9.3 below).
7.9.2 Split vs. uniform marking of irrealis
It has been suggested (Bybee et al. 1994) that irrealis is not a universal grammatical
category, because many languages do not have a uniﬁed morphology to mark all irrealis
context. The argument seems ﬂawed on a number of grounds.
First, in typology and grammaticalization, one seldom makes predictions that require
all possible functional domains to grammaticalize to the highest degree. Indeed, one major
cross-language typological distinction is that of degree of grammaticalization of particular
functional domains, with Pidgin languages displaying the lowest level in all domains. At
best, typological predictions specify that if a domain will be grammaticalized, the available
sources of grammaticalization are highly predictable, and some sub-parts of the domain are
more likely to grammaticalize before others.
Second, the whole rationale of cross-language typology hinges on the facts that
diﬀerent languages can grammaticalize the very same functional domain diﬀerently — and
from diﬀerent diachronic sources. In the case of irrealis, we have already noted that it
distributes predictably in multiple grammatical contexts. This means that, at least in
principle, all languages thus possess multiple sources for grammaticalizing irrealis, so that
the process may proceed in a non-uniform fashion, sub-domain by sub-domain.
Third, since the distribution of irrealis in its multiple grammatical contexts is highly
predictable, the need for uniform grammaticalization in all grammatical context is to some
extent less than urgent, and would indeed be surprising.
Tense, aspect and modalityII 359
Nevertheless, there are some languages, indeed whole language families, in which the
vast majority of irrealis grammatical contexts share a single morphological marker. We
have already seen one example, Ute (§7 above), where many though not all irrealis clauses
across the grammar are marked by the same suﬃx, -vaa/-paa. The morphological
uniﬁcation of irrealis across the grammar is thus a matter of degree.
Austronesian is one language family in which most irrealis clauses share a morphologi-
cal marker, and can be then further marked for other distinctions, as can also realis clauses.
Indeed, the realis-irrealis modal distinction is the major dichotomy in the Austronesian
T-A-M system, and all other tense or aspect distinctions are secondary elaborations added
to it. This pattern may be illustrated with data from Bikol (Philippine), interpreted here as
a nominative language.
The main distinction in Bikol verbal preﬁxes, which conﬂate grammatical voice and
modality, is between realis and irrealis. Both the perfective/past and the progressive/present
share the realis preﬁx nag-. The progressive is then further marked by ﬁrst-syllable
reduplication. Realis subordinate clauses display the same nag- preﬁx as realis main clauses.
Thus (M. Factora, i.p.c.):
(37) a. Perfective/past
nag-bakál ‘ang-lalake ning-libro
r/agt-buy nom-man acc-book
‘the man bought a book’
b. Progressive/present
nag-ba-bakál ‘ang-lalake ning-libro
r/agt-red-buy nom-man acc-book
‘the man is buying a book’
c. Complement of implicative modality-verb
na-tapus ‘ang-lalake na nag-bakál ning-libro
r/pat-ﬁnish nom-man sub r/agt-buy acc-book
‘the man ﬁnished buying a book’
d. Complement of implicative manipulation-verb
nag-pirít ang-lalake sa-babaye na nag-bakál ning-libro
r/agt-make nom-man dat-woman sub r/agt-buy acc-book
‘The man forced the woman to buy a book’
e. Complement of factive cognition-verb
aram kang-lalake na nag-bakál ‘ang-babaye ning-libro
know obv-man sub r/agt-buy nom-woman acc-book
‘the man knows that the woman bought a book’
f. Realis Adv-clause
kang nag-digdi ako, nag-karigos ako
when r/agt-come I r/agt-swim I
‘When I came (here), I took a swim’
In contrast, most irrealis clauses share the preﬁx mag-. Thus compare:
360 Syntax
(38) a. Future
mag-bakál ‘ang-lalake ning-libro
irr/agt-buy nom-man acc-book
‘the man will buy a book’
b. Subjunctive-imperative (polite)
mag-bakál ka ning-libro
irr/agt-buy you acc-book
‘Buy a book!’
c. Hortative
mag-ba-ra-kál kita manga-libro
irr/agt-buy-pl we acc/pl-book
‘Let’s (all) buy books!’
d. Non-implicative modality-verb complement
muyá na mag-bakál ’ang-lalake ning-libro
want sub irr/agt-buy nom-man acc-book
‘the man wants to buy a book’
e. Non-implicative manipulation-verb complement
nag-sabí ’ang-lalake sa-babaye na mag-bakál ning-libro
r/agt-tell nom-man dat-woman sub irr/agt-buy acc-book
‘the man told the woman to buy a book’
f. Non-factive cognition-verb complement
na-’isíp kang-lalake na mag-bakál ’ang-babaye ning-libro
dat-think obv-man sub irr/agt-but nom-woman acc-book
‘the man thought that the woman bought a book’
g. Irrealis Adv-clause
kung mag-igdí ako, mag-karigos ako
if irr/agt-come I irr/agt-swim I
‘If I come (here), I’ll take a swim’
A fairly similar grammatical distribution of a single irrealis marker, also covering the
habitual, has been described in another Austronesian language, Fijian (Dixon 1988). A
similarly wide distribution of a single irrealis marker, also covering negative clauses, has
been reported for Caddo and Northern Iroquois languages (Chafe 1995). Finally, the entire
Mixtecan family in Mexico displays a similar wide distribution of a single irrealis preﬁx,
also covering negative clauses (Bradley and Hollenbach (eds 1988, 1990, 1991, 1992).
7.9.3 Uniﬁed vs. split subjunctive
We have seen earlier above (Ch.6, §6.4.4.2) two languages, English and Spanish, in which
similar grammatical forms mark both the epistemic and deontic sub-domains of the
subjunctive; that is, the irrealis range of lower certainty or weaker manipulation. But a
language can also grammaticalize the two sub-modes distinctly. As an illustration of this,
Tense, aspect and modalityII 361
consider Bemba (Bantu). In this language, one suﬃx codes the deontic subjunctive of
weaker manipulation, which in manipulative speech-acts contrasts with the stronger
imperative (Givón 1971b):
(39) a. Imperative (stronger command)
isa!
come/imp
‘Come!
b. Subjunctive (weaker command)
mu-is-e
you-come-subj
‘You should/must come’.
c. Subjunctive (hortative)
a-is-e!
he-come-subj
‘Let him come!’
‘He must/should come’.
In complements of manipulative verbs, the contrast between the subjunctive and inﬁnitive
forms renders the very same contrast, with the presence vs. absence of the manipulee object
pronoun supplying further gradation. Thus, with the strong manipulative verb ‘force/
order’ (Givón 1971b):
(40) a. Inﬁnitive complement (implicative)
n-à-mu-koonkomeshya uku-ya
I-rem-3sg.obj-force/order inf-go
‘I forced him to leave’.
(> He left)
b. Subjunctive complement with pronoun (non-implicative)
n-à-mu-koonkomeshya (ukuti) a-y-e
I-rem-3sg.obj-force/order (sub) he-go-subj
‘I ordered him to leave’.
(> He may or may not have left)
c. Subjunctive without pronoun (weaker)
n-à-konkomeshya ukuti a-y-e
I-rem-decreed sub he-go-subj
‘I ordered that he should leave’.
(> He may or may not have left)
Similarly, with a weaker manipulative such as ‘tell/‘say’ (Givón 1971b):
(41) a. Inﬁnitive complement
n-à-mu-ebele uku-ya
I-rem-3sg.obj-tell inf-go
‘I told him to leave’
362 Syntax
b. Subjunctive complement with raising
n-à-mu-ebele (ukuti) a-y-e
I-rem-3sg.obj-tell (sub) he-go-subj
‘I told him that he should leave’.
c. Subjunctive complement without raising
n-à-ebele ukuti a-y-e
I-rem-say sub he-go-subj
‘I said that he should leave’.
An altogether diﬀerent form, the verbal preﬁx nga- or -inga-, marks the epistemic
subjunctive of lower certainty in Bemba, a form that appears in irrealis conditional clauses
and in complements of low-certainty cognition verbs (Givón 1971b):
(42) a. Future (indicative)
Peta a-kà-isa
Peter he-fut-come
‘Peter will come’
b. If-clause (subjunctive)
Peta nga-a-kà-isa…
Peter subjun-he-fut-come
‘If Peter should come…’
c. Subjunctive verb complement
n-déé-twiishika nga Peta a-inga-isa
I-pres-doubt sub Peter he-subjun-come
‘I doubt that/if Peter would come’
d. Past-subjunctive verb complement
n-à-twiishika nga Peta a-inga-isa
I-rem-doubt sub Peter he-subjun-come
‘I doubted that/if Peter would have come’
7.9.4 The use of perfective markers in subjunctive forms
The use of perfective — past or perfect — morphemes in the marking of subjunctive clauses
is widely attested but at ﬁrst glance somewhat puzzling. The subjunctive is a quintessential
irrealis sub-mode, while past and perfect are quintessential realis sub-modes.
In English, this phenomenon is seen in two related developments. First, in the use of
the past-form of main verbs or auxiliaries to mark the subjunctive of low-certainty in
‘if’-clauses:
(43) a. If you told them the real story, they would understand.
b. If you were to tell them the real story, they would understand.
Second, in the historical shift of the past forms of the modals to non-past subjunctive use
(Bybee 1992). This shift has made it possible to have an epistemic contrast between the two
Tense, aspect and modalityII 363
modal forms, with the old past form now signalling the epistemic subjunctive of lower
certainty:
(44) present modal
(higher certainty)
‘past’ modal
(lower certainty)
She may be there
She can be there
She will be there
I shall return soon
She might be there
She could be there
She would be there
I should return soon
The same directionality in gradation can also be shown in some of the deontic uses of
English modals, as in:
(45) a. Present form (more assertive)
You can leave right away.
b. Past form (less assertive)
You could leave soon, right?
c. Present form (more assertive)
You may do it right away.
d. Past form (less assertive)
You might consider doing it eventually.
e. Present form (weaker manipulation)
You shall go.
f. Past form (stronger manipulation)
You should go.
In the same vein, Lunn (1995) describes the historical development of the -ra past
subjunctive suﬃx in Spanish, tracing it back to an earlier past-perfect function. A similar
invasion of the past tense into the marking of low-certainty conditional clauses has been
described in Swahili (Salone 1983). And we have already noted (§7.7 above) the use of the
past-perfect form as a subjunctive of lower certainty in Early Biblical Hebrew.
Given the widespread use of erstwhile perfective markers to code subjunctives, an
explanation is indeed in order. The one that comes to mind most readily is the connection
with counter-fact clauses. Such clauses, so it seems, tend to be universally marked by a
combination of irrealis and either past or perfect. Thus, in Hawaii English Creole
(Bickerton 1975, 1981):
(46) …I bin go give-am downpayment…
…I perf irr give-him down-payment
‘…I would have given him a down-payment [had the guy asked]…’
Or in English, where modals and the perfect ‘have’ are combined to mark counter-fact
clauses:
364 Syntax
(47) a. If she had come on time, I would have waited.
b. Had she come on time, I would have waited.
A similar development has taken place in Israeli Hebrew, pressing into service the past
form of the auxiliary ‘be’:
(48) im hi hayta roa oto,
if she was/perf/3sg.fem see/imperf/fem.sg him
‘If she had seen him,
hi hayta ozevet.
she was/perf/3sg.fem leave/imperf/fem.sg
she would have left.’
Likewise, in Early Biblical Hebrew the perfect was probably the only available verb-form
to mark counter-fact clauses. This usage can be seen in the story of Abraham’s near-
sacriﬁce of his son Isaac. God, after intervening at the very last minute, commends
Abraham as follows:
(49) ki ’ata yada’-ti ki yre’ elohim ’ata
sub now know/perf-1sg sub fear/nom/masc.sg/poss God you
‘…because now I have learned that you fear God,
ve-lo’ »»
hasax-ta ’et-bin-xa ye »
hid-xa mime-ni
conj-neg spare/perf-2sg.masc acc-son-your lone-your from-me
that you
 would not have spared 
your only son from me…’ (Gen., 22:12)
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
that you had not spared
Likewise in Spanish, the very same past-subjunctive form with the suﬃx -ra, an erstwhile
pluperfect, is used in counter-fact clauses, most commonly with the perfect auxiliary ‘have’,
as in:
(50) Si hubiera venido, me habría quedado.
if have/3sg/past/subj come 1sg have/cond stayed
‘If he had come, I would have stayed’
In Uto-Aztecan languages, the use of past/perfect markers in counter-fact clauses is
widespread (Steele 1975). Thus, in Ute one ﬁnds the perfect-anterior suﬃx -ka/qa- in both
main and subordinate counter-fact clauses (Givón 1980):
(51) náagh-su
=-ni ta’wa-ci ’uwa-y picu
=-kay-ku,
maybe-conj-mod man-gen that-gen arrive-ant-sub
‘If the man had arrived (but he didn’t),
mamach ’u magha-qa-t-’u
woman/nom det/subj feed-ant-nom-him
the woman would/could have fed him’.
Often, the perfect combines in Ute with an irrealis suﬃx -vaa in counter-fact clauses:
Tense, aspect and modalityII 365
(52) ’uwas-’uru wú
=
¸ u
=ka-vaa-qa-t ’ura-’ay
s/he/subj-top work-irr-ant-nom be-imm
‘s/he should/would/could have worked’
(but didn’t)
But the remote-past can also combine with irrealis to the same eﬀect:
(53) ’uwas-’uru wú
=
¸ u
=ka-vaa-pu
=ga-t
s/he/subj-top work-irr-rem-nom
‘s/he should/would/could have worked (long ago)’
(but didn’t)
Finally, James (1982) in her cross-linguistic survey of this phenomenon — the use of past
or perfect forms to mark counter-fact clauses — shows it to be widespread in many
unrelated languages and language families.
The diachronic data, whenever available, tends to point toward a highly speciﬁc
hypothesis about the pathway of grammaticalization of perfective, counter-fact and
subjunctive markers. The grammaticalization pathway exploits the continuum between
realis-indicative, simple irrealis, subjunctive-irrealis and counter-fact, as in, for example,
English adverbial clauses:
(54) highest epistemic certainty
a. Realis
When she came, he left
b. Irrealis-when
When she comes, he will leave
c. Irrealis-if
If she comes, he will leave
d. Subjunctive, past-modal
If she should/would/could only come, he would leave
e. Subjunctive, past
If she came, I would give her anything!
f. Counter-fact
If she had come, I would have left
lowest epistemic certainty
If the past or perfect did penetrate this paradigm initially at point (54f) — the beach-head
of counter-fact — then its spreading upward to points (54e,d) is but one more instance of
gradual subsequent extension from the initial beach-head along the functional continuum
of grammaticalization. The three main steps in this gradual analogical extension may be
summed up in the hypothesis:
(55) Hypothesis: Invasion of perfective forms into the subjunctive modal domain
a. past/perfect ﬁ counter-fact
b. counter-fact ﬁ past subjunctive
c. past subjunctive ﬁ subjunctive
366 Syntax
The best support for hypothesis (55) should of course come from the implicational-
hierarchic distribution of realis forms in these three main contexts, where one should then
make the following prediction:
(56) Predicted implicational-hierarchic distribution
“Whenever one ﬁnds a realis form marking a subjunctive of low certainty (55b),
one always ﬁnds that form also marking counter-fact clauses (55c); but not
necessarily vice versa”.
Finally, one must reiterate that perfective forms do not enter this paradigm alone at the
counter-fact beach-head, but rather combine there with some irrealis marker. Or, as Bybee
(1995) aptly notes:
“…It is not the past tense alone that is contributing the hypothetical meaning, but
rather the past in combination with a modal verb, a subjunctive mood, a hypothetical
marker (such as ‘if’)…” (1995, p.514)
7.10 The grammaticalization of evidentiality
A brief note concerns the grammaticalization of evidentiality. As noted earlier above (Ch.6,
§6.4.5), the grammatical marking of evidentiality often intersects with that of epistemic
modality. The most likely sources of evidential morphology are various main verbs that
take complements, such as ‘see’, ‘hear’, ‘say’, ‘know’, ‘guess’, ’suppose’, ‘suspect’, ‘think’ or
‘be’. In this vein, one may view colloquial English constructions such as (57) below as early
stages of such grammaticalization:
(57) a. (I) guess she didn’t show up (inferential)
b. I hear she’s coming tomorrow (hearsay)
c. She’s upped ’n left, they say (hearsay)
d. She’s upped ’n left, I hear (hearsay)
e. (I) see he’s left (inferential)
f. (I) reckon they’re out of business (inference)
g. (I’m) ’fraid she’s gone (disclaimer)
h. It’s not working, y’now (apology)
i. He might not agree, (you) understand (disclaimer)
j. (You’d) think he’d still be here… (counter-fact)
k. (Let’s) suppose I gave you a coconut… (low probability)
l. I understand she’s here (inference)
More advanced stages of this process in Iroquois languages, with many erstwhile main
verbs grammaticalizing on their complement verbs, have been described in Mithun (1986).
Tense, aspect and modalityII 367
7.11 Primary vs. secondary grammaticalization of T-A-M
One must ﬁnally note that the grammaticalization of T-A-M categories is a gradual, multi-
step development. Structurally, it proceeds along the rather familiar route of cliticization:
main verb > auxiliary > clitic > aﬃx > inﬂection
Semantically, a surprisingly small group of source verbs grammaticalize ﬁrst as either
aspect or modality markers, a stage that may be considered their primary grammaticali-
zation. Only later, if at all, do they undergo secondary grammaticalization into tense
markers. The cross-linguistically most common pathways of T-A-M grammaticalization
are (Givón 1971a, 1973a, 1975a, 1979a; Heine 1993; Bybee et al. 1994):
(58) Grammaticalization pathways of T-A-M markers
lexical source primary target secondary target
want, go, can,
must, need, have(to)
irrealis future
have, ﬁnish,
come
perfect,
perfective
past
stay, stand, sit
live, sleep,
continue, (be)
imperfective present, habitual
(be +) nominal imperfective present, habitual
Notes
1. As noted in Chapter 1, the more cross-feature predictions can be derived from a typology, the
more useful the typology is, with the least-useful typology being one that simply lists all possible types
but makes no implicational-hierarchic predictions about feature association. This is a general
problem for all taxonomies and categorization schemata.
2. The systematicity and predictability of the resulting overall verbal morphology can be easily over-
stated, as was probably the case in Bybee (1985); see discussion in Givón (2000a).
3. The perfective-preterit has been erroneously labeled as ‘imperfective’ by traditional grammarians.
It conﬂates most perfective-preterit and most irrealis functions (see §7.7 below).
4. For most verbs, the two preﬁxal conjugations are near identical. However, a few verbs still
preserve slight phonological diﬀerences between the realis/preterit and the irrealis uses of this
conjugation.
5. An isolated clause may be viewed as oﬀ-sequence by deﬁnition. In short-burst face-to-face dialogs
about past events, the -ka-marked perfect seems to function as a preterit/past marker.
6. For a more extensive treatment of clause-chaining, see also Vol. II, Ch.18.
<TARGET "8" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Negation"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 8
Negation
8.1 The multiple facets of negation
In our earlier discussion of propositional modalities (Ch.6, §6.4.2) we noted that negation
was one of the four traditional epistemic modalities, but then deferred further discussion
to this chapter. The status of Neg-assertion among the other epistemic modalities is murky,
depending on which property one focuses on. The three most common perspectives are:
•truth-conditional logic;
•subjective certainty;
•communicative pragmatics.
8.1.1 Negation and propositional logic
In terms of truth value, Neg-assertion occupies the extreme end on the scale of the old
Aristotelian propositional modalities:
•presupposition = taken for granted to be true (necessary truth);
•R-assertion= strongly asserted to be true (factual truth);
•IRR-assertion = weakly asserted as to be true (possible truth);
•NEG-assertion = strongly asserted to be not true (falsity).
That is:
(1) Ranking of epistemic modalities by truth value
presupposition > R-assertion > IRR-assertion > NEG-assertion
Philosophers have traditionally considered negation only in terms of its truth value; that is,
as a logical operator that merely reverses the truth-value of a proposition. This may be
captured in the strict rules of logic:
(2) a. NEG(NEG-P) = P
b. If P is true, then not-P is not true (and vice versa)
Rule (2a) allows for the NEG-operator to cancel itself without any eﬀect on the proposition
(P) under its scope. Rule (2b) is the celebrated law of the excluded middle that de-legitimiz-
es logical contradictions.
370 Syntax
Thelogicalpropertiesofnegationareindeedreﬂectedinlanguage,butonlyuptoapoint,
since negation in language goes considerably beyond logic. As a simple illustration, consider:
(3) a. I am happy
b. I am not happy
c. I am unhappy
d. I am not unhappy
According to the logic of (2a,b), expressions (3a) and (3d) are synonymous, as are (3b) and
(3c). In fact, however, (3d) signals an intermediate state of happiness, somewhere between
(3a) and (3b) or (3c). As for (3b) and (3c), while both negate (3a), they are not identical in
meaning. Obviously, more than just logic must be at issue.
8.1.2 Negation and subjective certainty
When one considers subjective certainty or strength of assertion, the four propositional
modalities re-cast themselves diﬀerently. Both NEG-assertion and R-assertion turn out to
be equally strong assertions, i.e. used in psychological context of high certainty and high
evidential support. They thus contrast with both presupposition, where a proposition is not
asserted but rather taken for granted, albeit with strong or even stronger certainty, and
IRR-assertion, where a proposition is only weakly asserted.
In terms of subjective certainty, then, the four modalities may be ranked as:
(4) Ranking of epistemic modalities by subjective certainty

Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
presupposition >
R-assertion
> IRR-assertion
NEG-assertion
8.1.3 The communicative pragmatics of negation
When one turns to the communicative pragmatics of negation, that is, to the communica-
tive context in which NEG-assertions are used, yet a third picture emerges. Consider ﬁrst
the two possible responses to a rather broad question of information: one aﬃrmative (5),
the other negative (6).
(5) A: –What’s new?
B: –My wife is pregnant.
A: –Congratulations!
(6) A: –What’s new?
B: –My wife isn’t pregnant.
A: –Gee, was she supposed to be?
The negative assertion in (6) is indeed bizarre in this context, and elicits a baﬄed response,
one that indicates that something was amiss in the presupposed — shared information —
background vis-a-vis which the assertion was transacted. What is missing is, of course, the
shared background of the corresponding aﬃrmative — My wife is pregnant. Negative
Negation 371
assertions are typically made on the tacit assumption that the hearer either has heard
about, believes in, is likely to take for granted, or is at least familiar with the corresponding
aﬃrmative.
It is clear that the notion of presupposition relevant to the discussion here is pragmatic
rather than logical. Otherwise, one would be claiming that NEG-assertions assert the falsity
of one proposition (NEG-P) while presupposing the truth of its logical oppsite (P), a rank
logical contradiction.
The corresponding aﬃrmative that is pragmatically presupposed in the use of
NEG-assertions may be established explicitly in the preceding discourse, as in:
(7) Background: Joe told me he won $10,000.00 in the lottery,
NEG-assertion: though later I found out he didn’t.
In (7), it is the speaker who sets up the expectation of the corresponding aﬃrmative, then
contradicts it with the negative. But the corresponding aﬃrmative as background may also
be contributed by one’s interlocutor, as in:
(8) Background: A: I understand you’re leaving tomorrow.
NEG-assertion: B: No, I’m not. Who told you that?
The speaker may also rely, in assuming background expectations, on speciﬁc knowledge
about the hearer’s state of aﬀairs or state of mind. To illustrate this, consider the felicity of
the three responses to the NEG-assertion in (9):
(9) A: So you didn’t leave after all.
B (i): No, it turned out to be unnecessary.
(ii): Who said I was going to leave?
(iii): How did you know I was going to?
Response (9i) suggests that the B (‘hearer’) is going along with A’s (‘speaker’s’) presupposi-
tion of the corresponding aﬃrmative as shared background. Response (9ii), on the other
hand, suggests that the B believes the A must have been misled. And in response (9iii), B
registers surprise at how the information leaked out to A, by inference thus conceding that
A indeed had it right.
The presupposed background associated with a NEG-assertion can also be traced to
generic shared information. To illustrate this, consider:
(10) a. There was once a man who didn’t have a head.
b. ?There was once a man who had a head.
c. ?There was once a man who didn’t look like a frog.
d. There was once a man who looked like a frog.
The reason why the negative in (10a) is pragmatically felicitous is because it reports a break
from the norm. The reason why (10b) is pragmatically odd is because it merely echoes the
norm, and thus harbors a tautology. Conversely, the negative in (10c) implies a tautology
that merely re-phrases the norm, and is thus pragmatically odd. While the aﬃrmative
(10d) breaks the norm, and is thus pragmatically felicitous. Now, if one happened to live
372 Syntax
in a universe where men had no heads, or where they most commonly resembled frogs,
both felicity contrasts in (10) would be reversed.
In terms of the communicative pragmatics of presupposition, then, the four epistemic
modalities may be grouped in yet a third way:
(11) Communicative pragmatic and epistemic modalities
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
presupposition
> R-assertion > IRR-assertion
NEG-assertion
8.1.4 Negation as a speech-act
The contrast between the background assumptions of aﬃrmative and negative assertions
may now be summarized as follows:
•AFF-assertion: The hearer does not know, the speaker knows.
•NEG-assertion: The hearer knows wrong, the speaker knows better.
NEG-assertion is thus a distinct speech-act, used with diﬀerent communicative goals in
mind than aﬃrmative assertions. In using a NEG-assertion, the speaker is not in the
business of communicating new information to the hearer. Rather, s/he is in the business
of correcting the hearer’s misguided beliefs.
8.2 The cognitive status of negation
8.2.1 Change vs. stasis
From a cognitive perspective, an event is a change in an otherwise inert universe. It is our
informal experience of a law of physics — inertia — that motivates the assignment of
positive (vs. negative) status to events (vs. non-events) in our construed experience. The
distribution of the two is strongly skewed:
•Stasis, i.e. NEG-events, is the more-frequent norm.
•Change, i.e. events, is the less-frequent counter-norm.
An event is the cognitively salient ﬁgure. It stands out against the ground of stasis. The
strong skewing in the frequency distribution of events vs. non-events in our construed
experience guarantees that events, the ﬁgure, should be more informative than non-events.
This deﬁnition of information in terms of frequency distribution, i.e. predictability, is the
cornerstone of information theory.
Negative speech-acts may be viewed as a pun or play on the norm. They are used when
— more rarely in communication — one establishes the event rather than stasis as the
ground. On such a ground, the non-event now becomes — temporarily, locally — salient,
more informative.
NEG-assertions are indeed much less frequent in discourse. This is illustrated in the
Negation 373
following table, comparing the frequency distribution of negative and aﬃrmative clauses
in two English texts, one ﬁction, the other non-ﬁction.
(12) Frequency distribution of aﬃrmative and negative clauses
in written English (Givón 1979a: Ch.3)
clause type
affirmative negative totall
genre N % N % N %
academic
ﬁction
96
142
95
88
5
20
5
12
101
162
100
100
The higher frequency of NEG-clauses in the ﬁction text in (12) may be signiﬁcant, perhaps
having to do with the fact that ﬁction contains conversational interaction, in which the
perspective of several speakers alternates. The shift of perspective is a natural venue for
valuative conﬂict and epistemic disagreement. In contrast, non-ﬁction is written from the
perspective of a single person, whose goal and knowledge-base are likely to be more
uniform.
8.2.2 The ontology of negative events
The interplay between norm and counter-norm in the use of negation may be illustrated
with a number of simple examples. Consider ﬁrst:
(13) a. A man came into my oﬃce yesterday and said…
b. *A man didn’t come into my oﬃce yesterday and said…
c. ?Nobody came into my oﬃce yesterday and said…
The non-event (13b) is pragmatically — indeed grammatically — the oddest. This must be
so because if an event did not occur at all, why should one bother to talk about a speciﬁc
individual who ‘participated’ in that non-event?
While seemingly more acceptable, (13c) is still pragmatically less likely. This is so
because the norm of one’s everyday routine is not ‘all people visit my oﬃce at all times’, but
rather ‘most people don’t ever visit my oﬃce at all’. Visits to one’s oﬃce are thus much
more rare than non-visits, which makes them more salient than non-visits. On the
background norm of non-events, the event reported in (13a) is indeed informative, thus
pragmatically more felicitous.
Consider next:
(14) a. The man you met yesterday is a crook.
b. ?The man you didn’t meet yesterday is a crook.
Normally, one meets a limited number of men in a given day. So, to identify a person by an
event — coded in the relative clause in (14a) — is indeed informative, salient, an apt way of
374 Syntax
distinguishing him from the zillion men you did not meet that day. Given this norm, (14b)
is indeed pragmatically odd — unless the ﬁgure-ground relations were reversed, as in:
(15) You were supposed to meet four men yesterday.
Three showed up, the last one never did.
Against the new ground established in (15), the non-event in (14b) now becomes salient,
informative, pragmatically felicitous.
Next, consider:
(16) a. Where did you leave the keys?
b. ?Where didn’t you leave the keys?
In general, wh-questions like the ones in (16) are presuppositional (see Vol. II, Ch.17).
That is, the entire clause excepting the wh-pronoun is taken to be background information.
The aﬃrmative (16a) is pragmatically felicitous because normally there are a zillion possible
places where your keys have not been left, but only one place (at a time) where they have
actually been left. For this reason, the negative (16b) is pragmatically bizarre. Even
supposing that the background expectations were somehow reversed, say with:
(17) I didn’t leave my keys anywhere
question (16b) would remain odd. This is so because, given that a potentially inﬁnite
number of places would qualify for the correct answer, the purpose of asking — to elicit a
speciﬁc location response — cannot be fulﬁlled. Indeed, (16b) is only pragmatically
felicitous as an echo question. Negative echo questions are used roughly in the following
context: One has heard a NEG-assertion but has somehow missed a component of that
assertion. In such a context, (16b) may be felicitous.
Consider next:
(18) a. When John comes, I’ll leave.
b. ?When John doesn’t come, I’ll leave
The aﬃrmative (18a) is felicitous because the particular time when John comes is unique
and can be speciﬁed, but the zillion times when John doesn’t come — all non-events —
cannot. The negative (18b) is thus odd — unless one modiﬁes the ﬁgure-ground relations,
as in:
(19) I waited and waited there. Finally, when John didn’t come, I left.
What makes the negative ADV-clause ‘when John didn’t come’ in (19) felicitous is that it
establishes a unique reference point, the time by which John did not come. Once such a
unique point is speciﬁable, the use of the NEG-time-adverb clause becomes felicitous.
Consider next the oddity of negative comparative clauses:
(20) a. She ran as fast as he did.
b. ?She ran as fast as he didn’t.
c. She didn’t run as fast as he did.
d. ?She didn’t run as fast as he didn’t
Negation 375
e. He’s as tall as she is.
f. ?He’s as tall as she isn’t
g. He isn’t as tall as she is.
h. ?He isn’t as tall as she isn’t
Apparently, negation is barred from the standard of comparison portion of comparative
clauses. This is so presumably because the standard normally involves some level of
performance above the absolute zero.
Under certain conditions, it is of course possible to make the absolute zero the
standard of comparison, as in:
(21) a. Something is better than nothing
b. Being is better than non-being
But these are clearly marked, abstract patterns involving neither speciﬁc events nor
referring subjects. Thus compare:
(22) a. Abstract
To win is better than to not win
b. Speciﬁc (VP negation)
?She won better/faster than she didn’t win
c. Speciﬁc (lexical antonym)
She won better/faster than she lost
The felicity of (22c) is due to the fact that lose, while a paired antonym of win, is not an
overtly-negated predicate, thus not merely the absence of winning.
8.2.3 The ontology of negative states
Example (22c) above brings into question the cognitive status of paired antonymic
adjectives. In such pairs, one member denotes the presence of a property (positive), the
other its absence (negative), a contrast that need not involve an overt negative marker. The
assignmemnt of polarity in antonymic pairs is far from an arbitrary reversal of truth value.
Rather, strong evidence suggests that the bias between the two members is linguistically
real and cognitively well motivated.
On the linguistic side ﬁrst, the negative member behaves as the marked, restricted case,
denoting only the extreme negative pole on the scale. The positive member, on the other
hand, behaves as the unmarked case, denoting the entire scale. This is evident from the
asymmetry in acceptable responses to questions:
(23) a. Unmarked (positive) question
How tall is she?
b. Positive-pole response
Very tall.
376 Syntax
c. Negative-pole response
Very short.
d. Marked (negative) question
How short is she?
e. *Positive-pole response
*Very tall.
f. Negative-pole response
Very short.
In the same vein, the nominalized positive member — length, width, height, thickness,
health — is the generic term for the entire scale. The nominalized negative member, on the
other hand — shortness, narrowness, lowness, thinness, sickness — is the restricted term
for only the lower portion of the scale.
In cognitive terms, there are strong grounds for suggesting that the systematic bias here
is rooted in cognitive salience, whereby the positive members of antonymic pairs represent,
rather consistently, the perceptually more salient pole. Thus consider:
(24) positive negative perceptual property
big
long
tall
wide
fat/thick
high
light/bright
fast
loud
high
sharp
heavy
rough
spicy
small
short
short
narrow
thin
low
dark
slow
quiet
low
dull
light
smooth
bland
ease of visual perception
”
”
”
”
”
”
(rate of change)
ease of auditory perception
”
ease of tactile perception
”
”
ease of olfactory perception
On the ground of the perceptually less-salient lower end of the scales in (24) (absence), the
ﬁgure at the upper end (presence) stands out as informative, very much as on the ground
of non-events (stasis), events (changes) stand out as informative. In addition, it has also
been shown that the positive members of antonymic pairs are processed faster (Clark 1969)
and learned earlier by children (Clark 1971).
8.3 Negation and social interaction
As noted above, NEG-assertion is a contrary speech-act, a denial of the interlocutor’s
presumed belief. One would thus expect its use to be extremely sensitive to the relative
social position of the interlocutors. For example, when one’s interlocutor is perceived to be
Negation 377
of higher status, one would tend to tone down one’s disagreement, and couch contrary
opinions in a variety of softening devices, some of which are well-known sub-modes of
irrealis as, for example:
(25) a. Quite, quite.
b. Yes, I see.
c. I see what you mean.
d. I suppose you got a point there.
e. Perhaps not quite so.
f. Perhaps you may wish to consider an alternative.
g. Well, I’m not sure about that, maybe…
h. Now if it were up to me, I would suggest…
In more traditional societies, including small-town America, overt NEG-assertions are
considered rude, and seem to be less frequent than in an academic environment. In such
societies of intimates, open disagreement and contrariness is a disruptive social force, and
various indirect means are used to avoid direct NEG-assertions (Givón and Young 2001).
As an illustration of this, consider the following passage from a novel depicting small-town
life. The passage involves a disagreement about facts, and a subsequent negotiation of
reality between two friends, Mrs. Phillip J. King and Momma. The substantive issues being
negotiated are boldfaced below. The various irrealis sub-modes used, as stand-ins for
negation, are given in italics.
(26) NEG-avoidance in the negotiation of reality
(T.R. Pearson 1985, pp.191–192)
“…Mrs. Phillip J. King said he had been dashing, but Momma would not go
along with dashing and said to her mind he had been not unattractive, but Mrs.
Phillip J. King couldn’t see ﬁt to drop all the way from dashing to not unattrac-
tive, so her and Momma negotiated a description and arrived at reasonably
good looking, which was mutually agreeable though it seemed for a minute or
two that Mrs. Phillip J. King might hold out to have the reasonably struck from
the oﬃcial version. But Momma went on to tell her how she thought his nose
had a fanciful bend to it which distracted Mrs. Phillip J. King away from the
reasonably because, as she told Momma back, she had always thought his nose
had a fanciful bend to it herself. Mrs. Phillip J. King called it a Roman nose and
she said there wasn’t anything uppity or snotty about it but it was purely a sign
of nobility. And Momma said he certainly carried himself like a Roman, which
sparked Mrs. Phillip J. King to wonder if maybe he hadn’t come from Romans,
if maybe that wasn’t why he was a Republican. But Momma said she recalled he
was a notable Democrat. And Mrs. Phillip J. King said, “Maybe he was”. And
Momma said she believed so. And Mrs. Phillip J. King said “Maybe he was”
again…I was not present when Mrs. Phillip J. King decided she couldn’t let
reasonably good looking rest peacefully and resurrected the whole business
with the argument that a moustache under that fancifully bent nose would
have most certainly made for dashing. But Momma could not see clear to allow
378 Syntax
for a moustache since there had not been one actually; however, Mrs. Phillip J.
King insisted that if Momma could just imagine a ﬁnely manicured and digni-
ﬁed Douglas Fairbanks-style moustache under that Roman nose then all of the
rest of the features would surely come together and pretty much scream Dashing
at her. But even with a moustache thrown in Momma could not sit still for any
degree of dashing though Mrs. Phillip J. King campaigned rather ﬁercely for
Considerably Dashing and then Somewhat Dashing and then A Touch Dash-
ing, so Momma for her part felt obliged to retreat some from reasonably good
looking and her and Mrs. Phillip J. King settled on passably handsome with
Mrs. Phillip J. King supplying the handsome and Momma of course supplying
the passably…”
Somewhat paradoxically, negation itself, when combined with other irrealis operators, can
be used as a softening device in the face of perceived higher authority. This toning-down
function of negation seems to apply to both epistemic and manipulative modalities. Thus
consider:
(27) a. Won’t you come in please?
(> Do come in)
b. I suppose he isn’t done yet.
(> I wonder if he’s done)
c. I don’t suppose he’s done yet?
(> I wonder if he’s done)
d. Wouldn’t it be better if…
(> It would be better if…)
e. I suppose you couldn’t spare a ﬁver…
(> I wish you could)
f. Wouldn’t you want to buy one?
(> I would like you to buy one)
Negation as a toning-down device is most commonly coupled with some irrealis operator,
such as modal, subjunctive, conditional, yes/no-question or irrealis adverbials. The
two examples of overt negation used in the truth-negotiation in (26) above were both
of this type:
(28) “…to wonder if maybe he hadn’t come from Romans, if maybe that wasn’t why
he was a Republican…”
8.4 The scope of negation
8.4.1 Presupposition, assertion and negation
When a proposition — packaged as a clause — is negated, its logical truth value is reversed,
so that rather than being asserted as true it is now asserted as false. But the eﬀect of
negation on propositions in natural language is of course more complex. Most typically,
Negation 379
only a portion of a negative proposition falls under the scope of negation, while the rest is
shielded. The portion of the clause that is shielded from the scope of negation is its
presupposed part.
Consider ﬁrst examples (29), (30) and (31) below. In each case, the main clause is
aﬀected by negation, but the subordinate clause, being presupposed, is not. In (29b), the
shielded proposition is a restrictive REL-clause:
(29) a. She saw the man who stood in the corner
(> He stood in the corner, and she saw him)
b. She didn’t see the man who stood in the corner
(> He stood in the corner, but she didn’t see him)
In (30b) the proposition is a verb complement:
(30) a. I’m sorry he’s sick
(> He’s sick, and I’m sorry about it)
b. I’m not sorry he’s sick
(> He’s sick, but I’m not sorry about it)
In (31b), the shielded proposition is an ADV-clause:
(31) a. Running out of gas, she stopped
(> She was running out of gas, and she stopped)
b. Running out of gas, she didn’t stop
(> She was running out of gas, but she didn’t stop)
The most common variant of negation, the one we have dealt with so far, is verb phrase
negation. In this type of negation, the subject is most typically excluded from the scope of
negation, and may indeed be considered as part of the presupposed portion of the clause.
Thus consider:
(32) The King of France didn’t eat his supper
Logicians used to insist that the negative (32) has two interpretations, (33a) and (33b)
(Keenan 1969):
(33) a. Narrow interpretation (subject excluded)
There is a king of France, and he didn’t eat his supper.
b. Wide interpretation (subject included)
There is no king of France, therefore it makes no sense to say that he didn’t
eat his supper.
Most speakers of English, however, would ﬁnd it hard to assign interpretation (33b) to the
negative clause (32), more so because there are much more natural alternative forms that
code such an interpretation, such as:
(34) a. There is no king of France
b. No king of France ate his supper
c. Nobody ate their supper
380 Syntax
The noun–phrase negation used in (34) above will be discussed further below (§8.6.3).
The intuition that VP-negation (32) is not used to convey the same interpreted as
subject-NP negation (33b) or (34) can be tested by looking at the frequency distribution
of negation forms in English text. In one such study (Givón 1979a: Ch.3), all the negative
clauses in a narrative ﬁction text were collected and divided into three categories:
•VP-negation, subject excluded from NEG-scope;
•VP-negation, subject included under NEG-scope;
•Subject-NP negation.
The frequency distribution of these three categories is reported in (35) below.
(35) Distribution of negative forms (and interpretations) in an English narrative
text (MacDonald 1974, pp.49–70)
VP negation
subj excluded
VP negation
subj included subj-NP negation total
N % N % N % N %
60 89 / / 7 11 67 100
The frequency distribution recorded in (35) suggests that none of the instances of
VP-negation allowed the inclusion of the subject under the scope of negation. When the
writer wanted to accomplish that, the only syntactic form he used was NP-negation.
8.4.2 Negation and contrastive focus
In addition to typically excluding the subject, VP-negation can be — and often is — used
to further narrow down the portion of the clause that falls under NEG-scope. A common
way of doing this is by combining VP-negation with contrastive stress on constituents in the
clause, to yield focused negation (see Vol. II, Ch.15). In such constructions, the focused
constituent is the only one falling under NEG-scope. The rest of the clause is presupposed.
As noted above, VP-negation typically excludes the subject, and thus most commonly
applies to the verb phrase only. Such negation may be considered the widest-scoped type,
and can be now compared with various types of narrower-scoped — focused — negation,
as in:
(36) a. Neutral VP-negation
John didn’t kill the goat
(> He did not kill the goat)
b. Subject focus
John didn’t kill the goat
(> Someone else killed it, but not John)
Negation 381
c. Object focus
John didn’t kill the goat
(> He killed something, but not the goat)
d. Verb focus
John didn’t kill the goat
(> He did something to the goat, but not kill it)
The same focused negation can be aﬀected by combining contrastive stress with a
construction called cleft (Vol. II, Ch.15):
(37) a. Neutral VP-negation
John didn’t kill the goat
(> He did not kill the goat)
b. Subject focus
It’s not John who killed the goat
(> Someone killed it, but not John)
c. Object focus
It’s not the goat that John killed
(> He killed something, but not the goat)
d. Verb focus
?It’s not killing that John did to the goat
(> He did something to the goat, but not kill it)
8.4.3 Negative scope and optional constituents
When optional participants, including adverbs, are present in the clause, they tend to
attract the focus of negation to themselves, leaving the rest of the clause to be presupposed.
As illustrations, consider:
(38) a. Optional benefactive
She didn’t write the book for her father
(> She wrote it, but not for him)
b. Optional associative
She didn’t write the book with her sister
(> She wrote it, but not with her sister)
c. Optional instrumental
She didn’t shoot him with the gun
(> She shot him, but not with the gun)
d. Optional purpose Adv
She didn’t ﬂunk on purpose
(> She ﬂunked, but not on purpose)
e. Optional time Adv
She didn’t come Saturday
(> She came, but not Saturday)
382 Syntax
f. Optional frequency Adv
She doesn’t visit often
(> She visits, but not often)
g. Optional locative Adv
She didn’t kick the ball out of the park
(> She kicked it, but not out of the park)
The inferences in (38a–g) are pragmatic and normative, rather than logical and absolute.
A change in the intonation pattern of the clause may yield other inferences.
The reason why optional constituents attract the focus of negation is, probably,
because they also attract the focus of the assertion in aﬃrmative clauses. The normal
pragmatic inference concerning the use of optional constituents thus seems to be:
(39) If an optional element is chosen, chances are it is the focus of the assertion.
8.5 The morpho-syntactic typology of VP negation
8.5.1 Grammaticalization of negation markers
As noted earlier above, VP (‘syntactic’) negation is the most common negation type, with
the following semantic characteristics:
•It tends to negate only the asserted but not the presupposed portion the
corresponding aﬃrmative.
•It tends to exclude the subject from the scope of negation, thus lumping it together
with the presupposed portion of the corresponding aﬃrmative.
•It is the least speciﬁc, least focused type of negation, leaving the exact grounds for
denying the corresponding aﬃrmative unspeciﬁed.
It is thus not surprising to ﬁnd the morphemes that mark VP negation as verb-phrase
operators, either VP clitics or verb aﬃxes or inﬂections, thus leaving the subject outside
their syntactic scope. This happy coincidence — syntactic scope reﬂecting semantic scope
— is mediated by the two diachronic pathways that give rise to negative morphemes:
•negative main verbs taking verbal complements under their scope; and
•negative intensiﬁers arising as objects within the verb phrase.
Both diachronic sources have been noted earlier (Ch.5, §5.5.4), and are recapitulated
directly below.
8.5.2 De-verbal negation markers
Inherently negative modality verbs such as ‘fail’, ‘lack’, ‘refuse’, ‘decline’, or ‘avoid’
commonly grammaticalize as negation markers. In the process, their more speciﬁc
semantic features are bleached out, leaving only their negative inference:
Negation 383
(40) a. He failed to pass > He didn’t pass
b. She avoided doing it > She didn’t do it
c. They refused to come > They didn’t come
Since the syntactic construction in which the grammaticalization occurs is that of main
verb over verbal complement, in VO languages the negative modality verb would tend to
grammaticalize as a preﬁx, and in OV languages as a suﬃx, thus conforming to Green-
berg’s (1966a) typological predictions. As an illustration of this process in the midst of
happening, consider again Bemba (Bantu), a strict SVO language. In this language, the verb
uku-bula (‘lack’, ‘avoid’) is in the midst of being grammaticalized as negation marker,
albeit so far only in restricted environments. Thus (Givón 1972):
(41) a. uku-bula ‘to avoid’, ‘to lack’
inf-avoid
b. uku-boomba ‘to work’
inf-work
c. n-a-bula uku-boomba ‘I avoided working’
I-past-avoid inf-work
d. uku-bulaa-boomba ‘to not work’, ‘to fail to work’
inf-avoid-work
e. n-a-bulaa-boomba ‘I didn’t work’, ‘I failed to work’
I-past-neg-work
8.5.3 De-nominal negation markers
The second universal source of negation markers, emphatic negative intensiﬁers, arise out
of the transitive object slot. Initially, such intensiﬁers are added to negative clauses for
further emphasis or speciﬁcation. Once entrenched, such intensiﬁers often give rise to a
non-emphatic double negation construction. In such a construction, the intensiﬁer may
eventually lose its stress and cliticizes. Once de-stressed and cliticized, it may go on to
replace the older negative marker, now phonologically eroded.
It is obvious now why this de-nominal source of negation gives rise to morphemes that
contradict Greenberg’s (1966a) prediction: In a VO language, the erstwhile object would
cliticize as a verb suﬃx; in an OV language, as a preﬁx.
As an illustration of this process in a VO language, consider French, in which a series
of semantically speciﬁc object nouns were recruited to mark emphatic negation:
(42) a. ne marche pas! (pas ‘step’)
neg march step
‘Don’t march!’
(lit.: ‘Don’t march even a step’)
b. je ne connais personne (personne ‘person’)
I neg know person
‘I don’t know anybody’
384 Syntax
c. je ne sais rien (*rien ‘thing’)
I neg know thing
‘I don’t know anything’
While (42b,c) retain their emphatic sense, the locative intensiﬁer pas in (42a) eventually
became generalized, so that it is now obligatory in non-emphatic double negation, as in:
(43) a. je ne connais pas cet homme
I neg know neg this man
‘I don’t know this man’
b. je ne le sais pas
I neg it know neg
‘I don’t know it’
The tail end of this diachronic process can be seen in informal spoken French, where the
unstressed ne is commonly dropped out and the verbal suﬃx pas is now the sole negation
marker, a suﬃx arising under VO order:
(44) a. je-le-sais-pas
I-it-know-neg
‘I don’t know it’
b. je-connais-pas cet mec
I-know-neg this guy
‘I don’t know this guy’
The corresponding development in an OV language can be seen in Ute (Uto-Aztecan),
where the old negative suﬃx -wa was augmented with a pre-verbal intensiﬁer kach-. At the
current state of the language, both are obligatory. However, the intensiﬁer kach- can still
appear as a clause-initial independent word if it carries some second-position clitic.
Otherwise, it cliticizes as a verb preﬁx (Givón 1980):
(45) a. kach-u’u ’uni-wa-ax
neg-s/he do-neg-it
‘s/he doesn’t do it’
b. kach-ax ’uni-na
neg-it do-perf/neg
‘s/he didn’t do it’
c. Tumiikux-’ura-n ka-wu
=u
=ka-pu
=-a
Sunday-top-I neg-work-rem-neg
‘Sunday I didn’t work’
The precise etymology of the negative suﬃx and preﬁx in Ute is yet to be determined. Since
they both arose during a period of OV syntax, it is most likely that -wa was a negative
modality verb, perhaps with a longer form, -wa’a (as morpho-phonemic variation suggests).
A nominal object source for the pre-verbal kach is certainly plausible. The full form, used
as a stressed independent word (45a,b), is made out of the stem ka- and the nominal suﬃx
-ch, with the latter lost when ka- is incorporated as verb preﬁx, the way all incorporated
Negation 385
objects nouns lose their nominal suﬃx in Ute. Finally, incorporated objects in Ute are non-
referring (anti-passive, see Vol. II, Ch. 13), precisely what one would expect
NEG-intensifying objects to be, as in French (42).
8.5.4 Negation and word-order
Greenberg’s (1966a) predicted correlation between the position of the negative marker in
the clause and rigid word-order can be illustrated with languages whose negative marker
arose, presumably, via the de-verbal diachronic channel. In V-ﬁrst languages (VSO or
VOS), the de-verbal negative morpheme is expected to be a V-preﬁx, thus often a clause-
initial operator, as in Bikol (Philippine; M. Factora, i.p.c.):
(46) a. Aﬃrmative
nag-gadán ’ang-lalake ning-kanding
perf/agt-kill nom-man acc/indef-goat
‘The man killed a goat’
b. Negative
da’i nag-gadán ’ang-lalake ning-kanding
neg perf/agt-kill nom-man acc/indef-goat
‘The man didn’t kill a goat’
In V-ﬁnal languages (SOV), the de-verbal negative marker is expected to be a V-suﬃx, thus
often also a clause ﬁnal operator, as in Japanese (Y. Yanagida, i.p.c.):
(47) a. Aﬃrmative
otoko-wa bin-o kowasi-dalo
man-top bottle-acc break-fut
‘the man will break the bottle’
b. Negative
otoko-wa bin-o kowasi-nai-dalo
man-top bottle-acc break-neg-fut
‘the man will not break the bottle’
And in V-medial languages (SVO), the de-verbal negative marker is expected to be a
V-preﬁx, thus most commonly a VP-initial operator, as in Hebrew (Semitic):1
(48) a. Aﬃrmative
Yoav axal et-ha-lexem
Yoav ate acc-the-bread
‘Yoav ate the bread’
b. Negative
Yoav lo axal et-ha-lexem
Yoav neg ate acc-the-bread
‘Yoav didn’t eat the bread’
386 Syntax
8.6 Further topics in the syntax of negation
8.6.1 The coding of negative scope
As noted earlier above (§8.4), both contrastive stress (36) and the cleft-focus construction
(37) can be used to narrow the scope of negation to a single constituent, the one under
contrastive stress. Thus recall:
(49) a. Neutral
John didn’t kill the goat
b. Subject contrastive stress
John didn’t kill the goat
(> Someone else killed it)
c. Object contrastive stress
John’t didn’t kill the goat
(> He killed something else)
d. Subject cleft
It wasn’t John who killed the goat
(> It was someone else who did it)
e. Object cleft
It’ wasn’t the goat that John killed
(> It was something else that he killed)
The reason why both contrastive devices are so eﬀective in narrowing the scope of negation
to a single constituent is because they already aﬀect such extreme narrowing in aﬃrmative
clauses (see Ch.15), where the scope of assertion (‘focus of new information’) is narrowed
to the contrasted constituent alone. As noted above, VP-negation only takes under its
scope the asserted portion of the clause, leaving its presuppositions unaﬀected.
The use of contrastive stress by itself to signal focused negation (49b,c) is not all that
common cross-linguistically. And while cleft-focus constructions are much more common,
a language need not resort to highly marked contrastive constructions to indicate narrow-
scoped negation.
In coding of narrow-scoped negation, some languages may use word-order, in a way
that closely resembles the English cleft (49d,e), and may even be historically derived from
a cleft construction, but without necessarily being synchronically as contrastive. As an
example, consider Bikol (Philippine; M. Factora, i.p.c.):
(50) a. Aﬃrmative
nag-gadán ’ang-lalake ning-kanding
perf/agt-kill top-man acc/indef-goat
‘The man killed a goat’
b. Neutral VP negation
da’i nag-gadán ’ang-lalake ning-kanding
neg perf/agt-kill top-man acc/indef-goat
‘The man didn’t kill a goat’
Negation 387
c. Subject-scoped negation
da’i ’ang-lalake nag-gadán ning-kanding
neg top-man perf/agt-kill acc/indef-goat
‘The man didn’t kill a goat’
(> Though someone else may have)
d. Object-scoped negation
da’i ’ang-kanding g-in-adán kang-lalake
neg top-goat perf/pat-kill agt-man
‘The man didn’t kill a/the goat’
(> Though he may have killed something else)
In Ute (Uto-Aztecan), with pragmatically-controlled (‘ﬂexible’) word-order, a similar
fronting of the NEG-focused constituent is used, with no trace of historical connection to
a cleft construction (Givón 1980):
(51) a. Aﬃrmative
mamach-’u siveetuchi paxa-ux-kwa
woman/nom-def goat/acc kill-asp-perf
‘the woman killed the goat’
b. Wide-scoped (VP) negation
mamach-’u siveetuchi ka-paxa-na
woman/nom-def goat/acc neg-kill-perf/neg
‘The woman didn’t kill the goat’
c. Subject-scoped negation
kac-’ura mamach-’u siveetuchi paxa-ux-kwa
neg-top woman/nom-def goat/acc kill-asp-perf
‘The woman didn’t kill the goat’
(> Though someone else may have)
d. Object-scoped negation
kac-’ura siveetuchi mamach-’u paxa-ux-kwa
neg-top goat/acc-def woman/nom-def kill-asp-perf
‘The woman didn’t kill the goat’
(> Though she may have killed something else)
At least in one language, Russian, it has been reported that focused negation does not
involve the fronting, but rather the post-posing of a focused constituent. As in Ute, no
traces of cleft structure are involved here. Thus (Dreizin 1980):
(52) a. Aﬃrmative
Ivan jego ubil
Ivan him killed
‘Ivan killed him’
388 Syntax
b. Wide-scoped (VP) negation
Ivan jego ne ubil
Ivan him neg killed
‘Ivan didn’t kill him’
c. Subject-focused negation
jego ubil ne Ivan
him killed neg Ivan
‘Ivan didn’t kill him’
(> Though someone else may have)
d. Object-focused negation
Ivan ubil ne jego
Ivan killed neg him
‘Ivan didn’t kill him’
(> Though he may have killed someone else)
8.6.2 Diverse negation markers across grammatical contexts
As noted earlier, negation is one of the most consistently grammaticalized modalities.
Nonetheless, most languages show some diversity of negation markers, so that in some
grammatical contexts — admittedly infrequent and highly marked — special negation
markers may be used. The potential for such residual diversity is illustrated below with a
number of examples.
8.6.2.1Across clause types
In Modern Hebrew, the negative exclamation lo ‘no’ is also used as the main marker of
syntactic (VP) negation in all tense-aspect-modalities, in all grammatical voices, in
declarative, interrogative and exhortative clauses. Thus compare:
(53) a. Aﬃrmative (perfective)
hu halax ha-bayt-a
he went/3masc.sg def-house-all
‘he went home’
b. Negative (perfective)
hu lo-halax ha-bayt-a
he neg-went/3masc.sg def-house-all
‘he didn’t go home’
c. Negative (irrealis)
hu lo-yelex ha-bayt-a
he neg-3masc.sg/irr/go def-house-all
‘he won’t go home’
d. Negative (imperfective)
hu lo-holex ha-bayt-a
he neg-masc.sg/impfv/go def-house-all
‘he isn’t going home’
Negation 389
e. Negative yes/no-question
hu lo-halax ha-bayt-a?
he neg-went/3masc.sg def-house-all
‘Didn’t he go home?’
f. Negative wh-question
mi lo-halax ha-bayt-a?
who neg-went/3masc.sg def-house-all
‘Who didn’t go home?’
g. Negative exhortative/subjunctive
she-lo-yelex ha-bayt-a
sub-neg-3sg.masc/irr/go def-house-all
‘So let him not go home’
Two clause types, the imperative and existential/possessive, have diﬀerent negation
markers:
(54) a. Imperative
lex ha-bayt-a!
go/2masc.sg/imp def-house-all
‘Go home!’
b. NEG-imperative
al-telex ha-bayt-a!
neg-2sg.masc/irr/go def-house-all
‘Don’t go home!’
c. Existential
yesh kan harbe mayim
exist here much water
‘There’s lots of water here’
d. NEG-existential
eyn kan harbe mayim
neg/exist here much water
‘There isn’t much water here’
e. Possessive
yesh l-a bayit
exist dat-3fem.sg house
‘she has a house’
f. NEG-possessive
eyn l-a bayit
exist dat-3fem.sg house
‘she doesn’t have a house’
390 Syntax
8.6.2.2Across tense-aspect-modality
In Ute (Uto-Aztecan), the negative suﬃx -wa is used in the immediate, habitual and irrealis
paradigms, as in (Givón 1980):
(55) a. Immediate
tu
=ka-y
eat-imm
‘(s/he) is eating’
b. NEG-immediate
ka-tu
=ka-wa
neg-eat-neg/imm
‘(s/he) isn’t eating’
c. Habitual
tu
=ka-mi
eat-hab
‘(s/he) eats’
d. NEG-habitual
ka-tu
=ka-mi-wa
neg-eat-hab-neg
‘(s/he) doesn’t eat’
e. Irrealis
tu
=ka-vaa-ni
eat-irr-fut
‘(s/he) will eat’
f. NEG-irrealis
ka-tu
=ka-vaa-ni-wa
neg-eat-irr-fut-neg
‘(s/he) won’t eat’
In the perfect, however, the -wa is supplanted by the suﬃx -na:
(56) a. Perfect
tu
=ka-xa
eat-perf
‘(s/he) ate’
b. NEG-perfect
ka-tu
=ka-na
neg-eat-neg/perf
‘(s/he) didn’t eat’
The remote past is marked by a combination of two suﬃxes, the nominalizer -pu
= and the
defective verbal stem -ga ‘have’. The latter has a special suppletive negative form, -’a
‘lack’, and that suppletion is carried over to the negative form of the remote-past marker.
Thus compare:
Negation 391
(57) a. Have
puwa-gha-t
medicine-have-nom
‘(s/he) has medicine power’
‘(s/he) is a shaman’
b. Lack
ka-puwa-’a-t
neg-medicine-neg/have-nom
‘(s/he) lacks medicine power’
‘(s/he) is not a shaman’
c. Remote
tu
=ka-pu
=ga
eat-rem
‘(s/he) ate’
d. NEG-remote
ka-tu
=ka-pu
=’a
neg-eat-neg/rem
‘(s/he) didn’t eat’
One may as well point out that the history of English illustrates rather vividly a common
pathway via which the combination of T-A-M auxiliaries and the very same negative suﬃx
can lead, over time, to a plethora of suppletive NEG-markers. The complex regularities that
govern English negation may be ﬁrst summarized as:
(58) a. The order of auxiliaries in the VP is:
(Modal)–(have)–(be)-V
b. If no other auxiliary element is present, the auxiliary DO must be inserted
to make negation possible:
do-V
c. The NEG marker is suﬃxed to the ﬁrst auxiliary.
d. Modal auxiliaries cannot be marked for past.
e. Otherwise, the past tense marks the ﬁrst element of the VP, be it an auxilia-
ry or the verb itself.
f. For the purpose of negation and past-tense marking, the copula ‘be’ behaves
like an auxiliary.2
Some of the more common options arising out of (58) are illustrated in (59) below, where
the interaction of subject agreement contributes to further variation:
(59) a. Modal/future: She won’t work
b. Modal/ability: She can’t work
c. Modal/obligative: She shouldn’t work
d. Have/3sg: She hasn’t worked
e. Have/1sg: I haven’t worked
f. Have-past: She hadn’t worked
392 Syntax
g. Be: She isn’t working
h. Be-past: She wasn’t working
i. Be-past/pl: They weren’t working
j. Do: She doesn’t work
k. Do/1sg: I don’t work
l. Do-past: She didn’t work
In spoken English, phonological assimilation and contraction predictably gives rise to a
host of suppletive negation forms, all arising from the interaction between grammaticalized
auxiliaries, residual subject agreement and the very same negative suﬃx not.
8.6.3 Emphatic or NP negation
In addition to focused (‘narrow-scoped’) negation (§8.6.1 above), most languages also
have another type of syntactic negation that allows a negative marker to attache itself to a
non-verbal constituents of the clause — subject, direct object, indirect object, nominal
predicate or adverb. This type, called emphatic negation or NP negation, shares with focused
negation the marked syntactic feature of placing a negative marker on a non-verbal
constituent. Semantically, however, it is quite distinct.
The negated constituent in NP negation is typically non-referring. Consider ﬁrst the
sub-pattern in English where the negated constituent is a bona ﬁde lexical noun:
(60) a. Aﬃrmative
The woman gave the book to the boy
b. VP negation
The woman didn’t give the book to the boy
c. Emphatic subject negation
No woman gave the book to the boy
d. Emphatic direct-object negation
The woman gave no book to the boy
e. Emphatic indirect-object negation
The woman gave the book to no boy
f. Predicate-NP negation
She’s no dummy
The non-referring negated constituent can also be a more generic negative pronoun, as in:
(61) a. Emphatic subject negation
Nobody came
No one saw her
Nothing happened
b. Emphatic object negation
She saw nobody
She saw nothing
Negation 393
c. Emphatic indirect-object negation
She gave it to nobody
She came back with nothing
d. Empatic time-adverb negation
She never came back
e. Emphatic locative negation
She went nowhere
As noted earlier, in the more common VP negation, the corresponding aﬃrmative is
pragmatically presupposed as background to the negative speech-act. Emphatic negation
seems to be transacted under subtly diﬀerent communicative conditions. To begin with,
not only is it used to deny a proposition — presumed to be the belief of the interlocutor —
but it attacks it more vigorously. In the course of this attack, the speaker zeroes in explicitly
on one speciﬁc consituent — subject, object etc. — that makes the proposition so utterly
objectionable: Not only did the event as a whole not occur with the listed participants, but
one of the presumed participants couldn’t have possibly been involved. Indeed, the denial
codes that objectionable NP as non-referring. That is, not only was a speciﬁc token
participant not involved, but no member of its type was involved either.
Finally, emphatic NP negation can be placed along the continuum of increasingly
emphatic denial, at the top of which is the common type of VP negation:
(62) a. VP negation
She didn’t read the book
(> you think she did, I know better)
b. Double negation with lexical noun
She didn’t read any book
(> not even a single token of the type ‘book’)
c. Emphatic negation with lexical noun
She read no book
(> not even a single token of the type ‘book’)
d. Double negation with NEG-pronoun
She didn’t read anything
(> not even papers or magazines)
e. Emphatic negation with NEG-pronoun
She read nothing
(> not even papers or magazines)
8.6.4 Negation in main vs. complement clauses
When two propositions are combined into a complex construction in natural language, as
in main plus complement clause, the whole is seldom the mere sum of its parts. One of the
best illustrations for this is the interaction between negation in the main clause and
394 Syntax
negation in the complement clause, a phenomenon sometime referred to as
NEG-transport.3
Consider ﬁrst the case of non-factive verbs, such as ‘think’:
(63) a. I don’t think (that) she came
b. I think (that) she didn’t come
c. It is not true that I think (that) she came
d. I think that it is not true (that) she came
By logic alone, (63a) should mean (63c), and (63b) should mean (63d). But in fact, (63a)
and (63b) seem to have similar logical inferences, at least under some conditions, with
(63a) tending toward a slightly stronger belief in the complement proposition ‘She came’,
and (63b) toward a slightly weaker belief (Bolinger 1968). What is more, (63a) and (63b)
seem to be equally close in meaning to (63d), and equally remote from (63c).
The same weak equivalency between the two logical inferences can be seen with non-
implicative modality or manipulation verbs, such as ‘want’:
(64) a. She didn’t want (him) to leave
b. She wanted (him) not to leave
Somehow the logical inferences of (64a) and (64b) are almost the same, though perhaps
again with a certain gradation in strength of preference regarding the complement
proposition.
With other complement-taking verbs, the logical inferences of two negation patterns —
mainvs.complementclause—remaindistinct,conformingbettertothepredictionsoflogic.
As Horn (1978) points out, the verbs that allow the neutralization of the two potential-
ly-distinct logical inferences are all mid-scale verbs, on either the continuum of epistemic
certainty (‘believe’, ‘think’, ‘suppose’, ’imagine’, ‘expect’) or deontic strength (‘want’). Verbs
closer to the either one of the two extremes of the modal scale — higher or lower epistemic
certainty, stronger or weaker deontic strength — do not exhibit such neutralization of
inferences. Thus compare:
(65) Verbs of higher epistemic certainty
a. He claimed she didn’t come
(> He claimed that it wasn’t true that she came)
b. He didn’t claim that she came
(> It isn’t true that he claimed that she came)
c. She knew that he wasn’t there
(> She knew that it wasn’t true he was there)
d. She didn’t know (that) he was there
(> It isn’t true that she knew he was there)
(66) Verbs of higher deontic strength
a. She told him not to leave
(> It is true that she told him not to leave)
b. She didn’t tell him to leave
(> It isn’t true that she told him to leave)
Negation 395
c. He tried not to cry
(> It is true that he tried not to cry)
d. He didn’t try to cry
(> It isn’t true that he tried to cry)
(67) Verbs of lower epistemic certainty
a. She hoped that he didn’t come
(> She hoped it wasn’t true that he came)
b. She didn’t hope that he came
(> It’s not true that she hoped he came)
(68) Verbs of weaker deontic strength
a. She wished that he hadn’t come
(> She wished that it wasn’t true that he came)
b. She didn’t wish that he had come
(> It wasn’t true that she wished that he had come)
Horn’s (1978) explanation to this runs as follows: In negating a verb closer to either
extreme of the scale, one gains a verb just as extreme, but at the opposite end of the scale.
On the other hand, in negating a mid-scale verb one gains another mid-scale verb,
regardless of surface logical status. And it is this ‘mediocrity’ of mid-scale verbs that allows
the neutralization of their potentially-distinct logical inferences.
8.6.5 Depth of embedding: Syntactic, morphological, and inherent
(‘lexical’) negation
One can contrast syntactic (VP) negation with two other types of negation found in
language, morphological and inherent (lexical). Thus compare, ﬁrst for adjectives:
(69) a. Syntactic negation
I think she is not happy
b. Morphological negative
I think she’s un-happy
c. Inherent negative
I think she’s sad
The syntactic pattern (69a) is the most productive, and can be found with all English
adjectives. The morphological (69b) and inherent (69c) patterns are more idiosyncratic,
applying to some adjectives but not others.
Similarly, compare:
(70) a. Syntactic negation
I don’t like her story
b. Morphological negation
I dis-like her story
396 Syntax
c. Inherent negation
I hate her story
Again, the syntactic pattern (70a) is fully productive, applying to all verbs. While the
morphological (70b) and inherent (70c) patterns apply to some verbs but not others.
As both Bolinger (1968) and Horn (1978) point out, there appears to be a gradient in
the strength of negation, correlating to the depth of embedding of the negative operator.
This scale proceeds from inherent/lexical negation (weakest) to syntactic negation (stron-
gest), and from complement-clause negation (weaker) to main-clause negation (stronger):
(71) weakest (most deeply embedded)
a. I believe she is sad (lexical, complement)
b. I believe she is un-happy (morphological, complement)
c. I believe she isn’t happy (syntactic, complement)
d. I doubt she is happy (lexical, main verb)
e. I dis-believe she is happy (morphological, main verb)
f. I don’t believe she is happy (syntactic, main verb)
strongest (least deeply embedded)
8.6.6 Negative polarity and levels of negation
Some paired grammatical operators seem to distribute in a mutually-exclusive way: One
member of the pair specializes in negative clauses, the other in corresponding aﬃrmatives.
Such operators are sometime called negative polarity items (Horn 1978). Some common
examples are:
(72) a. Negative
Mary wasn’t happy, and Jack wasn’t happy
*either
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
*too
b. Aﬃrmative
May was happy, and Jack was happy
*too
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
*either
c. Negative
Jack hasn’t left
*yet
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
*already
d. Aﬃrmative
Jack has
*already
left
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
*yet
e. Negative
Mary isn’t home,
*is she?
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
*isn’t she?
Negation 397
f. Aﬃrmative
Mary is home,
*isn’t she?
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
*is she?
Negative polarity items as in (72) are sensitive to the presence or absence of negation, but
only syntactic (VP) negation. Thus, compare their behavior under syntactic negation with
their behavior under morphological negation and inherent/lexical negation:
(73) a. Aﬃrmative
Mary was happy, and Jack was
*too
Ï¸
Ì˝
Ó˛
*either
b. Syntactic negation
Mary wasn’t happy, and Jack wasn’t
*either
Ï¸
Ì˝
Ó˛
*too
c. Morphological negation
Mary was unhappy, and Jack was 
*too
Ï¸
Ì˝
Ó˛
*either
d. Inherent/lexical negation
Mary was sad, and Jack was 
*too
Ï¸
Ì˝
Ó˛

*either
The distribution of the NEG-polarity operators ‘too’ and ‘either’ in both the morphological
negative (73c) and the inherent/lexical negative (73d) follows that of the aﬃrmative clause
(73a), rather than that of the syntactic negative (73b).
In the same vein:
(74) a. Aﬃrmative
Jack was
*already
present
Ï¸
Ì˝
Ó˛
*yet
b. Syntactic negation
Jack wasn’t
*yet
present
Ï¸
Ì˝
Ó˛
*already
c. Inherent-lexical negation
Jack was
*already
absent
Ï¸
Ì˝
Ó˛
*yet
Logically, ‘present’ and ‘absent’ are exact antonyms, seemingly abiding by the exclusion-of-
the-middle rule of logic. That is:
(75) present ¤ not absent
absent ¤ not present
But logic is only part of the semantic structure of negation in natural language, a fact
already noted earlier above (3):
398 Syntax
(3) a. Aﬃrmative
She is welcome
b. Morphological negative
She is un-welcome
c. Syntactic negative
She isn’t welcome
d. Syntactic and morphological negative
She isn’t un-welcome
The logically equivalent (3a) and (3d) are not on a par, so that double negation does not
quite brings one back to the aﬃrmative. Nor are the logically-equivalent (3b) and (3c) on
a par, with syntactic negation (3c) again seeming somehow stronger than morphological
negation (3b).
Notes
1. For more information on the typology of negation, see Horn (1978), Payne (1985), as well as
Kahrel and van den Berg (eds 1994).
2. In British English, the main verb ‘have’ also behaves like an auxiliary, as in ‘I have-n’t (any)
stamps’. The same conservative Aux-like behavior of ‘have’ is also seen in the grammar of questions
in British English, as in ‘Have you (any) stamps?’.
3. The term transport harkens back to the early innocence of transformational grammar, where it was
suggested that the negative operator was transformationally ‘transported’ from complement to main
clause, thus ‘accounting for’ the similarity in meanings.
<TARGET "9" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Referential coherenceI"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 9
Referential coherenceI
Pronouns and grammatical agreement
9.1 Introduction
The grammar of pronouns and grammatical agreement lies at the intersection of two
functional domains that are, at least in principle, distinct but which nonetheless intersect
and interact. The ﬁrst domain is essentially semantic, involving the conﬂation of several
classiﬁcatory systems that takes place during the diachronic rise of pronominal systems. At
the tail end of this process, one ﬁnds the classical paradigms of independent pronouns, with
classiﬁcatory features such as:
•person (speaker/hearer);
•number;
•gender/class;
•deixis;
•case-role.
Pronominal paradigms at the end of their diachronic rise may appear coherent and uniﬁed,
even if in fact they are the product of a protracted, opportunistic process of multi-stepped
grammaticalization, whereby the various contributory pieces of the paradigm have been
cobbled together into a system that is clearly jerry-built.
The second domain is profoundly discourse-pragmatic. It involves the grammar of
anaphoric reference, which itself is a sub-domain of referential coherence. Within this
domain, pronouns — independent, clitic, inﬂectional or zero-anaphors — are parts of a
vast system which includes, in addition:
•grammatical subject and object (Ch.4);
•reference and deﬁniteness (Ch.10);
•pragmatic de-transitive voice (Ch.13);
•relative clauses (Ch.14);
•contrastive focus constructions (Ch.15);
•marked topic constructions (Ch.16);
•switch-reference devices (Ch.18).
The problems of presentation engendered by this vast connectivity, and by the interaction
of pronouns within a large cognitive-communicative meta-system, are not trivial. What I
400 Syntax
have elected to do here is to once again take my cue from bio-evolution and fashion an
adaptive compromise. The skeletal main features of the overall system of referent tracking
(referential coherence) will be outlined gradually through this and the next chapter. But
many of the more speciﬁc details will be added as they become relevant to particular
constructions, in subsequent chapters of Vol. II.
Like all other grammatical structures, pronominal systems follow a distinct develop-
mental trajectory. The main steps in their diachronic rise and fall are summarized in (1)
below, with the ﬁrst two segments pertaining, respectively, to the semantically- and
pragmatically-driven rise of the system, and the third to its phonologically-driven demise.
(1) The rise and fall of pronominal systems
a. Rise of semantic pronominal paradigms
(primary grammaticalization)
speaker/hearer
È ˘
Í ˙
Í ˙
Í ˙
Í ˙
Î ˚
number
classiﬁers ﬁ stressed independent PRO
deictics
case-marking
b. Rise of anaphoric pronominal morphology
(secondary grammaticalization)
stressed independent PRO ﬁ
unstressed/clitic anaphoric PRO ﬁ
anaphoric pronominal aﬃxes ﬁ
obligatory pronominal agreement
c. Decay of anaphoric pronominal morphology
(de-grammaticalization)
obligatory pronominal agreement ﬁ
fused inﬂections ﬁ
morpho-phonemics ﬁ
zero
9.2 The semantic organization of pronominal paradigms
9.2.1 Pronominal classiﬁcatory features
As suggested above, pronominal systems are fashioned — or grammaticalized — through
the conﬂation of classiﬁcatory features of diverse semantic, syntactic and pragmatic origins.
Some of those pertain to the speech situation and its participants (henceforth SAPs) (2a).
Others to the spatial orientation of non-SAPs vis-a-vis the SAPs (2b). Others to numeric
quantiﬁcation of the noun phrase (2c). Others to inherent semantic classiﬁcation of nouns
(2d). And others yet to the syntactic case-role of the NP within the clause (2e). In order:
Referential coherenceI 401
(2) Most common pronominal classiﬁcatory features
a. Speech-act participants (SAPs, ‘persons’)
Classifying referents as either the speaker (1st person), hearer (2nd person),
or non-SAP (3rd person)
b. Spatial deixis relative to SAPs
Classifying non-SAP referents as to their spatial proximity and/or visibility
to either the speaker or the hearer (‘this’, ‘that’, ‘yon’).
c. Number
Classifying referents as to their individuation and number (singular,
dual, plural).
d. Class or gender
Classifying non-SAP referents as to their inherent semantic features (as
nouns; see Ch.2, §2.4.3).
e. Case-role
Classifying referents as to their case-role in the clause, be it subject,
direct object and various indirect objects (Nom/Acc case-marking system);
ergative and absolutive (Erg/Abs case-marking system); or agent, patient,
dative and other semantic roles (semantically-oriented case-marking
system).
The exclusion of the SAPs from two of the classiﬁcatory features in (2) is well motivated.
Since they are by deﬁnition human or animate, the SAPs’ semantic classiﬁcation (2d) is
already known. Since they anchor the spatial deixis of non-SAPs, the SAPs’ spatial position
requires no further speciﬁcation (2b).
Two less-common features crop up on occasion in corners of pronominal paradigms,
and will be seen in some of the language examples below. They are:
•Inclusion vs. exclusion: This feature pertains only to ﬁrst person dual or plural (‘we’),
where in some languages two pronominal forms exist: One for ‘we’ that includes the
hearer (‘you and I’, ‘you and I and some other(s)’); the other for ‘we’ that excludes the
hearer (‘he and I’, ‘they and I’).
•Deﬁniteness or reference: This feature pertains only to non-SAPs (3rd persons). In
general, most pronouns are anaphoric and thus assumed to be deﬁnite (see Ch.10
below). But most languages also have at least some indeﬁnite or non-referring
pronouns, such as the English ‘one’, ‘some’, ‘anyone’ or ‘nobody’.
9.2.2 Initial selected examples
9.2.2.1Ute (Uto-Aztecan)
Independent pronouns in Ute may be divided into two parallel paradigms, subject (3) and
non-subject (4), with the latter constituting the base for the direct object, post-positional
object and genitive forms (Givón 1980).
402 Syntax
(3) Ute independent subject pronouns
number
person singular dual plural
1st
2nd
3rd
vis-anim
invis-anim
vis-inan
invis-inan
nu
=’
’u
=m(u
=)
máas
’uwas
mar(u
=)
’ur(u)
tam(i) (incl) taw(i) (incl)
nu
=m(u
=) (excl)
mu
=n(i)
mamu
=s
’umu
=s
/
/
(4) Ute independent object pronouns
number
person singular dual plural
1st
2nd
3rd
vis-anim
invis-anim
vis-inan
invis-inan
nu
=nay
’u
=mu
=y
máayas
’uwayas
maru
=
’uru
tami (incl) tawi (incl)
nu
=mu
=y (excl)
mu
=ni
mamu
=as
’umu
=as
/
/
The component parts of the Ute pronominal system are still visible in the synchronic
paradigm. First, the non-subject case-marking is added to the nominative base forms, with
a combination of two older accusative suﬃxes -a and/or -y, and stress shifting that reveals
some underlying vowels that are silenced in the subject forms (Givón 1990b)
Second, the 3rd person pronouns are based, transparently, on the non-proximate
portion of the deictic demonstrative pronominal paradigm, given in (5) below. Within this
system, three preﬁxal bases signal deictic position: ’i- proximate, ma- remote-visible, and
’u- remote-invisible. The suﬃx -ru
= marks remote inanimates, and the suﬃx -mu
= marks
plurals — but only for animates.
(5) Ute deictic (demonstrative) pronouns
proximate remote-vis remote-invis
subject non-subj subject non-subj subject non-subj
animate-sg
animate-pl
inanimate
’in(a)
’im(u
=)
’ic(a)
’inay
’imu
=
’icay
ma(a)
mam(u
=)
mar(ú)
máay
mamu
=
maru
=
’u
’um(u
=)
’ur(u)
’uway
’umu
=
’uru
Referential coherenceI 403
It is fairly clear that the SAPs portion of the pronominal paradigm is also jerry-built from
heterogenous source components. The basic stems that underlie the SAP pronouns are
better reﬂected in the paradigm of clitic pronouns, where the pronominal forms are stripped
of all but their core components. But phonological erosion has further reduced many of the
non-SAP forms and, at least in one case (3rd invis-animate), an unpredictable consonant
has been added. The full paradigm of Ute clitic pronouns is given in (Givón 1980):
(6) Ute clitic (suﬃx) pronouns
number
person singular dual plural
1st
2nd
3rd
vis-anim
invis-anim
vis-inan
invis-inan
-n(u
=)
-m(u
=)
-a
-u
-ax
-ux
-ram(i) (incl) -raw(i) (incl)
-nu
=m(u
=) (excl)
-am(u
=)
-am(u
=)
-um(u
=)
/
/
Unlike in independent pronouns, case-role is irrelevant for Ute clitic pronouns, which may
code either the subject, object or genitive:
(7) a. Subject clitic
’aapachi-u pu
=nikya-y-’u
boy/acc-pl see-imm-3sg/an
‘she sees the boys’
mamachi pu
=nikya-xa-y-am(u
=)
woman/acc see-pl-imm-3sg/an
‘they see the woman’
b. Object clitic
mamach pu
=nikya-y-am(u
=)
woman/nom see-imm-3pl/an
‘the woman sees them’
pu
=nikya-xa-y-’u
see-pl-imm-3sg/an
‘they see him/her’
c. Genitive clitic:
puku-’u ‘his/her horse’
horse-3sg/an
puku-am(u
=) ‘their horse’
horse-3pl/an
404 Syntax
9.2.2.2Samoan (Austronesian)
The pronominal paradigm in Samoan illustrates, even more so than in Ute, the componen-
tial, jerry-built nature of pronominal systems. Samoan is a morphologically ergative
language, and the absolutive pronoun paradigm is given in (8) below (Sivai Teoﬁlo, i.p.c.).
(8) Samoan absolutive independent pronouns
number
sg. dual plural
inclusive exclusive inclusive exclusive
person
1st
2nd
3rd
o-a’u
o-’oe
o-iya
o-tsaa-’ua o-maa-’ua
o-’ou-lua
o-laa-’ua
o-tsaa-tsou o-maa-tsuo
o-laa-’ua
o-laa-tsou
The preﬁx o- marks uniformly the absolutive case-role. Tsaa- and maa- mark, respectively,
the inclusive and exclusive category, for non-singular ﬁrst persons. The suﬃx -’ua/-lua
seems to have marked originally the dual category, contrasting with the plural suﬃx -tsou.
But the contrast is preserved only in the 1st and 3rd person. In the 2nd person, the two
variants of the dual have been restructured and split, now coding the contrast between dual
(-lua) and plural (-’ua). Such reanalysis and restructuring of pronominal systems is
widespread (Chafe 1977), reducing even further the regularities that emerge via primary
grammaticalization.
9.2.2.3Bemba (Bantu)
Most Bantu languages illustrate rather clearly the major split between SAP pronouns and
the 3rd person paradigm, with the latter being still rather transparently the demonstrative
(deictic) paradigm used as pronouns. The extensive Bantu noun-class system has fully
integrated into the 3rd-person pronominal paradigm, which is thus derived from the
conﬂation of two systems — spatial deixis (2b) and inherent noun classiﬁcation (2d)
(Greenberg 1977).
The independent SAP subject pronouns of Bemba are (Givón 1972):
(9) Bemba independent SAP subject pronouns
number
person singular plural
1st
2nd
i-n-e
i-w-e
i-fw-e
i-mw-e
The paradigm of the demonstratives (deictics), functioning as either demonstrative
modiﬁers or independent third-person pronouns, is given in (9) below. The deictic forms
for the human class (1/2) also function as the personal third person pronoun ‘s/he’ and
‘they’ (Givón 1972):
Referential coherenceI 405
(10) Bemba demonstrative (deictic) pronoun paradigm
class number
1
near speaker
2
near hearer
3
near both
4
remote
1/2
3/4
5/6
7/8
9/10
11/10
12/13
14
15
sg
pl
sg
pl
sg
pl
sg
pl
sg
pl
sg
pl
sg
pl
(mass)
(mass)
uyu
aba
uu
ii
ili
aya
ichi
iﬁ
ii
ishi
ulu
ishi
aka
utu
ubu
uku
uyo
abo
uo
io
ilyo
ayo
icho
ifyo
io
isho
ulo
isho
ako
uto
ubo
uko
uno
bano
uno
ino
lino
yano
chino
ﬁno
ino
shino
luno
shino
kano
tuno
buno
kuno
ulya
balya
ulya
ilya
lilya
yalya
chilya
ﬁlya
ilya
shilya
lulya
shilya
kalya
tulya
bulya
kulya
The Bantu demonstrative system is based on the CV syllables that code, jointly, class and
number. With some historical phonological modiﬁcation, this is the very same classiﬁ-
catory syllable found in noun preﬁxes, most likely itself an older deictic pronoun (Green-
berg 1977). In both of the more proximate deictics (1,2 above), the vowel of the classifying
syllable is duplicated as preﬁx, no doubt the tail end of syllable reduplication (Greenberg
1977). In the three less proximate deictics, a suﬃx is added to the basic syllable, marking
the exact spatial deixis — o (2), -no (3) or -lya (4).
Both subject and object anaphoric pronouns in Bemba are preﬁxal, both based — with
minor phonological modiﬁcations — on the same CV syllables that code class/number
combination. Preﬁxal subject pronouns are obligatory (subject agreement; see §9.3.2
below). The paradigm of anaphoric subject pronouns is given in (11) below, and that of
object pronouns in (12) (Givón 1972).
406 Syntax
(11) Bemba preﬁxal subject pronoun (with -li ‘be’)
singular plural
person
1st
2nd
3rd
class
1/2 (human)
3/4
5/6
7/8
9/10
11/10
12/13
14 (mass)
15 (mass)
n-di ‘I am
u-li ‘you are’
a-li ‘s/he is’
u-li ‘it is’
li-li ”
chi-li ”
i-li ”
lu-li ”
ka-li ”
bu-li ”
ku-li ”
tu-li ‘we are’
mu-li ‘y’all are’
ba-li ‘they are’
i-li ‘they are’
ya-li ”
ﬁ-li ”
shi-li ”
shi-li ”
tu-li ”
/
/
(12) Bemba preﬁxal object pronouns (with -mona ‘see’)
number
person
1st
2nd
3rd
class
1/2 (human)
3/4
5/6
7/8
9/10
11/10
12/13
14
15
sg
pl
sg
pl
sg
pl
sg
pl
sg
pl
sg
pl
sg
pl
sg
pl
sg
pl
mass
mass
a-m-mona ‘s/he sees me’
a-tu-mona ‘s/he sees us’
a-ku-mona ‘s/he sees you’
a-mu-mona ‘s/he sees y’all’
a-mu-mona ‘s/he sees him/her
a-ba-mona ‘s/he sees them’
a-u-mona ‘s/he sees it’
a-i-mona ‘s/he sees them’
a-li-mona ‘s/he sees it’
a-ya-mona ‘s/he sees them’
a-chi-mona ‘s/he sees it’
a-ﬁ-mona ‘s/he sees them’
a-i-mona ‘s/he sees it’
a-shi-mona ‘s/he sees it’
a-lu-mona ‘s/he sees it’
a-shi-mona ‘s/he sees them’
a-ka-mona ‘s/he sees it’
a-tu-mona ‘s/he sees them’
a-bu-mona ‘s/he sees it’
a-ku-mona ‘s/he sees it’
Referential coherenceI 407
9.2.2.4Languages without anaphoric pronouns (Mandarin Chinese)
We noted earlier on (Ch.4, §4.3.2) that Mandarin Chinese, like many other languages,
lacks anaphoric pronouns altogether. Consequently, the functional load born in other
languages by anaphoric pronouns (or obligatory pronominal agreement) is assumed in
Mandarin by zero anaphors.
We further noted (Ch.4, §4.3.2) that zero anaphora in chained clauses in Mandarin is
not governed by either the subject or object GR, and indeed — at least in principle — is not
governed by a speciﬁc GR. Thus, reproducing the same examples (Li and Thompson 1979):
(13) a. Quing-zhang-lao jiang Zhi-Sheng ken qu.
Abbot see Z.-S. want go
‘The Abbot saw that Z.-S. was willing to go.
b. jiu [Ø] liu [Ø] zai fangzhang-li xie-le
then [Ø] keep [Ø] be chamber-in rest-asp
Then he kept him in the chamber to rest up’.
c. [Ø] an-xi xia.
[Ø] settle down
‘(Yang-Zhi) settled down.
d. zhuang-ke jiao-huan [Ø] [Ø] dan-r
porter give-back [Ø] [Ø] luggage
The porter then gave him back his luggage.
e. [Ø] yu-le [Ø] xie yin-liang
[Ø] give-asp [Ø] some money
Y.-Z. then gave him some money.
f. [Ø] zi hui-qu-le.
[Ø] refl return-asp
The porter then went back by himself’.
We will discuss the ramiﬁcation of this typological situation for the functional domain of
anaphoric reference further below.
9.3 Pronouns and grammatical agreement
9.3.1 Optional clitic anaphoric pronouns (Ute)
As noted earlier above (1), obligatory pronominal agreement — or verb agreement — is a
natural diachronic consequence of the cliticization of unstressed anaphoric pronouns. One
may, for example, ﬁnd languages in the early stages of this process, with pronominal clitic
being optional, and their clitic location not even stabilized to the verb. A good example of
such an early stage is Ute, where pronominal clitics are not obligatory, nor do they code a
unique case-role (7). What is more, subject and object clitics need not attach to the verb,
but may be suﬃxed to the ﬁrst word in the clause, be it of any word-class:
408 Syntax
(14) a. Object clitic
kacu-’u pu
=nikya-xa-pu
=ga
neg-3sg/an see-pl-rem
‘they didn’t see him/her’
b. Subject clitic
’aav-’ura-am(u
=) wú
=u
=ka-kha-paani
now-top-3pl/an go-pl-fut
‘now they’ll work’
c. Subject or genitive clitic1
kani-am(u
=) ’uru pu
=nikya-kha-pu
=ga
house/acc-3pl/an det/acc see-pl-rem
‘they saw the house’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘they saw their (someone else’s) house’
d. Genitive clitic
kani-am(u
=) ’uru pu
=nikya-pu
=ga
house/acc-3pl/an det/acc see-rem
‘s/he saw their house’
e. Object clitic
tu
=vu
=ch-’ura-akh ’asti-kya
very-top-3/inan want-perf
‘s/he wanted it very much’
9.3.2 Pronominal agreement on the verb
9.3.2.1Cliticization of subject pronouns (Modern Hebrew)
The stabilization of clitic pronouns as verb aﬃxes seems to occur in two stages. First they
become anaphoric pronominal aﬃxes on the verb — rather than clitics on the ﬁrst word
in the clause, (as in Ute). Later they may become obligatory grammatical agreement. What
is more, the dynamics of the gradual change from clitics to verb-aﬃxes to obligatory
pronominal agreement is a bit diﬀerent for subject and object pronouns.
The early stage of aﬃxation of clitic subject pronouns can be seen in Modern Hebrew,
in verb paradigms that have developed too much person, gender or number ambiguity.
This is most conspicuous in the imperfective paradigm — the participial-nominal-
adjectival verb form — where the verb agrees with the subject in only gender and number
but not in person. In Modern Hebrew, the independent subject pronouns become de-
stressed anaphoric verb-preﬁxes in this paradigm, so that using the verb in an anaphoric
context without them is just about ungrammatical, except in restricted contexts. Thus:2
(15) Context: So what’s she doing now?
a. Response (no-PRO)
kore-t et-ha-iton
read/impfv-fem.sg acc-the-paper
‘(she is) reading the paper’
Referential coherenceI 409
b. Response (with PRO)
hi-kore-t et-ha-iton
3fem.sg-read/impfv-fem.sg acc-the-paper
‘she is reading the paper’
(16) Context: What does she do in the evening?
a. *Response (no PRO)
*b-a-erev kore-t et-ha-iton
in-the-evening read/impfv-fem.sg acc-the-paper
b. Response (with PRO)
b-a-erev hi-kore-t et-ha-iton
in-the-evening 3fem.sg-read/impfv-fem.sg acc-the-paper
‘in the evening she reads the paper’
In non-anaphoric contexts, i.e. with full-NP subjects, the independent subject pronoun still
cannot be used, even in the ‘defective’ paradigm of the imperfective:
(17) a. Full-NP subject (no PRO)
Mira kore-t et-ha-iton
Mira read/impfv-fem.sg acc-the-paper
‘Mira is reading the paper’
b. Full-NP subject (*with PRO)
*Mira hi-kore-t et-ha-iton
Mira 3fem.sg-read/impfv-fem.sg acc-the-paper
Clearly, the subject anaphoric pronouns in this paradigm have not yet progressed to the
stage of obligatory grammatical agreement.
9.3.2.2Cliticization of object pronouns (Biblical Hebrew)
A more advanced diachronic stage in the evolution of subject pronouns can be seen in the
two main verbal paradigms of Early Biblical Hebrew. Subject pronominal agreement,
preﬁxal in the preterit and suﬃxal in the perfect, is obligatory even when a full-NP subject
is present; that is, obligatory subject agreement. The old generation of optional pronominal
object suﬃxes have become almost obsolete without ever becoming an obligatory object-
agreement system (18c). One ﬁnds them only sporadically, alternating in the very same
anaphoric contexts with the new — and much more common — case-marked object
pronouns (18b):
(18) a. va-ya-r’ ’elohim ’et-ha-’or ki-»
tov
and-3masc.sg/pret-saw God acc-the-light sub-good
‘and God saw the light that it was good’ (Gen. 1:3)
b. va-yi-ten ’ot-am ’elohim bi-rqi’a ha-shamayim
and-3masc.sg/pret-put acc-3mp God in-arch/pos the-sky
‘and God put them upon the arch of the sky…’ (Gen. 1:17)
410 Syntax
c. va-yi-qa »
h YHWH ’elohim ’et-ha-’adam
and-3masc.sg/pret-took YHWH God acc-the-man
‘and God took the man
va-ya-ni »
he-hu be-gan ha-’eden
and-3masc.sg/pret-rest-3masc.sg/obj in-garden/poss the-eden
and put him in the garden of Eden’ (Gen. 2:15)
The newer generation of case-marked object pronouns can be still used as stressed
independent pronouns, much like independent subject pronouns:
(19) a. Stressed independent subject pronoun
ha-’isha ’asher nata-ta ’imad-i, hi’ natn-a l-i
the-woman rel gave-2masc.sg with-1sg she gave-3fem.sg to-1sg
‘the woman you gave me, SHE gave (it) to me…’ (Gen. 3:12)
b. Stressed independent object pronoun
ki ’ot-xa ra’i-ti tzadik le-fan-ay
for acc-2masc.sg saw-1sg righteous to-face-my
‘for YOU (alone) have I seen as a righteous man in front of me’ (Gen. 7:1)
When they are unstressed and anaphoric, case-marked object pronouns invariably follow
the verb, even to the point of preempting the subject NP position in the preterit paradigm
(18b) with its rigid SVO order (18a). They may be thus considered verbal clitics.3
But
neither the older nor the new anaphoric object pronouns can co-exist with the full-NP
object in the same clause. Thus, compare (18b) above with its ungrammatical version in
(20a), and (18c) above with the ungrammatical (20b):
(20) a. *va-yi-ten ’ot-am ’elohim ’et-ha-m’orot
and-3masc.sg/pret-put acc-3masc.pl God acc-the-lights
*‘and God put them the lights…’
b. *va-ya-ni »
he-hu ’et-ha-’adam
and-3masc.sg/pret-rest-3masc.sg/obj acc-the-man
*‘and he put him the man…’
Clearly, neither generation of object pronouns in Biblical Hebrew ever became obligatory
object agreement.
9.3.2.3Dative object agreement (Spanish)
As will be suggested further below, there is a good reason why obligatory object pronomi-
nal agreement is much less frequent than obligatory subject agreement. Nonetheless, the
beginning of such a process can be seen in Spanish, where dative and benefactive object
agreement is near obligatory for many verbs, at least in some dialects. Consider ﬁrst, by
way of comparison, the inanimate patient object:
Referential coherenceI 411
(21) a. Full-NP object
quebré la ventana
broke/1sg the/fem.sg window
‘I broke the window’
b. Anaphoric object pronoun
la-quebré ayer
acc/3fem.sg-broke/1sg yesterday
‘I broke it yesterday’
c. *Coexistence of full-NP and object pronoun
*la-quebré la ventana ayer
acc/3fem.sg-broke/1sg the/fem.sg window yesterday
*‘I broke it the window yesterday’
If the inanimate object is pre-posed — topicalized — however, the object pronoun
becomes obligatory, i.e. object agreement, as in:
(22) la ventana(,) la-quebré hayer
the/fem.sg window acc/3fem.sg-broke/1sg yesterday
‘the window I broke yesterday’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘the window, I broke it yesterday’
Consider now dative objects:
(23) a. Obligatory Dat object agreement
le-dí el libro a Juan
dat/3sg-gave/1sg the/masc book to Juan
‘I gave the book to Juan’
b. *Lack of Dat agreement
*dí el libro a Juan
gave/1sg the/masc.sg book to Juan
c. *Pat agreement, lack of Dat agreement
*lo-dí el libro a Juan
acc/3masc.sg-gave/1sg the/masc.sg book to Juan
d. Dat agreement, Pat anaphoric pronoun
se-lo-dí a Juan
dat/3sg-gave/1sg to Juan
‘I gave it to Juan’
e. *Pat agreement
*se-lo-dí el libro a Juan
dat/3sg-acc/3masc.sg-gave/1sg the/masc.sg book to Juan
f. Dat and Pat anaphoric pronouns
se-lo-dí ayer
dat/3sg-acc/3masc.sg-gave/1sg yesterday
‘I gave it to him/her yesterday’
412 Syntax
g. *Lack of Dat anaphoric pronoun
*lo-dí ayer
acc/3masc.sg-gave/1sg yesterday
h. *Lack of Pat anaphoric pronoun
*le-dí ayer
dat/3masc.sg-gave/1sg yesterday
9.3.2.4Deﬁnite and/or human object agreement (Swahili)
Further developments that are most likely related to the dative object agreement in Spanish
may be seen in several Bantu languages. In Swahili, for example, two features normally
associated with the dative object — humanity and deﬁniteness — have prompted two
separate lines of obligatory object agreement. For non-human objects, pronominal
agreement is obligatory for deﬁnite objects:
(24) a. Indeﬁnite object = no Obj agreement
a-li-soma kitabu
3sg-past-read book
‘s/he read a book’
b. Deﬁnite object = obligatory agreement
a-li-ki-soma kitabu
3sg-past-it-read book
‘s/he read the book’
c. Anaphoric use of object agreement
a-li-ki-soma
3sg-past-it-read
‘s/he read it’
For human objects, pronominal agreement is obligatory even for indeﬁnite NPs, so that
deﬁniteness must be marked by other means:
(25) a. Indeﬁnite = no demonstrative
wa-li-mu-ona mtoto
3pl-past-3sg/hu-see child
‘they saw a child
b. Deﬁnite = with demonstrative
wa-li-mu-ona yule mtoto
3pl-past-3sg/hu-see that child
‘they saw the child’
c. Anaphoric use of object agreement
wa-li-mu-ona
3pl-past-3sg/hu-see
‘they saw him/her’
Referential coherenceI 413
9.3.2.5Direct object agreement (KinyaRwanda)
In KinyaRwanda, object pronominal agreement is optional. In bi-transitive clauses, only
the direct object can control pronominal agreement. Like most Bantu languages, dative-
benefactive objects automatically claim the direct object status (‘obligatory promotion’).
Thus consider (Kimenyi 1976):
(26) Obligatory ‘promotion’ of Dat/Ben to DO
a. Dat/Ben = DO
Yohani y-ooher-er-eje Maria ibaruwa
John/subj 3sg-send-ben-asp Mary/obj letter/obj
‘John sent Mary a letter’
b. Optional Dat object agreement
Yohani ya-mu-oher-er-eje Maria ibaruwa
John/subj 3sg-her-send-ben-asp Mary/obj letter/obj
‘John sent (her) Mary a letter’
c. *Pat object agreement
*Yohani ya-ri-oher-er-eje Maria ibaruwa
John/subj 3sg-it-send-ben-asp Mary/obj letter/obj
d. *Pat = DO
*Yohani y-ooher-eje ibaruwa ku-Maria
John/subj 3sg-send-asp letter/obj dat-Mary
The promotion of other oblique objects to DO is optional, but the pattern of pronominal
agreement remains the same — only with the direct object:
(27) Optional promotion of instrument to DO
a. Pat = DO
umugabo ya-tem-eje igiti n-umupaanga
man/subj he-cut-asp tree/obj instr-saw
‘The man cut the tree with a saw’
b. Optional Pat object agreement
umugabo ya-gi-tem-eje igiti n-umupaanga
man/subj he-cut-it-asp tree/obj instr-saw
‘The man cut (it) the tree with a saw’
c. *Instr object agreement
*umugabo ya-u-tem-eje igiti n-umupaanga
man/subj he-cut-it-asp tree/obj instr-saw
d. Instr = DO
umugabo ya-tem-ej-eesha umupaanga igiti
man/subj he-cut-asp-instr saw/obj tree/obj
‘The man used the saw to cut the tree’
414 Syntax
e. Optional Instr object agreement
umugabo ya-u-tem-ej-eesha umupaanga igiti
man/subj he-it-cut-asp-instr saw/obj tree/obj
‘The man used (it) the saw to cut the tree’
f. *Pat object agreement
*umugabo ya-gi-tem-ej-eesha umupaanga igiti
man/subj he-it-cut-asp-instr saw/obj tree/obj
(28) Optional promotion of associative to DO
a. Pat = DO
umuhuungu ya-riimb-jye ururiimbi na-umugore
boy/subj he-sing-asp song/obj assoc-woman
‘The boy sang the song with the woman’
b. Optional Pat object agreement
umuhuungu ya-ru-riimb-jye ururiimbi na-umugore
boy/subj he-it-sing-asp song/obj assoc-woman
‘The boy sang (it) the song with the woman’
c. *Assoc object agreement
*umuhuungu ya-mu-riimb-jye ururiimbi na-umugore
boy/subj he-her-sing-asp song/obj assoc-woman
d. Assoc = DO
umuhuungu ya-riimb-an-ye umugore ururiimbi
boy/subj he-sing-assoc-asp woman/obj song/obj
‘The boy sang with the woman a song’
e. Optional Assoc object agreement
umuhuungu ya-mu-riimb-an-ye umugore ururiimbi
boy/subj he-her-sing-assoc-asp woman/obj song/obj
‘The boy sang with the woman a song’
f. *Pat object agreement
*umuhuungu ya-ru-riimb-an-ye umugore ururiimbi
boy/subj he-it-sing-assoc-asp woman/obj song/obj
(29) Optional promotion of manner to DO
a. Pat = DO
Maria ya-tets-e inkoko n-agahiinda
Mary/subj she-cook-asp chicken/obj mann-sorrow
‘Mary cooked the chicken with regret’
b. Optional Pat object agreement
Maria ya-i-tets-e inkoko n-agahiinda
Mary/subj she-it-cook-asp chicken/obj mann-sorrow
‘Mary cooked (it) the chicken with regret’
Referential coherenceI 415
c. *Mann object agreement
*Maria ya-ga-tets-e inkoko n-agahiinda
Mary/subj she-it-cook-asp chicken/obj mann-sorrow
d. Mann = DO
Maria ya-tek-an-ye agahiinda inkoko
Mary/subj she-cook-mann-asp sorrow/obj chicken/obj
‘Mary with regret cooked the chicken’
e. Optional Mann object agreement
Maria ya-ga-tek-an-ye agahiinda inkoko
Mary/subj she-it-cook-mann-asp sorrow/obj chicken/obj
‘Mary with (it) regret cooked the chicken’
f. *Pat object agreement
*Maria ya-i-tek-an-ye agahiinda inkoko
Mary/subj she-it-cook-mann-asp sorrow/obj chicken/obj
(30) Optional promotion of locative to DO
a. Pat = DO
umugore y-ooher-eje umubooyi ku-isoko
woman/subj she-send-asp cook/obj loc-market
‘The woman sent the cook to the market’
b. Optional Pat object agreement
umugore y-a-mu-oher-eje umubooyi ku-isoko
woman/subj she-him-send-asp cook/obj loc-market
c. *Loc object agreement
*umugore y-a-ri-oher-eje umubooyi ku-isoko
woman/subj she-it-send-asp cook/obj loc-market
d. Loc = DO
umugore y-ooher-eke-ho isoko umubooyi
woman/subj she-send-asp-loc market/obj cook/obj
‘The woman sent to the market the cook’
e. Optional Loc object agreement
umugore ya-ri-oher-eke-ho isoko umubooyi
woman/subj she-it-send-asp-loc market/obj cook/obj
‘The woman sent to (it) the market the cook’
f. *Pat object agreement
*umugore ya-mu-oher-eke-ho isoko umubooyi
woman/subj she-him-send-asp-loc market/obj cook/obj
9.3.2.5.1Topicalized object agreement (Amharic). In the ﬁnal variant we will consider, object
agreement is controlled by topicalization via fronting, as can be seen in Amharic (Semitic).
As in Biblical Hebrew, Spanish and Bantu, subject agreement is obligatory in Amharic. In
the unmarked SOV word-order, object agreement is not used. But when an object is
416 Syntax
fronted and thus topicalized, object agreement becomes obligatory. Thus consider (Haile
1970; Fulas 1974):
(31) a. Subject agreement only (SOV)
Almaz bet-u-n bä-mäträgiya-w tärrägä-cc
Almaz house-def-obj with-broom-def swept-she
‘Almaz swept the house with the broom’
b. Fronted patient, Pat object agreement
bet-u-n Almaz bä-mäträgiya-w tärrägä-cc-iw
house-def-obj Almaz with-broom-def swept-she-it
‘The house Almaz swept (it) with the broom’
c. *Fronted patient, Instr object agreement
*bet-u-n Almaz bä-mäträgiya-w tärrägä-cc-at
house-def-obj Almaz with-broom-def swept-she-it
d. Fronted instrument, Instr object agreement
bä-mäträgiya-w Almaz bet-u-n tärrägä-cc-at
with-broom-def Almaz house-def-obj swept-she-it
‘With the broom Almaz swept the house (with it)’
e. *Fronted instrument, Pat object agreement
*bä-mäträgiya-w Almaz bet-u-n tärrägä-cc-iw
with-broom-def Almaz house-def-obj swept-she-it
The Amharic situation is broadly similar to that of Spanish, where fronted objects also gain
pronominal agreement.
9.4 The implicational hierarchies of pronominal agreement
The data of pronominal verb agreement illustrated above can be summed up in terms of six
predictive implicational hierarchies (Hawkinson and Hyman 1974; Moravcsik 1974;
Timberlake 1975; Givón 1976):
(32) a. Grammatical relations
Subject > Direct-object > Indirect-object
b. Semantic role
Dative/Benefactive > Patient
c. Animacy
Animate > Inanimate
d. Humanity
Human > Non-human
e. Deﬁniteness
Def > Indef
f. Topicalization
Topicalized > Non-topicalized
Referential coherenceI 417
What these hierarchies predict is that if a language would develop obligatory pronominal
agreement, it would develop it ﬁrst for the highest (left-most) category in each hierarchic
scale in (32). Put another way, if a language has obligatory pronominal agreement for a
lower-ranking category on any of these scales, it most probably also has it for the category
(or categories) higher on the scale.
The six implicational scales in (32) are not fully independent of each other, but rather
exhibit well-known interactions. Thus, the dative or benefactive semantic role is over-
whelmingly human, thus animate. In natural discourse, dative objects are also overwhelm-
ingly deﬁnite (Givón 1976, 1984a). They also lay the highest claim, of all other objects, to
the grammatical role of direct object (Ch.4, §4.5.2). Likewise, topicalized NPs — whether
L-dislocated or Y-moved (see Vol. II, Ch.16) — are overwhelmingly deﬁnite.
The earlier discussion in the 1970s (e.g. Hawkinson and Hyman 1974; Timberlake
1975; Givón 1976) took it for granted that a single pragmatic feature — topicality —
motivated all the hierarchies in (32). While perhaps insightful at the time, in retrospect one
must recognize that the invocation of ‘topicality’ failed to specify, let alone explain, the
actual mechanism responsible for the key diachronic step in the rise of obligatory pronomi-
nal agreement — the shift from using anaphoric pronouns only in anaphoric contexts (in
the absence of a full NP) to their extended obligatory use in both anaphoric and non-
anaphoric contexts (coexisting with full-NPs). The elucidation of such a mechanism
requires a much more explicit understanding of the grammar of anaphora and deﬁniteness,
thus the grammar of referential coherence. The skeletal outline of this core component of
grammar is given directly below.
9.5 Foundations of the grammar anaphoric reference
9.5.1 Preamble
The rise of obligatory pronominal agreement is due to the conﬂation of three separate
processes, each motivated by its own discourse-pragmatic dynamics:
•the diachronic rise of clitic anaphoric pronouns out of stressed
independent pronouns
•the high text-frequency of anaphoric pronouns
•the high frequency of cliticization on the verb.
To understand the naturalness of these processes, one must ﬁrst understand the communi-
cative use of four grammatical devices that sit at the very heart of the grammar of referen-
tial coherence:
•anaphoric zero
•unstressed anaphoric pronouns
•stressed independent pronouns
•deﬁnite (vs. indeﬁnite) full-NPs.
418 Syntax
Traditionally, all four devices have been considered deﬁnite given the classical deﬁnition of
deﬁniteness as identiﬁability (see Ch.10):
“The speaker assumes that the hearer can identify the referent”
In the next three sections we will describe, albeit only brieﬂy, the speciﬁc discourse contexts
in which these four devices are used. The outline follows, in the main, the more extensive
treatment in Givón (1992, 1994b).
9.5.2 Anaphoric zero vs. unstressed anaphoric pronouns
Both zero anaphors and unstressed anaphoric pronouns are used in context of maximal
referential continuity. Their co-referent, whether a full-NP, anaphoric zero or pronoun, is
found — overwhelmingly — in the immediately-preceding clause (Givón ed. 1983b). As
an illustration, consider:
(33) a. Mary came into the room and [Ø] looked around.
b. She was the only one there, she could tell.
c. She hesitated, then [Ø] turned around and [Ø] walked out.
d. [Ø] walking away, she saw someone approaching.
An anaphoric zero is used in English in contexts of maximal referential and thematic
continuity, with the antecedent coreferent found in the immediately-preceding clause, and
only grammatical subject continuity ((33a), (33c)).
The choice of using an anaphoric pronoun rather than an anaphoric zero is subtle in
English, but nonetheless well regulated. It is precipitated by three main discontinuity
conditions:
•Thematic discontinuity: end of the clause-chain;
•Grammatical-role discontinuity: subject–object switch;
•Clause-rank discontinuity: subordinate–main clause switch.
Ending the thematic unit — clause-chain — with a period in (33a) prompts the use of ‘she’
(rather than zero) in the next chain-initial clause in (33b). The second ‘she’ (rather than
zero) in (33b) is prompted by the thematic gap created by a switch from verb-complement
clause to main clause. The use of zero (rather than ‘she’) to open the new chain in (33d) is
at ﬁrst glance puzzling. However, the zero here is construction-speciﬁc (‘syntactically
governed’) zero, part and parcel of the grammar of participial Adv-clauses. The coreference
condition for such clauses is cataphoric rather than anaphoric (Ch.18). Finally, the use of
‘she’ (rather than zero) in (33d) is again prompted by the switch from subordinate
Adv-clause to main clause.
Two types of languages lack the distinction between zero anaphora and unstressed
anaphoric pronouns:
•languages with obligatory subject agreement (Spanish, Bantu, Semitic);
•languages with no anaphoric pronouns (so-called ‘pro-drop’ languages;
Chinese, Japanese).
Referential coherenceI 419
In such languages, a single grammatical device — either pronominal agreement or ana-
phoric zero, respectively — codes the communicative context of maximal referential
continuity, leaving the further sub-distinction of thematic continuity, coded in English by
the contrast between zero and anaphoric pronoun, uncoded.
9.5.3 Anaphoric vs. stressed independent pronouns
A distinct cluster of contexts of referential discontinuity, often with referential contrast,
prompt the change of grammatical strategy from unstressed anaphoric pronoun (or zero)
to stressed independent pronoun. Most typically, two or more referents of equal rank are
involved, so that a potential ambiguity exists at least in principle. As illustrations consider:
(34) a. Bill talked to Joe and then (he) left.
b. Bill talked to Joe and then HE left.
c. I talked to Joe and he agreed...
d. I talked to Joe and [Ø] agreed...
e. I talked to Joe and Sally. HE was agreeable. SHE wasn’t.
f. I saw Sally and Joe. I like HER a lot. HIM I can’t stand.
The use of either an anaphoric pronoun or zero in (34a) is compatible with subject
continuity. The use of the stressed pronoun in (34b) makes possible an object-to-subject
switch. But an anaphoric pronoun suﬃces in (34c) despite the object-to-subject switch,
because there is no competing referent. A zero in the same context, as in (34d), re-
establishes subject continuity. In (34e), with no referential ambiguity, the ﬁrst stressed
pronoun (HIM) codes referent switch from the conjoined pair to one member; the second
(HER) codes both referent switch and contrast. In (34f), again with no referential ambigu-
ity, both stressed pronouns code referent switch and contrast.
9.5.4 Pronouns and zero anaphors vs. deﬁnite full-NPs
As noted above, pronouns and zero anaphors are used in context of maximal referential
continuity. In the case of zero and unstressed pronouns, their antecedent is found —
overwhelmingly — in the directly-preceding clause. In the case of contrastive, stressed
independent pronouns, their antecedent coreferent is found — overwhelmingly — within
2–3 clauses back. The antecedent coreferent of deﬁnite full-NPs, in sharp contrast, is
found much further away in the preceding discourse, often not even in the same clause-
chain or paragraph.
To drive this point home, consider the mean values of anaphoric distance associated
with various referent-coding devices, compiled from multiple cross-language studies
(Givón ed. 1983b; Givón 1984b; Sun and Givón 1985).
420 Syntax
(35) Comparison of mean anaphoric distance values and and degree of
categorial clustering for common anaphoric devices
(Givón ed. 1983a; 1984b; Sun and Givón 1985)
construction
mean AD
(# of clauses)
degree of clustering
around the mean
a.zero anaphora
b.unstressed PRO
c.stressed PRO
d.Y-movement
e.Def-noun
f.Def-noun with modiﬁer(s)
g.L-dislocated Def-N
1.0
1.0
2.5
2.5
7.0
10.0
15.0
100% at mean
95% at mean
90% between 2–3
90% between 2–3
25% at 1.0
35% scattered 5–19
40% at 20+
55% scattered 5–19
45% beyond 204
60% at >20
25% at 4–9
13% at 10–19
As will be seen in Chapter 10, not all deﬁnite full-NPs have an overt textual antecedent.
Thus, for example, the last two deﬁnite NPs in the ﬁction passage in (36) below (‘the
clothing’, ‘the body’) have no explicit text antecedent. Their deﬁniteness is due to their
predictable relation to another explicitly mentioned antecedent, ‘the dead man’. The
passage as a whole illustrates the use of full-NPs vs. anaphoric pronouns or zero:
(36) “…He circled it wearily as a wolf, [Ø] studying it from all angles, and when
ﬁnally he stopped within a dozen feet of the dead man, he knew much of what
had happened at this place.
The dead man had ridden a freshly shod horse into the playa from the
north, and when [Ø] shot he had tumbled from the saddle and the horse had
galloped away. Several riders on unshod ponies had then approached the body
and one had dismounted to [Ø] collect the weapons. The clothing had not been
stripped oﬀ, nor was the body mutilated…” (L’Amour 1962, p.7)
9.6 Explaining the rise of pronominal agreement
We are now in the position to tackle four questions that were thus far left open, concerning
the rise of obligatory pronominal agreement on the verb:
a. Why do contrastive stressed independent pronouns become unstressed — and eventual-
ly cliticized — anaphoric pronouns?
b. Why do anaphoric pronouns cliticize on the verb — rather than on any other word-
type in the clause?
Referential coherenceI 421
c. Why do anaphoric pronouns, initially used without the full NP, become obligatory
grammatical agreement in the presence of the full NP?
d. What motivates the hierarchies of the likelihood of grammatical agreement (32)?
a.
The de-marking of independent pronouns
The diachronic mechanism for de-emphasizing and thus de-stressing independent
pronouns is probably due to communicative over-use, a strategy of ‘buying extra insu-
rance’. It involves extending the use of stressed pronouns from contrastive to non-
contrastive contexts, i.e. into a sub-domain previously covered by zero anaphors.
Some insight about the dynamics of this extension process may be gained from the
contrast between English and Spanish. In English, with the demise of the Anglo-Saxon
system of subject pronominal agreement on the verb, the sub-domain of anaphoric
pronouns was reclaimed by zero anaphora, for both the subject and object role. The
independent pronouns, in their de-stressed version, then moved over to re-claim that slot.
For the human pronouns, stress still remains the sole phonological diﬀerence between their
contrastive and their anaphoric use (see (34) above). The inanimate pronoun ‘it’, however,
cannot be stressed anymore in most contexts, so that its erstwhile contrastive function has
been transferred to a new-generation independent pronoun — the stressed demonstrative
pronoun ‘that (one)’ (Linde 1979):
(37) a. I didn’t see it.
b. *I didn’t see IT.
c. I didn’t see THAT (ONE).
d. It’s something else.
e. *But IT is something else.
f. But THAT is something else.
g. Give it to me.
h. *Give IT to me.
i. Give me THAT (ONE).
In Spanish, the functional sub-domain of subject anaphoric pronouns is still served well by
the obligatory subject agreement paradigm. Stressed subject pronouns are used only in
contrastive contexts:
(38) a. Anaphoric
todavía no há llegado
still neg have/3sg arrived
‘s/he hasn’t arrived yet’
b. Contrastive
EL no há llegado, pero ELLA sí
3masc.sg neg have/3sg arrived but 3fem.sg
‘HE hasn’t arrived, but SHE has’
422 Syntax
But there was no old obligatory object agreement conjugation in Spanish, and the
anaphoric object slot was thus under-coded. Into the breach moved a set of stressed
demonstrative pronouns, becoming de-stressed and anaphoric:
(39) a. lo-quiero
3sg.masc/obj-want/1sg
‘I want it/him’
b. la-quiero
3sg.fem/obj-want/1sg
‘I want it/her’
c. le-dí un libro
3sg/dat-gave/1sg a book
‘I gave him/her a book’
The reduced short forms of these object pronouns can still display stress in the limited
context of headless Rel-clauses, in both subject and object roles:
(40) a. lo que quiero es…
3masc.sg sub want/1sg is
‘What I want/love is…’
b. la que quiero es…
3fem.sg sub want/1sg is
‘the one I want/love is…’
c. lo que pasó es que…
3sg sub happened/3sg is sub
‘what happened is that…’
d. lo peor es que…
3sg worst is sub
‘the worst thing is that…’
e. sea lo que sea…
be/3sg/subj 3sg sub be/3sg/subj
‘let whatever happens happen’
f. Que case con la que le-guste
sub marry/3sg/subj with 3fem.sg sub 3sg/dat-please/3sg/subj
‘let him/her marry whomever s/he please’
And the full forms of these erstwhile demonstrative pronouns are still extant, as in the
stressed independent pronouns él (he’), ella (‘she’), as well as combinations such as aquello
and aquella (‘that one’).
Finally, the pre-verbal — fronted — position of the Spanish clitic object pronouns
seems puzzling, given that they cliticized during a period of VO syntax. As stressed
contrastive pronouns, however, their fronted position is natural and well motivated both
in Spanish and universally (see Vol. II, Ch.15).
One may as well note that the situation of anaphoric object pronouns in Biblical
Hebrew, described earlier above (§9.3.2.2), also illustrate the de-marking of independent
Referential coherenceI 423
stressed pronouns. By the time of Early Biblical Hebrew (Genesis), the older set of suﬃx
object pronouns has become obsolete, as indicated by their extremely low text frequency.
The new, prepositionally-marked object pronouns perform, in EBH, both the anaphoric
and contrastive functions.
b.
The attraction of anaphoric pronouns to the verb
We noted earlier above (§9.2.2.1) that Ute clitic anaphoric pronouns tend to cliticize on
the ﬁrst word in the clause. Can such pronouns evolve into verb-clitic pronouns? The
answer to this is, tentatively, yes, and it draws on two text frequencies and their predictable
consequences:
•Human discourse typically occurs in equi-topic chains whose average length appears
to be 5–10 clauses.
•In natural discourse, the clausal subject — being the main topic — is overwhelmingly
continuous, thus anaphoric, thus most likely coded as zero or clitic pronoun.
•The direct object, while less topical than the subject, is often anaphoric too.
•The likelihood of a clause with both an anaphoric subject and an anaphoric object is
thus rather high.
•Of the three main word-types in the clause — subject, object and verb — the verb is
thus the most likely word to appear in clauses in natural discourse.
•Consequently, the verb is the most likely word to which de-stressed anaphoric pronouns
can cliticize.
To illustrate some of these frequencies, consider ﬁrst the frequency of anaphoric vs. full-NP
subjects and objects in Zacapultec (Mayan; DuBois 1987):
(41) The distribution of grammatical subjects, objects and ‘others’ in the zero
pronoun and full-NP categories in Zacapultec (DuBois 1987)
zero/pronoun full-NP total
grammatical type N % N % N %
transitive subj
intransitive subj
all subjects
dir. objects
oblique objects
169
136
305
96
24
93.9
51.9
60.0
54.3
13.4
11
126
137
81
154
6.1
48.1
40.0
45.7
86.6
180
262
442
177
178
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
In the same vein, consider the frequency of anaphoric vs. full-NP subjects in spoken Ute,
spoken English (Givón ed. 1983b), and two spoken Pidgins (Givón 1984b):
424 Syntax
(42) Text frequency of clauses with anaphoric subject pronouns (incl. zero) vs. full
subject NPs in spoken Ute, spoken English and two spoken Pidgins
(see Givón ed. 1983b, 1984b)
zero/pronoun full-NP total
N % N % N %
Ute
English
Spanglish pidgin
Filipinglish pidgin
288
540
109
132
93.5
74.4
68.9
73.3
20
185
54
48
6.5
25.6
31.1
26.7
308
725
163
180
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
Likewise, consider the frequency of anaphoric vs. full-NP subjects in ﬁve conversational
diads in English (Givón 1999):
(43) Full-NP vs. pronominal or zero subjects in English conversation (Givón 1999)
pro/zero full-NP total
subjects N % N % N %
Pair #1
Pair #2
Pair #3
Pair #4
Pair #5
114
189
114
72
133
89.7
93.5
94.2
88.9
90.5
13
13
7
9
14
10.3
6.5
5.8
11.1
9.5
127
202
121
81
147
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
total: 622 91.7 56 8.3 678 100.0
The comparable frequency of anaphoric object pronouns in the same conversations was
(Givón 1999):
(44) Full-NP vs. pronominal or zero objects in English conversation (Givón 1999)
pro/zero full-NP total
subjects N % N % N %
Pair #1
Pair #2
Pair #3
Pair #4
Pair #5
36
42
47
32
25
54.5
53.1
71.2
78.0
53.2
30
37
19
9
22
45.5
46.9
28.8
22.0
46.8
66
79
66
41
47
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
100.0
total: 182 60.8 117 39.2 299 100.0
c.
From anaphoric pronoun to obligatory pronominal agreement
The high frequency of anaphoric pronouns in natural spoken discourse, particularly
subject pronouns, is what motivates the change from anaphoric pronouns to obligatory
Referential coherenceI 425
pronominal agreement. In grammaticalization, the change from 90% text frequency to
100% is almost a foregone conclusion — given time and a plausible mechanism.
The plausible mechanism in this case is most likely two well-known topicalizing
constructions — L(eft)-dislocation and R(ight)-dislocation. In a language with clitic
anaphoric pronouns, as English (for both subject and object) and Spanish (for the object),
theco-existing co-referentpronoun isobligatoryin suchconstructions (seeVol. II, Ch.16):
(45) a. Neutral pattern
Mary saw John
b. Subject L-dislocation
Mary, she-saw John
c. Object L-dislocation
John, Mary saw-him
d. Subject R-dislocation
She-saw John, Mary
e. Object R-dislocation
Mary saw-him, John
Likewise in Spanish:
(46) a. L-dislocation/Y-movement
a-Juan(,) le-vió María
obj-Juan 3sg/dat-saw/3sg Maria
‘John, Mary saw him’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘JOHN Mary saw (rather than heard)’
b. R-dislocation
le-vió María(,) a-Juan
3sg/dat-saw/1sg M. obj-Juan
‘She saw him, Mary’
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘Mary saw John’
As suggested in Givón (1976), these two topicalizing constructions easily get de-marked,
lose the intonation break, and wind up as simple clause with a deﬁnite full-NP subject or
object. That is:
(47) a. L-dislocation
My ol’ man, he-rides with the Angels ﬁ
b. De-marked neutral pattern
My ol’ man he-rides with the Angels
As noted in (35) above, the contextual diﬀerence between deﬁnite NPs without L-dis-
location and L-dislocated deﬁnite NPs, in terms of their anaphoric distance, is roughly 7–10
clauses for the former and 15 clauses for the latter. L-dislocation is thus typically a chain-
initial device, coding a higher level of referential and thematic discontinuity. Much like in
the de-marking of stressed independent pronouns to yield clitic anaphoric pronouns, what
426 Syntax
is at work here is the strategy of over-use, whereby a grammatical device that normally
codes lower continuity gets functionally re-interpreted into coding higher continuity.
d.
The hierarchies of pronominal agreement
We are ﬁnally in the position to explain the role of the so-called ‘topic hierarchies’ in
determining the likelihood of obligatory pronominal agreement. These hierarchies are
reproduced below:
(32) a. Grammatical relations
Subject > Direct-object > Indirect-object
b. Semantic role
Agent > Dative/Benefactive > Patient
c. Animacy
Animate > Inanimate
d. Humanity
Human > Non-human
e. Deﬁniteness
Def > Indef
f. Topicalization
Topicalized > Non-topicalized
These hierarchies must surely be motivated by the text-frequency of anaphoric pronom-
inalization, the precursor to obligatory pronominal agreement. The grammatical case
hierarchy (32a) is motivated by the higher text-frequency of anaphoric subjects over
objects (see (41), (42), (43), (44)), and direct-objects over indirect-objects (DuBois 1987;
Givón 1984b; Givón ed. 1994a). The semantic role hierarchies are motivated by exactly the
same frequencies, given that the agent lays the strongest claim to subjecthood and the
dative to direct objecthood (see Ch.4, §4.5). Both the animacy hierarchy (32c) and the
humanity hierarchy (32d) are motivated by the fact that the agent and dative are both
almost exclusively human/animate. The connection to the frequency of anaphoric
pronominalization is thus solid if indirect:
human/animate > Agt/Dat > Subj/DO
The motivation for the deﬁniteness hierarchy (32e) is now obvious: First, indeﬁnite NPs
have no anaphoric antecedent whatever, so that anaphoric pronouns are almost always
deﬁnite. And second, dislocated NPs can only be deﬁnite (or generic), but never referring
indeﬁnites (see Vol. II, chs 15, 16).
Finally, the topicalization hierarchy (32f) is predictable not from the atomic notion of
‘topic’, but rather from the role of NP-fronting constructions — L-dislocation and
Y-movement — in the rise of obligatory pronominal agreement. As noted in (45), (46)
(47) above, such constructions tend to demand — in languages with anaphoric pronouns
— obligatory pronominal agreement.
Referential coherenceI 427
9.7 Head-modiﬁer agreement in the noun phrase
While less prevalent cross-linguistically than verb agreement, head-modiﬁer agreement in
the noun phrase is a well-known phenomenon, albeit somewhat of a misnomer. The
classiﬁcatory semantic or pragmatic features involved here are, in principle, the very same
ones listed in (2) as underlying all pronominal systems, with the exclusion of two features
— speech-act participants (2a) and spatial deixis anchored to SAPs (2b). This is a rather
understandable exclusion, given that the SAPs have the most unique reference, are always
pronominal, and thus take no modiﬁers (see Vol. II, Ch.11).
The surviving four features most commonly found in head-modiﬁer agreement are:
•noun class/gender;
•number;
•deﬁniteness;
•case-roles.
Of these, only the ﬁrst — class/gender — is an inherent feature of the head noun. The
others are grammar-coded semantic or pragmatic further speciﬁcation of the particular
NP. It is now obvious why the traditional term ‘head-modiﬁer agreement’ is a misnomer:
It applies only to inherent nominal class/gender.
In some languages, agreement in the noun-phrase is transparently of the same pronomi-
nal type as pronominal verb agreement. This is the case in Bantu languages, where the same
CV-syllable that is the base of the vast pronominal system (see §9.2.2.3 above) is also the
base form for head-modiﬁer agreement. Thus (from Swahili):
(48) a. ki-le ki-kapu chy-angu ki-dogo ki-li-chyo-vunjika…
the basket my small it-past-rel-broke
‘the small basket of mine that broke…’
b. vi-le vi-kapu vy-angu vi-dogo vi-li-vyo-vunjika…
the baskets my small they-past-rel-broke
‘the small baskets of mine that broke…’
c. yu-le m-toto w-angu m-dogo a-li-ye-kufa…
the child my small s/he-past-rel-died
‘the small child of mine who died…’
d. wa-le wa-toto wa-angu wa-dogo wa-li-wo-kufa…
the child my small they-past-rel-died
‘the small children of mine who died…’
In other languages, gender and number agreement in the NP closely resembles, both
phonologically and semantically, the classiﬁcatory categories of head nouns, so much so
that the most likely origin of such agreement may have to do with the rise of the word-class
adjective out of the word-class noun. As an illustration, consider Hebrew, where the
masculine-singular serves to some extent as base form:
428 Syntax
(49) a. yeled gadol exad
child/masc.sg big/masc.sg one/masc.sg
‘one big boy’
b. yald-a gdol-a axat
child-fem.sg big-fem.sg one/fem.sg
‘one big girl’
c. yelad-im gdol-im axad-im
child-masc.pl big-masc.pl one-masc.pl
‘some big boys’
d. yelad-ot gdol-ot axad-ot
child-fem.pl big-fem.pl one-fem.pl
‘some big girls’
Hebrew may also serve to illustrate deﬁnite agreement — a feature of the NP rather than
of the noun — across many modiﬁers in the NP:
(50) a. ha-yeled ha-gadol ha-sheni ha-ze
def-child/masc.sg def-big/masc.sg def-second def-that/masc.sg
‘that second big boy’
b. ha-yald-a ha-gdol-a ha-shniy-a ha-zot
def-child-fem.sg def-big-fem.sg def-second/fem.sg def-that/fem.sg
‘that second big girl’
c. ha-yelad-im ha-gdol-im ha-shniy-im
def-child-masc.pl def-big-masc.pl def-second-masc.pl
ha-ele
def-this/masc.pl
‘those second big boys’
d. ha-yelad-ot ha-gdol-ot ha-shniy-ot ha-ele
def-child-fem.pl def-big-fem.pl def-second-fem.pl def-this/fem.pl
‘those second big girls’
Case-role, again an NP feature rather than a noun feature, can also form the basis for
‘agreement’, as in Latin (Palmer 1954):
(51) vir bon-us puerō bon-o libr-um bon-um dedit
man/nom good-nom boy-dat good-dat book-acc good-acc gave
‘the good man gave the good boy a good book’
In Latin, as well as in many languages in Australia and So. America (see Vol. II, Ch.18),
case agreement is also extended to participial Adv-clauses, which are treated formally as
modiﬁers agreeing with either the subject or object NP. This feature can be easily be
recruited to mark cross-clausal subject continuity or discontinuity, as in (Thompson and
Longacre 1985):
(52) a. ab oppid-o duct-a,
from town-acc lead/perf/part-nom
‘(having been) brought from town,
Referential coherenceI 429
femin-a prope templ-um habitabat.
woman-nom near temple-acc lived
the woman lived near the temple’
b. Caesar, accept-is litter-is,
Caesar/nom receive/perf/part-abl letter-abl
‘Caesar, the letter having been received,
nuntin-um misit.
messenger-acc sent
sent a messenger’
In (52a), the nominative-marked participial clause agrees with the nominative-marked
main-clause subject, thus coding subject continuity between the main and subordinate
clause. In (52b), the ablative-marked participial clause ‘disagrees’ with the nominative-
marked main-clause subject, thus signalling switch-subject between main and subordinate
clause.
On occasion, Latin case agreement can be carried to quite an extreme, as can be seen in
example (53) below, taken from the Credo section of the Mass, where the verb ‘believe’
takes a prepositional object that requires the accusative case, which then persists seemingly
forever, with various lacunae in which case government is more local:5
(53) Credo in un-um De-um,
believ/I in one-acc God-acc
‘I believe in one God,
Patr-em omnipotent-em,
father-acc almighty-acc
Father Almighty,
factor-em coeli et terrae,
maker-acc heaven/gen and earth/gen
Maker of heaven and earth,
visibilium omnium et invisibilium.
visibles/gen all/gen and invisibles/gen
and of all (things) visible and invisible.
Et in un-um Domin-um Jes-um Christ-um
and in one-acc Lord-acc Jesus-acc Christ-acc
And in one Lord Jesus Christ,
Fili-um Dei unigenit-um,
son-acc God/gen only.begotten-acc
God’s only begotten son,
et ex Patre nat-um
and out Father/abl born-acc
begotten of the Father
430 Syntax
ante omnia seculae
before all/acc worlds/acc
before all the worlds.
De-um de Deo,
God-acc of God/abl
God of God,
lumen de lumine,
light/acc of light/abl
light of light,
De-um ver-um de Deo vero,
God-acc true-acc of God/abl true/abl
true God of true God,
Genit-um non fact-um…
begotten-acc neg made-acc
begotten, not made…’
While the actual mechanisms responsible for the diachronic rise of agreement in the NP are
yet be fully understood, it is most likely that high frequency of anaphoric pronominalization
has much to do with it. But pronominalization of a diﬀerent sort than the one discussed
thus far — the use of noun-modiﬁers as pronouns. It is well known that languages with
more extensive, viable NP agreement enjoy a much wider latitude in using modiﬁers as
anaphoric pronouns. As an illustration, compare the Swahili examples in (54) below with
their English translations. With one exception, the latter require the pronoun ‘one’:
(54) a. yu-le alikufa ‘that one died’
b. w-angu alikufa ‘mine died’
c. m-dogo alikufa ‘the big one died’
e. a-li-ye-kufa hayuko ‘the one who died is not here’
f. w-a m-moja alikufa ‘the ﬁrst one died’
With the exception of inherent nominal gender, agreement of modiﬁers in the noun phrase
is little more than the assumption — under anaphoric conditions — of the NP’s number,
deﬁniteness or case-marking morphology by modiﬁers functioning as anaphoric pronouns.
9.8 Other functions of grammatical agreement
The original function of pronominal subject or object agreement on the verb — the
primary grammaticalization of grammatical agreement — is that of anaphoric pronouns.
But like elsewhere, secondary grammaticalization is responsible to functional extension in
multiple directions. In this section we will brieﬂy survey some of those.
Referential coherenceI 431
9.8.1 Marking verb-type and transitivity (Melanesian Pidgin)
In Solomon Islands Pidgin (Melanesian substratum Pidgin), the erstwhile subject pronoun
(or agreement) ‘he’ still survives as a third-person anaphoric pronoun on the verb, at least
in some discourse contexts. The erstwhile object pronoun/agreement ‘him’, however, has
become lexicalized as marker of all transitive verbs. Thus consider (Keesing 1988):
(55) a. pikipiki i-ranawe
pig subj-run.away
‘the pig ran away’
b. em i-luk-im pikipiki
s/he subj-see-tr pig
‘s/he saw the pig’
c. mi luk-im pikipiki
I see-tr pig
‘I saw the pig’
d. mi luk-im
I see-tr
‘I saw it/him/her/them’
e. mi luk-im yu
I see-tr you
‘I saw you’
f. bae mifala du-im tumora
fut we/ex do-tr tomorrow
‘we’ll do it tomorrow’
g. bae mifala luk-im yu tumora
fut we/ex see-tr you tomorrow
‘we’ll see you tomorrow’
The anaphoric object contexts in (55d,f) may suggest a surviving third-person pronominal
function for -im. But (55e,g) immediately rule out this interpretation, so that (55d,f) must
be better viewed as zero anaphora.6
9.8.2 Marking direct vs. indirect objects (KinyaRwanda, Lunda)
As noted earlier above (§9.3.2.5), in KinyaRwanda (Bantu) bi-transitive clauses only the
direct object — the one adjacent to the verb — controls object agreement. The competi-
tion for object pronominal agreement in Spanish bi-transitive clauses, although technically
between dative and patient, is probably of the same general type (§9.3.2.3 above). And
when both objects command pronominal agreement in Spanish, the dative pronoun
precedes the patient pronoun.
A broadly similar situation is found in Lunda (Bantu), where two object pronoun slots
are found on the verbal word. The preﬁx pronoun, as in KinyaRwanda, can only agree
with the direct object. But the suﬃx pronoun agrees with the indirect object (Kawasha
1999, 2000):
432 Syntax
(56) a. Intransitive with IO
w-a-temukila ku-shikola
3sg-past-run.to loc-school
‘s/he ran to school’
b. Pronominalized IO
w-a-temukila-k(u)-u
3sg-past-run.to-loc-suff
‘s/he ran there’
c. Transitive with DO
w-a-tekela mbizi
3sg-past-cook meat
‘s/he cooked the meat’
d. Pronominalized DO
w-a-yi-tekela
3sg-past-it-cook
‘s/he cooked it’
e. Bi-transitive with two object NPs
w-e-enka kansi mukanda
3sg-past-give child book
‘s/he gave the child a book’
f. Pronominalized dative DO
w-a-mw-inka mukanda
3sg-past-3sg/obj-give book
‘s/he gave him/her a book’
g. Dative/DO agreement
w-a-mw-inka kansi mukanda
3sg-past-3sg/obj-give child book
‘s/he gave the child a book’
h. Pronominalized DO and IO
w-a-mw-inka-w(u)-u
3sg-past-3sg/obj-give-it-suff
‘s/he gave it to him/her’
i. Agreement of both DO and IO
w-a-mw-inka-w(u)-u kansi mukanda
3sg-past-3sg/obj-give-it-suff child book
‘s/he gave the child the book’’
9.8.3 Marking topical objects (Amharic, Machiguenga)
We have already noted earlier (Ch.4, §4.5) that direct objects tend to be more topical than
indirect objects. Thus, pronominal marking of the more topical object can be considered
as a grammatical feature of direct objects. A related case has been noted earlier (§9.3.2.6)
for Amharic, albeit only with fronted — topicalized — objects.
Referential coherenceI 433
A broadly similar situation can be seen in Machiguenga (So. Arawak), a V-ﬁrst
language where pre-verbal NPs are uncommon. There is virtually no case-marking in
Machiguenga, but the more topical object in bi-transitive clauses commands two gram-
maticalized properties:
•adjacency to the verb, i.e. fronting;
•pronominal agreement.
Thus (B. Snell, i.p.c.):
(57) a. Topical Dat DO
i-m-p-u-t-e-ro tsinane kamona
3masc-irr-give-dir-ep-irr-3fem woman chonta.palm
‘he may give the woman chonta-palm’
b. Topical Pat DO
i-m-p-u-t-e-ri kamona tsinane
3masc-irr-give-dir-ep-irr-3masc chonta.palm woman
‘he may give the chonta-palm to the woman’
9.8.4 Marking deﬁnite objects (Swahili)
We have already noted above (§9.3.2.4) the use of object pronominal agreement in
Swahili to mark the deﬁniteness of objects. A similar tendency may be noted in Lunda
(§9.8.2 above).
9.8.5 Marking main vs. subordinate clauses (Bemba)
In Bemba (Bantu), the subject agreement for 3rd person singular humans, the most
frequent subject pronoun in discourse, displays one form in main clauses, another in
relative clauses. For other 3rd person subject pronouns, the diﬀerence is only in tone
(Givón 1972):
(58) a. Main clause (1sg)
umukashi á-à-ishile
woman 3sg-past-come
‘the woman came’
b. Rel-clause (1sg)
umukashi ù-à-ishile…
woman 3sg/rel-past-come
‘the woman who came…’
c. Main clause (1pl)
abakashi bá-à-ishile
women 3pl-past-come
‘the women came’
434 Syntax
d. Rel-clause (1pl)
abakashi bà-à-ishile…
women 3pl/rel-past-come
‘the women who came…’
9.8.6 Marking existential-presentative clauses (KinyaRwanda)
In Bantu languages, existential-presentative clauses display locative subject agreement
rather than normal subject agreement. Thus (KinyaRwanda; Kimenyi 1976):
(59) a. umugabo ya-riho ku-nzu
man 3sg-be loc-house
‘the man is in/at the house’
b. abagabo ba-riho ku-nzu
man 3pl-be loc-house
‘the men are in/at the house’
c. ku-nzu ha-riho umugabo
loc-house loc-be man
‘there’s a man in the house’
d. ku-nzu ha-riho abagabo
loc-house loc-be men
‘there’re men in the house’
9.8.7 Binding NP constituents together
Finally, we noted earlier (Ch.5, §5.7) that grammatical agreement across the NP can also
serve to bind all NP constituents together, especially in cases where they are non-adjacent.
In this connection, recall the case of Walbiri, where case agreement with the head noun is
optional if the modiﬁer is adjacent to it, but obligatory if the head and modiﬁer are non-
adjacent. Thus (Hale 1980; Austin and Bresnan 1996):
(60) a. Scattered subject NP, obligatory Erg-case agreement
kurdu-rlu ka maliki wajili-nyi wita-rlu
child-erg pres dog/abs chase-nonpast small-erg
‘the small child chased the dog’
b. Scattered object NP, obligatory Abs-case agreement
kurdu-rlu ka maliki wajili-nyi wita
child-erg pres dog/abs chase-nonpast small/abs
‘the child chased the small dog’
*‘the small child chased the dog’
c. Adjacent subject NP, optional erg-case agreement
wita kurdu-rlu ka maliki wajili-nyi
small child-erg pres dog/abs chase-nonpast
‘the small child chased the dog’
*‘the child chased the small dog’
Referential coherenceI 435
9.9 Indeﬁnite and non-referring pronouns
There is a tendency to assume that indeﬁnite pronouns are never anaphoric, since the bulk
of anaphoric pronouns are indeed deﬁnite. However, the following contrast in English
suggests that the situation is more complex. While the examples below will make more
sense in the context of the discussion of reference and deﬁniteness in the next chapter, they
are reasonably transparent. Consider ﬁrst:
(61) a. Deﬁnite antecedent
John was looking for the book, and he found it
b. Referring-indeﬁnite antecedent
John was looking for a book he lost, and he found it
c. Non-referring antecedent
John was looking for a book to read, and he found one
d. Non-referring antecedent
You might ﬁnd a book you like there. If you ﬁnd one,
let me have it when you’re ﬁnished, OK?
In (61a–c), the pronoun ‘it’ is indeed referring-deﬁnite, and ‘one’ referring-indeﬁnite. But
(61d) throws a monkey-wrench in the generalization, showing that ‘one’ is simply
indeﬁnite regardless of reference status, and ‘it’ simply deﬁnite regardless of reference
status. We will return to this topic in the next chapter. And English also has marked non-
referring pronouns, as in:
(62) I don’t know if anybody came, I saw no one there.
The use of the plural anaphoric — thus again presumably deﬁnite — pronouns ‘they’ or
‘them’tomark non-referenceorvaguereference inspokenEnglishiswellentrenched, asin:
(63) a. If anybody shows up, tell them to wait.
b. If anybody did that, they’d be insane.
These examples parallel the use of the deﬁnite but non-referring ‘it’ in (61d) above, again
underscoring the fact that deﬁnite need not be referential, leastwise not logically.
Note, ﬁnally, that an anaphoric zero may likewise be either referring or non-referring,
while remaining just as deﬁnite as ‘it’ and ‘they’. As an illustration, consider the use of zero
object anaphora in spoken Hebrew:
(64) a. Deﬁnite zero
Context: Rai-ta oto?
saw-2masc.sg him
‘Did you see him?’
Response: ken, rai-ti
yes saw-1sg
‘yes, I saw (him)’
436 Syntax
b. Referring-indeﬁnite zero
Context: Rai-ta mishehu sham?
saw-2masc.sg anybody there
‘Did you see anybody there?’
Response: ken, rai-ti
yes, saw-1sg
‘yes, I saw (someone)’
c. Non-referring zero
Context: Rai-ta mishehu sham?
saw-2masc.sg anybody there
‘Did you see anybody there?’
Response: lo, lo-rai-ti
neg neg-saw-1sg
‘no, I didn’t see (anybody)’
Notes
1. A possessive interpretation of the clitic pronoun here is possible, but only if the possessor is not
coreferent with the subject. Under subject-possessor coreference, the invariant reﬂexive genitive
pronoun -av must be used. That is:
kani-av ’uru pu
=nikya-kha-pu
=ga-am(u
=)
house/acc-gen/refl det/acc see-pl-rem-3pl/an
‘they saw their own house’
2. One might as well note that unstressed anaphoric subject pronouns in spoken English are also
roughly at this diachronic stage (Givón 1999). The same is true of unstressed subject pronouns in
spoken French (Givón 1976).
3. See Givón (1999) for a comparable situation in spoken English.
4. Within this category fall deﬁnite NPs with no textual antecedence; see Ch.10 below.
5. From the Credo in Mozart’s Requiem Mass (KV. 626), with help from Fr. John Bowe gratefully
acknowledged.
6. As Keesing (1988) points out, the grammaticalization of Solomon Islands Pidgin morphology was
aided by a pre-existing Austronesian substratum ‘template’, so that to some extent the Melanesian
Pidgin development is not organic.
<TARGET "10" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Referential coherenceII"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Chapter 10
Referential coherenceII
Reference and deﬁniteness
10.1 Introduction
Both reference and deﬁniteness have been discussed, albeit informally, in two preceding
chapters. Reference was touched upon brieﬂy in Chapter 6 (§6.4.3.2), in connection with
its interaction with propositional modalities. And deﬁniteness was discussed in Chapter 9
(§9.5), in connection with its interaction with the grammar of anaphoric pronouns.
As in the case of modality, the treatment of reference and deﬁniteness in linguistics has
been heavily impacted by a long and venerable philosophical tradition. While often
insightful, this tradition had consigned the discussion of both reference and deﬁniteness to
the domain of atomic propositions. Neither, it turns out, ﬁts very comfortably in this
restricted domain.
In the case of deﬁniteness, it is relatively easy to see why one cannot give a coherent
account of it without transcending the conﬁnes of the atomic proposition. First, the
antecedence of deﬁnite NPs in naturally-produced text is almost always to be found outside
the atomic clause. Second, in elucidating the cognitive operations that underlie the use of
deﬁnite NPs in natural communication, one must invoke various hearer-anchored systems
that transcend the speaker’s propositional meaning. Either textually or cognitively, then,
deﬁniteness turns out to be a pragmatic rather than semantic entity.
In the case of reference, the narrow-scoped propositional semantic tradition makes
considerably more sense, predicting rather elegantly the interaction between the reference
status of nominals and the propositional modality under whose scope they fall. But even
here, the grammatical coding of reference in human language turns out to be highly
sensitive to the discourse-pragmatic — extra-clausal — context, especially when communi-
cative pragmatics conﬂicts with propositional semantics.
This chapter deals ﬁrst with reference and then with deﬁniteness. At its conclusion, an
integrated cognitive account of the grammar of referential coherence will be sketched out,
building upon the foundations laid down in Chapter 9.
438 Syntax
10.2 Reference
10.2.1 The Real World vs. the Universe of Discourse
The treatment of reference in linguistics developed historically as by-product of the Logical
Positivist tradition (Russell 1905, 1919; Carnap 1958, 1959). Within that tradition, the main
propositional modalities were true or false, with the choice having to do with how
proposition mapped onto the so-called Real World (RW). Propositions that mapped onto
states or events extant in the RW were said to be true. Those that contradicted states or
events extant in the RW were said to be false. And those that coded states or events
unattested in the RW but not contradictory to them were said to be possible (or ‘lacking in
truth value’).
In a parallel fashion, reference (‘denotation’) was held in the logical tradition to be a
mapping between referring expressions in language (NPs) and entities that existed in the
RW (Russell 1905, 1919; Strawson 1950; Carnap 1958, 1959; inter alia). And the truth value
of clauses containing referring expressions depended, at least in part, on whether the
referring expressions in them had or didn’t have denotation in the RW.
As an illustration of this approach, consider the sentences in (1) and (2) below:
(1) a. The present king of France is not bald
b. The present queen of England is not bald
(2) a. There is a king of France (and only one)
b. There is no one that is both king of France and bald
c. There is a queen of England (and only one)
d. There is someone that is both queen of England and not bald
According to Russell’s approach to reference (Russell 1905, 1919; Strawson 1950), in
asserting (1a) one asserts two contradictory propositions — the false (2a), and the true
(2b). And further, the falsity of (2a) is due to failed denotation. In asserting (1b), on the
other hand, one is not being contradictory. Rather, one asserts two true propositions, one
establishing successful denotation (2c), the other just factually true (2d).
It is of course remarkable that human languages code the referents in (1a,b) with
exactly the same grammatical devices signalling a referring-deﬁnite NP, paying no heed to
denotation in the RW, or to the truth value of the associated propositions. Likewise,
human languages ignore RW-anchored denotation and truth in marking indeﬁnite NPs:
(3) a. I rode a unicorn yesterday
b. I rode a horse yesterday
The inescapable conclusion is that the grammar of human language, and the mind behind
it, marches to a diﬀerent drum in matters of reference. In human language, it seems,
reference — Russell’s denotation — is not a mapping from referring linguistic expressions
to individuals existing in the RW. Rather, it is a mapping from linguistic expressions to
individuals established verbally in the Universe of Discourse.
Referential coherenceII 439
It is of course true that the Universe of Discourse and the proverbial RW enjoy a
considerable overlap in normal human communication, which tends to deal with extant
human individuals and their everyday aﬀairs. But when the two worlds part company, the
grammar of reference cheerfully disregards denotation in the RW, opting instead for
denotation in the Universe of Discourse. Indeed, the grammar of reference in human
language can and on occasion does disregard denotation altogether, as in:
(4) a. She’s looking for a horse; it escaped last Friday.
b. She’s looking for a horse; it had better be white.
‘A horse’ in (4a) denotes an entity in the Universe of Discourse. ‘A horse’ in (4b) does not.
But the grammar of English applies the referring anaphoric pronoun it to both, the real
horse that escaped last Friday (4a) and the imagined white horse yet to be found (4b).
10.2.2 Referential intent
It is of course possible for a logic-based theory of reference to make each Universe of
Discourse — indeed every possible Universes of Discourse — a separate realm of denota-
tion for referring linguistic expressions. The Possible Worlds Semantics approach of the
1960s and 1970s (e.g. Kripke 1963, 1972; Cocchiarella 1965; Hinttika 1967; Purtill 1968;
Scott 1970; Montague 1970; Lewis 1972) is a formal attempt to accomplish just that. It is
yet to be seen, however, whether the proliferation of indexing under this approach
accomplishes much more than the mere labeling major islands of pragmatics that remain
impervious to a truth-conditional treatment.1
In one clear sense, reference in the Universe of Discourse is already a crypto pragmatic
enterprise, in that it goes outside the bounds of the atomic proposition. Every Universe of
Discourse is opened up — established — by a particular speaker who then intends entities
in it to either refer or not refer. And it is this referential intent of the speaker that seems to
be more relevant to the grammar of reference in human language.
A nominal expression such as ‘a horse’ in (4) is of itself devoid of reference, having
only a lexical-semantic sense (Frege 1892, 1949). The speaker utters (4a) and (4b) with two
distinct intents, one referring to an extant ‘horse’ in a particular Universe of Discourse
(4a), the other referring only to the type ‘horse’ but not to an actual individual (4b). It is
the speaker’s referential intent that determines which of these two interpretations holds.
While crypto-pragmatic in one sense, a theory of reference based on the speaker’s
referential intent is easy to convert into a purely semantic theory, since it invokes no other
propositions outside the one in which the referring expression is lodged. One can then
abstract both speaker and hearer from the proposition, then ignore them in any subsequent
propositional-semantic analysis. Such an abstraction, the standard fare of truth-conditional
logic ever since Plato, is indeed a convenient dispensation in any preliminary discussion of
reference in natural language. It makes it easier to describe the intimate relation between
nominal reference and propositional modalities. As will be shown further below, however,
such a semantic approach to reference can account for only a portion of the linguistic facts.
440 Syntax
10.2.3 The universal quantiﬁer and non-reference
The logical tradition, harkening back to Aristotle’s De Sophisticis Elenchis (McKeon ed.
1941), has noted that nominal expressions may be used in two main senses, one referring
(Aristotle’s sensus divisus), the other generic (Aristotle’s sensus compositus).2
In the more
forbidding terms of formal logic, this distinction had been recast as the contrast between
the existential (referring) and universal (generic, non-referring) quantiﬁer (Russell 1905):3
(5) a. Universal (non-referring)
All Greeks are bald =
‘For all (x), if (x) is Greek, then (x) is bald’
b. Existential (referring)
Socrates is bald =
‘There exists an (x), such that (x) is Socrates and (x) is bald’
The facts of natural language, as we shall see below, tend to suggest that generic subject
expressions as in (5a) are in fact bona ﬁde referring expressions, but referring to a group or
a type rather than to an individual. Much clearer contrasts between the referring and non-
referring use of nominals may be seen in the three grammatical environments (6), (7) and
(8), with the appropriate contexts added in parentheses:
(6) Nominal predicates
a. Referring
He’s a teacher I met in college (You asked me who he was)
b. Non-referring
John is a teacher (You asked me what he did for a living)
(7) Scope of irrealis
a. Referring
She was looking for a teacher I recommended (but she couldn’t ﬁnd him)
b. Non-referring
She was looking for a teacher to study with (but she couldn’t ﬁnd any)
(8) Scope of negation
a. Referring
She didn’t ﬁnd the teacher I recommended (He was out of town)
b. Non-referring
She didn’t ﬁnd a teacher to study with (nobody was available)
In each pair in (6)–(8), the referring NP (a) is intended by the speaker to identify an
individual in the Universe of Discourse. The non-referring NP (b), on the other hand, is
used in an attributive sense (Donellan 1966), connoting the type but denoting no
particular individual.
Referential coherenceII 441
10.3 The semantics of indeﬁnite reference4
We limit the initial discussion of nominal reference to indeﬁnite NPs, because deﬁnite NPs
are most commonly obligatorily referring and thus present no contrast. At least in human
language, it seems, ‘deﬁnite’ may be aptly viewed as further sub-speciﬁcation of ‘referring’.
Some of the apparent counter-examples to this generalization will be discussed further
below (§10.6.6).
10.3.1 Referential opacity
The term referential opacity is due to Quine (1953), albeit in a context that does not
concern us directly here. Quine was the ﬁrst to note the systematic connection between the
reference status of nominals and the propositional modalities under whose scope they fall.
Consider the following nominal expressions, the ﬁrst one by Quine’s deﬁnition
referentially transparent, the second referentially opaque:
(9) a. Referentially transparent
John married a rich woman.
b. Referentially ‘opaque’
John wanted to marry a rich woman,
(i) …but she refused him.
(ii) …but he couldn’t ﬁnd any.
As in (7) above, the speaker uttering the referentially transparent (9a) is committed to the
existence, in the Universe of Discourse, of some rich woman that John married. The
following implication must thus hold:
(10) If John married one, then that particular one must have existed.
In uttering the referentially opaque (9b), on the other hand, the speaker either may or may
not have made such a referential commitment. That is, two interpretations of ‘a rich
woman’ are possible, a referring one (9b–i) and a non-referring one (9b-ii).
Since the indeﬁnite nominal ‘a rich woman’ is opaque in (9b) but transparent in (9a),
referential opacity of this type is not signalled in English by the presence (vs. absence) of
the indeﬁnite article itself. Rather, it is somehow due to the propositional modality under
whose scope the indeﬁnite expression falls.
10.3.2 Reference and propositional modalities
10.3.2.1Preliminaries
In our earlier discussion of modality (Ch.6, §6.4), we identiﬁed four main propositional
modalities that have strong semantic, pragmatic and grammatical consequences in human
language. For the purpose of predicting reference, we grouped them into two pairs of
mega-modalities:
442 Syntax
(11) a. Fact: Presupposition
R-assertion (realis)
b. Non-fact: IRR-assertion (irrealis)
NEG-assertion (negation)
We then made the general prediction concerning the correlation between propositional
modalities and nominal reference under their scope:
(12) Reference and propositional modality
a. Under the scope of non-fact, nominals can be interpreted as either referring
or non-referring.
b. Under the scope of fact, nominals can only be interpreted as referring.
The most common grammatical contexts where fact and non-fact modalities are distribut-
ed were listed earlier (Ch.6, §3.4.3). Since human discourse, most particularly everyday
face-to-face communication, employ non-fact modalities much less frequently than fact
modalities, it is possible to render (12) above more realistically as a markedness expression:
(13) Nominals may be interpreted non-referentially only if they are under the scope
of some non-fact modality. Otherwise they must be interpreted referentially.
Since clausal subjects tend to be overwhelmingly referring, and since deﬁnite NPs are
likewise almost always referring, the role of modality in determining the reference status of
nominals is best illustrated with indeﬁnite objects. The examples cited below amplify on
our earlier discussion (Ch.6, §6.4.3).
10.3.2.2Reference and lexically-inherent modality
As noted earlier, all lexical verbs carry some inherent modality, a fact that is apparent from
the application of rule (12)/(13) to their objects:
(14) a. Fact-realis
He has a dog
(> a particular dog; Ref)
(*> any dog; *Non-Ref)
b. Irrealis
He wants a dog
(> a particular dog; Ref)
(> any dog; Non-Ref)
c. Negation
He lacks a dog
(> any dog; Non-Ref)
(*a particular dog; *Ref)
The vast majority of lexical verbs carry an inherent realis modality, so that — unless under
the scope of some explicit non-fact grammatical operator — their indeﬁnite object must be
interpretedasreferring.It isthusmore economicaltolistthe relativelyfewlexicalverbs that
carry an inherent irrealis, negation, or presupposition scope. Some of the more typical are:
Referential coherenceII 443
(15) a. Inherent irrealis verbs
want, like, look for, dream of, think of, believe in
b. Inherent negative verbs
lack, refuse, decline, miss, fail
c. Inherent presuppositional verbs
know, forget, regret, be happy
10.3.2.3Reference and tense-aspect
As noted earlier (Ch.6, §6.4.3.4), tense-aspects correlate with modality in a highly predict-
able fashion:
(16) Distribution of modality in tense-aspects
modality tense aspect
fact
non-fact
past
present
future
perfective
perfect
progressive
habitual
repetitive
Predictably, the fact tense-aspects allow only a referring interpretation of their indeﬁnite
object:
(17) a. Past
He ate a sandwich
b. Past-perfect
He had eaten a sandwich
c. Present perfect
He has eaten a sandwich
d. Present progressive
He is eating a sandwich
In contrast, the non-fact tense-aspects in (18) admit a non-referring interpretation of
the indeﬁnite object. Indeed, in the case of negation (18c) that is the only possible
interpretation:
(18) a. Future
He will eat a sandwich
b. Habitual
He always eats a sandwich (for lunch)
c. Negation
He did not eat a sandwich
444 Syntax
10.3.2.4Reference and irrealis adverbs
As noted earlier (Ch.6, §6.4.3.5), epistemic adverbs aﬀect an irrealis scope over the clause
in which they are lodged. And their presence overrides the fact modality of realis tense-
aspects. An indeﬁnite object with such irrealis operators can indeed be interpreted as non-
referring, as in (19b–f), compared with (19a):
(19) a. She ate a sandwich
b. Maybe she ate a sandwich
c. He is probably eating a sandwich
d. She has undoubtedly eaten a sandwich
e. She had most likely eaten a sandwich
10.3.2.5Reference and verb complements
As noted earlier (Ch.6, §6.4.3.6.1), the modality of a complement clause is determined by
the inherent modal properties of the main verb that governs it. Modality and manipulation
verbs are each divided into three modal groups. Under the realis scope of implicative verbs,
indeﬁnite objects in the complement can only be referring. Under the irrealis scope of non-
implicative verbs, they can also be non-referring. And under the negative scope of
NEG-implicative verbs, they can only be non-referring. Thus compare:
(20) Reference under the scope of modality verbs
a. Simple clause (realis)
She ate a sandwich
(> a speciﬁc one)
b. Implicative = realis complement
She managed to eat a sandwich
(… She ate a sandwich)
(> a speciﬁc sandwich)
c. Non-implicative = irrealis complement
She wanted to eat a sandwich
(…
/ She ate a sandwich)
(> a speciﬁc sandwich)
(> any sandwich)
d. NEG-implicative = negative complement
She failed to eat a sandwich
(… She didn’t eat a sandwich)
(> no sandwich)
English modal auxiliaries, the grammaticalized product of non-implicative modality verbs,
predictably spread an irrealis scope over the clause, so that indeﬁnite objects under their
scope can be interpreted as non-referring:
(21) a. She ate a sandwich
b. She may have eaten a sandwich
Referential coherenceII 445
c. She could have eaten a sandwich
d. She should have eaten a sandwich
A similar three-way modal contrast obtains in the complements of manipulation verbs:
(22) Reference under the scope of manipulation verbs
a. Simple clause (realis)
He ate a sandwich
(> a speciﬁc one)
b. Implicative = realis complement
She made him eat a sandwich
(… He ate a sandwich)
(> a speciﬁc sandwich)
c. Non-implicative = irrealis complement
She told him to eat a sandwich
(…
/ He ate a sandwich)
(> a speciﬁc sandwich)
(> any sandwich)
d. NEG-implicative = negative complement
She prevented him from eating a sandwich
(… He didn’t eat a sandwich)
(> no sandwich)
Perception-cognition-utterance (P-C-U) verbs are also divided into three modal types:
factive with fact modal scope, non-factive with irrealis modal scope, and NEG-factive with
negative modal scope. The reference status of indeﬁnite objects in the complements of
P-C-U verbs bear out this modal assignment:
(23) Reference under the scope of P-C-U verbs
a. Simple clause (realis)
He ate a sandwich
(> a speciﬁc sandwich)
b. Factive = presupposed complement
She knew that he ate a sandwich
(… He ate a sandwich)
(> a speciﬁc sandwich)
c. Non-factive = irrealis complement
She thought that he ate a sandwich
(…
/ He ate a sandwich)
(> a speciﬁc sandwich)
(> any sandwich)
d. NEG-factive = negative complement
She lied that he ate a sandwich
(… He didn’t eat a sandwich)
(> no sandwich)
446 Syntax
10.3.2.6Reference and modality in adverbial clauses
Adverbial clauses come under the scope of either presupposition (fact), irrealis or negation
(see Vol. II, Ch.18). In presupposed Adv-clauses, only a referring interpretation of an
indeﬁnite object is possible:
(24) a. Past-perfective temporal Adv clause
When she found a house, it was too expensive
(… she found a house)
(> a speciﬁc house)
b. Concessive Adv clause
Although she found a house, she refused to buy it
(… she found a house)
(> a speciﬁc house)
c. Cause Adv clause
Because he met a new guru, he left the church
(… he met a new guru)
(> a speciﬁc guru)
In irrealis Adv-clauses, a non-referring interpretation of the indeﬁnite object is possible:
(25) a. Future time Adv clause
When you get a loan, I’ll sell you my car.
(…
/ you got a loan)
(*> a speciﬁc loan)
b. Conditional Adv clause
If you get a loan, I’ll sell you my car
(…
/ you got a loan)
(*> a speciﬁc loan)
c. Purpose Adv clause
In order for you to get a loan, I’ll have to co-sign it
(…
/ you got a loan)
(*> a speciﬁc loan)
Finally, counter-fact conditional clauses, under negative scope, force a non-referring
interpretation of the indeﬁnite object:
(26) Counter-fact conditional Adv clause
If you had got a loan, I would have sold you my car.
(… you didn’t get a loan)
(> no speciﬁc loan)
10.3.2.7Reference and non-declarative speech acts
As noted earlier (Ch.6, §6.4.3.7), two types of non-declarative clauses, manipulatives and
yes/no-questions, fall under the scope of irrealis. In the former, including commands,
Referential coherenceII 447
requests or exhortations, the deontic sub-mode of irrealis is at issue; in the latter, the
epistemic sub-mode. Under both, indeﬁnite objects can be non-referring:
(27) a. Declarative (realis)
She bought a house.
(> a speciﬁc house)
b. Manipulative (irrealis)
Go buy a house!
(*> a speciﬁc house)
c. Yes/no-question (irrealis)
Did she buy a house?
(*> a speciﬁc house)
The reference status of nominals in the third type of non-declarative speech acts, wh-ques-
tions, is somewhat problematic. In one sense, it falls under the scope of presupposition,
thus fact. That is:
(28) a. Who bought a house?
(… Someone bought a house)
b. Where did she buy a house?
(… She bought a house somewhere)
c. When did she buy a house?
(… She bought a house some time)
d. Why did she buy a house?
(… She bought a house for some reason)
But there is suggestive evidence that the irrealis scope of the interrogative speech-act
overrides the fact scope of presupposition, leastwise when it comes to predicting the
referential status of indeﬁnite objects in wh-questions.
The relevant evidence comes from languages that mark grammatically the diﬀerence
between referring and non-referring indeﬁnites (see §10.4 below). One such language is
Modern Hebrew, where referring indeﬁnites are marked with the de-stressed numeral one,
while non-referring indeﬁnites are zero-marked. Under irrealis scope in a declarative
clause, both referring and non-referring indeﬁnite objects are admitted. Under the scope
of negation, only a non-referring indeﬁnite:
(29) a. Irrealis, Ref
hi mexapeset ish-xad she-hayta tsrixa li-fgosh kan
she search/imperf man-one rel-was/3fem.sg must/fem.sg to-meet here
‘She’s looking for a man she was supposed to meet here’
b. Irrealis, Non-Ref
hi mexapeset l-a ish, ve-im hi timtsa mishehu…
she search/imperf dat-3sg.masc man and-if she ﬁnd/fut anybody
‘She’s looking for a man, and if she ﬁnds one…’
448 Syntax
c. *Negation, Ref
*hi lo raata sham ish-xad
she neg saw/3fem.sg there man-one
d. Negation, Non-Ref
hi lo raata sham af ish
she neg saw/3fem.sg there even man
‘She didn’t see any man there’
In wh-questions in Hebrew, only the non-referring indeﬁnites seem admissible. Thus,
compare with (28) above:
(30) a. Non-referring
Mi kana bayit sham?
who bought house there
‘Who bought a house there?’
b. Referring
*Mi kana bayit-xad sham?
who bought house-one there
c. Non-referring
efo hi kanta bayit?
where she bought house
‘Where did she buy a house?’
d. Referring
*efo hi kanta bayit-xad?
where she bought house-one
In this way, the behavior of indeﬁnites objects under the scope of wh-questions parallels
their behavior under the scope of negation (30c,d).
10.3.2.8Reference in nominal predicates
A well-known grammatical context in which referentiality contrasts are found much like
under the scope of irrealis is that of nominal predicates. As noted by Donellan (1966), either
a referring or non-referring (‘attributive’) use of indeﬁnite NPs can obtain in this context.
While this contrast is a matter of semantic interpretation in English, it is a grammatically-
marked distinction in languages such as Hebrew:
(31) a. Non-referring (attributive)
hi isha tseira
she woman young/fem.sg
‘She’s a young woman’
b. Referring
zot isha-xat she-pagashti be-yrushalayim
this/fem.sg woman-one rel-met/1sg in-Jerusalem
‘She’s a woman I met in Jerusalem’
Referential coherenceII 449
One way of relating this contrast to modality, and thus our predictions (12)/(13), is by
noting that nominal predicates are inherently habitual and thus timeless, even when cast
in the past tense, as in:
(32) a. Non-referring
She was a young woman
b. Referring
She was a woman I met in college
The habitual tense/aspect is, for the purpose of predicting reference at least, a sub-mode of
irrealis.
10.3.3 Gradations of referentiality
So far, our description of reference in the Universe of Discourse, based on the speaker’s
referential intent, resembles the traditional logical-semantic approach in one crucial
respect: It posits a discrete binary choice between the referring and non-referring interpre-
tations of nominals. But the facts of natural languages suggest the rather disturbing
possibility of a continuum between a clearly referring and a clearly non-referring interpre-
tation:
(33) a. Did you see anything there?
b. Did you see anybody there?
c. Did you see any man there?
d. Did you see some man there?
e. Did you see a man there?
f. Did you see a tall man there?
g. Did you see a man wearing blue shirt there?
h. Did you see a man there wearing a blue shirt and sitting on a red barrel and
twirling a silver baton in his left hand?
There is a clear gradation from (33a) to (33h), seemingly along either a speaker-anchored
psychological dimension or a hearer-anchored probabilistic dimension, respectively:
•How strong is the speaker’s intention to refer to a speciﬁc individual?
•How high is the probability that the speaker is referring to a speciﬁc individual?
The gradation in (33) seems to be coded systematically in the grammar of English, where
three major devices are combined together to yield the ﬁne-grained scale:
(34) Grammatical devices coding referential strength
a. The scale of indeﬁnite articles:
any > some > a
b. The scale of restrictive modiﬁcation:
less > more
c. The scale of noun speciﬁcation:
thing > person > speciﬁc noun
450 Syntax
Finally, although in principle our prediction (12)/(13) allows referential opacity under the
scope of irrealis, various sub-modes of irrealis seem to exhibit varying probabilities of a
referring interpretation of indeﬁnites under their scope, roughly along the scale:
(35) a. Realis (Ref)
She’s buying a house
b. Future
She’ll buy a house
c. Modal complement
She wants to buy a house
d. Modal
She might buy a house
e. Conditional
If she buys a house, …
f. Subjunctive conditional
If she really bought a house, …
g. Wh-question (Non-Ref?)
Who bought a house?
h. Negation (Non-Ref)
She didn’t buy a house
The governing principle of this gradation seems to be:
•The more likely the event is to occur, the more likely it is that nominals
under irrealis scope are to be interpreted as referring.
10.4 The grammatical marking of indeﬁnite reference
10.4.1 Preamble
As noted earlier above, the English indeﬁnite article does not indicate whether a nominal
marked by it is intended to refer or not to refer. Rather, it simply marks the fact that the
referent is being introduced into the discourse for the ﬁrst time, with the speaker making
no assumption about familiarity or accessibility of the referent to the hearer. Such an
presumption — indeed presupposition — would indeed be the foundation of deﬁnite
marking of nominals in English (see §10.6 below), where the indeﬁnite-deﬁnite contrast
is strongly marked.
In many other languages, the grammatical morphology marks just as distinctly the
contrast between referring and non-referring indeﬁnites. In this section we will survey some
of the more common grammaticalized patterns of marking referring-indeﬁnite nominals.
Referential coherenceII 451
10.4.2 The numeral ‘one’ as reference marker
The most grammaticalized marker of referring indeﬁnites is probably the humeral one, as
seen in the Hebrew examples (29), (30), (31) above. This marking pattern is found, in
various developmental stages, in many unrelated languages and language families, such as
Mandarin Chinese, Turkish, Hebrew, Sherpa and many Indo-European languages (Givón
1981a). Most conspicuously, this is the marking pattern in all Creole languages (Bickerton
1975, 1977, 1981), where the numeral one marks REF-indeﬁnites, while zero marks non-
referring indeﬁnites. As an illustration, consider the following from Hawaii English Creole
(Bickerton 1975, 1977):
(36) Realis
a. Referring
i rid wan-buk
he read one-book
‘He read a book’ (> a speciﬁc book)
b. *Non-referring
*i rid buk
he read book
(37) Presupposition
a. Referring
i hapi i rid wan-buk
he happy he read one-book
‘He’s happy that he read a book’ (> a speciﬁc book)
b. *Non-referring
*i hapi i rid buk
he happy he read book
(38) Irrealis
a. Referring
i want rid wan-buk
he want read one-book
‘He wanted to read a book’ (> a speciﬁc book)
b. Non-referring
i want rid buk
he want read book
‘He wanted to read a book’ (> no speciﬁc book)
(39) NEG-assertion
a. *Referring-indeﬁnite
*i no-rid wan-buk
he no-read one-book
452 Syntax
b. Non-referring
i no-rid buk
he no-read book
‘He didn’t read a/any book’ (> no speciﬁc book)
c. Referring-deﬁnite
i no-rid di-buk
he no-read the-book
‘He didn’t read the book’ (> a speciﬁc book)
10.4.3 The demonstrative ‘this’ as reference marker
The de-stressing and grammaticalization of the proximate demonstrative this into a
REF-indeﬁnite article in spoken English is well documented (Prince 1981; Wald 1983),
parallelling the grammaticalization of the unstressed that as a deﬁnite article. In spoken
English, the REF-indeﬁnite this then contrasts with the de-marked old indeﬁnite article
a(n), historically the REF-indeﬁnite one of Anglo-Saxon. While this can only mark
referring indeﬁnite, a(n) continues to mark either referring or non-referring ones (but see
§10.5 below).
(40) Realis
a. Referring
I met this girl yesterday, and…
(> a speciﬁc girl)
b. Referring
I met a girl yesterday, and…
(> a speciﬁc girl)
(41) Irrealis
a. Referring
I was looking for this girl yesterday, and…
(> a speciﬁc girl)
b. Opaque or non-referring
I was looking for a girl yesterday, so…
(?> a speciﬁc/non-speciﬁc girl)
(42) Negation
a. *Referring-indeﬁnite:5
*I was not looking for this girl yesterday
b. Non-referring
I was not looking for a girl yesterday
(> no speciﬁc girl)
(43) Nominal predicate
a. Referring
Marvin is this painter I told you about
Referential coherenceII 453
b. Opaque or non-referring
Marvin is a painter
A grammaticalized pattern that originated historically from the same source (Greenberg
1977) but is diachronically much older and fully mature may be seen in Bemba (Bantu). In
this language, the simple CV- form of the noun preﬁx codes non-referring indeﬁnites,
while the augmented V-CV- form codes referring NPs, with deﬁniteness left unmarked.
Thus consider (Givón 1972, 1973b):
(44) Realis
a. Referring
a-a-somene ici-tabo
3sg-past-read ref-book
‘s/he read a/the book’ (> a speciﬁc book)
b. *Non-referring
*a-a-somene ci-tabo
3sg-past-read nref-book (*> no speciﬁc book)
(45) Irrealis
a. Referring
a-a-fwaayile uku-soma ici-tabo
3sg-past-want inf-read ref-book
‘s/he wanted to read a/the book’ (> a speciﬁc book)
b. Non-referring
a-a-fwaayile uku-soma ci-tabo
3sg-past-want inf-read nref-book
‘s/he wanted to read a book’ (> no speciﬁc book)
(46) Negation
a. Referring-deﬁnite
ta-a-a-somene ici-tabo
neg-3sg-past-read ref-book
‘s/he didn’t read the book’
*‘s/he didn’t read a book’
b. Non-referring
ta-a-a-somene ci-tabo
neg-3sg-past-read nref-book
‘He didn’t read a/any book’ (> no speciﬁc book)
(47) Nominal predicate
a. Referring
Joni umu-puupu uo n-a-mweene
J. ref-thief rel 1sg-past-see/asp
‘J. is a/the thief I saw’ (> a speciﬁc one)
454 Syntax
b. Non-referring
Joni muu-puupu
J. nref-thief
‘J. is a thief’ (> no speciﬁc one)
10.4.4 Noun classiﬁers and reference markers
The last known source of grammaticalized REF-indeﬁnite markers are nominal classiﬁers.
While notwidelyreported, atleast onecase hasbeenwell documented,in Jacaltec(Mayan).
Jacaltec classiﬁers are grammatically versatile, serving as anaphoric pronouns and deﬁnite
articles (Craig 1986a,c). Indeﬁnite nouns are marked with ‘one’,6
and referring indeﬁnites
are further marked with the classiﬁer. Thus (Ramsay 1985):
(48) a. Non-referring (‘one’)
“uk’ hune7 hatrago” xihab’ heb’ naj
drink one your.drink said pl cl/pro
‘“Have a drink” they said…’
b. Referring (‘one’ + classiﬁer)
yajha7 b’ay xkam naj tu7, xchib’ hune7 te7 te7
but where died cl that, grew one cl tree
‘but where he died, there grew a tree…’
10.4.5 Grammatical devices that mark non-reference
One must note, in passing, that a number of devices that can be used to mark semantically
non-referring — and thus pragmatically non-topical (see §10.5 below) — objects may be
grouped under the heading of the antipassive construction (see Vol. II, Ch.13). One of
those is plural marking of objects, as in:
(49) a. Past, singular Obj:
He bought a book
b. Past, plural Obj:
He bought books
c. Past-habitual, plural Obj:
He used to buy books
d. Habitual, plural Obj:
He buys books all the time
While ‘books’ in (49b,c) are (strictly speaking) semantically referring, being under realis
modal scope, plurality strongly imparts the irrelevance of their individual reference.
Indeed, plural objects have a strong association with the irrealis-like habitual tense/aspect,
and both taken together associate strongly with the antipassive (Hopper and Thompson
1980). Pluralization as a mark of non-reference (or non-topicality) thus contrasts with the
use of the numeral one to mark referentiality (or topicality).
Referential coherenceII 455
Object incorporation is another common device used to mark non-referring objects,
and thus the antipassive function. As an illustration, consider again Ute (Uto-Aztecan),
where object nouns lose its nominal suﬃx when incorporated (Givón 1980):
(50) a. Referring deﬁnite
yoghovu
=-chi ’uway pakha-ukh-kwa
coyote-acc def/acc kill-asp-perf
‘s/he killed the coyote’
b. Referring indeﬁnite
yoghovu
=-chi pakha-ukh-kwa
coyote-acc kill-asp-perf
‘s/he killed a coyote’
c. Non-referring
yoghovu
=-pakha-ukh-kwa
coyote-kill-asp-perf
‘s/he killed (some) coyotes’
‘s/he did some coyote-killing’
d. Habitual, non-referring
yoghobu
=-pakha-miy(a)
coyote-kill-hab
‘s/he kills coyotes’
e. Habitual agentive-nominalization
yoghobu
=-pakha-miy(a)-t ’ura-’ay
coyote-kill-hab-nom be-imm
‘s/he’s a coyote-killer’
A more extensive discussion of antipassives is found in Vol. II, Ch.13.
10.5 The pragmatics of indeﬁnite reference: Denotation vs. topicality
So far, we have described the grammatical marking of nominal reference from an essential-
ly semantic perspective. True enough, it involved the referential intent of the speaker. But
otherwise it still involved denotation, albeit in the Universe of Discourse, and was comput-
ed for each individual clause depending on its own modal envelope.
A more careful inspection of the use of marked referring indeﬁnite NPs suggests that
the contrast marked by the grammar is inherently pragmatic, and is sensitive to cataphoric
topicality, i.e. to the importance of the indeﬁnite NP in the subsequent discourse. This may
be illustrated ﬁrst with the use of the referring-indeﬁnite marker one in Spoken Hebrew.
As noted above, when Hebrew clauses are studied in isolation, the numeral one seemed
to mark semantically-referring indeﬁnites, while zero marks non-referring indeﬁnite. When
clauses are placed in their natural discourse context, some semantically-referring nouns
turn out to still be marked by zero. As an illustration, compare (Givón 1981a):
456 Syntax
(51) a. …az nixnasti le-xanut sfarim ve-kaniti sefer-xad,
…then entered-I to-store-of books and-bought-I book-one
‘…so I went into a bookstore and bought a book,
ve-ratsti habayta ve-karati oto,
and-ran-I home and-read-I it
and I ran home and read it,
ve-ze beemet haya sefer metsuyan…
and-it truly was-it book excellent…’
and it was truly a terriﬁc book
b. …az nixnasti le-xanut sfarim ve-kaniti sefer,
…so entered-I to-store-of books and-bought-I book
‘…so I went into a bookstore and bought a book,
ve-ratsti habayta ve-axalti aruxat erev
and-ran-I home and-ate-I meal-of evening
and I ran home and ate supper
ve-halaxti li-shon…
and-went-I to-sleep
and went to sleep…’
In both (51a) and (51b) above, ‘a book’ is semantically referring. Nonetheless, the
cataphoric discourse context makes it more natural to use the REF-indeﬁnite marker one
in (51a), but to leave the noun unmarked in (51b). But why?
The answer is reasonably transparent: In (51a), where one runs home and proceeds to
read the book and discusses it, the speciﬁc referential identity of the book matters, it
remains topical in the subsequent discourse. In (51b), one does some ‘book-buying’, then
goes about one’s routine. The book is never mentioned again, its speciﬁc referential
identity doesn’t matter.
While at ﬁrst intuitive, the pragmatic motivation of marking indeﬁnite nouns with the
numeral one was validated in quantiﬁed text-frequency studies in two languages with a
similar indeﬁnite marking system, Krio (Givón 1985b), and Mandarin Chinese (Huang
1985). In both, indeﬁnite NPs introduced into the discourse as marked by one persist in the
subsequent text much longer than zero-marked indeﬁnites.
The very same phenomenon has been shown with the use of the indeﬁnite this in
Spoken English. As an illustration, consider ﬁrst the following letter, from a Dear Abby
column sometime in the early 1980s:7
(52) “Dear Abby: There’s this guy I’ve been going with for near three years. Well, the
problem is that he hits me. He started last year. He has done it only four or ﬁve
times, but each time it was worse than before. Every time he hits me it was
because he thought I was ﬂirting (I wasn’t). Last time he accused me of coming
on to a friend of his. First he called me a lot of dirty names, then he punched
my face so bad it left me with a black eye and black-and-blue bruises over half
of my face. It was very noticeable, so I told my folks that the car I was riding in
Referential coherenceII 457
stopped suddenly and my face hit the windshield. Abby, he’s 19 and I’m 17, and
already I feel like an old married lady who lets her husband push her around. I
haven’t spoken to him since this happened. He keeps bugging me to give him
one more chance. I think I’ve given him enough chances. Should I keep avoid-
ing him or what? Black and Blue”
The following facets in the use of the unstressed this vs. a(n) in (52) are indeed striking:
•The REF-indeﬁnite participant introduced by this continues to recur throughout the
subsequent text, and is obviously the most topical participant after the speaker
herself (I).
•The other REF-indeﬁnite participant in the text, introduced by a(n) (‘a friend of
his’) never recurs, his speciﬁc identity being wholly incidental to the story.
•The only other indeﬁnite in the text (‘an old married lady’ introduced by a(n), is
purely attributive and again does not recur further (beyond the embedded REL-
clause ‘who lets her husband push her’).
In a more explicit quantiﬁed study, the cataphoric text-recurrence of this-marked vs.
a(n)-marked indeﬁnites was measured in oral narratives elicited from four 7–10 year old
boys. Typical examples of indeﬁnite nouns in the texts were (Wright and Givón 1987):
(53) a. Subject ‘this’
‘…there’s these two guys…’
b. Object ‘this’
‘…he saw this great bear…’
c. Subject ‘a(n)’
‘…and there was a ﬂy to third base…’
d. Object ‘a(n)’
‘…he saw this monkey holding a candy bar…’
The topic persistence (TP) of referents — the average number of times a referent was
mentioned in the 10 clauses immediately following its ﬁrst introduction into the discourse
— was measured for the four grammatical categories in (53). The numerical distribution
of the four categories in the combined texts, and their average TP measures are tabulated
in (54) below.
(54) Text distribution of grammatical devices marking indeﬁnite nouns in English
and their average Topic Persistence (TP) (Wright and Givón 1987)
subject non-subject total
categ. N % TP N % TP N % TP
this
a(n)
28
13
65
12
6.95
1.54
15
94
35
88
2.40
0.56
43
107
100
100
5.32
0.68
458 Syntax
The ﬁgures given in (54) may be summarized as follows:
•This more frequently (65%) marks subject NPs.
•This-marked NPs have much higher TP value.
•A(n) overwhelmingly (88%) marks objects NPs.
•A(n)-marked NPs have much lower TP value.
•Subject NPs with either marker have much higher TP values than object NPs.
The total text-distribution of high-persistence tokens (TP>2) vs. low-persistence tokens
(TP 0–2) in the four grammatical categories was also analyzed, with the results summarized
in (55) below.
(55) Distribution of high-persistence (TP > 2) vs. low-persistence (TP 0–2)
tokens within the indeﬁnite grammatical categories in English
(Wright and Givón 1987)
this a(n)
subject non-subj total subject non-subj total
TP N % N % N % N % N % N %
0–2
2<
4
24
14.2
85.8
10
5
66.6
33.4
14
29
32.5
67.5
10
3
76.9
23.1
89
5
94.6
5.4
99
8
92.5
7.5
total: 28 100 15 100 43 100 13 100 94 100 107 100
The only substantial exception to an otherwise rather striking correlation between
grammatical marking and pragmatic referentiality, are the 32.5% of this-marked indeﬁnites
that exhibit low-persistence. The obvious explanation is that cataphoric text frequency,
while in the main correlating with topicality, is only a convenient heuristic. But topicality
is inherently a cognitive phenomenon. Grammatical marking seems to be sensitive to the
latter rather, although on the average it also correlates well with the former.
Similar distributional trends have been shown in a quantitative study of the use vs.
non-use of numeral classiﬁers in the marking of indeﬁnite nouns in Jacaltec (Ramsay
1985). Tables (56) and (57) below, summarizing those ﬁndings, may be compared to (54)
and (55) above, respectively.
(56) Text distribution of grammatical devices marking indeﬁnite nouns in Jacaltec
and their average Topic Persistence (TP) (Ramsay 1985)
subject non-subject total
category N % TP N % TP N %
hune7 + CL
hune7 alone
22
6
72
28
6.10
1.33
11
11
50
50
4.27
0.72
33
17
100
100
total: 28 100 22 10 50 100
Referential coherenceII 459
(57) Distribution of high-persistence (TP > 2) vs. low-persistence (TP 0–2) tokens
within the indeﬁnite grammatical categories in Jacaltec (Ramsay 1985)
hune7 + CL hune7 alone
subject non-subj total subject non-subj total
TP N % N % N % N % N % N %
0–2
2<
/
22
/
100
3
8
18.1
81.9
3
30
9.1
90.9
6
/
100
/
11
/
100
/
17
/
100
/
total: 22 100 11 100 33 100 6 100 11 100 17 100
10.6 Deﬁniteness
10.6.1 Deﬁniteness and anaphoric reference
Speakers code a nominal referent as deﬁnite when they assume that it is identiﬁable or
accessible to the hearer. Deﬁniteness is thus a profoundly pragmatic aﬀair from the word
go, having to do with the speaker’s assessment of the hearer’s current state of knowledge at
a given point in the communication. Strawson’s (1950) critique of Russell’s (1905) for
subsuming of deﬁnite reference under denotation, a critique that launched the three-value
logic of presupposition, was rather well-taken.
By ‘accessible’ one means that the referent is represented in — and can be retrieved
from — some pre-existing mental representation in the hearer’s mind. It is clear now why
deﬁnite NPs are, in principle, referring, a matter that is taken for granted in assuming their
mental accessibility. Existence in the Universe of Discourse, the cornerstone of our
approach to reference, is hereby translated, rather elegantly, into existence in some type of
mental representation in the speaker’s mind.
When speakers mark a referent in discourse as deﬁnite, using various anaphoric and/or
deﬁnite grammatical devices, they aim to ground it into some pre-existing mental
representation in the hearer’s mind. Such grounding serves to establish a speciﬁc connec-
tion, in the mind of the hearer, between the deﬁnite referent’s current text-location and its
pre-existing mental trace.
Deﬁnite and/or anaphoric devices most commonly ground referents into three types
of mental structures:8
(58) Mental structures for anaphoric grounding
a. Mental model of the shared current speech-situation
b. Mental model of permanent generic-lexical knowledge
c. Mental model of the current text
Presupposing the existence of a mental trace of the referent in one of these three types of
mental representation serves as grounds for one type or another of deﬁnite grammatical
460 Syntax
marking. But only the third one (59c) is strictly-speaking anaphoric. Text-grounded
anaphora is thus a special case of deﬁniteness.
In the subsequent sections, we will take up these three types of mental models into
which speakers ground deﬁnite referents. As is fairly transparent, the three correspond to
the three best known mental models identiﬁed by cognitive psychologists, respectively:9
•working memory or current focus of attention;
•permanent semantic memory;
•long-term episodic memory.
10.6.2 Grounding referents to the shared current speech situation
(working memory, current attention focus)
Grounding referents to the current speech situation is founded on the assumption that they
are equally accessible to the speaker and hearer, who are both present on the scene.
Grammatical devices that signal such deictic accessibility of deﬁnite referents rely on the
spatial or temporal proximity of the referent to — or its identity with — either the speaker
or hearer, as in:
(59) a. The interlocutors (personal pronouns)
‘I’, ‘you’, ‘we’, ‘y’all’
b. Other referents (demonstratives)
‘this one’, that one’, ‘that one over there’
c. Location
‘here’, ‘there’, ‘way over there’
d. Time
‘now’, ‘then’, ‘long ago, ‘in the future’
‘today’, ‘yesterday’, ‘tomorrow’
‘this week’, ‘last week’, ‘next week’
The working-memory representation of the current speech situation must be in constant
ﬂux due to the constant shift of time-of-speech, the location, or the speaker/hearer identity.
This ever-labile aspect of deictic deﬁnite reference can be seen in the constant adjustment
of the absolute reference of the personal, temporal and spatial deictic expression (as well as
tense-aspect) in (60), a conversation equally plausible across a river or over the phone:
(60) a. Marvin: What are you doing there?
b. Mary: I’m standing right here.
c. Marvin: I was looking for you there just a minute ago.
d. Mary: I hadn’t arrived yet then but I’m here now.
e. Marvin: I thought you told me you were coming here.
f. Mary: But I told you I wasn’t going to be there.
Referential coherenceII 461
10.6.3 Grounding to shared generic-lexical knowledge
(permanent semantic memory)
The grounding of deﬁnite referents to generic-lexical knowledge relies on the fact that
members of the same speech-community share roughly the same lexicon, where roughly
the same activation patterns — polysemy, meaning-relatedness — hold for the same
words. We know of course that this sharing is only an approximation, and thus a matter of
degree. But in relying on the hearer’s permanent semantic memory for the purpose of
grounding deﬁnite reference, the speaker presumes nothing more than the standard pre-
condition for all lexicalized communication, be it even pre-grammatical.
Duringcommunication,referentsmaybegrounded toculturally-sharedgeneric-lexical
knowledge in two distinct ways. First, some referents are globally accessible because they are
uniquely identiﬁable to all members of the relevant speech community — ‘culture’, ‘sub-
culture’, ‘village’, ‘family’ — at all times. As illustration of such global access, consider:
(61) Globally-accessible (‘generic’) deﬁnite referents
referent relevant social unit
a. The sun came out.
b. The president has resigned.
c. They went to the cemetery.
d. The river is frozen over.
e. Call the sheriﬀ!
f. The Gods must be angry.
g. Daddy is home!
all humans
a nation-state
a community
a community
a county
a religion
a family
More commonly, access to generically-shared deﬁnite referents is intermixed with episodic
text-based access, yielding a hybrid system of double grounding. A double-grounded
referent is accessible partly through an anaphoric connection to its episodic trace in the
mental representation of the current text (see below), and partly through a connection to
generic-lexical knowledge. Such hybrid grounding is often referred to as framed-based or
script-based reference (Anderson, Garrod & Sanford 1983; Yekovich and Walker 1986;
Walker and Yekovich 1987; Schank and Abelson 1977). Typical examples are:
(62) Double-grounded frame-based reference
a. My boy missed school today,
he was late for the bus.
b. He showed us this gorgeous house,
but the living room was too small.
c. She went into a restaurant
and asked the waiter for the menu.
The deﬁnite referent ‘the bus’ in (62a) receives its deﬁnite grounding from two separate
sources:
462 Syntax
•The antecedent anaphoric referent ‘school’ is found in the episodic memory of the
preceding the current text.
•The generic-lexical knowledge of the frame ‘school’ and its automatically-activated
sub-feature ‘bus’.
Likewise in (62b), the deﬁnite referent ‘the living room’ receives its grounding in part from
its anaphoric connection to ‘this gorgeous house’ in the preceding text, and in part from
the generic-lexical knowledge of the frame ‘house’ and its automatically-activated sub-
feature ‘living room’ (Linde 1974).
Likewise in (62c), both deﬁnite referents ‘the waiter’ and ‘the menu’ receive their
grounding in part from their anaphoric connection to ‘a restaurant’ in the preceding text,
and in part from the generic-lexical knowledge of the frame ‘restaurant’ and its automati-
cally-activated sub-features ‘waiter’ and ‘menu’ (Anderson, Garrod and Sanford 1983).
Frame-based referential access often depends on conventional knowledge of whole-part
or possessor-possessed relations, as in:
(63) Whole-part, possessor-possessed frame-based access
a. She grabbed a ﬁsh and chopped oﬀ its head.
b. John just got a job working for his father.
c. The house was a mess, the roof leaked.
d. She’s upset. Her kids keep ﬂunking high-school.
e. The table is missing one of its legs.
f. My wife called and said…
g. Your house is on ﬁre.
In (63f,g), no anaphoric antecedent is available in the current text itself. Rather, double
grounding depends on access to the current speech situation, i.e. the identity of the speaker
and hearer. But otherwise, the frame-based lexical knowledge that is relied on to achieve
full grounding of the deﬁnite referent is of the same type.
10.6.4 Anaphoric grounding to the shared current text
(long-term episodic memory)
By far, the bulk of the grammatical machinery dedicated to the grounding of deﬁnite
referents connects them to their anaphoric trace in the current text — as represented in
episodic memory. Out of this vast array, one can distinguish several clusters of devices that
specialize in cuing access to rough locations — or conﬁgurations — in the mental text
representation. One can illustrate the use of such devices by noting again the characteristic
anaphoric gap — or anaphoric distance (AD) — of various anaphoric grammatical devices
(see Ch.9, §9.5). As one may recall, this purely heuristic measure records the gap — in
number of clauses — between the referent’s current text-location and its last previous
occurrence in the text.
Referential coherenceII 463
(64) Comparison of mean anaphoric distance (AD) values and degree
of categorial distribution for common anaphoric devices
(from Givón ed. 1983a; 1984b; Sun and Givón 1985)
construction
mean RD
(# of clauses)
degree of clustering
around the mean
a. zero anaphora
b. unstressed pro
c. stressed pro
d. Y-movement
e. Def-noun
f. Def-noun with modiﬁer(s)
g. L-dislocated Def-N
1.0
1.0
2.5
2.5
7.0
10.0
15.0
100% at mean
95% at mean
90% between 2–3
90% between 2–3
25% at 1.0
35% scattered 5–19
40% at >20
55% scattered 5–19
45% at >20
60% at >20
25% at 4–9
13% at 10–19
One must emphasize that anaphoric distance (AD) is only a heuristic measure for assessing
the type of anaphoric accessibility. Much like the cataphoric measure of topic persistence
(TP) above, AD does not purport to directly measure the referent’s mental accessibility.
Nonetheless, it tends to correlate with, and indeed illuminate, some of the major mental
structures and operations involved in discourse processing.
The main division in (64) is between devices that signal maximal referential continuity
(64a,b) and those that signal referential discontinuity (64c–g):
(65) maximal continuity ﬁ zero anaphora, unstressed pronoun
referential discontinuity ﬁ stressed pronouns, full lexical nouns
But as we shall note further below, this rough division is only the very tip of the iceberg in
the vast array of grammatical devices used to code referential coherence.
As an example of how this major distinction is deployed in text, consider again the
ﬁction passage used to illustrate the function of anaphoric pronouns (Ch.9, §9.5). The
maximally-continuous referents in the text are bold-faced; the discontinuous ones are
italicized (L’Amour 1962, p.7):
(66) “…It was unlikely that the killers remained in the area, but Shalako was not a
trusting man.
Within the mouth of the draw he drew rein. again. With his ﬁrst glance he
recognized the body for what it was. He circled it wearily as a wolf, [Ø] studying
it from all angles, and when ﬁnally he stopped within a dozen feet of the dead
man, he knew much of what had happened at this place.
The dead man had ridden a freshly shod horse into the playa from the north,
and when [Ø] shot he had tumbled from the saddle and the horse had galloped
464 Syntax
away. Several riders on unshod ponies had then approached the body and one had
dismounted to [Ø] collect the weapons. The clothing had not been stripped oﬀ,
nor was the body mutilated…”
Cognitively, the maximal-continuity anaphoric devices signal the continued activation of
the current topical referent. Strictly speaking, such a referent is under current attention
focus, thus represented in both working memory and episodic memory.
Discontinuous referent-coding devices, on the other hand, signal — at least if the
referent is further marked as topical — the terminated activation of the current topical
referent, thus the activation of a new topical referent.
A new referent may have no prior anaphoric trace in the episodic memory of the current
text trace, in which case it is marked as indeﬁnite. Some of those are referring-indeﬁnites,
thus likely to be activated as important topics (‘a freshly shod horse’, ‘several riders’,
‘unshod ponies’). Others are attributive or non-referring, thus unlikely to be topical (‘a
trusting man’, ‘rein’, ‘a wolf’).
But a new referent may have an episodic trace, in which case it is marked as deﬁnite (‘the
killers’, ‘the area’, ‘the draw’, ‘the body’, ‘the dead man’, ‘the playa’, ‘the horse’). Still,
several deﬁnite NPs in (66) are double-anchored and frame-dependent (‘the mouth of’,
‘the north’, ‘the saddle’, ‘the weapons’, ‘the clothing’). And at least one is situationally
anchored (‘this place’).
Short-distance discontinuous deﬁnite devices (64c,d) tend to signal the activation of a
new referent without terminating the current clause-chain, or even without the complete
de-activation of the current topical referent. The sole example of this in (66), with the
stressed pronoun ‘one’, is anaphorically grounded — as member of a group — to the
previous active topic ‘several riders’.
Passage (66) also furnishes one example of a deﬁnite NP with restrictive modiﬁcation
(64f) (‘the dead man’), an important grammatical device for cuing a more ﬁne-grained
search in episodic memory (see further below).
10.6.5 Proper names and global access
Passage (66) above also contains one well-known deﬁnite device, a proper name (‘Shalako’),
used to code deﬁnite referents whose deﬁniteness is text-based and thus anchored to
episodic memory — but globally rather than locally. In (66), it is the name of the main
character of the novel, introduced earlier on and thus considered accessible for as long as
the novel lasts. Indeed, the naming occurs most appropriately in the very ﬁrst sentence of
the novel (L’Amour 1962, p.1):
(67) “For seven days in the Spring of 1882 the man
called Shalako heard no sound but the wind…”
Names are not only assigned to unique globally-important persons, but also to unique and
globally-important spatial or temporal referents. The notion of ‘current text’ within which
the name is globally important is also fairly well circumscribed. Thus consider:
Referential coherenceII 465
(68)
name referent type current text
a. Dorian Gray
b. George Washington
c. John
d. Lima, Perú
e. The Civil War
person
person
person
location
time
a novel
US history
one’s life
world geography
US history
Some names require a hybrid referential access. For their referent to be uniquely deﬁned,
it must be relationally anchored. As in the case of frame-based anchoring deﬁnite nouns, the
relational anchoring of names depends heavily on generically-shared lexical-cultural
knowledge. Typical examples are:
(69) name text convention
a. Mom, Dad
b. home
c. Tuesday
d. January
e. Christmas
one’s life
one’s life
each week
each year
each year
a person has only one Mom and Dad
a person has only one home at a time
each week has only one Tuesday
each year has only one January
each year has only one Christmas
In discourse, names are used in similar contexts of referential discontinuity as full deﬁnite
NPs. That is, they re-introduce participant into the discourse after a considerable gap of
absence. However, while the anaphoric anchoring of deﬁnite NPs in episodic memory is
relatively local, names are globally accessible for the duration of the current text.
The diﬀerence in referential accessibility between relationally-anchored (69) and non-
relational (68) names is roughly as follows: A non-relational name must be ﬁrst established
in the text. Once established, it is accessible for the duration of the text. A relationally-
anchored name, on the other hand, is accessible once its anchor — another referent — has
been made accessible. To illustrate the diﬀerence, consider:
(70) a. Dad was born in 1913.
b. Mary was born in 1913.
c. Mary’s dad was born in 1913.
The anaphoric anchor of ‘Dad’ in (70a) is the speaker (‘I’), accessible through the shared
speech situation. ‘Dad’ is automatically accessible by the situational accessibility of ‘I’,
coupled with the lexical-cultural frame of ‘fatherhood’.
The anaphoric accessibility of Mary in (70b), on the other hand, depends on her prior
introduction in the current text, as is Mary in (70c). But Mary’s dad in (70c), with hybrid
anchoring, is accessible by virtue of Mary’s text-based accessibility, coupled with the
culturally-shared accessibility of father.
466 Syntax
10.6.6 Generic subjects
Russell (1905) and other logicians took it for granted that generic subjects — marked
formally with the universal quantiﬁers — were non-referring. Unfortunately, this ﬂies in
the face of the linguistic data, where the subject case-role is the quintessential topical and
thus referring participant. The only peculiarity of generic subjects is that they topicalize —
thus refer to — the type (genus, species) rather than to a token.
In English, generic subjects typically appear in four distinct grammatical forms:
(71) a. Deﬁnite singular
The lion is a dangerous feline.
b. Indeﬁnite singular
A lion is a dangerous feline.
c. Indeﬁnite plural
Lions are dangerous.
d. Quantiﬁed indeﬁnite plural
All lions are dangerous.
Many lions are dangerous.
Some lions are dangerous.
The suggestion that from a discourse-pragmatic perspective generic subjects are just as
referring as any other subject is borne out by the facts of usage. Thus, the singular-deﬁnite
(71a), singular-indeﬁnite (71b) or plural (71c,d) generic subject are treated similarly in
subsequent discourse, with similar anaphoric pronouns — ‘it’, ‘they’ or zero, just like
referring nominals:
(72) a. The/a lion is a dangerous feline. It lives in the open veld in Africa,
[Ø] hunts animals, and sometime [Ø] attacks people.
b. (All) lions are dangerous felines. They live in the open veld in Africa,
[Ø] hunt animals, and sometime [Ø] attack people.
Non-referring objects, on the other hand, show a three-way possible contrast in terms of
their reference status. Two of these we have already noted above — reference to a token vs.
non-reference (§10.3). The third possibility is reference to a topicalized type, much like
generic subjects. Thus contrast:
(73) a. Token reference
He wanted to trap a/the lion that [Ø] killed two of his cows.
b. Non-reference
He wanted to trap a lion to mount [Ø] as a trophy.
c. Generic
He thought about the Lion, and how majestic it is.
Unlike generic subjects, generic objects can be coded by only two of the four forms that
coded generic subjects. Thus compare with (71) above:
Referential coherenceII 467
(74) a. Deﬁnite singular
He thought about the Lion and how majestic it is.
b. *Indeﬁnite singular
*He thought about a lion, and how majestic it was.
c. Indeﬁnite plural
He thought about lions and how majestic they are.
d. *Quantiﬁed indeﬁnite plural
*He thought about all lions and how majestic they are.
In many languages, the grammar makes the topicality and referentiality of generic subjects
much more transparent. For example, in Spanish generic subjects are most commonly
marked as deﬁnite, and as such may remain ambiguous as to whether they are referring to
tokens or types:
(75) a. me dan miedo los leones
me give/pl fear the lions
‘lions frighten me’
‘the (particular) lions frighten me’
b. me da miedo el león
me give/sg fear the lion
‘lions frighten me’
‘the (particular) lion frightens me’
c. *me dan miedo leones
me give/pl fear lions
In Bemba, where a strong grammatically-marked REF/NON-REF distinction exists,
subjects — unlike objects — can only be marked as referring, and may then be either
referring-deﬁnite or generic, in both singular and plural:
(76) a. aba-ntu baa-suma
ref-human nref-good
‘The (particular) people are good’ (ref-def)
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘People are good’ (generic)
b. *ba-ntu baa-suma
nref-human nref-good
c. umu-ntu muu-suma
ref-human nref-good
‘the (particular) man is good’ (ref-def)
Ï ¸
Ì ˝
Ó ˛
‘people are good’ (generic)
d. *mu-ntu muu-suma
nref-human nref-good
468 Syntax
10.6.7 Gradation of deﬁnite description
We noted earlier above (§10.3.3) that reference, or the probability of referential intent, can
be scalar. The same may be shown for deﬁniteness. In this case, what may be at issue is the
completeness of deﬁnite description. Consider:
(77) a. The man who killed Smith was insane.
(i) I know who that man was, and he was insane
(ii) Someone killed Smith, I have no idea who, but whoever he may be, he
was insane.
b. The man who killed Smith was an insane carpenter.
c. The man who killed Smith was an insane carpenter
who spent years in Mayhem before escaping…
d. The man who killed Smith was a good friend of mine.
e. The man who killed Smith was my good friend Archie.
In each case in (77), ‘someone killed Smith’ is presupposed. But in (77a) both senses (i)
and (ii) are equally natural. As the description gets richer and more detailed down the scale
(77b–e), the probability of the under-speciﬁed sense (ii) decreases, and that of the fully-
speciﬁed (i) increases.
Fundamentally, the contrast between (i) and (ii) in (77a) may still be a contrast between
a referring (i) and attributive (ii) sense of the deﬁnite referent. But this only reinforces the
suggestion (§10.6.6) that deﬁniteness and topicality are essentially a pragmatic matter,
applicable equally to either types or tokens. In other words, deﬁnite NPs are pragmatically
referring, but not necessarily semantically referring.
10.7 The grammatical marking of deﬁnite NPs
In this section we will survey some of the most common morpho-syntactic devices used to
mark deﬁniteness. As before, the typological discussion is profoundly diachronic, illumi-
nating the most commonly attested grammaticalization pathways.
10.7.1 Distal demonstratives
By a wide margin, the most common source of deﬁnite marking involves the re-gram-
maticalization of a distal demonstrative (‘that’, ‘yon’), converting its deixis from the spatial
to the discourse domain. That is, from speech-situation grounding to episodic-memory
grounding. The Germanic and Romance examples of this are suﬃciently well-known. As
further illustration, consider ﬁrst Swahili, where demonstratives, in conformance with the
noun-modiﬁer word order, follow the noun. Of the three demonstratives, the distal one
can be shifted to a pre-nominal slot, de-stressed, and used as a deﬁnite article:
(78) a. bibi húyu ‘this woman’
b. bibi húyo ‘that woman (near)’
Referential coherenceII 469
c. bibi yúle ‘that woman (far)’
d. yule bibi ‘the woman’
A similar development but with the opposite word-order is found in Ute, where stressed
demonstratives are pre-nominal, but the post-nominal placement of the de-stressed distal
demonstrative converts it to a deﬁnite article:
(79) a. ’ín mamach ‘this woman’
b. má mamach ‘that woman (visible)’
c. ’ú mamach ‘that woman (invisible)’
d. mamach-’u ‘the woman’
10.7.2 Noun classiﬁers
In addition to grammaticalizing as referring indeﬁnite markers, noun classiﬁers in Jacaltec
have also grammaticalized, perhaps earlier, as both anaphoric pronouns and deﬁnite
articles. This development parallels the well-known one in Romance and Germanic
languages. The use of de-stressed — and sometime phonologically reduced — classiﬁers as
deﬁnite articles in Jacaltec is best illustrated in cases where the classiﬁer modiﬁes the very
same noun from which it is diachronically derived, a situation that makes its use as
classiﬁer altogether redundant. Thus (Craig 1986c):
(80) a. nók’ ‘animal’
b. no7 nók’ ‘the animal’ (animal > animate)
c. ch’én ‘rock’
d. ch’en ch’én ‘the rock’ (rock > small round object)
e. náj ‘man’
f. naj wináj ‘the man’ (man > non-kin man)
g. íx ‘woman’
h. ix íx ‘the woman’ (woman > non-kin woman)
On the other hand, the use of the classiﬁer qua classiﬁer is clearer in cases where another
determiner clearly codes deﬁniteness (Craig 1986c):
(81) a. xwóche ch’en óme tu7
like/1sg cl/rock earrings dem
‘I like those earrings’
b. xwóche te’ ak’b’al tu7
like/1sg cl/plant ﬂower dem
‘I like that ﬂower’
c. xcám hin no7 wácax
died my cl/an cow
‘my cow died’
d. xcám hin metx tx’i7
died my cl/dog dog
‘my dog died’
470 Syntax
Finally, the use of classiﬁer as anaphoric pronoun may be seen in (Craig 1986c):
(82) a. xí naj tet ix
said 3sg.masc to 3sg.fem
‘he said to her’
b. xí ix tet naj
said 3sg.fem to 3sg.masc
‘she said to him’
In terms of their grammaticalization potential in the domain of deﬁniteness and anaphora,
Jacaltec classiﬁers seem to show a similar pattern as the one seen in demonstratives, above
— with one exception: Having no deictic value, classiﬁers proceed directly to the anaphoric
pronoun stage, without passing ﬁrst through a demonstrative pronoun stage:
(83) Grammaticalization potential of demonstratives
Dem-determiner ﬁ
Dem-pronoun ﬁ Anaph-pronoun
Ï¸
Ì˝
Ó˛
Def-article
In terms of cross-linguistic distribution, however, the rise of deﬁnite articles out of
demonstrative determiners is much more common (Diessel 1999).
10.7.3 Deﬁnite-accusative markers
As noted by Comrie (1975), many languages have a special accusative case-marker coding
only deﬁnite direct-objects. In some languages of this type, the accusative marker coexists
with the overtly-marked deﬁnite article. This is the case in Hebrew:
(84) a. Non-REF-indeﬁnite
kaniti sefer
bought/1sg book
‘I bought a book’
b. REF-indeﬁnite
kaniti sham sefer-xad
bought/1sg there book-one
‘I bough a book there’
c. Deﬁnite
kaniti et-ha-sefer
bought/1sg acc-the-book
‘I bought the book’
d. Deﬁnite (name)
kaniti et-Hamlet
bought/1sg acc-Hamlet
‘I bought Hamlet’
Referential coherenceII 471
e. Deﬁnite (pronoun)
kaniti ot-o
bought/1sg acc-3fem.sg
‘I bought it’
In other languages, the DEF-accusative marker itself conﬂates case and deﬁnite marking,
as in Turkish (Hennesy 1998):
(85) a. Non-REF-indeﬁnite
adam elma al-di
man apple but-past
‘The man bought (some) apples’
b. REF-indeﬁnite
adam bir-elma al-di
man one-apple but-past
‘The man bought an apple’
c. Deﬁnite
adam elma-yi al-di
man apple-def/acc but-past
‘The man bought the apple’
An explanation of the naturalness of this feature, and its peculiar aﬃnity to the direct
object, will be given below (§10.7.7).
10.7.4 Direct object and dative shifting
As noted earlier (chs 3, 4), the dative object of bi-transitive clauses is almost always more
topical than the patient, and thus tends to claim the direct-object role, often automatically.
Since topical objects are most commonly pre-established in the preceding discourse,
dative objects in discourse tend to be overwhelmingly deﬁnite and anaphoric (Greenberg
1974; Givón 1984a). It is hardly surprising then that in many languages dative-shifting —
making the dative the direct object — also has the eﬀect of deﬁnitizing. This is already
evident in English, where a patient DO may be either deﬁnite or indeﬁnite, but the dative
DO must be deﬁnite:
(86) a. She gave a book to the/a boy
b. She gave the book to the/a boy
c. She gave the boy a/the book
d. *She gave a boy the book
e. ?She gave a boy a book
In many languages, the deﬁnitizing eﬀect of dative-shifting (i.e. promotion to DO) is
enhanced by the fact that only the DO controls pronominal object agreement. In Spanish,
this phenomenon is restricted to dative objects (Ch.9, §9.3.2.3). In KinyaRwanda, this is
generalized to all direct objects (Ch.9, §9.3.2.5). Thus recall (Kimenyi 1976):
472 Syntax
(87) Obligatory ‘promotion’ of Dat/Ben to DO
a. Dat/Ben = DO
Yohani ya-mu-oher-er-eje umugore ibaruwa
John/subj 3sg-her-send-ben-asp woman/obj letter
‘John sent the woman a/the letter’
b. *Pat object = DO
*Yohani ya-ri-oher-er-eje umugore ibaruwa
John/subj 3sg-it-send-ben-asp woman/obj letter
(*‘J. sent the letter to the/a woman’)
(88) Optional promotion of instrument to DO
a. Pat = DO (unshifted)
umugabo ya-gi-tem-eje igiti n-umupaanga
man/subj he-cut-it-asp tree/obj instr-saw
‘The man cut the tree with a saw’
b. Instr = DO (shifted)
umugabo ya-u-tem-ej-eesha umupaanga igiti
man/subj he-it-cut-asp-instr saw/obj tree
‘The man used the saw to cut the/a tree’
c. *Pat = DO (shifted)
*umugabo ya-gi-tem-ej-eesha umupaanga igiti
man/subj he-it-cut-asp-instr saw/obj tree
10.7.5 Topicalization and deﬁniteness
As noted earlier (Ch.9, §9.6), there is a strong correlation between some topicalizing
constructions and both anaphora and deﬁniteness. Constructions such as L-dislocation
and Y-movement, for example, apply to either deﬁnite or generic NPs but not to
REF-indeﬁnite ones. They commonly also require a resumptive anaphoric pronoun (or
verb agreement). Thus consider:
(89) L-dislocation
a. Deﬁnite
As for the coyote, they didn’t kill it
b. Generic
As for coyotes, we don’t have them around here
c. *REF-indeﬁnite
*As for a coyote, they didn’t kill it
(90) Y-movement (Spanish)
a. Deﬁnite
a-Juan le-mataron primero, (a María mas tarde)
obj-J. 3sg-killed/3pl ﬁrst obj M. more late
‘Juan they killed ﬁrst, (Maria later)
Referential coherenceII 473
b. Generic
los tomates se-los-vende en Avril, (los piementos en Mayo)
the tomatoes pass-3pl-sell in April the peppers in May
‘Tomatoes are sold in April(, peppers in May)’
c. *REF-indeﬁnite
*a un amigo se-le-matan primero, (a un enemigo…)
obj one friend refl-3sg-kill/3pl ﬁrst obj one enemy
Since topicalizing constructions such as (89) and (90) tend to involve primarily referents
that have already been introduced in the preceding discourse, their strong overlap with
deﬁniteness is only to be expected.
10.7.6 Pronominal object agreement
As noted earlier (Ch.9, §9.8.4), pronominal object agreement is a well-known device for
marking objects as deﬁnite. The naturalness of this is closely associated with the natural
association of deﬁniteness with both topicalization and anaphora.
10.7.7 Deﬁniteness, reference and case-roles
An implicit theme in much of the discussion above is the diﬀerential association of the
various semantic and grammatical case-roles with either deﬁniteness or reference. This
association can be summarized as follows (Greenberg 1974; Hetzron 1971; Keenan 1976a):
(91) a. Subject
overwhelming REF & DEF
b. Object
overwhelmingly REF; DEF or INDEF
c. Dative/benefactive
overwhelmingly REF & DEF
d. Associative
overwhelmingly REF & DEF
e. Locative
overwhelmingly REF & DEF
f. Time
overwhelmingly REF & DEF
g. Instrumental
overwhelmingly NON-REF & INDEF
h. Manner
overwhelmingly NON-REF & INDEF
The strong association of case-role with either deﬁniteness or indeﬁniteness is easy to
understand:
474 Syntax
•The subject, dative/benefactive and associative roles are mostly deﬁnite because of
either their topicality or humanity or both.
•The locative and temporal roles are mostly deﬁnite because of being elements of the
frame in natural discourse, usually set up ﬁrst before the main participants are
introduced.
•The instrumental and manner roles are mostly indeﬁnite because of non-topicality
and non-reference.
The only major case-role with unpredictable deﬁniteness is that of the object-patient. For
all other case-roles, deﬁniteness can be inferred with high predictability — 90% or more —
from either the grammatical (subject) or semantic case-roles. This helps explain the
existence of many languages — Japanese, Newari, Nupe, Bemba — in which deﬁniteness
either goes uncoded or is substantially under-grammaticalized. It also helps explain the
identity of the one case-role that — consistently, cross-linguistically — conﬂates case and
deﬁniteness, the deﬁnite accusative: It is the only major case-role whose association with
deﬁniteness is unpredictable.
The highly predictable distribution of deﬁniteness, referentiality and topicality across
case-roles also helps explain, lastly, theconsistent exclusion of deﬁniteor indeﬁnite markers,
in languages that do have them, from, respectively, the locative and temporal cases (deﬁnite
but non-topical), or the instrumental and manner cases (indeﬁnite and non-topical):
•Grammaticalized deﬁnite markers — most commonly arising from demonstratives —
arise ﬁrst to mark topical deﬁnites.
•Grammaticalized indeﬁnite markers — most commonly arising from one, this or
classiﬁers — arise ﬁrst to mark topical indeﬁnites.
Both the deﬁnite locative or time and the indeﬁnite instrumental or manner have this
feature in common — low topicality.
In the grammaticalization of deﬁniteness, it is the grammaticalization rather than its
absence that needs to be explained. And it seems that the primary grammaticalization of
both ‘deﬁnite’ and ‘indeﬁnite’ is motivated by topicality. And that deﬁniteness and
indeﬁniteness are secondary by-products of this primary developmental mechanism. To
paraphrase Ron Langacker, semantics is once again grammaticalized pragmatics. Or more
precisely, grammaticalized pragmatics is the precursor of grammaticalized semantics.
10.8 The grammar of referential coherence as mental processing instructions
In this section we return, this time more explicitly, to outline the cognitive underpinning
of referential coherence, sketched out brieﬂy in the preceding chapter (§9.5). The
theoretical perspective pursued here relies heavily on the traditional cognitive and
psycholinguistic work on semantic memory, working memory (attentional activation) and
episodic memory (see §10.6 above).10
One may view topical referents, most commonly the subjects or objects of clauses, as the
ﬁle labels pinned to the storage units of episodic memory. The lowest-level storage unit is
Referential coherenceII 475
the event/state clause (‘mental proposition’). In episodic memory, the clause is probably
stripped of much of its grammatical marking (Gernsbacher 1985), and thus represented in
some yet-to-be-understood lingua mentalis.
The next hierarchic level of storage, the clause chain (or ‘thematic paragraph’), is a
sequence of equi-topic clauses. That is, a chain of clauses through which the same topical
referent most commonly persists. This persistent referent tends to be one of the semantic-
roles — participants — in the chained clauses, most commonly the agent, dative or patient,
most commonly the grammatical subject, but occasionally also the grammatical object.
In a complex text, a number of equi-topic chains make up a paragraph, a number of
paragraphs make up an episode, etc. The structure of episodic memory is thus not only
sequential but also hierarchic (Mandler 1978; Johnson and Mandler 1980; van Dijk and
Kintsch 1983; Ericsson and Kintsch 1995). Each equi-topic chain in this complex hierarchic
structure is the lowest-level text ﬁle, labeled by the topical referent, its ﬁle label.
Incoming information, packaged in successive clause-like entities,11
must be ﬁled
unambiguously under one node only. In other words, only one node — via its ﬁle-label —
can be activated at any given time. Activating a topical referent thus means activating the
text-ﬁle for which it is the ﬁle-label. For the duration of the activation of that referent and
its text-ﬁle, all subsequent incoming information is ﬁled in that text-ﬁle.
The various grammatical devices that partake in the grammar of reference and
deﬁniteness (i.e. of referential coherence) are the mental processing instructions that cue
the text-interpreter toward performing various mental operations, in particular those
involving attentional activation in working memory and search-and-retrieval in episodic
memory. The main grammar-cued mental operations relevant to referential coherence are:
(92) Major attentional operations
a. (Default) Continue the activation of the currently-active ﬁle-label (thus of
its text-ﬁle).
b. Terminate the activation of the currently-active ﬁle-label (thus its text-ﬁle).
c. Activate a currently inactive ﬁle-label (thus its text-ﬁle).
(93) Major episodic memory search-and-retrieval operations
a. Search in episodic memory and identify a referent that is already
represented there.
b. Retrieve an already-represented referent from episodic memory into work-
ing memory (attention focus) and make it the ﬁle-label of a new text-ﬁle.
c. Initiate and activate a new text-ﬁle (with its ﬁle-label).
d. File subsequent incoming information in the active text-ﬁle.
The relation between the main grammatical cues responsible for marking referential
coherence, and these major mental operations, is summarized in (99) below. The designa-
tion of marked [M] vs. unmarked [U] (‘default’) status to the various option is motivated
by both text-frequency and cognitive complexity (Givón 1991b,e, 1995: Ch.8).
476 Syntax
(94) Major grammar-cued cognitive operations involving referential coherence
[Referent]
[U]
Continue Current
Activation
[M]
Topical:
Terminate current
avtivation
[U]
Non topical:
Continue current
avtivation
[M]
Defer decision
on activation
[anaphoric PRO]
[zero anaphora]
[SUBJ/OBJ case-roles]
[REF/DEF morphemes]
[word-order]
[etc.]
[oblique case-roles]
[NON-REF/INDEF morph.]
[word-order]
[full-NP]
[stressed PRO]
[name]
[?]
Search for referent
in extant
representation
Definite
[?]
earch for
referent in extant
representation
Indefinite
No s
[?]
Definite
[?]
Indefinite
File as new info
in active file
Retrieve
from existing
reprensentation
Activate as new
file-label
File incoming
information in
new file
The grammatical cues that tag a referent as non-referring or non-topical remove it from
potential status of ﬁle-label and consign it — by default — to the status of incoming new
information, to be ﬁled in the currently-active open text-ﬁle.
The grammatical cues that tag a referent as referring or topical confer upon it the status
of ﬁle-label — in addition to also remaining incoming new information.
The grammatical cues that tag referents as indeﬁnite instruct the hearer to not bother
with a search for antecedence in extant mental representation.
The grammatical cues that tag referents as deﬁnite trigger a search for their antecedence
Referential coherenceII 477
in some extant mental representation — working memory, episodic memory, lexical-
semantic memory.
One must emphasize that the grammatical devices noted thus far — subject and object
case-roles, anaphoric zeros and pronouns, reference and deﬁniteness markers, word-order
— are only part of the vast grammatical machinery invested in the signalling of referential
coherence. True enough, these form the very core of the system, since they are found
copiously in the most common clause-type in discourse. But many more grammatical
devices partake in signalling referential coherence, and will be discussed in several chapters
of Vol. II (noun modiﬁers, Ch.11; voice, Ch.13; Rel-clauses, Ch.14; contrastive focus,
Ch.15; topicalization, Ch.16; switch-reference, Ch.18). Of these, many partake in
signalling not only referential coherence but also higher levels of thematic coherence and
discourse organization.
Notes
1. The title of Montague’s (1970) paper “Pragmatics and intentional logic” is a tacit concession to the
inherently pragmatic nature of the Possible Worlds approach to non-referentiality.
2. Medieval philosophers persisted in using Aristotle’s terminology. The 20th Century entrenched
de re vs. de dicto, respectively. Donellan (1966) is responsible for recasting the distinction, at least for
some grammatical environments, as ‘referential’ vs. ‘attributive’, respectively. Many linguists have
used the terms ‘speciﬁc’ vs. ‘generic’, respectively.
3. Russell (1905, p.42) recognized an extra non-referring sense and thus three quantiﬁers —
everything (universal), something (existential) and nothing (NEG-existential). As we shall see further
below, this is due in part to a systematic confusion between predicate negation and the more marked
NP-negation (see Ch.8, §8.4 and 8.6.3). It is also in part the consequence of not recognizing the
systematic eﬀect of propositional modalities on the referential status of nominals under their scope.
4. The treatment here follows loosely Givón (1973b), but is equally compatible with Jackendoﬀ
(1971).
5. ‘This’ is of course acceptable here, but only as a stressed deﬁnite demonstrative.
6. It is likely that ‘one’ was initially a marker for only referring indeﬁnites in Jacaltec, as seems to be
invariably the case elsewhere, and was then generalized (de-marked) to all indeﬁnites in Jacaltec, as
was the case in English, French, German etc. (Givón 1981a).
7. Dear Abby’s advice column is one of the few places where one can ﬁnd this recent innovation in
a written text, though only occasionally and only in letters from young readers. Transcripts of spoken
American English of uneducated rural whites 60 years or older (from my own ﬁeld notes ca. 1980)
don’t show any trace of this usage.
8. Divine inspiration, infallible intuition or telepathy could, at least in principle, be added to these
three. With a nod to Wittgenstein, however — where words fail, let there be silence.
9. The relevant oeuvre is immense and rapidly expanding. My current list is thus both rudimentary
and in need of constant updating. The citations below will serve, nonetheless, as a gentle entry into
the cognitive and, more recently, neuroscience literature on memory and attention. To wit:
Anderson, Garrod and Sanford (1983); Anderson and Shiﬀrin (1968); Baddeley (1986, 1992);
Carpenter and Just 1988); Ericsson and Kintsch (1995); Gathercole and Baddeley (1993); Just and
Carpenter (1992); Neeley (1990); Petri and Mishkin (1994); Posner and Snyder (1974); Schneider
478 Syntax
and Shiﬀrin (1977); Shallice (1988); Squire (1987); Squire and Zola-Morgan (1991); Swinney (1979);
Walker and Yekovich (1987); Yekovich and Walker (1986).
10. This treatment follows the more expanded one in Givón (1991e, 1995: Ch.8).
11. Wally Chafe (in personal communication but see also Chafe 1994) objects to the term ‘propos-
ition’, as in van Dijk and Kintsch (1983), on the grounds that its smacks of the traditional logical
analysis. This may be a matter of semantics, since what I call ‘mental propositions’ resemble neither
the propositions of logic nor the fully-structured isolated clauses of generative grammar. The
majority of clauses in coherent discourse are subjectless, often objectless, and occasionally even
verbless (Chafe 1994; Givón 1999). And there is no reason to assume that implicit, anaphoric
subjects, objects or verbs are ‘restored’ in episodic memory in the manner of the generativist’s
traditional ‘deep structure’. But the facts of the matter remain that the lingua mentalis of episodic
memory is yet to be fully elucidated.
Bibliography
<TARGET "ref" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Bibliography"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
Aissen, J. (1979) “Possession ascension in Tzotzil”, Papers in Mayan Linguistics, Columbia, MO:
Lucas Brothers.
Aissen, J. (1992) “Topic and focus in Mayan”, Language, 68.
Akrill, J.L. (tr. and ed. 1963) Aristotle’s Categories and De Interpretatione, Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Aksu-Koç, A. and D. Slobin (1986) “A psychological account of the development and use of
evidentials in Turkish”, in W. Chafe and J. Nichols (eds 1986).
Alt, F.W., T.K. Blackwell and G.D. Yancopoulos (1987) “Development of the primary antibody
repertoire”, Science, 238.
Andersen, H. (1966) Tenues and Mediae in Slavice Languages: A Historical Investigation, PhD
dissertation, Harvard University (ms.).
Andersen, H. (1973) “Abductive and deductive change”, Language, 49.
Andersen, H. (1974) “Markedness in vowel systems”, in L. Heilmann (ed.) Proceedings of the XIth
International Congress of Linguists, Vol. II, Bologna: Il Mulino.
Andersen, H. (1979) “Phonology as semiotics”, in S. Chatman et al. (eds) A Semiotic Landscape, The
Hague: Mouton.
Anderson, A.S.C. Garrod and A.J. Sanford (1983) “The accessibility of pronominal antecedents as
a function of episodic shift in narrative text”, Quarterly J. of Experimental Psychology, 35A.
Anderson, S. (1976) “On the notion of subject in ergative languages”, in C. Li (ed. 1976).
Anderson, S. (1977) “On mechanisms by which languages become ergative”, in C. Li (ed. 1977).
Aristotle, De Interpretatione, in J.L. Ackrill (tr. and ed., 1963).
Aristotle, De Partibus Animalium, in R. McKeon (ed. 1941).
Aristotle, De Sophisticis Elenchis, in. J. McKeon (ed. 1941).
Aristotle, Metaphysics, in Hope (tr. 1952).
Atkinson, R.C. and R.M. Shiﬀrin (1968) “Human memory: A proposed system and its control
processes”, in K.W. Spence and T. Spence (eds) The Psychology of Learning and Motivation,
Vol. 2, NY: Academic Press.
Austin, J. (1962) How to Do Things with Words, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Austin, P. and J. Bresnan (1996) “Non-conﬁgurationality in Australian aboriginal languages”,
Natural Language and Linguistic Theory, 14.
Bach, E. and R. Harms (eds 1968) Universals of Linguistic Theory, NY: Holt, Reinehart and Winston.
Baddeley, A.D. (1986) Working Memory, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Baddeley, A.D. (1992) “Working memory: The interface between memory and cognition”, J. of
Cognitive Neuroscience, 4.3: 281–288.
Baker, M. (1991) “Some subject/object non-asymmetries in Mohawk”, Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory, 9.
Barnes, J. (ed. 1984) The Complete Works of Aristotle, Vol. I, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Barthelme, D. (1981) “The Emperor”, The New Yorker, January 26, 1981, p.32.
480 Bibliography
Bickerton, D. (1975) “Creolization, linguistic universals, natural semantax and the brain”, Honolulu:
University of Hawaii at Manoa (ms.).
Bickerton, D. (1976) “Creole tense-aspect systems and universal grammar”, Honolulu: University of
Hawaii at Manoa (ms.).
Bickerton, D. (1977) “Creoles and natural semantax”, Honolulu: University of Hawaii at Manoa (ms.).
Bickerton, D. (1981) The Roots of Language, Ann Arbor, MICH: Karoma.
Bickerton, D. (1990) Language and Species, Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Bickerton, D. and C. Odo (1976) Change and Variation in Hawaii English, 1: The Pidgin, NSF Project
Report, Honolulu: University of Hawaii.
Bickerton, D. and C. Odo (1977) Change and Variation in Hawaii English, Vol. I: The Creole,
Honolulu, University of Hawaii at Manoa, NSF Project Report (ms.).
Bird, C. (1968) “Relative clauses in Bambara”, J. of West African Languages, 5.
Blumstein, S. and W. Milberg (1983) “Automated and controlled deﬁcits in speech/language deﬁcits
in aphasia”, Symposium on Automatic Speech, Minneapolis: Academy of Aphasia.
Bokamba, E.G. (1976) Question Formation in Some Bantu Languages, PhD dissertation, University
of Indiana, Bloomington (ms.).
Bolinger, D. (1954) “Meaningful word order in Spanish”, Boletín de Filología, Universidad de Chile,
Tomo 8.
Bolinger, D. (1968) “Postposed main phrases: An English rule for Romance subjunctives”, Canadian
Journal of Linguistics, 14.
Bolinger, D. (1977) The Form of Language, London: Longmans.
Bolinger, D. (1978) “Yes and no questions are not alternative questions”, in H. HiZ (ed.) Questions,
Synthese Language Library, #1.
Bommelyn, L. (1997) Prolegomena to the Grammar of Tolowa Athabaskan, MA thesis, Linguistics
Dept., University of Oregon (ms.).
Bommelyn, L. and T. Givón (1998) “Internal reconstruction in Tolowa Athabaskan”, IV Encuentro
Internacional de Linguística en el Noroeste, Hermosillo, Mexico: Universidad de Sonora.
Borgert, U.H.G. and C.A. Nyhan (1976) A German Reference Grammar, Sydney: Sydney University
Press.
Bostock, D. (1994) “Plato on understanding language”, in S. Everson (ed. 1994).
Bradley, C.H. and B.E. Hollenbach (eds 1988) Studies in the Syntax of Mixtecan Languages, Vol. 1,
Arlington, TX: SIL.
Bradley, C.H. and B.E. Hollenbach (eds 1990) Studies in the Syntax of Mixtecan Languages, Vol. 2,
Arlington, TX: SIL.
Bradley, C.H. and B.E. Hollenbach (eds 1991) Studies in the Syntax of Mixtecan Languages, Vol. 3,
Arlington, TX: SIL.
Bradley, C.H. and B.E. Hollenbach (eds 1992) Studies in the Syntax of Mixtecan Languages, Vol. 4,
Arlington, TX: SIL.
Brainard, S. (1997) “Ergativity and grammatical relations in Karao”, in T. Givón (ed. 1997).
Bresnan, J. and J. Kanerva (1989) “Locative inversion in ChiChewa: A case for factorization of
grammar”, Linguistic Inquiry, 20.
Bucellati, G. (1970) A Grammar of Babylonian, University of California, Los Angeles (unpublished ms).
Butt, J. and C. Benjamin (1988) A New Reference Grammar of Modern Spanish, London: Edward
Arnold.
Bybee, J. (1985) Morphology, TSL #9, Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Bybee, J. (1995) “The semantic development of past tense modals in English”, in J. Bybee and S.
Fleischman (eds 1995).
Bybee, J. and S. Fleischman (eds 1995) Modality in Grammar and Discourse, TSL #32, Amsterdam:
J. Benjamins.
Bibliography 481
Bybee, J., R. Perkins and W. Pagliuca (1994) “Mood and modality”, Chapter 7 of The Evolution of
Grammar: Tense, Aspect and Modality in Languages of the World, Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.
Byrne, F. (1987) Grammatical Relations in a Radical Creole, Creole Language Library #3, Amsterdam:
J. Benjamins.
Byrne, F. (1992) “Tense, scope and spreading in Saramaccan”, J. of Pidgins and Creoles, 7.2.
Carlson, R. (1991) “From verb to post-position in Senufu”, in B. Heine and E. Traugott (eds 1991).
Carnap, R. (1947) Meaning and Necessity, Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Carnap, R. (1958) Introduction to Symbolic Logic and its Applications, NY: Dover.
Carnap, R. (1959) The Logical Syntax of Language, Patterson, NJ: Littleﬁeld, Adams & Co.
Carnap, R. (1963) The Philosophy of Rudolph Carnap, ed. by P.A. Schillp, LaSalle, IL: Open Court.
Carpenter, P.A. and M.A. Just (1988) “The role of working memory in language comprehension”,
in D. Klahr and K. Kotovsky (eds) Complex Information Processing: The Impact of Herbert Simon,
Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Cervantes-Saavedra, M. de Don Quijote, Ed. Luis Andres Murillo (1984), Madrid: Editorial Castalia.
Chafe, W. (1970) Meaning and the Structure of Language, Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Chafe, W. (1977) “The evolution of 3rd person verb agreement in Iroquois languages”, in C. Li (ed.
1977).
Chafe, W. (ed. 1980) The Pear Stories, Norwood, NJ: Ablex.
Chafe, W. (1994) Discourse, Consciousness and Time: The Flow and Displacement of Conscious
Experience in Speaking and Writing, Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Chafe, W. (1995) “The realis-irrealis distinction in Caddo, the Northern Iroquoian Languages, and
English”, in J. Bybee and S. Fleischman (eds 1995).
Chafe, W. and M. Mithun (1995) “What are S, A and O?”, UC Santa Barbara, Linguistics Dept. (ms.).
Chafe, W. and J. Nichols (eds 1996) Evidentiality: The Linguistic Coding of Epistemology, Norwood,
NJ: Ablex.
Chase, W.G. and K.A. Ericsson (1981) “Skilled memory”, in J. Anderson (ed.) Cognitive Skills and
their Acquisition, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Chase, W.G. and K.A. Ericsson (1982) “Skill and working memory”, in G. Bower (ed.) Psychology of
Learning and Motivation, Vol. 16, NY: Academic Press.
Chen, P. (1986) “Discourse and particle movement in English”, Studies in Language, 10.1.
Cheney, D.L. and R.M. Seyfarth (1990) How Monkeys See the World, Chicago: University of Chicago
Press.
Chomsky, N. (1957) Syntactic Structures, The Hague: Mouton.
Chomsky, N. (1961) “On the notion ‘reule of grammar’”, Proceedings of Symposia on Applied
Mathematics, Vol. 12, Providence, RI: American Methematical Society.
Chomsky, N. (1965) Aspects of the Theory of Syntax, Cambridge, MASS: MIT Press.
Chomsky, N. (1968) Language and Mind, NY: Harcourt, Brace & World.
Chomsky, N. (1981) Lectures on Government and Binding, Dordrecht: Foris.
Chomsky, N. (1992) “A Minimalist Program for Linguistic Theory”, MIT Occasional Papers in
Linguistics, #1, Cambridge: MIT.
Chung, S. (1977) “On the gradual nature of syntactic change”, in C. Li (ed. 1977).
Clark, E. (1971) “What’s in a word?”, in T. Moore (ed.) Cognitive Development and the Acquisition
of Language, NY: Academic Press.
Clark, H. (1969) “Linguistic processes in deductive reasoning”, Psychological Review, 76.4.
Coates, J. (1983) The Semantics of Modal Auxiliaries, London: Croom Helm.
Cocchiarella, N.B. (1965) Tense and Modal Logic: A Study in the Typology of Temporal Reference, PhD
dissertation, U.C.L.A. (ms.).
Cole, D.T. (1955) Introduction to Tswana Grammar, London: Longman, Green & Co.
482 Bibliography
Cole, P. and J. Morgan (eds, 1975) Speech Acts, Syntax and Semantics Vol. 3, NY: Academic Press.
Cole, P. and J. Sadock (eds, 1977) Grammatical Relations, Syntax and Semantics #8, NY: Academic Press.
Collins, A.M. and E.F. Loftus (1975) “A spreading activation theory of semantic processing”,
Psychological Review, 82.
Collins, A.M. and M.R. Quillian (1972) “How to make a language user”, in E. Tulving and W.
Donaldson (eds) Organization of Memory, NY: Academic Press.
Comrie, B. (1975) “Deﬁnite direct object and referent identiﬁability”, University of Southern
California, Los Angeles (ms.).
Comrie, B. (1978) “Ergativity”, in W.P. Lehmann (ed. 1978).
Cooreman, A. (1988) “Ergativity in Dyirbal discourse”, Linguistics, 26.
Cooreman, A., B. Fox and T. Givón (1984) “The discourse deﬁnition of ergativity”, Studies in
Language, 8.1.
Craig, C.G. (1976) “Properties of basic and derived subjects in Jacaltec”, in C. Li (ed. 1976).
Craig, C.G. (1977) The Structure of Jacaltec, Austin: University of Texas Press.
Craig, C. (1986a) “Jacaltec noun classiﬁers: A study in language and culture”, in C. Craig (ed. 1986b).
Craig, C. (ed. 1986b) Noun Classes and Categorization, TSL #7, Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Craig, C. (1986c) “Jacaltec noun classiﬁers: A study in grammaticalization”, Lingua, 70.
Craig, C.G. and K. Hale (1987) “Oblique relations and reanalysis in some languages of the Ameri-
cas”, in P. Kroeber et al. (eds) Chicago Conference on Native American Languages and Grammati-
cal Typology, Bloomington: IULC.
Craig, C.G. (1991) “From verb to post-position and beyond in Rama”, in B. Heine and E. Traugott
(eds 1991).
Croft, W. (1997) “Intonation units and grammatical structure in Wardaman and English”, paper
read at the Symposium on Clause Structure, UC Santa Barbara, April 1997 (ms.).
Croft, W., K. Denning and S. Kemmer (eds 1990) Studies in Typology and Diachrony: For Joseph H.
Greenberg, TSL #20, Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Crouch, J.E. (1978) Functional Human Anatomy, 3rd edition, Philadelphia: Lea and Fabiger.
Dahlstrom, A. (1986) Plains Cree Morphosyntax, PhD dissertation, UC at Berkeley.
Delancey, S. (1986) “Toward a history of the Thai classiﬁer system”, in C. Craig (ed. 1986).
Delancey, S. (1997) “Mirativity: The grammatical marking of unexpected information”, Linguistic
Typology, 1.
Delancey, S. (1999a) “Lexical preﬁxes an bi-partite verb stems in Klamath”, IJAL, 65.1.
Delancey, S. (1999b) “Bipartite verb stems in western North America”, University of Oregon, Eugene
(ms.).
Delancey, S. (1999c) “The mirative and evidentiality, J. of Pragmatics.
Denny, P. and C. Creider (1986) “The semantics of noun classes in Proto-Bantu”, in C. Craig (ed. 1986).
Derbyshire, D. (1977) “Word order universals and the existence of OVS languages, Linguistic Inquiry, 8.
Derbyshire, D. (1981) “A diachronic explanation for the origin of OVS languages”, S.I.L., Misoula,
Montana (ms.).
Derbyshire, D. (1985) “Topic continuity and OVS order in Hixkaryana”, in J. Sherzer and G. Urban
(eds) Native South American Discourse, Austin: University of Texas Press.
Derbyshire, D. and J. Pullum (1981) “Object initial languages”, IJAL, 47.3.
Dickinson, C. (1999) “Mirativity in Tsaﬁki”, University of Oregon, Eugene, OR (ms.).
Dik, S. (1978) Functional Grammar, Amsterdam: North Holland.
Diessel, H. (1999) Demonstratives: Form, Function and Grammaticalization, TSL #42, Amsterdam: J.
Benjamins.
Dixon, R.M.W. (1972) The Dyirbal Language of Northern Queensland, Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Bibliography 483
Dixon, R.M.W. (ed. 1976) Grammatical Categories in Australian Languages, Canberra: Australian
Institute of Aboriginal Studies.
Dixon, R.M.W. (1979) “Ergativity”, Language, 55.1.
Dixon, R.M.W. (1982) Where Have All the Adjectives Gone?, Berlin: Mouton-De Gruyter.
Dixon, R.M.W. (1988) A Grammar of Boumaa Fijian, Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Donellan, K. (1966) “Reference and deﬁnite description”, The Philosophical Review, 75.3.
Downing, P. (1986) “The anaphoric use of classiﬁers in Japanese”, in C. Craig (ed. 1986).
Dreizin, A. (1980) “The ﬂavor of Russian negation: Some notes on and around”, Haifa: University
of Haifa (ms.).
Dryer, M. (1988) “Object-verb order and adjective-noun order: Dispelling a myth”, in J. Hawkins
and H.K. Holmback (eds) Papers in Universal Grammar: Generative and Typological Approaches,
special issue of Lingua, 74.2/3.
Dryer, M. (1992) “The Greenbergian word-order correlations”, Language, 68.1.
Dryer, M. (1995) “Grammatical relations in Ktunaxa (Kutenai)”, The Belcourt Lecture, Winnipeg:
University of Manitoba.
Dryer, M. (1997) “Are grammatical relations universal?”, SUNY at Buﬀalo (ms.).
DuBois, J. (1987) “The discourse basis of ergativity”, Language, 63.4.
Eckert, R. & D. Randall (1978) Animal Physiology, 2nd edition, NY/San Francisco: W.H. Freeman & Co.
Erbaugh, M. (1986) “Taking stock: The development of Chinese noun classiﬁers historically and in
young children”, in C. Craig (ed. 1986).
Ericsson, K.A. and W. Kintsch (1995) “Long-term working memory”, Psychological Review, 102:2.
Estival, D. and J. Myhill (1984) “Formal and functional aspects of the development from passive to
ergative systems”, in M. Shibatani (ed. 1984).
Everson, S. (ed. 1994) Language, Companion to Ancient Thought, 3, Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Fillmore, C. (1968) “The case for the case”, in E. Bach and R. Harms (eds 1968).
Firbas, J. (1966) “On deﬁning the theme in functional sentence perspective”, Traveaux Linguistiques
de Prague, 2.
Firbas, J. (1974) “Some aspects of the Czechoslovak approach to problems of functional sentence
perspective”, in F. Danes (ed.) Papers on Functional Sentence Perspective, Janua Linguorum, sm
147, The Hague: Mouton.
Foley, W. and R. van Valin (1984) Functional Syntax and Universal Grammar, Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press.
Foster,M. (1985)“Indicating prominenceinTimbe texts”,S.I.L., Ukarumpa,Papua-NewGuinea (ms.).
Fouts, R.S. (1973) “Acquisition and testing of gestural signs in four young chimpanzees, Science, 180.
Frege, G. (1892 “Ueber Sinn und Bedeutung”, Zeitschrift für Philosophie und Philosophische Kritik,
100 [translated as Frege 1949].
Frege, G. (1949) “Sense and reference”, in H. Feigl and W. Sellars (eds) Readings in Philosophical
Analysis, NY: Appleton-Century-Crofts.
Fulas, H. (1974) “Pseudo object conbstructions in Amharic”, Proc. IV Congresso Internazionale di
Studi Etiopici, Rome: Academia Nazionale dei Lincei.
Futuyma, D.J. (1986) Evolutionary Biology, 2nd edition, Sunderland, Mass.: Sinauer.
Garcia, E. (1979) “Discourse without syntax?”, in T. Givón (ed. 1979b).
Gardner, B.T. and R.A. Gardner (1971) “Two-way communication with an infant chimpanzee”, in
A. Schrier and F. Stollnitz (eds) Behavior of Non-human Primates, NY: Academic Press.
Gathercole, S.E. and A.D. Baddeley (1993) Working Memory and Language, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Gernsbacher, M.A. (1985) “Surface information loss in comprehension”, Cognitive Psychology, 17.
Gernsbacher, M.A. (1990) Language Comprehension as Structure Building, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
484 Bibliography
Gernsbacher, M.A. and T. Givón (eds 1994) Coherence in Spontaneous Text, TSL #31, Amsterdam:
J. Benjamins.
Gernsbacher, M.A. and D. Hargreaves (1988) “Accessing sentence participants: The advantage of
ﬁrst mention”, J. of Memory and Language, 27.
Gildea, S. (1998) On Reconstructing Grammar, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Givón, T. (1970) “Some historical changes in the noun-class system of Bantu, their possible causes
and wider implications”, in C.-W. Kim and H. Stahlke (eds) Papers in African Linguistics,
Edmonton, Alberta: Linguistic Research.
Givón, T. (1971a) “Historical syntax and synchronic morphology: An archaeologist’s ﬁeld trip”, CLS
#7, Chicago: University of Chicago, Chicago Linguistics Society.
Givón, T. (1971b) “Dependent modals, factivity, performative verbs, Bantu subjunctives and what
not”, Studies in African Linguistics, 2.1.
Givón, T. (1972) Studies in ChiBemba and Bantu Grammar, Studies in African Linguistics, Supple-
ment #3.
Givón, T. (1973a) “The time-axis phenomenon”, Language, 49.4.
Givón, T. (1973b) “Opacity and reference in language: An inquiry into the role of modalities”, in J.
Kimball (ed.) Syntax and Semantics 2, NY: Academic Press.
Givón, T. (1975a) “Serial verbs and syntactic change: Niger-Congo”, in C. Li (ed. 1975).
Givón, T. (1975b) “Focus and the scope of assertion: Some Bantu evidence”, Studies in African
Linguistics, 6.2.
Givón, T. (1976) “Topic, pronoun and grammatical agreement”, in C. Li (ed. 1976).
Givón, T. (1979a) On Understanding Grammar, NY: Academic Press.
Givón, T. (1979b) Discourse and Syntax, Syntax and Semantics 12, NY: Academic Press.
Givón, T. (1980) Ute Reference Grammar, Ignacio, CO: Ute Press.
Givón, T. (1981a) “On the deveopment of the numeral ‘one’ as an indeﬁnite maker”, Folia
Linguistica Historica, 2.1.
Givón, T. (1982a) “Logic vs. pragmatics, with human language as the referee”, J. of Pragmatics, 6.1.
Givón, T. (1982b) “Evidentiality & epistemic space”, Studies in Language, 6.1.
Givón, T. (1982c) “Tense-aspect-modality: The Creole prototype and beyond”, in P. Hopper (ed. 1982).
Givón, T. (1982c) “Tense-aspect-modality: The Creole prototype and beyond”, in P. Hopper (ed. 1982).
Givón, T. (1983a) “Topic continuity and word-order pragmatics in Ute”, in T. (Givón ed. 1983b).
Givón, T. (ed. 1983b) Topic Continuity in Discourse: Quantitative Cross-Languagec Studies, TSL #3,
Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Givón, T. (1984a) “Direct object and dative shifting: The semantics and pragmatics of case”, in F.
Plank (ed.), Objects, NY: Academic Press.
Givón, T. (1984b) “Universals of discourse structure and second language acquisition”, IN W.
Rutherford (ed.) Language Universals and Second Language Acquisition, TSL #5, Amsterdam: J.
Benjamins.
Givón, T. (1985a) “Iconicity, isomorphism, and non-arbitrary codig in syntax”, in J. Haiman (ed.
1985b).
Givón, T. (1985b) “The pragmatics of referentiality”, in D. Schiﬀrin (ed.) Meaning, Form and Use in
Context, Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press.
Givón, T. (1988) “The pragmatics of word-order: Predictability, importance and attention”, in
Hammond et al. (eds 1988).
Givón, T. (1989) Mind, Code and Context: Essays in Pragmatics, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Givón, T. (1990a) “Natural language learning and organized language teaching”, in H. Burmeister &
P. Rounds (eds) Proceedings of the Second Language Acquisition Forum (SLRF), Eugene, OR:
University of Oregon.
Givón, T. (1990b) “On reconstructing the object and genitive suﬃxes in Ute”, Fonción, 3.1.
Bibliography 485
Givón, T. (1991a) “Isomorphism in the grammatical code: Cognitive and biological considerations”,
Studies in Language, 15.1.
Givón, T. (1991b) “Markedness in grammar: Distributional, communicative and cognitive correlates
of syntactic structure”, Studies in Language, 15.2.
Givón, T. (1991c) “Serial verbs and the mental reality of ‘event’: Grammatical vs. cognitive packag-
ing”, in E. Traugott and B. Heine (eds 1991).
Givón, T. (1991d) “The evolution of dependent clause syntax in Biblical Hebrew”, in E. Traugott and
B. Heine (eds 1991), Vol. II.
Givón, T. (1991e) “The grammar of referential coherence as mental processing instructions”,
Linguistics, 30.
Givón, T. (1992) “The grammar of referential coherence as mental processing instructions”,
Linguistics.
Givón, T. (1993) English Grammar: A Function-Based Introduction, vols I, II, Amsterdam: J.
Benjamins.
Givón, T. (ed. 1994a) Voice and Inversion, TSL #28, Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Givón, T. (1994b) “Irrealis and the subjunctive”, Studies in Language, 18.2.
Givón, T. (1994c) “Coherence in text, coherence in mind”, in M. Gernsbacher and T. Givón (eds 1994).
Givón, T. (1995) Functionalism and Grammar, Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Givón, T. (1996) “La gramaticalización de verbos a posposiciones en el Ute”, III Encuentro de
Linguistas en el Norte, Hermosillo, Son.: Universidad de Sonora.
Givón, T. (ed. 1997) Grammatical Relations: A Functionalist Perspective, TSL #35, Amsterdam: J.
Benjamins.
Givón, T. (1999) “The bounds of generativity and the demise of competence, I: The mirage of (non-)
conﬁgurationality”, Symposium on Frequency Eﬀects in Emergence, Carnegie-Mellon University,
May 1999 (ms.).
Givón, T. (2000) “Internal reconstruction: As method, as theory”, in S Gildea (ed.) Reconstructing
Grammar: Grammaticalization and the Comparative Method, TSL #43, Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Givón, T. and L. Bommelyn (2000) “The evolution of de-transitive voice in Tolowa Athabaskan”,
Studies in Language, 24.1.
Gould, S.J. (1997) “Evolution: The pleasures of pluralism”, The New York Review of Books, June
1977, pp.47–52.
Gould, S.J. and R.C. Lewontin (1979) “The spandrels of San Marcos and the Panglossian program:
A critique of the adaptationist program”, Proc. of the Royal Soc. of London, 205.
Greenberg, J. (1966a) “On some universals of language with particular reference to the order of
meaningful elements”, in J. Greenberg (ed. 1966b).
Greenberg, J. (ed., 1966b) Language Universals, The Hague: Mouton.
Greenberg, J. (1974) “The relation of frequency to semantic feature in a case language (Russian)”,
Working Papers in Language Universals, 16, Stanford: Stanford University.
Greenberg, J. (1976) Language Universals, With Special Reference to Feature Hierarchies, The Hague:
Mouton.
Greenberg, J. (1977) “The Niger-Congo class markers: Preﬁxes, suﬃxes, both or neither”, Studies in
African Linguistics, Supplement #7: 94–104.
Greenberg, J. (1978) “Diachrony, synchrony and language universals”, in J. Greenberg et al. (eds
1978), Vol. 2.
Greenberg, J. (1979) “Rethinking linguistic diachrony”, Language, 55.
Greenberg, J., C. Ferguson and E. Moravcsik (eds, 1978) Universals of Human Language, 4 vols,
Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Grice, H.P. (1968/1975) “Logic and conversation”, in P. Cole and J. Morgan (eds, 1975).
486 Bibliography
Haile, G. (1970) “The suﬃx pronoun in Amharic”, in C.-W. Kim and H. Stahlke (eds) Papers in
African Linguistics, Edmonton: Linguistic Research.
Haiman, J. (1980) “The iconicity of grammar: Isomorphism and motivation”, Language, 56.3.
Haiman, J. (1983) “Iconic and economic motivation”, Language, 59.4.
Haiman, J. (1985a) Natural Syntax, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Haiman, J. (ed. 1985b) Iconicity in Syntax, TSL #6, Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Haiman, J. (1991) “The bureaucratization of language”, in H.C. Wolfart (ed.) Linguistic Studies
Presented to John L. Finlay, Winnipeg: Algonquian and Iroquoian Linguistics, Memoir 8.
Haiman, J. (1992) “Motivation, repetition and emancipation: The bureaucratization of language”,
Macalester College (ms.).
Hale (1980) “Word-star languages”, Mid-America Linguistic Conference., Lawrence: University of
Kansas, (ms.).
Hale, K. (1982) “Preliminary remarks on conﬁgurationality”, Proceedings of the North Eastern
Linguistic Society, 86–96.
Hale, K. (1983) “Walpiri and the grammar of non-conﬁgurational languages”, Natural Language and
Linguistic Theory, 1:5–47.
Hale, K. (1992) “Basic word order in two ‘free word order’ languages”, in D. Payne (ed.) Pragmatics
of word-order ﬂexibility, TSL #22, Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1967) “Notes on transitivity and theme in English”, Journal of Linguistics, 3.
Halliday, M.A.K. (1973) Explorations in the Functions of Language.
Hammond, M., E. Moravcsik and J. Wirth (eds 1988) Studies in Syntacic Typology, TSL #17,
Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Harder, P. (1996) Functional Semantics, Trends in Linguistics, Studies & Monographs #87, Berlin/
New York: Mouton de Gruyter..
Hargreaves, F. (1983) Evidentiality in Newari, MA thesis, University of Oregon, Eugene (ms.).
Harris, A. (1985) Diachronic Syntax: The Kartvalian Case, Syntax and Semantics 18, NY: Academic Press.
Harris, Z. (1956) “Co-occurrence and transformation in linguistic structure”, Language, 33.3.
Haspelmath, M. (1999) “Overt coding and behavior-and-control properties in grammaticalization”,
Conference on New Directions on Grammaticalization, Potsdam, June 1999 (ms.).
Hawkins, J. (1983) Word Order Universals, NY: Academic Press.
Hawkins, J. (1988) “Explaining language universals” in J. Hawkins (ed. 1988).
Hawkins, J. (ed 1988) Explaining Language Universals, Oxford: Basil Blackwell.
Hawkins, J. (1990) “Seeking motives for change in typological variation”, in W. Croft et al. (eds 1990).
Hawkinson, A. and L. Hyman (1974) “Hierarchies of natural topic in Shona”, Studies in African
Linguistics, 5.2.
Heine, B. (1993) Auxiliaries: Cognitive Forces and Grammaticalization, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Heine, B. (1995) “Agent-oriented vs. epistemic modality: Some observation on German modals”, in
J. Bybee and S. Fleischman (eds 1995)
Heine, B., U. Claudi and F. Hünnemeyer (1991) Grammaticalization: A Conceptual Framework,
Chicago: University of Chicago Pres.
Heine, B. and E. Traugott (eds, 1991) Approaches to Grammaticaliza tion, TSL #19 (2 vols),
Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Hennessy, P. (1998) Nominalized Clauses in Turkish, MA Thesis, University of Oregon, Eugene (mas).
Hetzron, R. (1971) “Presentative function and presentative movement”, Studies in African Linguistics,
supplement #2.
Hetzron, R. (1975) “The presentative movement: Or why the ideal word order is V.S.O.P.”, in C. Li
(ed. 1975).
Hinttika, J. (1967) “Individuals, possible worlds and epistemic logic”, Nous, 1.
Hope, R. (tr. 1952) Aristotle — Metaphysics, Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press.
Bibliography 487
Hopper, P. (ed. 1982) Tense and Aspects, TSL #1, Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Hopper, p. (1987) “Emergent grammar”, BLS #13, Berkeley: Berkeley Linguistics Society.
Hopper, P. (1996) “Some trends in grammaticalization”, Annual Review of Anthropology, 25.
Hopper, P. and S. Thompson (1980) “Transitivity in grammar and discourse”, Language, 56.
Hopper, P. and S. Thompson (1984) “The discourse basis for lexical categories in universal
grammar”, Language, 60.
Hopper, P. and E. Traugott (1993) Grammaticalization, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Horn, L. (1978) “Some aspects of negation”, in J. Greenberg et al. (eds 1978), Vol. 4.
Huang, F. (1985) “The numeral ‘one’ as an indeﬁnite marker in Mandarin Chinese”, University of
Oregon, Eugene (ms.).
Hyman, L. (1975) “The change from SOV to SVO: Evidence from Niger-Congo”, in C. Li (ed. 1975).
Jackendoﬀ, R. (1971) “Modal structure in semantic representation”, Linguistic Inquiry, 2.4.
Jacobsen, W. (1980) “Washo bipartite verbs stems”, in K. Klare et al. (eds) American Indian and
Indo-European Studies: Papers in Honor of Madison S. Beeler, The Hague: Mouton.
Jakobson, R. (1932/1971) “Zur Struktur des russiches Verbums”, reprinted in Jakobson (1971)
Selected Writings, II, The Hague: Mouton.
Jakobson, R. (1939/1962) “Zur Struktur des Phonems”, reprinted in Jakobson (1962) Selected
Writings, I, The Hague: Mouton.
Jakobson, R. (1974) “Mark and feature”, World Papers on Phonemics, Tokyo: Phonetic Society of Japan.
Jakobson, R. and K. Pomorska (1980) Dialogues, Paris: Flammarion.
Jakobson, R. and L. Waugh (1979) The Sound Shape of Language, Bloomington: Indiana University Press.
James, D. (1982) “Past tense and the hypothetical. A cross-linguistic study”, Studies in Language, 6.3.
Janda, R. (1978) “A case of liberation from morphology to syntax: The fate of the English genitive
marker -(e)s”, University of California, Los Angeles (ms.).
Jelinek (1984) “Empty categories, case and conﬁgurationality”, Natural Language and Linguistic
Theory, 2: 39–76.
Jelinek, E. and R. Demers (1994) “Predicates and pronominal arguments in Strait Salish”, Language, 70.
Jespersen, O. (1924/1965) The Philosophy of Grammar, NY: Norton.
Johnson, N.S. and J.M. Mandler (1980) “A tale of two structures: Underlying and surface forms in
stories”, Poetics, 9.
Just, M.A. and P.A. Carpenter (1992) “A capacity theory of comprehension: Individual diﬀerences
in working memory”, Psychological Review, 99.1.
Kahrel, P. and R. van den Berg (eds 1994) Typological Studies in Negation, TSL #29, Amsterdam: J.
Benjamins.
Karttunen, L. (1971) “Some observations on factivity”, Papers in Linguistics, 4.
Karttunen, L. (1974) “Presupposition and linguistic context”, Theoretical Linguistics, 1.2.
Kawasha, B. (1999) Some Aspects of Lunda Grammar, MA thesis, University of Oregon, Eugene (ms.).
Kawasha, B. (2000) “Lunda relativization and grammatical relations”, University of Oregon, Eugene
(ms.).
Kawasha, B. and T. Givón (1999) “Indiscrete grammatical relations: The Lunda-Ndembu passive”,
University of Oregon, Eugene (ms.).
Keenan, E.L. (1969) A Logical Base for a Transformational Grammar of English, PhD dissertation,
Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania.
Keenan, E.L. (1975) “Some universals of passive in relational gram mar”, CLS #11, University of
Chicago: Chicago Linguistics Society.
Keenan, E.L. (1976a) “Toward a universal deﬁnition of ‘subject’”, in C. Li (ed. 1976).
Keenan, E.L. (1976b) “Remarkable subjects in Malagasy”, in C. Li (ed. 1976).
Keesing, R. (1988) Melanesian Pidgins and the Oceanic Substratum, Stanford: Standord University Press.
488 Bibliography
Kimenyi, A. (1976) A Relational Grammar of KinyaRwanda, PhD dissertation, University of
California, Los Angeles (ms.).
Kintsch, W. (1992) “How readers construct situation models for stories: The role of syntactic cues
and causal inference”, in A.F. Healy, S. Kosslyn and R.M. Shiﬀrin (eds) Essays in Honor of
William K. Estes, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Kiparsky, P. and C. Kiparsky (1968) “Fact”, in M. Bierwisch and K. Heidolph (eds) Progress in
Linguistics, The Hague: Mouton.
Kiss, K. (1995) Discourse Conﬁgurational Languages, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Kripke, S. (1963) “Semantic considerations on modal logic”, Acta Philosophica Fennica, 16.
Kripke, S. (1972) “Naming and necessity”, in D. Davidson and G. Harman (eds) Semantics of Natural
Language, Dordrecht: Reidel.
Lakoﬀ, G. (1970) Linguistics and Natural Logic, Studies in Generative Semantics 2, Ann Arbor: Dept.
of Linguistics, University of Michigan.
Lakoﬀ, G. (1987) Women, Fire and Dangerous Things, Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
L’Amour, L. (1962) Shalako, NY: Bantam.
Langacker, R. (1987), Foundations of Cognitive Grammar, Vol. I, Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Langacker, R. (1990), Foundations of Cognitive Grammar, Vol. II, Stanford: Stanford University Press.
Larson, R.K. (1991) “Some issues in verb serialization”, in C. Lefebvre (ed.) Serial Verbs: Grammati-
cal, Comparative and Cognitive Approaches, SSLS #8, Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Leder, P. (1982) “The genetics of antibody diversity”, Scientiﬁc American, XX.
Lehmann, W.P. (1973) “A structural principle for language and its implications”, Language, 49.
Lehmann, W.P. (1978a) “The great underlying ground-plan”, in W.P. Lehmann (ed. 1978b).
Lehmann, W.P. (ed. 1978b) Syntactic Typology, Austin: University of Texas Press.
Leonard, E. (1990) Get Shorty, NY: Dell.
Lewis, D. (1972) “General Semantics”, in D. Davidson and G. Harman (eds) Semantics for Natural
Language, Dordrecht: Reidel.
Li, C. (ed. 1975) Word Order and Word Order Change, Austin: University of Texas Press.
Li, C.N. (ed. 1976) Subject and Topic, NY: Academic Press.
Li, C. (ed. 1977) Mechanisms of Syntactic Change, Austin: University of Texas Press.
Li, C. and S. Thompson (1979) “Third-person pronouns and zero-anaphora in Chinese discourse”,
in T. Givón (ed. 1979b).
Li, C.N. and S. Thompson (1981) Mandarin Chinese: A Functional Reference Grammar”, Berkeley:
U.C. Press.
Lieberman, P. (1984) The Biology and Evolution of Language, Cambridge: Harvard University Press.
Linde, C. (1974) The Linguistic Encoding of Spatial Information, PhD dissertation, NY: Columbia
University (ms.).
Linde, C. (1979) “Focus of attention and the choice of pronoun in discourse”, in T. Givón (ed. 1979b).
Loftus, E. (1980) Eyewitness Testimony, Cambridge: Harvard University Press.
Lunn, P. (1995) “The evaluative function of the Spanish subjunctive”, in J. Bybee and S. Fleischman
(eds 1995).
MacDonald, J.D. (1974) The Dreadful Lemon Sky, Greenwich, Conn.: Fawcet.
Mandler, J.M. (1978) “A code in the node: The use of story schemata in retrieval”, Discourse
Processes, 1.
Marchand, H. (1965) The Categories and Types of Present-Day English Word-Formation, University
of Alabama Press.
Marler, P., S. Karakashian and M. Gyger (1991) “Do animals have the option of withholding signals
when communication is inappropriate? The audience eﬀect”, in C.A. Ristau (ed., 1991).
Mayr, E. (1997) This is Biology, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
McKeon, R. (ed., 1941) The Basic Works of Aristotle, NY: Random House [22nd edition].
Bibliography 489
McMurtry, L. (1963) Leaving Cheyenne, NY: Penguin Books.
Menn, L. (1990) “Agrammatism in English: Two case studies”, in L. Menn and E. Obler (eds 1990).
Menn, L. and L.K. Obler (eds 1990) Agrammatic Aphasia: A Cross-Language Narrative Source-book,
Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Meyer, K.S. (1992) “Word order in Klamath”, in D. Payne (ed. 1992).
Mithun, M. (1984) “The evolution of noun incorporation”, Language, 60.4.
Mithun, M. (1986) “Evidential diachrony in Northern Iroqios”, in W. Chafe and J. Nichols (ds 1986).
Mithun, M. (1991) “The role of motivation in the emergence of grammatical categories: The
grammaticalization of subjects”, in E. Traugott and B. Heine (eds) Approaches to Grammaticali-
zation, Vol. II, TSL 19, Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Mithun, M. (1992) “Is basic word order universal?”, in D. Payne (ed. 1992).
Montague, R. (1970) “Pragmatics and intensional logic”, Synthese, 22.
Moravcsik, E. (1974) “Object verb agreement”, Working Papers in Language Universals, 15, Stanford:
Stanford University.
Munro, P. and L. Gordon (1982) “Syntactic relations in Western Muskogean: A typological
perspective”, Language, 58.2.
Neeley, J.H. (1990) “Semantic priming eﬀects in visual word recognition: A selective review of
current ﬁndings and theories”, in D. Besner and G. Humphreys (eds) Basic Processes in Reading:
Visual Word Recognition, Hillsdale: Erlbaum.
Nordlinger, R. (1998) Constructive Case: Evidence from Australian Languages, Stanford: CSLI
Publications.
Osam, E.K. (1997) “Grammatical relations in Akan”, in T. Givón (ed. 1997).
Palmer, F.R. (1979) Modality and the English Modals, London: Longmans.
Palmer, F.R. (1986) Mood and Modality, Cambidge: Cambridge University Press.
Palmer, L.R. (1954) The Latin Language, London: Faber and Faber.
Payne, D.L. (1992a) “Nonidentiﬁable information and pragmatic order rules in ‘O’odam”, in D.L.
Payne (ed. 1992).
Payne, D.L. (ed. 1992b) Pragmatics of Word Order Flexibility, TSL #22, Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Payne, D.L. (1993) “Nonconﬁgurationality and discontinuous expressions in Panare”, Berkeley
Linguistics Society. Special Session, Volume on Native American Languages, Berkeley: University
of California.
Payne, J. (1985) “Negation”, in T. Shopen (ed. 1985), Vol. I.
Payne, T. (1994) “The pragmatics of voice in a Philippine language: Actor-focus and goal-focus in
Cebuano narrative”, in T. Givón (ed. 1994).
Pearson, T.R. (1985) A Short History of a Small Place, NY: Ballantine Books.
Peirce, C.S. (1934) Collected Writing, Vol. V, Cambridge: Harvard University Press.
Peirce, C.S. (1940) The Philosophy of Peirce, ed. by J. Buchler, NY: Harcourt, Brace.
Pepperberg, I.M. (1991) “A communicative approach to animal cognition: A study of conceptual
abilities of an African Grey Parrot”, in C.A. Ristau (ed., 1991).
Perrett, D.I., M.H. Harris, R. Bevan, S. Thomas, P.J. Benson, A.J. Mistlin, A.J. Chitty, J.K. Hietanen
and J.E. Ortega (1989) “Framework for analysis of the neural representation of animate objects
and actions”, J. of Experimental Biology, 146.
Petri, H.L. and M. Mishkin (1994) “Behaviorism, cognitivism and the neuropsychology of memory”,
American Scientist, 82.
Posner, M.I. and C.R.R. Snyder (1974) “Attention and cognitive control”, in R.L. Solso (ed.)
Information Processing and Cognition: The Loyola Symposium, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Posner, M. and R.E. Warren (1972) “Traces, concepts and conscious constructions”, in A.W. Melton
and E. Martin (Eds) Coding Processes in Human Memory, Washington, DC: V.H. Winston & Sons.
Premak, D. (1971) “Language in chimpanzee”, Science, 172.
490 Bibliography
Prince, E. (1981) “On the inferencing of indeﬁnite-this NPs”, in A. Joshi, B. Webber and I. Sag (eds)
Elements of Discourse Understanding, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Pu, M.-M. (1997) “Zero anaphora and grammatical relations in Mandarin”, in T. Givón (ed. 1997).
Purtill, R.L. (1968) “About identity through possible worlds”, Nous, 2.
Purwo, B.K. (1997) “The direct object in bi-transitive clauses in Indonesian”, in T. Givón (ed. 1997).
Pustet, R. (in prep.) “The time-stability scale and lexical prototypes”, Köln: Universität zu Köln (ms.).
Quine, W. van O. (1953) “Reference and Modality”, Ch.8 of From a Logical Point of View, Cam-
bridge: Harvard University Press.
Rajewsky, K., I Forster and A. Cumano (1987) “Evolutionary and somatic selection of the antibody
repertoire in the mouse”, Science, 238.
Ramsay, V. (1985) “Classiﬁers and referentiality in Jacaltec”, in S. Delancey and R. Tomlin (eds)
Proceedings of the First Paciﬁc Linguistics Conference, Eugene, OR: University of Oregon.
Ransom, E. (1986) Complementation: Its Meanings and Forms, TSL #10, Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Rice, K. (1991) “Predicting the order of disjunct morphemes in Athapaskan languages”, Linguistics, 11.1.
Ristau, C.A. (ed. 1991) Cognitive Ethology, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Rosch, E. (1973) “On the internal structure of perceptual and semantic categories”, in T.E. Moore
Cognitive Development and the Acquisition of Language, NY: Academic Press.
Rosch, E. (1975) “Cognitive representation of semantic categories”. J. of Experimental Psychology:
General, 104.
Ross, J.R. and G. Lakoﬀ (1967) “Is deep structure necessary?”, paper given at the First La Jolla
Conference on Linguistic Theory (ms.).
Rude, N. (1984) “Ergative, passive and antipassive in Nez Perce: A discourse perspective”, in M.
Shibatani (ed. 1984).
Rude, N. (1985) Studies in Nez Perce Grammar and Discourse, PhD dissertation, University of
Oregon, Eugene (ms.).
Rude, N. (1987) “Topicality, transitivity and direct object in Nez Perce”, I.J.A.L., 52.2.
Rude, N. (1997) “Dative shifting and double objects in Sahaptin”, in T. Givón (ed. 1997).
Russell, B. (1905) “On deﬁning”, Mind, 14; reprinted in Russell (1956).
Russell, B. (1919) Introduction to Mathematical Philosophy, London: Allen and Unwin.
Russell, B. (1956) Logic and Knowledge, ed. by R.C. Marsh: London: Routledge.
Salone, S. (1983) “The pragmatics of reality and unreality conditional sentences in Swahili”, Journal
of pragmatics, 7.3.
Sapir, E. (1921) Language, Harcourt, Brace and World (Harvest ppbk.).
Saussure, F. de (1915) Course in General Linguistics, ed. by C. Bally and S. Sechehaye, tr. by W.
Baskin, NY: Philosophical Library [1959].
Savage-Rumbaugh, S., S. Shanker and . J. Taylor (1998) Apes, Language and the Human Mind,
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Schank, R. and R. Abelson (1977) Scipts, Goals, Plans and Understanding, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Schneider, W. and R.M. Shiﬀrin (1977) “Controlled and automatic human information processing,
I: Detection, search and attention”, Psychological Review, 84.
Schnitzer, M. (1989) The Pragmatic Basis of Aphasia, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Scott, D. (1970) “Advice on modal logic”, in K. Lambert (ed.) Philosophical Problems in Logic,
Dordrecht: Reidel.
Searle, J. (1969) Speech Acts, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Shallice, T. (1988) From Neuropsychology to Mental Structure, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Shapiro, M. (1983) The Sense of Grammar, Bloomington: Indiana University Press.
Shibatani, M. (1977) “Grammatical relations and surface cases” Language, 53.4.
Shibatani, M. (ed. 1984) Passive and Voice, TSL #16, Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Shibatani, M. (1985) “Passive and related constructions: A prototype analysis”, Language, 61.4.
Bibliography 491
Shopen, T. (ed. 1985) Language Typology and Syntactic Description, 3 volumes, Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Silverstein, M. (1976) “Hierarchy of features and ergativity”, in R.M.W. Dixon (ed. 1976).
Slobin, D. (1985) “Introduction”, in D. Slobin (ed. 1985) The Crosslinguistic Study of Language
Acquisition, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Slobin, D. and A. Aksu (1982) “Tense, aspect and modality in the use of the Turkish evidential”, in
P. Hopper (ed. 1982).
Smith, E.E., L.J. Rips and E.J. Shoben (1974) “Semantic memory and psychological semantics”, in
G. Bowers (ed.) The Psychology of Learning and Motivation, vl. 8, Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum.
Smith, N.K. (1929) Kant’s Critique of Pure Reason, London/NY: Macmillan [1973 edition].
Squire, L.R. (1987) Memory and Brain, Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Squire, L.R. and S. Zola-Morgan (1991) “The medial temporal lobe memory system”, Science, 253:
1380–1386.
Sridhar, S.N. (1976) “Dative subjects, rule government and relational grammar”, Studies in the
Linguistic Sciences, 6.1.
Steele, S. (1975) “Past and irrealis: Just what does it all mean?”, I.J.A.L., 41.3.
Strawson, P. (1950) “On referring”, Mind, 59.
Sun, C.F. and T. Givón (1985) “On the so-called SOV word-order in Mandarin Chinese: A
quantitative text study and its implications”, Language, 61.2.
Swinney, D.A. (1979) “Lexical access during sentence comprehension: (Re)consideration of context
eﬀects”, J.V.L.V.B., 18.
Terrace, H.S. (1985) “In the beginning there was the “name””, American Psychologist, 40.
Thompson, S. (1973) “Resultative verb compounds in Mandarin Chinese: A case for lexical rules”,
Language, 49.2.
Thompson, S. and R. Longacre (1985) “Adverbial clauses”, in T., Shopen (ed. 1985), Vol. II.
Thornes, T. (1996) Yahooskin-Northern Paiute Verb Morphology, MA thesis, Linguistics Dept.,
University of Oregon (ms.).
Thurman, R. (1978) Interclausal Relations in Chuave, MA thesis, Los Angeles: University of
California (ms.).
Timberlake, A. (1975) “Hierarchies in the genitive of negation”, Slavic and Eastern European
Journal, 19.
Tomlin, R. (ed. 1987) Coherence and Grounding in Discourse, TSL #11, Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Tomlin, R.S. and R. Rhodes (1992) “Information distribution in Ojibwa”, in D. Payne (ed. 1992).
Tonegawa, S. (1985) “The molecules of the immune system”, Scientiﬁc American, XXIII.
Traugott, E. (1989) “On the rise of epistemic meanings in English: An example of subjectiﬁcation in
semantic change”, Language, 65.1.
Traugott, E.C. and B. Heine (eds 1991) Approaches to Grammaticalization, TSL #19 (2 vols),
Amsterdam: J. Benjamins.
Trithart, L. (1977) Relational Grammar and ChiChewa Subjectivization Rules, MA Thesis, University
of California, Los Angeles (ms.).
Underriner, J. (1997) “The incorporation of postpositions in Tolowa”, paper presented at the
Athabaskan Linguistics Conference, University of Oregon, Eugene (May 1997; ms).
van Dijk, T. and W. Kintsch (1983) Strategies of Discourse Comprehension, NY: Academic Press.
Vennemann, T. (1973) “Explanations in linguistics”, in J. Kimball (ed.) Syntax and Semantics 2, NY:
Academic Press.
Vennemann, T. (1974) “Theoretical word order studies: Results and problems”, Papiere zur
Linguistik, 7.
Vennemann, T. (1983) “Causality in language change: Theories of linguistic preference as a basis for
linguistic explanations”, Folia Linguistica Historica, 4.1.
492 Bibliography
Wald, B. (1983) “Referents and topics within and across discourse units: Observations from contem-
porary English”, in F. Klein-Andreu (ed.) Discourse Perspectives on Syntax, NY: Academic Press.
Walker, C.H. and F.R. Yekovich (1987) “Activation and use of script-based antecedents in anaphoric
reference”, J. of Memory and Language, 26.
Weingreen, J. (1959) A Practical Grammar of Classical Hebrew, 2nd edition, Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
White, J.W. (1896) First Greek Book, Boston & London: Ginn & Co.
Whitehead, C. (1985) Tense, Aspect, Mood and Modality: Verbal morphology in Menya, MA thesis,
Winnipeg: University of Manitoba (ms.).
Williams, B. (1994) “Cratylus theory of names and its refutation”, in S. Everson (ed. 1994).
Williamson, K. (1965) A Grammar of the Kolokuma Dialect of Ijo, Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Wilson, S. (1999) Co-verbs and Complex Predicates in Wagiman, Stanford: CSLI Publications.
Wilson, W.M. (1968) Essentials of Latin Grammar, Lincolnwood, IL: Passport Books.
Wittgenstein, L. (1918) Tractatus Logico Philosophicus, NY: The Humanities Press [1961 edition].
Wittgenstein, L. (1953) Philosophical Investigations, NY: McMillan.
Woodbury, A. (1977) “”Greenlandic Eskimo, ergativity, and relational grammar”, in P. Cole and J.
Sadock (eds 1977).
Woodruﬀ, P. (tr. 1982) Plato: Hippias Major, Indianapolis: Hackett Publ. Co.
Wright, S. and T. Givón (1987) “The pragmatics of indeﬁnite reference: Quantiﬁed text-based
studies”, Studies in Language, 11.1.
Yekovich, F.R. and C.H. Walker (1986) “The activation and use of scripted knowledge in reading
about routine activities”, in B.K. Britton (ed.) Executive Control Processes in Reading, Hillsdale,
NJ: Erlbaum.
Young, P. and T. Givón (1990) “The puzzle of Ngäbere auxiliaries: Grammatical reconstruction in
Chibchan and Misumalpan”, in W. Croft et al. (eds 1990).
Zipf, G.K. (1935) The Psychobiology of Language: An Introduction to Dynamic Philology, Cambridge:
MIT Press [1965].
Index
<TARGET "si" DOCINFO
AUTHOR ""
TITLE "Index"
SUBJECT ""
KEYWORDS ""
SIZE HEIGHT "240"
WIDTH "170"
VOFFSET "4">
A
absolute tense 285
accomplishment 287
accomplishment verb 290
actions 106
active-stative 201
activity 287
activity/process verbs 291
adaptive explanation 25
adjacency principle 281
adjectives 49, 53, 81
adpositions 95
adverbial clauses 311, 323, 446
adverbs 49, 87, 91
aﬀectedness 127, 213
aﬃxes 54
agent 174
agentiveness 52
agentivity 127, 212
agrammatic aphasia 14
allative 174
alienable 135
anaphoric accessibility 198
anaphoric devices 420
anaphoric groundiing 459
anaphoric reference 399, 417, 459
anaphoric pronouns 417, 419, 423, 424
anaphoric zero 417
Andersen 38
animacy 56, 416, 426
animal communication 36
anteriority 293
antipassive 454
antonym 84
antonymic pairs 376
antonymic adjective pairs 83
apparent direct objects 149
arbitrariness 4, 34, 36, 37
Aristotle 2, 4, 17, 20, 440
articles 65, 97
artifactness 57
asserted 355
assertion 378
associative 132, 162
associative indirect object 142
aspect 70, 285, 287, 330, 337, 443
aspectuality 152
attention 460
attentional operations 475
attributive 124
Austin 282
automated processing 33, 36
auxiliaries 302, 338,
auxilliary verbs 102
B
backgrounded 355
behavior-and-control properties 175,
177, 178
benefactive 162, 174
Bickerton 11, 338, 363, 451
biology 3, 23
bitransitive prototype 143
bi-transitive verbs 142
Bloomﬁeld 5, 20
Blumstein 15
Bokamba 282
Bolinger 2
boundedness 287
bound morphology 260
Brainard 217
Bresnan 282
DuBois 423
Bybee 23, 55, 281, 366, 367
C
Carnap 4, 438
cataphoric persistence 198
494 Index
cataphoric topicality 455
categories 29
category labels 112
case agreement 429
case-marking morphemes 77, 259
case-marking systems 173, 197, 201
case-roles 399, 401, 427, 471
case-role markers 65
chained clauses 182
Chafe 7
change 372
Chomsky xvi, 6, 17, 18, 24, 27, 29, 36,
41, 117, 280
class 60, 401, 427
clausal subjects 158, 160
clausal (verbal) complements 150
clitic suﬃx pronouns 403
clitics 54
cliticization 265, 408, 417
co-verb constructions 167
cognate object constructions 166
cognate objects 133
cognition 154
cognitive representation 7
color 82
command 312
communicative coding 7
compact 287
compact verbs 289
compactness 51
compensatory strategy 19
competence 6, 280, 283
complement clause 151, 153
completion 294
complex clauses 118
complex predicates 164
complexity 50
conceptual lexicon 7
conceptual meaning 9
concreteness 50, 51, 56
conﬁgurationality 283
conjunctions 78, 99
connectives 99
constituency 110
contrastive focus 380
constructions 18
conventional rules 36
copular clauses 120
copular verbs 120, 125
countability 51, 57
counter-sequentiality 293, 295
counterfact-conditional 311
Craig 60
Creider 61
Creole 338
Creole prototype 338
Croft 280, 283
Current speech situation 460
D
dative 141, 173, 174
dative-benefactive 143, 221
dative-object agreement 410
dative-object verbs 130
dative-shifting 178, 471
dative subject 192, 205
dative-subject verbs 129
Dear Abby 456
de-grammaticalization 400
deep ergative 217
deﬁnite-accusative markers 470
deﬁnite objects 433
deﬁniteness 401, 416, 426, 437, 459,
473
deictic 402
deixis 399
degree of grammaticalization 217
Delancy 62, 328
de-marking of independent pronouns
421
demonstrative ‘this’ 452
demonstrative (deictic) pronoun 405
Denny 61
denotation 455
de-nominal negation markers 383
deontic 156, 300, 313
derivational morphemes 45, 67
derivational morphology 79
determiners 97
detransitive morphology 76, 87
de-verbal negation markers 382
diachronic 23
Dik, 2
direct-object 132, 174, 217
direct object agreement 411
direct quote 156
direct-quote complements 156
direct vs. Indirect objects 431
Index 495
discourse 8, 9
discourse coherence 9
discourse correlates of aspect 332
distal demonstratives 468
distributed lexical verbs 163
diversity 24
Dixon 217
double negation 268
Downing 62
dummy-subject verbs 118
duration 287
durative 352
E
embedded questions 157
emergent grammar 27
emphatic negation 268, 392
episodic memory 460, 462, 475
epistemic 156, 159, 160, 300, 313
epistemic adverbs 92
epistemic certainty 365
epistemic modalities 301, 369
equi-subject 179
equi-subject/object complements 187
ergative 189
ergative-absolutive 208
ergativity feature hierarchies 215
evaluative 159, 160, 300
evaluative adverbs 93
event time 285, 286, 294, 296
events 106
evidential systems 327
evidentiality 326
evolutionary biology 24
excess structure 37
exclusion 401
exhortation 312
existence 459
existential-presentative clauses 191,
434.
F
fact 303, 304.
factive 155, 310
factual truth 301
family resemblance 30
ﬂexible word-order 271
frame-based 461
frequency 37
frequency text-distrbution 330
full-NPs 417, 419
full lexical nouns 463
functional correlates of grammatical
relations 195
functional domain 23
future 286, 293
future perfect 297
Futuyama 37
G
gender 56, 60, 401, 427
gender/class 399
generality 58
generative approach 280
generativity 27
generic 441
generic-lexical knowlege 461
generic subjects 466
genitive/possessive modiﬁers 256
Gernsbacher 277
global access 464
gobally accessible 465
goal 132
Gould 37
gradation of deﬁnite description 468
gradations of referentiality 449
gradients of transitivity 210
grammar 13
grammaticalization 23, 267, 340, 367,
399
grammaticalization of evidentiality
366
grammaticalization of negation markers
382
grammaticalizaiton of modality 355
grammatical agreement 407, 430
grammatical code 11
grammatical morphemes 45
grammatical morphology 60, 69, 85
grammatical relations 105, 108, 116,
173, 175, 198, 227, 280, 416, 426
grammatical roles 105
grammatical typology 20, 23
grammatical universals 20
grammaticalized subjunctives 313
Greenberg 20, 24, 38, 260, 267, 268
496 Index
H
Haiman 24, 36, 281
habitual 289
Hale 279
Halliday 2
Harder 26
Harris 17, 18
Hawkins 235
head 59
head-modiﬁer agreement 427
Heine 23, 367
Hopper 23, 27
Horn 396
humanity 416, 426
Humboldt 20
hierarchies of evidential strength 327
hierarchies of pronominal agreement
426
hierarchy 111
I
iconicity 34, 36
ideophone constructions 168
ideophones 168
immediate 352, 353
immediate aspect 298
imperative 316
imperfective 288, 348
implicational hierarchies 416
inclusion 401
indeﬁnite pronouns 435
in-sequence 295
inalienability 135
incorporated objects 79, 168
incorporated case-markers 168
incorporated patients 133
indeﬁnite reference 441, 450
independent pronouns 99, 404, 417,
419
indirect object 137, 141, 143
indirect quote 156
individuation 57
information verbs 158
inﬂections 54
ingressive 174
inherent/lexical negation 397
inherent modality 302, 303
inherent perfectivity 287
inherent qualities 122
inherentness 54
instrumental adverbs 90
instrumental locative 147
instrument 162
instruments 131
interjections 102
intransitive verbs 126
inverse 190
irrealis 304, 312, 348
irrealis adverbs 305, 444
irrealis assertion 301, 302, 327, 369
irrealis conditional 349
J
Jacobson 38
Jelinek 279, 283
Jespersen 1, 28, 39
K
Kawasha 221
Keenan 19, 175, 177
Kimenyi 226
Kintsch 15
L
Lakoﬀ 7, 19
Lehmann 235
Lewontin 37
lexical word-classes 49
lexical words 45
lexically-inherent modality 442
lexicon 43
Li 63
Lieberman 15
lingering relevance 293, 296
locative 162
locative indirect object 138
Logical Positivists 29
low certainty 314
M
main clause 151, 153
manipulation verbs 152, 309, 318
manipulative speech-acts 316
manner 162
manner adverbs 88
markedness 34, 37, 38, 330
marking of deﬁnite NPs 468
marking of irrealis 358
Index 497
Mayr 24
maximal referential continuity 463
minor word classes 94
mirativity 328
Mithun 328, 366
mixed clausal order 246
mixed word-order 244, 246
mixed word-order in the NP 255
modal attitude 152
modal adverbs 302
modal auxiliaries 306
modality 70, 214, 285, 300, 304, 312,
330, 332, 337
modality in grammar 302
modality verbs 150, 306
modiﬁers 59
modifying adjective 84, 259
mood 300, 312
morphemes 34
morphological negation 397
morphology 115
moprhotactics 48, 54
multiple membership 161
multiple stems 168
N
names 59
necessary truth 301
NEG-assertion 369
Neg-factive 310
Neg-intesifying objects 269
negation 71, 304, 369, 378
negation and social interaction 376
negation as speech-act 372
negation markers 388
negation morphemes 265
negation and word-order 385
negative assertion 301, 302, 327
negative events 373
negative polarity 396
negative scope 386
negative states 375
non-adjacency 281
non-conﬁgurationality 279
non-declarative speech acts 312, 315,
446
non-fact 303
non-factive 155, 310
non-reference 440, 454
non-referring 124, 303, 435, 440
non-restrictive Rel-clause 310
non-truth 301
nominal morphology 175
nominal predicate 124, 448
nominalizations 67
nominative-accusative 203
noun classiﬁers 454, 469
nouns 49, 51, 55, 58
NP constituents 434
number 63, 399, 401, 427
numeral ‘one’ 451
numerals 100, 101
O
object agreement 412, 473
oject pronouns 402
obligatory promotion 221
obligatory pronominal agreement 424
optional clitic 407
optional consituents 381
optional participant case-roles 162
optional promotion 221
ordinals 100, 101
out-of-sequence 295
overt coding properties 175, 177
OVS 241
P
participant roles 105
passive 179, 190
passivization 179, 185
past 286
past perfect 293, 295
past perfective 295
past subjunctive 364
patient of change 173, 174
patient of state 173, 174
PCU verbs 154, 307, 319
Peirce 34
perception 154
perfect 293, 296, 348, 352, 353
perfect past 296
perfective 288, 296, 348, 362
perfective/imperfective 345
perfective past 296
perfectivity 127, 214, 287, 293, 332
performance 6, 280
person 399
498 Index
pidgin 14
Plato 5, 24, 29
polarity 83
Posner 33
possession 135, 193
possessive pronouns 66, 98
possessive-reﬂexives 186
possessor-of-object 223
possible truth 301
Possible Worlds Semantics 459
post-nominal modiﬁers 243
pragmatics of indeﬁnite reference 455
pragmatics of negation 370
pragmatics of word-order ﬂexibility
277
predicate adjective 84
predicate noun 59
predicates 120
preferred argument strucure 106
pre-grammatical 14
pre-grammatical pidgin 13
pre-nominal modiﬁers 242
present 286
present perfect 293, 297, 300
present-progressive 300
presupposed 355
presupposition 301, 303, 326, 369, 378
primary grammaticalization 400
processing instructions 474
pro-clitic 54
progressive 289
promotion to DO 178, 220, 225
pronominal agreement 408, 416, 420
pronominal classiﬁcatory features 400
pronominal paradigms 400
pronouns 73, 407
proper names 464
propositional information 8, 9
propositional logic 369
propositional modalities 300, 441, 442
propositional semantics 19
propositions 9
prototype-based categories 32
prototypes 29, 31, 33
prototypical adjectives 82
prototypical transitive verbs 128
PS tree conﬁgurations 280
PS tree diagrams 110
Q
quantiﬁers 100, 101
R
raising 184
Real World 438
realis assertion 301, 326, 369
reference 58, 401, 437, 438, 441, 442,
473
reference markers 454
reference test for modality 303
reference time 285, 286, 294
referential 124
referential coherence 399, 437, 474
referential importance 277
referential intent 439
referential opacity 441
referentially opaque 441
referentially transparent 441
referential predictability 277
referring 124, 440
referring-deﬁnite 303
referring-indeﬁnite 303
reﬂexivization 180
relative clauses 182
relativization 182
relevance 332
relevance time 296
remote (aspect) 298, 353
request 312
restrictive Rel-clauses 310
rigid word-order in the noun phrase
242
Rice 117
Rosch 31
Ross 7, 19
Rule-government by GRs 189
Rude 216
Russell 4, 53, 438, 459, 466
rhytmic-hierarchic structure 37,
S
Sapir 1, 28
Saussure 5, 24
scalarity 234
scale of temporal stability 54
scope 117
scope of assertion aspect 343
scope of negation 378
Index 499
Schneider 33
Script-based reference 461
secondary grammaticalization 400
semantic criteria 50
semantic memory 460, 461
semantic roles 106, 107, 173, 416, 424
semantic taxonomies 50
sense 439
sequentiality 332
serial verbs 227
shape 82
Shapiro 38
Shared current text 462
Shibatani 216
Shiﬀrin 33
Silverstein 215
simple clauses 105, 108, 118
simple verbal clauses 105
size 82
Slobin 328
source-locatives 132
spatial compactness 50
spatial deixis 401
spatial diﬀuseness 52
speech time 286
speech-act markers 78
speech-act participant 401
split ergative 210
split GR properties 191
split subjunctive 360
stasis 372
states 106
stative verbs 291
structuralism 4
Strawson 438, 459
stressed pronouns 463
subject 173
subject pronouns 402, 404, 409
subjunctive 314, 315, 316, 318, 323, 362
subjunctive mood 312
subjunctive in irrealis contexts 313
subordinators 77, 100
suppletive forms 74
surface ergativity 217
SVO 235, 236
syntactic ergativity 217
syntactic negation 397
syntactic transitivity 110, 127
switch-reference markers 78
T
tactile 82
T-A-M morphology 337
taste 82
taxonomy 20
temporal 162
temporal boundaries 287
temporal anchoring 286
temporal instability 52
temporal stability 50
tense 70, 285, 330, 337, 341, 443
tense-aspect 302, 304
tense-aspect-modal morphology 264
terminal boundary 294
Tesnière 17
Thompson 63
time of speech 285, 294, 296
topic persistence 457
topical objects 432
topical object agreement 415
topicality 36, 198, 214, 455, 472
topicality hierarchies 197, 220
topicality of semantic roles 200
topicalization 416, 426
theme-and-variation 18
transitive clause 109, 127
transitive event 109, 127
transitive verbs 127
transitivity 109, 127, 431
Traugott 23
Truth-conditional logic 439
type 439, 466
typology 24, 197, 217
typology of VP negation 382
typological organization 337
typological variation 25
U
universal quantiﬁer 440
universals of grammar 24
Universe of Discourse 438, 459
unspeciﬁed objects 137
unstressed pronoun 463
utterance 154
V
valuative-deontic 313
variation 27
Vennemann 235
500 Index
verbal complements 85, 177, 444
verb agreement 73, 74, 175
verb classes 161
verb-inﬂectional system 337
verb-type 431
verbs 49, 52, 69
vivid 298
vivid past 300
VSO 237
VOS 239
W
Wittgenstein 30
word-order 175, 233
word-order change 255
word-order rigidity 271
word-order typology 233
words 9, 43
working memory 460
writing systems 48
Y
yes/no-question 312
Z
zero anaphora 182, 419, 463
zero copulas 121
Zipf 2
</TARGET "si">
