Theory, first proposed by Russell, holds that “names not only have descriptive
content, but this content serves as a criterion for identification of the refer-
ent.” In the face of such criticisms as that of Kripke that the “identifying
knowledge” upon which Description Theories depend is neither necessary nor
sufficient for “fixing” a reference to its corresponding object, hence always and
on principle “incomplete” since such descriptions will always be so, others
(including Kripke himself) have proposed various types of Causal Theories to
remedy this defect. On such theories, there is always some originary event in
which the particular object is “baptized” with a given name, hence fixing its
reference; all later uses of this name then continue to succeed in referring to
the same object by virtue of “linkages” among speakers and receivers which
ultimately connect back to the original event of naming. The major difficulty
with such a view, which was intended to remedy the defects of the Descrip-
tion Theory, has been called the “Qua-Problem.” Roughly put, the objection
is that the originary act of naming attempts to ground the reference of the
name in certain perceptual features of the object being named, but this imme-
diately smuggles in descriptive elements in the form of other categorial deter-
minations employed to distinguish the specific object being referred to from
others requiring different sorts of such determinations (hence the “qua,” since
all perceptual objects are not just “perceived” but “perceived as one sort of
thing and not as another”). In the face of the inability of Causal Theories to
escape the problems they themselves pointed out in Description Theories,
Direct Reference appears as a viable alternative. On this view, which empha-
sizes such simple demonstratives as “this” and “that” as more fundamental
than names, “successful reference [allegedly] occurs without the need for any
conceptual content whatsoever.” But, Dulckeit argues, the sort of devices such
as ostension underlying Direct Reference fall prey to the “qua-problem” just as
much as Causal Theories did, since even with immediate ostension (for
instance) some sort of further cognition beyond mere pointing is necessary for
one to specify or understand exactly what is being pointed at or referred to. In
the end, the author argues, this entire complex discussion returns us to where
we began, namely, that reference cannot, for any of the available theories, be
“fixed” without description, but description itself remains always and in prin-
ciple incomplete.
Underlying this entire cycle of discussion regarding reference, and the
reason for its ultimate failure, so Dulckeit argues, is the set of basic assump-
tions that generate the problem for analytic philosophers in the first place:
that such dyads “as mind and world, conceiver and ‘the given,’ perceiver and
perceived, speaker and referent, etc.” are fundamental and mutually exclusive
opposites. Under such assumptions, the problem of reference has not only
been insoluble in fact, but will remain so in principle. Citing especially Hegel’s
discussion of issues of reference in the opening moves of the Phenomenology,
Dulckeit proceeds to show that the problem of reference can be resolved only
Introduction 21
by abandoning these dichotomies as fundamental and adopting the Hegelian
view that these alleged “opposites” prove, upon further examination, to be
mediated, that is, mutually implicated with one another and dependent upon
a more comprehensive standpoint even to be articulated at all. More specifi-
cally, the author argues that while Hegel’s view does not commit him to a
Description Theory of names, he likewise insists on “a role for sense or mean-
ing,” though not one that falls prey to the qua-problem precisely because he
refuses to place particulars and the universals or concepts by which they are
individuated, perceived, and recognized in absolute opposition. Rather, for
Hegel their relation is mediated and “dialectical.”
Although the issue of reference may strike one as a somewhat restricted
or technical problem, and Dulckeit admits that most analytic philosophers
will not be willing to accept Hegel’s view as a satisfactory response to their
concerns, she actually has a much broader point in mind which goes to the
heart of the differences separating analytic philosophy and Hegel’s approach.
To employ Hegel’s own terms, virtually all analytic philosophy has been pur-
sued within the confines of what he, following Kant, called the understand-
ing, roughly, an approach to philosophical issues that assumes certain opposi-
tions as fundamental and then seeks, inevitably unsuccessfully, to resolve
problems generated within these fixed oppositions. To follow Hegel, however,
is to move from the standpoint of understanding to that of reason, that is, to
come to see that no opposition is absolute or fixed but that the very statement
of any opposition always positions the thinker at the next “level” beyond the
given opposition, a standpoint which views the opposition itself as one medi-
ated within a higher unity. In a way analogous to that seminal “analytic
philosopher” Wittgenstein, the Hegelian gambit is also not that of “solving”
philosophical problems by accepting the original terms in which they are
posed and then seeking ingenious “solutions” to them, but in “dissolving”
them by calling into question the allegedly fundamental character of the con-
ceptual oppositions to which the analytic “solutions” are addressed. Dulckeit’s
chapter serves as an apt and specific example of one possible structure of
engagement between analytic and Hegelian philosophies.
Jim Vernon’s contribution focuses upon another issue often common to
both the analytic philosophy of language and more empirical linguistics: that
of the status and significance of grammar for linguistic reflection. In agree-
ment with some of the other authors in this volume, Vernon believes that if
we adopt a sufficiently broad perspective upon the totality of Hegel’s corpus,
it is possible to develop a “system of language” implicit in it that can be shown
to fit well with Hegel’s explicitly articulated philosophical system. As an illus-
tration of his broader project, Vernon focuses upon points in several Hegelian
texts where discussions of grammar appear. The first instance he cites is found
in the introduction to the Science of Logic and emerges within a broader dis-
cussion regarding the fact that logic, by its very nature, must be treated in
22 JERE O’NEILL SURBER
abstraction from the content of the empirical sciences. From the point of view
of “prescientific” reflective understanding, logic will always appear as a pure
formalism having seemingly little bearing on the concrete contents of the
empirical sciences. However, once one has immersed her/himself in these sci-
ences and then returns to logic, logic will reveal itself “as the universal content
of both the natural sciences and the world they investigate.” It is in the eluci-
dation of this point that Hegel points to an important parallel between the
study of logic and that of grammar. From the point of view of the student of
grammar who is only acquainted with language as a native speaker, grammar,
like logic to the reflective understanding, will appear as a relatively arbitrary
set of abstract and formal classifications, formation rules, and so on. Only
after the student has mastered other languages than his/her own and engaged
him/herself in comparing them will she/he come to recognize and appreciate
“the universal essence that enjoys substantial existence in all natural lan-
guages.” This theme of the centrality of the study of languages for genuine
Bildung is reiterated and further developed in Hegel’s speech of 1809 on clas-
sical instruction in the Gymnasium (where Hegel was, at that time, serving as
Rector). In the face of what Hegel views as a recent and lamentable decline in
the early study of classical languages in favor of the German language and
classical works in translation, Hegel attempts to justify the centrality and
importance of serious study of classical languages as the very heart of scien-
tific Bildung. His argument, as Vernon presents it, runs somewhat as follows.
While the “content” of classical languages is the same as that of familiar mod-
ern ones, that is, “the excellence of the human spirit,” we will remain unable
to grasp this fact concretely so long as the “form” that this assumes is the one
that is natural and familiar to us (i.e., our own native language). Rather, this
“universal content” must have “received the form of something foreign to us
in order to become an object.” This is precisely what occurs in learning classi-
cal languages and reading texts in their original tongues: the student comes to
view the content of his/her own mind presented in an alien and unfamiliar
form and thus comes to recognize its objectivity. It is, of course, the gram-
matical features of classical languages that constitute these “alien forms,” so
that the study of their grammars, even if it involves a significant portion of
merely rote or “mechanical” learning, is essential to the learning process. But,
and here is the key step of Hegel’s argument, such study ultimately reveals that
the various determinations or categories of grammar are, in fact, universal and
hence constitute part of the very content of the human mind or spirit that link
our own to other language communities.The particular advantage of the study
of ancient and dead languages lies in the fact that, in order to read and under-
stand texts written in them, we must continually engage in the process of
relating the universal grammatical structures and determinations that they
employ to the particulars presented by the text, thus coming to realize both
the “purity” of the universals manifested in various languages as well as the
Introduction 23
concrete ways in which they “live” within the particular texts and features of a
given language. This, however, as Hegel himself notes, is also exactly what is
required for logical thinking itself, so that the study of grammar “constitutes
the beginning of logical education.”
Of course, however important it may be, the study of grammar and the
logical categories implicit within it constitutes only a part of a “system of lan-
guage.” In addition, there are the more particular “material expressions” of lan-
guage, which Vernon regards as presented in Hegel’s various works on “Geist,”
most importantly the Phenomenology and the Philosophy of Spirit. Beyond this,
the final moment of a “system of language” will pose the task of relating “the
Geist and Logic texts to each other on linguistic terms” (the author’s own
emphasis). This broader project that Vernon merely sketches is very intrigu-
ing, but raises the further question as to whether the third part of the project
can be carried out while remaining within the scope of Hegelian philosophy
or whether it will require a move beyond anything that Hegel himself pro-
vided (or could have provided) in either his philosophical or linguistic reflec-
tions. In a sense, this question as to whether a “system of language” can remain
immanent to a conceptual philosophical system or whether it must necessar-
ily transcend it leads both to later analytic critiques of systematic philosophy
as well as to some of the “postmodern” stances that will be presented in the
fourth section of this volume.
David Kolb’s challenging chapter directly confronts an issue that may
seem to many readers to have lurked just below the surface of a number of the
preceding discussions: the question of the relationship of the “higher order”
conceptual categories treated by Hegel in his logical writings to the more spe-
cific, sometimes arbitrary, and continually changing structures and determina-
tions of “natural languages.” The dilemma to be confronted, fundamental for
any adequate understanding of Hegel’s broader philosophy, might be put in
this way. If, on the one hand, Hegel’s logical categories are read simply as
“abstractions” from the actual structures and determinations of natural lan-
guages, then the logical heart of Hegel’s system must be subject to the same
arbitrariness, instability, and vicissitudes as natural language itself and hence
be denied any claim to some broader “philosophical truth”; if, on the other
hand, the logical determinations are viewed as somehow transcending and
autonomous of natural languages, then their meaningfulness and relevance to
“concrete experience” must be called into question, rendering them (perhaps)
somehow philosophically valid but irrelevant to anything but abstract specu-
lation. Clearly, Hegel himself claimed that his logic was both, in some sense,
true as well as relevant for more concrete analyses, thus presenting the inter-
pretive task to which the author devotes himself.
Kolb begins by adopting a working definition of a “language system”
derived from recent analytic philosophy: “a language system is a network of
normatively licensed connections among sentences.” Such connections
24 JERE O’NEILL SURBER
include those of formal logic, together with other material inferences and
additional norms governing such things as reference and contextual linkages
among sentences. Given such a view of natural languages, and recognizing
that the linkages that constitute their “systems” alter over time, Kolb wishes to
argue that “Hegel’s dialectical transitions and sequences are not the same as
the (formal and material) inferential linkages in such systems, and yet Hegel’s
transitions are embodied in the contingencies of those systems and their
changes.” He begins by proposing the general idea that, while not all changes
within language systems will necessarily affect the whole system or embody
the sort of dialectical transitions employed by Hegel, “all Hegelian transitions
will involve changes in language system.” In other words, while no strict cor-
relation between changes in natural language systems and Hegel’s own logical
transitions obtains, it is nonetheless true that the sort of transitions presented
by Hegel do have their counterparts, or, better, are “embodied within,”
changes in natural language systems. Although the author grants that an
account of this based upon various “levels” of influence ranging from Hegel’s
“high order” logical categories “down to” empirical language systems has its
appeal, he rejects such accounts in favor of an alternative formulation. As he
prefers to put the matter, “We don’t go from the Hegelian transitions to the
language changes. We might rather say that the language system changes
occur in the space of the Hegelian transitions” (author’s own italics). This
statement he regards as according with Hegel’s own insistence that “language
[is] the existence (Dasein) of Spirit,” not just its mere external manifestation
or result. With respect to the relation of Hegel’s logical transitions to changes
in empirical language systems, this means that the former must be understood
as “embodied” within the much looser network of linkages and their histori-
cal contingencies constituting the latter. In particular, to speak of “embodi-
ment” in this context means that Hegel’s logical transitions cannot be
regarded as any complete explanation or determination of empirical language
systems, precisely because such “embodiment” implies exactly the sort of con-
tingencies that neither can nor need be accounted for by Hegelian logical
analysis. Pursuant to this point, Kolb suggests that “the language of the logi-
cal presentation is [itself] not a single language system, but rather a sequence
of transcategorial principles that can be embodied in or expanded into lan-
guage systems.” This, in turn, implies that, in Hegel’s own logical texts, “we
are dealing not with a single language system but with movement among
many related systems.”
The author concludes his provocative and rather (on most prevailing
readings) heterodox account of the status of Hegel’s own logical discourse by
a frank admission that accepting this view of the relation between Hegel’s pre-
sentation of logical transitions and changes in empirical language systems ren-
ders questionable the sort of “higher historical unities” (and their periodiza-
tion) characteristic of his more historical works. In a sense, this admission
Introduction 25
represents an important concession to modern analytic philosophy’s charac-
teristic insistence on the diversity, contingency, and internal complexity of
empirical “language systems.” However, interpreting Hegel’s logical texts in a
way that accommodates such widely recognized features of natural languages
may, at the same time, require Hegelian sympathizers to jettison other aspects
of Hegel’s philosophy that analytic philosophers have found most objection-
able, especially his account of history and philosophy’s role within it. One sus-
pects that most other authors represented in this volume so far would not be
willing to grant as much to the analytic tradition, that they would find the
limited version of Hegel’s philosophy that Kolb defends no longer recogniz-
able as Hegel’s own philosophical position. But perhaps this is, in fact, the
price that must be paid if Hegel’s philosophy is to remain vital and relevant to
contemporary discussions about language.
4. Postmodern Perspectives on Hegel’s Linguistic Views
The final group of chapters takes up, from the general perspective of Hegel’s
linguistic thought, what has been the primary focus of a great deal of the
twentieth century’s critical response to Hegel, especially that of “postructural-
ist” or “postmodernist” thinkers: the question of the “clôture” of Hegelian phi-
losophy. These contributions attempt to confront, on linguistic grounds, what
Hegel meant in claiming some sort of “totality” or “absoluteness” for his phi-
losophy and the degree to which later critics have been justified in rejecting
Hegel’s views because of this claim. Although the authors differ in both their
approaches and answers to these questions, they nonetheless agree that a care-
ful and more nuanced consideration of Hegel’s own linguistic views can shed
new light on what has become a standard charge leveled against Hegel.
Catherine Kellogg’s contribution approaches the theme of Hegel’s phi-
losophy of language through its reception by three influential French inter-
preters, Kojéve, Hyppolite, and Derrida. Specifically, she argues that Derrida’s
grammatological project can be better understood if situated in the context of
the French reception of Hegel in the twentieth century. She begins by placing
Derrida’s reading of Hegel within the context of two other influential inter-
preters of Hegel, Alexandre Kojéve and Jean Hyppolite, in their attempts to
understand the crucial transition from sensory perception to conceptual
thought. These figures both formulate the problem of this transition in terms
of the role of the sign. Their discussions of Hegel’s insights about the sign as
always a primary representation of Spirit allow us to see the main issues of
Derrida’s own project in a different light. If the sign and its referent always
stand in a dialectical relation, then, for Hegel, the sign does not refer to some
“thing-in-itself ”; rather, it both destroys and preserves the referent, thus cre-
ating a system of signification where, allegedly, nothing meaningful is left out.
However, against such earlier readings, Derrida’s approach to Hegel attempts
26 JERE O’NEILL SURBER
to show that the sign leaves behind an unassimilable “remainder,” which
means that neither knowledge nor representation can be “absolute” in the
sense Hegel claimed.
In his early essay “The Pit and the Pyramid: Introduction to Hegel’s
Semiology,” Derrida formulates his approach in terms of images Hegel him-
self employed. The movement between the “pit,” where the remains of signi-
fication are buried, and the “pyramid,” erected by the regime of the sign, is cir-
cular: the image of the thing-in-itself that lies in the human unconscious
functions as if it were the “thing itself” of signification. Derrida then attempts
to show that since the remainder Hegel tries to dispose of is both a precondi-
tion for thought and that which eludes conceptual thinking, his philosophical
system cannot, in principle, be “closed,” thus rendering any form of absolute
representation or knowledge impossible. Kellogg suggests that Hegel’s accom-
plishment of pointing toward, if not himself affirming, the impossibility of
absolute representation or knowledge was the main focus of the French
Hegelian Renaissance in the twentieth century. In particular, she suggests that
Derrida’s grammatological project recapitulates, though critically, Hegel’s
attempts to explain the movement between the “pit” and the “pyramid.” On
her view, Derrida’s own approach is designed to show that the retracing of this
circular movement demonstrates that the Hegelian system relies upon a non-
totalizable and interminable difference that cannot be interiorized by that sys-
tem, thus undermining the “absolutism” of knowledge as claimed by Hegel
himself.
Rather than focusing upon anti-Hegelian critiques that assume the “clô-
ture” of Hegel’s philosophy, Claire May attempts to show how this accusation
might itself be contested by suggesting how Hegel’s notion of negativity can
be used in order to construct a nontotalizing theory of language. May chooses
the example of Julia Kristeva’s ambivalent stand on the meaning and signifi-
cance of Hegel’s own theory of language to make her case, arguing that Kris-
teva’s reading of Hegel brings into focus the radical implications of Hegel’s
own views on language. The chapter opens with a presentation of Kristeva’s
view of poetic language as an interplay of two modalities of the signifying
process: the semiotic and the symbolic. Kristeva describes symbolic significa-
tion in terms of patriarchy, social constrains, fixity of rules, and univalent sig-
nification. By contrast, she points to the copresence of semiotic signification
as enigmatic, feminine, and continually disturbing the stasis of the symbolic.
This semiotic disruption of the stability of the symbolic is, according to Kris-
teva, made possible through a sort of negativity that ensures the continuing
transformation of the speaking subject and the social system. May notes that
Kristeva’s position on negativity is somewhat ambivalent: on the one hand,
Kristeva rejects Hegel’s negativity as a “dead end,” but on the other hand, she
admits that it facilitates the movement of the dialectic that disrupts all
attempts to reify the status quo.
Introduction 27
A closer look at Hegel’s view of negativity, May argues, will explain Kris-
teva’s ambivalence and will also help us to see the radical nature of Hegel’s
theory of language that Kristeva’s analysis brings to the fore. If Hegel’s nega-
tivity is to be placed, as suggested by Jean Hyppolite, within language, then
we can see how Hegel’s dialectic of poetic language and the language of the
analytic understanding resembles Kristeva’s dialectic of the semiotic and the
symbolic. Like Kristeva’s symbolic, Hegel’s language of the understanding
seeks stability and fixity for its meanings; and like her analysis of the semiotic,
Hegel’s view of poetic language is likewise appreciative of its capacity to be
multivalent, polysemic, and dynamic. Although admitting that Kristeva’s
views are not conceptually identical to those of Hegel, May draws several
interesting parallels between the two. She points out that, like Kristeva’s view
of the semiotic, Hegel sometimes associates negativity with femininity. If this
gendering of some of Hegel’s most fundamental concepts is to be taken seri-
ously, then, May suggests, we might see some surprising links between Hegel
and Kristeva. Hegel’s view that all language is in a state of unrest might sug-
gest that Kristeva’s discussion of negativity is indebted to Hegel in more ways
than she wants to admit. In particular, the negativity implicit in language will
continually disrupt all attempts to stabilize and fix meanings and thus will
allow for the sort of difference that characterizes a “revolution in and through
the language of philosophy.”
Katrin Pahl’s contribution to this volume approaches Hegel’s discussion
of language in terms of his intriguing observations concerning the speculative
logic of philosophical discourse as presented in the preface to the Phenome-
nology of the Spirit. Pahl proposes to show that Hegel’s philosophical language
combines elements of the traditional logic of discourse and the new Hegelian
logic of the speculative.This combination, however, is in itself important as an
example of the “rhythmical” interaction she wishes to explore. In particular,
Pahl argues that Hegel’s reformulation of the traditional logical notions of
concept and judgment leads him to emphasize their materiality rather than
(or in counterbalance to) the ideality often ascribed to them. In Hegel’s
understanding of the Concept, the fixed distinction between logic and reality
becomes dynamic and thus Concept, in a sense, produces its own reality. Judg-
ment also ceases to have an abstract logical form and can now, just as well,
assume the form of a living body. This emphasis on the Concept’s materiality
(as opposed to an understanding of the Concept as a metaphysical abstrac-
tion) suggests a radically different understanding of Hegel’s philosophy, one
that views it as open to alterity.The emphasis upon the materiality of language
that occurs, for example, in Hegel’s consideration poetic writing points toward
what Pahl describes as the “dance” of the Concept. If language, thought, and
reality are mutually intertwined, then language is, for Hegel, only one form in
which the Concept manifests itself. The “speculative proposition” (introduced
in the preface to the Phenomenology), read as highlighting this “intertwining,”
28 JERE O’NEILL SURBER
must then be taken as actively undermining the traditional form of philo-
sophical writing. In particular, if, as Pahl suggests, Hegel expands the tradi-
tional understanding of judgment to include the material manifestations of
the judgment, then his idea of the speculative proposition will also call into
question the traditionally hierarchized ways of understanding subject and
predicate, meaning and body, and identity and difference.
In the end, on Pahl’s reading, the speculative proposition provides the
grounds for the possibility of what she calls an “ethical relation to (Hegelian)
philosophy’s other.” Although it may be difficult to determine what a partic-
ular speculative proposition actually looks like, it is more to the point to regard
it as Hegel’s phrase for indicating a new way of reading “judgment,” one that
refuses to reduce it to a single univocal meaning. Pahl argues that this implies
a new type of “speculative reading” that is practiced and exemplified by Hegel
in the Phenomenology, and one that also demands a correspondingly “specula-
tive” effort of the reader. Hegel seduces his reader into reading his proposi-
tions speculatively by integrating the traditional form and logic of the judg-
ment into his writing while insisting on its inadequacy for his speculative
philosophy. In this way, according to Pahl, Hegel develops his philosophy as
an open system, “susceptible to its others.” In Hegel’s hands, traditional logi-
cal argumentation forfeits its own foundations and, as Pahl put it, must either
fall or begin to dance. In the process of her discussion, Pahl demonstrates from
various textual examples how Hegel’s deployment of speculative writing and
reading increases the complexity of traditional logical language and “breaks
the linearity of logos.”
The direction that Hegel scholarship will take from here remains to be seen.
What is clear from the chapters of this volume is that the problem of language
must henceforth occupy a central place in any further attempts to interpret,
defend, elaborate, or critique Hegel’s philosophical accomplishment. Given
the relative neglect of this theme up until now, this in itself represents a mile-
stone in the still unfolding history of scholarship devoted to Hegel and Ger-
man Idealism.
NOTES
1. For a synoptic discussion of German Idealist thought about language,
together with citations to some of the more important secondary sources, see Jere P.
Surber, “The Problem of Language in German Idealism: An Historical and Concep-
tual Overview,” in Phenomenology on Kant, German Idealism, Hermeneutics and Logic,
ed. O. K. Wiegand et al. (The Netherlands: Kluwer, 2000), pp. 305–36. (Henceforth I
will cite this essay as PL.)
2. My Language and German Idealism: Fichte’s Linguistic Philosophy (Atlantic
Highlands, N.J.: Humanities, 1996) (henceforth LGI) and Metacritique: The Linguistic
Introduction 29
Assault on German Idealism (New York: Humanity, 2001) (henceforth MC) both dis-
cuss in detail many of these historical developments and themes, as well as provide
translations of key texts and citations to the secondary literature on these and related
topics. I refer the reader to the bibliographical sections of these works, as well as the
essay cited above, rather than attempting to provide such detailed documentation
within the scope of this introductory chapter.
3. Representative of the “first wave” of modern scholarship on Hegel’s linguistic
views are Josef Simon, Das Problem der Sprache bei Hegel (Stuttgart: Kohlhammer,
1966); Werner Marx, Absolute Reflexion und Sprache (Frankfurt/M.: Klostermann,
1967); Theodor Bodammer, Hegels Deutung der Sprache (Hamburg: Meiner, 1969); and
Daniel Cook, Language in the Philosophy of Hegel (The Hague: Mouton, 1973).
4. A concise overview of the empirical research and linguistic theories of this
period can be found in R. H. Robins, A Short History of Linguistics (Bloomington: Indi-
ana University Press, 1967). See, in particular, chapters 6 and 7 of this work.
5. Robins, cited above, offers a brief discussion of Herder’s contributions to the
linguistic thought of the period on pp. 151–53. Also see Hans Aarsleff, From Locke to
Saussure (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1982), not only for a detailed
discussion of Herder’s contributions but also of those of others who were involved in
this “Enlightenment” phase of linguistic reflection.
6. For historical background and a detailed discussion of this “metacritical move-
ment,” as well as for translations of its key texts, see MC, cited above.
7. I present what I take to be Kant’s view of this issue in PL, pp. 313–16. How-
ever, for a somewhat different perspective, see the very extensive discussion in Jürgen
Villiers, Kant und das Problem der Sprache: Die historischen und systematischen Gründe für
die Sprachlosigkeit der Transzendentalphilosophie (Konstanz, 1997). This work is the
most detailed to date on linguistic issues as they appear throughout Kant’s writings.
8. An elaboration of this argument and the themes presented in the following
section, as well as a discussion of the philosophical problems that they pose, can be
found in PL, especially pp. 307–12.
9. See the introduction to MC for a detailed account of this dispute between the
Kantians and the “Metacritics.”
10. What follows is a brief synopsis of the analysis of Fichte’s essay on language
in LGI. This volume also contains a translation of the essay as well as of other relevant
materials.
11. For a more extended discussion of Schelling’s contributions to German Ideal-
ist linguistic thought, see PL, pp. 321–28. The most comprehensive work to date on
Schelling’s linguistic thought is Jochem Hennigfeld, “Schellings Philosophie der
Sprache,” Philosophisches Jahrbuch 91 (1984): 16–29.
12. Several chapters in the present volume provide detailed discussions of these
points from various perspectives. See also PL, pp. 328–36.
13. The key texts of this early phase can be found in G. W. F. Hegel, Gesammelte
Werke, hg. von der Rheinisch-Westfälischen Akademie der Wissenschaften (Hamburg,
1968ff.), Bd. VI, 277–96 and Bd. VIII, 185–96. For a more extended discussion of
these passages, as well as for an overview of the development of Hegel’s linguistic
thought, see Thomas Sören Hoffmann, “Hegels Sprachphilosophie,” in Tilman Borsche
(Hrsg.), Klassiker der Sprachphilosophie (München, 1995).
30 JERE O’NEILL SURBER
14. Hegels Werke, IX, pp. 42ff. The most extended discussion to date of Hegel’s
idea of the “spekulative Satz” is Günter Wohlfart, Der spekulative Satz (Berlin: de
Gruyter, 1981). Again, several of the chapters in this volume also deal with this theme.
15. An English translation of these passages is available in Hegel’s Philosophy of
Mind (Part Three of the Encyclopaedia of The Philosophical Sciences 1830), trans.
William Wallace (Oxford: Clarendon, 1971), pp. 210–23.
16. The importance of this passage to Hegel’s overall project is well documented
by several of the chapters in this volume.
Introduction 31
This page intentionally left blank.
SECTION 1
Language and the
Possibility of
Systematic Philosophy
This page intentionally left blank.
In what follows I would like to consider the nature of the demands that the
Hegelian conception of systematicity makes of language. It is well known
that, for Hegel, a body of knowledge is systematic insofar as its justification is
wholly immanent. That is, the propositions and concepts that articulate this
knowledge, together with the relations that obtain between them, must unfold
intrinsically in such a way that they form an interdependent totality; the unity
of this whole, in turn, must itself be sufficient to establish both the validity
and soundness of the parts. A systematic body of knowledge is thus self-devel-
oping, self-grounding, and self-justifying. It follows then that such a system
must be able to account for the conditions of its own possibility wholly and
completely from within itself. Accordingly, it cannot appeal to the extrinsic, to
the merely transient, in order to establish itself as a whole or to ground any
moment of its totality. What then about what is perhaps the most fundamen-
tal of these conditions, the medium whereby the system itself is presented,
that is, what about language? What could be more mired in the domain of the
contingent, the empirical, and the singular? What could be more opposed to
the unity of systematicity than the diversity of linguistic forms and types?
Does not the necessity of presenting itself in language threaten then the very
project of systematization? Does it not open the immanence of such a totality
to the threat of infiltration by the merely historical and by the dispersion of
the wholly incomplete? That is to say, does language not expose the imma-
nence of thought to the threats of representation?
35
CHAPTER 1
Fragmentation,
Contamination, Systematicity:
The Threats of Representation
and the Immanence of Thought
Kevin Thompson
Hegel acknowledged the centrality of these questions to his project
throughout his work, always carefully attending to the relation of Vorstellung
and Denken. But it is in the preface to the second edition of the Wissenschaft
der Logik (1831), a text he completed a mere week before his death, that Hegel
provides what is his perhaps most extensive discussion of language and sys-
tematicity. He begins, as he had in the preface to the first edition, by noting
that the philosophical science laid out in the body of the work, that is the pre-
sentation of the immanent activity of thought itself, has a fundamental his-
torical condition. It draws, he tells us, upon the traditions of metaphysics and
logic as its “necessary condition” and “presupposition”—even if these offer only
at best what he calls “a lifeless heap of skeletons.”1
Having made this conces-
sion, Hegel immediately moves, in a way he had not in the first edition, how-
ever, to identify the more fundamental condition that underlies these very tra-
ditions. He writes, “The forms of thought (Denkformen) are at first displayed
and laid out in human language” (GW XXI, 10/31).2
Hegel clearly acknowl-
edges here that the categories of the system initially reside in the medium of
sensible communication. But, the statement is surely more paradox than solu-
tion. Is it a confession, an admission by Hegel of a fundamental failure, that the
immanent activity of thought has an extrinsic presupposition, a source beyond
itself upon which it draws and by which it sustains itself? Or is it a proclama-
tion, a defiant assertion of the dominance of thought over the sensuous mate-
rial in which it initially arises?
This question, of course, is one of the fundamental issues that divided
what came to be called the right and left wings of Hegelianism. If the state-
ment is indeed a confession of failure, then the Hegelian system of reason
remains mired in the historical particularities and contingencies of its time as
the left wing always argued it must. If it is a proclamation of dominance, then
the system justifies itself by rising above the realm of the everyday and the
actual as the right wing consistently held it ought. What I want to argue is
that, as is so often the case with respect to these divisions within the Hegelian
legacy, Hegel himself had already laid out the way of passage between this
Scylla and Charybdis, between the empirical and the transcendental, between
materialism and idealism.
Hegel does this, I will show, in the account of language that he develops
in the Enzyklopädie der philosophischen Wissenschaften. The nerve of the argu-
ment he offers there lies in the decisive role that the activity of subjective
spirit plays in the concept of memory, the highest sphere of language and the
moment of passage from representation (Vorstellung) to thought (Denken). I
will argue that the most complete form of memory, what Hegel calls
“mechanical memorization,” brings about a subtle integration of linguistic
representation and that it is not, as some have claimed, an abandonment of
the referential structure of language. What Hegel shows is that language ulti-
mately points not just to the immediate objects of intuition, representation,
36 KEVIN THOMPSON
or even thought, but to the activity of self-relating in otherness itself, the
movement of spirit as freedom, and that thus what emerges in this moment
is precisely what is lacking in intuition and representation as these stand on
their own, namely the union of subjectivity and objectivity, the binding of the
domain of ownness (Seinige) with the domain of being (Sein). In this union,
representing is raised to thinking, the name to the thought. Systematicity
thus becomes possible, on this reading, because the language it must employ,
wrought through though it is with representation, is nonetheless an expres-
sion of the very activity in which subjectivity and objectivity are joined, and,
as such, it is equally shot through with the categorial determinations of
thought. Systematicity is thus nothing other and nothing less than a laying
bare of the immanent structurality of human expression as it embodies the
movement of spirit; in short, systematicity is, to employ Hyppolite’s still apt
phrase, the “logic of sense.”3
Now, in order to appreciate the full import of this largely exegetical point
the precise nature of the threat that language poses to the project of system-
aticity must be more carefully developed. The pivotal nature of the theory of
language for the system of reason as a whole becomes evident only within this
context. And it is only insofar as it can account for this condition that the sys-
tem bears even the possibility of being what it requires itself to be.
This chapter is divided into three parts. I begin with an examination of
the requirements that systematicity places upon language and the threat that
language poses to such an enterprise (I). I then turn to the account of language
Hegel offers in the Enzyklopädie and examine his claim that the activity of
spirit expressing itself is the bond of subjectivity and objectivity (II). I con-
clude with a brief discussion of how well Hegel’s theory is able to address the
threat language poses to the project of systematization (III).
I. SYSTEMATICITY AND LANGUAGE
Throughout his work, Hegel held that the systematic organization of knowl-
edge and its sensuous expression are intimately and inextricably intertwined:
“It is in names that we think.”4
The mode of presentation, for him, is not a
mere shadowy portrayal of deeper abiding truth. Rather, it is itself the unfold-
ing of the line of argument, the movement of thought. Representation is not
just an empirical condition of communication, but the very medium in which
and through which the activity of thinking expresses itself. So if language
poses a fundamental threat to the idea of the systematic organization of
knowledge, it presents what is perhaps one of the most devastating challenges
to the very project of Hegelian science itself.
In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, systematicity was conceived,
first and foremost, as a way of understanding the nature of rational justification.
Fragmentation, Contamination, Systematicity 37
The organization of knowledge under a fundamental principle was thought to
hold the key to rendering a sufficient account of any specific knowledge claim.
To understand just what systematization requires of language then, we need to
examine the fundamental criteria that such an ordering imposes on the process
of justification. From this, we can then look more carefully at the precise nature
of the threat that language poses for such a project. This, in turn, will lead us to
the heart of the matter at issue in Hegel’s treatment of language.
A. The Strictures of Systematicity
In one of the revisions he made to the introduction in the second edition of
the Enzyklopädie (1827), Hegel wrote: “A philosophizing without system can-
not be scientific at all; such philosophizing expresses for itself more of a sub-
jective disposition, its content is accordingly contingent. A content has its jus-
tification only as a moment of the whole, outside of which it is only an
ungrounded presupposition or subjective certainty” (Enz. [1830] § 14A). The
justification of a thing, whether it be a proposition, a concept, or even a state
of affairs, is dependent, for Hegel, upon its being shown to be a part of a cer-
tain kind of systematic whole, and this he claims is defined by a threefold set
of strictures.
The first stricture is epistemic. To render an account of something, to jus-
tify it, requires that it be traced back to its ground, the source from which it
arose. A systematic ordering does this by joining its various elements under
the governance of an indubitable and unconditional axiom, an absolute first
principle (ein erster Grundsatz). The propositions derived from this principle
are thus erected upon a secure foundation and, as a result, can themselves be
said to be absolutely certain.
The second stricture is logical. For the infallibility of the foundation to
flow to the various parts under its governance, the moments themselves must
possess an inferential structure in which each is individually necessary and
mutually implicatory. The transference of the certainty of the foundation to
the various elements of the system is guaranteed by this essential interdepen-
dence of the parts.
The final stricture is ontological. A systematic account must fully capture the
nature of reality itself; no other principles, and thus no other systems, must be
possible; the science must be, in short, exhaustive. A systematic account accom-
plishes this by fully elaborating its first principle. All the parts of the totality
must follow of necessity from this principle and these must be all the proposi-
tions derivable from it. There can thus be but one totality and but one system.
A genuinely rational system must therefore be absolutely grounded, inter-
nally consistent, and explanatorily exhaustive.5
These strictures set the condi-
tions for a part’s inclusion within a systematic whole and serve, therefore, as
the standards for its justification. Accordingly, the validity and soundness of a
38 KEVIN THOMPSON
proposition or concept is established just insofar as it is shown to meet these
“entrance conditions” of a systematic complex.
Now, for Hegel, a scientific method cannot simply be a set of procedures
for investigating the fundamental structure of things; it has to be this struc-
ture itself. That is to say, for Hegel, methodology can be nothing less than the
conceptual articulation of the process in and through which things come to be
what they intrinsically are. This process, the development of the concept, is,
of course, the activity of self-relating negativity—the generative movement
that relates itself to itself in and through its own becoming other—and it
forms the first principle of Hegel’s thought and the heart of his monism.6
Meeting the strictures of systematicity requires that a proposition or state
of affairs be shown, then, to be a moment within this movement, either as a
point of immediacy from which it begins, a stage of its progression into that
which is other, or as a concrete union forged in and through this process in its
circling back upon itself. Justification is thus a matter of demonstrating a
thing’s proper place within the totality of what is.
But since the determinacy of each part within this sort of totality is
dependent upon its relationship to the moment that precedes it as well as that
which follows it, a systematic justification must not only establish just what
these defining relations are, but also how each of the relata involved are stages
of development of one process. To show that something is a moment of the
whole then, that is, to produce a justification that will genuinely satisfy the
strictures of systematicity requires both a demonstration of how a specific
contradiction defines the matter at issue, and a proof that, despite its appar-
ently ineluctable character, this contradiction is nevertheless resolved in such
a way that a passage into a higher determinacy results.
With this account of the nature of systematicity in place, we can now see
exactly what is required of language in the construction of such an ordering of
knowledge. First, in accordance with the epistemic stricture, language must be
capable of presenting an absolute fundamental principle, an unconditioned
proposition, and since, for Hegel, this principle refers not to a thing but to an
activity, language must be able to capture or, better, express this movement as
a movement. Secondly, following the logical stricture, language must be able
to establish necessary inferential relationships. Given that, for Hegel, this
entails expressing the mutual dependence of contradictory concepts, language
must be capable of stitching together the fabric of the whole it expresses with
bonds that are not only necessary and contiguous, but that depict the way in
which negation constitutes the determinacy of things. Finally, the ontological
stricture of systematicity requires that language be able to lay bare the entirety
of the rational structure of being itself. On Hegel’s account, this comprehen-
sive structure is the basic form of self-relation in and through absolute other-
ness, self-relating negativity. It follows then that language, for Hegel, must be
able to place before us the complete categorial structure of reality. To do this
Fragmentation, Contamination, Systematicity 39
it cannot be representational in the simple sense of depicting objects or states
of affairs in the world, rather it must be capable of making the generative
source of the world itself manifest.
The burdens of systematicity thus weigh heavily upon the medium of its
presentation.7
Language must be a vehicle that enables the construction of a
systematic edifice, at once complete, consistent, and comprehensive. The
question, of course, is not whether language is in fact already such a vehicle,
but whether it can be. If language is in some essential way inadequate to this
task, then it poses a fundamental threat to the enterprise of systematization.
What then precisely is it about language that would make it a threat to the
construction of such a system?
B. The Threats of Language
The threat that language poses is twofold: fragmentation, the essential incom-
pleteness of language, and contamination, its essential historicality. These
claims, of course, were well known to Hegel as they formed part of the con-
stellation of problems within which his own work arose. Friedrich Schlegel
and Novalis both argued that language is fundamentally fragmentary because
it ultimately seeks to express that which is inexpressible,8
while Hamann and
Herder both held language to be rooted in custom and tradition and thus to
be deeply and ineluctably historical.9
Since we cannot here reconstitute the
important history of the texts and debates concerning these issues, what I
would like to do is to treat them as philosophical problematics that the pro-
ject of systematicity, specifically in its Hegelian form, had to and still must
confront.10
To do that, we need to isolate their core contentions.
Let us begin by noting a trait common to both. Fragmentation and con-
tamination are both essential threats. By that I mean not merely the fact that
language is often a fragmentary mode of expression, that it at times fails to do
what it is intended to do, nor merely that it is a product of tradition and cul-
ture, that, for instance, different peoples have developed different systems of
communication. Rather, what is essential about these threats is that incom-
pleteness and historicity are being said to be inherent features of language
itself; that is, fragmentation and contamination are endemic to the very
essence of language. The threat language poses to systematicity is not then
simply that of a factual constraint; it is not some merely empirical obstacle to
be overcome. Rather, language is inherently fragmentary and contaminated
with contingency and it is precisely as such that it throws the project of sys-
temization into question.
Consider first fragmentation. Schlegel and Novalis’s famous commitment
in their early works to the fragment as the most adequate form of literary
expression was rooted in a deeply philosophical theory.They both held that lan-
guage is always ultimately striving to present the idea of unity or totality, and
40 KEVIN THOMPSON
yet, following Kant, as ideas these concepts can have no intuitive givenness; nei-
ther complete unity, nor an absolute totality can be experienced.Thus they can-
not be expressed in language either. A fragment then is not a piece detached
from a larger whole, but rather the embodiment of the structure of language as
such. Fragmentary presentation is a depiction of the essential structure of lan-
guage as it strives to express that which is inexpressible, the ineffable idea of
totality. Language is thus inherently and necessarily incomplete.
Contamination is likewise an eidetic claim. Hamann and Herder bitterly
debated whether language was of divine or of human origination, but they
nonetheless agreed about its function. Language, they held, is a means of
communication that operates precisely because it is the repository of the cul-
tural traditions and verbal customs of the peoples that make use of it. Lan-
guage is not simply mired in the specificity of its time and place; it is defined
by it. Usage just is what language is and the conventions by which it functions
are historical through and through. Grammar then is an ineluctable web of
empirically bound associations.
Now if these claims were to prove to be true, language would indeed pose
a fundamental and devastating threat to the project of systematization. For if
the medium of expression is essentially incapable of representing that which
it seeks to depict, and if it is held together through wholly contingent histor-
ically constructed relations, then it cannot be employed to erect the kind of
comprehensive, internally consistent, and absolutely grounded whole that sys-
tematicity requires. Systematization is nothing other than the production of
an immanently unfolding body of concepts that, by virtue of the necessity of
its interdependencies, forms an exhaustive and absolute account of being. If
the form of language is just a set of merely empirical associations, and if its
content is necessarily fragmentary, then both the logical and ontological stric-
tures of systematization could not be fulfilled. And if these could not, then
surely the epistemic demand of an absolutely certain ground would have to go
unsatisfied as well. Fragmentation and contamination thus strike at the very
heart of the project of systematization. For it is only insofar as Hegel’s account
is able to respond to these issues that his claim to systematic philosophy, and
thus to philosophical justification, becomes viable. Nothing less, then, than
the Hegelian project itself is at stake here.
II. REPRESENTATION AND THOUGHT
Now obviously in order to refute these threats, Hegel must establish that lan-
guage is neither inherently fragmentary nor essentially contaminated, and,
more positively, that its very nature enables it to be the fundamental fabric out
of which a whole conforming to the strictures of systematicity is able to be
woven. Hegel’s decisive insight here is to recognize that the threats have a
Fragmentation, Contamination, Systematicity 41
common root: representation. Both threats take language to be exhaustively
defined by its referential structure. For fragmentation, this structure essentially
fails to be adequate to model the idea of totality, the transcendent; for conta-
mination, language is saturated by its referential content: history, tradition,
and convention, the empirical. Hegel’s strategy is not to reject this conception
tout court, but rather to show that it is itself dependent upon a deeper stratum,
a more basic movement. The key to Hegel’s position is his claim that the rep-
resentational content of language is insufficient to bind words together into
meaningful wholes. Given that the communicative facility of language
requires such unities, language is dependent upon the unique work of fixing
and retaining names in series that is performed by Spirit itself. In this sense,
the ground of representation is nothing other than the ordering wrought by a
seemingly mindless process of linguistic repetition.11
Hegel argues for this
view in the account of memory in the Enzyklopädie, and more specifically, in
his analysis of the function of mechanical memorization. Despite its cursory
nature, then, this discussion forms the core of Hegel’s theory of language.12
Now, since the passages in question here have been the source of much dis-
pute, I want to begin by briefly reconstituting the context of Hegel’s account
before turning to an examination of the central matters of contention.
The discussion of memory is located at an especially important juncture
in the Philosophy of Spirit.The concern at this stage of the Enzyklopädie is with
the movement of revelation that is Spirit as it finds itself confronted by a
world, a world necessarily presupposed, not made by itself; this is the domain
of what Hegel calls “Subjective Spirit.” Initially here, Spirit is understood to
be itself a merely natural entity, a soul (Anthropology), then, in the form of
consciousness, as standing in explicit awareness and relation to the natural
world as an object (Phenomenology), and finally as a subject (Psychology).
The significance of this progression, Hegel tells us, is that now, in Psychology,
the fundamental form (“infinite form,” Enz. [1830] § 440) of the activity of
Spirit, its relating to itself in and through otherness, what Hegel calls its free-
dom, has become explicit. It is no longer itself simply mired within the nat-
ural realm, nor is it bound to the contents of the natural world for its object.
Rather, Spirit here relates itself only to its own determinations; it stands self-
related, formally free. The task of the Psychology, then, is to understand the
conceptual structures whereby this formal freedom, the self-relating activity
that Hegel terms “elevation (erheben),” is able to become fully free, that is, free
not just structurally, but concretely, such that it is aware of itself and in con-
trol of itself (bei sich) in and through the objects it encounters and with which
it interacts.13
The point of departure for this project, Hegel argues, lies in the recogni-
tion that Spirit as subject is defined by a fundamental contradiction. Even
though Spirit is here self-related, it still always begins its activity of manifest-
ing itself with that which it encounters, the immediately existent. Its defining
42 KEVIN THOMPSON
struggle is thus to take up that which lies before it, being, and posit it as its
own, as ideal. The movement of Spirit is genuinely rational and it therefore
becomes truly free, Hegel claims, to the extent that the object(s) with which
it involves itself are, at once, wholly and fully existent and wholly and fully its
own. In other words, Spirit will be genuinely free only when it brings about
the union of Seienden and Seinige.14
This requires a twofold movement: the
positing of what is as one’s own (Theoretical Spirit) and the positing of this
as wholly existent (Practical Spirit). Our concern here will be with the pro-
gression of Theoretical Spirit. It is thus important to note that this basic prob-
lematic, the uniting of the objectivity of being with the subjectivity of ideal-
ity, is what is at issue in the account of memory and thus of language. Hegel
draws our attention precisely to this point when he notes that the crucial con-
cepts in the analysis of Theoretical Spirit, as it attempts to posit the real as
ideal, are its production within of an “ideal world (ideelle Welt),” the domain
of the mind, and its production without of the “word (Wort),” language (Enz.
[1830] § 444). Hegel’s account is thus governed by one basic problematic:
How does language bring about this union of being and ideality?
Psychology, for Hegel, investigates the capacities and activities of Spirit
as it endeavors to do precisely this. It begins with the most basic form of sub-
jective activity, the intuiting of empirical objects, and sets forth the way in
which the object of this form of encountering, a spatially and temporally
locatable intuition, is taken up in the processes of representation and interior-
ized such that the particularities of the object are transformed into universal-
ities of meaning, what Hegel calls “thoughts (Gedanken).” Hegel refers to
these processes as recollection (Erinnerung), imagination (Einbildungskraft),
and memory (Gedächtnis). In them, an intuition is taken up and stored within
the space and temporal flow of subjectivity, what Hegel here refers to as the
intelligence (Intelligenz), thereby transforming the intuition into an image
(Bild). The image is then submitted to a series of operations that compare and
contrast it with other images that are similar to it in various ways.This process
raises the image out of the specificity of its origin in the empirical, abstract-
ing it to such an extent that it is ultimately able to function as a marker, a sign
(Zeichen), capable now of designating any referent whatsoever. It is at this
point, Hegel argues, that language arises within the system neither as an
empirical faculty nor as a cultural artifact, but as a properly scientific concept
(Enz. [1830] § 459A).15
Now though we cannot go into the complexities of this transition, we
should note that what is at stake here is a profound transformation in how the
identity of the object undergoing these operations is understood. In recollec-
tion, the image is defined in terms of resemblance. It serves as a vehicle for
recognizing and recalling things because it possesses features that resemble
the empirical object(s) to which it refers. But as a result of the comparative
and contrastive processes of imagination, an image is able to function as a
Fragmentation, Contamination, Systematicity 43
symbol of a general concept. Nonetheless, it is still able to do so by virtue of
its resemblance to the concept in question. Hegel’s favorite example, of course,
was the way in which any particular piece of fruit—an apple, a peach, or a
pear—can serve as the symbol of the concept of fruit itself.
This is fundamentally changed in the move, within the processes of imag-
ination, from the image as symbol to the image as sign. As a sign, the image
is able to pick out any referent at all because its identity is now defined in
terms of its representation of this referent, rather than its own specific attrib-
utes. In this moment, the image becomes so removed from the particularities
of its origin that it is able to function as an indicator of another image, another
sign, a meaning. And, in essence, this is precisely what language initially is, for
Hegel, a system of signs whose identities are determined by their indicative
function, rather than the substance of their content: “The intuition, as imme-
diately something given and spatial, acquires, insofar as it is used as a sign, the
essential determination of existing only as sublated” (Enz. [1830] § 459).
Thus, by raising the intuition to the sign, the positing of the real as the ideal
enters a decisive phase and, as such, an important step is taken in establishing
the concrete freedom of Spirit itself.
Now it is well known that, according to Hegel, the spoken sound, the liv-
ing tone, rather than the written word best fulfills this function of representa-
tion.16
However, as important as this claim is to Hegel’s analysis, the real cen-
terpiece of the theory of language lies in the account of memory. The move
from imagination to memory is necessary, Hegel notes, because neither the
spoken nor the written word can persist beyond its initial utterance or beyond
the time of the community that is able to decipher its distinctive markings. As
it stands, the signs of language, what Hegel calls names, are still ultimately
intuitions and, as such, still tied to the merely empirical. Consequently, they
are themselves inherently “transient” and their relation to the meaning that
they signify is wholly contingent or, as Hegel says, “external” (Enz. [1830]
§ 460). This real material has thus not yet been adequately raised and posited
as the ideality that it must be in order for Spirit to be genuinely free in and
through it.
The processes of memory—retentive (behaltende, § 461), reproductive
(reproduzierende, § 462), and mechanical (mechanisch, § 463)—address pre-
cisely this problem. In retentive memory, intelligence performs the same com-
parative and contrastive operations as it had upon the intuition as image now
upon the intuition as sign, together with its signifying relation. In doing so,
both are taken up in their essential relationality and the empirical nature of
the sign and the contingent connection of it with its meaning is negated. This
transforms their merely inductive association into a universal, enduring con-
nection and the sign itself, the sound or mark, becomes a representation, a
mental imprint. The result is that both now form one whole, “one representa-
tion” (Enz. [1830] § 461), and both are now under the governance of the ideal
44 KEVIN THOMPSON
world of the mental. Their source of validity is thus no longer intuition but
the “realm of representation” itself (Enz. [1830] § 462).
In reproductive memory, then, to have the name is to have the thing, the
matter itself (die Sache). To use Hegel’s famous example, “lion” is an “image-
less simple representation” that, by virtue of its union of sound and meaning,
enables one to dispense with the intuition of such an animal as well as even
its image (Enz. [1830] § 462A).The name suffices and, as a result, by employ-
ing names alone, we are able to understand and think without having to have
recourse to empirical intuition or even to recollection: “It is in names that we
think” (Enz. [1830] § 462A).
But, having reached this important conclusion, Hegel introduces a turn
that has disconcerted many, if not all, of his readers. From the concrete iden-
tity of name and meaning, the union of sign and signified, in reproductive
memory, he appears to abandon meaning completely in favor of the mechan-
ical recitation of senseless names. Surely, this is nothing less than a betrayal of
the movement of Spirit, a forsaking of the living processes of idealization for
the dead mechanics of senseless repetition. How then are we to understand
what is clearly one of the most disconcerting of the system’s transitions?17
Let us return again to reproductive memory. If the union of sound and
meaning in the name enables it to be just the matter itself, then, Hegel claims,
the name serves as the intelligence’s externality, and in the use of names, recol-
lecting them now within the domain of the mental rather than into it from the
empirical, the intelligence posits itself, externalizes itself, within itself.18
Intel-
ligence’s commerce with names thus seems to take place wholly within the
mental sphere and thus for mechanical memory to break the relation to mean-
ing seems clearly possible. But this would render names merely ideal, negating
their sensuous existence, and thus leave undone the union of existence and ide-
ality to which Theoretical Spirit is dedicated. The key to understanding the
transition must thus lie in seeing how it actually brings about this unity.
The decisive moment, I believe, is the movement from the multiplicity of
signs that exist within the sphere of representation, the domain of the mental,
to the ordering activity of subjectivity, what Hegel here calls the mechanism
of the “empty bond ” (Enz. [1830] § 463).19
Recall that in retentive memory a
sign and its relation to that which it signifies, its meaning, is raised, by com-
parison and contrast, to the level of essentiality. They are, to be sure, no longer
what they had been, merely an empirical association. Yet, this elevation does
not establish how various signs are to be joined with one another, that is, how
they are to form the basic units of communication: phrases, clauses, sentences,
and so on. Reproductive memory thus has the matter or thing when it has the
name. And it thus has no need to have recourse to empirical intuition or
images. Yet, these names lack an inherent way of relating themselves to one
another. Reproductive memory is thus a reservoir awash in idealities without
an elemental grammar, a pit of semantics without syntactical order. Hegel
Fragmentation, Contamination, Systematicity 45
refers to this condition as the problem of the “association of particular names”
(Enz. [1830] § 462). And it is this problem that necessitates the passage from
reproductive to mechanical memory.
In reproductive memory, the only way to associate names with one
another, Hegel says, “lies in the meaning of the determinations of sensing,
representing, and thinking intelligence as it runs through this series” (Enz.
[1830] § 462).Thus, at this level, it is the work of reference—whether it is ref-
erence to the experiential or representational or mental—that meaningfully
binds names to one another. Ideality is insufficient, on its own, to do this
work. Consequently, as the externality in which intelligence “posits itself
within itself” (Enz. [1830] § 462), the name is an ideality whose relation to
other idealities is made possible by the referential structure endemic to intel-
ligence’s encounter with objects beyond itself. At this stage then, the grammar
of names is the grammar of experience (in the broadest sense).
Hegel thus begins the account of mechanical memory proper with a
recognition of this seeming impasse: “In so far as it is meaning (Bedeutung)
that sustains the connection between names, the linking of meaning with
being as name (Sein als Namen) is still a synthesis and the intelligence, in this
its externality, has not simply returned into itself ” (Enz. [1830] § 463
[emphases added]).The order of representation, the domain of the ideal, is the
true space or repository of names and, as such, it is their proper being. And
this, Hegel is saying, is joined to the meanings, now the referents rather than
the idealities, that hold these names together in senseful wholes by a synthe-
sis that is, thus far at least, extrinsic to the sphere of intelligence itself, the
“realm of representation.” The syntactical structure, here, is dictated by the
brute immediacy of the experienceable. As a result, names are an externaliza-
tion of intelligence, a way it expresses itself, in which intelligence fails to be
with itself and thus return to itself in the otherness of utterance.
Yet, Hegel continues, “The intelligence, however, is the universal, the
simple truth of its particular externalizations, and its completed appropriation
(Aneignen) is the sublation (Aufheben) of the difference between meaning and
name” (Enz. [1830] § 463). The essentiality of the synthesis of that which
joins representations with one another, the meaning, and that which repre-
sents, the name, is here said to be taken up, and its extrinsicality negated, in
the appropriative movement of intelligence. But what precisely is this appro-
priative movement endemic to intelligence? It is nothing other than the fix-
ing of names into series and the holding of them in such stable complexes,
which is to say, it is the process, “devoid of understanding” (Enz. [1830]
§ 463A), of senseless memorization.
Memory is mechanical, for Hegel, when it is a synthetic operation that sets
names in place and holds them together without regard to their representational
content.20
It is the capacity of the mind to become a pure functioning machine,
intelligence’s ironically mindless ability to set names in series, to repeat them
46 KEVIN THOMPSON
devoid of their content, their history, their sense. It is, in other words, the activ-
ity of ordering as such.21
But how does this process bring about the “sublation of
the difference between meaning and name,” of the real and the ideal?
Recall that, in reproductive memory, the only way to link names with one
another is by virtue of the real states of affairs that they designate. But if the
ligaments of language were fully determined by the joints of the real, then lan-
guage would be exhaustively defined by its referential structure, and the tran-
sition to the pure movement of thought thwarted. But the real is not what
ultimately binds names to one another. It is the intelligence itself that effects
this seemingly trivial, but obviously now, all important task. Operating as a
kind of pure machine, producing order without utility or finality, the intelli-
gence rivets names together in accord with patterns endemic to itself. The
capacity of the mind to do this—to establish series of terms without concern
for what they are to depict—shows, Hegel argues, that the ultimate referent,
the ultimate meaning, of names resides neither in the mere interiority of their
ideality, nor in the exteriority of their representational content, but in the sim-
ple movement of joining, ordering, and retaining, the capacity of Spirit he
refers to as the “empty bond (das leere Band)” (Enz. [1830] § 463). Intelligence
thus proves to be the ultimate being of both the ideality of names and the real-
ity of meaning. However, it does so not as a mere repository of signs, but as
the activity, the movement, of synthesis itself. Hegel thus concludes that this
form of memorization is properly called mechanical in a twofold sense: on the
one hand, because the unities it produces are not determined by the nature of
the names arranged, they are “juxtaposed to one another,” hence they relate
mechanically rather than organically, and, on the other, because by this process
memory proves itself to be a distinctly “subjective externality” (Enz. [1830] §
463), an objective worldly operation of the mind.
Mechanical memorization thus demonstrates that Spirit is the ultimate
reference for all names. This entails that Spirit is something more than merely
formally free. It posits itself instead as concretely self-determining, self-related
in and through otherness. As the empty synthetic bond holding all things
together, it makes itself being, and thereby unites ideality, what is its own, with
that which is, being. Hegel summarizes this trajectory in an extremely dense
but important passage:
Spirit is only with itself (bei sich) as the unity of subjectivity and objectivity.
Here in memory, after being initially external in intuition, and thus [merely]
finding determinations, and in representation recollecting these findings in
itself and making them its own (Seinigen), it made itself, as memory, into an
externality in itself, so that what is its own appears as something continually
found (ein Gefunden-werdendes). (Enz. [1830] § 463A)
In intuition, Spirit merely discovered the preexistent attributes of empir-
ical objects. In representation, it raised these into images, signs, and finally
Fragmentation, Contamination, Systematicity 47
names. In memory, it raised names themselves into the domain of ideality,
making them its own. But in mechanical memory, Spirit, in the form of intel-
ligence, showed itself to be the living source of these determinations. In this
moment, then, intuition, images, signs, and names, the world of the ideal, is
joined with being, the existent; what is Spirit’s own, the ideal, appears as
something constantly being found, the existent. In mechanical memory then,
being and ideality are one and Spirit is with itself, with its own, in and through
that which is other than it, existence.
Mechanical memory marks, then, the transition to thought as the com-
plete unity of subjectivity and objectivity, and, in this union, Hegel does
indeed conclude there is “no more meaning” (Enz. § 464). But that is because
Spirit itself is both the ultimate meaning, the ultimate referent, for all names,
as well as the ultimate objectivity of all things. Thus, to say that there is no
more meaning in thought is not to deny that thinking and its object, thoughts,
are representational, rather it is to recognize that they articulate the funda-
mental working of Spirit itself, the generative movement of being. In doing
this, thoughts do not refer as names do to something beyond themselves, but
instead to the very activity that is at the heart of both being and thought.
III. THOUGHT AND SYSTEMATICITY
Let us now return to the tasks laid out above. Hegel, we said, had to show that
language is not inherently fragmentary, nor essentially contaminated. The
question at the root of these threats is whether or not language is exhausted
by its representational intent. The account in the Enzyklopädie clearly gives us
the core of Hegel’s response to this profound problem. It shows that a third
element must enter into the equation, one requiring that the exclusionary
terms in which the question is posed be rethought. That third element is
nothing other than the ordering activity of intelligence itself, the “empty
bond.” It is this movement—seemingly insignificant because it is devoid of
any semantic content, yet profound in its binding terms together—that makes
representation possible. Mechanical memorization thus does not abolish rep-
resentation; it integrates it within the movement of Spirit itself. Language
therefore expresses not only specific representational content, but also, more
deeply, the generative movement of revelation itself. It is, we can now say, at
one and the same time, suffused with representation, a semantics of the expe-
rienceable, and equally shot through with the elemental grammar of thought,
a syntactics of Spirit.
Language, then, is neither essentially contaminated, nor inherently frag-
mentary.The representational structure of language often fails, and its content
certainly reflects the historical and cultural contexts within which it arises.
Yet, it is, simultaneously, the activity of freedom, the movement of Spirit. The
48 KEVIN THOMPSON
grammar that binds language together is thus not a mire of contingent asso-
ciations, but the relations of this movement. And language is not defined by a
failure to present the ineffable, but by this movement’s self-relating wholeness.
Language, then, indeed is capable of being the fabric out of which a system-
atic whole can be woven for it is stitched together by the categorial structures
of Spirit. And, as such, erecting a totality that conforms to the strictures of
systematicity (epistemic, logical, and ontological) is to do nothing less, but
nothing more, than to grasp the rationality already inherent in the actuality of
speech.
The passage from the preface to the second edition of the Wissenschaft der
Logik with which we began—”the forms of thought are at first displayed and
laid out in human language”—concludes:
Nowadays we cannot be reminded often enough that it is thought (Denken)
that differentiates humans from beasts. In everything that becomes some-
thing inner, that becomes representation (Vorstellung) in general, what
humans make their own (Seinigen), language has itself intervened, and what
we make into language and express in it contains—shrouded, mixed, or
worked out—a category, so much is logic natural for us, or rather, so much
is logic our unique nature itself. (GW XXI, 10/31–32)
The categorial structure of being lies latent in the medium whereby we
communicate with one another. In joining name to name, we are not just
expressing the generative movement of Spirit itself, we are this movement
itself. The forms of thought that serve as the conceptual building blocks for
the system are thus always already at work in the actuality of human expres-
sion. Language, then, is the means by which we make the matters we discuss
our own, and at the same time, forge a union of being and ideality. Hegel’s
theory of language thus marks a way of passage beyond the threats of repre-
sentation to the immanence of thought. In so doing, it shows the system of
philosophical science to be the laying bare of the immanent structurality of
language, the logic of sense.
NOTES
1. Hegel, G. W. F., 1832, Wissenschaft der Logik. Erster Teil. Die Objektive Logik.
Erster Band. Die Lehre vom Sein, ed. Friedrich Hogemann and Walter Jaeschke, Gesam-
melte Werke. Bd. 21 (Hamburg: Felix Meiner, 1985), p. 10. Science of Logic, trans. A. V.
Miller (Atlantic Highlands, N.J.: Humanities, 1969), p. 31. All further references to
this work are included in the text designated as GW XXI followed by the appropriate
page reference to the German edition and then to the English translation. Where nec-
essary, I have modified the translation.
2. For a discussion of this “logical instinct” in language, see Hans-Georg
Gadamer, “The Idea of Hegel’s Logic,” in his Hegel’s Dialectic: Five Hermeneutical
Studies, trans. P. Christopher Smith (New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1976),
Fragmentation, Contamination, Systematicity 49
pp. 75–99, esp. 91–99. Whereas Gadamer takes the appeal to language and instinct to
be an opening through which a thematization of finitude in Hegel’s thought is possi-
ble, the reading offered in the present chapter seeks to mark a path more faithful to
Hegel’s own trajectory.
3. See Jean Hyppolite, Logic and Existence, trans. Leonard Lawlor and Amit Sen
(Albany: State University of New York Press, 1997), Part I, ch. 2, and Part III, ch. 3.
4. Hegel, G. W. F., Enzyklopädie der philosophischen Wissenschaften im Grundrisse,
ed. Wolfgang Bonsiepen and Hans-Christian Lucas, Gesammelte Werke, Bd. 20 (Ham-
burg: Felix Meiner, 1830), § 462A. All further references to this work are included in
the text designated as Enz. [1830] followed by the appropriate paragraph number, the
designation “A” refers to Hegel’s Anmerkungen (Remarks); when necessary, the appro-
priate page number has been included.
5. Vittorio Hösle, Hegel’s System. Der Idealismus der Subjektivität und das Problem
der Intersubjektivität. Bd. 1 (Hamburg: Felix Meiner, 1988), pp. 12–59, provides a use-
ful account of Hegel’s concept of systematicity, as well as an analysis of its historical
development.
6. For Hegel, the certainty of this principle is not, however, a matter of simple
self-evidence or intellectual intuition. Hegel shows that for anything to be it must be
determinate or concrete and this is possible only insofar as negation exposes the inad-
equacy of the immediacy from which it emerges, thereby revealing the indeterminacy
of this beginning in relation to that which is other or opposed to it, then, turning back
upon itself and thus operating in a self-referential manner, it unites in mutual depen-
dence that which is opposed, such that a more concrete and higher form of the imme-
diacy with which it initially began results. In short, Hegel shows the determinacy by
which all things are what they are to be the result of a singular movement of self-relat-
ing negativity.
For a discussion of this point, see Dieter Henrich, “Die Formationsbedingungen
der Dialektik: Über die Untrennbarkeit der Methode Hegels von Hegels System,”
Revue Internationale de Philosophie (1982): 139–62.
7. For useful guides to the issues involved in the relationship between language
and systematicity in Hegel, see Josef Derbolav, “Hegel und die Sprache: Ein Beitrag
zur Standortbetimmung der Sprachphilosophie im Systemdenken des Deutschen Ide-
alismus,” in Sprache. Schlüssel zur Welt, ed. Helmut Gipper (Düsseldorf: Schwann,
1959), pp. 56–86; and Josef Simon, Das Problem der Sprache bei Hegel (Stuttgart: W.
Kohlhammer, 1966), pp. 170–75.
8. The principal texts where this critique by Schlegel and Novalis is set forth are
the collections of fragments they published collaboratively and separately in the first
edition of the journal Athenäum (1798), and the essay by Friedrich Schlegel entitled “On
Incomprehensibility,” which was published in the final edition of the journal (1800).
All these writings are included in Friedrich Schlegel, Charakteristiken und Kri-
tiken I (1796–1802), ed. Ernst Behler et al. Kritische Friedrich-Schlegel-Ausgabe, Bd. 2
(Munich: Schöningh, 1958).
For English translations of the pertinent texts, see Friedrich Schlegel. Philosophi-
cal Fragments, trans. Peter Firchow (Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press,
1991); and Theory as Practice: A Critical Anthology of Early German Romantic Writings,
ed. and trans. Jochen Schulte-Sasse et al. (Minneaplos: University of Minnesota Press,
1997), Parts I & III.
50 KEVIN THOMPSON
9. The relevant texts from Hamann and Herder are: J. G. Hamann, Metakritik
über den Purismum der Vernunft (composed, 1784; published, 1800), in J. G. Hamann.
Schriften zur Sprache, ed. Josef Simon (Frankfurt am Main: Klostermann, 1976), pp.
135–64; and J. G. Herder, “Eine Metakritik zur Kritik der reinen Vernunft” (1799), in
John Gottfr. Herder’s Sprachphilosophie, 2d ed., ed. Erich Heintel (Hamburg: Felix
Meiner, 1964), pp. 181–227.
English translation of this material is included in Metacritique: The Linguistic
Assault on German Idealism, ed. and trans. Jere Paul Surber (Amherst, N.Y.: Humanity,
2001), Part I.
10. For treatments of this history, see Philippe Lacoue-Labarthe and Jean-Luc
Nancy, The Literary Absolute: The Theory of Literature in German Romanticism, trans.
Philip Barnard and Cheryl Lester (Albany: State University of New York Press, 1988);
and Jere P. Surber, “German Idealism under Fire: Fichte, Hegel, and ‘Metacriticism,’”
in Hegel on the Modern World, ed. Ardis Collins (Albany: State University of New York
Press, 1995), pp. 93–109; and O. K. Wiegand et al., ed., “The Problems of Language
in German Idealism: An Historical and Conceptual Overview,” in Phenomenology on
Kant, German Idealism, Hermeneutics and Logic (The Hague: Kluwer, 2000), pp.
305–36.
11. On this reading, Hegel’s theory of language is not primarily a theory of words,
or of names, but of sentences. In this sense, the Enzyklopädie account can be seen as
expanding upon the central insights Hegel developed concerning the “speculative
proposition.”
On this earlier theory, see Jere Paul Surber, “Hegel’s Speculative Sentence,” in
Hegel-Studien 10 (1975): 211–30; and Günter Wohlfart, Der speculative Satz:
Bemerkungen zum Begriff der Spekulation bei Hegel (Berlin: Walter de Gruyter, 1981).
12. It has become rather commonplace to dismiss Hegel’s discussion in the
Enzyklopädie because of its brevity. For a recent example, see Karin de Boer, “The Infi-
nite Movement of Self-Conception and Its Inconceivable Finitude: Hegel on Logos
and Language,” Dialogue 40 (2001): 75–97, esp. 76–77.
Surber largely dismisses the account not because of its brevity, but because he
believes it fails to address the Metacritical challenge (“German Idealism under Fire,”
106). As I hope to show in what follows, the Enzyklopädie account does indeed
respond to this challenge, what I have called the threat of contamination, though it
does not do so by name.
13. On the role of the Psychology within the System, see the excellent commen-
tary by Adriaan Peperzak, Selbsterkenntnis des Absoluten: Grundlinien der Hegelschen
Philosophie des Geistes (Stuttgart-Bad Cannstatt: frommann-holzboog, 1987), pp.
38–57. For a discussion of the specific mental faculties involved, see Willem A.
deVries, Hegel’s Theory of Mental Activity: An Introduction to Theoretical Spirit (Ithaca:
Cornell University Press, 1988).
14. Cf. Enz. [1830] § 443.
15. For a much more extensive analysis of this line of argument, see Theodor
Bodammer, Hegels Deutung der Sprache: Interpretationen zu Hegels Äußerungen über die
Sprache (Hamburg: Felix Meiner, 1969), pp. 23–67.
16. See Jacques Derrida, “The Pit and the Pyramid: Introduction to Hegel’s
Semiology,” in Margins of Philosophy, trans. Alan Bass (Chicago: University of Chicago
Press, 1982), pp. 69–108.
Fragmentation, Contamination, Systematicity 51
For useful discussions of this piece, see David Farrell Krell, Of Memory, Reminis-
cence, and Writing: On the Verge (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1990), chap.
5; and José Maria Ripalda, “Die Sprache spricht nicht aus: Bermekungen zu Hegels
Sprachphilosophie,” Hegel-Studien 34 (1999): 39–59.
17. This difficult passage has been the subject of an extremely rich set of discus-
sions. One of the most important holds that Hegel employs two fundamentally dis-
tinct conceptions of names: ones that have been rendered senseless by means of purely
mechanical memorization (“names as such”), and ones that retain their full representa-
tional content (“representational names”). The former is said to be the material for
what Hegel calls the “language of the Concept,” while the latter is the basis for the
“language of the Understanding.” As insightful as this approach is, however, I do not
believe the text supports this reading.
For the best defense of this interpretation, see John McCumber, The Company of
Words: Hegel, Language, and Systematic Philosophy (Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern Uni-
versity Press, 1993), esp. Part III, ch. 7, and Part IV, ch. 10.
18. Cf. Enz. [1830] § 462.
19. Justification for this approach is provided by an examination of the revisions
the passages on mechanical memory underwent in the three editions of the Enzyk-
lopädie.
In the 1817 edition Hegel moves directly from the recognition of the merely asso-
ciative character of words in reproductive memory, what he calls the “multiplicity of
signs,” to the fixing and ordering work of the empty bond of mechanical memory:
There is a general multiplicity of signs, and as such they are absolutely con-
tingent juxtaposed to one another. The empty bond (das leere Band), which
fixes such series and retains them in this stable order, is the completely
abstract, pure power of subjectivity—the memory, the whole externality in
which the members of such series are juxtaposed to one another, is called
mechanical. (Enzyklopädie der philosophischen Wissenschaften im Grundrisse
[1817], ed. Wolfgang Bonsiepen and Klaus Grotsch, Gesammelte Werke, Bd.
13 [Hamburg: Felix Meiner, 2000], § 382)
In 1827, Hegel introduces a decisive transition into this movement by appealing to the
concept of name as the externalization of intelligence and to intelligence as the being
or space of now senseless names:
The name, as the content’s existence within intelligence, is the externality of
the intelligence itself within existence; the recollection of the name as the
intuition brought forth from intelligence is at the same time the externaliza-
tion in which theoretical spirit posits itself within itself. It is thus being, a
space of names as such, i.e., of senseless (sinnloser) words. There is a general
multiplicity of names, and as such in so far as they are contingent juxtaposed
to one another, there is nothing here but the ego and this multiplicity of
words. But the ego is not only the universal being or their general space, but
as subjectivity, it is their power, the empty bond (das leere Band), which fixes
series of them within itself and retains them in a stable order. In so far as they
merely are, and the intelligence itself is here, in itself, only as being, it is the
power of the wholly abstract subjectivity,—3) the memory, which, as the
52 KEVIN THOMPSON
whole externality in which the members of such series are juxtaposed to one
another and is this externality itself, is called mechanical. (Enzyklopädie der
philosophischen Wissenschaften im Grundrisse [1827], ed. Wolfgang Bonsiepen
and Hans-Christian Lucas, Gesammelte Werke, Bd. 19 [Hamburg: Felix
Meiner, 1998], § 463)
In the revisions for the final 1830 edition, Hegel seeks to clarify the transition he had
introduced in 1827 by adding another reference to the problem of the association of
names after the concept of names, thereby showing that this is the guiding problem
throughout and the issue to which the various other terms in the passage must be ref-
erenced:
In so far as it is meaning (Bedeutung) that sustains the connection between
names, the linking of meaning with being as name is still a synthesis and the
intelligence, in this its externality, has not simply returned into itself. The
intelligence, however, is the universal, the simple truth of its particular exter-
nalizations, and its completed appropriation (Aneignen) is the sublation
(Aufheben) of the difference between the meaning and the names.This high-
est recollection of representation is the highest externalization, in which it
posits itself as being, the universal space of names as such, i.e., as senseless
(sinnloser) words. The ego, which is this abstract being, is, as subjectivity, at
the same time the power of the various names, the empty bond (das leere
Band), which fixes series of them within itself and retains them in a stable
order. In so far as they merely are, and intelligence is itself here their being,
intelligence is this power as the wholly abstract subjectivity—the memory,
which, on account of the whole externality in which the members of such
series are juxtaposed to one another, and though it is itself this subjective
externality, is called mechanical (§ 195). (Enz. [1830], § 463)
See also the student transcriptions from the Philosophy of Spirit lecture course of
1827/1828 where Hegel is reported to have remarked about the “complex of words,”
the “bond of representations,” and the “bond of names,” and how these are forged in
and through mechanical memory. Cf. G. W. F. Hegel, Vorlesungen über die Philosophie
des Geistes. Berlin 1827/1828, ed. Franz Hespe and Burkhard Tuschling. Vorlesungen.
Ausgewählte Nachschriften und Manuskripte, Bd. 13 (Hamburg: Felix Meiner, 1994), pp.
219–22.
According to the student transcriptions from the lecture course on the Philosophy
of Spirit of 1827/1828, Hegel remarked, when describing mechanical memory, that
“We call something mechanical where several things stand in relation to one another,
holding themselves, but in this relation, at the same time, remaining externally juxta-
posed to one another.” G. W. F. Hegel. Vorlesungen über die Philosophie des Geistes: Berlin
1827/1828, 219.
20. On this point, see Stephen Houlgate, “Hegel, Derrida, and Restricted Econ-
omy: The Case of Mechanical Memory,” Journal of the History of Philosophy 34 (1996):
79–94.
Fragmentation, Contamination, Systematicity 53
This page intentionally left blank.
I. FINITUDE OF LANGUAGE AND
HEGEL’S CONCEPT OF SPECULATION
In any case, the form of the proposition, or more precisely that of the
judgment, is incapable of expressing what is concrete (and what is true
is concrete) and speculative; because of its form, the judgment is one-
sided and to that extent false.1
At first glance, Hegel’s critique of the propositional form seems to lead
inevitably to a cul-de-sac, for no matter how skeptical he is about this lin-
guistic form, he has no other choice but to develop and to present his philos-
ophy as well as this very critique by means of it. Hegel’s attitude in regard to
language is, therefore, unavoidably ambivalent, as he, on the one hand, is fully
conscious of the necessary reliance of our reason on the admittedly finite
capacities of natural language, yet, on the other hand, also realizes the need of
transcending the finitude of language, in order to apprehend the “Absolute.”
Nevertheless, this dilemma, when explored systematically, is itself the very
clue to comprehending the subtle standpoint as well as the fundamental con-
cerns of Hegel’s “speculative” philosophy.2
The perplexing situation that Hegel is faced with corresponds, indeed, to
the deep-seated problem that has already been designated by Kant as the
“peculiar fate” of human reason in the opening sentence of his Critique of Pure
Reason.3
Although in Kant’s opinion human reason is inevitably troubled by
questions that it can neither simply dismiss nor satisfactorily answer, he tries to
settle the dilemma by showing how those metaphysical questions fully surpass
55
CHAPTER 2
Language and Metaphysics:
The Dialectics of Hegel’s
Speculative Proposition
Chong-Fuk Lau
the capabilities of finite reason, thereby denying the possibility of attaining
rational knowledge. Kant’s “humble” view of philosophy is founded on his con-
viction regarding the finitude of human reason that it is necessarily subject to
limitations as long as it thinks. An infinite reason like God would rather be a
cognitive faculty by virtue of pure intuition alone, as it would grasp its objects
directly without any mediation through concepts.4
“Thinking as such is thus,”
according to Heidegger’s interpretation, “already the mark of finitude (Siegel
der Endlichkeit).”5
Since Kant, the finitude of human reason has become a cen-
tral philosophical issue that has then been explored by philosophers of our time
more deeply than ever due to the recognition of the inevitably linguistic char-
acter of thinking.6
Gadamer, for instance, speaks of our unsupersedable
bondage to language (Unaufhebbarkeit unserer Sprachgebundenheit)7
in this
respect and maintains—probably in response to Heidegger’s formulation—that
language is “the record of finitude (Spur der Endlichkeit).”8
However, the philosophical movement immediately following Kant
regards the admission of the finitude of human reason as a philosophical self-
abasement. In favor of the pursuit of metaphysical knowledge, idealistic
philosophers such as Fichte and Schelling, who share some basic motives with
the stirring epoch of Romanticism, show a skeptical attitude toward language,
especially in regard to the form of propositions and judgments. If there is a
linguistic form in which the Absolute could find expression at all, it would be,
according to the Romantics, poetry, though they would rather give preference
to the “nonlinguistic” powers of the human mind like feeling or intuition,
which find their expression and realization in art and religion instead of in
philosophical reasoning. Schelling, for example, holds that the Absolute can
neither be grasped by any concepts nor by any words of human language, but
only through the “intellectual intuition,” which purports to be able to appre-
hend the Absolute directly by circumventing our finite language.9
Although Hegel had once followed the philosophical position of his
younger colleague Shelling, he soon came to realize that the admission of an
allegedly direct access to the Absolute without the mediation of concepts is
inconsistent with the scientific character (Wissenschaftlichkeit) of philosophy.10
Even though art and religion are, for Hegel, also specifically realized forms of
reason, philosophy alone is “the highest mode of apprehending the absolute
Idea, because its mode is the highest mode, the Concept.”11
In order to bring
the Absolute under concepts, philosophy has no other choice but to rely on
our finite language. By recognizing philosophy as a “strenuous effort of the
Concept (Anstrengung des Begriffs),”12
Hegel repudiates every attempt to intro-
duce a nonconceptual or nonlinguistic organon into philosophy that would be
free from the limitations of natural language. Indeed, the approach of Hegel’s
Science of Logic already indicates that it is not a work dealing with metaphysi-
cal problems from the so-called God’s-eye view (as for God, no logic, or in
reference to Kant, no “thinking” at all would ever be needed to apprehend the
56 CHONG-FUK LAU
Absolute), but rather from the human standpoint which, in contrast, makes
every effort to allow the Absolute to be intelligible by its finite means.13
Without trying to get rid of the substantial dilemma by either giving up
the essential quest for metaphysical knowledge or taking refuge in an esoteric
power such as the “intellectual intuition,” Hegel seeks to confront the prob-
lem with its internal contradiction directly and critically. In this manner he
brings the possibility of metaphysical reflection from within the bounds of the
finitude of human language into question. This seemingly unsolvable
dilemma, however, is a result of conceptual confusions about the way the
problem should be posed. Therefore, clarifying some key concepts becomes a
crucial step in Hegel’s solution—above all the concept of the so-called gen-
uine infinity (wahrhafte Unendlichkeit).
For Hegel, his predecessors have made a “category mistake” by comparing
the logical relation of “finitude” and “infinity” to that of “something” and “other”
(Etwas und Anderes), which are mutually determined by means of a simple nega-
tion. On the basis of this opposition, they could only arrive at a concept of what
Hegel calls the “spurious infinity (schlechte Unendlichkeit).” Hegel’s point is that
if the infinite is defined simply as the negation or the “other” of the finite, then
this nonfinite (das Nicht-endliche) itself would be one-sided and finite as well, for
it is also bounded the same by its negative. Insofar as the finite and the infinite
in this opposing relation merly represent two separate worlds, one on this side
and the other beyond, this unattainable infinite is not, as traditional metaphysics
maintains, the world of ultimate reality, but only “the indeterminate void.”14
Instead of this dogmatic conception, Hegel tries to put forward a critical
or “speculative” concept of infinity, a concept which is of fundamental impor-
tance for the overall interpretation of Hegel’s speculative philosophy. Misled by
the superficial meaning of the categories, the dogmatic conception is mistaken
in holding the infinite apart from the finite. The genuine infinite, however, is
not “something” beyond the finite, but the process15
in which the two one-sided
and opposing categories, namely the finitude and the “finitized” infinity, come
to be united on a higher and more comprehensive level by making plain their
alternating determinations.16
Inasmuch as all the original boundaries of the
one-sided categories are “sublated” as the internal and passing differentiations
of this process, the new category is considered to be unbounded and hence
truly infinite. Thus, the Hegelian concept of infinity is not on the same cate-
gorial level as the concept of finitude, and is not even its opposite; rather it
operates as a meta-theoretical reflection on the determination and limitation of
finitude.17
In this respect, true infinity—that is, the Absolute—is nothing but
the total comprehension of finitude from within finitude.
On the other hand, the spurious and the genuine concept of infinity can
also be distinguished as “the infinite of the understanding” and “the infinite of
reason,”18
according to the different ways of looking at things by understand-
ing and reason respectively.
Language and Metaphysics 57
The understanding determines, and holds the determinations fixed; reason is
negative and dialectical, because it resolves the determinations of the under-
standing into nothing; it is positive because it generates the universal and
comprehends the particular therein.19
By virtue of its determinative character, the understanding cannot avoid label-
ing finitude and infinity as two opposing concepts and is, from this viewpoint,
never capable of comprehending the genuine concept of infinity in its fluid
nature. In attempting to destroy the “finitized” concept of infinity, Hegel obvi-
ously intends to refute the philosophical position of the “mere understanding
view (bloße Verstandes-Ansicht)” 20
as well. This “stubborn”21
standpoint has,
according to Hegel, taken possession of philosophy since Kant, who sought to
demarcate the legitimate use of pure concepts from the illegitimate use by
emphasizing the distinction between understanding and reason.22
However, by
sticking to this fixed distinction, reason itself is degraded to a problematic fac-
ulty of the human mind which, in attempting to transcend the finitude of
understanding, always gets caught up in a web of contradictions.
For Hegel, the concept of reason put forward by Kant only represents the
“understanding view” of reason,23
which is—analogous to the spurious concept
of infinity—mistaken in regarding understanding and reason as two opposing
faculties. Reason in its true essence is, more precisely stated, a mode of self-
critical thinking that casts reflections on every determination made by itself as
well as its object-oriented counterpart, understanding; and the way of think-
ing peculiar to reason is characterized by Hegel as speculation. In opposition
to what the name may suggest, the Hegelian speculation never purports to be
an “extraconceptual” power like Schelling’s intellectual intuition, for it never
intends to do without thinking, and is, instead, “the thinking of thinking.”24
In
doing so, it relies just as much on our conceptual and linguistic powers as the
understanding does. According to Gadamer, Hegel’s speculation refers to “the
mirror relation (das Verhältnis des Spiegelns)”25
and deals critcally with “the
dogmatism of everyday experience.”26
That is to say, speculation operates as a
mirror reflecting our thought. Through this mirror, our thought comes to
reflect upon its own presuppositions made by the understanding in the course
of everyday experience. The merit of speculation is, therefore, to make trans-
parent those finite determinations which were made by the understanding but
nevertheless remained obscure to it.27
For Hegel, speculative reason is essen-
tially infinite, not by virtue of any mysterious divine power, but on the ground
that it is capable of comprehending its own necessary limitations and, in this
sense, of superseding its finitude.28
After this conceptual clarification, the dilemma resulting from the fini-
tude of language and the quest for the Absolute moves into a completely dif-
ferent light. As soon as the understanding comes to realize the one-sidedness
of its perspective, it has already moved beyond its limit (Grenze) and begins
reflecting upon itself from the meta-critical standpoint of reason.29
In the
58 CHONG-FUK LAU
same way, although human language is bounded by its admittedly finite
capacities of expression, it has nonetheless precisely this ability: to reflect upon
its fundamental limitations by its own means. For this reason, Hegel charac-
terizes language not only as “the work of the understanding,”30
but also as “a
means of designation peculiar to Reason.”31
It is exactly this essential Janus face
of language that determines the peculiar manner of reasoning and exposition
(Darstellung) in Hegel’s speculative philosophy—an issue that is dealt with by
Hegel in his doctrine of “the speculative proposition (der spekulative Satz).”
II. SPECULATIVE PROPOSITION AS
CRITIQUE OF PROPOSITIONAL FORM
According to traditional logic, the elementary form of proposition consists of
a subject and a predicate that are joined by the copula. This subject-predicate
structure has been generally regarded by traditional philosophy, and especially
by Kant in connection with his theory of categories, as the primordial form of
all intelligible discourse. Hegel, by criticizing the one-sidedness of the sub-
ject-predicate form, is also calling a fundamental presupposition of the tradi-
tional philosophy into question. Ever since his early writings, in which his
basic concern was the quest for reconciliation by overcoming disseverance
(Entzweiung), Hegel was confronted with the problem of how to express
philosophical thoughts in the form of judgment (Ur-teil). This primordial
form of intelligible discourse, however, fails to express the essential unity of
the Concept owing to its character of original division (ursprüngliche
Teilung).32
Critical comments on the subject-predicate form can be found in
almost all of Hegel’s major works.33
However, the passage expounding the
“speculative proposition” in the preface to the Phenomenology of Spirit deserves
special elaboration,34
for Hegel attempts in this particular densely composed
preface, designed originally as the “introduction” to the whole system, to give
an overall account of the leitmotiv of his speculative philosophy.35
According to Hegel, the basic problem in the propositional form can be
attributed to the logical asymmetry of the subject-predicate structure. He
remarks regarding this asymmetry: the pivot of a simple proposition is the
“Subject to which the content is related as Accident and Predicate. This Sub-
ject constitutes the basis to which the content is attached, and upon which the
movement runs back and forth.”36
Under this conception, the grammatical
subject is conceived as a thing, or more precisely, a substance that is both logi-
cally and ontologically independent of, and prior to, those accidents ascribed
to it. However, this asymmetry between subject and predicate leads to the fail-
ure of the proposition to attain the truth which, according to Hegel, consists
in the complete agreement (Übereinstimmung) of subject and predicate. In
every proposition, he says, the predicate only expresses one single attribute of
Language and Metaphysics 59
the object referred to by the subject, which has, of course, many other attrib-
utes unexpressed by that proposition. Yet on the other hand, the object is also
only an individual case of which the predicate as a general term may apply to.
Thus, what the proposition is able to express is only a partial or a “deficient”
identity of subject and predicate, even though the copula, according to Hegel,
intends to equate them with each other. He states:
speculative (begreifendes) thinking behaves in a different way. Since the Concept
is the objects’s own self, which presents itself as the coming-to-be of the object, it
is not a passive Subject inertly supporting the Accidents; it is, on the contrary,
the self-moving Concept which takes its determinations back into itself.37
The crux of the matter is that the subject-predicate form, conceived from the
standpoint of understanding, which considers subject and predicate to be two
fixedly opposing poles of a proposition, fails to articulate the movement of the
Concept (Bewegung des Begriffs) adequately. For speculative thinking, the rela-
tionship between subject and predicate should be a “dialectical movement”
that “generates itself, going forth from, and returning to, itself.”38
The subject
in the “speculative proposition,” therefore, no longer represents an inert sub-
stance that behaves passively, but passes over into the predicate, which now
bears the essential conceptual content of the subject. The predicate also ceases
to be a mere accident and turns out instead to be the substance of the matter,
because the subject regains its true determination in the predicate. In this
movement, subject and predicate become reconciled with each other in a com-
plete unity, having overcome the original division of judgment.
Nevertheless, the movement does not end up in the predicate because in
it thinking suffers a “counterthrust” arising from the loss of the subject. What
is now encountered in the backward movement is no longer the subject with
which the movement began, rather the subject of thinking or the knowing “I”
itself. Although begun from the subject of a judgment, the pivot has now been
shifted over to the subject of judging, that is, to the subject who makes a judg-
ment—a sophisticated change of perspective in which the thinking subject
finally comes to realize that the most essential matter in the movement of the
Concept is nothing but the self-cognition of thinking itself.
Of course, one has the right to cast doubt on this “official” account of
Hegel’s speculative proposition, particularly as the “story” is so remote from
what we know about the structure of predication. In order to understand the
essential idea, it is indispensable to make clear the differences between “spec-
ulative” and “nonspeculative” propositions. To illustrate the peculiarity of the
speculative proposition, Hegel gives us the following examples: “God is [the]
being (Gott ist das Sein)” and “the actual is the universal (das Wirkliche ist das
Allgemeine).”39
At first glance, they appear to just be ordinary predicative
propositions, but upon a closer look, they have a characteristic that distin-
guishes them from the ordinary propositions. Instead of an adjective or a noun
60 CHONG-FUK LAU
with an indefinite article, the “predicate” in Hegel’s examples is a nominalized
verb or adjective accompanied by a definite article. For instance, instead of
saying, “the rose is red,” a “speculative proposition” would have the form “the
rose is the red.” With the definite article, the logical structure of the proposi-
tion has been changed fundamentally.40
It is no longer a predicative proposi-
tion at all, but merely a “proposition of identity,” for, in this case, the word “is”
does not express the logical subject-predicate relation as the subsumption of a
singular under a general term, but instead the identification of two singular
terms, just like the sign of equality in mathematics.41
At this point the question becomes: What does Hegel want to achieve
with such “speculative propositions”? It seems a likely supposition that Hegel
intends to put forward an “extraordinary” form of philosophical discourse for
the sake of speculative thinking, whereas the “ordinary” predicative proposi-
tions are left untouched as the form of everyday discourse. This is, indeed, not
an unusual interpretation among the leading Hegel scholars. Klaus Düsing,
for example, suggests that Hegel’s speculative proposition should be under-
stood in terms of the Aristotelian distinction between accidental and essential
determinations as an “essential proposition of philosophy (philosophischer
Wesenssatz).”42
According to this conception, the “predicate” of a speculative
proposition does not merely express a certain property of the subject, rather it
expresses its very essence (to ti hn einai) or substance (ousia). Between the
subject and the predicate of a speculative proposition exists, therefore, not only
a logical-definitional, but also an ontological unity.
This interpretation, however, suffers from serious problems, both in a his-
torical and in a theoretical respect, for, from the very beginning of his philo-
sophical reflections, Hegel has already been very skeptical about the form of
proposition in general—an attitude that becomes even more consolidated in
his later writings. On account of this, Düsing is left no choice but to interpret
the theory of speculative proposition in the Phenomenology as a momentary
inspiration of Hegel that occupied his mind during the composition of Phe-
nomenology, only to be abandoned shortly afterward in favor of the doctrine of
Syllogism (Schlußlehre) in his mature system.43
Despite this inconsistency with the otherwise continuous development of
Hegel’s thought, Düsing’s interpretation has other fundamental theoretical
problems. First, a proposition such as “the actual is the universal” cannot be
regarded as an “essential proposition,” because it is only an identification of
two singular terms without expressing any conceptual content out of either of
them. It only tells us that we are eligible to “substitute” the one singular term
at every place at which the other occurs.44
Second, in a proposition of identity,
the difference between subject and “predicate,” which is, according to Hegel,
essential for the concreteness of speculative thought, remains unexpressed; in
this respect, a proposition of identity has exactly the same problem of being
onesided as a predicative proposition.45
The third and most important point is
Language and Metaphysics 61
that the crucial error in this interpretation is to consider the speculative
proposition as a form of proposition at all; it is doomed to failure regardless
which form it takes. By sticking to the opposition of the “speculative” and the
“nonspeculative” form of proposition, this interpretation commits the very
same mistake seen in the spurious concept of infinity.46
Supposing that Hegel would like to put forward an “extraordinary” form
of discourse, how could he claim and justify that a proposition such as “the
actual is the universal” should be read as a dialectical to-and-fro movement
between subject and predicate? It is a fact that every sentence has its specific
meaning in a certain context, and one cannot simply read it in the way one
likes. Even if one would like to achieve a certain “special” reading by force, one
would have to rely on natural language in order to explain how that special
form of proposition should be understood, since our natural language is
already the very basis constituting the most fundamental form of intelligible
discourse. Every artificial form of discourse, therefore, will make a self-defeat-
ing claim if it purports to supersede the limitations of our natural language
through its allegedly purified or “philosophized” way of expression.
Indeed, Hegel never intends to reject the “ordinary” form of subject-pred-
icate proposition; what he does is to reflect upon its limitations and implica-
tions with a well-thought-out strategy. In accordance with the meta-theoretical
nature of the “speculation” discussed above, the so-called speculative proposi-
tion is neither an extraordinary propositional form differentiated from the
ordinary one, nor a speculative “theory of predication,” rather it is an extraor-
dinary way to deal with linguistic expressions.47
The genuine meaning and
function of the speculative proposition is most succinctly enunciated as follows:
the general nature of the judgement or proposition, which involves the dis-
tinction of Subject and Predicate, is destroyed by the speculative proposition,
and the proposition of identity which the former becomes contains the
counter-thrust against that subject-predicate relationship.48
The peculiar strategy employed by Hegel is grounded in the dilemma he is faced
with.To reflect upon the very conditions under which the reflection itself is made
possible, Hegel adopts a “destructive” course, in the sense that he tries to thema-
tize those presuppositions that are usually taken for granted by “destroying” their
unreflectively adopted nature.The destruction is carried out by encountering our
everyday understanding of subject-predicate relationship with a “counterthrust”
brought about by the speculative propositions. Such propositions are employed
in a special or even “inverted (verkehrt)” way deliberately, in order to provoke our
understanding to rethink its own presuppositions.Because the speculative propo-
sition actually operates as a meta-theoretical reflection on our linguistic capaci-
ties, it would be more correct to call it “speculative use of proposition.”
Strictly speaking, the speculative propositions are “misused” propositions.
This is indeed a “deliberate misuse,” for it is Hegel’s very strategy to thema-
62 CHONG-FUK LAU
tize the unreflectively adopted presuppositions of our intellectual discourse by
intentionally infringing the rules which govern it. In view of this destructive
purpose, the speculative proposition works, as Arend Kulenkampff suggests,
under the principle of “making mistakes systematically (systematisches
Falschmachen).”49
More concretely, Hegel intends to bring about an “abnormal
inhibition of thought”50
by employing propositions of identity in a context
where conceptual determinations of something through predicative proposi-
tions are expected. The failure to achieve a meaningful reading based on our
common sense compels us to reflect upon our failure and to try to conceive the
content again from another point of view in a correction process that repeats
itself again and again.51
Under the compulsion of these permanent corrections,
our thinking is forced to give up its original one-sided standpoint every time
and to supersede itself by comprehending its own one-sidedness.
The most crucial difference between the “nonspeculative” and “specula-
tive proposition” is that the former is posed as a self-sufficient unit of mean-
ing with a certain truth value, whereas the latter raises the “demand” that our
thinking should rid itself of prejudice and be “absorbed in the content” itself.52
For speculative thinking, the explicit content of any individual proposition is
almost of secondary importance. More important is rather the underlying
conceptual framework unarticulated but implicitly presupposed by that
proposition. Precisely this is one of the most important tasks of the specula-
tive proposition: to show the deficiency of holding the propositional form as
the fundamental logical or semantic unit by demonstrating the dependency of
every proposition on a particular context as well as an underlying conceptual
framework.53
In this connection, “the dialectical movement of the proposition
itself”—and “this alone is,” according to Hegel, “the speculative in act (das
wirklich Spekulative)”54
—is nothing but the articulation and exposition of the
interdependency of propositions on each other. For, as soon as it is shown that
every proposition, when taken as a self-sufficient unit, is inconsistent with
what it means to be, it “sublates” itself and passes over into another proposi-
tion in which the specific one-sidedness of the former is overcome, but at the
same time another one-sidedness emerges.The “counterthrust” brought about
by the speculative use of propositions is the driving force for our thinking to
push ahead with this process of self-questioning and self-cognition until a
holistic system is reached in which all obscure conceptual relationships are
made transparent. For Hegel, this is the ultimate goal of his Logic.
III. SPECULATIVE PROPOSITION AS
CRITIQUE OF TRADITIONAL METAPHYSICS
The centrality of the speculative proposition to Hegel’s system is often under-
estimated; Indeed, it can be considered as the leitmotiv of Hegel’s Logic in at
Language and Metaphysics 63
least two senses: It not only, as shown above, constitutes the driving force for
the dialectical movement of the Concept, but also represents the fundamental
metaphysical problem with which Hegel is concerned. To put it another way,
the subject-predicate form of proposition is one-sided, not merely because it
is only capable of expressing one single aspect of a concrete subject matter,
but, even more fundamentally, because it leads us to a “one-sided” conception
about the constitution of reality, for the manner in which we talk about things
certainly must have implications on how we conceive the structure of reality.
This is related to one of the central problems in the traditional metaphysics:
the dichotomy of substance and accident, posing as the ontological counterpart
of the logical dichotomy of subject and predicate.
The traditional conception of substance has its origin in the Aristotelian
metaphysics, according to which the reality is basically constituted of count-
less individual beings called “primary substances (prwth ousia).”55
Such indi-
vidual beings are primary according to Aristotle in the sense that “all the other
things are either said of the primary substances as subjects or in them as sub-
jects. So if the primary substances did not exist it would be impossible for any
of the other things to exist.”56
It can be observed that, in his doctrine of sub-
stance, Aristotle relies very much on the analysis of the logical characteristics
of grammatical subjects.57
Nevertheless, the transition from the concept of
subject to that of substance is most succinctly formulated by Kant in the chap-
ter on Paralogism of his Critique: “What cannot be thought otherwise than as sub-
ject also does not exist otherwise than as subject, and is therefore substance.” 58
Based on the inert dichotomy of substance and accident, the worldview
of traditional metaphysics fails, according to Hegel, to satisfactorily explain
the dynamic interrelation between individuals and the totality of the world as
a whole. Hegel’s answer to this problem is, as we know, to “sublate” the tradi-
tional conception in his monistic system of Concept from which, then, the
individual beings regain their objectivity. For the sake of this ambitious pro-
ject, the critique of the traditional metaphysics of substance becomes a leit-
motiv of Hegel’s Logic.59
This leitmotiv is also laid down in the discussion of
the speculative proposition in the Phenomenology. Indeed, the back-and-forth
movement between subject and predicate does not describe the manner in
which we should read a speculative proposition, but represents the different
stations of the movement of the Concept. To put it more precisely, the move-
ment from subject to predicate signifies the destruction of the traditional con-
ception of substance and the backward movement, in contrast, the reconstruc-
tion of a new conception of substance through the concept of “subjectivity.”
These two movements correspond, as a whole, to the dialectical advance in the
Logic from the categorial level of Being to that of Essence and from the cate-
gorial level of Essence to that of Concept respectively.
Admittedly, subject and predicate have different functions in a proposi-
tion, viz. the function of referring to the object and that of determining its
64 CHONG-FUK LAU
characteristic; in this dichotomy, the function of the subject seems to be logi-
cally prior to that of the predicate, since in order to judge whether the predi-
cation is correct or not, we must first determine what is referred to by the sub-
ject, but not vice versa.60
Hegel, however, raises doubts about this allegedly
logical primacy of subject.
In a proposition of this kind [e.g., “God is the eternal”] one begins with the
word “God”—This by itself is a meaningless sound, a mere name; it is only the
predicate that says what God is, gives Him content and meaning. Only in the
end of the proposition does the empty beginning become actual knowledge.61
The subject, taken apart from the predicates ascribable to it, is nothing more
than a mere name without any conceptual content, and, to this extent, an
empty word. If, for instance, we speak of God, we may have a certain idea
(Vorstellung) associated with this name that constitutes the presupposed
meaning of the subject. However, “it is contingent and a historical fact, what
is, or is not, to be understood by a name.”62
The general idea associated with
the name is merely subjective, as long as it is not conceptually determined by
appropriate predicates. By contrast, the content expressed by predicates is by
nature objective, since it is contained in the very essence of concepts that the
meaning of a particular concept is determined by its mutual relationships to
other concepts. The subject, therefore, relies on the predicate to enunciate
what it objectively is, leaving its presupposed primacy to be untenable.
By criticizing the logical function of the subject in this way, Hegel’s main
concern is the metaphysical consequence of this criticism. In accordance with
the subject-predicate form, we usually comprehend reality through the cate-
gories of substance and accident. In so doing, the substance is regarded as exist-
ing for itself independently of its accidents. But such a substance, “which can
be called simply ‘thinghood’ or ‘pure essence,’ is nothing else than . . . a simple
togetherness of a plurality.”63
Further, the many accidents of a substance are con-
sidered to be properties that are indifferent to one another and have nothing
else in common than the fact that they are held together by a particular “thing-
hood.” Their appearance in the substance is supposed to be inessential to the
substance. Nevertheless, by virtue of the pure “thinghood” alone, it is impossi-
ble to distinguish one particular substance from another because each of them
could equally be regarded as “simple togetherness” or an “empty unit without
thought-content.”64
In order to account for the essence or existence of a partic-
ular substance, we have to rely rather on the accidents that specify its proper-
ties. Thus, the “inessential” now turns out to be essential to what the substance
is, and in return, the substance as such, turns out to be an empty concept. The
alleged primacy of substance is, therefore, refuted by the very same argument
already used against the primacy of the subject of a proposition, as “the subject
without predicate is what the thing without qualities, the thing-in-itself is in the
sphere of Appearance—an empty, indeterminate ground.”65
Language and Metaphysics 65
In Hegel’s logical terms, traditional metaphysics has committed a funda-
mental error by comprehending the substance in terms of the categories of
Being, which are characterized by the structure of immediate self-relation
(unmittelbare Beziehung-auf-sich). However, the substance, regarded as a “mere
something” or a “pure subject” existing for itself, is nothing more than a thing-
in-itself, an empty concept that must be sublated by passing over to a higher
categorial level. According to Hegel, substance is, indeed, a category belong-
ing to the Doctrine of Essence, viz. a relational category, which has its “other,”
in this case the accidents, already integrated into itself as a constitutive
moment of its own essence.66
Only in this connection does the forward move-
ment of the speculative proposition become intelligible: “Starting from the
Subject as though this were a permanent ground, it [thinking] finds that, since
the Predicate is really the Substance, the Subject has passed over into the
Predicate, and, by this very fact, has been sublated.”67
In short, this speculative
movement is reduced to the point that the truth of subject/substance is pred-
icate/accident, or in terms of Hegel’s Logic, “the truth of being is essence.”68
Nevertheless, the “destruction of substance” constitutes only half of the
dialectics of the speculative proposition, which proceeds with a backward
movement from predicate to subject. Even though, in the forward movement,
“the Predicate itself has been expressed as a Subject, as the being or essence
which exhausts the nature of the Subject,”69
a key feature peculiar to the nature
of subject is still missing in the predicate, namely the structure of reflection-
into-itself (Reflexion-in-sich), by virtue of which an object, in spite of the
manifoldness of its determinations, is to be regarded as a unity.70
Under this
circumstance, thinking is, so to speak, “thrown back on to the thought of the
Subject.”71
Thinking, however, does not simply fall back to the point at which
the movement began, for the subject now being encountered is no longer the
grammatical subject whose one-sidedness has already been shown by the for-
ward movement, rather it is the thinking subject itself. This discovery forms
the very foundation of Hegel’s theory of subjectivity, viz. a philosophical posi-
tion based on the logico-ontological primacy of the thinking subject or the “I.”
Despite this discovery, is the transition from the one to another meaning
of “subject” justified? It at least arouses the suspicion that Hegel is trying to
compensate for a shortcoming in his argument by taking advantage of a pecu-
liar ambiguity of the word “subject” in German (as well as in English). In fact,
this transition is not a mere wordplay, but a subtle change of perspective
essential to the speculative proposition. If thinking has so far gone along with
the destructive movement, it must also have seen that “the solid ground which
argumentation (das Räsonniren) has in the passive Subject is . . . shaken, and
only this movement itself becomes the object.”72
This is because the object is
no longer the inert substance, but the movement itself, and its “correlate” also
becomes the thinking subject who is responsible for the whole movement,
instead of the grammatical subject. That is why the grammatical “Subject is
66 CHONG-FUK LAU
replaced by the knowing ‘I’ itself, which links the Predicates with the Subject
holding them.”73
Through this change of perspective, the thinking subject
begins to finally realize that the ultimate concern of the whole movement is
nothing but its self-cognition, and the real substance is likewise no longer an
inert being outside our thinking, but the actual activity of thinking itself
which lends unity as well as objectivity to material things. The movement
from predicate to subject of the speculative proposition represents, therefore,
the reconstruction of the substantiality on the basis of subjectivity, which is one
of the most crucial tenets of Hegel’s system, since “everything turns on grasp-
ing and expressing the True, not only as Substance, but equally as Subject.”74
In Hegel’s Logic, the reconstruction of substance is realized in the transition
from the Objective to the Subjective Logic, or, more precisely, from the final cat-
egory of Essence to the Concept, since “the consummation of substance . . . is no
longer substance itself but something higher, the Concept, the subject.”75
Quite in
contrast to our common sense, the Concept, for Hegel, is not just any random
concepts which are supposed to be arrived at by generalizing certain common
characteristics from different particular things; instead, it is the holistic system
of conceptual relationships.76
And this holistic Concept is identical with the
pure subject, the self-consciousness or the “I,” because they both represent the
self-generating and self-determining activity that constitutes its own structure
as well as that of reality.77
Such a concept of the Concept may come across as
rather strange or even mysterious, but what Hegel really intends to convey is
simply the underlying conceptual framework that must be presupposed in every
intelligible discourse, in every knowledge claim, and in every possible constitu-
tion of reality itself, insofar as reality is something that is intelligible at all.
In summary the central task of Hegel’s Logic is to reflect upon the Con-
cept—that is, the thinking subject itself—and to make transparent what has
always been taken for granted by our thinking but often remained obscure to
it. For good reason, the whole project revolves more or less around the lin-
guistic form of propositions and its metaphysical implications, for we do think
in language or in propositions. It would, therefore, be a fatal mistake to inter-
pret the speculative proposition as a peculiar linguistic form, because this
interpretation prevents the extraordinary significance of the speculative
proposition to Hegel’s system from ever coming into light.78
NOTES
1. G. W. F. Hegel, Enzyklopädie der philosophischen Wissenschaften im Grundrisse
(1830), ed. W. Bonsiepen and H.-C. Lucas, vol. 20, Gesammelte Werke (Hamburg: Felix
Meiner Verlag, 1992), § 31, p. 72. English translation: G. W. F. Hegel, The Ency-
clopaedia Logic: Part I of the Encyclopaedia of Philosophical Sciences with the Zusätze, trans.
T. F. Geraets, W. A. Suchting, and H. S. Harris (Indianapolis: Hackett, 1991), p. 69.
Further references will be given in the form: GW, 20: 72 (§ 31); EL, 69.
Language and Metaphysics 67
2. Hegel also points out that the familiarity with the fact “that the proposition
in the form of a judgement is not suited to express speculative truths . . . is likely to
remove many misunderstandings of speculative truths.” G. W. F. Hegel, Wissenschaft
der Logik: Erster Band. Die Lehre vom Sein (1832), ed. F. Hogemann and W. Jaeschke,
vol. 21, Gesammelte Werke (Hamburg: Felix Meiner Verlag, 1984), p. 78. English trans-
lation: G. W. F. Hegel, Hegel’s Science of Logic, trans. A. V. Miller (London: George
Allen & Unwin, 1969), p. 90. The other parts of Hegel’s Logic have been published as
volume 11 and 12 of the G (1978 and 1981). Further references will be given in the
form: GW, 21: 78; SL, 90. It is the “unsuitability” of the propositional form for the
expression of speculative truths that forces Hegel to develop a peculiar way of philo-
sophical exposition (D), which is quite often regarded by those who are not familiar
with this problem as completely unintelligible. See also G. W. F. Hegel, Phänomenolo-
gie des Geistes, ed. W. Bonsiepen and R. Heede, vol. 9, Gesammelte Werke (Hamburg:
Felix Meiner Verlag, 1980), p. 44. English translation: G. W. F. Hegel, Phenomenology
of Spirit, trans. A. V. Miller (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1977), p. 39. Further
references will be given in the form: GW, 9: 44; PS, 39.
3. I. Kant, Kritik der reinen Vernunft, ed. B. Erdmann, Kants gesammelte Schriften,
vols. 3 and 4 (Berlin: Walter de Gruyter, 1903–1904), A VII. English translation: I.
Kant, Critique of Pure Reason, trans. P. Guyer and A. Wood (Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press, 1998). Further references will be given in the form: KrV, A VII,
where, as usual, “A” refers to the first and “B” the second edition of the Critique.
4. See KrV, B 72–73.
5. M. Heidegger, Kant and the Problem of Metaphysics, trans. R. Taft (Blooming-
ton: Indiana University Press, 1990), § 4, p. 16.
6. Obviously, Kant himself has overlooked the crucial role of language for his
critical investigations into human reason. This shortcoming has already been pointed
out by one of the first critics of Kant, Johann Georg Hamann, even before the publi-
cation of the second edition of the Critique. See J. G. Hamann, “Metakritik über den
Purismum der Vernunft” (1784), in Schriften über Sprache/Mysterien/Vernunft
(1772–1788), ed. J. Nadler, vol. 3, Sämtliche Werke (Vienna: Herder, 1951), pp. 282–89.
It is to be noted that Hegel also agrees with Hamann’s criticism. See G. W. F. Hegel,
“Hammanns Schriften” (1828), in Schriften und Entwürfe II (1826–1831), ed. F. Hoge-
mann, vol. 16, Gesammelte Werke (Hamburg: Felix Meiner Verlag, 2001), pp. 129–87.
7. H.-G. Gadamer, Truth and Method, trans. J. Weinsheimer and D. G. Marshall
(New York: Continuum, 1989), p. 421.
8. Gadamer, Truth and Method, p. 457.
9. For example, see F. W. J. v. Schelling, Vom Ich als Princip der Philosophie oder
über das Unbedingte im menschlichen Wissen (1795), ed. H. Buchner and J. Jantzen, vol.
2, Werke (Stuttgart: Friedrich Frommann Verlag, 1980), § 15, p. 146.
10. In the Phenomenology of Spirit (1806/07), where the “speculative proposition”
is developed, Hegel has already dissociated himself clearly from Schelling’s philosophy
of absolute identity. The “vacuity” of Schelling’s philosophical position is, as we know,
presented ironically by Hegel as “the night in which . . . all cows are black.” GW, 9: 17;
PS, 9.
11. GW, 12: 236; SL, 824. In this chapter, the German word “B” is rendered as
“Concept,” never as “Notion.”
12. GW, 9: 41; PS, 35.
68 CHONG-FUK LAU
13. The fundamental idea of Hegel’s Logic is characterized by Wolfgang Wieland
as follows: “Die Hegelsche Logik hat zwar das Absolute zum Gegenstand, aber sie ist
keine Spekulation, die den Anspruch erheben Könnte, auf dem Standpunkt des
Absoluten zu stehen. Es handelt sich vielmehr um das Unternehmen des endlichen
Geistes, die Kategorien zu entwickeln und zu erfassen, die für eine angemessene
Auslegung des Absoluten notwendig sind. Auf dieser Ebene des endlichen Geistes
bewegt sich die Darstellung der Logik.” W. Wieland, “Bemerkungen zum Anfang von
Hegels Logik,” in Seminar: Dialektik in der Philosophie Hegels, ed. R.-P. Horstmann
(Frankfurt: Suhrkamp Verlag, 1978), p. 203.
14. GW, 21: 126; SL, 139. “It is,” according to Hegel, “only the spurious infinite
which is the beyond, because it is only the negation of the finite posited as real—as such
it is the abstract, first negation; determined only as negative, the affirmation of deter-
minate being is lacking in it; the spurious infinite, held fast as only negative, is even
supposed to be not there, is supposed to be unattainable. However, to be thus unattain-
able is not its grandeur but its defect, which is at bottom the result of holding fast to
the finite as such as a merely affirmative being. It is what is untrue that is unattainable,
and such an infinite must be seen as a falsity.” GW, 21: 136; SL, 149.
15. See GW, 21: 124; SL, 137.
16. Instead of being the opposite of the infinite, the finite now proves to be an
“ideal (ideelles) moment” of the process of infinite reflection. For Hegel, this conceptual
relation is, in fact, already implied in the expression “infinite” itself. “In saying what the
infinite is, namely the negation of the finite, the latter is itself included in what is said;
it cannot be dispensed with for the definition or determination of the infinite. One only
needs to be aware of what one is saying in order to find the determination of the finite in
the infinite.” GW, 21: 131; SL, 143. One might even consider the motto “to know what
one is saying (Wissen, was man sagt)” as the general guiding principle of the dialectical
analysis of categories in Hegel’s Logic. See R. Bubner, “Strukturprobleme dialektischer
Logik,” in Zur Sache der Dialektik (Stuttgart: Philipp Reclam, 1980), pp. 7–39.
17. See also the explanatory notes by H. S. Harris to G. W. F. Hegel, The Jena
System, 1804–1805: Logic and Metaphysics, trans. J. W. Burbidge and G. d. Giovanni
(Kingston and Montreal: McGill-Queen’s University Press, 1986), pp. 29ff.
18. GW, 21: 124; SL, 137.
19. GW, 21: 8; SL, 28.
20. GW, 20: 70 (§ 27); EL, 65.
21. According to Hegel, “finitude is the most stubborn category of the under-
standing.” GW, 21: 117; SL, 129.
22. In Kant’s Critique, “understanding” and “reason” have been used in different
senses. In the wider sense, they both mean “the higher faculty of cognition (das obere
Erkenntnißvermögen),” i.e., the power of thinking (see KrV, A 130/B 169; A 835/B
863), but in the narrower sense, understanding represents the “faculty of concepts (Ver-
mögen der Begriffe)” (KrV, A 160/B 199) and reason, by contrast, the “faculty of ideas
(Vermögen der Ideen).” The latter differs from the former in the fact that ideas are,
according to Kant, necessarily aimed at the “unconditioned,” which is never realizable
within the realm of experience (see KrV, A 320/B 377). Thus, it is illegitimate to lay
claim to objective cognition by using reason’s ideas.
23. See G. W. F. Hegel, “Differenz des Fichte’schen und Schelling’schen Systems
der Philosophie,” in Jenaer Kritische Schriften, ed. H. Buchner and O. Pöggeler, vol. 4,
Language and Metaphysics 69
Gesammelte Werke (Hamburg: Felix Meiner Verlag, 1968), p. 6. English translation: G.
W. F. Hegel, The Difference between Fichte’s and Schelling’s System of Philosophy, trans. H.
S. Harris and W. Cerf (Albany: State University of New York Press, 1977), p. 80.
24. GW, 20: 62 (§ 19); EL, 46.
25. Gadamer, Truth and Method, p. 465.
26. Gadamer, Truth and Method, p. 466.
27. Rüdiger Bubner puts the point in this way: “In order for reason to compre-
hend understanding’s finite character it must undermine the certainty understanding
has in its reflective powers and, at the same time, clear the way for speculation. Rea-
son accomplishes this task by bringing understanding’s finite forms of thought into
close proximity to their archetype. . . . It, thus, becomes possible to raise understand-
ing to its truth in reason by translating the antithesis, persisting in the semblance of
unity established by reflection, into the antithesis prevailing in the relation between the
real unity and its copy. Because the former is no longer a genuine antithesis, it ceases
to be an obstacle for speculation.” R. Bubner, “Hegel’s Concept of Phenomenology,”
trans. C. G. Ryan, in Hegel’s Phenomenology of Spirit: A Reappraisal, ed. G. K. Brown-
ing (Dordrecht: Kluwer, 1997), p. 40. See also R. Bubner, “Die Metaphysik im Hin-
tergrund der Unterscheidung des Transzendentalen vom Spekulativen,” in Amicus
Plato magis amica veritas: Festschrift für Wolfgang Wieland zum 65. Geburtstag, ed. R.
Enskat (Berlin: de Gruyter, 1998), pp. 48–59.
28. See C.-F. Lau, “Transzendenz in der Immanenz: Die Dialektik der Grenze
und Hegels Idee einer spekulativen Metaphysik,” in Grenzen und Grenzüberschreitun-
gen: XIX. Deutscher Kongress für Philosophie. 23–27 September 2002 in Bonn. Sektions-
beiträge, ed. W. Hogrebe (Bonn: Sinclair, 2002), pp. 947–57.
29. Hegel’s point is that it is “logically” impossible to set or to recognize a limit
without having already gone beyond it, because what makes a limit a limit always nec-
essarily includes knowledge of what is on both sides of it. This so-called dialectic of
limit (Dialektik der Grenze), which is developed by Hegel chiefly as a counterargument
against Kant’s conception of the “thing-in-itself,” belongs certainly to the most impor-
tant and influential insights of Hegel’s Logic. Even Wittgenstein also recognizes in the
preface to his Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus the fact that “in order to be able to set a
limit to thought, we should have to find both sides of the limit thinkable.” L. Wittgen-
stein, Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus, trans. D. F. Pears and B. F. McGuinness (London:
Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1963), p. 3.
30. GW, 21: 105; SL, 117, emphasis mine.
31. GW, 12: 48: SL, 618, emphasis mine. In Fragment 22 of the Vorlesungsman-
uskripte zur Philosophie der Natur und des Geistes (1803/04), Hegel writes: “die Sprache
ist . . . ebenso Verstand und Vernunft.” G. W. F. Hegel, Jenaer Systementwürfe I, ed. K.
Düsing and H. Kimmerle, vol. 6, Gesammelte Werke (Hamburg: Felix Meiner Verlag,
1975), p. 318.
32. Hegel sees in the German word “Urteil” an etymological evidence for his
interpretation of judgment as the division of the original unity of the Concept: “The
etymological meaning of ‘Urteil’ in our language is more profound and expresses the
unity of Concept as what comes first, and its distinction as the original division, which
is what the judgment truly is.” GW, 20: 182 (§ 166); EL, 244. This interpretation of
“Urteil” as “ursprüngliche Teilung” is originally a thesis of Hölderlin: see J. C. F. Hölder-
lin, “Urtheil und Seyn,” in Tod des Empedokles: Aufsätze, ed. F. Beißner, vol. 4/I,
70 CHONG-FUK LAU
Sämtliche Werke: Große Stuttgarter Ausgabe (Stuttgart: W. Kohlhammer Verlag, 1961),
pp. 216–17.
33. Beside a number of short remarks on the limitation of the subject-predicate
form, there are four places in Hegel’s mature writings where he deals with the problem
of judgment or proposition in depth: (1) the discussion of the “speculative proposition”
in the preface to the Phenomenology (GW, 9: 41ff.; PS, 35ff.); (2) Sections 28 to 31 of
the “First Position of Thought with Respect to Objectivity” in the Encyclopedia (GW,
20: 70ff. [§§ 28ff.]; EL, 66ff.); (3) the second remark to the “Unity of Being and Noth-
ing” in the Doctrine of Being (GW, 21: 77ff.; SL, 90ff.); and (4) the chapter of “Judg-
ment” in the Doctrine of Concept (GW, 12: 53ff.; SL, 623ff.).
34. See G. Wohlfart, Der spekulative Satz: Bemerkungen zum Begriff der Spekula-
tion bei Hegel (Berlin: de Gruyter, 1981).
35. For the subtle function and status of the Phenomenology in Hegel’s system, see
H. F. Fulda, Das Problem einer Einleitung in Hegels Wissenschaft der Logik (Frankfurt am
Main: Vittorio Klostermann,1965). See also C.-F. Lau, “Voraussetzungs-und Bestim-
mungslosigkeit: Bemerkungen zum Problem des Anfangs in Hegels Wissenschaft der
Logik,” in Perspektiven der Philosophie: Neues Jahrbuch 26 (2000): 297–303.
36. GW, 9: 42; PS, 36–37.
37. GW, 9: 42; PS, 37.
38. GW, 9:4 5; PS, 40.
39. GW, 9: 44; PS, 38–39. The example “God is [the] being” has misled some
interpretations to assume that it is the special contents of the concepts of “God” and
“Being” which make the proposition “speculative.” It is, therefore, not insignificant to
keep in mind that Hegel also gives us the second example “the actual is the universal.”
And we shall see that the “speculative element” of such propositions is actually not a
matter of “content,” but rather of “form.”
40. Hegel himself knows this logical difference very well: “when one says: ‘the
actual is the universal’ (das Wirkliche ist das Allgemeine), the actual as subject disappears
in its predicate. The universal is not meant to have merely the significance of a predi-
cate, as if the proposition asserted only that the actual is universal (das Wirkliche sey all-
gemein); on the contrary, the universal is meant to express the essence of the actual.”
GW, 9: 44; PS, 39.
41. See G. Frege, “Über Begriff und Gegenstand,” in Funktion, Begriff, Bedeutung:
Fünf logische Studien, ed. G. Patzig (Göttingen: Vandenhoeck & Ruprecht, 1994), pp.
678ff.
42. K. Düsing, “Syllogistik und Dialektik in Hegels spekulativer Logik,” in Hegels
Wissenschaft der Logik: Formation und Rekonstruktion, ed. D. Henrich (Stuttgart: Klett-
Cotta, 1986), p. 20. See also K. Düsing, Das Problem der Subjektivität in Hegels Logik:
Systematische und entwicklungsgeschichtliche Untersuchungen zum Prinzip des Idealismus
und zur Dialektik (Bonn: Bouvier Verlag,1995), pp. 198ff.
43. See K. Düsing, “Syllogistik und Dialektik in Hegels spekulativer Logik,” p.
21.
44. Since the word “is” in this case only expresses a simple identity of two singular
terms, we might even substitute it with the sign of equality “=”. However, as Wittgen-
stein tells us, “expressions of the form ‘a = b’ are . . . mere representational devices. They
state nothing about the meaning of the signs ‘a’ and ‘b’.” L. Wittgenstein, Tractatus
Logico-Philosophicus, § 4.242, p. 61; see also §§ 5.53ff., pp. 105ff.; § 6.23, p. 133.
Language and Metaphysics 71
45. See GW, 21: 78; SL, 90–91.
46. Heinz Röttges rejects the suggestion of an “extraordinary” linguistic form for
philosophy with the following argument: “die wichtigste bzw. bedenklichste Folgerung
aus der Etablierung einer esoterischen philosophischen Sprache oberhalb der exoter-
ischen Umgangssprache wäre die Unmöglichkeit der Einsehbarkeit der Selbstbewe-
gung des Inhalts, da ja dann die Bewegung hervorgerufen würde allein durch das
Sprach-bzw. Reflexionsniveau des philosophierenden Subjekts, womit der Methoden-
begriff Hegels, der ja an der Selbstbewegung des Inhalts hängt, im Kern getroffen,
nämlich zerstört wäre.” H. Röttges, Der Begriff der Methode in der Philosophie Hegels
(Meisenheim am Glan: Verlag Anton Hain, 1981), p. 67.
47. Hegel himself speaks rarely of speculative proposition. Instead of drawing the
distinction between “ordinary” and “speculative proposition,” Hegel refers instead to
the distinction between the “ratiocinative (räsonierendes)” and the “speculative thinking
(begreifendes/spekulatives Denken)” of propositions (see GW, 9: 42–43; PS, 36–37).
Thus, it is not so much a question of what a proposition is, but of how a proposition is
viewed and understood. Jere Surber puts the difference in this way: “the sentence ‘God
is Being’ can express both simple identity and the dialectic of the ‘speculative.’ How-
ever, the manner in which we consider and reflect upon such a sentence is precisely what
comes in question for Hegel. The same sentence becomes speculative by virtue of the very
manner in which we comprehend and reflect upon it. . . . Thus, when Hegel speaks of the
‘speculative sentence,’ he refers not to any particular sentence, distinguished on the
basis of some special content or extra-ordinary form, but to the comprehended con-
crete unity of objective articulation and subjective comprehension which lies at the
basis of any occurrence of language.” J. Surber, “Hegel’s Speculative Sentence,” in
Hegel-Studien 10 (1975): p. 228.
48. GW, 9: 43; PS, 38.
49. A. Kulenkampff, Antinomie und Dialektik: Zur Funktion des Widerspruchs in der
Philosophie (Stuttgart: J. B. Metzlersche Verlagsbuchhandlung, 1970), pp. 44, 66–67.
50. GW, 9: 44; SL, 39.
51. Hegel describes the necessary process of correction as follows: “The philo-
sophical proposition, since it is a proposition, leads one to believe that the usual sub-
ject-predicate relation obtains, as well as the usual attitude towards knowing. But the
philosophical content destroys this attitude and this opinion. We learn by experience
that we meant something other than we meant to mean; and this correction of our
meaning compels our knowing to go back to the proposition, and understand it in
some other way.” GW, 9: 44; PS, 39. See also W. Wieland, “Bemerkungen zum Anfang
von Hegels Logik,” p. 204.
52. GW, 9: 44; PS, 38.
53. Robert Brandom interprets Hegel’s insight as follows: “Recognizing that
every concept actually applied in any empirical judgment is only a more or less ade-
quate expression of the implicit articulation of things entails acknowledging that no
determinate judgment ought to be taken to be unqualifiedly true. . . . So to take the
judgment to be the unit of cognition (as Kant does, because it is the minimal unit of
cognitive responsibility) is already to commit oneself to an unsustainable view of the
nature of the determinateness of conceptual content.” B. Brandom, “Some Pragmatist
Themes in Hegel’s Idealism: Negotiation and Administration in Hegel’s Account of
the Structure and Content of Conceptual Norms,” in European Journal of Philosophy
72 CHONG-FUK LAU
7:2 (1999): 184. It is to be noted that one of the most important principles of Hegel’s
philosophy is that “the True is the whole” (GW, 9: 19; PS, 11), so that, for Hegel, the
minimal logical (and also ontological) unit of truth is already the system as a whole.
For this reason, every single proposition or judgment is inevitability “false” and subject
to being “sublated” in the holistic system of Concept.
54. GW, 9: 45; PS, 40.
55. Aristotle, Categories, ed. J. Barnes, vol. 1, The Complete Works of Aristotle: The
Revised Oxford Translation (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1984), 5:2a12.
56. Aristotle, Categories, 5:2b3–6.
57.The traditional conception of substance is based chiefly on the analysis of sub-
stance by Aristotle in the Categories, even though Aristotle develops a much more sub-
tly differentiated theory of substance in his later work Metaphysics, in which the con-
cept of substance is more precisely characterized by means of the differentiations of
“form” (eido~) und “matter” (ulh), “potentiality” (dunami~) and “actuality” (energeia)
and, above all, by the concept of “essence” (to ti hn einai). See Aristotle, Metaphysics,
ed. J. Barnes, vol. 1, The Complete Works of Aristotle: The Revised Oxford Translation
(Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1984), bk. 7 (Z).
58. KrV, B 410. See also the formulation of the same principle in the first edition
of Kant’s Critique: “That the representation of which is the absolute subject of our judg-
ments, and hence cannot be used as the determination of another thing is substance.”
KrV, A 348.
59. See a very instructive essay of Dieter Henrich, which attempts to reconstruct
the leitmotiv of the whole Hegelian system by viewing it as a critical revision of the
traditional metaphysics of substance: D. Henrich, “Die Formationsbedingungen der
Dialektik: Über die Untrennbarkeit der Methode Hegels von Hegels System,” in
Revue Internationale de Philosophie 139–40 (1982): 139–62. Furthermore, Michael
Theunissen points out that Hegel’s argumentation works essentially under the
methodological principle of the “unity of critique and exposition (Einheit von Kritik
und Darstellung).” See M. Theunissen, Sein und Schein: Die kritische Funktion der
Hegelschen Logik (Frankfurt am Main: Suhrkamp Verlag, 1980).
60. The logical asymmetry of subject and predicate in a proposition is, for exam-
ple, clarified by Strawson as follows: “The difference in role of the two terms [i.e., sin-
gular and general terms] might be held to be shown by the implied differences between
the ways in which there might fail to be such an object. . . . The failure of application
of the singular term would not, like that of its partner, depend on its partner’s suc-
cess. . . . Whether the sentence is true or false depends on the success or failure of the
general term; but the failure of the singular term appears to deprive the general term
of the chance of either success or failure.” P. F. Strawson, “Singular Terms and Predi-
cation,” in Logico-Linguistic Papers (London: Methuen, 1971), pp. 55–56.
61. GW, 9: 20; PS, 12–13.
62. GW, 12: 54; SL, 625.
63. GW, 9: 72; PS, 68.
64. GW, 9: 45–6; PS, 40.
65. GW, 12: 57; SL, 628.
66. It is a fundamental difference between the Doctrine of Being and the Doctrine
of Essence that, for the categories of the former, e.g., the “finite” and the “infinite,” “the
meaning of each appears to be complete even without its other,” whereas the categories
Language and Metaphysics 73
of the latter, e.g., “cause” and “effect,” “however much they may be taken as isolated
from each other, are at the same time meaningless one without the other.” GW, 21:
109–10; SL, 122. See also V. Hösle: Hegels System: Der Idealismus der Subjektivität und
das Problem des Intersubjektivität (Hamburg: Felix Meiner Verlag, 1998), pp. 210ff.
67. GW, 9: 43; PS, 37.
68. GW, 11: 241; SL, 389.
69. GW, 9: 44; PS, 38.
70. See D. Henrich, “Hegels Logik der Reflexion: Neue Fassung,” in Die Wis-
senschaft der Logik und die Logik der Reflexion (Bonn: Bouvier Verlag, 1978), pp. 206ff.
71. GW, 9: 44; PS, 38.
72. GW, 9: 43; PS, 37.
73. Ibid.
74. GW, 9: 18; PS, 10. See also D. Henrich, “Hegels Logik der Reflexion: Neue
Fassung,” pp. 204ff.
75. GW, 12: 14; SL, 580.
76. What Hegel calls the Concept (Begriff) is characterized by Brandom as “the
holistic inferential system of determinate concepts and commitments articulated by
means of those concepts.” R. Brandom, “Some Pragmatist Themes in Hegel’s Ideal-
ism: Negotiation and Administration in Hegel’s Account of the Structure and Content
of Conceptual Norms,” p. 165.
77. The structural identity of the pure Subject and the Concept is, according to
Hegel, an important insight from Kant’s Critique: “It is one of the most profound and
truest insights to be found in the Critique of Pure Reason that the unity which consti-
tutes the nature of the Concept is recognized as the original synthetic unity of appercep-
tion, as unity of the I think, or of self-consciousness.” GW, 12: 17–18; SL, 584. See also
R. B. Pippin, Hegel’s Idealism: The Satisfactions of Self-Consciousness (Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press, 1989), pp. 16–41.
78. For a more detailed study, see C.-F. Lau, Hegels Urteilskritik: Systematische
Untersuchungen zum Grundproblem der spekulativen Logik, vol. 6, Section II (Studies),
jena-sophia: Studien und Editionen zum Deutschen Idealismus und zur Frühroman-
tik (Munich: Wilhelm Fink Verlag, 2004).
74 CHONG-FUK LAU
The students at the University of Jena attending Hegel’s first lectures on
Logic and Metaphysics held at the beginning of the 1800s were the first to
protest the obscurity of Hegel’s language as well as his “abominable habits of
speech.” Hegel’s delivery was all the more irritating if compared to the bril-
liant style of the lectures given by Schelling during the same period at the
same university. According to contemporary testimonies, the same obscurity
continued to afflict the text used by Hegel in his later Heidelberg and Berlin
lectures: the Encyclopedia of Philosophical Sciences in Outline for Use in His Lec-
tures (1817, 1827, and 1830). Among the first critics of speculative philoso-
phy, Søren Kierkegaard underscored Hegel’s “perverse” use of language, and
attacked his pretension to “absolute knowledge” by showing the non-sense—
even the comical effects—to which his language often gives raise.1
Later on,
addressing the problem of the “method” of speculative philosophy, William
James renewed the criticism of Hegel’s language. James distinguishes between
the “central thought” of dialectic which, he claims, is “easy to catch,” from its
formulation that, due to the language in which it is expressed, is instead
“exceedingly difficult to follow.”
[Hegel’s] passion for the slipshod in the way of sentences, his unprincipled
playing fast and loose with terms; his dreadful vocabulary, calling what
completes a thing its “negation,” for example; his systematic refusal to let
you know whether he is talking logic or physics or psychology, his whole
deliberately adopted policy of ambiguity and vagueness, in short: all these
things make his present-day readers wish to tear their hair—or his—out in
desperation.2
To be sure, in the program of the 1807 Phenomenology of Spirit, Hegel antici-
pates his reader’s reactions to the way in which dialectic develops. Thus, he
75
CHAPTER 3
The Language of Hegel’s
Speculative Philosophy
Angelica Nuzzo
presents the “road” that natural consciousness has to travel in the Phenomenol-
ogy “as the pathway of doubt, or more precisely as the way of despair.”3
As James
reminds us, this desperation is in part produced by the intrinsic difficulty of
the language of dialectic. Yet, given the identity of form and content that con-
stitutes one of the central claims of Hegel’s philosophy, the peculiar experience
of the language in which dialectic is formulated becomes the peculiar experi-
ence of the dialectical nature of language itself. This, in turn, is constitutive of
the experience of consciousness examined in the Phenomenology. Language, in
Hegel’s philosophy, is not just a matter of form; it is a matter of form as well
as of content.
I. HEGEL’S LANGUAGE
The topic of this chapter is the use of language in Hegel’s philosophy. My aim
is to show the internal connection between the language employed by specu-
lative philosophy and its methodological claims, and to further explore the
identity of philosophical form and content proper to dialectic. My starting
point consists in taking seriously the protests of Hegel’s critic. For, despite
their polemical vein, James’s remarks on Hegel’s use of philosophical language
are indeed extremely accurate. It is true that Hegel generally avoids any bind-
ing definition of technical terms with the consequence that what in a certain
passage seems to have a certain definite meaning, at other junctures of the
argument shows an unexpected new sense. This may certainly be called, in
James’s words, “ambiguity” or “vagueness,” or, in more recent formulations,
“indeterminateness” of meaning.4
Moreover, it is undeniable that Hegel’s
vocabulary is rich in new expressions that either do not belong to the German
philosophical language at all (as in the case of expressions such as Ansichsein
and Fürsichsein that rather translate the scholastic Latin of the in se and per se)5
or do violence to language through the way in which they are employed.
Examples of this “violence” are Hegel’s use of the negativity of contradiction
to produce new positive meanings (how can we call what completes a thing’s
determination its negation?—protested James) or the substitution of the
expression “the truth of x is y” to the proposition: “x is true.” In addition,
Hegel’s use of language seems careless of disciplinary boundaries. His logic
speaks the language of metaphysics—but takes up the language of natural sci-
ences, mathematics, and psychology as well.The logic does assume (or mimic)
the vocabulary of these sciences so well that it is sometimes difficult to say
why—could continue the critic—Hegel’s system of philosophy needs a phi-
losophy of nature and a philosophy of spirit to complete the task of a logic that
already seems to embrace both.
William James’s correct observations will lead my analysis to conclusions
that are quite different from the ones drawn by most critics of speculative phi-
76 ANGELICA NUZZO
losophy. Once we have ascertained that Hegel’s logic speaks the language of
metaphysics, the crucial issue still regards the meaning to be attributed to this
boundary transgression: Why does speculative logic (need to) take up the lan-
guage of metaphysics after Kant has clearly drawn the limits of their respec-
tive domains? It is clear that at stake in Hegel’s linguistic “confusion” is the
fundamental thesis that presents speculative logic as “eigentliche Metaphysik”—
metaphysics proper or true metaphysics. More generally, once we have ascer-
tained that the language of Hegel’s philosophy defies definition, endorses
ambiguity and vagueness, and cancels disciplinary boundaries, the real ques-
tion remains: why does this philosophy need to be expressed in such a lan-
guage? An indirect proof for this necessity is offered by the failure of all most
recent attempts to a “formalization” or “axiomatization” of Hegel’s dialectic—
that is, of all attempts to translate speculative logic in the language of modern
formal logic.6
Hegel’s famous claim in the very first chapter of the Phenomenology of
Spirit will guide my approach to the problems posed by the language of his
philosophy. The theorem formulated therein: “language is . . . the more truth-
ful,”7
if applied to Hegel’s own texts, suggests that all the previously men-
tioned flaws of his language may display a necessity that accounts for some
distinctive characters of speculative philosophy and ultimately for the essen-
tial features of dialectical method as such. In other words, my contention is
that there is a “speculative spirit of language”8
that is integral to Hegel’s
method. For this method is not only formulated by but also practiced
through that language. This is the thesis that I want to explore in the fol-
lowing considerations.
My aim is to show that the language in which Hegel’s philosophy is
written is constitutive of the dialectical method that structures speculative
philosophy as system. Language is not simply the static medium, given once
and for all, in which method is carried through; language, for Hegel, is
itself method. Method, in turn, is neither instrument of knowledge nor the
particular manner or mode peculiar to the process of cognition.9
It is rather
the intimate structure of reason in its self-development toward the com-
plete system of its logical and real forms. Since the method is completely
identical with its factual Darstellung or exposition, I will conclude that the
language in which this exposition takes place constitutes an integral part of
the method. The method displays, for Hegel, an objective dimension that
supersedes any subjective condition of thinking and expresses the “actual-
ity” of “objective thinking.”10
This objective dimension is analogous to the
objective medium in which language articulates its forms. Language, for
Hegel, is not the instrument of subjective thinking (and communication); it
is rather the objective medium and condition within which all particular,
subjective communication and expression becomes possible for the first
time. To this extent, it is rather subjective thinking that becomes possible
The Language of Hegel’s Speculative Philosophy 77
through its linguistic articulation. This claim can be verified at the level of
Hegel’s presentation of subjective spirit as well.
In what follows, I examine the connection between the language of
Hegel’s philosophy and his presentation of dialectical method. In what sense
is the language in which speculative philosophy is written constitutive of (and
not merely accidental to) the method of dialectical thinking? In what sense can
be claimed that speculative thinking can only be expressed in the “vague” and
“ambiguous” language of Hegel’s philosophy (and not, for example, in the lan-
guage of symbolic logic)? In the first part of the argument, I focus on some
crucial passages of the Science of Logic in which Hegel presents his idea of
“absolute method” as method of speculative thinking; in this connection, I
examine the relation between the idea of method and Hegel’s view of lan-
guage as presented in the preface to the Science of Logic. In the second part of
my argument, I discuss a few concrete examples of Hegel’s peculiar use of lan-
guage bringing to the fore some typically speculative expressions encountered
in the Science of Logic.
II. LANGUAGE IS METHOD/METHOD IS LANGUAGE
Despite his attempts at separating the method of Hegel’s dialectic from his
language—or Hegel’s “one virtue” from his “thousand crimes”11
—William
James eventually recognizes that, once the gist of dialectic is mastered, then
language shows its cunning “truthfulness” by inexorably affecting every con-
tent of thought. If the interpreter that favors nondialectical thinking reads
Hegel’s texts trying to save content and method of thinking from the confus-
ing power of speculative language, s/he soon has to acknowledge that this lan-
guage works like a trap from which nothing escapes. Language becomes one
with the method that it expresses.
Once catch well the knack of [Hegel’s] scheme of thought and you are lucky
if you ever get away from it. It is all you can see. Let any one pronounce any-
thing, and your feeling of a contradiction being implied becomes a habit,
almost a motor habit in some persons who symbolize by a stereotyped ges-
ture the position, sublation, and final reinstatement involved. If you say “two”
or “many,” your speech betrayeth you, for the very name collects them into
one. If you express doubt, your expression contradicts its content, for the
doubt itself is not doubted but affirmed. If you say “disorder,” what is that
but a certain bad kind of order?12
In this passage, Hegel’s critic finds himself repeating the same argument that
the Phenomenology uses in response to sense certainty’s naive attempt to cir-
cumvent the universal—and dialectical—power of language.The argument, to
be sure, reproposes the traditional challenge of skepticism. Language makes us
say the opposite of what we mean. Language is no docile instrument of con-
78 ANGELICA NUZZO
sciousness; it is rather a medium endowed with a logic (and a life) of its own.
Ultimately, it is in language that lies the discovery of dialectic, namely the
power of (self-)contradiction. Because of (and through) its objective linguistic
expression, dialectical thinking becomes, in James’s rendering, an obsessive
psychological habit that cannot be avoided—it becomes all-pervasive
“method.” Thus, as “modality of knowledge” and “modality of being”13
at the
same time, dialectic is embedded in language and stereotyped in “gesture.”
The experience of Hegel’s critic shows that the speculative language of
Hegel’s philosophy is no accidental or external feature of his thought. It is
rather a crucial methodological device of dialectic. In other words, Hegel’s
language is an integral part of the method of speculative philosophy: the
method of contradiction must be articulated in a linguistic form in which the
self-contradictory character of all judgments or propositions comes to the
fore. Hegel’s philosophy validates a statement that formal logic would reject
as absurd: the language of contradiction is itself contradictory—and it is so by
necessity if contradiction, as dialectic claims, is indeed necessary to the move-
ment of thinking.
The unity between method and language, so disconcerting for Hegel’s
critics, proceeds from the characterization of “absolute method” provided at
the end of the Science of Logic. While the thematic presentation of the method
can take place only at the conclusion of the logical process, the pervasive role
of language in the Darstellung or exposition of the process is the concrete sign
of the method’s presence throughout the entire development. The method
becomes visible as dynamic process (and not simply as static result of the
process) because it is delivered by a Darstellung that becomes objective and
gains its permanence in language. Language is not only Dasein of “spirit,” as
Hegel claims in the philosophy of subjective spirit. In the Logic, language is
Dasein of the speculative method.
The French sinologist Marcel Granet once mused: “Method is the road
after one has traveled it.” Even if the etymology proposed by Granet is clearly
imaginary—metà-odòs, after the road—his remark has a serious, indeed a
polemical, intent. In any scientific inquiry, discourse on method has value only
if it is a reflection a posteriori on a piece of concrete research, not when it pre-
sents itself as a series of a priori prescriptions.To reconstruct an itinerary when
it has already reached its conclusion always involves the risk of teleology. In
retrospect, the uncertainties, difficulties, and mistakes disappear or are trans-
formed into steps of a stair that heads straight to the goal.
At first sight, Hegel’s view of method seems very close to this description.
At the end of the Logic, in the last chapter on the “Absolute Idea,” Hegel
uncovers, retrospectively, the hidden, immanent “soul” 14
that has been at work
in the development of the whole logical process. Hegel’s method, however,
defeats any too simple, merely extrinsic teleology by establishing the primacy
of the process with regard to any of its (partial or total) results. Since method
The Language of Hegel’s Speculative Philosophy 79
represents the self-development of the concept, it is not the movement of
something given toward a given goal. It is rather, paradoxically, the coming-
to-be of the subject of the logical process together with the coming-to-be of
the process itself. The properly dialectical character of the method consists
precisely in its antiteleological and antideterministic structure. The process is
not teleological because method is not a set of already made rules that reason
only needs to apply in order to achieve a given goal. Method is rather the
imperative that prescribes at every new level of the process to set a new goal
and to invent the means to reach it. These two directions eventually converge
into the unity of the obtained result once it has been obtained (and never
before). There is no real goal before it has been reached, and when it has been
reached it is no longer a goal. Furthermore, the result can never be foreseen.
It can only be anticipated from a standpoint that is merely introductory and
does not properly belong to science or method. “The real issue is not
exhausted by stating it as an aim, but by carrying it out, nor is the result the
actual whole, but rather the result together with the process through which it
came about. The aim by itself is a lifeless universal, just as the guiding ten-
dency is a mere drive (das bloße Treiben) that as yet lacks an actual existence;
and the bare result is the corpse which has left the guiding tendency behind
it.”15
Hegel’s method is not the grammar of dialectic but the lived, imaginative
spirit of language that is manifested in the concrete employment of language
itself. Lived language can neither be experienced nor deduced from its naked
grammar and its rules. For Hegel, grammar is not method of language (the
opposite is rather the case). Truly novel achievements can be recognized for
what they are only after they appear. We can then see that they have proved
true or successful in ways that had not been provided for beforehand, either
conceptually or causally.
The method is . . . to be recognized as the unrestrictedly universal, internal
and external mode; and as the absolutely infinite force, to which no object,
presenting itself as something external, remote from and independent of rea-
son, could offer resistance or be of a particular nature in opposition to it, or
could not be penetrated by it. It is therefore soul and substance, and anything
whatever is comprehended and known in its truth only when it is completely
subjugated (unterworfen) to the method.16
In this passage, Hegel identifies the method with speculative reason, taken in
its dynamic function as a force of infinite power. This force is the creative
power of radical self-production. Self-production, however, is possible only
when the condition of complete immanence is fulfilled—that is, when all
external intervention, goal, and standpoint is eliminated. Viewing the end of
the Logic by recalling, at the same time, its beginning, it is clear that accord-
ing to Hegel before and outside the process there is neither something to be produced
nor something that produces. The development that the conclusion of the Logic
80 ANGELICA NUZZO
names “absolute method”—and that retrospectively encompasses the logical
process as a whole—is “absolute” first of all in a strictly etymological sense: it
is ab-solutus from all possible presuppositions, assumptions, conditions or even
goals. Method is a law without legislator, a process without subject, an activity
without a faculty that exercises it; it is the utterance of the “original word
(ursprüngliches Wort)”17
without a voice uttering it. Its validity does not rest
upon the empirical existence of a subject that follows the law or pronounces
the word. Such validity is justified by the process that first institutes those
subjects which, in order to even exist or subsist as rational subjects, need to be
“completely subjugated”—that is, committed to the method. At the end of the
Logic, Hegel shows that the creativity of dialectical method is the creativity
of the “original word” that gives reality to things by naming them (whereby
the Latin saying nomina sunt consequential rerum is radically reversed). For
something to be named, means to be recognized as immanent determination
in the development of pure thinking or the concept. This development marks
the condition of all “being” and of “all truth.” “All else is error, confusion, opin-
ion, endeavor, caprice, and transitoriness.”18
“All else” is what cannot be
named, that is, what cannot receive an existence in language.
At the very beginning of the Logic, in the preface to its second edition
(1831), Hegel reaches a similar conclusion with regard to the relation between
the objective nature of speculative thinking and the logical forms whose
expression takes place in language. Hegel suggests that the condition that
allows the Logic to begin is the “subjugation” of subjective thinking to the
objective forms of thought and their linguistic expression. Thereby the “oppo-
sition of consciousness” that still characterized the Phenomenology is left
behind once and for all. The “logic”—“die Logik”—is now distinguished from
“das Logische,” from the “element” or medium in which the determinations of
“objective thought” are successively displayed and from which subjective
thinking and consciousness will first emerge. Even though language is not
immediately identical with the “logical element,” it is its progressive manifes-
tation, actualization, and articulation up to the point of the complete self-ref-
erential intelligibility of the absolute idea. Herein the “original word” is the
word that speaks only of itself—language becomes identical with Logos in its
full actuality. At this point, the “absolute form” is completely actualized: the
form produces its own content and the content gives itself adequate form; lan-
guage speaks only of itself thereby portraying its own movement (and this
movement alone). Language and logical form do not refer to something else,
namely to a separate content or matter, but express the self-relation of form as
such—independently of any reference to content or matter. Language
expresses the movement of the form. This fundamental identity yields Hegel’s
idea of dialectical method.
On Hegel’s view, the pure thought-determinations of the Logic and its
language stand in homologous relation. The relation between the successive
The Language of Hegel’s Speculative Philosophy 81
unfolding of the thought-determinations in the logical element and the
process of the Logic as a whole is the same as the relation between the abstract
grammar of a language and its “substantial, living value.”19
Subjective thinking
must accept itself as being “completely subjugated” to a grammar that it does
not immediately understand, if it wants to master the language in which that
grammar will eventually become alive.To this extent, neither language nor the
abstract thought determinations can be considered, for Hegel, mere external
instruments or means that subjective thinking has in its steady “possession”
and only needs to apply to a given content or task. They are, on the contrary,
the living, universal medium of pure thought, that which constitutes pure log-
ical thinking itself. No grammar, taken abstractly, is guarantee of its correct
use. The “original word” of the Logos, being one with its “expression,” is to be
found, in fact, only at the very end of the Logic. The original word of specu-
lative rationality is, for Hegel, not at the beginning but at the end.
Through language, the logical forms permeate the conscious as well as
the unconscious life of spirit to the point that “it is much more difficult to
believe that the forms of thought . . . are means for us, rather than that we
serve them, that in fact they have us in their possession.”20
With this claim, Hegel
transforms the idea of a subject that thinks by means of language into the idea
of a language that, in its universality, has the individual subject in its posses-
sion, and thereby constitutes the very possibility of all meaningful individual
utterance. At issue here is the same relation established at the end of the Logic
by the structures of “absolute method.” The universal language that keeps us
in its possession is the logical language of dialectical method. If method is the
absolute form of “all truth,” then, in the same way, no individual claim of truth
can be held up against the universality of the logical forms. For, Hegel asks,
“what is there more in us against them, how shall we, how shall I, set myself
up as more universal than they, which are the universal as such?”21
Clearly, for
Hegel, the language of personal pronouns (the possibility of saying I or We)
is not the original dimension of speculative language but the final product or
the result of the entire logical development. Thus, the possibility of uttering
(the Kantian) “I think” is not the foundation of speculative logic but rather its
very result. It emerges, for the first time, at the level of “subjective logic,” that
is, in the logic of the concept. The highest figure of subjectivity, namely “per-
sonality,” is presented only at the level of the “absolute idea.”
The chapter on method at the end of the Logic contains the final proof
that the purely logical process of speculative thinking is not only possible, but
is actual (wirklich) and concrete as an accomplished fact. The proof that
dialectic is indeed successful as “absolute” (i.e., systematic) method of specu-
lative thinking is represented precisely by the fact that the logical process
eventually leads to the self-thematization of its own procedures. Retrospec-
tively, however, the only testimony of the actuality of the logical process is the
language in which such process has acquired a material form of existence
82 ANGELICA NUZZO
(Dasein), namely the language in which the Science of Logic is written. “The
logic exhibits the self-movement of the absolute idea only as the original word,
which is an expression/extrinsecation or utterance (Äußerung), but an utterance
that in being has immediately vanished again as something external (Äußeres);
the idea is therefore only in this self-determination of hearing itself (sich zu
vernehmen); it is in pure thought, in which difference is not yet otherness, but
is and remains perfectly transparent to itself.”22
The logic is the process of
Äußerung of the original word. Äußerung is both exteriorization and expression
or utterance. However, the exteriority produced by the original word or the
Logos is not something really “external,” that is, is not yet “otherness” but is
still only word. The original word of the Logic becomes existing word that is
completely self-referential: it speaks of itself and to itself (and it hears only
itself); in its being uttered, it portrays its own movement and development
and thereby gives to itself a content. The task of the Realphilosophie and, in
particular, of the philosophy of spirit will be to ground the possibility for
dialectical thinking to speak to—and speak of—the “other of itself”; that is,
to speak, among other things, of contents that exist outside of language and
arguably even resist linguistic articulation.
III. THE LANGUAGE OF HEGEL’S LOGIC
If it is true, as I have argued above, that the language in which Hegel’s Logic
is written is not an accidental and undesired external appearance of dialectic
but is a necessary requisite that fulfills the methodological claim presented in
the conclusion of the logical process, then we need to show what is the imma-
nent function that the lack of definition of technical terms, the ambiguity and
vagueness of their use, the self-referential character of predication, and so
forth, play within the development of Hegel’s Logic. Thus, in what follows, I
will discuss under two general headings the peculiarity of some Hegelian
expressions, trying to show in what sense the language of Hegel’s text
responds to a precise methodological aim, and is not an undesired side-prod-
uct of the theory. I will examine, first, a case of “homonimy” or “ambiguity”
that presents itself in Hegel’s distinction between two “languages” of which
philosophy makes use; second, I will address a different case of homonimy,
namely “vagueness” or Bedeutungsverschiebung (displacement or shift of mean-
ing). I will argue that these procedures, already under attack by the critic of
dialectic as sources of confusion and lack of clarity, are vehicles of crucial oper-
ations of Hegel’s dialectic. In particular, they allow speculative logic to make
the “transition” (Übergang) from one discrete sphere of the process to the next,
and eventually lead to the constitution of the process as totality of the com-
plete “system” of all logical forms. In what follows, I will limit my considera-
tion to the first, more general issue of homonimy.
The Language of Hegel’s Speculative Philosophy 83
Homonimy—or the use of words that are the same in sound and spelling
and different in meaning—is at issue in the Science of Logic at two different
levels. (i) On the one hand, with regard to the procedures of pure speculative
thinking, Hegel comes to terms with it by distinguishing between the “lan-
guage of the concept (Sprache des Begriffs)” and the “language of representa-
tion (Sprache der Vorstellung).” The latter is permitted—albeit always in com-
bination with the first—only when dialectic deals with real objects; that is, at
the level of the philosophy of nature and the philosophy of spirit. Hegel points
to the fact that the same term may display two different meanings when used,
respectively, in the two different “languages,” and therefore must be recog-
nized as a different name. (ii) On the other hand, homonimy is a procedure at
work within the logical process. It allows for the identification of logical struc-
tures on the basis of both their inner constitution and their relative position
within a systematic whole. At this level, the use of homonimy explains why
Hegel needs to avoid definitions based exclusively on the internal characteri-
zation of given terms. Meaning, in Hegel’s Logic, is function of the systematic
position of a particular structure, and hence of the complex of systematic rela-
tions that it entertains with preceding and following structures. I will come
back to this latter point when addressing the issue of the “transformation of
meaning” proper to successive logical forms.
(i) “Language of the Concept” and “Language of Representation”
At the most general level, the distinction between “language of the concept”
and “language of representation” serves Hegel the purpose of characterizing
the Logic as science of pure thinking in opposition to religion and to the
sphere of opinion and ordinary thinking. Hegel claims that the Logic speaks
the language of the concrete concept or the “language of the gods” as opposed
to the “language of the humans,” which owes its merely illusory concreteness
to representation. The latter conveys, apparently under the same terms, a dif-
ferent cognitive content. With his formulation, Hegel refers to Plato’s
Cratilus in which Homer appears as the first to introduce the distinction
between the two languages. Hegel formulates this argument for the first time
in the early Skeptizismusaufsatz; he repeats it again in the preface to the sec-
ond edition of the Encyclopedia, and yet again in his later review of Goeschel’s
Aphorismen (1829).
In the Jena Skeptizismusaufsatz, Hegel mentions Diogenes Laertius’s tes-
timony according to which the ancient skeptics saw in Homer the “founder of
skepticism because he makes use of different names in different connec-
tions,”23
thereby providing a proof for the relativity of language. I want to
underscore that the use of different names (to say the same thing) in different
occasions and contexts is related by Hegel to skepticism as philosophical
method. Later on, in the preface to the 1827 edition of the Encyclopedia,
84 ANGELICA NUZZO
Hegel addresses the difference between philosophy and religion by bringing
to the fore the difference between the language of philosophy and the lan-
guage of religion. While “the content” of the two disciplines “is the same,” he
claims that the same thing has, respectively, two different names—so, as
Homer says, “that certain things have two names, one in the language of the
gods, the other in the language of the humans.”24
Significantly, however,
according to Hegel the “language of the gods” is employed by philosophy, not
by religion. In addition, the two names differ only for their reference either to
the concept or to representation with regard to the issue of intelligibility and
cognition—for the rest, they are really the same name. Clearly, in this passage,
Hegel has Plato in mind who, in the Cratilus, examining what “Homer says of
names” mentions the distinction between language of the gods and language
of the humans as a distinction meant precisely to defeat homonimy. However,
whereas Plato’s interest is ultimately to distinguish the different names dis-
played by one and the same thing, Hegel points to the fact that speculative
logic, while using the same terms as ordinary language, provides them with a
different and new meaning, thereby revealing their true meaning. Homonimy
is here a necessary step structuring the process of cognition. Philosophical
cognition starts by apprehending the language of the concept; it then makes
the transition to Realphilosophie and to the language of representation. Truth
is first revealed to us by the concrete concept—logic is the first science of the
system. It is only after one has learned the language of the gods that the lan-
guage of representation can be recuperated as true (and no longer misleading)
language, and the correspondence between the two names fully displayed.The
process runs, for Hegel, the opposite than for Plato.
In the language of speculative logic, for example, terms such as “absolute,”
“concept,” and “idea” have a different meaning than when used in religion, in
traditional metaphysics, or in ordinary thinking. The language of Hegel’s
Logic proceeds to the desubstantialization of the metaphysical “Absolute” by
showing that absolute is a term that can be used only as attribute and not as
substantive. In the present context, my aim is not to discuss Hegel’s thesis
regarding the absolute, but to bring to the fore the terms in which this thesis
is expressed. In the Logic, the Doctrine of Essence shows that the movement of
the (metaphysical) Absolute is nothing but the absolute movement that leads to
the Doctrine of the Concept.This is a movement that is ab-solutus (and hence
“free”) from any dependence on a presupposed Absolute. The ab-soluteness of
the “absolute idea,” which concludes the logic of the concept, is its radical free-
dom. The Phenomenology of Spirit, on the other hand, shows that knowledge of
the Absolute is nothing but “absolute knowing”—a thesis that the Logic further
supports by bringing it to conclusion in the form of the “absolute method” of
all being as well as of all cognition.25
With regard to the use of the term Begriff in the speculative logic, it is
important to underline the fact that, in the “language of the concept” as
The Language of Hegel’s Speculative Philosophy 85
opposed to the “language of representation,” the term Begriff (as the term
“idea”) can only be used absolutely in its singular form. Hegel’s Logic allows for
“the concept” (or “the idea”) but not for the plural form “concepts” or
“ideas”—which are always concepts or ideas of something—that is, of a content
different from the form. When the plural form appears in the Science of Logic,
it is in reference to traditional formal logic, hence to the nondialectical use of
the term. As other terms such as “truth,” “perfection,” and “possibility,” the
term “concept” displays a formal and qualitative meaning when used in the
singular form and a material and quantitative meaning when used in its plural
form. The language of Hegel’s Logic employs “concept”—as well as “truth”—
exclusively in its formal qualitative meaning. For the structure of the concept
is that of a unique monistic totality that does not admit plurality or duplica-
tion. It is the structure of the organic totality, that is, the totum as opposed to
the compositum.The only possible duplication is the self-duplication that takes
place in the act of (self-)judgment (Ur-teilung). With regard to the term
“idea,” Hegel explicitly rectifies the speculative use of the term in opposition
to its ordinary employment in expressions such as: “these are only ideas.”
Unlike common understanding or “representation”26
that attributes to ideas
(plural) an intrinsic lack of reality and considers them mere figments of the
mind, dialectic sees in the speculative “idea” (singular) the concept that is
completely real and fully actualized.
(ii) Bedeutungsverschiebung and Vagueness
Hegel’s dialectic is the logic of dynamic processes. This logic immanently
refutes any attempt to a static determination or definition of truth. If accord-
ing to a famous theorem “the true (das Wahre) is the whole,” the central point
is that “the whole is nothing other than the essence completing itself through
its development.”27
Truth finds its expression in the dimension of movement
and Entwicklung or development. It follows that truth is neither contained in
any one of the partial “moments” of the process nor is it expressed by any one
of the propositions in which this process is articulated; truth consists in the
entire extension of the process of thinking (the whole) insofar as this is
expressed by the dynamic movement of successive “transitions” (Übergänge).
In Hegel’s dialectical logic, truth is not a function of propositions but of the
transitions between successive propositions (or discrete logical spheres). The
language of contradiction serves Hegel to dissolve the static form of the
proposition into the dynamic dimension of thinking’s own movement. The
theory of the speculative proposition presented in the preface to the Phenom-
enology of Spirit articulates precisely this crucial discovery of dialectic.28
Dialectic defies static definitions of terms and proposes, offering instead
dynamic definitions of structures that are successively caught in the process of
gaining a meaning by overcoming their inner contradiction.
86 ANGELICA NUZZO
Hegel’s Logic begins, programmatically, with the most radical claim of
indeterminacy. Such claim is explicitly meant to reject all beginning with an
entirely determined Absolute (and hence with a definition thereof). Only the
radical “indeterminateness” of the beginning—and consequently the indeter-
minateness (and vagueness) of all terms or categories that are offered to des-
ignate the beginning—can account for the dynamic of a process, namely, for
the fact that the beginning is precisely the beginning of an unfolding move-
ment and not a static position from which thinking cannot escape. The radi-
cal self-predication with which Hegel expresses his claim concerning the
beginning of science can be formulated as follows: the indeterminateness of
the beginning is the beginning with “indeterminateness” as such. The linguis-
tic translation of this claim is the nonproposition or the fragment with which
the Science of Logic begins: “Being, pure being.”29
This beginning is, in all
respects, the opposite of a definition.
Moreover, dialectic is the logic of discrete processes. The argument of
the Logic unfolds through discrete “spheres” that are set in a relation of log-
ical succession, and ultimately in a circular movement refer back to the
absolute indeterminateness of the beginning. What makes the successive
spheres of the process discrete, incommensurable, and irreducible structures
is the Übergang or transition that divides them. The “in-between” repre-
sented by each transition sets the conditions for the repetition—and further
determination—of the former structure within the following one (as its
inner “moment,” as it were). The process of transition is a movement of
Aufhebung, which displaces or shifts a concluded structure onto the higher
level represented by its successor, thereby reducing it to “moment” of a more
extensive unity of meaning.30
However, taken up as “moment” of a new
structure, the previous term shows a new meaning. This is the process that
the recent literature has labeled Bedeutungsverschiebung: displacement or
shift of meaning. To be sure, it is precisely the movement of transition that
is responsible for both the determination of the new structure as the new
horizon of meaning and for the reduction of the previous structure to
“moment” of the new one.
As example of the first case can be offered the relation between “being”
and “essence” once the definition of Wesen as successor of Sein (or as coming
after Sein) is at issue. This relation is articulated in expressions such as:
“essence is the truth of being,” “essence is the first negation of being,” or
“essence is sublated being.”31
These expressions point to the definition of the
new horizon of meaning proper to the new logical sphere. The displacement
or shift that characterizes dialectical thinking is evident in the construction:
“y is the truth of x” which is proposed both as construction of logical succes-
sion and as the form in which truth is predicated. As example of redefinition
of the preceding structure once it has been taken up as moment within the fol-
lowing one, we can mention the new status displayed by Sein viewed, this
The Language of Hegel’s Speculative Philosophy 87
time, as internal moment of Wesen. The structure of “Schein” in the Logic of
Essence is the residual presence of the “sphere of being” in essence.32
Schein is
the new name that Sein gains at the level of essence.
CONCLUSION
The development of the argument of this chapter is meant to provide the the-
oretical justification for a more extensive project of which my concluding
analysis of the language of Hegel’s speculative logic gives only a quick sample.
Ultimately, I tried to illustrate the intrinsic connection between the language
of dialectic and dialectic as method of philosophy. The claim is that given the
speculative thesis of the identity of form and content (which Hegel names
“absolute form”), the language of dialectic cannot be viewed as the merely
external and accidental form of a content that could also be expressed in other
ways (for example, in the language of symbolic logic or by way of a series of
aphorisms). From this claim it follows that one cannot decide to accept the
philosophical content proposed by Hegel and reject the language in which it is
expressed (a new version of Friedrich Engels’s separation of system and method
or, alternatively, of Benedetto Croce’s claim regarding “ciò che è vivo e ciò che
è morto nella filosofia di Hegel”).The condemnation of Hegel’s language is the
complete rejection of Hegel’s dialectic—that is, of his way of doing philosophy.
Ultimately, in this chapter, I propose a reflection on the issue of how to
interpret Hegel’s philosophy. Hegel’s thesis “truth is the whole” forces the
interpreter to an approach to his philosophy (and to his language) that must
be necessarily comprehensive. We can indeed decide to reject his thought and
refuse to speak the language of dialectic. In this case, however, it is our task to
teach philosophy a different language. Historically, this is the task that Hegel
has left to philosophy post-1831.
NOTES
1. See Hermann J. Cloeren, “The Linguistic Turn in Kierkegaard’s Attack on
Hegel,” International Studies in Philosophy 17, 3 (1985): 3–13.
2. William James, “Hegel and His Method,” The Writings of William James: A
Comprehensive Edition, ed. John J. McDermott (Chicago: University of Chicago Press,
1977), 512–29, 513.
3. G. W. F. Hegel, Werke in zwanzig Bände (=TW), ed. E. Moldenhauer, K. M.
Michel (Frankfurt a.M.: Suhrkamp, 1971), TW 3:72.
4. See the discussion between W. Becker, “Das Problem der Selbstanwendung
im Kategorienverständnis der dialektischen Logik,” Hegel Studien Beiheft 18 (1978)
and R. Wiehl, “Selbstbeziehung und Selbstanwendung dialektischer Kategorien,”
Hegel Studien Beiheft 18 (1978): 83–113).
88 ANGELICA NUZZO
5. See A. Nuzzo, “Il problema filosofico della traduzione ed il problema della
traduzione filosofica,” Quaderni di traduzione 28 (1994): 169–93.
6. See, among others, Thomas M. Seebohm, “The Grammar of Hegel’s Dialec-
tic,” Hegel Studien 11 (1976): 149–80; D. Marconi, Contradiction and Language in
Hegel’s Dialectic (Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press, 1982).
7. G. W. F. Hegel, 1971, TW 3: 85.
8. G. W. F. Hegel, Science of Logic. Trans. A. V. Miller. Atlantic Highlands, N.J.:
Humanities, 1969, 825 (TW 6: 550).
9. G. W. F. Hegel, 1969, 825 (TW 6: 550).
10. See Encyclopedia (1830), § 25. Remark.
11. William James, 1977, 513.
12. William James, 1977, 516.
13. G. W. F. Hegel, 1969, 826 (TW 6: 551).
14. G. W. F. Hegel, 1969, 824, 825, 826 (TW 6: 549, 551).
15. G. W. F. Hegel, 1971 (TW 3: 13).
16. G. W. F. Hegel, 1969, 826 (TW 6: 551–52) (emphasis added).
17. G. W. F. Hegel, 1969, 825 (TW 6: 550).
18. G. W. F. Hegel, 1969, 824 (TW 6: 549).
19. G. W. F. Hegel, 1969, 57 (TW 5: 53).
20. G. W. F. Hegel, 1969, 35. (TW 5: 25).
21. G. W. F. Hegel, 1969, 35 (TW 5: 25).
22. G. W. F. Hegel, 1969, 825 (TW 6: 550).
23. G. W. F. Hegel, 1968ff., Gesammelte Werke, hrsg. in Auftrag der Deutschen
Forschungsgemeinschaft (=GW). Hamburg, Meiner. Skeptizismusaufsatz. GW 4: 207.
24. G. W. F. Hegel, 1971, Encyclopedia, TW 8: 23–24. A thorough discussion of
this topic and of its implications for the methodological relation between Logic and
Realphilosophie can be found in A. Nuzzo, Rappresentazione e concetto nella logica della
Filosofia del diritto di Hegel. Napoli: Guida, 1990.
25. This topic is further developed in A. Nuzzo, “The Idea of ‘Method’ in Hegel’s
Science of Logic—A Method for Finite Thinking and Absolute Knowing,” Bulletin of
the Hegel Society of Great Britain 39/40 (1999): 1–18; see also A. Nuzzo, :The Truth of
‘absolutes Wissen,’” Hegel’s Phenomenology of Spirit, ed. A. Denker (Amherst, N.Y.:
Humanities, 2003), 265–94.
26. G. W. F. Hegel, 1969, 756 f. (TW 6: 463). Kant had already drawn attention
on the use of this expression—albeit with a different intention.
27. G. W. F. Hegel, 1971, 11 (TW 3: 24). (emphasis added).
28. See J. Surber, “Hegel’s Speculative Sentence,” Hegel Studien 10 (1975):
211–30.
29. G. W. F. Hegel, 1969, 82 (TW 5: 82). Since this nonproposition, as it were,
does not say anything, the transition to “nothing” is already achieved (linguistically as
well).
30. For the notions of “moment” and Aufhebung (with regard to the first
“moments” appearing in the Logic, namely the “Moments of Becoming”), see G. W. F.
Hegel, 1969, 105–107 (TW 5: 112–13).
31. G. W. F. Hegel, 1969 (TW 6:13, 16, 18).
32. G. W. F. Hegel, 1969 (TW 6: 19).
The Language of Hegel’s Speculative Philosophy 89
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Primary Sources
Hegel, G. W. F. 1971. Werke in zwanzig Bände. Ed. E. Moldenhauer, K. M. Michel,
Frankfurt a.M.: Suhrkamp.
——— . 1968ff. Gesammelte Werke, hrsg. in Auftrag der Deutschen Forschungsgemein-
schaft. Hamburg, Meiner.
——— . 1977. Phenomenology of Spirit. Trans. A. V. Miller. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
——— . 1969. Science of Logic. Trans. A. V. Miller. Atlantic Highlands, N.J.: Humani-
ties.
Secondary Sources
Becker W. 1978. Das Problem der Selbstanwendung im Kategorienverständnis der
dialektischen Logik. Hegel Studien Beiheft 18.
Bien, Joseph J. 1996. The Dilemma of Modern Language Philosophy: An Hegelian
Suggestion. Hegel Jahrbuch, 275–78.
Cloeren, Hermann J. 1985. The Linguistic Turn in Kierkegaard’s Attack on Hegel.
International Studies in Philosophy 17, 3: 3–13.
Costantino, S. 1980. Hegel e la dialettica come linguaggio: Il problema dell’individuo nella
Fenomenologia dello spirito. Milano: Mursia.
James, William, 1977. Hegel and His Method. The Writings of William James. A Com-
prehensive Edition. Ed. John J. McDermott. Chicago, University of Chicago Press,
512–29.
Kojré, A. 1971. Note sur la langue et la térmilonogie hégélienne. Etudes d’Histoire de
la pensée philosophique. Paris: Gallimard.
Krause, Franz K. Chr. 1891. Zur Sprachphilosophie (1812–1815). Leipzig: Wunsche.
Lauener, H. 1962. Die Sprache in der Philosophie Hegels mir besonderer Berücksichtigung
der Aesthetik. Bern: Haupt.
Liebrucks, B. 1970. Sprache und Bewußtsein. Frankfurt a.M.: Klostermann.
Marconi, D. 1982. Contradiction and Language in Hegel’s Dialectic. Ann Arbor: Univer-
sity of Michigan Press.
McCumber, J. 1993. The Company of Words. Hegel, Language, and Systematic Philosophy.
Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern University Press.
Nuzzo, A. 2003. The Truth of “absolutes Wissen.” Hegel’s Phenomenology of Spirit. Ed.
A. Denker. Amherst, N.Y.: Humanities, 265–94.
——— . 1999. The Idea of “Method” in Hegel’s Science of Logic—A Method for
Finite Thinking and Absolute Knowing. Bulletin of the Hegel Society of Great Britain
39/40: 1–18.
——— . 1994. Il problema filosofico della traduzione ed il problema della traduzione
filosofica. Quaderni di traduzione 28: 169–93.
——— . 1990. Rappresentazione e concetto nella logica della Filosofia del diritto di Hegel.
Napoli: Guida.
Seebohm, Thomas M. 1976. The Grammar of Hegel’s Dialectic. Hegel Studien 11:
149–80.
90 ANGELICA NUZZO
Sözer, Ö. 1981/82. Der Weltgeist und die “Rede des Geistes” als das Problem der Bil-
dung. Hegel Jahrbuch: 97–107.
Surber, J. 1975. Hegel’s Speculative Sentence. Hegel Studien 10: 211–30.
Wiehl, R. 1978. Selbstbeziehung und Selbstanwendung dialektischer Kategorien.
Hegel Studien Beiheft 18: 83–113.
The Language of Hegel’s Speculative Philosophy 91
This page intentionally left blank.
SECTION 2
Language, Subjectivity,
and “Objective Truth”
This page intentionally left blank.
The question of scientific language in Hegel is the following: Given the
inherent scientific demands of Hegel’s system, how does its language claim to
express objective truth? This question must be answered without importing
epistemological and linguistic notions foreign to the Hegelian enterprise
itself, or, to put it another way, in order to understand this crucial aspect of
Hegel we must not import notions of objective truth and discourse alien to his
idea of science.
Failure to comprehensively understand the nature of Hegelian scientific
language has allowed to go unchallenged a wide-spread misunderstanding
regarding the nature of Hegelian objectivity. This misunderstanding can be
bluntly summarized as follows. The world itself operates dialectically, obeying
an inherently dialectical logic. Many will probably find nothing objectionable
in this statement. In fact, it appears readily verifiable with regard to that part
of worldly objectivity Hegel deals with on the Spirit side of his philosophy, for
example the rise of consciousness and intersubjective relations. Indeed, spirit,
as human activity, can easily be said to reflect thought or “mind,” which, as the
Logics tell us, is inherently dialectical. And it is this objectivity or “second
nature” that most commentators are interested in.1
When the natural world
itself is brought into consideration, however, there is some embarrassment. It
is indeed hard to verify, for example, that cosmological phenomena and chem-
ical reactions operate along strictly dialectical lines. Hegel’s Philosophy of
Nature therefore tends to be taken less seriously, or ignored.2
However, even when the inherently dialectical nature of Hegelian objec-
tivity is ascribed solely to the Spririt side of his philosophy, crucial
(Kierkegaardian, Marxian) questions arise concerning the coherency of the
entire philosophical endeavor. If objectivity itself operates dialectically, what is
95
CHAPTER 4
Objective Language and
Scientific Truth in Hegel
Jeffrey Reid
the status of the philosopher subject (i.e., Hegel)? Or, more precisely, what is
the status of Hegel’s scientific discourse? From where does it derive its own
objectivity and truth? It should be obvious to readers of Hegel that his scien-
tific discourse cannot claim to simply represent or reflect objectivity, and garner
its own truthfulness and objectivity from the exactness of this representation.3
Such a view could not help but fall within what Hegel refers to as (Kant-
ian) subjective idealism, that is, the representation, whether faithful or not,
would never be more than mere appearance (Schein), the reflection of Hegel’s
own self-certainty; the supposed “truth,” stemming from personal observa-
tions, would, in fact, reflect nothing other than subjective certitude.4
In other
words, this view contradicts Hegel’s explicit rejection of scientific truth based
purely on confirmed observation (perception) of empirical, experimental data,
which we find reiterated in all his major works and in a good deal of his minor
ones.5
This does not mean that Hegel discounts empirical science. For exam-
ple, as I will show, there is a place, or a level, for the representations of the nat-
ural sciences within the body of systematic (philosophical, Hegelian) science.
However, as we will see, this level of representation only achieves objective
truth through a certain notion of discourse essential to this science.
Hegel’s repudiation of sense certainty (or sense perception) as an ade-
quate ground for systematic, objective truth must be understood in linguistic
terms; sense certainty goes hand in hand with the notion of referential lan-
guage, with the idea that language refers to, reflects, or denotes an objectivity
which is real but somehow removed from the language itself. According to
this view, truth and objectivity are entirely based on the exactness of the reflec-
tion, on the faithfulness of how sentence tokens signify “reality.” Although
many commentators understand Hegel’s critique of sense perception and its
corresponding referential language, they seem unable to break away from the
idea of Hegel-empiricist, the lucid and profound observer of the world around
him.6
I believe this is because they have been unable to grasp the true nature
of Hegel’s scientific language as nonreferential, where there is no distance
between signifier and signified, and where the objectivity of language is not
the impoverished objectivity of arbitrary signs.
In dealing with the question of how Hegel sees the truth of his discourse
as objective, I therefore want to show that his claim to scientific truth implies
a certain grasp of objectivity different from the one summarized above, and a
certain notion of language that is not referential and which is constitutive of
Hegelian objectivity. More explicitly, I will argue that the Hegelian idea of
“Science” supposes a discourse that is not only objectively true but is also,
itself, true objectivity.
The use of the term “objectivity” in the preceding paragraphs may cause
some consternation. This is because we are accustomed to using the term in
two distinct acceptations: (1) in the sense of nonsubjective, nonarbitrary truth;
(2) in the sense of a concrete reality existing outside the subject. By saying
96 JEFFREY REID
that, for Hegel, science is a discourse that is “not only objectively true but is
also, itself, true objectivity,” I am purposely conflating the two acceptations.
For Hegel, scientific objectivity is nonsubjective truth existing as a concrete
reality. I am also saying this reality is discourse, scientific discourse itself.
It is also important to emphasize a point that may, at first, appear
redundant, but which is crucial. Scientific discourse, for Hegel, is exclusively
that discourse which deals with the objects of science. This clearly implies
that there are objects not addressed by science—that is, there is a nonscien-
tific objectivity, and there are discourses which are also nonscientific. How-
ever, if we are to take Hegel’s scientific claims seriously, as I am doing, then
we must respect this often ignored distinction. All objectivity is not scien-
tific. All discourse is not scientific. The discourse of science does not deal
with all objectivity.
Initially, the issue is how scientific discourse can be objectively true, how
it can relate to its objects, for example to such worldly manifestations as the
state, history, art, religion, and nature without merely reflecting them. Accord-
ing to my argument, these manifestations must somehow be embodied in true
scientific discourse as its true, objective content. This idea of content that is
also the object of science is important to grasp. Hegelian science does not study
its objects in a detached analytical way, in order to draw conclusions about
them and test these conclusions against empirical data. Hegelian science
claims to hold within itself, as content, the objects of its discourse. Or, science
is no more than the ultimate articulation of its objects/contents. Hegel
expresses the richness of this content by using the term Gehalt, rather than
Inhalt. To use a vulgar example, the former term might apply in stating, “milk
is content-rich in vitamins and calcium,” while the latter might describe the
contents of a suitcase. As Gehalt, content should be seen as essential to what
it makes up.
There is no mystery about what the Gehalt-objects of science are; they can
be found in the “Table of Contents” of the Encyclopedia.This content, like sci-
entific truth itself, is essentially text, not the inherently meaningless natural
occurrences of disengaged objectivity, but meaningful discourse. In other
words, I am arguing that scientific discourse derives its truth and objectivity
from its contents, which are themselves grasped as true and objective dis-
course. In order to understand the objectivity and truth of scientific discourse
(and its contents), I am therefore proposing a certain linguistic notion that I
believe is found in Hegel: language that does not simply reflect what is other-
wise “real,” language that does not refer to its object, but rather language that
actually is its object (and content) and is therefore objective and true. The
word is truly the thing, but not in the sense of das Ding, a common, indeter-
minate, natural object in a sea of contingency, but rather in the sense of die
Sache, a more meaningful, content-rich existence. How is this content-rich
language possible?
Objective Language and Scientific Truth in Hegel 97
Whether we question a modern-day theoretical physicist or an eigh-
teenth-century empiricist, his or her definition of objective truth in science
will involve the adequation of thought and being, of concepts and experience.
For example, a subjective theory (thought) takes on objective truth when it
can be adequated to reality (being). The adequation of thought and being also
lies at the heart of the Hegelian scientific endeavor. However, according to the
notion of Hegelian scientific objectivity I am proposing, the adequation of
thought and being is realized in language, in a language which can therefore
be grasped as truth and “objectivity,” in both senses of the word; namely, lan-
guage that is not based on subjective representation and language which is
itself a real object or thing (Sache)that is both thought and being.7
This lan-
guage occurs in several different contexts, and each of these expressions forms
specific, objective content for science. The total content of science thus
appears as the true and objective discourses of natural science, subjective and
objective spirit, art, and religion. This is another way of saying that the
Hegelian project, consisting of finding true objectivity in the meeting between
(natural) being and the dialectical or negating activity of thought takes place,
on the highest scientific or systematic level, in the articulation itself of the
Encyclopedia.The first part of the work, “The Science of Logic” (thought), and
the second, the “Philosophy of Nature” (being), find their truth in the third
part, the “Philosophy of Spirit,” whose last word is precisely “Philosophy”—
that is, philosophical discourse itself.
I. THE OBJECTIVE CONTENT AS THE WORD
A brief passage from the Encylopedia’s “Philosophy of Spirit” helps us under-
stand more precisely the linguisitic notion we are dealing with, namely a lan-
guage that is to be taken as true objectivity, as the realization of thought and
being. Here, scientific language is presented as the objective result of a meet-
ing between representing intelligence (thought) and the mere linguistic sign,
or “name.” As Hegel puts it: “The being (Seiende), as name (Name), needs an
other, meaning from the representing (vorstellenden) intelligence, in order to
be the thing (Sache), true objectivity.”8
This reference describes scientific discourse at its most formal level, in the
context of subjective spirit, where content is supplied by representing intelli-
gence, by understanding. John McCumber’s insightful and detailed analysis of
this section of the Encyclopedia (paragraphs 451–64) explores Hegel’s use of
the “name” as linguistic “sign” and reveals its entirely natural and singular
objectivity.9
The “name” or sign that is to be inhabited by representational con-
tent should be understood as an arbitrary, empty, naturally formed being, open
to any “meaning,” just as a certain given name can apply indiscriminately to
any individual person.10
The name, as a singular, naturally formed thing (Ding)
98 JEFFREY REID
must indeed be understood as simply found-there by representing intelli-
gence. Here, we are operating at the level of sense-certainty as it is expressed
in the Encyclopedia, where denomination can never reach beyond the singular
appellation of individual objects, where every object has its name and only its
name, which, like the object referred to, is simply found there ready-made,
without having been, as McCumber puts it, “worked up by intelligence.”11
The
ambiguity McCumber refers to between “names as such” and “representational
names” can be largely lifted by applying the term “name” to only the senseless
externality of the mere, meaningless, arbitrary “sign,” as a being simply found-
there and as yet divorced from any signification; the term “word” should be
retained to denote the “representational name”—that is, the formerly senseless
“sign” that is now filled, by intelligence, with the content of representation.12
In other words, a “name” is not yet a “word.”
This distinction between “name” and “word” can be born out to some
degree by Hegel’s statement, in Encyclopedia § 463, that “names as such” are
“senseless words.” This indeed seems to imply that (significant) words are
something other than empty, contingent, naturally formed names.13
Words, or
“representational names” as McCumber calls them, are richer in content
(Gehalt) than the empty “names as such” we began with. Intelligence has sup-
plied the latter with representational content and the result is in the order of
“true objectivity,” what Hegel is calling die Sache as opposed to das Ding.
The point I am making is that “the thing (Sache), true objectivity” is still
language. It is simply a language which has greater truth and objectivity than
the mere empty signs we began with, because now the form of language has
taken on content.
It is also crucial to understand that in the passage from the name to the
word, we move through two orders of objectivity, from nature to “second
nature,” from natural, contingent, impoverished objectivity, to the “true
objectivity” of the scientific word. Although this level of objectivity and
truth is still relative, in that its content is still representational and therefore
still somewhat subjective, it is nonetheless higher than the arbitrary objec-
tivity of the natural world, which can itself be seen as nothing more than an
infinite number of meaningless “signs” which are only potentially significant.
Far from being truly objective, this world of immediate sense-certainty
reflects, in fact, the most radical form of subjectivity. Sense-certainty is a
form of self-certainty.14
Even at the level of discourse we are currently dealing with in the para-
graphs of the Encyclopedia under discussion, viz. representational discourse
within the scientific system, representing intelligence fills the mere “name” to
form a significant word that should be taken as itself incarnating a certain
degree of both objectivity and truth. This scientifically meaningful word is
what Hegel is calling “the thing (die Sache), true objectivity.”15
Within the
Encyclopedia system, the representations expressed in the words of science
Objective Language and Scientific Truth in Hegel 99
should then be taken as more than purely natural or purely subjective and
arbitrary; they are determined scientific representations that arise, for exam-
ple, within the natural sciences and which must be subsequently incorporated
into the overall system of science. In other words, the representations
expressed in the words of science must themselves become part of the total
content of philosophical science. In the “Philosophy of Nature,” this language
obtains in the numerous examples Hegel cites from the natural sciences of his
day. For the natural, empirical sciences to become part of the system, their
own discourse must be seen as already content-ful and objectively true,
although still representational.16
The above-defined “word” enables us to
understand how this is possible. Representing intelligence penetrates nature,
as it invests itself in the completely natural names (empty signs) found already
there, to produce meaningful words. In fact, that is all representing intelli-
gence can appropriately carry out. Now, however, within Hegelian science, the
subsequent pronouncements of representing intelligence can be taken as
objectively true, where objectivity and truth are no longer based on the reflec-
tion between (natural) “objectivity” on one hand and language on the other.17
Although in the context of theoretical intelligence, where the discussion
on the “name” arises, we are not yet dealing with systematic philosophical dis-
course as such, Hegel is telling us that representational discourse, as it arises
within the system, already possesses a certain degree of true objectivity and
objective truth. As the realized result of thought (representing intelligence)
and being (the “name”), it is truer and more objective than either, or rather, it
combines the hard, natural reality of the name with the abstract essentiality of
thought to form something that is truly objective and essential.
Thus, the scientifically significant word appears as the “middle term”
between thought and being. It is a particular being which is at the same time
thought, or vice versa.18
II. FROM PREDICATION TO THE SYLLOGISM
The expression “middle term” introduces my contention that an analysis of the
act of predication or judgment alone is not sufficient to grasp Hegel’s concept
of scientifically objective discourse; to do so, one must look beyond the propo-
sition, to the syllogism, and consider it as a grammatical extension of the act
of predication. Failure to do so leads one to concentrate on the relationship
between language and thought rather than on the more fundamental relation
between being and thought. Failing to grasp language as the objective middle
term embodying the two extremes, leaves it external to both thought and
being. As such, it can do no more than reflect either thought or being, but
never actually be them. It is only by doing so that language, in Hegel, can be
considered scientifically objective.
100 JEFFREY REID
In the preface to the Phenomenology, Hegel deals with the question of
how the subject-predicate form can be grasped as dialectical, in terms of what
he refers to as the “speculative sentence.”19
Jere Surber, in his valuable analysis
of this passage, explains that the grammatical subject is to be understood as
consciousness losing itself in its predicate, which in turn “recoils” back onto
the subject in search of a ground. The grammatical subject can thus be seen as
an empty name receiving content from its predicate, or as conscious thought
determining itself through predication. In both cases, however, the issue is
“the dialectical structure of the proposition” and how the speculative sentence
“reflects the fact that, for Hegel, consciousness itself is essentially a dialectical
activity.”20
This seems to show that considering the act of predication in terms
of its “dialectical activity” can do no more than provide us with a reflection,
where language can provide only an (arbitrary) analogy of thought.
Surber himself brings out the arbitrary nature of this dualism between
language and thought when he writes, “The same sentence [i.e., the mere sen-
tence-token] becomes speculative by virtue of the very manner in which we
comprehend and reflect upon it.”21
In other words, if we consider philosophi-
cal language as no more than an accurate reflection of thought, truth comes to
depend entirely on the external, and arbitrary judgments of a judicious (yet
subjective) “we.” John McCumber encounters the same problem. When sci-
entific language is not seen as the objective middle term between being and
thought, meaning (the relation between thought and language) becomes the
arbitrary result of public judgment, understood here as a linguistic community
of shared reference, à la Wittgenstein. McCumber writes, “[F]or Wittgen-
stein, then (and for Hegel), meaning is intrinsically public.”22
According to my
argument, the objective truth of scientific discourse in Hegel depends on nei-
ther the insightfulness of individual readers/listeners, nor upon general public
consensus.23
Objective truth remains extremely problematical when a reflective dis-
tance is maintained between the language of science and thought, when the
relation between the two is merely analogous. In Hegel, this problem arises
when scientific discourse is examined only in terms of the predicative sen-
tence, even when this is understood speculatively or dialectically. Commenta-
tors concentrating on the Phenomenology as the main area of research in their
investigations into Hegel’s “philosophy of language” are necessarily confined
to examining the dialectical workings of the predicative statement. Scientific
truth is thus construed as the accurate reflection or adequation between this
language (dialectical) and thought (dialectical). This reinforces the misunder-
standing I invoked earlier: in order for commentators to discover truth in the
relationship between language and the world, the latter must also be seen as
inherently dialectical and thus reflected in dialectical language.
In fact, the scientific inadequacies of the propositional act of predication
are revealed through Hegel’s later writings on judgment, particularly as they
Objective Language and Scientific Truth in Hegel 101
appear in the Greater Logic.24
More specifically, if scientific discourse does
indeed imply a notion of objective truth dependent upon meaningful content
(Gehalt), then the predicative (judgment) form seems inadequate precisely in
terms of its inability to hold any content beyond that which is subjectively
representational. Although supporting such a hypothesis outreaches the scope
of this chapter, it seems an argument can be made that Hegel’s evaluation of
the predicative form, or the form of judgment, undergoes a depreciation over
time. From his dialectical or speculative investigations into the copula,25
which
lead to his analysis of the speculative sentence in the preface of the Phenome-
nology, Hegel comes to see the syllogism as a more appropriate grammatical
form in which to grasp scientific expression.26
This is born out by the fact that much of the Phenomenology’s “speculative
sentence” analysis is taken up again in the Greater Logic, however in a context
where judgment (predication) appears as the transitional moment between the
concept, as an original, immediate, that is, still unmediated whole, and the
fully developed syllogism, which articulates moments of the universal, the par-
ticular, and the singular. In fact, Hegel understands judgment “etymologically”
as an Ur-teilen, the original dividing necessary for the concept to be able to
reunite itself, but now syllogistically mediated. Thus, “judgment is the divid-
ing of the concept by itself.”27
Defining predication in terms of division leaves little room for content,
and in the Greater Logic Hegel deals specifically with this problem. Real con-
tent can neither be held in the subject nor the predicate, which are related in
a purely arbitrary and, in fact, subjective fashion.28
“The subject can find itself
taken, with regard to the predicate, as the singular with regard to the univer-
sal, or again as the particular with regard to the universal, or as the singular
with regard to the particular.”29
Consequently, subject and predicate are once
again taken as no more than names, empty markers or, continues Hegel in the
same passage, “something undetermined that must still obtain its determina-
tion.” Hegel’s speculative solution in the Greater Logic is to maintain that this
determination takes place in neither the subject nor the predicate but in the
copula which must become the “filled and determined unity of the subject and
the predicate, as their concept.”30
When the copula is understood in this way,
as an existing unity underlying both subject and predicate, the judgment
“passes into” the syllogism.31
I am insisting on this passage between judgment (predication) and syllo-
gism in order to reinforce my argument about the nature of scientific discourse
in Hegel, as language that must be grasped as objective, true, and content-ful
(i.e., “filled and determined”), as discourse that must be understood as the
existing “middle term” between thought and being, or between subject and
predicate. It is this same middle term I invoked above as the significant word
in scientific discourse, which Hegel refers to as “the thing [die Sache]” or “true
objectivity.”32
Hegel’s analysis of the syllogism should be understood as the
102 JEFFREY REID
“elenchus” of his grammatical analysis of the predicative form. The syllogism
expresses the true destiny of the copula, as a mediating, content-ful middle
term that determines the two extremes (subject and predicate) in such a way
that the whole proposition becomes an objective concept. This is what he
means when, referring to the syllogism of necessity, he writes, “In that this syl-
logism determines the extremes of the concept precisely as totalities, the syl-
logism has attained . . . its truth, and has thus passed from subjectivity into
objectivity.”33
Considering the syllogism as the conceptual development of predication
allows us to grasp the systematic (scientific) implications of Hegelian lan-
guage, as presented in that system called the Encyclopedia, and to see how
Hegel’s notion of objectively true discourse implies a language capable of
embodying meaningful content (Gehalt). A discussion of Hegel’s notion of
scientific language therefore requires an analysis that goes beyond the formal
linguistic dimension. This emphasis on content rather than form runs gener-
ally counter to how linguistic analysis is understood today. I want to look at a
specific instance of how Hegelian scientific discourse can be said to hold
objective content.
III. OBJECTIVE SPIRIT AS SCIENTIFIC CONTENT
The specific content of Hegelian science I want to look at is private property,
the first element of what appears as Objective Spirit or the State in the Ency-
clopedia. In dealing with this issue (Sache), I am obviously not attempting to
exhaust it as a question but merely trying to show how it can be seen to form
the objective content of scientific language, content that renders scientific lan-
guage itself objective, without this objectivity depending upon truth defined as
the external adequation between signified and signifier. Property, like any other
content of science, must then be conceived as a language that is the objective
middle term between being and thought. “Property” is particularly revealing in
this light since its objectivity, whether we refer to a house, a field, or a horse,
strikes us as completely natural and “objective.” In fact, it is precisely because of
this natural, immediate aspect that the thing (Ding) of property cannot, as such,
become part of scientific discourse.The natural thing has not been mediated (or
negated) by thought. We have to see how the discourse of property is more
objective than property itself, understood as a simple, natural thing (Ding).
Concerning property, Hegel’s insight is that it is not truly objective until
it passes from one individual will to another. The meaning of this “passing” is
neither in the subjective affirmation of possession, in declaring in a purely
predicative way that “this is mine,” nor in the simple names or linguistic signs
that immediately represent or reflect this bit of earth, the house, and so forth.
These signs are as natural and impoverished as the things (Dingen) they
Objective Language and Scientific Truth in Hegel 103
reflect. The scientific meaning of property, its true objectivity, the fact that it
can become a thing in the sense of Sache, is only manifest when it is trans-
ferred (sold and bought) from one will to another. This meaning manifests
itself in the language of the contract.34
Hegel writes: “The interiority of the will that surrenders the property and
of the will that receives it is in the realm of representation, and the word is, in
this realm, act and thing [Sache].”35
The contract must be grasped as a language having an objective existence,
both “substantial” and true.36
This truth is the following: The essence of prop-
erty is to pass from one will to another; this essence is manifested in the real
words of the contract. Thus we grasp concretely the meaning of the Hegelian
idea that essence (das Wesen) can be thought of as being that has been (gewe-
sen).37
Only insofar as the purely natural being disappears (is negated or medi-
ated) in the passage from one will to another can essence emerge. However,
rather than dissipating in a “formless tumult of church bells or the warm ris-
ing of vapours,”38
the essence of property is objectified in contractual language,
understood as the middle term of a syllogism whose two extremes are natural
being and thought (here, in the form of will).
That the written, consensual contract is a more truly objective represen-
tation of property and possession than my simple predication of something as
“mine” is understandable.39
When property changes hands, it does so on paper
and in writing. Its possession only thereby becomes something objective, “sub-
stantial,” and of “value.”40
It is this objectivity that enables property to be rec-
ognized by the persons involved as well as by others, and thereby to effectively
participate in the social space of Sittlichkeit.41
I believe the same point of view
can be said to apply to other fundamentally linguistic expressions of content
within objective spirit: laws, constitutions,42
and even world history.43
It is important to understand what I am arguing here. I am not saying
that objective spirit is nothing but text. I am saying that objective spirit must
already be objectively true language for it to be part of scientific discourse. Or,
from another point of view, for scientific discourse to be objectively true and
truly objective, its content must also be objectively true and truly objective.
The content of science (which is itself discourse) is language understood as
itself content-ful—that is, as the existing middle term between being and
thought. So, if Hegel’s science is to incorporate such objective expressions as
private property, justice, the state, and world history, these expressions must be
grasped as text which is, at least to a certain degree, objectively true/truly
objective; philosophical science does not observe natural events, it reads
texts.44
These are considered truer and more objective than what we might be
tempted to call the immediate “real” world, which, for Hegel, is merely nat-
ural and undetermined, and therefore less real than the world as penetrated
(determined) by thought and manifest in meaningful language.
104 JEFFREY REID
Objective spirit forms one of the main contents of science. Although I
cannot go into this further, here, I believe the other objects/contents of the
Encyclopedia should also be seen as objective discourse: the Philosophy of
Nature,45
the contents of Subjective Spirit,46
Art,47
Religion,48
and of course,
Science itself. In fact, Science is nothing more than the systematic, speculative
articulation of its contents, of its objects, namely the discourses I have men-
tioned. Science thinks the objective truth (or the true objectivity) of its own
contents and knows itself to be true and objective.This knowledge is the exist-
ing discourse of science; it is logos.
IV. THE ACTUALITY OF SCIENCE
The idea of true objectivity as essentially linguistic may seem rather bloodless
and two-dimensional, in that it appears to reduce worldly richness to the
words on a page. However, such an objection is based on a notion of language
other than the one I have been presenting as Hegel’s.
Hegel never denies the world’s richness and we know he enjoyed an envi-
able social life beyond the sphere of academe. But we must distinguish
between scientific objectivity and the world in general. Science deals solely
with scientific objects. We are not talking about Krug’s pen49
or any other arbi-
trary, singular, natural object. Scientific objects are the contents of science.
Their names can be found in the Encyclopedia’s table of contents.
As objective, they also exist in the world. The objectivity of the contract
means that it can be read and recognized by individual wills within the State
as Sittlichkeit. Similarly, the laws of the city and the constitution itself are lived
by the citizens, whether litigiously or not. On another level, “international
public law”50
determines, to some extent, the reciprocal activity of states
between themselves and world history is read as the discourse of the dis-
courses of history. In the same way, the linguistic expressions of art and reli-
gion participate in the life of the city. It is important to recall, however, that it
is not because these discourses participate in the world that they are objective,
but rather the contrary: it is because these discourses are objective and true
that they must manifest themselves as actual (wirklich).
What about the actuality of philosophical discourse as such, of the Ency-
clopedia and the other Hegelian writings? Beyond any worldly participation of
its contents, what actuality might scientific logos itself have within the city? A
plausible response may be found by simply recalling that Hegel spent almost
his entire adult life teaching and that almost all of his texts were conceived as
teaching manuals used within the state’s education system. So perhaps we can
say that the actuality of scientific discourse itself, as objectively true logos, can
be found in its pedagogical application.
Objective Language and Scientific Truth in Hegel 105
NOTES
1. See Adriaan Peperzak’s astute article “Second Nature: Place and Significance
of Objective Spirit in Hegel’s Encyclopedia,” Owl of Minerva 27, 1 (Fall 1995): 51–66.
2. This is particularly true with overviews of Hegel’s philosophy. Two examples:
Charles Taylor’s book on Hegel contains only ten pages on the philosophy of nature;
none of the fourteen contributions making up The Cambridge Companion to Hegel, ed.
Frederick C. Beiser (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1996), deals directly
with the philosophy of nature. Recently, there has been new interest in this area. See
Stephen Houlgate, ed., Hegel and the Philosophy of Nature (Albany: State University of
New York Press, 1998).
3. Engels provides a model expression of this misconception. “[Dialectical phi-
losophy] reveals the transitory character of everything and in everything; nothing can
endure before it except the uninterrupted process of becoming and of passing away; of
endless ascendancy from the lower to the higher. And dialectical philosophy itself is
nothing more than the mere reflection of this process in the thinking brain.” Ludwig
Feuerbach (New York: International, 1941): 12. For a succinct contemporary expression
of this misconception, see Alison Stone, “Hegel’s Philosophy of Nature: Overcoming
the Division between Matter and Thought,” Dialogue 39, 4: 725–43.The author claims
to discover a “theory” of nature “according to which nature progresses in a rationally
necessary series of stages from an initial division between its two constituent elements,
thought and matter, to their eventual unification.” The author proceeds to show this
progression through “an extended comparison between the Philosophy of Nature and
the Philosophy of Spirit” (pp. 725–26). I am arguing that if objectivity, whether nat-
ural or human, moves according to such a progression, it is because it has been invested
with thought and thought is dialectical; i.e., it moves from original unity, through sep-
aration (Urteilen) to reconciliation. In Hegel, pure, undigested, prenegated nature does
not move on its own accord. Indeed, it is unmoving, lifeless and dead.
4. For example: “[Hegel] expressed his thought in the sounds and inscriptions of
the German language, to which he assigned his own, philosophically constructed
meanings.” Very few Hegelian readers would disagree with this statement, yet it
reduces the objectivity of Hegel’s scientific discourse to personal pronouncements of
“his own . . . constructed meanings.” John McCumber, The Company of Words, Hegel,
Language, and Systematic Philosophy (Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern University Press,
1993).
5. For example, in Glauben und Wissen, Hegel sees the influence of Locke and
Hume as having mired Kant, Jacobi, and Fichte in the realm of “finitude and subjec-
tivity.” Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 2, ed. Eva Moldenhauer and Karl Markus Michel
(Frankfurt am Main: Suhrkamp, 1970), 376–77.
6. Daniel Cook, in reviewing David Lamb’s book Language and Perception in
Hegel and Wittgenstein, agrees that both Hegel and Wittgenstein argue against the
empirical account of the relationship between language and reality, and the resultant
“atomic facts.” However, both commentators share the belief that we can still “make
sense of our sense experience” through “certain contextual relations.” Owl of Minerva
14, 2 (December 1982): 2–3. In her article “Can Hegel Refer to Particulars,” Owl of
Minerva 17, 2 (Spring 1986): 181–94, Katherina Dulckeit also sees sense certainty in
the Phenomenology as a thesis about linguistic reference. In doing so, the author does
106 JEFFREY REID
not make the distinction I am making between referential, reflective language in gen-
eral and the language of science.
7. Frank Schalow, in his article “The Question of Being and the Recovery of
Language within Hegelian Thought,” Owl of Minerva 24, 2 (Spring 1993): 163–80,
writes: “In an amorphous way, Hegel [like Kant] formulated the problem of the rela-
tion between being and thought, but not so decisively as to view language as having an
even greater importance in forming an essential link between the two” (p. 164). I am
arguing that the language of science is precisely that: the essential embodiment of
being and thought. For Schalow, language can only reflect or “make visible” the medi-
ation between thought and being. The relation between objective truth and language
thus remains referential and ultimately, according to Hegel, subjective. “Through its
own activity, language makes visible the mediation of opposites, and thereby exempli-
fies the form of determinateness essential to thought” (p. 165). In other words, scien-
tific language remains merely analogous to truth itself (the union of thought and
being). In fact, as early as 1802, in Glauben und Wissen, Hegel defines the discourse of
Reason as that in which subject and predicate express the identity of thought and
being. Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 2, 304.
8. Encyclopedia of Philosophical Sciences § 464. Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 10, 282.
9. See McCumber 1993, 220–38.
10. “[N]ames as such [are] external, senseless entities, which only have significance
as signs.” Encyclopedia, “Philosophy of Spirit” § 459. Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 10, 274.
In this paragraph, Hegel argues against the Herderian notion of words, as natural
objects, having some inherent sense, i.e., that they stem from primitive reproductions
of natural sounds. For Hegel, purely natural entities have no inherent sense. Even
though they may be formed by the interplay of natural causes and effects, they remain,
in themselves, arbitrary. They are meaningless “names” or empty signs waiting to be
signified by intelligence. This also explains Hegel’s argument against phrenology, in
the Phenomenology. Skulls, as purely natural entities, do not express some inherent
meaning, which need only be deciphered.
11. McCumber 1993, 223.
12. McCumber uses the term “sign” as something signifying. I am using it as a
synonym for “name,” a mere, empty token waiting to be invested with meaning or
Gehalt. As such, it is still insignificant.
13. The 1817 version of this paragraph included the sentence, “Names, there are
many of them, and, as such, they are contingent names with regard to one another.”
The contingency of the actual sign, divorced from any signification, simply means that
“lion” for example, could well have evolved to be written and pronounced otherwise, as
“leo” for example, just as I personally might have been named “Gregory” instead of “Jef-
frey,” which could also have been spelled “Geoffrey.”
14. “Sense certainty, then, though indeed expelled from the object, is not yet
thereby overcome, but only driven back into the ‘I’.” Phenomenology of Spirit, trans. A. V.
Miller (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1977), § 100. Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 3, 86.
15. This, then, is why the thing (Sache) appears, in the “Doctrine of Essence,”
under the heading “The Thing’s Emergence into Existence” and why James Wilkin-
son’s proposed translation of die Sache as “engendering,” though somewhat awkward,
does make sense. See James Wilkenson, “On Translating Sache in Hegel’s Texts: A
Response,” Owl of Minerva 27, 2 (Spring 1996): 211–30.
Objective Language and Scientific Truth in Hegel 107
16. For Hegel, there is no (universal) philosophical science without the particular
sciences as content.Thus, in his letter/report to von Raumer on education, he complains
that “the materials of the particular sciences have not yet attained their reorganization
and adoption into the new idea” (Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 4, 419). Hegel sees the par-
ticular, positive sciences as a (written) canon of work to be first learned and assimilated,
and then reconsidered conceptually. “This content of understanding, this systematic
mass of abstract concepts [i.e., predicative statements] rich in significance [gehaltvoller
Begriffe] are immediately the stuff of Philosophy.” Report to Niethammer on education,
ibid., 414. This content, reworked dialectically, is how Hegel defines science: “The con-
tent grasped conceptually [Das Begriffene] is alone what is philosophical [as it is present]
in the form of the Concept” (ibid., 415). The scientific whole is “only grasped through
the elaboration of the parts.” Letter/report to von Raumer, ibid., 420.
17. More importantly, the concept of the content-rich, scientific word enables us
to understand how, for Hegel, formally common language, with its (almost) everyday
vocabulary and predication-based grammar can ultimately attain to an expression of
logos in its deepest, richest meanings: as the word of science, as reason and reality, and
as the Word of God. It can do so because it is capable of embodying thought and
being, and thereby embracing true, objective content and becoming, itself, true objec-
tivity. On how Hegel may have found inspiration for such an idea of logos in Hamann,
see John McCumber, “Hegel and Hamann: Ideas and Life,” in Hegel and the Tradition:
Essays in Honour of H. S. Harris, ed. Michael Baur and John Russon (Toronto: Univer-
sity of Toronto Press, 1997).
18. See Encyclopedia § 491. Werke in 20 Bänden vol.10, 307.
19. See Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 3, 59–62.
20. Jere Paul Surber, “Hegel’s Speculative Sentence,” in Hegel-Studien 10 (1975):
222.
21. Surber, 1975, 228.
22. McCumber, 1993, 260. See also Cook 1982, 2.
23. For Hegel, philosophical discourse is university discourse, and not destined for
public consumption. See his critique of K. W. F. Solger in this regard. Werke in 20 Bän-
den vol. 11, 266–71.
24. See Doctrine of the Concept, section I, chapters 2, 3.
25. Discussion of the copula arises in a Kantian context (in Hegel’s Faith and
Knowing) and can be seen as a reaction to Kant’s belittling of the copula in his dis-
missal of the ontological argument, in the first Critique. Hegel’s discussions of the cop-
ula can only be understood with further reference to Fichte’s “I am I,” to Hölderlin’s
thoughts on judgment, Sämtliche Werke vol. 4 (Stuttgart: Kohlhammer, 1962, 226–27),
and to Schelling’s philosophy of identity. Perhaps Hegel’s earliest thoughts on the
speculative nature of judgment and the copula are found in the Frankfurt fragment, ed.
Nohl, “Glauben is die Art . . .” Hegels theologische Jugendschriften (Tübingen: Mohr,
1907), 382–85.
26. See Wissenschaft der Logik, Das Sein, ed. Hans-Jürgen Gawoll (Hamburg: Felix
Meiner, 1986), 54. “The proposition (Satz) is in no way immediately suited to express
speculative truths.”
27. Logic, Doctrine of the Concept (Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 6, 304). This under-
standing of judgment as an “original dividing” is explicitly stated and referred to as an
“Ur-Teilung” in Hölderlin’s short text cited above.
108 JEFFREY REID
28. Surber points out how Hegel asks us to accept “subject” in both its grammat-
ical sense and as individual consciousness. (Surber, 1975, 214–15) Again, I refer to the
Hölderlin text cited above, apparently written in the Frankfurt period, when he and
Hegel were reunited. Here, Hölderlin describes judgment as the original separation
that makes “subject and object possible,” thus conflating the grammatical and “con-
sciousness” senses of the subject. In fact, in Hegel’s later, polemical writings, judgment
or predication becomes increasingly associated with the pronouncements of individual
(ironic) subjectivity in its position against scientific objectivity, thus referring judgment
to Fichte’s “I am I,” as indeed Hölderlin does but on a different scale. See also Hegel’s
“Review of Solger’s Posthumous Writings and Correspondence,” where Hegel deals
with Friedrich Schlegel, where the language of judgment is seen as operating, as irony,
against objectivity. “Judging is a decidedly negative tendency against
objectivity. . . .Such judgments do not take contents into account, but rather vacuous
representations that reject the thing [Sache] of religions and philosophies.” Werke in 20
Bänden vol. 11, 233. The ironic assault on true objectivity is effectuated through an
evacuation of content from meaningful, scientific language. Briefly put, the “word,” as
the very foundation of that discourse, is sapped of its thought-content and relegated to
the status of the always arbitrary “name.” Ironic discourse sunders being and thought.
For further discussion, see my introduction to Hegel—L’ironie romantique (Paris: Vrin,
1997), an annotated translation of Hegel’s review of Solger’s writings.
29. Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 6, 302
30.Werke in 20 Bänden vol.10, 309)
31.Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 10, 310)
32.Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 10, 282
33.Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 6, 354
34. This is why the thing (Sache) appears, in the Logic’s Doctrine of Essence, under
the title “The thing’s emergence into existance.” Die Sache should be understood as the
objective manifestation of essence. I am arguing for its linguistic nature in Hegel.
35. Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 10, 308
36. Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 10, 308
37. Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 6, 13
38. Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 3, 169
39. Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 10, 307
40. Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 10, 309
41. I will deal with this crucial “performative” or actual aspect of scientific lan-
guage below. For now, it is important to understand that ethical life (Sittlichkeit) can
only constitute an object (a content) for science in terms of what I have been describ-
ing as content-ful language. Discussions on Habermasean language-based ethics and
their opposition to Hegelian intersubjectivity should be reexamined in this light. Obvi-
ously, my account of Hegel’s scientific language implies this opposition is largely
unfounded, since it seems based on “Habermas’s attention to the linguistic dimension
of . . . autonomy, and Hegel’s neglect of that dimension,” as Pippin summarizes the
problem in Idealism as Modernism (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1997),
180. I want to stress, however, that the linguistic dimension I am referring to is lan-
guage as it pertains to the objects (contents) of science. This most emphatically does
not mean conversation or the exchange of personal opinions. In terms of intersubjec-
tivity, it might well mean mutual recognition through mutually recognized text.
Objective Language and Scientific Truth in Hegel 109
42. Shlomo Avineri points out how the expression “what is rational is actual and
what is actual is rational” (which is another way of expressing the conjunction of
thought and being) first appears in Hegel’s Heidelberg lectures (1817–1818) in the
context of the (written) constitution. Avineri quotes Hegel: “What is rational must
happen (muss geschehen) since the constitution is after all its development,” Owl of Min-
erva 16, 2 (Spring 1985): 203.
43. As Hegel maintains in paragraph 549 of the Encylopedia, history is essentially
historiography, the objective, yet still formal expressions of which are: (1) original and
(2) reflective. History itself becomes rational (i.e., dialectical) only in that it is then
understood and expressed speculatively in the philosophy of history. This view is obvi-
ously at odds with the interpretation of Hegelian objectivity I am arguing against,
which holds history (as historical events) to be, in itself, dialectical. Marx understood
this difference better than many have done since.
44. This reflects a deeply personal penchant of Hegel’s, who was, by all accounts,
a voracious and methodical reader from his very youth. Hegel’s predilection for nature
in its digested, determined form is also reflected in his account of his youthful trip to
the Alps, where his primary interest seems to have been in finding locations whose
descriptions he had previously read.
45. See Burbidge, John, “Hegel on Galvanism,” in Hegel on the Modern World, ed.
Ardis B. Collins (Albany: State University of New York Press, 1995), 111–24. The
article shows how Hegel relies on the writings of his time in order to develop the the-
ory of galvanism we find in paragraph 330 of the Encyclopedia. Burbidge also shows
how Hegel, in choosing his scientific contents prefers those where the form of specu-
lative thought is most apparent. The article by Alison Stone, cited above, which argues
for a Hegelian “theory” of nature, must necessarily misunderstand the importance of
objective content in Hegel’s science. Indeed, Stone attributes much of the difficulty of
the Philosophy of Nature to the fact that Hegel’s arguments are “submerged amidst [his]
lengthy discussions of now-unfamiliar works.” Stone, 2000, 725.
46. For example, Hegel’s numerous references to the literature of his day, in his
lengthy discussion of mental illness, in the addition to Encyclopedia § 406.
47. The word has a particularly elevated status in Hegel’s aesthetics. “The object
corresponding to [poetry] is the infinite sphere of spirit”; thus the word is “that most
constructive material [bildsamste Material], which immediately hears spirit and is most
capable of grasping its interests and movements into its inner liveliness.” Lectures on
Aesthetics, Werke in 20 Bänden vol. 15, 239.
48. “[T]he true content of religion is first present to the mind in words and let-
ters . . . in words and writings.” Preface to Hinrichs Philosophy of Religion, Werke in 20
Bänden vol. 11, 44. Hegel’s position is radically opposed to Shleiermacher’s hermeneu-
tics, for whom “all sacred writing is a mausoleum for religion.” First edition of Dis-
courses on Religion, Kritische Gasamtausgabe I.2, ed. Peiter, Birkner et al. (New York,
Berlin: de Gruyter, 1980), 242.
49. Hegel’s 1802 polemical essay against the philosopher Krug, who had asked
speculative philosophers to deduce his pen, shows that philosophy does not deal with
individual “natural” objects.
50. Philosophy of Right § 330.
110 JEFFREY REID
INTRODUCTION
How could language not have been important to Hegel? Kant’s ability not to
notice things once he had consigned them to the “merely empirical realm” cer-
tainly extended to language, which receives no focal treatment in his thought;
but Hegel is not thus dismissive. He zealously tracks down, in his System, the
internal structure of mollusks (Enz. § 370 Zus.).1
He enthusiastically contrasts
the rock crystals of Madagascar with those of Iceland (Enz. § 315 Anm.).
And—more revealingly—in 1828 he writes a seventy-five-page appreciation
of the redoubtable Sprachdenker, J. G. Hamann.2
Hegel knew, moreover, that the Greek word logos meant both “reason” and
“language,” and found this ambiguity schön; someone as concerned with rea-
son as Hegel was should also have been concerned with language. And of
course he was. As early as the Jena writings, language is “the power which
posits the inner as a being [which in turn is] the being of Spirit as Spirit.” And
as late as the spoken Lectures on the History of Philosophy, language is “the pure
existence of Spirit; it is a thing which has returned to itself as perceived.”3
Such passing encomia to language are hard to miss in Hegel’s writings—
consider the Phenomenology’s section on “The Living Work of Art,” where lan-
guage is “the perfect element in which inwardness is just as external as exter-
nality is inward.”4
Inwardness/externality, important though it is for Hegel, is
not the only opposition to be reconciled by language. For language is the “deed
[Tat] of theoretical intelligence,”5
thus uniting theoretical with practical—a
project that took Kant, who made no argumentative appeals to language, the
entire Third Critique to achieve.
111
CHAPTER 5
Sound—Tone—Word:
Toward an Hegelian
Philosophy of Language
John McCumber
Indeed, an argument can be made that language is not only, like mollusks
and crystals, an important aspect of the world which needs philosophical
comprehension, but essential to philosophy itself—that Hegel’s philosophy is
and can only be philosophy of language.
The argument begins with the well-known Hegelian claim that. genuine,
philosophical thinking “is at home with itself, it relates itself to itself, and is
its own object” (Enz. § 28 Zus.). Hegel reiterates this often, and drives it
home by ending his Encyclopedia with a quote from Aristotle to the effect that
the life of God is the self-thinking of reason—a point Aristotle goes on to
sum up by saying that the life of God is “thinking on thinking” (noêsôs noêsis).6
Philosophy for Hegel should be an entirely immanent discourse, one which
develops on its own with no reference to outside realities of any kind.
If we take this claim of immanence seriously, then we cannot view Hegel’s
System as some sort of rationalized theology, in the sense that God would be
somewhere outside it—for God, if He is thinking on thinking, is just the Sys-
tem itself, and as such is—like Aristotle’s Prime Mover—the telos (but not, it
appears, the Creator) of the world.
But if Hegel’s System as a whole is to be purely immanent, its parts—the
determinations of thought which it progressively develops and dialectically
transcends—must also be immanent to Hegel’s discourse.They cannot be cat-
egories of some wider form of thought which, even if only in our thinking,
preexist the System and are merely comprehended and dissected by it. They
must be both created by it and unique to it.7
How Hegel’s system, if true to this degree of immanence, can relate to
anything at all is an obvious problem here, but one that is ulterior to the argu-
ment I am stating.8
That argument states that if Hegel’s claim of immanence
is to be taken seriously, then the System can be “about” only thought itself and
what is intrinsic to thought. And language, alone of realities, is capable of
being thus intrinsic:
Words [are] thus a determinate being animated by thought. This determi-
nate being is absolutely necessary to our thought. We only know about our
thoughts, only have determinate, actual thoughts, when we give them the
shape of objectivity, of being distinguished from our interiority, and so give
them the form of externality, and indeed of such an externality as carries the
stamp of the highest internality. Only the word is such an internal external-
ity. (Enz. § 462 Zus.)
Language is thus intrinsic to thought.The immanent development of thought
is a development in language, or words, and only language, or words, can con-
stitute its “objects.” Thought thinking thought is words articulating words,
and can be nothing other than that.
I do not claim that this argument, in and of itself, is convincing; the
problem of how such immanent discourse can relate to what is other than
112 JOHN MCCUMBER
it—how the System can “comprehend” the world—yawns as wide as ever.
But it does raise the possibility that language for Hegel not only has the sta-
tus of an important and fascinating phenomenon, but that we cannot under-
stand the nature of his philosophy without understanding what exactly he
took language to be. Hegel should, then, have given language a central and
thorough discussion.
But he does not. His only focal discussion of language (at Enz.
§§ 459–62) is disappointingly truncated, for it examines language only as a
vehicle for expressing representations, not philosophical thought or whatever
else we might want to try and express linguistically, such as feelings. Various
explanations for this lack of attention can be found in the literature, but they
boil down to a consensus that language’s absence from Hegel’s System is its
own fault. Either language is merely an “immediate” expression of Spirit, as
Theodor Bodammer has maintained,9
or it somehow impedes the develop-
ment of thought, as G. R. G. Mure maintained. Mure has been followed, in
very different ways, by such writers as Malcolm Clark, Daniel Cook, Josef
Simon, and (in my view) Jere Surber.10
Some reasons for this lack of attention will come out in the course of this
chapter, but my main concern will be different. Having argued for the impor-
tance of an adequate discussion of language in Hegel, I will simply assume its
lack and to begin to supply it. What, then, is the nature of language for Hegel?
This question can be sharpened.
As early as the Nürnberg “Philosophical Propadeutic” (1810), Hegel
claims that language consists “in external signs and tones (Tönen) through
which one makes known what one thinks, feels, or senses”—that is, in
“words.”11
As the Encyclopedia’s treatment of language has it, words are “the
most appropriate [würdigste] way, peculiar to the Intelligence, of expressing its
representations” (Enz. § 459 Anm.). And the Aesthetics tells us that “we think
in words”; the word is “the most malleable material, which belongs immedi-
ately to Spirit and is the most capable of grasping its interests and movements
in their inner animation [Lebendigkeit.].”12
Where for more recent philosophy
of language, especially in the analytic tradition, language consists in proposi-
tions or sentences, for Hegel it consists in words. So my sharper question is:
What, for Hegel, is the nature of a word?
I. THE DISCUSSION OF LANGUAGE
IN THE ENCYCLOPEDIA
This topic is missing, crucially, from the truncated discussion of language at
Enz. §§ 459–62, as well as from the two supplementary discussions to
which Hegel refers us there. These are the accounts of the “psycho-physio-
logical material” of language at Enz. § 401, which turns out to be devoted
Sound—Tone—Word 113
to interjections, cries, laughter, weeping, and so on—to language as a natural
expression of emotion—and to grammar, which is identified with the struc-
tures of the Understanding (a discussion Hegel never actually gives). The
question of what a word is, then, is the crucial question for Hegelian phi-
losophy of language. It is also one which Hegel, for reasons which we will
probably never fully understand, does not even begin to treat.
The discussion at Enz. §§ 459–62 now appears to be entirely ancillary. In
fact it is not, because the project there—to see how language best serves the
purpose of expressing representations—is not wholly divorced from how
Hegel would view language in general. As he puts it in the introduction to the
Lectures on the Philosophy of History, “the only thought that philosophy brings
with it is however the simple thought of Reason, that Reason rules the world,
and that world history is therefore also to be approached as rational” (Werke
XII 20/12). This passage, with its “therefore also,” makes it clear that it is not
only history that is to be approached solely with “the simple thought of Rea-
son,” but everything in the world, including language. Hegel would, if he had
treated language as it should have been treated, have examined it from the
point of view of its rational capacities—of its capacity to express, not merely
representation, but Reason (and thought) itself. In other words, his approach
would, from the start and consciously, subordinate language to Reason; it
would be teleologically motivated.
Jacques Derrida has traced the way in which Hegel privileges speech
over writing, at Enz. § 459, to Hegel’s teleologically motivated view of time
as the sublation of space. This Derrida takes to be motivated, in turn, by
Hegel’s concern, as a metaphysical thinker, for validating and securing the
philosophical dream of “full presence.”13
This is true, I take it, as far as it
goes. That it does not go all that far, however, is perhaps suggested by the
openness with which Hegel concedes the point, when he limits his discus-
sion to language as a vehicle for the expression of representations. From that
point of view, it makes perfect sense to limit one’s discussion of language to
the relative merits of spoken and written utterances, and (within the latter)
to a comparison of alphabetic and hieroglyphic writing. Is Derrida mistak-
ing the purpose of a specific discussion for the motivating force of teleology
in general?
I think not. Hegel does privilege spoken over written language, I sug-
gest, both at § 459 and elsewhere. The question for a fuller account of the
nature of words than Hegel actually gives is not whether that privileging
occurs, but whether it is justified by anything other than an unexamined
metaphysical preference for “full presence.” To do that, we must see words
not in terms of their telos but in terms of their origin as Hegel conceives it,
and this permits my question to be sharpened once again: where do words
come from?
114 JOHN MCCUMBER
II. SOUNDS
If words are essentially spoken for Hegel, on their most basic level they are
sounds. What is a “sound”?
As the discussion of sound (Klang) at Enz. § 430 has it, a sound is a noise
produced by vibration, that is, by the movement of a body from its specific
place and back to it: an oscillation between the negation (of that place) and
the negation of that negation.
A body can vibrate only if it is cohesive; the noise (Schall) a stone makes,
for example, when it is cracked by a hammer, or the rushing of a brook
(Rauschen) are not “sounds” in Hegel’s sense. A true sound requires—indeed,
exemplifies—the identity of the sounder, in the sense of identity-which-
embraces-difference developed in Hegel’s Logic.14
There must be a unity to
the sounding object that holds it together and returns it to the place it had
left—a unity that Hegel, again following the Logic, calls “inner.”15
True to what Hegel in the Logic calls the “immediate identity of inner and
outer,” the inner movement-and-return of vibration is also a movement out-
ward: sound propagates. A vibration in one body sets off vibrations in the sur-
rounding medium of air, water, or earth. These vibrations are inaudible them-
selves, presumably because the media in question are not cohesive; but they set
off matching vibrations in other bodies, which resonate in return. Hegel does
not shrink from calling this process one of “communication” (Mitteilung). In
propagation, the sound negates the body that it is in without returning back
to it: it negates not merely the specific place of that body but the body in toto.
Sound thus negates the material reality of the sounding body in two ways,
one of which is negated in turn while the other is not. The negating of mate-
rial reality is, in Hegel’s terminology, the process of “idealization” (cf. Werke
XIII [Ästh.] 162f/120), and so both internal vibration and propagation are
“idealizations.” Since the nature of a material thing is to submit to the exter-
nality, or Ausseinandersein, of space, idealization’s negation of that is itself a
push toward internality and unity; as pushing toward these things, it pushes
toward “subjectivity” as well, since the subject is the ultimate negation of
materiality—one which, as in Kant, negates all the specific qualities of the
individual (Werke XV, Vorlesungen über die Ästhetik, 156/907).
III. TONES
This push toward internality, unity, and subjectivity entails a push toward ani-
mation. Inanimate bodies can transmit sounds (as when I pluck a guitar string),
but do not originate them (Enz. § 300 Zus.). Sounds are thus generated by bod-
ies which, being organic, are relatively complex—they have internal structure.
Sound—Tone—Word 115
The push toward interiority that characterizes sound is actually achieved in the
“tone,” the inner, self-producing sound. Tone is “a vibration . . . in which the
body, without changing its relative position as a whole body, moves its parts
only” (Enz. § 401 Zus.).
This means two things. First, in producing a tone, various internal parts
of the originating body vibrate together; the production of a tone, like that of
a sound but in more complex ways, sublates the “indifferent externality” (gle-
ichgültiges Ausseinandersein) that bodily parts, as merely corporeal, have to one
another. It too is therefore a process of “idealization.” As such, it is a negation
of spatiality altogether, in favor of time: the production of a tone is, like all
motion, a Zeitlichgesetztwerden der Körperlichkeit, the body coming to be
posited as temporal.
Hegel’s privileging of time over space, in the form of the sublation of the
former by the latter, is carried out at Enz. §§ 254–61. That move is invoked
here, not on general grounds, but in the interest of destabilization: it is impor-
tant for Hegel that the tone be something which, as the Aesthetics puts it, “in
its coming-to-be is annihilated by its very existence, and vanishes of itself”
(Werke XV 134/890). For it is only because of its temporal instability that the
tone can “mean” something:
The tone is the transient [flüchtige] appearance of an interiority, which in this
utterance [Äußerung] does not remain something external [ein Äußerliches] but
rather announces itself as subjective and inner, which essentially means some-
thing. (Werke IV 52/157, where Erscheinung is translated as “manipulation”)
Meaning is “essential” to the tone because the tone is transient. The meaning
of an utterance for Hegel is that to which the mind is directed by that utter-
ance.16
Meaning itself, in the sense of signification in general, is a process by
which the mind moves from one thing to something else, which then (under
certain circumstances, such as repetition) counts as its “meaning.”17
Anything, presumably, can have a meaning: we look on the pyramids and
find our thoughts conveyed to death, which counts for us as their “meaning.”
But a death rattle accomplishes the same thing more neatly, because it expires
as it is uttered. The pyramid does not require our mind to move to something
else: it simply stands there. But with a tone we have no choice, because it dies
away as it is born, and its very determinate being is to do just that (one thinks
of the sound “being” at the beginning of the Logic, which as the only compo-
nent of the System at that point directs the mind onward to . . . nothing).
In the first instance, the meaning of a tone is the interiority or subjectiv-
ity of whatever produced it:
The expression [Äußerung] . . . does not produce an object persisting in space,
but shows through its free unstable soaring that it is a communication which,
instead of having stability on its own account, is carried only by the inner and
subjective, and is to be there only for the sake of the inner and subjective.
116 JOHN MCCUMBER
Thus the tone is an expression [Äußerung] and an externality, but an expres-
sion which makes itself disappear again precisely because it is an externality.
(Werke XV 136/891f.)
The meaning of a tone is thus, in the first instance (or, as we will see, almost
the first) subjectivity in general—the entire interiority of the producing body’s
parts that produced it.
But there are, again essentially, more than one tone; each individual note
in the musical scale (Ton can and does mean both) stands as part of a system
of notes whose relations to one another constitute stable patterns (preemi-
nently, tonic, fourth, and fifth: Werke XV [Ästh.] pp. 151, 159–62/903f,
910–12). These relations are quantitative (e.g., doubling the length of a string
results in a tone an octave lower), and as such are merely “external” to the indi-
vidual tones themselves, which are never found together that way in nature
(Werke XV [Ästh.] 160/910). Each individual tone, then, can stand on its own,
can be animated by subjectivity independently of other tones and be an
expression in its own right (160/910).
This gives rise to a complexity of coordination between inner and outer.
I have noted that the tone, because of its instability, directs the mind of one
who perceives it back to subjectivity itself, the “inner domain of time” (Werke
XV [Ästh.] 151/903) from which and for which it is transiently there. But to
that subjectivity—that is, to the whole interiority of the toning body—we can
also coordinate not just an individual tone but the whole system of them.
Which means that each individual tone can be coordinated to just one ingre-
dient in that subjectivity. Examples are interjections: a snarl directs us to the
anger in the snarling being, a laugh to its good humor. But representations,
once the mind has formed them, are other examples: “It is particularly impor-
tant that through the articulation of tones not only images in their determi-
nacy but also abstract representations get designated” (Werke IV 52/156).
The individual representation or feeling, to be sure, does not exhaust the
meaning of the tone: it still must direct the mind to subjectivity in general, for
without that there would be no path from the tone to the individual repre-
sentation meant by it. (Indeed, several levels could be discriminated here: in
order to know that Alice is talking about horses, I must first know that she is
talking about something; and in order to know that Alice is talking about
something I must first classify her utterances as speech; that is, I must ascer-
tain that someone is talking about something.)
In addition to these two meanings for a tone (the specific feeling or rep-
resentation to which it directs the mind, and subjectivity in general), there is
another. As Hegel tells us in the Science of Logic, a tone directs the mind to the
other components of its harmonic system:
The individual tone first has a sense [Sinn] in the relation and connection to
another and to the sequence [Reihe] of others; the harmony or disharmony
Sound—Tone—Word 117
in which a circle of connections constitutes its qualitative nature, which rests
upon quantitative relations. . . . The individual tone is the tonic [Grundton]
of a system, but equally again a single member in the system of a different
tonic. (Werke V 421/355)
Without saddling Hegel with any hard and fast version of the storied
German distinction between Bedeutung and Sinn, we can say that the Bedeut-
ing of a tone is some component of the interior of the producing body (any-
thing from a feeling to a representation), while its Sinn is a specific set of other
tones, standing in quantitative relations to each other and to it. The Sinn
makes possible the Bedeuting: it is only because the tone is coordinated to
other tones that it can come to stand for merely a part of subjectivity, not the
whole.
It is this Sinn, in the first instance, that a tone loses when it becomes a
mere verbal sign—a Zeichen, or as Hegel tends to put it, a “sign meaningless
for itself” (Werke XII [Ästh.] 122/88); XV [Asth.] 144/898).18
Signs, unlike
tones, do not stand in harmonic relations to one another; without the need to
conform to those relations, they are free to take on many other, often arbitrary,
marks of mutual contrast—as when the human vocal apparatus articulates the
sounds “l” and “r” with the same tone. Where a tone stood in harmonic rela-
tion to a finite, indeed rather small, system of other tones, a verbal sign is
merely one among a vast number of alternatives. It is no longer capable of
expressing anything as inwardly “pervasive” as a feeling, and so is no longer the
product of the whole subjectivity of the person who utters it: it is “meaning-
less for itself”: “The Spirit thus withdraws its content from the tone as such,
and announces itself through words, which to be sure do not completely leave
the element of sound, but sink back to being merely an external sign of com-
munication” (Werke XV [Ästh.] 227f./963).
IV. WORD
We thus arrive at the “word,” which for Hegel is usually a sound arbitrarily
connected to a representation, though sometimes it is the composite thus
formed. The word is
the most comprehensible means of communication, the one most adequate
to Spirit, which is capable of grasping and announcing everything that
passes through the heights and depths of consciousness in any way and
comes to be inwardly present. (Werke XV [Ästh.] 272/997)
Contrary to how it sounds at first, this passage does not render the con-
ceptual reach of the word absolute: there are things within us which cannot
be spoken of because they are too indefinite to become “inwardly present.”
Such things are also too incoherent to “pass through” any medium; they sim-
ply sit there:
118 JOHN MCCUMBER
Although the common opinion is that it is just the ineffable that is the most
excellent, yet this opinion, cherished by conceit, is unfounded, since what is
ineffable is, in truth, only something obscure, fermenting, something which
gains clarity only when it is capable of being put into words. [zu Worte zu
kommon vermag] (Enz. § 462 Zus.)
It is here that Hegel finds himself at a point of almost infinite proximity
(if I may so put it) to Heidegger, and specifically to the late Heidegger’s think-
ing of Appropriation as the “way to language”—the point of almost infinite
distance being that for Heidegger the (temporarily) ineffable is an occasion for
piety, rather than conceit.19
But I will leave this matter aside, because there are
three further characteristics of the word, for Hegel, that need to be disengaged.
First, like the tone from which it is derived, the word is “transient, disap-
pearing” (Enz. § 444 Zus.). It is
this simple allowing-itself-to-be-perceived [sich Vernehmenlassen] which
makes no fixed distinction and becomes no fixed distinction, but is immedi-
ately perceived and which . . . is immediately taken up into interiority and
returned to is origin.20
Second, and unlike the tone from which it is derived, the word consists
in a sound that is only arbitrarily connected to a representation. It cannot
determine, or even codetermine, which representations a given sign expresses.
A snarl is connected with the physiology of the snarler—the inner “subjectiv-
ity” of what I have called the producing body—in such a way that it cannot
stand for happiness. The word “snarl” retains some of this connection—
through onomatopoeia, but to a much lesser degree—and it would be possi-
ble (though not easy) for “snarl” to have meant “joy.” When all onomatopoeia
is gone—that is, when we have a true word—any sound can express any rep-
resentation. Words thus constitute a resistance-free [Widerstandslose] element
for expression (Enz. § 444 Zus.), in contrast for example to other expressive
media such as stone and paint (Werke XV [Ästh.] 222–29/959–70). They are,
as the Phenomenology has it, the “perfect element” for the outer expression of
the inner (Werke III 528f./439).
Because words are derived from tones and so are actual sounds, they have
externality to Spirit; but the externality is merely transient, and because its
connection to thought is arbitrary, it is resistance-free. It is this combination
of transient externality and lack of resistance, in turn, which constitutes the
great virtue of the word for Hegel. For the word alone permits the intelligence
(and by extension scientific Spirit itself) to remain fully with itself in its utter-
ance, satisfy itself internally, and, in the form of comprehensive cognition [des
begreifenden Erkennens], to bring into being the unlimited freedom and recon-
ciliation of mind with itself (Enz. § 444 Zus.).
Third, to speak is to determine. In an almost untranslatable passage,
Hegel writes:
Sound—Tone—Word 119
Determining [Bestimmen], the activity of determining as such [die Thätigkeit
sich zu bestimmen] is the general determination [die allgemeine Bestimmung]
as logos, the rationally determining activity [die vernünftig bestimmende
Tätigkeit]—precisely [auch] the word. (Vorlesungen über die Philosophie der
Religion III 213/288)
This goes back to the loss of harmony in the move from tone to sign: just as
to strike the tonic is not to strike the fourth, to utter a sound—any sound—is
not to utter any other sound, and so not only to act but to do something deter-
minate: a word is not just the general activity [Tätigkeit] but a specific “deed”
[Tat] of the Intelligence (Werke XII 85f./66).
There is one final aspect of the word as such that needs attention here.
Hegel is famous for saying, over and over and in many ways, that what Rea-
son takes a thing to be is what it “is” (“the real is rational” is just one of those
ways; for others cf. his discussion of Judgment in the Logic, Werke VI
301–51/622–63). Since reason, like thought, is intrinsically linguistic for
Hegel, the same goes for the word: “Just as the true thought is the very thing
itself, so too is the word when it is employed by genuine thinking. Intelli-
gence, therefore, in filling itself with the word, receives into itself the nature
of the thing” (Enz. § 462 Zus.). Words, when used in “genuine thinking,” do
not refer to realities; they are those realities. (The allusion to Aristotle’s doc-
trine of the passive intellect, which in receiving the forms of things receives
their true natures, is patent: cf. Aristotle, de anima III.4.)
CONCLUSIONS
The foregoing hardly qualifies as the discussion of language that Hegel should
have given but never did; it is far too sketchy for that. Nonetheless, some
points have been made that can qualify as basic theses for an Hegelian phi-
losophy of language, and they deserve a summing-up. Before doing that, how-
ever, I will discuss a number of problems with Hegel scholarship that have
already been resolved by the discussion so far.
Trendelenberg’s famous question—How does movement come into
Hegel’s Logic?—has continued to vex scholars down to the present day. Terry
Pinkard, for example, takes a middle position:
Does not Hegel in speaking of the movement of concepts commit himself
to at least some form of metaphysical hypostatization of concepts? It
depends on how literally one takes the idea of movement in the Hegelian
system to be and how one understands Hegel’s usage of “Begriff.” The
movement of concepts in the Science of Logic may be taken as a metaphor
for their logical relations. What moves in the Science of Logic is not the con-
cepts themselves but thought itself. Each category is a position to which
thought moves.21
120 JOHN MCCUMBER
One may wonder how a static category would be less of an “hypostatization”
than a moving one; but in any case, the problem is easily solved. Movement
does not “come into” the Logic, but is in it from the start. Its different stages—
which Hegel, importantly, calls not “categories” but “moments”—are not sub-
strates which undergo change, but are intrinsically evanescent, for they have
determinate existence merely as words, as shaped vocalizations that disappear
as they are uttered.
The second problem whose resolution becomes clearer is that of how
determinacy comes into the Logic. Robert Pippin, taking Hegel’s project to
originate from the wholly abstract Kantian unity of apperception, is at a loss
to understand how the System can progressively enrich itself. Hegel’s own
accounts of the matter are, Pippin says, “idealized” (p. 235),22
“tremendously
abstract” (pp. 246, 254), and give a “high aerial view of matters” (p. 249). He
concludes that no such account is possible: “The meaning of otherness and
negation and the criteria of success vary so much in all such accounts that it
does not seem to me fruitful to try to make any general assessment of Hegel’s
dialectical method” (p. 255). Determinacy for Pippin generally comes into
Hegel’s system by being taken over from reality, in violation of the immanency
requirement with which this chapter began and to which Pippin himself
devotes enormous scrutiny:
So many concepts [of Hegel’s logic] are clearly as they are because the world
is as it is, and cannot possibly be considered categorial results of thought’s pure
self-determination, that Hegel’s project cries out for a more explicit, clear-cut
account of when and why we should regard our fundamental ways of taking
things to be “due” wholly to us, in the relevant Hegelian sense. (p. 258)
If we take the basic and most general level of Hegel’s System to be not
the high modern abstraction of the unity of apperception but the humble act
of saying something, then at least some of the problems Pippin is wrestling
with can begin to be solved. For to speak is to determine; “Being” at the begin-
ning of the Logic is not in fact said to be without determinacy, but to be with-
out further determinacy—determinacy beyond, I suggest, its mere sound
(Werke V 82/82). Being, as the Encyclopedia has it, is the “general space of
names as such, i.e., of senseless words” (Enz. § 463). Determinacy is present
in Being, not in thought but in sound, as “empty words”:
Whatever is supposed to be asserted of or contained in Being in the richer
forms of the representation of the absolute or God, this is in the beginning
merely an empty word and merely being; this simplicity, which otherwise has
no further meaning, this emptiness, is therefore completely the beginning of
philosophy. (Werke V 79/78)
Answering Pippin’s problems in full would require a much more complete
account of Hegel’s System than can be given here; but the path to a possible
answer is at least open.
Sound—Tone—Word 121
Third, we can see that Hegel’s teleological privileging of speech over
writing is not, pace Derrida, the full story. Speech is privileged, not only
through what it serves, but because of where it comes from. Spoken language,
produced from the interior cooperation of various organs of the human body,
is rooted in our embodiment and its “ideal” subjectivity in ways that written
language can never be. This would be true even if language could not serve
thought as Hegel thinks it can, for it is true in cases where language dissimu-
lates thought, such as “Culture and its Realm of Actuality” (Werke III
376/308f.). Rootedness in embodiment, as my discussion here has (I hope)
established, is something language always has, because it comes from tones
which are sounds. The capacity to serve thought as a medium without resis-
tance is something language fully gains only in philosophy. Derrida’s reading
of Hegel’s “semiotics,” if taken alone, thus risks occluding the embodiment
essential to language and, indeed, occluding the body itself. It is thus, para-
doxically, in danger of rendering itself complicit with one of the main aims of
the “metaphysical” tradition as Derrida understands it.
Fourth and finally, we can now see at least one of the ways in which
Hegel’s philosophy is a philosophy of language without seeming to be so. For
words do not, philosophically considered, “refer” to realities. Rather, as I noted
above, they are those realities in a higher, more conceptualized form. Hence if
we want, as philosophers, to examine the nature of causality, we do not look to
experiences of cause and effect, because experience is a confused and ignorant
teacher (as the Phenomenology’s opening section on sense certainty seeks to
establish). Instead, we look to what genuine thinkers say about causality: the
word Ursache itself, when the various senses in which philosophers have dis-
cussed it have been fully defined, tells us what we want to know. In so doing,
we could say that we are analyzing the word Ursache, or the concept of causal-
ity. But for Hegel, the right way to put it is that we are analyzing causality itself.
These four considerations suggest ways in which it is fruitful to view
Hegel’s philosophy as philosophy of language. But what sort of philosophy of
language would it be, and would it be worth pursuing? I will suggest some
ways in which it is very much worth pursuing by summing up some of its basic
theses, though crudely:
1. Language is an expression of subjective contents, especially (but not only)
of representations.
2. Subjective contents are fleeting. Language conforms to their nature by
being itself unstable. Linguistic expressions in the proper sense are merely
words, formed breaths that have no being other than to express interiority.
3. On the philosophically interesting level, words do not refer. Rather, the
fundamental activity of the verbal sign is to direct the mind of a hearer
toward its meaning, which is always both general (subjectivity as such)
and specific (what is actually “in” the speaking subject at a given time).
122 JOHN MCCUMBER
4. When used by “genuine thinking,” the word gives the true nature of what
is being talked of: it does not “refer” to reality, but coincides with it.
5. The meaning of a word is not always a mental content such as a feeling
or representation, but can in principle be another word.
Even such a crude summary suggests some of the ways in which Hegelian
philosophy of language, were it ever to be pursued, would contrast with some
of the forms more prevalent today. To put it crudely again, Frege’s attack on
“psychologism,” from which much contemporary philosophy of language
grows, conceived of psychological processes as unrolling in the individual
mind. It also conceived of the “inner world” of the individual mind in Kant-
ian terms: as structured by time. To “lead us out” of the inner world required,
then, leading us out of time itself: “”the truth which we acknowledge by using
the assertoric-sentence form is timeless.”23
Frege’s antipsychologism was moti-
vated by the desire to preserve communication, and indeed science itself; but
as has often been pointed out, it fails to recognize that the “inner world” can
be not only individual, but sociocultural. Truncating this dimension has led to
widespread “fetishing” of language; that is, to looking at it in abstraction from
the interpersonal contexts in which alone it can arise. Hegel’s philosophy thus
joins those branches of philosophy of language—Wittgenstein and Grice
come to mind—which refuse to do that.
Further, by looking not to sentences but to words, Hegelian philosophy
of language joins with some aspects of the British tradition of linguistic analy-
sis. Hegelian philosophy in general, however, has a kind of systematic
overview that the classical linguistic analysts, such as J. L. Austin, did not
have. This has the effect of guiding Hegelian analysis of language to those
aspects of language that are truly basic—such as the many words Hegel exam-
ines and clarifies, and often criticizes, in his System.
An Hegelian philosophy of language would thus be a systematic clarifi-
cation and critique of the important words through which we structure our
societies and lives. As such, it would be not only a good way to understand
Hegel, but a project well worth pursuing. This chapter began by asking “How
could language not have been important to Hegel?” So it is perhaps well to
end it by asking “How can Hegel’s philosophy of language not be important
to us?”
NOTES
1. References to the Encyclopedia will be by paragraph number; “Anm.” denotes
one of Hegel’s own marginal comments; “Zus.” denotes material from students notes.
References to translations, after the first to each, will be given after slashes.
2. G. W. F. Hegel, Werke, ed. Eva Moldenhauer and Karl Markus Michel
(Frankfurt: Suhrkamp, 20 vols., 1970–1971) (hereinafter: Werke), XI 275–354.
Sound—Tone—Word 123
3. G. W. F. Hegel, Jenaer Realphilosophie, ed. Johannes Hoffmeister (Hamburg:
Meiner, 1931), p. 183; Werke XX 106f.; English translation, Hegel, Lectures on the His-
tory of Philosophy, trans. E. S. Haldane and Frances M. Simson (New York: Humani-
ties, 3 vols., 1974), III 204. The manuscript for the Lectures dates, to be sure, from the
Jena period, but Hegel used it to lecture from until the end of his life. See the testi-
mony of Michelet, quoted at Werke XX 522.
4. Hegel, Werke III 528f.; English translation, Hegel, Phenomenology of Spirit,
trans. A. V. Miller (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1979), p. 439.
5. Hegel, Werke XII 85f.; English translation, Hegel, Introduction to the Philoso-
phy of History, trans. Leo Rauch (Indianapolis: Hackett, 1988), p. 66.
6. Aristotle, Metaphysics 1074b34; Hegel’s actual quote is from 1072b18–30.
7. The most influential contemporary exponent of the view alluded to is Robert
Pippin, who takes the System to be about “the categorical structure that makes possi-
ble determinate objects of its intentions.” Pippin, Hegel’s Idealism (Cambridge: Cam-
bridge University Press, 1989), p. 200.
8. In my own view, the immanent development of Hegelian thought is expressed
in words appropriated from the expert German of Hegel’s day, but stripped of their
meanings by the activity of “mechanical memory.” Each such word thus has two mean-
ings: one from the System, and one from expert speech. At first this relation is one of
mere homonymy, which preserves the demand for immanence; but the identity of Sys-
tematic and expert words is demonstrated as thought progresses, thus allowing the
System to “comprehend” not only expert words but, to some degree, the external real-
ities those words capture. John McCumber, The Company of Words (Evanston, Ill.:
Northwestern University Press, 1993).
9. Theodor Bodammer, Hegels Deutung der Sprache (Hamburg: Meiner, 1969).
10. G. R. G. Mure, A Study of Hegel’s Logic (Oxford: Clarendon, 1950); Malcolm
Clark, Logic and System (The Hague: Nijhoff, 1971); Daniel Cook, Language in the
Philosophy of Hegel (The Hague: Mouton, 1973); Josef Simon, Das Problem der Sprache
bei Hegel (Stuttgart: Kohlhammer, 1966); Jère Paul Surber, “Hegel’s Speculative Sen-
tence,” Hegel-Studien 10 (1975): 211–29.
11. Hegel, Werke IV 213; English translation, Hegel, The Philosophical Propadeu-
tic, trans. A. V. Miller (Oxford: Blackwell, 1986), p. 8.
12. Hegel, Werke XV 144/239; English translation, Hegel, Aesthetics, trans. T. M.
Knox (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1975), 2 vols. with consecutive pagination, pp.
972, 989.
13. Jacques Derrida, “Le puits et la pyramide: introduction à la sémiologie de
Hegel” in Derrida, Marges de la philosophie (Paris: Minuit, 1972), pp. 79–127, 101–11;
English translation, Derrida, “The Pit and the Pyramid: Introduction to the Semiol-
ogy of Hegel,” in Derrida, Margins of Philosophy, trans. Alan Bass (Chicago: Univer-
sity of Chicago Press, 1982), pp. 69–108, esp. pp. 88–95.
14. Hegel, Wissenschaft der Logik, ed. Georg Lasson (Hamburg: Meiner, 2 vols.,
1932), II 26–32; English translation, Hegel, Science of Logic, trans. A. V. Miller (New
York: Humanities,1976), pp. 411–16.
15. Hegel, Wissenschaft der Logik II 150–52/523–26.
16. As Derrida notes: Derrida, “Le puits et la pyramide,” p. 82/71.
17. Cf. Werke IV 214/8.
124 JOHN MCCUMBER
18. Sinn will be importantly restored to the tone, by the name as mere “sign,” at
Enz. § 463 (“mechanical memory”); like “the “names” through which such memory
runs, such restored Sinn will be important to thinking in ways I cannot explore here.
19. Cf. Martin Heidegger, Unterwegs zur Sprache (Pfullingen: Neske, 4th ed.,
1971); English translation, Heidegger, On the Way to Language, trans. Albert Hofs-
tadter (New York: Harper & Row, 1971).
20. G. W. F. Hegel, Vorlesungen über die Philosophie der Religion (Walter Jaeschke,
Hrsg.) (Frankfurt: Meiner, 3 vols., 1983), III 213; English translation, Hegel, Lectures
on the Philosophy of Religion, ed. and trans. Peter C. Hodgson et al. (Berkeley: Univer-
sity of California Press, 1984), III 288.
21. Terry Pinkard, Hegel’s Dialectic (Philadelphia: Temple University Press, 1988),
p. 14; cf. A. Trendelenberg, Logische Untersuchingen (Berlin, 1840).
22. All quotes from Pippin are from Robert Pippin, Hegel’s Idealism (Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press, 1989).
23. Gottlob Frege, “Thoughts,” in Frege, Logical Investigations, trans. P. T. Geach
and R. H. Stoothoff (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1977), pp. 1–30; the quotes
are to be found on pp. 27f.
Sound—Tone—Word 125
This page intentionally left blank.
“I solemnly swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.”
Actually, I do not. I take it back. Because to fulfill that vow, which is casu-
ally uttered by every witness who takes the stand in an American courtroom,
I would have to accomplish the entire task of philosophy, as Hegel under-
stands it. For the aims of systematic philosophy correspond precisely to those
expressed in the tripartite oath: first, philosophy must tell the truth; second, it
must tell the whole truth; and third, it must tell nothing but the truth. In
Hegel’s view, only philosophy is capable of accomplishing all three of these
goals, and any philosophical endeavor that falls short of doing so is a failure.
The injunction to tell the truth means that the truth must be put into
words. It is not enough to show the truth or, worse still, simply to feel it in
mute isolation. The truth must be expressed in the form of language and,
indeed, in language common enough that people can understand when the
truth has been told. Moreover, it is not enough to express this or that part of
the truth. Philosophy must find the words to express the whole truth, includ-
ing all of its parts and their interrelations. At the same time, however, care
must be taken not to say too much. Embellishment and distortion must be
scrupulously avoided, if philosophy is to tell nothing but the truth.
The conjunction of the three requirements that define systematic philos-
ophy thus implies the need to use the resources available in ordinary language
to produce an account that articulates the entire truth, and nothing else. This
is no mean feat, and so perhaps it is not surprising to find many who claim
that if these are the necessary conditions of philosophy, then philosophy is
impossible, despite Hegel’s own claim to have made it actual.
127
CHAPTER 6
Telling the Truth:
Systematic Philosophy and the Aufhebung
of Poetic and Religious Language
Will Dudley
The aim of this chapter is to specify more precisely the conditions of the
possibility of philosophy, and in particular the conditions of the possibility of
philosophically adequate language. I will proceed by means of an examination
of Hegel’s account of the inability of art and religion to meet the three truth-
telling requirements. This will enable us to determine the criteria of successful
philosophical language by negation: the actualization of systematic philosophy
depends on not employing those features of poetic and religious language that
preclude the telling of the whole truth and nothing but the truth.1
TELLING THE TRUTH
For Hegel, telling the truth is not, as it is for Kant, primarily a moral imper-
ative. But it does have ethical significance. Knowledge of the truth includes,
most importantly, the knowledge that we are free. And such knowledge
empowers us, Hegel thinks, to reject any authority, either doctrinal or politi-
cal, that fails to respect our freedom. Because he considers living freely to be
our ultimate end, and considers knowledge of our freedom to be the sine qua
non of a free life, Hegel concludes that knowledge or possession of the truth
is of supreme practical as well as theoretical importance.
It is not immediately obvious, however, that the truth must be possessed
in linguistic form. It is not clear, in other words, that the truth must be told.
Indeed, in Hegel’s own view, art and religion, no less than philosophy, aim at
giving us possession of the truth, and they do so in part by nonlinguistic
means. Art, as Hegel understands it, is the creation of objects that present the
truth to our senses. Religion is a set of practices that enable us to feel the
truth. Most of the objects that artists create, and many of the practices in
which religious people engage, are not primarily linguistic. If such objects and
practices were able to give us an adequate grasp of the truth, then the posses-
sion of the truth in linguistic form might be desirable, but would fail to be
strictly necessary.
That nonlinguistic possession of the truth is not adequate, however, is
shown by the fact that both art and religion ultimately have to try to put the
truth into words. Poetry and religious doctrine, in Hegel’s view, amount to two
distinctly nonphilosophical attempts to tell the truth.
Poetry is necessary, according to Hegel, because the truth can be embod-
ied in a physical object only to a limited extent. Sculpture is, for Hegel, the
pinnacle of artistic creation, the art in which the marriage of physical form to
the content of spiritual freedom is most perfectly realized. In the best Greek
sculpture we can actually see human freedom: the harmony of mind and body,
the satisfied repose in the present, and the potential for purposive action are
all immediately apparent in the stone figures. But even a perfect marriage has
its limitations, and in this case it is the inability of static, physical objects to
128 WILL DUDLEY
tell a temporal story, or to present our inner lives, our thoughts and feelings,
in sufficient detail. Consequently, there is an irresolvable conflict between
beauty and truth. Beauty is the physical embodiment of the truth, but the
truth is only partially amenable to physical embodiment. If art is to present us
with the truth, then, it must sacrifice beauty; physicality must be renounced to
whatever extent the truth requires.
The artistic sacrifice of beauty for truth amounts, in Hegel’s terms, to the
transition from classical to romantic art, and the transitions within romantic
art (from painting to music to poetry) amount to the increasing renunciation
of physicality for the sake of an increasingly adequate presentation of the
truth. The content of poetry is embodied only in language, and so is limited
only by the imagination of the poet, rather than by the constraints of a recal-
citrant physical medium. Thus although poetry is not the most beautiful art,
it affords the best artistic presentation of the truth, and in so doing it demon-
strates that the truth must be not only embodied but also told.
Religion presents the truth not to the senses, but to the heart. Whereas
art allows us to see or hear the truth, religion enables us to feel it. Feeling, as
Hegel defines it, is the subjective connection to a content, and it is this sub-
jective connection to the truth that religion seeks to establish.
Religion does not suffer from the fundamental contradiction between
medium and message that is endemic to art. Art, we have just noted, is
plagued by the fact that the temporal and subjective aspects of the truth can-
not be adequately embodied for sensory apprehension. Religion has no such
flaw because there is no barrier in principle to establishing a subjective con-
nection to any content whatsoever. This flexibility is a double-edged sword,
however, because it also means that the mere presence of feeling cannot serve
as an indication that the object of that feeling is in fact the truth. One can feel
strongly about all kinds of things. If religion is to give us a felt connection to
the truth, then, rather than to something else, it must present the truth in a
way that is not only emotionally powerful but also determinate. It does so by
developing mythological stories that attempt to represent the truth in images
capable of evoking a felt response.The collection of such myths in a given reli-
gion constitute its doctrine or representation of the truth.
Hegel judges each religion according to the ability of its doctrine to
arouse feeling for the truth. Because all religious doctrines are capable of
arousing powerful feelings, the sole criterion for such judgment is the extent
to which the truth is in fact adequately represented by the stories that com-
prise each doctrine. The ultimate aim of religion, like that of art and philoso-
phy, thus proves to be telling the truth. Art, religion, and philosophy attempt
to put the truth into words in different ways, however, and the important
question now becomes how well the specific sorts of language usage peculiar
to poetry, religious mythology, and philosophical prose can tell the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth.2
Telling the Truth 129
THREE TYPES OF TRUTH-TELLING
In order to understand the differences between the modes of truth-telling
characteristic of art, religion, and philosophy, we first need to understand their
fundamental similarity. In their attempts to grasp and tell the truth, art, reli-
gion, and philosophy all surpass the limited achievements of what Hegel
refers to as ordinary consciousness. Such consciousness approaches phenom-
ena in two ways, according to Hegel:
Either it brings everything to mind in the form of immediate and therefore
accidental particulars, without grasping their inner essence and the appear-
ance of that essence, or else it differentiates concrete existence and endows the
resulting differences with the form of abstract universality and then goes on
to relate and synthesize these abstractions by means of the understanding.3
In the first of these two modes, ordinary consciousness abdicates the search
for truth altogether. It simply encounters particular things without making
any attempt to grasp them as moments of larger universals. The result is “a
mere view of a world of successive or juxtaposed accidents which may have a
great range of external life but which is totally unable to satisfy the deeper
need of reason. For genuine insight and a sound mind find satisfaction only
when they glimpse and sense in phenomena the corresponding reality of what
is genuinely substantial and true.”4
In its second mode, ordinary consciousness
tries to respond to the deeper need of reason by seeking the truth of the things
it encounters. It does so, however, in a way guaranteed to fail, because it
attempts to understand phenomena by “separating the particular existent from
the universal . . . [and then] merely relating them together.”5
To take one of Hegel’s favorite examples, ordinary consciousness cannot
understand the phenomenon of love, which it analyzes as two particular peo-
ple with independent identities entering into a relationship that establishes a
union between them. On such an analysis, the loving behavior of the two part-
ners, whereby each voluntarily serves the interests of the other, must appear to
be either a mystery or a sham. It is a mystery how a particular person could
sacrifice his or her own interests for those of someone else. And so, ordinary
consciousness is tempted to conclude, such apparent self-sacrifice must be a
sham, a mere means to satisfying one’s own interests after all.
The truth of the matter, Hegel argues, can be grasped only with the
help of a more adequate conception of particularity and universality. Two
people in love do not have fully formed particular identities outside of their
relationship, but rather are the individuals they are only in virtue of their
union. Consequently, a new analysis is possible, which demystifies love
without making it a sham: the lovers can serve each other’s interests with-
out sacrificing their own because their own interests are in fact those of their
partner.
130 WILL DUDLEY
The lesson of the lovers can be generalized: to grasp the truth of partic-
ular phenomena one must seek out the universals that make those particulars
what they are, and one must also conceive of universality and particularity in
an adequate way. One must take special care to avoid artificially separating the
universal and the particular, such that both become forever impossible to com-
prehend. Imposing such an artificial separation is the persistent failing of
ordinary consciousness, when it bothers to make the attempt to understand
things at all.
Art, religion, and philosophy, on the other hand, can grasp and tell the
truth precisely because they do not subscribe to the ordinary perspective on
universality and particularity. Rather, they all grasp the general truth that indi-
viduals are particular universals, which in turn enables them to grasp the truth
of the wide variety of phenomena that fall under their consideration. Poetry,
religious mythology, and philosophical prose do not, however, tell the truth of
universality and particularity in exactly the same way, and their differences on
this score, to which I will now turn, prove to be the key to identifying and
understanding the linguistic features in virtue of which Hegel believes that
systematic philosophy is alone capable of telling the whole truth and nothing
but the truth.
POETRY: THE ART OF SHOW AND TELL
We have already seen that Hegel rejects the Platonic criticism that poetry is
the enemy of philosophy and cannot give us knowledge of the truth at all. On
the contrary, Hegel understands truth-telling to be the very essence of poetry:
Poetry has been and is still the most universal and widespread teacher of the
human race. For to teach and to learn is to know and experience what is. . . .
Man exists conformably to the law of his existence only when he knows what
he is and what his surroundings are: he must know what the powers are
which drive and direct him, and it is such a knowledge that poetry provides
in its original and substantive form.6
But poetry is not philosophy, and the most important difference between
the two is that poetry is “the original presentation of the truth, a knowing
which does not yet separate the universal from its living existence in the indi-
vidual.”7
By contrast, the speculative thinking of philosophy
evaporates the form of reality into the form of the pure concept, and even if
it grasps and apprehends actual things in their essential particularity and
actual existence, it nevertheless lifts even this particular sphere into the ele-
ment of the universal and ideal wherein alone thinking is at home with itself.
Consequently, contrasted with the world of appearance, a new realm arises
which is indeed the truth of actuality, but this is a truth which is not made
manifest again in the actual world itself as its formative power and as its own
Telling the Truth 131
soul.Thinking is only a reconciliation between reality and truth within think-
ing itself. But poetic creation and formation is a reconciliation in the form of
a real appearance itself, even if this form be presented only spiritually.8
In other words, “the subject-matter of poetry is not the universal as it is
abstracted in philosophy. What [poetry] has to present is reason individual-
ized.”9
The best poetry, for example, tells us the truth of love, or the truth of
wrath, not by means of a general exposition of those concepts, but rather by
making manifest, or showing, the particular love of Romeo and Juliet, or the
particular wrath of Achilles.
To be successful, poetic showing must avoid two potential pitfalls. First,
“the universal, which is to be presented, and the individuals, in whose charac-
ter, histories, and actions, it appears poetically, [must] not fall apart from one
another or be so related that the individuals become servants of purely abstract
universals; on the contrary, both must always be vitally interwoven with one
another.”10
In other words, poetry must not didactically tell rather than show,
which accounts for the fact that “poetry takes pleasure in lingering over what
is individual, describes it with love, and treats it as a whole in itself. . . . How-
ever great the interest and the subject may be which poetry makes the center
of a work of art, poetry nevertheless articulates it in detail.”11
Conversely, how-
ever, poetry must not simply show a wealth of particulars unless they all con-
tribute to telling a universal truth. The particular parts of the work must
remain connected together, because the one fundamental subject, developed
and presented in them, has to be manifested as the unity permeating all the
particulars, holding them together as a totality, and drawing them all back
into itself. . . . If we ask by what right the particular as such can be introduced
into the work of art at all, our reply starts from the fact that a work of art is
undertaken in order to present one fundamental idea.12
Poetry, that is, must simultaneously show and tell.
The requirement that poetry show us particular realizations of the univer-
sal ideas it treats accounts for the fact that poetry cannot tell the whole truth.
The requirement means that poetry must avoid “a deliberate exposition [of the
universal]: the harmonizing unity must indeed be completely present in every
poetical work and be active in every part of it as the animating soul of the whole,
but this presence is never expressly emphasized by art; on the contrary it remains
something inner and implicit.”13
Speculative philosophy, in contrast, not only
displays “the necessity and reality of the particular” (as does poetry), but then,
“by dialectically superceding it, expressly demonstrates in the particular itself
that the particular has its truth and stability only in the concrete unity.”14
Philo-
sophical dialectic, that is, articulates universals in a way that makes evident the
immanence of certain particulars. Because poetry must simply show us particu-
lars, it necessarily leaves implicit the details of their connection to the universals
they realize, and so fails to tell an important part of the truth.15
132 WILL DUDLEY
At the same time, the requirement that poetry show us particular realiza-
tions of universals also partially accounts for the fact that poetry cannot refrain
from exceeding the truth. To avoid the didactic mistake of turning individual
subjects into mere vehicles for universal concepts, the poet “must be concerned
in his imagining to dwell with fondness on widening the real phenomenon that
he wishes to portray.”16
This explains why Homer, for example, “gives each hero
a descriptive adjective: ‘the swift-footed Achilles; the well-greaved Achaeans;
Hector of the gleaming helm; Agamemnon King of men,’ etc.The name of the
hero does indicate an individual, but as a mere name it does not bring anything
more concrete before our minds, so that for the specific illustration of this indi-
vidual some further indication is required.”17
Poetry thus functions by conjoin-
ing an image to a content that might otherwise be expressed in unadorned
prose: “the same thing is expressed, but the poetic expression gives us more,
because it adds to the understanding of the object an intuition of it, or rather
it repudiates bare abstract understanding and replaces it with real determi-
nacy.”18
This figurative technique is essential to poetry, but “from a prosaic
standpoint [it] may be regarded as circumlocution or a useless superfluity.”19
Poetry also necessarily exceeds the truth because, as art, the material in
which it embodies the content it presents remains significant. The material of
poetry is nothing more than the sounds of spoken language, which prose also
employs, and in both cases the sounds are “purely and simply signs” for the
ideas they communicate.20
However,“as communications of poetic conceptions,
these signs too must, in distinction from the prosaic mode of expression [where
they are mere means], be made an end for contemplation and appear shaped
accordingly.”21
This, in Hegel’s view, explains the need for poets to make use of
distinctive word choices and turns of phrase, as well as devices such as tempo,
rhythm, and rhyme.22
Again, these techniques are essential to poetry, but from
the prosaic standpoint, which demands “accuracy, precise determinacy, and
clear intelligibility,” they clothe the universal truth in excessive particular garb.23
Poetry is thus fundamentally incapable of telling the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth. The poetic mode of telling is showing, but showing the
truth always tells both too little and too much. When the universal truth is
shown in individual form, the immanent connection between the universal
and its necessary particulars remains unknown, and at the same time we learn
more than we need to know about the contingent particulars of the individual
in question. If the whole truth and nothing but the truth is to be told, then, it
will have to be accomplished in a different manner.
RELIGION: SYMBOLIC TELLING
Since the limitations of poetic truth-telling are due to the fact that poetry does
not explicitly distinguish universals from the individuals in which they are
Telling the Truth 133
realized, religion attempts to tell the whole truth and nothing but the truth by
making this distinction. That is, instead of trying to present us with the uni-
versal directly, through the intuition of an individual object, as poetry does,
religious doctrine attempts to represent the universal indirectly, through sto-
ries in which individual characters and actions stand for or symbolize aspects
of the truth. Using individuals to represent universals distinguishes religious
doctrine not only from poetry, but also from philosophy, which “does nothing
but transform our representation into concepts,” according to Hegel.24
Reli-
gious doctrine, for example, tells us the truth of love neither through a philo-
sophical exposition of the concept, nor through a poetic presentation of the
love of Romeo and Juliet, but rather through a symbolic representation of the
dynamic of finding oneself in a union with another by means of renouncing
one’s own abstract particularity. In the Christian religion, Hegel claims, love
is symbolized by the Holy Spirit.25
In the representational language of religious mythology, therefore, noth-
ing is what it immediately seems to be. Each element that appears in the story
has “a significance distinct from that which the image as such primitively
expresses. . . . The image is something symbolic or allegorical and . . . we have
before us something twofold, first the immediate and then what is meant by
it, its inner meaning. The latter is to be distinguished from the former, which
is the external aspect.”26
Hegel distinguishes between several different types of
symbolic elements used in religious mythology: some are familiar to us
through sensation, such as the “son” of God; others are familiar to us through
inner intuition, such as the “wrath” of God; and some, like “God” himself are
not familiar at all.27
These differences are less important, however, than the
fact that all of the elements are symbolic. The success or failure of religion as
a truth-telling enterprise thus depends on the ability of symbols to tell the
whole truth and nothing but the truth.
Symbols are, according to Hegel, nonarbitrary signs.28
Signs are arbitrary
when there is no intrinsic connection between the sign itself and the meaning
it signifies. For example, the shape and color of stop signs are arbitrary, because
there is no intrinsic connection between red hexagons and the act of coming to
a halt. Signs become symbols when there is an intrinsic connection between
the sign and its meaning. For example, Hegel points out, the fox is a symbol of
cunning because it actually possesses the quality for which it stands.29
Because symbols are nonarbitrary, they are also, Hegel argues, essentially
ambiguous.30
An arbitrary sign can avoid ambiguity because its meaning is
assigned to it. Red hexagons along roadsides mean “stop,” and nothing else,
because that is the designation they have been given. Symbols, however, are
symbols precisely because they have qualities that point to meanings nonarbi-
trarily.The problem is the plurality of such qualities possessed by any symbolic
object. The fox, for example, is not only cunning, but also quick, red, and
small, and there is nothing about the fox itself that can tell us which of its
134 WILL DUDLEY
qualities is the intended symbolic meaning. Conversely, given any content in
need of symbolic representation, there will be more than one thing that has
the requisite quality. For example, to symbolize cunning one might use a fox,
but one might also use a bear or a politician.
The ambiguity of symbols means that they always say both too little and
too much. Symbols try to point to a content, but always fall short of it and
point beyond it at the same time. This two-fold problem is especially acute
when the content to be represented is not a simple determination, like cun-
ning, but rather a concrete complex of determinations, like, say, those that
comprise Hegel’s Logic. No object has all of the qualities needed to symbolize
such a content, and any object chosen to serve as such a symbol would have
qualities exceeding the logical determinations.
Religion must solve this problem if it is to tell the whole truth and noth-
ing but the truth, and it responds with the invention of “God,” which Hegel
calls “a representation of the philosophical idea that we make for ourselves.”31
Because God is an invention, rather than a familiar object, He is not initially
burdened by qualities that exceed the logical determinations in need of sym-
bolization. Unfortunately, because God is an invention, He initially has no
qualities whatsoever, and therefore must be given some if He is to symbolize
the truth.
Each historical religion has, in Hegel’s view, furnished its God with the
qualities that best represent its understanding of the truth. It is well known
that Hegel thinks that Protestant Christianity represents the truth most suc-
cessfully. But he also makes it clear that even this most successful religious
mythology is fundamentally limited by the fact that it attempts to tell the
truth in the form of symbolic representation.
Using God as a representational symbol necessarily tells less than the
whole truth, because even if God happens to be given the particular qualities
that most effectively symbolize the determinations of the truth, this falls far
short of explaining why those qualities and only those qualities are possessed
by God. As Hegel puts it, “in saying ‘God is all-wise, wholly good, righteous,’
we have fixed determinations of content . . . but to the extent that they are not
yet analyzed internally and their distinctions are not yet posited in the way in
which they relate to one another, they belong to representation . . . [and have]
the contingency that gets stripped away from them only in the form of the con-
cept.”32
This means that although such a God symbolizes the fact that the uni-
versal contains certain particulars, He does not symbolize the fact that those
particulars develop with immanent necessity from the universal, because that
development is not a quality that the symbol itself displays. Instead, the par-
ticular qualities of God are represented as simply being immediately there.33
By telling less than the truth in this way, religion actually distorts the
truth, in Hegel’s view, since it falsely represents it as something that we can-
not fully know. Religion rebuffs the question, Why does God have those
Telling the Truth 135
particular qualities? and chastises the curious for the prideful presumption
that they might be able to understand. As Hegel puts it, “the position of reli-
gion is this: the truth, which comes to us through it, is externally given. It is
asserted that the revelation of the truth must be given to man, that he must
humbly assent to it, because human reason cannot attain to it by itself.”34
Religion is thus in the contradictory position of trying to tell the truth that
humans are free by means of a symbolic mythology that necessarily repre-
sents us as being dependent on an external authority.
Christianity does try to remedy the abstract separation of the universal
God from his particular qualities by representing God as a self-particularizing
universal, which the trinity symbolizes. But doing so fails to solve the prob-
lem, because even if the Father (God as universal) gives birth to the Son (God
as particular) and the two are reunited in the Holy Spirit, this schema is still
too abstract to account for the specific particulars the universal contains.
Moreover, the trinitarian symbolism can actually make things worse because
it goes beyond the truth in a way that tends to reinforce the very distortion it aims
to overcome. The trinity goes beyond the truth by representing God in the
human figures of Father and Son. It then claims that God-the-Father and God-
the-Son are one and the same, but this contradicts all our experience with actual
fathers and sons. The trinity thus uses as symbols things that do not in fact have
the qualities they are supposed to symbolize, which has the consequence of mak-
ing the truth it claims to present seem impossible to grasp. Hegel writes:
One of the circumstances contributing to the assertion that the divine idea
is inconceivable is the fact that, in religion, the content of the idea appears
in forms accessible to sense experience or understanding, because religion is
the truth for everyone. Hence we have the expressions “Father” and “Son”—
designations taken from a sentient aspect of life, from a relationship that has
its place in life. In religion the truth has been revealed as far as its content is
concerned; but it is another matter for this content to be present in the form
of the concept, of thinking, of the concept in speculative form.35
Hegel’s conclusion is that religion is no more able than poetry to tell the
whole truth, and nothing but the truth, because there is a fundamental con-
tradiction between the content of religion and the form in which that content
is presented: “the symbol is undoubtedly insufficient for the expression [of
thought]; thought concealed in symbols is not yet possessed. Thought is self-
revealing, and hence the mythical is not an adequate medium for it.”36
The
religious mode of telling is symbolizing, but symbolic representation always
tells both too little and too much. When the universal truth is symbolized by
a variety of particulars, the immanent connection between the universal and
those particulars remains unknown and, worse still, the implication is that the
connection is actually unknowable. If the whole truth and nothing but the
truth is to be told, then, it will have to be accomplished in a different manner.
136 WILL DUDLEY
PHILOSOPHY: TELLING IT LIKE IT IS
To overcome the truth-telling limitations of both poetry and religion, philos-
ophy must adopt yet a third mode of presenting universality and particularity.
It cannot, like poetic showing, present the universal and particular as imme-
diately identical, nor can it, like religious symbolism, present their difference
as sublime and irreconcilable. In contrast to both of these approaches, philos-
ophy must present the differentiation that is immanent to the universal itself,
and in so doing present the particulars that prove to be identical with the uni-
versal at the same time that they are distinct from it.
If philosophy is to present all and only the particulars that are immanent
to the self-differentiating universal, then its thinking cannot proceed from any
particular determination. The arbitrariness of such a starting point would
immediately compromise philosophy’s attempt to overcome the contingency
characteristic of both art and religion. Philosophical thinking can only
demonstrate the necessity of the particulars it presents, and thereby justify
their presentation, by presupposing neither a given content nor a given form.
Philosophy cannot assume, that is, either a subject matter or a method.
Instead, it must begin with the only thought lacking all compromising partic-
ularity, the thought of sheer indeterminacy, and then attempt to articulate, or
put into words, this thought’s self-articulation.
The task of philosophy, then, is to bring the determinations of thought to
language. It must do so, however, without allowing the language it uses to vio-
late the necessary self-determination of thought.37
Consequently, the language
of systematic philosophy must avoid the characteristics of poetry and religious
mythology that prevent those enterprises from telling the whole truth and
nothing but the truth. A properly philosophical presentation of the truth can-
not, that is, make use of either illustrations or symbols. Nor can its language
call attention to itself through the use of beautiful poetic devices. Philosophy
must “separate out from [its] content what pertains only to representation,”
which it can do only if it abstains from the use of imagery and literary form.38
Although linguistic abstinence is necessary if philosophy is not to say
more than the truth, it is important not to misunderstand this requirement.
Hegel’s point is certainly not that the truth cannot be put into words, since
that is the very position he criticizes religion for espousing and wants philos-
ophy to overcome. Nor is his point that philosophy must strive to develop its
own universal language, free from all of the historical contingencies encrusted
in particular natural languages. On the contrary, since Hegel wants philoso-
phy to speak to ordinary people, he insists that philosophy must be taught to
speak ordinary languages, which is exactly how he characterizes his own
efforts in German. Finally, Hegel’s point is not that philosophy needs to strip
ordinary languages of their contingent particularities, which would be impos-
sible and is fortunately unnecessary. For Hegel is clear that not only is there
Telling the Truth 137
no insuperable conflict between rationality and contingency, but in fact
because the rational is necessarily determinate, and the determinate necessar-
ily has contingent elements, a certain degree of contingency is necessary to the
manifestation of the rational itself.39
The understanding cannot grasp this, and
so declares it to be impossible to express pure thought in impure language, but
Hegel rejects this view.
Hegel’s actual aim is thus not to purge the contingent particularities of
ordinary languages, but rather to attend to them as carefully as possible in
order to learn to make use of those that happen to express the determinations
of thought, and to avoid using those that say either too little or too much.
There are no a priori criteria available for sorting those contingencies that
help tell the truth from those that are a hindrance, and indeed this will vary
across languages.The only way to proceed is to attempt to work out the deter-
minations of thought in each natural language, remaining vigilant for the
creeping in of noncategorial distinctions and seeking modes of expression that
minimize them. Such an approach takes the problem of philosophical lan-
guage seriously, but without rashly declaring it to be insoluble.40
Linguistic abstinence enables philosophy not only to avoid telling more
than the truth, but also to tell the whole truth, because it prevents the prema-
ture and pernicious focus on arbitrary particulars that limits the truth-telling
of both poetry and religious mythology. By not cutting off thinking with rep-
resentational images that purport to show or point to the universal, philoso-
phy allows thought to develop its particulars out of itself, and can therefore tell
the truth of this immanent development, which escapes poetry and religion.
Philosophy is thus able to tell the whole truth, and nothing but the truth,
because it tells it like it is.
CONCLUSION
Hegel, it turns out, is a remarkably successful philosophical writer. The almost
complete lack of examples and artistic style in the body of his systematic
works reflects not linguistic deficiency but virtue. Hegel aims to tell the truth,
and in order to do so he refrains from attempts to make the truth more acces-
sible that would in fact only foreclose access to it. Philosophy itself demands
that he not attempt to appeal to intuition and representation through imagery
and symbolism.
It is important to remember, however, that Hegel does not dismiss
appeals to intuition and representation altogether, but only as inappropriate
for philosophy. Indeed, part of the whole truth that philosophy reveals is that
we need to experience the truth not only in the form of thought, but also in
the forms of sensory apprehension and feeling. If we have the truth only in
those forms, then we do not have the whole truth. But if we have the whole
138 WILL DUDLEY
truth only in the form of a philosophical system, then we do not have it in all
the ways our freedom requires. To be free we must not only know the truth
but also be moved by it, and the truth is much more moving in the forms of
poetry and mythology than it is in the form of dialectical logic. Poetic, mytho-
logical, and philosophical truth-telling are thus all necessary to make possible
and sustain our freedom by enabling us to sense, feel, and know the truth.
In this chapter I have, necessarily, said too little, and therefore, in my des-
peration to communicate, I have indulged in the use of a variety of cheap lin-
guistic tactics (and this closing gambit is yet one more) that necessarily say too
much. I confess, in other words, that I have perjured myself before the court
of science. In my own defense, I can say only that I have committed this
infraction in an attempt to contribute to the defense of the possibility of a
truly scientific philosophy. Such a philosophy, in stark contrast to this chapter,
would be strictly systematic, and in virtue of its systematicity would manage
to say neither too little, nor too much, but just enough.
NOTES
1. John McCumber contrasts philosophical truth-telling with artistic and reli-
gious truth-telling in The Company of Words (Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern University
Press, 1993), 53–58. Our interpretations of the relevant distinctions are largely com-
patible, and indeed what I have to offer here might in part be construed as an expan-
sion of his relatively brief remarks on the subject. McCumber then goes on to provide
an extensive positive account of Hegelian philosophical language, which is beyond the
scope of this chapter.
2. Daniel J. Cook points out, in his discussion of the Phenomenology of Spirit, that
“there is a definite connection between the kind of language used and the nature of the
experience or thought which it is reflecting or expressing,” Language in the Philosophy
of Hegel (The Hague: Mouton, 1973), 112. My contention is that this also holds true
of art, religion, and philosophy, the three different activities Hegel discusses in his
treatment of absolute spirit.
3. G. W. F. Hegel, Vorlesungen über die Ästhetik III, volume 15 of Werke in
zwanzig Bänden, ed. Eva Moldenhauer and Karl Michel (Frankfurt: Suhrkamp, 1970),
276. Trans. T. M. Knox as Hegel’s Aesthetics: Lectures on Fine Art (Oxford: Oxford Uni-
versity Press, 1975), 1001. Hereafter cited as A III, with the number before the slash
referring to the German pagination, and the number after the slash to the English
translation, which I have sometimes modified.
4. A III, 243/975.
5. A III, 242/975.
6. A III, 239–40/972–73.
7. A III, 240/973.
8. A III, 244/976.
9. A III, 245/977.
10. A III, 248/979.
Telling the Truth 139
11. A III, 251/981.
12. A III, 252–53/982–83.
13. A III, 255/984–85.
14. A III, 255/984.
15. Hegel writes that “the universal and the rational are not expressed in poetry
in abstract universality and philosophically proved interconnection . . . but instead as
animated, manifest, ensouled, determining the whole, and yet at the same time
expressed in such a way that the all-comprising unity, the real animating soul, is made
to work only in secret from within outwards,” A III, 241/973. He goes on to add that
poetry “is essentially distinguished from thinking by reason of the fact that, like sense-
perception from which it takes its start, it allows particular ideas to subsist alongside
one another without being related, whereas thinking demands and produces depen-
dence of things on one another, reciprocal relations, logical judgments, syllogisms,
etc.,” A III, 319/1035.
16. A III, 278/1003.
17. A III, 278/1003.
18. A III, 277/1002.
19. A III, 278/1003.
20. A III, 275/1000.
21. A III, 275/1000.
22. A III, 275/1000–1001. Hegel elaborates on these poetic devices at A III,
283–318/1007–34.
23. A III, 280/1005.
24. G. W. F. Hegel, Vorlesungen über die Philosophie der Religion, Part 1, Einleitung,
Der Begriff der Religion, published as volume 3 of G. W. F. Hegel Vorlesungen: Aus-
gewählte Nachschriften und Manuskripte, ed. Walter Jaeschke (Hamburg: Felix Meiner
Verlag, 1983–1985), 292. Trans. R. F. Brown, P. C. Hodgson, and J. M. Stewart, with
the assistance of H. S. Harris, as Lectures on the Philosophy of Religion: One-Volume Edi-
tion, The Lectures of 1827 (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1988), 145. Here-
after cited as R, Part 1, with the number before the slash referring to the German pag-
ination, and the number after the slash to the English translation.
25. G. W. F. Hegel, Vorlesungen über die Philosophie der Religion, Part 3, Die vol-
lendete Religion, published as volume 5 of G. W. F. Hegel, Vorlesungen: Ausgewählte
Nachschriften und Manuskripte, ed. Walter Jaeschke (Hamburg: Felix Meiner Verlag,
1983–1985), 201.Trans. R. F. Brown, P. C. Hodgson, and J. M. Stewart, with the assis-
tance of H. S. Harris, as Lectures on the Philosophy of Religion: One-Volume Edition, The
Lectures of 1827 (Berkeley, University of California Press, 1988), 418. Hereafter cited
as R, Part 3, with the number before the slash referring to the German pagination, and
the number after the slash to the English translation.
26. R, Part 1, 293/145–46.
27. Hegel discusses the different types of religious symbols at R, Part 1,
293–96/145–49.
28. G. W. F. Hegel, Vorlesungen über die Ästhetik I, volume 13 of Werke in zwanzig
Bänden, ed. Eva Moldenhauer and Karl Michel (Frankfurt: Suhrkamp, 1970), 394–95.
Translated by T. M. Knox as Hegel’s Aesthetics: Lectures on Fine Art (Oxford: Oxford Uni-
versity Press,1975),304–305.Hereafter cited as A I,with the number before the slash refer-
ring to the German pagination, and the number after the slash to the English translation.
140 WILL DUDLEY
29. A I, 395/304.
30. A I, 395–7/305–306.
31. R, Part 1, 272/122.
32. R, Part 1, 296–97/149–50.
33. Hegel claims that “immediacy is the principle category of representation” at
R, Part 1, 301/154.
34. G. W. F. Hegel, Vorlesungen über die Geschichte der Philosophie I, volume 18 of
Werke in zwanzig Bänden, ed. Eva Moldenhauer and Karl Michel (Frankfurt:
Suhrkamp, 1970), 92. Trans. E. S. Haldane as Lectures on the History of Philosophy I:
Greek Philosophy to Plato (Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 1995), 71. Hereafter
cited as P I, with the number before the slash referring to the German pagination, and
the number after the slash to the English translation, which I have often modified.
35. R, Part 3, 208–209/425.
36. P I, 109/88. Also see P I, 107/85, where Hegel writes that “in all religions
there is this oscillation between the figurative and thought.”
37. As Richard Dien Winfield puts it: “If philosophy is not a hopeless enterprise
and thinking operates through words, then language would have to be a medium that
in no way juridically determines what gets expressed by its means,” Overcoming Foun-
dations (New York: Columbia University Press, 1989), 89.
38. R, Part 1, 292/145.
39. See, for example, his discussion of the rationality of positivity in both ethics
and religion, at R, Part 3, 180/394–95.
40. Daniel J. Cook emphasizes the importance for Hegel of doing philosophy in
ordinary languages, and the possibility of finding resources in those languages that
express the truth of speculative thinking, in Language in the Philosophy of Hegel, 161–62.
Telling the Truth 141
This page intentionally left blank.
SECTION 3
Hegel and Contemporary
Philosophy of Language
and Linguistics
This page intentionally left blank.
I. THE ISSUE
The debate between skeptics who deny the possibility of knowledge and the
philosophers who seek to affirm it is a long and spirited one, going back at
least to Plato. Recent work by Michael Forster, Terry Pinkard, and others has
gone a long way toward rehabilitating Hegel as an epistemologist. Different
kinds of knowledge require different kinds of justification, but clearly knowl-
edge of objects in experience ultimately presupposes the possibility of a secure
link between words and objects, no matter what the ontological status of the
object may be.1
This crucial link between words and things is what theories of
reference seek to establish. Because reference has such far-reaching implica-
tions for knowledge, it is vital to examine whether, and under what conditions,
it is possible. Unless the possibility of reference is demonstrated, we remain
vulnerable to skepticism.
II. THE PROBLEM
Unfortunately the leading theories—the traditional Description Theory of
Reference and its rival, the Causal Theory of Reference, and theories of Direct
Reference—have such serious problems that they ultimately fail to provide a
link secure enough to stave off skepticism. With regard to description theo-
ries, perhaps the most serious of these difficulties is the fact that they attempt
to explain reference of one part of language by appeal to another; that is, they
try to link names to bearers through descriptions, or words to things through
more words. Consequently, they cannot explain how language, ultimately, is
linked to concrete objects of experience. Thus description theories entail the
145
CHAPTER 7
Language, Objects, and the Missing Link:
Toward a Hegelean Theory of Reference
Katharina Dulckeit
view that language is intrinsically self-referential. Since the very purpose of
theories of reference is to establish a link to the world, the inability to do so
means description theories remain, in Michael Devitt’s language “essentially
incomplete.”2
The consequences of that kind of thinking can be seen in the recent talk
about relativism and antirealism. In its most extreme form, such talk entails
the view that humans live, quite literally, in different realities.Think of Good-
man’s “versions” or Kuhn’s “paradigms.” And think particularly of Derrida’s
deconstruction and the “discourses” of the poststructuralists that dominate lit-
erary theory.3
Their skepticism regarding philosophy—its supposed futility
and the self-delusional character of its poor, clueless practitioners, ultimately
depends on the argument that words and things reside in separate and mutu-
ally exclusive universes, that language can’t really make it to the other side, and
hence that knowledge of the world “out there” is impossible. Indeed, this is
precisely the view entailed by the incompleteness of description theories. But
now suppose description theories are wrong, suppose genuine reference4
is
somehow possible. Most of their claims would be disarmed with one fell
swoop.
This, precisely, was the promise of the new causal theory. Kripke, Donel-
lan, Putnam, and others claim that reference is determined by some sort of
causal chain (hence the “causal theory of reference”) which reaches from any
speaker who uses the name back to the first user who, in Kripke’s words, “bap-
tized” the individual to which the speaker intends to refer and who first fixed
the reference. The causal theory thus consists of two components: First, the
notion of reference borrowing explains how the reference of a name is preserved
from speaker to speaker through the causal chain. Second, the theory of refer-
ence fixing or reference grounding5
is supposed to explain how the name was first
linked to an object. It is the latter that promises to establish precisely what is
lacking in description theories: the crucial link to the world that ultimately
constitutes reference. Obviously only successful groundings can deliver this
promise, so it follows that the conditions under which such groundings are
said to take place warrant close scrutiny. Oddly enough, classical causal theo-
rists like Kripke have summarily disregarded the need for such an examina-
tion. They announce but never actually explain how reference is supposed to
happen, leaving us to imagine that it somehow occurs by magic. They simply
assume that, in contrast to the traditional descriptive reference, such ground-
ings go through directly.This omission is astonishing, given the familiar prob-
lems of the early Russell in his Logical Atomism period. Many semanticists,
like Kripke himself, appeal to the difference between semantic reference and
speaker’s reference to explain their lack of interest in examining reference fix-
ing.6
However, this will not do. Given that names remain empty unless the
causal chain ends in a genuine grounding in an object, it is essential that we
explain the conditions under which acts of grounding are possible. If we do
146 KATHARINA DULCKEIT
not, the entire causal chain of reference borrowing will come loose from its
supposed moorings and float free from the world. Or, more accurately, it will
turn out it was never tied down in the first place. This would leave the “new”
theory no better off than the “old.”
The trouble with the causal theory, then, is that it ultimately runs into a
problem with grounding. This problem, which has been dubbed the qua-
problem7
remains unsolved and is fatal to the theory. It seems that the causal
theory cannot do what it was designed to do without going back to the
description theory to reclaim one of its features: the requirement that we
know something, however minimal, about the referent when we use a name or
a natural kind term. But the strategy of borrowing from the description the-
ory carries an unacceptable price: to the extent that the causal theory retains a
descriptive element it remains incomplete. If this is correct, it would destroy,
once again, the rock-bottom guarantee of reference that the causal theory was
supposed to deliver in the first place. Thus the causal theory is caught in a
bind: it cannot work without help from the description theory, and yet, it can-
not work with it. We seem to be stuck in a genuine dilemma.
The upshot is that we need a satisfactory theory of reference fixing. This
is a crucial but thorny issue. Much depends on how we define “semantics”—
whether we take it to include or exclude pragmatic and cognitive elements.
I want to suggest an alternative approach: word and object, or speaker and
referent, are opposites. Opposites are by definition mutually exclusive for ana-
lytic philosophers. Given the analytic assumptions about the nature of oppo-
sites in general, and speaker and referent in particular, it is certainly arguable
that analytic philosophers ultimately may simply be unable to escape the ref-
erential dilemma noted above. Nor should that surprise us very much. The
history of philosophy is rife with examples. Indeed, discussions of the opposi-
tion and connection between consciousness and the world appear in some ver-
sion in the writings of virtually every philosopher: dualists and monists, ratio-
nalists and empiricists, realists and idealists, phenomenologists and
existentialists. The most notorious of these, metaphysical dualism,8
is merely
one instance of the general notion of opposition and otherness. So even if we
bracket issues of ontology, as I am doing here, language and world, word and
object, speaker and referent remain opposed and mutually exclusive in experi-
ence. Thus the crucial link between the referring subject and her object sim-
ply demands explanation. As things stand, we face a choice between an
incomplete theory and one that opts for, well, magic.
But perhaps there is another way. For the philosopher whose name
appears in the title of this chapter, all opposition is mediated while, at the
same time, mediation is harmless. A theory of reference based on Hegel’s
unique analysis of mediation thus neither commits us to the incompleteness
of description nor implies the qua-problem of the causal theory. From a
Hegelian perspective, the universal is never cut loose from the particular, the
Language, Objects, and the Missing Link 147
internal from the external, the referring subject from the object referred to,
and so forth. Indeed, as things remain “identical” in their difference, in Hegel’s
terminology, semantics are not radically divorced from pragmatics and episte-
mology. As those familiar with Hegel’s work know, these connections are not
trivial; they do not result from simple definition and they are not presupposed.
Rather, they are discovered during the course of Hegel’s Phenomenology, where
Hegel examines the conditions under which consciousness has knowledge of
the things in its experience.9
Hegel is the only philosopher I know who can
actually explain—as opposed to merely announce—the possibility of reference
to objects in experience. If we appropriate his notion of mediation, therefore,
so can we.10
Here I can only sketch this framework, a sketch that plainly
requires filling out. In particular, it calls for supplementary analyses of certain
concepts from the Logic.11
Thus one would want to examine Hegel’s critique
of the law of the excluded middle, defend him against charges that he violates
the law of contradiction, analyze his idea of determinate negation and, most
importantly, elucidate his notion of identity-in-difference.12
In what follows I shall argue that both analytic theories fail in their most
essential task: they presuppose rather than explain the ultimate hook-up to the
world we call reference. I will suggest an alternative compromise strategy that
meets this problem head-on and that is based on what I will label “dialectical
reference.”13
This approach is rooted in certain insights in Hegel’s Phenome-
nology and Logic.
III. THE ARGUMENT AGAINST DESCRIPTION
In Russell’s celebrated theory of descriptions, names not only have descriptive
content, but this content serves as a criterion for identification of the refer-
ent.14
Thus the meaning of a term determines its reference such that a change
in meaning results in a change in referent.
I am not concerned with an exhaustive analysis of the problems faced by
the traditional theory or the failure of the so-called cluster theory to address
these problems. Nor shall I be concerned with Kripkean arguments that
depend on modal intuitions not shared by everyone. But Kripke also made
some powerful arguments against the description theory that are not modal in
nature. It is to these I shall now turn.
1. Kripke’s Nonmodal Arguments
According to the description view, a speaker must have identifying knowledge
about the referent. Kripke, however, shows that such knowledge is neither
necessary, nor sufficient.15
There are two reasons why identifying knowledge is not necessary.16
First,
there is the problem of ignorance. We don’t know enough to identify the ref-
148 KATHARINA DULCKEIT
erent. We might associate “Gödel” with “the discoverer of the incompleteness
of arithmetic,” but few of us could identify the proof independently from the
name Gödel. Thus we should be unable, on the old theory, to refer to these
individuals, yet it seems we do: Hence, identifying knowledge is not necessary.
This is also exemplified by the second problem, the problem of error. If
we discovered that nobody satisfied the descriptions associated with “Thales,”
or “Moses,” then we are forced to conclude that Thales and Moses are empty
names and, consequently, that Thales and Moses did not exist.17
But now sup-
pose we discover that an assumed fictional character really did exist. Kripke
makes just this point with his example of the biblical figure of Jonah.18
While
it seems unlikely that any person was ever swallowed by a whale, it is certainly
conceivable we might discover that Jonah was in fact a real person to whom
the tale was erroneously attributed. However, Kripke argues, the description
theory could not accommodate such a discovery because it would have to
insist that if the descriptions that the name Jonah abbreviate hold of no one,
then Jonah is an empty name and Jonah does not, cannot, exist. Indeed, prior
to the discovery, no one even could have speculated that perhaps Jonah was just
an ordinary man about whom a legend had grown; such speculation could not
be about Jonah since it denies the descriptions that determine the referent in
the first place.19
Yet such speculation is common. Once again, identifying
descriptions do not seem necessary to successfully refer. Of course the discov-
ery of error about the historical facts in this world has nothing to do with
modal intuitions.
Kripke has argued, moreover, that even when the speaker’s associated
description identifies an entity, it is not sufficient for successful reference. For
example, if it turned out that it was really Gödel’s assistant Schmidt who dis-
covered Gödel’s Proof, then Schmidt would be Gödel and every time we say
Gödel (since we must refer to whoever actually discovered the proof) we are
really referring to Schmidt. Thus, in saying “Gödel discovered the Incom-
pleteness Theorem” we would not have a false belief about Gödel but rather a
true belief about Schmidt!20
Although identifying knowledge was available, it
did not suffice to pick out the correct referent. Thus descriptions are neither
necessary nor sufficient to pick out the referent of a name.
Thus we arrive at the fatal flaw of the description theory that I have
already mentioned in my introductory remarks: it is simply an incomplete the-
ory, resulting in a view of language as essentially self-referential. For all its talk
about reference, then, the theory is incapable of explaining genuine reference,
that is to say reference that provides a link to objects in the external world, not
just to concepts of objects or other words.21
Putnam’s famous science-fiction story of Twin Earth,22
designed to argue
against the description theory of natural kind terms, illuminates this incom-
pleteness. He imagines a planet somewhere, Twin Earth that is exactly like
Earth. Each Earthling has a Doppelgänger on this planet, a sort of clone who
Language, Objects, and the Missing Link 149
is precisely the same as the Earthling. They speak English on Twin Earth.
When the Earthling, Oscar, uses a name, say Mandela, he refers to an object
on Earth, Mandela. When Twin Oscar on Twin Earth uses the name Man-
dela he refers to an object on Twin Earth, Twin Mandela. This shows, among
other things, that reference simply cannot be determined by inner states or
associated descriptions, because the inner state and associations of Oscar and
Twin Oscar are exactly alike. The conditions that determine the different ref-
erences must therefore be external. As Putnam says: “Meanings just ain’t in
the head.”23
Only the causal theory can explain in virtue of what Mandela
picks out its referent. On Earth the causal chain reaches back to the object in
which it is grounded, Mandela. On Twin Earth this causal link ends in
another object, Twin Mandela.24
Now, the consequences of the incompleteness of description theories are
quite serious for obvious reasons: incompleteness implies skepticism. Since
reference is in part determined by external factors, and since description the-
ories explain meaning by appeal to associated descriptions entirely inside the
head of the speaker, the explanation of reference in such theories can never be
a complete explanation.25
Hence the “missing link” in the title of this chapter.
This is also why claims by the likes of Kuhn and Feyerabend, the poststruc-
turalists and deconstructionists make the most sense if we presuppose some
version of the description theory of reference. If description were true, so
would be many of their claims, in my view, precisely because description the-
ories cannot hook up with the world.
Our discussion thus far makes clear, I hope, that the description theory
must be rejected. Let us now turn to the causal theory.
2. The Causal Theory
Kripke writes:
A rough statement of the theory might be the following: An initial “baptism”
takes place. Here the object may be named by ostension, or the reference of
the name may be fixed by a description. When the name is “passed from link
to link” the receiver of the name must, I think, intend when he learns it to
use it with the same reference as the man from whom he heard it. If I hear
the name “Napoleon” and decide it would be a nice name for my pet aard-
vark, I do not satisfy this condition.26
Thus, when a speaker uses a name “N” on a particular occasion it will pick
out some object o if there is a causal chain that preserves the reference from
link to link ultimately reaching o itself, which acquired “N” in an initial bap-
tism or dubbing.27
Putnam’s science-fiction story also extends the causal theory to natural
kind terms, such as “lemon” and “tiger.” He shows this by supposing that the
chemical structure of water on Twin Earth is not H2O but XYZ. The conse-
150 KATHARINA DULCKEIT
quence is that when the two Oscars use the term “water,” they refer to two dif-
ferent substances, even though the meaning of the term “water” is kept con-
stant, thus keeping the inner states of the two Oscars exactly the same. This
would go unexplained on the description theory in which meaning determines
reference. For Kripke as for Putnam, the importance of the initial naming cer-
emony lies primarily in it’s being the source of a causal chain, or the paradigm
case of reference, which determines all subsequent references.
If this is right and names and natural kind terms are more like indexicals
rather than descriptions, not only can we solve the problem of using names
across possible worlds, but we can also explain the problems of ignorance and
error right here at home. If the adequacy of a theory is based on its explana-
tory power, then it seems that the causal theory of reference wins out over the
traditional theory.
However brilliant, Kripke’s scheme suffers from serious problems. The
worst of these is the qua-problem, which is lethal to the causal theory.
IV. THE QUA-PROBLEM
Both reference borrowing and reference fixing (or grounding) are affected by
the qua-problem. In The Path Back to Frege28
Yourgau persuasively establishes
the problem, which he puts in terms of speaker intention. Neo-Fregeans have
tried to develop some strategies that avoid the qua-problem by allowing cer-
tain cognitive elements to contribute to determining reference while simulta-
neously attempting to hold those elements harmless. I cannot consider these
attempts here, except to say that to the extent these efforts are successful, they
arguably are so only with respect to reference borrowing. But reference bor-
rowing is ultimately irrelevant, for the whole problem comes down to ground-
ing. If grounding were successful, cognition in subsequent uses would not be
fatal to the theory. If grounding fails, not even the total lack of cognitive con-
tent in subsequent uses of the name can make a difference because that name
would simply be empty. In short, if grounding fails, the theory fails.
1. Devitt’s Qua-Problem for Grounding
A dubbing occurs when a speaker who is in perceptual content with an object
names it by ostension.The name is thus grounded in the object.29
For example, I
once brought home a kitten,30
pointed to her and, motivated by her madcap
behavior, suggested to my delighted children: “Let’s call her Jinx.”31
Everyone
approved. Jinx became the name of the cat based on the fact that it was grounded
in her. All subsequent uses of that name would pick out this cat in virtue of the
fact that the causal network ended in the cat herself. Anytime we use a name,
then, successful reference depends ultimately on the fact that someone at the beginning
of the causal chain baptized the object and thus grounded the name in it.
Language, Objects, and the Missing Link 151
Devitt argues that in order to understand dubbing, we cannot get around
clarifying what it means to have perceptual contact with an object. However, he
warns, to say the grounder “intends” the object is not sufficient because we
don’t know in virtue of what the dubbing is a dubbing of the “whole” object
rather than a temporal/spatial part of it.This is not a silly question because we
often name temporal slices and spatial parts of objects. For example,32
“Kristallnach” names a part, or time-slice of Hitler’s Third Reich. “Tuscany”
names a part of Italy, and so on. Second, they point out the obvious fact that
a workable theory must have a mechanism by which possible failures of
attempted groundings can be explained. Suppose when I baptized the kitten
I mistakenly pointed at my neighbor’s cat as she ran through my yard. Or per-
haps I mistook a rabbit, a bush, or a shadow for the animal, or had an outright
illusion.33
In those cases we do not intend dubbings to go through. If the
grounder’s error is substantial, then the grounding fails. But how can we
explain this on the causal theory? Since grounding is explained in terms of the
causal connection between the object perceived and the grounder, and since,
in the case of error, there still is something that causes my perception, why
doesn’t the name become grounded in that cause? Thus Devitt concludes that
(1) the grounder’s intention to name the whole object simply must do part of
the referential work. (2) This is to say, the grounder must have in mind a certain
categorical term under which the cause of the experience falls, like “animal” explains
the possibility of failure in grounding: it fails if the perceptual object does not
fit the general categorical term used to conceptualize it. No doubt about it: a
descriptive element has entered the bottom of the causal chain, a problem that
will permeate all subsequent references.34
So where does this leave us? Fregean sense cannot determine the referent
of a name, and the concepts needed to identify referents leave the referential
link incomplete. To avoid this problem, the causal theory excludes cognitive
elements and promptly fails for the opposite reason: Without at least minimal
conceptual content, the referent cannot be identified either. So reference fails
both with and without cognitive content and therefore fails for both theories.
Ultimately, we cannot embrace the causal theory or answer the skeptic unless
we know that, and in virtue of what, names can be successfully grounded in
objects with which the dubber is in perceptual contact.
As philosophers from both camps have noted, the reason for this
dilemma goes all the way back to Bertrand Russell’s suspect semantic assump-
tion that the meaning of a name must be either like a description (inside the
head) or its intended referent (outside the head).
2. The Qua-Problem for Demonstratives
If cognitive content at the bottom of the causal chain results in incompleteness,
might we look for some basic terms that do not give rise to the qua-problem and
152 KATHARINA DULCKEIT
that may then be used to explain nonbasic terms by the description theory? If so,
language would remain securely tied to the world. Simple demonstratives such as
“this” and “that,” have virtually no descriptive content and, in their deictic use,
seem to some the best candidates for a pure causal theory of grounding. This is
the move made by direct reference philosophers, the likes of David Kaplan,
Joseph Almog, Scott Soames, Nathan Salmon, and Howard Wettstein.35
In con-
trast to causal theorists who still permit minimal sense, direct reference philoso-
phers have returned to a strict Millian view, the view that names simply tag the
items called by them, without carrying any connotation or meaning. Thus
demonstratives, relative to their context, are said to be directly referential.
Earlier, we eliminated the description theory because clearly nothing
exclusively inside the head could determine its relation to something outside
the head. But it seems to me that direct reference theorists are now making
the opposite mistake. If the qua-problem holds, then terms such as “this,”
“that,” and “it” (in their deictic use) cannot accomplish the fundamental
hookup with the world. Merely to claim reference goes through does not
make it so. We need to explain the role of perception on the one hand, and
ostension on the other. So the same questions apply again: Exactly what sort
of perceptual link is required for reference by ostension to go through? What
exactly constitutes the ability to designate? Ought we not ask in virtue of what
my pointing succeeds in picking out the right thing? For example, in virtue of
what am I not picking out the door, window, or roof when I point at the house
uttering “this”? Or in virtue of what am I not picking out the squirrel, the
apple, the bird, or the branch when I point at the tree and say “that”? More-
over, in virtue of what am I picking out the referent qua “cat,” instead of, say,
qua “mammal,” “animal,” or “pet”? Nothing in the theory explains that, noth-
ing! We cannot ignore all these questions simply because ostension falls out-
side of a narrowly construed semantic category, as Kripke will have it, partic-
ularly since the semantic theory is anchored in ostension! Nor can we, on pain
of triviality, simply define ostension as that which produces contact with
objects. And we cannot naively assume that ostension must be possible sim-
ply because we seem to do it successfully most of the time. Having hold of an
undeniable fact of experience is clearly not the same as understanding, or at
least attempting to understand, the conditions of its possibility.
Bertrand Russell was actually trying to answer just that question with his
failed Theory of Acquaintance. Russell may have been wrong about his par-
ticular theory36
but he certainly understood the need for some theory. What,
indeed, has replaced his attempt to show in virtue of what reference goes
through? Magic? To say that “this” refers to the house and “that” to the tree
because the semantic rules are such that “this” and “that” will pick out what-
ever I point at is blatantly to beg the question.
If it is correct that perception and cognition play a role in grounding
then, by parity of reason, they must also play a role in the (deictic) use of
Language, Objects, and the Missing Link 153
demonstratives. After all, names are introduced, or grounded, with the help
of demonstratives. “This is Jinx,” I said, pointing at the cat. If I have suc-
cessfully dubbed the beast, the referential work in the act of naming is
accomplished by my pointing out the referent while uttering the demonstra-
tive. No matter the name I choose, if “this” has not picked out its object
already, the dubbing won’t go through. Demonstrative reference, far from
avoiding the qua-problem, is the very birthplace of it. “This” is the first cog-
nitive hurdle to get over. In uttering “I mean that one!” while pointing at ones
pet, one could not begin to understand the entity qua individual cat unless
one had already grasped it qua individual thing of some kind or other. For the
speaker must after all still know enough to determine it as the thing at which
she wants to point. She must individuate it, but individuals in experience are
concrete individuals, that is, individuals of a certain kind. Individuation is
only possible in terms of a kind, even the kind “mystery item.” If some sort
of cognition is required merely to point out something, even prior to the use
of language, then, clearly, we must venture outside of semantics to episte-
mology in order to explain this phenomenon. “This” simply cannot be directly
referential; it cannot refer by magic. On the direct reference view, “this,” the
locus of the referential property, turns out to be the locus of the qua-problem
all over again. The magic theory fails.
So where does this leave us? All attempts to fix description theories can-
not escape incompleteness, and there seems no way to fix the qua-problem
haunting causal and direct reference theories without collapsing back into the
very arms of some version of description.
Devitt himself proposes a “teleological” theory of reference.37
This theory
proceeds from his staunch commitment to naturalism and realism,38
a com-
mitment not shared by everyone. Clearly it is preferable not to mix ones the-
ory of reference with ones ontology and to settle the issue without such a
commitment. Hegel does just that. The answer to the puzzle is found within
experience.
V. APPROPRIATING HEGEL: A THIRD ALTERNATIVE
Whatever the specific reasons for failure in various analytic attempts to con-
nect words to the world, from a Hegelian perspective failure is implied by the
basic assumptions made by any analytic philosophy. On that view, the puzzle of
missing referential link not only remains unsolved in fact but in principle. The
assumptions I am referring to have had a distinguished carrier in philosophy,
and are expressed in a dualistic worldview regarding opposites such as mind
and world, conceiver and “the given,” perceiver and perceived, and speaker and
referent. According to Hegel, this dichotomy between inner and outer—both
ontologically and phenomenologically—is a deeply misleading and profoundly
154 KATHARINA DULCKEIT
incoherent idea. Nevertheless it has held captive much of philosophy in one
way or another. But once a logical distinction is made, the parties to the dis-
tinction become mutually exclusive and, according to the rules of formal logic,
there simply is no way to reconnect them. We try to construct theories of ref-
erence in a way that will provide a bridge between the two realms. But what-
ever tricks we try, ultimately we cannot make it to the other side—as the prob-
lems discussed above make evident.
John McDowell recognized this dilemma.39
I do not think the alternative
view I shall suggest is inconsistent with McDowell’s outlook. My suggestion
will permit the conceptual content needed for genuine reference, without
opening the door to incompleteness. The view on reference I shall urge is
inspired by certain insights about the necessary conditions of experience con-
tained in Hegel’s Phenomenology and Logic.40
Appropriating Hegel’s insights
yields an alternative view of reference grounding not subject to any of the pit-
falls implied by description and causal theories. Note that my analysis is not
only consistent with Hegel’s project but vindicates his most basic conceptions
regarding the relationship between opposites.
My strategy may raise some eyebrows in Hegelian and analytic circles
alike. First, most analytic philosophers have never taken Hegel seriously
except to hold him up as an object for ridicule. Undaunted by their lack of per-
sonal acquaintance with his work, they nevertheless see Hegel as paradigmatic
of the very worst in philosophy, just the sort of thinking that analytic philos-
ophy has tirelessly toiled to oppose. Thus, dragging the old German from his
place in history to settle an analytic problem is greeted with suspicion. It may
seem like an illegitimate attempt by Hegelians to “prove” to the misguided
(and, we might safely assume, overwhelmingly uninterested) fans of “mere”
understanding, not only Hegel’s relevance to contemporary issues but also the
superiority of dialectic thinking in general.41
(Something roughly analogous to
informing an atheist that she can solve the problem of death by acquiring a
belief in an afterlife). Even analytic philosophers sympathetic to Hegel might
argue that it seems disingenuous and uninteresting simply to superimpose
Hegel’s notion of mediated opposition on such contradictions or dilemmas as
one may encounter in contemporary analytic philosophy of language in order
to “solve” these problems, given that the idea of mediated opposites would
seem to solve any contradiction virtually by definition. On the other side of
the aisle, Hegelians might see as illegitimate any attempt to appropriate Hegel
in this fashion because they take Hegel’s project as going beyond the “limited”
problem of reference and may disapprove of “cafeteria-style” Hegelianism.
Moreover, to appeal to Hegel in order to solve problems in the theory of ref-
erence might reek of anachronism because Hegel’s remarks about language
were never intended as such, but were made in the service of other aims.
Fourth, given Hegel’s proclivity for mediation, and given that cognitively
mediated concepts entail incompleteness, critics unfamiliar with Hegel might
Language, Objects, and the Missing Link 155
well wonder how he could possibly help us secure the referential link bridging
language and objects.
Finally, it may be objected that appropriating Hegel requires commit-
ment to an ontology42
so unpalatable, even ignorance about grounding seems
preferable.
To the first objection, (proving Hegel’s relevance), I shall simply reply
that I am interested only in solving genuine philosophical problems. If a
Hegelian approach can help unravel a problem plaguing philosophy, that
seems clearly advantageous for everyone who is genuinely interested in solv-
ing the problem.
My response to the second charge that sees Hegel’s interpretation of
opposites as a mere trick to avoid uncomfortable contradictions, is to point out
that if this were true, then Hegel would scarcely be the only trickster. Analytic
philosophers are notorious for availing themselves of such ploys, most notably
by using meta-levels, even meta-meta-levels to skirt contradictions they find
inconvenient. The difference, arguably, is that Hegel actually attempts to jus-
tify the dialectic of mediation, while analysts do not always explain the legit-
imacy of such maneuvers.
Third, protestations that Hegel did not, strictly speaking, set out to
address this particular issue, seem beside the point. Obviously his purposes are
irrelevant as long as the results shed light on the problem. (Suppose a con-
temporary of Hegel had invented a drug to cure disease A, and we just now
discovered that the same drug also cures disease B safely and effectively,
should we keep it from sufferers of B on the grounds that it’s inventor did not
intend it for them?)
My response to the fourth complaint is as follows: Despite Hegel’s fond-
ness for the mediation of concepts, he is not committed to the description the-
ory and the relativism/skepticism it entails. In fact, the Phenomenology shows
that for Hegel sense not only does not, it cannot determine reference. That is
not to say that we can dispense with mental content altogether. But I shall
show that the mental elements indispensable for reference are not lethal in
Hegel’s case because he does not share the fatal assumptions noted above.
What can we say, finally, about the unwanted Hegelian ontology? Read-
ers familiar with the Phenomenology know the answer: As the title of Hegel’s
work suggests, the journey is a phenomenological one, taking place entirely on
the level of experience. In contrast to Devitt, who explicitly commits to real-
ism from the start, nothing in Hegel’s account in the Phenomenology requires
any ontological assumptions.43
The second part of the introduction characterizes this task as a necessary
development through a series of forms of consciousness. A form of con-
sciousness is simply the particular description under which consciousness
views its object. To see whether a given form is adequate, the concept con-
sciousness has of the object is tested against the way the object actually
156 KATHARINA DULCKEIT
appears in experience. The inadequacy of a given form of consciousness is
revealed when consciousness finds itself in the dilemma of possessing a kind
of knowledge it could only have on the condition that its particular concep-
tion of the object as well as its assumed criterion for knowing the object are
abandoned. Whenever a proposal of a form of consciousness fails to corre-
spond to the actual experience of consciousness, the conflict is always resolved
in favor of experience; the defeated consciousness is superseded (aufgehoben),44
and a new, more adequate form of consciousness arises with a new set of pro-
posals as to the nature of the object and the relation of it to consciousness.
It is crucial to keep in mind that the forms of consciousness are just that:
particular forms, versions, modes. They differ only in what they take their
object to be (and in what they take to be the proper criterion for knowledge).
They do not differ in how they actually experience the object. Only thus is it
possible for consciousness to test various criteria of reference and knowledge.
Put into more neutral language we can say that the object or referent
remains the same while being viewed under different, even opposing descrip-
tions. This kind of move would be impossible if Hegel thought that sense, in
and of itself, determined reference.45
On the other hand, if there were no sense
at all, the discrepancy between how the object is conceived and how it is actu-
ally experienced could not arise, much less be understood.46
If this is correct it shows that (1) Hegel is not committed to a description
theory of names. And (2) the fact that he nevertheless insists on a role for
sense or meaning will put him in the position to escape the qua-problem.
1. The Dialectic of Reference
The argument I want to consider can be found in the first chapter of Hegel’s
Phenomenology, entitled “Sense Certainty, or the This and Meaning.” Hegel’s
story goes something like this:47
A proponent of the “sense certain” attitude
sees himself immediately or directly related to the object—as passively, directly,
and fully receiving whatever lies before consciousness. Because of the passiv-
ity of consciousness, the immediacy of the relationship, and the completeness
of its reception, sense certainty takes its knowledge to be the richest and truest
kind of knowledge. Note that insisting on the passivity of consciousness is
analogous to insisting that meaning is entirely outside of the head. Since
nothing comes between consciousness and its object that would distort the
truth—no reflection, interpretation, or description—consciousness takes its
knowledge to be incorrigible. The certainty of sense certainty is based on the
immediacy, which allegedly characterizes its relation to the object. Immediacy
is sense certainty’s criterion for knowledge, the condition that makes knowl-
edge possible and guarantees its certainty. Losing immediacy, sense-certainty
thinks, would mean losing its privileged connection to the object. But when
sense certainty tests its criterion against its actual experience of the object, it
Language, Objects, and the Missing Link 157
soon finds out that its concept of the object does not correspond to the object it
experiences. On the condition of immediacy, it turns out, consciousness could not
experience the object it in fact experiences. In order to preserve immediacy con-
sciousness must refrain from reflecting on its object in any way, such as com-
paring and contrasting it with other objects, because to do so would involve
predicates, and predicates, such as “tall,” “green,” and so forth, would also apply
to other objects and not exclusively to that of its immediate experience. Such
terms are universals. Admitting universals or concepts, however, involves medi-
ation since the object now is no longer given to consciousness directly, but by
means of, or through concepts. On the criterion of immediacy consciousness
cannot know enough about its object to help distinguish it from other objects.
Instead of a particular “this” of which it is so certain, consciousness ends up
with a general “this-as-such,” an empty being, devoid of inner distinctions and
indistinguishable from any other “this.” Insisting on immediacy, then, would
only yield a bare particular. But this is at odds with experience for, as a matter
of fact, particulars of experience are concrete. Sense certainty’s claim to knowl-
edge thus contains an inner conflict: It cannot, on its own principles, proclaim
as true that which in fact it experiences as true.This is the qua-problem all over
again. Sense Certainty fails because neither immediacy nor direct reference can
secure a referential link to objects of experience. Insofar as sense-certain con-
sciousness claims immediate knowledge of something radically and exclusively
individual, it lays claim to immediacy and determinacy simultaneously. In order
to individuate its object it must determine it. Determination involves negation
because to say what something is, is to distinguish it from what it is not. Nega-
tion, however, violates its criterion of immediacy while insisting on immediacy,
leaving consciousness with an empty this-as-such. Hegel argues that under
these conditions consciousness cannot know its object. On my interpretation,
knowledge of the object clearly fails because reference fails, and reference is a
necessary condition for knowledge of objects of experience. Successful refer-
ence presupposes that consciousness can pick out the right object, which means
that it must individuate it sufficiently to accomplish that. Individuation pre-
supposes a determined and determinable object of a certain kind. As long as
consciousness refuses to allow the mediation of concepts, it treats its object as
if it were bare. But a bare object cannot be distinguished from other objects—
even a mystery object must have been already minimally determined as such. If
consciousness cannot distinguish the object from others it cannot pick it out,
and if it cannot pick it out it cannot refer to it. Sense-certain consciousness
finds itself in the same position as the causal theorist did at the bottom of the
causal chain where the causal theory simply could not explain what we accom-
plish on a daily basis.
And for Hegel, this is true even prior to the use of language. Even point-
ing fails to pick out its object directly. It cannot consist of a simple and imme-
diate pointing out of atomic instants of time and points in space. What con-
158 KATHARINA DULCKEIT
stitutes the This-Here-and-Now-ness of a particular for consciousness is a
function of the context in which both are situated. Indeed, according to Hegel,
if reference is to be possible, neither subject nor object can be bare, nor can the
relationship between them be direct. Direct reference is a contradiction in
terms. Conflicts resulting from the conception consciousness has of its object
on the one hand, and its experience of it on the other, are always resolved in
favor of experience; thus consciousness must abandon immediacy. Under what
conditions, then, is demonstrative reference possible?
As I said at the outset, I take it that (a) direct reference (and by that I
mean reference devoid of cognitive content) is not the only alternative to
descriptive reference, and that (b) genuine reference cannot be direct in this
sense. Not all meaning must be outside of the head in order to avoid the prob-
lem of incompleteness. It follows that the fact that demonstrative reference
involves some sort of cognition need not be fatal to successful reference, as
long as we add a Hegelian amendment.
2. Hegel’s Solution
The solution lies in the special Hegelian notion of mediation. On this view,
reference becomes a dialectically mediated and mediating link between oppo-
sites; in this case, between the speaker and the object of perception she is
pointing out.48
For analytic philosophy any mediation of concepts will
inevitably doom reference to incompleteness. Hegelian mediation of concepts,
by contrast, is harmless because the particular is not, as commonly thought,
absolutely opposed to the universal, but rather first results from it. And so it
goes for all opposites, whether we are talking about the individuality of the
object as opposed to its universal properties, or the link between knower and
known, word and object, speaker and referent, and so on. Any and all such
links are mediated, which means that they can neither be distinguished
absolutely nor absolutely identified, and they cannot possibly be linked imme-
diately or directly. In fact, only when individuality and universality exist in a
mediated unity can something exist concretely. Whenever we talk about these
notions in isolation from the object, we are treating them as abstract, or bare
concepts that do not represent the way things actually are in the world.
Abstract entities do not exist. So an abstract, general, or bare “I” can experi-
ence nothing, no abstract or “bare” particular can be experienced, and neither
exists. By the same token, nonmediated reference is impossible. This is why
whatever I come across in experience cannot be bare but already must be
determined at least minimally, or it could not appear to me. And whatever is
determined sufficiently to be something for me is eo ipso determined suffi-
ciently to permit reference. So experience of objects and reference to them
simultaneously involves three dialectically mediated relationships between the
individuality and universality: That of the concrete object of experience, that
Language, Objects, and the Missing Link 159
of the concrete subject of experience, and last but not least, the link between
the referring subject and its referent which first makes reference possible.
Sense certainty fails precisely because it keeps closing its eyes, as it were, to
the concreteness of speaker and referent, because to admit concreteness is to
admit mediation of universals. And mediation of concepts would spoil the direct
connection to the object sense certainty imagines it must have. The very same
thing might be said for those who erroneously imagine they have grounded the
causal theory in demonstratives. They stubbornly refuse to admit the presence
of other factors, both inside and outside the head. A study of the Phenomenol-
ogy clearly demonstrates what I have already indicated: Hegel’s mediated con-
nections are not trivial; they do not result from simple definition and they are
not presupposed. Rather, they emerge during the course of Hegel’s investigation
of consciousness and the conditions under which it has knowledge of the things
in its experience. If a given proposal of those conditions fails the test of experi-
ence, it is ruthlessly thrown over in favor of experience, and a new proposal will
be tested. Ultimately, Hegel sees thought and world as isomorphic.49
This view
is a far cry from the assumptions that deposited us in the referential mess in the
first place. Clearly, a Hegelian solution escapes philosophers who are still caught
in that profoundly misleading paradigm of “the understanding.” From that
standpoint, no direct route to the referent is available, and if reference is routed
through concepts, incompleteness splits word from thing. However, from a
Hegelian vantage point, we can recognize the essential identity-in-difference
between word and thing.Thus the referential link is assured. So it turns out that
we can keep our referential cake and eat it, too, as long as the cake is dialectical,
which is to say, a unity of mediated opposites.
Ultimately, it is clear that abilities to designate cannot possibly be tested
without venturing outside of semantics. And without an appropriate test, refer-
ence simply cannot be guaranteed. Hegel’s contribution lies in the fact that he
attempts such an examination or test and that he offers a unique perspective
from which to explore the issues involved here. According to his purview,
things inside the head cannot be radically divorced from those outside, which
is to say that while the former retain independence from the latter in experi-
ence, they do not belong to mutually exclusive ontological realms. This is why
semantics cannot be severed from pragmatics and epistemology. Thus Hegel
would argue that the notions of grounding and ostension ultimately make no
sense without the dialectical notion of mediation.
NOTES
1. Whether things in experience are real or merely representations does not alter
the fact that we cannot know them unless we can refer to them.
2. Also see Devitt and Sterelny, Language and Reality: An Introduction to the Phi-
losophy of Language, 2d edition (Cambridge: MIT Press, 1999), 60 (hereafter LR).
160 KATHARINA DULCKEIT
3. See John Searle’s debate with Derrida on deconstruction: Jacques Derrida,”
Signature Event Context,” Glyph 1 (1977): 172–97. John Searle, “Reiterating the Dif-
ferences: A Reply to Derrida,” Glyph 1 (1977): 198–202. Jacques Derrida, “Limited
Inc abc . . .” Glyph 2 (1978): 162–254 (Northwestern Press, 1988). John Searle, “The
World Turned Upside Down,” New York Review of Books 30 (1983): 74–79. John
Searle, and L. H Mackey, “An Exchange on Deconstruction,” New York Review of
Books 31 (1984): 47–48. John Ellis Against Deconstruction (Princeton: Princeton Uni-
versity Press, 1989).
4. I say “genuine reference” to distinguish it from pseudoreference. The former
links language to objects as they appear to us in experience, the latter links it to con-
cepts of those objects, i.e., more language. I take it that only the first version can keep
the skeptic at bay. Note that my distinction is independent from questions regarding
the ontological status of objects and, hence, from the epistemological distinction
between things-in-themselves and their representation in consciousness.
5. “Baptism” and “reference fixing” are Kripke’s terms. “Reference grounding” is
the synonymous term used by Devitt and others.
6. Saul Kripke, “Speaker’s Reference and Semantic Reference,” in T. E. Uehling
and H. K. Wettstein, eds. Contemporary Perspectives in the Philosophy of Language (Min-
neapolis: University of Minnesota Press, 1979), 6–27.
7. Michael Devitt, Designation (New York: Columbia University Press, 1981),
chapter 7, 60–64. The qua-problem puts a name to a worry I have had since I first read
Naming and Necessity in Graduate School! Unfortunately I never ran across Devitt until
some years later. As Devitt points out, the qua-problem was first noted for natural kind
terms by Papineau and Dupre. Devitt applied it to proper names. See David Papineau,
Theory and Meaning (Oxford: Clarendon, 1979), chapter 5, section 7. John Dupre,
“Natural Kinds and Biological Taxa,” Philosophical Review 90 (1981): 66–90. Also see
Kim Sterelny, “Natural Kind Terms,” Pacific Philosophical Quarterly 64 (1983): 110–25.
8. Starting with Plato, culminating in Descartes, and echoing in Kant, we find
sustained and notoriously flawed efforts to cobble mutually exclusive opposites
together.
9. Georg W. F. Hegel, The Phenomenology of Spirit (Oxford: Clarendon, 1977).
10. Hegel scholars may not like the idea of appropriating Hegel in this manner, and
many analytic philosophers will prefer to keep searching for a working theory within
their own paradigm. We shall deal with some possible objections later. But I think it is
worth mentioning that rejecting an opponent in philosophy who may throw light on
one’s puzzles on the grounds that one prefers to remain unfamiliar with his writings can
hardly masquerade for cleverness, and certainly not philosophy, even bad philosophy.
Given Hegel’s penchant for mediation, this should go doubly for Hegel scholars! I am
grateful to the slowly growing little band of philosophers who, ignoring past conventions,
have been seen playing in both playgrounds. Philosophy can only benefit.
11. Georg W. F. Hegel, The Science of Logic (New York: Humanities, 1969).
12. I have attempted such analysis elsewhere. See “Hegel’s Revenge on Russell:
The ‘Is’ of Identity versus the ‘Is’ of Predication,” in Hegel and His Critics, State Uni-
versity of New York Press, October 1989.
13. “Dialectical reference” refers to reference that is mediated yet secure. It is
based on Hegel’s understanding of the nature of opposites. I use the term strictly phe-
nomenologically. No commitment to ontology implied.
Language, Objects, and the Missing Link 161
14. Bertrand Russell, The Problems of Philosophy (London: Oxford University
Press, 1954).
15. Saul A. Kripke, Naming and Necessity (Cambridge: Harvard University Press,
1980), (hereafter NN).
16. NN 83–84.
17. NN 33.
18. NN 66–67.
19. For an argument against Kripke, see Frederick W. Kroon, “The Problem of
‘Jonah’: How not to Argue for the Causal Theory of Reference,” Philosophical Studies
43 (1983): 281–99.
20. NN 84.
21. Devitt, a realist and fan of the causal theory sums it up best: “A description
theory of names explains the referential properties of one category of term, names, by
appeal to those of another, definite descriptions: on the classical theory, ‘a’ designates x
in virtue of being associated with ‘the F’ which denotes x; designation is explained in
terms of denotation. The referential properties of descriptions are explained, in turn,
by appeal to those of general terms: ‘the F’ denotes x in virtue of the fact that ‘F’ applies
to x and nothing else; denotation is explained in terms of application. What account
of general terms is on offer? In virtue of what does ‘F’ apply to F’s? Perhaps a descrip-
tion theory of some general terms would be satisfactory: words like ‘bachelor,’ ‘judge’
and ‘murderer’ may seem definable. This process cannot, however, go on forever: there
must be some terms whose referential properties are not parasitic on others. Other-
wise, language as a whole is cut loose from the world. Description theories which
explain one part of language in terms of another, can give no clues as to how, ulti-
mately, language is referentially linked to reality. These theories pass the referential
buck. But the buck must stop somewhere.” LR 51–52.
22. Hilary Putnam, Mind, Language and Reality: Philosophical Papers, vol. 2 (Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press, 1975), 223–27 (hereafter MLR).
23. MLR 227.
24. Steven Schwartz, ed., Naming, Necessity and Natural Kinds (Ithaca: Cornell
University Press), 120–21 (hereafter Schwarz).
25. LR 63.
26. NN 96.
27. Donellan prefers to call this chain “historical,” rather than causal. See Keith
Donellan,”Speaking of Nothing,” The Philosophical Review (Jan. 1974): 3–32.
Reprinted in Schwartz, 216–44.
28. Palle Yourgrau, “The Path Back to Frege,” Proceedings of the Aristotelian Soci-
ety (1986–1987): 169–210.
29. The critique of grounding that I summarize in this section (4.1) can be found
in LR 63–65 and 72–75.
30. This is Devitt’s example. I have changed the name of the cat to the name of
the kitten I brought home to my own kids when they were small. See LR 68.
31. Despite the fact that the noun “Jinx” has a meaning, as a name Jinx is on par
with, say, “Fred,” it’s a purely referential term. As a name, Jinx has no meaning and
serves only to pick out the referent. And it does not matter how many people decide
to call their pet Jinx because different causal networks, grounded in different objects,
will underlie their use of the name.
162 KATHARINA DULCKEIT
32. LR 79. Here and in the next note, I changed the example slightly.
33. LR 80.
34. This is still different from description. The general term cannot distinguish
members within that term and hence cannot serve to identify the object. Yet to the
extent that this view is descriptive, it remains incomplete. See LR 80.
35. For example, see David Kaplan’s “Dthat,” in P. Cole, ed., Syntax and Seman-
tics 9: Pragmatics (New York: Academic Press, 1978), 221–43; Nathan Salmon, Refer-
ence and Essence (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1981); and Frege’s Puzzle
(Cambridge: MIT Press, 1986); Howard Wettstein, “Demonstrative Reference and
Definite Descriptions,” Philosophical Studies 40 (1981): 241–57. For an interesting col-
lection of papers, including some of the above, see Joseph Almog, John Perry, and
Howard Wettstein, eds., Themes from Kaplan (New York: Oxford University Press,
1989).
36. For my argument against Russell, see “Atomism, the Theory of Acquantance
and the Hegelian Dialectic,” Perspektiven Der Philosophie, Neues Jahrbuch 16 (1990):
221–38. Also see Kaplan, who lashes out at Russell for mixing epistemology with
semantics, in “Demonstratives: An Essay on the Semantics, Logic, Metaphysics, and
Epistemology of Demonstratives and other Indexicals,” Joseph Almog, John Perry, and
Howard Wettstein, eds., Themes from Kaplan (New York: Oxford University Press,
1989). It is worth pointing out that Strawson, who wrote on the context-dependabil-
ity of demonstratives was a descriptivist. See his argument in P. F. Strawson, Individ-
uals: An Essay in Descriptive Metaphysics (London: Methuen, 1959), 15–30.
37. LR, section 5.5, p. 96. “Perceiving a rabbit as a rabbit,” we read on page 162
in LR, “is a matter of being in a state with the biological function of representing a rab-
bit . . . the teleological theory of perception becomes an essential part of the theory of
groundings.”
38. See Michael Devitt, Realism and Truth (Oxford: Blackwell, 1984, 1991).
39. John McDowell, Mind and World (Cambridge: Harvard University Press,
1996). McDowell argues (on page ix) that there is a way to rethink the opposition
between spontaneity and the “myth of the given” in a way that is not “outside” con-
ception but nevertheless remains truly independent of our thinking. He thus argues that
we can overcome dualism without reducing either side to the other, by recognizing the
“unboundedness of the conceptual.” He himself raises the specter of “bad” idealism,
only to refute it. His “third way” can be described as unabashedly Hegelian. Indeed, in
the preface he writes that he “would like to conceive this work as a prolegomenon to a
reading of the Phenomenology.”
40. The Science of Logic (New York: Humanities, 1969).
41. Hegel would think of analytic philosophy as moving on the level of “the
Understanding.” His own view is that true philosophical wisdom is only possible if one
can transcend that level and think on the level of Reason. For him the latter under-
stands that opposites are not mutually exclusive but rather mediated by one another
such that one can only be through the other.
42. My thanks to Robert Berman for this criticism.
43. Notice that while the key concepts in the Logic help clarify Hegel’s take on
mediated opposition, we are not obligated to swallow the system hook, line, and sinker.
It is perfectly appropriate, in my view, to keep the entire discussion where Hegel him-
self places it: in experience.
Language, Objects, and the Missing Link 163
44. This involves the idea of determinate negation, which is a complex notion.
Suffice it to say that it is different from the absolute negation of formal logic in that it
preserves something of what was negated in the new position. Thus the new form of
consciousness preserves the notion that there is a relation between subject and object,
but it redescribes what particular form it takes.
45. It has been suggested that Hegel confuses and conflates distinctions made in
contemporary semantics and pragmatics, such as, for instance, the distinctions between
sense and reference and types and tokens. I have argued that Hegel not only does dis-
tinguish these, he actually was first to demonstrate the need for such a distinction. See
my “Can Hegel Refer to Particulars?” The Owl of Minerva 17, 2 (Spring 1986):
190–93. Reprinted in The Phenomenology of Spirit Reader (Albany: State University of
New York Press, 1998), 105–21 (hereafter, Particulars).
46. Kenneth Westphal, Hegel’s Epistemological Realism, Philosophical Studies Series
43 (Boston: Kluwer, 1989), 147.
47. For a fuller treatment of the issues involved, see Particulars, 181–94.
48. In their dialectical unity each opposite takes on the determination of the
other: The universal becomes determined as particular and the particular becomes
determined as universal.
49. The Hegelian solution offered in the Phenomenology is clarified by several of
Hegel’s key conceptions elucidated in the Logic: the Law of the Excluded Middle, the
Law of Contradiction, Determinate Negation, and, most importantly, Identity-in-Dif-
ference.
164 KATHARINA DULCKEIT
My goal in this chapter is to articulate and defend a framework for develop-
ing a Hegelian theory of language that is a systematic, dialectical totality.
Hegel never explicitly offers a philosophy of language, but he is nonetheless
far from silent on most linguistic issues. While his most direct work on lan-
guage concerns the origin and nature of signification and arises in his pre-Phe-
nomenology writings and in the last volume of the Encyclopedia, virtually all of
Hegel’s major works introduce elements of language as everything from con-
crete examples of specific categories to necessary dialectical stages.
Thus, while Hegel never articulates a system of language, the virtual ubiq-
uity of linguistic elements throughout his works may provide ample materials
for developing such a system.1
If the various parts of language enjoy consistent
treatments and analyses across the different texts in which they arise, then the
system itself may present an implicit theory of language. In other words, by
relating the parts of language to each other through the parts of the system in
relation to which they arise, systematic linguistic relations can be developed.
In what follows, I will follow one linguistic path laid out by Hegel—that
of grammar—and, rather than obeying the borders of any individual text or
temporal period, I will follow it where it leads. Thus, I shall be drawing
together texts from diverse aspects of Hegel’s academic life. This may initially
appear to be a serious flaw, in that Hegel’s investigative focus is different
across his texts and some of his central concepts change significantly over
time. However, any investigation of Hegel’s philosophy of language will
require at least some use of disparate texts, owing both to the diffusion of his
many brief comments concerning language and the significant time lapse
165
CHAPTER 8
The Realm of Abstraction:
The Role of Grammar in
Hegel’s Linguistic System
Jim Vernon
between his few explicit analyses. Those who care to investigate Hegel and
language must utilize all available resources, lest they forgo valuable tools that
more traditional styles of commentary would preclude. Exploiting language’s
ubiquity, of course, should never mean abusing it. Any connection between
texts should be guided by the linguistic concept at issue and therefore requires
the demonstration of an immanent conceptual continuity. It is such continu-
ity that I hope has guided my text selection here.
I
In Hegel’s works, grammar consistently arises as a tool for explicating the
nature of, defending the importance of, and providing ideal instruction in the
categories of logic. Thus, we shall begin our investigation of Hegel’s account
of grammar with a brief look at Hegel’s idea of logic, at least insofar as the lat-
ter implicates the former.
In introducing his Science of Logic Hegel is primarily concerned with dif-
ferentiating his conception of logic from that held by “ordinary consciousness.”2
Despite the fact that his Phenomenology has already demonstrated the necessity
of the pure science of thought as the liberation from the contradictions that
determine ordinary thinking, Hegel takes special care “to make the point of
view from which [logic] is to be examined understandable to picture thinking”
(Werke 5:36; Miller, 43). Thus, while the Logic in one sense presupposes the
Phenomenology’s famous conclusion, in another sense it is simply a pedagogical
text in logic for those still dominated by ordinary picture thinking.
According to Hegel, ordinary thinking conceives of logic as the “bare
form of cognition” abstracted from any particular content or material (Werke
5:36; Miller, 43). The rules of logic govern only the subjective act of thinking,
while the object or content of thought is presumed to be objectively “existing,
in and for itself, as a ready-made world external to thought” (Werke 5:36;
Miller, 44).Thinking is an intrinsically empty form, irreducibly external to the
“real” world and it is only through the aid of this “real” content that abstract
thinking is able to become actual knowing by, at best, conforming to its ready-
made content or, at worst, to the mere subjective appearance of it. Thus, pic-
ture thinking consigns logic to a realm of abstraction that is irreducibly exter-
nal to the “real” realm of experience. Much to his dismay, Hegel finds that this
picture of logic has come to dominate not only ordinary consciousness, but
philosophy as well. This conception of logic, however, has overcome philoso-
phy only recently, in the modern era. Ancient philosophers had a “higher con-
cept of thinking” and considered it to be the “essence” of objects (Werke 5:38;
Miller, 45). They held that thinking and its object were “one and the same
content” and that one needed to grasp the forms of thinking in order to arrive
at genuine knowledge of the world (Werke 5:38; Miller, 45).
166 JIM VERNON
Things are quite different, however, under the sway of modern philoso-
phy, which has reduced logic to a “completely analytical method and mechan-
ical (begriffloses) calculation” that is external to its content (Werke 5:47–48;
Miller, 52). Having the appearance of a pure abstraction which lacks the
vivacity and utility of the empirical sciences, logic, pedagogically speaking,
“may be said to have fallen into contempt. It is still dragged along, [but] more
from the feeling that logic cannot be dispensed with altogether, and from the
still lingering tradition of its importance, than from the conviction that . . .
occupation with its empty forms has value and use” (Werke 5:46; Miller, 52).
Such are the “prejudices” of reflective understanding that “bar the entrance to
philosophy” (Werke 5:38; Miller, 45). The business of philosophy, according to
Hegel, is the lifting of this bar.
Philosophy, however, cannot conduct its business merely by returning to
the philosophy of the ancients. While it is true that, in comparison, the con-
temporary abstraction “appears as a loss and a retrograde step, [it in fact] has
something more profound as its basis, upon which rests the elevation of rea-
son into the higher spirit of modern philosophy” (Werke 5:38–39; Miller, 46).
Reflective understanding is the separation of the thought of the thing and the
thing thought that brings the ancient immediate unity of form and content
into necessary contradiction. According to Hegel, this is the great insight
achieved by reflection. Thus, philosophy in the modern age must include,
within itself, the necessary contradiction realized in modernity.
As the deduction of the Phenomenology, however, pure thinking no less
presupposes the liberation of consciousness from the oppositions of reflective
understanding and the necessary unity of thought and its object. Thus, in an
era both dominated by reflective picture thinking and in which the Phenome-
nology’s deduction has already occurred, the scientific and pedagogical value of
logic can neither be naturally assumed nor “reflectively” eradicated. One can
neither hold logic to be a merely external form of thought (as reflection con-
siders it) nor simply restore thinking to an immediate unity with the world (as
the Phenomenology’s deduction appears to permit). If the nature and value of
pure thinking is to be explicitly determined, then logic must be developed in
segregation from its possible extension into, or unity with, the empirical
world. Logic must be developed according to its own principle, in itself, for its
development to be free and complete. This isolated development is, of course,
what the Logic is intended to be. Thus, the Logic not only serves as an imma-
nent reconstruction of the forms of thinking; it is also a text of formative Bil-
dung that teaches the student of logic “to practice abstract thinking” (Werke
5:53; Miller, 56). This thinking breaks with the immediacy of the empirical
and enables the student to cognize by means of the abstract categories neces-
sary for genuine philosophy.
However, within this account of logical Bildung, an obvious problem
arises. If contemporary individuals are held fast in the abstractions of reflective
The Realm of Abstraction 167
understanding, they will clearly not yet have overcome the contradiction
between form and content. For them, logic will necessarily retain the appear-
ance of “an isolated system of abstractions which, confined unto itself, does not
encompass (übergreift) the other studies and sciences” (Werke 5:54; Miller, 57).
In other words, the entrance to philosophy would come not as the liberation
from reflective prejudice but as the reinforcement of it. How then could the
study of logic in isolation actually liberate one from the prejudices that arise
from its very abstraction?
Hegel’s curious answer is that the nature and value of logic is understood dif-
ferently by students at different levels of logical Bildung. When one first comes to
logic, one will necessarily contrast it with the “wealth of the world of picture
thinking (Weltvorstellung)” and sense that in logic a certain “scope and depth and
wider meaning is lacking” (Werke 5:54; Miller, 57–58).The empirical sciences will
retain their vividness, and utility and logic will appear as external and empty.
However,“it is something else for the one who returns to it from [those sciences]”
(Werke 5:53; Miller, 57). In the achievement of a “deeper knowledge (tiefern Ken-
ntniß)”of the more“concrete”studies,logic“raises itself up (erhebt sich)”and reveals
itself as the universal content of both the sciences and the world they investigate
(Werke 5:54; Miller, 58). Logic reveals itself as the essence of things only when one
returns to view it from within a deep mastery of the other sciences.
To make this pedagogical relationship between the individual and logical
education clearer, Hegel draws a structural analogy between the study of logic
and that of grammar. As with the student of logic, whoever begins to get
acquainted with grammar “finds in its forms and laws dry abstractions, arbi-
trary rules, [and] in general an isolated pile of classifications which exhibit
only the value and significance of what lies in their immediate meaning; cog-
nition (Erkennen), here, recognizes (erkennt) nothing in them but themselves”
(Werke 5:53; Miller, 57). Since the foil for grammar, like that of logic, must
appear as ready-made to the individual, to round out the analogy we must
assume grammar to be “abstracted” from the student’s natural language as that
is the most vivid, immediate, and useful of linguistic contents available to a
student. Natural language makes grammar appear as a contrived set of abstract
generalities from what is already expressed in a full and meaningful way.
However, claims Hegel,
[o]n the other hand, whoever has mastered a language (einer Sprache mächtig
ist) and at the same time knows other languages in comparison with it, he
alone can make himself feel the spirit and culture of a people through the
grammar of its language (kann sich der Geist und die Bildung eines Volks in der
Grammatik seiner Sprache zu fühlen geben); now, the same rules and forms
have a substantial, living power. (Werke 5:53; Miller, 57)
Thus, like the student of logic, the new grammarian finds herself
immersed in something seemingly immediate, vivid, and ready-made in com-
168 JIM VERNON
parison to which her study-matter appears as a mere external abstraction.
However, after both “mastering” her own tongue and completing some “com-
parative” study of other languages, she can return to them and find the uni-
versal form that essentially structures all natural languages. Grammar is uni-
versal across all languages and only a combination of study in languages not
our own and some special kind of mastery of our natural tongue can bring this
to our consciousness.
Clearly, however, formal grammatical study is not the only way in which
individuals come to have knowledge of multiple languages. Many children are
raised speaking several languages, thus existing within a “ready-made” world
of comparative linguistic knowledge. Moreover, seemingly masterful compe-
tence in one’s natural language is a universal trait of humanity, despite the fact
that a substantial number of people never encounter anything like formal
grammatical training. Many individuals have conversational or reading
knowledge of different languages, as well as full speaking/hearing ability
within their own without ever confronting the “passive voice” or “subjunctive
mood” as categories. Moreover, some grammatical categories and rules (the
continuous tense, separable prefixes, etc.) are present in some language fami-
lies but not others. Thus, Hegel cannot be claming that any knowledge of
one’s own tongue, or even two or more languages, allows us to see the univer-
sality of grammar, with or without grammatical study. Furthermore, by “gram-
mar” he must mean something other than the particular surface grammars of
individual languages.
In other words, Hegel must have something more in mind by “mastery of
a language” than the ideal speaking/comprehension ability that serves as the
model for contemporary linguistics, and he must also mean something differ-
ent by “comparative knowledge” than some version of the aforementioned
abilities in a language not one’s own natural tongue.3
Clearly the passage, with
its focus on the Bildung of individuals, points away from the manner in which
we generally speak our own languages and often come to function within oth-
ers toward more formal, pedagogically based kinds of competence and mas-
tery. It is precisely this kind of language learning that is the focus of Hegel’s
1809 Rede on classical instruction in the Gymnasium.4
II
We should not be surprised that the analogy between logic and grammar has
led us back to the classics. While it may seem odd to jump from the mature
reflection of a great thinker upon his masterwork to the mere curriculum
defense of a Gymnasium rector, these disparate texts are united by their com-
mon concern for the pedagogy required for true entrance into philosophy in
the modern age, as well as with the relation between logical education and the
The Realm of Abstraction 169
study of grammar.5
Moreover, as a text specifically focused on classical lan-
guage instruction and its importance for the study of philosophy, the Rede
develops the relations between logic and grammar to a much greater degree of
detail than the briefer, yet strikingly similar, account in the later Logic. In fact,
the rector’s account of the nature of grammar appears to be the assumed back-
ground for the logician’s brief analogy. If this is the case, the analogy may not
be an analogy at all but an expression of the deeper, more systematic relation
between grammar and logic in Hegel’s theory of language. Before we explore
grammar in the Rede, however, let us take a brief look at classical instruction
at the time of Hegel’s rectorship.
The first half of Hegel’s lecture concerns the declining status of classical
language instruction in contemporary German education. In the modern age,
classical study—much like logic—has been stripped of its formerly held “dig-
nity of being the universal and almost exclusive means of education” and now
a “universal voice raises itself against” it as essentially obsolete (Werke 4:315;
OCS, 322). This “point of view . . . has little by little eroded (abgesezt) the
[longstanding] claim of the study of [classical languages] to be considered the
central science” (Werke 4:315; OCS, 322). This objection specifically concerns
the externality of the classics to the lives of German youth:
The intimacy with which our own language belongs to us is lacking in the
studies we possess only in a foreign one; these are separated from us by a par-
tition (Scheidewand) which prevents them from truly finding a home in [the]
minds [of students]. (Werke 4:315; OCS, 322)
The intrinsic externality of classical languages to the modern mind is a
barrier between the student and whatever literary, moral, and philosophical
content classical instruction may contain. Genuine knowledge can only be inti-
mately grasped by German students if it is expressed in their natural tongue.
This linguistic prejudice, coupled with the increasingly frequent degeneration
of classical study “into a generic mechanism [and/or] degraded methods” of
instruction has dragged classics below the level of “so-called matters of fact,
among them everyday, sensory things” (Werke 4:315; OCS, 322–23).
Thus, classical language instruction has come to be seen as the imposi-
tion of an external abstraction on a mind already immersed in the ready-made
German language; it is a mere mechanism that intrinsically lacks the imme-
diacy, vivacity, and utility of the other sciences. This foreignness bars students
from truly grasping whatever content classical study is meant to convey. How-
ever, Hegel does not dwell upon these degraded techniques and their conse-
quences for long.
His primary concern in discussing the crisis of classical studies is to rise
above this superficial rejection and bring attention to the “wise measures”
recently proposed within German civil education (Werke 4:315; OCS, 323).6
These proposed changes represent no mere return to former pedagogical prac-
170 JIM VERNON
tices, nor do they rest upon some new “German” value being imported to clas-
sical instruction. Rather, classical training is being “secured as the fundamen-
tal basis of learned study” precisely by stripping it of its “exclusive character”
as the central science and placing it simply “alongside [the other] educational
materials and scientific methods” (Werke 4:316; OCS, 323).
As before, however, a clear problem arises. If classical instruction is no
longer the exclusive pedagogical ground for the other sciences, then it will
appear as an external abstraction from the more useful and immediate studies
taught in German. How can it then securely hold its old position by being
stripped of it? How can placing an abstract discipline in direct competition
with more immediate studies avoid reinforcing the prejudice against it?
As in the Logic, Hegel argues that it is in fact isolation from the other sci-
ences that reinvigorates classical studies. Formerly, it was presumed that
knowledge of all practical and rudimentary things was contained within clas-
sical instruction. As such, classical study was constrained by its relations with
matters of fact, as it was studied only with a view to its possible extensions into
the “factual” or “practical” sciences. In contrast, the new method of “abstract-
ing” classical study into its own realm within education, grants it “the possi-
bility . . . to be able to develop itself [both] more freely and more com-
pletely. . . . Only what makes itself completely isolated in its own principle
(Nur was sich abgesondert in seinem Prinzip vollkommen macht) becomes a con-
sistent whole, i.e., it becomes something; it gains depth and the powerful pos-
sibility of versatility” (Werke 4:316–17; OCS, 323–24). Classical study for its
own sake, abstracted from its possible unity with the other sciences, grants it
the freedom to develop itself to its greatest depth.
It is in the pronouncement of this isolating principle, however, that we
encounter a curious detour in Hegel’s account. Focusing as he does on the
necessity of classical language instruction as a vital part of the study of clas-
sics (as opposed to works in translation) we would expect the grammatical, or
some other specifically linguistic aspect, to be its differentiating principle.
However, the principle Hegel proposes is the “excellence (Vortrefflichen)” of
human spirit found in the classical age, wherein for the first time “the paradise
of human spirit . . . has its depth . . . lying open in free clarity” (Werke
4:317–18; OCS, 324–25). Studying classical languages, abstracted from any
immediate practicality, must first and foremost bring us into contact with the
excellence of the human spirit.
This detour becomes somewhat more understandable when we learn that
what Hegel calls the human spirit stands opposed to the “so-called practical
subject-matter, this sensuous material that falls immediately into the child’s
manner of picture thinking” (Werke 4:319; OCS, 325–26). Human excellence
is found in our spiritual and mental life, not derived from our experience of
the merely practical or sensuous. As such, the excellence of human spirit
found in classics is “only the content of mind (der geistige Inhalt)” and, as such,
The Realm of Abstraction 171
it is the most suitable material to train and exercise the student’s mind in its
own proper activities (Werke 4:319; OCS, 326).
Since classical education trains and nourishes us precisely because it
expresses the excellence of our own minds, this excellence would also neces-
sarily find expression in our natural language. Given this, Hegel must concede
that it can be approximately conveyed in translation. If this is the case, what
then would necessitate ancient language study at all? If the excellence
expressed within classical languages is no less expressed within contemporary
languages, why are we are not entitled “to think that the culture of the mod-
ern world, our enlightenment and the progress of all arts and sciences . . . have
surpassed their Greek and Roman infancy, and outgrown their old leading
strings [and] can now walk upon their own land?” (Werke 4:317; OCS, 324).
Hegel’s answer is that education is not merely a mater of content; it is also
a matter of form. Training is not simply the digestion of certain pedagogically
necessary facts and ideas. It is equally and more importantly the exercise and
development of the form of thinking. Thus, having “spoken about the mater-
ial (Stoffe) of education,” we must now “say a few words about the formal ele-
ment (das Formelle) which lies in its nature” (Werke 4:320; OCS, 327).
What classical instruction conveys is the excellence of mind which, as
such, is what is most immediate to us. However, precisely as immediate, this
excellence cannot be recognized as universal. In classical texts, the universal-
ity of our mind cannot be grasped when translated into our mother tongue for
the simple reason that we are immediately “at home” in the particular expres-
sions of the latter. While the excellence is itself universal, we find it presented
within, and understand it as, a particular natural expression. Because it is pre-
cisely our immediate “at home-ness” in our mother tongue that prevents us
from grasping the universality contained in its particular expressions, in order
to make our universal mind explicit to ourselves we must become foreign to
ourselves by confronting our spiritual excellence as something external. If edu-
cation is the training and development of the mind, then the form of this
training (training in itself) must begin with mind’s “separation from its nat-
ural essence and condition, which [mind] itself seeks (die Scheidung, die sie von
ihrem natürlich Wesen und Zustand sucht)” (Werke 4:321; OCS, 328). In other
words, we must confront our own mind as an external abstraction.
The “partition . . . through which this separation . . . is achieved,” Hegel
claims, “is the world and language of the ancients,” which, as sufficiently
remote and alien to us, “separates us from ourselves” (Werke 4:321; OCS, 328).7
In translation, however, this alien world speaks to us in an all too familiar way.
Thus, truly enacting the “universal necessity” of estrangement within educa-
tional development requires learning “the [ancient] world of idea[s] (die Welt
der Vorstellung) as well as their language” (Werke 4:322; OCS, 328, my empha-
sis). Confronting our own minds in someone else’s language estranges us from
ourselves in an uncannily vivid fashion.
172 JIM VERNON
As a confrontation with our own mind in another’s tongue, classical study
requires a certain abstract, “mechanical” learning. These mechanical elements
would, presumably, include the dry, rote memorization of vocabulary. However,
Hegel focuses here on the fact that “the mechanical moments (mechanishen
Momente) in language learning are immediately connected with grammatical
study (grammatische Studium), whose value cannot be rated highly enough”
(Werke 4:322; OCS, 328). At first, this high estimation of grammatical study
seems odd since one’s natural language is intrinsically grammatical and thus the
learning of one’s own language would constitute some manner of grammatical
learning. Hegel even acknowledges that grammar is a central pedagogical con-
cern for both Latin and German instruction. What, then, is particular to gram-
mar that makes it an alienating necessity for learning? Moreover, how does
grammatical training relate specifically to grasping the universality of mind?
Hegel defines grammar as “the categories [and] characteristic products
and determinations of the understanding” (Werke 4:322; OCS, 329). In other
words, (at least some of) the concepts and relations of our thinking mind are
the concepts of grammar. This is partially evinced by the fact that some spe-
cific grammatical categories are universal across time and culture, a fact we are
confronted with in learning ancient languages.8
These universal grammatical
categories are the universal forms of thinking, which “are in us because under-
standing is our essence” and which find immediate expression in the various
natural languages of individuals (Werke 4:323; OCS, 329). What Hegel means
by grammar, then, is the universal form of thinking mind which finds expres-
sion in all natural languages.9
Because grammatical concepts are what are expressed in our natural lan-
guage we understand them immediately—that is, as particular expressions.
However, the fact that we speak grammatically and/or correctly interpret the
expressions of others does not demonstrate knowledge of the universal gram-
mar which concerns Hegel. To the contrary, a proper employment of any “sur-
face” grammatical rule (e.g., correctly gendering our German substantives,
etc.) is, like any lexical expression, a particular expression for a particular cul-
ture. It is understood immediately as expressing a representational idea, rather
than a category or relation of thinking. In short, particular grammatical
expressions cover over the universal grammatical categories that they express.
Abstract grammatical study allows us to objectively grasp the universal cate-
gories (e.g., the substantive, the verb) and their imminent relations in them-
selves, according to their own principle.10
This formal study is achieved in its purest form in “grammatical study of an
ancient language” (Werke 4:323; OCS, 330). In contrast to formal training in
German, or even in living foreign languages like French, the study of a dead
tongue never allows “unreflective habit [to lead] us to bring about the right
coincidence of words (die richtige Wortfügung herbeiführt)” (Werke 4:323; OCS,
330). Unreflective speech, as consciously expressive only of particulars, expresses
The Realm of Abstraction 173
universal relations between grammatical categories only accidentally. When one
is reading works in an ancient language, “it is necessary to keep in view the sig-
nificance of the parts of speech determined by the understanding, and call to
[our] aid the rules of their combination” (Werke 4:323; OCS, 330). While one
can imagine (and may even know) classicists with a facility to read Latin and
Greek unreflectively, we need not share Hegel’s bias toward the classics to grasp
the basic point of the argument. Negotiating our way through a language that
is unnatural to us prevents us from finding ourselves at home therein and forces
us to begin the double process of the “perpetual subsuming of the particular
under the universal and the particularization of the universals,” and the more
unnatural the language, the more conscious we become of that process (Werke
4:323; OCS, 330). Through this process, the universal concepts of grammatical
mind are grasped in isolation and purity as objects in their own right and can
consequently be recognized and concretized in particular expressions.
It is through this double process that we can find ourselves at home in the
realm of abstraction; that is, we can learn to grasp and utilize the abstract uni-
versal concepts and relations of grammatical mind as the power and value of
particular expressions. In short, grammatical study “constitutes the beginning
of logical education” by teaching us the pure forms of (abstract) thinking, and
can be “considered elementary philosophy” in that it makes us confront the
perpetual subsumption and concretion of universals and particulars “in which
the form of reason’s activity exists” (Werke 4:322–23; OCS, 328–30).
III
This path of grammar, I contend, reveals to us the framework for developing a
systematic philosophy of language through the dialectic of form and content.
Language is phenomenally experienced as a set of “natural,” particular words
which, as Hegel puts it in the Encyclopedia, constitute the content, or “material
(lexical) element (das Material [das Lexikalische])” of language, whose universal
categories and formal relations are concealed from us in the unconscious
immediacy of natural expression.11
This lexical, material element is sensuous
and particular, rather than abstract and universal, and can only be studied as
such. Thus, it is in the Geist works (i.e., the Phenomenology and, especially the
Philosophy of Mind) that we must turn to seek an account of the “content” side
of language, for it is precisely these texts that address the consciousness of par-
ticular sensuous materials. This analysis will ultimately demand the confronta-
tion with language as alienating, mechanical, and abstract, revealing the con-
cealment of the pure, universal “form (grammar)” of thought within linguistic
expression (Werke 10: § 459). This “formal element of language (Das Formelle
der Sprache) is the work of the understanding which imparts (einbildet) its cat-
egories into [language}” (Werke 10: § 459).12
These formal categories of think-
174 JIM VERNON
ing, however, will necessarily appear as abstractions without substantial exis-
tence. Thus grammatical categories, developed on their own account, will arise
in a confused form and will not be recognized as the essential structure of
expression. It is in the greater and lesser Logics that we must seek an account of
these abstract concepts developed according to their own principle.
If language consists of a material, particular lexicon and a formal, univer-
sal grammar, then a systematic philosophy of language must make both their
opposition and unity explicit. Lexical content and its logical grammar must
each be explored in isolation according to their own principles, and their
immediate unity must be dissolved into a reflected dichotomy. No less, how-
ever, does this opposition demand synthesis, and it is only through such a syn-
thesis that an explicitly Hegelian philosophy of language can arise. In other
words, a systematic philosophy of language is not merely an analysis of the con-
stitutive parts of any or all languages; it is moreover and essentially a system-
atic program for mastering languages. It is not enough to inhabit and utilize a
lexicon that manages to express mental ideas to others, nor is it sufficient to
determinately catalogue all the universal grammatical categories and relations
that are transformed into expressive content.To determine how language func-
tions as a sensuous expression of thought, we must systematically determine
the manner in which particular words are subsumed by universal categories, as
well as how logical categories are concretized into material expressions.13
To do
so, we shall have to relate the Geist and Logic texts to each other on linguistic
terms. To relate these texts to each other through their linguistic elements is to
develop an explicitly Hegelian theory of language, or a linguistic system.
In the preface to the second edition of the Logic, Hegel writes: “what we
make into language and express through language contains, whether con-
cealed (eingehüllter), confused (vermischter) or made explicit (herausgearbeitet),
a category” (Werke: 5:20; Miller, 31). These three moments—the particular
expressions within which a universal category lies concealed (Geist), the uni-
versal categories that must be grasped in confusing abstraction from their con-
crete employment (logic), and the explicit determination of universal cate-
gories within particular expressions (system)—constitute Hegelian linguistics.
The study of the first must reveal the necessary presence of the second, the
imminent development of which demands the third. Only by explicitly deter-
mining the systematic relations between the realms of formal abstraction and
material content can we justifiably claim to have developed a truly Hegelian,
which is to say genuine, linguistic system.14
NOTES
1. This view resonates with the investigative starting point of Jean Hyppolite
(Logic and Existence, trans. L. Lawlor and A. Sen [Albany: State University of New
York Press, 1997]), although he ultimately concludes that Hegel’s texts do not contain
The Realm of Abstraction 175
such a system. The very possibility of such a system is denied by Daniel Cook (Lan-
guage in the Philosophy of Hegel [The Hague: Mouton, 1973]) precisely because, as “the
medium for expressing the dialectical process of experience in general,” language “is too
basic a category to . . . be treated ‘in and for itself,’ and only if it were so treated . . .
could one speak of ‘Hegel’s Philosophy of Language’” (184, emphasis added).
2. G. W. F. Hegel, Wissenshaft der Logik, Werke in zwanzig Bänden, ed. E. Mold-
enhauer and K. M. Michel, 20 vols. and index (Frankfurt am Main: Suhrkamp Verlag,
1969ff.), 5:36; Hegel’s Science of Logic, trans. A. V. Miller (Atlantic Highlands, N.J.:
Humanities, 1989), 28. Further references will be given in the form Werke 5:36; Miller,
28. I have revised the English translations of all cited works by Hegel and give the page
numbers to them only for convenience.
3. For a classic discussion of the concepts of “linguistic competence” and “surface
grammar” in generative linguistics see Noam Chomsky, Aspects of the Theory of Syntax
(Cambridge: MIT, 1965).
4. G. W. F. Hegel, “Rede zum Schuljahrabshlu_ am 29. September 1809,” Werke
4:312–26; “On Classical Studies,” trans. R. Kroener in Early Theological Writings
(Chicago: University of Chicago, 1948), 321–30. Further references will be given in
the form Werke 4:312; OCS, 321.
5. This is a concern that dominated Hegel’s early thoughts about language, and
his conclusions regarding it appear to have remained virtually unchanged from his ear-
liest writings forward. For a brief but thorough recounting of Hegel’s thoughts on lan-
guage in his youthful writings, see Cook, 15–18.
6. The measures were those initiated by Hegel’s friend Niethammer. For details
on both the reforms and their mixed public reception, see Hegel: The Letters, trans. C.
Butler and C. Seiler (Bloomington: Indiana University Press, 1984), 186–232.
7. See Hans-Georg Gadamer, Truth and Method, trans. J. Weisenheimer and D.
Marshall (New York: Continuum, 1998) for a discussion of Hegel’s place in the his-
torical development of the concept of Bildung as “sacrificing particularity for the sake
of the universal” (12). Of course, for Hegel this sacrifice is made with the express pur-
pose of finding the universal within one’s own particular expressions, as we shall dis-
cuss below.
8. This places Hegel in dialogue with the universal grammarians of his day, as
well as with their critics. This should not surprise us, since the contention that logic
and grammar are intimately related or even identical was fairly commonplace in
Hegel’s time, as was the backlash of linguistic relativism. For an excellent survey of this
debate and its origins, see Peter H. Salus, “Universal Grammar 1000–1850,” in History
of Linguistic Thought and Contemporary Linguistics, ed. Herman Parrett (Berlin: de
Gruyter, 1976), 85–101. While Hegel was undoubtedly influenced by much of this
debate, and even seems to have taken sides with Humboldt to some degree within it,
Hegel’s conception of logic remains somewhat unique and thus comparisons to his
contemporaries are of only limited value.
9. Cook, despite recognizing in this a “profound reason for . . . linguistic studies”
of Hegel, immediately abandons his exploration of grammar and immediately switches
his focus to the role that signs play in Hegel’s account of language, and how these lin-
guistic signs are developed by Hegel into an account of subjective expression (Cook,
20). From this point on, grammar plays no role in Cook’s reconstructions of Hegel’s
dialectic of language. Placing content over form is a surprisingly common trait among
176 JIM VERNON
Hegel’s linguistic commentators. Rather than listing all those commentaries within
which grammar fails to find a place, I would like to draw attention to the reading pre-
sented by John McCumber (The Company of Words [Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern Uni-
versity Press, 1993]) as it explicitly focuses on the “non-expressive” elements of lan-
guage. McCumber argues that philosophical expression is ultimately achieved in the
systematic development of two separate yet related vocabularies: “representational
names” (i.e., the words of a natural language used by philosophers) and “names as such”
(i.e., names as mere sounds, abstracted from their representational meanings). How-
ever, he argues both that the latter cannot be “bound to fixed grammars and meanings”
(316) if they are to have the “plasticity” required for “philosophical” expression, and that
the complete set of the former, while meaningfully expressive, nevertheless “lacks syn-
tax and grammar [and is thus] a [mere] vocabulary, not a true language” (228). One is
left wondering how Hegel’s company of words can be either expressive or philosophi-
cally determinate without an account of their syntactic structures.
10. Hegel names the subject and the verb as the fundamental grammatical cate-
gories, through which thoughts “are stamped with objective form” (Werke 5:20; Miller,
32). It is thus from these basic categories that the rich set of relations that constitute
universal grammar must be developed.
11. G. W. F. Hegel, Enzyklopädie der philosophischen Wissenshaften III, Werke 10:
§ 459; Hegel’s Philosophy of Mind, trans. W. Wallace (Oxford: Oxford University Press,
1971), § 459. Further references will be given in the form, Werke 10: § 459.
12. For context, we may say that this definition of grammar moves Hegel beyond
the minimal one provided by J. G. Fichte, i.e., the mere “combination of several words”
(“On the Linguistic Capacity and the Origin of Language,” trans. J. Surber in Jere
Surber, Language and German Idealism: Fichte’s Linguistic Philosophy [Atlantic High-
lands, N.J.: Humanities, 1996], 134) and into closer relation with that of W. von Hum-
boldt, who claims that the grammatical form of any natural language universally “arises
from the laws of thinking” (On Language, trans. P. Heath [New York: Cambridge,
1988], 140). Again, however, we must recall Hegel’s unique conception of logic before
taking any comparison too far.
13. There are connections, here, to the account of language and universals pre-
sented in John Burbidge, “Language and Recognition,” in Method and Speculation in
Hegel’s Phenomenology, ed. Merold Westphal (Atlantic Highlands, N.J.: Humanities,
1982), 85–94. Abstracting to grammar moves us beyond our linguistic and cultural rel-
ativisms, to be sure, but no less demonstrates the need for thought to be concretized
within a lived language. Although Burbidge’s account sometimes focuses too strongly
on the universal moment, we are in agreement that the linguistically aware individual
“using words as categories . . . appreciates both the strengths and limitations of their
particular context” (93).
14. I wish to thank Jay Lampert, Brigitte Sassen, and John Burbidge for their
generous and helpful comments on an earlier draft of this chapter.
The Realm of Abstraction 177
This page intentionally left blank.
We live within spaces of possibilities with varying degrees of normativity:
social rules and expectations, linguistic grammars, artistic genres, conceptual
systems, place norms, scientific methods, and the like. They all change. I
would like to explore some issues that arise as part of a larger investigation
about how sets of possibilities and normative structures are established,
extended, and changed. Here I want to talk about how the kinds of transitions
Hegel studies might relate to empirical changes in language systems.1
I. LANGUAGE CHANGES
There are many types of language change. There are, for instance, large, slow
changes such as the loss of Germanic noun declensions in English.2
Pervasive
as such changes are, they do not alter the kind of social meaning and norms
Hegel is concerned about.3
Also, these pervasive changes happen at a much
slower pace than social and conceptual change.
There are quicker and more socially substantive changes of syntax and
grammatical rules, for instance variations in the French use of vous/tu, or new
politeness levels in Japanese verbs. These may or may not be involved in the
kinds of changes Hegel wants to discuss. Hegel is concerned about changes
that can show up less in a language’s grammatical machinery than in its basic
categories and social norms. Such changes may come in new theories (about
atoms, for instance, or about God), or in new social practices (Roman legal
personality, altered gender roles), or in the development of new virtues and
values (Stoic indifference, Christian humility).
There are also those self-conscious and quick changes that occur when a
poet or a thinker creates new metaphors that cross-breed language areas and
alter the truth value of sentences (John is a lion; Juliet is the sun, she would
burn you if you came too close; philosophy is an illness, and so on).
179
CHAPTER 9
The Logic of Language Change
David Kolb
Hegel, for his part, discusses sequences of dialectical moves. First, there
are the transitions in the Logic, as pure notions develop into one another in
different ways, without temporal reference.
Then there are the transitions among shapes of consciousness and spirit
discussed in the Phenomenology, which are temporally embodied, but do not
seem to be mutually exclusive. Different shapes are able to coexist, as in the
Enlightenment and Culture descriptions, and one general shape, such as Mas-
ter/Slave, might recur within different historical periods. Then there are tran-
sitions involving the overall stages of historical development in society, and in
art, religion, and philosophy, which are more exclusive and sequential. How do
such Hegelian transitions relate to empirical language systems and their
changes?
II. LANGUAGE SYSTEMS
In what sense might we speak of language as a system? From among the
bewildering array of notions of systmaticity,4
I have employed one straightfor-
ward notion derived from logic and common in recent analytic philosophy. In
this view a language system is a network of normatively licensed connections
among sentences. Asserting sentence A makes it admissible (or necessary, or
forbidden) to assert sentence B. The network of connections can be described
in terms of the usual relations of formal logic, but with the addition of a set of
material inferences that give the content of concepts and so codify connec-
tions other than those of formal logic.5
Still other norms (what Wilfrid Sell-
ars called “language entry” and “language exit” rules) connect sentences to
observations and actions. The system can also include the kind of connections
that Austin and Grice discuss, where it is not the content said so much as its
relation to the situation of its utterance that licenses further sentences.
A language system, in this sense, is not just a set of historical connections
between actual utterances or inscriptions. It includes the norms that license
both the actual connections and other possible ones. The relation between the
norms and the empirical instances can be described as a type/token relation.
A general example might be “If a sentence of type A affirms the presence of
properties P, and a sentence of type B affirms the presence of properties Q,
then the utterance of a token of type A licenses the utterance of a token of
type B.”6
For the moment put aside the question whether language is to be seen as
a single huge interlocking system or as a bundle of smaller and somewhat
independent systems. Opposed to the idea of language as a large holistic net-
work there are Wittgensteinian and deconstructive reactions that see language
as an agglomeration of smaller more or less independent language games. I
will have more to say about this at the end of this essay.
180 DAVID KOLB
In a language system, a word or a concept is what it does. As in chess the
bishop is defined as the piece that can move in a certain way within the frame-
work of the game, so in a language system a word or concept is a piece that
allows certain moves of affirmation and inference. Through these relations
concepts reach out in many directions. These sprawling connections of con-
cepts in a language system contrast with the tight coupling of Hegel’s dialec-
tical concepts.7
This notion of language system can, at best, codify a synchronic slice of
a natural language’s history. But this limitation means that watching changes
in sentence connections might provide a way of seeing the transitions Hegel
discusses.
Language systems, then, are here taken as inferential networks, after the
manner of Sellars and Quine and, more recently, Robert Brandom.8
My claim
will be that Hegel’s dialectical transitions and sequences are not the same as the
(formal and material) inferential linkages in such systems, and yet Hegel’s tran-
sitions are embodied in the contingencies of those systems and their changes.
III. HEGELIAN TRANSITIONS
AND LANGUAGE SYSTEM CHANGES
In a language system concepts are interdefined by the relations among them
(for instance the net of inferences connecting obligation and permission, or
individual and ownership, or Bossie’s being a cow to Bossie not being a pig or
dog). A concept’s identity and meaning depend on the connections it licenses.
Those connections reach widely, touching all the various sentences whose
assertability might be affected by the assertion of a particular proposition. Indi-
viduality is connected not just with ownership but with political, ethical, artis-
tic, legal, and ontological ranges of propositions, among others. Bossie’s being
a cow connects to biological, economic, poetic, and other sorts of propositions.
Hegelian dialectical moves, on the other hand, offer tight interconstitution
by opposition and contradiction among logical categories, and among the
moments within shapes of consciousness and spirit. Dialectical dependencies,
transitions, and sequences have a strict order of self-determination and so stand
in tighter connections than do concepts in loose-limbed language systems.
This contrast depends on describing empirical concepts as having widely
spread inferential connections. But what if the empirical concept of, say, “indi-
vidual” is really a family of tight concepts, each bound within an area such as
law, politics, worship, or art? If the concept in Hegel’s sense was embodied in
the whole family, the contrast would still stand. But then which one would it
be? And how would its influence relate to the others in the family? If it had
no influence on them, then this supposed Hegelian-empirical concept would
be irrelevant to other empirical concepts, which defeats the point of the Logic.
The Logic of Language Change 181
Yet any mechanism of influence would anoint a privileged empirical area of
language, which seems unrealistic.
Furthermore, all Hegel’s logical concepts are of the whole—definitions of
the Absolute—and that whole becomes more complex and mediated as the
Logic moves from Being through the categories of essence to the Absolute
Idea. More moments are explicitly posited in more complex relationships, but
this growth is not the same as moving around among nodes in a network that
is fully determined from the beginning. The same is true of shapes of con-
sciousness and stages of spirit. They are internally articulated wholes rather
than single nodes in a network, and the moves among their moments and the
transitions to new shapes and stages are more like redeterminations of the
whole than moves within an already determinate whole. So Hegel’s logical
self-determinations and transitions are not a privileged subset of the inferen-
tial moves within a single language system. It would be fairer to say that they
have something to do with movement between language systems.
A logical concept can be embodied in the net of connections in a lan-
guage system. It can also show up in certain special propositions within or
about the system, as I suggest later. A dialectical transition, on the other hand,
does not appear in propositions, even ones reporting tensions and contradic-
tions. Rather it is embodied in the change or reconfiguration of the whole lan-
guage system.
Still, we cannot too quickly identify dialectical transitions with changes
in language systems. A language system changes when new pieces are added
to the game, or the rules are revised. The pieces and rules can be altered in
most any direction at most any time. But Hegelian dialectical transitions have
a strict order of self-generation.9
Their nested structure of self-becoming is
not the same as the ad hoc ways a language system can be modified.
Because in a language system a concept gets its meaning from its connec-
tions, and those connections extend more widely than the strict couplings of the
dialectic, and because the system is open to ad hoc additions, the system pro-
vides ways for users to maneuver around dialectical tensions. Inconsistencies or
contradictions in a language system do not automatically lead to changes; they
can be encapsulated and dealt with pragmatically as the system continues to
function. Recall the ways in which set theory after Russell’s paradox continued
to be used, and was stimulated to redevelop itself. Or consider for example the
logical move leading from the notion of being-for-itself to the notion of indef-
initely many such units. It is possible to stay with only the first concept even
though it opens the move to the other.The invitation can be ignored or resisted
on condemned, as is proved by the continued existences of many systems of phi-
losophy whose basic concepts Hegel claims have been superceded.
Furthermore, it seems clear that not all changes in language systems
embody Hegelian transitions. For instance, the introduction of metaphors
such “Juliet is the sun” alters sentence connections but need not embody large
182 DAVID KOLB
transitions of spirit or logic. On the other hand, some new metaphors or new
poems do carry major religious or moral changes. A new theory in physics or
biology might change many sentence connections within physics and some in
ordinary language, but still be within the same shape of consciousness or stage
of spirit. But some changes in science are part of major revolutions. A new
virtue, such a “coolness” might cause new connections among sentences to
develop, without altering a people’s basic categories about individuality or
their shape of consciousness. Yet other new virtues, for instance those intro-
duced in the shift from pagan to Christian religion, embody new stages of
spirit. So not all changes of language system embody Hegelian transitions.
But some do.
On the other hand, all Hegelian transitions will involve changes in lan-
guage system.10
There must be some changes in sentences connections and in
the texture of behavior, which is derivatively linguistic. If there were no
changes in language, the Hegelian transitions would have no actuality. Hegel
claims that language is the Dasein of spirit. Indeed, Hegel says, “To each
abstract moment of science corresponds a shape of manifest spirit as such. Just
as in it existence (daseiende Geist) is not richer than science, so too it is not
poorer either in content”11
It is important to remember that those language system changes that do
embody Hegelian transitions need not be total. They might leave large tracts
of language untouched.The transition from monarchy to civil society does not
alter the way we talk about bathtubs, or the rules of chess, or advice on the
care of rose bushes. In Greek, after a new notion of individuality appears with
the Sophists and Socrates many new things could be said and new questions
could be asked, yet many old connections remained unchanged.
There is no easy way to identify those language system changes that
embody Hegelian transitions merely by looking at the language systems. We
cannot, for instance, just count the number of sentence connections changed,
since even very minor inferential changes could affect a potential infinity of
sentences.
We might try to apply Quine’s metaphor of the great net, whose more cen-
tral areas (such as logic, math, physics) are connected to many other areas while
the peripheries are more local in their connections. Changes in those central
areas would be the equivalent of Hegelian transitions. But consider that many
changes in Greek physics and logic do not embody a Hegelian transition even
though they are in a central area, while, on the other hand, the change from
torn to conscience language in the Culture section of the Phenomenology does
embody a Hegelian transition even though it is not the central area.
So, determining which language changes reflect Hegelian transitions
demands some independent access to the Hegelian movements. This is surely
what Hegel would say, given his emphasis upon systematic constructions in
pure thought.
The Logic of Language Change 183
IV. THE DASEIN OF SPIRIT
In effect we are asking what Hegel means when he says that language is the
Dasein of spirit. This claim occurs in the Phenomenology.12
In his discussion of
Conscience Hegel says, “We see language as the existence (Dasein) of Spirit.
Language is self-consciousness existing for others, self-consciousness which as
such is immediately present, and as this self-consciousness is universal” (Hegel
1977, § 652).13
Here, as in his philosophy of spirit, Hegel can seem to be claiming that
language is a secondary externalization of some already complete inner
meaning. However, Hegel says that there is no finished internal meaning to
take up external clothing. In good dialectical fashion it is the externalization
that accomplishes the successful internalization of definite content. “We only
know our thoughts, only have definite actual thoughts, when we give them
the form of objectivity, of a being distinct from our inwardness, and therefore
the shape of externality, and of an externality, too, that at the same time bears
the stamp of the highest inwardness. The articulated sound, the word, is such
an inward externality . . . the word gives to thoughts their highest and truest
existence.”14
So the sense in which language is the Dasein of spirit is not so far from
the logical notion of Dasein as determinate being. It is in language that
thoughts become determinate for us.
In his discussion of the role of habits in the formation of selfhood, Hegel
shows that he is not describing some pure self-presence that then externalizes
itself. “Thinking, too, however free and active in its own pure element it
becomes, no less requires habit and familiarity . . . by which it is the property
of my single self where I can freely and in all directions range. It is through
this habit that I come to realize my existence as a thinking being” (Hegel
1971, § 410).15
My self and my meaning are not purely mine at any one instant. The self
gains its Existenz through habitual actions that cannot be fully self-present
acts. Now, language systems and their regularities are examples of such habits.
A language system is not a set of pure self-transparent, self-conscious instants
of rule obedience but rather a set of habits.These become self-conscious when
avowed, or when used to evaluate another’s linguistic performance, or some-
times when the habits change.
These considerations clarify Hegel’s view of the relation between my
empirical thoughts and my empirical language. They show that Hegel is not
treating language as the externalization of some already definite inner mean-
ing. But these considerations do not yet clarity the relation of empirical lan-
guage to the Hegelian logical categories and shapes of consciousness them-
selves, which are not simply my empirical thoughts. Hegelian unities such as
categories and shapes of consciousness and their transitions seem to be more
184 DAVID KOLB
pervasive, on a higher level than empirical language systems (or on a deeper
level, if you prefer that spatial metaphor).16
It is well known how Hegel makes explicit claims about the way in which
the stages of spirit’s development (in history, in philosophy, in religion) corre-
late with his logical transitions. So if we are looking for a way to understand
the relation between empirical language changes and Hegelian transition, we
might think in terms of levels. Perhaps Hegelian transitions should be
thought of as happening on a higher level that provides form and guidance for
changes on a lower level. Just as a language system includes connections
among particular sentences but also general rules about sentence types, so we
might see Hegel’s stages, shapes, and categories as yet higher-level rules that
in turn govern the sentence connections in language systems.The higher-level
rules would themselves come in levels: there would be shapes of consciousness
that guide language system rules, then stages of spirit that guide shapes of
consciousness, then logical categories as guides for the stages of spirit, and
finally the absolute idea as the guide for the sequence of logical categories.
Though it may seem appealing, this levels reading goes badly astray.
There are two related defects, the idea of influence flowing from level to level,
and the interpretation of Hegel’s categories as rules governing instances.
The levels reading suggests that as sets of language rules and empirical
connections develop, the Logic guides their development, or gives it form. But
terms such as “giving form” and “guide,” like “levels,” are deceptive. The
metaphor of levels suggests that each level could be a process complete on its
own, though guided by a higher level. But there is no self-enclosed meta-level
guiding or forming.17
There is no cause and effect relation here. Language is
the Dasein of spirit, not an effect of spirit.18
We don’t go from the Hegelian transitions to the language changes. We
could rather say that the language system changes occur in the space of the
Hegelian transitions.19
What Hegel is talking about is not a higher process
that does something to a lower process, or that produces or influences a prod-
uct on a lower level. For Hegel there is only one process, and it has no prod-
uct. The process of self-determination, self-division, self-return is and pre-
sents only itself. What is grasped in the Logic is not a recipe for producing
something else, but the form and the motion of its own self-grasping.
Thought thinking itself.20
“The manifestation of itself to itself is therefore
itself the content of spirit and not, as it were, only a form externally added to
the content; consequently spirit, by its manifestation, does not manifest a con-
tent different from its form, but manifests its form which expresses the entire
content of spirit, namely, its self-manifestation” (Hegel 1971, § 383z).
Nor is this process studied from some separate meta-point-of-view. When
independent access to its necessities becomes available they may be studied in a
formal way—but that formal study is itself a moment in the process, not a sep-
arate meta-process.21
Hegel refuses to take sides in the oppositions of form and
The Logic of Language Change 185
content, or structure and process. The absolute idea does not deliver a separable
structure of process. Nor does it show off a process that reworks structures. The
overall process of determination is the process of becoming-for-itself in its shape
and moments. Its determinations are not its products; they are its being.
V. RULES AND EMBODIMENTS
Yet if there is only one process, there still seem to be two aspects or phases or
somethings. In some sense the Hegelian transitions seem higher and control-
ling. This is why it is tempting to read them as rules governing particular
instances. I suggest that we read them instead as embodied in the contingent
particularities of language systems. Consider this question: “Surely it is not
necessary within the one process of self-manifestation that Latin verbs come
at the end of sentences, or that the torn shape of consciousness of Rameau’s
nephew be expressed in rules for the connections of this and that particular
types of French sentences?”
This should remind us of other questions, such as “Surely it is not neces-
sary within the self-development of spirit that spiders have eight legs?” We
know how Hegel answers that kind of question, by an appeal to a necessary
contingency in the embodiment of necessary features. Hegel thinks that
mobility can be understood as a necessary property of the animal organism
when the category of life from the Logic is developed in the externality of
space and time.22
But this or that organism’s particular mode of mobility is
contingent. That it uses legs as opposed to wings or treads is contingent, that
there are eight legs is contingent, as is the particular history of the legs on this
individual spider.
Similarly we might say that it is in and through this “body” of language
that the torn shape of consciousness has its Dasein, but that it is contingent
that the torn consciousness is expressed in these particular sentence types
linked with those others. Just as there would be no spider without the contin-
gent history that presented it with eight legs, there would be no torn con-
sciousness, and no self-presentation of spirit, without the contingent details of
language history. So there is the torn shape of consciousness with the neces-
sary relations among its moments, which are embodied in such and such con-
tingent social activities and communications, which are expressed in such and
such particular language system details, which are found in the individual
statements of Rameau’s nephew on a particular occasion.
The Hegelian categories and shapes are not members or roles within a
language system except as incarnated in sets of looser-limbed connections.
The contingencies are such that there is no way to isolate this or that inferen-
tial move and say that it represents the entirety of the Hegelian unity involved.
The category and its constitutive others are embodied in connections none of
186 DAVID KOLB
which have the strict necessity of the dialectical transitions. There is no pure
presence of the dialectical categories within the empirical language system.
Similarly, changes in language systems can embody transitions among
Hegelian categories and shapes, again with contingencies all through. For
Hegel a transition between two stages of spirit’s historical development, say
from Greece to Rome, happens through and in a mass of historical details and
motivations none of which present the transition in its purity.
At first glance, this might seem to reaffirm the idea that the relation of
Hegelian categories and transitions to empirical language systems is a higher
version of the relation of general rules to particular instances. But this is not
so.The relation of the pure category or the pure transition to the language sys-
tem or to its changes is not the relation of a rule to the instances it governs. If
you want to think of the logical category as a rule, then you must think that
the rule, too, is embodied in the language system. It is embodied in the infer-
ential relations—in the system, not in one chosen essential relation.
It is through such embodiment that the one process of self-manifesta-
tion exists. It has no Platonic being as a purely logical self-development. The
logic is an abstraction from the full concreteness of the process. Indeed there
are several different kinds of abstraction at work. Because they do not con-
sider the particularities of their embodiment, the Hegelian categories and
shapes and their transitions are more abstract than the detailed sentence con-
nections and rules in a language system. On the other hand, language systems
as inferential nets are in a different way more abstract than the Hegelian cat-
egories and transitions, because the language system description disengages
inferential and connective structure from the concrete process of its actual-
ization and life.23
VI. EMBODIMENTS AND EXPLANATIONS
We need to look more closely at the term “embodiment.” Is this a Platonic
dualism of logical souls piloting linguistic bodies? No, and we have to avoid
cause-effect terms, because there is no relation here between two separate
entities. But then, at the other extreme, are the logical categories merely
epiphenomena of empirical causes and processes that go their own way?
An option between these extremes would be to say that the dialectical
determinations are, in Aristotelian terms, formal causes. They make some-
thing be the kind of thing it is. In a way this is right, but there are serious
problems. If the dialectical determinations were formal causes they would pre-
suppose a related material cause. In the case of language systems, this matter
would be words and propositions. But if there are formal causes organizing
that linguistic matter, they are the local grammar and language system, and
not directly the dialectical concepts and transitions.
The Logic of Language Change 187
The local language system is the Dasein of the logical categories, not their
effect. Nor will any of the standard dualities that get criticized in the Logic
correctly describe this relation.The relation is somewhat like that between the
Logic and the Realphilosophie, but in a fuller sense it is the relation between the
whole system and empirical items. This involves a relation between Hegel’s
systematic account and other accounts of the being and becoming of language
systems.
Consider again the analogy with animal bodies. The number of legs an
animal has is not just a brute fact; it is a product of evolutionary processes in
nature. Those processes may have contingent initial conditions, and be full of
random events, but there are lineages to be traced and stories to be told within
them, stories about causation and function.
So too in language, which sentences connect to which other sentences is
not just a brute fact but the product of a host of other different processes.
There are histories of the way language drifts through changes in pronuncia-
tions, acquires or loses grammatical features, alters the meaning of many
words and ends up with its particular verbal and written signs. These could
explain why Rameau’s nephew pronounces French the way he does, and why
the word honneur has picked up its particular connotations.24
Other histories
could explain, perhaps based on religious traditions and feudal relationships,
just why the torn language of Rameau’s nephew gets embodied in the partic-
ular set of French sentence types that it does. Still other histories could illu-
minate why Rameau’s nephew and his friend utter the particular sentence
tokens that they do on a Monday afternoon.
For the animal, natural selection is a coming together of many separate
causal processes. The logical category of life contributes no additional causal
influence. Nonetheless, through natural selection a being emerges that is of
that sort, a being embodying the category of life.
For the language system, linguistic change is a coming together of many
separate causal processes.The logical category of, say, substance contributes no
additional causal influence. Nonetheless, through linguistic change a language
system emerges that is of that sort, one embodying the category of substance.25
With both the animal body and the language system, the logical category
describing its kind of being has dialectical relations to other logical categories.
Those relations do not provide any additional causal factors. But they do indicate
tendencies and tensions that open possibilities for change in the actual item.26
For a language system the situation is more complex than for an animal
because the language system is self-referential in a strong sense. It can
describe and prescribe for itself, and be the object of self-instituted changes in
its structures. It is in this self-reflection that the logical categories come to a
more explicit expression.
Recall that for both Plato and Aristotle the empirical concepts that
describe the qualities and relations of things are related to one another in a
188 DAVID KOLB
tree-like hierarchy. But there are other concepts outside and beyond the tree
of genera and species. Aristotle insists that “being” is not a genus. Plato talks
about forms such as being, sameness, unity, and difference that affect every
other form directly and not though hierarchical descent. These became what
the medievals called “transcendental concepts” because their application tran-
scends the hierarchical relations in the tree of genera and species. They touch
directly every element of the system. They are ancestors of the Kantian tran-
scendental and the Hegelian logical categories. Such concepts are not nor-
mally involved in direct predication; they show up as modifiers and modali-
ties, and in the use of the copula. But they can also be predicated in very
general rule-like statements about being, sameness, unity, possibility, and the
like—what Stephan Körner once described as “transcategorial principles”—
such as “If X is a being it is unified (or, is an actualized potential, or is a
monad, etc.).”27
It is in these sorts of statements and in the tensions that might emerge
within and among them that the Hegelian logical determinations come clos-
est to appearing nakedly within a language system. Yet even here the dialecti-
cal determinations are not identical with these statements or rules. Tensions
in transcategorial statements can be worked around just as can other tensions
within a language system. So even such statements do not give the purity of
the logical concepts and their necessary dialectical developments.28
We can ask what the dialectical concept or transition adds to the empir-
ical details and rules of the language system. We might take a clue from
Hegel’s discussion of traditional logic. The mediations and self-determina-
tions described in the speculative treatment of the judgment and syllogism in
the doctrine of the Concept do not provide all the details of formal logic even
as it existed in Hegel’s day. Hegel is not giving a deduction (in Kant’s quid juris
sense) of the formal logical patterns. He is rather showing what he takes to be
the logical (in his sense) mediations embodied in those patterns, though the
whole movement cannot be embodied in any single formal pattern or linear
concatenation of those patterns. The result is not to justify or vindicate the
traditional syllogistic forms, which can be shown to be valid on their own, but
to indicate a wider process of self-manifesting reason that is embodied in
those forms. Analogous points apply to the relation of dialectical determina-
tions to the patterns of linguistic grammar and the inferential patterns of lin-
guistic systems.
But are not the logical concepts given a pure presentation in the language
system of the Logic itself? I would argue, to the contrary, that the language of
the logical presentation is not a single language system, but rather a meta-dis-
cussion of a sequence of transcategorial principles that can be embodied in or
expanded into language systems. The logical meta-discussion itself does not
stay with one fixed vocabulary but changes its descriptive terms as the Logic
moves along. For instance, the notion of mediation grows more complex as the
The Logic of Language Change 189
three parts of the Logic progress. There is, though, a final vocabulary that
describes the logical method in the absolute idea. This might be read as spec-
ifying a restricted language system, but nothing is said in this system except
its description of its own movements. And it describes movements that, when
they are carried out, are performed according to versions of its methodologi-
cal notions that are either less determinate (in earlier sections of the Logic) or
more determinate (in the various spheres of the Realphilosophie). So even in
the most self-transparent part of Hegel’s account we are dealing not with a
single language system but with movement among many related systems, and
those movements are not describable by a single set of inference rules. So
there is no one final empirical language system being presented.
VII. THE UNITIES OF LANGUAGE
There are a number of criticisms that could be raised against the Hegelian
scheme that I have been describing, and I am sympathetic with some of
them.29
Most of the criticisms are, though, really about more general issues,
such as necessity and purity of the logical sequence. I would like to raise here
an issue more closely tied to the question of language systems.
As I pointed out earlier, there is much that can be said to explain why a
language system might have the particular set of sentence connections that it
does. The externality and mutual independence of the various causal stories
recall the issue postponed earlier, namely, whether language is one monolithic
net of inference and sentence connections, or a bundle of smaller networks or
language games. This issue showed up when we considered the way language
systems can maneuver around internal tensions and contradictions. It
appeared again when we noticed that not all sentence connections alter when
a new scientific theory or new moral concept is introduced.
Language does not have such a tight systematic unity that a change in
one place forces changes everywhere else. Some of its flexibility comes from
that looseness of internal connection among areas, and the ease of adding new
elements and new relations. Some language games are related externally to one
another. Of course, local language games get commented on and reinterpreted
by other language games. But the totality of language games is more like a
society of people talking about each other than like a vast machine with all its
parts interlocking in order. There is interaction, but also the different parts
may stand in external relations that are foreign to Hegel’s dialectical unities.
If the social embodiment of language is a motley in this way, its overall
togetherness needs to be properly conceived. Here Hegel may have problems
with some of his higher unities. The diversity of language games and the ways
that they can change or not independently of one another may undercut the
unity of his larger civilizational stages of spirit. Hegel’s Logic could still give
190 DAVID KOLB
an appropriate description of the moments of concrete self-presentation in
language and spirit. But some of the unities that Hegel finds corresponding to
aspects of the logical structure should be suspect.
Hegel was aware of the contemporary mixture of different stages and
shapes of consciousness in his own society. This is clear from his writings
about the social and political situation in Germany, and from his attempts to
urge the Prussian government toward a more modern shape. However, Hegel
conceptualized his situation as living at the slow death of one era and the dif-
ficult birth of another new social whole. He still thought of those wholes as
teleological totalities.
While Hegel is open to the dispersed spatial coexistence of natural struc-
tures and events that embody very different dialectical categories, he totalizes
temporal stages, at least within single civilizations.30
For him the variety of lan-
guage games, and an era’s politics, philosophy, religion, society, culture, and art
all get shoehorned into one contemporary stage of spirit. Considering the sep-
arate histories and the external relations among language games, we should be
suspicious of his large totalizing unities such as particular national spirits and
overall stages of spirit. Without such large unities, Hegel’s logical categories
and repeatable shapes of consciousness might be enough to provide insight
into the processes of self-manifestation, and their togetherness in actual lan-
guage’s Dasein might be different from what Hegel imagined.31
NOTES
1. I am grateful to Angelica Nuzzo, Stephan Houlgate, and John McCumber for
valuable comments on earlier versions of this chapter.
2. For another example, consider the way that proto-Indo-European differenti-
ated into Latin and German that put verbs at the end of sentences, English and Span-
ish that put verbs between subject and object, and Irish and Breton that put verbs at
the beginning of sentences.
3. Grammatical changes may indirectly affect concepts and norms by altering
what aspects of situations speakers are required to notice and emphasize, or by making
some things easier and other things harder to say.
4. In philosophy we are familiar with Aristotle, Descartes, Spinoza, Hegel, the
Neo-Kantians, the Logical Positivists, and so on, with their different notions of what
counts as a system in thought or language. In linguistics, there are ways of organizing
grammatical systems around Latin and Greek paradigms, the combinatoric way San-
skrit grammar was codified, recent Chomskian and other generative grammars, and
many others. In logic there are specifications of formal systems, language a la Foucault
as discourse and power strategies, Deleuzian abstract machines, and recent theories of
self-organizing adaptive systems of which language would be a part.
5. Examples of material inference would be “This is green, so it is colored,”
“Maine is north of Boston, so Boston is south of Maine.”The notion of material infer-
ences is most familiar from Sellars, though it has a long history in rationalist philoso-
The Logic of Language Change 191
phers from Plato through Leibniz and Frege. See Robert Brandom, Making It Explicit
(Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1994), pp. 94–111.
6. It might seem that discussing sentence connections overlooks those changes
that come with the introduction of new words, and Hegel’s transitions often involve the
introduction of new words, or of social unities and mediations that create new words.
But the net of sentence connections is sensitive to word change. Redefinition of old
words changes patterns of sentence connection (for instance, consider the changes
wrought by Spinoza’s notion of substance or by postmodern redefinitions of irony).
Introduction of new words brings new sentences into the mix (for instance, sentences
containing the word “email”). New words can also alter older connections even for sen-
tences not containing the new words (for instance, the introduction of Christian virtue
words might alter the connections among sentences discussing personal identity and
social honor, even though none of those sentences mentioned the words “humility” or
“charity”).
7. There are issues about the relation of words and concepts as differential fea-
tures of propositions, and about whether amid the multitude of connections in a lan-
guage system some could be taken as more essential than the others. Hegel could be
read as proposing such an essentialism, but I think that the embodiment of dialectical
concepts in empirical language inference rules is not so direct and one-to-one.
8. Brandom surrounds the inferential network with a Sellarsian penumbra of
interlocking communal avowals and evaluations. These acts and statements could be
called meta-language, in the sense that they are about linguistic practices and perfor-
mances rather than directly about objects. This is a richer notion of meta-language
than that emerging from formal logic. Brandom sees connections with Hegel’s discus-
sion in the Phenomenology about how the community comes to make explicit its own
practices and internal mediations. See Brandom 1994, ch. 9 and p. 716n35.
9. Emphasizing the order of self-generation helps dispel the mistaken impres-
sion that the Hegelian process is a Bradleyan block superentity.
10. It is true that Hegel says that the prepositional form is not adequate to express
the whole truth, and he distrusts the argumentative style of doing philosophy by prov-
ing single propositions. But still, his dialectical process does work with propositions
and the dialectic puts them in new kinds of relations, where asserting A does lead to
asserting B, though not by a standard argument, and without B being a self-sufficient
“conclusion.”
11. G. W. F. Hegel, Phänomenologie des Geistes (Hamburg: Meiner, 1952); Hegel’s
Phenomenology of Spirit, trans. Arnold Miller (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1977),
§ 805. All references are by paragraph, using the Miller numbering.
12. In the Phenomenology the word Dasein is used in many different senses. For
instance, Dasein signifies externality as opposed to inwardness (§ 641, § 756), space (§
45), living or animal organic existence (§ 292), concrete Wirklichkeit as opposed to
abstractions (§ 47), outward unfolding (§ 53), being for others (§ 327), the pure self (§
671). In the usage relevant here Dasein emphasizes the historical and intersubjective
actuality of language, through which the spirit is out there and mutually recognized.
For this usage, see § 490, § 521, § 633, § 666, § 667, § 770, § 793.
13. The quotation in the text seems to be a phonocentric glorification of imme-
diate presence, but this impression is softened by what follows in the passage (“It is the
self that separates itself from itself, which as pure I=I becomes objective to itself, which
192 DAVID KOLB
in this objectivity equally preserves itself as this self, just as it coalesces directly with
other selves and is their self-consciousness. It perceives just as it is perceived by others,
and the perceiving is just existence [Dasein] which has become a self.”) Also we should
consider what Hegel says in the Encyclopedia about habit and mechanical memory and,
in the Logic, about presence and immediately as the product of mediation.
14. G. W. F. Hegel, Enzyklopedie der Philosophischen Wissenschaften (the 1830 ver-
sion) (Hamburg: Felix Meiner, 1959); Hegel’s Philosophy of Mind, trans. W. Wallace and
A. V. Miller (London: Oxford University Press, 1971), § 462z. References by para-
graph number. “The name [Hegel gives lion as an example, so he means general terms,
not just proper names], as giving and existence to the content in intelligence, is the
externality of intelligence to itself; and the inwardizing or recollection of the name . . .
is at the same time a self-externalization to which intelligence reduces itself on its own
ground. We think in names. (Es ist in Nahmen, dass wir denken.)” § 462.
15. Note that Hegel says the habitual self that is described in this text is not
yet the self-present ego. “This abstract realization of the soul in its corporeal vehi-
cle is not yet the self—not the existence of the universal which is for the universal”
(Hegel 1830 § 409). But the positing of the subject as such is not the positing of
some pure point of self-awareness. The Existenz of the I as the universal which is
for the universal is not a pure and separate act. It happens in and through the exter-
nalization-internalization of language, in and through the awareness of separation
and movements. That awareness is in process, not in some isolated instant. The for-
itselfness of spirit is the structural possibility of ongoing discursive awareness,
which can occur in many modes, especially in art, religion, and philosophy, but in
no mode is it a time-ceasing instant of pure transparency. The Hegelian process that
is for itself does not cease to be a process. Even in the Logic, the absolute idea is not
a pure self-present instant of intuition; the self-presence of spirit in philosophy
remains discursive.
16. A recent proponent of such pervasive transitions is Heidegger, who might
prefer the depth metaphor, and who talks about transitions that he calls a new send-
ing or word of being, revealed in philosophic or poetic saying. These are more than
changes in sentence connection patterns. For instance, Heidegger claims that even
though the translations of Greek philosophical terms into Latin tried to preserve the
language system of the Greek terms, a deeper change in the meaning of being was hap-
pening in and around those translations.The deep transitions open new spaces for new
kinds of moves. What alters may not primarily be patterns of sentence inference, but
rather the background, the import of words, and the self-understanding of the speak-
ers. The use of new words with new resonances and etymologies will change the
understanding of what is being said and lead to different sentence connections. But the
Heideggerian transition does not consist in those sentence connection changes. Nor is
the saying (Sage) of language that Heidegger investigates merely the factual introduc-
tion of a new term. Though it may be embodied in a poetic or philosophic innovative
word, the change is in the whole world, in what it means for an entity to be. Hegel
would find Heidegger’s kind of deep transition too close to an event springing from an
irrational point source. But there are some similarities between Heidegger’s transitions
and Hegel’s, in the way they affect whole worlds of thought and language. For Hegel
these transitions have more necessity than Heidegger would allow, though Heidegger’s
history of being has its own odd unity and necessity.
The Logic of Language Change 193
17. Hegel would reject a description of any process that might “on its own” be
some formless energy that needed an externally imposed form or guide to keep it in
order. The Logic is supposed to show that real indetermination or formlessness is,
finally, impossible.
18. Basic determinations of thought are not products, neither of subjectivity, nor
of god, nor of social legislation. They do not exist outside of the absolute, the process
that is reality. They are the shape of that process, not its products, and because that
process is self-presentation or self-exposition, there is no separation between its shape
and its content.
19. Which space? In the space opened by a particular historical set of categories,
or in the space of the overall process of and to the self-presentation of spirit? For
Hegel, we cannot make such a distinction.
20. The Logic’s circular inherence of a movement in itself thought its own self-deter-
mination and return to immediacy is, in Aristotle’s terms, an energeia not an entelekheia.
21. “In this way, the method is not an external form, but the soul and the Con-
cept of the content. It is distinct from the content only inasmuch as the moments of
the Concept, each in itself, in its determinacy, reach the point where they appear as the
totality of the Concept. Since this determinacy, or the content, leads itself back, along
with the form, to the Idea, the latter presents itself as a systemic totality, which is only
One Idea. Its particular moments are in-themselves this same [Idea]; and equally,
through the dialectic of the Concept, they produce the simple being-for-self of the
Idea.—As a result the Science [of Logic] concludes by grasping the Concept of itself
as the Concept of the pure Idea for which the Idea is” (G. W. F. Hegel, The Encyclo-
pedia Logic, trans.T. F. Geraets, W. A. Suchting, and H. S. Harris [Indianapolis: Hack-
ing, 1991], § 243)
22. See Hegel 1830, § 350–52.
23. There are at least four kinds of abstraction involved. There is the abstraction
of a momentary inferential structure of the language system, the abstraction of a
sequence of such momentary structures from the living process of language, the quite
different abstraction of the form of the Hegelian process of self-manifestation from its
contingent details, and yet another abstraction of this or that moment from the total
Hegelian form of self-manifesting spirit.
24. Changes in grammar and pronunciation and the shifting meaning of words,
as studied by linguists, do not seem to have any single unified explanation. Such
changers proceed fairly randomly but irresistibly, though having a written language
slows them down. See John McWhorter, The Power of Babel (New York: Holt, 2001),
for a discussion of the processes of change in grammar, pronunciation, and the mean-
ing of words, and the disjunction of these processes from cultural and philosophical
currents.The kinds of slow changes he chronicles differ from the more sudden changes
resulting from artistic, ethical, or scientific innovations, or cultural revolutions.
25. Just as an animal is a particular kind of living being, so a language system
organized around the category of substance is a particular kind of language system. As
I argue below about syllogistic forms, grammar and syntax are themselves embodi-
ments, not direct presences of logical ideas in their purity.
26. In this context we might recall Hegel’s philosophy of history with its cunning
of reason and its image of divine providence working through secondary causes with-
out the need for any unnatural interventions.
194 DAVID KOLB
27. See Stephan Körner, Categorical Frameworks (Oxford: Blackwell, 1970). In
“Coming Down from the Trees: Metaphysics and the History of Classification,” Con-
tinental Philosophy Review 35, 2 (June 2002): 161–83. I suggest that historically such
concepts and their principles brought polarities and directionalities to the “space” of
“being” for empirical concepts and statements.The “end of metaphysics” might be seen
as the abandonment of polarizing transcategorial principles and the flattening out of
the space of appearance. Hegel plays an ambivalent role in this “end”; his logic both
flattens the space of being and introduces an order of derivation.
28. Earlier I argued that a Hegelian concept is embodied in a wide inferential net-
work, not in a single tight empirical concept. Now I am claiming that a Hegelian con-
cept comes closest to being nakedly present in a language system through certain non-
empirical principles.These principles are not enunciated in the ordinary practice of the
language system but can emerge in interpretations of language practices. Are such
principles descriptions of very general properties of all beings, or are they reporting on
linguistic rules, or avowing the community’s linguistic practices? To settle this would
require negotiating a thicket of issues relating semantic and alethic notions to the
notion of being. Without argument I suggest that the principles turn out to be met-
alinguistic in the sense described in an earlier note.
29. A start on these criticisms can be found in my Critique of Pure Modernity
(Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1986), and in several articles. See, for instance,
“Hegel and Heidegger as Critics” (The Monist, 1981, pp. 481–99); “What Is Open and
What Is Closed in the Philosophy of Hegel?” (Philosophical Topics 19:2 [Fall 1991]:
29–50);. “The Final Name of God: Hegel on Determinate Religion,” in Hegel and the
Tradition (Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 1997), pp. 162–75; “Circulation and
Constitution at the End of History,” in Endings: Questions of Memory in Hegel and Hei-
degger, ed. Rebecca Comay and John McCumber (Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern Uni-
versity Press, 1999), pp. 57–76;. “Modernity’s Self-Justification” (The Owl of Minerva
30, 2 (Spring 1999): 253–76;. “The Spirit of Gravity: Architecture and Externality in
Hegel,” in Hegel and Aesthetics (Albany: State University of New York Press, 2000), pp.
83–96; “The Particular Logic of Modernity” (Bulletin of the Hegel Society of Great
Britain 41–42 (2000): 31–42).
30. The way Hegel spatially disperses frozen remnants of earlier temporal stages
of spirit deserves more study. There is a question about what kind of cultural or spiri-
tual space is holding these different stages in their nondialectical relationships. Could
such relationships exist within a single cultural assemblage?
31. There are many issues here to be explored. What would count as a test of
Hegel’s claims about large spiritual unities? Can those unities be saved by considering
them as hermeneutic clues rather than explanatory essences? Can Hegel’s notion of
spirit’s self-presentation handle the spatially mixed and temporally coincident diversi-
ties that have been always present and are especially strong in contemporary society
and culture? Might there be something on the level of spirit that is akin to the role of
space of the level of nature, a realm of externality that is not as totalizing as Hegel’s
temporal stages? How such a togetherness could become self-presented is an issue for
discussions of Hegel, but also in many seemingly anti-Hegelian discussions today.
The Logic of Language Change 195
This page intentionally left blank.
SECTION 4
Postmodern Perspectives on
Hegel’s Linguistic Views
This page intentionally left blank.
The tremendous power of the negative [is] the energy of thought, of
the pure “I.” Death, if that is what we want to call this non-actuality, is
of all things, the most dreadful, and to hold fast what is dead requires
the greatest strength. Lacking strength, Beauty hates the Understanding
for asking of her what it cannot do. But the life of Spirit is not the life
that shrinks from death and keeps itself untouched by devastation, but
rather the life that endures it and maintains itself in it. . . . Spirit is this
power only by looking the negative in the face and tarrying with it.
—Hegel, Phenomenology of Spirit
We cannot do without the concept of the sign, for we cannot give up
this metaphysical complicity without also giving up the critique we are
directing against this complicity, or without the risk of erasing the dif-
ference in the self-identity of a signified reducing its signifier outside
itself. For there are two heterogeneous ways of erasing the difference
between the signifier and signified: one, the classic way, consists in
reducing or deriving the signifier, that is to say, ultimately in submitting
the sign to thought; the other, the one we are using here against the
first one, consists in putting into question the system in which the pre-
ceding reduction functioned: first and foremost, the opposition between
the sensible and the intelligible.
—Jacques Derrida, “Structure, Sign and
Play in the Discourse of the Human Sciences”
Vincent Descombes has characterized the history of twentieth-century
French philosophy in terms of a series of successive attempts to escape the
199
CHAPTER 10
The Three Hegels:
Kojève, Hyppolite, and Derrida
on Hegel’s Philosophy of Language
Catherine Kellogg
omnivorous circle of Hegel’s speculative dialectics.1
For while Hegel’s meta-
physics has always prompted dismay—such thinkers as Feuerbach,
Kierkegaard, and Marx are all inspired by the question of what the Hegelian
system ignores or forecloses—nowhere has Hegel’s claim that the logos of
everything is the logical structure of identity-in-difference struck a more
responsive chord than in twentieth-century France, where much contempo-
rary philosophy and art can be understood as extended responses to and cri-
tiques of Hegelian philosophy. This political preoccupation with Hegel’s
metaphysics of closure gave rise to the renowned “Hegel Renaissance.”
In this chapter, I explore this preoccupation through attending to the
ways that three French philosophers struggled with Hegel’s philosophy of lan-
guage. More precisely, I argue that Jacques Derrida’s grammatological project
is powerfully illuminated when it is set in this context. Indeed, I argue that
Jacques Derrida’s reading of Hegel is very much in keeping with twentieth-
century Hegel scholarship in France. At the same time, set in this context, it
becomes clear that while Jacques Derrida’s reading of Hegel makes use of an
established set of concerns and questions, it also brings something wholly new
into focus. What is new about Derrida’s intervention is that it focuses not so
much on escaping the closure of Hegelian metaphysics, but rather on making
use of the elided moments of rupture and discontinuity that make the illusion
of systematicity possible in the first place. Moreover, as I shall show, Derrida’s
strategy in this regard is not to expose errors by writing about the gaps or dis-
continuities in the Hegelian system, but rather to inscribe the “remains” that
the Hegelian text reveals in the very gesture of covering them over.
In order to demonstrate both the continuity and the discontinuity of
Derrida’s work with the French philosophical tradition, I have structured this
chapter around an analysis of two of the most important texts of the French
“Hegel Renaissance”: Alexandre Kojève’s influential Introduction to the Read-
ing of Hegel, and Jean Hyppolite’s Logic and Existence.2
More precisely, I read
these texts in light of the very earliest of Derrida’s readings of Hegel, “The Pit
and the Pyramid: An Introduction to Hegel’s Semiology.”3
For only in the
wake of Derrida’s reading of Hegel does it become possible to notice that
Kojève ‘s and Hyppolite’s texts are both preoccupied with a central concern of
Hegelian philosophy: how the transition from sensible perception to concep-
tual thought is accomplished by way of the sign. As my discussion will show,
the question of the sign’s function is not marginal to the Hegelian project; on
the contrary, it is only by virtue of the sign that Spirit is freed from depen-
dency upon the empirical or sensible world. In short, on the view offered by
Derrida’s reading, it becomes possible to notice that the function of the sign
has been a persistent theme of French Hegel studies.
The specific problem that Kojève and Hyppolite are struggling with, is
that reflection upon the function of the sign and thus upon processes of sig-
nification, reach an apex and indeed a crisis in the Hegelian text. More pre-
200 CATHERINE KELLOGG
cisely, both readings contend with the fact that while the Western philosoph-
ical tradition has always understood that the aim of language is immediacy,
what Hegel noticed is that this immediacy, this singularity, is blocked off by
the mediation of the here and the now. “Here” and “now” are always in an
uncontrollable slippage; no two nows are ever simultaneous, no two here’s ever
occupy the same place. On the basis of this insight, Hegel argued that the sign
cannot be a “secondary” instance whose task it is to represent a prior entity.
On the contrary, Hegel argued that the sign is always a primary representa-
tion of Mind or Spirit itself. The sign does not stand in for the thing-in-itself
to which it refers, but is rather, a representative or a delegate of Spirit.
While Hegel believes his semiological theory to be consistent with that
of Western philosophy generally—and particularly with that of Aristotle—
insofar as it “proceed[s] from psychology,”4
it does break decisively with that
tradition insofar as it positions the sign and its referent in a relationship of
dialectical contradiction.5
Unlike those theorists for whom the word refers
directly to the thing-in-itself, mirroring or re-presenting it always somewhat
imperfectly, on Hegel’s telling, the sign effectively both destroys and preserves
the referent, determinately negating it and thus leaving no remainder. In this
sense, knowledge can be absolute for Hegel, because in the process by which
Mind or Spirit produces itself as a system of signification, nothing meaning-
ful is excluded or left out.
What Derrida’s analysis goes to show is that the absolutism of that
knowledge is necessarily compromised. For, it emerges that the sign leaves
behind an unassimilable remainder—a remainder, that is, which is unrecover-
able by and for knowledge, such that neither knowledge nor representation
can be absolute. This remainder is thus covered over by a necessary gesture:
the remains are disposed of or buried in what Hegel calls a “mine-like pit.”6
For as the title of Derrida’s text indicates, Hegel’s discussion of the sign is
organized around the twinned metaphors of a “pit” in which sensible intu-
itions are transformed into universal ideas or concepts, and a “pyramid” or sign
which those concepts become. What Derrida’s analysis goes to show is that
“the path [from the pit to the pyramid] following the ontotheological route,
still remains circular, and . . . the pyramid becomes once again the pit that it
always will have been” (Derrida 1982, 71).
By this circularity Derrida is referring to the way that for Hegel, the
image of the thing-in-itself that lies inert in the pit, or human unconscious,
functions as though it were the thing or referent itself. The reason Hegel can
position the sign and its referent in a relationship of dialectical contradiction,
and thus claim that the sign sublates the thing toward which it refers (leaving
no remainder), is precisely because the referent—what Hegel calls the object
in its singularity—only has existence insofar as it is always already an image of
and for Spirit. Said slightly differently, what Hegel means by the thing-in-
itself is the image of the thing-in-itself that Mind intuits, and is thus itself
The Three Hegels 201
already “on the side of the subject.” This is another way of saying that what
Hegel refers to as the thing-in-itself—the general field of “nature” which
Hegel demonstrates that thought, and thus language stabilizes—has always
already been determined; it has been abstractly negated. In this sense, the neg-
ativity with which Hegel’s Spirit “tarries,” can be shown to be always already
determined as a moment on the way to the Absolute.
Importantly, what Derrida’s analysis points out is that the possibility for
that negativity is an interminable negativity that cannot be assimilated, repre-
sented, or even thought; an interminable negativity that is precisely the
remainder Hegel so deftly disposes of. The result of Derrida’s strategy of
inscribing this remainder in the Hegelian text is thus momentous: because
this remainder is both an uncircumventable precondition for thought, and yet
precisely what eludes conceptual thinking, the philosophical project cannot be
led to the closure at which Hegel’s system aims, which is absolute knowledge
or absolute representation.
Indeed, the circular relationship by which the pyramid becomes the pit
that it will always have been, Derrida elsewhere calls “writing.”7
By “writing,”
Derrida does not mean letters arranged on a page, nor indeed, any kind of
material vehicle. Rather, by writing, or what might be more precise to say, by
arche-writing, Derrida means the process by which “the signified always
already functions as a signifier.”8
In other words, Derrida’s insight about sig-
nification in general, and about Hegel’s semiology in particular, is that because
what we might think of as the referent is always discursively constituted, the
signified/concept does not point unequivocally to the thing-in-itself but
rather toward a phenomenon which is, on a certain view, already itself in lan-
guage.This strange turn of thought, whereby the sign in Hegel’s thought is an
entirely linguistic creation—the very phenomenon, that on Hegel’s view, lib-
erates Spirit from the thing-in-itself—is precisely what leads Derrida to
declare that Hegel was “the last philosopher of the book and the first thinker
of writing.”9
In short, on the reading I offer here, Derrida’s scandalous phrase,
“il n’ya pas de hors-texte,” could have been said by Hegel as well.
Indeed, both Kojève’s and Hyppolite’s readings are grappling with the
problem that just as the sign moves into view and becomes a privileged object
of reflection, it also becomes a volatile object, unsure of its vocation. Thus, as
Derrida suggests, paradoxically, the very reflection upon the sign Hegel’s text
heralds, itself puts the identity of language into crisis.10
On this basis, I want
to suggest that Hegel’s unwitting accomplishment—pointing toward the
impossibility, or the failure of absolute representation—is what fuelled the
Hegel Renaissance in France in the twentieth century.
For as I have suggested, Derrida does not come to the conclusion that
Hegel’s theory of the sign is an important moment of rupture—that is, one of
the moments where the illusion of systematicity is made possible only by
extraordinary means—by himself. Indeed, as I will show, the careful work of
202 CATHERINE KELLOGG
those philosophers who brought Hegel to the center of the French philo-
sophical scene were indispensable for Derrida’s reading.11
However, while
Kojève and Hyppolite can be shown to struggle with the “linguistic” nature of
Hegel’s referent, neither thinker is ultimately able to escape the problem pre-
sented by Hegel’s philosophy of absolute representation. In fact, it is only ret-
rospectively, in light of Derrida’s reading, that the novelty of this dimension of
these thinkers becomes apparent.
KOJÈVE’S HEGEL
By focusing on the transition from consciousness to self-consciousness in
which the struggle for recognition happens between master and slave, Kojève
provides us with a powerful image of man as a self-creating being arising out
of the dialectic between his labor and the natural world it transforms. Specif-
ically, Kojève investigates the way that this process of self-creation happens
through what he calls “the miracle of discourse.” In fact, Kojève detranscen-
dentalized Hegel’s speculative idealism through attending to Hegel’s preoccu-
pation with the function of language.
In the section on “Lord and Bondsman” around which Kojève’s analysis
so famously pivots, he renames what Hegel calls, in the epigraph to the pre-
sent chapter, the “energy of thought,” or negativity, as desire.12
Indeed, The
Phenomenology of Spirit, which charts the move from simple self-certainty
through to reason, is at the same time a narrative of the increasing sophistica-
tion of desire’s aim. As the subject continuously expands its ability to discern
identity in what appears at first look to be different, the subject learns to have
new desires and to transform the world in such a way that those desires might
be met. On this view, it is specifically the work of desire that transforms the
natural world into something man completely controls: conceptual thought.
While there is nothing new in understanding that the condition of
Spirit’s freedom is its return from alienation in “nature,” as Stuart Barnett
points out, on Kojève’s reading of Hegel, desire for reflection—human con-
sciousness’s need to become other to itself in order to know itself and thus free
itself—seems to rely on and to anticipate a remarkably contemporary notion
of “discourse.” As Kojève says: “Hegel’s Spirit is not . . . truly a ‘divine’ Spirit
(because there are no mortal gods): It is human in the sense that it is a dis-
course that is immanent to the natural World and that has for its ‘support’ a
natural being limited in its existence by time and space” (Carpino 1973, 123).
In fact, Spirit is nothing more than this discourse which relies on, or has
as its “natural support,” concrete human beings. For, as Kojève says, no matter
what people may say, “discourse does not fall from heaven . . . it expresses a
thought that belongs properly to an Ego, [and] this Ego has necessarily an
empirical-existence in the natural spatio-temporal World” (130). In this sense,
The Three Hegels 203
Kojève’s “anthropological” analysis of Hegel shifts the focus from Spirit
understood as a deity, to Spirit understood as the development and self-artic-
ulation of human language.
Indeed, on Kojève’s view, the task of philosophy is to make sense of the char-
acter of that discourse; to explain the fact that it has achieved an autonomous
existence. As he says,“it is precisely the reality of discourse that is the miracle that
philosophy must explain” (129). For Kojève argues that “Spirit is the Real
revealed by Discourse” because its constituent moments, or signs, are utterly
independent of the things-in-the-world to which they refer: their referents (132).
The independence of signs takes place by virtue of two moves. First, the desiring
subject, whose goal is to make identical to itself all that appears to be different,
strips the spatio-temporal world of nature of its immediacy through the “power
or force of abstraction” and, in so doing, rediscovers “external” existence as “inter-
nal” concept (126). It takes the differentiated, external world of “things” and
abstractly negates them, rendering them as internal concepts. “Generally speak-
ing, when we create the concept of a real entity, we detach it from its hic et nunc.
The concept of a thing is that thing itself as detached from its given hic et nunc.
Thus, the concept ‘this dog’ differs in no respect from the real concrete dog to
which it is ‘related’except that this dog is here and now,while its concept is every-
where and nowhere, always and never” (126). What the subject detaches from
things-in-themselves in the creation of concepts, then, is their “here-and-now-
ness.” And the abstracting force which strips “mere existence” of its immediacy—
its here-and-nowness—so that its essence can be extracted, is more precisely
identified as “the awesome power of the Understanding” (127).
The independence of the sign, as I suggested, happens by virtue of two
moves. However, while Kojève is clear about the first—that things are
stripped of their immediacy in order to be rendered as concepts—his analysis
actually elides the second move; the “incarnation” of those concepts into words
that have no relation whatsoever to the things to which they refer. This is the
move, in other words, which establishes that the word and its referent are in a
relationship of dialectical contradiction—that the word determinately negates
its referent, destroying and conserving it. As Kojève says, “thanks to the
absolute power of the Understanding, the essence becomes meaning and is
incarnated in a word” and thus, “there is no longer any ‘natural’ relationship
between it and its support” (129).
What Kojève is struggling with here, is the curious way that meanings
cannot be thought separated from what Kojève calls “the specific support of
discourse” (127). Meanings—concepts or signifieds—do not, as Kojève quite
rightly points out, float freely. While Kojève is right to notice that concepts
are always embodied in words, what he doesn’t attend to is the fact that con-
cepts are not just embodied in words, they are nothing but words at all.
The formulation Kojève proposes in fact covers over the answer to the
very mystery Kojève sets out to solve: How is it that discourse comes to have
204 CATHERINE KELLOGG
an autonomous existence? For rather than answer how the concept comes to
be incarnated in a word, Kojève instead, switches focus back to the miracle of
the autonomy of those words from the things to which they refer.
Kojève tells us that, on Hegel’s account, what is miraculous is that “some-
thing that is really inseparable from [some] other thing achieves nevertheless
a separate existence” (129), and Hegel finds this miraculous for a very practi-
cal reason. Insofar as discourse is autonomous from nature, conceptual
thought has the ability to continue, even when the thing-in-itself from which
the concept has been extracted, is no more.
As we will see when we read the pertinent section of Hegel’s Philosophy
of Spirit, the thisness or here-and-nowness of the sensible intuition that is
made identical to what Kojève calls the desiring subject, is in fact a remainder
that cannot be recovered for knowledge; it is the singularity of the singular
thing-in-itself that most eludes conceptual thought. And for Derrida, then,
the implications for Hegel’s thought are much more radical than they are for
Kojève: the origin of conceptual thought, on Derrida’s reading of Hegel, is not
a real presence, an actual thing-in-itself, but rather a trace, which is itself unre-
coverable by knowledge or any kind of representation. Language, then, is the
practice of forgetting that the origin of the sign was never the thing-in-itself.
HYPPOLITE’S HEGEL
Kojève’s lectures on The Phenomenology—and their subsequent publication in
1947—were central to the rehabilitation of Hegelian thought in French phi-
losophy. However, the legacy of Jean Hyppolite’s reading for contemporary
French philosophy should not be forgotten. Indeed, Leonard Lawlor claims
that Hyppolite’s reading of Hegel did nothing less than “effectively end” the
anthropological reading of Hegel which Kojève so popularized.13
Whereas
Kojève’s discussion largely ignores what Hyppolite called “the adventure of
Being” outlined in the Science of Logic in order to concentrate on Hegel’s Phe-
nomenology, Hyppolite investigates the link between the phenomenology and
the logic: human experience and the Absolute, which are the proper domains
of the sensible and the intelligible.
Indeed, Hyppolite names this link as “Hegel’s most obscure dialectical
synthesis” and it constitutes the focus of his 1952 Logic and Existence (Hyp-
polite 1997, 189). In a 1954 review of this book, Gilles Deleuze argues that
while the more well-known Genesis and Structure of Hegel’s Phenomenology of
Spirit “preserved all of Hegel and was its commentary,” the “intention of this
new book, is very different.” As Deleuze says, “Hyppolite questions the Logic,
the Phenomenology and the Encyclopedia on the basis of a precise idea and
on a precise point. Philosophy must be ontology, it cannot be anything else.”14
Philosophy, in other words, is always an investigation into the question of
The Three Hegels 205
Being. This shift in emphasis—from experience to Being—constituted no
small change in Hegel studies in France; in fact, on Leonard Lawlor’s view,
the appearance of this text “fuelled the fire of French anti-humanism, which
Heidegger’s ‘Letter on Humanism’ had already ignited” (ix).
The decisive break that Hyppolite makes with Kojève’s anthropological
reading of Hegel is that he takes seriously the itinerary of the Concept laid out
in Hegel’s Science of Logic. At the same time, Hyppolite insists that the Phe-
nomenology and the Logic differ only in regard to the element in which their
respective dialectics take place: the Phenomenology in the element of experi-
ence; the Logic in the element of the concept. And as we will see, for Hyppo-
lite, the question of the transition from the phenomenology to logic is ori-
ented by the same concern that fascinates Kojève: the function of the sign.
If Kojève managed to detranscendentalize Hegel’s speculative logic
through figuring negativity as desire, he did so by bracketing the Logic and thus
the question of the concept of Being. In reintroducing the Logic, however,
Hyppolite should not be understood to have retranscendentalized Hegel. On
the contrary, while he maintains the importance of the Absolute, he also main-
tains that Being is not Essence but Sense. The argument Hyppolite develops
pivots on the equivocal nature of the word “sense”; a word which, like aufheben,
as Hyppolite points out, delights Hegel with its plurivocity. “Sense is this won-
derful word which is used in two opposite meanings. On the one hand it means
the organ of immediate apprehension, but on the other hand we mean by it the
sense, the significance, the thought, the universal sense or meaning of the
thing.”15
Sense, then, is itself a link between experience and the concept;
between the Phenomenology and the Logic. The concept of Being, Hyppolite
maintains, is not essence beyond appearance, nor a second, true, intelligible
world but rather the sense of this world. Indeed, on Hyppolite’s view, it is the
particular virtue of Hegel’s thought to have refused the thought of either the
ineffable sensible world (qua Plato) or the ineffable intelligible world (qua
Kant, Jacobi, Fichte) (8–11). As Hyppolite puts it, “Expression of sense is the
work of thought, and this work does not start from an ineffable which would
be given first, nor does it lead beyond to an ineffable transcendence; sensible
singularity and the mystery of Faith are, for Hegel, illusions; . . . [they are] the
presentation of the Absolute as pure nothingness or dissolution” (11).
Hegel’s speculative logic is so revolutionary, Hyppolite maintains, pre-
cisely because in extending Kant’s speculative logic, Hegel’s thought “no
longer recognizes the limit of the thing-in-itself” which “would always haunt
our reflection and would limit knowledge in favour of faith and non-knowl-
edge” (58, 3). Indeed, Absolute knowledge “essentially means the elimination
of this non-knowledge” and, consequently, the elimination of “a transcendence
essentially irreducible to our knowledge” (3). “The Absolute determines itself
and negates itself as Logos and Nature.This opposition is absolute. Each term
is simultaneously positive and negative. Each is the Whole that opposes itself
206 CATHERINE KELLOGG
to itself. Each is in itself the opposite of itself and represents therefore the
other in itself” (100).
Hyppolite maintains that the major proposition of Hegel’s Logic, is thus
that there is no beyond of thought. For “in thinking itself, thought always thinks
being, and by thinking being, it thinks itself” (27). In order to think itself, to
reflect on itself, Being makes itself different from itself—for example, as the dif-
ference between essence and appearance. In order to know itself Absolutely,
Being alienates itself in exteriority. Indeed, the Absolute exists “only as this dou-
bling” (101). In doubling itself, twisting itself back on itself, in contradicting and
thus saying itself, Being is able to know itself Absolutely. In a certain way, then,
Absolute knowledge is what is there. This is what Hyppolite means when he
quotes Hegel saying, “It is manifest that behind the so-called curtain which is
supposed to conceal the inner world, there is nothing to be seen.”16
Hyppolite
reiterates this point when he says, “the secret is that there is no secret” (90).
Hyppolite’s answer to the question How does the passage from the Phe-
nomenology to Absolute Knowledge work? then, is the same as his answer to the
question How is it that Spirit becomes liberated from nature? That is: in “the
dialectical genesis of language.” For “according to the Philosophy of Spirit, the sen-
sible becomes the Logos: meaningful language” (27, 23). Language is the medium
between Nature and Logos. It is Being saying itself. Thus, gain, as we saw with
Kojève’s treatment of Hegel, Hyppolite can be seen to have grasped the implica-
tions of Hegel’s radical semiological claim—that there is nothing beyond lan-
guage—at the same time that he covers over its import. For like Kojève, Hyppo-
lite continues to affirm that language does refer to things in themselves.
Hyppolite ends his text with a meditation on the two directions in which
Hegel’s philosophy extends: “one direction leads to the deification of Human-
ity; the other, the one that we have followed in this work, leads to the
Absolute’s self-knowledge across man” (177). He is clearly making reference
to Kojève’s anthropological reading in the first instance, and again separating
his reading from that offered by Kojève. In his review, Gilles Deleuze muses:
“The richness of Hyppolite’s book could . . . let us wonder this: can we not
construct an ontology of difference which would not have to go up to contra-
diction, because contradiction would be less than difference and not more? . . .
[I]s it the same thing to say that Being expresses itself and that it contradicts
itself?17
What an ontology of difference that “would not have to go up to con-
tradiction”—dialectical opposition—would look like, will have to wait for one
of Hyppolite’s most famous students: Jacques Derrida.
DERRIDA’S HEGEL
Derrida’s first work on Hegel was in fact prepared for Jean Hyppolite and he
presented it in Hyppolite’s 1968 seminar on Hegel’s Logic at the College de
The Three Hegels 207
France. This text was subsequently published in Hegel et la pensée moderne.18
In
this seminar, Derrida took the opportunity to continue investigating the ques-
tion asked by his teacher concerning the Hegelian question par excellence: the
problem of the passage from the Phenomenology to the Logic. Of course, Der-
rida reframed this question in the terms of his own grammatological project,
a project that investigated the metaphysical distinction between the sensible
and the intelligible. And like Hyppolite and Kojève before him, Derrida’s
focus is the way that the sign operates as a transition or “bridge” between the
sensible and intelligible realms (Derrida 1982, 71).
Derrida’s analysis proceeds from a careful investigation of several long
paragraphs in Hegel’s Philosophy of Mind—the third of the Encyclopedia of
the Philosophical Sciences—which is the very text Hyppolite investigated in
the chapter entitled “Sense and Sensible” in Logic and Existence.19
The Philos-
ophy of Mind is itself articulated in three moments: Subjective Spirit, Objec-
tive Spirit, and Absolute Spirit. Derrida is at pains to demonstrate that
Hegel’s theory of the sign occurs within the first articulation of Spirit: within
the articulation of Subjective Spirit which is spirit’s “relation to itself . . . in the
form of only internal freedom” (74). As Hegel says, “the finite is not, i.e. is not
the truth but merely a transition.”20
Subjective Spirit, in other words, is Spirit
on its way to itself as it will be “in itself and for itself” as Absolute Spirit.
Thus, Subjective Spirit is Spirit in transition. Significantly, for Hegel, the
sign, is also a transition or bridge; in this sense, the sign’s modality of being is
in the same way as that of Subjective Spirit. Both the sign and subjective spirit
have their being in the same way, as a transition, and thus they both transgress
themselves from within.
If it is significant that Hegel’s theory of the sign occurs during his dis-
cussion of Subjective Spirit, however, it is even more interesting, Derrida tells
us, that the discussion occurs during the third moment of Subjective Spirit:
Psychology. Following on the heels of Phenomenology (which is the “coming
to be of science as such”), it must be recalled, Psychology is the science of
Spirit determining itself in itself, as a subject for itself (Hegel 1970, 80). This
is the moment at which “all [Spirit] has to do is to realize the notion of its
freedom” (179). The sign grants Spirit its freedom insofar as, through it,
thought becomes entirely independent of the objective natural properties of
the entity toward which it points. The sign demonstrates intellect’s ability to
use the perceived world for its own purposes while effacing its traces. It does
this by virtue of its infinite “repeatability”; neither the thing-in-itself to which
it refers, nor the subject who repeats it, need to be present for it to function.
In this way, the sign touches on the relationship between the subject and
object. Placing the study of the sign within the study of the subject as Mind
then, rehearses a classical motif that fixes the relationship between the intel-
ligible and sensible, the transcendental and the empirical, the ideal and the
material, and the primary and the secondary. In short, placing the discussion
208 CATHERINE KELLOGG
of the sign in a section headed “Psychology” mobilizes an entire metaphysical
tradition that privileges speech over writing (Derrida 1982, 75). In order to
fully flesh out Derrida’s reading of Hegel’s semiology then, in the next section
of this chapter, I would like to proceed slowly through the relevant section of
the Philosophy of Mind upon which Derrida relies.
In the first moment of perception, Hegel tells us that intelligence relates
directly to an immediate “single” object in a process of sensible intuition; intel-
ligence apprehends or intuits an object in its singularity. This relation to
immediacy is of course negativity. Stated differently, in being apprehended by
an intelligent mind, the immediate, sensible intuition is necessarily submitted
to the power of negation. Through this negative process of apprehension, the
singular sensible immediacy of the thing-in-itself is stripped of its own time
and place and placed as a mental image of that object in the reservoir of intel-
ligence itself. Significantly, however, Hegel tells us that the image the subject
has appropriated is “no longer existent” because the image is not available to
consciousness or to will, but is instead “stored up out of consciousness” in a
“night-like mine or pit” (Hegel 1971, 204).
Equally importantly, as a result of this move, the mind becomes aware of
itself as something separate from the object; intelligence develops an intuition
of itself as Mind. By first paying attention to the object, and second, noticing
its own attention to the object, intelligence is transformed into something
more than perception. It becomes “intelligent intuition,” capable of positing
the object as something “self-external” (192). Because intelligence becomes
aware of itself, it withdraws away from its relationship to the object’s “singu-
larity” and learns to relate the object to a universal-mental Representation
(Vorstellung). This is the process by which the abstractly negated thing-in-
itself is speculatively or determinately negated.
Determinate negation happens characteristically, in three articulations:
Recollection (Erinnerung), Imagination (Die Einbildungskraft) and Memory
(Gedächtnis). These are the moments by which the immediacy of the thing-
in-itself is transcended. In this second form of negation, abstract negativity is
discovered to be itself subject to a further negation, a negation which does not
return us to the starting point, but rather reveals the underlying unity of
thought itself. “Abstract” negativity is itself negated and consequently pre-
served and lifted up into thought. In short, an initial wholly abstract negativ-
ity is in turn negated and thus made identical to thought.
While the object has been stripped of its immediacy by being brought
into the subject as an image, this image has as yet no subjectivity because it
has been deposited in the mind’s unconscious. Thus, while Hegel tells us that
“[t]he image is mine,” at the same time, the image, “has no further homo-
geneity with me, for it is still not thought, still not raised into the form of Rea-
son. . . . I do not yet have full command over the images slumbering in the
mine or pit of my inwardness, am not as yet able to recall them at will. . . .
The Three Hegels 209
The . . . image is [mine] only in a formal manner” (Hegel 1970, 205). In order
to have full command of this image, Hegel tells us that it must be referred
back to its actual intuition. In order that the image, carelessly and randomly
“collected” and now lying inert in the unconscious, can become something
under conscious and willed control, it must be re-collected, matched up to a
corresponding intuition. But Hegel also tells us, this intuition must subsume
“the immediate single intuition under what is in point of form universal,
under the representation with the same content” (Hegel 1970, 205). The
image must be referred back to its “external existence,” its origin as a sensible
intuition. In order that I have full command over any image of which I might
only once and thus fleetingly have made an impression, I must re-collect it or
re-cognize it. It is only in this way that the image becomes not just property
but possession.
Recollection (Erinnerung) thus refers to the process by which the image
is made the “property” of Mind. This process of “inwardization” transforms
the sensible intuition from an image of the object, fixed in the mind’s “eye,” to
a property of mind itself. In this way, “the image, which in the mine of intel-
ligence was only its property, now that it has been endued with externality,
comes actually into possession.” In being re-cognized, re-collected, and
inwardized, the image is made “separable from the blank night in which it was
originally submerged” (204).
The image is thus transferred from the “blank night” of the unconscious,
referred to its “recollected existence” to become actual and real as a represen-
tation. So to recapitulate: a sensible intuition, appropriated by perceptive
intelligence, was transformed into an inert image (which slumbered in the
dark mine of the unconscious). This image was subsequently recalled by the
conscious ego by being matched up to another instantiation of that of which
it is an image, and in this way abstracted and synthesized into a concept/idea.
Once Mind has achieved representation, we find ourselves already at the
form of intelligence known as Imagination (Die Einbildungskraft). For as
Hegel tells us, the intelligence “active” in the “inward world of the ego”—the
intelligence which now has power over the representation—is what he calls
“reproductive imagination” [reproduktive Einbildungskraft] (206). Not surpris-
ingly, the reproductive imagination reproduces the idea/representation. How-
ever, in being reproduced, this “given” and “immediate” representation is pre-
sented to the conscious and universalizing ego, which “gives images . . .
generality.” As Hegel says, “Abstraction, which occurs in the ideational activ-
ity by which general ideas are produced (and ideas qua ideas virtually have the
form of generality) is frequently explained as the incidence of many similar
images one upon another and is supposed to be thus made intelligible. If this
superimposing is to be no mere accident and without principle, a force of
attraction in like images must be assumed, or something of the sort, which at
the same time would have the negative power of rubbing off the dissimilar
210 CATHERINE KELLOGG
elements against each other. The force is really intelligence itself—the self-
identical ego which by its internalizing recollection gives the images ipso facto
generality, and subsumes the single intuition under the already internalized
image” (207). In being presented to consciousness, the synthesized idea/rep-
resentation both produces, and is mediated by the productive—that is, “sym-
bolic, allegoric, or poetical”—imagination (phantasie). While the reproductive
imagination was only capable of reproducing and thus presenting to con-
sciousness an already existent image, the productive imagination is capable of
producing independent representations. As Hegel says, “In creative imagina-
tion, intelligence has been so . . . perfected [as] to need no aids for intuition.
Its self-sprung ideas have pictorial existence” (210). Productive imagination,
in other words, produces its own representations, without the aid of external
prodding. Indeed, productive or creative imagination turns out to be the “cen-
ter” at which the opposites of the “internal and external” flow into each other,
cutting across each other, as Hegel says, “completely into one” (210).
In this sense, productive imagination is the moment when the sensuously
concrete image is speculatively negated, when its immediacy is dialectically
contradicted. For the synthesis between the “internal idea” and the “vehicle of
materialization”—the internal and the external manifestations of the thing-
itself—has thus had another important effect: intelligence has become a “con-
crete subjectivity” (211). “Productive imagination [phantasie] is the centre in
which the universal and being, one’s own and what is picked up, internal and
external, are completely welded into one. The preceding ‘syntheses of intu-
ition, recollection,’ etc., are unifications of the same factors, but they are syn-
theses; it is not until creative imagination that intelligence ceases to be the
vague mine and the universal, and becomes an individuality, a concrete sub-
jectivity, in which the self-reference is defined both to being and to universal-
ity” (211). This synthesis then, is between the universal (one’s own) and being
(what’s picked up). There is, in other words, no longer a separation between
the image and the subject who produces it. Thus, it should not seem surpris-
ing, Hegel tells us, that “intelligence makes itself be as a thing” (211). Intelli-
gence, as reproductive imagination “aims at making itself be and be a fact” for
“its ideal import is itself” (211). In order to know what is this thing which
intelligence makes itself be, we must move through one more moment in the
movements of Mind.
Hegel announces that there is another new unity at work: the unity of an
“independent representation” with an “intuition.” For we remember that Mind
is now able to produce representations without the aid of the external world,
which is to say, without having to encounter an example of what the repre-
sentation represents. In producing these representations, then, Mind is in fact
exteriorizing itself. In the fusion of two elements, the intuition (and I will
return shortly to the question of what this is an intuition of) is “an image
which receives as its soul and meaning an independent mental representation.
The Three Hegels 211
This intuition,” Hegel tells us, “is the Sign” (213). “The sign is some immedi-
ate intuition, representing a totally different import from what naturally
belongs to it; it is the pyramid into which a foreign soul has been conveyed,
and where it is conserved” (213). Thus, from the “mine-like pit,” in which
original sensible intuitions are first stored, emerges a pyramid: a sign.
Derrida points to a fundamental ambivalence in Hegel’s thought here. On
the one hand, as he points out, Hegel is arguing that the productive imagina-
tion simply exteriorizes what has been already interiorized, appropriated, and
synthesized: a representation of an intuition, or a concept. On the other hand,
however, insofar as the intuition that is united to a representation, is the intu-
ition of Mind itself, Derrida says that this new synthesis or unity is a “represen-
tation of representation (in the general sense of conceptual ideality)” (Derrida
1982, 81). Indeed, Hegel says that in the “fusion of the independent represen-
tation with an intuition” the “intuition does not count positively, or as repre-
senting itself, but as a representative of something else” (Hegel 1970, 212). The
sign is a representative, a delegate or a stand-in for Mind or Spirit itself.
Thus, Derrida says, Hegel is proposing something that “might appear
scandalous or unintelligible” (Derrida 1982, 78). For Hegel is proposing that
the productive imagination “does nothing less than produce intuitions.” This
implies, as Derrida says, “the spontaneous production of that which is to be
seen [the sign] by that which is thus able to see and to receive [Mind]” (Hegel
1970, 78). It is in this way, Derrida tells us that “the path [from the pit to the
pyramid] following the ontotheological route, still remains circular, and . . . the
pyramid becomes once again the pit that it always will have been.” The ques-
tion, then, is how this circular movement can sustain itself. Indeed, Derrida
refers to this circularity as an “enigma” (Derrida 1982, 77).
In order to unravel this enigma, we must return to the last moment in the
tripartite movement of Representation: Memory (Gedächtnis). Hegel tells us
that is important to note that this form of memory is quite different from the
Recollection (Erinnerung) discussed earlier. Gedächtnis is roughly equivalent
to the French memoire, or to the English notion of memorization. Thus, for
Hegel, the progression from perception to conceptual thought, Mind’s pro-
gression from attention to Reason, depends crucially on the ability to memo-
rize. Indeed, as Hegel says, “To comprehend the position and meaning of
memory [Gedächtnis] and to understand its organic interconnection with
thought is one of the hardest points, and hitherto one quite unregarded in the
theory of mind” (Hegel 1970, 222). What distinguishes memory [Gedächtnis]
from recollection [Erinnerung] is that memory requires no images. Memory,
as Hegel means it, is the specialized ability to recall words that are emptied of
meaning. “The faculty of [learning] by rote a series of words, with no princi-
ple governing their succession, or which are separately meaningless, for exam-
ple a series of proper names, is so supremely marvellous, because it is the very
essence of mind to have its wits about it” (222). Indeed, it is in this regard—
212 CATHERINE KELLOGG
that the mind is encouraged to develop or unfold in such practices as learning
to recite words as a series of proper names—that Hegel declares alphabetical
characters to be superior to hieroglyphs or other symbolized forms of inscrip-
tion. Like learning words as though they were names, emptied of sensory
meaning, alphabetical characters “lead the mind from the sensibly concrete
image to the more formal vocal word and its abstract elements” (218). “Given
the name lion, we need neither the actual vision of the animal, nor its image
even: the name alone, if we understand it, is the unimaged (sic) simple repre-
sentation. We think in names” (220).These signs are in turn learned as though
they were names because the sign-as-name has been utterly divested of its
relationship to the thing in its own time and space. Memory (Gedächtnis) is
the process by which we learn names (or words considered as names), by rote.
The Idea makes its appearance on the mental stage of human consciousness
at the precise moment when our consciousness of the world—which faculties
such as perception and imagination have interiorized by way of recollection
(Erinnerung)—is no longer experienced, but remains accessible only to mem-
orization (Gedächtnis), or mechanical memory.
On Hegel’s view, then, memorization (which we generally think of as a
trick or tool of the intellect) turns out to be the key to Spirit’s freedom. For
what each of the above-described movements are designed to do, is to move
Mind away from the singularity of the thing-in-itself; to establish Mind’s
freedom from it. The sign establishes Mind’s freedom because unlike the sin-
gular intuition, or the recollected or imagined image to which it refers, the
sign is in no way dependent upon the thing-in-itself. For the sign, unlike the
thing, does not stand in for or represent the thing, but as we saw, the sign is a
representative of Spirit.
In this sense, Spirit’s freedom, and thus conceptual thought, is completely
dependent on a mental faculty—Memory—that is thoroughly mechanical.
For what memory does, and what makes it crucial to transforming the sensi-
ble intuition into thought, is that it covers over the realization that the sign
refers to the singularity of each thing-in-itself to which signification refers.
Paradoxically, mechanical memory covers over this realization by way of a for-
getting of a forgetting (I will return to this double forgetting in a moment).
In terms of my argument here, what is first important to notice is that at
every new moment in the movements of Mind, we find Spirit or Mind
“always-already” at its next moment. Thus, sensible intuition emerges as
always-already attention, attention emerges as always-already recollection,
which in turn emerges as always-already imagination (and so on). This logi-
cal structure of the always-already is, in fact, what Derrida calls the trace; it is,
as he says elsewhere, “the being-imprinted of the imprint” (Derrida 1976, 63).
Importantly, the only way that the enterprise of thought can get under
way—the move from simple sensible intuition through to conceptual
thought—is if this logical structure of the always-already is presumed. In a
The Three Hegels 213
sense then, the enterprise of thought must presuppose its own condition of
possibility in the expectation that the process that made thought possible will
eventually catch up with it. In order for knowledge to become for-itself or
Absolute, it must enclose or include each movement of thought as knowledge;
that is what it means to be Absolute. However, what I will now demonstrate
is that this “trace” can never appear for knowledge “as such.” It is precisely
what is unrecoverable.
For the logical structure of the always-already is, in fact, the sublation—
the dialectical overcoming—of space and time. In other words, the condition
of possibility for conceptual thought, as Hegel was well aware, is the contain-
ment of the volatility of spatial and temporal difference. The always-already
then, is the way that Hegel manages to restrict that uncontainability into a
feature of thought itself. It is for this reason that the process of “being-
imprinted”—the logical structure of the always-already to which I referred
above—is not a thing, but rather an event; the trace is only ever a gesture
rather than an “as such.” The identity of speculative or absolute knowledge is
thus made possible by a process of temporization and differentiation that can-
not be recuperated to that knowledge.
For, as this reading demonstrates, the Hegelian system necessarily relies
upon a nontotalizable and interminable difference—the “remains” that are
buried in the pit of the unconscious—that can be neither elevated nor interi-
orized by that system. The absolute identity of speculative knowledge is
shown to be impossible because while the system relies on a process of differ-
entiation or negation, it also leaves behind a remainder whose unsublatability
undoes that very absolutism.
This is the answer to the enigma of the circular route from the pit to the
pyramid. For the pit, or unconscious, houses images—mental representations
of concrete things-in-themselves—that, in being stripped of their sensory
here-and-nowness, emerge as signs. But the images that rest in the pit, or
unconscious, function as though they were the things or referents themselves.
In other words, the reason Hegel can determine the sign and its referent in a
relationship of dialectical contradiction, and thus claim that the sign sublates
the thing to which it refers, leaving no remainder, is precisely because the ref-
erent—what Hegel calls the object in its singularity—only has existence inso-
far as it is always already an image of and for Spirit. The thing-in-itself—the
general field of “nature,” which Hegel demonstrates that thought and thus
language stabilizes—has thus always already been determined as abstract
negation. In this sense, the thing-in-itself or referent has also already been
determined as a moment on the way to the Absolute.
Paradoxically then, Absolute knowledge is only possible if the knowledge
that renders it impossible—that the trace is unrecoverable by it—is forgotten.
Memory actually works to cover over—to forget, if you will—that the sign is
not the tomb for an “intact kernel,” but is, rather, as Derrida names it, the
214 CATHERINE KELLOGG
“monument of life-in-death, the monument of death-in-life” (Derrida 1982,
83). The task of mechanical memory is to draw the mind away from the fact
that the sign does not refer to the thing-in-itself, to forget that there is, in a
certain sense, nothing to forget. Of course, what Derrida’s analysis is premised
on is that the possibility for that referent is the “without-reserve of absolute
expenditure”; an interminable negativity that cannot be assimilated, repre-
sented, or even thought. Against this determination of difference as always-
already contradiction, Derrida suggests that “what Hegel, the relevant inter-
preter of the entire history of philosophy could never think is a machine that
would work without being governed by an order of reappropriation” (42). He
goes on to say that Hegel would be unable to think this machine, because
working without meaning, it would “inscribe itself within it an effect of pure
loss” (42). In short, Derrida’s pointed accusation to Hegel is that the move-
ment of the Aufhebung, what he calls the “economic law of absolute reappro-
priation of the absolute loss,” appropriates all of the excessive outside of
thought and puts it to work in the service of meaning.21
Derrida’s analysis thus demonstrates that in order for its result to be
Absolute knowledge, the “difference” or negativity that is the resource for
thought must have already been determined; it is always already on the route
to the Absolute. What Derrida suggests is that the condition of possibility
for this restricted notion of difference is the possibility of what Hegel rightly
calls “difference in general.” Contra Hegel, Derrida points out that this gen-
eral difference is not already contradiction, but is rather a kind of alterity that
cannot be assimilated or thought and thus cannot be represented. Because
this generalized difference “has no reserved underside,” it can no longer be
put to work; it “can no longer labour and let itself be interrogated.”22
What
Derrida’s analysis goes to show is that the absolutism of that knowledge is
necessarily compromised. For, it emerges, as Derrida’s analysis reveals, that
the sign leaves behind an inassimilable remainder—a remainder, that is, that
is unrecoverable by and for knowledge, such that neither knowledge nor rep-
resentation can be absolute.
NOTES
1. Vincent Descombes, Modern French Philosophy, trans. L. Scott-Fox and J. M.
Harding (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1980), p. 12.
2. Alexandre Kojève, Introduction to the Reading of Hegel: Lectures on the Phenom-
enology of Spirit, ed. Allan Bloom, trans. James Nichols Jr. (New York: Basic, 1969).
3. Jean Hyppolite, Logic and Existence, trans. Leonard Lawlor and Amit Sen
(Albany: State University of New York Press, 1997).
4. Jacques Derrida,“The Pit and the Pyramid: An Introduction to Hegel’s Semi-
ology,” in Margins of Philosophy, trans. Alan Bass (Chicago: University of Chicago
Press, 1982), p. 75.
The Three Hegels 215
5. This notion of contradiction, or widerspruch (dialectical contradiction), rather
than untershied (diversity), is crucial. Widerspruch, understood as dialectical opposition,
or contradiction, is importantly distinguished from mere difference by Hegel in the
Science of Logic, particularly in “The Essentialities or Determinations of Reflection.”
For an excellent discussion of the relationship between Hegel’s notions of widerspruch
and untershied and how they relate to Derridean différance, see John Protevi, “Derrida
and Hegel: Différance and Untershied,” in International Studies in Philosophy 25, 3
(1993): 59–71.
6. Hegel’s Philosophy of Mind: Being Part Three of the “Encyclopedia of the Philosph-
ical Sciences,” trans. William Wallace together with Zusatze in Boumann’s text (1845).
Trans. A. V. Miller, with a foreward by J. N. Findlay (Oxford: Clarendon, 1970), p.
204.
7. The temporality of “what will have been” or of the future anterior is impor-
tant to both Hegel and Derrida. Indeed, Derrida quite rightly argues that Hegelian
Spirit is that which “in advance interiorizes all content” such that it is always what it
will have been. Glas, trans. John P. Leavey Jr. and Richard Rand (Lincoln: University
of Nebraska Press, 1986), p. 22a.
8. Jacques Derrida, Of Grammatology, translated with an introduction by Gaya-
tri Spivak (Baltimore and London: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1976), p. 7.
9. (Derrida 1976, 26) Of this statement, Derrida says: “[O]ne would be mistaken
[upon reading it] in coming to the conclusion of a death of the book and the birth of
writing. . . . [W]riting does not begin. It is even on the basis of writing, if one can put
it this way, that one can put into question the search for an archie, an absolute begin-
ning, an origin. Writing can no more begin, therefore, than the book can end.” Posi-
tions, trans. Alan Bass (Chicago: Chicago University Press, 1981), pp. 13–14.
10. Derrida says: “However the topic is considered, the problem of language has
never been one problem among others. But never as much as at the present has it
invaded, as such, the global horizon of the most diverse researches and the most het-
erogeneous discourses. . . . [T]his crisis is also a symptom. It indicates, as if in spite of
itself, that a historico-metaphysical epoch must finally determine as language the total-
ity of its problematic horizon” (Derrida 1976, 6).
11. However, it is important to note that Derrida has been roundly critical of the
“anthropological” dimension of Kojève’s reading of Hegel. He says that “the anthro-
pologistic reading of Hegel . . . was a mistake in one entire respect, perhaps the most
serious mistake. And it is this reading which furnished the best conceptual resources
to postwar French thought. First of all, the Phenomenology of Spirit which had only
been read for a short time in France, does not have to do with something one might
call man. As the science of the experience of consciousness, the science of the struc-
tures of the phenomenality of the spirit itself relating to itself, it is rigorously distin-
guished from anthropology.” Jacques Derrida, “The Ends of Man,” in Margins of Phi-
losophy, trans. Alan Bass (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1982), p. 117.
12. Hegel’s Phenomenology of Spirit, trans. A. V. Miller, analysis and forward by J. N.
Findlay (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1979), p. 19. In a thoroughly Hegelian fash-
ion, Kojève’s lectures were collected and subsequently published by his students in 1947
as Introduction a la lecture de Hegel (Paris: Gallimard, 1947). An abridged version of this
text was translated into English in 1969 and published as: Alexandre Kojève, Introduc-
tion to the Reading of Hegel, James H. Nichols tr., Allan Bloom, ed. (Ithaca: Cornell Uni-
216 CATHERINE KELLOGG
versity Press, 1980). While those of us in the English-speaking world are most familiar
with this compilation, in fact, Bloom severely truncated the original text. He entirely
omitted the complete text of the last two lectures of the 1933–34 academic year. These
lectures were subsequently translated into English by Joseph Carpino and published
under the title “The Idea of Death in the Philosophy of Hegel,” in Interpretation 3
(1973): 114–56, p. 123. This is the section of Kojève’s text Bataille responds to in his
“Hegel, la mort, et le sacrifice,” Deucalion 5 (Neuchatel, 1955) and to which Derrida
responds in “From a Restricted to a General Economy: A Hegelianism without
Reserve,” in Writing and Difference (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1978).
Carpino’s translation is also the section of Kojève’s text most important for my analysis.
13. Leonard Lawlor, “Translator’s Preface” to Jean Hyppolite, Logic and Existence,
trans. Leonard Lawlor and Amit Sen (Albany: State University of New York Press,
1997), p. viii.
14. Gilles Deleuze, “Review of Jean Hyppolite’s Logic and Existence,” Originally
published in Revue Philosophique de la France l’etranger (1954): 144, 457–60. Reprinted
in Logic and Existence, p. 191. Emphasis in the original.
15. Hegel’s Aesthetics: Lectures on Fine Art, trans. T. M. Knox (New York: Oxford
University Press, 1977), pp. 128–29. Cited in Logic and Existence, ibid., p. 24.
16. Hegel, Phenomenology of Spirit, p. 103. Cited in Logic and Existence, p. 60.
17. Gilles Deleuze, “Review of Jean Hyppolite, Logique et Existence. Originally
published in Revue philosophique de la France l’etranger (1954): 144, 457–60. Reprinted
in Logic and Existence, p. 195.
18. Hegel et le pensée moderne (Paris, 1971). This text was subsequently revised and
republished, and appears under the title “The Pit and the Pyramid: Introduction to
Hegel’s Semiology,” in Margins of Philosophy.
19. Hegel’s Philosophy of Mind: Being Part Three of the “Encyclopedia of the Philosph-
ical Sciences,” trans. A. V. Miller, with a foreword by J. N. Findlay (Oxford: Clarendon,
1970), p. 23, cited in Derrida, 1982, p. 74.
20. This immediate singularity, for Hyppolite, is an ineffable intuition, what he
calls “what we will never see twice,” and it is therefore “the worst of all banalities”
(Hyppolite 1997, 15).
21. Jacques Derrida, Glas, trans. John P. Leavey Jr. and Richard Rand (Lincoln:
University of Nebraska Press, 1986), p. 133a.
22. Jacques Derrida, “From a Restricted to a General Economy,” in Writing and
Difference, op. cit., p. 259.
The Three Hegels 217
This page intentionally left blank.
Among the most common criticisms of Hegel by twentieth-century philoso-
phers, especially the continentals, is that Hegel’s system is totalizing, that it
reduces difference to the same. Heidegger, Derrida, and Levinas, for example,
have all expressed some version of this judgment. Even Jean Hyppolite, who
has offered one of the most insightful readings of Hegel, especially of Hegel’s
theory of language, speaks of a dialectic of language that generates a “totality
of sense.”1
Indeed, there is much in Hegel’s philosophy that lends itself to the
conclusion that his system is totalizing, including the thesis that the dialectic
is progressing toward Absolute Knowledge, when, presumably, all difference
will be sublated and unified as the all-encompassing self-consciousness of
Geist. This interpretation of Hegel’s system is not universal, however. Among
Anglo-American philosophers, William Maker and John McCumber have
offered nontotalizing interpretations of Hegel.2
And among philosophers of
continental background, Hannah Arendt argues that the Hegelian dialectic
forms an “infinite spiral,” rather than a closed system.3
In spite of the objections of many twentieth-century philosophers to
Hegel’s alleged totalization, he has been crucial to the thinking of many of his
most outspoken critics. Among these is Julia Kristeva, who has used the
Hegelian dialectic, including Hegel’s concept of negativity, in the formation
of her own nontotalizing language theory. Negativity, Kristeva argues, creates
a perpetual movement of language and meaning that reflects the formation
and continual transformation of the speaking subject. This chapter will exam-
ine Kristeva’s interpretation of Hegel and argue that his theory of language is
more radical (and closer to hers) than she seems to realize. In fact, her mis-
readings of Hegel, especially his concept of negativity, bring into focus for us
the radical implications of what Hegel wrote about language.The chapter will
argue that an analysis of Hegel’s language theory, especially the operation of
219
CHAPTER 11
Hegel, Kristeva, and the
Language of Revolution
Claire May
negativity within language, puts into question the conclusion that Hegel’s sys-
tem is totalizing. It will argue that because negativity inheres in language,
according to Hegel, the dialectic will never reach stasis, will rather be the infi-
nite process envisioned by Arendt—for as long as language is spoken.4
KRISTEVA’S POETIC LANGUAGE
Kristeva’s language theory is found primarily in Revolution in Poetic Language,
originally a doctoral thesis prepared under the direction of Jacques Lacan.5
Draw-
ing on psychoanalytic theory, Kristeva discusses the ego’s individuation and social-
ization through and concurrent with the acquisition of language. Neither the ego
so formed nor the language so acquired is unitary or static, however. Rather, both
are subject to a continuous dialectic: the ego caught between the pulls of conscious
and unconscious, and that ego’s language in the play between meaning and mad-
ness.The ego caught up in this dialectic, according to Kristeva, is “no longer con-
sidered a phenomenological transcendental ego nor the Cartesian ego” but rather
a subject en process: in process/on trial—through language (Kristeva 1984, 37).
The language that both speaks that subject and is spoken by her Kristeva
terms “poetic language.” Poetic language assumes an interplay of two modalities
of the signifying process, the semiotic with the symbolic, in a dialectic that con-
stitutes both the text and the speaking/writing subject. The subject en process and
poetic language are thus mutually constitutive in the dialectic of symbolic and
semiotic signification. Virtually all discourse is expressed as poetic language,
according to Kristeva: “Because the subject is always both semiotic and symbolic,
no signifying system he produces can be either ‘exclusively’semiotic or ‘exclusively’
symbolic, and is instead necessarily marked by an indebtedness to both” (24).
Symbolic signification, according to Kristeva, reflects social constraints. It
assumes a patriarchal hierarchy, fixed grammatical categories, syntactical rules,
and univalent signification. The semiotic mode of signification, on the other
hand, results from biological drives in an “operation that logically and chrono-
logically precedes the establishment of the symbolic and its subject” (41).
Kristeva describes the semiotic as “enigmatic and feminine, irreducible to its
intelligible verbal translation; it is musical, anterior to judgment, but
restrained by a single guarantee: syntax” (29). The semiotic pulsates through
language as a continuous disturbance of the stasis sought by symbolic signifi-
cation. It registers in language as polyvalent signs and symbols, connotation
rather than denotation, and disrupted conventions of grammar and syntax. Its
presence may also be recognized in a text by the tone and mood conveyed
through images, and by the musicality of signifiers.
Negativity, which Kristeva considers to be the fourth term of Hegel’s
dialectic, impels the movement by which the semiotic disrupts the stability
sought by the social order and the monovalency sought by symbolic language.6
220 CLAIRE MAY
Thus, negativity for Kristeva results in poetic language and in the continuing
transformation of both the speaking subject and the social system of which
that subject is a part. It is “both the cause and the organizing principle of the
process, . . . the liquefying and dissolving agent that does not destroy but
rather reactivates new organizations and, in that sense, affirms” (109). Kris-
teva’s explanation of negativity has its basis in psychoanalytic theory: negativ-
ity results from the operation of repressed drives as those drives animate the
subject and register in his language. Kristeva explains her transformation of
the Hegelian dialectic in this way: “The logic [of the Hegelian dialectic] will
become materialist when, with the help of Freud’s discovery, one dares think
negativity as the very movement of heterogeneous matter, inseparable from its
differentiation’s symbolic function” (113, emphasis hers).
Kristeva’s analysis and evaluation of Hegelian negativity are somewhat
confusing. On the one hand, she maintains that Hegelian negativity is a “dead
end” (111), no more than a reified void, “the zero used in logic and serving at
its base” or at most “a connective in the logical becoming” (112). Moreover,
she claims, the stage of supersession within the Hegelian dialectic finally
erases heterogenity (112); in other words, according to Kristeva, the Hegelian
dialectic, despite the movement generated by negativity, eliminates difference.
And she adds: Supersession “subordinates, indeed erases, the moment of rup-
ture” whereby the thetic is forced to confront its other (113). On the other
hand, while Kristeva thus criticizes Hegelian negativity severely, she never-
theless acknowledges her own debt to his concept. Hegelian negativity, Kris-
teva admits, “prepared the way for the very possibility of thinking a material-
ist process” (110). What is more surprising, she finds a radical potential in
Hegelian negativity even before its materialist revision: “We . . . maintain that
Hegelian negativity prevents the immobilization of the thetic, unsettles doxy,
and lets in all the semiotic motility that prepares and exceeds it” (113).
So here we have the crux of the matter: is Hegelian negativity a “dead
end” that cancels difference, or is it the bearer of a motility that continuously
disrupts all attempts to reify the status quo? Does it “[erase] the moment of
rupture” or ceaselessly impel further ruptures in language and thought? Kris-
teva’s apparent vacillation on this point brings the question into focus for us.
To answer the question, we will examine Hegelian negativity more closely,
especially as it relates to language. We will also consider the implications of
negativity and language to Hegel’s larger philosophical system.
HEGELIAN NEGATIVITY AND THE
LANGUAGE OF PHILOSOPHY
For Hegel as for Kristeva, negativity facilitates the movement of the dialectic.
Beyond this abstraction, however, Hegel’s concept of negativity is somewhat
Hegel, Kristeva, and the Language of Revolution 221
difficult to define, in part because Hegel’s discussions of negativity are often
couched in tropic language. In the preface to the Phenomenology, for example,
Hegel describes “the tremendous power of the negative” as “the energy of
thought,” which he then figures as “Death, . . . of all things the most dread-
ful.”7
Later in the Phenomenology he figures negativity as “the universal indi-
vidual, the Earth, which as the universal negativity preserves the differences as
they exist within itself ” (178). Tropes such as these raise their own sets of
questions, which we will consider later in the chapter. In any case, it is diffi-
cult to say just what Hegelian negativity is, beyond the abstraction that it is
“the energy of thought.” For the purposes of this chapter, we will define
Hegelian negativity functionally, rather than ontologically, as that which cre-
ates the movement of dialectical thinking by impelling thought toward its
opposite; it is that which compels thinking to confront its other.
It is important to recognize that negativity is not outside the dialectic, nor
outside language, since, according to Hegel, there is no thought outside lan-
guage. “To want to think without words . . . is . . . a manifestly irrational pro-
cedure, “ he says in the Phenomenology (221).8
Rather, negativity, the “energy
of thought,” must inhere within language itself. In the Logic (Part I of the
Encyclopedia) Hegel describes negativity as the play of Being and Nothing
within signification that leads to “a more precise specification and truer defi-
nition of the Absolute.”9
Jean Hyppolite also places Hegelian negativity
within language; it is that “which allows discourse to follow its course by going
from determination to determination” (Hyppolite 1997, 12). Hegel did not
discuss explicitly how negativity registers in language, to my knowledge. We
might speculate that, since dialectical thinking is always in movement, the
effects of negativity would be recognizable by the propensity of language itself
to resist stasis. To investigate this possibility we will look more closely at what
Hegel said about language, and the relation of language to thought.
In Logic and Existence, Hyppolite formulates as a coherent system pas-
sages on language scattered at various places throughout the Hegel texts, and
it is to Hyppolite’s interpretation of Hegel that we will now turn. Hyppolite
argues that for Hegel language could appear in three authentic modes: the
language of poetry, the language of philosophy, and the language of the ana-
lytic understanding, the latter as typified in the empirical sciences and math-
ematics. In brief, according to Hyppolite, the language of poetry is prereflec-
tive and creative; it shares with the other fine arts qualities of musicality,
representation, and tone. The language of the analytic understanding, on the
other hand, seeks fixity and determinacy of expression, ultimately as mathe-
matical symbols. Finally, philosophical language is a synthesis of the languages
of poetry and understanding “in a dialectic that engenders the totality of
sense” (53).
A passage in the preface to the Phenomenology lends support to Hyp-
polite’s interpretation of Hegel’s language theory. Hegel says there that the
222 CLAIRE MAY
Notion is neither pure “material thinking”—the “picture-thinking” of
poetic images—nor pure formalistic thinking, “free from all content,” an
emphasis typical of the understanding. Rather, according to Hegel, the
Notion moves spontaneously between these two extremes in an “immanent
rhythm” (Hegel 1977, 35–36). Philosophical language, then—that capable
of expressing the Notion—seems to be for Hegel the dialectic posited by
Hyppolite.
NEGATIVITY AND THE
LANGUAGE OF UNDERSTANDING
This dialectic that leads to Hegel’s philosophical language resembles in sev-
eral ways the dialectic between symbolic and semiotic that forms Kristeva’s
poetic language (a similarity that Kristeva does not acknowledge). Perhaps the
most obvious parallel is between Kristeva’s symbolic mode of signification and
Hegel’s language of understanding. The symbolic, it will be recalled, is recog-
nized by fixed grammatical categories, monovalent meanings of terms, and
syntactical rules. The goal of the symbolic is social stability and linguistic
coherence.
Like Kristeva’s symbolic, Hegel’s language of understanding seeks stabil-
ity in language and thought, including the preservation of fixed meanings.
This form of discourse relies heavily on what Hegel calls the form of language
(in contrast to language’s “raw materials”). Linguistic form is the “work of the
analytic [understanding] which informs language with its categories: it is this
logical instinct which gives rise to grammar.”10
Linguistic form includes fixed
definitions of terms, determinate grammatical categories, and reliable rules for
syntax: the very qualities that mark Kristeva’s symbolic.
The Encyclopedia Logic, which discusses the understanding as one stage
in the evolution of consciousness, discusses the language typically valued by
consciousness at this stage of its development. The understanding, first, seeks
monovalent meanings; it asserts “the correctness of its definitions” (Hegel
1990, 61) and has no tolerance for contradiction. Hegel notes in the under-
standing the “tenacity which draws a hard and fast line between certain terms
and others opposite to them” (52). Moreover, the understanding insists that
categories and oppositions are “separated from each other by an infinite
chasm, so that opposite categories can never get at each other” (53); for exam-
ple, the understanding sees rigid separations between subject and predicate,
and between different predicates (120–21). When faced with contradictory
predicates for the same subject, the understanding makes “a forcible insistence
on a single aspect, and a real effort to obscure and remove all consciousness of
the other attribute which is involved” (133). Note the words Hegel uses in
these passages: tenacity, obstinacy, forcible insistence, effort to obscure. As Hegel’s
Hegel, Kristeva, and the Language of Revolution 223
diction suggests, the understanding seeks willfully to force a stasis on language
that language itself may resist.
Indeed, Hegel seems to believe that language does resist attempts to ren-
der it static. As the dialectic is inherently mobile, so is the language that con-
stitutes and expresses that thought. As an example of the movement of dialec-
tical thought, and of the language in which this thought takes shape, Hegel
cites the verb to become:
“To become” is the true expression for the resultant of “to be” and “not to be”;
it is the unity of the two; but not only is it the unity, it is also inherent
unrest—the unity, . . . which, through the diversity of Being and Nothing
that is in it, is at war within itself. (131)
Another example of language “at war with itself” is exemplified by the
verb aufheben, which means both to set aside for the purposes of annulment
and to set aside for preservation. Hegel applauds this capacity of words to be
multivalent:
This double usage of language, which gives to the same word a positive and
negative meaning, . . . gives no ground for reproaching language as a cause
of confusion. We should rather recognize in it the speculative spirit of our
language rising above the mere “either-or” of understanding. (142)
Hegel here attributes to language a “speculative spirit” that enables it
to resist the stasis sought by the understanding. The idea of aufheben used
here as an example is, of course, the idea of the dialectic itself, which in the
sublation of oppositions both unites the opposites (the “either-or”) and
preserves their differences. In this case the word, because it is multivalent,
adequately expresses the movement of the concept it defines. This “specu-
lative spirit” of language is also manifest within sentences. In the Science of
Logic Hegel illustrates the involvement of syntax in the movement of
dialectical thinking:
Now in so far as the proposition: being and nothing are the same, asserts the
identity of these determinations, but, in fact, equally contains them both as
distinguished, the proposition is self-contradictory and cancels itself out.
Bearing this in mind and looking at the proposition more closely, we find
that it has a movement which involves the spontaneous vanishing of the
proposition itself. But in thus vanishing, there takes place in it that which is
to constitute its own peculiar content, namely, becoming.11
Just as thought is dialectical, then, so is the language in which thought is
expressed. Hegel’s discussion of aufheben and to become, discussed above, illus-
trate this dialectical quality of language at the level of vocabulary, and we have
seen as well that syntax may be involved in the movement of dialectical think-
ing. In the following example, both syntax and grammatical categories are
subject to dialectical movement:
224 CLAIRE MAY
It is the common opinion that being is rather the sheer other of nothing, and
nothing is clearer than their absolute difference, and nothing seems easier
than to be able to state it. (Hegel 1999, 90)
This sentence from the Logic of Science involves a sort of word play. Note
that nothing is used as both a noun (a thematization) and a pronoun: a lin-
guistic sublation of form and content that unites them into sense and yet pre-
serves their difference. At the same time, forms of to be are both nominaliza-
tions and verbs. These sublations of grammatical categories leave Hegel’s
sentence, for all the fact that we seem to understand it, in a state of unrest.
These examples suggest that it is in the nature of language itself to
resist stasis and, rather, to participate in the movement of dialectical think-
ing. We have speculated that this unrest, this movement, of language results
from the negativity that inheres in it. Thus attempts by the understanding
to reify meaning (and thought) through rigid enforcement of grammatical
and syntactical rules, or strict adherence to monovalent vocabulary, will be
unsuccessful.
Yet Hegel also acknowledges that the language of understanding, with its
emphasis on linguistic form, is a necessary constituent of philosophical lan-
guage: without form, there would be no language (of any kind) at all. The
understanding enables philosophical concepts to be stated with relative preci-
sion and clarity, thanks to its (somewhat) stable definitions of terms and its
(somewhat) reliable rules of grammar and syntax. To quote Hegel from the
Encyclopedia Logic: “That philosophy never can get on without the under-
standing hardly calls for special remark. . . . [Philosophy’s] foremost require-
ment is that every thought shall be grasped in its full precision, and nothing
allowed to remain vague and indefinite” (115). The language of the under-
standing, then, provides philosophical discourse with exactitude and determi-
nacy—with meaning—even though that determinacy is always subject to fur-
ther movement as dialectical thought progresses.
The language of the understanding resembles Kristeva’s symbolic in its
emphasis on linguistic form and its quest for fixed meanings. Yet neither the
symbolic nor the language of understanding stands by itself. According to
Kristeva, the symbolic is always in a dialectic with semiotic signification, and
poetic language is the result. According to Hyppolite, Hegel’s language of
understanding is also subject to a continuous dialectic with the language of
poetry, with the language of philosophy as a result. In both cases, it is nega-
tivity that impels this dialectical movement within language. We will now turn
to the other component of Hegel’s language of philosophy, as Hyppolite
understands that language. If Hyppolite is correct, we should find evidence
that Hegel valued the language of poetry as a component of philosophical dis-
course. We will then ask whether poetic language plays a role in the concur-
rent movement of language and dialectical thinking—in other words, whether
and in what way poetic language might also register the effects of negativity.
Hegel, Kristeva, and the Language of Revolution 225
HEGEL’S LANGUAGE OF POETRY
While Hegel’s language of poetry is not identical conceptually to Kristeva’s
semiotic, they have similar effects in terms of what might be called linguistic
style.12
We recall that the semiotic registers in language as polyvalent signs and
symbols, connotation rather than denotation, and disrupted conventions of
grammar and syntax. Its presence may also be recognized in a text by the tone
and mood evoked through images and tropes, and by the musicality of signi-
fiers. Hegel’s language of poetry is also recognizable by its imagery, its tropes,
its tone, and its potential to evoke emotions.13
A review of what Hegel wrote about poetic language will clarify these
points. First, Hegel believed that the language of poetry, like all language, is
comprised of both matter and form, which Hegel calls the “concrete nature of
language.” In poetry, however, the “raw materials” of language are more
prominent as such than in other modes of signification. In the Philosophy of
Mind Hegel argues that words (both singly and in combinations as images
and tropes) have their origin in sensuous experience—color, smell, sound,
taste, and touch. These experiences create mood and can lead to vocal expres-
sions of emotion, for example as laughter, sighs, or weeping. Sensuous experi-
ences, with their emotional weight and tonality, are stored as recollections,
conscious or unconscious. They may eventually be represented in language as
images and tropes, which will then evoke the mood associated with the orig-
inal experience. When recollected sensations and emotions are expressed in
language, they are “expelled,” according to Hegel, thereby ridding the subject
of any emotional pain associated with the experiences. “Articulate speech is
thus the highest mode in which man rids himself of his internal sensations,”
Hegel claims, but “it is the writing of poetry especially that has the power to
liberate one from emotional distress” (87–88).
All words originate in sensuous experience, or what Hegel calls “corpor-
eity.” Time and custom may obscure this origin, however:
These dull subconscious beginnings [of language] are deprived of their orig-
inal importance and prominence by new influences, it may be by external
agencies or by the needs of civilization. Having been originally sensuous
intuitions, they are reduced to signs, and thus have only traces left of their
original meaning. (Hegel 1975, 214)
We may conclude from this passage, then, that all words have in fact “traces”
of their origin in bodily experience and emotion. Possibly it is these traces
that, in part, contribute to the connotations of certain words, or to their
multivalency.
While Kristeva would not be involved in the debate on the sensuous ori-
gin of words, her concept of the semiotic does resemble Hegel’s “raw materi-
als” of language in its connection to bodily experience and affect. Moreover,
226 CLAIRE MAY
Hegel, like Kristeva, posits an unconscious repository of sensory and emo-
tional experiences, as designated by his trope of the “night-like pit” (204). And
sensuous experiences, recollections of which are stored in this “pit,” may later
be expressed in language as images and tropes, and the emotions associated
with sense experience (and representations of that experience) may register in
language as tone or mood.
But did Hegel see the images and tropes typical of poetic language as a
viable, even necessary element of the language suitable for philosophy? On
this question Hegel is not clear. The passage from the preface to the Phenom-
enology quoted earlier would seem to support this conclusion, in that it calls
for a philosophical language moving between the two extremes of picture-
thinking and formalism. Yet Hegel argues elsewhere that philosophical
thought in its purest form would rise above both sensuous imagery and the
emotions such imagery can evoke. In the Science of Logic, for example, he
describes logic as “consciousness . . . busy with something remote from sensu-
ous intuitions and aims, from feelings, from the merely imagined world of fig-
urate conception. . . . [T]hought becomes at home in abstractions and in pro-
gressing by means of Notions free from sensuous substrata” (58–59). Yet even
while calling for a consciousness free from “figurate conception” and “sensu-
ous substrata,” Hegel speaks of thought “at home”; it seems difficult for Hegel
to eliminate tropes—”figurate” language—entirely from his own philosophi-
cal discourse.
And, in fact, in the Aesthetics Hegel praises images and metaphors for
clarifying meaning. Metaphors provide language with a “liveliness [which]
consists in rendering things precise to the visual imagination, in providing a
sensuous image to counteract the pure indefiniteness of the saying which is
always general.”14
Metaphors also enable thought to be fluid: they speak to a
spirit which is “not content with the simple, customary, and plain,” but which
seeks “to move on to something else, to linger over various things” (406). He
even seems to regard emotion as valuable to the grasping of ideas. Metaphors
enable the “heart and passion . . . to express their own stormy passion and their
grip on all sorts of ideas by correspondingly transferring them out into all sorts
of cognate phenomena and by moving in images of the most varied kinds”
(406). Given this movement of thought generated by images and tropes, we
might conclude that they would be appropriate for philosophical discourse, in
Hegel’s view.
Indeed, Hegel’s own philosophical texts are evidence that he found the
images and tropes of poetic language useful. The Phenomenology, especially, is
noteworthy for its vivid images and tropes, as illustrated by Hegel’s figures for
negativity, among many others. An examination of some of these tropes will
illustrate the potential of “figurate” language to generate movement of
thought—but also its potential to unsettle ideas about which we might prefer
certainty and to raise questions for which there are no definite answers.
Hegel, Kristeva, and the Language of Revolution 227
Hegel’s tropes for negativity suggest, not only that Hegel associates neg-
ativity with materiality and death, but also that he sometimes genders nega-
tivity as feminine. In the preface to the Phenomenology, as we have seen, Hegel
figures “universal negativity,” the “universal individual,” as the Earth. Else-
where in the Phenomenology Hegel refers to one manifestation of the “Earth-
Spirit” as the “feminine principle of nourishment” (437). Might we conclude
from these tropes that universal negativity is not only the Earth as feminine
but, in the latter case, maternal?
But are these phrases actually tropes (personifications), or are they literal
references to physical matter? We have seen that Hegel’s philosophical lan-
guage may sublate either/or grammatical categories, such as literal versus fig-
urative usage. In his discussion of culture, Hegel describes burial rites, during
which the corpse is literally returned to the earth: the Family “weds the blood-
relation to the bosom of the earth, to the elemental imperishable individual-
ity” (271). The Earth in this passage appears to be both physical matter (the
ground into which the corpse is laid) and a trope for “imperishable individu-
ality,” an abstraction. Again the Earth as “elemental individuality” (already
identified as “absolute negativity”) appears to be feminine, this time a bride.
In another gendered trope, Hegel describes absolute negativity as death
in which the human being is “quite unmanned, . . . and everything solid and
stable has been shaken to its foundations” (Hegel 1977, 117). The emascula-
tion alluded to in this trope suggests that the work of negativity may in some
sense challenge masculine control, which seeks to ensure the durability of
“everything stable and solid.” In the discussion of state power, Hegel describes
human law as “the manhood of the community, in its real and effective activ-
ity [as] the government” (287); womankind, on the other hand, is “the ever-
lasting irony [in the life] of the community” (288).The masculine seems, then,
to be associated with the order brought about by a strong state that enforces
the law. Negativity, troped as feminine, disrupts stability and order, which the
Western patriarchy traditionally has sought to ensure; the feminine challenges
the hegemony of laws enacted to enforce the status quo. Were we to make an
analogy with Hegel’s language theory, would we gender linguistic form as
masculine, and the negativity that registers in language—and disrupts stable
meanings—as feminine? Such a tentative analogy would suggest another link
between Hegel and Kristeva, who genders the symbolic as patriarchal and the
semiotic as feminine.
What are we, as readers of Hegel’s texts, to make of these tropes? Taken
seriously as part of his philosophical discourse, they suggest a gendering of
some of Hegel’s most fundamental concepts—surely an outrageous possibility
for conventional philosophical thought. The implications of such a possibility
are beyond the scope of this chapter to explore. But they exemplify the ability
of tropes, Hegel’s “figurate” language, to force thinking to move beyond the
security of ideas previously unquestioned. In sum, if we seriously attend to
228 CLAIRE MAY
Hegel’s images and tropes—his poetic language—they may force us to think
his concepts in a different way.
Of course, we might ignore Hegel’s tropes and other elements of poetic
language in his philosophical discourse. Some readers might conclude, in fact,
that these elements detract from Hegel’s texts, that his philosophy would be
stronger and clearer if it sought the goal, outlined in the Science of Logic, of
notions stated purely in abstract language, free of figures. But we have seen
that philosophical discourse free of poetic language would provide no refuge
from ambiguity and contradiction. All language, according to Hegel, is in a
state of unrest, even language entirely abstract: “Every abstract proposition of
understanding, taken precisely as it is given, naturally veers round into its
opposite,” he says in the Encyclopedia Logic (117). Language has a “specula-
tive spirit,” Hegel believes, and because negativity inheres within language,
language (and thought) will never be at rest.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
This chapter began with the claim, made by many twentieth-century philoso-
phers, that Hegel’s philosophy is totalizing. It then examined the specific
arguments of Julia Kristeva, who, while judging Hegel severely for eliminat-
ing difference, nevertheless uses Hegel’s concept of negativity in the develop-
ment of her own nontotalizing language theory. One of the findings of this
chapter is that Hegel’s theory of language is much closer to Kristeva’s theory
than she recognizes. We have noticed similarities between Kristeva’s symbolic
mode of signification and Hegel’s language of understanding, more limited
similarities between her semiotic and Hegel’s language of poetry, and a lin-
guistic dialectic in the theories of both in which negativity is a key term.
The primary focus of the chapter has been an examination of Kristeva’s
inconsistent assessments of Hegelian negativity: whether Hegel’s negativity is
a “dead end,” as she charges at one point, or whether it “unsettles doxy” and
introduces mobility into language, as she acknowledges later. An examination
of what Hegel says about language, and an analysis of his own philosophical
discourse, have suggested that the charge of totalization is inaccurate. Kristeva
claims that supersession eliminates difference and erases the moment of rup-
ture of the thetic. But even in supersession, negativity is not eliminated, in that
the supersession is thought in and through language. At the moment of super-
session, negativity is already at work in its destabilization, effecting a new rup-
ture, a renewed confrontation with difference.
“Thoughts become fluid when pure thinking . . . recognizes itself as a
moment, “ Hegel says in the preface to the Phenomenology (20). For Hegel, it
is possible for thought to remain fluid because language itself is in a state of
unrest, as evidenced by multivalent vocabulary, grammatical and syntactical
Hegel, Kristeva, and the Language of Revolution 229
ambiguity, and the images and tropes found in both poetry and philosophical
discourse. Even should consciousness reach the goal envisioned by Hegel at
which the Notion is grasped in the abstract, without figurate language or
emotion, language in its “speculative spirit” would still register the movement
generated by negativity. Language—and thought—will never reach stasis, but
will rather remain in endless movement—the infinite spiral posited by Han-
nah Arendt. For as long as language is spoken, negativity, registering in lan-
guage, will give voice to difference, to the other. As such, Hegelian negativity
effects a continuous and infinite disruption of the status quo, a revolution in
and through the language of philosophy.
NOTES
1. Jean Hyppolite. Leonard Lawlor, and Amit Sen, trans., Logic and Existence
(Albany: State University of New York Press, 1997), p. 53, emphasis added.
2. William Maker. Philosophy without Foundations: Rethinking Hegel (Albany:
State University of New York Press, 1994); John McCumber, The Company of Words:
Hegel, Language, and Systematic Philosophy (Evanston: Northwestern University Press,
1993).
3. Hannah Arendt. The Life of the Mind (San Diego: Harcourt Brace, 1971), pp.
48–49.
4. Because (as Hypppolite interprets Hegel) language speaks the subject, the
Hegelian subject will also be continuously in the process of transformation, or as Kris-
teva would have it, a subject en process, in process/on trial. It would be possible to com-
pare Kristeva’s and Hegel’s theories of subjectivity in relation to language, but this topic
is beyond the scope of the present work.
5. Julia Kristeva. Margaret Waller, trans., Revolution in Poetic Language (New
York: Columbia University Press, 1984), p. 3.
6. Kristeva, 33. Hegel also considered negativity to be the dialectic’s fourth term.
See Science of Logic II, 478–79, as cited in Kristeva.
7. Hegel’s Phenomenology of Spirit, trans. A. V. Miller (Oxford: Oxford University
Press, 1977), p. 19.
8. In the Phenomenology Hegel makes a similar point: “what is called the unut-
terable is nothing else than the untrue, the irrational” (66). Hyppolite puts it this way:
“The progress of thought, its development, is the very progress of expression. . . . Sense
unfolds itself and determines itself without its being given previously in an ineffable
form” (21).
9. Hegel’s Logic, Part One of the Encyclopaedia of the Philosophical Sciences, trans. A.
V. Miller (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1990), p. 128.
10. Hegel’s Philosophy of Mind: Being Part Three of the Encyclopaedia of the Philo-
sophical Sciences, trans. William Wallace (Oxford: Clarendon, 1975), p. 215.
11. Hegel’s Science of Logic, trans. A. V. Miller (Amherst, N.Y.: Humanity, 1999),
p. 90.
12. The differences between Hegel’s language of poetry and Kristeva’s semiotic
should not be minimized. The most obvious difference is that Kristeva’s concept of the
230 CLAIRE MAY
semiotic is based on psychoanalytic theory, including the effects of repressed drives on
language. This theory enables Kristeva to explain linguistic phenomena that Hegel, for
the most part, merely describes.
13. Hyppolite believes that Hegel’s language of poetry, like Kristeva’s semiotic, is
also evidenced by musicality of language. Jean-Luc Nancy makes a similar point in The
Speculative Remark, trans. Céline Surprenant (Stanford: Stanford University Press,
2001).
14. Hegel’s Aesthetics: Lectures on Fine Art. II, trans. T. M. Knox (Oxford: Claren-
don, 1975), p. 406.
Hegel, Kristeva, and the Language of Revolution 231
This page intentionally left blank.
Rhythmically, Hegel’s language verges on poetry. With the following analysis
of Hegel’s discussion of philosophical form in the preface to the Phenomenol-
ogy of Spirit, I seek to show that Hegel calls for a philosophical language that
combines two different logics in rhythmical interaction—the largely Aris-
totelian logic that rules traditional philosophical discourse, and a Hegelian
speculative logic. With my emphasis on rhythm, I hope to problematize the
still prevalent understanding of Hegel’s philosophy as totalizing. This chapter
suggests that the rhythmic quality of Hegel’s language interrupts the thrust of
linear progression usually perceived as the dominant force of this text. The
metrical correlation of conflicting logics opens the focus on self-knowledge
onto alterity, thereby providing the condition of possibility for an ethical rela-
tion to (Hegelian) philosophy’s other.
CONCEPTS
Rhythm enters and transforms the pure formality of logical discourse when
Hegel radically redefines the notions of the concept and the judgment in tra-
ditional logic. In the ordinary sense of the term, concepts are general and
abstract ideas in the mind, empty containers, or as Hegel puts it, “inert recep-
tacles” that need to be filled with the concrete material of experience.1
Kant
famously refers to concepts without intuitions as void, underlining their sta-
tus as subjective forms of representation that call for objective content.2
Hegel
mediates the abstract separation between subject and object, form and con-
tent, and logic and reality by way of his novel definition of the concept. He
understands the Concept (Begriff) as reaching through (durchgreifen) these
divisions transforming them in the process. The firm distinction between
logic and reality is rendered dynamic in the Concept’s self-mediation, in the
course of which the Concept unfolds its own reality and reality conceptualizes
233
CHAPTER 12
Speculative Rhythm
Katrin Pahl
itself. Hegel radically redefines truth not as a passive object waiting to be dis-
covered, but as a subject. With “subject” he means the active and dynamic
process of negotiating the conflicting demands of self-othering and self-
reflecting. For him, this movement of self-mediation through self-negation is
not peculiar to human subjectivity, as we would tend to see it today.3
Kant’s demand that “an abstract conception be made sensuous” thereby
becomes superfluous because the conception makes itself sensuous when dif-
ferentiating itself in the Ur-teil, the primary differentiation or the judgment.4
For Hegel, the judgment is no abstract logical form, but it takes concrete
shape as a living body (“the judgment of the plant,” for example, develops out
of the unity of the germ), or as a thing (“all things are a judgment”), or as the
material reality of a sentence.5
In and across the self-differentiation of the
Urteil, the Concept remains whole as “every function and ‘moment’ of the
Concept is itself the whole Concept.”6
In each of its judgments, the Concept
thus takes both logical and physical shape, and presents itself as both univer-
sal and singular.
Nevertheless, the material reality of Hegel’s Concept is easy to overlook
because Hegel’s modification of the traditional use of the word “concept” is so
radical that it is difficult to accept. Most interpretations of the Hegelian text,
even the best, have in fact abandoned the Concept’s materiality in favor of an
understanding of the Concept as metaphysical abstraction. Derrida, for exam-
ple, offers a weak reading of the notion of the Concept when he writes that
for Hegel, “language accomplishes itself, thus becomes signifying only by
relieving within itself the (sensible, exterior) signifier, traversing it and deny-
ing it with a view to the concept.” For Derrida—and this does not go without
identifying Hegel’s philosophy with Prussian authoritarianism—“the logic of
the concept is the eagle’s.”7
Against such hasty flights, I will try to remain with Hegel’s text for a lit-
tle longer. I will traverse it back and forth in an attempt to bring its body to
life again and again as a warm body. After the motionless flight of the eagle
through the very high cold regions of the sky, we might then begin to notice
the Phenomenology’s eagle dance: close to the ground, “very lowly, low down,
close to the earth.”8
In this dance, the eagle transforms into an Igel (hedge-
hog). This Igel responds to a multitude of at times contradictory calls in the
complex rhythm of its dance—it saves itself yet loses itself curling up into a
tight ball or crossing the road slowly with hundreds of swift little steps.
Igel is another of poetry’s names. It echoes in my German ear as Derrida’s
hérisson or istrice offered as answers to the question of an Italian poetry jour-
nal: “Che cos’è la poesia?”—”What kind of thing is poetry?”9
The poetry of
Hegel’s philosophical language restores thought to its body.10
Characteristi-
cally, poetic language does not vanish in understanding, it does not like an
eagle “leave with one wing stroke the natal ground.”11
Unable to translate
poetry into plain language, we remain attached to the signifier. In this incli-
234 KATRIN PAHL
nation toward the concrete materiality of language, we begin to notice sensu-
ous relations between words. Between Igel and eagle we dance for a long while
in place, until the senses multiply and urge thought to move in more than one
direction.
Poetry sets the eagle on its feet. There, standing on the ground, in an
unfamiliar element and in this awkward position, the eagle becomes vulnera-
ble—like the Igel in Derrida’s text who at the approach of an automobile and
terrified by the screaming monotony of its mechanical rhythm curls up in the
middle of the road into a hermetically sealed ball.
JUDGMENTS
Hegel’s redefinition of the notion of the concept has an effect on the status of
philosophical language in general.The movement of the Concept undermines
any clean-cut distinctions that traditional logic tries to enforce. For Hegel,
language, thought, and reality are intertwined. One possible reality of the
Concept is language. The “kind of writing” (Schreibart) must therefore be of
great concern for Hegel when he embarks on the project of the Phenomenol-
ogy—that is, to present Spirit as it appears to itself.12
It comes as no surprise,
therefore, that he devotes an important part of the Phenomenology’s preface to
his thoughts on the form of philosophical exposition.13
In the preface to the Phenomenology, Hegel introduces the speculative
proposition as a kind of writing that critiques and disarticulates the traditional
form of philosophical writing that he identifies as the judgment.14
The logical
judgment is a proposition that is either composed of, or can be logically
reduced to three parts: the subject, the copula, and the predicate. The logical
judgment provides the formally correct answer to the implicitly metaphysical
question, What is x?
Hegel denounces the logical judgment as the symptom of a rigid, overly
clean-cut and hierarchical logic. He shows that its claim to simplicity and
clarity only superficially covers up the conflicts it actually harbors. According
to Hegel’s analysis, every judgment shows a discord between what it means
and what it says. The judgment means that subject and predicate are identi-
cal—A is B—but the body of the sentence presents them as separated: it con-
sists of two different terms, A and B, with the copula physically standing in-
between the two, holding them apart. The materiality of the judgment is at
odds with its meaning with regard to the difference or identity of its terms.
The meaning repudiates difference while the body exhibits it: “The sense
seems to be that the difference is denied, although at the same time it appears
directly in the proposition.”15
In this situation, “Reasoning” or Räsonnieren—
as Hegel calls the purely formal production of judgments—pursues its desire
for a simple identity “solving” the conflict by establishing a hierarchy.16
Speculative Rhythm 235
Abstract rationality prefers logic to reality. The body of the text is rejected
once the meaning is retained.
But the judgment contradicts itself in more ways than one. Not only does
its meaning and its physical performance fail to coincide, it also does not agree
with what it means. If the judgment is meant to express the identity of sub-
ject and predicate, this identity is at the same time prohibited by the rules of
its logic.17
According to the logic of the judgment, the predicate must not be
the same as the subject. If they are the same, the proposition doesn’t make any
sense; it is, as Hegel observes, commonly rejected as saying nothing: “If, for
example, to the question ‘What is a plant?’ the answer is given ‘A plant is . . .
a plant,’ the truth of such a statement is at once admitted by the entire com-
pany on whom it is tested, and at the same time it is equally unanimously
declared that the statement says nothing.”18
“A rose is a rose” says nothing, sup-
posedly. The predicate has to be different from the subject, and difference,
logically, is understood as subordination.The subject in its particularity is sup-
posed to be subjected to the universality of the predicate. Even if subject and
predicate are different but equal, the proposition does not form a logical judg-
ment because it is impossible to decide which term should govern the “iden-
tity” of the two. Does “Poetry is a hedgehog” say anything? Can we subsume
“poetry” under “hedgehog”? The proposition is grammatically correct, but it is
no judgment. According to formal logic, it provides no satisfying answer to
the question What is poetry? because it doesn’t establish a hierarchy. Logical
authority prescribes its rules of intelligibility. In order for the predicate to say
anything about (über) the subject, it has to be higher, more general, and more
descriptive than the subject, which must be lower, more particular, and with-
out the ability to speak.19
Again the conflict is managed—or attempted to be managed—by intro-
ducing a hierarchy: the order of the judgment must not be reversed: A (viz.
every) rose is a plant, but that does not mean that every plant is a rose. Or, to
cast this in more humanistic, albeit not necessarily human terms: Socrates is a
man, but not every man is Socrates. Here, the logic of ratiocination betrays its
inherent violence. According to the Enlightenment and in keeping with its
humanist values, every human being is endowed with the faculty of under-
standing. This faculty allows man to make judgments, construe arguments,
and engage in public reasoning. If we follow the logic of the judgment,
though, it turns out that only those who subject themselves to Socrates can
claim reason, while the name of Socrates is to be read as shorthand for the
canon of Western philosophy. How can a language that is based on the
assumption that not every human being is a Socrates convince every human
being of its philosophical truths? This question preoccupies Hegel in his early
writings on religion and community. With Hölderlin and Schelling, he comes
to the conclusion that this language needs to change. In the Oldest System Pro-
gram of German Idealism, they urge “the philosopher must possess as much
236 KATRIN PAHL
aesthetic capacity as the poet.”20
The philosopher must be able to open philo-
sophical discourse to the sensuous qualities and the rhythm of poetry. Only
then can she address and undo the discrimination this language surreptitiously
transports. Against segregation “the enlightened and the unenlightened
finally have to join hands” and dance.21
SPECULATIVE PROPOSITIONS
Instead of the clean-cut logic of the judgment, which separates enlightened
from unenlightened, Hegel proposes the speculative proposition. Against the
denial of conflict in the hierarchical organization of subject and predicate,
body and meaning, or difference and identity, Hegel affirms “the non-identi-
cal aspect of subject and predicate is also an essential moment.”22
While “in the
judgement this is not expressed,” the speculative proposition reveals their dif-
ference, thereby enabling a complex and moving interplay, a nonhierarchical
and delicate harmony: the dance of the Igel with the eagle.23
Yet, there is no programmatic use of speculative sentences in Hegel’s
work. Lacking extensive evidence, we are hard-pressed to determine what a
speculative proposition actually looks or sounds like.24
Hegel’s speculative
logic doesn’t take shape by modifying traditional syntax. He offers no spec-
ulative style of writing that would disable an abstract, formal, or räson-
nierende logic. The “speculative proposition” is no innovative “kind of writ-
ing,” but rather Hegel’s perhaps somewhat awkward term for a new way of
reading.
Speculative reading refuses to reduce propositions to a single meaning.
The speculative reader regards subject and predicate as equal in value and in
their ability to speak. She acknowledges their union as one that allows for dif-
ference, and stays attuned to their absolute difference, which accepts being
expressed as identity: “Rose is a rose is a rose is a rose.”25
While Rose is cease-
lessly signifying rose and multiplying the singular without aspiration to the
universal, the repetition brings forth her self-differentiality.26
The speculative
reader attends to the movement of the proposition’s unfolding over and
against any arresting identification. In the absence of a ready example of a
Hegelian speculative proposition, we have drawn upon poetry “proper,” but
like Rose, who is a rose is a rose is a rose, the different figures of conscious-
ness in the Phenomenology articulate a speculative proposition in progress
while consciousness reads itself differently in each of its shapes: Conscious-
ness is a consciousness is a consciousness is a consciousness. The Phenomenol-
ogy in its entirety provides the speculative reading of this one judgment: the
self-differentiation of Spirit, the way Spirit appears to itself by negating itself
again and again. This kind of close reading actively undermines the logic of
the judgment by refusing to give a quick or final answer to the question, What
Speculative Rhythm 237
is Spirit? In fact Hegel refuses to give a straightforward answer to any ques-
tion formulated as What is X? including the question, What is a speculative
proposition?27
“We shall not reply to the question: Hegelian discourse nowhere
does so. But it is against it, along it, or on its edge, that we shall see Hegelian
discourse being laid out, used, and scattered, to the very extent that it is forced
to change its form.”28
Against the answer in the form of the judgment, spec-
ulative writing prolongs the reading. And as this reading takes shape running
here and there, to and fro in endless repetition, Hegel’s discourse transforms,
if ever so slightly. It begins to verge on poetry.
But how are we to understand this “against” in the Hegelian context? It
certainly indicates opposition, but also proximity and support (as in “leaning
against”). The speculative proposition relies on the judgment. It is no accident
that Hegel introduces the speculative proposition by way of the nonspecula-
tive proposition. The judgment provides the physical substratum for Hegel’s
speculative proposition. Speculative propositions don’t appear as material sen-
tences, at least not in any systematic way. Hegel conceives of the speculative
as a movement, yet every sentence (Satz) is set (gesetzt) under the controlling
gaze of grammatical and logical laws (Gesetze), which Hegel is not ready to
break. The sentence only moves when it is read.
Hegel’s texts model speculative reading. Even if he did not write poetry
(which is by no means decided) he is a critic and a close reader with enormous
“aesthetic capacity” (to echo the Oldest System Program). His writings are read-
ings of the poetry he might never actually write.29
Hegel meticulously reads the judgment of Spirit in every possible direc-
tion. Again and again he registers differences and lays them out for the reader,
thus offering a “systematic exposition” (Darstellung) of “the dialectical move-
ment of the proposition itself,” an account of the “speculative in act.”30
Yet in
this unfolding of differences, he perpetuates the use of traditional philosoph-
ical syntax: “we should bear in mind that the dialectical movement likewise
has propositions for its parts or elements; the difficulty just indicated seems,
therefore, to recur perpetually.”31
Hegel communicates his speculative readings
in conventional philosophical form. This makes them dependent on further
acts of speculative reading.
What is meant as interplay between judgment and speculative proposi-
tion can always be read simply as judgment. “The philosophical proposition,
since it is a proposition [a Satz], leads one to believe that the usual subject-
predicate relation obtains, as well as the usual attitude towards knowing.”32
Herein lies the passion of the new science and the reason why the Phenome-
nology needs the reader so urgently, needs to be read, to be read in a certain
way, that is, speculatively. Otherwise the entire enterprise fails. The most vital
question for Hegel the writer is thus, how to seduce the reader to read his
propositions speculatively.
238 KATRIN PAHL
AN INVITATION TO DANCE
How does Hegel seduce his readers? He draws in those who expect conven-
tional philosophical discourse by indeed speaking their language. Hegel inte-
grates the form and logic of the judgment into his writing even though he
considers it inappropriate for speculative philosophy. In the Science of Logic,
he warns: “We must, at the outset, make this general observation, namely,
that the proposition in the form of the judgement is not suited to express spec-
ulative truths.”33
According to the principles of his systematic philosophy,
judgments have no place in philosophical discourse: “In keeping with our
insight into the nature of speculation, the exposition should preserve the
dialectical form, and should admit nothing except in so far as it is compre-
hended, and is the Concept.”34
Against his own warning, Hegel admits them
and invites them in. He hosts the foreign logic in his own system, a danger-
ous move that, one might say, has proven detrimental to his philosophical
aims. Yet this unfaithfulness to his principles alone allows him to respond to
the historical reality of philosophical discourse, to relate to non-Hegelian
thought, and ultimately to remain faithful to his own thinking. It would be
quite un-Hegelian to abstractly oppose tradition. Hegel develops his system
unsystematically as an open system, susceptible to its others including tradi-
tional logic. At the same time, he opens conventional logic to the poetic
rhythm of the speculative.
This inclusive attitude upsets both speculative and formal thought. Hegel
embraces the very logic that ostracizes the speculative. He invites trouble into
the heart of his philosophy. Similarly, traditional logic does not persist
untouched in this appropriation. Kant had renewed Aristotle’s definition of
dialectics as a logic of illusion, thereby denying dialectical thinking the right
to operate on the basis of syllogisms.35
According to an extensive philosophi-
cal tradition, the tools of conventional ratiocination remain unavailable to
Hegel as he himself concedes in the Phenomenology: “once the dialectic has
been separated from proof, the notion of philosophical demonstration has
been lost.”36
When he continues to use judgments and syllogisms, he therefore
does so necessarily in an ironic fashion. With his “improper” use of formal
logic, he subverts its tools. Hegel rhythmizes traditional logic when he trans-
plants judgments and syllogisms into an environment that is foreign to them.
He disrupts their set mechanism when he integrates them into the movement
of the Concept. As we will see in more detail in a moment, the speculative cuts
the ground from under the feet of the rationalist consciousness. In the hands
of speculative thinking, formal logic forfeits the foundations of its reasoning:
the ability to establish grounds and advance safely from reason to reason. This
leaves formal logic with two possibilities: either it will stumble, or it will begin
to dance.
Speculative Rhythm 239
SPECULATIVE RHYTHM
The rhythm of Hegel’s dynamic expositions is produced by the interplay
between the two possibilities of philosophically reading any given proposition:
speculatively or as judgment. In rhythmic correspondence, they partake in one
another while taking each other apart, multiplying and proliferating across a
net of moving intervals rather than a hierarchy of sublating synthesis.37
The
dance of the Igel crosses the dance of the Eagle without crossing it out. Hegel
actually speaks of a “harmony” between the two:
This conflict between the general form of a proposition and the unity of the
Concept which destroys it is similar to the conflict that occurs in rhythm
between meter and accent. Rhythm results from the floating centre and the
unification of the two. So, too, in the philosophical proposition the identifi-
cation of Subject and Predicate is not meant to destroy the difference
between them, which the form of the proposition expresses; their unity,
rather, is meant to emerge as a harmony.38
This passage again renders the friction between reading as judgment and spec-
ulative reading as a conflict between identity and difference. For Hegel, this
conflict does not have to be solved in favor of one term, but can be made pro-
ductive as a harmonic dis-unity in motion. He does not relieve the tension
between identity and difference in a stable synthesis (no matter how insistently
the third step of the dialectical three-step is read as such), but leaving their rela-
tion open he keeps them suspended in a “floating center” (schwebende Mitte).
The center shifts, the mean is not a universal principle as in traditional logic,
but itself a movement. The new speculative syllogism links two movements in
rhythmic interaction. The stable structure of traditional logic is suspended and
harmony can only be maintained if each party keeps moving. In this complex
rhythm, accent and meter sometimes work with each other, sometimes against
each other, always enhancing each other and their flexible bind.
The speculative deals a “counterthrust” to the normal accentuation of dis-
cursive language; it adds an unanticipated attack: “The general nature of the
judgement or proposition . . . is destroyed by the speculative proposition . . .
which . . . contains the counter-thrust against that subject-predicate relation-
ship.”39
Speculative reading accentuates the steady beat of logical language in
unexpected ways. It syncopates its meter. Increasing the complexity of its
rhythm, it raises the poetic level of philosophical language.
The judgment already has a certain prose rhythm. The proposition’s
accent naturally, that is without much art, lies on the first word: the subject.
The meter is organized around the regularity with which the subject reappears
as the first stress of the sentence. In the proposition read as judgment, both
terms, subject and predicate, are abstractions severed from the movement of
the Concept. As abstract universality, the predicate remains devoid of mater-
240 KATRIN PAHL
ial content. This materiality is provided by the subject, which, mute and sta-
tionary, “inertly support[s] the Accidents.”40
As such, “this Subject constitutes
the basis” for the succession of beats.41
It supplies the “solid ground” (feste
Boden) for a regular rhythm: Óne two three. Á is B. Gód is X. Póetry is Y. A
very simple rhythm.
Speculative reading introduces a disruptive accent that syncopates the
mechanical course of the proposition. In the sentence “God is being,” the sec-
ond term “being,” when read speculatively, trades the abstract universality of
the predicate for the dynamic self-mediation of the Subject in Hegel’s sense.
In the movement from the first to the second term, the subject, thus, reap-
pears, as in “Rose is a rose is a rose is a rose.” “Thinking, instead of making
progress in the transition from Subject to Predicate, . . . finds the Subject
immediately in the Predicate.”42
The predicate is entangled in the subject. The
note of the subject lasts through the beat of what is usually the predicate. The
reader finds the attack on the third count lacking, she “feels [her]self checked”
(gehemmt), left hanging at the end of the proposition with one foot in the air.
The proposition breaks off in an enjambment. The sentence hasn’t come to a
full stop yet. Trying to figure out where to rest the foot, the reader “is thrown
back onto the thought of the subject.”43
She pivots on one foot. Yet in her
attempt to find the subject, she realizes that the accent on the first count is
lost too. The subject, “God” in the case of Hegel’s example, has desisted from
providing the stable basis for the movement of the attributes. Instead, it enters
into self-reflection: “‘Being’ is here meant to be not a Predicate, but rather the
essence; it seems, consequently, that God ceases to be what he is from his posi-
tion in the proposition, viz. a fixed Subject.”44
Speculative reading turns an
abstract subject into the concrete Concept. Instead of referring to an object
outside of language, the term in the subject position now presents the object
as Subject in Hegel’s emphatic sense, that is, as the agent of its own move-
ment, or as a reality that writes itself: “Since the Concept is the object’s own
self, which presents itself as the coming-to-be of the object, it is not a passive
Subject inertly supporting the Accidents; it is, on the contrary, the self-mov-
ing Concept which takes its determinations back into itself.”45
The subject makes her own sense. Realizing this, the reader has lost her
former definition of the subject: “In this movement the passive Subject itself
perishes.”46
After “the loss of the Subject,” the suspended foot is thrown back
upon the ground with the count of the predicate, yet not in order to land and
resume its predetermined choreography.47
With this awkward pirouette, the
reader, losing her footing on this ground that shifts (schwankt) between sub-
ject and predicate, falls into the arms of the Subject now understood as self-
reflexive subject matter: “Thinking therefore loses the firm objective basis
[Boden] it had in the subject when, in the predicate, it is thrown back on to it,
and when, in the predicate, it does not return into itself, but into the subject
of the content.”48
Speculative Rhythm 241
The subject matter speaks. Driving the speculative movement, the “Sub-
ject enters into the determinations themselves and is their soul.”49
Hegel sug-
gests here that what we are used to calling content, subject matter, or object in
fact authors the the speculative proposition. As such, it is equal to the reader,
an equally self-reflexive subject, moving force, or soul. To read a proposition
speculatively means to communicate with its soul, to rejoin the delicate move-
ment of the subject matter, to join hands with another subject and dance.
Moved by the Concept, the reader is unable to dissociate herself from the con-
tent of her reading. Drawn into the dance, she finds that she is not grounded
in herself, but depends on the other, the one whom she reads, to hold her. The
formal separations of subject and predicate, reader and author, form of exposi-
tion and content are disarticulated in this dance of the speculative proposition.
But consciousness loathes giving up control. Hegel, thus, exerts a certain
violence when he seduces the reader to read the judgment speculatively. His
diction betrays that violence. According to his description, the reading subject
“suffers.” It “feels itself checked . . . and thrown back.” It heaves “complaints.”50
Hegel’s poetry interferes with the reader’s wish to finish the text. It prevents
her from reducing the charged potentiality of the proposition immediately to
one meaning:
Since that first Subject [subject of the proposition] enters into the determi-
nations [predicate] themselves and is their soul, the second Subject, viz. the
knowing “I,” still finds in the Predicate what it thought it had finished with
and got away from, and from which it hoped to return into itself; and, instead
of being able to function as the determining agent in the movement of pred-
ication . . . it is still occupied with the self of the content, having to remain
associated with it, instead of being for itself.51
Hegel frustrates the reader’s desire to withdraw as quickly as possible from the
contact with the other into the aloof identity and superior authority of the “I.”
With his opaque writing, he responds to the violence he registers in con-
ventional reading acts. Hegel specifies that the simple meaning “formal think-
ing” (formales Denken) retains by avoiding the difficulty of reading that lies in
abandoning one’s own authority to the movement of the Concept is, in fact, a
negative one, or simply the negation of the subject matter: “Such reasoning
adopts a negative attitude towards the content it apprehends; it knows how to
refute it and destroy it.”52
The rational reader has everything already under-
stood. Or she quickly makes up her mind and says: “‘Rose is a rose’ means
nothing.”
The reading subject is able to exert this violence because she positions
herself in a hierarchy above the object: “Instead of entering into the immanent
content of the thing, it is forever surveying the whole and standing above the
particular existence of which it is speaking, i.e. it does not see it at all. Scien-
tific cognition, on the contrary, demands surrender to the life of the object.”53
242 KATRIN PAHL
From the scientific thinker, that is, the speculative reader, Hegel requires com-
mitment to the life of the subject matter. This includes the even more diffi-
cult surrender to the reader’s own life, her own negativity. Whether negatively
or positively, whether negated as nothingness or affirmed as life, the self-nega-
tion that beats at the heart of the different movements of self-mediation of
these different subjects (reading subject and subject matter) communicates
across the intervals of their beats: “Because this reflection does not get its very
negativity as its content, it is never at the heart of the matter.”54
As a way of
denying her own negativity or self-differentiality, her own life as a subject
matter, the reasoning “I” projects negativity in the form of simple nothingness
onto her object. But the other’s alleged nothingness reflects only the pettiness
of its beholder: “Formal thinking is reflection into the empty “I,” the vanity of
its own knowing. This vanity, however, expresses not only the vanity of this
content, but also the futility of this insight itself.”55
The contemptuous state-
ment “‘Rose is a rose’ says nothing” only shows the reader’s own lack of heart.
In order to entice the reader into staying at the heart of the matter, giv-
ing up her superior authority, and moving with the content instead of above
the content, Hegel himself has to write with instead of about and above (über)
the subject matter. But, in order to introduce the speculative movement of the
subject matter to the reading subject, Hegel has to write with the reader. If he
wants to stand a chance of being accepted when asking the reader for a dance,
Hegel needs to speak the language of his philosophical audience, the language
of judgments, or of formal logic. Yet, if he intends to seduce the reader to read
speculatively he cannot allow her to rest above the movement of the Concept.
He has to make sure that “the solid ground which formal logic has in the pas-
sive Subject is . . . shaken.”56
The conservative philosophical reader responds by trying to reinforce the
foundations. But in order to do so she has to turn around and repeat her read-
ing, thus becoming caught up in the dance of the speculative. Reading Hegel’s
prose resembles reading a poem aloud: one hesitates as to where to put the
accent—is it in accordance with the meter, or with the syntax, or with the
stress of the meaning? What if all three differ from one another? Where to
articulate the beat? When to rest the foot? The reader feels herself checked
halfway through the sentence, gets lost, is forced to go back, to repeat the
reading, and to find the subject. Subject and predicate exchange position.
Back and forth. Unlike the judgment, which is irreversible by law, the specu-
lative proposition breaks with the linearity of logos. Like poetry, which forces
us to turn at the end of the verse (versus), it has to be read backward and for-
ward in a reading act that transforms discursive language into a multidimen-
sional web arousing the reader to multiply connections while throwing her
around in the rhythm of its beats.57
Hegel writes a poetry that partakes in formal logic while taking it apart.
His strategy of seduction does not only embroil his readers in the movement
Speculative Rhythm 243
of the speculative, it also leaves his own writing to be trapped by the logic of
the judgment. Hegel offers no form of writing that would unambiguously
express speculative movements. The speculative proposition exists only in
reading. It thus attains no exteriority, not even—since we can safely assume
that barely anybody ever recites philosophy—the sound of speech that van-
ishes quickly without leaving a trace. In order to appear, speculative move-
ments borrow the form of the judgment, of the proposition (Satz) set (gesetzt)
in writing. At the heart of its movement of self-reflection, when it is about to
appear to itself, Spirit abandons itself to its other. Whether it will grasp itself
across that difference remains an open question.
NOTES
1. G.W.F. Hegel, Enzyklopädie der philosophischen Wissenschaften im Grundrisse
(1830), Werke in zwanzig Bänden, ed. Eva Moldenhauer and Karl Markus Michel, 20
vols. and index (Frankfurt am Main: Suhrkamp Verlag, 1986), vol. 8, section 162, “gle-
ichgültige Behälter.” English translation by William Wallace, Hegel’s Logic (Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 1975). Further references will be given in the form Enz.
(1830), section 162.
2. Immanuel Kant, Critique of Pure Reason, trans. J. M. D. Meiklejohn (Buffalo:
Prometheus, 1990), 45.
3. See Phenomenology 9–10: “In my view, . . . everything turns on grasping and
expressing the True, not only as Substance, but equally as Subject. . . . Further, the living
Substance is being which is in truth Subject, or, what is the same, is in truth actual only
in so far as it is the movement of positing itself, or is the mediation of its self-othering
with itself. This Substance is, as Subject, pure, simple negativity.” Original: “Es kömmt
nach meiner Einsicht . . . alles darauf an, das Wahre nicht als Substanz, sondern eben
so sehr als Subjekt aufzufassen und auszudrücken. . . . Die lebendige Substanz ist ferner
das Sein, welches in Wahrheit Subjekt, oder was dasselbe heißt, welches in Wahrheit
wirklich ist, nur insofern sie die Bewegung des sich selbst Setzens, oder die Vermit-
tlung des sich anders Werdens mit sich selbst ist. Sie is als Subjekt die reine einfache
Negativität.” G. W. F. Hegel, Phänomenologie des Geistes (Hamburg: Felix Meiner,
1988), 13–14. English translation by A. V. Miller, Phenomenology of Spirit (Oxford:
Oxford University Press, 1977). Further references will be given in the form Phen, 34;
42, with the first page number referring to the translation, the second to the original.
Wherever the wording is particularly important for my analysis, I will offer my own
translations.
4. Kant, 159. German: Kritik der reinen Vernunft (Hamburg: Felix Meiner, 1956),
B299, “einen abgesonderten Begriff sinnlich zu machen.” See Enz. (1830), section 166
Zusatz, “This disruption of the concept into the difference of its constituent func-
tions—a disruption imposed by the native act of the concept—is the judgement”
(“diese durch die eigene Tätigkeit des Begriffs gesetzte Diremtion desselben in den
Unterschied seiner Momente ist das Urteil”).
5. Enz. (1830), section 166 Zusatz, “So enthält z.B. . . . der Keim einer
Pflanze . . . bereits das Besondere der Wurzel, der Zweige, der Blätter usf., allein dies
244 KATRIN PAHL
Besondere . . . wird erst gesetzt, indem der Keim sich erschließt, welches als das Urteil
der Pflanze zu betrachten ist.” Enz. (1830), section 167, “Alle Dinge sind ein Urteil.”
6. Enz. (1830), section 163, “jedes Moment des Begriffs ist selbst der ganze
Begriff.” Because the logic of the Concept turns fixed and clear-cut divisions into
dynamic differences and articulates distinctions as differences within rather than
between concepts, Hegel uses the term consistently in the singular.This has led to mis-
understandings of the Concept as a metaphysical entity.
7. Jacques Derrida, Glas, trans. John Leavey, Jr. and Richard Rand (Lincoln:
University of Nebraska Press, 1986), 9a; 55a.
8. Jacques Derrida, “Che cos’è la poesia?”Trans. Peggy Kamuf, A Derrida Reader:
Between the Blinds, ed. Peggy Kamuf (New York: Columbia University Press, 1991),
234.
9. Derrida finds the simile in the German context, in Friedrich Schlegel’s work,
to be precise, who uses it to describe his favorite incarnation of Romantic poetry: the
fragment. Athenäum Fragment 206: “Ein Fragment muß gleich einem kleinen Kunst-
werke von der umgebenden Welt ganz abgesondert und in sich selbst vollendet sein
wie ein Igel.” Kritische Friedrich—Schlegel—Ausgabe Vol. 2, ed. Ernst Behler, Jean-
Jacques Anstett and Hans Eichner (Paderborn: Schöningh, 1967), 197.
10. Cynthia Chase, in “Getting Versed: Reading Hegel with Baudelaire,” Decom-
posing Figures: Rhetorical Readings in the Romantic Tradition (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins
University Press, 1986), 135, offers a similar argument when she insists that, for Hegel,
the philosophical idea appears only in a language “susceptible of memorization and
inscription,” that is, in verse.
11. Glas 9a.
12. Jenaer Schriften (Werke 2), 558. English translation by Susanne Klein, David
L. Rochnik, and George Elliot Tucker, Miscellaneous Writings of G. W. F. Hegel, ed. Jon
Stewart (Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern University Press, 2002), 251.
13. Phen, 34–41; 42–49.
14. Phen, 37–41; 45–49.The judgment belongs to what Hegel, in Werke 5:96, calls
“die alte Wissenschaft.” Hegel did not develop a full-fledged theory of the speculative
proposition. As Jean-Luc Nancy, in The Speculative Remark, trans. Celine Surprenant
(Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001), 75–76, points out, it is more appropriate
to speak of “the field entitled ‘the speculative proposition’” than of a theory of the spec-
ulative proposition. “The yet necessary speculative theory of syntax is dispersed and is
disarticulated from text to text; it goes absent where one was expecting it, and it is
brought out in unpredictable contexts—never in the pure style of theory.” For the rela-
tion between speculative sentence and logical judgment see also Wissenschaft der Logik
(Werke 5–6), 92–94; English translation by A. V. Miller, Hegel’s Science of Logic
(Atlantic Highlands, N.J.: Humanities, 1989), 90–92. Further references will be given
in the form Logic, 90; 5:92, with the first page number referring to the translation, the
second to the original.
15. Logic, 90; 5:92–93, “der Sinn scheint daher zu sein, daß der Unterschied
geleugnet werde, der doch zugleich im Satze unmittelbar vorkommt.”
16. The pejorative German word Räsonnieren connotes superficiality, wordiness,
and a know-all attitude.
17. See Logic, 630, “What the judgement enunciates to start with is that the sub-
ject is the predicate; but since the predicate is supposed not to be what the subject is, we
Speculative Rhythm 245
are faced with a contradiction.” 6:310, “Das Subjekt ist das Prädikat, ist zunächst das, was
das Urteil aussagt; aber da das Prädikat nicht das sein soll, was das Subjekt ist, so ist
ein Widerspruch vorhanden.”
18. Logic, 415; 6:43, “Wenn nämlich z.B. auf die Frage »was ist eine Pflanze?« die
Antwort gegeben wird »eine Pflanze ist—eine Pflanze«, so wird die Wahrheit eines
solchen Satzes von der ganzen Gesellschaft, an der sie erprobt wird, zugleich
zugegeben und zugleich ebenso einstimmig gesagt werden, daß damit nichts gesagt ist.”
19. The German language suggests that in order to speak about (über) something,
one has to be above (über) it. The fact that the predicate, as the universal term, gives
meaning to the singular and as such undefined subject distinguishes the logical judg-
ment from any other grammatical proposition. See Logic, “We may take this opportu-
nity of remarking, too, that though a proposition has a subject and predicate in the
grammatical sense, this does not make it a judgement. The latter requires that the pred-
icate be related to the subject . . . as a universal to a particular or individual.” 6:305, “Bei
dieser Gelegenheit kann auch angeführt werden, daß ein Satz zwar im grammatische
Sinne ein Subjekt und ein Prädikat hat, aber darum noch kein Urteil ist. Zu letzterem
gehört, daß das Prädikat sich zum Subjekt . . . als ein Allgemeines zu einem Beson-
deren oder Einzelnen verhalte.”
20. Frühe Schriften (Werke 1), 235, “Der Philosoph muß ebensoviel ästhetische
Kraft besitzen als der Dichter.” English translation by Thomas Pfau, Friedrich Hölder-
lin: Essays and Letters on Theory, ed. Thomas Pfau (Albany: State University of New
York Press, 1988), 155.
21. Pfau, 156; 1:236, “So müssen endlich Aufgeklärte und Unaufgeklärte sich die
Hand reichen.” The Systemprogramm continues: “mythology must become philosophi-
cal in order to make the people reasonable, and philosophy must turn mythological in
order to make the philosophers sensuous” (“die Mythologie muß philosophisch wer-
den und das Volk vernünftig, und die Philosophie muß mythologisch werden, um die
Philosophen sinnlich zu machen”). Note that the text uses the same expression with
respect to the philosophers (sinnlich machen) that we find in Kant’s Critique of Pure
Reason with respect to the concept in the ordinary sense of the term (Kant, B299:
“einen abgesonderten Begriff sinnlich zu machen”).
22. Logic, 91; 5:93, “so ist auch das Nichtidentische des Subjekts und Prädikats
wesentliches Moment.”
23. Logic, 91; 5:93, “dies ist im Urteile nicht ausgedrückt.”
24.The first sentence of the first chapter of the Science of Logic might be an exam-
ple: “Being pure being, without any further determination”; 5:82, “Sein, reines Sein,—
ohne alle weitere Bestimmung.”
25. Gertrude Stein, “Sacred Emily” (1913), Stein: Writings 1903–1932 (New York:
Library of America, 1999), 395.
26. In his critique of assertionism, McCumber argues that Hegelian dialectic pro-
ceeds “in names rather than assertions.” He credits names with the capacity of pre-
senting the movement of self-differentiation and self-mediation describing them as
“not merely immediate unities, but unities which have an intrinsic pull to bring forth
other contents.” See The Company of Words. Hegel, Language, and Systematic Philosophy
(Evanston, Ill.: Northwestern University Press, 1993), 131.
27. Consider Hegel’s aphorism from the wastebook, Miscellaneous, 248, “The ques-
tions which philosophy does not answer are answered in that they should not be so posed.”
246 KATRIN PAHL
28. Nancy, 77.
29. I agree with Hirt when he suggests that Hegel “fut avec Platon, du point
de vue de la visée de la constitution d’un discours proprement philosophique, à la
fois le plus grand ennemi de la poésie et le plus grand poète de la philosophie.”
André Hirt, Versus: Hegel et la Philosophie à l’Épreuve de la Poésie (Paris: Éditions
Kimé, 1999), 15.
30. Phen, 40; 48, “die dialektische Bewegung des Satzes selbst; das wirkliche
Spekulative.”
31. Phen, 40; 48, “es kann hierüber erinnert werden, daß die dialektische Bewe-
gung gleichfalls Sätze zu ihren Teilen oder Elementen habe; die aufgezeigte
Schwierigkeit scheint daher immer zurückzukehren.”
32. Phen, 39; 47, “der philosophische Satz, weil er Satz ist, erweckt die Meinung
des gewöhnlichen Verhältnisses des Subjekts und Prädikats, und des gewohnten Ver-
haltens des Wissens.”
33. Logic, 90; 5:93, “es muß hierüber sogleich im Anfange diese allgemeine
Bemerkung gemacht werden, daß der Satz, in Form eines Urteils, nicht geschickt ist,
spekulative Wahrheiten auszudrücken.”
34. Phen, 41; 49, “Die Darstellung muß, der Einsicht in die Natur des Spekula-
tiven getreu, die dialektische Form behalten und nichts hereinnehmen, als insofern es
begriffen wird und der Begriff ist.”
35. While Kant is concerned about limiting the realm of dialectics because it is a
logic of illusion (Logik des Scheins KRV, B86), Hegel embraces dialectics for the same
reason. Hegel brackets Schein and Erscheinung and takes further Kant’s claim that every
object of knowledge is always already appearance (Erscheinung).
36. Phen, 40; 48, “nachdem aber die Dialektik vom Beweise getrennt worden, ist
in der Tat der Begriff des philosophischen Beweisens verloren gegangen.”
37. I am indebted here to discussions of rhythm by Jean-Luc Nancy (see, for
example, Les Muses [Paris: Galilée, 2001], 45–48) and Trinh T. Minh-ha (see, for
example, Cinema Interval [New York: Routledge, 1999], 261–63).
38. Phen, 38; 46, “Dieser Konflikt der Form eines Satzes überhaupt, und der sie
zerstörenden Einheit des Begriffs ist dem ähnlich, der im Rhythmus zwischen dem
Metrum und dem Akzente statt findet. Der Rhythmus resultiert aus der schwebenden
Mitte und Vereinigung beider. So soll auch im philosophischen Satze die Identität des
Subjekts und Prädikats den Unterschied derselben, den die Form des Satzes ausdrückt,
nicht vernichten, sondern ihre Einheit als eine Harmonie hervorgehen.”
39. Phen, 38; 46, “Formell kann das Gesagte so ausgedrückt werden, daß die
Natur des Urteils oder Satzes überhaupt . . . durch den spekulativen Satz zerstört
wird . . . den Gegenstoß zu jenem Verhältnisse enthält.”
40. Phen, 37; 45, “ein ruhendes Subjekt, das unbewegt die Akzidenzen trägt.”
41. Phen, 37; 45, “dies Subjekt macht die Basis aus . . . auf der die Bewegung hin
und wieder läuft.”
42. Phen, 38; 46, “das Denken, statt im Übergange vom Subjekte zum Prädikate
weiter zu kommen, . . . findet . . . das Subjekt unmittelbar auch im Prädikate.”
43. Phen, 38; 46, “zu dem Gedanken des Subjekts . . . zurückgeworfen.”
44. Phen, 38; 46, “Sein soll hier nicht Prädikat, sondern das Wesen sein; dadurch
scheint Gott aufzuhören, das zu sein, was er durch die Stellung des Satzes ist, nämlich
das feste Subjekt.”
Speculative Rhythm 247
45. Phen, 37; 45, “Indem der Begriff das eigene Selbst des Gegenstandes ist, das
sich als sein Werden darstellt, ist es nicht ein ruhendes Subjekt, das unbewegt die
Akzidenzien trägt, sondern der sich bewegende und seine Bestimmungen in sich
zurücknehmende Begriff.”
46. Phen, 37; 45, “in dieser Bewegung geht jenes ruhende Subjekt zu Grunde.”
47. Phen, 38; 46, “das das Subjekt verloren geht.”
48. Phen, 39; 47, “Das Denken verliert daher so sehr seinen festen gegen-
ständlichen Boden, den es am Subjekt hatte, als es im Prädikat darauf zurückgeworfen
wird, und in diesem nicht in sich sondern in das Subjekt des Inhalts zurückgeht.”
49. Phen, 38; 46, “indem jenes erste Subjekt in die Bestimmungen selbst eingeht
und ihre Seele ist.”
50. Phen, 37–39; 45–47, “erleidet;” “fühlte sich . . . gehemmt und . . . zurückge-
worfen;” “auf diesem ungewohnten Hemmen beruhen großen Teils die Klagen.”
51. Phen, 37–38; 46, “Indem aber jenes erste Subjekt in die Bestimmungen selbst
eingeht und ihre Seele ist, findet das zweite Subjekt, nämlich das wissende, jenes, mit
dem es schon fertig sein und worüber hinaus es in sich zurückgehen will, noch im
Prädikate vor, und statt in dem Bewegen des Prädikats das Tuende . . . sein zu können,
hat es vielmehr mit dem Selbst des Inhalts noch zu tun, soll nicht für sich, sondern mit
diesem zusammensein.”
52. Phen, 36; 44, “verhält sich jenes negativ gegen den aufgefaßten Inhalt, weiß
ihn zu widerlegen und zu nichte zu machen.”
53. Phen, 32; 40, “Statt in den immanenten Inhalt der Sache einzugehen, über-
sieht er immer das Ganze, und steht über dem einzelnen Dasein, von dem er spricht,
das heißt, er sieht es gar nicht. Das wissenschaftliche Erkennen erfordert aber
vielmehr, sich dem Leben des Gegenstandes zu übergeben.” The verb übersieht means
“overlooks” in the double sense of “surveys” and “ignores.”
54. Phen, 36; 44, “dadurch daß diese Reflektion ihre Negativität selbst nicht zum
Inhalte gewinnt, ist sie überhaupt nicht in der Sache.”
55. Phen, 36; 44, “es ist die Reflexion in das leere Ich, die Eitelkeit seines Wis-
sens.—Diese Eitelkeit drückt aber nicht nur dies aus, daß dieser Inhalt eitel, sondern
auch, daß diese Einsicht selbst es ist.”
56. Phen, 37; 45, “der feste Boden, den das Räsonnieren an dem ruhenden Sub-
jekte hat, schwankt.”
57. See Catherine Malabou’s analysis, in L’Avenir de Hegel. Plasticité, Temporalité,
Dialectique (Paris: J. Vrin, 1996), of Hegel’s investment in offering a vivid, concrete,
three-dimensional, “plastic” explication (plastische Darstellung) of the speculative.
248 KATRIN PAHL
Will Dudley is an Assistant Professor of Philosophy at Williams College. He
is the author of Hegel, Nietzsche, and Philosophy: Thinking Freedom (Cam-
bridge: Cambridge University Press, 2002), and has published articles in The
Review of Metaphysics, Dialogue: Canadian Philosophical Review, The Owl of
Minerva: Journal of the Hegel Society of America, and in the recent collection,
Hegel’s History of Philosophy: New Interpretations (Albany: State University of
New York Press, 2003).
Katharina Dulckeit is Associate Professor at Butler University. Her contri-
bution to this volume reflects her interest in exploring how a Hegelian view-
point informs contemporary theories of reference. She has completed a book-
length project on that subject tentatively titled Analysis and Dialectic: The
Problem of Reference.
Catherine Kellogg teaches political theory at the University of Alberta in
Edmonton, Canada. She has completed a book that explores Jacques Derrida’s
debt to Hegel and has published several articles on Hegel, deconstruction, and
Marxist theory.
David Kolb is the Charles A. Dana Professor of Philosophy at Bates College.
He received his Ph.D. from Yale University and has also taught at the Uni-
versity of Chicago, Fordham University, and Nanzan University in Japan. His
writing centers on questions about modernization and tradition German phi-
losophy, in architecture and urbanism, and in modes of communication. He is
the author of The Critique of Pure Modernity: Hegel, Heidegger, and After (Uni-
versity of Chicago Press, 1987), Postmodern Sophistications: Philosophy, Archi-
tecture, and Tradition (University of Chicago Press, 1990), Socrates in the
Labyrinth: Hypertext, Argument, Philosophy (Eastgate Systems, 1994), and has
edited New Perspectives on Hegel’s Philosophy of Religion (State University of
New York Press, 1992). He has served as Vice President and President of the
Hegel Society of America.
Chong-Fuk Lau received his PhD from the University of Heidelberg and is
presently a Humboldt research fellow and lecturer at the Institute of Philosophy,
Darmstadt University of Technology, Germany. In August 2004, he will take up
249
C O N T R I B U T O R S
a position as assistant professor at the Department of Philosophy, the Chinese
University of Hong Kong. In addition to a number of articles on Kant and
Hegel, he has recently published Hegels Urteilskritik:Systematische Untersuchungen
zum Grundproblem der spekulativen Logik (München: Wilhelm Fink, 2004).
Claire May is on the faculty of the Art Institute of Atlanta, where she teaches
courses in English literature and the humanities. She received the Ph.D.
Degree in 1985 from the University of Georgia. She has published articles on
literature and philosophy.
John McCumber is Professor of Germanic Languages at UCLA and has
taught at Northwestern University, The Graduate Faculty of the New School
for Social Research, and the University of Michigan—Dearborn. Along with
numerous articles on the history of philosophy he has authored five books and
over seventy articles and reviews. In 1994–96 he held the Koldyke Distin-
guished Teaching Professorship at Northwestern University.
Angelica Nuzzo, currently at Brooklyn College, CUNY, has been Fellow at
the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Studies at Harvard (2000–01). She is the
author of two books on Hegel (Rappresentazione e concetto nella logica della
Filosofia del diritto and Logica e sistema), the monograph System, Kant and the
Unity of Reason, and numerous essays on German Idealism, Modern Philoso-
phy, and theory of translation.
Katrin Pahl served as a Post-Doctoral Fellow in the Humanities at Stanford
University and is currently on the faculty of the University of Southern Cali-
fornia. She is presently completing a book on the work of emotionality in
Hegel’s Phenomenology of Spirit.
Jeffrey Reid is Associate Professor of Philosophy at the University of Ottawa.
Working in both French and English, he is author of Hegel—L’ironie roman-
tique (1997), as well as articles on Hegel in Archives de philosophie, Clio, and
The Owl of Minerva. His current research involves the ethical and political
dimensions of Hegel’s notion of scientific language.
Jere O’Neill Surber, the editor of the current volume and past Vice Presi-
dent/Program Chair of the Hegel Society of America, is Professor of Philos-
ophy at the University of Denver. He completed his graduate work at the
Pennsylvania State University and the Rheinische Universität/Bonn and has
been a visiting professor at such institutions as the Johannes Gutenberg Uni-
versität/Mainz and the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven. He is the author of
five books and many articles, a large portion of which deal with the concept
and function of language in German Idealism.
250 CONTRIBUTORS
Kevin Thompson is an Assistant Professor of Philosophy at DePaul Univer-
sity. He has published essays on Kant and Hegel and is currently completing
a manuscript on Hegel’s theory of sovereignty.
Jim Vernon earned his PhD at the University of Guelph and is currently
Assistant Professor of Philosophy at York University (Atkinson). He is the
author of several articles on nineteenth- and twentieth-century Continental
philosophy.
Contributors 251
This page intentionally left blank.
A Short History of Linguistics, 30n
Absolute, 9, 10, 27, 55, 56–58, 85, 87,
202, 205, 206, 214, 222
Idea, 56, 79, 182, 184, 186, 190
Knowledge, 75, 202, 206, 207, 215, 219
Method, 81, 82
Movement, 85
Representation, 27, 202, 203
Spirit, 13, 19, 208
Abstraction, 165, 210
Achilles, 132, 133
Aesthetics, 227
Agamemnon, 133
Almog, Joseph, 153, 163n
Ambiguity, 83
Analytic Philosophy, 20, 22
Ansichsein, 76
Aphorism, 84
Appearance, 65
Appropriation (Aneignen), 46
Arendt, Hannah, 219, 229, 230n
Aarsleff, Hans, 30n
Aristotle, 61, 64, 73n, 106, 112, 120, 124n,
187, 188, 189, 191n, 201, 233, 239
Art, 10, 19, 56, 96, 105, 129, 130, 131,
137, 180, 181, 191, 200, 240
Asymmetry, 15
Aufheben, 223
Aufhebung, 87, 215
Austin, J. L., 122, 180
Barnett, Stuart, 203
Beauty, 129, 197
Becker, W., 88n, 90n
Bein, Joseph, 90n
Being (Sein), 15, 17, 37, 47, 48, 64, 66,
87, 100, 101, 104, 121, 206, 207, 222,
223, 241
Berman, Robert, 163n
Bernhardi, A. F., 2
Bildung, 23, 167–169
Bodammer, Theodor, 30n, 51n, 113,
124n
Bopp, F., 3
Borsche, Tilman, 30n
Brandom, Robert, 72n, 74n, 181, 192n
Bubner, Rüdiger, 69n, 70n
Burbridge, John, 110n, 177n
Casual Theory, 20, 21, 146, 147,
150–152
Certainty, 12, 157
Chase, Cynthia, 245n
Chomsky, Noam, 176n
Christianity, 136
Clark, Malcolm, 113
Classicism, 3
Cloeren, Hermann, 88n, 90n
Clôture, 26, 27
Comay, Rebecca, 195n
Communication (Mitteilung), 115
Concealed (eingehüllter), 175
Concept (Begriff) 28, 56, 59, 60, 63, 64,
67, 85, 86, 102, 120, 206, 235, 239,
240, 241, 242
Conceptual, 7
Change, 179
Objectivity, 17
Thought, 26, 204
Condillac, 4
Consciousness, 8, 11, 12, 19, 156, 157,
186, 203, 237
Contamination, 14, 15, 35, 40,
Content (Gehalt), 97, 99, 101, 103,
Cook, Daniel, 30n, 106n, 113, 139n,
141n, 176n
253
I N D E X
Costantino, S., 90n
Cratilus, 84, 85
Critique of Pure Reason, 55, 63
Croce, Benedetto, 88
Culture and its Realm of Actuality, 122
Culture, 180, 191
Dante, 3
Das Problem der Sprache bei Hegel, 30n
Deconstructive Reactions, 180
Deleuze, Gilles, 205, 207, 217n
Derbolav, Joseph, 50n
Derrida, Jacques, 18, 26, 27, 51n, 53n,
114, 121, 124n, 146, 161n, 199,
200–202, 204, 207–209, 212–215,
217n, 215n, 216n, 219, 234, 235,
244n, 245n
Descartes, René, 161n, 191n
Descombes, Vincent, 199, 215n
Description Theory, 20–22, 147, 149,
150
Development, 86
Devitt, Michael, 146, 151, 152, 154,
156, 160n, 161n–163n
deVries, Willem A., 51n
Dialectical, 160
Method, 81
Concepts, 187
Determinations, 189
Reference, 148
Transitions, 181, 182
Direct Reference, 20, 21
Displacement (Bedeutungsverschiebung),
87
Disseverance (Entzweiung), 59
Doctrine of Essence, 66
Donellan, Keith 146, 162n
Dudley, Will, 19, 249
Dulckeit, Katherina, 20, 21, 106n, 249
Düsing, Klaus, 61, 71n
Earth Spirit, 228
Ego, 203, 220
Empirical, 2, 3, 5, 7, 36, 208
Language, 184
Empty Bond (das leere Band), 47, 48
Engel, Friedrich, 88
Enlightenment, 180, 236
Enstructuration, 6
Enzyclopadie der Philosophischen
Wissenschaften, 10, 13, 36–38, 42, 48,
51n–53n, 75, 84, 97–99, 103, 105,
106, 112, 113, 121, 165, 174, 205,
208, 222, 223, 228
Essence (Wesen), 64, 66, 206
Existence (Dasein), 24, 79, 83, 183–186,
188, 191, 229
Exposition (Darstellung) 59, 77, 79
Expression (Äußerung), 83, 116, 117
External Expression, 13
Externality, 184
Externalization (Äusserung), 11, 184
Factual Science, 171
Faith, 206
Femininity, 27, 28
Feuerbach, 200
Feyerabend, Paul, 150
Fichte, Johann Gottlob, 2, 5, 7, 8, 10,
30n, 56, 108n, 177n, 206
Finite, 57
Reason, 56
Truths, 15
Finitude, 57, 58
Floating Center (schwebende Mitte), 240
Formal Thinking (formales Denken), 242
Forms of Thought (Denkformen), 36
Forster, Michael, 145
Fragmentation, 14, 15, 35, 40
France, 3, 200, 202, 207
Frege, Gottlob, 20, 71n, 122, 125, 151,
192n
Freud, Sigmund, 221
From Locke to Saussure, 30n
Fürsichsein, 76
Gadamer, Hans-Georg, 49n, 56, 58,
68n, 70, 176n
Geist, 24, 175, 219
Genesis and Structure of Hegel’s
Phenomenology of Spirit, 205
Genuine Infinity (wahrhafte
Unendlichkeit) 57
German Idealism, 29
254 INDEX
German Romantics, 3
God, 112, 121, 135, 136, 241
Gödel, Kurt, 149
Goeschel, Karl Friedrich, 84
Goethe, Wolfgang von, 3
Grammatical Study (grammatische
Studium), 173
Grammer, 10, 22–24
Granet, Marcel, 79
Great Britain, 3
Greater Logic, 102
Greece, 187
Greek, 3, 182, 183
Grice, Paul, 122, 180
Grimm, Jakob, 3
Gymnasium, 23
Hamann, Johann Georg, 2, 4, 7, 40, 50,
68n, 41, 111
Harris, H. S., 69n
Hector, 133
Hegels Deutung der Sprache, 30n
Heidegger, Martin, 56, 68n, 119, 125,
193n, 206, 219
Hennigfeld, Jochem, 30n
Henrich, Dieter, 50n, 73n, 74n
Herder, Johann Gottfried, 2, 4, 5, 40, 41,
50n
History, 3, 96, 184
Hitler, Adolf, 152
Hobbes, Thomas, 4
Hoffmann, Thomas Sören, 30n
Hölderlin, Johann Christian Friedrich,
70n, 108n
Hösle, Vittorio, 50n, 74n
Homer, 84, 85, 133
Homonimy, 83, 84
Houlgate, Stephan, 191n
Humanity, 207
Hume, 4
Hyppolite, Jean, 26, 28, 50n, 175n, 199,
200, 202, 203, 205–208, 215n, 219,
222, 223, 225, 230n, 231n
Idea (Vorstellung), 36, 65
Ideal World (ideelle Welt), 43
Ideal, 8, 208
Idealism, 20, 36, 48
Idealistic, 5
Ideality, 15, 47
Identitätsphilosophie, 9
Image (Bild), 43, 44, 47, 48
Imagination (Einbildungskraft), 13, 43,
209, 210
Immanence of Thought, 15
Immanent Rhythm, 223
Immediate Self-relation (unmittelbare
Beziehung-auf-sich), 66
Indeterminate void, 57
Indo-European, 3
Infinite, 15
Infinity, 58
Intelligence (Intelligenz), 43, 44, 46–48,
113, 120
Intuition, 209
Intelligible, 208
Interjections, 117
Introduction to the reading of Hegel, 200
Intuition, 13, 36, 37, 44, 47, 48, 133,
138
Jacobi, Friedrich, 2, 4, 206
James, William, 16, 75–78, 88n, 90n
Janus face of Language, 11, 59
Jena, 7, 13, 16, 84, 111
Jonah, 149
Judgement (Urteil), 12, 15, 59, 234–236
Kant, Immanuel, 1, 2, 7, 8, 10, 11, 15,
20, 22, 30n, 41, 55, 56, 58, 59, 63,
68n–70n, 73n, 74n, 77, 82, 96, 107n,
108n, 111, 121, 189, 206, 233, 234,
239, 244n, 246n
Kaplan, David, 152, 163n
Kellog, Catherine, 26, 249
Kierkegaard, Søren, 16, 75, 88n, 95, 200
Knowledge, 27
Kojève, Alexandre, 26, 199, 200,
202–208, 216n, 215n
Kojré, A., 90n
Kolb, David, 24, 25, 249
Körner, Stephan, 189, 195n
Krause, Franz, 90n
Krell, David Farrell, 52n
Index 255
Kripke, Saul A. 21, 146, 148, 149, 151,
153, 161n, 162n
Kristeva, Julia, 27, 28, 219, 221, 223,
225–229, 230n, 231n
Kroon, Frederick, 162n
Krug, Wilhelm Traugott, 105, 110n
Kuhn, Thomas 146, 150
Kulenkampff, Arend, 63, 72n
Lacan, Jacques, 220
Lacoue-Labarthe, Phillippe, 51n
Laertius, Diogenes, 84
Lampert, Jay, 177n
Language and German Idealism, 29
Language in the Philosophy of Hegel, 30n
Latin, 3
Lau, Chong-Fuk, 15, 70n, 71n, 74n, 249
Lauener, H., 90n
Law, 181
Lawlor, Leonard, 205, 206, 217n
Lectures on the History of Philosophy, 111,
114
Leibniz, Gottfried W., 4, 192n
Levinas, Emmanuel, 219
Liebrucks, Bruno, 90n
Limit (Grenze), 58
Locke, John, 4
Logical, 7, 38
and Existence, 200, 205, 208, 222
of Essence, 88
of Science, 37, 115, 224
Category, 187
Judgment, 16
Structure, 191
Logos, 206 207, 243
Love, 130, 131
Mackey, L. H., 161n
Magic, 147, 153, 154
Maker, William, 219, 230n
Malabou, Catherine, 248n
Marconi, Diego, 90n
Marx, Karl, 95, 200
Marx, Werner, 30n
Material (lexical) element, (das Material
[das Lexikalische]), 174
Material, 208
Materialism, 36
May, Clair, 27, 28, 250
McCumber, John, 17, 52n, 90n, 98, 99,
101, 106n–108n, 139, 177n, 191n,
195n, 219, 246n, 250
McDowell, John, 155, 163n
McWhorter, John, 194n
Meaning (Bedeutung), 18, 118
Mechanical Memorization, 36
Mechanical Moments (mechanischen
Momente), 173
Mediation, 9, 11
Memory (Gedächtnis), 13, 15, 36, 43, 44,
48, 209, 212, 213, 214
Mechanical (mechanish), 44–48
Reproductive (reproduzierende),
44–47
Retentive (behaltende), 44, 45
Metacritical, 2, 4, 5, 14
Metacritique: The Linguistic Assault on
German Idealism, 30n
Metakritik, 4–7
Metaphysical Abstraction, 234
Knowledge, 57
Reflection, 57
Metaphysics of Closure, 200
Metaphysics, 10, 36, 55, 75, 77
Metatheoretical, 16
Metacritics, 2, 6–8, 10, 15
Method, 77, 78, 80
Methodology, 39
Mill, John Stuart, 153
Mind, 201, 208–212
Mirror Relation (das Verhältnis des
Spiegelns), 58
Montesquieu, 4
Moses, 149
Mure, G.R.G, 113, 124n
Name, 48
Nancy, Jean-Luc, 51n
Natural Aspirations, 15
Language, 16
Naturalism, 154
Nature, 11, 105, 206 207
Negativity, 15, 28, 223, 228
Neologism, 4
256 INDEX
Noise (Schall), 115
Nonfinite (das Nicht-endliche), 57
Nonspeculative Proposition, 60, 62, 63
Nothing, 222, 223
Notion of Negativity, 27
Novalis, 40,
Nuzzo, Angelica, 16, 88n, 90n, 191n,
250
Objectivity, 8–10, 19, 20, 37, 47, 48, 95,
96, 103, 184
Objective Language, 95
Logic, 67
Spirit, 13, 17, 103, 104, 208
Thinking, 77
Truth, 16, 95, 98, 101
Oldest System Program of German
Idealism, 236, 238
Ontological, 38, 39, 147
Original Division (ursprungliche Teilung),
15, 59
Ownness (Seinige), 37, 43, 47, 49
Pahl, Katrin, 28, 29, 250
Perry, John, 163n
Peperzak, Adriaan, 51n, 106n
Phenomenology of Spirit, 4, 11, 12, 15, 21,
24, 28, 42, 59, 61, 64, 75–77, 81, 85,
86, 101, 102, 111, 119, 122, 148, 155,
156, 160, 165–167, 174, 180, 183,
184, 199, 203, 205–208, 222,
227–229, 233–235, 237–239
Phenomenology on Kant, German Idealism,
Hermeneutics and Logic, 29
Philosophical Discourse, 28, 238
Form, 76
Proposition, 238
Philosophy of Mind, 174, 208, 209, 226
Philosophy of Nature, 95, 100
Philosophy of Spirit, 13, 15, 42, 83, 84,
98, 184, 205 207
Pinkard, Terry, 120, 125, 145
Pippin, Robert, 121, 124n
Pit and the Pyramid, 27, 51n, 200, 214,
227
Plato, 3, 84, 85, 145, 161n, 188, 189,
192n
Poetic, 28
Poetry, 20, 56, 128, 129, 131–133, 136,
137, 138, 235, 236, 238, 243
Politics, 181
Postmodern, 24–26, 197
Poststructuralist, 14, 26
Practical, 13
Science, 171
Spirit, 43
Productive Imagination (Phantasie), 211
Protestant Christianity, 135
Psychology, 42
Putman, Hilary, 146, 149, 150, 151,
162n
Qua-Problem, 21, 22, 147, 151–154,
156, 157
Quine, Willard, 181, 183
Rameau, 186, 188
Rationality, 7
Realism, 154
Reality, 28
Realphilosophy, 83, 188, 190
Reason (Vernunft), 12, 15, 55, 56, 58, 59,
77, 113, 120, 209
Reasoning (Räsonnieren), 235, 237
Receptivity, 11
Recollection (Erinnerung), 13, 43, 209,
210, 212, 213
Reference, 145,
Referentiality, 15
Reflection-into-itself (Reflexion-in-sich),
66
Reflection, 7–9
Reflective Understanding, 167
Reformation, 3
Reid, Jeffrey, 16, 250
Relativism, 146
Religion, 9, 19, 56, 96, 105, 128, 129,
139, 131, 134–136, 138, 180, 184,
191
Religious Discourse, 20
Representation (Vorstellung), 13, 15, 36,
44, 47, 49, 138, 209
Reproductive Imagination (reproductive
Einbildungskraft), 210, 211
Index 257
Revolution in Poetic Language, 220
Rhythm, 233, 240
Ripalda, José, 52n
Robins, R.H., 30n
Röttges, Heinz, 72n
Russell, Bertrand, 162n, 163n
Salmon, Nathan, 153
Salus, Peter, 176n
Sanskrit, 3
Sassen, Brigitte, 177n
Schalow, Frank, 107n
Schelling, F. W. J., 2, 8, 9, 10, 30n, 56,
58, 236
Schiller, Frederich, 3
Schlegel, August, 2
Schlegel, Frederich, 2, 40, 50n
Schleicher, A., 3
Schleiermacher, Friedrich, 2
Science of Logic (Wissenshaft der Logic),
16, 17, 22–24, 36, 49, 56, 63, 66, 67,
77, 79, 80–84, 86, 87, 98, 116, 117,
120, 121, 148, 155, 166, 171, 175,
180, 182, 185, 186, 188, 189, 190,
205–208, 222, 224, 225, 227, 229,
239
Science, 105
Scientific Character
(Wissenschaftlichkeit), 56
Discourse, 17
Sculpture, 128
Scylla and Charybdis, 36
Searle, John, 161n
Seebohm, Thomas, 89n, 90n
Self-consciousness, 203
Self-determination, 185
Self-division, 185
Self-return, 185
Sellars, Wilfrid, 181
Semiotic, 27, 28
Sense (Sinn), 18, 118, 206
Sense-Certainty, 158, 159, 160
Sensible Intuition, 209
Sensible, 208
Sensory Perception, 26
Sentence (Satz), 12
Shakespeare, 3
Shlomo, Avineri, 110n
Sign (Zeichen), 11, 18, 43, 44, 45, 47, 48
Simon, Josef, 30n, 113
Skeptizismusaufsatz, 84
Soams, Scott, 153
Socrates, 182, 236
Solid Ground (feste Boden), 241
Sophist, 182
Soul, 79, 80, 242
Sound (Klang), 111, 115
Sözer, Ö., 91n
Speculative, 57, 60
Dialectics, 200
Language, 77, 78
Logic, 206, 233, 237
Logic, 28, 85, 88
Movement, 244
Philosophy, 57, 59, 75, 76, 77
Proposition (Spekulative Satz), 15,
28, 55, 59, 60–64, 67, 235, 237,
238, 240
Reason, 58
Rhythm, 233, 240
Sentence, 11, 12, 101
Spirit, 224
Thought, 16, 239
Spinoza, Baruch, 191n
Spirit, 11, 26, 42, 43, 44, 45, 47–49, 95,
111, 113, 118, 119, 184, 185, 191,
197, 201, 203, 204, 207, 208,
212–214, 235, 238
Spontaneity, 11
Sprachkritik, 5
Spurious Infinity (schlechte
Unendlichkeit), 57
Strawson, P.F., 73n
Stein, Gertrude, 246n
Subjectivity, 8, 9, 10, 13, 14, 16, 18, 20,
37, 47, 48, 64, 67
Subjective Logic, 67, 77
Spirit, 13, 36, 42, 77, 105, 208
Thinking, 77, 82
Sublation (Aufheben), 12, 46, 224
Surber, Jere, 51n, 89n, 91n, 101, 108n,
108n, 113, 250
Syllogism (Schlußlehre), 61, 100, 102,
103, 104
258 INDEX
Symbolic, 27, 28
Representation, 135
Symbols, 19, 135
Systemacity, 35–41, 48
Systematic
Construction, 183
Discourse, 18, 117
Exposition (Darstellung), 238
Philosophy, 15, 16, 33, 127, 128, 132,
137, 239
Thought, 13, 84
Taylor, Charles, 106n
Textuality, 11
Thales, 149
The Problem of Language in German
Idealism, 29
Theoretical, 13
Spirit, 43, 45
Theory of Acquaintance, 153
Theunissen, Michael, 73n
Thinking, 13, 166
Thompson, Kevin, 14, 15, 35, 250
Thought (Gedanken), 17, 28, 36, 43, 48,
49, 56, 100, 101, 104
Tone (tönen), 111, 116–119, 226, 227
Transcategorical principles, 189
Transcendental, 5, 6, 7, 8, 36, 189, 208
Concepts, 189
Translinguistic, 8
Trendelenberg, Adolf, 120
Trinity, 136
Truth, 12, 86, 96, 101, 127–131, 133,
138
Unconditional, 15
Understanding (Verstand), 12, 58, 60,
113, 197, 204
Ursprungsfrage, 4
Urteil, 234
Vagueness (Bedeutungsverscheibung), 83,
86, 87
Vernon, Jim, 22–24, 250
Villiers, Jürgen, 30n
Von Humboldt, Wilhelm, 2, 3
Wallace, William, 31n
Westphal, Kenneth, 164n
Wettstein, Howard, 153, 161n, 163n
Whole, 206
Wiehl, R. 88n, 90n
Wieland, Wolfgang, 69n, 72n
Wilkenson, James, 107n
Wincklemann, Johann, 3
Winfield, Richard, 141n
Wissenschaft, 17
Wissenschaftslehre, 7
Wittgenstein, Ludwig, 5, 22, 70n, 71n,
101, 106n, 122, 180
Wohlfart, Günter, 31n, 71n
Word, 111, 118
Worship, 181
Yourgrau, Palle, 162n
Index 259
This page intentionally left blank.
JERE O’NEILL SURBER, editor
HEGEL AND LANGUAGE
The first anthology explicitly dedicated to Hegel’s linguistic thought, Hegel and Language
presents various facets of a new wave of Hegel scholarship.The chapters are organized
around themes that include the possibility of systematic philosophy, truth and objectivity,
and the relation of Hegel’s thought to analytic and postmodern approaches to language.
While there is considerable diversity among the various approaches to and assessments
of Hegel’s linguistic thought,the volume as a whole demonstrates that not only was language
central for Hegel, but also that his linguistic thought still has much to offer contemporary
philosophy. The book also includes an extensive introductory survey of the linguistic
thought of the entire German Idealist movement and the contemporary issues that
emerged from it.
“By presenting a panorama of competent scholarship on the theme of Hegel and language,
this collection opens up a number of perspectives on how to read Hegel and his thought.
It is exciting, and the material is well organized and covers a number of critical themes.”
—JohnW. Burbidge, author of Hegel on Logic and Religion:The Reasonableness of Christianity
“This book contains a range of distinct considerations brought to bear on Hegel’s views
and uses of language.The essays are not mere expositions of Hegel’s views but are serious
attempts at interpretation of the significance of Hegel’s views, evaluation of the cogency
and intelligibility of his position, and suggestions as to how these views relate to Hegel’s
philosophical predecessors and to later philosophy of language.”
—David A. Duquette, editor of Hegel’s History of Philosophy: New Interpretations
Jere O’Neill Surber is Professor of Philosophy at the University of Denver and the
author of Culture and Critique:An Introduction to the Critical Discourses of Cultural Studies.
A volume in the SUNY series
in Hegelian Studies
William Desmond, editor
STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK PRESS
www.sunypress.edu
PHILOSOPHY
