2. vital expressions
o "Ein Bier, bitte!" "One beer, please!"
Tips
 Some characters in the German alphabet are different.
 The pronunciation rule for "ich" is a slight hissing sound in the back of your
throat, NOT a "k"-sound, if it follows a "dark" vowel (these being "a", "o" and
"u"). Try shaping your mouth as if you were going to make an "e"-sound, but
don't use your vocal cords. Flatten your tongue to the bottom of your mouth and
breathe out, letting the airstream produce slight friction on your uvula. Some say
it sounds as if you're "hawking a loogie". Don't exaggerate, though. This will give
you a rough idea. Many people in French-speaking countries are not aware of this,
it is widely thought that it is a harsh throat sound. This is only the case in certain
regional dialects spoken mostly in Southern parts of Germany.
 However, when "ch" follows a "light" vowel ("e" or "i"), the friction is not caused
on the uvula, but rather the mouth stays almost closed, with the tongue raised to
the middle of the mouth.
 German commonly uses the back of the throat to pronounce some sounds. This is
one of the most complicated things for most Americans to master. Mainly the "r"
which is often pronounced in the back of the throat. Such as in Frau, but be
careful not to over pronounce, as many "r"s are just a quick sound.
 Never use the word Frau alone, it is not appropriate, use Frau "xxx" instead. Just
saying Frau is similarly rude to calling a female simply "woman" in English.
 It is advised that you aren't rude; however, you may use stronger language such as
those mentioned to suggest you are serious. ('Geh weg', etc.)
 "eu" is pronounced "oi" ; "ei" is pronounced "ai"
 Talk to a friend or mentor who knows the German language to teach you, or give
you tips on pronunciation.
 When you talk with a German look him/her directly to his/her eyes.
 Pronounce the last letter louder.
 Remember, when writing German, regular nouns are always capitalized. It's the
only current language to have this rule. Exceptions are: ich(I), sie(she), er(he),
sie(they), wir(we), du(you), and other pronouns. The only pronoun that isn't
lowercase is Sie (the formal word for "you").
 Try to learn German in phrases. Don't try to speak or translate word for word.
You won't be understood.
 Like English, German has some words that are spelled the same and mean
completely different words. Take sie(she), sie(they), and Sie(you), for example.
 Also, you can check your local library for books and tapes.
 If you don't understand all of this, German lessons are helpful.
Warnings
 When you read name don't pronounce it in English!, pronounce it like if you were
reading in German (Similar to Spanish).
 This letter: ß is like a double s (ss). It appears only after long vowel sounds and is
never at the beginning of a word.
 Don't read the words too close because they may then sound like one word.
 When you meet a new person don't say "du", say "Sie". "Sie" is more respectful,
while "du" indicates familiarity with the person. It is considered rude to call an
adult "du" unless you are asked to do so by that person. Children and teenagers up
to about 17 years are always called "du". If you meet a teenager whose age you
don't know, it's better to use "Sie". Usually, "du" is used with a person's first
name, "Sie" with the last name.
Chapter- 5
How to Pronounce German Words
A basic description of how to pronounce german the german alphabet. The german
alphabet is much more simple than the english in that if you see a letter you pronounce it
like what you memorized which is called phonetic. There are a few exceptions to this and
will be listed at the end. Each letter will be as follows - 'Aa - ah, like the a in pat' where
the first letter is the capatilized version and the second is the lower followed by an
example word.
Steps
1.
o The German alphabet. The German alphabet is simple as it contains all the
same letters as the English alphabet the only extra are umlaut characters.
It's also important to note that the German language doesn't use cursive
where English does. This will be broken into three sections, standard
pronunciations, and then vowels followed by umlaut vowels which will
also have special cases.
o German Alphabet
 Bb - beh, like the B in "begin".
 Cc - Like German Z or German K although rarely used by its self
or to start a sentence.
 Dd - deh, Primarily used at the beginning of a word or end and is
pronounced like the English D, except unvoiced (t) when at the end
of a word.
 Ff - Nothing special, just pronounce it like the English F.
 Gg - geh, When it starts a sentence pronounce like G in good,
when it ends a word like the English K.
 Hh - Like the English H.
 Jj - y, Just like the English Y in yard
 Kk - like English K
 Ll - el, Like the English L in Land, but never as in hill.
 Mm - em, Like the English M like the candy M&M's.
 Nn - en, Like the English N like Nancy.
 Pp - peh, Like the English P Like Paul or pole.
 Qq - just like English never used by itself and almost always with
u and is pronounced like English KV.
 Rr - Not pronounced English-wise, but fortunately there are two
acceptable ways; the alveolar trill or alveolar flapped "Spanish" R,
or the uvular trill or uvular flapped "French" R.
 Ss - Unless doubled, which would use an English S sound, the
beginning or middle s is pronounced as an English Z. Also you
may see the letter ß, which is just a double s pronounced the same
as s, but showing the the vowel before the letter is long.
 Tt - teh, Like the english T in time.
 Vv - Usually pronounced like the English f in fun, occasionally
like the English V in voyage.
 Ww - Like the english V in victory.
 Xx - ks, Example Ksandra or like kiss without the I
 Zz - ts, Like in kits
2.
o Vowels. At first glance, many may think of it as complicated, but it has a
large resemblance to the English vowel system, and both German and
English have a large amount of vowels. Try not to use English dipthong
habits in German; for example, pronounce so as "so" instead of
widespread English "souw".
 Long vowels Vowels are long when doubled, followed by h or a
single consonant like gut (good)
 Aa - ay, like the a in father
 Ee - like the a in bay
 Ii - ee Like the double e in greet
 Oo - oh, Like the o in open
 Uu - oo, like the double oo in school or the u in Dune
 Short Vowels Short vowels are short when followed by double
consonants EX: Mann (Mah-n)or followed by two or more
consonants EX: sitzen (zee-ts-in)
 Aa - ah Like the o in Hot
 Ee - eh, like the e in Let
 Ii - like the i in is or sit
 Oo - ah, like the o on long or song
 Uu - ew, like the u in push
 Umlaut/Accented Vowels. Umlaut vowels are a little more
advanced in terms of German grammar. They show up when words
under go a vowel change and do rarely show up as capitalized.
Similar to non accented vowels, umlaut's can be short or long as
well.
 ä - Pronounced like a short English e.
 ö - Like German E, but with lips rounded like a German O.
 ü - Like a German I, but with rounded, U-like lips.
 äu - same as German eu, like the English oy
 Letter Combinations. Letter combinations are things that, just like
in the English language, change the way you would pronounce a
set of letters.
 ie - Pronounced like "ea" in beach, generally.
 ei - Pronounced like the word "eye", generally. Ei, by itself,
is the German word for egg.
 sp - Pronounced "Sh" with the "p"-sound following fluently
after, generally. The same goes with st.
 au - Pronounced like the English word "ow", generally.
 sch - Pronounced "Sh", as in the English word "shoe",
generally.
 ch - When it is preceded by deep vowels (a,o,u), it usually
sounds like the J in Navajo, or any j in a Spanish word.
When preceded by frontal vowels (i, e, ä, ö, ü) or
consonants, it usually has a sound similar to English SH,
but with the tongue curved like an English Y to make a
snakelike hiss.
 pf - Like it appears, a p that has air breach it to make a f
sound.
 ß - the strange letter that looks a bit like B is actually a
combination of s and z. Pronounce as a hissed s.
Tips
 Always pay attention!!
Warnings
 Still in development hopefully have it finished within one week.
Chapter- 6
How to Learn Japanese
Konnichiwa! Do you want to learn Japanese? Here are some things you should know.
Steps
1. Consider why you are learning Japanese and select the method and financial
investment that best reflects the results or purpose you wish to achieve.
Everyone learns at their own pace, so accept the following as general
recommendations and tailor them to your individual needs.
2. If you are learning for fun because you like Japanese culture such as manga
(comics) and anime (animation) or for travel, get an audio learning CD. Just
spending an hour a day can build up grammar usage and teach you simple stock
phrases and useful vocabulary. Listen to it during your commute to work in your
car or have it ready on your portable music player for lunch and breaks or walks
in the park. It isn't neccessary to learn the reading and writing to enjoy the
language and culture, so if you plan on taking a short trip to Japan, knowing a few
useful phrases will be more practical than cramming obscure characters into your
brain. Your trip should be fun, so spend your prep-time picking places to visit,
referencing maps, reading about culture or history and setting your itinerary.
3. If you are learning for business or you want to live in Japan, consider
enrolling in a college level course, an intensive program or night school.
Buying a book, game or simply finding a guide on the internet can be benificial to
learning Japanese. Learning to read and write will be crucial to your long term
success and having a mentor during the early stages is ideal for developing good
study habits and asking all the questions you will have about Japanese language
and culture.
o Japanese has four writing systems. Hiragana, Katakana, (Rômaji) and
Kanji. Rômaji is not commonly thought of as a part of the writing system
but it actually is. Rômaji is literally "roman letters", an example would be
"sushi" or "Tokyo" as they appear here. Hiragana and Katakana are
syllabic alphabets. Hiragana is used for native Japanese words. Katakana
is commonly used for foreign loan words, like Makudonarudo
(McDonald's). Kanji are Chinese characters the Japanese have modified
and used for centuries. Begin studying all three writing styles early on if
literacy is important for your purpose of learning the language. Kana
(Hiragana and Katakana) can be learned in a few weeks and you can use
them to write anything you want, all in Japanese. Kanji typically takes
several years but is a great enhancement of your abilities. As you become
more versed in Japanese, what you used to write in Kana you will begin to
write more with Kanji.
4. Use flashcards to learn
o A) Vocabulary and simple phrases: They can be used while waiting for a
meeting, on a train, etc. Some free cards can be found on the web to get
you started, or you can buy higher quality cards at most college bookstores
or online.
o B) Kanji: Look for cards that show stroke order (how to write the
character) represented in the calligraphy of the vocabulary side and have
example compound words on the definition (answer) side. Do not hesitate
to pick up a pack of blank 3x5 cards to make your own flash cards that are
exactly what you want to learn. Low tech is often the most effective way
to get what you want out of your study time.
5. Join a Japanese language conversation group in your area. Conversation
groups abound and are usually easily found with a simple internet search or phone
call to your local civic center or library. Train your ears to pick out what is being
said. Even if you don't understand it, try to be able to repeat what was said so you
can begin to pick it apart and develop comprehension.
6. Make Japanese friends with whom you can regularly practice. Lots of
Japanese people want to learn English so it is possible to find many who are
willing to help you practice if you are equally willing to share your natural
English skills. Simply having friends to trade notes with can help everyone
improve their abilities. Do things with your friends that involve language but
aren't "study time". If your Japanese friends haven't lived in your country very
long, show them around town. Go sightseeing. Remember, you have to blow off
steam regularly or you'll get stressed out about all those Kanji you have to
memorize. Having fun is the best way to accomplish two goals at the same time.
7. Read - whether it's the newspaper, a novel, a comic book, a pamphlet,
children's books- just read anything. The best would be a novel or the
newspaper as you will find the most practical vocabulary and grammar forms. A
novel will give you a warmer style of writing but a newspaper will have more
relevant vocabulary. Comic books work, but be aware the level of sophistication
varies greatly, and though a more mature, literary comic might be good practice
(especially since you can see what is going on in the scene and it may help you
understand what you are reading), something intended for smaller children is
likely to be 90% sound effects and slang. That too can help your eyes and brain
more quickly adapt to the characters so you can read more quickly, but what you
put in your mind is a lot like what you eat- too much junk food isn't so good. You
also want to be careful about repeating what you've read in a comic book. It's
often pretty obvious to Japanese people and anyone other than close friends may
not look kindly on inappropriate usage of slang.
8. Finally, take a vacation or look for an opportunity to live in Japan. This is
simply the best way to practically apply what you have learned and learn more.
It's very exciting, unpredictable, and quite an awesome experience to immerse
yourself in another culture, even for a short period. Even if you have researched
exhaustively, actually experiencing a place will expose you to things you could
never have imagined about it. It's also important not to be too discouraged if you
do not understand everything that is said to you or you can't read or write as well
as you expected. If you think about it, Japanese people have been studying and
completely surrounded by the language since birth. You, by comparison, likely
have less experience. Whatever you can manage you should be proud of.
Everything becomes easier with time and always remember why you started, to
enjoy exploring something different and to have fun.
Tips
 If you can afford to take a year off and go to Japan, many universities such as
Sophia University in Tokyo and Doshisha University in Kyoto both offer
intensive one-year programs in Japanese which will bring you to near-fluency in a
short period of time. However, if your goal is to become fluent, you will get the
most out of learning language in Japan if you study for a year or more prior to
your visit. Ideally you don't want to waste your first several months studying
Kana and basic vocabulary when you could have learned it beforehand. Even so,
there's nothing wrong with jumping in if that's your style.
 If you plan to learn Japanese abroad at a language school, look for one that is
accredited by an International Association to make sure it is of an excellent
standard.
 Working in Japan is a great way to learn, but teaching English or working in a
foreign company will usually give you very little hands-on experience with the
language. Since your Japanese co-workers will probably speak English fluently,
you're better off in a Japanese company where the lingua franca is not English.
 Romaji is the "Romanization" of Japanese language. In other words, how to write
Japanese using English letters. For example "Hoteru e ikimasu", I am going to the
hotel. If you ask a Japanese person who can't speak English to write what they are
saying in Romaji they will know what you mean.
 Learn the culture of Japan. It will go a long way to understanding your new
Japanese friends and provide plenty of things to talk about using your new
language skills.
 Host a Japanese exchange student or become an exchange student yourself and
experience living with a Japanese family. There are many programs that offer
three months to year long "home stays" in Japan. Even more flexible lengths of
time may be available through some institutions such as a weekend or you may be
able to find a host family through friends. If you do not go through an institution,
be prepared to remunerate your host, either in cash or in kindness or by offering to
host them when they visit your home country. But make sure what you are
committing to up front before you book any flights and that both you and the
family you are visiting are 100% clear on the details. Avoid long stays that are not
associated with an educational institution or well-known program as these tend to
treat your stay more as a hostel/room-and-board scenario as opposed to a cultural
exchange in which you benefit from spending time with family members of the
home you will live in.
 Movies and TV shows are often difficult to understand, because it's impossible to
ask the actors to explain what they've just said. However, variety shows tend to
have a lot of subtitling, which makes them much easier to understand and learn
from if you have a basic command of the written language. In general Japanese
TV is very entertaining with slapstick skit based comedy and evening
dramas/soaps that are easy to follow.
 If you are seeking the most inexpensive way to learn, find free help for learning
Japanese online. There are free audio lessons, writing lessons, and tons of other
resources. Some websites are listed at the bottom of this page.
 There are even software programs that can teach you the language. But remember
there is no substitute for hard study time and the dynamic environment of
speaking with real people.
 Learn from context. If the person next to you is bowing or replies to a set greeting
in a particular way, follow their example the next chance you get. The best people
to observe are those of your own age group and gender. What is appropriate for an
older man is likely not correct for a younger woman.
 Language is not everything. If you have been welcomed to someone's home and
offers you an appetizing dish, you don't need to understand all that was said.
You're recieving kindness. Say Domo Arigato Gozaimasu (thank you very much).
Enjoy the simple things.
 Study some material for about 30 minutes a day. This totals up to about more than
180 hours a year. 30 hours more than being exposed to Japanese in a college
class!
 For more entertaining and casual study, listening to Japanese music and watching
television/movies can also help you get your ears familiar with the pronunciation
and intonation of the language. Just be aware the vocabulary you'll learn may not
be practical to actual conversation (When was the last time you turned to your
friend and said, "I would go anywhere for you, deep in my heart, the burning
wings of justice"?).
Warnings
 It takes a long time to learn the Japanese language. In the same time it takes to
become functionally fluent in Japanese a typical native English speaker could
already have learned Spanish, French and German. The rate students drop off
from continuing to study Japanese in college is similar to Calculus. So have fun
and don't be hard on yourself. Prepare to spend four to six years of moderate to
intense study to be comfortable speaking and reading Japanese.
 Learn to speak both formal (teineigo) and informal Japanese styles. Depending on
the situation you can alter from one to the other, but it requires a good deal of
experience to know when it's OK to be informal. When in doubt, err on the side of
formal. Formal does not mean you are being submissive. It means you are capable
of being nice. You will be shown respect and consideration in return for your
efforts to really understand how to speak Japanese well.
 Avoid learning dialects (hogen/ben) if you live in Japan. It really should go
without saying, but standard Japanese language, referred to as hyojungo, is what
you should focus on for at least the first several years. Sometimes it's impossible
for you to know and therefore you have no choice, but students of the English
language do not begin with a regional dialect. If you end up living in Japan and
learn some of the local dialect, your neighborhood friends will find it amusing and
appreciate your effort to learn what is theirs. However, your business associates in
Tokyo or Hokkaido will think you're becoming a strange foreigner (henna gaijin).
And that's not good. Keep yourself employable.
 Do not learn to talk like the opposite gender. There are male and female versions
of words and articles. Make sure you're using the correct forms for whichever
gender you are representing. Again, this is to avoid becoming a henna gaijin.
 Any language is easy to forget if not practiced, so keep practicing. If you study
for several months and then stop studying for a year, you WILL forget all of the
Kanji you learned and most of the grammar. Japanese is a hard language to absorb
all at once. Even Japanese people will tell you that when they live abroad for a
long time they begin to forget Kanji. A little bit over a long period of time will
prove more effective than cramming once every few months.
 Beware of gadgets. You should not buy an electronic dictionary too early. They
are expensive, and most of the functions are useless if your Japanese reading
skills aren't at a reasonable level to begin with. Ideally you should be able to
recognise at least 300-500 kanji prior to making such a purchase. For example,
looking up Kanji you don't know how to pronounce without understanding its
stroke order and number can be impossible. Buy one too early and you'll be
running around with a 70% useless device whose dictionary will be obsolete
thanks to better devices on the market by the time you can actually use it. At some
point in the future, universities may all begin recommending the same electronic
dictionary. Until then, there's no substitute for a good dictionary. A regular
dictionary won't break if you sit on it, drop it in a puddle or leave it in a car for a
week.
 Usage and expressions used in animation and comic books are often inappropriate
for common situations. Try to learn how real people use the language, rather than
picking up bad habits and trends from just pop-culture characters.
 Japanese are often described by Americans as being passive aggressive. For
example, you could be telling your new Japanese friend about a trip to Disney
World you'd like to invite them on and they may say "yes, yes, yes" while they're
listening to your description of the details. But then at the end you may be
shocked to find out they really don't want to go. You might not even find out
directly from the person you asked, but from one of their friends, which can be
infuriating. Don't be afraid to ask clearly "Do you want to go this weekend with
us?" It will help cut through the cultural clutter in the beginning, but you should
practice tuning in and getting to know by a person's words and body language
over time how they are reacting to you. This way you won't have to rely on just
their speech. Also, always give them the option to decline. Japanese respect free
will just as much as other cultures.
 Japanese is actually relatively easy to learn to speak, but so unlike English that
many English speakers find it difficult in the beginning. Writing Japanese requires
learning thousands of Kanji (Chinese characters) in addition to two phonetic
alphabets (Hiragana and Katakana) that have 47 characters each. The alphabets
are easy to learn and can be mastered in a few weeks. Writing and deciphering
Kanji takes years to develop a full understanding of and ultimately master. The
average reading level required to read a common newspaper is higher than that in
the west which is why literacy rates are much higher in Japan than in the USA.
You should begin studying Kanji very early on if you intend to use Japanese in
business or to read and write in Japanese for any purpose.
 If you go to Japan and attempt to speak Japanese outside of a formal or business
setting you may, on occasion, be brushed off. Some people simply don't want to
bother with what they assume you will speak judging by your appearance- slow,
incorrect, awkward Japanese. Though this may seem discouraging, think about it-
there are also people in the states who wouldn't want to deal with a foreigner who
could barely string two sentences together in English. Don't let this put you off
learning the language though. If you want to do it, don't worry about what other
people will say, do it anyway! The number of people who will kindly and
patiently listen to whatever you are trying to say far outnumbers those who don't
want to deal with you at all. Just keep in mind people who have never studied
another language do not often understand how frustrating it is and will be put off
if you don't speak like a native. Just know in your heart of hearts that's simply
their inexperience and try to find someone who'll listen to you.
 When dealing with other bilinguals, do not be ashamed to revert to English even
though you understand Japanese. Even if you have put in years of study and
practice, you may be more clear and quick in your native tongue. There are some
places in Tokyo, for example, where foreigners are expected to speak only
English and the staff of many stores and restaurants are prepared for that. There
are many Japanese who have worked themselves to the bone to learn English who
will be quite delighted if they can flex their own language skills to help you, the
"real world practice". If you are spoken to in English, you don't have to show off
your Japanese. Go at it in English and if the situation calls for it, switch over. The
power of being bilingual is not switching completely to one or the other. It is
being able to switch back and forth on the fly according to what is appropriate for
that person and that conversation. It's a fun power!
Things You'll Need
 Pocket-sized English-Japanese/Japanese-English dictionary
 English-Japanese dictionary
 Kanji dictionary Japanese-English
 Electronic dictionary or mobile device with appropriate software..
 Books on how to read and write Kanji, Hiragana, and Katakana
 Books on every day speaking
 Tremendous endurance and perserverance
 Some kind of support network to encourage and motivate you past your initial
reserves of energy
Chapter- 7
How to Improve Speaking Japanese
Learning the Japanese language is difficult for English speakers. It is made more difficult
because the pronunciation is very different to English. There is no substitute for actually
traveling to Japan and learning in a program from native speakers and being immersed in
the Japanese culture and language 24/7 but that isn't possible for a lot of people living
outside of Japan who are studying the language every day. That doesn't mean you can't
improve speaking Japanese. The following article offers some advice.
Steps
1. Find someone that speaks the language fluently. If you can't find someone in
person, try looking online. There are many communities online where people
from all over the world gather to learn Japanese.
2. Practice using Japanese with the people you have met. Try to engage in
actually speaking the language if possible. If you are doing this online, there are
several voice chat programs out there that will help you communicate freely over
the internet. You should ask other people online which programs will work best
for them.
3. If you can listen to and speak with native speakers of Japanese, listen
carefully to how they pronounce words and phrases and try to mimic what
you hear. You should pay close attention to the differences between the language
when spoken by different genders. Some words and phrases may be different.
4. Practice using different phrases and words by role playing scenarios such as
shopping, ordering food at a restaurant, talking on the phone, etc,.
5. Don't be discouraged if you make mistakes, even if people laugh when you
mispronounce words or use the wrong phrases. One of the keys to learning a
language is learning what mistakes can be made so that you don't make them in
the future.
6. Be interesting to talk to and have topics up your sleeve to fill in silences.
Learn about Japanese popular culture- singers, books, anything. Studio Ghibli
movies such as Howl's Moving Castle and Spirited Away are good. This is where
a little knowledge of Japanese culture goes a long way. Of course, cultural
differences are fine, but they may end up a monologue if the conversation partner
isn't really interested.
7. If you know certain topics are likely to come up in coversation, do some
studying beforehand to put phrases and vocabulary related to that topic into
short-term memory. There are a lot of stock and predictable questions- be ready
not only to answer, but to elaborate. This will not improve speaking skills, but it
will facilitate ease of conversation.
8. Be familiar with the correct use of conversation fillers, such as soo desu, ne,
majiide and so on.
Tips
 Practice speaking Japanese daily. The more you use it, the more comfortable you
will be when speaking it with people that you meet.
 Find out if any of your friends or relatives are interested in learning the language
as well. It always helps if you are learning with someone you know very well.
 Find out if your local college has a Japanese club, you may find several native
speakers in your area that are interested in helping you improve your speaking
skills.
 Learn as much as you can about the Japanese culture. It isn't the same as in the
United States and there are many things you may do without knowing that are
considered rude. You may not encounter this much online but if you plan to travel
to Japan some day it will help if you already know what type of behavior to avoid.
Visit your local Library or book store to find books on the Japanese culture (make
sure they are relatively recent books before you read them).
 Learn about gestures the Japanese use. For instance, the Japanese point to their
nose or touch their nose to designate themselves. And nodding means one is
listening, not necessarily agreeing.
Warnings
 You don't have to study every day! Take a break if you feel stressed! Then
continue when you are rested. The Japanese language isn't going anywhere!
 There are several different levels of politeness in the Japanese language, when
speaking to someone you don't know very well it's best to use the formal/polite
forms.
 'Hai' and 'iie' are not used like 'yes' and 'no' in English. 'Hai' means that you agree,
'iie' that you disagree. This can be particularly confusing if a question is in
negative form. "You do not want to go ?" - "Hai" would mean you don't want to
go, while "iie" would mean you do.
 Be courteous when trying to find someone that speaks fluently with which to
study, you don't want to scare people off. Explain that you are a student and ask
politely if they will help you.
 Try not to be rude in online discussion rooms, remember you are there to learn
and make friends. Nobody is going to want to voice chat with someone that is
rude and mean.
 Try to avoid people that aren't serious about improving their speaking skills with
the language, they may discourage you from continuing further.
 Avoid trying to learn speaking skills from Anime, much of the Japanese found in
Anime uses slang and speaking patterns that are not very polite. Instead you might
try finding some Japanese soap operas/dramas where the language is spoken in a
more normal setting.
 Avoid trying to find a cute Japanese girlfriend right away. Most Japanese girls
you meet will already expect that most guys are there to try to find a girl friend
and not really interested in their language, it's better if you just focus on
improving your speaking skills for now. They will appreciate your sincerity and
be more willing to help you if you aren't asking them for their measurements. Not
to mention the rest of the community will be more willing to open up to you.
How to Learn to Speak Japanese
So you want to learn Japanese. Whether you want to learn it for your upcoming trip, need
to learn for your job or college course, you are interested in learning Japanese. Japanese
language is very unique, and that can be challenging. But it is important to approach it
with positive attitude and just try to enjoy learning a new language.
Steps
1. Prepare for your Japanese study with positive attitude. Even if you aren’t very
enthusiastic about learning, negative attitude does not bring productivity and you
won’t be able to learn Japanese efficiently. So be open minded at least and start
looking for suitable learning materials. Genki is Japanese text book for beginners.
Genki is designed for college students, but many people find it easy to follow and
understand regardless of age. You can pick a book of your own choice, and it
does not necessarily have to be Genki. You can go to amazon.com to search for
Japanese textbooks. Check reviews to compare listed books. Workbooks and
audios are also recommended, but having a good book is a great start. When you
get a book, just browse it. If you are interested in jump start your learning, do it!
2. Next step is to learn Romaji. Japanese writing system has three main scripts. But
you can just start with learning Romaji, which is Romanized Japanese script often
used by those who has not mastered Japanese writing system. Genki provides
romaji in the first two chapters. You can learn new words with Latin alphabets.
Romaji is the most common way to type Japanese on your computer. So it is
helpful. At the same time, it's good to get an experienced private tutor’s help. You
can search for one online. There are many postings for private Japanese tutoring
service on craigslist. Before setting up an appointment, ask him about his teaching
experience and length. Getting the right tutor that you feel comfortable working
with is even more important than getting the right learning materials. Good tutors
usually provide you with learning materials and recommend you suitable
textbooks. You can register for a local class, but you can’t really get
individualized attention in classroom settings. If you are taking Japanese class,
having a private tutor whom you can practice what you learn in the class is
important.
3. You can take Japanese lesson once a week first, so it won’t be too
overwhelming. Make sure to read the next chapter that your tutoring lesson is
going to cover to prepare for the lesson. Also review your notes and grammar
explanations after each lesson. It is important to spend sometimes reviewing until
you understand at beginner’s stage. Memorize new vocabularies and practice
what you learn during each lesson with your tutor. Take as much time as needed
to review and prepare for lessons. List your questions during review, and ask your
tutor during next lesson. Try to study even for 20 minutes a day. It is better to
study even for a short time every day than studying only twice a week. Make flash
cards for new vocabularies. If you have audio, use it to get correct pronunciation.
Don’t push yourself too hard. Just enjoy learning Japanese and take it day by day.
4. Once you become more comfortable learning Japanese on your own, try to
schedule Japanese lessons twice a week. This will help you speed up your
learning. But only do if you have the time and money. Again don’t push yourself.
After about two months of learning on your own, you will be surprised how much
you can learn and speak at a basic level. Most of my students get to the level of
being able to make basic sentence structure within three or four months of
studying with this method. (I went to work today, I will see my friend at school
tomorrow). If your interest in Japanese language grew, try to let yourself
experience the culture as well. Go to Japanese restaurants and order in Japanese.
Watch Japanese movies and Animes with subtitles. Make Japanese friends even if
you talk to them mainly in English. You will learn so much about the culture
through communications. Continue to read the next chapter prior to a lesson, and
review and memorize new things after lesson.
5. While keeping up with studying on your own and with your tutor, try to use
your Japanese as much as possible. Talk to your Japanese friends in Japanese.
Find language exchange partners. There are many Japanese looking for someone
to practice their English. Take tutoring lessons and meet your language partner
regularly. Try to speak Japanese whenever you can. If you do this consistently for
about six months, you will become conversationally fluent. It means you no
longer say random words and gesture to communicate with Japanese people. You
will be able to form a complete sentence during communication. Once you get to
that level, the best thing to do is to go to Japan for a couple of months to enhance
your conversational skills. Native Japanese people use different manners of
speech based on location and who they are talking to. Young Japanese will use
slangs. So this is a great opportunity to start absorbing how natives really speak in
Japan. But being in Japan only will not help you become fluent but being in
environment where you speak Japanese regularly will help you tremendously. Do
not forget to continue studying your own.
Tips
 Children can pick up a new language quickly. Once we hit certain age, learning a
language systematically is much more efficient than simply going with a flow.
 If you start learning Japanese language properly from the start, your
conversationally skills will improve much more efficiently. In addition to
knowing how to form Japanese sentence correctly, you begin to pick up natural
manner of speech shared by native speakers over time in Japan.
Chapter- 8
How to Learn French
Bonjour! French is a language spoken fluently by approximately 175 million people
worldwide. Although originating in France, today it is spoken in countries all over the
world, and officially in a total of 29 countries. It is the second most frequently taught
language in the world after English. This guide will help you on your journey of
discovery when you learn to speak French.
Steps
1. Understand what a verb is and present tense. If you want to say the infinitive
"to have" you would say "avoir." Of course, you will need to learn to conjugate it.
For example, "I have" is really "j'ai." You can start with the basic verbs avoir,
être, and learn the conjugations for the major verb endings: -er, -ir and -re.
2. Learn the other tenses. There is also passé composé (past tense), the future, the
imperfect etc.
3. Buy a good French/English dictionary. It is best to purchase a large, good
quality one. A rule of thumb is that a good French/English dictionary places the
French first. You can expect to spend a reasonable amount on this, but it is well
worth it. Also useful is a Petit Larousse, a French-only dictionary which shows
you how a French person would define the word you're looking for. This will help
you think in French while speaking it.
4. Read in French. Reading in French will increase your vocabulary and you will
be surprised how quickly you will learn by absorbing the words through the
context of the reading. As you go along, look up words in the dictionary.
5. Have conversations in French. You will be amazed at how much you will learn
just by talking to someone who speaks the language.
6. Know French native speakers You can find them nowadays in many
websites,such as Students Of The World.It'll be easier to make friends and
improve your French if you ask them to improve it and you'll teach them English
as a start.
7. Get into French immersion. This is a great way to learn French properly. In
some places, such as Canada, after 3 years in the Immersion program, you will be
considered fluent in the language. Whether you are or not, of course, is up to you!
8. Label your stuff in French. Type/write on one side of the paper the French word
for that item and the pronunciation on the other side. Tape it to the item. Now
when you use it, you can see what that item is called in French, and if you have a
hard time pronouncing, you can just look on the other side.
9. Pay attention during lessons. It will help you later whether you go into French
Immersion or not.
10. Learn popular French folk songs. You can find the words and music to these
online. They will help you to get a feel for both the language and the culture. As
for the French, the two are really one and the same thing.
11. Practice with someone. You can find a pen pal online or you can visit your local
chapter of the Alliance Française. Or, you can probably find someone at your
local university or community college who would love to practice with you.
12. Study every day. This is essential if you want to be successful.
13. Think in French. Say to yourself "Oh, I see an apple!" Now say it in French - "Ô.
Je vois une pomme". Practice this whenever you get a chance - in the car, at bed,
in the bathroom, everywhere.
14. If you're on the computer a lot, consider buying a learning program, such as
Rosetta Stone or Berlitz. A good program has native speakers and pictures. If
you wish to learn at little expense, google different free online podcast lessons
and listen to them from time to time (every day if possible). But don't spend all
your time on it. To learn French efficiently, you need to get out and converse in
French.
15. Understand that learning a language is a full time commitment. If you muck
around with it and only learn bits and pieces, you will likely regret this later in life
when you actually want to converse in French.
16. Have a positive attitude. Sometimes, you may be discouraged by remembering
why you wanted to speak French in the first place. The reality that 175 million
people worldwide speak French is a good motivation. Also, think how few people
are monolingual these days - two or more languages is more and more the norm.
17. Watch the "French in Action" program on your local public broadcasting
station.
18. Subscribe to a French newsletter or magazine. You'll learn pretty fast this way
if you continue to read French.
19. Go to France, Quebec, or somewhere that French is the most prominent
language. This is considered the most practical and fastest way to learn the
language by many leading experts.
20. Go to an online translator website and just type in random phrases that you
can use daily. Then try to work these daily into your schedule. However, beware
these translators as they are often wrong. Double check with your dictionary and
your teacher.
21. Teach French. As you learn new words, say it to non-speaking friends and then
say what it means. This, in turn, helps you pronounce and understand French and
encourages your friends to learn with you.
Tips
 Set aside a time to learn French everyday. 15-30 minutes is better than one big
session once a week. You always learn more if you practice a bit every day rather
than once a week for two hours.
 Invest in a good Bescherelle. This is a book with every verb for quick and easy
conjugation. French speakers swear by these.
 Try out French crossword puzzles. You can find these online.
 Print or buy a French calendar and replace your regular calendar. So whenever
you look at the date, you'd quickly learn French numbers, days, and months. And
when you write in events, look it up in your dictionary and write in French.
 At the store, count how many fruits you're putting in the cart in French.
 Get your friends/family to learn French with you. It's way more fun than learning
by yourself.
 Look online for other people who are learning or already speak French. You can
learn a lot from each other.
 Make French the first thing you see on your computer. Get your homepage to be a
french website.
 As you talk, try not to talk fast if you are still not fluent enough. If you are a
perfectionist or someone who is easily nervous, talking fast only makes you more
nervous, while talking slower gives you more comfort and confidence to express
yourself.
Warnings
 Don't get discouraged.
 Watch for masculine and feminine as well as plural.
 You will learn that most words in French have more than one way to say it.
Things You'll Need
 Bescherelle
 French/English dictionary
How to Speak French
Souhaitez-vous parler français? Speaking French, or any language for that matter, is a
skill that needs to be practiced and developed on a regular basis. Putting yourself in a
situation where you will need to utilize the spoken language will help you to improve
your skills of speaking French. There are many other simple ways to aid your learning of
this language which are listed below.
Steps
1. Expose yourself to French media, such as movies, news and songs, so that
you can listen to native speakers. Satellite radio in the US now offers stations
from Quebec. Some cable TV companies offer TV5 or other French stations.
2. Find or make a friend who speaks French well, and make an effort to
practice your French with this friend. You can also find a pen pal or an online
community that will let you ask questions and talk to others who are learning
French.
3. Try to find out if a French conversation group is already meeting in your
area. Online meeting sites are available which may help with this.
4. Consider signing up for a language course at a local college or community
college. Some high schools offer adult education classes in languages.
5. Subscribe to a kid's magazine written in French. Bayard Presse Jeunesse and
Express Milan have websites which will show you quite a few offerings. Kids
magazines are helpful because they have pictures, from which you can sometimes
glean the meaning of words you don't yet know. They offer short and very short
articles, which is helpful when you are very new to a language.
6. Consider a trip to Québec. Museums there have bilingual exhibits and creative
technologies which will offer you some good practice. While you are there, you
can buy some books or other materials, and you will find yourself surrounded by
French speakers, particularly outside of Montreal. But you need to know that the
farther you go from the city, you will find more people using French which is not
as easily recognizable as international French. For example, in the Gaspesie
region, many heritages have influenced the development of language over the
centuries, as many of the original settlers came from the Guernsey and the Jersey
Islands, and not from France.
o Learn the written form of common French words for daily use.
o You can try watching a DVD, but change the language to French. If you
are just starting out, you may want to add English subtitles. As you get
better, change to French subtitles, and eventually no subtitles. Remember
that the point of this exercise is to practice listening, so try not to just read
the subtitles.
o Practice using these words in a day-to-day situation.
o Buy or borrow a computer game which can be listened to in French as
well as English. Caillou has such a game, but this is offered only as an
example. Others are probably occasionally available. Read the boxes and
see what you can find.
7. Words to use (more can be found here):
o Bonjour [bon-joor] (Good day)
o Oui [wee] (Yes)
o Non (Non) Say 'No' as if it were English, but for the last 'n', pronounce it
but don't touch your tongue to the roof of your mouth again. It should
sound like an abrupt 'No' in a French Accent.
o Parlez-vous anglais? [parlay voo zon-glay?] (Do you speak English?)
o Comment ça va? [Com-mon sa va?] (How are you?)
o Au Revoir [auh revwar] (Goodbye)
o Chaud [show] (Hot)
o Froid [fwah] (Cold)
o Comment t'appelles-tu? [commont ahpelle too?] / Comment vous appelez-
vous? (What's your name?)
o Bonne Chance! [bonne chonce] (good luck!)
o C'est La Loi [say la loe] (it's the law)
8. Learn the numbers (more can be found here):
o Un [ehun] (one)
o Deux [deur] (two)
o Trois [twaah] (three)
o Quatre [kahtre] (four)
o Cinq [sank] (five)
o Six [sise] (six)
o Sept [set] (seven)
o Huit [wheet] (eight)
o Neuf [neuf] (nine)
o Dix [deese] (ten)
9. Remember: Tu is informal, vous is formal. Plus, Tu is always singular. If you talk
to more than one person, use vous.
10. Address strangers and authority figures with formal expressions, and use
informal expressions only when speaking with your friends and family.
11. Even though "Je Suis" means " I am", do not use it in front of "chaud" or
"froid" if you are hot or cold as this means something entirely different and
is guaranteed to earn you a lot of glares in polite company and could possibly
lead to very sticky situations. Je suis chaud is quite rude in French. Use "J'ai"
instead - I have, eg. J'ai froid -> I'm cold; and J'ai chaud -> I'm hot.
12. Use also the verb "avoir" to indicate your age: I am twenty years old -> J'ai
vingt ans.
13. This is much harder than it sounds. Just get a recording and repeat the words on
the tape, and memorize what they mean.
Tips
 Buy a French textbook or some kind of learning program. Many products are
available, so you may want to do a little research to find a book or a program
which you think will work for you. Some recommend the French In Action series
of videos, which has the bonus of helping to improve listening abilities. There are
many to choose from, ask at a specialist language store.
 Make a plan as to how you are going to pursue the course you have chosen.
Decide how much time you are going to spend and decide how often you will do
it, and where you will study.
 Schedule your study times on your calendar.
 Stick to your plan and try not to miss your sessions.
Warnings
 Watch out for the French vowels when speaking! For example, the 'o' in 'bonjour'
is pronounced 'oh', not 'ah'.
 Open your mouth very little when speaking French. This is especially important
in the "ah" and "oh" sounds.
 In French, words are either masculine or feminine, singular or plural. The word
chair, in French, "chaise (shes-ze)", is feminine and singular; the word screen is
"écran (ay-krah)" in French and is masculine and singular. The word "frites
(freet)", meaning French Fries, is feminine and plural. Always add the appropriate
articles in front of the noun. Masculine and singular: le (luh) or un(ahn); Feminine
and singular: la (lah) or une (ewn); Plural(feminine or masculine): les (layh) or
des (dayh)
 le, la, les is used for indicating expressions: the apple, the table, ..
 un, une, des is used for general expressions: an apple, a table, ..
Things You'll Need
 French-English Dictionary
 French Verb Book
 French Grammar book
 French teacher (optional)
Chapter- 9
How to Speak Basic French
The Arc de Triomphe: Paris, France
The Eiffel Tower: Paris, France
French is a Romance language spoken fluently by approximately 175 million people
worldwide. Although originating in France, Belgium, Luxembourg and Switzerland,
today it is spoken in countries all over the world including Algeria, Cameroon, Canada,
Central African Republic, Haiti, Lebanon, Madagascar, Martinique, Monaco, Morocco,
Niger, Senegal, Tunisia, Vietnam and officially in a total of 29 countries. It is regarded as
one of the most beautiful and romantic languages in the world and as a foreign language
is the second most frequently taught language in the world after English. Here's how to
say several simple French phrases.
Steps
1. Memorize a new phrase or two every day and use them as part of your daily
speech. Start by learning the more common and well-known words and phrases,
including:
o Bonjour - bon-jshor
 Hello / Good day
o Bonsoir - bon-swah
 Good evening
o Bonne nuit - bun nwee
 Goodnight
o Au revoir - ohr-vwah
 Goodbye
o Salut - sa-loo
 Hi / Bye [informal]
o S'il vous plaît - see voo play
 Please [formal]
o S'il te plaît - see te play
 Please [informal]
o Merci (beaucoup) - mair-see (boh-koo)
 Thank you (very much)
o Je vous en prie - zhuh voo zawn pree
 You're Welcome [formal]
o De rien - duh ree-ahn
 You're welcome [informal]
2. Learn to continue speaking after you've exchanged greetings in French. Included
here are some useful questions. Note that informal phrases are the ones you would
use when speaking to friends, family and children, whereas formal phrases would
be used when speaking to anyone older than you or anyone that you don't know,
such as strangers, teachers, parents of your friends and anyone else you'd wish to
speak very politely and respectfully to.
o Comment allez-vous? - koh-mawn tahl-ay voo
 How are you? [formal]
o Ça va? - sah vah
 How are you? [informal]
o (Très) bien - (treh) bee-ahn
 (Very) good
o (Pas) mal - (pah) mahl
 (not) bad
o Malade - mah-lahd
 Sick
o Quel age as-tu
 How old are you
o J'ai (how old you are) ans
 I am (your age) old
o Comment vous appelez-vous ? - koh-mawn voo zah-play voo
 What is your name? [formal]
o Tu t'appelles comment ? - tew tah-pell koh-mawn
 What's your name? [informal]
o Où habitez-vous ? - ooh ah-bee-tay voo
 Where do you live? [formal]
o Où habites-tu? - tew ah-beet ooh
 Where do you live? [informal]
o Vous êtes d'où ? - voo zet doo
 Where are you from? [formal]
o Tu es d'où ? - tew ay doo
 Where are you from? [informal]
o Parlez-vous anglais ? - par-lay voo on-glay
 Do you speak English? [formal]
o Tu parles anglais ? - tew parl on-glay
 Do you speak English? [informal]
3. Tell people about yourself! Here are some ways to answer some of the questions
you just learned how to ask:
o Je m'appelle ______ - zhuh mah-pell
 My name is ______
o J'habite à ______ - zhah-beet ah
 I live in ______
o Je suis de ______ - zhuh swee duh
 I am from ______
o l'Angleterre - lawn-gluh-tair
 England
o le Canada - kah-nah-dah
 Canada
o les États-Unis - ay-tah-zew-nee
 United States
o l'Allemagne - lahl-mawn-yuh
 Germany
o Je (ne) parle (pas) ______ - zhuh (nuh) parl (pah)
 I (don't) speak ______
o français - frahn-say
 French
o anglais - on-glay
 English
4. Practice more everyday. Here are a collection of more questions and phrases that
might be helpful should you travel to a French-speaking country.
o Comment? - kohm-mawn
 What? Pardon?
o Comprenez-vous ? - kohm-pren-ay-voo
 Do you understand? [formal]
o Tu comprends ? - tew kohm-prawn
 Do you understand? [informal]
o Je (ne) comprends (pas) - zhuh (nuh) kohm-prawn (pah)
 I (don't) understand
o Comment dit-on _____ en français ? - kohm-mawn dee-tohn _____ on
frahn-say
 How do you say ______ in French?
o Je ne sais pas - zhuhn say pah
 I don't know
o Où sont _____ ? - ooh sohn
 Where are _____ ?
o Voilà - vwah-lah
 Here it is.
o Où est _____ ? - ooh eh
 Where is _____ ?
o Voici _____ - vwah-see
 Here is _____
o Qu'est-ce que c'est que ça ? - kess kuh seh kuh sah
 What is that?
o Qu'est-ce qu'il y a ? - kess keel-ee-ah
 What's the matter?
o Je suis malade. - zhuh swee mah-lahd
 I'm sick
o Je suis fatigué(e) - zhuh swee fah-tee-gay
 I'm tired (add the 'e' if you are female - but pronounce it the same)
o J'ai soif. - zhay swahf
 I'm thirsty.
o J'ai faim. - zhay fawn
 I'm hungry.
o Qu'est-ce qui se passe ? - kess kee suh pahs
 What's happening?
o Je n'ai aucune idée. - zhuh neh oh-kewn ee-day
 I have no idea.
5. Label objects around the house. Try writing the word in french on a flashcard and
the pronounciation on the other side and simply tape it to the correct object and
flip it over if you wish to remind yourself of the pronouciation without becoming
reliant on the "english-ized" spelling of the words. Here's some ideas of objects to
label:
o l'étagère - lay-tah-zhehr
 Shelf
o la fenêtre - fuh-neh-truh
 Window
o la porte - port
 Door
o la chaise - shehzh
 Chair
o l'ordinateur - lor-dee-nah-tur
 Computer
o la chaîne hi fi - shen-hi-fi
 Stereo
o la télévision - tay-lay-vee-zee-ohn
 Television
o le réfrigérateur - ray-free-zhay-rah-tir
 Refrigerator
o le congélateur - kon-zhay-lah-tur
 Freezer
o la cuisinière - kwee-zeen-yehr
 Stove
Tips
 Remember to use formal phrases when speaking to people that you wish to show
respect towards, such as strangers, professors, bosses, etc. You would use
informal phrases only when speaking to children, friends, or family members or to
others when you wish to be rude.
 The French language was designed to be spoken very rapidly. Try renting or
buying French films or DVDs with French dubbing so you can get used to hearing
and understanding the phrases, even when spoken quickly.
 When asking a question remember to bring up the pitch of your voice with each
syllable, that will make it easier for a French person to understand that you're
asking a question and they will probably be able to understand you better.
 Read French books such as Le Fantom de l'Opera by Gaston Leroux. They will
help you understand the language more.
 If you're having a hard time, you can start with "I don't speak French": "Je ne
parle pas le français". It is pronounced Je= Jeuu ne= neuu parle= parl pas= pa le=
leuu français= fransay.
Warnings
 When traveling abroad it is highly advised that you learn more than these basic
phrases. Consider taking a course at a local college or community centre.
Chapter- 10
How to Speak in a British Accent
Accents that are peculiar to England, Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales are each
different and with practice you can begin to talk with one that sounds genuine. Along
with the accents are mannerisms that that you will need to assume to affect the part. The
following directions describe Queen's English or "Received Pronunciation", rarely ever
used in the modern-day United Kingdom, but the foreigners' stereotypical view of how
the British talk.
Steps
1. Understand that in most British accents speakers don't roll their '"R'"s:
(except those from the West Country, Liverpool, Northumbria, Northern Ireland,
and parts of Scotland), but not all "British" accents are the same, ie: a Scottish
accent varies greatly from an English accent.
2. Pay attention to the tones and stress(emphasis) used throughout spoken
sentences by British people. Do sentences generally end on a higher note, the
same, or lower? How much variation is there in tone throughout a typical
sentence? There is a huge variation between regions with tonality. British speech,
especially RP, usually varies much less within a sentence than American English,
and the general tendency is to go down slightly towards the end of a phrase.
However, Liverpool and north-east England are notable exceptions!
3. Pronounce U in stupid and in duty with the ew sound: not oo as in an American
accent; thus it is pronounced stewpid, not stoopid, etc. In the standard English
accent, the A (for example, in father) is pronounced at the back of the mouth with
an open throat - not quite "awr", but on the way there. This is the case in pretty
much all British accents, but it's exaggerated in RP. In southern England, words
such as "bath", "path", "glass", "grass" also use this vowel.
4. Get a British person to say well known sentences: "How now brown cow" and
"The rain in Spain stays mainly on the plain" and pay close attention. Rounded
mouth vowels in words such as "about" in London, are usually flattened in
Northern Ireland.
5. Notice that two or more vowels together may prompt an extra syllable. For
example, the word "road" would usually be pronounced rohd, but in Wales and
with some people in Northern Ireland it might be pronounced ro.ord.
6. Pronounce that T in "duty" as T: not as the American D as doody so that duty is
pronounced dewty or a softer jooty.
7. Pronounce the suffix -ing with the G: so it sounds like -ing rather than -een. But
sometimes it is shortened to in as in lookin.
o The words human being are pronounced hewman being or yooman been in
certain areas, though it could be pronounced hewman bee-in.
8. Drop the Ts: sometimes Ts aren't pronounced at all, especially in words with two
Ts grouped together. So battle might be pronounced Ba-ill, catching the air behind
the back of the tongue at the end of the first syllable before expelling it on
pronunciation of the second syllable. This is known as the glottal stop, and is
uncommon in American English pronunciation. Dropping the 't' is considered to
be lazy, so be aware that whilst you should be aware of it when listening, try not
to speak like this yourself. (Correction from British speaker: snobs consider it
lazy, and this feature doesn't exist in RP, but in pretty much all other accents it's
accepted to do it in the middle of words in casual contexts and almost universal to
put a glottal stop at the end of a word.)(addition from an American theatre
specialist: Americans do glottal stops all the time,"bu-on" for button, "mou--ian"
for mountain).
9. Observe that H is not always pronounced: but the "H" is pronounced in the
word "herb," in contrast to American erb.
10. Realize that some words require the ee sound to be pronounced as in the
word been. In an American accent, this is often pronounced bin. In an English
accent, been is the more common pronunciation, but "bin" is sometimes heard in
casual speech where the word isn't particularly stressed.
Tips
 There are hundreds of different accents within the United Kingdom, so
categorizing them all as a British accent is rather incorrect; wherever you go, you
will find an unbelievable variety of different pronunciations.
 As with any accent, listening to and imitating a native speaker is the most
important and fastest way to learn. Remember that when you were young you
learned a language by listening and then repeating the words while imitating the
accent.
 Take a trip to the United Kingdom and really listen to how they speak.
 As a child, your ability for the ear to process different frequencies of sound is
greater, enabling you to distinguish and reproduce the sounds of the languages
that surround you. To effectively learn a new accent, you must expand the ability
of your ear by listening over and over to examples of the accent.
 If you're visiting England, the universities of Oxford and Cambridge are some of
the last strongholds of the traditional RP/"Queen's English" accent. However,
more and more students there now speak with accents from around Britain and the
world, and the natives of the cities and surrounding areas speak with their own
(often very distinctive) local accents. They'd probably be offended if you assumed
they spoke with a "stereotypical British accent"; don't fall into the common trap of
thinking an "Oxfordshire"/"Cambridgeshire" accent = RP.
 Try to get a British phone-buddy!
 It is easier to learn accents by listening to people. A formal British accent can be
heard on BBC news. You need to pronounce everything clearly and articulate
every word properly, making sure there are spaces between your words. (Second
(British!) writer: not all BBC broadcasters speak RP any more, although most do;
it's probably correct that formal British speech is more deliberate and articulated
than American, but this effect is deliberately exaggerated for TV and radio
broadcast).
 As you expand the ability of the ear, speaking becomes an automatism. When the
ear can "hear" a sound, the mouth has a better chance of producing it.
 There are a wide range of British accents. For every day use or for business, try
learning a "received pronunciation" (RP) accent such as that commonly used by
BBC newscasters.
 Think about your audience. If you wish to genuinely fool people into thinking
you're British, you want to think about regions, and work much harder than if you
want to get a general picture across for a school play.
 Try imagining a plum in your mouth. While pronouncing your vowels, try to keep
your tongue as low in the mouth as possible while keeping the roof high. Talk as
normal as possible (not foolishly). The placement of the tongue, combined with
the extra resonance, should make a good start to "faking" a British accent.
 As well as accent, watch out for slang words, such as lads or blokes for boys/men,
birds or lasses (in the north of England and in Scotland) for women. Loo for the
toilet, but bathroom for a room you clean yourself in.
 Also, don't talk nasally, thus don't use your adenoids to speak.
 Remember: The accents of Julie Andrews or Emma Watson (Hermione from
Harry Potter), who speak RP, are quite different from those of Jamie Oliver and
Simon Cowell (Estuary English - probably the most widespread everyday accent
in Southern England, somewhere between Cockney and RP) or Billy Connolly
(Glasgow).
 Many places have different mannerisms and word usages. Look up a British
dictionary online for more British terms. (However, bear in mind that beyond the
obvious tap/faucet, pavement/sidewalk distinctions, locals would find you at best
an endearing source of amusement and at worst patronising if you tried to adopt
their local words and mannerisms yourself).
 Another way to practice an English, Welsh, Scottish or Irish accent would be to
watch and follow a specific news spokesman on any British news channel and
repeat their speech (half an hour a day would probably take 2 weeks to become an
expert).
 You may have heard a Cockney accent (east end of London). This accent is
increasingly more unusual in the 21st century but if you were try to imitate one,
notice that they almost sing words and they almost replace vowels and remove
letters, e.g. the a in "change", would be an "i" sound. Films based on books by
Dickens as well as ones such as "My Fair Lady" may have examples of this
accent. (British writer: If you want to hear a more up-to-date version of this
accent, watch some episodes of the TV series Eastenders and Only Fools and
Horses. People do still speak like this, especially working-class people in east
London and parts of Essex and Kent, although it's much more noticeable with
older people.)
 With some very strong regional accents, there is a tendency to replace th with a ff
- "through" may sound like "froo".
 Try repeating people who have British accents.
 Always use British English words if they are different to US English. The British
tend to be protective about the differences. In particular, use "rubbish" and "tap",
not "trash" and "faucet". Also, it's good (but not essential) to say "schedule" with
"sh_", not "sk_" but you must learn how to say "specialty" with 5 syllables, not
three (as spe-ci-al-i-ty).
 Also, one of the words in English which shows very easily which accent someone
has is "Water". In Britain, it would sound more like "war-tah".
 Once you learn the techniques and listen to "Brit" speakers, try reading parts of
books while reading in the dialect. It's fun and makes for good practice.
 When you say "at all" pronounce it like "a tall" but with an British accent.
Warnings
 Don't narrow your mouth too much when you say words with "A" as shark or
chance. The result may sound South African.
 Don't think that you'll get it right quickly, either. It is likely that any true British
person will know that you're faking it straight away, but it might pass for a real
accent to non-"Brits".
 The Cockney Accent (as in the movie My Fair Lady) is rare in Modern British.
TV makes it seem like that's the main accent, but it isn't common. (As mentioned
above though, it does still exist, especially with older people, and a milder version
known as Estuary English is still very widespread.)
 Don't be over confident that you do a good British accent. It is rare to find an
imitation that sounds genuine to the native ear.
Things You'll Need
 CD player, some tapes related to the British accent
 you can also refer to BBC learning English
 record the British accent and open windows media player and play it on slow.
That will help you learn the British accent more quickly.
How to Use English Punctuation Correctly
With the dawn of the Internet, the birth of Internet slang, and the growing age of SMS,
many individuals are forgetting the fundamental aspects of English punctuation. Would
you like to write a great paper for one of your classes? Maybe you need to submit a
polished, impeccable proposal to your boss. If so, it will help to know proper usage of
punctuation. Consider this as a crash course in English punctuation, and read on.
Steps
1. End complete sentences with a period (full stop), question mark, or
exclamation point (exclamation mark or shout mark).
o Use the period (full stop) to denote a full stop at the end of a statement.
The period ( . ) is one of the most commonly used punctuation marks.
 The accessibility of the computer has increased tremendously over
the past several years.
o The question mark ( ? ), used at the end of a sentence, suggests an
interrogatory remark or inquiry.
 What has humanity done about the growing concern of global
warming?
o The exclamation point (exclamation mark, shout mark)( ! ) suggests
excitement or emphasis in a sentence.
 I can't believe how difficult the exam was!
2. Use the semicolon and colon properly.
o The semicolon ( ; ) has a few uses.
 Use a semicolon to separate two related but independent clauses.
Note that, if the two clauses are very wordy or complex, it is better
to use a period (full stop) instead.
 People continue to worry about the future; our failure to
conserve resources has put the world at risk.
 Use a semicolon to separate a complex series of items, especially
those that contain commas.
 I went to the show with Jake, my close friend; his friend,
Jane; and her best friend, Jenna.
o The colon ( : ) has multiple uses.
 Use the colon to introduce a list. Be careful not to use a colon
when denoting a regular series. Usually, the word following
suggests the use of a colon. Use only after a full sentence which
ends in a noun.
 The professor has given me three options: to retake the
exam, to accept the extra credit assignment, or to fail the
class.
 INCORRECT - The Easter basket contained: Easter eggs,
chocolate rabbits, and other candy.
3. Understand the differences between a hyphen and a dash.
o The hyphen ( - ) was once a common punctuation mark on typewriters,
when a long word might have been split between two lines. The hyphen is
still used in a number of other areas:
 Use a hyphen when adding a prefix to some words. The purpose of
this hyphen is to make the word easier to read. If you were to leave
the hyphen out of a word like re-examine, it would be reexamine,
which would be harder to read. Understand that some words do not
require a hyphen to separate the prefix from the word, such as
restate, pretest, and undo. Let a dictionary be your guide for when
to use the hyphen after a prefix.
When you use a hyphen, the two words have to rely on each other.
Example: re-arrange.
 Cara is his ex-girlfriend.
 Use hyphens when creating compound words from separate words.
 The up-to-date newspaper reporters were quick to jump on
the latest scandal.
 Use a hyphen when writing numbers out as words. Separate the
two words of any number under one hundred with a hyphen.
 There are fifty-two playing cards in a deck. ("The amount
is one hundred and eighty" is a common error in US
English, where the "and" is usually omitted. Elsewhere in
the English-speaking world, however, the "and" is usually
included.)
 Be careful with spelling out numbers above one
hundred — if the number is used as an adjective, it
is completely hyphenated, since all compound
adjectives are hyphenated (This is the one-
hundredth episode.). Otherwise, a hyphen should
only occur if a number greater than 100 occurs
within the larger number, e.g., He lived to be one
hundred twenty-one.
o The dash ( -- or — ) should be used when making a brief interruption
within a statement, a sudden change of thought, an additional comment, or
a dramatic qualification. It can also be used to add a parenthetical
statement, such as for further clarification, but should still be relevant to
the sentence. Otherwise, use parentheses. Keep in mind that the rest of the
sentence should still flow naturally. Try to remove the statement within
the dash from the sentence; if the sentence appears disjointed or does not
make sense, then you may need to revise. There should be spaces before
and after the dash in British English.
 An introductory clause is a brief phrase that comes — yes, you
guessed it — at the beginning of a sentence.
 This is the end of our sentence — or so we thought.
4. Use the double quotation mark and single quotation mark/apostrophe for
different purposes.
o The double quotation ( " ) encloses a direct quotation, whether made by a
person or taken from a piece of literature.
 "I can't wait to see him perform!" John exclaimed.
 According to the article, the value of the dollar in developing
nations is "strongly influenced by its aesthetic value, rather than
its face value."
o The single quotation mark or apostrophe ( ' ) has a variety of uses.
 Use the apostrophe together with the letter s to indicate possession.
Be aware of the difference in using an apostrophe with singular or
plural nouns. A singular noun will use 's, whereas the plural
version of that singular noun will use s'. Also, be mindful of nouns
that are always considered to be plural, such as children and people
— here, you should use 's.
Be aware of pronouns that are already possessive and do not
require apostrophes, such as hers and its (it's is used only for the
contractions of it is and it has). Their is possessive without
apostrophe or s, except as a predicate adjective, where it becomes
theirs.
 The hamster's water tube needs to be refilled.
 A singular noun with possession.
 In the pet store, the hamsters' bedding needed to be
changed.
 A pluralized singular noun with possession.
 These children's test scores are the highest in the nation.
 A plural noun with possession.
 Friends of hers explained it's her idea, not theirs, to refill
the hamster's water tube and change its bedding.
 Possessive pronouns (hers, theirs, its), contraction
of it is, and a singular noun with possession.
 Use the apostrophe to combine two words to make a contraction.
For example, cannot becomes can't, you are becomes you're, and
they have becomes they've.
Be sure to use correctly possessive pronoun your and contraction
you're — it is one of the __most common mistakes__ to confuse
them!
 Use the single quotation mark within a regular quotation to
indicate a quotation within a quotation.
 Ali said, "Anna told me, 'I wasn't sure if you wanted to
come!'"
 Note that an apostrophe is not used with s to make a plural noun
from a singular. This is a very common mistake and should be
avoided.
 CORRECT - apple → apples
 INCORRECT - apple → apple's
5. Indicate a break or pause within a sentence with the comma ( , ). This is
another commonly used punctuation mark. There are several instances where you
might use a comma.
o Use the comma when denoting an appositive, or a break within a sentence
that supplements and adds information to the subject.
 Bill Gates, CEO of Microsoft, is the developer of the operating
system known as Windows.
o Use the comma when denoting a series. This is a set of three or more "list"
items within a sentence. Many writers omit the last comma as "and" is also
a connective ("The basket contained apples, bananas and oranges.").
 The fruit basket contained apples, bananas, and oranges.
 The computer store was filled with video games, computer
hardware and other electronic paraphernalia.
o Use a comma if your subject has two or more adjectives describing it. This
is somewhat similar to a series, except that it is incorrect to place a
comma after the final adjective.
 CORRECT - The powerful, resonating sound caught our attention.
 INCORRECT - The powerful, resonating, sound caught our
attention.
o Use a comma when referring to a city and state. It is also necessary to use
a comma to separate the city and state from the rest of the sentence.
 I am originally from Ventnor, NJ.
 Los Angeles, CA, is one of the largest cities in the United States.
o Use a comma to separate an introductory phrase (which is usually one or
more prepositional phrases) from the rest of the sentence. An introductory
phrase briefly introduces the sentence, but is not part of the sentence's
subject or predicate, and it therefore should be separated from the main
clause by a comma.
 After the show, John and I went out to dinner.
 On the back of my couch, my cat's claws have slowly been carving
a large hole.
o Use the comma to separate two independent clauses. Having two
independent clauses in a sentence simply means that you can split the
sentence into two. If your sentence contains two independent clauses that
are separated by a conjunction (such as and, as, but, for, nor, so, or yet),
place a comma before the conjunction.
 Ryan went to the beach yesterday, but he forgot his sunscreen.
 Water bills usually rise during the summer, as people are thirstier
during hot and humid days.
o Use a comma when making a direct address. When calling one's attention
by name, separate the person's name and the rest of the statement with a
comma. Note that this kind of comma is used rarely in writing, because
this is something that we do normally while speaking.
 Amber, could you come here for a moment?
o Use a comma to separate direct quotations. A comma should come after
the last word before a quotation that is being introduced. It is not
necessary to use a comma in an indirect quote. A comma is usually not
necessary if you are not quoting an entire statement.
 While I was at his house, John asked me if I wanted anything to
eat.
 An indirect quotation that does not require a comma.
 While I was at his house, John asked, "Do you want anything to
eat?"
 A direct quotation.
 According to the client, the lawyer was "lazy and incompetent."
 A partial direct quotation that does not require a comma.
6. Understand the difference between parentheses, brackets, and braces.
o Use parentheses ( ( ) ) to clarify, to place an afterthought, or to add a
personal comment. Be sure to include the period after the closing
parenthesis.
 Steve Case (AOL's former CEO) resigned from the Time-Warner
board of directors in 2005.
 Used for clarification. Here, commas can replace the
parentheses.
 You will need a flashlight for the camping trip (don't forget the
batteries!).
 An afterthought. Note that the period (full stop) follows the
last parentheses — not before the first. Also note that
replacing the parentheses with a comma may not be
entirely suitable here, and is better off with a period or a
semicolon.
 Most grammarians believe that parentheses and commas are
always interchangeable (I disagree).
 A personal comment.
o Use brackets ( [ ] ) to signify an editor's note in a regular piece of writing.
You can also use brackets to clarify or to revise a direct quote so that it
appeals to your own writing. Brackets are often used to encompass the
word "sic" (Latin for thus), suggesting that the previous word or phrase
was written "as is", with the error intended to be displayed.
 "[The blast] was absolutely devastating," said Susan Smith, a local
bystander at the scene of the incident.
 "It was absolutely devastating!" – the actual quote by
Susan Smith.
o Braces ( { } ) are most widely used in denoting a numeric set in
mathematics. Though generally uncommon, braces can also be used in
regular writing to indicate a set of equal, independent choices.
 { 1, 2, 5, 10, 20 }
 Choose your favorite utensil { fork, knife, spoon } and bring it to
me.
7. Know how to use the slash ( / ).
o Use the slash to separate and and or, when appropriate. The phrase and/or
suggests that a series of options are not mutually exclusive.
 To register, you will need your driver's license and/or your birth
certificate.
o The slash is used when quoting lyrics and poetry to denote a line break. Be
sure to add spaces between your slashes here.
 Row, row, row your boat / Gently down the stream. / Merrily,
merrily, merrily, merrily, / Life is but a dream.
o The slash can replace the word and to join two nouns. By replacing and
with a slash, you suggest that there is equal importance to both
characteristics. Use these replacements in moderation to place greater
emphasis where and may not do so — as well as not to confuse the reader.
You can also do the same for or, as in his/her. However, you should not
use the slash to separate independent clauses, as shown below.
 CORRECT
"The student and part-time employee has very little free time." →
"The student/part-time employee has very little free time."
 INCORRECT
"Do you want to go to the grocery store, or would you prefer to go
to the mall?" →
"Do you want to go to the grocery store / would you prefer to go to
the mall?"
Tips
 If you write in a professional capacity, be sure to follow any guidelines or style
guides provided by your employer. In some cases, their rules can be at odds with
what you read here or elsewhere, but their rules always take precedence. For
example, some companies use serial commas (a, b, and c) and others do not (a, b
and c).
 Many grammar experts believe that parentheses and commas are often
interchangeable when setting off information. While this is sometimes true, there
are some cases where a set of parentheses might be more suitable, such as in
indicating one's personal thought.
 Although dashes and parentheses have similar uses, remember that parentheses
indicate a stronger "side notion" than dashes.
 There are exceptions to the hyphen-dash rule. In making compound words, when
one of the words is itself composed of two words, use an en dash ( – ) rather than
a hyphen, as in, "He took the Paris–New York route." En dashes are also used
between numbers, as in page numbers or years, to denote a range. ("A discussion
on personal finance is found in pages 45–62.")
 The placement of punctuation marks before or after a closing quotation mark
varies. American English leaves the punctuation mark inside the quotation if it is
part of the quotation, "like so." (Commas and periods (full stops) are always put
inside the quotation marks for a sentence in American English, regardless of
whether the quotation has punctuation at the end. Other types of punctuation
marks are put outside the quotation if they are not part of the quotation.) British
English tends to leave the punctuation mark outside the quotation, "like so".
o At times, British English will switch back and forth between the inside
and outside, depending on the context. For example, interrogative
quotations may keep the question mark inside the quotation, as in, "Do
you like this question?"
 In formal writing, try to avoid excessive use of question marks and exclamation
points. Most of your sentences should be declarative statements.
 Dashes are usually considered to be informal. You might want to replace the use
of a dash with a set of parentheses, or even commas. Similarly, limit the
frequency of dash use in your writing; they should be reserved to emphasize a
couple of important points.
 If you decide against the serial comma in your work, make sure that the meaning
of the sentence can stand without its use. Think about the classic example of a
sentence in which the serial comma is needed: "My heroes are my parents,
Mother Teresa and the Pope."
 If you find that a sentence seems to drag on, find a way to add a comma or two, so
that it is easier on the reader's eyes. If a sentence becomes too long, then consider
splitting it into two or more sentences.
 Never be afraid to have short sentences in your writing by splitting up long
sentences that contain several points. Your reader will appreciate writing that is
clear and concise with briefer statements, as opposed to a one-page paragraph
with twenty words per sentence.
Warnings
 While using English punctuation appropriately may help your writing to flow
much more smoothly, generally creating a more "intelligent" appearance, don't
overdo it. It's best to err on the side of omission than to add several superfluous
apostrophes and commas.
 Try to keep the different languages' punctuation from each other, so you do not
confuse languages and their punctuation rules with each other.
Chapter- 11
Machine Translation
Machine translation, sometimes referred to by the abbreviation MT, also called
computer-aided translation, machine-aided human translation MAHT and
interactive translation, is a sub-field of computational linguistics that investigates the
use of computer software to translate text or speech from one natural language to another.
At its basic level, MT performs simple substitution of words in one natural language for
words in another, but that alone usually cannot produce a good translation of a text,
because recognition of whole phrases and their closest counterparts in the target language
is needed. Solving this problem with corpus and statistical techniques is a rapidly
growing field that is leading to better translations, handling differences in linguistic
typology, translation of idioms, and the isolation of anomalies.
Current machine translation software often allows for customisation by domain or
profession (such as weather reports), improving output by limiting the scope of allowable
substitutions. This technique is particularly effective in domains where formal or
formulaic language is used. It follows that machine translation of government and legal
documents more readily produces usable output than conversation or less standardised
text.
Improved output quality can also be achieved by human intervention: for example, some
systems are able to translate more accurately if the user has unambiguously identified
which words in the text are names. With the assistance of these techniques, MT has
proven useful as a tool to assist human translators and, in a very limited number of cases,
can even produce output that can be used as is (e.g., weather reports).
History
The idea of machine translation may be traced back to the 17th century. In 1629, René
Descartes proposed a universal language, with equivalent ideas in different tongues
sharing one symbol. In the 1950s, The Georgetown experiment (1954) involved fully-
automatic translation of over sixty Russian sentences into English. The experiment was a
great success and ushered in an era of substantial funding for machine-translation
research. The authors claimed that within three to five years, machine translation would
be a solved problem.
Real progress was much slower, however, and after the ALPAC report (1966), which
found that the ten-year-long research had failed to fulfill expectations, funding was
greatly reduced. Beginning in the late 1980s, as computational power increased and
became less expensive, more interest was shown in statistical models for machine
translation.
The idea of using digital computers for translation of natural languages was proposed as
early as 1946 by A. D. Booth and possibly others. The Georgetown experiment was by no
means the first such application, and a demonstration was made in 1954 on the APEXC
machine at Birkbeck College (University of London) of a rudimentary translation of
English into French. Several papers on the topic were published at the time, and even
articles in popular journals (see for example Wireless World, Sept. 1955, Cleave and
Zacharov). A similar application, also pioneered at Birkbeck College at the time, was
reading and composing Braille texts by computer.
Translation process
The translation process may be stated as:
1. Decoding the meaning of the source text; and
2. Re-encoding this meaning in the target language.
Behind this ostensibly simple procedure lies a complex cognitive operation. To decode
the meaning of the source text in its entirety, the translator must interpret and analyse all
the features of the text, a process that requires in-depth knowledge of the grammar,
semantics, syntax, idioms, etc., of the source language, as well as the culture of its
speakers. The translator needs the same in-depth knowledge to re-encode the meaning in
the target language.
Therein lies the challenge in machine translation: how to program a computer that will
"understand" a text as a person does, and that will "create" a new text in the target
language that "sounds" as if it has been written by a person.
This problem may be approached in a number of ways.
Approaches
Pyramid showing comparative depths of intermediary representation, interlingual
machine translation at the peak, followed by transfer-based, then direct translation.
Machine translation can use a method based on linguistic rules, which means that words
will be translated in a linguistic way — the most suitable (orally speaking) words of the
target language will replace the ones in the source language.
It is often argued that the success of machine translation requires the problem of natural
language understanding to be solved first.
Generally, rule-based methods parse a text, usually creating an intermediary, symbolic
representation, from which the text in the target language is generated. According to the
nature of the intermediary representation, an approach is described as interlingual
machine translation or transfer-based machine translation. These methods require
extensive lexicons with morphological, syntactic, and semantic information, and large
sets of rules.
Given enough data, machine translation programs often work well enough for a native
speaker of one language to get the approximate meaning of what is written by the other
native speaker. The difficulty is getting enough data of the right kind to support the
particular method. For example, the large multilingual corpus of data needed for
statistical methods to work is not necessary for the grammar-based methods. But then, the
grammar methods need a skilled linguist to carefully design the grammar that they use.
To translate between closely related languages, a technique referred to as shallow-transfer
machine translation may be used.
Rule-based
The rule-based machine translation paradigm includes transfer-based machine translation,
interlingual machine translation and dictionary-based machine translation paradigms.
Transfer-based machine translation
Interlingual
Interlingual machine translation is one instance of rule-based machine-translation
approaches. In this approach, the source language, i.e. the text to be translated, is
transformed into an interlingual, i.e. source-/target-language-independent representation.
The target language is then generated out of the interlingua.
Dictionary-based
Machine translation can use a method based on dictionary entries, which means that the
words will be translated as they are by a dictionary.
Statistical
Statistical machine translation tries to generate translations using statistical methods
based on bilingual text corpora, such as the Canadian Hansard corpus, the English-French
record of the Canadian parliament and EUROPARL, the record of the European
Parliament. Where such corpora are available, impressive results can be achieved
translating texts of a similar kind, but such corpora are still very rare. The first statistical
machine translation software was CANDIDE from IBM. Google used SYSTRAN for
several years, but switched to a statistical translation method in October 2007. Recently,
they improved their translation capabilities by inputting approximately 200 billion words
from United Nations materials to train their system. Accuracy of the translation has
improved.
Example-based
Example-based machine translation (EBMT) approach was proposed by Makoto Nagao
in 1984. It is often characterised by its use of a bilingual corpus as its main knowledge
base, at run-time. It is essentially a translation by analogy and can be viewed as an
implementation of case-based reasoning approach of machine learning.
Hybrid MT
Hybrid machine translation (HMT) leverages the strengths of statistical and rule-based
translation methodologies. Several MT companies (Asia Online, LinguaSys, and Systran)
are claiming to have a hybrid approach using both rules and statistics. The approaches
differ in a number of ways:
 Rules post-processed by statistics: Translations are performed using a rules
based engine. Statistics are then used in an attempt to adjust/correct the output
from the rules engine.
 Statistics guided by rules: Rules are used to pre-process data in an attempt to
better guide the statistical engine. Rules are also used to post-process the
statistical output to perform functions such as normalization. This approach has a
lot more power, flexibility and control when translating.
Major issues
Disambiguation
Word-sense disambiguation concerns finding a suitable translation when a word can have
more than one meaning. The problem was first raised in the 1950s by Yehoshua Bar-
Hillel. He pointed out that without a "universal encyclopedia", a machine would never be
able to distinguish between the two meanings of a word. Today there are numerous
approaches designed to overcome this problem. They can be approximately divided into
"shallow" approaches and "deep" approaches.
Shallow approaches assume no knowledge of the text. They simply apply statistical
methods to the words surrounding the ambiguous word. Deep approaches presume a
comprehensive knowledge of the word. So far, shallow approaches have been more
successful.
The late Claude Piron, a long-time translator for the United Nations and the World Health
Organization, wrote that machine translation, at its best, automates the easier part of a
translator's job; the harder and more time-consuming part usually involves doing
extensive research to resolve ambiguities in the source text, which the grammatical and
lexical exigencies of the target language require to be resolved:
Why does a translator need a whole workday to translate five pages, and not an
hour or two? ..... About 90% of an average text corresponds to these simple
conditions. But unfortunately, there's the other 10%. It's that part that requires six
[more] hours of work. There are ambiguities one has to resolve. For instance, the
author of the source text, an Australian physician, cited the example of an
epidemic which was declared during World War II in a "Japanese prisoner of war
camp". Was he talking about an American camp with Japanese prisoners or a
Japanese camp with American prisoners? The English has two senses. It's
necessary therefore to do research, maybe to the extent of a phone call to
Australia.
The ideal deep approach would require the translation software to do all the research
necessary for this kind of disambiguation on its own; but this would require a higher
degree of AI than has yet been attained. A shallow approach which simply guessed at the
sense of the ambiguous English phrase that Piron mentions (based, perhaps, on which
kind of prisoner-of-war camp is more often mentioned in a given corpus) would have a
reasonable chance of guessing wrong fairly often. A shallow approach that involves "ask
the user about each ambiguity" would, by Piron's estimate, only automate about 25% of a
professional translator's job, leaving the harder 75% still to be done by a human.
Named entities
Related to named entity recognition in information extraction.
Applications
There are now many software programs for translating natural language, several of them
online, such as:
 Ta with you is specialized in customized machine translation solutions in any
language. Their web-based user interface makes it easy for any Language Service
Provider to generate any combination of domain and language pair to achieve the
best quality. Their solution works with almost human quality for combinations
from/to Spanish.
 LinguaSys provides highly customized hybrid machine translation that can go
from any language to any language.
 Asia Online provides a custom machine translation engine building capability that
they claim gives near-human quality compared to the "gist" based quality of free
online engines. Asia Online also provides tools to edit and create custom machine
translation engines with their Language Studio suite of products.
 Hindi to Punjabi Machine Translation System, provides machine translation using
a direct approach. It translates Hindi into Punjabi. It also features writing e-mail
in the Hindi language and sending the same in Punjabi to the recipient.
 Arabic machine translation in multilingual framework.
 Worldlingo provides machine translation using both statistical based TE's and rule
based TE's. Most recognizable as the MT partner in Microsoft Windows and
Microsoft Mac Office.
 Power Translator
 SYSTRAN, which powers Yahoo! Babel Fish
 Promt, which powers online translation services at Voila.fr and Orange.fr
 AppTek, which released a hybrid MT system in 2009.
 Toggletext uses a transfer-based system (known as Kataku) to translate between
English and Indonesian.
 Anusaaraka A free open source machine translation from English to Hindi based
on Panini grammar and uses state of the art NLP tools. Can be used online and
downloaded from
 Apertium, a free and open source machine translation platform (WinXLator gives
this a Windows GUI, but it is likely to be in violation of the Apertium GPL
license)
 Google Translate A free online translator from Google.
Other translation software, most of them running under Microsoft Windows, includes
 Translation memory tools, such as Globalsight, SDL Trados, Wordfast, Deja Vu,
Swordfish, and
 localization tools, such and Alchemy CATALYST and Multilizer.
(A comparison test of software of this kind may be seen here.) A number of translation
software programs are available free of charge, e.g. ForeignDesk and the multiplatform
Okapi Framework and OmegaT+.
While no system provides the holy grail of fully-automatic high-quality machine
translation of unrestricted text, many fully-automated systems produce reasonable output.
The quality of machine translation is substantially improved if the domain is restricted
and controlled.
Despite their inherent limitations, MT programs are used around the world. Probably the
largest institutional user is the European Commission. The MOLTO project, for example,
coordinated by the University of Gothenburg, received more than 2.375 million euros
project support from the EU to create a reliable translation tool that covers a majority of
the EU languages.
Google has claimed that promising results were obtained using a proprietary statistical
machine translation engine. The statistical translation engine used in the Google language
tools for Arabic <-> English and Chinese <-> English had an overall score of 0.4281 over
the runner-up IBM's BLEU-4 score of 0.3954 (Summer 2006) in tests conducted by the
National Institute for Standards and Technology.
With the recent focus on terrorism, the military sources in the United States have been
investing significant amounts of money in natural language engineering. In-Q-Tel (a
venture capital fund, largely funded by the US Intelligence Community, to stimulate new
technologies through private sector entrepreneurs) brought up companies like Language
Weaver. Currently the military community is interested in translation and processing of
languages like Arabic, Pashto, and Dari. The Information Processing Technology Office
in DARPA hosts programs like TIDES and Babylon Translator. US Air Force has
awarded a $1 million contract to develop a language translation technology.
The notable rise of social networking on the web in recent years has created yet another
niche for the application of machine translation software – in utilities such as Facebook,
or instant messaging clients such as Skype, GoogleTalk, MSN Messenger, etc. – allowing
users speaking different languages to communicate with each other. Machine translation
applications have also been released for most mobile devices, including mobile
telephones, pocket PCs, PDAs, etc. Due to their portability, such instruments have come
to be designated as mobile translation tools enabling mobile business networking
between partners speaking different languages, or facilitating both foreign language
learning and unaccompanied traveling to foreign countries without the need of the
intermediation of a human translator.
Evaluation
Machine translation systems and output can be evaluated along numerous dimensions.
The intended use of the translation, characteristics of the MT software, the nature of the
translation process, etc., all affect how one evaluates MT systems and their output. The
FEMTI taxonomy of dimensions, with associated evaluation metrics.
There are various means for evaluating the output quality of machine translation systems.
The oldest is the use of human judges to assess a translation's quality. Even though
human evaluation is time-consuming, it is still the most reliable way to compare different
systems such as rule-based and statistical systems. Automated means of evaluation
include BLEU, NIST and METEOR.
Relying exclusively on unedited machine translation ignores the fact that communication
in human language is context-embedded and that it takes a person to comprehend the
context of the original text with a reasonable degree of probability. It is certainly true that
even purely human-generated translations are prone to error. Therefore, to ensure that a
machine-generated translation will be useful to a human being and that publishable-
quality translation is achieved, such translations must be reviewed and edited by a
human. The late Claude Piron wrote that machine translation, at its best, automates the
easier part of a translator's job; the harder and more time-consuming part usually involves
doing extensive research to resolve ambiguities in the source text, which the grammatical
and lexical exigencies of the target language require to be resolved. Such research is a
necessary prelude to the pre-editing necessary in order to provide input for machine-
translation software such that the output will not be meaningless.
In certain applications, however, e.g., product descriptions written in a controlled
language, a dictionary-based machine-translation system has produced satisfactory
translations that require no human intervention save for quality inspection.
Chapter- 12
Telephone Interpreting
Telephone interpreting is a service that connects human interpreters via telephone to
individuals who wish to speak to each other but do not share a common language. The
telephone interpreter converts the spoken language from one language to another,
enabling listeners and speakers to understand each other. Interpretation over the
telephone most often takes place in consecutive mode, which means that the interpreter
waits until the speaker finishes an utterance before rendering the interpretation into the
other language.
Telephone interpreting is one modality or delivery mechanism for providing interpreting
services. Other forms of delivering interpreting services include video interpreting for the
deaf and hard of hearing, and in-person interpreting.
Providers
There are many types of organizations that provide telephone interpreting services,
including for-profit companies, governmental organizations, non-profit groups, and
internal divisions within organizations. For example, the government of Australia
operates a telephone interpreting service, as do the governments of South Africa and New
Zealand. In the United States, telephone interpreting is widely used by the federal courts.
Commercial providers are also plentiful, and are commonly used in the United States.
Many of the commercial telephone interpreting providers connect users with interpreters
for more than 150 languages. Such providers claim to have the ability to connect an
interpreter at any time of day, within a matter of seconds. Some hospitals and health care
systems also provide telephone interpreting services.
Sponsored services in the U.K.
Language Line Inc. is a commercial interpreting provider that was initially a charity.
British social activist Michael Young noticed that language barriers were leading to
substandard services for ethnic minorities at Royal London Hospital, so he obtained grant
funding to provide free telephone interpreters starting in 1990. Police on the Isle of Dogs
became his second client; he later began serving corporate clients and converted the
charity into a commercial service.
Language Direct is a similar service provider but they specialize more in-person
interpreting and document translations.They provide language services in over 150 world
languages, mainly to the government sector.
TheBigWord won a cross government framework in the U.K. in 2006, after which they
opened offices globally to supply telephone interpreting (OPI) and related services.
Equipment
Users typically access telephone interpreting services with a telephone or computer with
VoIP. However, if the two parties wishing to communicate are in the same location,
using a dual handset phone, a phone with two receivers, can relieve the two parties from
passing a phone back and forth. Speakerphones are also sometimes used, but these can
create challenges both in terms of confidentiality, and for the interpreter, especially due
to background noise, which can hinder the interpreter's ability to hear.
The dual handset phone was first offered by a company called CyraCom, a provider of
telephone interpreting services, and is now widely available. There is also a variant made
specifically for the U.K. Government by their telephone interpreting provider.. These
companies usually either lease or sell the phones to their telephone interpreting
customers. Dual-handset phones can be bought directly by customers, enabling them to
obtain the phones without obtaining them through a telephone interpreting company.
Where one party is deaf, hard-of-hearing or speech-impaired, communication via an off-
site sign language interpreter can be performed using a videophone or similar video
telecommunication technology.
Uses
The provision of telephone interpreting generally fits into two main categories:
 Automated: an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) application is employed to
convert spoken or "keyed" Dual Tone Multi Frequency (DTMF) data into a
request for connecting to an interpreter in a specific language (identified by
unique language-codes). This application is suited to call-centres, who may have
the need for very fast (and sometimes a fully-integrated) connection to an
interpreting service.
 Operator-led: utilise customer-care staff to answer the call, gather the required
information from the caller, and facilitate the connection to the interpreter. A
service of this nature can be preferred by organisations like the emergency
services, where carrying language-code references is unsuitable.
Telephone interpreting is widely used for a number of settings, including health care,
government, financial, insurance, 9-1-1/emergency, and many others. Telephone
interpreting is especially helpful for settings in which the two parties would have
communicated via telephone anyway, such as interactions between call centers and
consumers, calls between members of the public and a 9-1-1 call center, etc. Telephone
interpreting is used to take applications over the phone, help individuals who have
questions about account balances, payments due, and so forth.
Telephone interpretation via Video Remote Interpreting (VRI) or a Video Relay Service
(VRS) are also useful where one of the parties is deaf, hard-of-hearing or speech-
impaired. In such cases the interpretation flow is normally within the same principal
language, such as French Sign Language (FSL) to spoken French, Spanish Sign
Language (SSL) to spoken Spanish, British Sign Language (BSL) to spoken English, and
American Sign Language (ASL) also to spoken English (since BSL and ASL are
completely distinct), etc.... Multilingual sign language interpreters, who can also translate
as well across principal languages (such as to and from SSL, to and from spoken
English), are also available, albeit less frequently. Such activities involve considerable
effort on the part of the translator, since sign languages are distinct natural languages
with their own construction and syntax, which are different from the aural version of the
same principal language.
Market
In 2007, the global telephone interpreting market was worth US$700 Million, with an
estimated US$500 Million generated in the United States. Industry research firm
Common Sense Advisory estimates this number will increase to US$1.2 thousand Million
by 2012. The market for telephone interpreting is global in scope and includes companies
from the United States, the Netherlands, Sweden, France, the United Kingdom, Canada,
India, China, Norway, Spain, and Hong Kong.
Chapter- 13
Lingua Franca
A lingua franca (originally Italian for "Frankish language" - see etymology below) is a
language systematically used to communicate between persons not sharing a mother
tongue, in particular when it is a third language, distinct from both persons' mother
tongues.
This can also be referred to as working language or bridge language.
Characteristics
Lingua franca is a functionally defined term, independent of the linguistic history or
structure of the language: though pidgins and creoles often function as lingua francas,
many lingua francas are neither pidgins nor creoles. Synonyms for lingua franca are
"vehicular language" and "bridge language". Whereas a vernacular language is used as a
native language in a single speaker community, a vehicular language goes beyond the
boundaries of its original community, and is used as a second language for
communication between communities. For example, English is a vernacular in the United
Kingdom, but is used as a vehicular language (that is, a lingua franca) in the Philippines.
International auxiliary languages such as Esperanto are generally intended by their
designers to function as linguas franca, but they have historically had a relatively low
level of adoption and use and therefore are not linguas franca.
Etymology
The original Lingua Franca was a mixed language composed mostly (80%) of Italian
with a broad vocabulary drawn from Turkish, French, Spanish, Greek and Arabic. It was
in use throughout the eastern Mediterranean as the language of commerce and diplomacy
in and around the Renaissance era. At that time, Italian speakers dominated seaborne
commerce in the port cities of the Ottoman empire. Franca was the Italian word for
Frankish. Its usage in the term lingua franca originated from its meaning in Arabic,
dating from before the Crusades, whereby all Europeans were called "Franks" or Faranji
in Arabic. It has close resemblance to the arabic word "Firangi, which literally means
foreign. The term lingua franca is first recorded in English in 1678.
Africa
Afrikaans
Afrikaans is spoken as a first language by many millions of people in South Africa, both
white and non-white, and as a second language by millions more. During apartheid, the
government aimed to create it as the 'lingua franca' in South Africa and South African
controlled South-West Africa (modern day Namibia). However, since the end of
apartheid, in a nation with 11 official languages, to avoid any political or ethnical
problems, English has been widely adopted as the new lingua franca, and has already
replaced many Afrikaans company names, such as South African Airways. However,
Afrikaans speech is still used, especially by the adult population in everyday speech, but
English is becoming popular among the younger generation, and Afrikaans itself has
already evolved recently by including many more English loan words and spelling.
Amharic
The languange of Ethiopians, Abyssinians, Sudan and Kenya. It is spoken by 20 million
people It has dialects in Tigrinya and Harari in the regions of Ertria and Ogaden.Ethiopia
has the kingdom of Showa as the center of Amharic language.
Berber
During the rise of Berber dynasties like Almoravids and Almohads between 1040 and
1500, Berber was the lingua franca of North Africa and much of West Africa. It directly
influenced many West African languages. Today the language is less influential due to its
suppression and marginalization, and the adoption of French and Arabic by the political
regimes of the Berber world as working languages. However, Tuareg, a branch of within
the Berber languages, is still playing the role of a lingua franca to some extent in some
vast parts of the Sahara Desert especially in southern Algeria, Mali, Niger, and Libya.
Fanagalo
Fanagalo or Fanakalo is a pidgin based on the Zulu, English, and Afrikaans languages. It
is used as a lingua franca, mainly in the mining industries in South Africa.
Fula
Fula (Fula: Fulfulde or Pulaar or Pular, depending on the region; French: Peul) the
language of the Fula people or Fulani (Fula: Fulɓe; French: Peuls) and associated groups
such as the Toucouleur. Fula is spoken in all countries directly south of the Sahara (such
as Cameroon, Chad, Nigeria, Niger, Mali…). It is spoken mainly by Fula people, but is
also used as a lingua franca by several populations of various origin, throughout Western
Africa.
Hausa
Hausa is widely spoken through Nigeria and Niger and recognised in neighbouring states
such as Ghana, Benin, and Cameroon. The reason for this is that Hausa people used to be
traders who led caravans with goods (cotton, leather, slaves, food crops etc.) through the
whole West African region, from the Niger Delta to the Atlantic shores at the very west
edge of Africa. They also reached North African states through Trans-Saharan routes.
Thus trade deals in Timbuktu in modern Mali, Agadez, Ghat, Fez in Northern Africa, and
other trade centers were often concluded in Hausa.
Krio
Krio is the most widely spoken language throughout Sierra Leone even though its native
speakers, the Sierra Leone Creole people or Krios, (a community of about 300,000
descendants of freed slaves from the West Indies, United States and Britain) make only
about 5% of the country's population. The Krio language unites all the different ethnic
groups, especially in their trade and interaction with each other. Krio is also spoken in
The Gambia.
Manding
The largely interintelligible Manding languages of West Africa serve as lingua francas in
various places. For instance Bambara is the most widely spoken language in Mali, and
Jula (almost the same as Bambara) is commonly used in western Burkina Faso and
northern Côte d'Ivoire. Manding languages have long been used in regional commerce, so
much so that the word for trader, jula, was applied to the language currently known by
the same name. Other varieties of Manding are used in several other countries, such as
Guinea, The Gambia, and Senegal.
Sango
The Sango language is a lingua franca developed for intertribal trading in the Central
African Republic. It is based on the Northern Ngbandi language spoken by the Sango
people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo but with a large vocabulary of French
loan words.
Swahili
Swahili is used throughout large parts of East Africa as a lingua franca, despite being the
mother tongue of a relatively small ethnic group on the East African coast and nearby
islands in the Indian Ocean. At least as early as the late 18th century, Swahili was used
along trading and slave routes that extended west across Lake Tanganyika and into the
present-day Democratic Republic of Congo. Swahili rose in prominence throughout the
colonial era, and has become the predominant African language of Tanzania and Kenya.
Some contemporary members of non-Swahili ethnic groups speak Swahili more often
than their mother tongues, and many choose to raise their children with Swahili as their
first language, leading to the possibility that several smaller East African languages will
fade as Swahili transitions from being a regional lingua franca to a regional first
language.
Wolof
Wolof is a widely spoken lingua franca of Senegal and The Gambia (especially the
capital, Banjul). It is the native language of approximately 5 million Wolof people in
Senegal, and is spoken as a second language by an equal number.
Asia
Akkadian
In the Middle East, from around 2500BC to 1500BC, forms of Akkadian were the
universally recognized language. It was used throughout the Akkadian empire as well as
internationally as a diplomatic language—for example between Egypt and Babylon—
well after the fall of the Akkadian empire itself and even while Aramaic was more
common in Babylon.
Arabic
An example of a text written in Arabic calligraphy
Arabic, the native language of the Arabs, who originally came from the Arabian
Peninsula, became the "lingua franca" of the Islamic Empire (Arab Empire) (from AD
733 – AD 1492), which at a certain point spread from the borders of China and Northern
India through Central Asia, Persia, Asia Minor, Middle East, North Africa all the way to
Spain and Portugal in the west.
Arabic was also used by people neighbouring the Islamic Empire. During the Islamic
Golden Age, Arabic was the language of science and diplomacy (around AD 1200), when
more books were written in Arabic than in any other language in the world at that time
period. It influenced many sub-Saharan African languages, with stronger influences on
east African languages, such as Swahili and loaned many words to Persian, Turkish,
Urdu, Spanish and Portuguese, countries it ruled for 700 years. It also had some influence
over the English language.
Arabic script was adopted by many other languages such as Urdu, Persian, Swahili
(changed to Latin in the late 19th century) and Turkish which switched to Latin script in
1928. Arabic became the lingua franca of these regions not simply because of commerce
or diplomacy, but also on religious grounds since Arabic is the language of the Qur'an,
Islam's holy book and these populations became heavily Muslim. Arabic remains as the
lingua franca for 22 countries (24 if one was to include the Palestinian territories and
Western Sahara), in the Middle East and North Africa in addition to Chad. Despite a few
language script conversions from Arabic to Latin as just described, Arabic is the second
most widely used alphabetic system in the world after Latin. Arabic script is/has been
used in languages including Bosnian, Hausa, Kashmiri, Kazakh, Kurdish, Kyrghyz,
Malay, Morisco, Pashto, Persian, Punjabi, Sindhi, Tatar, Turkish, Urdu, Uyghur.
According to Encarta, which classified Chinese as a single language, Arabic is the
second largest native language. Used by more than a billion Muslims around the world, it
is also one of the six official languages of the United Nations.
Aramaic
Aramaic was the native language of the Aramaeans and became the lingua franca of the
Assyrian Empire and the western provinces of the Persian Empire, and was adopted by
conquered races such as the Hebrews. A dialect of Old Aramaic developed into the
literary language Syriac. The Syriacs, such as the Syriac-Aramaean, Assyrian and
Chaldean Christians, continued the use of Aramaic which ultimately evolved into the
Neo-Aramaic dialects of the Middle East.
Azeri
Azeri served as a lingua franca in Transcaucasia (except the Black Sea coast and most of
Georgia), Southern Daghestan, northern Persia. and Iranian Azerbaijan from the 16th
century to the early 20th century.
Chinese
A letter dated 1266 from Kublai Khan of the Mongol Empire to the Emperor of Japan
was written in Classical Chinese. Now stored in Todai-ji, Nara, Japan.
Until the early 20th century, Classical Chinese served as both the written lingua franca
and the diplomatic language in Far East Asia including China, Mongolia, Korea, Japan,
the Ryūkyū Kingdom, and Vietnam. In the early 20th century, Vernacular Chinese
replaced Classical Chinese within China as both the written and spoken lingua franca for
speakers of different Chinese dialects, and because of the falling power and cultural
influence of China in East Asia, English has since replaced Classical Chinese as the
lingua franca in East Asia. Outside of China, Cantonese and Hokkien have served as the
spoken lingua francas among overseas Chinese because most Chinese emigrants were
from Guangdong and Fujian. However, since the late 20th century when China started
economic reform, Standard Mandarin has become the spoken lingua franca because
overseas Chinese now include people coming from many different regions of China.
Today in Mainland China and Taiwan, Standard Mandarin is the spoken lingua franca
between speakers of different and mutually unintelligible Chinese spoken languages, and
between the Han Chinese and other ethnic groups in China; however in Guangdong
province, Hong Kong, and Macau, Standard Cantonese remains the local spoken lingua
franca. Hokkien used to be the spoken lingua franca among ethnic Chinese in Singapore
and some parts of Malaysia, though this too is being supplanted by the use of Standard
Mandarin.
Hebrew
Throughout the centuries of Jewish exile, Hebrew has served the Jewish people as a
lingua franca; allowing Jews from different areas of the world to communicate effectively
with one another. This was particularly valuable for cross-culture mercantile trading that
became one of the default occupations held by Jews in exilic times. Without the need for
translators, documents could easily be written up to convey significant legal trade
information. Among early Zionists, a newly reconstructed form of Hebrew served as a
common language between Jews from nations as diverse as Poland and Yemen. In
modern Israel, Hebrew is the commonly accepted language of administration and trade,
even among Israeli-Arabs whose mother-tongue remains Arabic.
Hindi-Urdu
Hindustani, or Hindi-Urdu, is commonly spoken in India and Pakistan. It encompasses
two standardized registers in the form of the official languages of Hindi and Urdu, as well
as several nonstandard dialects. Hindi is one of the official languages of India, and Urdu
is the national language and lingua franca of Pakistan. Urdu is also an official language in
India. However, whilst the words and much of the speaking may sound similar, small
differences are present, and Urdu is written in arabic script while Hindi is written in the
Devanagari script.
Malay-Indonesian
In the 15th century, during the Malacca Sultanate, Malay was used as a lingua franca in
the Malay archipelago, by the locals as much as by the traders and artisans that stopped at
Malacca via the Straits of Malacca.
Nowadays, Malay is used mostly in Malaysia (officially called Bahasa Malaysia) and
Brunei, and to a lesser extent in Singapore and various parts of Sumatra. One of
Singapore's four official languages and now Singapore's national language due to
historical reasons, the Malay language or 'Bahasa Melayu' was the lingua franca for
Malays in Singapore prior to the introduction of English as a working and instructional
language, and remains so for the elder generation.
However, Indonesian, a language based on traditional Malay, but mostly influenced by
various languages such Dutch, Arabic, English and Portuguese instead of English, serves
as a lingua franca throughout Indonesia and East Timor (where it is considered a working
language), areas that are home to over 700 indigenous languages.
Nepali
Nepali is the lingua-franca of the many ethnic, religious and cultural communities of
Nepal, and is also spoken in Bhutan, parts of India and parts of Myanmar (Burma). It is
one of 23 official languages of India incorporated in 8th annex of the Indian Constitution.
It has official language status in the formerly independent state of Sikkim and in West
Bengal's Darjeeling district. Similarly, it is widely spoken in the state of Uttaranchal, as
well as in the state of Assam. While Nepali is closely related to the Hindi-Urdu complex
and is mutually intelligible to a degree, it has more Sanskritic derivations and fewer
Persian or English loan words. Nepali is commonly written in the Devanagari script, as
are Hindi, Sanskrit and Marathi.
Persian
Persian became the second lingua franca of the Islamic world, in particular of the eastern
regions. Besides serving as the state and administrative language in many Islamic
dynasties, some of which included Samanids, Ghurids, Ghaznavids, Ilkhanids, Seljuqids,
Moguls and early Ottomans, Persian cultural and political forms, and often the Persian
language, were used by the cultural elites from the Balkans to India. For example, Persian
was the only oriental language known and used by Marco Polo at the Court of Kubla
Khan and in his journeys through China. Arnold Joseph Toynbee's assessment of the role
of the Persian language is worth quoting in more detail:
In the Iranic world, before it began to succumb to the process of Westernization, the New
Persian language, which had been fashioned into literary form in mighty works of art ...
gained a currency as a lingua franca; and at its widest, about the turn of the 16th and 17th
centuries of the Christian Era, its range in this role extended, without a break, across the
face of South-Eastern Europe and South-Western Asia.
Persian remains the lingua franca in Iran, Afghanistan and Tajikistan and was the lingua
franca of India before the British conquest. It is still understood by many in India,
Pakistan and even Turkey.
Sanskrit
Sanskrit was widely used across South Asia, Southeast Asia, East Asia and Central Asia
at various times in ancient and medieval history; it has religious significance for those
religious traditions that arose from the Vedic religion.
Telugu
Telugu is the lingua franca in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh and Yanam district of
Puducherry, as well as in the neighbouring states of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry, Karnataka,
Maharashtra, Orissa, Chhattisgarh, some parts of Jharkhand and the Kharagpur region of
West Bengal in India. It is the third most widely spoken language in India, behind Hindi
and Bengali.
Europe
English
English is the current lingua franca of international business, science, technology and
aviation. It has replaced French as the lingua franca of diplomacy since World War II.
The rise of English in diplomacy began in 1919, in the aftermath of World War I, when
the Treaty of Versailles was written in English as well as in French, the dominant
language used in diplomacy until that time. The widespread use of English was further
advanced by the prominent international role played by English-speaking nations (the
United States and the Commonwealth of Nations) in the aftermath of World War II,
particularly in the establishment and organization of the United Nations. English is one of
the six official languages of the United Nations (the other five being French, Arabic,
Chinese, Russian and Spanish). The seating and roll-call order in sessions of the United
Nations and its subsidiary and affiliated organizations is determined by alphabetical order
of the English names of the countries.
When the United Kingdom became a colonial power, English served as the lingua franca
of the colonies of the British Empire. In the post-colonial period, some of the newly
created nations which had multiple indigenous languages opted to continue using English
as the lingua franca to avoid the political difficulties inherent in promoting any one
indigenous language above the others. The British Empire established the use of English
in regions around the world such as North America, India, Africa, Australia and New
Zealand, so that by the late 19th century its reach was truly global, and in the latter half of
the 20th century, widespread international use of English was much reinforced by the
global economic, financial, scientific, military, and cultural pre-eminence of the English-
speaking countries and especially the U.S. Today, more than half of all scientific journals
are published in English, while in France, almost one third of all natural science research
appears in English, lending some support to English being the lingua franca of science
and technology. English is also the lingua franca of international Air Traffic Control
communications.
French
French was the language of European diplomacy from the 17th century until the mid-20th
century, and is still a working language of some international institutions. It was also the
lingua franca of European literature in the 18th century. French is still seen on documents
ranging from passports to airmail letters. Until the accession of the United Kingdom,
Ireland, and Denmark in 1973, French and German were the official working languages
of the European Economic Community.
French was spoken by educated people in cosmopolitan cities of the Middle East and
North Africa and remains so in the former French colonies of the Maghreb, where French
is particularly important in economic capitals such as Algiers, Casablanca and Tunis.
Until the outbreak of the civil war in Lebanon, French was spoken by the upper-class
Christian population. French is still a lingua franca in most Western and Central African
countries and an official language of some, a remnant of French and Belgian colonialism.
These African countries and others are members of the Francophonie. French is the
official language of the Universal Postal Union, with English added as a working
language in 1994. French is the main language of Québec, an official language of
Canada, and the second language of Luxembourg, Belgium, and Switzerland.
German
German served as a lingua franca in large portions of Europe for centuries, mainly the
Holy Roman Empire. From about 1200 to 1600, Middle Low German was the language
of the Hanseatic League which was present in most Northern European seaports, even
London.
Previously one of the official languages of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, German
remained an important second language in much of Central and Eastern Europe long after
the dissolution of that empire after World War I. Today, it is still the most common
second language in some of the countries in the region (e.g. in Slovenia (45% of the
pop.), Croatia (34%), the Czech Republic (31%) and Slovakia (28%). In others, it is also
known by significant numbers of the population (in Poland by 18%, in Hungary by 16%).
During the construction of the Snowy Mountains Scheme in Australia, German was the
lingua franca for workers from central and east Europe.
In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, German was a prerequisite language for
scientists. Despite the anti-German sentiment after World War II it remains a widespread
language among scientists.
Within Western Europe, it is also (along with English and French) one of the most
spoken foreign languages. It is most widely known in the Netherlands, in Denmark and in
Sweden. It is also the primary language of Switzerland. Within the European Union,
German native speakers (in Austria, parts of Belgium, Germany, Luxembourg and in the
Italian province South Tyrol/Alto Adige) form the most numerous language group with
just under 100 million members.
Greek and Latin
During the time of the Hellenistic civilization and Roman Empire, the lingua francas
were Koine Greek and Latin. During the Middle Ages, the lingua franca was Greek in
the parts of Europe, Middle East and Northern Africa where the Byzantine Empire held
hegemony, and Latin was primarily used in the rest of Europe. Latin, for a significant
portion of the expansion of the Roman Catholic Church, was used as the basis of the
Church. During the Second Vatican Council, Catholic liturgy changed to local languages,
although Latin remains the official language of the Vatican. Latin was used as the
language of scholars in Europe until the early 19th century in most subjects. For instance,
Christopher Simpson's "Chelys or The Division viol" on how to improvise on the viol
(viola da gamba) was published in 1665 in a multilingual edition in Latin and English, to
make the material accessible for the wider European music community. Another example
is the Norwegian (and Danish, since Norway was then in union with Denmark) writer
Ludvig Holberg, who published his book "Nicolai Klimii iter subterraneum" in 1741
about an ideal society "Potu" ("Utop" backwards) with equality between the genders and
an egalitarian structure, in Latin in Germany to avoid Danish censorship and to reach a
greater audience. Newton's Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica was published
in Latin in 1687: the first English translation did not appear until 1729. In subjects like
medicine and theology Latin has been a subject of study until the present day in most
European universities, despite declining use in recent years.
Italian
The Mediterranean Lingua Franca was largely based on Italian and Provençal. This
language was spoken from the 11th to 19th centuries around the Mediterranean basin,
particularly in the European commercial empires of Italian cities (Genoa, Venice,
Florence, Milan, Pisa, Siena, Ragusa) and in trading ports located throughout the eastern
Mediterranean rim.
During the Renaissance, Italian was also spoken as language of culture in the main royal
courts of Europe and among intellectuals. This lasted from the 14th century to the end of
the 16th century, when French substituted Italian as lingua franca in "educated" Europe.
The Italian language is still used as a lingua franca in some environments. For example,
in the Catholic ecclesiastic hierarchy, Italian is known by a large part of members and is
used in substitution of Latin in some official documents as well. The presence of Italian
as the second official language in Vatican City indicates its use not only in the seat in
Rome, but also anywhere in the world where an episcopal seat is present.
In the 1950s and 1960s Italian was the lingua franca of some colonies of the former
Italian Empire, like Eritrea and Italian Somalia.
Polish
Polish was a lingua franca in areas of Eastern Europe, especially regions that belonged to
the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. Polish was for several centuries the main
language spoken by the ruling classes in Lithuania and Ukraine, and the modern state of
Belarus. After the Partitions of Poland and the incorporation of most of the Polish areas
into the Russian Empire as Congress Poland, the Russian language almost completely
supplanted Polish.
Portuguese
Portuguese served as lingua franca in Africa, South America and Asia in the 15th and
16th centuries. When the Portuguese started exploring the seas of Africa, America, Asia
and Oceania, they tried to communicate with the natives by mixing a Portuguese-
influenced version of Lingua Franca with the local languages. When English or French
ships came to compete with the Portuguese, the crews tried to learn this "broken
Portuguese". Through a process of change the Lingua Franca and Portuguese lexicon was
replaced with the languages of the people in contact.
Portuguese remains an important lingua franca in Africa (PALOP), East Timor, Goa, and
to a certain extent in Macau where it is recognized as an official language alongside
Chinese though in practice not commonly spoken.
Russian
Russian is in use and widely understood in Northern and Central Asia, areas formerly
part of the Soviet Union or bloc, and may be understood by older people in Central and
Eastern Europe, formerly part of the Warsaw Pact. It remains the lingua franca in the
Commonwealth of Independent States. Russian is also one of the six official languages of
the United Nations.
Serbo-Croatian
Serbo-Croatian is lingua franca in all former Yugoslav republics, including Slovenia and
Macedonia.
Spanish
With the growth of the Spanish Empire, Spanish became established in the Americas, as
well as in parts of Africa, Asia and Oceania. It became the language of global trade until
Napoleonic Wars and the break up of the Spanish Empire at the beginning of the 19th
century. Spanish was used as lingua franca throughout the former Spanish Colonial
Empire, except territory in present day U.S., but particularly in present-day Mexico,
Central America and South America.
Nowadays it is the second most used language in international trade, after English, and
the third most used in politics, diplomacy and culture, after English and French.
Yiddish
Yiddish originated in the Ashkenazi culture that developed from about the 10th century
in the Rhineland and then spread to central and eastern Europe and eventually to other
continents. For a significant portion of its history, Yiddish was the primary spoken
language of the Ashkenazi Jews. Eastern Yiddish, three dialects of which are still spoken
today, includes a significant but varying percentage of words from Slavic, Romanian and
other local languages.
On the eve of World War II, there were 11 to 13 million Yiddish speakers, for many of
whom Yiddish was not the primary language. The Holocaust, however, led to a dramatic,
sudden decline in the use of Yiddish, as the extensive Jewish communities, both secular
and religious, that used Yiddish in their day-to-day life were largely destroyed. Although
millions of Yiddish speakers survived the war, further assimilation in countries such as
the United States and the Soviet Union, along with the strictly Hebrew monolingual
stance of the Zionist movement, led to a decline in the use of Yiddish. However, the
number of speakers within the widely dispersed Orthodox (mainly Hasidic) communities
is now increasing. It is a home language in most Hasidic communities, where it is the first
language learned in childhood, used in schools, and in many social settings.
In the United States, as well as South America, the Yiddish language bonded Jews from
many countries. Most of the Jewish immigrants to the New York metropolitan area
during the years of Ellis Island considered Yiddish their native language. Later, Yiddish
was no longer the primary language for the majority of the remaining speakers and often
served as lingua franca for the Jewish immigrants who did not know each other's primary
language, particularly following the collapse of the Soviet Union. Yiddish was also the
language in which second generation immigrants often continued to communicate with
their relatives who remained in Europe or moved to Israel, with English, Spanish or
Portuguese being primary language of the first and Russian, Romanian, or Hebrew that of
the second.
Pre-Columbian North America
Chinook Jargon
Chinook Jargon was originally constructed from a great variety of Amerind words of the
Pacific Northwest, arising as an intra-indigenous contact language in a region marked by
divisive geography and intense linguistic diversity. The participating peoples came from
a number of very distinct language families, speaking dozens of individual languages.
After European contact, the Jargon also acquired English and French loans, as well as
words brought by other European, Asian, and Polynesian groups. Some individuals from
all these groups soon adopted the Jargon as a highly efficient and accessible form of
communication. This use continued in some business sectors well into the 20th century
and some of its words continue to feature in company and organization names as well as
in the regional toponymy.
In the Diocese of Kamloops, British Columbia, hundreds of speakers also learned to read
and write the Jargon using the Duployan shorthand via the publication Kamloops Wawa.
As a result, the Jargon also had the beginnings of its own literature, mostly translated
scripture and classical works, and some local and episcopal news, community gossip and
events, and diaries. Novelist and early Native American activist, Marah Ellis Ryan
(1860?-1934) used Chinook words and phrases in her writing.
According to Nard Jones, Chinook Jargon was still in use in Seattle until roughly the eve
of World War II, especially among the members of the Arctic Club, making Seattle the
last city where the language was widely used. Writing in 1972, he remarked that at that
later date "Only a few can speak it fully, men of ninety or a hundred years old, like Henry
Broderick, the realtor, and Joshua Green, the banker."
Jones estimates that in pioneer times there were about 100,000 speakers of Chinook
Jargon.
Nahuatl
Classical Nahuatl was the lingua franca of the Aztec Empire in Mesoamerica prior to the
Spanish invasion in the 16th century. An extensive corpus of the language as spoken
exists. Like Latin and Hebrew (prior to the founding of Israel), Classical Nahuatl was
more of a sociolect spoken among the elites (poets, priests, traders, teachers, bureaucrats)
than a language spoken in any common family household.
After the Spanish conquest, Nahuatl remained the lingua franca of New Spain. Spanish
friars matched the language to a Latin alphabet, and schools were established to teach
Nahuatl to Spanish priests, diplomats, judges, and political leaders. In 1570, Nahuatl was
made the official language of New Spain, and it became the lingua franca throughout
Spanish North America, used in trade and the courts. In 1696, the official use of any
language other than Spanish was banned throughout the empire. Especially since
Mexican independence, the use of Nahuatl has dwindled.
South America
Portuguese and Spanish started to grow as lingua francas in the region in since the
conquests of the 16th century. In the Case of Spanish this process was not even and as the
Spanish used the structure of Inca Empire to consolidate their rule Quechua remained the
lingua franca of large parts of what is now Ecuador, Peru and Bolivia. Quechua
importance as a lanmguage for trade and dealing with Spanish-approved indigenous
authorities (curaca) made the language expand even after the Spanish conquest. It was not
until the rebellion of Túpac Amaru II that the Spanish authorities changed to a policy of
Hispanization that was continued by the repucan states of Peru, Ecuador and Bolivia.
Quechua also lost influence to Spanish as the commerce circuits grew to integrate other
parts of the Spanish Empire were Quechua was unknown, for example Rio de la Plata and
Chile.
Quechua
Also known as Runa Simi, as the Inca empire rose to prominence in South America, this
imperial language became the most widely spoken language in the western regions of the
continent. Even among tribes that were not absorbed by the empire Quechua still became
an important language for trade because of the empire's influence. Even after the Spanish
conquest of Peru Quechua for a long time was the most common language. Today it is
still widely spoken although it has given way to Spanish as the more common lingua
franca. It is spoken by some 10 million people through much of South America (mostly
in Peru, south-western and central Bolivia, southern Colombia and Ecuador, north-
western Argentina and northern Chile).
Mapudungun
Mapudungun was for a long time used as lingua franca in large portions of Chile and
Argentine Patagonia. Adoption of Spanish was in Chile a slow process and by the 19th
century the unconquered Indians of Araucanía had spread their language across the
Andes during a process called Araucanization. Pehuenches were among the first non-
Mapuche tribes to adopt the language. The increasing commerce over the Andes and the
migration of Mapuches into the Patagonian plains contributedto the adoption of
Mapudungun by other tribes of a more simple material culture. Even in Chiloé
Archipelago Spaniards and mestizos adopted a dialect of Mapudungun as their main
language.
Tupi
The Old Tupi language served as the lingua franca of Brazil among speakers of the
various indigenous languages, mainly in the coastal regions. Tupi as a lingua franca, and
as recorded in colonial books, was in fact a creation of the Portuguese, who assembled it
from the similarities between the coastal indigenous Tupi-Guarani languages. The
language served the Jesuit priests as a way to teach natives, and it was widely spoken by
Europeans. It was the predominant language spoken in Brazil until 1758, when the Jesuits
were expelled from Brazil by the Portuguese government and the use and teaching of
Tupi was banned. Since then, Tupi as Lingua Franca was quickly replaced by Portuguese,
although Tupi-Guarani family languages are still spoken by small native groups in Brazil.
Pidgins and creoles
Various pidgin languages have been used in many locations and times as a common trade
speech. They can be based on English, French, Chinese, or indeed any other language. A
pidgin is defined by its use as a lingua franca, between populations speaking other mother
tongues. When a pidgin becomes a population's first language, then it is called a creole
language.
Guinea-Bissau Creole
Guinea-Bissau Creole is a Portuguese Creole used as a lingua franca of Guinea-Bissau
and Casamance, Senegal among people of different ethnic groups. It is also the mother
tongue of many people in Guinea-Bissau.
Tok Pisin
Tok Pisin is widely spoken in Papua New Guinea as a lingua franca. It developed as an
Australian English-based creole with influences from local languages and to a smaller
extent German or Unserdeutch and Portuguese. Tok Pisin originated as a pidgin in the
19th century, hence the name 'Tok Pisin' from 'Talk Pidgin', but has now evolved into a
modern language.
Also called Pidgin English, this Lingua Franca is also spoken in the Solomon Islands and
Vanuatu. The versions of Pidgin vary between PNG, the Solomons and Vanuatu, but all
Pidgin speakers from these countries are able to communicate and often understand each
others' language variations.
