hree paradigms of iconicity 19
Within this categorial framework, the deinition of the icon is hybrid. As a
sign, the icon belongs to the category of hirdness, but as a sign without any
“dynamical connection with the object it represents” and which acts by “virtue of
its own internal nature” (as quoted above), it is a phenomenon of Firstness. his
does not imply a contradiction in terms. Instead, it exempliies a phenomenon that
Peirce describes as Firstness in hirdness. In its quality of a First, the icon does not
lose its characteristics of a sign, that is, of a hird.
However, there are degrees to which the icon may be more or less characteris-
tically a First. Peirce speaks of the “tones or tints” in which each category may be
present in a single phenomenon (CP 1.353, c.1880). For the icon in which First-
ness predominates most, Peirce introduces the term pure icon (CP 2.92, 1902). he
pure icon is not a sign that looks most similar to its object. It is not Morris’s sign of
the highest degree of iconicity. On the contrary, it is a sign that makes us actually
forget that the sign represents an object. he pure icon “does not draw any distinc-
tion between itself and its object” (EP 2:163); it “serves as a sign solely and simply
by exhibiting the quality it serves to signify” (EP 2:306) (cf. Kruse 2007). A paint-
ing, considered without reference to whatever it might represent is an example that
Peirce takes up for discussion. In contemplating it and thereby forgetting that it
represents something, “the distinction of the real and the copy disappears, and it is
for the moment a pure dream – not any particular existence, and yet not general.
At that moment we are contemplating a [pure] icon” (CP 3.362, 1885).
he pure icon is a sign that is not yet materially embodied – it is the mere
imagination of a possible object. Only the mere idea of redness is a pure icon, not
its embodiment in a concrete picture or thought. he pure icon, in other words,
can only be conceived asymptotically. To distinguish the pure from a real icon, a
picture or the concrete utterance of an onomatopoeic word, Peirce introduces the
term hypoicon. Hypoicons are ‘impure’ as compared to pure icons in a sense that is
by no means pejorative. It is a materially existing iconic sign. Such an icon cannot
be a matter of pure Firstness since it really exists, which makes it a phenomenon
of Secondness.
Nevertheless, Peirce’s synechism, “the tendency to regard everything as con-
tinuous” (EP 2:1, 1893), suggests a continuum from the merely possible pure
icon to the actual icon or hypoicon. he Dada and Futurist sound poems of the
early 20th century, with their focus on pure sound without any speciic meaning,
monochromatic paintings (Nöth 2005) and music (Kruse 2007) come close to pure
iconicity. If the poetic message is a message in which “the word is perceived as a
word and not as a mere representation of its object”, as Roman Jakobson (1933)
saw it, the Dada poem is almost a pure icon, but not entirely so. Strictly speaking,
however, not even a sound poem qualiies for a pure icon since its vocal presenta-
tion is a reality, not a mere possibility, a mere imagination, or a “pure dream”, as
20 Winfried Nöth
Peirce puts it (CP 3.362, 1885). he pure icon is a phenomenon without any real
existence. As soon as it turns real, it leaves the realm of Firstness and enters the
domain of Secondness. Any actual recital makes it a phenomenon of Secondness.
1.4 he triadic subdivision of icons into images, diagrams, and metaphors
Peirce subdivides icons into images, diagrams, and metaphors as follows. “hose
which partake of simple qualities, or First Firstnesses, are images; those which
represent the relations, mainly dyadic, or so regarded, of the parts of one thing by
analogous relations in their own parts, are diagrams; those which represent the
representative character of a representamen by representing a parallelism in some-
thing else, are metaphors” (CP 2.277, 1902). Sound symbols are verbal images
according to this deinition. In diagrams, the similarity between the sign and its
object is only a structural or relational one. Metaphorical iconicity is similarity
mediated by a third, the tertium comparationis between its literal and igurative
meaning (cf. Nöth 2001).
his triadic subdivision of the icon is an example of how the categories can
reiterate within the categories. Within the Firstness of the icon, the image is a First,
the diagram is a Second, and the metaphor is a hird. he criterion that serves to
distinguish these subclasses of iconicity is “the mode of Firstness of which they
partake”. Images “partake of simple qualities” so that they are “First Firstnesses”.
Diagrams, by contrast, since they represent relations which are “mainly dyadic”,
are “Second Firstnesses”, and metaphors are “hird Firstnesses” since metaphors
represent “by representing a parallelism in something else” (CP 2.277, c.1902).
1.5 Icons as rhemes, qualisigns, sinsigns, and legisigns
Categorial reiteration can also be found when iconicity is considered within
Peirce’s general typology of signs of 1903. Here, signs are classiied not only in
relation to their object (as icons, indices, and symbols) but also with respect to
the nature of the sign as such (Firstness) and its interpretant (hirdness). With
respect to the sign or representamen as such, signs are qualisigns, i.e., qualities
that function as signs, sinsigns, i.e., signs that function as such in their singularity,
or legisigns, i.e., signs that function as a law or rule. With respect to their inter-
pretant (hirdness), signs in general are either rhemes (Firstness of hirdness),
dicents (propositionlike signs; Secondness of hirdness), or arguments (hirdness
of hirdness) (CP 2.254–263, 1903).
Within this framework, icons are necessarily rhemes. hey cannot function
as dicents or arguments because icons alone cannot airm or prove anything,
hree paradigms of iconicity 21
as propositions and arguments can. As to their object, icons, in principle, can
neither be indices nor symbols, even though symbols and indices may include
characteristics of an icon. With these restrictions to the possibilities of combina-
tion, the general classiication of signs results in ten main classes, of which three
involve iconicity, the rhematic iconic qualisign, the rhematic iconic sinsign, and
the rhematic iconic legisign.
his shows that icons involve always at least three times the category of
Firstness. As to their interpretant, they are always Firsts in hirdness, i.e., all
icons are rhemes. In their object relation, icons are Firsts since indices are signs of
Secondness, and symbols are signs of hirdness. With respect to the nature of the
sign as such, icons can be found in all of the three classes of sing, as deined with
respect to the sign as such. Icons can be qualisigns, sinsigns, or legisigns.
Let us examine the triad of iconic qualisigns, iconic sinsigns, and iconic legi-
signs in detail. Legisigns in general are signs that have the character of a general
law (cf. EP 2:291, 1903). All words considered as general types, and not as indi-
vidual occurrences, are legisigns. Lexicalized onomatopoeic are hence iconic legi-
signs. “A diagram, apart from its factual individuality”, as long as it functions as
“a general law or type” (CP 2.258, 1903), is another example of an iconic legisign.
Iconic legisigns play an essential role in mathematics (cf. EP 2:307, 1904) and in
reasoning (cf. Kent 1997; Stjernfelt 2007, 2014). Deductive, inductive or abduc-
tive reasoning, for example, are based on mental diagrams. Peirce was convinced
that logic is not primarily an art of verbal symbols, but that reasoning involves
logical diagrams. With his system existential graphs, he created a method of rep-
resenting the various modes of reasoning in the form of diagrammatic icons (CP
4.347–584, 1901–1905).
A sinsign in general is a sign considered in its singularity ‘here and now’. Any
iconic word or sentence in a speciic utterance or context as well as any painting
or drawing insofar as it is a material object is an iconic sinsign. An “individual
diagram” (CP 2.255, 1903), such as a copy of the New York City Subway map,
is another example. All actually existent iconic representations, whether words,
pictures, images, diagrams, or metaphors, are iconic sinsigns.
he iconic qualisign is the sign already identiied above as the pure icon. It is an
icon because of one of its qualities, and it functions as a sign because of this qual-
ity, which is also a quality of its object. Hence, it is not really a sign in the sense in
which signs are ordinarily thought of since is not yet embodied. It only represents
a quality, which cannot yet “act as a sign until it is embodied” (CP 2.244, 1903).
Once actually embodied, an iconic qualisign becomes a sinsign.
As to their hirdness, that is, with respect to how they are interpreted, all
icons are rhemes. A rheme is a “Sign of a qualitative Possibility” (EP 2:292, 1903).
It represents only a possible, not any actual object (CP 2.250, 1903). In contrast
22 Winfried Nöth
to proposition-like dicents and arguments (syllogisms, e.g.), a rheme is a “sim-
ple representation” (EP 2:204, 1903). A common noun considered as a lexeme
is a symbolic rheme (CP 2.261, 1903), whereas portraits of unidentiiable per-
sons or pictures without legends are iconic rhemes (CP 2.320, 1903; 8.183, 1909).
Wittgenstein described the openness of pictures in a way that illustrates how
iconic rhemes are open to many interpretations: “Imagine a picture representing
a boxer in a particular stance. Now, this picture can be used to tell someone how
he should stand, should hold himself; or how he should not hold himself; or how
a particular man did stand in such-and-such a place; and so on. One might (using
the language of chemistry) call this picture a proposition-radical” (1953, §23).
Peirce’s pure icon is thus a rhematic iconic qualisign.
2. he irst paradigm of study in iconicity in language:
Form mimes meaning
Modern linguistics but also literary studies have had the tendency to marginalize
iconicity in language for many decades ater the founder of structural linguistics,
Ferdinand de Saussure, had declared that “the linguistic sign is arbitrary” and
that this dogma should be acknowledged as the “irst principle of the nature of
the language sign” (1916:67). An exception of little signiicance, which Saussure
admitted, was sound symbolism. Onomatopoeic words are not arbitrary since
their phonetic form is similar to the acoustic event they represent.
Saussure did not use the term iconic, and to call onomatopoeic words icons is
to shit from the terminology of structural linguistics and classical poetics to the
one of C.S. Peirce’s semiotics. For Peirce, the signs that Saussure deined as arbi-
trary are symbols and those that he referred to as sound symbols are verbal icons.
Research in iconicity in language and literature based Peirce’s broad concept of
the object of the sign and the diverse possible forms of similarity between words
and what they represent opens up an equally broad ield of linguistic and literary
studies. Early literary approaches to this ield of study can be found in ancient
rhetoric and poetics with their diverse theories of mimesis. In linguistics, the
most signiicant roots of iconicity studies are in medieval speculative grammar,
which was ‘speculative’ insofar as its supporters assumed that language ‘mirrors’
the world we live in and that grammar should therefore be speculative in the ety-
mological sense of the word, whose root is in the Latin word speculum, ‘mirror’.
Such literary and linguistic research traditions were interrupted when
Ferdinand de Saussure proclaimed the above-mentioned dogma of the fundamen-
tal arbitrariness of the verbal sign. Saussure was of course right when he argued
hree paradigms of iconicity 23
that onomatopoeia is a rather marginal although nevertheless interesting phe-
nomenon of linguistics, but iconicity in language goes far beyond sound symbol-
ism. If the concept of icon is understood as Peirce deines it, it is a study of three
subclasses, verbal images, diagrams, and metaphors.
Verbal images are icons based on simple qualities. In oral language, such qual-
ities are sound qualities, as they have been studied in sound symbols or onomato-
poeic language. Iconicity in metaphors (cf. Hiraga 2005) is apparent in the diverse
forms of similarity that relate the literal with the igurative sense of metaphors:
“A good metaphor implies an intuitive perception of the similarity in dissimilars”,
writes Aristotle in his Poetics (xxii, 17). Studies in metaphors are presently among
the liveliest branches of research in verbal icons, although the iconic substratum
of metaphors is not always fully acknowledged in this context. he extension of
research from verbal images to diagrams and metaphors has shown that iconicity
is much more widespread than previously recognized.
A verbal diagram is a sign whose object is similar to whatever it represents in a
more abstract way. Only the relations between the elements of the object are simi-
lar to their form of representation. he tree diagram that represents the syntactic
structure of a sentence is a case in point. To the degree that sentence structures can
be represented in the form of tree or box diagrams, there is diagrammatic iconicity
in their syntactic deep structure. Moreover, there is also diagrammatic iconicity in
the sequential order of the surface structure of verbal discourse. he word order
of veni, vidi, vici is a classic example. he sequential order of these three words,
in which Julius Caesar described the rapidity of one of his victories, is not only a
diagram of the chronology of the three events they describe (irst he came, second
he saw, and third he vanquished). he brevity of Caesar’s three-word report is also
a diagrammatic icon of the brevity of the battle he won.
Diagrammatic iconicity in language is not only a matter of narrative forms of
mimesis. All well-structured texts are diagrams of the ideas they convey. heir ico-
nicity consists in their patterns of word formation, syntax, paragraphs, chapters,
etc. “In the syntax of every language there are logical icons of the kind that are
aided by conventional rules”, writes Peirce (CP 2.280, ca.1895). In fact, the system
of language itself is a diagram of its grammatical structure (cf. Shapiro 1983).
What metaphors, sound symbolism, and verbal diagrams have in common has
been epitomized by the rough formula form mimes meaning (Nänny and Fischer
1999), i.e., they represent objects and ideas by various forms of similarity (cf. Nöth
2001). Study in iconicity of this kind characterizes the irst paradigm of iconicity
research in language and literature.
24 Winfried Nöth
3. he second paradigm: Form mimes form
he second research paradigm is the one of the study of form miming form. Words
are no longer iconic signs of language-external knowledge and experience. hey
do not relect the world outside language, but language itself. Verbal signs may
relect verbal signs without necessarily representing anything else. Instead of
reference, there is self-reference (Nöth 2007). Language becomes a self-relexive
artifact, as Epstein (1975) once put it. he roots of this paradigm are in ancient
rhetoric, where the study of igures in the narrower sense is the study of rep-
etition, recurrence, symmetry, rhyme, alliteration, anaphora, chiasm, assonance,
consonance, etc. he study of poems that no longer represent anything but vocal
sounds belongs to the second paradigm of iconicity research of the form-mimes-
form kind.
he motto of the 2013 Tokyo Iconicity Symposium, East Meets West, serves
to illustrate this paradigm. With its dense poeticalness and its perfect symmetry,
its verbal form is a true icon of the kind of iconicity studied within this paradigm.
Words are icons of words. he initial syllable East forms a pattern of assonance
with the second syllable, Meets [i:/i:], and the irst word of the motto is an icon of
the last through the slant rhyme that connects them [i:st/est]. he inal consonant
clusters of all three monosyllables, [-st], [-ts], and [-st], form two intertwined
chiastic patterns of twice two consonants each ([st/ts] and [ts/st]). In both of the
resulting pairs, the outer consonants are mirror-symmetrically arranged in rela-
tion to the inner ones, and the irst cluster [-st] repeats the last [-st]. he phonetic
patterns resulting from these recurrences are diagrams that do not mirror the lan-
guage external world, but elements of verbal signs. he iconicity involved in such
sound patterns is one which Peirce calls an ‘auditory diagram’ (CP 3.418, 1892).
In addition to this form-mimes-form mode of iconicity based on the recur-
rence of speech sounds, the motto East Meets West also exempliies two other
kinds of form-mimes-form iconicity, which are based on the recurrence of syntac-
tic and semantic forms. he sentence subject, East, and the syntactic object, West,
are mirror symmetrically arranged around the center of the sentence, which is
the verb meet. his syntactic symmetry relects a symmetry of the semantic roles
embodied in the syntactic forms. Two persons who “meet” are on an equal foot-
ing. he subject and the object represent both the role of an agent. None of the
participants in the scene represented by the sentence is a patient.
Whereas the syntactic form, as determined by the verb to meet, forms a pat-
tern of symmetry, the semantic form of the two noun phrases East and West cre-
ates of a yin-yang-like pattern of antisymmetry. he two members of the pair are
directional opposites, which means that they involve diference and sameness at
the same time since the semantic features of a pair of opposites are the same except
hree paradigms of iconicity 25
for one that constitutes their opposition (cf. Nöth 1997). his diagram of semantic
form, which is a diagram of the form-mimes-form kind, goes parallel with an
instance of the form-mimes-meaning iconicity. here is symmetry and antisym-
metry between the cultures of the East and the West, which relects cultural equal-
ity and diference. he motto can thus also be read as an icon of the two mutually
contradictory proverbs, “Opposites attract” and “Like attracts like”.
With Peirce, we can attribute a higher degree of iconicity to icons of the form-
mimes-form type than to the form-mimes-meaning type. Research in iconicity of
this second paradigm is always a study of diagrams. here are three main subtypes,
phonetic (metrical), syntactic, and semantic form-mimes-form iconicity. he last
of the three shows that there is a partial overlap between form-mimes-form ico-
nicity and form-mimes-meaning iconicity since there is no semantic form without
meaning.
4. he third paradigm: Ubiquity of iconicity in verbal communication
he third approach to iconicity studies in language and literature constitutes a
true paradigm shit. Whereas iconicity research in the framework of the irst two
paradigms is founded on the premise that icons are a third type of language sign
to be studied besides or in addition to symbols and indices, the basic assumption
of the third paradigm is that icons are ubiquitous in language. his paradigm has
its semiotic roots in Peirce’s semiotic theory of information, which postulates that
without icons, verbal symbols and indices cannot convey any (new) information
(cf. Nöth 2012).
4.1 he ubiquity of icons in interpretant signs
When Peirce, in his later writings, develops the theory that icons are ubiquitous
in language, he is not considering icons as “outward objects which excite in con-
sciousness the image” (CP 4.447, 1903). Instead, he means icons in the form of
mental images. Peirce’s later theory of ubiquitous iconicity in language does not
suggest that spoken or written words are visual or acoustic icons in the sense in
which pictures, onomatopoeic words, or the diverse diagrammatic verbal patterns
are. Not the words as signs are generally iconic, but the interpretant signs created
by verbal symbols in the process of their interpretation involve the kinds of icons
on which Peirce now relects. In contrast to real external icons, these icons, omni-
present in human thought, are “of the nature of an appearance, and as such, strictly
speaking, exist only in consciousness” (ibid.).
26 Winfried Nöth
he ubiquity of icons in thought goes parallel with a ubiquity of indices. he
interpretant of a symbol can no longer be a symbol because to interpret means
to form an idea, to create a mental image, and to connect the sign with objects of
real or imaginary experience, that is, to associate words with knowledge, memory,
and experience. Indexical interpretants allow their interpreters to associate words
with the objects of a discourse universe with which they are familiar from previous
experience. Signs of objects with which we are completely unacquainted cannot
be interpreted. Icons inform us about the qualities of the objects of signs, whereas
indices connect our thoughts to the reality of the objects the signs denote.
Without icons, symbols remain pale and uninformative. Nevertheless, Peirce
considers both the semiotic advantages and the disadvantages of symbols. heir
advantage is that they “aford the means of thinking about thoughts in ways in
which we could not otherwise think of them. hey enable us, for example, to cre-
ate Abstractions, without which we should lack a great engine of discovery. hese
enable us to count; they teach us that collections are individuals […], and in many
respects they are the very warp of reason” (CP 4.531, 1906). he disadvantage of
symbols is in their abstractness and generality. “A symbol, in itself”, says Peirce,
“is a mere dream; it does not show what it is talking about” (CP 4.52, 1893). “Since
symbols rest exclusively on habits already deinitely formed but not furnishing any
observation even of themselves, and since knowledge is habit, they do not enable
us to add to our knowledge even so much as a necessary consequent, unless by
means of a deinite preformed habit” (CP 4.531, 1906). To understand this cri-
tique of the symbolic sign it is important to keep in mind that verbal symbols, in
Peirce’s terminology, are not just single word, but include “words, and phrases, and
speeches, and books, and libraries” (EP 2:5, 1894).
Symbols are habits. Habits, once formed, can only become stronger or weaker.
New habits necessarily begin with a new experience, which requires the experi-
ence of new icons and indices. his is why verbal symbols need icons and indices
to grow and increase human knowledge (cf. Nöth 2014). Symbols grow by incor-
porating indices in their denotations and icons in their signiications (cf. CP 2.302,
1893), but icons are more active in this process than indices (cf. Stjernfelt 2014).
In an account of the etymological roots of symbols, Peirce comes to the following
conclusion: “Every symbol is, in its origin, either an image of the idea signiied
[i.e., an icon], or a reminiscence of some individual occurrence, person or thing
[i.e., an index combined with an icon, which is the reminiscence of the index],
connected with its meaning, or is a metaphor [i.e., again an icon]” (CP 2.222, 1903;
comments added in square brackets). In the end, symbols are the most power-
ful signs of the icon-index-symbol trichotomy because they are able to include
icons and indices in their interpretants, whereas icons and indices cannot include
symbols. Without symbols, language would not be the powerful semiotic system
hree paradigms of iconicity 27
it is, for “the most perfect of signs are those in which the iconic, indicative, and
symbolic characters are blended as equally as possible” (CP 4.448, 1903), and these
three sign classes are co-present only in symbols.
4.2 Words as symbols, indices, and icons: Peircean principles
of cross-classiication
“Language and all abstract thinking, such as belongs to minds who think in words,
is of the symbolic nature”, writes Peirce in his “New Elements” of 1904 (EP 2:307).
Peirce states explicitly that “every word is a symbol” (CP 4.447, 1903) and that “all
words, sentences, books, and other conventional signs are Symbols” (CP 2.292,
1902). Nevertheless, in his more detailed analyses of verbal signs, we also ind
types of words that Peirce does not classify as symbols but as indices. In his “Short
Logic”, for example, Peirce classiies relative, selective, and possessive pronouns,
deictic adverbs, as well as prepositions and prepositional phrases as indexical
words (CP 2.287–90, ca. 1893). hese signs are not symbols because they do not
represent general ideas.
Peirce’s apparent vacillations as to the classiication of words as symbols,
indices, or icons occur because his sign typology allows cross-classiications
in a number of respects. Four principles of cross-classiication are particularly
relevant. he irst is the principle of precision. Peirce tends to write in various
contexts at diferent levels of precision. Occasionally, he comments on this rhe-
torical phenomenon explicitly, for example, when he remarks, “Although for con-
venience in ordinary parlance and when extreme precision is not called for, we
extend the term…” (CP 4.447, 1903). hus, when he writes that every words is a
symbol, Peirce apparently refrains from making the more subtle distinctions that
the criterion of generality would entail and restricts himself to referring to words
as conventional signs tout court.
he second is the principle of categorial inclusion. Phenomena of a lower
category are more or less distinctly included in a higher category. For this reason,
a symbol may include an index and an icon, and an index may include an icon.
In this sense, the three sign classes are not mutually exclusive, although an icon
may only be included in a symbol or index, but it may not itself include an index
or a symbol. A word may be an icon or an index in some respects and a symbol
in other respect. his principle of cross-classiication has also one of its founda-
tions in Peirce’s synechism, “the tendency to regard everything as continuous” (CP
7.565, c. 1892). An example of Peirce’s application of the principle of categorial
inclusion is evident when the states that “there are words, which, although sym-
bols, act very much like indices. Such are the personal, demonstrative, and relative
pronouns” (EP 2:307, 1904).
28 Winfried Nöth
he third principle of cross-classifying words as signs is the principle of dis-
tinguishing between words as signs and as the interpretant signs created by them,
as described above. he transformation of symbols as signs into icons or indices
as their interpretants that result from this principle means that symbols are able
to create mental icons or indices as their interpretants. his transformation can
best be illustrated if we take a novel as an example of a symbol. he icons that it
creates are the mental images it evokes in its readers’ minds; the indices are the
points of orientation in the real or ictional world it denotes. In the context of his
division of signs into ten classes of 1903, Peirce describes this third principle of
cross-classiication as follows: “he Interpretant of the Rhematic Symbol oten
represents it as a Rhematic Indexical Legisign; at other times as an Iconic Legisign;
and it does in a small measure partake of the nature of both” (CP 2.261, 1903).
As discussed above, single words as signs are rhematic symbolic legisigns. hey
are symbols because they convey general ideas and legisigns because “a Legisign is
a law that is a sign. his law is usually established by men. Every conventional sign
is a legisign” (EP 2:291, 1903). In his New Elements, Peirce describes the trans-
formation of verbal symbols into icons as their interpretants as follows: “Many
words, thought strictly symbols, are so far iconic that they are apt to determine
iconic interpretants, or as we say, they call up lively images” (EP 2:307, 1904). he
principle of cross-classiication is very clear in this analysis. he same word that is
a symbol as a conventional sign has an icon as its interpretant.
An example by which Peirce illustrates the shit from the symbolicity of a
verbal sign to an index in its interpretant is the interpretation of the word camel.
When successfully interpreted in the mind of an interpreter, it is an index insofar
as it is an instance of a mental association of the verbal sign with a real camel once
experienced directly in a zoo or desert or indirectly in an illustration or descrip-
tion of the animal in the process of learning what a camel is. In Peirce’s words,
“A Replica [i.e., a speciic occurrence] of the word ‘camel’ is likewise a Rhematic
Indexical Sinsign, being really afected, through the knowledge of camels, com-
mon to the speaker and auditor, by the real camel it denotes, even if this one is not
individually known to the auditor; and it is through such real connection that the
word ‘camel’ calls up the idea of a camel” (CP 2.261, 1903).
he fourth principle of cross-classiication is the one of distinguishing between
symbols as types and symbols as tokens. Only as a type is a word a legisign, a law.
As a token or replica of a type, it is a sinsign, a singular occurrence of a symbol.
In some respect, it is not even a symbol any more when it acts in the mind of an
interpreter. As an acoustic stimulus, the word acts as an index, which evokes the
meaning of the symbol in the interpreter’s thoughts: “he Rhematic Symbol, like
any Symbol, is necessarily itself of the nature of a general type, and it is thus a
Legisign. Its Replica, however, is a Rhematic Indexical Sinsign of a peculiar kind,
hree paradigms of iconicity 29
in that the image it suggests to the mind acts upon a Symbol already in that mind
to give rise to a General Concept” (CP 2.261, 1903).
4.3 he iconicity of words and predicates
While it may not be diicult to understand how a poem, novel, or a descriptive
text evoke mental icons and indices, the iconicity and indexicality of single words,
sentences, and whole arguments require further explanation. Peirce’s theory of
the iconicity of arguments is the subject of a whole iconic system of logic, the sys-
tem of existential graphs, which cannot be introduced here. he discussion must
remain restricted to the iconicity of words and sentences or, as Peirce deines these
signs, to iconic rhemes and to dicents which involve icons.
he iconicity involved in the interpretants of propositions (dicents) illus-
trates best how verbal symbols require icons in the process of their interpreta-
tion. A proposition “consists of two parts, the predicate, which excites something
like an image or dream in the mind of its interpreter, and the subject, or subjects,
each of which serves to identify something which the predicate represents” (MS
280, c.1905). By ‘predicate’, in this context, Peirce does not mean a syntactic
predicate, which would also include the sentence object. He only means the
verb. he sentence object becomes an index in the process of its interpretation.
In the sentence “A loves B”, the interpretation of A and B involves two indices,
and the verb is the icon. Peirce’s example is “Ezekiel loveth Huldah”, and the
semiotic analysis is:
Ezekiel and Huldah must, then, be or contain indices; for without indices it is
impossible to designate what one is talking about. Any mere description would
leave it uncertain whether they were not mere characters in a ballad; but whether
they be so or not, indices can designate them. Now the efect of the word ‘loveth’
is that the pair of objects denoted by the pair of indices Ezekiel and Huldah is
represented by the icon, or the image we have in our minds of a lover and his
beloved. (CP 2.295, c.1893)
he ‘efect’ of the verb is clearly its interpretant. Another description of the iconic-
ity of the predicate is: “In the proposition ‘Anthony gave a ring to Cleopatra,’ […]
the predicate […] will call up in the memory or imagination of the interpreter
images of things such as he has seen or imagined and may see again. hus, ‘gave’
is the predicate of the last proposition; and it conveys its meaning because the
interpreter has had many experiences in which gits were made; and a sort of
composite photograph of them appears in his imagination” (CP 5.542, ca. 1902).
Indexical and iconic interpretants cannot only be found in sentences but also
in words in isolation, that is, in symbolic rhemes. Peirce argues that common and
30 Winfried Nöth
proper nouns function typically as indices, whereas verbs and adjectives are typi-
cally icons and rhemes (MS 516:39). he noun camel is a rhematic index when it
is interpreted and thus connected with real-life experience. he adjective green is
a rhematic icon open to many interpretations because it says nothing about any
object to which this color should be attributed. It is a qualisign because, in order to
understand the word, the interpreter needs to have a mental image of the quality
of the color green. Nouns that designate qualities create icons as their interpretants
too, e.g.: “When a listener hears the term ‘light’, he proceeds to create in his mind
an image thereof” (CP 2.341, c.1895).
he interpretant of a verb is typically a diagrammatic icon in two diferent
respects. To understand the verb run, for example, a mental diagrammatic image
of the scenario of ‘moving forward with quick steps on alternate feet’ is needed.
In addition, the verb implies a logical diagram of the participants and their roles
in the scenario represented by the sentence of which the verb is the predicate. In
the case of the verb “to run”, the syntactic diagram demands only the participa-
tion of one agent in the action of running. However, this iconic scenario of the
verb in its ininitive form does not say who is running, when this running takes
place, or whether anybody is actually running at all. Such information is addi-
tionally expressed in the form of morphemes or words specifying indexically the
person as the agent, the precise number of persons, the time of the event etc. In
a sentence such as Mary runs, the subject Mary and the verbal suix of the third
person and the present tense (-s) are indices. Without this speciication, the verb
alone is only a diagram of the rather vague idea of running. he full scenario of
the idea of running involves a logical diagram which also speciies that running
presupposes an agent. In this sense, verbs are diagrams of their syntactic comple-
ments. he so-called valency of a verb, which speciies the kind and number of
noun phrases and how they combine with the verb, is a rhematic iconic diagram.
Intransitive verbs combine with a subject only (X runs). Transitive verbs combine
with subjects and objects (X loves Y), ditransitive verbs have an indirect object in
addition (X gives Y to Z), etc. (cf. CP 3.420–21, 1892).
Besides direct and indirect objects, Peirce interprets adverbs and adverbials of
time and place (today or here, e.g.) as indexical elements of the interpretant. Even
when such adverbials remain unexpressed in a verbal dialogue, they are neverthe-
less present in a nonverbal form, that is, in the nonverbal context of the speech act
and the behavior of the listener: “Take, for instance, ‘it rains’. Here the icon is the
mental composite photograph of all the rainy days the thinker has experienced.
he index is all whereby he distinguishes that day, as it is placed in his experience”
(CP 2.438, 1893; cf. Hookway 2002: 33). he same utterance contains an icon as
well as an unexpressed temporal and local index of the present situation for the
following reason:
hree paradigms of iconicity 31
“It rains” […] does not mean that it rains in fairyland, but the very act of saying
anything with an appearance of seriously meaning it is an Index that forces the
person addressed to look about to see what it is to which what is being said refers.
he ‘rains’ recalls to his mind an image of ine up-and-down lines over the ield of
view; and he looks sharply out of the window, fully understanding that that vis-
ible environment is indicated as the subject where the lines of falling drops will
be seen. (CP 2.360, 1901)
he example of the verb run also shows that the verb in its vague ininitive form
actually represents the idea of running in a more iconic and rhematic way than
any picture of a running person could. he interpretant of the concrete picture
of a running person is more than only a rheme because it also gives information
about the runner (a man, a woman, a child, etc.) and about the scene of running
(a street, a beach, etc.), and these factual details are to some degree indexical signs
so that the picture of a runner turns out to be a dicent sign which airms that ‘X
is running’. he verb to run is thus more rhematic than the picture of a running
person. Pictograms and pictographs, by contrast, like pictograms for the various
Olympic sports, which abstract completely from all signs of the age, sex, or race of
the athletes, are as iconic and rhematic as the word in its ininitive form. As signs,
these logographs have become symbols, but again, the interpretants of these verbal
symbols are icons.
he mental and logical icons created by adjectives, verbs, and adverbs of
quality and manner come into being in a process of learning that certain sce-
narios are experienced as being similar. Peirce describes this process by the
metaphor of the composite photograph (cf. Hookway 2002, 2007). Literally, a
composite photo is one that is taken by means of several distinct shots, one over
another, on the same plate. How the learning and memorizing of visual experi-
ence takes place is, in a way, similar to the multiple exposure of the plate of the
ilm in a camera, says Peirce and compares this process to the multiple exposure
of our visual memory to similar but never identical scenes by the photographer
of a composite photograph:
I am trying to recall the precise hue of a certain emerald that my mother used
to wear. A sequence of shades runs through my mind. […] hey are a multitude
of colors suggested by that one color. Conceived under what Kant imperfectly
describes as a rule or schema, they constitute a general conception of a green
something like that emerald. he old-fashioned nominalists would say noth-
ing was in my mind but a word, or other symbol. For my part, […] I am sure,
that every memory of a sensation is more or less vague, that is, general. […] he
vague memory of a sensation is just an aggregate […] of ideas which are called up
together by a suggesting idea. (CP 7.40, 1898)
32 Winfried Nöth
he mental image of the color emerald arising in the interpreter’s mind is an image
that abstracts from the diferences between the many similar sense impressions
and condenses them to a mental composite image. As early as in 1870, Peirce had
made the distinction between a color word as a symbol and the mental image
which it creates as its interpretant. he latter is an icon of previous chromatic sense
impressions: “I say ‘a certain thing is blue’. he image of blueness this excites in the
mind is not a copy of any blueness in the sentence. herefore, even if the sensation
of blue be a copy of an external blue in the blue thing, there can be no other agree-
ment between the sentence and the thing than that they convey the same notion
to the mind” (W 2:439).
Elsewhere, Peirce also explains how iconic judgments concerning colors are
learned in a process similar to the one of taking composite photographs. His
example is how we come to understand the predicate of the proposition “his
chair is yellow”. he predicate, Peirce explains, is an icon because the process of
learning the meaning of a color involves a process of learning that diverse chro-
matic sense impressions are similar. In this process, we need irst to evoke the
mental image of “a whole lot of yellow things” we have seen. We need to condense
the diverse chromatic sense impression mentally to a “composite photograph” of
one and the same color before we can attribute this color to this particular chair.
In this process, iconicity is insofar involved as diverse perceptual judgements
become interpreted as similar: “Take any yellow thing you like and you will ind,
on comparing it with this chair, that they agree pretty well in color” (CP 7.632,
1903). Peirce emphasizes the relevance of the study of verbal icons and indices
in this new sense when he observes that icons are necessary in order to “explain
the signiications of words” and that they “chiely illustrate the signiication of
predicate-thoughts”, whereas indices are needed to understand “the denotations
of subject-thoughts” (CP 6.338, 1908).
Research in the iconicity of interpretant signs ofers insights into the rela-
tionship between language and cognition as well as into the growth of meaning
and knowledge. It has begun only recently. he insights to be expected from this
research promise to be of great relevance to the study of how verbal and visual
thought interact in the human mind. he new paradigm also ofers important
links between linguistic and cognitive semiotics and the cognitive sciences.
hree paradigms of iconicity 33
References
Eco, U. 1972. Introduction to a semiotics of iconic signs. Versus 2: 1–15.
Epstein, E.L. 1975. he self-relexive artefact: he function of Mimesis in an approach to a
theory of value for literature. In Style and Structure in Literature, R. Fowler (ed.), 40–78.
Oxford: Blackwell.
Goodman, N. 1968. Languages of Art. Indianapolis IN: Bobbs-Merrill.
Hiraga, M.K. 2005. Metaphor and Iconicity. Houndmills: Palgrave Macmillan.
Hookway, C. 2002. ‘…sort of composite photograph’: Pragmatism, ideas, and schematism.
Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society 38 (1–2): 29–45.
Hookway, C. 2007. Peirce on icons and cognition. In Conceptual Structures: Knowledge Architec-
tures for Smart Applications, S. Polovina, U. Priss & R. Hill (eds), 59–68. Berlin: Springer.
DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-73681-3_5
Jakobson, R. 1933[1973]. Qu’est-ce que la poésie? In Questions de poétique, R. Jakobson, 113–26.
Paris: Seuil.
Kent, B. 1997. he interconnectedness of Peirce’s diagrammatic thought. In Studies in the Logic
of Charles Sanders Peirce, N. Houser, D. Roberts & J. Evra (eds), 445–459. Bloomington IN:
Indiana University Press.
Kruse, F. 2007. Is music a pure icon? Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society 43(4): 626–635.
Morris, C.W. (1938) 1970. Foundations of the heory of Signs [Foundations of the Unity of
Science: Towards an International Encyclopedia of Uniied Science I.2]. Chicago IL:
Chicago University Press.
Morris, C.W. 1946[1971]. Signs, Language, and Behavior. In Writings on the General heory of
Signs, C.W. Morris, 73–398. he Hague: Mouton.
Nänny, M. & Fischer, O. (eds). 1999. Form Miming Meaning [Iconicity in Language and Litera-
ture 1]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/ill.1
Nöth, W. 1997. he semantic space of opposites: Cognitive and localist foundations. In he
Locus of Meaning: Papers in Honor of Yoshihiko Ikegami, K.I. Yamanaka & T. Ohori (eds),
63–82. Tokyo: Kurosio.
Nöth, W. 2001. Semiotic foundations of iconicity in language and literature. In he Motivated
Sign [Iconicity in Language and Literature 2], O. Fischer & M. Nänny (eds), 17–28. Amster-
dam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/ill.2.05not
Nöth, W. 2005. Warum Bilder Zeichen sind: Bild- und Zeichenwissenschat. In Bild-Zeichen:
Perspektiven einer Wissenschat vom Bild, S. Majetschak (ed.), 49–61. München: Fink.
Nöth, W. 2010. he criterion of habit in Peirce’s deinitions of the symbol. Transactions of the
Charles S. Peirce Society 46(1): 82–93. DOI: 10.2979/TRA.2010.46.1.82
Nöth, W. 2011. Representation and reference according to Peirce. International Journal of Signs
and Semiotic Systems 1(2): 28–39. DOI: 10.4018/ijsss.2011070102
Nöth, W. 2007. Self-reference in the media. In Self-Reference in the Media, W. Nöth & N. Bishara
(eds), 3–30. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Nöth, W. 2012. Charles S. Peirce’s theory of information: A theory of the growth of symbols and
of knowledge. Cybernetics & Human Knowing 19(1–2): 99–123.
Nöth, W. 2014. he growth of signs. Σημειωτική: Sign Systems Studies 42(2–3): 173–192.
Ong, W.J. 1982. Orality and Literacy. London: Methuen. DOI: 10.4324/9780203328064
Peirce, C.S. 1931–58. Collected Papers, Vols. 1–6, C. Hartshorne & P. Weiss (eds), Vols. 7–8,
A.W. Burks (ed.). Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press (quoted as CP).
34 Winfried Nöth
Peirce, C.S. (1963–1966) 1979. he Charles S. Peirce Papers, 30 reels, 3rd edn. Cambridge MA:
Houghton Library, Harvard University, Microreproduction Service (quoted as MS).
Peirce, C.S. 1982f. Writings of Charles S. Peirce: A Chronological Edition. Bloomington IN:
Indiana University Press (quoted as W, plus volume number).
Peirce, C.S. 1998. he Essential Peirce, Vol. 2, Peirce Edition Project (ed.). Bloomington IN:
Indiana University Press (quoted as EP 2).
Peirce, C.S. 1998. Logic, considered as semeiotic: An overview of Charles Peirce’s philosophical
logic, constructed from Manuscript L75, version 1, J. Ransdell (ed.). <http://www.cspeirce.
com/menu/library/bycsp/l75/ver1/l75v1-01.htm> (May 2010) (quoted as L 75).
Rambelli, F. & Reinders, E. 2012. Buddhism and Iconoclasm in East Asia. London: Bloomsbury.
Saussure, F. de. 1916[1959]. Course in General Linguistics, C. Bally & A. Sechehaye (eds), transl.
W. Baskin. New York NY: McGraw-Hill.
Shapiro, M. 1983. he Sense of Grammar: Language of Semeiotic. Bloomington IN: Indiana
University Press.
Stjernfelt, F. 2007. Diagrammatology: An Investigation on the Borderlines of Phenomenology,
Ontology, and Semiotics. Dordrecht: Springer.
Stjernfelt, F. 2014. Natural Propositions: he Actuality of Peirce’s Doctrine of Dicisigns. Boston
MA: Docent Press.
Tiles, J.E. 1988. Iconic thought and the scientiic imagination. Transactions of the Charles S.
Peirce Society 24 (2): 161–178.
Wittgenstein, L. 1953. Philosophical Investigations, transl. G.E.M. Anscombe. Oxford: Blackwell.
doi 10.1075/ill.14.02stj
© 2015 John Benjamins Publishing Company
Iconicity of logic – and the roots
of the “iconicity” concept
Frederik Stjernfelt
University of Copenhagen
It seems to be a standard assumption that Charles Morris originated the concept
of “iconicity” on the basis of Peirce’s icon-index-symbol discussion. his paper
locates the origin in Peirce himself, in the context of judging the merits of dif-
ferent mathematical and logic representations – the more iconic such repre-
sentations generally being preferable to less iconic ones, for scientiic purposes.
In Peirce’s Collected Papers, “iconicity” occurs in the discussion of diferent
conventions in the logic representation system called “Existential Graphs”. his
paper provides the context of logic representations in order to show how Peirce’s
articulation of the concept of “iconicity” comes out of the attempt to ind as
iconic a way as possible to depict logical relations. Moreover, this indicates a
use of “iconicity”, from the very beginning, which addresses not only similari-
ties between diferent visual representations – but also visual representations of
abstract contents.
In the context of “Iconicity in Language and Literature”, it may seem odd to direct
attention to the issue of iconicity of logic. Some may think that logic pertains to
issues far from language and literature, others may suppose logic addresses struc-
tures which could never be characterized in terms of iconicity, cf. the phrase “sym-
bolic logic”.
I shall argue that not only is iconicity of logic relevant for language and litera-
ture, but the very notion of iconicity comes out of deep issues in the discussion of
formal logic and diferent ways of representing it. If something exists which can be
called logical structure, distinct from the diferent incarnations, representations,
or formalizations of that structure, then those diferent formalizations may be
measured by the degree to which they adequately depict logical structure. hat is,
by their degree of iconicity. his is not, however, a case of iconicity between two
visual representations – rather, it addresses the issue of visual representations of
logical structure, which is not in itself visual.
36 Frederik Stjernfelt
his, again, raises important issues about the basic status of iconicity itself.
Actually, the very term of iconicity emerges out of the discussion of diferent logic
representations. here seems to be a widespread urban legend that the concept
of iconicity originates in Charles Morris’ interpretation of Peirce’s icon-index-
symbol triad, e.g., in his Signs, Language and Behavior (1946).1 his, however, is
not correct. he concept is already found in Peirce’s doctrine of signs. And here,
it is articulated exactly in the context of diferent logic representations. So, the
very origin of “iconicity” lies in the interface between semiotics and logic, which
I think might be a useful piece of knowledge, not least for the Iconicity research
community.
In Peirce’s Collected Papers, “iconicity” occurs only once, in a discussion of
diferent possibilities for representing bound variables in his “Existential Graphs”
notation of predicate logic: “But of what variety of Linear Continuity is the heavy
line more especially the Icon in the System of Existential Graphs? In order to ascer-
tain this, let us contrast the Iconicity of the line with that of the surface of the
Phemic Sheet.” (Ms. 300, “he Bedrock beneath Pragmaticism”, 1905; 4.561n2). he
quote addresses the use of so-called Identity Lines to refer to individuals – more
about this below. here is not yet any occurrence of iconicity in the ongoing publi-
cation of Peirce’s Writings, while one mathematical use is found in the New Elements
of Mathematics selection of Peirce mss.3 Further “iconicity” occurrences in the vast
amount of unpublished Peirce manuscripts can, of course, not be precluded.
1. For example: “he concept of iconicity was irst proposed by Morris”, (Nöth 1990:123). Also
the idea of “degrees of iconicity”, so central to Peirce’s introduction of the notion, is routinely
ascribed to Morris 1946. A similar urban legend seems to pertain to Peirce’s notion of “aniconic-
ity”: “he concept of aniconicity was irst introduced by T.A. Sebeok (1979) as the “complemen-
tary obverse” of iconicity” (Sonesson 1999). In both cases, we may add, the «concepts» referred
to may have been discussed long before Peirce, Kratylos coming to mind as an early example.
It was Peirce, however, not Morris or Sebeok, who introduced the notions of “iconicity” and
“aniconicity” to address those concepts.
2. References to Peirce’s Collected Papers (Peirce 1998) follow standard practice: volume num-
ber and paragraph, “4.561n” meaning a note to volume 4, paragraph 561.
3. An even earlier use of “iconicity” is found in Ms. 229 (NEM II (Peirce 1976), 595), from
around 1897 (personal comm. André de Tienne), a small text on the “logic of number” where
Peirce discusses his deinition of mathematics as the science that studies hypotheses. Here, he
addresses the idea of the contemporaneous Scottish mathematician George Chrystal that math-
ematics is deined by the “deiniteness” of mathematical conceptions and their “inite number
of speciications”. Peirce remarks upon the low degree of deiniteness of topology, likening it
to other, non-mathematical conceptions which may also display degrees of deiniteness. his
leads him to the remark: “I incline to suspect that Prof. Chrystal has confounded deiniteness
with iconicity, or the palpability of being represented in a diagram.” In Peirce’s philosophy of
Iconicity of logic 37
he converse, negative concept of “aniconicity” may also be found in the dis-
cussion of logic representations: “One system seems to be about as good as the
other, except that unnaturalness and aniconicity haunt every part of the system
of entitative graphs, which is a curious example of how late a development sim-
plicity is.” (“Logical Tracts no. 2”, 1903, 4.434). Here, the discussion addresses
Peirce’s choice between two diferent graphical representations of Logic, his
“Entitative” and “Existential Graphs”, (cf. below). Also verbalization (“iconize”)
and adjectivizations (“iconic” and “iconical”) of the term “icon” are widely used
by Peirce, especially in the context of discussing logic representations. In this
paper I shall investigate which ideas of logical iconicity are at stake in Peirce’s
logic representations.
1. Peircean iconicity
As is well known, Peircean iconicity is not restricted to visual nor perceptual sim-
ilarity, nor to easily recognizable resemblance. Quite on the contrary, Peircean
iconicity began with logic. At least two basic issues are addressed at length here:
(a) which parts or aspects of logic necessitate the use of iconic signs (cf. predi-
cates rather than subjects)? – and (b) the higher-level issue of which aspects of
logic structure itself may be iconically expressed (cf. the choice between diferent
representation systems)? hus, the Peircean notion of iconicity goes far beyond
perception, such as is evident from what I have earlier called his “non-trivial ico-
nicity deinition” (Stjernfelt 2007:123f): “For a great distinguishing property of
the icon is that by the direct observation of it other truths concerning its object
can be discovered than those which suice to determine its construction.” (“hat
Categorical and Hypothetical Propositions are one in essence, with some con-
nected matters”, 1895, 2.279)
his surplus of information is accessed via manipulation of or experimen-
tation with the icon – actions realizing deductive inferences. his implies that
Peircean iconicity has a far wider extension than seen by many later iconicity
scholars. he criterion of being an icon is simply whether such “other truths” may
be inferred from it. hus, the extension of iconicity not only comprises the ordi-
nary series of pictures, images, and photographs, but also examples like:
mathematics, diagram tokens form the access to diagram types, incarnating selected math-
ematical properties. hus, the iconicity of diagrams is what makes possible knowledge about
mathematical objects. hus, the use of “iconicity” here addresses mathematical representation
devices, just like the CP use addresses logical representation systems.
38 Frederik Stjernfelt
– 2-D continuous charts
→ manipulation of icon: Finding routes on topographical maps, extrapolat-
ing graphs, etc.
– Algebraically expressed equations
→ manipulation of icon: solution of equations x +2 = 4 => x = 2
– Aspects of linguistic syntax
→ manipulation of icon: “John beats Peter” => “Peter was beaten by John”
and many more. hus, Peircean iconicity addresses, from the outset, a
logical issue: which information may be inferred from a sign?
2. Iconicity in logic formalizations
In order to understand the notion of logical iconicity, we must address the issue
of how to express logical relations. Oten, the logic tradition has favoured lin-
guistic representations, like the syllogism “All men are mortal. Socrates is a man.
Hence, Socrates is mortal”. In the 19 C, however, increasing interest was given to
graphical representations of logic, such as Euler Circles or Venn Diagrams. In the
1870s, F.A. Lange, in his Logische Studien (1877) argued that logic as such relies on
spatiality and, hence, is best represented graphically – an argument which deeply
impressed Peirce.4 Famously, Frege in his 1879 Begrifsschrit was the irst to intro-
duce quantiiers and relational logic, simultaneously proposing a graphical formal-
ization of propositional logic and irst order predicate logic. Not knowing Frege’s
achievements, Peirce proposed alternative representations of the two, in 1880 and
1883–85, respectively. Twenty years later, he constructed an alternative graphical
representation system, known as “Existential Graphs”. hus, Peirce constructed no
less than two diferent sets of elaborated logic representations:
1. he “Algebra of Logic”, formalizing propositional logic (1880) and irst-order
predicate logic (1885) in a linear language (which was the irst version of the
formal logic which, via Schröder, Peano and Russell, became modern standard
usage)
2. he “Existential Graphs” (around 1900), formalizing propositional logic
(Alpha), irst-order predicate logic (Beta), and an uninished series of fur-
ther logics (Gamma – second-order Predicate Logic; modal logic; three-value
logic; temporal logic; speech act logic, etc.)5
4. Cf. Bellucci 2013.
5. Actually, Peirce constructed, in the 1890s, a third system of so-called “Entitative Graphs”
forming a dual system as compared to Existential Graphs, soon concentrating on the latter, cf.
below.
Iconicity of logic 39
3. Algebra of logic
Peirce’s two 1880s logic representations appear in two homonymous papers:
1. “On the Algebra of Logic” 1880, concerning the formalization of Propositional
Logic (“Logic of Non-relative Terms”)
2. “On the Algebra of Logic” 1885 – the introduction of quantiiers; the formal-
ization of First Order Predicate Logic (“Relative Logic”)
Let us irst take a look at his proposals for the connectives of Propositional logic
(1880) – the very irst version of modern formal logic.
implication: P[i] −< C[i] p ⇒ q p → q p ⊃ q
negation: ~B ¬p
and: axb p∧q p•q
or: a+b p∨q
Peirce notation Modern notation
Figure 1
As is evident, all of Peirce’s proposals are syntactically equivalent to present-day
use – the only diference lies in the shape of the individual sign of the connective.
In some cases, there is even close relations among the signs’ actual character in
Peirce and modern notation, respectively – the asymmetric, directed character of
the implication sign, the preix negation sign, the “and” signs taken from arith-
metic multiplication.
he next step, the system for Relational logic, what is now called First Order
Predicate Logic, followed in 1885 introducing quantiiers and polyadic relational
predicates, just like Frege had done it six years earlier, but now in a linear, algebraic
notation. Here, Peirce’s proposal addressed which diferent aspects of relational
logical expressions should be expressed iconically, indexically, and symboli-
cally, respectively. If we take the sentence “Somebody loves something”, it will be
expressed as follows:
ΣiΣj(l)ij – meaning “here exists an i and there exists a j so that i loves j”.
his expression now has three parts:
1. an index part – quantiication – ΣiΣj – pointing out the objects to which the
proposition refers
2. an iconic part  – the Boolean part  – describing the relations claimed to
hold – (l)ij – “love” being a two-part relation iconically depicted by a bivalent
predicate
40 Frederik Stjernfelt
3. a “token” (symbolic) part – presented by token signs which are conventional
and general: i; j; >; Σ; 0; l …
his apparatus allows the expression of existentially and universally quantiied
propositions:
ΣiΣj(l)ij > 0
– meaning: something is a lover of something; and
ΠiΣj(l)ij > 0
– meaning: everything is a lover of something
Peirce’s notation is algebraically motivated. Πi means “For all i …” while Σj means
“here exists a j …”. Here, the Πi notation has been chosen with reference to
“Product” and Σj with reference to “Sum” – the Boolean idea being that the truth
of a claim can be expressed by the value 1 and falsity by the value 0. hen, Πi is
the product of all the truth values of the single i’s. If the claim is false about just
one i but true about all the others, then that single 0 suices to make the whole
product zero – meaning that it only holds for all i’s if the product is larger than
zero. Conversely, Σj is the sum of all the truth values of the single j’s. If the claim is
now false for all j’s except for one j, then this single 1 is suicient to make the sum
larger than zero – meaning there exists one j making the claim true.
Peirce quickly realized that the “>0” might be skipped as being superluous as
it appeared in all propositions and thus was pragmatically empty.
− Universal quantifier: Πx
Px
Σx
Px
(Σ for sum) meaning the sum of Px
cases > 0
− i.e., at least one single Px
case must be > 0
Πx
Px
(Π for product) − originally meaning
the product of Px
cases > 0
− i.e., no single Px
case may be zero
− Existential quantifier: Σx
Px
Figure 2
Let us compare this representation system to Frege’s 1879 notation and modern
notation – all of the three here expressing the proposition that “here exists a red
ball”:
Iconicity of logic 41
• Frege 1879
• Peirce
1870–1885
• Peano 1900,
Russell 1910,
& later
X red(X)
ball(X)
Σx
(ballx
• redx
)
∃x (ball(x) ∧ red(x))
Figure 3
We shall not here go deeply into the details of Frege’s more cumbersome notation,
suice it to point out the close relatedness between Peirce’s notation and modern
notation developed on the basis of it. Peano took it over from Schröder, substitut-
ing the inverted Es and As (for “exist” and “all”) for Peirce’s algebraic notions, but
the overall syntax remained unaltered.
Similarly: “All balls are red”
• Frege 1879
• Peirce
1870–1885
• Modern
notation –
Peano 1900,
Russell 1910,
& later
X red(X)
ball(X)
Πx
(ballx
− < redx
)
∀x (ball(x) ⊃ red(x))
Figure 4
4. Existential graphs
A chief occupation of the mature Peirce ater the turn of the century was the con-
struction of a quite diferent logic formalism, which he baptized as “Existential
Graphs”.6 An important question here immediately jumps to mind: Why “Exis-
tential Graphs”? Peirce’s 1880–85 notation was the origin of modern formal logic
6. Much interesting scholarship has emerged investigating Existential Graphs in recent
decades – see Zeman (1964), Roberts (1973), Shin (1994, 2000, 2013), Pietarinen (2006, 2011,
2012, in prep.), Dau (2011a, 2011b) etc., and the special issue of Semiotica “Diagrammatical
reasoning and Peircean Logic Representations” (Queiroz & Stjernfelt 2011).
42 Frederik Stjernfelt
via Schröder, Peano, and Russell (Frege’s Begrifsschrit notation never came in
use) and had received some degree of recognition. So why did Peirce develop an
alternative notation 20 years later (from approximately 1897 onwards)? He had
every reason to remain satisied with his 1880–85 achievements, which were even
spreading to Europe via the work of Schröder. Peirce could not know that his role
in the origin of modern formal logic would soon be forgotten along the Schröder-
Peano-Russell line with the result that most later logicians have no knowledge of
his role and, in many cases, even erroneously think that Frege was responsible
rather than Peirce. his dispute about priority hence did not occupy him and has
only become an issue addressed by (much) later intellectual historians.7
So why did Peirce set out to begin from scratch, constructing a wholly new
graphical representation system for Propositional and First Order Logic? For rea-
sons of iconicity!
As Peirce quite explicitly states: he purpose of “Existential Graphs” is “… to
aford a method (1) as simple as possible (that is to say, with as small a number of
arbitrary conventions as possible), for representing propositions (2) as iconically,
or diagrammatically and (3) as analytically as possible.” (1905; Ms. 300, 4.561n)
What, then, is the iconicity claimed for these graphs? Let us take a look at the
simplest “Existential Graphs”, the Alpha system formalizing, again, Propositional
Logic:
a. Conjunction P∧Q
c1. Conditional P→Q
c2. Conditional P→Q,
alternative notation
d. Disjunction P∨Q
b. Negation ¬P
P
P
PQ P
P
Q Q
Q
Figure 5
7. Cf. Putnam (1982); Anellis (1995, 2012).
Iconicity of logic 43
Alpha Graphs are much simpler than the 1880 Algebra of Logic. hey have two
primitives only:8
– Co-localization: “And” – the location of two propositions at the same part of the page
means the conjunction of the two
– Inclusion: “Negation” – the inclusion of a proposition in a “cut”, separating it from
the rest of the page means the negation of that proposition
Behind these two conventions lies the interpretation of the blank page. It is
called the “Sheet of Assertion” or the “Phemic Sheet” and is taken to iconically
depict the Universe of Discourse which is what the whole set of possible propo-
sitions at stake refers to. hus, the continuous, empty page refers, implicitly, to
all relevant truths.
Peirce’s idea is now that this is a more iconic way of representing logical rela-
tions: to represent two propositions side by side, embraced in the same part of the
universe, is a more iconic representation for “and” than representing them with
an additional sign like “×” or “∧”. And to represent negation by cutting away the
proposition from the sheet of truths is considered more iconic than attaching a
purely conventional negation sign like “~” or “¬” to that proposition.
Among the advantages Peirce saw in Existential Graphs was their analyticity –
or, seen from the point of view of ordinary notation – multiple interpretability:
R S
Figure 6
he non-linear Existential Graphs may be read as realizing a series of logical
propositions which, in the ordinary notation, would require proofs to establish as
equivalent. hus, the graph depicted, in ordinary language reading “It is not the
case that not-R and not-S” is immediately equivalent to the following compound
propositions:
8. Peirce was the irst to realize that all logical connectives could be deined in terms of one
sign only, that for “neither-nor” (later called “Shefer’s Stroke” ater the logician who rediscov-
ered it) – for perspicuity, however, he preferred the EG Alpha version with two connectives –
maybe because it does not seem easy to come up with a simple iconic sign for “neither-nor”.
44 Frederik Stjernfelt
– ¬ (¬R ∧ ¬S)
– ¬S ⇒ R
– ¬R ⇒ S
– R ∨ S
…
his amount of diferent depictions, in linear logic (including Peirce’s own earlier
Algebra of Logic), of the very same structure is taken to be an anti-iconic property
which should be avoided.
5. Beta graphs
he next step was to substitute Beta Graphs for the Algebra of Logic notation
of First Order Predicate Logic. It builds on Alpha graphs, and adds to Alpha
Conventions further ideas:
– Dots refer to individual objects
– Lines of Identity connecting two dots identify those individuals – thus each
Line of Identity refers to one individual or variable
– Lines of Identity may be composed into Ligatures, structures of Lines each
referring to the same constant or variable – Ligatures may thus identify several
variables, just as they may cross negation cuts
– Lines of Identity may connect to hooks of Predicates written directly on the
Sheet so that S––––––––blue means that the individual S has the property blue
– Polyadic predicates have as many hooks as their valency indicates, and they
may be connected to a Line of Identity at each hook, thus A––––––loves––––––B
means “A loves B” and ––––––loves––––––means “Somebody loves something”.
hus a basic iconicity holds between the number of relata of a relation and the
amount of hooks of the corresponding predicate.
– hus, the Line of Identity also expresses quantiication; the outermost end of
an Identity line signiies quantiication. If the line ends directly on the sheet or
is enclosed by an even number of negations, this means existential quantiica-
tion, “here exists an individual …”; if the line is oddly enclosed by negations,
this means negative universal quantiication, “It is not the case that there exists
an individual …” – that is, “No x …”
hus, the Line of Identity takes care of identity, existence, predication as well as
subsumption – the four diferent functions of the copula which, in the Frege-
Russell tradition, was analyzed as ambiguous for that very reason.
Iconicity of logic 45
Let us take a couple of examples of Beta Graphs to see the expression of quan-
tiication and variables by means of Lines of Identity:
is good
is ugly
is good
is ugly
• There exists an x which
is good and ugly
• ∃(X): G(X) ∧ U(X)
• It is not the case an x
exists which is good and
not ugly
• ¬ (∃(X): G(X) ∧ ¬U(X)
• ∀(X): G(X) ⇒U(X)
• So the nested graph
expresses implication
Figure 7
he irst graph has both ends on the sheet and is thus quantiied existentially,
meaning: there exists an x. his line is connected to the hooks of two one-slot
predicates, “is good” and “is ugly”, respectively. he whole graph hence means
“Something exists which is good and ugly”. he standard formalization is given
for comparison. In the second graph, the Identity Line has its outermost end in
a negative area. hus, existence is denied: “It is not the case an x exists which is
good and not ugly”. his, of course, is equivalent with the sentence: “If anything is
good, it is ugly” – or, again, “For all xs, if x is good, it is ugly”, or colloquially, “All
which is good is ugly”. hus, the nested graph of two cuts, one within the other,
just like in Alpha Graphs, expresses material implication, if-then. Peirce took this
as a particularly successful iconic representation, showing how the consequence
is contained in the premises.
6. Lines of identity
In case of polyadic predicates, several Lines of Identity may be attached to diferent
slots in the predicate:
blames to
Figure 8
46 Frederik Stjernfelt
“If there exists anyone, he blames somebody to somebody else” – or “Every-
body blames someone to somebody”. It is easy to see that the number of indi-
viduals referred to by such a proposition is equivalent to the number of Lines
of Identity – in this case, three. According to Peirce, Lines of Identity and their
composition into Ligatures are, for this reason, more iconic, because of this simple
rule: there is one Ligature for one variable – contrary to the linear notation where
the same variable is repeated several times through the formula. Compare these
two representations of the same proposition:
∀ (x): G(x) ⇒ U(x)
is good
is ugly
Figure 9
In the linear notation, the variable x appears thrice – in the EG notation, the same
variable appears only as one Ligature. his is more iconic, as there is only one vari-
able referred to, not three.
Peirce irst experimented, in the 1890s, with a dual system called “Entitative
Graphs”, where the end point of an Identity Line on the Sheet meant Universal
instead of Existential Quantiication and where the fundamental connective, rep-
resented by co-localization, was OR instead of AND.
Giving up “Entitative Graphs”, he argued that it was more iconic for a simple
end point of a line to mean “here exists an x …” than to mean “For all xs …” –
and it was more iconic that “PQ” meant “P and Q” rather than “P or Q”. he rea-
son behind these iconicity claims is that one point iconically presents the idea in
Existential Quantiication that (at least) one x exists. he quote referred to in the
discussion of “aniconicity” above rejects “Entitative Graphs” exactly because of
their lack of iconicity.
7. Iconicity in EGs vs. linear notation
Let us now sum up the arguments for Existential Graphs being more iconic than
the linear notations of the Algebras of Logic:
1. he blank sheet, as mentioned, is an iconic sign for the Universe of Discourse
because it involves all possible points – that is, all possible true existential
propositions;
Iconicity of logic 47
2. Co-localization as a sign for “and” is more iconic than “p∧q” or “p•q” because
it immediately gives the idea that the two propositions joined form parts of
the same Universe of Discourse;
3. he cut (or “sep”) as a sign for negation is more iconic than ~p, or non-p, or
¬p because it literally separates the negated from the universe of discourse;
4. he Line of Identity as a sign for existence, identity, subsumption, predication,
all at once, is more iconic than the various means used in the Algebra of Logic.
As to quantiication, it is more iconic than the algebraic Product/Sum quanti-
ier symbols and their repeated x’s because of its unity and its continuity. As
to identity, it is more iconic than conventional signs like “=” because of its
continuity, directly connecting the two points identiied. As to predication, it
is more iconic than P(x,y), again because of its continuity, directly connecting
the variable with the relevant slot in the predicate.
As noted above, Peirce compared Ligatures combining Identity Lines with another
device called “Selectives”. What lead him to this consideration was that in cases
with many Identity Lines and Ligatures, some of them crossing one another, such
lines may form a maze which is not immediately perspicuous to the observer. In
such cases, a Line of Identity may be cut into pieces, and each piece then identiied
by an attached letter instructing the observer that the line pieces with the same
letter should be read as referring to the same individual or variable. Take the below
graph, meaning “here exists a woman and if she has a child, she loves it”. he irst
version involves crossing Lines of Identity, necessitating the convention of a small
“bridge” preventing the two from merging (which would indicate reference to the
same individual). he second version shows how Selectives reintroduce the array
of X’s and Y’s from the linear notation:
is a woman
loves
is child of
X is a woman
Y is a child of X
X loves Y
Figure 10
Here, Peirce deinitely preferred Ligatures (even with the additional convention
of bridges) – and the very quote in which he introduces the notion of “iconicity”
occurs in an argument addressing exactly this: that Ligatures are more iconic than
Selectives because of their continuity. He goes on to compare the explicit reference
of 1-D Ligatures involving individual variables to the 2-D continuity of the whole
48 Frederik Stjernfelt
sheet which then refers to the whole Universe of Discourse to which no particular
attention is paid but which has the objects highlighted by the Ligature as parts.
5. he end point of line as the sign for Existential Quantiication is more iconic
than “Σx” or “∃x” because it selects one point from the Universe of Discourse;
6. The negated Existential Quantification is an iconic sign for Universal
Quantiier, because Universal claims are inherently negative – to claim that
All Xs are Ys is to say there are No Xs that are not Ys – so to actually ind such
an X provides a counterexample;
7. Predicates are represented with hooks (empty slots) whose number iconically
corresponds to the valency of the predicate;
8. he nested structure of negations gives, at the same time, the scope of
quantiications;
9. In implications, the implied is in an inner cut of the outer cut – im-plication.9
Now we are in a position to appreciate the early appearance of the notion of iconic-
ity in the middle of an argument pertaining to Existential Graphs. his addresses
the lack of iconicity in Selectives mentioned in bullet 4), arguing for the superi-
ority of the Identity Line notation instead. Peirce takes the deicits of Selectives
one by one – irst they are not as simple; second they are not as iconic, and third,
they are not as analytical (the “two S’s” here correspond to the X’s in the Figure 10
example above):
he irst respect in which Selectives are not as analytical as they might be, and
therefore ought to be, is in representing identity. he identity of the two S’s above
is only symbolically expressed (…) Iconically, they appear to be merely coexistent;
but by the special convention they are interpreted as identical, though identity
is not a matter of interpretation – that is of logical depth – but is an assertion of
unity of Object, that is, is an assertion regarding logical breadth. he two S’s are
instances of one symbol, and that of so peculiar a kind that they are interpreted as
signifying, and not merely denoting, one individual. here is no analysis of iden-
tity. he suggestion, at least, is, quite decidedly, that identity is a simple relation.
But the line of identity which may be substituted for the selectives very explicitly
represents Identity to belong to the genus Continuity and to the species Linear
Continuity. But what variety of Linear Continuity is the heavy line, more espe-
cially, the Icon in the System of Existential Graphs? In order to ascertain this, let
9. You may add a futher feature of iconicity not implied directly by the Alpha and Beta conven-
tions, which is the stepwise structure of logical proofs as an iconic sign of the dialogic structure of
logic (see Pietarinen (2006) and further refs.). hus, Peirce takes this stepwise structure as referring
to the alternate eforts by an utterer and his opponent – in Peirce, a Graphist and a Grapheus – tak-
ing turns in making changes on the Existential Graph, one trying to prove, the other to disprove it.
Connected to this idea is his reinterpretation of Existential and Universal Quantiiers as the right
to select an instantiation by the defender, resp. the attacker of a proposition.
Iconicity of logic 49
us contrast the Iconicity of the line with that of the surface of the Phemic Sheet.
he continuity of this surface being two dimensional, and so polyadic, should rep-
resent an external continuity, and especially, a continuity of experiential appear-
ance. Moreover, the Phemic Sheet iconizes the Universe of Discourse, since it
more immediately represents a ield of hought, or Mental Experience, which
is itself directed to the Universe of Discourse, and considered as a sign, denotes
that Universe. Moreover, it [is because it must be understood] as being directed
to that Universe, that it is iconized by the Phemic Sheet. So, on the principle that
logicians call “the Nota notae” that the sign of a sign of anything, X, is itself a sign
of the very same X, the Phemic Sheet, in representing the ield of attention, rep-
resents the general object of that attention, the Universe of Discourse. his being
the case, the continuity of the Phemic Sheet in those places, where, nothing being
scribed, no particular attention is paid, is the most appropriate Icon possible of
the continuity of the Universe of Discourse – where it only receives general atten-
tion as that Universe – that is to say of the continuity in experiential appearance
of the Universe, relatively to any objects represented as belonging to it. / (…) Now
for the continuity of the line of identity. his being one-dimensional, or dyadic,
(i.e. running two ways only,) should represent an internal, or mental, continuity;
and being deinitely marked, should iconize a continuity of attention. But the
heavy line is generated by the continuity of the diferent places of a heavy dot,
which is the appropriate icon of an individual object in a Universe of continuous
co-being; and, therefore, the continuity of the line is, best, the Icon of the continu-
ity in attentive observation of an individual object.
(Ms. 300, “he Bedrock beneath Pragmaticism”, 1905;
partially in 4.561n, here corrected)
he notion of “iconicity” occurs in the comparison of the continuity of the Line of
Identity with that of the whole Sheet of Assertion on which the Line is drawn. he
Sheet is two-dimensional and objective in the sense that it represents the entire
world, which the actual piece of reasoning addresses. he Line is one-dimensional
only and makes explicit a small part of the former. It is “mental” not in the sense
of psychological but in the sense of representing the continuous existence of the
object it refers to, which is granted by an act of continuous attention to that object.
In that sense, it is what Peirce elsewhere calls “the immediate object” of a sign –
which is the indexical connection claimed to exist between the sign and the object,
granted (when it actually does exist) by the simultaneous existence of that object
and attention to that object. hus, this was what this irst – as far as we know – irst
occurrence of the term “iconicity” was intended to explain.10
10. As mentioned above (n3), there is an earlier (1897) occurrence of the term, but the 1905
occurrence is the irst one supported by a thorough discussion of iconicity and degrees of ico-
nicity of diferent representation devices. As to degrees of iconicity and optimal iconicity, see
Stjernfelt (2014, Chapter 8).
50 Frederik Stjernfelt
he demand for as high a degree of iconicity as possible, however, does not
imply the suppression of indexicality or symbolicity. Peirce, proud of his invention
of the Line of Identity, rather claims that the advantages of this particular notation
lies in its satisfying an ideal of equilibrium between these three sign functions:
he value of an icon consists in its exhibiting the features of a state of things
regarded as if it were purely imaginary. he value of an index is that it assures
us of positive fact. he value of a symbol is that it serves to make thought and
conduct rational and enables us to predict the future. It is frequently desirable
that a representamen should exercise one of those three functions to the exclu-
sion of the other two, or two of them to the exclusion of the third; but the most
perfect of signs are those in which the iconic, indicative, and symbolic characters
are blended as equally as possible. Of this sort of signs the line of identity is
an interesting example. As a conventional sign, it is a symbol; and the symbolic
character, when present in a sign, is of its nature predominant over the others.
he line of identity is not, however, arbitrarily conventional nor purely conven-
tional. Consider any portion of it taken arbitrarily (with certain possible excep-
tions shortly to be considered) and it is an ordinary graph for which Fig. 81 might
perfectly well be substituted. But when we consider the
 – is identical with –
Fig. 81
connexion of this portion with a next adjacent portion, although the two together
make up the same graph, yet the identiication of the something, to which the
hook of the one refers, with the something, to which the hook of the other refers,
is beyond the power of any graph to efect, since a graph, as a symbol, is of the
nature of a law, and is therefore general, while here there must be an identiica-
tion of individuals. his identiication is efected not by the pure symbol, but by
its replica which is a thing. he termination of one portion and the beginning
of the next portion denote the same individual by virtue of a factual connexion,
and that the closest possible; for both are points, and they are one and the same
point. In this respect, therefore, the line of identity is of the nature of an index. To
be sure, this does not afect the ordinary parts of a line of identity, but so soon as
it is even conceived, [it is conceived] as composed of two portions, and it is only
the factual junction of the replicas of these portions that makes them refer to the
same individual. he line of identity is, moreover, in the highest degree iconic.
For it appears as nothing but a continuum of dots, and the fact of the identity of a
thing, seen under two aspects, consists merely in the continuity of being in pass-
ing from one apparition to another. hus uniting, as the line of identity does, the
natures of symbol, index, and icon, it is itted for playing an extraordinary part in
this system of representation. (“Logical Tracts, N° 2”, 1903, 4.448)
Iconicity of logic 51
Peirce’s celebration of the harmonious concert of symbol-index-icon begins “from
above”, as it were. he Line of Identity is a symbol, because it rests on a convention,
the convention discussed above giving the rules according to which it may express
identity, existence, predication and subsumption, all at the same time. But these
conventions make rules for a sign which is already it to serve these purposes.
Its indexicality here is argued by observing that, as all general signs, it may only
exert its general, symbolic function in the shape of an actual sign token existing
here-and-now – a line drawn on a sheet, in this case. And this line factually con-
nects its extremities – unlike other candidates for the same general meaning. his
factual connection, again, is supported on the most basic level, by iconicity – by
the continuity of the Line of Identity depicting the continuity of existence of the
constant or variable referred to.
8. Conclusion
he birth of “iconicity” takes place in the middle of an investigation aiming to
settle which logic representation most iconically represents logical structure. Let
us sum up the arguments schematically:
Linear Logic
non-a; ¬a
a
a ∧ b
a ⇒ c
gives(x,y,z) —gives —to—
outer end point of line in positive area;
utterer’s right to examplify
outer end point of line in negative area;
opponent’s right to examplify
Antecedent
Consequent
ab
Existential Graphs
∃(X)... x ... x ...
∃
∀
Figure 11
he EGs were taken by Peirce as a means of analyzing logical structures as unani-
mously and detailed as possible – not as an easy calculus aiming at computing
quick inference results. It is for this reason he is so adamant in his pursuit of ico-
nicity. A calculus – with an eye to quick reasoning – may, quite on the contrary,
52 Frederik Stjernfelt
beneit from being less iconical – having more logical primitives, more ways to
express the same thing, more rules of thumb for shortcuts.
But Peirce’s obstinate demand for iconicity in logic also has relevance for
iconicity in general. It argues the more general case that diferent spatial rep-
resentations of abstract structures – in this case, topological representations of
logic – may be subject to iconicity criteria. It argues that iconicity plays a basic
role in the selection among competing scientiic formalizations – also in abstract
and formal sciences. And it argues that there may be a trade-of between optimal
iconicity and heuristic utility, which may strike diferent compromises depending
on pragmatic purposes.
Abstract structures also inhere in more immediately accessible iconic signs
like paintings, photos, movies, diagrams, poetry etc. so we should expect to ind
the diferent degrees and modes of logical iconicity playing a role in such repre-
sentations as well.
References
Anellis, I.H. 1995. Peirce rustled, Russell pierced: How Charles Peirce and Betrand Russell
viewed each other’s work in logic, and an assessment of Russell’s accuracy and role in the
historiography of logic. Modern Logic 5: 270–328.
Anellis, I.H. 2012. How Peircean was the ‘Fregean’ revolution in logic? Working Paper. <http://
arxiv.org/pdf/1201.0353.pdf> (10 July 2013).
Bellucci, F. 2013. Diagrammatic reasoning: Some notes on Charles S. Peirce and Friedrich A.
Lange. History and Philosophy of Logic 34(4): 293–305.
DOI: 10.1080/01445340.2013.777991
Dau, F. 2011a. Ligatures in Peirce’s existential graphs. Semiotica 186 (1–4): 89–109.
Dau, F. 2011b. Die Ikonizität der Peirceschen Existentiellen Graphen aus der Sicht der Formalen
Logik. Zeitschrit für Semiotik 31(3–4), 2009–2011.
Morris, C. 1946. Signs, Language, and Behavior. New York NY: Prentice-Hall.
Nöth, W. 1990. Handbook of Semiotics. Bloomington IN: Indiana University Press.
Peirce, C.S. 1976. New Elements of Mathematics [referred to as NEM], C. Eisele (ed) I–IV. he
Hague: Mouton.
Peirce, C.S. 1998 [1931–58]. Collected Papers [CP, references given by volume and paragraph
numbers], I–VIII, C. Hartshorne & P. Weiss (eds); W. Burks (ed). London: hoemmes
Press.
Peirce, C.S. Undated. Manuscripts at the Houghton Library referred to by Ms. numbers in
the Microilm edition 1966 he Charles S. Peirce Papers, Microilm Edition, hirty Reels
with Two Supplementary Reels Later Added. Cambridge: Harvard University Library Pho-
tographic Service, numbers simultaneously referring to the Robin catalogue of the Mss.
(Robin 1967, 1971). As to manuscript page numbers, reference is to Peirce’s pagination
(which is not unanimous since several parallel drats may belong to the same Ms.)
Pietarinen, A.-V. 2006. Signs of Logic. Peircean hemes on the Philosophy of Language, Games,
and Communication. Dordrecht: Springer.
Iconicity of logic 53
Pietarinen, A.-V. 2011. Existential graphs: What a diagrammatic logic of cognition might look
like. History and Philosophy of Logic 32: 265–281. DOI: 10.1080/01445340.2011.555506
Pietarinen, A.-V. 2012. Some myths about EGs. <http://www.helsinki.i/~pietarin/brpage/
Ten%20Myths%20about%20EGs.pdf>
Pietarinen, A.-V. In prep. he genesis of Peirce’s beta part of existential graphs. <http://www.
helsinki.i/~pietarin/brpage/he%20Genesis%20of%20Peirce’s%20Beta%20Part%20of%20
Existential%20Graphs-Pietarinen.pdf>
Putnam, H. 1982. Realism with a Human Face. Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press.
Queiroz, J. & Stjernfelt, F. (eds). 2011. Special Issue of Semiotica on Diagrammatical Reasoning
and Peircean Logic Representations 186(1–4).
Roberts, D.D. 1973. he Existential Graphs of C.S. Peirce. he Hague: Mouton.
Robin, R. 1967. Annotated Catalogue of the Papers of Charles S. Peirce. Amherst MA: University
of Massachusetts Press.
Robin, R. 1971. he Peirce papers: A supplementary catalogue. Transactions of the Charles S.
Peirce Society 7(1): 37–57.
Sebeok, T. A. 1979. he Sign and Its Masters. Austin and London: University of Texas Press.
Shin, S.-J. 1994. he Logical Status of Diagrams. Cambridge: CUP.
Shin, S.-J. 2000. he Iconic Logic of Peirce’s Graphs. Cambridge MA: he MIT Press.
Shin, S.-J. 2013. Visualization of quantiicational logic. Paper presented at the Extended Problem
Solving Conference, Aarhus University, January 2013.
Sonesson, G. 1999. Aniconic visual signs. <https://www.academia.edu/492229/he_Internet_
Semiotics_Encyclopaedia>
Stjernfelt, F. 2007. Diagrammatology. An Investigation on the Borderlines of Phenomenology,
Ontology, and Semiotics. Dordrecht: Springer.
Stjernfelt, F. 2014. Natural Propositions: he Actuality of Peirce’s Doctrine of Dicisigns. Boston
MA: Docent Press.
Zeman, J. 1964. he Graphical Logic of C.S. Peirce. <http://www.clas.ul.edu/users/jzeman/>
(8 December 2013).
part ii
Sound meets meaning
doi 10.1075/ill.14.03kaw
© 2015 John Benjamins Publishing Company
Iconic inferences about personality
From sounds and shapes*
Shigeto Kawahara, Kazuko Shinohara and Joseph Grady
Keio University / Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology /
Cultural Logic, LLC
he current study reveals a new case of an iconic relationship amongst diferent
modalities of cognition, going beyond traditional studies of sound symbolism.
We report experiments that show that particular types of personalities can be
iconically related to particular types of sounds and shapes. Two experiments
show that “inaccessible types of personality” are iconically associated with a
class of sounds called “obstruents” as well as with angular shapes. he ﬁrst con-
nection – the one between personalities and sounds – adds to the large body
of literature on sound symbolism. he second connection – the link between
personalities and shapes – goes beyond the traditional cases of sound symbol-
ism, instantiating a case of trans-modal iconic projection from one cognitive
modality to another.
1. Introduction
1.1 General background and the current project
A general assumption in modern linguistics is that the relationship between
sounds and meanings is arbitrary; i.e. that there are no iconic relationships
between sounds and meanings. his thesis of arbitrariness was very clearly articu-
lated in the work of Saussure (1916/1972) as the irst principle that governs lan-
guages, and it has been inluential in modern linguistic theorizing since then. On
the other hand, there have also been a large number of studies suggesting that
* his study is supported by Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS) grant No.
26770147 to the irst author and No. 25370425 to the second author. We are grateful for the com-
ments that we received from the audience at the Iconicity Conference at Rikkyo University, as well
as from Kimi Akita and two anonymous reviewers. We thank Natalie Dresher and Jess Trombetta
for their proofreading of this drat. he usual disclaimer applies.
58 Shigeto Kawahara, Kazuko Shinohara and Joseph Grady
there are some non-arbitrary relationships between sounds and meanings – cases
known as “sound symbolism” (Hinton et al. 1994). For example, for speakers of
many languages, low and open vowels like [a] are associated with “big” images,
whereas high and closed vowels like [i] are associated with “small” images (Sapir
1929 et seq.).
Most, if not all, cases of sound symbolism can be considered as an iconic pro-
jection from some phonetic properties of sounds to meanings – for the case of [a]
being bigger than [i], one plausible explanation is that the mouth is more open for
the articulation of [a] than it is for the articulation of [i] (see Jespersen 1922/1933;
Sapir 1929; Shinohara & Kawahara to appear, among others); or alternatively, the
resonance cavity for the second formant resonation (F2) is larger for [a] than
it is for [i] (Ohala 1983, 1994; Shinohara & Kawahara to appear). Regardless of
whether sound symbolism is based on articulatory or acoustic characteristics, we
see evidence for iconic relationships between sounds and meanings.1
From a more general point of view, sound symbolism can be regarded as an
instance of a general iconic projection relationship from one cognitive modal-
ity (sound) to another (meaning). he following quote from Köhler (1929/1947)
summarizes this view succinctly: “I take for granted, then, that there are some
similarities between the experiences we have through diferent sense organs [and]
that in primitive languages one inds much evidence for assuming that the names
of things and events oten originate according to this similarity between their
properties in vision or touch, and certain sounds or acoustical wholes” (Köhler
1929:242). here are then no reasons to assume that the trans-modal mapping
must be limited to a sound-meaning relationship. Rather, the null hypothesis, it
would seem to us, is that an iconic projection can hold among other dimensions
of human cognition.2
Our present case study reveals a new case of such an iconic relationship
among diferent modalities of cognition, going beyond traditional studies of sound
symbolism. We present experiments that show that particular types of personali-
ties can be iconically related to particular types of sounds and shapes. More spe-
ciically, we show that “inaccessible types of personality” are iconically associated
1. Patterns of sound symbolisms do not hold as absolute principles – for example, the English
word big has a “small” vowel. Rather, sound symbolic patterns appear as statistical tendencies
in the lexicon (Ultan 1978), and/or in experimental settings (Sapir 1929 et seq.).
2. Related to this idea is the claim that sound symbolism is an instance of synesthesia (Berlin
2006; Ramachandran & Hubbard 2001), which is not limited to the sound-meaning relationship.
See also Ahlner & Zlatev (2010), Barkhuysen et al. (2010), Lindauer (1988), Lindauer (1990),
Martino & Marks (2000), and Spence (2011), among others, for discussion on cross-modal
perception.
Iconic inferences about personality 59
with a class of sounds called “obstruents” as well as with angular shapes. he irst
connection – the one between personalities and sounds – adds to the large body
of literature on sound symbolism. he second connection – the link between
personalities and shapes – goes beyond traditional cases of sound symbolism,
instantiating a case of trans-modal iconic projection from one cognitive modality
to another.
1.2 he current case study
Our study is an extension of a by-now well-established sound symbolic pattern
between obstruents and angular shapes (Ahlner & Zlatev 2010; Berlin 2006;
Irwin & Newland 1940; Kawahara & Shinohara 2012; Köhler 1929/1947; see also
Ramachandran & Hubbard 2001). A classic study by Köhler (1929/1947) shows
that given two shapes, like those in Figure 1, speakers are more likely to associ-
ate the rounded igure on the let with sonorants (nasals, liquids, and glides) –
maluma – and the angular igure on the right with obstruents (oral stops and
fricatives) – takete (see also Lindauer 1988, 1990 for other meanings associated
with these two nonce words). Kawahara and Shinohara (2012) replicated this
sound symbolic relationship with an expanded set of nonce words using audi-
tory stimuli.
1 2
Figure 1. Two igures representing angularity and roundness
Kawahara and Shinohara (2012) argue that this association may be modulated
via the acoustic properties of the two types of sounds (see also Ahlner & Zlatev
2010). Obstruents involve abrupt amplitude changes, which, when visualized on
a waveform, look “angular” – the intervals annotated as “t-burst” and “s-frication”
in Figure 2 involve aperiodic energies with abrupt amplitude changes, which look
angular. Sonorants, on the other hand, involve more gradual amplitude changes
as shown in Figure 3, and therefore look more “rounded” when their amplitude
changes are plotted. Based on these observations Kawahara and Shinohara (2012)
proposed that the well-known case of sound symbolism comes from an iconic
60 Shigeto Kawahara, Kazuko Shinohara and Joseph Grady
relationship between the acoustical shapes of the sounds and visual perception:
“acoustic shapes” – angular and round – are mapped onto visual shapes.
Furthermore, Kawahara and Shinohara (2012) show that the relationship
between obstruents and angular shapes may go beyond the relationship between
sounds and meanings: obstruents and angular shapes are associated with kinds
of emotions that involve abrupt onsets such as “shocked” and “surprised”, as
opposed to those that do not involve such abrupt onsets such as “happy” and “sad”.
Kawahara and Shinohara (2012) further argue that obstruents involve abrupt
onsets, and that this phonetic characteristic of obstruents leads to the association
with emotions with abrupt onsets.
he current experiment builds on some previous studies (Lindauer 1990;
Shinohara & Kawahara 2013) and shows that obstruents and angular shapes can
also imply a particular type of personality. Lindauer (1990) demonstrates that
−0.0351
0.03552
0
0
0 0.05
0.05
t-closure
vowel s-frication
t-burst
Time (s)
−0.02203
0.02356
0
0
0 0.05
0.05
Time (s)
Time (s)
Time (s)
Figure 2. Acoustic representations of obstruents: the top panel=[t]
and the bottom panel=[s]
Iconic inferences about personality 61
takete is judged to be “unfriendly”, whereas maluma is considered to be “friendly”.
Shinohara and Kawahara (2013) capitalize on the two types of female person-
alities that became common in the recent Japanese culture: (i) the unapproach-
able type of girls who are “blunt”, “conident”, and “unapproachable” (tsun), and
(ii) approachable type of girls who are “modest”, “cute”, and “approachable” (moe).3
hey show that, when given a pool of particular type of young Japanese girls (so-
called “meido” – a particular type of Japanese waitresses), Japanese speakers asso-
ciate the names with obstruents with the irst type of girls and the names with
3. It is diicult to provide precise deinitions of these two concepts. See the wikipedia articles
on “tsundere” and “moe (slang)” for more details on these concepts. People do argue about
the precise deinitions of these concepts, and the debate is unsettled, as far as we are aware of.
However, it is generally clear, at least supericially, which category a person belongs to.
vowel nasal=[n]
−0.02432
0.04239
0
0
0 0.05
0.05
Time (s)
Time (s)
vowel glide=[j]
−0.03754
0.0325
0
0
0 0.05
0.05
Time (s)
Time (s)
Figure 3. Acoustic representations of sonorants: the top panel=[n] and the bottom
panel=[j] (as in young)
62 Shigeto Kawahara, Kazuko Shinohara and Joseph Grady
sonorants with the second type of girls.4 Shinohara and Kawahara (2013) further
argue that, again, these associations have acoustic bases – acoustic angularity of
obstruents lead to the images of “unapproachability”, whereas acoustic rounded-
ness of sonorants lead to the images of “approachability”. To the extent that these
sound symbolic patterns have phonetic bases, then one prediction that can be
tested is that this relationship should hold universally (as the phonetic bases of
the sound symbolism are plausibly universal).
Experiment I was therefore conducted to address whether English speak-
ers make these associations, and also whether Japanese speakers do the same for
female names not speciically related to “meido”. his experiment in short tested an
iconic relationship between sounds and personalities. Experiment II went beyond
traditional studies on sound symbolism and addressed whether we observe an
iconic relationship between shapes and personalities, when they are not mediated
via sounds. Both experiments show that trans-modal relations do hold. Figure 4
shows the summary of the current indings and the roadmap of the paper.
Sound Shape
Personality
Experiment I Experiment II
Previous studies
Figure 4. he summary of the current indings and the roadmap of this paper
2. Experiment I: Personality and sounds
Experiment I examined whether the relationship between obstruents and the
unapproachable-type of personality holds for Japanese and English speakers.
2.1 Method
2.1.1 Stimuli
he stimulus structure followed that of Shinohara and Kawahara (2013), which
involved ten pairs of trisyllabic CVCVCV names, none of which exist as real
names in English or Japanese. Each member of a pair had either only obstruents
4. he study built upon previous work on sound symbolic patterns in personal names both in
Japanese and English (Brown & Ford 1961; Cassidy et al. 1999; Cutler et al. 1990; Kawahara &
Shinohara 2012; Slater & Feinman 1985; Whissell 2001; Wright & Hay 2002; Wright et al. 2005),
as well as the efect of names on personal attractiveness (Perfors 2004).
Iconic inferences about personality 63
or sonorants, as listed in Table 1. Vowels were controlled within each pair; e.g.
setaka vs. meyana. he stimuli included only light, CV syllables.
Table 1. he list of the stimuli used in Experiment I
Obstruent names Sonorant names
sataka wamana
setaka meyana
sateka ramena
sotaka yomana
setoka reyona
tesoka meyona
tasoka wamona
tesuka reyuna
tosoka yomona
teseka merena
2.1.2 Procedure
he task was 2 alternative forced choice (2AFC) format; for example, given sataka
and wamana, the participants were asked which one represents an approachable
type of name and which one represents an unapproachable name. Each pair of
names appeared on a separate page in the online questionnaire. he two types of
personality were deined as “blunt”, “conident”, and “unapproachable” and “mod-
est”, “cute”, and “approachable”, respectively. Since the deinitions of these two types
may not be familiar to English speakers, these deinitions appeared on the top of
the screen for each question. he test was distributed online using Surveymonkey,
an online questionnaire system. In the instructions, the participants were asked
not to use an analogy with existing names, but instead use their auditory impres-
sion to answer the questions. he main session was preceded by a practice session
with two practice questions.
2.1.3 Participants
he participants were 44 native speakers of English (33 female and 11 male; aver-
age age: 26.3) and 40 native speakers of Japanese (16 female and 24 male; average
age: 21.7).5 he English participants were recruited through Psychology on the
net.6 he Japanese participants were mainly students of the Tokyo University of
5. hose who reported that they have studied sound symbolism have been excluded from the
analyses.
6. <http://psych.hanover.edu/research/exponnet.html>
64 Shigeto Kawahara, Kazuko Shinohara and Joseph Grady
Agriculture and Technology.7 hey participated in the experiment voluntarily, and
there was no monetary compensation for their participation.
2.2 Result
First, the probabilities of obstruent names being associated with the unapproach-
able-type of girls were calculated (=p(c)), whose chance level would be (presum-
ably) 0.5 (although see the subsequent signal detection analysis). he average p(c)
for the native speakers of English was 0.79, which was statistically signiicant by a
Wilcoxon test (p<.001).
Since p(c) may not be the best measure for 2AFC experiments (Macmillan and
Creelman 2005), d′-scores – signal detection measures of sensitivity – for a 2AFC
design experiment were also calculated.8 D′-scores for 2AFC design experiments
range, roughly, from 0 to about 2.8, and if d′ =0, it means that the participants
were responding randomly. he average d′ for English speakers was 1.06, which is
signiicantly diferent from chance (p<.001). We conclude that English speakers
can associate names with obstruents with the unapproachable type of personality
above the chance level.
he results of Japanese speakers show that the average p(c) was 0.8, which
was statistically signiicantly diferent from the chance response (p<.001). he
average d′ was 1.09 which was again signiicantly diferent from the chance level
(p<.001).
7. As an anonymous reviewer pointed out, Japanese speakers receive at least 6 year of educa-
tion in English, and therefore they are not completely monolingual. his limitation is practically
unavoidable, however, since the English education requirement is set at the governmental level.
We also note that the general English proiciency level of this pool of participants is not very
high (the second author teaches English at this university).
8. he formula was (Macmillan & Creelman 2005:167–170):
where Hit is the probability of saying unapproachable-approachable to a obstruent-sonorant
pair and FA (for False Alarm) is the probability of saying unapproachable-approachable to a
sonorant-obstruent pair. z(1) and z(0) were replaced by z(1−0.5/n) and z(0.5/n), respectively
(where n is the number of relevant pairs) (Macmillan & Creelman 2005:8).
Iconic inferences about personality 65
2.3 Discussion
hese results show that particular sounds in names can convey particular images
about their personality (Perfors 2004). What we believe is noteworthy is that the
same pairing was found for both English speakers and Japanese speakers.
he sound symbolic relationship identiied in this experiment may have an
acoustic basis (Ohala 1983, 1994), as speculated by Kawahara and Shinohara
(2012) and Shinohara and Kawahara (2013). Acoustically, as shown in Figure 2,
stop bursts as well as frication during fricatives involve abrupt energy changes,
which when visualized, look “angular”. hese acoustic shapes of obstruents may
be mapped onto the images of “unapproachability”.9
Sonorants, on the other hand, involve more gradual changes, as we can
observe in Figure 3. hese psychoacoustic representations in listeners’ minds may
be mapped onto “sot” and “accessible” images.
3. Experiment II: Personality and shapes
Given the results of Experiment I, the next experiment went beyond traditional
studies on sound symbolism and tested whether we can identify an iconic relation-
ship between shapes and types of personalities.
3.1 Method
3.1.1 Procedure
As with Experiment I, the format of the experiment was a 2AFC experiment, and
the task was to match particular shapes with particular types of personalities. In
this experiment, the participants were instructed to be an assistant for Steven
Spielberg for a new movie about an extraterrestrial planet, on which creatures
communicate via visual signs. he participants were asked to come up with “good
9. An anonymous reviewer asked: “Why are the acoustic shapes available to non-linguists?”
Non-linguists may not be able to see the spectrograms of obstruents and sonorants, but they are
still able to hear them. In particular, the angular shapes are characterized as abrupt amplitude
modulations which are characteristics of aperiodic sounds, whereas the round shapes are a
hallmark of sonorantal periodic energy. In order for listeners to hear and perceive sounds, they
need to possess some kind of auditory or perceptual representations. In short, non-linguists may
not be able to see the angularity and roundedness of obstruents and sonorants, but they should
be able to hear them, whatever “hearing” exactly means.
66 Shigeto Kawahara, Kazuko Shinohara and Joseph Grady
visual signals” that represent particular type of personalities for these extrater-
restrial creatures.10
For each trial, the participants were presented with two igures, one angular
and the other rounded, together with two types of personality, approachable and
unapproachable. Some example igures are given in Figure 5. hey were asked to
choose a better match between each pair of igure and two types of personality.
he participants went through one practice trial and twelve main trials. he order
of the stimuli, as well as the order of the two choices, was randomized.
3.1.2 Participants
Seventy native speakers of English (55 female and 15 male; average age: 29) and 65
native speakers of Japanese (13 female and 52 male; average age: 22) participated
in this experiment. he experiment was conducted online using Surveymonkey,
and the participants participated in this experiment voluntarily without any mon-
etary compensations. Other details are the same as Experiment I. here is no
overlap between the participants of Experiment I and those of Experiment II for
Japanese speakers; for English speakers, there may be an overlap because the two
experiments are posted on the same website (Psychological Research on the net).
1 2
1 2
Figure 5. Example igures used in Experiment II
10. It would be an interesting follow-up experiment to present the visual signals as the shapes
of these creatures themselves, rather than the shapes of communication tools that they use. his
experiment may allow us to examine a more direct relationship between shapes and personali-
ties. We thank an anonymous reviewer for suggesting this possibility.
Iconic inferences about personality 67
3.2 Result and discussion
he mean p(c) for English and Japanese speakers were 0.90 and 0.94, respectively,
which were both statistically signiicantly diferent from 0.5 by a Wilcoxson test
at the p <.001 level. he average d′-values were 1.59 and 1.72, which were again,
statistically signiicantly diferent from 0 at the p <.001 level. We thus conclude
that an iconic relationship holds between angular shapes and the unapproachable
type of personality, both for English speakers and Japanese speakers.
4. General discussion
Experiment I established a general sound-symbolic relationship between names
with obstruents and the unapproachable-type personality, both for English and
Japanese speakers. Experiment II showed that there is an iconic relationship
between angular shapes and the unapproachable-type personality. Overall, the
current paper supports the tripartite trans-modal relationship between sounds,
vision, and personality, as shown in Figure 4. his conclusion further supports
that of Kawahara and Shinohara (2012) that sound symbolic relationships are an
instance of a more general iconic trans-modal relationship that holds among dif-
ferent domains of cognition.
An anonymous reviewer asked if the iconic trans-modal relationships are in
some way mediated via a more general mechanism of conceptual metaphor, which
has been extensively studied in cognitive linguistics (Lakof & Johnson 1980,
1999), and also asked if there is any intrinsic motivation for non-sound iconic
trans-modal symbolism such as the one between shapes and personalities. We
agree. In Japanese, for example, we ind many examples of metaphorical associa-
tions between angular vs. round shapes on the one hand and irritable/aggressive
vs. tender/generous personalities on the other, as well as hard/stif vs. sot touches
and strict vs. lexible personalities.11 here may be conceptual metaphors such as
personality is shape and personality is touch, which may be responsible for
non-sound iconic trans-modal symbolism.12 Pursuing this idea in further detail,
however, is beyond the scope of the present study.
here are also no inherent reasons why personality must be the only cognitive
domain that can be iconically related to “sound” and “shape”: other domains such
11. For example, “maru-ku naru” [Lit.: to become round] means to become more tender, sot,
and generous than before; “katai sensei” [Lit.: stif teacher] means a strict, non-humorous
teacher.
12. hanks to Kimi Akita for an insightful comment on this issue.
68 Shigeto Kawahara, Kazuko Shinohara and Joseph Grady
as emotion types have been examined and found to appear to stand in similar
iconic relationships with sounds and shapes (Kawahara & Shinohara 2012). Our
research thus opens up a question of which modality can be iconically related
to sounds; or a better question may be “which modality cannot be?”, given the
accumulating evidence that trans-modal iconic relationships are so ubiquitous.
References
Ahlner, F. & Zlatev, J. 2010. Cross-modal iconicity: A cognitive semiotic approach to sound
symbolism. Sign Systems Studies 38(1–4): 298–348.
Barkhuysen, P., Krahmer, E. & Swerts, M. 2010. Crossmodal and incremental perception of
audiovisual cues to emotional speech. Language and Speech 53(1): 3–30.
DOI: 10.1177/0023830909348993
Berlin, B. 2006. he irst congress of ethnozoological nomenclature. Journal of the Royal Anthro-
pological Institute 12: 23–44. DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9655.2006.00271.x
Brown, R. & Ford, M. 1961. Address in American English. he Journal of Abnormal and Social
Psychology 62: 375–385. DOI: 10.1037/h0042862
Cassidy, K.W., Kelly, M.H. & Sharoni, L.A.J. 1999. Inferring gender from name phonology. Jour-
nal of Experimental Psychology: General 128: 362–381. DOI: 10.1037/0096-3445.128.3.362
Cutler, A., McQueen, J. & Robinson, K. 1990. Elizabeth and John: Sound patterns of men’s and
women’s names. Journal of Linguistics 26: 471–482. DOI: 10.1017/S0022226700014754
Hinton, L., Nichols, J. & Ohala, J.J. (eds). 1994. Sound Symbolism. Cambridge: CUP.
Irwin, F.W. & Newland, E. 1940. A genetic study of the naming of visual igures. he Journal of
Psychology 9: 3–16. DOI: 10.1080/00223980.1940.9917674
Jespersen, O. 1922[1933]. Symbolic value of the vowel i. In Linguistica. Selected Papers in English,
French and German, Vol. 1, 283–303. Copenhagen: Levin and Munksgaard.
Kawahara, S. & Shinohara, K. 2012. A tripartite trans-modal relationship between sounds,
shapes and emotions: A case of abrupt modulation. In Proceedings of the 34th Annual Meet-
ing of the Cognitive Science Society, N. Miyake, D. Peebles & R.P. Cooper (eds), 569–574.
Austin TX: Cognitive Science Society.
Köhler, W. 1929[1947]. Gestalt Psychology. New York NY: Liveright.
Lakof, G. & Johnson, M. 1980. Metaphors We Live By. Chicago IL: University of Chicago Press.
Lakof, G. & Johnson, M. 1999. Philosophy in the Flesh. New York NY: Basic Books.
Lindauer, M.S. 1988. Size and distance perception of the physiognomic stimulus “taketa”. Bul-
letin of the Psychonomic Society 26(3): 217–220. DOI: 10.3758/BF03337292
Lindauer, M.S. 1990. he meanings of the physiognomic stimuli taketa and maluma. Bulletin of
the Psychonomic Society 28(1): 47–50. DOI: 10.3758/BF03337645
Macmillan, N.A. & Creelman, C.D. 2005. Detection heory: A User’s Guide, 2nd edn. Mahwah
NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Martino, G. & Marks, L.E. 2000. Cross-modal interaction between vision and touch: he role of
synesthetic correspondence. Perception 29(6): 745–754. DOI: 10.1068/p2984
Ohala, J.J. 1983. he phonological end justiies any means. In Proceedings of the 13th Interna-
tional Congress of Linguists, S. Hattori & K. Inoue (eds), 232–243. Tokyo: Sanseido.
Iconic inferences about personality 69
Ohala, J.J. 1994. he frequency code underlies the sound symbolic use of voice pitch. In Sound
Symbolism, L. Hinton, J. Nichols & J.J. Ohala (eds), 325–347. Cambridge: CUP.
Perfors, A. 2004. What’s in a name? he efect of sound symbolism on perception of facial
attractiveness. In Proceedings of the Twenty-Sixth Annual Conference of the Cognitive Science
Society, K. Forbus, D. Gentner & T. Regier (eds), 1617.
Ramachandran, V.S. & Hubbard, E.M. 2001. Synaesthesia. A window into perception, thought
and language. Journal of Consciousness Studies 8(12): 3–34.
Sapir, E. 1929. A study in phonetic symbolism. Journal of Experimental Psychology 12(3): 225–
239. DOI: 10.1037/h0070931
de Saussure, F. 1916[1972]. Course in General Linguistics. Peru IL: Open Court Publishing.
(Cours de linguistique générale. Paris: Payot. Translated by R. Harris).
Shinohara, K. & Kawahara, S. 2013. he sound symbolic nature of Japanese maid names. Pro-
ceedings of the Japanese Cognitive Linguistics Association 13: 183–193.
Shinohara, K. & Kawahara, S. To appear. A cross-linguistic study of sound symbolism: he
images of size. In Proceedings of Berkeley Linguistics Society 36. Berkeley CA: BLS.
Slater, A.S. & Feinman, S. 1985. Gender and the phonology of North American irst names. Sex
Roles 13: 429–440. DOI: 10.1007/BF00287953
Spence, C. 2011. Crossmodal correspondences: A tutorial review. Attention, Perception and
Psychophysics 73(4): 971–995. DOI: 10.3758/s13414-010-0073-7
Ultan, R. 1978. Size-sound symbolism. In Universals of Human Language, II: Phonology,
J. Greenberg (ed.), 525–568. Stanford CA: Stanford University Press.
Whissell, C. 2001. Cues to referent gender in randomly constructed names. Perceptual and
Motor Skills 93: 856–858. DOI: 10.2466/pms.2001.93.3.856
Wright, S. & Hay, J. 2002. Fred and trema: A phonological conspiracy. In Gendered Practices in
Language, S. Benor, M. Rose, D. Sharma, J. Sweetland & Q. Zhang (eds), 175–191. Stand-
ford CA: CSLI.
Wright, S.K., Hay, J. & Bent, T. 2005. Ladies ﬁrst? Phonology, frequency, and the naming con-
spiracy. Linguistics 43(3): 531–561. DOI: 10.1515/ling.2005.43.3.531
doi 10.1075/ill.14.04nob
© 2015 John Benjamins Publishing Company
Phonemes as images
An experimental inquiry into shape-sound symbolism
applied to the distinctive features of French*
Luca Nobile
Université de Bourgogne
his paper attempts to improve the understanding of shape-sound symbolism
by isolating the phonological features of pseudo-words and the graphic features
of the igures matched with them. In the irst section, it analyses the classic
maluma-takete efect from both an articulatory and acoustical point of view,
showing that it is determined by several phonological features operating simul-
taneously. In the second section, two new experiments are presented to isolate,
irst, vowels and consonants and, second, the consonant features of [voicing],
[manner of articulation], [nasality] and [place of articulation] in relation to the
graphic features of {acuity}, {continuity}, {curvature}, {regularity}, and {den-
sity}. he main result is that each phonological feature shows a diferent pattern
of correlations with the graphic features, determined by its subtle phono-articu-
latory and phono-acoustic structure.
1. Introduction
Most of the experimental literature on “synaesthetic sound symbolism” (Hinton
et al. 1994:4) shows that people tend to establish analogies between phonological
and visual distinctions. A strong connection has been found for example between
the [front : back] articulatory opposition in vowels (that is an F2 [acute : grave]
acoustic opposition) and such visual pairs as “bright” vs “dark” (Newman 1933;
Fischer-Jørgensen 1967; Peterfalvi 1970; Marks 1982, 1989) and “small” vs “large”
(Newman 1933; Johnson 1967; Klank et al. 1971; hompson & Estes 2011). Among
consonants, associations have been established particularly between the [voiceless :
voiced] articulatory opposition (which is an [acute : grave] acoustic opposition)
* I would like to thank Pilar Mompeán Guillamón and Lucy Michel for their valuable contri-
bution in the bibliographical research and for kindly reviewing this text.
72 Luca Nobile
and the visual pairs “bright” vs “dark” (Newman 1933; Peterfalvi 1970), “sharp” vs
“rounded” (Fox 1935; Davis 1961; Holland & Wertheimer 1964; Westbury 2005)
and “small” vs “large” (Taylor & Taylor 1962; LaPolla 1994; hompson & Estes
2011). his type of results (see Spence 2011 for a review) seem to play today an
important role in the debate on the origin, evolution, and functioning of language
(Fitch 2000; Ramachandran & Hubbard 2001; Rizzolatti & Craighero 2007).
his paper sets out to explore such crossmodal correspondences between
linguistic sounds and visual experience by examining the role of the distinctive
phonological features as constituents of the phono-articulatory gestures. We will
try to understand whether voicing, manner of articulation, nasality and place of
articulation play distinct or overlapping roles in shape-sound symbolism and
whether they have similar or diferent sound-symbolic values. To do this, we will
irst analyse the maluma-takete experiment, one of the most famous experiments
on the topic. hen, we will propose two new experiments designed to isolate the
behaviour of the distinctive phonological features used by French speakers.
2. he maluma-takete experiment
he maluma-takete experiment is a classic of the experimental research in psy-
cholinguistics. It was conceived irst by Wolfgang Köhler (1929, 1947),1 one of
the founders of the Gestalt psychology, and then oten repeated by linguists and
psychologists. R. Davis (1961) was one of the irst to test it on diferent languages
and, in particular, on a non-Indo-European language, Swahili of Tanzania. It was
irst repeated on French participants by Jean-Michel Peterfalvi (1964). he experi-
ment has recently re-emerged thanks to the work by Ramachandran and Hubbard
(2001), who renamed it “bouba-kiki” and used it to support their hypothesis of a
synaesthetic origin of language.
Figure 1. Images associated with the pseudo-words maluma and takete in Köhler (1947)
1. In the irst edition of Köhler’s Gestalt Psychology (1929:242–243) the irst pseudo-word was
baluma; it was then changed to maluma (1947:254–255) to avoid any association with balloon
(according to Anderson 2001:124).
Phonemes as images 73
How does it work? A pair of igures, one curved and the other angular, are pre-
sented to the participants who are asked to associate them with the pair of invented
words maluma and takete (see Figure 1). he result is that the vast majority of
respondents associate the curvilinear igure to maluma and the angular shape to
takete. It is a very strong result: it generally collects about 90% of the consensus of
the participants. We can formally represent it by means of the following sound-
symbolic relationship between visual and phonological oppositions:
{rounded} : {angular} ≈ /maluma/ : /takete/
It seems interesting to analyse this result in depth from a phonological point of
view. his will allow us to better understand the functioning of the distinctive
features in order to devise new experiments to isolate their behaviour.
Some recent, interesting studies have already attempted to meet these kinds
of needs. For example, Nielsen and Rendal (2011) irst replicated the traditional
maluma-takete experiment and then changed some experimental conditions in
order to distinguish the role of vowels and consonants as well as to test the efects
of diferent types of curved and angular shapes. heir indings suggest that conso-
nants play a predominant role (in particular the [obstruent] vs [sonorant] feature)
and that speciic details of the visual objects could inluence subjects’ choices. Our
approach is an attempt to develop the research in this direction: instead of testing
a single phonological feature ([obstruent : sonorant]) on a single graphic-visual
feature ({angular : curved}) we try to test all the consonant features of French
in relation with diferent types of graphic-visual contrasts, to see if they tend to
exhibit diferent behaviours.
Another remarkable work on the topic has been carried out by D’Onofrio
(2013) who tried to identify the phonological features playing an iconic role in
the bouba-kiki experiment (the recent reformulation of the maluma-takete experi-
ment by Ramachandran & Hubbard 2001). Her results highlight the importance
of vowel backness, consonant voicing and consonant place of articulation in rep-
resenting the {rounded : angular} graphic opposition. Our work goes in a similar
direction, trying to analyse separately the distinctive features but, on the one hand,
we focus our analysis on consonants in order to be able to analyse systematically
all their distinctive features and, on the other hand, we explore also diferent types
of graphic oppositions, in order to test, not only which phonological features are
involved, but also if they carry diferent graphic ‘meanings’.
In a contiguous ield, that of motion-sound symbolism, and with an inverse
method, that is, asking subjects not to evaluate those proposed by the experi-
menter but to produce new pseudo-words, Saji et al. (2013) have also attempted
to distinguish the role of diferent phonological and semantic features (in Japanese
and English). heir data show that certain groups of semantic features tend to
74 Luca Nobile
appear together with each other and with certain groups of phonological features.
For example, in Japanese, the semantic features {heavy : light}, {slow : fast}, {large :
small} and {jerky : smooth} (in order of importance) tend to appear together when
the subjects describe walking styles, and they tend to be associated to the pho-
nological features (in order of importance) {voiced : voiceless}, {not-palatalized :
palatalized}, {nasal : oral} and {sonorant : obstruent}, when the subjects pro-
pose sound-symbolic pseudo-words to imitate them. Moreover, if one excludes
the semantic feature {heavy : light} and considers instead {non-energetic : ener-
getic}, a corresponding change takes place among the phonological features: the
importance of {voicing} and {palatalization} decreases, while that of the [manner
of articulation] and the vowel [height] increases. Our research has very similar
goals, but it adopts a diferent method (the evaluation of pseudo-words built by
the experimenter) on a diferent type of phenomenon (shape-sound symbolism).
Moreover, we try to provide a ine qualitative analysis of our results to understand
exactly what physic characteristics of the phonological distinctive features deter-
mine the crossmodal correspondence with certain graphic-visual features and not
with others.
More generally, our inquiry is based on a diferential and systematic approach
to the phonological system. It must be remembered that, according to Jakobson
and Waugh (1979), the lack of this type of approach has been the main source of
problems for the traditional research on the signiicant value of sounds, a ield
represented in France primarily by the works of Maurice Grammont (1901, 1933),
Maxime Chastaing (1958, 1962, 1964, 1966) and Jean-Michel Peterfalvi (1964,
1965, 1970; see Nobile 2014 for a critical and historical review of their contribu-
tions). his diferential approach aims to avoid some of the most typical con-
ceptual and methodological diiculties in the ield, proposing a reconciliation
between arbitrariness and motivation, not through an attenuation, but through a
radicalization of both (see Nobile 2008, 2011 for a descriptive application of this
perspective on Italian grammatical monosyllables).
Phonemes as images 75
3. Analysing the distinctive features
Our irst aim is thus to question the experimental data of psychology about the
maluma-takete phenomenon from the theoretical and technical perspective of lin-
guistics.2 We will ask what phonological properties (and particularly what distinc-
tive features) make us perceive the crossmodal correspondence between the couple
of invented words maluma and takete, on the one hand, and the couple of Köhler’s
curvilinear and angular pictures. We will try to answer this question irstly, from
an articulatory point of view, and secondly, from an acoustic perspective.
3.1 Articulatory analysis
From an articulatory point of view, the opposition between /maluma/ and /takete/
can be analysed as follows (see Figure 2).
n
m
LIPS
JAW
LABIALITY
APERTURE
FRONT
OPEN
CLOSED
PLACE BACK
VOICED
VOICED
VOICELESS
VOICELESS
NASALITY
SONORITY
F0
TONGUE VELUM
LARYNX
W
y
l
ø
œ œ
o
c
ε
œ c
ø
u
v
b d
s i
k
z
i
j
 r
g
e
a α
α
α
o
y
e
ε œ
ε œ


u
c
c
c
l w
n
m
t
p
f
Ч Ч
α
Figure 2. he /maluma/ vs /takete/ opposition (gray vs black circles)
in the phono-articulatory system of French
2. Other attempts to provide solid linguistic foundations to this kind of research are D’Onofrio
(2013), Saji et al. (2013) and Shinoara et al. (this volume).
76 Luca Nobile
First, the initial (and inal) consonant /m/ is opposed to the initial (and inal) con-
sonant /t/. he /m/ is a [labial], [nasal], and then necessarily [voiced] consonant,
which is articulated by three diferent simultaneous gestures: (a) completely blocking
the exit of air from the mouth through the lip closure; (b) emitting a laryngeal tone
through the tensioning of the vocal cords to the air passage from the larynx; and
(c) allowing the release of the air from the nose through the lowering of the velum of
the palate.3 On the contrary, /t/ is a [dental], [oral] and [voiceless] [plosive], which
is thus articulated by one single gesture: completely blocking the air low into the
mouth by pressing the tip of the tongue against the gums to cause a small explosion.
On the other hand, the internal consonant /l/ is opposed to the internal conso-
nant /k/. he consonant /l/ is a [lateral, voiced, approximant], which is a phoneme
produced by three diferent gestures: (a) pressing the gums with the tip of the
tongue; (b) lowering the two sides of the tongue to make the air low escape; and
(c) stretching the vocal cords to produce a laryngeal tone. On the contrary, /k/ is
a [velar, voiceless, plosive], articulated by one single gesture: completely blocking
the air low into the mouth by pressing the back of the tongue against the velum
to cause a small explosion.
If we compare therefore the three consonant oppositions distinguishing
/maluma/ vs /takete/ we ind several features which could evoke the opposi-
tion between the rounded igure and the angular igure. We can say at least that,
concerning the articulation of consonants, /maluma/ is to /takete/ what [open-
relaxed] is to [closed-tense], what [continuous] is to [explosive], what [voiced] is
to [voiceless] and what [distributed] is to [concentrated]:
[open-relaxed] : [closed-tense]
[continuous] : [explosive]
/m…l…m…/  : /t…k…t…/ ≈ [voiced] : [voiceless]4
[distributed] : [concentrated]
3. It is well known that the velum is normally lowered and opened when we do not speak.
Hence we consider the liting and closing of the velum as a distinctive gesture of the act of
speaking in general, while the lowering and the opening of the velum that characterizes the
nasal phonemes is considered a secondary gesture, performed not in continuity with the posi-
tion of non-speech, but in opposition with the position of speech, in order to distinguish the
small group of the nasal phonemes from the majority of the other, oral phonemes.
4. As we will see soon, the consonant feature [voiced] means the continuity of the laryngeal tone
across vowels and consonants, while the [voiceless] consonant feature represents its discontinuity.
Phonemes as images 77
If we look at vowels, the irst /a/ of /maluma/ and /takete/ is neutralised, while /u/
is opposed to /e/. he phoneme /u/ is a [labio-velar] vowel, articulated by two dif-
ferent gestures: (a) lips protrusion and (b) tongue retraction. On the contrary /e/
is a [palatal] vowel, articulated in one single gesture: liting the tongue forwards.
he distinctive features opposing /u/ vs /e/ are therefore [back] vs [front],
[rounded] vs [unrounded] and [distributed] vs [concentrated]:
[back] : [front]5
/…u…/  : /…ɛ…/ ≈ [rounded] : [unrounded]
[distributed] : [concentrated]
3.2 Acoustic analysis
From an acoustic point of view, we can say that /maluma/ is to /takete/, irst, what
the continuity of the laryngeal tone is to its discontinuity (see Figure 3a). In fact,
because vowels are by deinition always voiced, that is they are produced by the
vibration of the larynx, where the consonants are also voiced (as in maluma), the
acoustic proile of the word is continuous. Conversely, if the consonants are voice-
less (as in takete), the laryngeal tone stops before each consonant and restarts at
each vowel, thus giving the whole word a discontinuous acoustic proile.
his opposition between continuity and discontinuity is clearly similar to that
which distinguishes the curvilinear igure from the angular shape, where a con-
tinuous change of the direction of the lines is in opposition with a discontinuous
change.
We can now analyse the consonants (Figures 3b and 3c). When comparing
the syllable /ma/ to the syllable /ta/, and the consonant /l/ to the consonant /k/, in
both cases, we have the opposition between a continuous articulation and a plosive
articulation. In the irst picture we can see that the continuous initial consonant
/m/ has a progressive onset while the initial plosive /t/ has an abrupt onset, with a
sharp passage from silence to noise. One can also see that the voiced consonants
/l/ and /m/ have periodic structures, which are cyclic and regular, while the voice-
less consonants /t/ and /k/ have aperiodic, irregular structures. Finally, we can
observe that the sounds of /l/ and /m/ are more grave than the noises of /k/ and
5. he [back] vs [front] opposition can be viewed as a « non prominent » vs « prominent »
tongue gesture opposition.
78 Luca Nobile
/t/: the peaks of the former are more widely spaced and relatively less sharp than
those of the latter.
Such a property is also seen very clearly in the distinctive feature of the vow-
els, [grave] vs [acute] (Figure 3d). he grave sound /u/ has a more smooth and
rounded proile, while the acute sound /ɛ/ has a sharper proile. In fact we know
that the wave length of the F2 formant of /u/ (750 Hz) is about 45 cm (or 17.7
m
m
a.
b.
c.
d.
l
u ε
k
t
a a
e e
m
a l t a k t
ε
u
Figure 3. Acoustic oppositions between /malumə/ and /takɛtə/
Phonemes as images 79
inches), while the wave length of the F2 formant of /ɛ/ (1800 Hz) is about 18 cm
(7 inches).6 So, the waveform of the F2 of /u/ is physically two and a half times
larger than that of /ɛ/.
3.3 Results of the analysis of the features
Let’s summarize the analysis of the phonological distinctive features. All have
strong analogies with the visual-graphic features {rounded : angular} distinguish-
ing the igures. Regarding the articulation, /maluma/ and /takete/ are in opposi-
tion as a muscle relaxation against a muscle tension, a continuous constriction of
the air low against an obstruction and explosion of the air low, a dispersion of the
points of efort against a concentration of just one efort point. Concerning audi-
tion, we have continuity against discontinuity of the laryngeal tone, periodicity of
sounds against aperiodicity of noises, and the grave frequencies contained in voic-
ing, with their long, smooth waveforms, against the acute frequencies contained in
the hiss and the crackles of the consonants, with their sharp waveforms.
4. Isolating the distinctive features
Starting from the previous analysis, we can ask whether these phono-articulatory
features necessarily operate collectively or we can distinguish their relative impor-
tance and their speciic values in reference to the graphic-visual features of the
igures. his question is justiied, on the one hand, by the fact that we can see
many diferent features operating concurrently and, on the other hand, by the
fact that the result of 90% is statistically very signiicant; so we can hope to obtain
signiicant results also weakening the stimuli to test more speciic properties. To
answer this question, two new experiments were designed to isolate, on the one
hand, the graphic features of the igures and, on the other hand, the phonological
features of the words.
4.1 First experiment
he irst experiment, carried out on a class of 42 students ignoring the classic
maluma-takete experiment, aimed to test the traditional opposition between a
curvilinear and an angular igure with new pseudo-words, built to isolate certain
6. hese are the physical distances in the air between two successive relative maximums of the
air pressure in the sound waves of /u/ and /ɛ/.
80 Luca Nobile
distinctive phonological features. A pair of igures was projected in front of the
class and each student received a form containing the same pair of images, printed
horizontally on the top; under the images were ive pairs of pseudo-words, listed
vertically in one central column, randomly ordered, and written accordingly to
French spelling. Each pseudo-word had two boxes, let and right, printed perpen-
dicularly under the let and right igures. he experimenter read aloud each pair
of pseudo-words and the participants checked the box of each pseudo-word to
assign it to the right or the let picture.
Table 1. Results of the irst experiment (N = 42; p < 0.001)
1. /maluma/ : /takete/ 97.6%
2. /nilu/ : /kitu/ 95.2%
3. /gavada/ : /kafata/ 92.8%
4. /dugo/ : /degi/ 83.3%
5. /meli/ : /toku/ 80.9%
he results are summarized in Table 1. he irst pair (1), which just tests the tra-
ditional words /maluma/ and /takete/ cumulating several distinctive features,
obtains the traditional, strong result (97.6%). he second pair (2) /nilu/ vs /kitu/
neutralizes all the oppositions between the vowels, which remain the same in the
two words, and keeps only the consonant oppositions of [manner], [voicing] and
[nasality]. It shows that these consonant features are enough to get an almost
identical result (95.2%, only one person less out of 42), which seems to conirm
the data of Nielsen and Rendall (2011) about the primacy of consonants. he third
pair of words (3) /gavada/ vs /kafata/ isolates the consonant feature of [voicing]:
the articulations of /g/, /v/ and /d/ are exactly the same as those of /k/, /f/ and
/t/, with the addition of the laryngeal vibration. Note that the loss of consensus
is minimal: the [voicing] of consonants, alone, is enough to collect 92.8% of the
votes. his prominent role of [voicing] among consonant features (conirmed, as
we shall see, in our second experiment) seems to corroborate the similar results
obtained by D’Onofrio (2013) and Saji et al. (2013). he fourth pair, (4) /dugo/
vs /degi/ neutralizes, on the contrary, the consonant oppositions and retains only
the vowel oppositions of [place] and [labiality]. Here we see a rather clear loss of
consensus, although the result remains very strong (83.3%) and highly signiicant
(p < 0.001). his conirms the similar results by D’Onofrio (2013) and Saji et al.
(2013) and allows to qualify the previously cited result by Nielsen and Rendal
(2011), by showing that vowels in themselves are also suicient to determine the
Phonemes as images 81
maluma-takete efect, although apparently in a weaker way than consonants. One
might wonder, however, to what extent this relative weakness of vowels would be
conirmed, if the pseudo-words were built with initial vowels. Finally, in the ith
pair, /meli/ vs /toku/, we mixed the [grave] consonants of /maluma/ with [acute]
vowels (/e/ and /i/), and the [acute] consonants of /takete/ with [grave] vowels (/o/
and /u/). he result is another reduction of consensus, but it is above all remark-
able that the consonant features alone, also against the vowels, still generate a
strong (80.9%), highly signiicant result (p < 0.001).
4.2 Second experiment
In the second experiment we tried to isolate in a more systematic way both the dis-
tinctive phono-articulatory features of the pseudo-words, focusing our attention on
the consonants, and the distinctive graphic-visual features of the igures. To do this,
we used a special type of minimal pairs, distinguished not by a single phoneme, but
by a single distinctive feature repeated in three diferent phonemes. his allowed us
to test each distinctive feature by just one pair of pseudo-words, neutralising as far
as possible the features we were not looking for. For example, the pair /gavada/ vs
/kafata/ tests the [voicing] distinctive feature in the velar plosives /g/ and /k/, in the
labio-dental fricatives /v/ and /f/ and in the dental plosives /d/ and /t/. his test of
the [voicing] feature is thus relatively independent from the [place of articulation]
and the [manner of articulation] of the phonemes where it appears.
hree diferent groups of participants were tested under the same conditions
described above.
First group
In the irst group (N=45; see Table 2), we studied the {acuity} of the corners of
the igure (or the {obtuse : acute} graphic opposition) and the {continuity} of its
drawing (or the {continuous : discontinuous} graphic opposition) in relation to
four isolated phonological features of consonants (while the graphic properties of
{curvature} and {regularity} were neutralized as far as possible). Apart from the
usual traditional words, (1 & 6) /maluma/ vs /takete/ and /buba/ vs /kiki/, char-
acterized by the accumulation of several features, the isolated phonological fea-
tures are: (2 & 7) [voicing] that is the [voiced : voiceless] phonological opposition,
within the pairs /gavada/ vs /kafata/ and /vadaga/ vs /fataka/; (3 & 8) consonant
opening or [manner of articulation], that is the [fricative : plosive] phonologi-
cal opposition, within the pairs /suʒaf/ vs /tugap/ and /suʃav/ vs /tukab/; (4 & 9)
[nasality] or [sonorancy], that is the [nasal : oral] opposition, which is a particular
case of the [sonorant : obstruent] phonological feature, with the couples /nimuɲ/
82 Luca Nobile
vs /zivuʒ/ and /meɲan/ vs /veʒaz/; and (5 & 10) [place of articulation], particularly
the [palato-velar : alveo-dental] phonological opposition, within /gokuʃ/ vs /dotus/
and /gakiʃ/ vs /datis/.7 Except labiality, all of the major distinctive features of the
French consonant system are then analysed separately.
Table 2. Results of the second experiment, irst group (N= 45). he total is other than
100% because it was possible to abstain
% vs % p ≤ % vs % p ≤
1. /maluma/ : /takete/ 88.8 11.1 .001 6. /buba/ : /kiki/ 82.2 15.5 .001
2. /gavada/ : /kafata/ 82.2 17.7 .001 7. /vadaga/ : /fataka/ 75.5 20.0 .001
3. /suʒaf/ : /tugap/ 68.8 24.4 .005 8. /suʃav/ : /tukab/ 68.8 24.4 .005
4. /nimuɲ/ : /zivuʒ/ 80.0 17.7 .001 9. /meɲan/ : /veʒaz/ 64.4 28.8 .01
5. /gokuʃ/ : /dotus/ 44.4 28.8 .05 10. /gakiʃ/ : /datis/ 44.4 42.2 NS
he results show that the two graphic oppositions behave similarly: they are
both associated with the same phonological oppositions, in similar proportions.
Particularly: (1 & 6) the accumulation of diferent phono-articulatory features
increases the consensus; among the isolated features, (2 & 7) [voicing] shows the
maximum degree of analogy with the tested graphic features: the [voiced] (grave,
continuous) consonants are to the [voiceless] (acute, discontinuous) consonants
what the {obtuse} corners are to the {acute} corners and also what the {continu-
ous} lines are to the dashed, {discontinuous} lines; also (3 & 8) the [manner of
articulation] signiicantly correlates to {acuity} and {continuity}: the [fricative]
consonants are to the [plosives] what the {obtuse} corners are to the {acute}
and what the {continuous} lines is to the {discontinuous}. his is an interesting
result because, unlike the other features, [manner of articulation] cannot be eas-
ily reduced to the [acute] vs [grave] “frequency code” suggested by John Ohala
(1984) to explain a large set of sound-symbolic efects, and it requires to take into
account other dimensions of the sound physics, such as intensity and duration.
Also the opposition between [nasality] and [orality] (or [sonorancy] and [obstru-
ency]: 4 & 9) seems to behave like the [voicing] feature, although asymmetrically:
in the case of the {acuity} graphic feature, [nasality] (4) has approximately the
same importance than [voicing] (2) while in the case of the {continuity} graphic
7. I call here [palato-velar] the posterior region of the French consonant system, going from
the place of articulation of the pre-palatal fricatives /ʃ/ and /ʒ/, through the palatal place of the
nasal /ɲ/, to the place of the velar plosives /k/ and /g/.
Phonemes as images 83
feature it appears signiicantly less important. A possible explanation could be
that, acoustically, syllables containing [nasals] are not more [continuous] than
syllables containing [voiced fricatives] (both are voiced and do not interrupt the
vowel laryngeal tone) while the former are signiicantly more [grave] than the lat-
ter (the nasals have a larger sounding box). It should also be noted that the igure
representing the {obtuse} graphic feature is the darkest and largest in this group,
which may have accentuated the tendency to associate it with the particularly
grave timbre of the [nasal] consonants (as a strong correlation between [grave :
acute] and {large : small} or {dark : bright} is well known in the literature; see
the Introduction). Finally, (5 & 10) we ind weak or no signiicant correlation
between the graphic feature of {acuity} and {continuity}, on the one hand, and the
phono-articulatory feature of [place]. he [place of articulation] is not related to
graphic {continuity} and is just weakly correlated to graphic {acuity}. his could
be explained by the fact that the acoustical [continuity] of the dental consonants
is not diferent from that of the pre-palatals and the velars, while their acousti-
cal [acuity] is slightly higher (most of the acoustic energy in the alveo-dentals is
around 5000 Hz, whereas in the palato-velars it is around 3000 Hz).
Second group
In the second group (N=69; see Table 3) we studied the correlation between the
same phonological features seen above and two new graphic features: {curvature}
(that is the {curved : angular} opposition) and {regularity} (that is the {regular :
irregular} opposition), while {acuity} and {continuity} are neutralized as far as
possible.
Table 3. Results of the second experiment, second group (N=69)
% vs % p ≤ % vs % p ≤
1. /maluma/ : /takete/ 100 0 .001 6. /buba/ : /kiki/ 46.3 46.3 NS
2. /gavada/ : /kafata/ 91.3 8.6 .001 7. /vadaga/ : /fataka/ 55.0 40.5 NS
3. /suʒaf/ : /tugap/ 76.8 18.8 .001 8. /suʃav/ : /tukab/ 49.2 47.8 NS
4. /nimuɲ/ : /zivuʒ/ 60.8 28.9 .005 9. /meɲan/ : /veʒaz/ 46.3 46.3 NS
5. /dotus/ : /gokuʃ/ 57.9 30.4 .01 10. /datis/ : /gakiʃ/ 60.8 33.3 .01
he irst result is that the graphic feature of {curvature} correlates strongly with
[voicing] (2, /gavada/ vs /kafata/, 91.3%) and [manner] (3, /suʒaf/ vs /tugap/,
76.8%): the [voiced] and [fricative] consonants are to the [voiceless] and [plo-
sive] consonants, respectively, what the {curved} lines are to the {angular} lines.
Moreover, {curvature} correlates (more weakly) with [nasality] (4, /nimuɲ/ vs
84 Luca Nobile
/zivuʒ/, 60.8%) and [place of articulation] (5, /dotus/ vs /gokuʃ/, 57.9%) so that
[nasals] and [alveo-dentals] are to [orals] and [palato-velars], respectively, what
the {curved} lines are to the {angular} lines. he second result is particularly inter-
esting. Contrary to what one might expect on the basis of the other results and
the previous literature, the [places of articulation] do not combine with the {cur-
vature} graphic feature according to their internal diferences in acoustic [acuity]:
the [alveo-dental] consonants, which are slightly more [acute], are associated with
{curved} lines, while the [palato-velar] consonants, [graver], are associated with
{angular} lines. his is a diference from the results of D’Onofrio (2013) which may
depend on diferences in the igures and pseudo-words we used. It suggest, how-
ever, that other articulatory or acoustic properties overlap and overtake the inlu-
ence of the acoustic [acuity]. hese may be, on the one hand, the greater average
acoustic intensity of the [palato-velars] and, on the other hand, their “dirtier” or
more irregular timbral quality (their acoustic energy tends to be more widespread,
between 2000 Hz and 9000 Hz, whereas that of the alveo-dentals tends to be con-
centrated between 4000 Hz and 9000 Hz) which may evoke the less harmonious,
and the more broken, of the two igures. Except for this aspect, however, it should
be noted that {curvature} behaves very similarly to the two previous graphic fea-
tures, {acuity} and {continuity}.
In contrast, the graphic feature of {regularity} behaves in a completely difer-
ent way. It shows no correlation with the traditional pair /buba/ vs /kiki/ (cumulat-
ing labiality, sonority and the place of articulation of vowels, 46.3%), nor with the
isolated features of [voicing] (7, /vadaga/ vs /fataka/, 55%), [manner] (8, /suʃav/ vs
/tukab/, 49.2%) and [nasality] (9, /meɲan/ vs /veʒaz/, 46.3%), while it shows a sig-
niicant correlation with the [place of articulation] (10, /datis/ vs /gakiʃ/, 60.8%).
So the [place of articulation] shows a relatively strong correlation with the graphic
feature of {regularity}, with which other phonological features do not correlate,
while it shows relatively weak or no correlation with the graphic features of {acu-
ity}, {curvature} and {continuity} that correlate signiicantly with [voicing], [man-
ner] and [nasality]. In other words, we have a quasi-complementary distribution
between the [place of articulation] and the other consonant features.
hird group
his relative division of labor seems to be conirmed by the third survey of the
same experiment (N=26; see Table 4), which concerns, on the one hand, the accu-
mulation of the graphic features in the traditional igures and, on the other hand,
the graphic feature of {density} (that is the {dense : sparse} opposition).
In this case (where results are a bit less accurate because of the smaller num-
ber of participants), traditional igures correlate strongly with the traditional
Phonemes as images 85
pseudo-words (1, /maluma/ vs /takete/, 84.6%) and with [voicing] (2, /gavada/ vs
/kafata/, 91.6%), they correlate weakly with [manner] (3, /suʒaf/ vs /tugap/, 61.5%)
and do not correlate with [nasality] (4, /nimuɲ/ vs /zivuʒ/, 57.6%) and [place of
articulation] (5, /gokuʃ/ vs /dotus/, 50%).
On the contrary, the graphic feature of {density} does not correlate with
the traditional pseudo-words (6, /buba/ vs /kiki/, 53.8%), nor with [voicing] (7,
/fataka/ vs /vadaga/, 53.8%) or [manner] (8, /tukab/ vs /suʃav/, 50.0%), while it
shows a (weak) correlation with the [nasality] (9, /meɲan/ vs /veʒaz/, 65.3%) and
the [place of articulation] (10, /gakiʃ/ vs /datis/, 61.5%), so that [nasal] and [palato-
velar] consonants are to [oral] and [alveo-dental] consonants, respectively, what
a {dense} set of concentric spikes is to a {sparse} one. his might be explained, on
the one hand, by the fact that the acoustic opposition [grave : acute], shared by the
[nasality] and the [place of articulation] features, may be easily associated to the
graphic opposition {dense : sparse} (for example via the well known value {thick :
thin}). On the other hand, one could consider that, perceptually, the {dense} igure
is not as deined as the {sparse} one because its number of spikes, greater than 10,
exceeds our ability to perceive its numerosity without counting, and we are led to
perceive it as an object with “a lot” of spikes. his is why, for example, such a igure
can be perceived as a schematic representation of a lying seed or of a lock of fur:
it seems to have an undeined number of spikes. his could be another factor that
associates the {dense} igure to the [palato-velar] consonants, given that, acousti-
cally, the latter are less deined than the [alveo-dentals].
Once again, however, it should be noted that the [place of articulation] seems
to work in a very singular manner, combining with graphic features that are not
concerned by [voicing] and [manner of articulation].
Table 4. Results of the second experiment, third group (N=26)
% vs % p ≤ % vs % p ≤
1. /maluma/ : /takete/ 84.6 3.8 .001 6. /buba/ : /kiki/ 53.8 42.3 NS
2. /gavada/ : /kafata/ 91.6 3.8 .001 7. /vadaga/ : /fataka/ 53.8 42.3 NS
3. /suʒaf/ : /tugap/ 61.5 30.7 .05 8. /tukab/ : /suʃav/ 50.0 38.4 NS
4. /nimuɲ/ : /zivuʒ/ 57.6 34.6 NS 9. /meɲan/ : /veʒaz/ 65.3 30.7 .05
5. /gokuʃ/ : /dotus/ 50.0 38.4 NS 10. /gakiʃ/ : /datis/ 61.5 30.7 .05
86 Luca Nobile
5. General discussion
Our data conirm the traditional results concerning [voicing]. his is the most sig-
niicant phonological feature for the crossmodal correspondence with the graphic
features of {acuity}, {curvature} and {continuity}:
[voiced : voiceless] ≈
{curved : angular} 91.3%
{obtuse : acute} 82.2%
{continuous : discontinuous} 75.5%
We can add now that the phonological features of [manner of articulation] and
[nasality] are also regularly correlated with these same graphic characteristics:
[fricative : plosive] ≈
{curved : angular} 76.8%
{obtuse : acute} 68.8%
{continuous : discontinuous} 68.8%
[nasal : oral] ≈
{obtuse : acute} 80.0%
{dense : sparse} 65.3%
{continuous : discontinuous} 64.4%
{curved : angular} 60.8%
However, we have also noticed that [nasality], unlike [voicing] and [manner of
articulation], shows a stronger correlation with {acuity} than with {curvature} and
has a signiicant correlation with {density} which is not concerned by [voicing]
and [manner].
On the other hand, we saw that [place of articulation] does not correlate with
the graphic feature of {continuity} and correlates weakly with {acuity} and {curva-
ture}, while it exhibits a unusual link with {regularity} and {density}:
[palato-velar : alveo-dental] ≈
{dense : sparse} 61.5%
{irregular : regular} 60.8%
{angular : curved} 57.9%
{obtuse : acute} 44.4%
While [voicing], [manner of articulation] and partly [nasality] seem thus to behave
in a similar way (at least with regard to the examined graphic features), [place of
articulation] shows a fundamentally asymmetric behaviour. Not only does it cor-
relate with graphic properties which are weakly concerned by other phonological
features, but, in the case of the {curved : angular} graphic opposition, which is the
most important for [voicing] and [manner], it even goes against the [grave : acute]
acoustical opposition which drives the behaviour of the other features.
he strong similarity between the behaviour of [voicing] and that of [manner
of articulation] despite the diversity of their acoustic properties (the opposition
Phonemes as images 87
[grave : acute] in the case of [voicing] and the opposition [continuous : discon-
tinuous] in the case of [manner]) seems to be due to the fact that these diferent
properties both give rise to a similar efect, that is a [continuous : discontinuous]
acoustic opposition. In the case of [manner of articulation], this takes place at the
level of the phoneme and it is intrinsic to the very deinition of the feature itself:
[fricatives] are [continuous] while [plosives] are [discontinuous]. In the case of
[voicing], on the contrary, the opposition [continuous : discontinuous] emerges
as a secondary efect at the level of the syllable: [voiced] consonants, sharing the
laryngeal vibration with vowels, determine a syllabic [continuity] with them, while
[voiceless] consonants, interrupting the laryngeal vibration, determine a syllabic
[discontinuity]. his may explain not only the similarities in the behaviour of
[voicing] and [manner of articulation], with respect to the {curvature}, the {acu-
ity} and the {continuity} graphic features (given that all three can be viewed as
oppositions between a greater or a lesser continuity of the lines), but also their
diferences. In particular, [voicing] obtains a larger consensus than [manner]: this
may be explained by the fact that it cumulates the [grave : acute] and the [continu-
ous : discontinuous] acoustic features, while [manner] works only with the [con-
tinuous : discontinuous] feature. Moreover, this gain of consensus is signiicant in
the case of the {curvature} and the {acuity} graphic features, while it is negligible
in the case of {continuity}: this may depend on the fact that {curvature} and {acu-
ity} are the features in relation to which the acoustic [acuity] can play its iconic
role, while in the case of the {continuity} graphic feature only acoustic [continu-
ity] can work as an icon. On the other hand, this kind of explanation implies that
the similarity between the behaviours of [voicing] and [manner] has a contingent
origin and it should be possible to dissociate them by an appropriate manipulation
of the experimental conditions.
In the case of [nasality], the [grave : acute] acoustic feature is more important
than the [continuous : discontinuous] feature because the latter cannot exploit the
syllabic mechanism of [voicing] (both nasals and orals are indeed voiced in our
pseudo-words) nor the phonemic mechanism of the [manner] (both nasals and
orals are continuous). he only (weak) acoustic discontinuity is determined, at the
syllabic level, by the activation or deactivation of the turbulences characterizing the
timbre of the fricatives (which are absent in nasals and vowels). On the contrary,
the inluence of the [acuity] acoustic feature is very important, because [nasals] are
characterized by a very [grave] timbre, distinguishing them strongly from [frica-
tives]. As we previously observed, this could explain why the consensus for the
[nasal : oral] opposition grows in the case of the {obtuse : acute} graphic opposition.
In fact, this is the only pair where the diference concerning the continuity of the
lines also involves a {large : small} and a {dark : bright} opposition in the igures.
Nowadays, {large : small} and {dark : light} are well known visual correlates of the
88 Luca Nobile
[grave : acute] acoustic feature. heir accidental presence in the {obtuse : acute} ig-
ures determines thus a gain of consensus for the [nasal : oral] phonological feature.
In the case of [place of articulation] ([palato-velar : alveo-dental]), the [con-
tinuous : discontinuous] acoustic feature has no relevance at all and this explains
the lack of crossmodal correspondence with the {continuity} graphic feature. On
the other hand, the [grave : acute] acoustic feature has limited importance. Of
course, the [alveo-dentals] (about 4000 Hz–9000 Hz) are more acute than the
[palato-velars] (about 2000 Hz–9000 Hz), and this explains why the [palato-velar :
alveo-dental] phonological opposition correlates positively with the {obtuse :
acute} graphic feature (where the {large : small} and the {dark : bright} accessory
graphic features strengthen the crossmodal link with [grave : acute]). Nevertheless,
such a [grave : acute] opposition is less perceptible than that between [voiced]
and [voiceless] or between [sonorant] and [obstruent] because it is a diference
between two noises, not between a sound and a noise, and because the distribution
of the frequencies in these noises is not complementary, but largely overlapped.
his weak [grave : acute] feature may thus be overcome, under certain condi-
tions, by other acoustic properties of the pair [palatovelar: alveodental], such as
the opposition mentioned above between a more ‘irregular’, ‘indeinite’ and ‘dirty’
noise and a more ‘regular’, ‘deined’ and ‘clean’ noise. his could explain, on the
one hand, the correlation between [place of articulation] and {regularity} and, on
the other hand, the link between [palatovelar : alveodental] and {angular : curved}
contradicting the general tendency to associate [grave] to {curved} and [acute] to
{angular}, if one admits that the {angular} igure can be perceived as more ‘irregu-
lar’ or ‘dirty’ than the {curved} igure.
Taken together, these results suggest that diferent phono-articulatory features
tend to be associated to diferent graphic-visual properties and that their acoustic
characteristics play an important role in determining these associations. In par-
ticular, the acoustic feature [grave : acute], inherent to the articulatory features
[voiced : voiceless] and [nasal : oral] (as well as, to a lesser extent, [palato-velar :
alveo-dental]), seems to respond in particular to graphic properties such as {large :
small}, {dark : bright} and {thick : thin}, conirming a correspondence well-known
in the literature. he acoustic feature [continuous : discontinuous], determined
at the level of the phoneme by the articulatory feature [fricative : plosive] as well
as, at the level of the syllable, by the feature [voiced: voiceless] (and, to a lesser
extent, by [sonorant : obstruent]), seems to be particularly sensitive to graphical
characteristics of the lines such as {continuous : discontinuous}, {curved : angular}
and {obtuse : acute}. Finally, the acoustic feature that we could call [clean : dirty],
inherent to the articulatory feature [alveo-dental : palato-velar] seems to relate to
general properties of the igures such as {regular : irregular} or {sparse : dense}
(and also, to a lesser extent, {curved : angular}).
Phonemes as images 89
To our knowledge this is the irst attempt, in the ield of shape-sound symbol-
ism, to test the hypothesis of diferent sound-symbolic values carried by diferent
phono-articulatory features. his is a crucial question because only the simulta-
neous existence of various sound-symbolic dimensions in the same phonological
system can allow us to imagine, through their compositionality, the emergence
of the semantic variety that characterizes natural languages. On the contrary, as
long as the sound-symbolic values belong (or can be reduced) to a single dimen-
sion (typically, [grave : acute] = {large : small}), sound symbolism remains a phe-
nomenon constitutively diferent from the semantics of natural languages, and
can be treated as an accessory or residual element, not as a key factor to explain
their origin and development. It seems to us that the collected results constitute
signiicant clues in favour of the hypothesis of the multi-dimensionality of sound
symbolism.
References
Anderson, E.R. 2001. Old English poetic texts and their Latin sources: Iconicity in Cædmon’s
Hymn and he Phoenix. In he Motivated Sign [Iconicity in Language and Literature 2],
O. Fischer & M. Nänny (eds), 109–134. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
DOI: 10.1075/ill.2.11and
Chastaing, M. 1958. Le symbolisme des voyelles: Signiications des ‘i’. Journal de psychologie
normale et pathologique 51(3): 403–423 & 461–481.
Chastaing, M. 1962. La brillance des voyelles. Archivium Linguisticum 14(1): 1–13.
Chastaing, M. 1964. L’opposition des consonnes ‘sourdes’ aux consonnes ‘sonores’ a-t-elle une
valeur symbolique? Vie et langage 147: 367–370.
Chastaing, M. 1966. Si les R étaient des L… Vie et langage 159: 311–317.
Davis, R. 1961. he itness of names to drawings: A cross-cultural study in Tanganyika. British
Journal of Psychology 52: 259–268. DOI: 10.1111/j.2044-8295.1961.tb00788.x
D’Onofrio, A. 2013. Phonetic detail and dimensionality in sound-shape correspondences: Rein-
ing the bouba-kiki paradigm. Language and Speech 57(3): 367–393.
DOI: 10.1177/0023830913507694
Fischer-Jørgensen, E. 1967. Perceptual dimensions of vowels. In To Honor Roman Jakobson:
Essays on the Occasion of his Seventieth Birthday, Vol. I, 667–671. he Hague: Mouton.
Fitch, W.T. 2000. he evolution of speech: A comparative review. Trends in Cognitive Sciences
4(7): 258–267. DOI: 10.1016/S1364-6613(00)01494-7
Fox, C. 1935. An experimental study of naming. American Journal of Psychology 47: 545–578.
DOI: 10.2307/1416003
Grammont, M. 1901. Onomatopées et mots expressifs. Revue de Langues Romanes 44(4):
97–158.
Grammont, M. 1933. Traité de phonétique. Paris: Delagrave.
Hinton, L., Nichols, J. & Ohala, J.J. 1994. Introduction: Sound-symbolic processes. In Sound
Symbolism, L. Hinton, J. Nichols & J.J. Ohala (eds), 1–12. Cambridge: CUP.
90 Luca Nobile
Holland, M. & Wertheimer, M. 1964. Some physiognomic aspects of naming, or maluma and
takete revisited. Perceptual and Motor Skills 19: 111–117. DOI: 10.2466/pms.1964.19.1.111
Jakobson, R. & Waugh, L. 1979. he Sound Shape of Language. Bloomington IN: Indiana Uni-
versity Press.
Johnson, R. 1967. Magnitude symbolism of English words. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal
Behaviour 6: 508–511. DOI: 10.1016/S0022-5371(67)80008-2
Klank, L., Huang, Y. & Johnson, R. 1971. Determinants of success in matching word pairs in
tests of phonetic symbolism. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behaviour 10: 140–148.
DOI: 10.1016/S0022-5371(71)80005-1
Köhler, W. 1929[1947]. Gestalt Psychology. New York NY: Liveright.
LaPolla, R. 1994. An experimental investigation into phonetic symbolism as it relates to Man-
darin Chinese. In Sound Symbolism, L. Hinton, J. Nichols & J.J. Ohala (eds), 130–147.
Cambridge: CUP.
Marks, L. 1982. Bright sneezes and dark coughs, loud sunlight and sit moonlight. Journal of
Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance 8: 177–193.
DOI: 10.1037/0096-1523.8.2.177
Marks, L. 1989. On cross-modal similarity: he perceptual structure of pitch, loudness and
brightness. Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance 15:
586–602. DOI: 10.1037/0096-1523.15.3.586
Newman, S. 1933. Further experiments on phonetic symbolism. American Journal of Psychology
45: 53–75. DOI: 10.2307/1414186
Nielsen, A. & Rendall, D. 2011. he sound of round: Evaluating the sound-symbolic role of
consonants in the classic takete-maluma phenomenon. Canadian Journal of Experimental
Psychology 65: 115–124. DOI: 10.1037/a0022268
Nobile, L. 2008. he grammatical monophonemes of standard Italian: A structural isomorphism
between phonological and semantic oppositions? Cognitive Philology I(2). <http://ojs.uni-
roma1.it/index.php/cogphil/article/view/8819>
Nobile, L. 2011. Words in the mirror: Analysing the sensorimotor interface between phonet-
ics and semantics in Italian. In Semblance and Signiication [Iconicity in Language and
Literature 10], P. Michelucci, O. Fischer & C. Ljungberg (eds), 101–131. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/ill.10.06nob
Nobile, L. 2014. L’iconicité phonologique dans les neurosciences cognitives et dans la tradition
linguistique française. Le Français Moderne 82(1): 131–169.
Ohala, J.J. 1984. An ethological perspective on common cross-language utilization of F0 of
voice. Phonetica 41: 1–16. DOI: 10.1159/000261706
Peterfalvi, J.-M. 1964. Etude du symbolisme phonétique par l’appariement de mots sans signi-
ication à des igures. L’année psychologique 64(2): 411–432. DOI: 10.3406/psy.1964.27255
Peterfalvi, J.-M. 1965. Les recherches expérimentales sur le symbolisme phonétique. L’année
Psychologique 65(2): 439–474. DOI: 10.3406/psy.1965.27443
Peterfalvi, J.-M. 1970. Recherches expérimentales sur le symbolisme phonétique. Paris: CNRS.
Ramachandran, V. & Hubbard, E. 2001. Synaesthesia – A window into perception, thought and
language. Journal of Consciousness Studies 8(12): 3–34.
Rizzolatti, G. & Craighero, L. 2007. Language and mirror neurons. he Oxford Handbook of
Psycholinguistics, G. Gaskell (ed.), 781–785. Oxford: OUP.
Phonemes as images 91
Saji, N., Akita, K., Imai, M., Kantartzis, K. & Kita, S. 2013. Cross-linguistically shared and
language-speciic sound symbolism for motion: An exploratory data mining approach.
In Proceedings of the 35th Annual Meeting of Cognitive Science Society, Berlin, 31 July–03
August 2013, 1253–1258. <http://mindmodeling.org/cogsci2013>
Spence, C. 2011. Crossmodal correspondences: A tutorial review. Attention Perception Psycho-
physics 73: 971–995. DOI: 10.3758/s13414-010-0073-7
Taylor, I. & Taylor, M. 1962. Phonetic symbolism in four unrelated languages. Canadian Journal
of Psychology 16: 344–356. DOI: 10.1037/h0083261
hompson, P.D. & Estes, Z. 2011. Sound symbolic naming of novel objects is a graded function.
he Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology 64(12): 2392–2404.
DOI: 10.1080/17470218.2011.605898
Westbury, C. 2005. Implicit sound symbolism in lexical access: Evidence from an interference
task. Brain and Language 93: 10–19. DOI: 10.1016/j.bandl.2004.07.006
doi 10.1075/ill.14.05aur
© 2015 John Benjamins Publishing Company
Synaesthetic sound iconicity
Phonosemantic associations between acoustic
features of phonemes and emotional behavior
Jan Auracher
Konan University
his paper reports results from an empirical study in synaesthetic sound iconic-
ity, a speciic form of phonosemantics deined as implicit and systematic asso-
ciations of acoustic features of phonemes with non-acoustic phenomena. I argue
that acoustic features of phonemes are implicitly associated with one pole or the
other (e.g., high level or low level) of bipolar semantic concepts such as activity
or dominance. Based on this assumption, it was hypothesized that pseudo-
words consisting of plosive consonants and back vowels are associated with the
emotion of anger, whereas pseudo-words consisting of sonorant consonants and
front vowels are associated with the emotion of fear. his hypothesis was tested
in an experimental setting, applying a speeded classiication paradigm.
1. Introduction
In phonosemantics it is claimed that the relation between the sound and the
meaning of linguistic signs is not as arbitrary as generally believed. In fact, there
have always been scholars – starting with Plato (1857 [ca. 420 BC]) via Humboldt
(1836) through Jakobson (e.g., Jakobson & Waugh 1987) – who argued that there
is a systematic relationship between sound and meaning in at least some aspects
of human language (for a review see Nuckolls 1999). Over time, various types of
phonosemantics have been studied, generally subsumed under the term sound
symbolism (Allott 1995). However, as I have argued elsewhere (Auracher et al.
2011), this term is misleading, as the sound-meaning relationships at stake are by
deinition not symbolic – that is, they are not based on convention. In contrast to
strictly convention-based relationships, I use the term sound iconicity, to empha-
size that the relation between signiier and signiied is iconic – that is, it is based
on miming (see also Ahlner & Zlatev 2010; Reay 1994). Within sound iconicity
one can distinguish between two basic reasons that a certain sound is associated
94 Jan Auracher
with a target object or concept. In onomatopoeia, the association between signiier
and signiied is based on miming within the same sensory modality; for example,
the word ‘woof’ is an acoustic imitation of the sound made by a barking dog. On
the other hand, in some instances of sound iconicity the basis for the relationship
appears to be a perceived correspondence between inherent features of the signi-
ier and the signiied across diferent sensory modalities. Henceforth, I will refer
to this latter form as synaesthetic sound iconicity, or SSI for short.
Probably the most oten-cited example of SSI was irst described by Köhler
(1929) and subsequently replicated in multiple studies (Bremner et al. 2013; Davis
1961; Maurer et al. 2006; Ozturk et al. 2013; Ramachandran & Hubbard 2001;
Westbury 2005); this is the tendency for humans to associate spiky shapes with
plosive phonemes and to associate roundish shapes with continuant or sonorant
phonemes. According to Ramachandran and Hubbard (2001), the reason for these
associations is that the sharp inlections of pointed corners correspond to the
abrupt release of the airstream in plosive phonemes, while roundish shapes cor-
respond to the more steady and continuous release of the airstream in sonorants.
hus, the associated stimuli – the plosive sounds and spiky shapes on the one
hand and the sonorant sounds and roundish shapes on the other – are con-
nected through a shared feature or characteristic, namely the perception that they
are abrupt and steady, respectively. A similar idea has also been formulated by
Kantarzis (2011), who found that participants showed a signiicant preference
for matching pseudo-words containing plosives with visual stimuli displaying
an abrupt change (such as an abrupt change of speed, trajectory, or color), and
pseudo-words containing continuants with stimuli showing gradual changes. Such
observations suggest that SSI is special within phonosemantics in that associations
between generic features of stimuli seem to be based on their semantic interpreta-
tion. In the following, I elaborate on this idea.
he form of phonosemantics that I refer to as synaesthetic sound iconic-
ity (SSI) is deined by Hinton et al. (1994:4) as the “acoustic symbolization of
non-acoustic phenomena”. As such, SSI is closely related to what in cognitive and
neuro-cognitive psychology is referred to as cross-modal processing: the integra-
tion of input from diferent sensory modalities to form a coherent picture of the
surroundings. Within this ield, scholars have conducted experiments in which
speciic qualities of stimuli from diferent sensory modalities are systematically
varied in order to ind cross-modal associations. As a standard procedure, these
studies apply a prime-target paradigm, meaning that participants in the experi-
ments are asked to categorize a target stimulus which has been perceived through
one sensory modality (e.g., the brightness of a color) ater irst being exposed to a
prime stimulus from a diferent sensory modality (e.g., the high and low pitch of
Synaesthetic sound iconicity 95
a sound). In these experiments, the association between the stimuli is operational-
ized through reaction time latency. hat is, if prime and target stimuli are associ-
ated with each other, participants tend to complete the categorization task faster
and more accurately than if prime and target stimuli are not associated.
One interesting observation from these experiments is that some of the
observed cross-modal associations appear to be of a “metaphoric” or “igurative”
nature (Marks 2004:91). Examples include reported cross-modal associations
between pitch and size (Gallace & Spence 2006; Walker & Smith 1985), pitch
and lightness (Marks 1978), pitch and taste (Crisinel & Spence 2009), and loud-
ness and brightness (Lewkowicz & Turkewitz 1980; Stevens & Marks 1965). Two
facts about these results are important for the argument made in this paper. First,
the association between prime and target seems to be based on a perceived cor-
respondence between inherent qualities or generic features of the stimuli, such
as intensity or frequency (Spence 2011). Second, the perceived correspondence
between these features does not appear to rely on any phenomenon that is detect-
able outside the mind of the perceiver. In other words, for example, a bright color
does not sound bright. his raises the question: Why do humans tend to associate
bright colors with bright sounds, apart from the fact that both are considered to
be “bright”?
he answer to this question, I suggest, is that semantic attribution of sensory
input takes place in lower-order, pre-conscious, levels of cognitive processing and
that this lower-level interpretation carries forward to higher-order semantic pro-
cessing where phonetic and semantic features may become associated with each
other based on commonalities in their individual lower-level semantic interpre-
tations. he associations between spiky shapes and plosive sounds, and between
roundish shapes and continuant sounds, might, thus, rely on shared connotations
with a high or a low level of physical activity (e.g., Ertel 1969; Klink 2000; Lindauer
1990; Lundholm 1921; Miron 1961; Osgood 1960; Pofenberger & Barrows 1924)
and abruptness (Greenberg & Jenkins 1966; Kantarzis 2011). Similar observations
have been reported from research with animals on association of sound pitch
with physical dominance. As Morton (1977) explains, the pitch of a sound (the
frequency of f0) can indirectly convey an impression of the size of the source of
the sound. Over the course of evolution, repeated experience of the pitch-size rela-
tionship, combined with the fact that in animal life size is usually directly related
to strength and power, may have led to the general association of low-frequency
sounds with physical dominance (Morton 1994). hus, I assume the existence of
abstract semantic dimensions, such as activity or dominance, along which sensory
input independent of its modality is categorized according to some basic qualities,
such as frequency or intensity.
96 Jan Auracher
In attempting to understand and classify cross-modal associations, two ques-
tions arise. Is it possible to deine basic semantic concepts to establish a multi-
dimensional space which allows for categorizing stimuli independent of their
sensory modality? And can categorization within this semantic space allow for
predicting cross-modal associations? For clarity in what follows, I refer to the
dimensions of such a semantic space as (semantic) concepts, written in italics, and
to the poles of these dimensions as (semantic) ‘categories’, written with quotation
marks. For example, dominance is considered to be a concept with the categories
of ‘dominant’ and ‘submissive’.
Such a semantic space of basic concepts has been brought forward in the EPA
model of Osgood and colleagues (Osgood et al. 1957), who identiied evaluation,
potency, and activity as the three semantic dimensions that account for most of
the co-variation in studies with introspective semantic ratings (Heise 1970). In a
review of several studies in which participants assessed the itting of geometrical
shapes to emotional expressions, Collier (1996:28) concluded that the dimensions
of Osgood’s EPA modal “provide a fairly universal schema by which we encode
both the perceptual and emotional world”. A potential drawback of these studies,
however, is that they applied introspective methods to reveal associations; thus
they rely on the willingness and ability of participants to cooperate as intended.
Such cooperation cannot always be taken for granted, however. Particularly when
using stimuli with no clear denotation, such as nonsense words or geometrical
igures, cross-modal associations are most likely implicit – that is pre-conscious –
and therefore diicult to access through reasoning. Ahlner and Zlatev (2010), for
example, argue that indings of sound iconicity in forced-choice designs might
rely on the pre-information that there is a common ground on which stimuli can
be matched. In other words, they suggest that the task of the experiment itself
serves as a prerequisite for activating cross-modal congruency based on sound
iconicity. A similar argument has been made by Newman (1933), who points out
that when explicitly asking participants to assess systematically varied stimuli, it
is not clear to what extent the answers relect the participants’ anticipation of the
researcher’s interest. hus in studies such as those referred to above, there lies the
danger that participants, even if they do their best to cooperate, might answer
diferently ater considering how to categorize a stimulus than they would when
answering spontaneously.
To circumvent this problem, a series of tests has been developed that allows
for measuring implicit associations without relying on introspection. Next to
the aforementioned prime-target paradigm, the Implicit Association Test (IAT)
developed by Greenwald and colleagues (Greenwald et al. 1998) is probably the
most widely-used test for assessing cross-modal associations. In the IAT, subjects
are exposed to stimuli from two diferent modalities – for example, geometrical
Synaesthetic sound iconicity 97
igures and pseudo-words.1 Stimuli from each modality are separated into two
groups; for example geometric igures can be either spiky or roundish in shape,
and pseudo-words can have either plosive or sonorant consonants. he task of
the participants is to categorize stimuli as belonging to one group or the other
by pressing a button (on a computer keyboard) on either the let side (using the
let index inger) or the right side (using the right index inger). Groups that are
hypothesized to be associated across modalities can either be allocated to the same
side (conforming condition) or to diferent sides (non-conforming condition).
In our example, a possible conforming condition would be if spiky shapes and
pseudo-words with plosive consonants are both allocated to the right side, and
roundish shapes and pseudo-words with sonorants are both allocated to the let
side; a non-conforming condition would have roundish shapes and plosive sounds
allocated to the same side. he idea behind the IAT is that participants, when
presented with stimuli from both modalities in randomized order, can complete
their categorizing task faster and with fewer mistakes under conforming condi-
tions than under non-conforming conditions. While the IAT was originally devel-
oped to assess implicit attitudes by measuring underlying automatic evaluations
(Greenwald et al. 1998), it has also been successfully applied to reveal cross-modal
associations (e.g., Parise & Spence 2012).
2. Research
2.1 Operationalization and hypotheses
In the following, I report the results of an empirical research study that monitored
the allocation of pseudo-words to one pole or the other of the potency and activ-
ity dimensions of the EPA model of Osgood et al. (1957). Because of the present
study’s operationalization of the potency dimension, however, the focus of the
semantic concept shits slightly. Consequently, I will refer to this dimension as
dominance rather than potency.
he semantic concepts dominance and activity were operationalized using
pictures depicting body postures which showed either ‘anger’ or ‘fear’. he idea
behind this operationalization was that both anger and fear are emotional reac-
tions to an encounter with something unpleasant, but with opposing behavioral
reactions. Anger, particularly in the way it was shown in the stimuli used, is
the assumed reaction of someone feeling superior, whereas fear is the assumed
1. Pseudo-words are words that are phonetically possible in the language of the participant but
that have no lexical denotation.
98 Jan Auracher
reaction of someone feeling inferior (Plutchik 1980:164). hus, anger is more
likely to lead toward aggressive, approaching behavior (e.g., Darwin 1965 [1872];
Levenson 1994; Plutchik 1980), with a tendency to attack (Berkowitz 1993). Fear,
in contrast, is more likely to result in retreat behavior like cowering or crouching
(McDougall 1960 [1908]: 45) and a “frozen” state with reduced activity (Azevedo
et al. 2005). Consequently, it was hypothesized that anger is associated with the
categories of ‘dominant’ and ‘active’, whereas fear is associated with the categories
of ‘submissive’ and ‘inactive’.
For acoustic stimuli, pseudo-words consisting of either plosive consonants
(/p/, /t/, /k/) and back vowels (/o/, /u/) or sonorant consonants (/m/, /n/, /l/) and
front vowels (/i/, /e/) were created by randomly combining three syllables consist-
ing of one consonant and one vowel each.2 Based on the aforementioned research,
I assume that plosive and sonorant consonants are associated with a high or low
level of activity, respectively. Moreover, I expect that back vowels connote large
size, whereas front vowels connote small size. In accordance with the above-out-
lined relation between physical size, strength, and the perception of dominance, it
was therefore hypothesized that back vowels are associated with a feeling of domi-
nance, which tends to produce aggressive behavior, while front vowels are associ-
ated with a feeling of inferiority, which tends to produce submissive behavior.
he assumed relation between the articulatory place of vowels and the pitch-
size efect, however, requires further explanation. hough several studies report
a cross-modal association between the pitch of a sound and the size of an object
(Evans & Treisman 2010; Gallace & Spence 2006; Parise & Spence 2008, 2009;
Walker & Smith 1985), the diference between back vowels – that is vowels which
are pronounced with open mouth and in the back of the articulatory apparatus –
and front vowels – which are pronounced with closed mouth and in the front of
the articulatory apparatus – is not primarily related to the vowels’ pitch (the fre-
quency of their fundamentals), but to the relative position of their irst and second
formant. While in back vowels the distance between irst and second formant is
relatively small (about 500 Hz), in front vowels this distance is signiicantly greater
(about 1500 to 2000 Hz). hus, the association between articulation manner/place
and size or magnitude (e.g. Berlin 1994; Jespersen 1933; Newman 1933; Sapir
1929; Ultan 1978) is not necessarily related to the size-pitch efect. (For a discus-
sion of size-sound symbolism, see also Tsur 2006).
he above-described operationalization of the semantic concepts dominance
and activity in the visual and acoustic stimuli made it possible to predict spe-
ciic implicit associations between body postures and pseudo-words. In the visual
2. Phonemes are written between slashes in this paper, using the SAMPA alphabet.
Synaesthetic sound iconicity 99
stimuli used, the feeling of anger was depicted as demonstrating dominance and
leading to approaching behavior with a high level of physical activity, including
shouting and ist-waving. herefore, anger was hypothesized to be associated
with pseudo-words consisting of plosive consonants and back vowels. On the
other hand, fear was depicted as trying to become as inconspicuous as possible
by crouching, cowering, raising the arms in protection, and in general showing
behavior of low activity. herefore, fear was hypothesized to be associated with
pseudo-words consisting of sonorant consonants and front vowels.
To summarize, I hypothesized that participants would implicitly associate …
a. … pictures depicting angry body postures with pseudo-words consisting of
plosive consonants and back vowels, and
b. … pictures depicting fearful body postures with pseudo-words consisting of
sonorant consonants and front vowels.
hese hypotheses were tested using the Implicit Association Test (Greenwald et al.
1998). he hypotheses were considered to be supported when participants showed
increased response latency and/or decreased response accuracy in non-conform-
ing conditions compared to conforming conditions.
2.2 Participants
A total of 28 university students (16 female) took part in the experiment. All par-
ticipants were native Japanese speakers, between 18 and 23 years of age (mean: 20),
who reported no hearing impairments and normal or corrected-to-normal vision.
Participation was voluntary and participants received a 500-yen git certiicate. All
participants gave written informed consent to participate in the study. he experi-
ments were approved by the Ethics Committee of Doshisha University.
2.3 Procedure
he research design followed the standard procedure of the IAT suggested by
Nosek et al. (2003). Accordingly, every participant was required to complete one
experimental block in which stimuli from presumably-associated categories were
allocated to the same side (conforming condition) and one experimental block
in which stimuli from presumably-associated categories were allocated to oppo-
site sides (non-conforming condition). he order of the experimental blocks was
randomized (either irst conforming and then non-conforming or the other way
around). Both conditions were previously practiced during training blocks, in
which participants categorized stimuli of each modality (acoustic and visual) sepa-
rately (Figure 1).
100 Jan Auracher
Block 1 - Training
Block 2 - Training
Block 4 - Training
Block 3 - Experiment
Block 5 - Experiment
dark bright
dark bright
anger
anger
anger
fear
fear
fear
+
+
dark bright
anger
fear
+
+
Figure 1. Experimental design in ive blocks
answer
stimulus
correct
answer
incorrect
same stimulus
new stimulus
500 ms
Figure 2. Example for a possible sequence of an experimental block
Synaesthetic sound iconicity 101
As each category contained eight diferent stimuli and every stimulus was
presented two times, both experimental blocks (conforming and non-conforming
condition) had 64 trials (8 stimuli × 2 times × 2 categories × 2 modalities). Each
trial lasted as long as it took for the participant to answer. Mistakes (incorrect
categorizations) were indicated by a small red cross at the bottom of the screen,
allowing the participants to correct their mistakes. Following each trial there was
an inter-stimulus interval (ISI) of 500 ms, during which the screen was black
(Figure 2).
2.4 Materials
Emotional body postures were drawn by a professional illustrator (NiKo-
Illustration). he illustrator was instructed to draw the postures as depicting either
an “angry, aggressive” state or a “frightened, submissive” state. All igures had the
same body size and shape and showed no facial expression. To ensure that par-
ticipants perceived the emotional state of the body postures as intended, a pre-test
was conducted in which 30 participants were asked to assess the emotional state
of four pictures of body postures – one angry, one frightened, two neither angry
nor frightened – on four bi-polar attribute items (Table 1). Participants rated on a
ive-point scale the degree to which the attributes it the depicted body postures.
Results clearly show that participants perceived the angry body postures as depict-
ing an angry, energetic, and strong-willed state, and the frightened body postures as
depicting a more afraid, passive, and cowardly state. hese diferences were signii-
cant on a p <.001 level when measured with a t-test for repeated measurements.
Table 1. Mean values for frightened and angry body postures on four bi-polar items.
Values above 3 indicate that the right-side attribute of an item pair was rated higher
Bi-polar items Mean values
per depicted emotion
Japanese English fear anger
悲しんでいる – 喜んでいる sad – happy 2.27 3.43
受け身な – エネルギッシュな passive – energetic 1.67 4.13
恐れている – 怒っている frightened – angry 1.23 4.33
気弱な – 気が強い cowardly – strong-willed 1.43 4.48
Pseudo-words were generated by randomly creating sequences of three syllables,
each consisting of one consonant and one vowel (CVCVCV). Pseudo-words con-
sisted either of plosive consonants /p/, /t/, and /k/ and the back vowels /o/ and
/u/ were used (e.g., ‘tokopu’) or of sonorant consonants /m/, /n/, and /l/ and the
vowels /i/ and /e/ (e.g., ‘milemi’).
102 Jan Auracher
Eight pseudo-words per category were recorded by a male speaker. he record-
ings were done in an anechoic room, using a Roland CD-2e digital recorder. he
speaker was asked to clearly put the stress on the irst syllable when pronouncing
each word. Otherwise he was uninformed with respect to the aim of the experi-
ment. he length of the recordings was manipulated to it exactly 0.58 sec, using
Audacity version 2.0. Files were saved in WAV 16 Bit PCM format.
2.5 Apparatus
he experiments were conducted in a quiet atmosphere free from disturbing noise
or other distractions. Stimuli were presented on a 15.6′′ HD LED LCD display.
Acoustic stimuli were presented using Sony MDR-CD900ST headphones. During
presentation of the acoustic stimuli, a white cross on black background appeared
on the screen. For stimulus delivery and experimental control, the sotware
Presentation® (version 15) by Neuro-Behavioral-Systems <http://www.neurobs.
com/> was used.
2.6 Processing of the data
Data were analyzed using the improved scoring algorithm D5 described by
Greenwald et al. (2003). Accordingly, unrealistic answer latencies of either below
400 ms or above 10,000 ms were iltered out. Answer latencies of error trials – that
is, trials in which participants allocated a stimulus not in accordance with the
given instructions (e.g., pressed the key on the let side even though the category
of the stimulus was allocated to the right side) – were replaced by mean + 2*stan-
dard deviation computed from the answer latency of all correct answers. For the
two experimental blocks, the average latency in reaction time was calculated. It
was predicted that average reaction time latency for stimulus combinations which
were in accordance with the hypothesis (d1, conforming condition, e.g., plosive
consonants with angry body postures) would be shorter than that for combina-
tions which contradicted the hypothesis (d2, non-conforming condition, e.g., plo-
sives with fearful body postures). hat is, the hypothesis was conirmed when d2 >
d1. For analysis of signiicance, reaction time latency for the two experimental
blocks was compared by conducting a within-subject comparison of means. As the
sample size was comparatively low (28 participants) the non-parametric Wilcoxon
signed-rank test for repeated measurements was used. Analysis was done using
the sotware IBM SPSS Statistics 21.
Synaesthetic sound iconicity 103
2.7 Results
Results support the hypotheses. Participants needed more time to categorize the
stimuli in the non-conforming condition (meand2:880 ms) than they did in the
conforming condition (meand1: 778 ms). his diference is statistically signiicant
(p <.025). Comparison of the response latency for non-conforming vs. conform-
ing conditions suggests that participants associated pseudo-words consisting of
back vowels and plosive consonants with pictures depicting angry and aggressive
body postures. Conversely, pseudo-words consisting of front vowels and sonorant
consonants were more readily associated with pictures depicting body postures
that expressed fear and retreat.
3. Discussion
he results of the empirical research described above suggest that certain articu-
latory or acoustic qualities of phonemes are associated with speciic emotional
behavior. Combining this with results from previous studies (Auracher 2013;
Auracher et al. 2011), a picture emerges of how acoustic characteristics are linked
with emotional behavior. his can be visualized using a two-dimensional model
with plosive vs. continuant consonants on the vertical axis and front vs. back vow-
els on the horizontal axis. he four tested emotions – happiness, sadness, anger,
and fear – can be unambiguously positioned within one of the four quadrants of
the coordinate plane (Figure 3). he question is: How strong is the explanatory
power of such a two-dimensional model? More precisely, is the allocation of the
four emotions within the model consistent with general intuition? hat is, do emo-
tions allocated to the same sides of the model (upper or lower, right or let) share
common features? A closer look reveals a mixed picture.
In Auracher et al. (2011) and Auracher (2013), I provided empirical evidence
that ‘happiness’ is associated with combinations of plosive consonants and front
vowels, whereas ‘sadness’ is associated with pseudo-words consisting of back vow-
els and sonorant consonants. hus, starting in the upper-right quadrant of the
model and counting clockwise, happiness is positioned in the irst quadrant and
sadness in the third quadrant. Adding the results of the present research, fear is
positioned in the second quadrant and anger in the fourth quadrant. his alloca-
tion of basic emotions within the two-dimensional space matches normal intu-
ition, which would expect happiness and sadness, as well as anger and fear, to be
on opposing poles (e.g., Plutchik 1980:157 and 164). Moreover, the positioning of
happiness and anger together in the two upper quadrants of the model, and sad-
ness and fear together in the two lower quadrants is consistent with the perception
104 Jan Auracher
of happiness and anger as being expressed by more active, dynamic, and outgoing
behavior, and of fear and sadness leading to more inactive and retreating behav-
ior. Finally, the allocation of the two negative emotions – anger and sadness – to
the let-hand quadrants of the model again its with common intuition. What is
counter-intuitive, however, is that happiness and fear both end up being allocated
to the right side of the model; happiness and fear do not seem to share any obvious
common characteristic that could justify such an allocation.
One possible explanation is that happiness is not a speciic and well-deined
emotional state, but rather a superordinate concept which combines a set of related
afective and behavioral responses (Algoe & Haidt 2009). hus, it is possible that
the stimuli used in the current research depicted one particular form of happi-
ness, which shares some common features with fear. hough this may sound a bit
farfetched, there are, in fact, some parallels between these two emotional states.
From an evolutionary perspective, happiness can be deined as the response to an
encounter of an “unexpected positive event” (Tooby & Cosmides 2008:123). From
this perspective, happiness is closely related to the novelty of an experience, or to
the uncertainty that comes with encountering something unknown. Novelty and
uncertainty, however, have also been identiied to be an inherent aspect of fear
(Davis & Whalen 2001; Schwartz et al. 2003; Wilson & Rolls 1993). Lewis (2008)
consequently describes two very similar initiating situations that are speciic to
happiness and fear; he states, “happiness can be elicited by seeing a signiicant
other, and fear can be elicited by the approach of a stranger” (p. 742). hus, I want
Plosives Consonants
Continuant Consonants
Back Vowels Front Vowels
tokopu tikipe
minime
molumu
anger
sadness fear
happiness
Figure 3. Allocation of associated emotional behavior and phonetic features
in a two-dimensional semantic space
Synaesthetic sound iconicity 105
to suggest that happiness and fear, though diferent in many aspects (in particular
along the dimension of valence), share the components of novelty or uncertainty,
a dimension that has recently been identiied as an independent component in the
experience of emotions (e.g., Weierich et al. 2010). hat is to say, happiness and
fear might both be reactions to the encounter of a surprising event, though they
difer in the evaluation of the event.
4. Conclusion
he aim of the current research was to test the explanatory power of semantic
associations for synaesthetic sound iconicity. To this end, it was hypothesized that
systematic variations of speciic articulatory-acoustic characteristics of phonemes
determine their associations with speciic emotional behavior. Results of this and
previous studies (Auracher et al. 2011; Auracher 2013) support this hypothesis,
suggesting that the association between articulatory-acoustic characteristics of
phonemes and emotional behavior creates a dimensional space which is consis-
tent with well-established dimensional models of emotions, such as the emotional
wheel suggested by Plutchik (1980).
However, while the hypothesis in general seems to be conirmed, some incon-
sistencies in the model call for further research. For example, it might be a worth-
while enterprise to test whether some acoustic aspects of phonemes are associated
with one pole or the other of the ‘novelty’ dimension. he relation between plosiv-
ity in consonants and abruptness reported by Kantartzis (2011) seems to point in
this direction. In any case, the results of this research support the assumption that
there is a systematic relationship between acoustic characteristics of phonemes
and emotions – or at least emotional behavior.
References
Ahlner, F. & Zlatev, J. 2010. Cross-modal iconicity: A cognitive semiotic approach to sound
symbolism. Sign Systems Studies 38(1–4): 298–348.
Algoe, S.B. & Haidt, J. 2009. Witnessing excellence in action: he ‘other-praising’ emotions
of elevation, gratitude, and admiration. he Journal of Positive Psychology 4(2): 105–127.
Allott, R. 1995. Sound symbolism. In Language in the Würm Glaciation, U.L. Figge (ed), 15–38.
Bochum: Brockmeyer.
Auracher, J. 2013. Synaesthetic sound iconicity: Cross-modal integration of acoustic aspects
of speech with non-acoustic aspects of meaning. Poster presentation at the 23rd annual
meeting of the Society for Text and Discourse in Valencia, Spain.
106 Jan Auracher
Auracher, J., Albers, S., Zhai, Y., Gareeva, G. & Stavniychuk, T. 2011. P is for happiness, N is for
sadness: Universals in sound iconicity to detect emotions in poetry. Discourse Processes
48(1): 1–25.
Azevedo, T. M., Volchan, E., Imbiriba, L., Rodrigues, E. C., Oliveira, J. M., Oliveira, L. F.,
Lutterbach, L.G. & Vargas, C.D. 2005. A freezing-like posture to pictures of mutilation.
Psychophysiology 42(3): 255–260.
Berkowitz, L. 1993. Aggression: Its Causes, Consequences, and Control. New York NY:
McGraw-Hill.
Berlin, B. 1994. Evidence for pervasive synesthetic sound symbolism in ethnozoological nomen-
clature. In Sound Symbolism, L. Hinton, J. Nichols & J.J. Ohala (eds), 76–103. Cambridge:
CUP.
Bremner, A.J., Caparos, S., Davidof, J., de Fockert, J., Linnell, K.J. & Spence, C. 2013. ‘Bouba’
and ‘Kiki’ in Namibia? A remote culture make similar shape-sound matches, but diferent
shape-taste matches to Westerners. Cognition 126(2): 165–172.
Collier, G.L. 1996. Afective synesthesia: Extracting emotion space from simple perceptual
stimuli. Motivation and Emotion 20(1): 1–32.
Crisinel, A.S. & Spence, C. 2009. Implicit association between basic tastes and pitch. Neuro-
science Letters 464: 39–42.
Darwin, C. 1965[1872]. he Expression of the Emotions in Man and Animals. Chicago IL: he
University of Chicago Press.
Davis, R. 1961. he itness of names to drawings: A cross-cultural study in Tanganyika. British
Journal of Psychology 52: 259–268.
Davis, M. & Whalen, P.J. 2001. he amygdala: Vigilance and emotion. Molecular Psychiatry 6:
13–34.
Ertel, S. 1969. Psychophonetik: Untersuchungen über Lautsymbolik und Motivation. Göttingen:
Hogrefe.
Evans, K.K. & Treisman, A. 2010. Natural cross-modal mappings between visual and auditory
features. Journal of Vision 10(1): 1–12.
Gallace, A. & Spence, C. 2006. Multisensory synesthetic interactions in the speeded classiica-
tion of visual size. Perception and Psychophysics 68(7): 1191–1203.
Greenberg, J.H. & Jenkins, J.J. 1966. Studies in the psychological correlates of the sound system
of American English, III and IV. Word 22(1–3): 207–242.
Greenwald, A.G., McGhee D.E. & Schwartz J.K.L. 1998. Measuring individual diferences in
implicit cognition: he Implicit Association Test. Journal of Personality and Social Psychol-
ogy 74(6): 1464–1480.
Greenwald, A.G., Nosek, B.A. & Banaji, M.R. 2003. Understanding and using the Implicit
Association Test: I. An improved scoring algorithm. Journal of Personality and Social Psy-
chology 85(2): 197–216.
Heise, D.R. 1970. he semantic diferential and attitude research. In Attitude Measurement, G.F.
Summers (ed.), 235–253. Chicago IL: Rand McNally.
Hinton, L., Nichols, J., & Ohala, J.J. 1994. Introduction: Sound–symbolism processes. In Sound
Symbolism, L. Hinton, J. Nichols, J.J. Ohala (eds), 1–12. Cambridge: CUP.
von Humboldt, W. 1836. Über die Kawi-Sprache auf der Insel Java: Nebst einer Einleitung über die
Verschiedenheit des menschlichen Sprachbaus und ihren Einluss auf die geistige Entwickelung
des Menschengeschlechtes, Vol. 1. Berlin: Königliche Akademie der Wissenschaten.
Jakobson, R. & Waugh, L.R. 1987. he Sound Shape of Language. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
Synaesthetic sound iconicity 107
Jespersen, O. 1933. Symbolic value of the vowel I. In Linguistica; Selected Papers in English,
French, and German, 283–303. Copenhagen: Levin & Munksgaad.
Kantartzis, K. 2011. Children and Adults’ Understanding and Use of Sound Symbolism in Novel
Words. PhD dissertation, University of Birmingham.
Klink, R.R. 2000. Creating brand names with meaning: he use of sound symbolism. Marketing
Letters 11(1): 5–20.
Köhler, W. 1929. Gestalt Psychology. New York NY: Liveright.
Levenson, R.W. 1994. he search for autonomic speciicity. In he Nature of Emotion: Funda-
mental Questions, P. Ekman & R.J. Davidson (eds), 252–257. Oxford: OUP.
Lewis, M. 2008. Self-conscious emotions. In Handbook of Emotions, 3rd edn, M. Lewis & J.M.
Haviland-Jones (eds), 742–756. New York NY: Guilford Press.
Lewkowicz, D.J. & Turkewitz, G. 1980. Cross-modal equivalence in early infancy: Auditory–
visual intensity matching. Developmental Psychology 16: 597–607.
DOI: 10.1037/0012-1649.16.6.597
Lindauer, M.S. 1990. he meanings of the physiognomic stimuli taketa and maluma. Bulletin of
the Psychonomic Society 28(1): 47–50. DOI: 10.3758/BF03337645
Lundholm, H. 1921. he afective tone of lines. Psychological Review 28(1): 43–60.
DOI: 10.1037/h0072647
Marks, L.E. 1978. he Unity of the Senses: Interrelations among the Modalities. New York NY:
Academic Press.
Marks, L.E. 2004. Cross-modal interactions in speeded classiication. In he Handbook of Mul-
tisensory Processes, G. Calvert, C. Spence & B. Stein (eds), 85–105. Cambridge MA: he
MIT Press.
Maurer, D., Pathman, T. & Mondloch, C. 2006. he shape of boubas: Sound-shape correspon-
dences in toddlers and adults. Developmental Science 9(3): 316–322.
DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-7687.2006.00495.x
McDougall, W. 1960[1908]. An Introduction to Social Psychology. London: Methuen.
Miron, M.S. 1961. A cross-linguistic investigation of phonetic symbolism. Journal of Abnormal
and Social Psychology 62(3): 623–630. DOI: 10.1037/h0045212
Morton, E.W. 1977. On the occurrence and signiicance of motivation-structural rules in some
bird and mammal sounds. American Naturalist 111: 855–869. DOI: 10.1086/283219
Morton, E.W. 1994. Sound symbolism and its role in non-human bertebrate communication. In
Sound Symbolism, L. Hinton, J. Nichols & J.J. Ohala, 348–365. Cambridge: CUP.
Newman, S.S. 1933. Further experiments in phonetic symbolism. American Journal of Psychol-
ogy 45: 53–75. DOI: 10.2307/1414186
Nosek, B., Greenwald, A. & Banaji, M. 2003. Understanding and using the implicit association
test, II: Method, variables and construct validity. Journal of Personality and Social Psychol-
ogy 85: 197–216. DOI: 10.1037/0022-3514.85.2.197
Nuckolls, J.B. 1999. he case for sound symbolism. Annual Review of Anthropology 28: 225–252.
DOI: 10.1146/annurev.anthro.28.1.225
Osgood, C.E. 1960. he cross-cultural generality of visual-verbal synesthetic tendencies. Behav-
ioral Science 5(2): 146–169. DOI: 10.1002/bs.3830050204
Osgood, C.E., Tannenbaum, P.H. & Suci, G.J. 1957. he Measurement of Meaning. Urbana IL:
University of Illinois Press.
Ozturk, O., Krehm, M. & Vouloumanos, A. 2013. Sound symbolism in infancy: Evidence for
sound-shape cross-modal correspondences in 4-month-olds. Journal of Children Psychol-
ogy 114(2): 173–186. DOI: 10.1016/j.jecp. 2012.05.004
108 Jan Auracher
Parise, C.V. & Spence, C. 2008. Synesthetic congruency modulates the temporal ventriloquism
efect. Neuroscience Letters 442(3): 257–261. DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet. 2008.07.010
Parise, C.V. & Spence, C. 2009. When birds of a feather lock together: Synesthetic correspon-
dences modulate audiovisual integration in non-synesthetes. PLoS 4(5): e5664.
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0005664
Parise, C.V. & Spence, C. 2012. Audiovisual crossmodal correspondences and sound symbolism:
A study using the implicit association test. Experimental Brain Research 220(3–4): 319–333.
DOI: 10.1007/s00221-012-3140-6
Plato. 1857[ca. 420 BC]. Kratylos (translated into German by Friedrich E.D. Schleiermacher).
<http://www.opera-platonis.de/Kratylos.html>
Plutchik, R. 1980. Emotion: A Psychoevolutionary Synthesis. New York NY: Harper and Row.
Pofenberger, A.T. & Barrows, B.E. 1924. he feeling value of lines. he Journal of Applied Psy-
chology 8(2): 187–205. DOI: 10.1037/h0073513
Ramachandran, V.S. & Hubbard, E.M. 2001. Synaesthesia – A window into perception, thought
and language. Journal of Consciousness Studies 8: 3–34.
Reay, I.E. 1994. Sound symbolism. In he Encyclopedia of Language and Linguistics, Vol. 8, R.E.
Asher, & J.M. Y Simpson (eds), 4064–4070. Oxford: Pergamon Press.
Sapir, E. 1929. A study in phonetic symbolism. Journal of Experimental Psychology 12(3): 225–
239. DOI: 10.1037/h0070931
Schwartz, C.E., Wright, C.I., Shin, L.M., Kagan, J., Whalen, P.J., McMullin, K.G., et al. 2003.
Diferential amygdalar response to novel versus newly familiar neutral faces: A functional
MRI probe developed for studying inhibited temperament. Biological Psychiatry 53: 854–
862. DOI: 10.1016/S0006-3223(02)01906-6
Spence, C. 2011. Crossmodal correspondences: A tutorial review. Attention, Perception and
Psychophysics 73(4): 971–995. DOI: 10.3758/s13414-010-0073-7
Stevens, J.C. & Marks, L.E. 1965. Cross-modality matching of brightness and loudness. Proceed-
ings of the National Academy of Sciences 54: 407–411. DOI: 10.1073/pnas.54.2.407
Tooby, J. & Cosmides, L. 2008. he evolutionary psychology of the emotions and their relation-
ship to internal regulatory variables. In Handbook of Emotions, 3rd edn, M. Lewis & J.M.
Haviland-Jones (eds), 114–137. New York NY: Guilford Press.
Tsur, R. 2006. Size–sound symbolism revisited. Journal of Pragmatics 38: 905–924.
DOI: 10.1016/j.pragma.2005.12.002
Ultan, R. 1978. Size-sound symbolism. In Universals of Human Language, Vol. 2: Phonology,
J.H. Greenberg, C.A. Ferguson & E.A. Moravcsik (eds), 525–528. Stanford CA: Stanford
University Press.
Walker, P. & Smith, S. 1985. Stroop interference based on the multimodal correlates of haptic
size and auditory pitch. Perception 14: 729–736. DOI: 10.1068/p140729
Weierich, M.R., Wright, C.I., Negreira, A., Dickerson, B.C. & Barrett, L.F. 2010. Novelty as a
dimension in the afective brain. NeuroImage 49: 2871–2878.
DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2009.09.047
Westbury, C. 2005. Implicit sound symbolism in lexical access: Evidence from an interference
task. Brain and Language 93: 10–19. DOI: 10.1016/j.bandl.2004.07.006
Wilson, F.A. & Rolls, E.T. 1993. he efects of stimulus novelty and familiarity on neuronal
activity in the amygdala of monkeys performing recognition memory tasks. Experimental
Brain Research 9: 367–382.
doi 10.1075/ill.14.06usu
© 2015 John Benjamins Publishing Company
What’s in a mimetic?
On the dynamicity of its iconic stem*
Takeshi Usuki and Kimi Akita
Kyoto Sangyo University / Osaka University
his paper explores the fundamental semantic and syntactic properties of
Japanese mimetic lexemes as iconic signs that depict various eventualities by
means of linguistic sound. We argue how the two central features of mimet-
ics – stem-based morphology and dynamicity – restrict their morphosyntactic
and semantic realizations. he discussion on the impossible uses of mimetics,
such as intrinsically static adjectival expressions and object-oriented depictives,
particularly clariies the limits of the traditional root-based analysis of mimetic
morphology and sets the basis for its theoretical treatment.
1. Introduction
In this paper, we delve into the ever under-investigated lexical content of Japanese
mimetics and propose an integrated account of their possible and impossible uses.
Mimetics, which are also known as ideophones, are inherently iconic words that
form a highly productive and creative lexical class in Japanese (Kakehi et al. 1996;
Hamano 1998) and some other languages (Hinton et al. 1994; Voeltz & Kilian-
Hatz 2001; Ibarretxe-Antuñano 2006; Dingemanse 2011). Japanese mimetics
cover a wide range of semantic domains such as sound (e.g., buhibuhi ‘oink-oink’),
motion (e.g., burari ‘strolling’), texture (e.g., kasakasa ‘rustling, dry’), bodily sen-
sation (e.g., zukin ‘one’s head throbbing’), and emotion (e.g., unzari ‘fed up’), and
mainly, but not exclusively, function as (manner) adverbs (Hamano 1998; Tamori
& Schourup 1999).
* We appreciate the constructive comments we received from the audience at the 9th
International Symposium on Iconicity in Language and Literature. We are also grateful to the
two anonymous reviewers for their insightful suggestions. All remaining inadequacies are ours.
his study was supported in part by Grant-in-Aid for Young Scientists (B) (no. 24720179) and
Grant-in-Aid for Scientiic Research (C) (no. 25370425) from Japan Society for the Promotion
of Science.
110 Takeshi Usuki and Kimi Akita
his paper points out two common features underlying the semantic and
syntactic diversity of mimetics: (1) the stem-based, rather than root-based, mor-
phology, which is tightly paired with the aspectual-semantic system of mimetics,
and (2) the fundamentally dynamic nature of mimetics as iconic expressions that
“mimic” referent eventualities acoustically. We present the basis of an integrated
iconic model that builds upon these features, and argue that it straightforwardly
captures various formal and functional phenomena that have been sporadically
reported for mimetics in the literature. We keep the “model” as theory-neutral as
possible for its future application to other phenomena and other languages.
he rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 summarizes the basic
iconic properties of Japanese mimetics that are relevant to the present discussion.
Section 3 outlines the lexical representations of mimetics featuring stem-based
morphology and dynamicity. Section 4 argues for the stem-based morphology of
mimetics in terms of the nature of their derivation. Section 5 presents supportive
evidence for the dynamic nature of mimetics with special attention to what they
cannot mimic.1 Section 6 discusses the “ictive” nature of apparent counterex-
amples to the dynamicity hypothesis. Section 7 concludes the study.
2. Iconic links in Japanese mimetics
We start with a basic description of Japanese mimetics, focusing on their morpho-
syntactic and morphophonological-aspectual systematicity. First, the majority of
mimetics can be used as manner adverbs, and at the most four syntactic categories
are available to one mimetic stem, such as nurunuru in (1). (Hereater, accentua-
tion patterns are indicated only where relevant.)2
(1) a. Unagi-ga núrunuru(-to) subet-ta. (adverbial)
eel-nom mim-quot slip-pst
‘An eel slipped slimily.’
b. Kono unagi-wa núrunuru-su-ru. (verbal)
this eel-top mim-do-npst
‘his eel feels slimy.’
1. Kita (1997, 2008) also discusses what mimetics cannot do, pointing out the absence of
hyponymy and antonymy within the mimetic lexicon (see also Bodomo 2006), as well as that
of mimetics that specify the information about the causer, experiencer, and spatiotemporal
settings. Furthermore, the near absence of transitive mimetic verbs is another issue yet to be
explained (Kageyama 2007; Akita 2009).
2. he abbreviations and symbols used in this paper are as follows: acc = accusative; Af =
aix; C = consonant; conj = conjunctive; cop = copula; dat = dative; gen = genitive; mim =
mimetic; nom = nominative; npst = nonpast; pst = past; Q = coda obstruent (only for mimet-
ics); quot = quotative; top = topic; V = vowel; ′ = accent nucleus.
What’s in a mimetic? 111
c. Kono unagi-wa nurunuru-da. (nominal-adjectival)
this eel-top mim-cop
‘his eel is slimy.’
d. Tawasi-de nurunuru-o tot-ta. (nominal, rare)
scrubbing.brush-by mim-acc remove-pst
‘[I] removed the sliminess by a scrubbing brush.’
As these examples show, each categorial realization of mimetics is marked mor-
phologically and/or prosodically. Reduplicative mimetics are initially accented
in their adverbial and verbal uses, but unaccented in their nominal(-adjectival)
uses (Kindaichi 1978; Tamori 1980). Kageyama (2007:30–31) interprets this as an
instance of iconicity, in which an accent (pitch fall) is linked with the dynamic-
ity of adverbs and verbs and its absence with the staticity of nominal adjectives
and nouns. Moreover, as illustrated in (1a), adverbial mimetics are marked by the
quotative particle -to, which is omissible under certain phonological conditions
(Nasu 2002). Verbal mimetics consist of a mimetic and a dummy verb, mainly su-
‘do’ (Tsujimura 2005; Kageyama 2007), as in (1b). Nominal-adjectival mimetics
are marked by a copula, as in (1c). hese morphophonology-syntax correspon-
dences suggest that mimetics themselves are “precategorial” and underspeciied
with respect to their syntactic and semantic properties (cf. Tsujimura 2005).
Second, it has been widely recognized that, as is true in other languages
(Hinton et al. 1994; Fischer 2011), the morphophonological shapes of mimetics
are iconically associated with their aspectual properties (Izumi 1976; Akita 2009).
As shown in (2), reduplicative mimetics (C1V1C2V2-C1V1C2V2) represent durative
events, whereas “suixal” mimetics (C1V1C2V2-Af) mostly represent punctual
and sometimes telic events. Note that korokoro and koroQ/koron/korori share the
rolling meaning as well as the bimoraic mimetic root koro.
(2) a. Isi-ga korokoro-to korogat-ta. (reduplicative)
stone-nom mim-quot roll-pst
‘A stone rolled continuously.’
b. Isi-ga {koroQ/koron/korori}-to korogat-ta. (suixal)
stone-nom mim-quot roll-pst
‘A stone rolled once.’
hus, iconic associations have been acknowledged for at least two aspects of the
mimetic system of Japanese: the prosodic patterns associated with syntactic cat-
egories and the morphological shapes associated with aspectual features.3 hese
3. he systematic phonosemantics (i.e., phonetic iconicity) of the segments and phonological
features of mimetics have also been described (Hamano 1998). We do not discuss this here,
assuming that it does not make a major grammatical contribution.
112 Takeshi Usuki and Kimi Akita
two sets of iconic correspondences together constitute a limited set of productive
morphophonological templates, such as C1′V1C2V2-C1V1C2V2, which represents
dynamic, durative events (i.e., activity or accomplishment) (Akita 2009).
3. Lexical representations of mimetics
In this section, we propose lexical representations of mimetics that feature stem-
based morphology and dynamicity. As seen in the previous section, mimetic stems
are categorially underspeciied, and their categories are speciied by the morpho-
syntactic context in which they appear. However, the detailed lexical content of
mimetics themselves has rarely been investigated in the literature (for exceptional
explorations in the aspectual semantics of mimetics, see Toratani 1999 and Akita
2009: Chapter 5; cf. Kageyama 2007 for the conceptual semantics of mimetic verbs).
(3a) is our lexical representation of the reduplicative mimetic nurunuru, which
is formally and functionally further speciied by the adverbial (-to-marked), ver-
bal, and nominal(-adjectival) environments, as in (3b), (3c), and (3d), respectively.
Iconic links are indicated by coindices.
(3) a. nurunuru:
Phonology: initially accentedi
Morphology: C1V1C2V2-C1V1C2V2j
Semantics:
Dynamicity: dynamici
Durativity: durativej
Referentiality: ‘slimy’
Category:
b. nurunuru-to ([mim-quot]):
Phonology: initially accentedi
Morphology: C1V1C2V2-C1V1C2V2j
Semantics:
Dynamicity: dynamici
Durativity: durativej
Referentiality: ‘slimily’
Category: Adv
c. nurunuru-su- ([mim-do]):
Phonology: initially accentedi
Morphology: C1V1C2V2-C1V1C2V2j
Semantics:
Dynamicity: dynamici
Durativity: durativej
Referentiality: ‘feel slimy’
Category: V
What’s in a mimetic? 113
d. nurunuru-da ([mim-cop]):
Phonology: unaccentedi
Morphology: C1V1C2V2-C1V1C2V2j
Semantics:
Dynamicity: statici
Durativity: durativej
Referentiality: ‘be slimy’
Category: N(A)
Crucially, we assume that, although mimetic stems are categorially and semanti-
cally not fully determined, they are speciied with respect to prosody and dynamic-
ity, as in (3a). Put diferently, (most) mimetics are assumed to be dynamic in the
lexicon. his dynamicity is paired with the presence of an accent nucleus in the
phonological representation. herefore, on one hand, adverbial and verbal mimet-
ics, which occupy a dominant portion of mimetic uses, are not diferent from
their stem in terms of prosody and aspect ((3a) vs. (3b,c)). On the other hand,
nominal(-adjectival) mimetics do have diferent prosodic and aspectual speciica-
tions from their stems, as in (3d). hus, we argue that the formal and functional
speciications of the copulative construction override the prosodic and aspectual
features of mimetic stems. Some supportive evidence for this argument will be
presented in Section 5.
To recapitulate, the lexical representations of mimetics we posit are stem-
based, rather than root-based (cf. Blevins 2006). In Section 4, we discuss why we
do not take the root-based, derivational view, which has been adopted in some
phonological and morphological studies of mimetics (Nasu 2002; Kadooka 2007).
4. Stem-based morphology of mimetics
he stem basis of mimetic morphology gains support from at least two facts,
which previous studies have recognized but failed to discuss in an integrated fash-
ion. First, as many studies (e.g., Hamano 1998) argue, mimetic roots cannot stand
alone (i.e., without templates) in present-day Japanese (e.g., *nuru (cf. nurunuru
‘slimy’), *doki (cf. dokidoki ‘nervous’)).4 In this sense, mimetic roots are mere theo-
retical constructs that are induced from stems.
Second, stem-based morphology is consistent with the limited aspectual-
ity of lexical items that are presumably derived from mimetics (Hamano 1998;
4. A few old-fashioned mimetic stems are identical to their roots (e.g., biku ‘budging’, hata
‘noticing suddenly’, soyo ‘breezing’). Some demimeticized nouns also lack additional elements
(e.g., boro ‘rag’ (< boroboro ‘ragged’), goro ‘grounder’ (< gorogoro ‘a heavy object rolling’)).
114 Takeshi Usuki and Kimi Akita
Sugahara & Hamano, this volume). Mimetic roots of all these words are also
found in reduplicative stems, suggesting that they are derived from reduplica-
tive mimetic stems by truncation (cf. Tamori 1993), as shown in (4) taken from
Hamano (1998:55–61) (she does not discuss the derivational relationship between
these verbs and reduplicatives). Note, in contrast, that some of these roots are not
found in non-reduplicative stems (e.g., *iziQ/*izin/*iziri).
(4) a. Activity [durative, atelic, dynamic]:
gira-tuk- ‘glare’ (< giragira ‘glaring’)
kira-mek- ‘glimmer’ (< kirakira ‘glimmering’)
izi-ke- ‘become timid’ (< iziizi ‘timid’)
yur-e- ‘sway’ (< yurayura ‘swaying’)
koro-gar- ‘roll’ (< korokoro ‘rolling’)
yura-g- ‘sway’ (< yurayura ‘swaying’)
hikar- ‘shine’ (< pikapika ‘lashing’)
b. Accomplishment [durative, telic, dynamic]:
kuru-m- ‘roll up’ (< kurukuru ‘rolling’)
kuta-bar- ‘become exhausted’ (< kutakuta ‘exhausted’)
c. State [durative, atelic, static]:
noro- ‘sluggish’ (< noronoro ‘sluggish’)
Importantly, all these predicates are durative (i.e., activity, accomplishment, or
state) (see Van Valin 2005 for a recent explication of aspectual types of predi-
cates). In order for these mimetic predicates to obtain durative semantics, they
have to start at the stem level, where the reduplicative template is linked with
durativity. his is why all these derivative predicates have their reduplicative
counterparts.5
he present data reinforce the stem-based view of mimetic morphology. A
root-based view would not provide a straightforward account for them. It would
have to resort to mimetic roots, which are hypothetical entities, and end up con-
cluding that the uniform aspectuality of derived mimetic predicates is a mere
coincidence.
5. he present discussion begs the question of why only durative predicates are derived. In
this respect, a close investigation into unattested punctual predicates, such as *suto-tuk- ‘fall lat’
(< suton ‘thumping’), which do not have their reduplicative counterparts (e.g., *sutosuto), would
be needed.
What’s in a mimetic? 115
5. Dynamicity of mimetic stems: heir limits and potentials
In this section, we argue for the dynamic nature of mimetic stems on the basis of
two sets of data. Section 5.1 cites a quantitative dataset that shows the restricted
distribution of unaccented-static reduplicatives vis-à-vis accented-dynamic
ones. Section 5.2 points out the utter absence of mimetics for genuinely static
eventualities.
5.1 Accentuation of reduplicative mimetics
As we summarized in Section 2, reduplicative mimetics exhibit systematic cate-
gory-accentuation correspondences. Dynamic categories are linked with accented
forms, whereas static categories are linked with unaccented forms. he two accen-
tuation patterns are not available to each reduplicative mimetic. Some reduplica-
tives are always accented (e.g., (5)), others allow both accented and unaccented
patterns (e.g., (6)), and a few are limited to the unaccented pattern (e.g., (7)).
(5) a. Kami-o tyókityoki-to kit-ta. (accented)
paper-acc mim-quot cut-pst
‘[I] cut the paper snip-snip.’
b. *Kono kami-wa tyokityoki-da. (unaccented)
this paper-top mim-cop
‘his paper is snippy.’
(6) a. Beekon-o kárikari-to tabe-ta. (accented)
bacon-acc mim-quot eat-pst
‘[I] ate the bacon with a crunching sound.’
b. Kono beekon-wa karikari-da. (unaccented)
this bacon-top mim-cop
‘his bacon is crunchy.’
(7) a. *Ai-wa sono aidoru-ni méromero-to akogare-ta. (accented)
Ai-top that idol-dat mim-quot adore-pst
‘Ai adored the idol too much.’
b. Ai-wa sono aidoru-ni meromero-da. (unaccented)
Ai-top that idol-dat mim-cop
‘Ai is too fond of the idol.’
Using a collection of 502 reduplicative mimetics mainly taken from Kakehi et
al. (1996), Akita (2009:165) quantitatively shows that while 87.69% (171) of the
unaccented reduplicatives (195) have accented counterparts, only 35.77% (171) of
the accented reduplicatives (478) have unaccented counterparts (see also Hamano
116 Takeshi Usuki and Kimi Akita
1998:12). his distribution suggests the secondary status of unaccented reduplica-
tives, which are derived from their accented counterparts.
Moreover, some unaccented-only reduplicatives, such as matimati ‘diverse’
and metyametya ‘incoherent’, have a non-mimetic lavor. hese reduplicatives even
behave as adjectives, exceptionally favoring the adjectival copula -na in a noun
modiication construction (e.g., {matimati/metyametya}-{na/?no} iken ‘{diverse/
incoherent} opinions’) (see Uehara 1998). Note that nominal(-adjectival) mimet-
ics are normally followed by the genitive -no in noun modiication (e.g., {karikari/
katikati}-{?na/no} beekon ‘{crunchy/stone-hard} bacon’) (see Section 5.2).
One possible interpretation of these facts is that most reduplicative mimetics
are lexically registered as accented and dynamic, and many of them are “deac-
cented” and “staticized” by a copulative construction, whereas a few exceptional
unaccented-static reduplicatives are registered as such, as are non-mimetic adjec-
tives (cf. Akita 2009). his interpretation is consistent with the proposed dynamic-
ity of mimetics.
5.2 Absence of intrinsically static mimetics
he dynamicity of mimetics is further reinforced by the absence or rarity of intrin-
sically static items and constructions in mimetics. First, as already noted by pre-
vous studies, such as Izumi (1976) and Kindaichi (1978), Japanese has no single
mimetic for smell and taste. Apparent exceptions, such as punpun ‘reeking’, tun
‘stinging the nose’, mattari ‘smooth and rich’, and piripiri ‘pungent’, are thought to
refer to cutaneous sensation (Yamanashi 1988/2007). Japanese also lacks mimet-
ics for color and temperature. hese semantic ields are covered by non-mimetic
reduplicatives (e.g., aoao ‘very blue’ (< ao ‘blue’), akaaka ‘very red’ (< aka ‘red’),
atuatu ‘piping hot’ (< atu- ‘hot’)) and synesthetic uses of mimetics (e.g., kinkin
‘extremely refrigerated (cold enough to make a tinkling sound if one hits on it)’
< ‘tinkling’) (Section 6). Assuming that all these are typical object properties, the
absence of mimetics representing them suggests their inability to imitate pure state
due to their dynamicity.6
6. Mimetics of these semantic types are sporadically reported in other languages (e.g., irundu
‘smelling good’ (Tamil; Abbi 1994:16), llıı llıı ‘sweet’ (Didinga; de Jong 2001:126), kpìnàkpìnà
‘dark/black’ (Siwu; Dingemanse 2011:197)). However, this by no means directly rejects our
dynamicity hypothesis. In fact, many instances that are described as color mimetics appear to be
intensiiers (e.g., hak1 maa1 maa1 (black mim mim) ‘so dark’ (Cantonese; Bodomo 2006:211)).
Secondary expressions like the Japanese examples here may also be common in those languages.
See Dingemanse (2012) for a crosslinguistic overview of the semantic coverage of mimetics.
What’s in a mimetic? 117
Second, few adjectives are derived from mimetics. Japanese has two types of
adjectives, -i-marked (-i = npst) and -na-marked (-na = cop), neither of which
is productive in mimetics. Exceptional instances of demimeticized -i-adjectives
include boro(-i) ‘(be) ragged’ (< boroboro ‘ragged’) and noro(-i) ‘(be) sluggish’
(< noronoro ‘sluggish’).7 As we mentioned in Section 5.1, although -na-marking
is not entirely impossible in informal speech, it typically gives way to genitive
marking (e.g., karikari-{?na/no} beekon ‘crunchy bacon’). As adjectives describe
properties, the low compatibility of mimetics with the adjectival category is clearly
ascribed to their dynamicity orientation.
hird, in Japanese, NP-de can describe the property of either the subject refer-
ent or the object referent, called a “depictive” predicate (Koizumi 1994:27). For
instance, the depictive predicate hadaka-de ‘naked’ in (8a) depicts the property of
Taro, who read a book, whereas nama-de ‘raw’ in (8b) depicts that of the bonito
eaten by Taro.
(8) a. Taroo-ga hadaka-de hon-o yon-da.
Taro-nom naked-cop book-acc read-pst
‘Taro read a book naked.’
b. Taroo-ga katuo-o nama-de tabe-ta.
Taro-nom bonito-acc raw-cop eat-pst
‘Taro ate the bonito raw.’ (Koizumi 1994:27)
In contrast, the depictive use of stative (nominal-adjectival) mimetics is limited.
As Sells (2013) notes, they cannot depict object referents (cf. Shibagaki 2013:167–
168). Compare (9b) with the slightly colloquial but acceptable subject-oriented
depictive in (9a).
(9) a. Taroo-ga ukiuki-de hon-o yon-da.
Taro-nom mim-cop book-acc read-pst
lit. ‘Taro read a book buoyant.’
b. *Taroo-ga katuo-o pitipiti-de tabe-ta.
Taro-nom bonito-acc mim-cop eat-pst
‘Taro ate the bonito fresh.’
7. An anonymous reviewer suggested adding the demimeticized adjective tyara(-i) ‘showy,
lashy’ (< tyaratyara ‘showy, lashy’) to the exception list. We would classify this adjec-
tive as another type of coinage, which is peculiar to highly colloquial discourse and is not
unique to mimetics (Akita 2014). Other examples of this type of word formation include
ero(-i) ‘erotic’ (< ero(tikku) ‘erotic’), mabu(-i) ‘attractive’ (< mabu ‘real’), mendo(-i) ‘tiresome’
(< mendokusa(-i) ‘tiresome’), and nau(-i) ‘trendy’ (< nau ‘now’).
118 Takeshi Usuki and Kimi Akita
he contrast between (9a) and (9b) appears to come from the types of properties
that are expressible by the two types of depictives. On one hand, subject-oriented
depictives depict the agent’s properties, such as the reader’s psychological state
in (9a). he agent’s properties are strongly associated with or responsible for the
dynamic event denoted by the verb. On the other hand, object-oriented depic-
tives can, in principle, only depict the purely static property of a non-sentient
object (Miyata 2001:151). herefore, the low acceptability of the object-oriented
depictive pitipiti-de ‘fresh’ in (9b) suggests that the non-static element involved in
the encyclopedic semantics of the mimetic (e.g., the image of a jumping bonito)
clashes with the semantic requirement of the construction.8,9
he absence of intrinsically static mimetic items and constructions discussed
in this section gives additional support to our argument that mimetic stems are
dynamic in nature. he dynamicity of mimetics seems to stem from the semiotic
fact that they imitate eventualities, either dynamic or static, by means of linguistic
sound, which is dynamic in terms of both articulation and acoustics.
6. Fictivity: Apparent counterexamples
In our dynamicity account of mimetic stems in the previous section, the static
meaning of unaccented reduplicatives was attributed to the copulative construc-
tion or some individual reduplicatives. In this section, we discuss speciically
how the static meaning of this type is obtained from the fundamentally dynamic
semantics of mimetics, proposing two types of “ictivity” – metonymy and synes-
thetic metaphor – that reside in the extensive range of eventualities depicted by
mimetics (see Talmy 1996 for various types of ictivity).
8. A scale-based account, which is not incompatible with the dynamicity account here, may be
possible for the incompatibility of mimetics with object-oriented depictives. In general, object-
oriented depictives specify the state of the object among a set of possibilities on the scale set by
the verb and the object (Katsuya Fujikawa, personal communication; cf. Aarts 1992). For example,
nama-de ‘raw’ in (8b) singles out the uncooked state for the bonito, excluding other types of bonito
dishes, such as grilled bonito. Mimetics can be assumed underspeciied with respect to the scale
structure, relecting their semantic complexity. he infelicity of object-oriented mimetic depictives
appears to come from this underspeciicity, which prevents a particular state from being picked
up. A further pursuit of this supplementary account is far beyond the scope of this paper.
9. Some languages are reported to have a productive system of mimetic depictives (Ameka
2005; Amha & Dimmendaal 2005). Future research is hoped to take a closer look at the lexical
content/status of mimetics in these languages.
What’s in a mimetic? 119
First, many static mimetics, including “deaccented” reduplicatives (e.g., kari-
kari ‘crunchy’ in (6b)), involve a ictive type of metonymy. In this type of semantic
extension, mimetics represent a particular state by referring to the sound that is
associated with it. As Mikami (2006) argues, this association goes either toward
the past, as in (10a), or toward the future, as in (10b).
(10) a. Kodomotati-wa minna ue-te garigari-ni yase, … (vestigial)
children-top all starve-conj mim-cop get.thin
‘All the children starved and got extremely thin…’
(Mikami 2006:209)
b. … sentakumono-ga katikati-ni koot-te-simat-ta. (prospective)
laundry-nom mim-cop freeze-conj-end.up-pst
‘… the laundry has frozen solid.’
(Mikami 2006:211–212)
In (10a), the skinniness of the children is expressed as if it were a result of their
bodies being scratched noisily. In (10b), the solid state of the laundry is expressed
by the clicking sound that would be made if one hits on it. his productive type of
ictivity allows the otherwise dynamic mimetics to cover static meanings.
Garigari ‘extremely thin’ and katikati ‘solid’ in (10) are analyzed as “extended”
uses, which are distinct from their onomatopoeic uses (‘scratching noisily’ and
‘clinking’, respectively). However, ictive cognition goes beyond polysemous
mimetics (Weilun Yu, personal communication). For example, as an anonymous
reviewer pointed out, the mimetic den ‘ostentatious’ can depict the ostentatious
state of an object, as illustrated in (11a). his mimetic can also be used as a manner
adverb modifying an event verb, as in (11b).
(11) a. Heya-no mannaka-ni tukue-ga den-to
room-gen center-dat desk-nom mim-quot
oi-te ar-u.
put-conj be-npst
‘A desk is placed ostentatiously in the center of the room.’
b. Heya-no mannaka-ni tukue-o den-to oi-ta.
room-gen center-dat desk-acc mim-quot put-pst
‘[I] placed a desk ostentatiously in the center of the room.’
Unlike garigari and katikati above, this mimetic may not be analyzed as polyse-
mous. (11a) is a vestigial sentence even without the mimetic, as it is not necessary
that the speaker saw someone place the desk in the center of the room. herefore,
one can analyze the mimetic itself as specifying the (dynamic) manner of placing
in both (11a) and (11b).
120 Takeshi Usuki and Kimi Akita
Second, even static mimetics without their dynamic counterparts are assumed
to possess a ictive dynamic basis as iconic expressions that “mimic” eventualities
by linguistic sound. For example, the unaccented-only reduplicative meromero ‘too
fond’ in (7) above evokes the metaphorical image in which one is enchanted as if
melting. he evocation of this ictive melting event is facilitated by the synesthetic
(or cross-modal) sound symbolism of /mero/ (Hinton et al. 1994; Ahlner & Zlatev
2010) as well as the reduplicative-durative template.
Likewise, as shown by the unacceptability of (12a), the mimetic karaQ ‘nice
and crisp’ is not an explicit sound expression. However, this state mimetic rep-
resents the crispness by (synesthetically) referring to the endpoint of the deep-
frying event on the basis of the suixal template (C1V1C2V2-Af), which is linked
with the punctual/telic aspect (Section 2). In this regard, (12b) can be analyzed
as involving a “vestigial” type of ictive cognition in which the crisp state is con-
ceptualized as a product of the completion of cooking that is accompanied by a
hypothetical crisping sound (cf. Usuki & Akita 2013).
(12) a. *Tenpura-o karaQ-to kazit-ta.
tempura-acc mim-quot bite-pst
‘[I] bit the tempura with a crisping sound.’
b. Tenpura-o karaQ-to age-ta.
tempura-acc mim-quot deep.fry-pst
‘[I] deep-fried the tempura nice and crisp.’
hus, our dynamicity account even applies to seemingly static mimetic instances
with the help of the notion of ictivity. Underlying this generalization is the very
nature of mimetics as iconic expressions that depict eventualities by means of
dynamic sound.10
7. Conclusion
In this paper, we have argued that, despite their “precategorial” status, mimet-
ics are lexically speciied as dynamic, and the analytical unit for them should be
the aspectually burdened stem, rather than the theoretically induced root. Future
investigations are hoped to place the current discussion in speciic theoretical
contexts, such as Distributed Morphology (Marantz 2007; cf. Tada 2010) and
10. he interpretive (non-irsthand) nature of the “iconicity” in these cases, both sound symbol-
ism and template-aspect correspondence, suggests the relevance of the primary vs. secondary/
coerced distinction of iconicity (Ahlner & Zlatev 2010; Dingemanse 2011).
What’s in a mimetic? 121
Construction Grammar (Fillmore & Kay 1995; Boas & Sag 2012). Such inves-
tigations will beneit from a crosslinguistic comparison of the lexical content of
mimetics and its relationship to particular morphosyntactic constructions.
References
Aarts, B. 1992. Small Clauses in English: he Nonverbal Types [Topics in English Linguistics 8].
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. DOI: 10.1515/9783110861457
Abbi, A. 1994. Semantic Universals in Indian Languages. Shimla: Indian Institute of Advanced
Study.
Ahlner, F. & Jordan, Z. 2010. Cross-modal iconicity: A cognitive semiotic approach to sound
symbolism. Sign Systems Studies 38(1–4): 298–348.
Akita, K. 2009. A Grammar of Sound-Symbolic Words in Japanese: heoretical Approaches to
Iconic and Lexical Properties of Mimetics. PhD dissertation, Kobe University.
Akita, K. 2014. Register-speciic morphophonological constructions in Japanese. In Proceedings
of the 38th Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Linguistics Society, 3–18. Berkeley CA: Berkeley
Linguistics Society.
Ameka, F.K. 2005. Forms of secondary predication in serializing languages: On depictives in
Ewe. In Secondary Predication and Adverbial Modiication: he Typology of Depictives, N.P.
Himmelmann & E.F. Schultze-Berndt (eds), 335–378. Oxford: OUP.
Amha, A. & Dimmendaal, G.J. 2005. Secondary predicates and adverbials in Nilotic and
Omotic: A typological comparison. In Secondary Predication and Adverbial Modiication:
he Typology of Depictives, N.P. Himmelmann & E.F. Schultze-Berndt (eds), 299–321.
Oxford: OUP. DOI: 10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199272266.003.0009
Blevins, J.P. 2006. Word-based morphology. Journal of Linguistics 42(3): 531–573.
DOI: 10.1017/S0022226706004191
Boas, H.C. & Sag, I.A. 2012. Sign-Based Construction Grammar [CSLI Lecture Notes 193].
Stanford CA: CSLI.
Bodomo, A.B. 2006. he structure of ideophones in African and Asian languages: he case
of Dagaare and Cantonese. In Selected Proceedings of the 35th Annual Conference on
African Linguistics: African Languages and Linguistics in Broad Perspectives, J. Mugane,
J.P. Hutchison & D.A. Worman (eds), 203–213. Somerville MA: Cascadilla Proceedings
Project.
de Jong, N. 2001. he ideophone in Didinga. In Voeltz & Kilian-Hatz (eds), 121–138.
Dingemanse, M. 2011. he Meaning and Use of Ideophones in Siwu. PhD dissertation, Max
Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, Radboud University Nijmegen.
Dingemanse, M. 2012. Advances in the cross-linguistic study of ideophones. Language and
Linguistics Compass 6(10): 654–672. DOI: 10.1002/lnc3.361
Fillmore, C.J. & Kay, P. 1995. Construction Grammar coursebook. Ms, University of California
at Berkeley.
Fischer, O. 2011. Cognitive iconic grounding of reduplication in language. In Semblance
and Signiication [Iconicity in Language and Literature 10], P. Michelucci, O. Fischer &
C. Ljungberg (eds), 55–81. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/ill.10.04is
122 Takeshi Usuki and Kimi Akita
Hamano, S. 1998. he Sound-Symbolic System of Japanese [Studies in Japanese Linguistics 10].
Stanford CA: CSLI.
Hinton, L., Nichols, J. & Ohala, J.J. (eds). 1994. Sound Symbolism. Cambridge: CUP.
Ibarretxe-Antuñano, I. 2006. Sound Symbolism and Motion in Basque [Lincom Studies in Basque
Linguistics 06]. Munich: Lincom.
Izumi, K. 1976. Giseigo/gitaigo-no tokusitu [Some characteristics of mimetics]. In Nihongo-
no goi-to hyoogen [Japanese vocabulary and expressions]. [Nihongo Koza (4) (Lecture on
Japanese (4))], T. Suzuki (ed.), 105–151. Tokyo: Taishukan.
Kadooka, K. 2007. Nihongo-onomatope-goi-ni okeru keitai-teki/on’in-teki-taikeisei-ni tuite (On
the morphological and phonological systematicity of the onomatopoeic vocabulary of Japa-
nese). Tokyo: Kurosio.
Kageyama, T. 2007. Explorations in the conceptual semantics of mimetic verbs. In Current Issues
in the History and Structure of Japanese, B. Frellesvig, M. Shibatani & J.C. Smith (eds),
27–82. Tokyo: Kurosio.
Kakehi, H., Tamori, I. & Schourup, L. 1996. Dictionary of Iconic Expressions in Japanese [Trends in
Linguistics Documentation 12]. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. DOI: 10.1515/9783110809046
Kindaichi, H. 1978. Giongo/gitaigo gaisetu (An overview of mimetics). In Giongo/gitaigo-ziten
(A dictionary of mimetics) [Kadokawa Syo-Ziten 12 (Kadokawa concise dictionary 12)],
T. Asano (ed.), 3–25. Tokyo: Kadokawa.
Kita, S. 1997. Two-dimensional semantic analysis of Japanese mimetics. Linguistics 35(2): 379–
415. DOI: 10.1515/ling.1997.35.2.379
Kita, S. 2008. World-view of protolanguage speakers as inferred from semantics of sound sym-
bolic words: A case of Japanese mimetics. In he Origins of Language: Unraveling Evolution-
ary Forces, N. Masataka (ed.), 25–38. Tokyo: Springer.
Koizumi, M. 1994. Secondary predicates. Journal of East Asian Linguistics 3(1): 25–79.
DOI: 10.1007/BF01733149
Marantz, A. 2007. Phases and words. In Phases in the heory of Grammar, S.H. Choe (ed.), 191–
222. Seoul: Dong-In. <https://iles.nyu.edu/ma988/public/Phase_in_Words_Final.pdf>
Mikami, K. 2006. Nihongo-no giongo/gitaigo-ni okeru imi-no kakutyoo: konseki-teki-ninti/
yoki-teki-ninti-no kanten-kara (he semantic extension of Japanese mimetics: From the
perspective of vestigial and prospective cognition). Nihongo Nihonbungaku kenkyu (Studies
on Japanese Language and Literature) 57: 199–217.
Miyata, A. 2001. Byoosya-koobun-no seiritu-zyooken: Ninti-ron-teki-siten-kara (Constraints
on the depictive construction: From a cognitive point of view). Proceedings of the First
Annual Meeting of the Japanese Cognitive Linguistics Association, 143–153.
Nasu, A. 2002. Nihongo-onomatope-no gokeisei-to inritu-koozoo (he word formation and pro-
sodic structure of Japanese onomatopoeia). PhD dissertation, University of Tsukuba.
Sells, P. 2013. Overview: he grammar of mimetics. Introductory remarks of the Grammar of
Mimetics workshop, SOAS, University of London, 10 May 2013.
Shibagaki, R. 2013. Analysing Secondary Predication in East Asian Languages. Cambridge:
Cambridge Scholars Publishing.
Tada, H. 2010. Gitaigo-doosi-ni okeru <tikaku/zokusei>-kootai-no tokuisei-ni tuite (On the
peculiarity of the <perceptual/attributive> alternation in mimetic verbs). Paper presented
at the Eighth Fukuoka University Linguistics Colloquium, Fukuoka University.
What’s in a mimetic? 123
Talmy, L. 1996. Fictive motion in language and ‘ception’. In Language and Space [Language,
Speech, and Communication 2], P. Bloom, M.A. Peterson, L. Nadel & M.F. Garrett (eds),
211–276. Cambridge MA: he MIT Press.
Tamori, I. 1980. Cooccurrence restrictions on onomatopoeic adverbs and particles. Papers in
Japanese Linguistics 7: 151–171.
Tamori, I. 1993. Nihongo-onomatope-no toogo-hantyuu (Syntactic categories of Japanese ono-
matopoeia). In Onomatopia: gion-/gitaigo-no rakuen (Onomatopia: A utopia of mimetics),
H. Kakehi & I. Tamori (eds), 17–75. Tokyo: Keiso Shobo.
Tamori, I. & Schourup, L. 1999. Onomatope: Keitai-to imi (Onomatopoeia: Form and meaning)
[Niti-ei-taisyoo-kenkyuu siriizu (A series of comparative studies of Japanese and English) 6].
Tokyo: Kurosio.
Toratani, K. 1999. Aspectual matching and mimetics in Japanese. Proceedings of the Twenty-
Eighth Western Conference on Linguistics 11: 495–507.
Tsujimura, N. 2005. A constructional approach to mimetic verbs. In Grammatical Constructions:
Back to the Roots [Constructional Approaches to Language 4], M. Fried & H.C. Boas (eds),
137–154. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/cal.4.09tsu
Uehara, S. 1998. Syntactic Categories in Japanese: A Cognitive and Typological Introduction [Stud-
ies in Japanese Linguistics 9]. Tokyo: Kurosio.
Usuki, T. & Akita, K. 2013. Fiction in an encyclopedia: A Generative Lexicon approach to
ictive mimetic resultatives in Japanese. In Gengogaku-kara-no tyooboo 2013: Hukuoka-
gengo-gakkai 40-syuunen-kinen-ronbunsyuu (he view from linguistics: Papers from the
40th anniversary of Fukuoka Linguistic Circle), Fukuoka Linguistic Circle (ed.), 308–321.
Fukuoka: Kyushu University Press.
Van Valin Jr., R.D. 2005. Exploring the Syntax-Semantics Interface. Cambridge: CUP.
DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511610578
Voeltz, F.K.E. & Kilian-Hatz, C. (eds). 2001. Ideophones [Typological Studies in Language 44].
Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/tsl.44
Yamanashi, M. 1988/2007. Hiyu-to rikai (Figure of speech and understanding) [Korekusyon
Nintikagaku (Cognitive Science Collection) 5]. Tokyo: Tokyo University Press.
doi 10.1075/ill.14.07tor
© 2015 John Benjamins Publishing Company
Iconicity in the syntax and lexical semantics
of sound-symbolic words in Japanese*
Kiyoko Toratani
York University
his study ofers a response to Akita (2013b) who proposes a relation between
the lexical semantics of sound-symbolic words and their realizations in a
syntactic structure, drawing on a universal lexical hierarchy termed the Lexical
Iconicity Hierarchy (LIH). his study examines Akita’s proposal drawing on
data from Japanese mimetics. It suggests the LIH-based proposal may be dif-
icult to maintain in its current format on the basis of (i) a frequency count
of mimetics entered in a mid-sized mimetic dictionary and (ii) the syntactic
characteristics of phonomimes (e.g., bukubuku ‘bubbling’), working within the
framework of Role and Reference Grammar.
1. Introduction
Some languages abound in sound symbolic words (SSWs) (Voeltz & Kilian-Hatz
2001), called ‘ideophones’ for languages in Africa, ‘expressives’ for languages
in Austronesia and South and Southeast Asia, and ‘mimetics’ for Japanese and
Korean. Crosslinguistically, SSWs were neglected until recently (Akita 2005–
2010b, 2013c) when critical attention focused on their unique as well as common
characteristics (Kita 1997; Dingemanse 2011; Feist 2013, among many). Even so,
the iconicity involved in their syntax and lexical semantics has yet to receive suf-
icient attention.
A notable exception is Akita (2013b), whose insightful study attempts to
uncover the relationship between the iconicity of SSWs and their realizations in
* his paper beneited greatly from helpful comments from the participants of the 9th
International Symposium on Iconicity in Language and Literature held in May 2013, at Rikkyo
University, Tokyo, especially Kimi Akita and Ryoko Uno. I am grateful to Masako Hiraga and
Kazuko Shinohara for their kind guidance. hanks also go to Elizabeth hompson for her edi-
torial suggestions. he remaining errors, omissions and shortcomings are, of course, solely my
responsibility.
126 Kiyoko Toratani
a syntactic structure. he study’s “crosslinguistic generalization for the syntax of
SSWs” concludes the following (Akita 2013b:340):
(1) SSWs with higher iconicity tend to be realized outside the head position of a
main clause (i.e., argument, adjunct, interjection), whereas those with lower
iconicity tend to be realized in the head of a main clause (i.e., predicate).
Briely, (1) states that their iconicity afects where SSWs can occur within the
clause structure.
his study evaluates (1), drawing on data from Japanese mimetics. It argues
that the lexical content of mimetics is not directly relevant to the determination of
their syntactic positions within the clause structure. It proceeds as follows. First, it
ofers preliminary information about (1) (Section 2). hen, it argues its case on the
basis of (a) a frequency count of mimetics entered in a mid-sized mimetic diction-
ary (Atoda & Hoshino 1995; A&H henceforth) (Section 3) and (b) the syntactic
characteristics of ‘phonomimes’ (e.g., bukubuku ‘bubbling sound’), working within
the framework of Role and Reference Grammar (Van Valin & LaPolla 1997; Van
Valin 2005) (Section 4). Lastly, it ofers some concluding remarks (Section 5).1
2. Preliminary
his section interprets and paraphrases (1) as it is rather complex. Before doing so,
however, one point must be addressed. Namely, (1) presupposes the existence of a
universal lexical hierarchy of SSWs termed the Lexical Iconicity Hierarchy (LIH),
shown in (2) (Akita 2013b:340).
(2) he lexical iconicity hierarchy:
animal mimicry > innovative (e.g., kaboooooom) > voice-phon(omimic) (e.g.,
bowwow) > noise-phon(omimic) (e.g., slam) > phen(omimic) (e.g., zigzag) >
psych(omimic) (e.g., hoQ ‘relieved’ (Japanese)) > non-SSWs (e.g., tree).2
he LIH contains seven elements which difer in their degree of ‘lexical iconicity’:
i.e., to what extent the form (signiier) resembles meaning (signiied) of a word
1. A word on translation in English is in order. he translations of the mimetics are intended
to show a coarse meaning, and the lexical categories which can be expected from the English
translation may not necessarily correspond to how the mimetic can be used in terms of the lexi-
cal category of the mimetic: for instance, in the case of karan, since it represents a clear sound of
metal, it is glossed as ‘a clang’. However, this does not mean it is a noun. Karan is typically used
as an adverb when it occurs within a sentence.
2. “/Q/” in hoQ ‘relieved’ “stands for the irst half of a geminate cluster” (Hamano 1998:2).
Iconicity in the syntax and lexical semantics of sound-symbolic words 127
(Akita 2013b:332). he LIH plays an important role in interpreting (1) as it speci-
ies which SSWs are considered higher or lower in iconicity.
According to the LIH, the form-meaning relationship is most iconic at the
high end of the hierarchy (‘animal mimicry’) and least iconic at the low end (‘non-
SSWs’). Stated diferently, the form of ‘animal mimicry’ is a mirror of the ani-
mal cry in real life; standing next to it at the high end, the form of ‘innovative’,
coined for one occasion, such as kaboooooom, is almost a mirror of the real sound;
meanwhile, at the low end, the form of a ‘non-SSW’ word such as tree bears no
resemblance at all to its denotation, a woody perennial plant. he middle sec-
tion of the hierarchy contains three main forms: phonomimes, phenomimes and
psychomimes (Martin 1975; Shibatani 1990). Phonomimes refer to onomatopoe-
ias or those that denote a sound such as karan ‘a clang’ or gobogobo ‘gurgling’.
Phenomimes denote a manner or a condition perceived mainly through vision
and tactility such as noronoro ‘moving slowly’ or netineti ‘stickily’. Psychomimes
refer to expressions that convey internal experiences such as kuyokuyo ‘worry-
ingly’ or pun (to) ‘furious’ and bodily sensation such as zukizuki ‘throbbing’ or
mukamuka ‘feeling nauseous’ (Akita 2010). As far as the iconicity of these three
main types is concerned, the LIH indicates that phonomimes retain a more or less
tight link between form and meaning (e.g., karan ‘a clang’), whereas such linkage
becomes less apparent in the case of a psychomime such as kuyokuyo ‘worryingly’.
Moving now to the content of (1), the irst important point to note is that the
clause structure of a sentence is divided into two contrasting domains: “in the
head of a main clause (i.e., predicate)” and “outside the head position of a main
clause (i.e., argument, adjunct, interjection)”. he question that arises is to which
syntactic representations (1) refers, as Akita (2013b) does not specify the syntac-
tic framework he uses. However, considering that (1) is built on his earlier work
(Akita 2009), which draws on concepts from Van Valin and LaPolla (1997) (see
Akita 2009:88), it seems reasonable to assume a Role and Reference Grammar
(RRG) version of syntactic representations.
For readers who are not familiar with RRG’s syntactic representation, called
‘the layered structure of the clause’, it is presented in Figure 1.
In RRG, there are three layers of syntactic unit: the nucleus (NUC), core,
and clause. he innermost layer of the clause, the nucleus, contains the predicate
(PRED), which is typically a verb or an adjective but can be any other lexical cat-
egory element. he core includes the nucleus and the arguments of the predicate.
he outermost layer, the clause, contains core and periphery, which “subsumes
non-arguments of the predicate” (Van Valin 2005:4).3
3. In RRG, the term ‘periphery’ refers to part of a constituent. It does not necessarily mean that
an element within the periphery occurs at the ‘margin’ of the sentence.
128 Kiyoko Toratani
To be compatible with RRG’s terminology, in this study, the phrases “the head
position of a main clause” and “the head of a main clause” are changed to “the
predicating nucleus” (marked by the dotted line in Figure 1) since “a clause [is
headed] by a predicating nucleus” (Van Valin & LaPolla 1997:68). Further, for
ease of exposition, the original complex sentence is separated into two simple
sentences. hese yield (3):
(3) a. SSWs with higher iconicity tend to be realized outside the predicating
nucleus.
b. SSWs with lower iconicity tend to be realized in the predicating nucleus.
he next question is which elements can appear within or outside the predi-
cating nucleus. (3b) predicts that psychomimes will occur in the predicating
nucleus as they are lower in iconicity, whereas animal mimicry, innovative, and
possibly phonomimes will appear outside the predicating nucleus as they are
higher in iconicity. If the predictions are correct, many psychomimes should be
realized as verbs or adjectives since these are the typical constituting elements
of the predicating nucleus, but phonomimes should not as they are higher in
iconicity. he next section uses dictionary entries to determine the validity of
these arguments.
NP NP
NUC
PRED
CLAUSE
CORE
V
SENTENCE
PP
PP
PERIPHERY
Sandy presented the flowers to Chris at the party
Figure 1. Layered structure of the clause (Van Valin 2005:140)
Iconicity in the syntax and lexical semantics of sound-symbolic words 129
3. Frequency count
For the study, a mid-size mimetic dictionary (A&H 1995) was consulted to exam-
ine the relationship between the lexical content of mimetics and their lexical cat-
egory (e.g., verb). A frequency count was also conducted. he discussion focuses
on three forms: phonomimes, phenomimes and psychomimes, excluding ‘animal
mimicry’ and ‘innovative’, which are not part of the entries of the dictionary.
A&H (1995) lists 1,129 senses of mimetics that can be categorized as phono-
mimes, phenomimes, or psychomimes.4 Each entry contains the meaning, the
usage, and examples, as exempliied in (4), showing the entry for sense 1 of the
mimetic karikari (A&H 1995:68):5
(4) Entry: karikari (sense 1) [kàrikari]
Meaning: a continuous sound emitted when a dry and hard object is
continuously bitten or scraped
Usage: (sound) <mono ‘thing’> o ‘acc’ <mono ‘thing’> de ‘inst’ … (to)
kamu ‘bite’, kezuru ‘scrape’, hikkaku ‘scratch’.6
Example: Ani-wa … yuki-o sutokku-de karikari-to
brother-top snow-acc stick-by mimetic-p
kaki-otosi-te-kure-ta.
scrape-drop-l-kindly-past
‘My brother kindly scraped the snow of using the ski stick
scrape-scrape.’
For each entry denoting a particular sense of a word, the semantic type of the
mimetic was recorded on the basis of the semantic criteria using the meaning
description in the entry: for example, karikari (sense 1) was judged a phonomime
as it expresses a ‘continuous sound’.
Examples of phonomimes, phenomimes, and psychomimes are given in (5).
4. here are 1,332 senses of mimetics listed in total. he diference is made up by the mimetics
from other categories, such as quanta (kakkiri ‘exactly’, gabat ‘a lot’, sukkari ‘thoroughly’) and a
grammaticalized item such as hyotto suru to ‘possibly’, which were not included in our data.
5. he mimetic karikari has three possible meanings: a scraping sound (sense 1), a dry condi-
tion (sense 2), and an emotional state of being nervous (sense 3). hough the main text shows
only the entry for the irst, the entries for the latter two follow the former in the dictionary.
6. he following abbreviations are used for Japanese examples: acc = accusative, cop = copu-
lar, gen = genitive, inst = instrumental, l = linker, neg = negative, nom = nominative, npast =
non-past, p = particle, and top = topic.
130 Kiyoko Toratani
(5) phonomimes (voice): ut (to) ‘oof’
gayagaya ‘buzz-buzz’
phonomimes (noise): kotukotu ‘click-click’
patit (to) ‘snap’
phenomimes: pekopeko ‘keep bowing’
mogumogu ‘mumble-mumble’
bakat (to) ‘open widely’
sarasara ‘smooth’
nurunuru ‘slimy’
psychomimes: uzuuzu ‘be restless’
kit (to) ‘stifen’
psychomimes (sensation): kurat (to) ‘dizzily’
zinzin ‘stinging’
he lexical category was based on how the mimetic is used in terms of what mark-
ing it takes or what element co-occurs with it. he mimetic with the particle to
was judged ‘adverb’ (Adv) (6a); the mimetic with no ‘gen’ was judged as ‘noun’ or
‘nominal adjective’ (N/NA-attrib) (6b); the mimetic with sita ‘do-past’ was con-
sidered ‘verb’ (attributive type) (V-attrib) (6c); the mimetic followed by da ‘cop’
was judged ‘noun’ or ‘nominal adjective’ (predicative type)’ (N/NA-pred) (6d); and
the mimetic with suru ‘do’ was considered ‘verb’ (predicative type) (V-pred) (6e).
(6) a. Koorogi-ga korokoro-to naki-hazime-ta. [Adv]
cricket-nom mimetic-p cry-begin-past
‘Crickets started to chirp.’
b. korokoro-no mi [N/NA-attrib]
mimetic-gen fruit
‘the bulging fruit’
c. korokoro-sita koinu [V-attrib]
mimetic-do.past puppy
‘a chubby puppy’
d. Sono koinu-wa korokoro-da. [N/NA-pred]
that puppy-top mimetic-cop
‘he puppy is chubby.’
e. Me-ga gorogoro-suru. [V-pred]
eye-nom mimetic-do.npast
‘My eyes feel lumpy.’ (adapted from A&H 1995:170)
Among these, adverbs, nouns, nominal adjectives (attributive type), and verbs
(attributive type) are predicted to occur outside the predicating nucleus and the
predicative type of nouns, nominal adjectives and verbs are predicted to occur
within it.
Iconicity in the syntax and lexical semantics of sound-symbolic words 131
To iterate the predictions, phonomimes (higher in iconicity) are predicted to
be realized as adverbs, or nouns, nominal adjectives, and verbs as a modiier to a
noun as these elements will occur outside the predicating nucleus (cf. (3a)); for
their part, psychomimes (lower in iconicity) are predicted to be realized as nouns/
nominal adjectives or verbs, both predicative types, occurring within the predicat-
ing nucleus (cf. (3b)).
Figure 2 shows the result of the frequency count. he horizontal line indicates
the three main semantic types of mimetics, with each bar showing the realizations
of mimetics speciied in the legend on the right. he vertical line shows the per-
centage: the token frequency for a given lexical category (e.g., adverb) is divided
by the total number for each type of mimetics. For instance, phonomimes contain
223 tokens; 27 can occur with suru (verb predicative type), equivalent to 12% of
the total.
100.0
100%
87.2
80.3
33.8
19.5
15.6
12.1
0.4
0.9
phonomimes phenomimes psychomimes
2.9
0.9
6.4
11.0
9.0
79.8
0.0
10.0
20.0
30.0
40.0
50.0
60.0
70.0
80.0
90.0 Outside the predicating
nucleus ‘to’/zero (Adv)
Outside the predicating
nucleus ‘no’ (N/NA-attrib)
Outside the predicating
nucleus ‘sita’ (V-attrib)
Within the predicating
nucleus ‘suru’ (V-pred)
Within the predicating
nucleus ‘da’ (N/NA-pred)
Figure 2. Distribution of mimetics
he next section probes each type, in the following order: phonomimes, psycho-
mimes, and phenomimes. Phenomimes are discussed last as they have features
common to both phonomimes and phenomimes.
Among 223 tokens of phonomimes, all the mimetics can occur as adverbs, as
indicated by the full height of the let-most bar. he possibility of phonomimes
being realized in the other forms is limited, although as noted above, approxi-
mately 12% (27/223) can form a compound with suru to function as a predicat-
ing element (e.g., kinkin-suru ‘a metallic sound echoes’, potyapotya-suru ‘shaking
132 Kiyoko Toratani
sound of liquid continues’).7 As an overall tendency, this distribution is consistent
with (3a): phonomimes, which are higher in iconicity, are predicted to be realized
as adverbs, in which case, they will be realized outside the predicating nucleus.
here are 173 tokens for psychomimes. Although it is stated that “psycho-
mimes prefer a predicative realization” (Akita 2013b:340), their formal realization
is fairly evenly split into two: adverb (139/173=80.3%) and verb (predicative)
(138/173=79.8%). Examples are given below.
(7) a. Ken-wa punpun-si-te-i-ru. [V-pred]
Ken-top mimetic-do-l-exist-npast
‘Ken is in a huf.’
b. Ken-wa punpun okot-ta. [Adv]
Ken-top mimetic get.angry-past
‘Ken got very angry (lit. got angry in a huf).’
(8) a. Senaka-ga hiyake-de hirihiri-suru. [V-pred]
back-nom sunburn-inst mimetic-do
‘My back smarts from sunburn.’
b. Senaka-ga hiyake-de hirihiri itamu. [Adv]
back-nom sunburn-inst mimetic hurt
‘My back is painful from sunburn smarting.’
(7) shows an example of a psychomime punpun ‘be in a huf’: (7a) contains a
verbal version compounded with suru ‘do’, and (7b) shows an instance of adver-
bial usage co-occurring with a main verb okoru ‘get angry’. (8) has an example
of a mimetic expressing a bodily sensation of pain: (8a) shows the verbal usage,
whereas (8b) shows the adverbial usage. In both cases, sentences sound natural;
the choice between adverbial and verb succeeds in conveying a subtle diference
of nuance: the verbal form expresses an overall state or an event, and the adver-
bial form speciies the particular condition of the target event denoted by the
verb. he double realization of the lexical category by the psychomimes is rather
unexpected: according to (3b), psychomimes, which are lower in iconicity, are
predicted to be realized as verbs or nouns/nominal adjectives to occur within the
predicating nucleus, but not as adverbs.
Phenomimes have the most instances, with 733 tokens. heir patterns are
similar to those of phonomimes in that their most frequent use is as adverbs, as
7. As one of the article’s reviewers notes, kinkin-suru has another sense as a psychomime: a
sharp pain felt in one’s head and ears. Similarly, potyapotya-suru has another sense as a phe-
nomime: a cutely plump condition. Figure 2 shows the frequency of senses, and not forms.
Accordingly, the diferent possible meanings of these mimetics are separated and included in
the respective category.
Iconicity in the syntax and lexical semantics of sound-symbolic words 133
indicated by the highest let-most bar (639/733=87.2%). Like psychomimes, their
second most frequent use is as verbs (predicative) (248/733=33.8%) although not
nearly as frequent. But phenomimes have a slightly higher chance of being real-
ized in the other lexical categories than the other two. In fact, some can occur in a
variety of forms, such as betabeta in (9) which expresses stickiness.
(9) a. Kono ame-wa betabeta-suru. [V-pred]
this candy-top mimetic-do
‘his candy feels sticky.’
b. Kono ame-wa betabeta kuttuku. [Adv]
this candy-top mimetic attach
‘his candy sticks (lit. attach stickingly).’
c. Kono ame-wa betabeta-da. [N/NA-pred]
this candy-top mimetic-cop
‘his candy is sticky.’
d. Kono betabeta-no ame-wa hurui. [N/NA-attrib]
this mimetic-gen candy-top old
‘his sticky candy is old.’
e. Kono betabeta-wa wakkusu-seebun-da. [Noun]
this mimetic-top wax-component-cop
‘his stickiness is a component of wax.’
f. Kono betabeta-sita ame-wa oisiku-nai. [V-attrib]
this mimetic-do.past candy-top delicious-neg
‘his sticky candy is not delicious.’
Notably, the mimetics in (9c) and (9d) occur in the same lexical category but difer
as to where they occur in the syntactic representation: the mimetic in (9c), fol-
lowed by the copular da, occurs within the predicating nucleus, whereas the one
in (9d) occurs at the pre-nominal position, i.e., outside the predicating nucleus.
(9c) and (9e) both contain the mimetic as a noun and show a parallel pattern: the
mimetic in (9c) occurs within the predicating nucleus whereas the one in (9e)
occurs outside the predicating nucleus as part of the argument of the predicate.
he parallel alternativity can be observed with verbs as in (9a) and (9f).
he result summarized in Figure 2 shows that mimetics in Japanese predomi-
nantly occur as adverbs, irrespective of the degree of iconicity. It also airms the
transcategorial character of mimetics, a feature particularly salient among pheno-
mimes and psychomimes: approximately 53% (387/733) of phenomimes occur as
adverbs, with the remainder occurring as nouns/nominal adjectives, and verbs;
the large majority of psychomimes are used both as adverbs and as verbs. Put dif-
ferently, the transcategorial character suggests the possibility of each semantic type
of mimetics being realized in the two contrasting syntactic domains “within the
134 Kiyoko Toratani
predicating nucleus” as indicated by the height of the two bars on the far right in
each of the three semantic types, as opposed to “outside the predicating nucleus”
as indicated by the height of the let-most three bars.
Possible interpretation of this result in light of (3) is mixed. If we focus on the
category-speciic distribution of mimetics as “adverbs”, (3a) is not tenable as there
is a good chance that all types of mimetics, irrespective of the degree of iconicity
of the item, occur as adverbs in which case they will be realized outside the predi-
cating nucleus, but if we focus on the category-speciic distribution of mimetics
as “verbs (predicate-type)”, (3b) is tenable as there is the highest chance for psy-
chomimes (lower in iconicity) to be realized as verb-predicate types, outrank-
ing phenomimes and phonomimes (higher in iconicity), in this order, in which
case they will be realized in the predicating nucleus. But the semantic-type-based
overall distribution suggests otherwise. More speciically, it agrees with (3a), as
phonomimes (higher in iconicity) are most likely to be used as adverbs, in which
case they will be realized outside the predicating nucleus, but it does not support
(3c), as there is a good chance that the psychomimes (lower in iconicity) occur as
adverbs, in which case they will not be realized in the predicating nucleus.
Since (1) is a prediction based on a semantic type, we are inclined to adopt
the interpretation of the latter (for the semantic-type-based overall distribution) as
the result of the frequency count summarized in Figure 2. his leads us to further
examine the validity of (3a).
4. Phonomimes and the predicating nucleus
Akita (2013b) seems to assume that the elements entering the predicating nucleus
are limited to the mimetics compounded with suru ‘do’. As this section shows,
however, this form is not the only option.
Traditionally, suru ‘do’ is listed as the only major productive source to create
a verbal form of a mimetic (e.g., Tamori & Schourup 1999:55; Kageyama 2007)8.
Meanwhile, it is no secret that some mimetics can co-occur with iu ‘say’ (Hamano
1988). Despite native speakers’ frequent encounters with the mimetic + iu ‘say’
combination, its structural characteristics have been little discussed.9 Scholars
8. As Akita (2010:1196) notes, psychomimes sometimes can form a verbal sequence with naru
‘become’ (e.g. kat-to naru ‘become angry’) and kuru ‘come’ (e.g. ziin-to kuru ‘come straight to
one’s heart’).
9. Hamano (1988) is an exception. She focuses on the case of iu that appears as part of a
pre-nominal modiier (e.g., goon to iu oto ‘sound ringing like gooN = e.g., the bong of the bell’
(Hamano 1988:138)).
Iconicity in the syntax and lexical semantics of sound-symbolic words 135
tend to assume the mimetic that co-occurs with iu ‘say’ (as the predicating ele-
ment) is an adjunct that modiies the verb. Adjuncts refer to “a modiier of a lexical
head without being subcategorized for by that lexical head and which could in
principle be removed without afecting well-formedness” (Trask 1993:8). More
recently, however, Toratani (2013) has argued the opposite, and this section fol-
lows Toratani (2013). To be clear, this section argues (i) the mimetic combined
with iu ‘say’ under consideration is a reduplicated phonomime and (ii) iu ‘say’
serves as a type of predicator for the phonomime, and together these constitute the
predicating nucleus of the clause. Again following Toratani (2013), the postulation
of (i) the non-omissibility and (ii) the non-permutability of the phonomime prove
useful to the argument.
First, consider the examples of the phonomime + iu ‘say’ combination: (10a)
contains a phonomime zyuuzyuu ‘sizzling sound’, (10b) has bukubuku ‘bubbling
sound’ and (10c) hyuuhyuu ‘howling sound’, each followed by iu ‘say’.10
(10) a. Atuatu-no teppan-no ue-de
piping.hot-gen iron.plate-gen on-inst
o-niku-ga zyuuzyuu it-te(-i)-masu.11
meat-nom mimetic say-l(-exist)-polite
‘he meat is sizzling on the piping hot iron plate.’
b. Suisoo-ga bukubuku it-te…
water.tank-nom mimetic say-l
‘he water tank is bubbling and…’
c. Yoru-ni nat-te.mo
night-dat become-although
kaze-ga hyuuhyuu it-te(-i)-masu.
wind-nom mimetic say-l(-exist)-polite
‘Even though we moved into night, the wind has still been howling.’
Importantly, the verb iu ‘say’ in these examples does not have the primary sense of
‘say’; rather, it means to ‘emit a sound’. For instance, the literal translation of (10a)
would be ‘he meat is saying zyuuzyuu on the piping hot iron plate’ but what it
actually means is that the meat is emitting a sizzling sound on the iron plate as it
is grilled.
10. he stem of the verb iu ‘say’ changes to it before te, a linker to a verb.
11. he examples in (10) are adopted from a text on the internet. he sources are: http://www5a.
biglobe.ne.jp/~mi-peace/cpa2011-1.html for (a), http://kemnpus.exblog.jp/9064600/ for (b) and
http://gassan-maiduruya.com/myBloggie/index.php?mode=viewid&post_id=199 for (c), last
accessed on December 19, 2013.
136 Kiyoko Toratani
he irst piece of evidence to support the point that these mimetics are not
adjuncts relates to their non-omissibility. If the phonomimes in (10) are all
adjuncts, the acceptability of the sentences should not be afected even if the
mimetics are omitted. (11) shows the mimetic-omitted version of (10).
(11) a. *Atuatu-no teppan-no ue-de
piping.hot-gen iron.plate-gen on-inst
o-niku-ga it-te(-i)-masu.
meat-nom say-l(-exist)-polite
‘he meat is saying on the piping hot iron plate.’
b. *Suisoo-ga it-te…
water.tank-nom say-l
‘he water tank says and …’
c. *Yoru-ni nat-te.mo kaze-ga it-te(-i)-masu.
night-dat become-although wind-nom say-l(-exist)-polite
‘Even though we moved into night, the wind is saying.’
As indicated by the asterisk, the examples above are all nonsensical: in these con-
texts, iu ‘say’ yields the literal meaning of the human utterance even though it
co-occurs with inanimate ga-marked arguments, which in principle cannot ‘say’
anything. In sum, the non-omissibility of the mimetics indicates they are the
required element of the predicating nucleus.
he second piece of evidence showing the mimetics in (10) are not adjuncts
is their non-permutability. Note irst that adjuncts typically can change syntactic
position within the sentence. Mimetics are no exception, as shown in (12).
(12) a. Taroo-wa to-o batan-to sime-ta.
Taro-top door-acc mimetic-p close-past
‘Taro closed the door with a thud.’
b. Taroo-wa batan-to to-o sime-ta.
Taro-top mimetic-p door-acc close-past
‘Taro closed the door with a thud.’
c. Batan-to Taroo-wa to-o sime-ta.
mimetic-p Taro-top door-acc close-past
‘Taro closed the door with a thud.’ (adapted from Toratani 2007:320)
Even when the mimetic batan ‘bang/thud’ changes position within the sentence,
the sentences remain perfectly acceptable and the truth-conditional meaning
remains intact.
his characteristic, however, does not apply to the phonomimes in (10), as
shown below.
Iconicity in the syntax and lexical semantics of sound-symbolic words 137
(13) a. ?Atuatu-no teppan-no ue-de zyuuzyuu
piping.hot-gen iron.plate-gen on-inst mimetic
o-niku-ga it-te(-i)-masu.
meat-nom say-l(-exist)-polite
‘he meat is sizzling on the piping hot iron plate.’
b. ?Bukubuku suisoo-ga it-te…
mimetic water.tank-nom say-l
‘he water tank is bubbling and…’
c. ?Yoru-ni nat-te.mo
night-dat become-although
hyuuhyuu kaze-ga it-te(-i)-masu.
mimetic wind-nom say-l(-exist)-polite
‘Even though we moved into night, the wind has still been howling.’
If the phonomimes are moved out of the immediately preverbal position, the
acceptability lowers. his supports the idea that phonomimes must occur imme-
diately before the verb iu ‘say’.
he structural and semantic tightness between the phonomime and the verb
iu ‘say’ can be shown by the fact that the particle to cannot comfortably intervene
between the two, even though to is ‘optional’ for reduplicated mimetics (e.g., Hamano
1998:13; Tamori & Schourup 1999:65–68; cf. Toratani 2006; Akita & Usuki 2012).
(14) a. Atuatu-no teppan-no ue-de
piping.hot-gen iron.plate-gen on-inst
o-niku-ga zyuuzyuu (/?-to) it-te(-i)-masu.
meat-nom mimetic-p say-l(-exist)-polite
‘he meat is sizzling on the piping hot iron plate.’
b. Suisoo-ga bukubuku(/?-to) it-te…
water.tank-nom mimetic-p say-l
‘he water tank is bubbling and…’
c. Yoru-ni nat-te.mo
night-dat become-although
kaze-ga hyuuhyuu(/?-to) it-te(-i)-masu.
wind-nom mimetic-p say-l(-exist)-polite
‘Even though we moved into night, the wind has still been howling.’
All the to-inserted versions are read awkwardly; the nominative-marked arguments,
all inanimate and unable to quote a speech, are interpreted as saying something.12
12. In Akita (2013a:32–33), a similar type of sentence is judged acceptable with to (Amado-ga
gatagata(-to) it-te i-ta. ‘he sliding shutter was rattling’.). A Google search of the three redupli-
cated mimetics in (10) yielded insight into how the reduplicated mimetics are marked in the
138 Kiyoko Toratani
In brief, the traits of non-omissibility and non-permutability show that the
phonomimes co-occurring with iu ‘say’ are not adjunct. Further, their structural
tightness, shown by the un-insertability of the particle to, strongly suggests that
they together constitute the predicating nucleus, as represented in Figure 3. he
igure shows the layered structure of the clause for a simpliied version of (10c),
meaning ‘he wind is howling’.13
SENTENCE
CLAUSE
CORE
NUC
PRED
MIMETIC
NP
Kaze-ga
wind-NOM
hyuuhyuu
MIMETIC
it-te(-i)-masu.
say-L(-exist)-POLITE
V
Figure 3. Structure for a phonomime with iu ‘say’
sequence, …. ga ____ iu. here is a clear preference for the ø-marked form as indicated by
the following number of hits (accessed on August 21, 2014; the results combine the number of
hits obtained from four orthographical variants: mimetic (katakana or hiragana), and the verb
(hiragana or use of kanji, the Chinese characters); the number represents the one ater similar
results are omitted): to-ga gatagata itte ‘the door goes gatagata’ → Ø: 209 vs. to: 7; awa-ga buku-
buku itte ‘the bubbles go bukubuku’ → Ø: 84 vs. to: 1; and kaze-ga hyuuhuu itte ‘the wind goes
hyuuhyuu’ → Ø: 128 vs. to: 1.
13. he structure here is intended to cover only the accented fully reduplicated phonomimes,
excluding the singletons such as batan ‘a thud’ and don ‘bang’. While the key evidence for positing
the structure in Figure 3 for the reduplicated mimetics is that the mimetic-verb sequence rejects a
to-insertion, the singletons are obligatorily marked by to to enter into a sentence, as shown below:
a. Usiro-no doa-ga batan-to it-ta-node…
back-gen door-nom mimetic-p say-past-as
‘(lit.) Because the door in the back (of the car) said batan, ...’
b. Sakihodo wagasya-no mado-ga don-to it-ta-node…
just.now our.company-gen window-nom mimetic-p say-past-as
‘(lit.) Because the window of our company said don just now, ...’
Future research should consider whether the singletons also take the structure represented in
Figure 3.
Iconicity in the syntax and lexical semantics of sound-symbolic words 139
Although Section 2 argues the semantic-type-based distribution of mimetics is
compatible with (3a) (i.e., “SSWs with higher iconicity tend to be realized outside
the predicating nucleus”), the discussion is based on the premise that the only
possible predicator for a phonomime is suru ‘do’.14 However, if we can maintain
that iu ‘say’ is the predicator proper for a reduplicated phonomime, we can safely
argue that Japanese has a mechanism to systematically incorporate reduplicated
phonomimes into the predicating nucleus, contra (3a).
5. Conclusion
he present study ofers a response to Akita (2013b) who proposes a relation
between the lexical semantics of sound-symbolic words (SSWs) and their real-
izations in a syntactic structure. In summarizing his proposal, Akita says that
“a highly linguistic position [is reserved] for highly linguistic elements, and less
linguistic positions [are] for less linguistic elements” (2013b:342).15 While Akita’s
proposal inspires a close examination of the iconic relationship, this paper sug-
gests the LIH-based account may be diicult to maintain in its current format.
First, many mimetics are transcategorial, thereby implying the possibility of an
element that is able to alternate between the predicating and non-predicating posi-
tion. Second, phonomimes, which are higher in iconicity, can enter the predicat-
ing nucleus when they accompany iu ‘say’ despite the prediction that they occur
essentially as an adjunct.
14. As one of the article’s reviewers pointed out, the division of labor between suru ‘do’ and
iu ‘say’ is iconicity-based. he verb suru ‘do’ productively combines with psychomimes (Akita
2010:1196) (e.g. kuyokuyo-suru ‘indulge in vain regrets’, bikkuri-suru ‘be surprised’). he present
discussion adds that iu ‘say’ productively combines with phonomimes (e.g. zyuuzyuu iu ‘sizzle’,
bukubuku iu ‘bubble’). Stated diferently, mimetics with higher iconicity typically combine with
iu ‘say’, whereas those with lower iconicity (psychomimes) typically combine with suru ‘do’,
although phenomimes also combine with the latter to a moderate degree (cf. Figure 2). his is
consistent with Hamano (1988) who observes that in their pre-nominal usage, forms with iu
‘say’ (e.g. moo to iu nakigoe [mimetic-p-say crying.sounds] ‘the crying sounds that sound like
moo = mooing’ (Hamano 1988:138)) are more iconic than those with suru ‘do’ (e.g. bosoboso-
sita gohan [mimetic-do rice] ‘dry (improperly cooked) rice.’ (Hamano 1988:144)). his suggests
that iconicity constitutes a key concept in understanding how mimetics are incorporated into
the sentence structure.
15. Clariication of the use of the terms “a highly linguistic position” vs. “less linguistic posi-
tions” is required as they imply the core-periphery distinction in terms of the graded centrality
commonly assumed in cognitive linguistics, or Chomskyan sense of core grammar vs. periphery,
although (1) in the main text indicates particular parts of a constituent oten assumed in func-
tional analyses.
140 Kiyoko Toratani
Admittedly, the present discussion is limited, as it is based solely on Japanese.
However, the phenomenon does not seem isolated to Japanese. First, it is oten
noted that many languages use DO/SAY verbs to incorporate SSWs into a sen-
tence (Childs 1994; Amha 2001, among others), suggesting that some have a
system of using phonomimes as verbs (cf. Amha 2010:279). A second common
inding is that the SSWs of certain languages are frequently realized as or pat-
terned similarly to members of diferent lexical categories, oten verbal, adjectival
and adverbial: e.g. Ewe (Ameka 2001:32), Mundang (Elders 2001:97), Basque
(Ibarretxe-Antuñano 2006:19), and Siwu (Dingemanse 2011:143). If a language
has an adjectival or nominal use of SSWs, they can likely be used both predica-
tively and attributively (as a modiier to a noun), in which case, they will appear
either within or outside the predicating nucleus. he question is whether the same
item (i.e. the same degree of iconicity) can lip the position within the language as
seen in the Japanese examples (cf. Section 3). hese points must be evaluated, pos-
sibly by drawing on a variety of crosslinguistic data, ideally with quantiicational
information, thus more rigorously testing the validity of hypothesis (1).
Future study could also include an examination of the nature of the iconicity-
based hierarchy using a diferent parameter, possibly ‘quotedness’, to capture the
syntactic characteristics of SSWs, drawing on their lexical categories or the con-
struction types in which a given form (e.g., an innovative form) can occur.
he study agrees with Akita’s (2013b) underlying claim that iconicity plays
an important role in accounting for various phenomena involved in SSWs across
languages. Our understanding of the nature of SSWs can be deepened by future
research clarifying the role of iconicity in their realizations.
References
Akita, K. 2005–2010b. A bibliography of sound-symbolic phenomena outside Japanese. Ms,
he University of Tokyo. <https://sites.google.com/site/akitambo/Home/biblio/bibb>
(19 December 2013).
Akita, K. 2009. A Grammar of Sound-Symbolic Words in Japanese: heoretical Approaches to
Iconic and Lexical Properties of Mimetics. PhD dissertation, Kobe University.
Akita, K. 2010. An embodied semantic analysis of mimetic psych-predicates in Japanese. Lin-
guistics 48: 1195–1220. DOI: 10.1515/ling.2010.039
Akita, K. 2013a. Constraints on the semantic extension of onomatopoeia. he Public Journal of
Semiotics 5(1): 21–37.
Akita, K. 2013b. he lexical iconicity hierarchy and its grammatical correlates. In Iconic Investi-
gations [Iconicity in Language and Literature 12], L. Elleström, O. Fischer, & C. Ljungberg
(eds), 331–349. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/ill.12.24aki
Iconicity in the syntax and lexical semantics of sound-symbolic words 141
Akita, K. 2013c. Onomatope/onsyootyoo-no kenkyuusi [A history of the study of mimetics and
sound symbolism]. In Onomatope-kenkyuu-no syatei: Tikazuku oto-to imi (Sound symbol-
ism and mimetics: Rethinking the relationship between sound and meaning in language),
K. Shinohara & R. Uno (eds), 333–364. Tokyo: Hituzi Syobo.
Akita, K. & Usuki, T. 2012. A constructional account of the morphological optionality of Japa-
nese mimetics. Ms, Osaka University and Fukuoka University.
Ameka, F. K. 2001. Ideophones and the nature of the adjective word class in Ewe. In Voeltz &
Kilian-Hatz (eds), 25–48.
Amha, A. 2001. Ideophones and compound verbs in Wolaitta. In Voeltz & Kilian-Hatz (eds),
49–62.
Amha, A. 2010. Compound verbs and ideophones in Wolaitta revisited. In Complex Predicates:
Cross-Linguistic Perspectives on Event Structure, M. Amberber, B. Baker & M. Harvey (eds),
259–290. Cambridge: CUP.
Atoda, T. & Hoshino, K. 1995. Usage Guide to Japanese Onomatopoeias. Tokyo: Sotakusya.
Childs, G.T. 1994. African ideophones. In Sound Symbolism, L. Hinton & J. Nichols (eds), 178–
204. Cambridge: CUP.
Dingemanse, M. 2011. he Meaning and Use of Ideophones in Siwu. PhD dissertation, Radboud
University Nijmegen.
Elders, S. 2001. Deining ideophones in Mundang. In Voeltz & Kilian-Hatz (eds), 97–110.
Feist, J. 2013. ‘Sound symbolism’ in English. Journal of Pragmatics 45: 104–118.
DOI: 10.1016/j.pragma.2012.10.008
Hamano, S. 1988. he syntax of mimetic words and iconicity. Journal of the Association of Teach-
ers of Japanese 22: 135–149. DOI: 10.2307/488938
Hamano, S. 1998. he Sound-Symbolic System of Japanese. Stanford CA: CSLI.
Kageyama, T. 2007. Explorations in the conceptual semantics of mimetic verbs. In Current
Issues in the History and Structure of Japanese, B. Frellesvig, M. Shibatani & J. Smith (eds),
27–82. Tokyo: Kurosio.
Kita, S. 1997. Two-dimensional semantic analysis of Japanese mimetics. Linguistics 35: 379–415.
Martin, S. 1975. A Reference Grammar of Japanese. New Haven CT: Yale University Press.
Shibatani, M. 1990. he Languages of Japan. Cambridge: CUP.
Tamori, I. & Schourup, L. 1999. Onomatope: Keitai to Imi (Onomatopoeias: Morphology and
meaning). Tokyo: Kurosio Publishers.
Toratani, K. 2006. On the optionality of to-marking on reduplicated mimetics in Japanese. Japa-
nese/Korean Linguistics 14: 415–422.
Toratani, K. 2007. An RRG analysis of manner adverbial mimetics. Language and Linguistics
8: 311–342.
Toratani, K. 2013. he position of to-/ø-marked mimetics in Japanese sentence structure. Paper
presented at Grammar of Mimetics Workshop, SOAS, University of London, May 10.
Trask, R.L. 1993. A Dictionary of Grammatical Terms in Linguistics. London: Routledge.
Van Valin Jr., R.D. 2005. Exploring the Syntax-Semantics Interface. Cambridge: CUP.
DOI: 10.1017/CBO9780511610578
Van Valin Jr., R.D. & LaPolla, R. 1997. Syntax: Structure, Meaning and Function. Cambridge:
CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9781139166799
Voeltz, F.K.E. & Kilian-Hatz, C. (eds). 2001. Ideophones [Typological Studies in Language 44].
Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/tsl.44
doi 10.1075/ill.14.08sug
© 2015 John Benjamins Publishing Company
A corpus-based semantic analysis
of Japanese mimetic verbs
Takashi Sugahara and Shoko Hamano
Gifu National College of Technology / George Washington University
Based on corpus data, this paper explores the unique semantic properties of
tuku-verbs, a class of mimetic verbs, in comparison to reduplicative suru-verbs,
which have been shown to exhibit highly systematic properties. he paper
demonstrates that tuku-verbs are semantically constrained as systematically
as reduplicative suru-verbs, albeit in slightly diferent manners. Speciically, it
is shown that the suix -tuku in these verbs inherits the meaning of ‘surface’
and the syntactic property of a contact/impact transitive verb from its source
verb tuku, projecting these features in diferent manners depending on whether
the mimetic base takes a heme or Agent subject. It is further shown that as a
result of the above processes tuku-verbs lack physiological perception verbs and
exhibit a high degree of transitivity if used as agentive verbs.
1. Introduction
Substantial understanding of sound-symbolic and phonological characteristics of
Japanese mimetic words has been attained (see Hamano 1998 and Nasu 2002, for
instance). However, studies of grammatical properties of mimetic expressions have
lagged behind. In this paper, we compare two types of mimetic verbs in Japanese
in an attempt to add to the understanding of remarkably systematic, semantic and
syntactic properties of Japanese mimetic expressions.
Japanese has a large body of so-called mimetic verbs. hese mimetic verbs
are formed by aixing verbal suixes such as -suru, -tuku, -meku, and -garu to
mimetic bases or roots such as guragura ‘shaking repeatedly’, kira ‘shining’, and
koro ‘rolling’.
In standard Japanese, the most productive suix for verbalization of mimetic
bases is -suru. Kakehi et al. (1996), an exhaustive dictionary of mimetic expres-
sions, contains nearly 300 mimetic verbs of various types containing -suru. Of
these verbs, those formed by attaching -suru to a reduplicative mimetic base (such
as urouro ‘aimlessly’ and pinpin ‘energetically’) form the most productive category.
144 Takashi Sugahara and Shoko Hamano
About 170 of the above 300 mimetic verbs are of this type. We will call them ‘redu-
plicative suru-verbs’ in this paper.
he second most productive suix is -tuku. his suix attaches to a CVCV
mimetic root (such as beta ‘sticky’). We will call this type ‘tuku-verbs’. Only 24
tuku-verbs are found in Kakehi et al. (1996). Although reduplicative suru-verbs
were studied in some depth by Kageyama (2007), tuku-verbs have not attracted
equal attention. In this paper, we will identify the semantic and syntactic proper-
ties of tuku-verbs in comparison to reduplicative suru-verbs.
On a cursory inspection, the semantic range of tuku-verbs appears to parallel
that of corresponding reduplicative suru-verbs (e.g. mati o urouro-suru/uro-tuku
‘to roam around the town aimlessly’). Tamori and Schourup (1999) passingly men-
tion that for every tuku-verb there is a corresponding reduplicative suru-verb and
that the tuku-verb counterpart usually carries a negative connotation. Hamano
(1998), contrasting the suixes -tuku and -meku, also notes that -tuku is used for
description of inappropriate events. hese observations give rise to the impression
that tuku-verbs are merely negatively-nuanced counterparts of reduplicative suru-
verbs. However, the relation between tuku-verbs and reduplicative suru-verbs is
not so straightforward. Not every tuku-verb possesses a more negative nuance
than its reduplicative suru-verb counterpart. In fact, some tuku-verbs describe
esthetically attractive scenes, as in the case of tira-tuku ‘to licker’ used to describe
the onset of light snow. It is clear that ‘negative connotation’ does not entirely
explain the diference between tuku-verbs and reduplicative suru-verbs.
In order to identify the real diferences between tuku-verbs and reduplicative
suru-verbs, we decided to look into pairs of tuku-verbs and reduplicative suru-
verbs systematically using corpus data.
he study reveals that Kageyama’s (2007) ‘physiological verbs’ and ‘activity
verbs’ are underrepresented among tuku-verbs. hese unique semantic restric-
tions are due to the projection of the meaning of the suix -tuku to the conceptual
structures of tuku-verbs. With verbs taking heme subjects, the meaning of ‘sur-
face’ that -tuku contains is foregrounded and manifests in various semantically
extended manners as shown in Figure 1.
Tuku-verbs with Theme subjects
‘surface’
‘externally observable
condition’
‘superficiality’
‘onset’/
‘transient event’
Figure 1. Semantic extension in heme subject tuku-verbs
A corpus-based semantic analysis of Japanese mimetic verbs 145
Importantly, tuku-verbs are not it for expression of physiological perception only
accessible to the speaker because of their ‘surface-centered’ semantics.
In the case of verbs taking Agent subjects, the transitive orientation of -tuku
is foregrounded, and tuku-verbs tend to appear as manner-of-motion verbs or
contact/impact verbs as shown in Figure 2 and to take arguments marked by the
accusative case marker o.
Tuku-verbs with Agent subjects
manner-of-motion verbs (activity verbs)
contact/impact verbs
Figure 2. Classiication of Agent subject tuku-verbs
he following sections will explain these points with data and examples.
2. Data
Kakehi et al. (1996) contains the following 24 mimetic tuku-verbs:
bara-tuku, bata-tuku, beta-tuku, beto-tuku, biku-tuku, bura-tuku, dabu-tuku, gata-
tuku, gira-tuku, goro-tuku, gota-tuku, gura-tuku, hura-tuku, itya-tuku, kasa-tuku,
mota-tuku, muka-tuku, neba-tuku, paku-tuku, para-tuku, pasa-tuku, tira-tuku,
uro-tuku, zawa-tuku
he same dictionary contains a reduplicative suru-verb counterpart of each of the
above tuku-verbs except bara-tuku. We searched for tokens of these 23 pairs of
verbs in the Balanced Corpus of Contemporary Written Japanese (BCCWJ) com-
piled by the National Institute for Japanese Language and Linguistics, which con-
tains about 100 million words. We identiied 2098 tokens of mimetic tuku-verbs
and 2129 tokens of their reduplicative suru-verb counterparts. We classiied these
tokens of tuku-verbs and reduplicative suru-verbs following Kageyama’s (2007)
basic classiication. his revealed that tuku-verbs, like reduplicative suru-verbs,
can be classiied into subclasses depending on with what type of subject they occur
and that some belong to more than one class, as shown below:
heme-subject verbs: bara-tuku ‘to vary; to be diferent from one another’, bata-
tuku ‘to rattle’, beta-tuku ‘to become sticky’, beto-tuku ‘to become sticky or greasy’,
dabu-tuku ‘to become labby’, gata-tuku ‘to show the irst signs of age or wear’,
gira-tuku ‘to gleam’, goro-tuku ‘[of a foreign body or lump] to cause discom-
fort’, gota-tuku ‘to become confused’, gura-tuku ‘to begin to shake’, hura-tuku
146 Takashi Sugahara and Shoko Hamano
‘to become unsteady’, kasa-tuku ‘to become rough and dry’, mota-tuku ‘to be
inelegant’, muka-tuku ‘[of an internal organ] to become nauseous’, neba-tuku ‘to
become sticky’, para-tuku ‘to sprinkle down’, pasa-tuku ‘to become dry’, tira-tuku
‘to lutter down’, zawa-tuku ‘to become noisy’
Agent-subject verbs: bura-tuku ‘to be idle; to walk around leisurely’, goro-tuku ‘to
be idle; to loaf about’, hura-tuku ‘to be indecisive; to walk around aimlessly’, itya-
tuku ‘to lirt in public’, mota-tuku ‘to be slow or tardy’, paku-tuku ‘to bite some-
thing’, uro-tuku ‘to wander’, (zawa-tuku ‘[of a group of people] to talk noisily’)
Experiencer-subject verbs: biku-tuku ‘to show feelings of fear or apprehension’,
muka-tuku ‘to feel annoyed’
However, it also became clear that tuku-verbs and reduplicative suru-verbs dif-
fer in iner details. In the following two sections, we discuss notable diferences
between tuku-verbs and reduplicative suru-verbs from the irst two classes above.
3. heme-subject verbs
First we describe those that take heme subjects. A tuku-verb is preferred in the
description of a transient event or condition or a movement involving a surface.
A reduplicative suru-verb is preferred if the mimetic expression describes a stable
event or condition. We will explain these points below.
Table 1 summarizes those pairs that prefer tuku-verbs.
Table 1. Preference for tuku-verbs
Mimetic expressions Events or conditions -tuku -suru
para/parapara sprinkling of rain 37 (97.3%) 1 (2.7%)
tira/tiratira lickering of snowlakes, shadows,
images, igures, and faces
84 (95.5%) 4 (4.5%)
kasa/kasakasa dry skin 21 (63.6%) 12 (37.4%)
dabu/dabudabu sagging of lesh 15 (83.3%) 3 (16.7%)
excess money or commercial
products in the market
26 (100%) 0 (0%)
mota/motamota inelegant clothing items and igures 18 (78.3%) 5 (21.7%)
zawa/zawazawa unsettling body sensations or feelings 15 (65.2%) 8 (34.8%)
commotion at a place 39 (67.2%) 19 (32.8%)
rustling of leaves and small objects,
rippling of water surface, distortion
of images
3 (30%) 7 (70%)
A corpus-based semantic analysis of Japanese mimetic verbs 147
Most of the mimetic verbs in Table 1 are used to describe transient events or con-
ditions. For instance, para or parapara is used to describe sprinkling of rain for a
short period of time, as in (1). (All examples are from BCCWJ.)
(1) a. Ame ga para-tuite ita node,
rain nom sprinkle was since
[Katano san wa] kasa o sasite iru.
Mr. top umbrella acc hold.up is
‘Since it has been sprinkling, Katano is holding up an umbrella.’
b. Asa wa ame ga parapara-site
morning top rain nom sprinkle
tottemo samukatta.
very was.cold
‘It sprinkled in the morning, so it was really cold.’
While both para-tuku and parapara-suru can be used for such cases, para-tuku
is more common as Table 1 shows. 97.3% of the total tokens for this pair contain
para-tuku.
Similarly, both tira-tuku in (2a) and tiratira-suru in (2b) can be used to
describe lickering of snowlakes for a short period of time, but tira-tuku is decid-
edly more common.
(2) a. Kono mati de wa yuki ga tira-tuite iru.
this town in top snow nom licker is
‘Snow is lickering in this town.’
b. Siroi no ga tiratira-suru to
white object nom licker if
mirumani ōyuki to natte simatta.
soon heavy.snow comp become unexpected
‘White objects lickered, and soon heavy snow started.’
he same can be said of (3a) and (3b), in which tira-tuku and tiratira-suru describe
lickering of images.
(3) a. Imōto no […] omokage ga tira-tuita.
sister gen face nom lickered
‘My sister’s face lickered in my memory.’
b. Me no mae ni Tomomi-tyan no
eyes gen front in gen
sugata ga tiratira-site […].
igure nom licker
‘he image of Tomomi lickered in front of me and […].’
148 Takashi Sugahara and Shoko Hamano
In (4) below, kasa-tuku and kasakasa-suru describe the temporary dryness of skin.
Again, while both verbs are acceptable, kasa-tuku is more frequent.
(4) a. Bodiisoopu dewa kanzen-ni hisi ga
body.soap with totally skin.oil nom
otite simai, hada ga kasa-tuki,
be.removed out.of.control skin nom be.dry
kayuku natte simaimasu.
itchy become out.of.control
‘If I use body soap, skin oil will be totally removed, and my skin will
become rough and itchy.’
b. Kahunsyō de hada ga kasakasa-site ita […].
hay.fever because.of skin nom be.dry was
‘Because of hay fever, my skin was rough […].’
Tuku-verbs are also preferred where the surface of the heme subject is described.
his observation applies to the above examples which describe the dryness of skin.
he same observation can be made for (5).
(5) a. Onaka no oniku ga dabu-tuite iru.
middle gen lesh nom be.labby is
‘he lesh of the middle is labby.’
b. Ago no sen ga dabudabu-site mieru.
jaw gen line nom be.labby look
‘he jaw line looks labby.’
Notice that these sentences describe the attachment of extra fat to the surface of a
body, and dabu-tuku, as used in (5a), is more common. Likewise, the examples in
(6) are considered to describe excess money (6a) and excess commercial products
(6b) metaphorically loating over the surface of the market. Only dabu-tuku has
such uses.
(6) a. Tosiginkō de wa sikin ga dabu-tuite iru.
city.bank in top capital nom have.excessively is
‘Urban banks had excessive capital.’
b. Konnani syōhin ga dabu-tuite iru nara,
like.this merchandise nom have.excessively is if
koko-de muri-site nyūsatu-suru hituyō nai.
now hurry bid necessity be.absent
‘If merchandise is abundant like that, it is unnecessary to make a hasty
bidding now.’
A corpus-based semantic analysis of Japanese mimetic verbs 149
Similarly, mota-tuku and motamota-suru in relation to clothing describe the exis-
tence of excessive material around a body, and mota-tuku is more commonly used.
he involvement of a surface also explains why zawa-tuku is quite common in the
description of unsettling bodily sensations or feelings. hey are metaphorically
‘subcutaneous’, conceived as coming out from just under the skin.
Now we turn to those pairs that favor reduplicative suru-verbs. Table 2 sum-
marizes them.
Table 2. Preference for reduplicative suru-verbs
Mimetic expressions Events or conditions -tuku -suru
bura/burabura swinging of objects such as legs and
cables
0 (0%) 16 (100%)
goro/gorogoro uncomfortable sensation in the eye 0 (0%) 9 (100%)
abundance of rocks, humans and
animals, large objects, stories of
experiences, etc.
2 (1.5%) 78 (98.5%)
gota/gotagota unorganized personal environments 2 (4.1%) 47(95.9%)
bata/batabata busy personal and work environments 2 (11.8%) 15 (88.2%)
neba/nebaneba viscosity of liquid, food, cream,
surfaces, etc.
7 (12.7%) 48 (87.3%)
gira/giragira glare of objects such as glass and lights 8 (22.9%) 27 (77.1%)
gata/gatagata unstable condition of such heavy
objects as doors, windows, chairs, etc.
7 (31.8%) 15 (68.2%)
he mimetic verbs in Table 2 are used to describe inherent conditions or continu-
ous movements of the heme subject. For instance, the pair of verbs containing
neba or nebaneba describes the permanent stickiness of certain types of food such
as fermented soy beans, as in (7a), or the inherent stickiness of a viscous liquid,
as in (7b).
(7) a. Watasi no baai, daeki ga neba-tuku
I gen case saliva nom be.viscous
kanzi ga suru.
seem nom do
‘In my case, my saliva feels sticky.’
b. Nattō no sinseki mitaina yatu de,
fermented.soy.beans gen relative like one and
nebaneba-sinai yatu […].
be.viscous.neg one
‘It’s a kind of fermented soy beans, but it is not sticky.’
150 Takashi Sugahara and Shoko Hamano
he above examples show that both neba-tuku and nebaneba-suru can describe
an inherent condition. However, the reduplicative suru-verb is preferred for such
cases, as is the case with all the other verb pairs listed in Table 2.
In the case of goro-tuku vs. gorogoro-suru, there is another semantic twist to
the contrast. Goro-tuku can be used to describe scattered objects, although goro-
goro-suru is preferred in general. However, in the case of the internal sensation
from an eye that only the organ’s owner can feel and report, gorogoro-suru is the
only option, as in (8). In other words, goro-tuku is limited to external perception.
(8) Saikin kontakuto ni sitanodesu ga
recently contact.lens dat did but
me ga gorogoro-site/*goro-tuite iru […].
eye nom feel.discomfort is
‘Recently I have started to use contact lenses, but I feel as if some foreign object
were in my eyes.’
Some mimetic expressions initially appear to be indiscriminate as to which verb
type they choose. However, the same semantic bifurcation that we have observed
above is revealed when we sort the data by subject noun phrase. Table 3 summa-
rizes this.
Table 3. Contrasts based on heme subjects
Mimetic expressions heme subject -tuku -suru
pasa/pasapasa food 15 (38%) 25 (62%)
hair 25 (83%) 5 (17%)
beta/betabeta relationship 0 (0%) 12 (100%)
hair, cosmetic product (on skin) 32 (84%) 6 (16%)
hura/hurahura (inside) head, eyesight, feeling 6 (16%) 32 (84%)
externally visible body parts such
as whole body, leg, and hand, gait,
external objects
178 (60%) 118 (40%)
gura/guragura head and tooth 11 (26%) 32 (74%)
conidence, belief, authority, status, etc. 46 (93%) 3 (7%)
muka/mukamuka stomach 8 (33%) 16 (67%)
chest 29 (70%) 12 (30%)
Let us irst look at the case of pasa-tuku and pasapasa-suru. In describing the
dryness of hair, a temporary and supericial condition, pasa-tuku is preferred,
as in (9a). On the other hand, in describing the dryness of food like old bread
and poorly cooked rice, which has irreversibly lost its plasticity, pasapasa-suru
A corpus-based semantic analysis of Japanese mimetic verbs 151
is preferred, as in (9b). he preference is relected in the number of tokens in
Table 3. 83% of the tokens that take ‘hair’ as their subject are expressed with pasa-
tuku, while 62% of the tokens that take ‘food’ as their subject are expressed with
pasapasa-suru.
(9) a. Paama o kakete iru node
perm acc get perf because.of
kami ga pasa-tuite […].
hair nom be.dry
‘Because I have permed my hair, it is dry […].’
b. Gohan wa […] pasapasa-sita mono dewa naku,
rice top dry object comp neg
nihon no oisii gohan dearu.
Japan gen delicious rice is
‘he rice is not the dry type; it is the delicious Japanese type.’
Similarly, in order to describe a temporary sticky condition of hair or cosmetic
products on the skin, as in (10a) and (10b), beta-tuku is preferred. On the other
hand, to describe excessively close personal relationship, a condition neither tem-
porary nor descriptive of an actual surface condition, as in (10c), betabeta-suru
is the only option. he preference is again relected in the number of tokens in
Table 3.
(10) a. Tōhi kara deru aburabun no
scalp from come.out sebum gen
bunpitu ga ōi to,
secretion nom large and
kami ga beta-tuitari […].
hair nom be.sticky.and
‘When the scalp produces too much oil, the hair will become greasy
and […].’
b. Yubun o hukumanai kuriimu nanode
oil acc contain.neg cream because
beta-tukazu saratto-sita siyōkan.
be.sticky.neg nice.and.dry texture
‘Because it is oil-free cream, it isn’t sticky and feels nice and dry.’
c. Sensei wa betabeta-sita/*beta-tuita ningen kankei wa
teacher top be.cozy personal relationship top
okiraidatta.
disliked
‘My teacher didn’t like a close personal relationship.’
152 Takashi Sugahara and Shoko Hamano
In (9) and (10) above, in addition to the contrast between inherent and transient
conditions, we can again detect that the description of a physical surface favors
tuku-verbs. his contrast also seems to account for the cases of hura-tuku/hura-
hura-suru, muka-tuku/mukamuka-suru, and gura-tuku/guragura-suru that we will
explain next, where the descriptions are about conditions that can be construed as
the extension of the sense of ‘surface’ such as ‘visible condition’ and ‘onset’.
Hura/hurahura is bifurcated into two types, those taking ‘body’, ‘arm’, ‘leg’,
‘steps’, or external objects as the subject, as in (11a), (11b), and (11c), and those
taking objects related to internal sensation such as ‘head’ and ‘view’ as the subject,
as in (11d). he former describes momentary and visible loss of control over one’s
posture, gait, or an external object, or the beginning of such conditions, while the
latter describes sensations that are accessible only to the owner of the organs that
cause these sensations. Predictably, the former prefers hura-tuku, and the latter
hurahura-suru, as shown in Table 3.
(11) a. Simatani wa […] kanari yotte ite
Simatani top […] so drunk is
asi ga hura-tuite ita.
legs nom wobble was
‘Simatani was so drunk that his legs wobbled.’
b. Syokku de karada ga hura-tuita.
shock by body nom swayed
‘Her body swayed because of the shock’
c. Hutari wa, tikaku no izakaya de
two top nearby gen bar in
asimoto ga hura-tuku made sake o nonda.
steps nom wobble until sake acc drank
‘he two drank at a nearby bar until their gait became unstable.’
d. Yopparatta yō ni natta.
got.drunk like copula became
Atama ga hurahura-si
head nom become.dizzy
hiza ni tikara ga hairanaku natta.
knee to power nom ill.neg became
‘I was half-drunk. My head became dizzy, and my knees gave out.’
Likewise, gura-tuku and guragura-suru reveal the contrast in terms of ‘visible
onset’ vs. ‘internal sensation’. In order to describe the stage where one is begin-
ning to lose hold on a irm belief, solid authority, etc., gura-tuku is preferred, as in
(12a) and (12b). On the other hand, to describe an internal sensation of dizziness,
guragura-suru is preferred, as in (12c).
A corpus-based semantic analysis of Japanese mimetic verbs 153
(12) a. Misa wa kakuhōmen kara kōgeki sareta tame,
Misa top various.quarters from attack pass since
isasaka zisin ga gura-tuite ita.
somewhat self-conidence nom sway was
‘Since Misa was attacked from all quarters, her self-conidence was
somewhat waning.’
b. Oya no ken’i ga gura-tuite simau.
parent gen authority nom be.wiggly uncontrollable
‘Parental authority would be eroded.’
c. Hinketu mitai ni natte
anemia like comp become
atama [ga] guragura-simasita.
head nom was.dizzy
‘I had a symptom like anemia, and my head felt dizzy’.
he meaning of ‘onset’ seems to be signiicant in diferentiating muka-tuku and
mukamuka-suru, too. Muka-tuku is preferred in the description of an abrupt onset
of heartburn, as in (13a), while mukamuka-suru is preferred in the description of
nausea, a lasting condition, as in (13b).
(13) a. Ore wa […] kakuteru o […] nomasareta. […]
I top cocktail acc was.forced.to.drink
Zutū ga tomarazu
headache nom stop.neg
mune mo muka-tuite kita.
chest also feel.vaguely.sick became
‘I was forced to drink a cocktail. I had a headache and started to feel
nauseous.’
b. Kasyoku-suru to i ga mukamuka-simasu […].
eat.too.much if stomach nom feel.nauseous
‘When I eat too much, I feel nauseous.’
To summarize the points so far, with verbs taking heme subjects, a tuku-verb
is preferred for description of a transient event or state. In addition a tuku-verb
is preferred when the surface of the heme or the surface to which the heme
attaches is described or when the described condition is at a borderline phase or
externally observable. he reduplicative suru-verb is preferred for description of
a stable or inherent condition or an internal sensation.
One apparent exception to this generalization based on the corpus data is the
pair beto-tuku and betobeto-suru. Both have various types of sticky objects as sub-
jects, and we could not detect a clear distributional contrast between them except
that the following use for an abstract concept seems to be limited to betobeto-suru.
154 Takashi Sugahara and Shoko Hamano
(14) Zyoo to.iu mono wa betobeto-site/*beto-tuite…
sentiment known.as thing top
‘Sentiments are sticky, and…’
his also seems to support the view that tuku-verbs are preferred in the descrip-
tion of a surface. Since sentiments are not a type of surface nor are they metaphor-
ically conceptualized as a surface, the tuku-verb option is unacceptable for (14).
4. Agent-subject verbs
Now we turn to verbs that take Agent subjects. Table 4 summarizes the frequency
of tuku-verbs and reduplicative suru-verbs that take Agent subjects. (We excluded
the cases of zawa-tuku and zawazawa-suru ‘to be agitated’ that take a crowd as
the subject because such cases lack the sense of self-controllability.) Approximate
meanings of these agentive verbs are given to the right.
Table 4. Mimetic tuku-verbs and suru-verbs that take Agent subjects
Mimetic expressions -tuku -suru Meaning of the verbs
goro/gorogoro 2 (1%) 160 (99%) to move around like a log and do nothing
bata/batabata 9 (6%) 139 (94%) to move around busily
mota/motamota 39 (34%) 77 (66%) to move around in a disorganized or
clumsy manner
hura/hurahura 16 (23%) 53 (77%) to walk around aimlessly or to waste time
doing something aimlessly
bura/burabura 99 (37%) 167 (63%) to walk around leisurely or to kill time
doing something leisurely
uro/urouro 355 (47%) 402 (53%) to walk around without legitimate
reasons or to waste time doing
something in a confused manner
itya/ityaitya 41 (49%) 42 (51%) to lirt in public in a distasteful manner
paku/pakupaku 31 (84%) 6 (16%) to eat some food voraciously or to open
and close the mouth vigorously
From this table we can see that generally speaking reduplicative suru-verbs
are preferred options in the case of agentive mimetic verbs. However, a sizable
number of tuku-verbs are also used as agentive verbs. he contrast between
agentive tuku-verbs and agentive reduplicative suru-verbs manifests most clearly
with the pairs bura-tuku/burabura-suru, uro-tuku/urouro-suru, and hura-tuku/
A corpus-based semantic analysis of Japanese mimetic verbs 155
hurahura-suru. On initial inspection these verbs seem to be interchangeable
either in the sense of ‘to move around aimlessly (manner-of-motion verb read-
ing)’ or ‘to waste/kill time doing something aimlessly/leisurely (activity verb
reading)’. However, a closer inspection of the corpus data reveals a diferent
story. hat is, more tuku-verbs explicitly take a traversal object, the path of a
movement, marked by the accusative case marker o, as shown in (15), than
reduplicative suru-verbs.
(15) Dakara watasi wa yoku mati o uro-tuita.
therefore I top frequently town acc roamed.around
‘For that reason, I roamed around the town frequently.’
Table 5 summarizes, for each of the six verbs, the ratio of tokens that explicitly
mark traversal objects with the case marker o to the total cases.
Table 5. Ratios of tokens that explicitly take traversal objects
Mimetic
expressions
Suixes With an explicit traversal
object marked with o
Without an explicitly
marked object
Total agentive
cases
bura/burabura -tuku 73 (73.7%) 26 (26.3%) 99 (100%)
-suru 43 (25.7%) 124 (74.3%) 167 (100%)
uro/urouro -tuku 233 (65.6%) 122 (34.4%) 355 (100%)
-suru 150 (37.3%) 252 (63.7%) 402 (100%)
hura/hurahura -tuku 8 (50%) 8 (50%) 16 (100%)
-suru 8 (15.1%) 45 (84.9%) 53 (100%)
All of the above -tuku 314 (66.8%) 156 (33.2%) 470 (100%)
-suru 201 (32.3%) 421 (67.7%) 622 (100%)
he diferences observed in Table 5 are all statistically signiicant. he chi-square
test with Yates correction yields P values of less than 0.0001 (for bura/burabura,
uro/urouro, and all six verbs combined) and 0.0104 (for hura/hurahura). If we add
other cases of traversal objects marked in diferent manners, the ratio for tuku-
verbs is even higher. hat is, a very high proportion of agentive tuku-verbs take
traversal objects compared to their reduplicative suru-verb counterparts. In fact,
the corpus data indicates that almost all agentive cases of bura-tuku, uro-tuku, and
hura-tuku mean ‘to walk around aimlessly’ rather than ‘to waste/kill time doing
something aimlessly/leisurely’. On the other hand, many cases of burabura-suru,
urouro-suru, and hurahura-suru mean ‘to waste/kill time doing something aim-
lessly/leisurely’, as shown in (16).
156 Takashi Sugahara and Shoko Hamano
(16) a. … sō nareba tuma to kodomo no tame
so turns.out.if wife and children gen sake
burabura-site iru wake.nimo.ikazu…
is will.not.do
‘… if that happens, for the sake of my wife and children, I won’t be able
to remain unemployed.’
b. … minasan ikidokoro o usinatte urouro-site imasu.
everyone place.to.go acc has.lost.and is
‘… everyone has lost a place to go and is hanging around doing nothing.’
c. Niisan wa dōsite hurahura-site isya ni naranai no
brother top why doctor copula become comp
desu ka.
copula interrogative
‘Why do you remain uncommitted without becoming a doctor, Brother?’
Notice that there is no sense of moving around in the above examples. We will
discuss the implication of this in Section 5.
Next, we discuss the pair paku-tuku and pakupaku-suru. Among agentive verb
pairs, the pair paku-tuku and pakupaku-suru is exceptional. For one thing, paku-
tuku is more common than pakupaku-suru. Second, paku-tuku is a transitive verb,
while pakupaku-suru is not. Previous research has noted the absence of true tran-
sitive verbs among reduplicative suru-verbs (Kageyama 2007; Akita 2009). Self-
relexive combinations such as asi o batabata-suru ‘to move one’s legs vigorously’
and mimi o pikupiku-suru ‘to move one’s ears vigorously’ exist, but they are con-
sidered part of the baby talk register rather than of a full-ledged adult grammar.
hese verbs also tend to be replaced by the causative forms asi o batabata-saseru
‘to cause one’s legs to move vigorously’ and mimi o pikupiku-saseru ‘to cause one’s
ears to prick’. In fact, the same characterization applies to pakupaku-suru. It can
only marginally take a body part, kuti ‘mouth’, as its direct object, and the caus-
ative counterpart kuti o pakupaku-saseru ‘to cause one’s mouth move vigorously’
is decidedly more common.
Against this backdrop, the exceptionality of paku-tuku is striking. In fact, 18
out of the 31 tokens of paku-tuku explicitly take o-marked direct objects, as shown
below.
(17) a. Onigiri o paku-tuite iru.
rice.ball acc devour is
‘He is devouring a rice ball.’
b. Faasutohūdo o paku-tuita.
fast.food acc devoured
‘She devoured fast food.’
A corpus-based semantic analysis of Japanese mimetic verbs 157
In addition, two tokens take a ni-marked dative object, as shown below.
(18) a. Dōnattu ni paku-tuku.
donut dat devour
‘He attacks a donut.’
b. Nobigimi no men ni paku-tuku.
overcooked gen noodles dat devour
‘She attacks overcooked noodles.’
We will discuss this in the following section, too.
5. Discussion
Above, we have identiied distributional, semantic, and syntactic characteristics of
tuku-verbs and reduplicative suru-verbs that take heme or Agent subjects. hese
characteristics of tuku-verbs and reduplicative suru-verbs suggest that tuku-verbs
are not merely negatively-nuanced counterparts of reduplicative suru-verbs. Not
only are they preferred diferently in diferent contexts, they behave diferently
syntactically. We will propose the source of these diferences in this section.
he preference for reduplicative suru-verbs for stable conditions would
be partly attributable to their mimetic morphology. Reduplication in Japanese
mimetic adverbs indicates repetition of a sound or action while non-reduplicative
mimetic adverbs indicate one single sound or action. Reduplicative mimetic forms
are also used in mimetic adjectives. Similarly, reduplicated mimetic bases in verbs
seem to be predisposed to indicate stable conditions.
We argue, however, that the contrasts between suru-verbs and tuku-verbs are
mainly attributable to the semantics of the verbal suix -tuku, which the suix
inherits from the source verb tuku underlined in (19). hese examples are also
from BCCWJ.
(19) a. Kaapetto ni gamu ga tuite simatta.
carpet on gum nom stick ended.up
‘A piece of chewing gum stuck to the carpet.’
b. Utubo wa mori de tuita ra,
moray.eel top spear with strike when
sono mori o mawasu to toremasu.
that spear acc turn if can.catch
‘Ater you stab a moray eel, you can catch it by rotating the spear.’
he verb tuku means ‘to attach to the surface of something’ in (19a) and ‘to strike
something on the surface’ in (19b).
158 Takashi Sugahara and Shoko Hamano
Combined with mimetic bases that take heme subjects, -tuku foregrounds
the meanings of ‘surface’ and creates verbs that describe the condition of a surface.
he abstract meaning of ‘onset’ or ‘transient event’ is a metaphorical extension of
the meaning of ‘physical surface’ to ‘temporal borderline’. he meaning of ‘exter-
nally observable condition’ is also a semantic extension of ‘surface’. It results in
the exclusion of internally cognized sensations from the range of what tuku-verbs
can express. his class of verbs is what Kageyama (2007) calls ‘physiological verbs’,
which he characterizes essentially as verbs indicating that ‘[t]he speaker feels that
his/her body part moves in a particular manner’ (Kageyama 2007:44). We argue
that the negative connotation observed with tuku-verbs that take heme subjects,
such as gira-tuku ‘to glare (with a harsh light)’, is also due to a further semantic
extension of ‘surface’ to ‘supericiality’.
Mimetic bases that take Agent subjects are more abstract in meaning than
those that take heme subjects. When the suix -tuku combines with agentive
mimetic bases, its semantic component of ‘surface’ is weakened. Instead of exhib-
iting the meaning of ‘surface’, resulting agentive tuku-verbs tend to become more
transitive than their reduplicative suru-verb counterparts. Bura-tuku, uro-tuku,
and hura-tuku appear with the traversal object marker o much more frequently
than reduplicative suru-verbs and almost always have a manner-of-motion verb
reading rather than an activity verb reading. We attribute this to the suix’s inheri-
tance of transitivity from the contact/impact verb tuku shown in (19b).
Likewise, paku-tuku is a contact/impact verb because the suix -tuku has
its transitive property foregrounded when combined with the agentive mimetic
base paku (cf. pakupaku taberu ‘to eat energetically’). In fact, paku-tuku is not
an anomaly. When we look beyond the mimetic verbs included in Kakehi et al.
(1996), gat-tuku ‘to devour’, derived from gatu + -tuku (cf. gatugatu taberu ‘to eat
voraciously’), exhibits the same characteristics. he examples below are also from
BCCWJ.
(20) a. Norainu ga esa o gat-tuku yoo.ni…
stray.dog nom food acc as
‘Just as stray dogs devour food…’
b. Hutatabi aisukurīmu ni gat-tuki-dasita suhyoku wa
again ice cream dat began Soo-hyuk top
huto kao o ageru to kasuka.na emi o ukabeta.
unintentionally face acc raise when faint smile acc exhibited
‘Soo-hyuk, who resumed attacking the ice cream, looked up and ofered
a faint smile.’
A corpus-based semantic analysis of Japanese mimetic verbs 159
Notice that the object is marked either with the accusative case marker o or the
dative marker ni just as in the case of paku-tuku. In other words, it is a contact/
impact verb. On the other hand, the suru-verb counterpart, gatugatu-suru, means
‘to behave as if starved’ or ‘to be overly aggressive’. It is not a transitive verb and
does not take a direct object.
Lastly, we hypothesize that the association of transitivity with ‘aggressiveness’
is the source of negative connotations that agentive tuku-verbs such as uro-tuku
and paku-tuku carry.
6. Concluding remarks
In this paper, we explored the unique semantic and syntactic properties of tuku-
verbs. We demonstrated that the suix -tuku inherits the meaning of ‘surface’ and
the syntactic property of a contact/impact transitive verb from the source verb
tuku and projects these features in diferent manners depending on whether the
mimetic base takes a heme or Agent subject.
We also demonstrated that tuku-verbs range over fewer verb classes than
reduplicative suru-verbs. Speciically, we demonstrated that tuku-verbs lack physi-
ological perception verbs and rarely have an activity-verb reading. We argued that
this is due to the semantic speciication of the suix -tuku and its projection onto
the conceptual structures of the verbs. In contrast, -suru used in mimetic verbs is
bleached of the semantic content of the regular lexical verb suru except for such
components as ACT and COGNIZE (Kageyama 2007); therefore, it cannot restrict
the semantic range of mimetic verbs as narrowly as -tuku does.
As for the negative connotations that some tuku-verbs exhibit, we conjectured
that these are due to the extension of the meaning of ‘surface’ to ‘supericiality’ in
the case of tuku-verbs taking heme subjects, and due to the higher level of tran-
sitivity in the case of agentive tuku-verbs.
We have limited our analysis in this paper to pairs of tuku-verbs and redupli-
cative suru-verbs found in Kakehi et al. (1996). We hope to be able to verify our
analysis against more verbs. he semantic characterization of tuku-verbs should
also be contrasted with meku-verbs, which used to be more productive in stan-
dard Japanese (Ōsawa 2006) and is still highly productive in the Tsugaru dialect
(Hamano 2014). We hope that our analysis in this paper will provide guidelines
for future exploration of related phenomena.
160 Takashi Sugahara and Shoko Hamano
References
Akita, K. 2009. A Grammar of Sound-Symbolic Words in Japanese: heoretical Approaches to
Iconic and Lexical Properties of Mimetics. PhD dissertation, Kobe University.
Hamano, S. 1998. he Sound-Symbolic System of Japanese. Stanford CA: CSLI and Tokyo:
Kurosio.
Hamano, S. 2014. Nihongo no Onomatope: Onshōchō to Kōzō (Onomatopoeia in Japanese:
Sound Symbolism and Structure). Tokyo: Kurosio.
Kageyama, T. 2007. Explorations in the conceptual semantics of mimetic verbs. In Current Issues
in the History and Structure of Japanese, B. Frellesvig, M. Shibatani & J.C. Smith (eds),
27–82. Tokyo: Kurosio.
Kakehi, H., Tamori, I. & Schourup, L. 1996. Dictionary of Iconic Expressions in Japanese. Berlin:
Mouton de Gruyter. DOI: 10.1515/9783110809046
Nasu, A. 2002. Nihongo Onomatope no Gokeisei to Inritsu Kōzō (Word Formation and Prosodic
Structure in Japanese Onomatopoeia). PhD dissertation. University of Tsukuba.
Ōsawa, R. 2006. Chūko chūsei no -meku ni okeru onomatope no hiyu ni yoru imikakuchō ni
tsuite: Kankaku kanjō o arawasu jirei no bunseki (On metaphorical extension of mimetic
meku-verbs in Middle Japanese: An analysis of instances expressing sensations and feel-
ings). Nihongo Kyōiku Kenkyū 11: 105–119. Korea University.
Tamori, I. & Schourup, L. 1999. Onomatope: Keitai to Imi (Onomotopoeia: Morphology and
Semantics). Tokyo: Kurosio.
Data source
Balanced Corpus of Contemporary Written Japanese (BCCWJ). <http://www.kotonoha.gr.jp/
shonagon/>
part iii
Language meets literature
doi 10.1075/ill.14.09coh
© 2015 John Benjamins Publishing Company
Iconicity in translation
Two passages from a novel by Tobias Hill
Imogen Cohen and Olga Fischer
University of Amsterdam
his article reports on a workshop in which translators explored how particu-
lar iconic features present in a literary text might be translated into another
language. In advance of the workshop the participants translated two short
passages from Tobias Hill’s novel he Hidden into (mostly) their own native lan-
guage; their translations preserved the text’s iconic features as fully as possible.
he article starts with a brief introduction highlighting the iconic features in
the passage. It focuses on those parts of the two passages that turned out to be
not only most interesting from an iconic point of view but also the most chal-
lenging to translate since their iconic features could not always be transferred
into the target language in a straightforward way. he languages involved were
Dutch, German, Japanese, Polish (2 versions), Serbian, and Swedish. Apart from
discussing the translations and the translation diiculties, a further aim was to
ind out whether we can distinguish any general or language-speciic strategies
in translating iconic features involving sound, (morpho)syntax or the lexicon.
1. Introduction
As part of the ninth iconicity conference in Tokyo, we decided to execute a long
treasured wish among members of the Iconicity Project,1 which was to hold a
translation workshop where participants would not only discuss ways of trans-
ferring semantic-pragmatic content of a literary text from the source language
into the target language, but where considerable attention would also be paid to
preserving the iconic features perceived to be present in the text.2 It is well-known
1. For a description of this project, which has been running since 1997, see <www.iconicity.ch>
2. A very interesting study on the problems and dilemmas connected with the recognition and
preservation of iconicity in the translation of literary texts is provided by Tabakowska (2003),
which in fact served as inspiration for this workshop.
164 Imogen Cohen and Olga Fischer
that choices made by an author on the level of sound, (morpho)syntax, and style
or register (oten also involving particular lexical choices) add to the overall mean-
ing of a literary text or to the overall efect that it has on the reader/listener (cf.
e.g. Fónagy 1999, 2001 on the iconic use of sounds; Bernhart 1999 on rhythm;
Nänny 2005 on rhyme; Nänny 1997; Müller 1999, 2001 and Fischer 2014 on syn-
tax, and more generally on iconic features in literature, Anderson 1998; and Nänny
& Fischer 2006).
With this in mind, we invited a number of scholars/translators to translate a
set text from English. he languages concerned were, in alphabetical order, Dutch,
German, Japanese, Polish, Serbian, and Swedish. It was decided to restrict the
number of languages involved since the workshop lasted only one day, and we
wanted to devote attention to what we all perceived to be important and fairly
transparent iconic features before discussing the various solutions possible within
each target language. All contributors translated the text into their mother tongue,
with the exception of one translator, Mutsuko Tsuboi, who is Japanese and trans-
lated into Serbian (with some help from a native speaker), and one organizer,
Imogen Cohen, whose native language is English but who is also a near-native
speaker of Dutch.3 he presence of the latter was quite important because she
could help answer questions on some subtle characteristics of or idiosyncracies
in the English text.
2. Tobias Hill, he Hidden: he excerpts and their iconic features
Tobias Hill is an award-winning poet, essayist and novelist. His most recent novel,
he Hidden (2009), brings together themes and motifs from earlier novels – that
of ‘buried secrets and a connection with the past’ – and is written with the iconic
touch of a poet. In an interview with his publishers, Faber and Faber, Hill revealed:
I come to the novel from poetry. When I began publishing prose, the term ‘poetic
novel’ was still less an accolade than a cuss; but I think the mood has changed.
here is more consciousness now of the precision and muscularity a good poet
can bring to the crating of a novel.
(http://www.faber.co.uk/content/tobias-hill-on-the-hidden)
3. We would like to use this opportunity to thank all contributors for their translations and espe-
cially for the enthusiasm they brought with them to the workshop; in alphabetical order: Esther
Hool (University of Utrecht, German), Christina Ljungberg (University of Zurich, Swedish),
Joanna Radwanska-Williams (Macao Polytechnic Institute, Polish), Elżbieta Tabakowska
(University of Cracow, Polish), Kayoko Takeda (Rikkyo University Tokyo, Japanese), Mutsuko
Tsuboi (Rikkyo University Tokyo, Serbian). Olga Fischer was responsible for Dutch.
Iconicity in translation 165
We chose Tobias Hill, therefore, because he puts, as it were, poetry into his novels
and because he has received acclaim as both a poet and a novelist. As such his nar-
rative iction is full of richly iconic passages but it is still easier to translate than
poetry. We chose this novel in particular because we had the pleasure of welcom-
ing him to the University of Amsterdam in 2011, when he gave a lecture on cre-
ative writing with special reference to he Hidden. During his stay in Amsterdam
we had the opportunity to talk to him about the stylistic choices he made in this
novel, and in particular about the stylistic choices made in the passages we chose
for this workshop. he two passages are discussed in more detail below.
2.1 he irst passage (p. 110)
For ease of reference, we have presented the passage with each sentence starting a
new line. In the novel the sentences run together as one paragraph.
1
5
10
15
And there was Sparta, the source of his waking joy.
A broad road – a boulevard – lined with orange trees, crowded with people late for
work, with booths selling Chiclets, chocolates, matches, watches, paperbacks.
An avenue of bulbous palms, ivy growing up their lanks like military winter coats.
A square bordered by colonnades.
A pack of schoolgirls eating chips.
A custom pickup cruising past with speakers pumped up to the max.
A latbed full of yelping dogs.
A pair of jeeps packed with cadets.
A rigid geometry of streets.
Umbrellas hung from barred windows.
he sun going in, the sky ironclad.
A shop selling onions and eggs, comics, chestnuts, shotgun shells and fourteen brands
of cigarettes.
A plane tree, spreading down, its tentacular arms harbouring four tables, three
old men, two children, one backgammon board.
Figure 1. Passage 1
As far as sounds were concerned the irst thing we noticed was the high frequency
of the liquids /l/ and /r/ (and to some extent nasals) in this passage, especially in
ll. 2, 4–5 and again in 15–16, evoking a sense of continuation both in length and
width. his efect is strengthened by the use of mostly long vowels and diphthongs
as in broad, road, lined, trees, bordered, colonnades. (Although /l/s also occur in
chiclets, chocolates in (3), they are not ‘languid’ as we will discuss below.)
he allitteration on /b/ in broad and boulevard (2), and later in booths, bul-
bous, bordered (3–5) also contributes to the efect of widening because the repeat of
166 Imogen Cohen and Olga Fischer
the /b/ makes the broad road even broader through the echoing efect of repetition.
his is further strengthened by the eye-rhyme of broad and road, again enlarging the
phrase as a whole. his in turn is accentuated by the use of the long word boulevard
(with three syllables and a long last vowel), with another repeat of /b/.
Very much in contrast with the sot liquid sounds of the lines just discussed is
line 3, which depicts the clutter of articles sold along the boulevard. A strong sense
of crowding is suggested not only by the asyndeton (the list of objects connected
by commas without any conjunctions), but also by the africates and voiceless con-
sonant clusters (‘cluttered’ sounds) found in Chiclets, chocolates, matches, watches.
his is reinforced by the fact that the /l/ sounds in Chiclets and chocolates lose their
liquid quality because they are both found in unstressed syllables and realized as
voiceless lateral releases of the plosive /k/.
he most obvious thing about the vowels in the words Chiclets, chocolates,
matches, watches is that they are all short. Less obvious, perhaps, is the fact that
the voiceless phonetic environment in which they occur make them even shorter.
his is called ‘pre-fortis clipping’. hese short vowels are in turn contrasted with
the longer vowels of the words referring to objects or concepts connected with the
‘road’, as in broad, lined, trees, crowded, palms, ivy, growing, bordered, colonnades,
and with the more frequent use of voiced (nasal) stops and voiced fricatives in the
same set of words: broad, lin[e]d, trees, crowded, palms, ivy, growing, border[e]d,
colonnad[e]s. his voicing again contrasts with the voiceless consonants found in
chiclets, choc[o]lat[e]s, matches, watches, paperbacks. Overall, there is a marked
change in rhythm as compared to the previous sentence.
he list continues in l. 5 and beyond, but now separated by full stops. he
sentences thus created all lack a inite verb, increasing the sense of crowdedness.
In fact, there is only one inite verb in the entire passage, namely the copula was
in the opening sentence And there was Sparta…. Apart from that, the entire pas-
sage is made up of sentence fragments, giving a sense of impression upon impres-
sion upon impression. his is further emphasized by the repetition of the same
sentence structure all through (5–10), all beginning with the indeinite article A.
he frequency of voiceless stops now increases (6–9): the heavy use of /p, t, k/
and clipped vowels in pack, schoolgirls eating chips, custom pickup cruising past,
speakers pump[e]d up to the max, pair of jeeps pack[e]d with cadets breaks up the
low of the passage with the many stops also conveying a feeling of unrest. his
efect is accentuated by the alliteration on /p/, and to some extent by the allitera-
tion on /k/. Very interesting in this passage is the rhythm, a truly regular iambic
meter in (6–9) suddenly interrupted by a trochaic foot, packed with, following the
iambic, of jeeps – with the two consecutive stresses emphasizing the heavily loaded
jeeps –, and next followed by a number of spondaic feet and extra unstressed syl-
lables in (10). In this way the passage turns from one of relative ease (with still
Iconicity in translation 167
active -ing forms) to a climax, from ‘movement’ to a halt, to a ixed rigid geometry
(note the repetition of the africate /ʤ/ and /i/), which is expressed not only in
the change of rhythm but also in active -ing forms changing into completive past
participles (packed, hung), or even no verb at all (rigid geometry of streets). he
active participles start up again from (12) onwards, he sun going in….
Rigidity is also expressed in the choice of words – their sense as well as their
sounds – such as barred (given extra emphasis by the alliterative umbrellas) and
ironclad, and in words with an aggressive or military association, such as yelping
dogs, jeeps, cadets, barred, ironclad, shotgun shells. Note also the precise use of
numerals (a kind of military precision) such as fourteen brands, four tables, three
old men, two children, one backgammon board. Similarly threatening or negative
senses are also conveyed by tentacular arms and harbouring in (15).
2.2 he second passage (p. 290–291)
1
5
10
15
20
25
… and then the howling began.
It was an alien cry, neither canine nor lupine.
It was unlike any sound he had ever heard an animal make.
His skin crawled.
he pheal rose and fell like a siren, eerie and silver and unearthly.
It seemed to come from everywhere, from all around and overhead, as if the moon itself
was screaming.
Time leapt.
He struggled to his feet, the others exclaiming and scrambling around him.
Jason was running back towards them, a fresh cigarette rolling away into cinders.
Max was turning this way and that, his face raised urgently to the light.
And then,
– he dog! he dog!
He looked down at Sylvia.
Her hackles were up, her lips rolled back, her teeth bared to the black-lecked gums.
She looked like a diferent animal, larger and wilder, lycanthropic, the moon transform-
ing her.
She was making no sound at all, not only no answering cry but nothing, as if she meant
to give no warning to the thing howling of in the dark.
he whole of her – eyes and ears and trunk – was magnetised, ixed on the North Pole
of the eastern hills.
Someone put his gun in his hands.
He found himself loading it.
Beside him Max was doing the same, breaching weapon ater weapon, dropping a shell,
fumbling for more.
hen they were running, all of them, in a straggling line.
Figure 2. Passage 2
168 Imogen Cohen and Olga Fischer
sounds play less clearly a role in this passage, but some repetitions are noteworthy.
We see the /ai/ sound repeated in the words cry, neither, canine, lupine, unlike (2–3)
to echo the howling that is compared to a siren (5). Sequences of high front vowels
such as /i/, /i:/ and probably also /ε/ in (1–7) suggest the squealing ‘siren’ itself:
howling, it (2x), any, ever, his skin, pheal, fell, eerie, silver, it seemed, everywhere,
overhead, itself, screaming and somewhat less clearly in alien, unearthly, if, its.
Of greater interest is the use of syntax and lexis. he lines preceding Time
leapt are descriptive and static. No action takes place (note particularly the fre-
quency of negative elements: neither, nor, unlike), with the exception of the pheal
(referring to the cry of a jackal), which penetrates everything. he subjects in
the main clauses are all inanimate or non-concrete (howling, it (3x), skin, pheal)
emphasizing the lack of action. In addition, the repetition of It was serves to slow
down the narrative. Time is also lengthened by the repetition of the conjunction
and in eerie and silver and unearthly (5).
he scene is further dehumanized (emphasizing its eeri(e)ness and unearthl(i)
ness) by the use of Latin words, which convey distance (the Verfremdungs efect):
canine, lupine, pheal (and later in the second static passage: lycanthropic (16)). he
use of the word silver is interesting in this respect, not only because of its sound
(see above), but also because of the colour itself, suggesting a certain ‘coolness’. At
the same time it prepares us for the appearance of the moon, and the later trans-
formation of the dog in (17).
he passage then changes suddenly, with a jump, from static to chaotic activ-
ity with the clause Time leapt (note the extreme shortness of the sentence, and
of the word leapt) as if Time has stood still and now needs to accelerate. Activity
is indicated by the sudden change to animate subjects in (9–11): He, the others,
Jason, Max. Note also that each sentence has a diferent subject suggesting a lack
of coherence. his chaotic situation is rendered lexically by words suggesting dis-
order and haste from (9) onwards, such as struggled, scrambling, running, rolling,
turning (and again at the end of the passage ater another static moment: dropping,
fumbling, running, straggling). he repetition of the progressive form -ing stresses
these words even further and indicates at the same time the absence of coordinated
and purposeful activity, since the present participle is not a plot-advancing verbal
form. Chaos implying loss of control is also clear from the impressive amount of
directional phrases that are without direction, such as from everywhere, from all
around and overhead (6), around him (9), running back towards, rolling away into
(10), and turning this way and that (11).
he description of the dog (15–20) provides the second static passage, this
time emphasized not by a piercing sound, but by the complete absence of all activ-
ity: no sound at all, not only no answering cry but nothing, give no warning (17–18),
magnetized, ixed (19). Note that there are no action verbs in the main clauses of
Iconicity in translation 169
this passage; the only verbs used here are forms of to be followed by a present or
past participle; participles also occur in a large number of non-inite clauses. By
similar means as before, the dog, Sylvia, is made to look bigger, and hence scarier,
by the longer comparative forms larger and wilder (connected by and), and in
the phrase the whole of her – eyes and ears and trunk, with another instance of
polysyndeton.
he last passage, from (21) onwards, conveys some new sense of goal-ori-
ented direction but it is intuitive, not conscious. he men in the scene behave like
automatons, not knowing what they are doing: Someone put his gun in his hand,
He found himself loading it, Max was doing the same, … they were running, all of
them, as if they only realized ater the fact that they had indeed loaded their guns,
and breached them, and run and that they had all done the same. Quite telling is
the fact that the verb put and the -ing forms breaching, dropping and fumbling have
no clear or identiiable subject.
3. he attempts at iconic translations
3.1 he irst passage
We will not be able to discuss all the above iconic features fully for lack of space,
so we have selected a couple of the more interesting and challenging ones. hese
will be discussed in detail, allowing us to compare and contrast the translation
strategies of the translators involved.
he irst challenge was to preserve the sense of low and continuation present
in the description of the ‘broad road’ in passage 1, conveyed by alliteration, liquids
and nasals, voiced consonants and long vowels. Most translations did quite well
there: they managed to reproduce this efect, even if it meant sometimes looking
for alternative lexical items with more suitable sounds.
For instance in Dutch, the long vowels, the efect of the eye-rhyme and the
alliterative /b/ could be kept in line 2 by using een brede allee, een boulevard rather
than the more usual brede weg /bre:də υeχ/, where weg with its short vowel and
voiceless inal consonant would have been too short, and where there would have
been nothing to suggest the similarity of the words broad and road. By using
allee, however, with word inal /e:/, the assonance on /e:/ could replace the English
eye-rhyme connecting the two lexical items broad and road. But the eye rhyme
was not lost entirely in the Dutch translation: the two <ee>s in allee are echoed
partially in the lexical word brede (interrupted by the <d>) and echoed fully in
the grammatical word een, which occurs twice in line 2, both immediately before
and ater brede allee.
170 Imogen Cohen and Olga Fischer
In the Dutch translation it was not hard to mimic the frequent use of liquids,
nasals and long vowels in the original. his is because in most cases suitable syn-
onyms could be found. Examples are lined (l.2) translated by geflankeerd ‘lanked’,
and orange tree (l.2) translated as sinaasbomen rather than the more usual sina-
asappelbomen. he latter has mostly short vowels (the <aa> is short here) and is
crammed with too many syllables. Another example is the translation of crowded
(l.2) by the past particle overspoeld ‘overlowed’, avoiding the common, but less
suitable, past participle preix ge- (/χə/) and delivering instead both liquids and
long vowels (in bold).
he two other Germanic languages (German and Swedish) represented at the
workshop were in some respects attracted to the translation strategies adopted in
Dutch. he German translator rendered a broad road as eine breite Allee rather
than as the more literal eine breite Strasse: Allee was felt to be more appropriate
with its long vowel, liquid consonant and open syllable. Unlike Dutch allee, how-
ever, German Allee does not enjoy full assonance with the preceding word breite,
nor the compensatory eye-rhyme.
he phonetics of German, however, allowed the translator to adopt a diferent
strategy to Dutch with respect to past participles. Whereas the Dutch transla-
tor strove to avoid common past particle preixes (i.e. those beginning with ge-,
pronounced in Dutch as a ‘hard’ voiceless fricatives /χ/), the German translator
embraced them. hus lined with orange trees, crowded with people late for work
was translated into German as gesäumt mit Orangenbäumen, dicht gedrängt mit
Menschen. his strategy works here because in German the past participle ge- is
pronounced with a voiced plosive /g/. his sound difers in terms of only one
distinctive feature (i.e. place of articulation) from the /b/ of boulevard. In this
way the translator was able to come close to replicating the way /b/ was repeated
(echoed) in the source text. he German translator felt that this echoing efect was
enhanced by the parallel syntax in gesäumt mit Orangenbäumen … gedrängt mit
Menschen. hese factors taken together were enough to make the translator reject
voll mit Menschen as an alternative for dicht gedrängt mit Menschen, even though
the former phrase contains more nasals/liquids.
he Swedish translator similarly rendered broad road as en bred allé. For her
en bred allé, en boulevard was preferable to the alternative, and more straight-
forward en bred väg /e:n bre:d vae:g/, which ends in a plosive/closed syllable. In
contrast allé, with its open syllable, opens up the sentence iconically, evoking the
mental image of the boulevard, which is then named in the next phrase.
It is interesting that the choice of an open syllable here, taken independently
by all the Germanic translators, supericially deviates from the iconicity of source
text: the word road does not, ater all, contain an open syllable but ends, like väg,
on a plosive. However, such was the overall efect of the passage, with its open
Iconicity in translation 171
vowels, nasal and liquids, eye-rhyme and alliteration on /b/ that all the Germanic
translators felt that allé/ Allee/ allee captured these elements of the text better.
As far as the past participles were concerned, the strategy adopted in Swedish
was, on the face of it, similar to that adopted in Dutch. hus the Swedish translator
chose to translate crowded as myllrande (‘milling’) avoiding the past participle and
replacing it with the more suitable -ing form, with its nasal consonant. It should be
noted, however, that the Swedish avoidance of past participles was not motivated
by exactly the same considerations as the Dutch, for past participles in Swedish
do not begin with a hard preix (or with any kind of preix for that matter). he
translator chose the -ing form mainly to emphasize the ongoing movement, to
alliterate with (i.e. echo) människor (‘people’) and because myllrande contained
more nasal/liquids than the rather static fylld med ‘illed with’ with its two stops.
he remaining three languages – Serbian, Polish and Japanese – were more
diverse in their ‘lines of attack’ – not surprisingly, given their increasing distance
from English. Starting with one of the Slavic languages, Serbian, A broad road – a
boulevard was translated as Jedan širok put – jedan bulevar. he absence of both
eye-rhyme and (near) assonance in the phrase širok put (‘wide road’) was amply
compensated for by the repetition of jedan (lit. ‘one’). In Serbian a determiner is
not required here so the insertion of jedan is marked and its repetition prominent.
his helps to iconically recreate the sense of expanse through the echoing efect.
As far as the use of voiced consonants, liquids and nasals are concerned, the
translator from Serbian made no conscious attempt to choose these although the
passage contains them anyway (e.g. lined with orange trees was translated as sa
drvoredima pomorandži (‘with alleys of oranges/ orange trees’), where the liquids
and nasals in pomorandži come close to the sounds in the English word.
here were two translators working independently of each other from Polish
(our other Slavic language) and they both used the same strategy to compensate
for the alliteration, eye-rhyme and near assonance in the phrase A broad road – a
boulevard. Instead of relying on the repetition of an optional determiner (as in
Serbian) both translators used word-medial consonance on the prominent liq-
uid /l/: Szeroka ulica – bulwar (‘Wide street – boulevard’). One of the translators
exploited the repetition of the voiced fricative sound represented by <rz> as in dwa
rzędy drzew (‘two rows trees[gen]’ translating lined with) in order to invoke the
repetition of voiced sounds in the original.
Our last (but by no means least important) language was Japanese. As the
only non- Indo-European contribution, we were very curious to ind out how the
translator would approach the text. She translated A broad road – a boulevard as
burubado
Hiroi hiroi oodori
Wide wide big-street (boulevard – written in rubi, an annotative gloss)
172 Imogen Cohen and Olga Fischer
Here the repetition of the lexical word hiroi (lit ‘wide’) was used to recreate the
eye-rhyme and alliteration in the source text. In some ways this strategy was simi-
lar to that used by the Serbian translator, who opted for a repetition of the function
word jedan ‘one’ to the same efect (see above). Radically diferent from anything
we have seen so far, however, was the Japanese translator’s use of rubi, an annota-
tive gloss usually placed above a (diicult) word written in Chinese characters to
show how the word should be pronounced. Here, however, rubi was inserted not
to indicate the pronunciation of Chinese characters but to recreate the English
word boulevard by providing its approximate pronunciation in Japanese.
We now turn to line 3 of the original (see Figure 1), where the mood changes
from spacious to cramped. In other words, this is the point at which we temporar-
ily leave a prose style dominated by voiced consonants, long vowels, liquids and
nasals depicting the low of the broad road, and encounter a phrase depicting a
tight cluster of objects ‘iconicized’ phonetically by short vowels, voiceless plosives
and consonant clusters, and ‘iconicized’ grammatically by the lack of conjunc-
tions (i.e. asyndeton): [with booths selling] Chiclets, chocolates, matches, watches,
paperbacks.
It was interesting to see how the various translators went about recreating the
iconic language describing this clutter of objects sold in the booths, where it was
essential to preserve the snappy syllables with their short vowels, hard consonants
and hard consonant clusters. he translators ofered various solutions, and some
felt it unnecessary to preserve the exact semantic value of each object, as long as
their translations denoted things that could generally be bought in market stalls
in a southern European city like Sparta.
his time, we will present the languages in reverse order. So starting with
Japanese, the translator did translate the clutter of objects literally, as can been
seen in the following gloss:
uocchi
Roten-niwa, gamu-no chikkuretto-ni chokoreto, macchi-ni tokei
At-booths, chewing-gum Chiclets and chocolate, matches and watches (watch
in rubi),
soshite, pepabakku-no hon.
and paperback books.
Despite this literalism, or perhaps because of it (see below), the iconicity comes
across well in Japanese. On the face of it, this is surprising given that Japanese does
not permit consonant clusters within syllable boundaries (except for C+/j/ as in
Tokyo and Kyoto). But it does have voiceless fricatives and voiceless geminate con-
sonants, the latter being twice as long as single voiceless consonants. Furthermore,
in the same way that voiceless consonants have a shortening efect on adjacent
Iconicity in translation 173
vowels in English, geminate consonants have a shortening efect on adjacent vow-
els in Japanese (cf. Tsujimura 2007). And that is what we see in this phrase: a total
of ive geminate consonants crammed into four words (chikkuretto (チックレット),
macchi (マッチ), uocchi (ウォッチ), pepabakku (ペーパーバック)) – signiicantly
more geminate consonant per phrase than in the rest of passage 1. he transcrip-
tion given above is in romaji (romanized Japanese) but in the ‘real’ Japanese ortho-
graphic version the geminate consonants were represented not by two adjacent
consonants but by sokuons (symbols indicating that the following consonant is
double, shown in bold above). he fact that there were ive geminate consonants
means that the sokuon was repeated ive times, which in turn reinforced the piling
on of goods. he successful use of loan words used here (Chikkuretto ‘Chiclets’,
chokoreto ‘chocolates’, macchi ‘matches, uocchi ‘watches’, and pepabakku ‘paper-
backs’ are all loan words) shows how ‘direct translation’ (a term taken from Vinay
and Darbelnet 1958) can be used efectively to reproduce iconicity.
Whilst Japanese went a long way to reproduce the phonetic iconicity, the
grammatical iconicity seems, on the face of it, to have been lost. his is because
the asyndeton (the cramming of lexical words together without conjunctions)
was replaced by polysyndeton: the conjunction ni was used twice – once to sepa-
rate chikkuretto from chokoreto, and again to separate macchi from tokei (uocchi).
However, three extra words were added to this passage (‘chewing gum’, ‘books’
and a rubi transliteration of ‘watches’ (uocchi)) by way of an explanatory gloss, and
the addition of these extra words goes some way to ill the space created by two
extra conjunctions. In other words, although asyndeton is an option in Japanese,
the translator felt that pairing up ‘Chiclets’ and ‘chocolates’, and ‘watches’ and
‘matches’, helped to reproduce the rhythm of the original here, given the addition
of extra lexical items/rubi glosses.
he Polish translators diverged from each other in their approaches to the
translation of this line. While both preserved the grammatical iconicity of the
phrase by keeping the asyndeton, each chose to translate the wares on sale in the
booths with diferent lexical items and diferent morphological/case endings:
ze stoiskami gdzie sprzedawano miętówki[dim], czekoladki[dim], zegarki,
with booths where were-being-sold mint-candy, chocolates, watches,
książki, zapałki.
books, matches. (Translator 1)
kiosków z Mentosami, z batonikami, z zapałkami,
booths with Mentos[instr] with candy-bars[dim,instr] with matches[instr]
z zegarkami, z tanimi książkami.
with watches[instr] with cheap books[instr]. (Translator 2)
174 Imogen Cohen and Olga Fischer
Whereas the irst Polish translator used the plural (diminutive)4 suix -ki to recre-
ate the hard consonants in the source text, the second chose to render the passage
in the instrumental case, adding the instrumental suix -ami. One could argue
that in doing so, translator 2 has introduced nasals into a part of a text from which
they should have been excluded. Ater all, in the source text, nasals and liquids
‘iconicized’ the broad road, and not the clutter of objects in the booths. However,
the addition of the instrumental suix -ami is only part of the picture. By using
the instrumental the translator avoids the extra clause gdzie sprzedawano used by
translator 1, which slows the speed down. In addition, she adds the preposition z,
which is repeated throughout; these serve to create a sense of crowding.
Moving on to Serbian, we note that this translator too preserved the gram-
matical iconicity (i.e. the asyndeton) of the original:
sa tezgama koje prodaju bombone, čokolade, šibice, satove, knjige.
with booths which sell candies, chocolates, matches, watches, books.
She shortened paperbacks to ‘books’, knjige, for the sake of the rhythm; paperbacks
in full would be knjige u mekom povezu. At the same time, the repetition of the
feminine plural -e ending also helped to preserve a fast rhythm. In order to make
sure that the list of objects was familiar to Serbian readers, Chiclets was translated
as bombone (‘candy’).
Now we return to the Germanic languages with which we started this subsection.
Beginning this time with Swedish, the phrase under discussion was translated as:
allt möjligt, från Chiclets, choklad, drycker, böcker, klockor
all-that-is possible, from Chiclets, chocolate, drinks, books, clocks
Since Swedish has no productive diminutive suixes,5 it could not resort to the
strategy adopted by the Polish translators. Instead, the Swedish translator expressed
the great amount of clutter for sale in the booths by adding allt möjligt, från Chiclets
(‘all that is possible from … to’/‘all sorts of things from … to’). In order to keep
the rhythm, Chiclets – which is used as a brand name in Swedish – was kept in
4. Diminutives in Polish are complex; some nouns with a diminutive suix have been lexical-
ized so that they may look like diminutives in form, but semantically they are not. his is true for
zapałki ‘matches’, książki ‘books’, and zegarki ‘watches’. Only miętówki ‘mint-candy’, czekoladki
‘chocolates’, and batoniki ‘candy-bars’ (translator 2) are true diminutives.
5. In Swedish, diminutives are mostly used with children’s names, and when used with com-
mon nouns, they have the efect of ‘sweetening’ them. Some form of emotion is also involved
when diminutives are used in Slavic or in German and Dutch, but this lightens the mood rather
than making it ‘sweet’. In the latter languages, it therefore feels like an appropriate device for the
‘cosy’ list of objects gathered together here in the booths.
Iconicity in translation 175
order to rhythmically and phonetically echo choklad (‘chocolate’). By shortening
‘paperbacks’ to böcker, (‘books’), the rhythm was preserved as was the word-medial
repetition of the English consonants in matches/watches by using plosive /k/ in
böcker and klockor. All this added to the sense of multiplicity. One problem Swedish
encountered with this approach (i.e. with the shortening of words) was that tän-
dstickor (‘matches’), when shortened to stickor (which is preferable from a rhyth-
mical point of view) is ambiguous. To keep the rhythm, therefore, the translator
suggested replacing stickor by drycker (‘drinks’). his replicates the rhythm, the /k/
plosive, and of end-rhyme <-er> (/ər/) in böcker; and comes close to replicating
the <-or> in klockor.
For the German translator, too, the staccato rhythm and sound symbolism
were of great importance. he translator was struck by the repetition of voiceless
africates in the original, by the voiceless consonant clusters and by the succession
of trochees. In addition she noticed a clear/dark vowel alternation in Chiclets and
chocolates, which, she argues, was reminiscent of childhood nursery rhymes. For
her, the discordant collection of objects were united by the concordant efects of
rhythm and sound repetition, making the scene seem both connected and discon-
nected at the same time. As she says, “he protagonist steps out of the hotel and
sees many things. He perceives these things as impressions that are at the same
time connected and disconnected to each other; they seem to be like lashes to
him.” For the German translator, therefore, the sounds of the words were as least
as important as the semantic value of those words. And her translation kept those
sounds. Chiclets and chocolates were translated as Snickers and Crackers, preserv-
ing the voiceless consonants, the voiceless consonant clusters, and the clear/dark
vowel alternation; matches and watches were translated as Tabak (‘tobacco’) and
Wecker (‘alarm clock’), and the paperbacks became Klatschblätter (‘gossip sheets’
i.e. tabloids) rather than Taschenbücher (‘pocketbooks’), which sounded too tame.
Blätter also created a nice assonance with Wecker. Even though the translator devi-
ated from the exact semantic values of the words, she endeavoured to stay within
the same semantic ield (e.g. by substituting tobacco for matches). In addition,
asyndeton – i.e. the grammatical iconicity – was preserved.
Although Dutch is more closely related to German and Swedish than to Polish,
the Dutch translator recreated the iconicity of this passage using a strategy similar
to that employed by the Polish translators, i.e. by making use of diminutives. A dif-
ference is that the Dutch diminutives, unlike some Polish ones, are not lexicalized:
vol kraampjes [dim] die leuren met chocolaatjes[dim], klokjes[dim],
full [of] booths that peddle [with] chocolates, watches,
vuurstokjes[dim], pepermunt, paperbacks.
matches, peppermint, paperbacks.
176 Imogen Cohen and Olga Fischer
he use of diminutives in Dutch is not necessarily restricted to small objects; they
can easily be used to list objects for sale in great number. he big advantage of
using the diminutives -(p)je, -(t)je or -(k)je is that this extra syllable speeds up
the rhythm and shortens the stem-vowel. he rhythm and the identity of matches,
watches (‘vuurstokjes’, ‘klokjes’) was in this way preserved.6 Chiclets was less easy to
translate, for reasons to do with both the semantics and the rhythm of the word. It
was therefore replaced by the semantically close pepermunt which, when moved to
just before paperbacks (a loanword in Dutch), creates both a repetition of rhythm
and sound: the irst two syllables of paperback and pepermunt are pronounced
identically as /pe:pər/.
Translating the even iambic rhythm of lines 6–8 and the sudden trochaic and
spondaic jumps in lines 9 and 10, proved a hard nut to crack. Most translators
did not succeed or did not try because the iconicity here is less striking. Lexical
choices oten proved diicult here too because words such as latbed and custom
pickup were too speciic or technical and hence diicult to match, while pack,
pumped up and cruising past carried strong sexual connotations which were hard
to capture because one would not want to make them explicit.
he Dutch translator nicely managed line 6, preserving both the rhythm and
the connotation of sexual hunting, using the word meute (usually associated with
hounds) for pack and meiden rather than the more usual and ‘purer’ word (school)
meisjes. Also lines 8 and 9 created few problems in capturing the rhythm and the
trochaic foot (both jeeps and prop- are stressed). he efect of staccato sounds was
also partially preserved by the use of alliteration in meute meiden, and the pres-
ervation of sharp plosives /t/, /p/, /k/ in lines 6 and 9, matching the English ones.
Similarly some of the nasals and liquids were preserved in line 8:
Een meute meiden met patat …
A pack [of] girls with chips.
Een laadbak vol gejank van honden. Een tweetal jeeps propvol cadetten
An open-lorry full howling of dogs. A two-some jeeps brimful cadets
Swedish also managed to preserve sounds and rhythm in:
En grupp skollickor ätande chips.
A group schoolgirls eating chips
En lakbil full med gläfsande hundar. Ett par jeepar fullpackade med kadetter.
A lat-car full with yelping dogs. A pair jeeps full-packed with cadets
6. Even though vuurstokjes ‘ire-sticks’ as a translation of matches is somewhat odd (since it
normally refers to little irework sticks), the more usual lucifers simply did not it the sounds and
the rhythm.
Iconicity in translation 177
Here the trochaic foot, as in the Dutch translation, is preserved by adding the
stressed morpheme full to packade. he lavour of sexual hunting in the line about
schoolgirls, however, was lost in the use of the word grupp ‘group’ (this was also
the case in the irst Polish translation, which used grupka[dim], but not in the sec-
ond one, which used stadko ‘lock/bevy’, preserving both the appropriate sounds
and the connotation).
he German translator was especially concerned to keep the plosive sounds to
convey the aggressive atmosphere,7 thereby sacriicing the meter:
Ein Pritschenwagen voller kläfender Köter. Ein Jeep-Paar proppenvol mit Kadetten
A latbed-truck full yapping curs. A jeep-pair brimful with cadets
he other translators on the whole managed to preserve the harsh plosive and/
or fricative sounds, or they drew attention to the intensity of the lines by using
alliteration and the repetition of syllables/word-stems as can clearly be seen in the
second Polish translation (given in bold):
Przejeżdżający obok przerobiony z limuzyny pickup z głośnikami[instr]
Cruising by converted from limousine pickup with speakers
Podkręconymi[instr] na pełny regulator. Platforma pełna skomlących psów
Turned-up on full regulator. Platform full of-whining dogs
Some struggled with the connotations but could convey some of the lavour by
using slang words, as was done, for instance, in the Serbian translation, using
friziran (‘tweaked’) for custom and daska (lit. ‘plank’, i.e. ‘the limit’) for max.
3.2 he second passage
his time we will concentrate more on syntax and lexis. However, one inal remark
on sounds is appropriate, i.e. the sounds associated with the siren, because most
translators responded to it. We noted above that the squealing of the /sairən/ was
echoed in ive occurrences of /ai/ and in the onomatopoeic /i:/, /i/, /ε/ sounds
(at least twenty-one times) in the English original. In the Slavic and Germanic
languages, this could be handled efectively using the high /i(:)/ and clear close
/e:/ sounds present in their words for siren: syrena/sirena/siren(e)/Sirene, thus
relecting both the onomatopoeic imitation of the squealing itself augmented
with associative sound symbolism. hese high sounds are further enhanced when
accompanied by a nasal n or a palatalized consonant (see note 8).
7. For this reason she also translated ‘pack of schoolgirls” by Schulmädchenpack, which is
analogous to the negative Räuberpack ‘band of robbers’.
178 Imogen Cohen and Olga Fischer
To start of with Serbian, the /i(:)/ and /e(:)/ are repeated frequently in lines 2,
3, and 5:
Bio je to nepoznat krik, ni pseći ni vučji.
Was it unknown scream, neither dog-like nor wolf-like
Bio je drukčiji od bilo kog zvuka koji je on do tada čuo od životinje.
Was[it] diferent from any sound which has he until then heard from an-animal.
Vrisak se digao i spustio kao sirena, jeziv i srebrn i nezemaljski.
Shriek rose and fell like a-siren, eerie and silvery and unearthly
And similar sounds can be found in the second Polish translation in lines 2–5:8
ni to psi ni wilczy … przez zwierzę, jaki kiedykolwiek słyszał. … Dźwięk
neither dog-like nor wolf-like … by animal that anytime he-heard. …Sound
wznosił się i opadał jak syrena, niesamowity i srebrzysty i nieziemski
rose and fell like siren, eerie and silver and unearthly
In the Dutch translation, the high sounds could be repeated without much dif-
iculty in lines 3 to 7, again both preceding and following the word for siren:
Het leek op geen geluid dat hij ooit een dier hadhorenmaken.Zijnhuidkromp
It looked like no sound that he ever an animalhadhear(d)make.Hisskinshrank
ineen. De schreeuw gilde gelijk een sirene, griezelig en zilver en onaards.
inwards. he cry yelled like a siren, eery and silver and unearthly.
Het scheen…
It seemed…
In German, (and to a lesser extent in Swedish) the /i(:)/ sounds echoing German
Sirene were condensed and prominent in line 5 immediately following the siren:
German: wie eine Sirene, irrsinnig und silbrig und nicht irdisch
Swedish: som en siren, kusligt och silvrigt och spöklikt
like a siren, eerie and silvery and not earthly/spooky
he German translator remarked that she replaced the more usual translation of
eerie, i.e. unheimlich by irrsinnig (‘insane’) and she used nicht irdisch rather than
unirdisch (with a negative preix as used in English) in order to emphasize the
8. he irst translator uses more or less the same words in the second part of line 5: jak syrena
alarmowa, niesamowity, nieziemski, srebrzysty” (‘like an alarm siren, eerie, unearthly, silvery’),
but fewer associative high vowels in the lines before that. he second translator writes: phoneti-
cally zwierzę, …kolwiek, dźwięk, się, niesamowity, and nieziemski are all cases where a palatal
consonant (given in bold here) – indicated in the spelling by <i> – is followed by an [ɛ] sound;
all these palatal consonants are ‘high and front’ in nature, thus repeating and emphasizing the
sound made by the siren.
Iconicity in translation 179
appropriate sound context /i:/ for the siren, adding that, as a contrast, she used
dark vowels in the irst part of this line (Das Jaulen wurde lauter und leiser for he
pheal rose and fell) to indicate the whining increase and decrease of the rising and
falling siren.
In Japanese, the ‘eery’ sounds were more diicult to catch via associative
sound symbolism because the word for siren did not contain any high vowels. he
translation also required a number of mutations: the phrase ‘rose and fell’ was
rendered as yokuyo (‘inlection’), which is a noun; the literal translation of ‘silver’,
gin, does not convey the chilliness of the original, which was felt to be crucial here,
so it was let out; the order of the words for eery and chilly was reversed because
hiebieshita usukimiwarukute (‘chilly and came into ears easily’), sounded more
natural while ‘unearthly’, could only be explained by a full sentence: konoyono-
mono-towa omoenakatta:
Sairen-no-yona yokuyo-de hiebieshite usukimiwaruku,
[it was] siren-like inlection-and chilly-and eerie,
konoyonomono-towa omoenakatta.
and-[it]-being-on-the-earth was-unthinkable
As for lexis, all participants noted the dehumanization or alienation intimated
by the use of the Latinate words, alien, canine, lupine, and especially the very
rare pheal (meaning ‘the cry a jackal makes when hunting’) in the irst ive lines.
It proved a challenge to translate this sense of unease because most languages –
especially a non-European language like Japanese – cannot use Latin words to the
extent that English can for the purpose of expressing distance and lack of intimacy
or comfort. It was interesting to see, however, that quite oten similar solutions
were found to convey the idea of Verfremdung.
he most surprising way out of this conundrum was ofered by the Japanese
translation, reverting as it did to a visual solution. he translator used the inser-
tion of Kanji (Chinese characters) rather than hiragana or katakana (Japanese
syllabic scripts) to make the text more formal and scary; she used, for instance, 犬
for canine, rather than いぬ or イヌ. his could be seen as somewhat similar to the
use of Latin in English:
he Germanic languages compensated with archaic, formal words or with
lexically and phonetically longer words, and/or more elaborate syntax, all of which
cause a slowing down of the low of the passage. In Dutch, for instance, the regular
word for begin (the Dutch cognate beginnen) was replaced by the formal aanvan-
gen, and alien was translated by the longer and stranger buitenaards (‘outside-
earth[adj]’) instead of the more usual vreemd (‘strange’). he words neither … nor
were translated with the old-fashioned single correlative noch. In the syntax, the
predicate Het was (‘It was’) was repeated by means of an added extra predicate: het
180 Imogen Cohen and Olga Fischer
kwam (‘it came’), thus creating a slower pace and more formality in the two con-
secutive clauses (as in fact the English text does in line 3, where It was is repeated).
In addition, the indeinite article was let out before the nouns hond ‘dog’ and wolf;
this not only sounds archaic but it also makes the phrase more scary by invoking
not only single creatures but all of ‘dog-’ and ‘wolf-kind’ (which is indeed what the
use of adjectives rather than count nouns convey in English):
en toen ving het huilen aan. Het was een buitenaardse schreeuw,
and then commenced the howling [on]. It was an extra-terrestrial cry
het kwam van hond noch wolf
it came from dog nor wolf
Swedish compensated by inverting the regular word order ater då ‘then’, and by
repeating the morpheme -likt (‘associated with’). In Swedish, however, the foreign-
ness of canine and lupine had to be expressed by articulating its uniqueness; this is
why egedomligt was added to reinforce främmande vrål:
och då började ylandet. Det var ett egendomligt främmande vrål,
and then started howling. It was a peculiar alien roar,
varken hundlikt eller varglikt.
neither dog-like nor wolf-like
he German translator added an archaic dative -e ending to weder von einem
Hunde noch von einem Wolfe (‘neither from a dog nor from a wolf’) and used a
longer word and a less usual collocation in rendering ‘an alien cry’ as fremdartiges
Schreien rather than fremder Schrei. Similarly in line 3, she used the more formal
vernommen rather than gehört, which would have been the more common transla-
tion of heard.
he second Polish translator compensated with long words, such as niesamow-
ity and srebrzysty, with phonemically unusual words, e.g. skowyt, and some poetic
phrases like ni to… ni…, i … i, i.e. the repetition of the conjunctions ni and i:
… i wtedy zaczął się ten skowyt. To był jakiś obcy odgłos, ni to psi ni
and then began this howl. It was some alien sound, neither dog-like nor
wilczy … niesamowity i srebrzysty i nieziemski
wolf-like eerie and silver and unearthly
he Serbian translator used a very similar strategy. She also compensated for
the Latin words with phrases retaining a poetic function, e.g. by repeating Bio
je ‘it was’, and, as in Polish, with the correlatives ni…ni… and i…i… In addition
she used inanimate subjects with relexive verbs as in Koža mu se naježila ‘Skin
[on]him by-itself crawled’ and Vrisak se digao i spustio ‘[the]shriek by-itself rose
and fell’.
Iconicity in translation 181
Turning now to the syntax. All translators kept the inanimate subjects of the
irst eight lines, even though that was not easy in the phrase His skin crawled. But
creative solutions were found to match the English phrase, cf. Polish: Przeszły go
ciarki (‘Pierced him creeps[subj]’) and Przejął go zimny dreszcz (‘Gripped him
cold shiver[subj]’), German: Ein Grauen ergrif ihn (‘A horror gripped him’); note,
by the way, the very efective /gr/ sounds here, easily associated, as the translator
writes, with “tremor and goosebumps”). All these translations chose a construc-
tion where the verb crawl morphed into a nominal subject with his being involved
more directly because it is given the role of experiencer or direct object. Swedish
kept the verb but also used a construction where a prepositional object took the
place of his: Det kröp under huden på honom ‘(it crept under the skin on him’). his
is rather similar to Serbian, which however preserved ‘skin’ as subject: Koža mu se
naježila (‘skin him[dat] by-itself crawled’); Japanese: 背筋がぞっとした/ Sesuji-ga
zotto-shita (‘[his] spine got chills’), and Dutch: Zijn huid kromp ineen (‘His skin
shrank inwards’) were the only translations that kept the original inanimate sub-
ject without explicitly involving the human experiencer.
Time leapt, was the pivot that provided the sudden change to the next passage,
marking the diference between the static nature of the irst part and the fran-
tic activity taking place in the next. To be efective, the sentence and the words
in it had to be short, and the sounds sudden and compact, almost all of which
is present in Time leapt. No one really succeeded here. Swedish: Tiden sprang
iväg (‘he time sprang away’) is too long (and the sounds not abrupt enough)
because it has to use a deinite article as well as a particle to complete the verb.
he same applies to Dutch (with a preix rather than a particle): De tijd versprong,
and to German: Die Zeit sprang, even though a particle can be let out there. In
Serbian and Polish, there were similar problems as can be seen from Vreme je
proletelo (‘Time had-lown by’) and Czas wykonał skok (‘Time made leap’)/Susem
skoczył czas (‘With-[a]leap leapt time[subj]’) respectively, even though in these
languages there is no article to worry about. In Japanese, it was translated as 時が
駆け抜けた toki-ga kakenukata (‘Time rushed/ran/dashed through’) to emphasize
the speed even though it is unusual to combine the verb kakenukata with a non-
human subject.
he chaotic disorder expressed by the “directional phrases without direction”
in ll. 9–11 was not diicult to convey in terms of lexis or grammar. he opposite
was true for the haste and purposeless activity suggested by the repetition of the
progressive -ing form and the frequentatives in struggle and scramble (reinforced
by a high frequency of liquids /l/, /r/ in the passage). In many languages of the
workshop, inite past tenses had to be used since present participles were not avail-
able for this English structure. his made the activity look more precise and inten-
tional. An example from Dutch will suice here:
182 Imogen Cohen and Olga Fischer
Hij krabbelde op, de anderen schreeuwden en strompelden wezenloos om
He struggled up, the others shouted and stumbled senseless round
hem heen
him onwards
Polish and Serbian, however, were able to use imperfectives here, e.g. in
Polish podnosił rather than perfective podniósł, to convey an impression of
incompleteness:
Polish: Z trudem podnosił się na nogi, inni krzyczeli i szamotali się
With diiculty he-rose on legs, others shouted and scrambled
wokół niego
around him
Serbian: Sa mukom je stao na noge, ostali su uzvikivali i
With diiculty [he]stood on [his]feet, [the]rest are exclaiming and
jurili oko njega
scrambling around him
Frequentatives were expressively used only in Dutch in krabbelde and strompelden,
while the translator added an extra word wezenloos to render the sense of
purposelessness.9
here is no space to go into the details of the last part of passage 2. All transla-
tors managed to keep the large number of negatives in ll. 18–19, with Polish and
Serbian even adding an extra, sixth one in nie dawać żadnego ostrzeżenia ‘not
give no warning’ and Nije davala ni glasa ‘not making no sound’, respectively, thus
emphasizing the non-activity (magnetized, ixed) of the dog. Similar challenges
occurred here – as we already noted above and in Section 2.2 – in connection
with syntax, again involving present participles (breaching, dropping, running) fre-
quentatives (fumbling, straggling), and passive subjects (Someone put a gun in his
hands, He found himself loading it) indicating frantic but non-directed activities.
Translators managed in one way or another to take the direction out of the inite
verb if their grammar forced it upon them (only Polish could use the verbal suix
-jąc to render the multiple -ing forms in loading, dropping, searching); for instance,
by using an extra subordinate clause, as was done in Japanese and Polish, for He
found himself loading it:
9. he other translators found no ways to indicate a sense of hesitation or purposelessness by
means of frequentative suixes, or by other means such as reduplication (cf. Fischer 2011:67).
Imperfectives can be used in Polish and Serbian as frequentatives but only in certain contexts.
Iconicity in translation 183
Japanese: Soshite ki-ga tsukuto tama-wo kometeita
And when [he]noticed, bullets [he]was-loading
Polish: zorientował się, że go ładuje.
[he]realized that it[acc][he]loads
4. Brief concluding remarks
Hofstadter (2001:526) describes communication as ‘taking an intricate dance that
can be danced in one and only one medium, and then, despite the intimacy of
the marriage of that dance to that medium, making a radically new dance that is
intimately married to a radically diferent medium, and in just the same way as
the irst dance was to its medium’. Translation is a form of communication, and we
have seen here in detail how translation is like a dance, involving creative twists
and turns, involving more than a ‘mapping from one purely hydrated chain of
symbols to another’; as Hofstadter writes: there is a need for ‘adding water’ at each
stage of the process (ibid.: 528).
It is interesting to observe that most translators had few problems on the
purely lexical and phonological levels. Sound symbolism, both the more direct,
onomatopoeic as well as the associative kind, was closely observed and many
eforts were made to choose those words that most closely relected sounds con-
sidered to contribute to the overall sense or atmosphere of the text. When the
lexical items themselves were not in any way thematic or crucial to the logic of the
narrative, completely diferent words were frequently selected to obey the sense
conveyed by the sounds.
To preserve the meter or rhythm of the text proved more diicult. he reasons
for this may be that irst of all we are probably less conscious of this aspect in a
prose text, and second, that an attempt to stick to it results not only in a change of
a few words but in a change of overall phrasing. his might then lead to a transla-
tion that is considered too free. he loss of rhythm, in other words, will more likely
be considered a small loss or sacriice compared to the bigger losses sufered at the
lexico-grammatical level.
We note a similar caution when it comes to grammar. Clearly, grammatical
constructions difer from language to language, especially languages belonging to
diferent linguistic branches or language families. And grammar, being more ixed
and conventional than the lexicon, allows the translator less room for manoeuvre,
especially when it comes to word order and the use of particular morphosyntactic
categories (as in our case the use of -ing forms). Here again, then, it would be too
much of an alteration to sacriice the lexical content of a text in order to highlight
184 Imogen Cohen and Olga Fischer
certain grammatical features, even when those features add meaning to a text.
A stratagem that we observed as a solution in our text was to add a word here and
there in order to replace the connotations suggested by the grammar.
References
Anderson, E.R. 1998. A Grammar of Iconism. London: Associated Press.
Bernhart, W. 1999. Iconicity and beyond in ‘Lullaby for Jumbo’: Semiotic functions of poetic
rhythm. In Nänny & Fischer (eds), 155–169.
Fischer, O. 2011. Cognitive iconic grounding of reduplication in language. In Semblance
and Signiication [Iconicity in Language and Literature 10], P. Michellucci, O. Fischer &
C. Ljungberg (eds), 55–81. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/ill.10.04is
Fischer, O. 2014. Iconicity. In he Handbook of Stylistics, P. Stockwell & S. Whiteley (eds), 379–
394. Cambridge: CUP.
Fónagy, I. 1999. Why iconicity. In Nänny & Fischer (eds), 3–36.
Fónagy, I. 2001. Languages within Language. An Evolutive Approach. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
DOI: 10.1075/fos.13
Hofstadter, D. 2001. Analogy as the core of cognition. In he Analogical Mind. Perspectives from
Cognitive Science, D. Gentner, K.J. Holyoak & B.N. Kokinov (eds), 499–538. Cambridge
MA: he MIT Press.
Müller, W.G. 1999. he iconic use of syntax in British and American iction. In Nänny & Fischer
(eds), 393–408.
Müller, W.G. 2001. Iconicity and rhetoric. A note on the iconic force of rhetorical igures in
Shakespeare. In he Motivated Sign [Iconicity in Language and Literature 2], O. Fischer &
M. Nänny (eds), 305–322. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/ill.2.23mul
Nänny, M. 2005. Iconic uses of rhyme. In Outside-In – Inside Out [Iconicity in Language and
Literature 4], C. Maeder, W. Herlofsky & O. Fischer (eds), 195–215. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins DOI: 10.1075/ill.4.16nan
Nänny, M. 1997. Hemingway’s architecture of prose: Chiastic patterns and their narrative func-
tions. North Dakota Quarterly 64(3): 157–176.
Nänny, M. & Fischer, O. (eds). 1999. Form Miming Meaning [Iconicity in Language and Litera-
ture 1]. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/ill.1
Nänny, M. & Fischer, O. 2006. Iconicity: Literary texts. In Encyclopedia of Language & Linguis-
tics, Vol 5, 2nd edn, K. Brown (ed. in chief), 462–472. Oxford: Elsevier.
DOI: 10.1016/B0-08-044854-2/00516-2
Tabakowska, E. 2003. Iconicity and literary translation. In From Sign to Signing [Iconicity in
Language and Literature 3], W.G. Müller & O. Fischer (eds), 361–376. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/ill.3.24tab
Tsujimura, N. 2007. An Introduction to Japanese Linguistics. Oxford: Blackwell.
Vinay, J.-P. & Darbelnet, J. 1958. Stylistique comparée du français et de l’anglais. Paris: Didier.
doi 10.1075/ill.14.10fre
© 2015 John Benjamins Publishing Company
he days pass…
Iconicity and the experience of time
Anne Freadman
University of Melbourne
his paper presents a study of three diaries, written by French Jews during the
Occupation of France by Nazi Germany, when, as elsewhere in Europe, they
were subject to severe persecution. It is also a case study, in that the examples
serve to investigate the semiotics of their genre. I read these diaries for the
experience of time that they reveal, for which iconicity is a necessary but not suf-
icient condition. I shall start briely with the diary of Saül Castro (Castro 2007),
who was held for several months in Drancy and Compiègne, and then released.
hen, at greater length, those of Jacques Biélinky (Biélinky 1992), and Hélène
Berr (Berr 2008), who were both deported and killed. For reasons inherent in
the circumstances under which they were written, all these diaries show an
acute awareness of time.
1. A little theory
I follow Paul Ricoeur to say what I mean by ‘time’ (Ricoeur 1984–1988).
Fundamental to the framework of his analyses are two distinctions: the irst is
between cosmic time and human time, and the second within the category of
human time, is between public time and time as it is lived. he following diagram
(Figure 1) shows that at no point is time distinct from its representations, but
Ricoeur’s particular interest is in the phenomenology of time, that is, the experi-
ence of time, and this he inds in narrative. In English we speak of “telling time”,
which refers equally to counting and to narrative. If cosmic time is measured,
human time is told.
Ricoeur’s work focuses on the diference between historical and ictional nar-
rative. Using his work in my recent book on Colette’s memory writing, I found it
necessary to go beyond this dichotomy (Freadman 2012:12–15). his is because
diferent genres do their representing work in diferent ways, so if as Ricoeur
claims all narrative tells time, I want to know how diferent genres – and in this
case, diaries – do so.
186 Anne Freadman
he minimal semiotic conditions for a piece of writing to count as a diary are
iconic and indexical. Take those book-like objects called ‘diaries’ that we acquire at
the beginning of any year and ill in progressively with appointments and remind-
ers, and imagine if you will the empty format. Calendar time is organised into
embedded hierarchical levels – the year, the month, the week, then the day and
sometimes the time. Before they are illed in – before they start to fulil their
purpose – they consist of pages ruled into blocks of blank space. Each block of
blank space is labelled with the name of the weekday and a number in sequence,
from least to greatest, so that the number taken in conjunction with its place in
the embedded hierarchy, represents the date. hus the format is devised to use the
form of a bound book (I am supposing a Western diary) to take the user from let
to right through this succession. he successive blocks are an icon of the passing
of time, and the dating system is indexical. Empty, this is a diagram of Ricoeur’s
‘public time’; personalised and illed in, the diary represents time lived.
he discursive or literary genre that we call a diary is not usually found in
books devised in this form. On loose leaves of paper or note-books, sometimes
in school exercise books, the succession of dates is supplied by the writer, and
the entries are not restricted to equal units of space. From this point of view, the
format sketched above for the predictive diary is an abstraction, and the entries
are made in the future, planning appointed activities and meetings for the days
and weeks to come. he kind of writing that interests me is more oten than not
a record of events, of time spent, of experiences undergone: it is retrospective,
though perhaps only at the distance of an hour or a day. If the use of a printed
diary form expresses a certain conidence in the future, in the outcomes of deci-
sions, we will ind that the diaries I discuss have no such conidence. In this sense,
they represent time lived in the minimal, yet the most deeply experiential form,
in the present, as the days pass.
hese two kinds of diaries have in common their minimal semiotic condi-
tions – the iconic form of successive units representing the passage of time, and the
indexical device of dating these units. But the purpose to which these conditions
Cosmic Time
Public time
vs Human time
(the laws of astrophysics;
season and tides;
measurements)
(calendars)
lived time
(narrative)
Figure 1. Devices for representing time (following Ricoeur)
Iconicity and the experience of time 187
are put difers signiicantly in the two cases: one predicts, the other records. he
predictive diary focuses on the future, and commits to fulilling certain undertak-
ings; the retrospective diary keeps a record of the day’s activities and events as
they take place, and sometimes relects upon them. Clearly the minimal condi-
tions are determinant of the broad parameters of the genre, but the two purposes
interpret this genre diferently. To do so, they must be activated discursively. In
what follows, I will investigate this for the retrospective diary only, focussing on
two familiar concepts, one being ‘deixis’ and the other ‘narrative’.
Deixis is the abstract point from which emerges the ‘I’ that speaks, anchoring the
act of uttering in a here and now. In other genres, the deictic anchor may remain
unspeciied, but in the case of diaries, the entries are dated, thus tying together
public time (the calendar) with time lived. his time is lived by a body as it moves
through time and space, in close or distant relation with other people, objects
and events. As a result of this, the writing itself is an event, clearly placed in rela-
tion with other events. I will distinguish the ‘events told’ (Benveniste’s énoncé)
from the ‘event of the telling’ (Benveniste’s énonciation) (Benveniste 1974:II v))
(Figure 2).
Deixis
I-here-now
reference/the events told
énoncé
discursive act/the event of the telling
énonciation
Figure 2. Deixis (following Benveniste)
he time of the events told, and the time of the telling, are articulated one with
the other by deixis, and the daily entries of a diary bring them close together.1
Nevertheless, we will see shortly why it is important to keep the distinction in
mind.
Now let me turn to narrative, which is a term that requires some clariication. I will
need to distinguish between “the story told” (the énoncé), and the “narration of
that story” (the énonciation), and within the former, between stories structured by
plot, and the narrative of events not so structured. his is because the diary does
1. It is for this reason that it is oten said that diaries are written “contemporaneously” with the
events recounted. his cannot be strictly true, but the memory that informs the entries is fresh,
and the sequence of entries follows closely the sequence of events.
188 Anne Freadman
not write a coherent retrospective story as does, say, a memoir of the same period;
nor does it construct a complex ‘iguration’ of time such as Ricoeur inds in the
novels he studies. he entries are fragmentary and discontinuous. Diaries written
under normal conditions may sometimes override this condition; the diaries I am
studying do not. With few exceptions, diaries written under conditions of catastro-
phe have no memory, and they have no sense of a future that can grow predictably
out of the past. Fiona Kaufman discusses this as ‘de-emplotment’ (Kaufman 2011).
he life-story is blocked, the present is all-enguling, the future can only be the
present repeated, or worse. he very form of the diary, its discontinuous dailiness,
becomes iconic of this dissolution of plot.
With these theoretical elements in mind, let me formulate the precise contours
of the question I ask: what is needed to transform the iconic-indexical representa-
tion of time of the diary format into a representation of the experience of time? My
answer will consist in the elaboration of the following propositions:
– Deixis articulates the time of the telling with the time of the events told, where
the former is dated by the indexical conventions of the diary, thus mapping
lived time on to the public time of the calendar.
– he narrative consists of discontinuous, successive entries, as a result of the
iconic convention of the diary format, the successive units separated one
from the other, notionally by ruled lines, or by interruptions to the writing.
Each entry is an event of writing (énonciation), and each narrates other events
(énoncé).
2. he diaries
We can say that ‘I’ and the discursive act are mutually constituted by deixis, which
locates the discursive subject in time, giving it an anchor from which to look for-
ward and look back. he anchor shits with each utterance. It is easy to see how
this works for the act of speaking in real time, where the discursive act occupies
discrete moments in the low of time, but in general, this fact is disguised or over-
ridden in writing. Nevertheless, it is shown formally and constitutively in a diary.
he entries do not just say ‘I’, they record the succession of those acts of saying.
he event of writing tells time, marking it and making sense of it, and this, even
when there are no events to record. his is dramatically illustrated by my irst
example, the diary of Saül Castro.2 Nothing tells the internees the date unless they
2. Castro’s diary was started in Drancy and continued following his removal to Compiègne;
only the latter part has been published.
Iconicity and the experience of time 189
keep count of it themselves. As we know from other prison narratives, marking
the passing of days has the function of a survival strategy. But Castro does not
just make marks on the wall, crossing those marks of in groups of ive or ten. He
writes out each day. he routine of the camp day consisted of the roll-call, the serv-
ing of a nondescript hot drink in the morning, of soup at midday, another roll-call,
and the distribution of a piece of bread and margarine in the evening. he routine
did not vary. Castro records this repeated routine in entries that are themselves
relentlessly repetitive. However, ater about six weeks of this, instead of repeating
the pattern, he sums it up:
Janvier 24 1942
Toute la nuit il a plu, c’est le dégel, il fait rudement humide; enin la température
est plus supportable. On va à l’appel; on patauge dans la boue et dans l’eau; mes
pieds sont mouillés et sales, l’eau a traversé mes chaussures. À la in de l’appel nous
rentrons vivement. Je marche péniblement, je n’ai pas la force de me tenir debout,
je réagis, je vacille sur mes jambes et je monte péniblement les trois marches pour
rentrer à mon bâtiment, je regagne ma chambre où je me mets au lit.
On vient de nous annoncer qu’il nous sera distribué des cigarettes, est-ce un bobard?
[…] À midi on a eu la soupe réglementaire, et le soir nous dînons d’un bout de pain
avec la margarine; ainsi s’écoulent les journées. (my emphasis, p. 265)
[It rained all night, it’s the thaw, everything’s wet, but the temperature is more
bearable. We go to roll-call; we paddle in mud and water; my feet are wet and
dirty and my shoes are leaking. Ater roll-call we hurry back in, I can barely walk,
barely stay upright, my legs tremble and I struggle up the three steps to the build-
ing, back to my dormitory, into bed.
hey’ve just told us we’re getting cigarettes, is it true? […] At midday we had our
regulation soup, in the evening dinner consists of our bit of bread and margarine;
so the days go by.]3
Remarkable in this entry is the use of the tenses: the passage mixes past tenses (il
a plu, on a eu, on vient de), designating particular events, with an ambiguous use
of the present tense, interpretable either as a historic present (particularising in
the same way as a past) or as a generalising present, which shows that the pattern
of activities is repetitive. In the inal sentence, it is no longer ambiguous. Here it
colludes with the plural (les journées) and the semantics of the verb to draw atten-
tion to repetition as such, which becomes the point of the entry: ainsi s’écoulent
les journées [so the days go by].
To this point, reading this diary and others like it is excruciating. Nothing
changes, identical details in identical sequence, identical content illing in the
3. All translations are my own.
190 Anne Freadman
regular compartments of identical units of time, in entries of identical length. It
is as if the act of keeping the diary simply asserts that the days pass, and assert-
ing, makes it so. his is the verbal equivalent of the marks on the prison wall. Yet
Castro breaks the pattern on this day, when the repetition becomes the back-
ground – indeed, he writes, it has become a ‘habit’ (p. 280) – and he begins to
record little events: a clandestine parcel which has to be carefully caught across the
barbed-wire fence, or someone collapsing during roll-call; there are infestations
of lice; people die. his is the beginning of narrative, with background and fore-
ground, characters, the expectation of change, even suspense. Eventually, Castro
records changes in his state of health: we read them with a sense of anticipation.
We need a story, even one of pain. His repeated questions become our own: ‘when
will our torture end?’(p. 283), – and of course, how? here can be only death, or
release. From recording time as a mere sequence of repeated units, Castro’s diary
comes to record the experience of time, lived in the very substance of the body.
Castro breaks the pattern of repetition with two devices: irst, the use of the
generalising present, which allows him to refer to a span of time – ‘always’ – not
conined to the present moment of linear time; and second, by particularising
moments – on vient de [they just] – and later, particularising days in the sequence
such that there emerges a distinction between past and future, yesterday and
tomorrow. hese are both matters of reference, reference to time, for which tense
is indispensable. Only discourse can do this, diferentiating within the space of
reference, referring to time as multi-dimensional and complex, locating bits of
experience in temporal relation to each other. If the object of the iconic form is
mere sequence, that of the discursive diary is inter alia time as such. Nevertheless,
it is the iconic form of the diary that conditions a sequential reading of the entries,
and this that incites or invites us to read the diary as a diary: does anything change
in the told, or in the telling? I shall return to this below.
I want now to turn to two very diferent diaries, both written before the dia-
rists were deported. Again, I want to focus on the event of writing, the actual keep-
ing of the diary as a way of living time. In both, however, the interesting thing will
be the relation between the time of the diary, and ‘the times’.
he irst is the diary written by Jacques Biélinky who was a journalist pre-
vented by the Vichy laws from exercising his profession. he journal starts on
July 19 1940, a month ater the capitulation of France. Within that irst month,
the Vichy government had promulgated some key anti-Jewish decrees, includ-
ing the prohibition on Jews working in the public media. he diary ends on
December 17 1942. Biélinky was arrested shortly ater this, incarcerated in Drancy,
then deported on March 23 1943. Nothing in the inal entry of the diary suggests
that he knew that it was inal, and the indications are that it was just the end of
Iconicity and the experience of time 191
that notebook. We can speculate that he probably started a new one that was lost
along with its writer.
here is a brief entry for every day during that period. hese entries take the
form of a journalist’s notes. Frequently the sentences are incomplete. Most entries
use only a perfect ininitive to indicate a narrative of the episodes they record.
Reading it, I imagine that Biélinky was continuing as best he could to perform his
professional calling, and that he was preparing an aide-mémoire for some future
purpose, say a book. ‘I was a journalist, I continue to be a journalist, and this is
what I am called upon to report.’ he entries are unelaborated and fragmentary.
he French term journal refers equally to a newspaper and a diary. Biélinky’s
journal is written at the very point where these two genres meet (or separate).
Furthermore, there is no exploitation of the possibilities ofered by deixis to put
the witness into the story he records. his is raw reporting: like a newspaper, it
indexes the times, but like a diary, it also represents iconically the succession of
days; dating is typical for each, and, as for a newspaper, Biélinky makes an entry
for every day during the period of the diary. he text thus performs the minimum
necessary condition for a diary, but it is not clear yet that it constructs a repre-
sentation of the experience of time. For this, we need to look more closely at the
operation of deictic markers. Let us examine some passages.
21 octobre 1940
J’apprends qu’il y a déjà sept suicides parmi les Juifs de Paris, parmi lesquels le ils
du professeur V. Basch, qui était médecin des hôpitaux, et de Twersky, homme de
lettres. (pp. 62–63)
[I hear that there are already seven suicides among the Jews of Paris, amongst
whom the son of Professor V. Basch, who was a government doctor, and Twersky,
a writer.]
he present tense used here is not a generalising, but a historic present, mark-
ing the learning of some fact as an event in itself and noted down immediately.
Following that, what is learnt is also noted in the present – there are (not ‘there
have been’) seven suicides – with the efect that the noun refers as much to the
person as to the act; the Jewish population of Paris holds them in its midst. Most
dramatically, however, the verb is modiied by the adverb déjà [already]. his mere
adverb carries an experiential freight of considerable signiicance: it notes a sud-
den change, projecting it into a future that has now, as Hélène Berr will write, lost
its mystery. hese seven people have not waited for hope to play itself out: they
have gone straight to the end of the story. Despair has supervened, already. With
this adverb, Biélinky predicts that there will be more suicides, and as the diary
proceeds, he notes them.
192 Anne Freadman
Déjà activates the deictic anchor, giving it an afective charge – alarm in this
case, no doubt; it denotes an event that has happened too soon. It thrusts cogni-
sance of that event into the present and looks towards a future that is pervaded by
its recurrence. Another striking example of this adverb occurs following the impo-
sition of the Yellow Star insignia, which Jews had to wear on their outer clothing
to designate them as a race apart. he decree was promulgated on June 1, to be in
force by June 7. On June 3, Biélinky notes this:
3 juin 1942
On a déjà remarqué dans les rues et au métro des Juifs décorés d’insignes avant le
terme. (p. 214)
[Already, in the streets and in the metro, people have noticed Jews wearing their
insignia, ahead of the deadline.]
Already, in advance of the deadline: here, the adverb déjà is governed by the verb
‘to notice’: people have already seen people wearing the star; but it also refers to the
wearing, already, four days before the date at which the decree is to be enforced.
he speech act of the decree has taken efect immediately. he future has already
been called into the present. here is no time for delay, no time to plan, no time
to try to intervene in the course of events.
he events of persecution are oten thus. Take this further chilling example:
3 août 1942
Schulman, le gérant de la cantine de la rue Richer est déjà déporté en Allemagne.
Cependant on vient d’obtenir sa libération. Sa femme avec enfant est encore internée.
Elle sera bientôt libérée, espère-t-on. (p. 239)
[Schulman, the manager of the cantine of the rue Richer, has already been
deported to Germany. Meanwhile, his release has just been negotiated. His wife
is still interned with the child. We’re hoping that she will soon be free.]
he passage shows a conlict between two time-scales, between the rush to deport
and the slowness of the bureaucratic regime used by ordinary people. With déjà
we learn not only that the deportation came too soon, but that the intervention
came too late; will it be just in time for the mother and child?
Let me return to my irst quotation, in which ‘already’ is not the only remark-
able point. J’apprends qu’il y a déjà sept suicides parmi les Juifs de Paris: it is the
word j’apprends [I hear (or learn)] that commands my attention. Located at the
deictic centre of his activities, ‘I’ not only speaks or writes, it hears. Most impor-
tantly, this diary records the process of information gathering as such. Biélinky
records “new details” (p. 181); he sometimes corrects misinformation, and in fact
the whole diary is a progressively constituted list of little and big facts. Sometimes
these are recorded with a main clause such as “I’ve heard”, or “people have already
Iconicity and the experience of time 193
seen”, and sometimes they are introduced by things read or conversations reported.
An interesting case is this one:
22 août 1941
On raconte que soixante avocats juifs qui exercent encore sont arrêtés. J’ignore si cela
est vrai. (p. 141)
[hey say that sixty Jewish lawyers still in practice have been arrested. I don’t
know if this is true.]
So there is a process of gathering information, and where it is possible, checking it.
his is the journalist’s crat. his process governs the whole diary. I give one inal
example of it, this one depending on a technical detail in the grammar of tense:
24 octobre 1942
Rachel Szalit, artiste peintre, avait été arrêtée et déportée il y a un mois.
(my emphasis, p. 262)
[Rachel Szalit, the painter, had been arrested a month ago.]
he use of the pluperfect here is puzzling, and indeed, ungrammatical. It is dis-
cordant with il y a [ago], which places the deportation directly in relation with the
now of writing. he pluperfect locates the event before something else, but we are
not told what that something else is. he sentence works as if some salient piece of
information is both missing, and taken for granted. We must infer an elision, no
doubt of a clause such as ‘when we noticed we hadn’t seen her’. What we learn by
inference is the shocking fact that a whole month had gone by before we knew. he
pace of events is outstripping the time required to know them.
It is very rare for Biélinky to thematise time; only when noting how long he
spent in the ration queues is time as such a preoccupation for him. Yet the absence
of that theme does not mean that there are no indications of the experience of
time. I noted at the outset that this is a minimalist kind of diary, yet the indications
of tense and the other time markers I have pointed out display the basic, minimal
means for the succession of entries to construct some representation of lived time.
his is the time of the work of the diary, the time of knowing, or of knowing too
late, and the time of anticipation of worse to come. It is the story of the telling,
lived at the point marked by déjà and by partial, premature, belated, or desperately
powerless information.
Biélinky did not spend his time waiting, he spent it chasing news. Unlike
many Jews in Paris at the time, he was extremely well connected across the full
range of communities. If we were to reconstruct his itinerary on any day, let alone
across the full diary, we would discover that he was picking up news and details to
report across the length and breadth of the city. his pattern of news-gathering is
represented by the simple juxtaposition of facts recorded, with very few discursive
194 Anne Freadman
connectors. His days were illed with little facts, the entries in his diary represent
this as a heterogeneous list, a scatter, organised only by the dates of the entries. he
story told by the writing itself is the story of the gathering, not yet, indeed never,
transformed into a continuous narrative. he succession of dates and fragmentary
notes is iconic of this process.
With Castro’s diary, I focussed on the moment when the iconic representa-
tion of repetition gives way to a diferentiated representation of time lived. With
Biélinky’s diary, I have used the mechanisms of deixis to focus on the events of
hearing and recording the times. I now move to a far more highly elaborated diary,
that of Hélène Berr. I will start by focussing on the question of narrative, what
the diarist wants to record; but eventually here too, the writing of the diary itself
becomes the story. To start, I recall the way we sometimes represent the structure
of a plot:
Crisis State of affairs 2
State of affairs 1
Initial situation -
apparently stable
destabilisation new situation
stabilisation
Figure 3. he structure of plot
I referred earlier to Fiona Kaufman’s thesis, that the standard life narrative of peo-
ple in conditions of catastrophe is suspended, that plot itself is rendered impos-
sible. We can represent this with another diagram:
Crisis
Obliteration of
prior
no change obliteration of future
Figure 4. Crisis as de-emplotment (ater Kaufman)
he crisis, the point of change, has here become the whole story. We have seen
this already, in Biélinky’s use of ‘already’, in the Schulman story, or in the Rachel
Szalit story. he story told by Hélène Berr’s diary is a searingly sad illustration of
this point. She was in her early twenties when she was writing it, the third of four
siblings in a prosperous and prominent assimilated Jewish family. A very talented
musician, as well as a student of English literature, in which ield she intended to
do post-graduate work, she meets a young man with whom she falls in love. Her
own word for her life-story as it is taking shape is “possibility”. But the promise of
her life will not be kept.
Iconicity and the experience of time 195
27 octobre 1943
Est-ce que beaucoup de gens auront eu conscience à 22 ans qu’ils pouvaient perdre
brusquement toutes les possibilités qu’ils sentaient en eux – […] – que tout pourrait
leur être ôté, et ne pas se révolter? (pp. 188–9)
[Are there many people of 22 years of age who, discovering suddenly that they
could lose all the potential that they know they have […] that all of this could be
stripped from them, would not revolt?]
She lives in a world of promise, with a strong sense of the promise of her own life.
Now, these promises promise only to be broken, by the unnamed subject of the
verb ôter [to strip]. At this point, Hélène Berr does appear to revolt, but at other
times she resigns herself, giving up her studies, giving up music, preparing her
notes and her diary to be given to Jean in case she has been deported when he
returns.4 She writes of being in a desert (p. 185), of the “terrible upheaval” that
has changed everything in her life (p. 213), of trying to hold on to something that
would give her a practical sense of the future (p. 215). he possibilities of her life
have become impossibilities.
A passage from close to the end of the diary serves to sum up this blocking
of the narrative of life, and at the same time illustrates again the way the deictic
anchor of a diary brings together historical with personal time in the time of
writing.
1 novembre 1943
On a parlé aussi des gaz asphyxiants par lesquels on aurait passé les convois à la
frontière polonaise. Il doit y avoir une origine vraie à ces bruits.
À penser que chaque personne nouvelle qui est arrêtée, hier, aujourd’hui, à cette
heure même, est sans doute destinée à subir ce sort terrible. Penser que ce n’est pas
ini, que cela continue tout le temps avec une régularité diabolique. Penser que si je
suis arrêtée ce soir (ce que j’envisage depuis longtemps), je serai dans huit jours en
Haute-Silésie, peut-être morte, que toute ma vie s’éteindra brusquement, avec tout
l’inini que je sens en moi. (original emphasis, p. 209)
[People talk of gas being pumped into the convoys when they cross the Polish
border. here must be some truth to these rumours.
To think that each new person arrested, yesterday, today, at this very moment,
is destined for this terrible end. To think it’s not inished, that it goes on and on
with a diabolical regularity. To think that if I am arrested this evening (I have been
expecting that for a long time), I will be in Upper Silesia in eight days, perhaps
dead, that my whole life with its ininite possibilities, will be snufed out.]
4. Jean had joined the Free French in North Africa.
196 Anne Freadman
he deictic anchor is here substantivized “at this very moment”; likewise the time
references that low from it. As in the case of Biélinky, the diary reports rumours
and elsewhere, news that arrives in letters, visits and phone calls. Here, the content
of the rumour provides the shape for the blocked narrative: the only plot is more
of the same, the crisis is not “inished”. his is the story of an arrested present.
However, as I have indicated in the case of Biélinky, there is a signiicant dis-
tinction to be made between ‘the story told’ and ‘the story of the telling’. he
distinction helps us to see the diference between the person who is subject to
persecution, and the person who is subject of the writing. When we focus on the
act itself that produces the diary from entry to entry, we ind that it has its own
time and its own story. he story of Biélinky’s writing is the story of gathering
news; signiicantly, in Hélène Berr’s diary, we ind the story of the purpose of
writing. At this level of analysis, it is simply not true that narrative is blocked, or
that there is no plot.
In the early part of the diary, we ind her coniding her personal troubles to
the diary, which she uses instead of bothering her mother.
9 avril 1942
…je ne veux pas faire de la peine à Maman. Déjà ce soir Papa a reçu un avis de
spoliation, et Maman prend tout cela sur son dos, et cache tout.
It suiceth that I have told thee, mon bout de papier; tout va déjà mieux. (p. 24)
[I don‘t want to upset Mother. Already this evening Father received an expropria-
tion notice. Mother takes all this on, and hides her feelings.
It suiceth that I have told thee, my little piece of paper. I feel better already.]
Like many young women at many points in history, Hélène Berr is using her diary
as a conidant. his is noted in a moment of self-relection as to the function of
the diary as such.
It is remarkable that Hélène Berr reports in passing that her father has been
directly afected by the anti-semitic laws.5 Nevertheless, her own problems take
centre stage and she does not register the efect of this dramatic event on her per-
sonally; it is father’s business, and mother’s worry. In general, this backgrounding
of the situation in which they are living is true of the irst ity pages of the diary,
and this constitutes a major contrast between the early and the later parts, where
the relationship between the public turmoil and her personal life is absolutely
reversed. his can be displayed as a narrative transformation (Figures 5 & 6).
he theory of plot teaches us to look for a point of change, where the initial
state of afairs is destabilised, and the new state of afairs is brought about. his
5. he Vichy project to aryanize economic resources was pursued through laws allowing
expropriation of Jewish property and assets. See Marrus & Paxton (1981).
Iconicity and the experience of time 197
point of change is very evident in Hélène Berr’s diary. It occurs in June 1942 when
she is obliged to conform to the edict to wear the yellow star. Her mother tells her
on June 1, at which point she tries to repress it from her consciousness; on June 4
a girlfriend manages to cheer her up about it; later the same day she decides not
to wear it as a form of personal resistance, then changes her mind on the grounds
that it would be cowardly to disavow her Jewish identity; then later again, she
learns of the death in a camp of the father of a friend. It takes about three days,
and one diary entry, for the relation of foreground and background to reverse:
Le 3 juin 1942
Tous les mardis matins, quand je la voyais, je lui demandais des nouvelles de son
père. Ce fait même me le représentait vivant bien plus que tout. Cette déchirure
brutale, l’injustice immense de cette in, c’est atroce – surtout que je l’aime beaucoup,
cette ille.
Je n’avais aucune envie de me réjouir quand tous les camarades sont venus me féli-
citer. La pensée de cette mort me hantait et rendait absolument inexistent le reste.
(p. 55)
[Every Tuesday morning when I saw her, I asked ater her father. More than any-
thing else, this very fact made him a living presence for me. his brutal end, its
massive injustice, is atrocious – [I feel it specially] because I like her a lot.
I didn’t feel like celebrating when my friends came to congratulate me [on her
results]. I was haunted by this death, the rest had absolutely no reality for me.]
Like the insignia, worn directly on the body, both events touch her, both bring
history into her life. Together, they move the foreground – here, her exam results –
into the background. Reality is changed, and hence, the function of the diary.
Beginning June 1–3,
1942: the
crisis
End
Personal life and historical
circumstances are distinct
Reality changes Living in history
“the rest has no reality”
Figure 6. Foreground and background converge
Beginning End
Function The diary as confidant
Foreground Her future – love and studies Historical circumstances
Background Historical circumstances Her future – love and studies
Figure 5. he function of the diary
198 Anne Freadman
Of course, it is not the case that “all the rest” – her friendships, her studies, her
love afair – is erased. But more and more insistently, Hélène Berr registers her
personal involvement in the events of persecution. Indeed, the unreality of “the
rest” is so great that by the last third of the diary, it has virtually no place at all, and
there is no distance between the personal, intimate dimension and the historical
circumstances. Foreground and background converge, as they do already in the
story of the friend’s father: Hélène Berr lives in history. hus, in entries concern-
ing her fellow students, we are aware that she is testing their reactions to the star:
some people are a bit shocked to discover that she is Jewish, others are warm and
supportive. Jean comes through the test with lying colours. By June 24, when her
father is arrested on the pretext that his star was not properly attached, she can
no longer keep events at a distance. He is interned in Drancy, though later freed
provisionally.
Unsurprisingly, during the three months of her father’s internment, much of
Hélène’s attention is taken up with the few letters that are possible to and from the
camp, preparing parcels of warm clothes and food for him, and trying to lead a
normal life while the family waits for news. Her awareness of time changes accord-
ingly. On the day on which they are allowed to visit the father, before he is trans-
ported to the camp, she writes that the future has lost its mystery; it is now “sordid
and sad” (p. 78). At the police station, when they are talking to her father, she
busies herself by sewing on the star. his act of domestic labour takes on poignant
signiicance: it is an act of attachment that she has to accomplish with her hands,
a historical act with dreadful consequences. While she is sewing, she writes, my
mind was occupied entirely by the present (p. 80). hen, following an entry in
which she notes entirely trivial things about the way the family has spent its time
in the house that day, she writes this:
Le 3 juillet 1942
Si j’écris tous ces petits détails, c’est parce que maintenant la vie s’est resserrée, […]
et tous ces détails prennent un intérêt énorme. Nous vivons heure par heure, et non
plus semaine par semaine. (p. 90)
[If I write all these little details, it’s because life has closed in around us […] We
no longer live from week to week, we live from hour to hour.]
As the news becomes worse in the course of the year, Hélène Berr makes further
notes about her sense of time: more and more people she knows are deported, and
she writes on September 23 that there are so many holes around her that it feels
like the end of the world.
Iconicity and the experience of time 199
In July, during the period of her father’s internment, Hélène Berr starts to
work at the UGIF;6 her duties include sorting through packages of belongings sent
back from Drancy ater the deportation of their owners, and getting them back to
the families when it is possible; looking ater orphaned children, trying to get news
for people whose relatives – sometimes their children – have been taken away,
visiting hospitals. his work will become increasingly intense and distressing until
the end of the diary, and it is also through this work that she learns news of indi-
viduals who have perished and dreadful events that have been witnessed by others.
While it is clear that the transformation of the diary is a transition over several
months, taking approximately 100 pages to become complete, it is also plain that it
is triggered by a speciic event, the imposition of the star. If we accept that identity
is not so much an essence or a sentiment, but the story or stories we are part of,
this event provokes a rupture in Hélène Berr’s sense of who she is. It is at this point
that a young French woman, living in a middle-class French history, with the life
story predictable from this, becomes a Jewish person living in a separate history.
She writes of the “gulf” between “us” and everybody else, between those who
know the sufering and those who fail to know, between those who can no longer
envisage a future, and those who can. I ind it remarkable and moving that it is at
this very point that the function of the diary begins to change: from the subject
of personal conidences, the writing subject becomes a witness to history. he
process through which this happens is detailed below, and summed up in Figure 7.
I recall my discussion earlier of the iconic representation of time in a diary,
divided up into equal units succeeding one another from the past into the future.
Because of this, the very form of a diary shows us a life being lived bit by bit as
time proceeds. It is usual for historians reading such objects to plunder them for
speciic bits of information, but I am a literary scholar and a semiotician, and I
read these diaries sequentially, from start to inish. heir iconicity determines a
sequential, time-bound reading. he very fact that I scrutinise the diary entries as
themselves a sequence of events – that I do not conine myself to what happens to
the person – is due to this reading process. he days pass, the entries follow one
another, setting up relations of signiication that would not be available to reading
6. UGIf = Union générale des israélites de France (General organisation of French Jews), the
umbrella organisation created under Nazi orders ostensibly to administer relief work for Jewish
people in need, and a cover for facilitating persecution (see Adler 1987). he “cantine” men-
tioned above, in Biélinky’s diary, would have been a soup-kitchen for indigent Jews, deprived
of the means for earning their living by the expropriation laws. UGIF workers were given to
believe they would be protected, but of course they were not; the orphanages they ran became
traps for the capture and deportation of the children sheltering there.
200 Anne Freadman
if I simply dipped into the text on a punctual basis. In the case of Hélène Berr, our
attention is drawn to a signiicant discontinuity.
At a crucial point, Hélène Berr ceases keeping her diary. Between November 28
1942 – six months ater the imposition of the star – and August 25 1943, there are
no entries. Before the break, it is largely an intimate diary about personal emo-
tions, marriages, engagements, friendships. When, on August 25 1943 she opens
the diary again, she makes the following note, in which a trace of the old habit
remains:
Le 25 août 1943
Il y a dix mois que j’ai cessé ce journal, ce soir je le sors de mon tiroir pour le faire
emporter en lieu sûr par Maman. De nouveau, on m’a fait dire de ne pas rester chez
moi à la in de la semaine.
Un an presque a passé, Drancy, les déportations, les soufrances existent toujours.
Beaucoup d’événements se sont passés: Denise s’est mariée; Jean est parti pour
l’Espagne sans que j’aie pu le revoir; toutes mes amies du bureau sont arrêtées,
et il a fallu un hasard extraordinaire pour que je ne sois pas là ce jour-là; Nicole
est iancée avec Jean-Paul; Odile est venue: un an déjà! Les raisons d’espérer sont
immenses. Mais je suis devenue très grave, je ne peux pas oublier les soufrances.
Que se sera-t-il passé lorsque je reprendrai ce journal? (p. 167)
[It’s ten months since I stopped writing this diary. I’ve got it out of my drawer
so that Mother can take it away for safe keeping. Yet again, I’ve been told that I
should not be at home at the end of the week.
Nearly a year has passed, and still there is Drancy, still there are deportations, still
there is sufering. A lot of things have happened: Denise got married; Jean let
for Spain without my being able to see him one last time; all my friends from the
oice have been arrested, and just by chance I wasn’t there on that day; Nicole and
Jean-Paul are engaged; Odile came back; a whole year! here are many reasons for
hope. But I have become very serious, I just can’t forget the sufering. What will
have happened when I start keeping this diary again?]
I am struck by the fact that this passage appears to revert to the early rule, in
which the major function of the diary is to record personal events, and the turmoil
caused by the regime serves as background. Hélène Berr is imagining that she will
not take up the diary again until the current historical situation comes to an end.
So writing a diary seems to depend upon continuing to lead a normal life. his is
what, in her mind, a diary is; this is what it is for. When that life is suspended, so is
the diary. his gives one possible reading of the break. But a month and a half later,
she does in fact start keeping the diary again, and it is kept according to the sec-
ond rule, where personal events are relegated to the background – if not, indeed,
obliterated through the process of de-emplotment. Asking the question now: why
keep a diary? – her answers show that the very function of the diary has changed.
Iconicity and the experience of time 201
Le 10 octobre 1943
J’ai un devoir à accomplir en écrivant, car il faut que les autres sachent. (p. 169)
[I have a duty to fulil by writing, because others must know.]
his gives us a second reading of the break. Before she actually gave up writing,
there were presages:
Le 10 septembre 1942
Je ne tiens même plus ce journal, je n’ai plus de volonté, je n’y mets plus que les faits
les plus saillants pour me rappeler. (p. 137)
[I am no longer keeping this diary, I can’t bring myself to do so, I’m just using it
to remind myself of the most salient facts.]
le 12 septembre 1942
Je ne peux plus écrire ce journal parce que je ne m’appartiens plus entièrement.
(p. 139)
[I can no longer write this diary because I no longer belong to myself entirely.]
he intimate, personal diary had functioned for her to perform her sense of self,7
locating her in Paris, among her family and friends, with a life consisting of love,
music, and literature, and an inner life untouched by public events. his genre –
the diary of conidences, the record of personal events and the family story – has
become impossible, and with it, the sense of self that it fosters. he break is a sign
of crisis, precisely an icon of the impossibility of the standard life-narrative.
Beginning Crisis End
June–
Nov
1942
Reality
changes
Nov1942−
Aug 1943
The diary
interrupted
Oct 1943−
The diary
resumes
The diary functions as a
confidant
The diary is a
work of witness
Figure 7. he change in function of the diary
7. I acknowledge my debt to Sonia Wilson’s research on diaries, which taught me the interest
of the genre. his point, that a diary is not the revelation of an inner life so much as the perfor-
mance of a self, is derived from her argument. See Wilson (2010).
202 Anne Freadman
When Hélène Berr opens her diary again, ‘not belonging to herself’ is exactly the
point:
Le 10 octobre 1943
À chaque heure de la journée se répète la douloureuse expérience que les autres ne
savent pas, qu’ils n’imaginent même pas les soufrances des autres hommes, et le
mal que certains inligent à d’autres. Et toujours j’essaie de faire ce pénible efort de
raconter. Parce que c’est un devoir… (p. 169)
[It is repeated hour by hour throughout the day, the painful experience that other
people don’t know, that they have no imagination of the sufering of others, of the
evil inlicted by some men on other men. And I labour to go on making this efort
to tell. Because it’s a duty…]
he witness is a channel. What she knows must be passed on.
Le 12 novembre 1943
Je suis ouverte à tous les récits d’horreur, je recueille toutes les tristesses… (p. 221)
[All the stories of horror low into me, I collect all the sadness…]
Hélène Berr may not have known it, but the ancient Jewish injunction to remem-
ber – Zakhor! – has come to determine her diary:
Le 24 janvier 1944
Il faut que je note quelques faits, de ceux qu’il ne faudra jamais oublier. (p. 265)
[I must note down a few facts, of the kind that must never be forgotten.]
le 15 février 1944
Qui dira jamais ce qu’a été la soufrance de chacun? Le seul “reportage” véridique,
et digne d’être écrit, serait celui qui réunirait les récits complets de chaque individu
déporté. (p. 278)
[Who will ever tell the sufering of each person? he only truthful “report”, the
only one worth writing, would be the one that could assemble the full story of
every deported individual.]
Until the end, this is what she attempts to do, recording every story that comes her
way, trying to remedy what she sees as the “massive drama of the times”. Worse in
some sense than the actual perpetration of violence and brutality is the pervasive
failure of moral imagination: people might think they know, while in fact they
just don’t get it:
Iconicity and the experience of time 203
Le 12 novembre 1943
Ne pas savoir, ne pas comprendre, même lorsqu’on sait, parce qu’une porte reste
fermée en vous, la porte qui, en s’ouvrant, laisse enin réaliser la partie de ce qu’on
savait simplement. C’est l’immense drame de cette époque. Personne ne sait rien des
gens qui soufrent. (p. 220)
[Not knowing, not understanding, even when one knows, because a door remains
shut inside you […] hat is the massive drama of the times. Nobody knows any-
thing of the people who are sufering.]
3. Conclusion
I have sought to read in these diaries the experience of time they construct, and
have done so by investigating their semiotics. I have started from the formal con-
ditions that make a book into a diary – its iconicity mapped on to the public time
of the calendar. While this represents the succession of days, it is a model for
representing temporal sequence, but it does not yet represent time. Not until and
unless this model is interpreted by the means available to discourse can it record
the experience of time.
My discussion shows that it is not enough simply to identify iconicity where
it occurs, just as it is never enough just to classify signs. Rather, as Peirce noted
oten enough (see Freadman 2004:91f.), and Eco ater him (Eco 1979:190f.), it is
the interaction of a variety of semiotic means and media that is responsible for the
making of representations. What is the contribution of iconicity in the case of the
diaries? In Castro, repetition; in Biélinky, the experience in time of reporting the
times; and in Berr, the icon of time is interrupted, the break itself thus constitut-
ing an icon of the discontinuity of life. However, not even these relatively simple
answers would be possible were the indexed icon to be taken in isolation from its
interpreting text.
he more demanding challenge of my material has been to show that the
diaries can reveal something important about the workings of iconicity. I believe
that it can only do what it does, mean what it means, within the environment of
particular genres, manipulated and exploited by their practices. his is particularly
evident in the break between the two functions of Hélène Berr’s diary,8 where the
8. Hélène Berr herself speaks of two “parts”: Il y a deux parties dans ce journal, je m’en aperçois
en relisant le début: il y a la partie que j’écris par devoir, pour conserver des souvenirs de ce qui
devra être raconté, et il y a celle qui est écrite pour Jean, pour moi et pour lui. (27 octobre 1943,
204 Anne Freadman
same form serves two quite diferent purposes. How does a diary as such come to
represent – to construct and to interpret – the succession of days as an experience
of time? he answer lies, I believe, in the presuppositions of the diary as a genre: it
lies in the operations of the “I” of writing. his I articulates public time with inti-
mate time through the event of writing: the dates are my days, history happens to
me. Hélène Berr’s diary is the most eloquent illustration of this, precisely because
it puts so much efort into resisting the articulation. But it is also true of Biélinky’s
diary, in that – by contrast – the practice of his entries resists putting the story of
the witness into his chronicle. he emergence of the passional I – the I that, not-
withstanding, sufers the efects of his own knowledge – is all the more remarkable
for this. And Castro’s diary, which I regret not being able to study in greater detail,
shows us history happening, day by day, to a subject reduced to the status of a body
in time, writing that happening as a way of giving it a place in history.
he fragmentary narratives of diaries, the fragments they retail and the little
stories that they are in themselves, these too are a signiicant dimension of the
genre. Both Biélinky and Berr, particularly, show explicitly that their business is
the gathering of little stories – each individual’s sufering, as Berr puts it, each little
“sign of the times” in Biélinky’s words, the minutiae of camp life in Castro. But
the selecting and sorting, the classifying and synthesising of these little stories lie
beyond their grasp. he wholeness of history is the project of an historian, but the
diarist is a located I, and what it tells is governed by the I-here-now of the telling.
Biélinky has shown us that this also governs hearing, or learning, the facts that he
records; it hardly needs pointing out that the genre of formal history is designed
to transcend any such coninement.
Charles Peirce deines signhood as something that represents something, to
someone, to some efect; in other words, it has a rhetoric. his is, also, Bakhtin’s
question of addressivity, which he explicitly ties to genre (Bakhtin 1986:60–102).
We must acknowledge, then, that diaries address a reader in their future. his may
be the internee, writing just to keep a record, or the journalist, planning to use
his notes as an aide-mémoire, or it may be, as in the case of Hélène Berr, posterity,
which must not forget. In each case, experience seeks out memory. he time of a
diary thus includes its reading: who is called to by diaries such as these, and what
must we do to respond? If the door does open, as Hélène Berr writes, then we may
get it. hen time, the punctual, fragmented, mortal time of these truncated entries
and these interrupted lives, that time may pass into ours, so its passing may not
remain locked in its past.
p. 197). [here are two parts to this diary, I just noticed when I reread the beginning: there’s the
part I am writing out of duty, to commit to memory what must be told, and there is the part I
am writing for Jean, for me and for him.]
Iconicity and the experience of time 205
References
Adler, J. 1987. he Jews of Paris and the Final Solution: Communal Response and Internal Con-
licts, 1940–1944. Oxford: OUP.
Bakhtin, M.M. 1986. Speech Genres & Other Late Essays, transl. V. McGee, edited by C. Emerson
& M. Holquist. Austin TX: University of Texas Press.
Benveniste, E. 1974. L’appareil formel de l’énonciation. In Problèmes de linguistique generale,
II. Paris: Gallimard.
Berr, H. 2008. Journal. Paris: Editions Tallandier.
Biélinky, J. 1992. Un Journaliste juif à Paris sous l’Occupation. Paris: Cerf.
Castro, S. 2007. Cahiers de Compiègne: 12 décembre 1941 – 25 mars 1942. Cahiers de com-
piègne. In Le Camp juif de Royallieu-Compiègne 1941–1943, avant-propos de Serge Klarsfeld
(201–317, avant-propos et introduction aux cahiers de Castro par Franck Berthelet). Paris:
Le Manuscrit (colln. Témoignages de la Shoah).
Eco, U. 1979. A heory of Semiotics. Bloomington IN: Indiana University Press.
Freadman, A. 2004. he Machinery of Talk: Charles Peirce and the Sign Hypothesis. Stanford CA:
Stanford University Press.
Freadman, A. 2012. Les Livres-souvenirs of Colette: Genre and the telling of Time. London:
Legenda.
Kaufman, F. 2011. By Chance I Found a Pencil: Holocaust Diary Narratives of Testimony, Dei-
ance, Solace and Struggle. PhD dissertation, University of Melbourne.
Marrus, M. & Paxton, R. 1981. Vichy France and the Jews. New York NY: Basic Books.
Ricoeur, Paul. 1984–1988. Time and Narrative, trans. K. McLaughlin & D. Pellauer, 3 Vols.
Chicago IL: Chicago University Press.
Wilson, Sonia. 2010. Personal Efects: Reading the Journal of Marie Bashkirtsef, Oxford: Legenda.
doi 10.1075/ill.14.11ell
© 2015 John Benjamins Publishing Company
Visual, auditory, and cognitive iconicity
in written literature
he example of Emily Dickinson’s
“Because I could not stop for Death”
Lars Elleström
Linnæus University
his article demonstrates an analytical approach that might be used as a method
for disentangling the manifold iconic layers and aspects of written literature.
he goal is to make a clear and practice-oriented presentation of some of the
most overarching types of iconicity, based on the assumption that iconicity – as
representation in general – must be understood in terms of both sensory activ-
ity and cognition. One speciic literary text, Emily Dickinson’s poem “Because
I could not stop for Death” (1862), is analyzed as an example via a broad ield
of iconic traits, structured as visual, auditory, and cognitive iconicity. Although
applied to a visual, literary text, the delineated method may be extended to any
other kind of medium, taking into account relevant sensory properties and
cognitive aspects.
1. Introduction
As a rule, iconicity in language and literature is studied from speciic points of
view, for instance, grammar, sound structures, or visual traits. While this is oten
necessary to reach a suiciently complex level of discussion, it is also imperative to
sometimes fuse the many analytical perspectives on iconicity; otherwise, one might
lose sight of the totality of iconicity in language. My aim in this article is to analyze
a literary text via a broad ield of iconic traits such that the analytical methodology
becomes extensible to other media types. Analyzing text also entails interpreting
it, of course, but my goal here is rather to make a clear and practice-oriented pre-
sentation of some of the most overarching types of iconicity – found in many or
even most written texts – than to dwell on subtleties. Needless to say, I depend very
much on earlier iconicity research, and the somewhat simpliied analysis herein is a
208 Lars Elleström
result of far-reaching theoretical considerations (see Elleström 2010b, 2013, 2014).
his article, however, focuses on method rather than on theory.
Nevertheless, a few rudimentary deinitions and demarcations must be made.
I mainly follow some of Charles Sanders Peirce’s most well-known semiotic
notions. In one of his many descriptions of the tripartite nature of the sign, he
states that “A representation is that character of a thing by virtue of which, for the
production of a certain mental efect, it may stand in place of another thing. he
thing having this character I term a representamen, the mental efect, or thought,
its interpretant, the thing for which it stands, its object” (1931, CP 1.564 [c.1899]).
he representamen is thus the denoting entity while the object is the denoted
entity. Although I will not become absorbed in the interpretant as the analysis is
carried out, it is vital to remember that the interpretant is the mental efect that
forms the heart of semiosis, so to speak: a heart that gives blood and life to deep-
ened meaning through chains of developing signs.
Peirce’s way of deining iconicity is equally celebrated. he iconic sign is said
to be based on similarity, resemblance, or analogy between representamen and
object (see, for instance, 1931, CP 1.369 [c.1885]; 1933a, CP 3.433 [1896]; 1932,
CP 2.276 [c.1902]; 1934, CP 5.73 [1903]; 1935, CP 6.471 [1908]). However, his way
of circumscribing three basic iconicity types – image, diagram, and metaphor – is
notoriously cryptic (Peirce 1932, CP 2.277 [c.1902]). I choose to understand these
three notions as a spectrum of multifaceted similarity relations between repre-
sentamens and object. he similarity relations should be judged on the basis of two
inverted parameters: the relative strength of sensory resemblance on the one hand,
and the relative complexity of cognitive operations involved in establishing iconic
meaning on the other. Accordingly, an image might be understood as an icon
based on strong sensory resemblance, requiring only simple cognitive operations
to be established. For instance, it is easy to see a tailor’s dummy as an image of
how a human being looks. Inversely, a metaphor might be understood as an icon
based on weak, cross-modal, or almost non-existent sensory resemblance, requir-
ing complex cognitive operations. For instance, it takes rather intricate brainwork
(even if it may come efortlessly) to understand the multi-sensory appearance of
a rose as a metaphor for the emotional and cognitive notion of love. According
to this view, diagrams are schematic icons that are neither particularly strong or
weak, nor particularly complex or simple (see Elleström 2013:100–107).
Compared to Max Nänny’s pioneering studies of iconicity in literature (see, for
instance, 1986, 1999), my analytical viewpoint is more general. Whereas Nänny
emphasized the diagram, I want to include the whole spectrum of iconic varieties,
that is, images, diagrams, and metaphors – although the notion of image will not
be applicable in this particular analysis. My standpoint also difers from Peirce’s
in several respects, most notably in its emphasis on the material aspects of both
Visual, auditory, and cognitive iconicity in written literature 209
representamen and object, which addresses the fact that semiosis is oten trig-
gered by sensory perceptions and oten connects to objects and events that have
been perceived sensorially. Peirce no doubt sometimes emphasizes the diference
between the “mental sign” and the “material quality of the sign” (1934, CP 5.291
[1868]; 1934, CP 5.293 [1868]), but he also makes it clear that, “it is indiferent
to the logician how the deined word shall sound, or how many letters it shall
contain” (1934, CP 5.291 [1868]). he “material qualities of the sign” (the number
of letters of a word or the latness of a picture), Peirce emphasizes, “have noth-
ing to do with its representative function” (1934, CP 5.287 [1868]). I submit that
this is an untenable position if one studies language, literature, or other media
types, rather than mathematics and logic (cf. Elleström 2010a, 2010b, 2014). My
approach, hence, also difers from, for instance, Jørgen Dines Johansen’s writing
about iconicity in literature as a phenomenon that enters ater a symbolic decod-
ing of letters and words, and thus excludes the material aspects of literary repre-
sentamens (2003).
2. “Because I could not stop for Death”
he literary text chosen for analysis is Emily Dickinson’s poem “Because I could
not stop for Death” (1862). It is well-known, rather brief, and representative in
the sense that it does not immediately display any extraordinary features in its
appearance. I presume that for many people it would count as a fairly normal
poem, whereas concrete poetry or the poetry of, say, e. e. cummings (popular
among iconicity researchers), might be said to be in the margins of what is typi-
cally understood as poetry. On the other hand, all rhythmic poetry in verse dif-
fers signiicantly from literature written in ordinary prose, so Dickinson’s poem is
certainly not in all respects representative for the whole ield of written literature.
All in all, however, I think that iconicity is at play in the reading of literature at
large to a much higher degree than is commonly believed. My analysis is meant
to represent what I believe to be interpretive maneuvers of experienced and fairly
well-informed readers in general, with the exception that most readers would
probably not explicitly recognize iconicity as the common denominator. Indeed,
a less relective reading would certainly result in fewer iconic interpretations. Ater
all, icons produce new insights; to relect is to iconize (cf. Peirce 1932, CP 2.279
[c. 1895]; 1933b, CP 4.531 [1906]; 1933b, CP 4.6 [1906]).
here are no canonical printed versions of Emily Dickinson’s posthumously
published poems. Her punctuation, for instance, is innovative and cannot auto-
matically be transferred from the handwritten style to customary printing stan-
dards. here are also discussions on how the manuscripts’ lineation should be
210 Lars Elleström
understood. hese and other issues cannot be ignored, especially as the result of
textual criticism may have severe impact on iconic meaning (see Freeman 2002).
Here I chose to analyze the version of “Because I could not stop for Death” estab-
lished in the variorum edition of Dickinson’s poems by R.W. Franklin (Dickinson
1998:492–493):
Because I could not stop for Death -
He kindly stopped for me -
he Carriage held but just Ourselves -
And Immortality.
We slowly drove - He knew no haste
And I had put away
My labor and my leisure too,
For His Civility -
We passed the School, where Children strove
At Recess - in the Ring -
We passed the Fields of Gazing Grain -
We passed the Setting Sun -
Or rather - He passed Us -
he Dews drew quivering and Chill -
For only Gossamer, my Gown -
My Tippet - only Tulle -
We paused before a House that seemed
A Swelling of the Ground -
he Roof was scarcely visible -
he Cornice - in the Ground -
Since then - ’tis Centuries - and yet
Feels shorter than the Day
I irst surmised the Horses’ Heads
Were toward Eternity -
3. Visual iconicity
A irst set of visual and potentially iconic representamens emerges when one looks
at the poem without reading it properly. One sees chunks of verbal text: regularly
ordered stanzas consisting of four lines. he marks on the bright surface are rec-
ognized as letters, words, and punctuation. Compared to poetry such as carmina
igurata or other non-temporal, lat-surface media types, like still photography,
these visual traits do not immediately trigger much iconic meaning. At most, the
visual appearance might be said to represent a row of similar entities. In any case,
Visual, auditory, and cognitive iconicity in written literature 211
it should be noted that the poem, as a material artifact, is a spatial and non-tem-
poral object; its sequentiality is created when it is symbolically decoded. he poem
is thus read in a sequence and represents temporal events (it creates virtual time);
however, from a pre-semiotic point of view, the written text is not a temporal item.
While the immediate visual impressions do not generate much iconicity, they
are contextualized and hence semiotically boosted as soon as the visual text is
read. To read the poem is to see a subsequent set of visual, symbolic representa-
mens – letters and words – and the objects of these representamens have bearing
on how the visual characteristics may be understood as icons. In other words: the
sequential, symbolic decoding makes one see many of the visual characteristics as
meaningful because of their similarity with phenomena relevant within the poem’s
overall context.
First of all, the empty spaces between words, lines, and stanzas are vital or at
least potential icons for semantic diferentiation. Roughly speaking, the objects of
these representamens may be said to be “cognitive diference”. he empty spaces
are important for isolating the words as semantic units, the lines as (partly) syn-
tactic and semantic units, and the stanzas as (partly) syntactic and semantic units.
Of course, not all of the empty spaces work in the same way, and some interspaces
are found between verbal units that are tightly knit together. In the end, nothing
in the text can be semantically isolated, but I think it is clear that single verses or
couples of verses tend to form relatively secluded semantic units – most certainly
so compared to the arbitrary division of lines in written prose.
he most clearly seen empty spaces are the ones between the stanzas. Indeed,
the stanzas are created by these very spaces. A brief summary of the represented
events indicates that the narration follows the stanzas quite well:
1. he carriage and its passengers are introduced
2. he slow ride starts
3. A description of what they pass
4. he intradiegetic narrator starts to freeze
5. hey pause before a tomb
6. he intradiegetic narrator’s retrospect
With the exception of stanzas three and four, which are closely tied together syn-
tactically (“We passed the Setting Sun - // Or rather - He passed Us -), all stan-
zas clearly form syntactic and semantic units. Crudely speaking, then, the visual
enclosure of one stanza iconically represents the enclosure of a semantic area.
While this is certainly not an objective fact, it is not an entirely subjective interpre-
tation: the lexical meanings of words guarantee a certain degree of inter-subjective
meaning making. However, it must be emphasized that the semantic area does
not simply exist in the poem, waiting for the form of the stanza to represent it;
212 Lars Elleström
on the contrary, the division into stanzas afects the way the reader constructs the
semantic content.
Apart from the empty spaces, the dashes (or rather hyphens) of the poem are
visual, potentially iconic representamens. hese marks are certainly habitual signs,
that is, symbols that are part of the linguistic system, although Dickinson’s dashes
are atypical symbols; their abundance and unusual appearance prompt the reader
to see them also as icons. I suggest that they might primarily be understood as
representamens for something missing; they denote pause for thought, hesitation,
omission of words, silence, and so forth. In the fourth stanza, for instance, the
syntax is elliptical. A sentence such as, ‘For my gown is only made of gossamer and
my tippet is only made of tulle’ would in a way be clearer, but certainly poorer than
“For only Gossamer, my Gown - / My Tippet - only Tulle -”, because the elliptical
form adds iconic meaning. he stanza is about approaching chill and one might
argue that the visual efect of the short dashes, together with the skeletonized syn-
tax, acts as a diagram for the lack of warm clothes, or nakedness.
To sum up, the visual representamens of the poem tend to conjure up cogni-
tive objects rather than visual or other sensory objects. he empty spaces, the
enclosure of stanzas, and the hyphens have no sensory similarity to the cognitive
objects, but bridge the gap between the visual and the cognitive, which requires a
rather complex cognitive operation. I thus argue that most of the visual icons of
the poem might be termed metaphors. However, the lines “For only Gossamer,
my Gown - / My Tippet - only Tulle -” display both a row of related (visual)
hyphens and elliptical syntax which together might imply both physical (visual)
and mental nakedness; the visual appearance of the lines slightly resembles thin
fabric that does not properly cover the cold body and the condensed syntax may
be understood as stripped. Hence, there is a somewhat more elaborated sensory
connection between representamen and object that makes it appropriate to call
the two lines a visual diagram.
4. Auditory iconicity
Regarding reading and sound, while it is true that letters and words are visual
symbols that represent cognitive entities (that may in turn connect to our material
surrounding), this is not the whole truth. As reading involves sub-vocalization, it
is more correct to say that letters and words are visual symbols that represent cog-
nitive entities and sounds; or, to put it diferently, letters and words are visual sym-
bols that represent auditory symbols that themselves represent cognitive entities.
When one reads, the sound may either remain in one’s head or be realized
as sound waves if one reads aloud. In the latter case, the written, visual text is
Visual, auditory, and cognitive iconicity in written literature 213
transmediated to an auditory text. It must thus be clearly understood that if one
analyzes a written text and an aloud reading of it, one actually analyzes two media
products, one being visual and spatial, and the other being auditory and temporal.
What I will do here, however, is to analyze the features of potential sub-vocal-
izations as they may be realized, again, by experienced and fairly well-informed
Dickinson readers in general. In what follows, sounds and diferent sonic features
should thus be understood as inner sounds – the represented objects of visual
symbolic representamens.
Clearly, these sounds may also act as iconic representamens. However, I do not
believe there is much to be found in terms of onomatopoeia (sounds representing
similar sounds) or auditory synesthesia (sounds representing other sense percep-
tions). Hence, my focus will be on sound iconically representing cognitive phe-
nomena, which means that the highlighted traits display metaphorical iconicity,
requiring complex cognitive operations, rather than diagrammatic or even imagic
iconicity, which may emerge when sounds strongly resemble other sounds. he
overall orientation, thus, is the phonetic, as opposed to general linguistic, patterns
created in “Because I could not stop for Death”.
One may initially state that there are many recurring sounds in the poem;
for instance alliterations and assonances such as “We slowly drove”, “My labor
and my leisure”, “Gazing Grain”, “Setting Sun”, “he Dews drew quivering and
Chill - / For only Gossamer, my Gown / My Tippet - only Tulle”, and “the Horses’
Heads”. hese are sound similarities, but similarity is not the same as iconicity. Yet,
when discussing what he calls endorphic iconicity in language (reference within
language), Winfried Nöth states that, “repetition, parallelism, alliteration, rhyme
and meter are various modes of syntagmatic iconicity” and that certain “[p]ara-
digms of grammar and word formation are paradigmatically iconic” (2001:23).
Earl R. Anderson refers to resemblances between semantically related words (such
as mother, father, sister, brother) as “paradigmatic iconism” (1998:254–256). For
me, these are slightly odd ways of circumscribing iconicity. Iconicity should be
understood as meaning created on the ground of similarity between representamen
and object; repetition of identical or similar sounds (or anything else) does not
automatically imply that there is a relation of iconic representation between the
sounds. It would seem strange to say that, for instance, “labor” stands for “leisure”
because of the alliteration.
What one must do is to observe sound similarities and patterns and ask
whether iconic meaning may be created on the basis of these similarities. In the
case of the quoted alliterations and assonances, it can be stated that the sound
similarities generally tie together words and notions that are also syntactically
and semantically close, albeit sometimes clearly contrasted (“My labor and my
leisure”). In a very vague sense, then, sound patterns, together with other patterns,
214 Lars Elleström
may be said to iconically represent notions such as consistency and continuity. In
the same manner, the sound similarity between “passed” and “paused” highlights
semantic coherence and contrast at the same time, which might be understood as
an icon for the relativeness of and close connection between time and space, epito-
mized in the poem’s description of the pause that lasts for centuries and yet “Feels
shorter than the Day / I irst surmised the Horses’ Heads / Were toward Eternity -”.
When discussing sound, rhythm must also be scrutinized. Rhythm is a means
of structuring time and space. In this case, one deals with a sequence of sub-
vocalized sounds created when the static visual poem is symbolically decoded in
time. A stanza in Dickinson’s poem typically consists of 4+3+4+3 iambs, which is
to say that a meter is clearly discernible:
Because I could not stop for Death -
∪ _ |∪ _ | ∪ _ | ∪ _
He kindly stopped for me -
∪ _ | ∪ _ | ∪ _
he Carriage held but just Ourselves -
∪ _ | ∪ _ | ∪ _ | ∪ _
And Immortality.
∪ _ | ∪ _|∪_
While the actual rhythm varies slightly throughout the poem, of course, it only
once clearly breaks the pattern of the meter. his break (perceived as sound or as
proprioception) becomes iconic in the context of the poem’s semantic content. he
symbolic text clearly tells a story about life and death. Together with Death and
Immortality, the intradiegetic narrator travels slowly in a carriage toward a strange
house, most of which is underground. In the middle of the poem, in the beginning
of the fourth stanza, something happens with the rhythm: the irst line becomes
shorter (three iambs) and the second line becomes longer (four iambs) compared
to the meter: “Or rather - He passed Us - / he Dews drew quivering and Chill -”.
It might be argued that this rhythmic break forms the peripeteia of Dickinson’s
poem. It gets cold and then they reach the swelling of the ground. Hence, the
rhythmic break may be said to iconically represent a cognitive break. In the short-
ened line, the narrator realizes that they have not really passed the setting sun –
it was the sun that passed them. his seemingly parenthetical remark actually
reverses the entire perspective of the story: the narrator is not an active agent, as
might be believed in the opening of the poem where Death gently stops with his
carriage to pick up the narrator, as she “could not”, or perhaps did not want to,
“stop for Death” herself. Instead, she is really a small igure in the hands of larger
forces. As Margaret H. Freeman accurately notes, the fourth stanza, “transforms
Visual, auditory, and cognitive iconicity in written literature 215
the poem from an otherwise fairly orthodox account of life’s journey to one that
is more problematic and foreshadows the incompletion at the end, as time and the
journey stand still” (1995:657–658).
In other words: the sound anomaly, that is, the rhythmic break in the middle
of the temporal reading of the poem, corresponding to a visual, spatial break (we
can see that the irst line of the fourth stanza is shorter than the other initial lines),
becomes a metaphor for the notion of one perspective replacing another one,
which is a temporal event; the notion of actively living one’s life is replaced by the
notion of passively (or at least powerlessly) being carried to one’s inal destination,
that being the odd, scarcely visible building.
To once more sum up: together with the cognitive content generated by the
poem’s visual symbols, the visual qualities (of the written poem as such) and the
auditory qualities (generated by sub-vocalization) act as representamens that tend
to reinforce each other in creating iconic meaning. Furthermore, leaving the more
lagrant visual and auditory qualities behind, there is iconicity to be found in the
deeper cognitive layers of signiication. he ield of iconicity also includes all kinds
of metaphors that cannot be seen or heard, but are generated by cognitive activity
triggered by symbolic representamens. Poetry in general is associated with meta-
phoricity and “Because I could not stop for Death” is certainly not an exception.
5. Cognitive iconicity
It would lead much too far to dissect all potential metaphoric interpretations of
Dickinson’s poem, both in parts and in whole. In fact, most of the poem’s substan-
tial meaning could probably be deduced to metaphoric connections. One simple
example: “My labor and my leisure” are said to be “put away”. his symbolic repre-
sentation by words is actually founded on the idea that there is a similarity between
putting away concrete objects and putting away abstract entities. Perhaps it can
be said that there is a sort of iconic cross-reference between the concrete and the
abstract, which is a prerequisite for understanding any kind of communication.
A more central example of metaphoric understanding of the poem would
be that Death and Immortality must be seen as personiications, that is, abstract
ideas treated as persons. his is a certain kind of metaphor based on similari-
ties between what a living person can be and do and what an abstract notion
can ‘be’ and ‘do’ (for instance, come into view, be by your side, and follow you).
Consequently, Death and Immortality iconically represent ideas. What is special
with Dickinson’s Death is that he is a real gentleman compared to the mostly scary
Deaths of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance, in art and in literature. In this
216 Lars Elleström
way, Death becomes defamiliarized according to Shklovsky’s famous notion of
presenting common things in unfamiliar or strange ways in order to augment the
awareness of the familiar (1965 [1917]).
In addition, the tomb is defamiliarized by Dickinson. Words such as ‘grave’
or ‘tomb’ are not used; instead, the looks of a strange “House” in the form of
“A Swelling of the Ground” are described. As Anne Freadman has noted, “swell-
ing” conjures up “dwelling” and more speciically the notion of God’s “dwelling
place” found in many Christian hymns (personal communication). hese notions
become metaphors for a grave. here are clear similarities between the idea of an
underground house and the idea of a grave (they are both some sort of body con-
tainer) and the metaphoric coupling makes one see the tomb anew.
All these metaphors are related. As they recur, they connect to each other in
a consistent way. Especially the actions of the personiications build a narration
and together form an allegory; in other words, a diagram. What is commonly
known as literary allegories are actually diagrams, I would argue. I thus conclude
that the whole poem should be understood as an icon; it is a narrative diagram (or
allegory) where one explicit story represents another, implicit story. his double-
layered storytelling is condensed in the third stanza. he words “We passed” are
repeated three times and the concrete things that are passed (the school, the ields
of gazing grain, and the setting sun) can be seen as forming a diagram for three
stages of life: childhood, adulthood, and old age. In the ith stanza, the chariot’s
passengers reach one more destination that they do not pass, but “pause before”:
the strange house, that is, death. One may note the verbal similarity between “We
passed” and the expression “to pass away”.
he poem thus holds two narrations that are linked together iconically
because of the similarity of their cognitive schemes: the trip with the chariot is
also the journey of life. In the end, it becomes clear that the intradiegetic nar-
rator tells the story of the chariot, representing the story of life, from the other
side. One remembers that Immortality was also in the chariot; the reader is now
told that the narrator has known for a long time that “the Horses’ Heads / Were
toward Eternity -”. Two temporal schemes are juxtaposed and merged: centuries
have passed since they reached the swelling of the ground and yet they feel like
only a day. In this way, the brief, but far-reaching poem may inally in itself be
understood as an icon for eternity.
Visual, auditory, and cognitive iconicity in written literature 217
6. Conclusion
I stop here for some inal words, before they kindly stop for me. he analysis could
certainly be carried further in many directions, incorporating iconicity generated
by additional contextualization. My aim has been to demonstrate an analytical
approach, perhaps even a method, that may be useful when trying to disentan-
gle the manifold iconic layers and aspects of written literature. In principle, this
method may easily be extended to any other kind of medium, taking into account
relevant sensory properties and cognitive aspects. In spite of its relative speciic-
ity, written literature is an integral part of a wide ield of deeply interconnected
media types.
Note
hanks to Anne Freadman for comments on an early drat of the article.
References
Anderson, E.R. 1998. A Grammar of Iconism. Madison NJ: Farleigh Dickinson University Press.
Dickinson, E. 1998. he Poems of Emily Dickinson, Variorum edition, R.W. Franklin (ed.).
Cambridge MA: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press.
Elleström, L. 2010a. he modalities of media: A model for understanding intermedial relations.
In Media Borders, Multimodality and Intermediality, L. Elleström (ed.), 11–48. Houndmills:
Palgrave Macmillan.
Elleström, L. 2010b. Iconicity as meaning miming meaning, and meaning miming form. In Sign-
ergy [Iconicity in Language and Literature 9], J. Conradie, R. Johl, M. Beukes, O. Fischer &
C. Ljungberg (eds), 73–100. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/ill.9.07ell
Elleström, L. 2013. Spatiotemporal aspects of iconicity. In Iconic Investigations [Iconicity in Lan-
guage and Literature 12], L. Elleström, O. Fischer & C. Ljungberg (eds), 95–117. Amster-
dam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/ill.12.09ell
Elleström, L. 2014. Material and mental representation: Peirce adapted to the study of media and
arts. he American Journal of Semiotics 30: 83–138. DOI: 10.5840/ajs2014301/24
Freeman, M.H. 1995. Metaphor making meaning: Dickinson’s conceptual universe. Journal of
Pragmatics 24: 643–666. DOI: 10.1016/0378-2166(95)00006-E
Freeman, M.H. 2002. he body in the word: A cognitive approach to the shape of a poetic text.
In Cognitive Stylistics: Language and Cognition in Text Analysis, E. Semino & J. Culpeper
(eds), 23–47. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/lal.1.04fre
Johansen, J.D. 2003. Iconizing literature. In From Sign to Signing [Iconicity in Language and
Literature 3], W.G. Müller & O. Fischer (eds), 379–410. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
DOI: 10.1075/ill.3.26joh
218 Lars Elleström
Nänny, M. 1986. Iconicity in literature. Word & Image 2: 199–208.
DOI: 10.1080/02666286.1986.10435344
Nänny, M. 1999. Alphabetic letters as icons in literary texts. In Form Miming Meaning [Iconicity
in Language and Literature 1], M. Nänny & O. Fischer (eds), 173–198. Amsterdam: John
Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/ill.1.16nan
Nöth, W. 2001. Semiotic foundations of iconicity in language and literature. In he Motivated
Sign [Iconicity in Language and Literature 2], O. Fischer & M. Nänny (eds), 17–28. Amster-
dam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/ill.2.05not
Peirce, C.S. 1931. Collected Papers of Charles Sanders Peirce [CP], Vol. I, Principles of Philosophy,
C. Hartshorne & P. Weiss (eds). Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press.
Peirce, C.S. 1932. Collected Papers of Charles Sanders Peirce [CP], Vol. II, Elements of Logic,
C. Hartshorne & P. Weiss (eds). Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press.
Peirce, C. S. 1933a. Collected Papers of Charles Sanders Peirce [CP], Vol. III, Exact Logic,
C. Hartshorne and P. Weiss (eds). Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Peirce, C.S. 1933b. Collected Papers of Charles Sanders Peirce [CP], Vol. IV, he Simplest Math-
ematics, C. Hartshorne & P. Weiss (eds). Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press.
Peirce, C.S. 1934. Collected Papers of Charles Sanders Peirce [CP], Vol. V, Pragmatism and Prag-
maticism, C. Hartshorne & P. Weiss (eds). Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press.
Peirce, C.S. 1935. Collected Papers of Charles Sanders Peirce [CP], Vol. VI, Scientiic Metaphysics,
C. Hartshorne & P. Weiss (eds). Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press.
Shklovsky, V. 1965[1917]. Art as technique. In Russian Formalist Criticism: Four Essays, L.T.
Lemon & M.J. Reis (eds & trans.), 3–24. Lincoln NB: University of Nebraska Press.
doi 10.1075/ill.14.12con
© 2015 John Benjamins Publishing Company
Don’t read too much into the runes*
C. Jac Conradie
University of Johannesburg
Runic inscriptions, particularly those dedicated to the deceased, generally com-
mence with a reference to its initiator and furthermore mentions the (usually
highly regarded) rune writer by name, before the person that the monument is
dedicated to is even named or related to his/her actions or the way he/she met
his/her death. Language-wise the formulation is characterised by full sentences
with action verbs mostly in the active voice. It is argued that the register of the
inscriptions has much in common with oral narrative, which in itself has several
iconic characteristics, such as taking the ‘I’ as point of departure, employing
action verbs to describe activities and dealing with events in their order of
occurrence. herefore if certain distinctions between signiier and signiied
were not sharply drawn in the minds of those erecting memorials, signiier and
signiied must necessarily resemble each other to a suicient extent to have an
iconic relationship. he persistent presence and prominence of the initiator of
the memorial and the rune writer in the inscriptions create the impression that
the very raising and inscribing of a stone was tantamount to honouring the
deceased, and therefore one and the same act.
1. Introduction
he runic alphabet, adapted by the Germanic peoples from early varieties of the
Greek and Latin alphabets, was used for various purposes in North-Western
Europe and Scandinavia during several centuries from about 200 A.D. onwards,
and inscriptions are found from Greenland to Constantinople, with the greatest
concentration in Sweden in the 11th century. hough specially adapted to write on
wood, inscriptions in this alphabet are mainly preserved on large stones specii-
cally erected for the purpose, oten to preserve the memory of deceased comrades,
friends and relatives who died elsewhere, e.g.
* Financial support of the National Research Foundation of South Africa and the University
of Johannesburg is hereby acknowledged.
220 C. Jac Conradie
(1) Engli raised this stone in memory of Þóraldr, his son, who found death in
Vitaholm, between Ustaholm and Garðar.1
Spurkland (2005:102) describes this text as “more or less classic”. Although in
Christian times the emphasis shits from remembrance to saving the soul by com-
mending it to God, Mary, the archangel Michael, etc., the style remains the same.
While this in its later manifestations may be ascribed to conventionalisation, we
still need to know why this style was adopted in the irst place. he main aim of
this paper is therefore to determine why runic inscriptions in their ‘classic’ form
deviate so consistently from what would be considered appropriate in modern
times, and in fact to determine to what extent they constitute a diferent ‘cultural
code’. It is hypothesized that the ‘classic’ runic text constitutes in many ways and
on more than one level an iconic representation, as will be argued below. he text’s
point of departure is the deictic centre of the originator of the monument rather
than the deceased; the act of erecting a monument and that of honouring the dead
constitute one and the same act; reporting on how the deceased is honoured is
tantamount to the act of honouring the dead, and there is no register diference
between ‘telling a story’ and formally commemorating an act, or between narra-
tive and epitaph.
hough rune stones usually commemorate persons who died elsewhere rather
than accompanying graves, they are probably best compared to modern tomb-
stones. heir inscriptions difer markedly in content and style from present-day
inscriptions in the Western world. On a typical modern tombstone prominent
mention is made of the name of the deceased and the dates of birth and death
supplied. Close relatives, friends, etc., presumed responsible for the commemora-
tion, may feature generically (wife, sons, daughters, grandchildren, etc.) without
mention of their names. Antonsen (2002:229) points out that “(t)oday it would
be considered bad form to actually mention the names of those dedicating the
monument”. Although the occupation of the deceased or the way he or she met
their death is occasionally mentioned, additional information is usually restricted
to a pleasant comment, possibly directed at the deceased, or Biblical quotation
deemed relevant. Apart from the latter, the content is linguistically unstructured
in that it consists of isolated data or short phrases such as “in loving memory of”.
A typical modern tombstone may be worded as follows:
1. Translations of inscriptions found in various sources are used as primary data.
Don’t read too much into the runes 221
IN LOVING MEMORY
OF
OUR DEAR MOTHER
AND GRANNY
[irst and last names]
31.7.1898–20.7.1971
–––––––
ALWAYS IN OUR HEARTS
Two salient characteristics may be singled out:
– he content is entirely focused on the person commemorated;
– the style consists of isolated phrases not linked in sentence format.
A minimal tombstone or inscribed cross might consist only of the name of the
deceased, dates of birth and death, and RIP.
In their conventional format, commemorative runic inscriptions difer mark-
edly from those on modern tombstones. hough indexical, symbolic and meta-
phorical traits are discernable, the method of erection and use of language are in
an important sense more iconic than what would be customary today. Several
aspects of the process of erection point to the fact that signiier and signiied were
not as yet as clearly separated in the minds of those erecting the stones as would be
the case when symbols or metaphors are used. hus, while indexical, symbolic and
metaphorical signs all imply at least two distinct entities, runic inscriptions derive
their peculiar character from a ‘pre-metaphorical’ or ‘pre-symbolic’ mindset, i.e.
one which predates certain semiotic distinctions which seem axiomatic from a
‘modern’ point of view. We have to ‘peel of’ layers of symbolism, metaphor, etc.
which colour our perspective of such things, and return to a perspective of greater
similarity – or even complete overlap – between signiier and signiied, i.e. a more
iconic relationship.
In order to demonstrate the important part played by iconicity, a sub-hypothe-
sis is introduced, viz. that the ‘classical’ style of runic commemorative texts resem-
bles oral narrative, though of a rather terse type, if the poetic inserts or quotations
they sometimes contain are disregarded. While the use of narrative style is iconic
in the sense of being the speech style par excellence employed in referring to other
people and their everyday actions and therefore the closest match between register
and content, oral narrative in itself has iconic characteristics, several of which are
present in the inscriptions. I shall therefore irst of all point out certain general
characteristics of runic inscriptions, thereater show in what ways these constitute
a form of oral narrative and inally point out iconic traits of the process of com-
memoration by means of runes generally. No attempt will however be made to
describe the development of runic texts over time or their possible geographically
222 C. Jac Conradie
determined variety, their physical characteristics (e.g. being closely compressed
in the available space or forming part of intertwined snake-like designs), or
poetic insertions – which clearly form part of a diferent register (cf. Jansson’s
(1962:118−155) discussion on “poetry in runes”). Toolan (1994:2681), in drawing
a distinction between story and discourse – and the conventional runic inscription
its the former rather than the latter – states that stories are usually considered the
more “preartistic” of the two. But in order to qualify as a story, utterances should
also function as speech acts. hat runic inscriptions indeed consist of composite
speech acts, will be shown below.
2. Characteristics of runic texts
2.1 General characteristics
Jansson (1962:32) provides the following translation of a Västergötland stone:
(2) Guvea raisedb thisc stone in memory of Olavd, his sone, a young man activef
and able. He was killedg in Estonia. Håvardh carvedi the stone.
his text illustrates several recurring characteristics of a runic dedication. he
text, here in the third person, (a) begins with the name of the person initiating its
erection (and perhaps even responsible for raising it physically). Full sentences,
mostly in the active voice (though cf. (g)) are used throughout, and the verbs
employed express activity, e.g. raised (b), killed (g) and carved (i). he monument
is related to the deictic centre of both the speaker and reader through the pronoun
this (c). he name of the person commemorated is then mentioned (d), and his
character/actions described subsequently, in apposition. Once again, the emphasis
is on action – here hinted at by the adjective active (f) – and Olav’s undergoing an
action, viz. being killed (g). he name of the writer-cum-artist is mentioned (h),
once again in a full sentence with action verb (i).
In view of these and other characteristics, the following will be considered:
how the dedication is initiated (2.2), deictic aspects (2.3), identity and action (2.4),
the role of the rune master (2.5), the practice of building bridges (2.6) and direc-
tives intended for a possible reader (2.7).
Don’t read too much into the runes 223
2.2 Initiating the dedication
A majority of runic inscriptions begin by describing the act, action, deed or event
of dedication and naming its initiator. It will be argued below that this is at the
same time a speech act, the beginning of a dialogue or a narrative, and a potential
sign, given that a sign may also take the form of an event (cf. Perron & Danesi
2003:14).
he initiator of the memorial may be compared to Jakobson’s irst “constitu-
ent” of a speech act, viz. “an addresser who initiates a communication” (cf. Perron
& Danesi 2003:28).
Actions typically characterising runic inscriptions include that of initiation (in
the case of monuments), authorship (making a runic inscription), fabrication (the
making of an object), ownership (in the case of possessions), usually formulated
as an action deriving from an agent and expressed by means of an activity verb
in the active voice, and in the past tense to signify completion of the action. Even
the indication of ownership on an object may assume the form of a speech act put
in the ‘mouth’ of the object, as in Melbrigda owns this brooch (Graham-Campbell
1980:166). Full sentences are used, and the verbs employed typically refer to com-
pleted actions, e.g. raised, wrought, prepared, wrote or coloured. Butler, as quoted in
De Fina (2011:265–6), casts light on what might be a situation of “creating iden-
tity through deeds”, in emphasising that “identity is not something that one ‘has’,
but rather something that one ‘does’ or ‘performs’ and recreates through concrete
exchanges, discourses and interactions between human beings”.
In the case of memorial stones, it is notable that the act of erecting the stone
takes precedence over all other information that may follow, even the person(s)
commemorated, e.g.
(3) Kleppe and Åse raised this monument in memory of Ulv. Tullstorp, Skåne,
Sweden, c.1000 (Hall 2007:9)
(4) Tyke Viking erected this stone in memory of Gunnar, Grim’s son. May God help
his soul. Växjö, Kronoberg, Sweden, c.1000. (Translation provided at site.) (See
Figure 1.)
he importance attached to the erection of the stone and the person responsible
for it, may indicate that the processes of commemorating a person and the act
of raising a stone have not quite been severed in the mind of the initiator, i.e. to
honour someone equals raising a stone for that person. By raising a stone or hav-
ing one raised, the initiator him-/herself is also committing an act, and then an
act which enhances his/her importance. hat raising a memorial may be the duty
224 C. Jac Conradie
of one relative towards another, in particular a son towards a father, is hinted at in
stanza 72 of the Hávamál (Larrington 2008:24):
A son is best, even if he is born late,
when the father is dead;
seldom do memorial stones stand by the wayside,
unless one kinsman raises them to another.
As the Hávamál also indicates that “glory” and “reputation” are all that remain
of human life and even outlasts the kinsmen (cf. “glory never dies” and “I know
one thing which never dies: the reputation of each dead man”, stanzas 76 and 77,
Larrington 2008:24), the responsibility to erect a stone indeed rests heavily on
the relative or friend outliving the deceased. he Hávamál also provides hints
as to what glory and reputation may consist in, viz. being well-travelled (stanza
18, Larrington 2008:16), being blessed with sons, kinsmen, suicient money and,
notably, having “done great deeds” (stanza 69, Larrington 2008:23).
he acts are especially interwoven in those instances where a person raises a
monument to himself and his deeds, as in:
(5) Áli had this stone put up in his own honour. He took Knútr’s danegeld in England.
May God help his soul. (Page 1987:46)
Figure 1. Tyke Viking erected this stone in memory of Gunnar, Grim’s son. May God
help his soul
Don’t read too much into the runes 225
(6) Eskild Sulkesøn had this stone raised for himself (in his name). Forever will
stand, while the stone exists, what Eskild carved here in runes. – Christ and Saint
Michael help his soul. (Early Middle Ages, Tillitze churchyard, South Lolland,
Denmark)2
Even when the stone is no longer erected through personal efort, but commis-
sioned or ordered, the opening may still mirror the runic formula of agentive
subject followed by activity verb:
(7) Ogmundr skjalgi had this stone laid over Gunna Guðulfr’s daughter, and the
anniversary of her death is St Luke’s mass-day. (Spurkland 2005:157)
and in a royal Danish memorial from the 10th cent., which states inter alia:
(8) King Haraldr ordered this monument to be made in memory of his father Gormr
and his mother Þorvi. (Page 1987:45)
hus, the initiator usually features prominently on every monument.
2.3 Deictic aspects
From a point of view of personal deixis, the implied speaker behind a runic text
usually takes one of two stances: (i) the ‘irst-person’ stance, i.e. with the verb in
the 1st pers., and the possible addition of the personal pronoun ek ‘I’ – optional
in a pro-drop language such as old Germanic, or (ii) the ‘third-person’ stance, i.e.
with the verb in the 3rd pers. Spatial deixis, referring to the position of writer or
reader, invariably implies (iii) proximity to the monument.
2.3.1 ‘First-person’ deixis
Early inscriptions, oten on natural rock faces, tend to begin with a name and have
the verb in the 1st person, sometimes with ek ‘I’ preceding the name, perhaps
with some identiication added but no further message, e.g. I, Hagustaldaz, ser-
vant of Gōdagaz (Antonsen 1975:46, no.29) and I, the erilaz of Wiwila (Antonsen
1975:58, no.52). A quarter (31) of the 121 inscriptions analysed by Antonsen
(1975), from the period 150 to 650 A.D., begin with a personal name, 19 times
preceded by ek ‘I’. As this elementary assertion of personal identity is clearly not
tailored to the presence of another ‘I’, the reader, it seems that act and purpose
2. Translation by Mitzi Andersen: “Eskild Sulkesøn had this stone raised for himself. [idiomati-
cally, ‘ raised in his name’]. Forever will stand, while the stone exists, what Eskild carved here in
runes. Christ and Saint Michael help his soul. Toke carved the runes for hora, his stepmother,
a good woman.”
226 C. Jac Conradie
are tightly knit together. he purpose may be simply to advertise one’s proiciency
in rune writing, in which case advertisement and demonstration form a unitary
process. In certain instances it seems possible that the etymology of the name is
activated to hint at special competence:
(9) Swabaharjaz with gaping wound. (I), Stainawarijaz painted (it). I, Hrazaz set
the stone on.. Bohuslän, Sweden, 400 A.D. (Antonsen 1975:43–44, no.26)
(10) I the erilaz Hrōzaz [quick-moving] (am called). For Hrōzaz this stone wrought …
Buskerud, Norway. 500–550 A.D. (Antonsen 1975:80–81, no.111)
In inscriptions on objects, the forcefulness of ‘personal presence’ is employed by
personifying them as human speakers, perhaps to bolster the fame of the maker
or even to protect the ownership of the object. Giving a sword a name, would be a
supreme example of the projection of human force on an object. Examples:
(11) Gunnarr made me. Helgi owns me. [on a shield-boss] (Spurkland 2005:123)
(12) Ædred owns me, Eanred engraved me. [on a golden inger-ring] (Page1987:42)
(13) Richard he made me, and … brought me to this splendour. [in a rhyming couplet
on a baptismal font] (Page 1987:54)
(14) Þorgeirr the priest had me made, Jón made me, by God’s mercy. [on a church
bell] (Spurkland 2005:160)
Two of the inscriptions on a cruciix, I am called Jesus of Nazareth. I sufered bit-
ter death. (Spurkland 2005:160–161), present an intricate case of personiication.
Note that in all instances full sentences expressing activity are employed.
2.3.2 ‘hird-person’ deixis
he majority of inscriptions, also beginning with a name, are however in the 3rd
person. he 3rd person reference by an initiator/ writer to him-/herself would
indicate an awareness of the role of another person in a communicative transac-
tion, and places the communication in the sphere of dialogue. Taking a possible
reader into account would indicate that an important constituent of a speech act
in the Jakobsonian sense of the word, the ‘addressee’, is present. he initiator of
a memorial – Jakobson’s ‘addresser’, though tongue-tied without the help of an
expert rune writer – is usually mentioned by name at the beginning of the inscrip-
tion.3 Letters in Classical Latin and Greek would likewise commence with the
name of the writer, followed by the addressee, cf.
3. Given that the basic style of runic inscriptions is prose, it is interesting to note, as Ólason
(1998:84) points out, that “(m)any sagas begin by introducing at least some of the principal
characters”.
Don’t read too much into the runes 227
(15) Quintus Marco SDP (salutem dicit plurimam)
Quintus to Marcus says (3rd p.) greetings/salutations (Allen 1931:187)
and, in direct translation from the Greek New Testament (Epistle of James):
(16) James, a servant of God and the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are
scattered abroad, greeting. (Holy Bible 1842:847)
2.3.3 Spatial deixis
Spatial deixis is relected in numerous instances of demonstrative pronouns or
adverbs indicating local proximity, such as this/these and here, cf.
(17) King Óláfr shot between these stones, and Kolbjǫrn is the man who lived here.
(Spurkland 2005:139)
(18) Ginnlög … had this bridge made and this stone raised in memory of Assur …
(Jansson 1962:69)
(19) Gärdar and Jorund had these stones raised in memory of their sister’s sons,
Ärnmund and Ingemund. … hese signs are made in memory of Inga’s sons.
(Jansson 1962:78)
Deixis is of particular importance when ownership of property is at stake, as in
(20) Björn, Finnvid’s son, had this rock carved in memory of Olev, his brother. …
his farm is their odal and family inheritance, the sons of Finnvid at Älgesta.
(Jansson 1962:75)
hus, in inscriptions employing irst-person deixis, the act of writing and the pur-
pose of expressing identity, and together with that of advertising the writer’s pro-
iciency, all seem to be conlated. he distal third-person deixis in the inlection
of the verb, on the other hand, implies an awareness on the part of the writer that
another person will be reading the inscription, but also that he/she – unlike the
writer – will ipso facto be present at the monument when reading the inscription.
At the moment of reading, the stone itself (“this” stone) is at the intersection of the
deictic centres of writer and reader, and creates the context required for a speech
act Jakobson speaks of. he tacit assumption that a reader will be present at some
point in time, suggests that the communicative requirements for a dialogue, and
therefore a real speech situation, are met.
2.4 Identity and action
Apart from being named, the person(s) commemorated are identiied mainly
through what they did or what befell them, i.e. through their involvement in
action. hus, in the sense that raising a stone is action (the signiier) aimed at
228 C. Jac Conradie
representing the valued or dramatic action (the signiied) of another individual,
the act of raising a stone is iconic in nature. Whereas raising a stone for someone
would be indexical4 of remembering him or her, the act of providing a full descrip-
tion of how person x raised a stone for person y as a substitute for or indication of
remembrance is iconic in nature.
he following are examples of the part played by deeds or actions in identify-
ing and describing individuals.
(21) he crusaders to Jerusalem broke open the Orkney grave-mound. (Inscription
in Maes Howe mound, Mainland, Orkney, c.1150) (Gordon 1968:185–186)
(22) Grímr Bersason raised this stone in memory of Þórr [NN’s son] Ketilssonar, who
was cut down here where this stone stands. (Spurkland 2005:95)
(23) Arnsteinn raised this stone in memory of Bjórr, his son. He met his death in the
army when Knútr attacked England. (Spurkland 2005:97)
(24) Erling S. and Bjarni h. and Eindriði J. on the Saturday before the minor
Rogation Day piled these cairns and cleared … – Kingittorsuaq, Bain’s Bay,
West Greenland, c.1300. (cf. Hall 2007:212; Gordon 1968:186–187)
(See Figure 2.)
Figure 2. Erling S. and Bjarni h. and Eindriði J. on the Saturday before the minor
Rogation Day piled these cairns and cleared …
Not only are persons described and identiied with reference to their actions or
what befell them, but even the ownership of an object or its maker is identiied
through their action. For instance, the inscriptions on an early clasp and one of
4. Another causal relationship between action and action, and therefore also indexical nature,
is found in the sagas; Ólason (1998:135) points out that events in a saga are triggered when
“(s)omeone does something or has something done to them”.
Don’t read too much into the runes 229
the famous golden horns start of with a reference to the maker. Today the passive
voice would be preferred, e.g. “Carved by Bīdawarijaz” and “Made by Hlewagastiz”.
(25) Bīdawarijaz carved (this). [on clasp from North Jutland, Denmark, 200 A.D.]
(Antonsen 1975:30, no.4)
(26) Hagiradaz made (it). [on a wooden box] (Antonsen1975:42, no.24);
(27) Einriði made this basin well. [on a baptismal font] (Spurkland 2005:159);
(28) Domnal Seal’s-Head owns this sword. (Gordon 1968:186)
(29) I, Hlewagastiz, son of Holtagastiz, made the horn. [on the golden horn of
Gallehus, Denmark, 400 A.D.] (Antonsen 1975:41, no.23) (See Figure 3.)
Figure 3. I, Hlewagastiz, son of Holtagastiz, made the horn
It is clear, then, that action is present at all levels: that of the person raising the
stone, that of the rune writer or person colouring the runes, in the lives of the
persons a monument is dedicated to, in the dialogue context, in the very gram-
mar employed. he various situations in which action is signiied by action may
therefore be termed iconic.
230 C. Jac Conradie
2.5 he rune master
Given that a raised stone as such is powerless to communicate a speciic message,
the ability to attach a written text to it is of paramount importance. We therefore
ind that the rune writer or master (which is what the title erilaz may signify) is
usually mentioned and oten praised in inscriptions – in earlier times because
of his secret or even magical knowledge of writing as such, and later on perhaps
because of his artistry in inserting poetic lines or embellishing the monument. he
runic alphabet was exactly the “code providing the signs and structural patterns for
constructing and deciphering messages” which Jakobson claimed to be an indis-
pensible constituent of a speech act (cf. Perron & Danesi 2003:28).
he code, in this case, is not a simple means to an end, but also a key to
knowledge and power, obtained through great personal efort and therefore wor-
thy of respect. his is relected in the myth of Odin’s self-sacriice to obtain runic
wisdom in the Hávamál (i.e. ‘he sayings of the High One’, translated by Carolyne
Larrington 2008:34) and in the respect shown to rune-writers and their all too
evident sense of self-importance:
I know that I hung on a windy tree
nine long nights,
wounded with a spear, dedicated to Odin,
myself to myself,
on that tree of which no man knows
from where its roots run.
No bread did they give me nor a drink from a horn,
downwards I peered;
I took up the runes, screaming I took them,
then I fell back from there.
hat the writing of runes can be an end in itself becomes clear in inscriptions
stating only “X wrote these runes” (see above). hat they are related to knowledge
and perhaps power, is suggested by the verses above. In their analysis of types
of power, French and Raven5 mention “expert power” as an important category;
it “involves A having specialist knowledge or expertise that B wants or needs”.
However, to say that “runes symbolise power”, may also be an over-simpliication,
as signiier – the entire pragmatic context in which an inscription arises – and
signiied – information, power, magic? – were perhaps not fully diferentiated in
the minds of those involved.
5. Quoted in Archer et al. (2012:12).
Don’t read too much into the runes 231
he runic code is launted in a great number of inscriptions; it is even thought
that the mere listing of the runic alphabet, of which a few examples are extant, may
have an empowering efect. Some inscriptions create the impression that the mere
ability to produce runes is an achievement in itself, similar to fabricating an object:
(30) Dagastiz painted (1st pers.) the rune [i.e. inscription]. Oppland, Norway.
350–400 A.D. (Antonsen 1975:39, no.20)
(31) Halfdan carved these runes. Unclear inscription on marble sill in church of
Hagia Sophia, Istanbul (Hall 2007:100)
he following inscription on a statue is an indication of how highly the capability
of producing runes was regarded:
(32) hey cut him down in the midst of his force; but in the harbour the men cut
runes in memory of Horse, a good warrior, by the sea. he Swedes set this on
the lion. … he warriors cut runes, hewed them in an ornamental scroll. Æskel
(and others) and Þorlef had them well cut … N. son of N. cut these runes.
Ulf and N. coloured them in memory of Horse; he won gold in his travels.
he Marble Lion in Venice, taken from the Piraeus, Athens, c.1170.
(Gordon 1968:192–193)
Far from being a mere linguistic code or means of communication, the runic
alphabet and its use is tied up with power, expertise and magic, on the one hand,
and the identity of the writer, on the other. It is therefore a means as well as a
purpose in itself. It is evident that here, too, signiier and signiied are not clearly
distinguishable, and in their similarity as perhaps perceived at the time, may be
termed iconic.
2.6 Building bridges for the soul
With the coming of Christianity, the traditional style of runic inscriptions per-
sists. A stone erected by Harald Bluetooth in the Danish royal cemetary at Jelling
between 983 and 985 reads (Wilson 2010:130):
(33) King Harald ordered this stone to be raised in memory of Gorm his father and
hyra his mother. [He was] that Harald who won all Denmark and Norway,
and made all the Danes Christian.
While the physical act of raising a stone as a ‘proof of prowess’ may be looked upon
as a very basic, not to say primitive, form of symbolisation, the habit in Christian
times of constructing stone bridges represents the creation of a metaphor, for, in
the words of Spurkland (2005:106): “Just as a bridge made it easier for wayfarers
232 C. Jac Conradie
to negotiate the terrain, a bridge would also ease the soul’s passage from this life.”
Examples are:
(34) Gunnvǫr Þrýðrik’s daughter made a bridge in memory of Ástríðr, her daugh-
ter. … (Spurkland 2005:105)
(35) Saksi made, in thanks to God, this bridge for the soul of his mother, Þorríðr.
(Spurkland 2005:108)
he motives of practicality, ownership, spiritual gain – having “the best of both
worlds” – all seem to play a part in the bridge and accompanying stones Jarlabanke
constructed (Jansson 1962:86):
(36) Jarlabanke had these stones raised in memory of himself while he still lived. And
he built this bridge for his soul. And alone he owned the whole of Täby. God help
his soul.
According to Jansson (1962:86) these bridges or causeways were intended to make
it possible to reach the church in all weather conditions, and thus “became pious
acts, which men believed to be an eicacious way of helping the soul through the
searching ires of purgatory”. It thus functions on various metaphorical levels:
a means of salvation for the soul, a means of getting to church (to the church
building, but also to religion as such), etc. However, it also functions as a physical
means to traverse otherwise inaccessible terrain. In this sense there is little difer-
ence between raising a stone and building a bridge. Action signiies action and,
in particular, the physical bridge signiies a bridge to salvation. What has become
diferent in the Christian era, is that the purpose of erecting the stone, bridge, etc.
is explicitly mentioned, e.g. for saving a soul, in other words, an indexical relation-
ship was introduced.
2.7 Reader, be warned!
he old Germanic idea was that the individual lives on through his/her fame,
which is based on their deeds. If you destroyed the stone, you would be efacing
not only the commendable deed of those who raised and inscribed the stone,
but also the memory, even the life, of the person(s) being commemorated. his
problem is addressed by the stone of Glavendrup in Denmark, dated 900–925 (cf.
Gordon 1968:187–8):
(37) Ragnhild raised this stone in memory of Alli, priest of Salve, the revered servant
of the temple. Alli’s sons raised this monument in memory of their father, and his
wife in memory of her husband; but Soti cut these runes in memory of his lord.
May hor hallow these runes. He shall expiate his guilt, who throws down this
stone or removes it elsewhere.
Don’t read too much into the runes 233
and a stone from Blekinge, Sweden, dated 600–650 (cf. Antonsen (1975:88):
(38) he sequence of bright-runes I commit here [i.e. to this stone], mighty-runes.
Protectionless through [because of] baseness, (in possession) of an insidious
death is he (who) breaks this.
Any warning or curse of this nature implies the presence of a reader or hearer –
another of Jakobson’s ‘constituents’ of speech acts, viz. “an addressee who is the
intended receiver of the message” (cf. Perron and Danesi 2003:28). Foreboding as
these speech acts may be, they in principle create a dialogue setting which in turn
is a precondition for narrative.
2.8 he iconicity of runic inscriptions
If one takes the general character of runic inscriptions as outlined above as a point
of departure, it is possible to demonstrate that they are iconic in so many ways
that iconicity might well be the key to their textual structure in general. Iconicity
is here taken to mean a close resemblance between signiier and signiied because
of being in all probability not fully diferentiated in the minds of those responsible
for raising the stones. Call to mind the actions of raising stones or constructing
bridges as replacement acts of dedication and paving the way to salvation, etc.,
equating identity with deeds, equating the act of writing with the expression of
identity. hus, the act of raising a stone is an act of commemoration in itself, not
an abstract symbolic act.
One aspect of this ‘lack of diferentiation’ is inherent in the fact that the reg-
ister of runic inscriptions resembles the most natural way of remembering some-
body: through oral narrative, i.e. by telling a story about him/her. Oral narrative
in itself has several iconic traits, several of which are seen to it runic inscriptions.
In what follows, I shall irst of all show in what ways runic texts may be considered
an abbreviated form of oral narrative and to what extent oral narrative depends
on iconic relationships. Aterwards other iconic aspects of runic inscriptions will
be pointed out.
3. Runic text as oral narrative
While the appearance of the stones will not be considered here, it may be observed
in passing that the runic text on some highly embellished stones is contained in
snake-like cartouches, mimicking a general principle of language as expressed
by de Saussure’s principe linéaire: “Le signiiant, étant de nature auditive, se
dérole dans le temps” … “c’est une ligne” (De Saussure 1969:103). he auditive
234 C. Jac Conradie
character of oral speech therefore determines the shape of alphabetic language,
and is iconically expressed in the snake-like constraints characterising many runic
monuments.
Several of the characteristics pointed out above would indicate that the typical
runic text is a narrative. Perhaps the key to the genre represented by runic inscrip-
tions, is that they present facts in the mode of oral narrative, in other words in story
fashion. In stories human activities are represented as causally connected events,
with signiicant endings or results. hey have their origin in the deictic centre, the
‘here and now’ of the speaker: ‘I must tell you this,’ etc. In general, “(n)arrative
serves the important function of bringing the past into the present time conscious-
ness, providing a sense of continuity to the self and society” (Ochs 2011:70).
A number of the characteristics of oral narratives seem to be likewise charac-
teristics of runic inscriptions.
– he text begins with a reference to whoever is taking the initiative in the action
to follow, in this case the person raising a stone in order to tell a story. his
initial position ties in with what according to Ochs (2011:74) is true of narra-
tors in general, viz. that they “will at irst try to present themselves in the best
light as protagonists”.
– When the personal name is preceded by the personal pronoun ek ‘I’, the text
proceeds from the deictic centre, the starting point of most stories. Ochs
(2011:71) quotes Burke as saying that a narrative not only reports, but is
“couched from the personal perspective of an actual or potential participant”.
Corresponding spatial deixis is found in a text such as: King Óláfr shot between
these stones, and Kolbjǫrn is the man who lived here.
– Ek moreover links the text to a particular individual through a speech act, in
that it is only authentic when pronounced by the person the ek refers to. – he
relationship changes somewhat when ek is not present, in which case the text
is in the third person and becomes a record of what a certain person did. hat
person, however, is still almost invariably the one who erected the stone or
had it erected.
– he order of events which are related is iconic in that the order of narration
resembles the causal order of events.
– As action is generally valued positively in the inscriptions, we may take it that
they manifest another typical characteristic of stories, viz. their being “a moral
evaluation of an occurrence, action, or psychological stance related to a set of
events” (Ochs 2011:71). his is corroborated by the fact that certain inscrip-
tions are openly critical of the person they refer to, e.g. the stone raised by
ive brothers for a brother who died in Jutland on his way to England, ending
Don’t read too much into the runes 235
with the comment, “May God’s mother help his spirit and soul better than he
deserved” (Jansson 1962:60).
– Action, rather than states of afairs, is described so that the verbs are activity
words, and in the simple past tense usually employed in narration.
– Warnings, threats or even curses sometimes appended to inscriptions, hint
at an important characteristic of oral speech: the assumed presence of an
addressee, hearer or interlocutor in a speech situation. he ‘I’ of the inscrip-
tion is in fact entering into a dialogue.
hree of the points mentioned above relate to iconic relationships.
i. he starting point
Perhaps the most iconic relationship in the process of commemoration through
runes, is related to the concept of ‘prototypical speaker’ (cf. Van Langendonck
2007). For instance, the prototypical speaker will assume that he/she exists, is
a single person, is ‘an agent rather than a patient’, etc. hus, when beginning an
utterance – and particularly one consisting of an action phrase – with ek ‘I’, the
speaker/writer is starting out at the point of closest self-identiication with the text,
i.e. where the resemblance between speaker/writer and text is at its greatest (lin-
guistically a fully unmarked beginning). Ek is ater all the term used by a speaker
to refer to him- or herself. he usage of ek is all the more remarkable as early
Germanic was a pro-drop language and the use of a personal pronoun therefore
optional. Antonsen (1975) lists a surprising number of old inscriptions (before 500
A.D.) only consisting of ek and a name or further identiication (related to per-
sonal prowess or rune writing skills, cf. the title erilaz), e.g. no.6: “I, Unwōdz [i.e.
the calm one]” (on clasp, 200 A.D.), no.40: “I, Aljamarkiz, (am) a warrior” (clif
inscription, ater 400 A.D.), no.52: “I, the erilaz of Wīwila” (clif inscription, 450
A.D.), no.61: “I, Fākaz f” (bracteate, 450–550 A.D.), no.75: “I, the erilaz” (clasp,
500 A.D.) and no.87: “Wīgiz [i.e. ighter], I” (bracteate, 500–550 A.D.).
In contrast, the use of a name only, without ek – and names do occur as com-
plete inscriptions – is already at a considerable ‘psychological distance’ from ek,
as names are used by others to identify the owners, and less oten by the own-
ers themselves. Using the name without the irst-person pronoun is not only a
departure from the announcement of one’s presence in the world, but already a
step towards ‘foreign consciousness’, i.e. the realisation that somebody else will be
looking at the memorial at another time (even the distant future), and illustrates
that the maker is capable of self-objectiication.
236 C. Jac Conradie
ii. he discourse type
he language on the stone is diagrammatically related to the process of erect-
ing the stone, in as much as narrative style matches chains of events. Labov and
Waletsky describe personal stories as “recapitulating past experience by matching
a verbal sequence of clauses to the sequence of events” (quoted in Ochs 2011:69).
Even sentence structure matches the low of time; thus Van Langendonck
(2007:395–396) states that “sentences, like events, occur in time, and the medium
of language is structurally adapted to the iconic display of temporal succession (my
italics, CJC)”. Verbs are mostly in the preterite form. Toolan (1994:2683) surmises
that “past tense transitive clauses of action, physical or mental, may be one kind of
most expected clause in narratives”. he syntactic order in these inscriptions, that
of agentive subject followed by object (and linked by activity verb), i.e. with the
action describing a trajectory from the point of origin or initiative towards enti-
ties which are secondarily involved, may be considered an iconic diagram of the
causality inherent in events, cf. I, Hlewagastiz, son of Holtagastiz, made the horn
(actually with SOV order in the original). In their general simplicity of syntax,
runic inscriptions match the style of sagas, in which, as Ólason (1998:112) points
out, “(a)s a rule word order and syntax are relatively uncomplicated and resemble
everyday speech”.
iii. he pragmatic context
An even more direct connection than narrative and chain of events, is the fact that
the reader is drawn into a ‘real speech’ or real conversational situation, in which
the addressee is held co-responsible for the outcome of the conversation, viz. by
upholding the memory of some remarkable – or tragic – lives.
hus, three conlations may be pointed out in which the signiier resembles
the signiied in the sense that the creator and inscriber of runic objects has not
quite separated them in his mind:
– Making an inscription is not (only) about the production of a historical record,
but counts as proof of personal presence, at a speciic time and place;
– the syntax on the stone plots both the construction of the memorial and the
actions of individuals, and
– threats and curses at times directed towards a possible destroyer of the memo-
rial, indicates an awareness on the part of the initiator that he or she is involved
in a dialogue situation.
Don’t read too much into the runes 237
4. In sum
In general, runic stones, then, may be said to be iconic in the following ways:
1. he act of remembrance is co-terminous with the act of erection, i.e. to erect
a stone (or have one erceted) for someone is to commemorate that person. Even
inscriptions with another purpose in mind (e.g. establishing ownership) are
required irst and foremost to be in commemoration of someone. erecting =
commemorating
2. he life history and even the meaning of a person’s life is identical to his/her
actions or actions undergone by him/her (e.g. cause of death). he raising of a
stone in remembrance of someone is therefore tantamount to commemorating
action by means of action. identity = action
3. he language used for telling a story about someone (oral narrative) is also the
appropriate language for a commemorative stone. informal story = formal
history
4. he action verbs and causal order of the text relect the activity implied by the
erection of a stone and the life of the person commemorated. In view of Perron
and Danesi’s (2103:37) claim that human beings have the need to “interpret the
dynamic lux of the world in the form of signs”, we may consider the runic inscrip-
tion in its conventional form as one of these cultural interpretations that arose in
the course of time. life of action = action grammar
When in the Christian era the soul of a person is commended to God, etc., the
continued existence of the soul replaces the continued remembrance brought
about by a stone with appropriate inscription. However, the ‘perfect match’ of
personal efort and act of remembrance is now broken up in that remembrance is
now externalised to the continued existence of the individual as a soul.
Having looked at the letter, we may consider the spirit in which the runic
scribe went about his work. he prominence given to the task itself and the actors
partaking in it, would suggest that to the rune writer, commemorating the dead
is co-terminous with the act of erecting and inscribing a stone. Far from being
an abstract symbol, the raised stone is an illustration of an individual’s physical
efort, which in itself is proof of the erector’s regard for the person(s) commemo-
rated. Furthermore, the stone is itself a guarantee of the maintenance of a person’s
‘glory’ and ‘reputation’. Maybe we as ‘moderns’ should not try to read more into
it. Signiier and signiied are identical: the efort is the regard. To adapt Marshall
McLuhan’s (1994:7–21) well known adage: “he medium is the message.”
238 C. Jac Conradie
References
Allen, J.B. 1931. An Elementary Latin Grammar. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
Antonsen, E.H. 1975. A Concise Grammar of the Older Runic Inscriptions. Tübingen: Niemeyer.
DOI: 10.1515/9783111411583
Antonsen, E.H. 2002. Runes and Germanic Linguistics. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter.
DOI: 10.1515/9783110885521
Archer, D., Aijmer, K. & Wichmann, A. 2012. Pragmatics. An Advanced Resource Book for Stu-
dents. London: Routledge.
De Fina, A. 2011. Discourse and identity. In Discourse Studies, T.A. van Dijk (ed.), 263–282.
London: Sage.
De Saussure, F. 1969[1915]. Cours de linguistique générale. Paris: Payot.
Gordon, E.V. 1968. An Introduction to Old Norse, 2nd edn, revised by A.R. Taylor. Oxford:
Clarendon Press.
Graham-Campbell, J. 1980. he Viking World. New Haven: Ticknor and Fields.
Hall, R. 2007. Exploring the World of the Vikings. London: hames and Hudson.
he Holy Bible. 1842. London: George Virtue.
Jansson, S.B.F. 1962. he Runes of Sweden. London: Phoenix House.
Larrington, C. 2008. he Poetic Edda. Oxford: OUP.
McLuhan, M. 1994. Understanding Media. he Extensions of Man. Cambridge MA: he MIT
Press.
Ochs, E. 2011. Narrative in everyday life. In Discourse Studies, T.A. van Dijk (ed.), 64–84.
London: Sage.
Ólason, V. 1998. Dialogues with the Viking Age. Reykjavík: Heimskringla.
Page, R.I. 1987. Runes. London: British Museum.
Perron, P. & Danesi, M. (eds). 2003. Classic Readings in Semiotics. Brooklyn NY: Legas.
Spurkland, T. 2005. Norwegian Runes and Runic Inscriptions, translated by Betsy van der Hoek.
Woodbridge: he Boydell Press.
Toolan, M. 1994. Narrative: linguistic and structural theories. In he Encyclopedia of Language
and Linguistics, Vol. 5. R.E. Asher & J.M.Y. Simpson (eds), 2679–2696. Oxford: Pergamon
Press.
Van Langendonck, W. 2007. Iconicity. In he Oxford Handbook of Cognitive Linguistics,
D.  Geeraerts & H. Cuykens (eds), 394–418. Oxford: OUP.
Wilson, D.M. 2010 [1970]. he Vikings and their Origins. Scandinavia in the First Millennium.
London: hames and Hudson.
part iv
Grammar meets iconicity
doi 10.1075/ill.14.13pen
© 2015 John Benjamins Publishing Company
Iconicity in question
he case of ‘optional’ prepositions in Lithuanian
Hélène de Penanros
Inalco (Institut National des Langues et Civilisations Orientales),
CNRS–UMR 7110 Laboratoire de Linguistique Formelle Université Paris Diderot
his article analyzes three cases of competition between a preposition and its
corresponding case or the use of the case by itself. It shows that the diference
between the two types of constructions is always the same: the case alone is
used to express an unmarked relationship, whereas the prepositional phrase +
the corresponding case is used to focus on one of its aspects. his could be
analyzed in terms of ‘iconicity of motivation’, as the instance marked semanti-
cally (with focalization) is also marked syntactically insofar as two markers
co-occur. However, the author shows that this analysis which directly links form
and meaning without taking into account the linguistic operations imple-
mented by the linguistic forms, is unsatisfactory. She proposes an alternative
analysis based on the hypothesis that a case and a preposition are ‘relators’ and
explains that the focalization observed in the constructions with two relators
(case+preposition) is not so much due to the fact that more markers are used,
but to the fact that two semantically close relationships involving the same
terms are fully implemented.
1. he problem
here are two constructions expressing the extraction1 of discrete items from a
group of those items in Lithuanian; the so-called ‘genitive of distinction’ (išskirties
kilmininkas, see Jablonskis (1957:577–79) and the preposition iš which combines
with a term in the genitive (see (1) and (2)):
(1) vien-as jų
one-ns pro.3.gp
‘One of them’
1. he meaning of the term ‘extraction’ will become clearer in the body of the article.
242 Hélène de Penanros
(2) vien-as iš jų
one-ns prep pro.3.gp
‘One of them’
In this language, the ‘genitive of distinction’ is traditionally distinguished from the
partitive genitive (dalies kilmininkas) because the former corresponds solely to the
very speciic instance where an element of a group is extracted, where the group in
question is necessarily in the plural form and where the item pointed out through
this extraction is expressed either by a numeral (mainly vienas ‘one’), a quantiier
or a superlative (see (3a,b,c)).
(3) a. vien-as (iš) proting-iaus-ių paukšč-ių
one-ns (prep) intelligent-sup-gp bird-gp
‘one of the most intelligent birds’
b. kiekvien-as (iš) kaimyn-ų
each-ns (prep) neighbour-gp
‘each of the neighbours’
c. didž-iaus-ias (iš) jų
big-sup-ns (prep) pro.3.gp
‘the biggest of them’
his ‘genitive of distinction’ is indeed a special use and should not be confused
with the genitive partitive as it is the only one which gives rise to a competition
with the preposition iš (see the impossibility of iš in (4)):
(4) gabal-as pyrag-o / *gabal-as iš pyrag-o
piece-ns cake-gs / piece-ns prep cake-gs
‘a piece of cake’
he variants resulting from the competition between the ‘genitive of distinction’
and the preposition iš (see (1)–(3)) are oten considered as syntactic synonyms
(Šukys 1998:143,410) and presented as such in Lithuanian grammars. Šukys
(1998) argues that the preposition in such instances is ‘optional’ and that one can
choose freely between the two synonymous constructions. He even insists on the
fact that the tendency of Lithuanian speakers – especially journalists – to gener-
alize the use of the preposition to the detriment of the genitive alone should be
limited. According to him, this tendency became decidedly more noticeable dur-
ing the Soviet period, because the extraction from a group cannot be expressed by
the genitive alone in Russian, the preposition iz being the only way to express this
notion in this language. hese considerations seem doubtful.
First of all, I do not believe that synonymy exists in languages and follow-
ing Haiman (1980), among many others, I will argue that “diferent forms must
have diferent meanings”, according to what he calls iconicity of isomorphism.
he case of ‘optional’ prepositions in Lithuanian 243
Secondly, there are instances when the genitive alone cannot replace the preposi-
tional phrase. For instance, when the group from which an element is extracted is
a singular noun expressing a group/a set of indistinct elements:
(5) a. vien-as iš daugel-io / b. *vien-as daugel-io
one-ns prep lot-gs / one-ns lot-gs
‘One among many others’
(5′) a. vien-as iš klas-ės / b. *vien-as klas-ės
one-ns prep class-gs / one-ns class-gs
‘One of the class’
hirdly, a detailed study of the contexts where these two constructions appear,
shows that they are not used at random. We will see that they are actually based on
accurate discriminative semantic criteria. herefore, as a framework for this study,
irst general hypotheses on the function of a case and of a preposition in general
will be put forward, and then speciic hypotheses on the semantic value of the two
markers under scrutiny: the preposition iš and the genitive case in Lithuanian.
2. Hypotheses
2.1 Cases and prepositions are relators2
he relational role of cases and prepositions was noted long ago and meets with
some consensus: Blake (1994), Denis and Sancier Château (1994), Hagège (1997),
among many others, speak of marks of dependency toward a predicate. he term
‘relator’ was created to refer to this function. Following these authors, case and
preposition will be considered relators which introduce an abstract localization:
in each instance, preposition and case ending establish an asymmetric relation
between two terms X and Y, where Y is the source of determinations for X. his
relation will be called XRY, where Y corresponds to the noun introduced by the
preposition or to the base of the case ending and where X corresponds to the term
referring to the element extracted from the group.
(6) vien-as(X) turting-iaus-ių(Y) (R=Genitive)
one-ns rich-sup-gp
‘One of the richest’
(7) vien-as(X)(X′) iš turting-iaus-ių (Y)(Y′) (R=iš) (R′=Genitive)
one-ns prep rich-sup-gp
‘One of the richest’
2. For a development of this question, see de Penanros (2013a).
244 Hélène de Penanros
his hypothesis has the advantage of placing case and preposition at the same level.
It has an immediate consequence: there are two relations in the prepositional phrase
with iš, the one set up by the preposition iš and the one introduced by the genitive
case, which necessarily combines with this preposition (see R and R′ in (7)).
2.2 he semantics of iš and of the genitive in Lithuanian
Given this general hypothesis, speciic hypotheses on the semantics of the preposi-
tion iš and the genitive in Lithuanian can be proposed. hese abstract character-
izations result from the detailed analysis of the two markers taking into account
the variations in their respective uses. I will argue that any preposition, just as any
case (in a particular language), has a semantic identity which can not be deined by
some basic meaning, but by the speciic role it plays in the interrelations between
the terms of the context in which it appears, interrelations which constitute the
meaning of the utterance.
Semantics of iš:
1. iš is a relator: it sets up a relation of localization between terms X and Y, where
Y is the source of determinations for X;
2. iš marks that Y has a double status: it has an Interior (termed ‘I’) and an
Exterior (termed ‘E’);
3. iš means that X, which is initially located in Y’s Interior, is located in Y’s
Exterior.
his semantic characterization allows us to account for all the uses of the preposi-
tion iš. In the present case, the parameters of the formula are interpreted as fol-
lows: in (7), vienas (X), while originating from the group of the richest (Interior
of Y), is located in the Exterior of this group, meaning that it is extracted from it.
(7) vien-as(X) iš turting-iaus-ių (Y) (R=iš)
one-ns prep rich-sup-gp
‘One of the richest’
Semantics of the genitive:
1. he genitive case is a relator: it sets up a relation of localization between the
terms X and Y, where Y is the source of determinations for X
2. Y, the basis of the casual suix, is the locator of a quantitative dissociation and
a qualitative association. he genitive case marks that X is quantitatively dis-
sociated from Y and qualitatively associated to Y.
‘Quantiication’ [QNT] and ‘qualiication’ [QLT] are two central concepts of
the heory of Enunciative Operations used to represent the construction of an
occurrence of a notion, which involves a quantitative delimitation (operation of
he case of ‘optional’ prepositions in Lithuanian 245
quantiication) and a qualitative delimitation (operation of qualiication). QNT
concerns the spatio-temporal determination of an occurrence, its location relative
to time and consequently the existence of the occurrence, while QLT relates to the
nature, the properties, the qualities of an occurrence.
he quantitative delimitation is in no way related to quantiication in the
mathematical sense of the word: on the contrary, it is reminiscent of the ‘judge-
ment of existence’ of logicians, while the qualitative delimitation echoes their
‘judgement of attribution’ (in Glossaire français-anglais de terminologie linguis-
tique du SIL: héorie des opérations énonciatives: déinitions, terminologie, expli-
cations, J. Chuquet, H. Chuquet, E. Gilbert, http://www-01.sil.org/Linguistics/
glossary_fe/defs/TOEEn.asp (cf. Culioli 1999)). hus, in (6) turtingiausių is the
locator (Y); vienas (X) is located by this term as being quantitatively dissociated
from it but qualitatively associated to it: vienas is quantitatively dissociated from
turtingiausių (it is an element taken out of the whole) but it remains qualitatively
associated to it (it is a rich person just like the others).
(6) vien-as(X) turting-iaus-ių(Y) (R=Genitive)
one-ns rich-sup-gp
‘One of the richest’
3. Observations
hese two modes of expression are close: with iš, X simultaneously belongs to
Y and is localized by the exterior of Y; with the genitive, however, X and Y are
both associated and dissociated. his proximity explains the possibility to replace
one construction by the other in numerous contexts. In fact, the substitution is
frequent, especially in the presence of a superlative: see (8) and (9) which seem
quite similar but which difer in the construction used; still one could replace one
construction by the other in both examples.
(8) Turtuolių sąraše B.Berezovskis – vien-as turting-iaus-ių Rusij-os žmon-ių.
one-ns rich-sup-gp Russia-gs people-gp
‘In the list of the rich, there is B. Berezovsky, one of the richest people of Russia.’
(9) Šis žmogus jau dabar yra multimilijonierius,
‘his man is already a multimillionaire now,’
vien-as iš turting-iaus-ių D.Britanij-os žmon-ių,
one-ns iš rich-sup-gp G. Britain-gs people-gp
gyvenantis devynių aukštų pastate Londone, Čelsio rajone.
‘one of the richest people in Great Britain, who lives in an eight-storey build-
ing in Chelsea in London.’
246 Hélène de Penanros
At the same time, these two cases are diferent: introducing an explicit marker of
localization (iš) in addition to the genitive seems to focus on the extraction itself,
and, as a consequence, X becomes salient. In other words, when two markers are
used, it is as though X was ‘more’ extracted from the group than when only the
genitive is used: indeed, when the two markers co-occur, X is not one among oth-
ers, it is one special element clearly distinguished from the others.
3.1 Iš or the saliency of X
hus, the construction with the preposition iš is mainly used in contexts where
X is in one way or another emphasised. he prepositional construction is used in
more than 90% of the cases where the phrase is the object of the verb rinktis ‘to
choose’ or its derivatives.3
(10) Reikia rinktis vien-ą iš jų.
must choose one-as iš pro.3.gp
‘One must choose one of them.’
Contexts of ‘presentation’ are also privileged contexts to have iš :
(11) Prašom susipažinti. Čia vien-a iš mano draug-ių, Meilutė.
here one-ns iš my friend-gp
‘Let me introduce you. Here is one of my friends, Meiluté’.
It is possible not to use the preposition here, but the presentation then seems more
casual, the person being simply quoted as a friend among others, without any
particular emphasis. he indicators of the emphasis on X can be most varied: the
pronoun pats ‘self’ in (12), the exclusive negation nė in (13), etc.
(12) Trys žmonės atsidūrė po sniegu,
‘hree people found themselves under the snow’
tik vienas iš jų išsigelbėjo pats.
only one iš them saved.refl himself
‘only one of them, alone, saved himself’.
3. Statistics based on a corpus of 221 occurrences of the verbs rinktis and pasirinkti in the
Lithuanian database, which showed 6 occurrences of the genitive alone for 215 occurrences
of the PP with iš. Kompiuteriṅs lingvistikos centras, Vytauto Didžiojo Universitetas <http://
tekstynas.vdu.lt/tekstynas/>
he case of ‘optional’ prepositions in Lithuanian 247
(13) Ji verkė: Diotalevis mirė šeštadienį, vidurnaktį.
‘She was crying: Diotalevis died last Saturday, at midnight.’
Ir nė vien-o, nė vien-as iš draug-ų,
and not one-gs not one-ns iš friend-gp
‘And no one, not a single one of his friends’
šįryt neatėjo į jo laidotuves, kokia gėda! Net ponas Garamondas, sako, jis kažkur
užsienyje. Tik aš, Gracija, Liučianas ir kažkoks ponas.
‘came to his funerals this morning, what a shame! Even Mr Garamondas, one
says he is abroad. here was only me, Gracija, Luchianas and a gentleman.’
In (13), you cannot remove the preposition. In this context, the repetition aims at
focalizing on X which corresponds to ‘not one’: ‘nė vienas iš draugų’ (not a single
one of his friends) is a repetition of ‘nė vieno’ (no one), which intends to empha-
size the fact that strictly no element of the group ‘friends’ came.
3.2 Genitive case or unmarked extraction
his is contrasted with the other construction, i.e. the construction with the geni-
tive alone, which prevails in contexts where X is one among many others, without
any particular emphasis.
(14) Jau užregistruotas ir šios «sporto šakos» pasaulio rekordas – 15,41 gramo.
Australo kolekcija, gerai saugoma ir kruopščiai kataloguota,
‘he world record of this «sport» is also already listed: 15.41 grams. he col-
lection of the Australian, which is well preserved and carefully cataloged’
tėra tik vien-as keist-ų ir nuostab-ių «žygdarb-ių»,
rest-be.prs only one-ns strange-gp and surprising-gp exploits-gp
užregistruotų Guinnesso pasaulio rekordų knygoje, pasirodžiusioje praėjusį
penktadienį.
‘is only one of the strange and amazing “feats” recorded in the Guinness book
of world records, which was published last Friday.’
In (14), the ‘collection of the Australian’ is presented as being only (see the use of the
restrictive particle te-) one exploit between all the ones listed in the Guinness book.
(15) Jaunieji rašytojai,
‘he young authors,’
o tarp jų buvo ir vienas mano mėgstamiaus-ių rašytoj-ų
and among them was also one-ns my favorite-gp writer-gp
‘and among them also featured one of my favorite writers’
‘Justinas Marcinkevičius, žavėjo savo kūrybiniais ieškojimais,
‘Justinas Marcinkevichius, delighted us by their creative researches.’
248 Hélène de Penanros
In (15), the prepositional phrase tarp jų (among them), the adverb ir (also) show
that Marcinkevichius is only one of the writers present, just like the others.
(16) Vienas mano brol-ių– Vilkdalgis, o kit-as, dar geriau – Petunijus.
one my brother-gp Iris.m and other-ns even better Petunia.m
‘One of my brothers is called Iris, and the other one, even better: Petunio.’
Patys įsivaizduokite, kokie turi būti žmonės, kuriems šauna į galvas užkarti savo
vaikams tokius vardus!
‘You can well imagine by yourselves what can be these people who can have
the idea of dubbing their children with such irst names!’
In (16), the coordination of two terms working as a couple vienas, o kitas (the
one, and the other one) puts both elements of the group ‘brothers (Y)’ at the same
level, which excludes a diferentiated consideration of the brothers, and thus any
saliency of one of them (X).
his function of the genitive also explains why this construction is overrepre-
sented when X corresponds to the quantiier kiekvienas (each), which, according
to its general deinition, scans all the units of the class, is suitable for an interpre-
tation in terms of ‘each element just like any of the others’. Iš is of course possible
with this quantiier and it appears in contexts of focalization, but one can note the
proportion in favor of the genitive alone in the Lithuanian database: kiekvienas
jų (each of them, 406 instances) / kiekvienas iš jų (each of them, 264 instances).
his line of analysis in terms of focalization allows us to account for the use
of iš or of the genitive alone in the various contexts where they appear, even in
contexts like (8) and (9), repeated here below, where the two constructions are
possible in both cases: still, the genitive alone was used in (8) because it is about a
name in a list (sąraše) – that is one among others –, whereas in (9), X is a central
element, the determination of which is completed in the right context.
(8) Turtuolių sąraše B.Berezovskis – vien-as turting-iaus-ių Rusij-os žmon-ių.
one-ns rich-sup-gp Russia-gs people-gp
‘In the list of the rich people, there is B. Berezovsky, one of the richest people
of Russia.’
(9) Šis žmogus jau dabar yra multimilijonierius,
‘his man is already a multimillionaire now,’
vien-as iš turting-iaus-ių D.Britanij-os žmon-ių,
one-ns iš rich-sup-gp G. Britain-gs people-gp
gyvenantis devynių aukštų pastate Londone, Čelsio rajone.
‘one of the richest people in Great Britain, who lives in an 8 storey building
in Chelsea in London.’
he case of ‘optional’ prepositions in Lithuanian 249
4. Analysis
he preposition iš is not a free option. he two constructions expressing an extrac-
tion of discrete elements from a group are not synonyms but correspond to two
diferent semantic operations. We could sum up this diference by saying that the
genitive without the preposition constructs an unmarked extraction from a group,
whereas the combination of the two is a marked one insofar as it focuses on the
extracted element (X). Introducing an explicit marker of extraction (the preposi-
tion iš) in addition to the genitive results in a focus on the extraction expressed
in the construction.
It is possible to describe this in terms of iconicity of motivation as the instance
marked semantically (with focalization) is also marked syntactically insofar as two
markers co-occur.
However, this observation and its analysis which directly links form and
meaning without taking into account the linguistic operations implemented by
the linguistic forms, seems unsatisfactory. In the present case, this analysis comes
up against one diiculty: the instance when Y corresponds to a singular noun
expressing a group/a set of indistinct elements (See (5b)).
(5) a. vien-as iš daugel-io / b. *vien-as daugel-io
one-ns prep lot-gs / one-ns lot-gs
‘one among many others’
In such a case, only the prepositional phrase is possible. (5a) has the two markers
(the preposition iš and the genitive), but the focalization on X which appears in
all the other instances where this combination of markers occurs, is here absent.
he expression ‘vienas iš daugelio’ means one among many others, one just like
all the others (see (17)):
(17) Man tai buvo vien-as konkurs-as *daugel-io / iš daugel-io.
pro.1.ds this was one-ns competition-ns *lot-gs / iš lot-gs
‘For me, it was a competition among many others. I really do not
over-evaluate it.
Jo tikrai nesureikšminu.’
As this context – quite representative of the use of this expression – shows, the
extraction is here realized by the preposition iš plus the genitive, but with no
focalization on the term corresponding to X (vienas konkursas in (17)): here the
competition is considered exactly on a par with all the others.
I propose an alternative analysis in order to account for these instances. his
analysis rests on the hypothesis that cases and prepositions are relators and that,
as a consequence, in any prepositional phrase – in Lithuanian like in any language
250 Hélène de Penanros
where these two categories appear – two relations are established. hus, it is the
combination of the relation of quantitative dissociation expressed by the genitive
case with the preposition iš (marking the shit from the Interior to the Exterior)
which results in the focus being on the extraction, and the saliency of X. To be
precise, in (7), the terms vienas (one) and turtingiaus- (the richest) feature respec-
tively the X and the Y both of the genitive and of the preposition iš. hese terms
are related by means of the genitive and re-invested in a similar relationship con-
structed by iš, which results in a focalization on the extraction at stake.
One can describe this phenomenon resorting to the concept of saliency: the
marker iš re-inscribes the terms X and Y in a second relation – semantically simi-
lar to that set up by the genitive case – which adds to it. he saliency, which is a
source of intensiication, causes an interpretation in terms of focalization on X, the
term extracted. his saliency happens only because the elements X and Y already
involved in a relation (set up by the genitive) are reintroduced in another relation,
which transforms the irst one in spreading it, reinforcing it. In other words, there
is some saliency in the expression in (7), because that in (6) exists:
(6) vien-as(X) turting-iaus-ių(Y) (R=Genitive)
one-ns rich-sup-gp
‘One of the richest’
(7) vien-as(X)(X′) iš turting-iaus-ių (Y)(Y′) (R=iš) (R′=Genitive)
one-ns prep rich-sup-gp
‘One of the richest’
On the other hand, there is no saliency in the expression in (5a) because (5b) is
not possible:
(5) a. vien-as iš daugel-io / b. *vien-as daugel-io
one-ns prep lot-gs / one-ns lot-gs
‘one among many others’
In (5a), the terms corresponding to X and Y are not taken a second time to be
reinvested in a second relation in order to add reinforcement, since the concise
relation with the genitive alone is not possible: there is no saliency here and the
focalization owing to the use of iš, logically, doesn’t show.
he question yet unresolved is that of the function of the genitive in (5a),
when (5b) is impossible. One way to answer this question is to consider that, when
the genitive alone is not possible, it does not work in the same way: i.e. it marks
a relationship ‘let pending’ or ‘on hold’. In (5a), the genitive case constructs Y as
the potential locator of a relation marking qualitative association and quantitative
dissociation.
he case of ‘optional’ prepositions in Lithuanian 251
5. Outcome
his analysis predicts, irst, that saliency shows up every time the terms corre-
sponding to X and Y are possible both with the case alone and with the prepo-
sition which combines with this case. A second prediction is that there will be
no saliency when the prepositional phrase is in competition with a case that the
preposition does not select, because it is not the same relationships which are
involved (maybe not the same X, etc.).
his second prediction is easy to test. All we have to do is to look at all the
other uses of the preposition iš, which are uses where the competition with the
genitive alone is not possible.
(18) Jis eina iš virtuv-ės.
he goes iš kitchen-gs
‘He goes out of the kitchen.’
(19) Jis mirė iš bad-o / bad-u.
he died iš hunger-gs / hunger-is
‘He died of hunger.’
he construction in (18) is the unmarked way to express the movement out of
a place. he preposition iš is necessary, the genitive alone cannot express this
notion. here is no focalization. here are several other possibilities to focus on
one element of this sentence, in particular word order and intonation. In (19), the
preposition phrase competes with the instrumental case: I have shown elsewhere
(de Penanros 2013c) that these two constructions do not have the same terms
standing for their X, and that the diference between the two has nothing to do
with a question of focalization.
Evidence for the irst prediction comes from other instances of competition
between constructions of the type Ncasex/Prep Ncasex. I therefore propose to
study the diferent constructions of the verb pereiti (preix ‘through’+ ‘go’), a pre-
ixed verb expressing the idea of crossing. he morpheme per- corresponds both to
a preix and a preposition, both expressing shiting from one point to another. he
addition of the preix per- to an intransitive verbal base results in the construction
of a transitive verb expressing the idea of crossing:
(20) *eiti gatv-ę
go street-as
(21) per-eiti gatv-ę
per-go street-as
‘to cross the street’
252 Hélène de Penanros
(22) per-eiti per gatv-ę
per-go per street-as
‘to cross the street’
In (21), gatvę (street-as) is the term constructing the two points requested by the
preix per-. Despite its translation in English, (21) is not a synonym of (22). It is
possible to show that the preposition per is used in instances where one focuses for
one reason or another on this crossing, on its diferent stages and steps. he prepo-
sition per is thus required in (23) because the current does not have a destination,
the idea that is important here is that it goes through all the points constituting
the interval ‘body’, just as in (24) with the shiver in the back.
(23) Elektros srov-ė per-ėjo ?? Ø / per vis-ą kūn-ą.
electric current-ns per-went ?? Ø / per all-as body-as
‘he electric current ran through his whole body.’
(24) Šiurp-as jam per-ėjo ?? Ø / per nugar-ą.
Shiver-ns pro3m.ds per-went ?? Ø / per back-as
‘A shiver ran through his back.’
It is the same in (25), where it is important to show all the diicult stages that the
people considered underwent. It is not possible to remove the preposition in this
particular context.
(25) Tai smarkūs vaikinai, – pripažino biuro atstovas. – Ir ne kvailiai.
‘“hey are violent young people”, recognized the representative of the oice.
“– And not fools”.’
Jie per-ėjo ?? Ø / per totalitarizm-ą,
they per-went ?? Ø / per totalitarisme-as
KGB kankinimus, Sibiro lagerius ir kalėjimus.
hey went through the totalitarianism, the torture of the KGB, the camps in
Siberia, and the prisons.”’
In another register, pereiti per is to be met when it comes down to scanning the
whole space when looking for something. In that case, the preposition cannot be
omitted (see (26) and (27)).
(26) Jie vėl per-ėjo per /? Ø parduotuv-ę,
they again per-went per /? Ø shop-as
‘hey went through the whole shop again,’
ieškodami antro vežimėlio, tačiau nerado.
‘looking for the second shopping cart, but did not ind it.’
he case of ‘optional’ prepositions in Lithuanian 253
(27) Perėjau * Ø /per vis-as lentyn-as, perėjau * Ø /per bat-us,
per-went * Ø /per all-ap shelf-ap per-went * Ø /per shoe-ap
* Ø / per kepur-es: nieko neradau
* Ø / per hat-ap
‘I scanned all the shelves, all the shoes, all the hats and did not ind anything.’
his is to be found again in the narration in (28), where the point of view is
adopted of someone who stays behind observing the scene, reluctant to stay alone,
and for whom all the points of the crossing of the yard are important, because it
means as much time spent alone.
(28) – Noriu, kad čia palauktum. – Aš noriu eiti su tavim. – Aš nueisiu tik ana ten
pažvelgti. Pasėdėk čia. Tu visąlaik mane matysi. Pažadu.
‘– I want you to wait for me here.
– And I want to come with you.
– I am just going to have a look. You just sit here for a minute. You will be
seeing me all the time. I promise.’
Jis perėjo per kiem-ą
he per-went per yard-as
‘He crossed the yard’
ir, vis dar laikydamas rankoje revolverį, pastūmė duris.
‘and still holding the revolver in his hand, pushed the door.’
However, the preposition was not used in (29), because the detail of the crossing of
the street is not relevant; what matters here is that this crossing, taken as a whole,
occurred in the wrong place.
(29) Eismą tvarkanti milicija užiksavo įvykį – docentė
‘he militia in charge of the traic had established the following fact: the teacher’
L. Lisenkaitė per-ėjo gatv-ę /?per gatv-ę draudžiam-oje viet-oje,
L. Lisenkaiṫ per-went street-as/?per street-as forbidden-ls place-ls
‘L. Lisenkaitė had crossed the street in a prohibited place,’
sukeldama avarinę situaciją. Jokios avarijos nebuvo, bet ji galėjo būti.
‘causing an accident-prone situation. here had been no accident, but one
could have taken place.’
he second prediction concerning the conditions of emergence of saliency is veri-
ied: the accusative alone is used when the relation is unmarked, that is when the
place in question simply corresponds to the interval requested by the preixed verb
pereiti; we have the preposition and the accusative when the relation set up by the
verb is organized diferently to focus on one of its aspects.
254 Hélène de Penanros
he other case of competition of this kind in Lithuanian concerns the ref-
erence to the instrument of verbs of activity: the instrument can be introduced
either with the instrumental alone or with both the instrumental and the preposi-
tion su which requests this case. Holvoet (2004:17) describes this type of instances
by saying that the use of the preposition is a reinforcement of the case.
(30) Jis atkimš-o butel-į (su) kamščiatrauk-iu.
he unscrew-pst bottle-as (with) screw-driver-is
‘He unscrewed the bottle with a screwdriver.’
In fact, the use of the preposition is a way to remove the instrument from the
direct scope of the verb, in order to rework the relationship between the verb and
the instrument so as to focus on the latter. Compare, for instance, (31) and (32)
where the two constructions are in complementary distribution.
(31) Dalia, jeigu mama mirs,
‘Dalia, if mum dies,’
aš nu-si-dur-siu ??šit-uo peil-iu /su šit-uo peil-iu.
I pref-refl-stab-fut1 ??dem-is knife-is/with dem-is knife-is
‘I will stab myself with this knife.’
(32) Kosčėjus Nemirtingasis šoko po traukiniu, po to nusišovė, vėliau nusiskandino,
Koschejus Immortal had thrown himself under a train, ater this he had shot
himself, then drowned himself,
pasikorė, nušoko nuo stogo, nu-si-dūr-ė peiliu / ??su peil-iu
pref-refl-stab-pst knife.is / ?? with knife-is
hung himself, jumped of a roof, knifed himself;
– žodžiu išgėrė žmogus ir truputį pasilinksmino.
in a word, the man had been drinking, and had had a little fun.
In (31), the demonstrative ‘šitas’ which pinpoints a particular knife, hinders the
use of the instrumental case alone. In (32), on the other hand, we have the neutral
expression to express the action of stabbing oneself, in a context where diferent
ways of killing oneself are enumerated: the knife itself, as such, is irrelevant and the
instrumental alone suices to introduce this instrument. his contrast shows that
the two constructions correspond to diferent operations: the instrumental case
by itself is used to express the instrument requested by the verb in an ‘unmarked’
way; whereas,, in order to focus on this instrument, an additional marker is used,
re-inscribing the terms X and Y in a second – supposedly semantically similar –
relation in order to focus on one of the elements.
he case of ‘optional’ prepositions in Lithuanian 255
6. Conclusion
It thus appears that in these two examples of competition between a preposition
and its corresponding case or the use of the case by itself, both examples involving
a predicative relationship, we ind the same regularities: the case alone is used to
express the unmarked predicative relationship, whereas the prepositional phrase
is used to focus on one of its aspects. hese two examples turn out to be entirely
comparable to what we had in the instance of the extraction from a group, except
that a verb is here involved and that the tangle of relations involved is therefore
even more complex.
However, the study of these two examples lacks a detailed analysis of the accu-
sative and of the preposition per (across), on the one hand, and of the instrumental
case and the preposition su (with) on the other, which would show precisely how
the two operations associated with the markers involved combine and, thus, would
explain the mechanism of the focalization which appears in these combinations.
My hypothesis is that there must be a proximity between the semantics of per
(across) and the accusative on the one hand, between that of su (with) and the
instrumental on the other. Indeed, as Colombat (1981) underlines, the semantic
value we can associate to a case when it is used alone seems absent when this same
case is selected by a preposition, especially when this preposition can combine
only with this case:
Comment expliquer qu’un cas qui à lui seul peut marquer un rapport puisse perdre
ainsi cette valeur générale pour ne dépendre que d’une préposition?4
his apparent loss of all semantic value when it is the only case that can be selected
by a given preposition recalls the issue of empty preverbs which developed in Slavic
and Baltic languages. Indeed, while some preixed verbs clearly appear as new lexi-
cal units (ex: pinti (to braid) / išpinti (to unbraid)), in some instances, the addition
of a preix to a verbal base gives rise to a verb which has the same meaning as the
simplex, but which is perfective, contrary to the simplex (ex: kepti (to cookimpf)/
iškepti (to cookperf). It was shown (see Paillard 2004; de Penanros 2000a, 2010) that,
in this instance like in the others, the preix is never semantically empty.
4. How to explain that a case which marks a relation in itself can lose this general value just to
depend on a preposition ?
256 Hélène de Penanros
On observe que iš- est considéré comme préverbe sémantiquement vide dans les
cas de coïncidences sémantiques avec la base verbale: les bases verbales concernées
posent toutes, en efet, d’une certaine façon, la prise en compte de deux états, ce qui
est en écho avec la sémantique de iš-5 (de Penanros 2010:121)
In my opinion, a similar principle is at work in the group [preposition+case].
hus, the preposition iš combines with a noun with the genitive case because
the semantics of the genitive echoes that of this preposition; in other words, the
preposition iš requires a term Y which is constructed as the locator of a quali-
tative association and a quantitative dissociation. his principle is supposedly
general, not only for the Lithuanian cases and prepositions, but for all the lan-
guages where these two categories co-occur. It would account for the semantic
correspondence between cases and prepositions noted by numerous authors
(see Luraghi 1989; Feuillet 1992). herefore, a detailed study of the semantics
of the prepositions per and su and of the accusative and instrumental cases in
Lithuanian still needs to be done. It is necessary to conirm my thesis: the con-
cept of iconicity of motivation alone does not allow one to account for the phe-
nomena observed for it is not so much because more markers are used that we
have a focalization, but because two semantically close relationships involving
the same terms are fully implemented.
List of abbreviations
ns singular nominative ls singular locative neg negation
as singular accusative pst past pro pronoun
ap plural accusative fut future m masculine
gs singular genitive prs present 1, 3 person
gp plural genitive pref preix sup superlative
is singular instrumental refl relexive dem demonstrative
ds singular dative rest restrictive prep preposition
5. One observes that iš- is considered semantically empty in the cases of semantic coincidences
with the verbal base: the verbal bases concerned all mean that two states are taken into account,
which, in one way or another, echoes the semantics of iš-.
he case of ‘optional’ prepositions in Lithuanian 257
References
Blake, B. 1994. Case. Cambridge: CUP.
de Boer, C. 1926. Essai sur la syntaxe moderne de la préposition en français et en italien. Paris:
Honoré champion, VIII.
Colombat B. 1981. Préposition, cas et syntaxe latine dans “l’Encyclopédie” in Histoire Episté-
mologie langage, Tome 3 fascicule 2. De la grammaire à la linguistique, 3–20.
Culioli, A. 1999. Des façons de qualiier. In Pour une linguistique de l’énonciation, Tome 3, 81–89.
Paris: Ophrys.
Denis D. & Sancier-Château A. 1994. Grammaire du français. Livre de Poche.
Feuillet, J. 1992. Rélexions sur la perte des cas en bulgare. Revue des Etudes Slaves 64(3): 539–
546. DOI: 10.3406/slave.1992.6066
Hagège, C. 1997. Les relateurs comme catégorie accessoire et la grammaire comme composante
nécessaire. Faits de Langues 9:19–28. DOI: 10.3406/lang.1997.1137
Haiman, J. 1980. he iconicity of grammar: Isopmorphism and motivation. Language 56(3):
515–540. DOI: 10.2307/414448
Holvoet, A. & Seṁnieṅ, L. 2004. Gramatinių kategorijų tyrimai. Vilnius: Lietuvių kalbos
institutas.
Jablonskis, J. 1957. Rinktiniai raštai. Vilnius: Valstybiṅ politiṅs ir moksliṅs literatūros
leidykla.
Luraghi, S. 1989. he relationship between prepositions and cases within Latin prepositional
phrases. In Subordination and Other Topics in Latin: Proceedings of the hird Colloquium
on Latin Linguistics, Bologne 1 April 1985 [Studies in Language Companion Series 17],
G. Calboli (ed.), 253–271. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/slcs.17.16lur
Paillard, D. 2004. A propos des verbes preixés. Slovo – Etudes Linguistiques et Sémiotiques
30–31: 13–43.
de Penanros, H. 2000a. L’ambivalence catégorielle préixe-préposition: Le cas de PRI en russe con-
temporain. hèse de doctorat, Université Paris Diderot. DOI: 10.1177/016001700761012585
de Penanros, H. 2000b. Pri pomošči ou s pomosč’ju? Deux constructions de la notion d’aide. La
Revue Russe 17: 55–66.
de Penanros, H. 2010. La préixation en lituanien: Le cas de iš-. Faits de Langues – Les Cahiers
2: 105–137.
de Penanros, H. 2013a. Cas et préposition en lituanien. Faits de Langues 41: 146–173.
de Penanros, H. 2013c. Cause in question: About three ways of starving to death in Lithuanian.
Baltic Linguistics 4: 159–186.
Šukys, J. 1998. Lietuvių kalbos linksniai ir prielinksniai: Vartosena ir normos. Kaunas: Šviesa.
doi 10.1075/ill.14.14oho
© 2015 John Benjamins Publishing Company
Rethinking diagrammatic iconicity
from an evolutionary perspective
Toshio Ohori
University of Tokyo
his paper reexamines the notion of diagrammatic iconicity in grammar, i.e.
the isomorphism of relational structure across form and meaning. Ater a quick
survey of the various deinitions of diagrammatic iconicity, some illustrations
are given from coordinating constructions. It is shown that grammatical (a)
symmetry in the expression of complex events corresponds to conceptual (a)
symmetry. Next, diagrammatic iconicity is examined from an evolutionary
viewpoint. Based on two considerations, namely, (i) that diagrammatic iconicity
in grammar presupposes the bifurcation of form and meaning, and (ii) that ana-
logical mapping between linguistic form and cognitive experience is a product
of highly evolved cognitive capacity, it is claimed that diagrammatic iconicity is
by no means “primitive” but a crucial species-speciic trait of human language.
1. Introduction
In mainstream linguistics, iconicity has been taken as something “basic” or “prim-
itive”, if not marginal, compared to symbolic signs. In this paper, I will examine
the notion of iconicity in human language focusing on grammatical structure and
then attempt to reconsider its signiicance by putting it in the context of language
evolution.
he present paper will proceed by discussing the following issues. First, I will
clarify the notion of iconicity in natural language. Already an impressive amount
of work has been produced on this topic, but precisely due to its diversity, I con-
sider it justiied to sort out various manifestations of iconicity as a requisite for
the discussion to follow. Second, some illustrations of diagrammatic iconicity will
be provided, drawing upon typological data concerning the use of connectives
to form complex sentences. here, it will be shown that diferences in meaning
are diagrammatically relected in the formal properties of grammatical construc-
tions. hird, I will turn to the signiicance of diagrammatic iconicity in language
evolution. It will be argued, somewhat subversively, that this type of iconicity is a
260 Toshio Ohori
product of highly complex semiotic operations and is an important ingredient of
our cognitive capacity that makes language what it is.
2. Iconicity in language: A reappraisal
While the notion of iconicity has played a signiicant role in poetics and stylistics
(including translation studies), it used to be given a rather marginal role in linguis-
tics, especially in the study of grammar (notable exceptions include Jespersen 1922;
Sapir 1929; Bolinger 1949; Jakobson 1960, 1965). It was in the mid-1980s when lin-
guists came to think about grammatical structure with reference to iconicity. At the
same time, this renewed interest has given positive feedback to the ield of poetics,
though this thread of research is not reviewed in this paper due to space limitation.
In his pioneering work on iconicity in grammar, Haiman (1985a:3) states,
“here are respects in which linguistic representations are exactly what they seem
to be, and there are respects in which human languages are like diagrams of our
perceptions of the world” (cf. also Haiman 1980, 1983, 1985b). his idea became
common in linguistic typology, as can be seen from the following quote taken from
a representative textbook (also cf. Langendonck 2007 which ofers a succinct review
and Haspelmath 2008 which ofers a critical examination):
he intuition behind iconicity is that the structure of language relects in some
way the structure of experience, that is to say, the structure of the world including
the perspective imposed on the world by the speaker. he structure of language is
therefore motivated or explained by the structure of experience to the extent that
the two matches. (Crot 2003:102)
In what follows, while admitting the importance of what Peirce called images,
“hose which partake of simple qualities, of First Firstness” (CP 2.277), we will
focus on diagrams, “those which represent the relations, mainly dyadic, or so
regarded, of the parts of one thing by analogous relations in their own parts”
(ibid.), because this is more directly related to the concern of this paper, namely
grammar (covering both morphology and syntax). he third type of icons, namely
metaphors, will be briely taken up in Section 4.
Haiman (1985a), whose work was among the most inluential to bring about
the “renaissance” of iconicity debate in linguistics, divides diagrammatic iconicity
into two subcategories, isomorphism and motivation (cf. also Nöth 2008):
Isomorphism: Diferent forms will always entail a diference in communicative
function. Conversely, recurrent identity of form between diferent grammatical
categories will always relect some perceived similarity in communicative function.
(Haiman 1985a:19)
Rethinking diagrammatic iconicity from an evolutionary perspective 261
Motivation: Given two minimally contrasting forms and the information that they
difer with respect to a single semantic feature, a language learner who is unfamil-
iar with the forms…will be able to assign to each form its appropriate meaning.
He will be able to do this on the assumption that the diference in form will in
some respects be an icon of the diference in meaning. (Haiman 1985a:71)
here are two possible amendments to these deinitions. First, the term isomor-
phism might not be the most appropriate one for the situation Haiman describes.
In mathematics, this term actually refers to what is meant by motivation in the
above deinition. hat is, isomorphism in mathematical sense refers to a system-
atic correspondence of relations. More precisely, it involves items and functions
operating over them, the most representative of which is grammar. What Haiman
calls isomorphism refers to the one-to-one correspondence between form and
meaning, motivated by the principle of diferentiation (i.e. avoidance of com-
plete synonymy). hus it might help to introduce, though provisionally, the term
biuniquess to capture Haiman’s idea to avoid misconstrual.
An important point to note in this connection is that form-meaning biunique-
ness in the above sense is not an empirically testable hypothesis. It is rather an
operational principle or a well-tested heuristic in linguistic analysis, because one
can choose to adopt either a very abstract level or a very ine-grained level of
analysis depending on his / her purpose. While it is possible to reduce apparent
polysemy to monosemy by schematizing from diverse senses, it is also possible
to diferentiate apparently synonymous terms through careful semantic analysis.
Second, linguists do not seem to be consistent about what is indeed in iconic
correspondence to the linguistic form. Let us quote some passages from Haiman’s
representative works:
a. …a grammatical structure, like an onomatopoeic word, relects its meaning
directly (Haiman 1980:516)
b. …one linguistic (or formal) dimension does correspond directly to a non-
linguistic (or conceptual) dimension (Haiman 1983:781)
c. By motivation, I have in mind the property whereby diagrams exhibit the
same relationship among their parts as their referents do among their parts
(Haiman 1985a:11)
d. …motivation in our sense will mean a correspondence between our percep-
tion of the world and our representation of this perception
(Haiman 1985a:16)
In the irst quote, what corresponds to the linguistic form is “meaning”; in the sec-
ond it is “non-linguistic (or conceptual) dimension”; in the third it is “referents”; in
the fourth it is “our perception”. Obviously these are all diferent animals. To start,
if “meaning” in (a) is to be identiied with signiié, we may discount this deinition
262 Toshio Ohori
because the signiiant and the signiié are by deinition in direct correspondence,
and here iconicity holds but only trivially. (b) is somewhat problematic in that it is
not clear where the “non-linguistic (or conceptual) dimension” would be located
within the semiotic process. I would suggest that this “dimension” consists of
objects and relations of the world of cognitive experience. hey are referents in
the sense that they belong to the world distinct from linguistic signs but they are
not identical with the “real world”. Many studies have shown (as an early example,
see Jackendof 1983, who introduced the term “projected world”) that we do not
directly experience the world out there, but rather we build our world of experi-
ence through complex cognitive processes. Grammar, or language in general, is
one of the means to do this job. Taken in this way, this position is harmonious
with (c), i.e. what stands in iconic relationship with linguistic signs is referents in
the cognitive world. It is also close to (d) “our perception” if we interpret this term
more broadly as conceptualization (cf. Langacker 1987).
To summarize, diagrammatic iconicity in language holds between the lin-
guistic form and the structure of cognitive experience. his type of diagrammatic
iconicity is, unlike form-meaning biuniqueness, empirically testable, as grammati-
cal structures and cognitive experiences can in principle be characterized inde-
pendently. We will see this in some detail in the next section.
3. Some illustrations of diagrammatic iconicity
In this section, I will concentrate on diagrammatic iconicity in the complex sen-
tence, mainly coordinating constructions. I will show cases where conigurations
of linguistic signs function as icons of cognitive schemas such as simultaneity
and asymmetry.
3.1 Simultaneity and sequentiality
When two events happen at the same time and are perceived as equally salient,
they tend to be encoded by the same grammatical means. Conversely, an unbal-
anced means of encoding would indicate that the events being described have
unequal cognitive statuses. Consider the following example from Kewa:
Kewa (Trans-New Guinea; Franklin 1983:43)
(1) saa eta no agaa lo pi-pa
we=two food eat talk say sit-(1dl. perfect)
‘We have been eating and talking together.’
Rethinking diagrammatic iconicity from an evolutionary perspective 263
Here neither no ‘eat’ nor lo ‘talk’ is marked for any tense or mood. hey both
occur as something akin to bare ininitives, and receive their temporal interpreta-
tion from the suix -pa (glossed ‘1dl.perfect’) attached to pi ‘sit’, which is a sup-
porting verb whose primary purpose is to complete the entire predication. (1) is
thus interpreted as two events happening at the same time, with equal cognitive
saliency. he equal status of the irst two predicates, i.e. their lack of aspect mark-
ing and dependence on the inal predicate, can be seen as an icon of simultaneity
of the two events they denote.
Situations like this is not uncommon. Consider the following case from
Japanese. Both (2) and (3) can be described as coordinating constructions. he
connectives -te and -tari both attach to tenseless verb roots, namely mi- ‘to watch’
and yat- (underlyingly yar-) ‘to do’. Given the information that two events, watch-
ing the TV (E1) and doing homework (E2) are coordinated in (2) and (3), which
sentence would be more likely to induce a sequential interpretation (E1>E2) and
which one would be more likely to be associated with a simultaneous interpreta-
tion (E1=E2)?
Japanese (isolate)
(2) TV-o mi-te shukudai-o yat-ta.
TV-acc watch-and homework-acc work-past
‘(X) watched the TV and did homework.’
(3) TV-o mi-tari shukudai-o yat-tari shi-ta.
TV-acc watch-and homework-acc work-and do-past
‘(X) watched the TV and did homework.’
An alert reader would suppose that even if no information on Japanese gram-
mar is given, s/he would guess that (2) has a sequential interpretation and (3) a
simultaneous interpretation. his is indeed the case. (2) is an instance of asym-
metric construction, where only the ist predicate is non-inite and the second
predicate bears the past tense -ta. Its semantics is fairly open, but one preferred
reading of (2) is that of sequentiality, i.e. someone watched the TV and then did
his/her homework. In contrast, (3) the two predicates mi- ‘watch’ and yat- ‘work’
are both non-inite and supported by the semantically light predicate shi-ta ‘did’
which has tense and hence is inite. he symmetrical relation between the two
predicates marked by -tari corresponds to the conceptual structure expressed by
sentence (3).
264 Toshio Ohori
3.2 Asymmetry in logical connectives
I have shown elsewhere that there is an intriguing asymmetry between the two
logical connectives AND (conjunction) and OR (disjunction) in terms of the ways
in which they are encoded in natural languages (Ohori 2004, 2007). his asymme-
try in fact turns out to be an interesting manifestation of diagrammatic iconicity.
Below I will give the gist of the analysis. For details, see Ohori (ibid.).
In propositional logic, the following equations are taken for granted. hat is,
there is no a priori basis for taking either AND or OR as more basic.
(4) p AND q = NOT (NOT p OR NOT q)
(5) p OR q = NOT (NOT p AND NOT q)
But these equivalence relations are only apparent. In natural languages, there is an
unmistakable skewing in the marking strategies for AND and OR.
Table 1. Marking strategies of the logical notions AND and OR
I II III IV
AND yes yes no no
OR yes no yes no
Of the four possible ways of marking AND and OR in natural languages shown in
Table 1, the irst type is exempliied by Indo-European languages, where the two
logical notions are equally expressed by independent words. But this does not
seem to be the norm in other parts of the world.
Goemai (Afroasiatic; Hewellwig 2011:464–465)
(6) muèp s’óe bì, muèp s’wá hààm, muèp shin tàl.
3pl.s eat thing 3pl.s drink water 3pl.s do greeting
‘they eat things, they drink water, they perform greetings.’
(7) Mòe=yòng góór kó mòe=yòng ńgùmgóór.
1pl.s=call ish.typ maybe/or 1pl.s=call ish.type
‘We call (it) goor or we call (it) ngumgoor.’
Tarriana (Arawak; Aikhenvald 2003:484–485)
(8) nihyã-nipe alia-mha kuheni ñamu ñha-ka-si
3sgnf+eat-nom exist-pres.vis crab evil.spirit food-th-nom
alia-mha kuheni ka:siɾi ma:napi tawaɾi uɾu
exist-pres.vis crab crocodile little.ish traira.type.ish bodo.ish
dawaki yaka
jandia.ish shrimp
‘here is his (evil spirit’s food), there is crab, evil spirit’s food, (there are) crab,
crocodile, little ish, traira ish, bodó ish, jandiá ish, shrimp.’
Rethinking diagrammatic iconicity from an evolutionary perspective 265
(9) kuite yaphini itʃiɾi pu:we di-pane
inter+ncl:anim thing game capucchin.monkey 3sgnf-plantation
di-ñha di-nitu-ka di-a di-ka
3sgnf-eat 3sgnf-steal-sub 3sgnf-go 3sgnf-see
‘He went to see what thing – game or capucchin monkey – was stealing and
eating his plantation.’
Goemai is a case in which the conjunctive AND relation is not overtly marked (cf.
Example (6)) but the disjunctive OR relation is (cf. Example (7)), exemplifying the
third type in Table 1. his situation, i.e. AND can oten be marked by simple juxta-
position of constituents, while OR tends to be marked by a non-zero morpheme,
is common across languages.
In the Tariana examples (8)–(9), neither the conjunctive relation nor the
disjunctive relation bears overt marking, and this exempliies the fourth type
in Table 1. When the latter must be expressed, o which is a borrowing from
Portuguese is used, but this is optional and a relatively recent innovation in the
language. In fact, Goemai kó is also originally a borrowing from Hausa, which has
written language tradition. his fact seems to indicate that unmarked juxtaposi-
tion is somewhat basic for both AND and OR, and when a need arises to overtly
mark either of them, OR gets marked with a word newly recruited from either a
contact language or from some lexical resource within the language.
Crucially, the second type given in Table 1, where AND is formally marked
but OR is not, seems very rare, if not unattested. hus one may make a generaliza-
tion in such a way that the presence of an overt morpheme in the coordinating
construction is an icon of the cognitive markedness of the OR relation. More
speciically, the OR relation requires an extra cognitive cost for processing in
the sense that the use of a disjunctive marker gives an instruction to build an
alternative mental model, unlike in the case of the AND relation, where only
incremental expansion of a set is performed within a single mental model. he
hypotheticality of the OR relation is relected in the choice of a word recruited for
its encoding: common lexical sources include words meaning ‘maybe’, negation,
or question. For example, Japanese ka is used for both question and disjunction.
In Lango (Nilo-Saharan, Noonan 1992) one common marker for the OR relation
is òɲò which derives from the 3rd person perfective form of the predicate mean-
ing ‘be possible’.
he foregoing examples show that in the area of complex sentences gram-
matical strategies for combining clauses relect structural properties of cognitive
experience: symmetrical marking corresponds to the symmetrical / simultaneous
event construal, and extra marking corresponds to extra cognitive cost and the
complexity of the mental model. Taken together, they indicate that diagrammatic
iconicity is unmistakably operating in the formation of complex sentences.
266 Toshio Ohori
4. Diagrammatic iconicity and language evolution
4.1 Preliminaries
Having reviewed the notion of diagrammatic iconicity and some of its manifes-
tations, let us consider its place within the scenario of language evolution. he
discussion in this section will be speculative, but I hope it will help remold our
thinking about this issue.
In the literature on language evolution, it is generally the case that iconicity is
discussed in the context of the evolutionary scenario from icons to symbols (cf.
Tallerman & Gibson 2012, passim). For example, words which are largely sym-
bolic in sign languages tend to develop out of mimetic gestures which are iconic.
But in this kind of discussion, iconicity is limited to the irst level in Peirce’s cat-
egory, namely images. Diagrammatic iconicity, which manifests itself in various
subdomains of grammar, is not paid great attention to in the context of language
evolution. But the very fact that diagrammatic iconicity is widely seen in modern
human languages urges us to switch our perspective in such a way that iconicity
is not taken as a primitive trait of the protolanguage but rather as an important
property of the modern human language whose cognitive basis waits to be spelled
out. his way of putting the question has the same logic as other salient questions
concerning language evolution: identify a key property of modern language, and
search for a cognitive / biological mechanism responsible for such a property.
4.2 Form-meaning separation
he irst part of the story is straightforward from a linguistic point of view.
Diagrammatic iconicity above all presupposes separation of form and meaning.
his sounds like a truism, but in a broad semiotic context, there are types of signs
in which form and meaning do not form separate systems. For example, certain
facial expressions of emotion (e.g. those of anger or disgust) are directly indexical
and symptomatic. Animal calls basically fall in this category. Images are also based
on direct representation of referents, at least in typical cases. In either of these
cases, form and meaning are not recognized separately. In contrast, diagrammatic
iconicity in the sense of form-meaning isomorphism presupposes the existence of
linguistic code consisting of symbolic signs. hus the real question to be addressed
is: Upon the recognition of the bifurcation of form and meaning in the precursor
of human language, what was the driving force for the rise and entrenchment of
the diagrammatic correspondence between form and meaning?
Rethinking diagrammatic iconicity from an evolutionary perspective 267
4.3 Higher-order analogy in humans
he next part of the story is more central to our question. Given that diagrammatic
iconicity holds between two separate systems, seeing similarity between them
involves the recognition of structural parallelism, which is a highly developed
form of analogy. Although this is not a necessary condition in the case of linguistic
image as represented by onomatopoeia, iconicity in grammar as form-meaning
isomorphism precisely requires it.
Seeing similarity is an essential cognitive faculty of developed organisms.
Identiication of pertinent properties and categorization based on it constitute a
necessary practice of them. However, there are diferent levels of similarity iden-
tiication and they seem to be associated with diferent evolutionary stages, as
demonstrated in e.g. Holyoak and hagard (1995). Let us review some key points
from their discussion.
A basic type of similarity holds at the level of objects. hat is, one sees simi-
larity between two objects and may identify them as instances (=sinsigns) of a
same category (=legisign). Or two objects may be considered similar based on the
observation of certain attributes of them. his process may be complicated when
the choice of relevant attributes is highly context-dependent.
Next comes the similarity / identity of relations which, crucially, gives rise to
analogical reasoning. Suppose you are irst shown a picture depicting a pair of
objects, one being a bottle and the other a bell (Holyoak & hagard ibid.). hen
you are presented with two pictures, each containing a pair of objects. One con-
tains two hammers (let us call this Pair A); the other a shoe and a lower (let us
call this Pair B), as shown in Figure 1.
sample
alternatives
Figure 1. Relational similarity (from Holyoak & hagard 1995:48)
Which is taken to be the same as the original sample? he answer is pair B. he
logic goes as follows. In the sample, a bottle and a bell are diferent objects. It is
this relation which is to be compared. In Pair A, two hammers are same, but in
268 Toshio Ohori
Pair B, a shoe and a lower are diferent. Based on this recognition, Pair B is taken
to be the same as the original sample, both manifesting the relation whose value is
<diferent>. his identiication of relational similarity is already extremely diicult
for non-human animals. Holyoak and hagard (1995) report that only lab-raised
apes can aford to exhibit this ability ater extensive training.
An even more sophisticated ability to see relational similarity is illustrated by
the following igure.
sample
alternatives
Figure 2. Advanced relational similarity (from Holyoak & hagard 1995:70)
Here the alternative on the let (call it Set A), not the one on the right (call it Set B)
is the correct answer. In the sample, the upper row contains two apples, exhibit-
ing the relation <same>; the lower row likewise exhibits the relation <same>. he
comparison of these two abstract relations, namely <same> and <same>, result
in the higher-order relation <same>. Applying the same logic, Set A yields the
higher-order relation <same>, based on two <diferent> relations, one between a
shoe and a lower and the other between a bottle and a bell. In contrast, Set B yields
the higher-order relation <diferent>. Crucially, this form of analogical reasoning
is only achieved by humans. No other species, including chimpanzees in the lab,
can construct this higher-order relational analogy, and this fact strongly suggests
that sophisticated analogical reasoning is a species-speciic trait of humans.
4.4 Analogy-based isomorphism between form and meaning
he above discussion lays out the ground for understanding diagrammatic ico-
nicity in language in an evolutionary context. Recaptured in analogical terms,
diagrammatic iconicity is built on the following coniguration of schemas.
Rethinking diagrammatic iconicity from an evolutionary perspective 269
W : X :: Y : Z
Construction 1:
Form 1a - Form 1b <Relation W>
Meaning 1a - Meaning 1b <Relation Y>
Construction 2:
Form 2a - Form 2b <Relation X>
Meaning 2a - Meaning 2b <Relation Z>
Figure 3. Diagrammatic iconicity as analogical reasoning
Applying this schema to our earlier examples from Japanese (2)–(3), their
grammatical structures can be represented in the following way (cf. also Kewa
Example (1) which is analogous to (11)).
(10) VP-te[-tense] VP[+tense] (Form 1a=te; Form 1b=inite V)
(11) VP-tari[-tense] VP-tari[-tense] do[+tense] (Form 2a=tari; Form 2b=tari)
From (10), we may extract asymmetry as relation W by comparing the noni-
nite -te form and the inite verb form, and from (11) we may extract symmetry
as relation X because the same -tari form is used for two conjuncts. A language
user then assumes that the coniguration built from these schemas <asymme-
try: symmetry> on the form side would be preserved on the meaning side.
hus conceptually the two events encoded by (10) would stand in an asymmetri-
cal relation (= Y) while those encoded by (11) would stand in a symmetrical
relation (=Z).
Let us further put this intuition into work, drawing upon examples from
another non-Indo-European language. Imagine you are in the process of acquiring
Chalcatongo Mixtec (either as a native speaker or as a ield worker), and encounter
the following expressions. English translations are not given.
Chalcatongo Mixtec (Otomanguean; Macaulay 1996:58)
(12) s-káčaʔa
caus-dance.p
(13) sáʔa xà+ná-káčaʔa=ø
make comp=mood-dance=3
Given the above pair and the information that both refer, roughly, to the situa-
tion in which someone causes someone else to dance, which example would be
more likely to be associated with direct manipulation and which one with indirect
causation? his quiz can be answered by constructing the analogical relation like
the following.
270 Toshio Ohori
Construction 1:
bound prefix - root <PROXIMITY>
event 1a - event 1b <PROXIMITY>
Construction 2:
periphrastic verb - root <DISTANCE>
event 2a - event 2b <DISTANCE>
Figure 4. Analogical correspondence of form and meaning in causatives
Based on the prediction from diagrammatic iconicity, the <proximity: distance>
relation on the form side would produce the same contrast in the cause-efect rela-
tionship on the meaning side. hus (12), where the bound preix s- marks caus-
ative, may be translated as ‘Dance (him)! (e.g., if riding a horse, making it dance
by manipulating the reins)’, whereas (13), with a periphrastic auxiliary sáʔa, as
‘Make him dance! (Get him up and have him go out there and dance!)’, according
to Macaulay (1996:58).
Examples of this kind would be easily multiplied. here are, to be sure,
cases where diagrammatic iconicity does not hold apparently. For instance, in
Indonesian direct manipulation and indirect causation are both encoded by
bound suixes, and no proximity vs. distance opposition is present in morphology.
Diagrammatic iconicity as form-meaning correspondence should be best inter-
preted as material implication: if there is a schematic opposition on the form side
such as <proximity: distance>, there is an analogous opposition on the meaning
side, and the correspondence shown in Figure 5 would be excluded.
Construction 1:
bound prefix - root <PROXIMITY>
event 1a - event 1b <DISTANCE>
Construction 2:
periphrastic verb - root <DISTANCE>
event 2a - event 2b <PROXIMITY>
Figure 5. Excluded correspondence of form and meaning in causatives
From these considerations, coupled with the evidence from comparative psychol-
ogy that sophisticated relational mapping can only be achieved by (adult) humans,
our claim that diagrammatic iconicity as analogical mapping between linguistic
form and meaning is a highly evolved species-speciic capacity is well supported.
In passing, it is also worth mentioning that metaphors, the third category
of Peirce’s icons, are also built on relational analogy. A major diference from
diagrammatic iconicity in grammar is that, while both types of mapping involve
higher-order relational analogy, metaphors are mappings between conceptual cat-
egories, not between form and meaning. But in either case, the analogy-based
iconicity plays a key role in understanding the nature of language, especially its
creative and dynamic aspects.
Rethinking diagrammatic iconicity from an evolutionary perspective 271
Let us put the foregoing discussions in an evolutionary context. he idea that
our symbolic activities, language being most prominent among them, necessarily
involve other semiotic processes has been proposed by Deacon (1997, 2012). He
rightly claims that “while the features comprising the sign vehicle are not neces-
sarily similar in form or physically linked to what is symbolized, this supericial
independence is supported by a less obvious network of other modes of reference,
involving both iconism and indexicality” (Deacon 2012:399). Deacon puts more
emphasis on indexical signs, which is understandable since his central interest is
how symbolic act of reference operates, but his semiotic analysis is a convincing
alternative to the simplistic evolutionary scenario from icons to symbols.
Now a possible scenario for the emergence of diagrammatic iconicity, however
provisional, can be constructed in the following way. First there was the emer-
gence of symbols, regardless of which medium was most prominent. For symbols
to have suicient referential capacity, multiple layers of semiosis including the
interpretation of indexicality and cultural knowledge may have been present. hen
co-presence of signs may have started to emerge. Note that this does not neces-
sarily entail the emergence of combinatorial syntax. Signs may cooccur due to
situational / pragmatic requirements. Confronted with a sign complex, especially
a symbol complex, the language user may resort to analogical reasoning through
comparison with other symbol complexes, and this activity results in the construc-
tion of a relational analogy (cf. Figure 3). Diagrammatic iconicity is operative in
this process as a powerful mechanism for the language user to creatively assign
meanings to symbol complexes. he result of this process is a network of symbol
complexes with systematic form-meaning correspondences, which lays out the
ground for the emergence of the grammatical system (cf. also Herlofsky 2001
which explores iconic aspects of anaphoric reference).
Recently, there is a debate on whether combinatorial rules or a rich lexicon
came irst. he former position crucially rests on the assumption that syntax is
arbitrary and autonomous (i.e. detached from the world), ergo it must have come
from nowhere. Contemporary research on grammaticalization has shown oth-
erwise, with plenty of evidence for the development of grammatical morphemes
from lexical items with concrete meanings (cf. Hopper & Traugott 2003; Heine
& Kuteva 2007). Diagrammatic iconicity rightly its in the lexicon-irst theory in
that the form-meaning isomorphism serves as a regulative constraint on the rise
of an innovative linguistic coniguration in both historical and acquisitional terms
(Bolinger 1988; Itkonen 1994). hat is, when a lexical item, say a verb, occurs
in a novel context, for example next to another lexical verb rather than a nomi-
nal, diagrammatic iconicity comes into play as a regulative force to attain lexible
it of form and meaning through comparison with more familiar uses. When a
new form-meaning pair gets entrenched through repeated uses, this new symbol
272 Toshio Ohori
complex may become a cradle for a grammaticalized morpheme: a verb may be
reanalyzed as an auxiliary, a noun as an adposition, a demonstrative as a con-
junction, etc. he grammatical system is a product of this cumulative process of
microscopic adjustments of form-meaning pairing and concurrent network orga-
nization. Under this assumption, combinatorial syntax is considered to be a post-
hoc abstraction from a mass of symbol complexes. An unmotivated, iconicity-free
communication system with autonomous syntax may allow fast form-meaning
mapping once rules are acquired, but this does not seem to be the system origi-
nally at our disposal. Rather, a system featuring diagrammatic iconicity can be
both creative (because new meanings are assigned to known symbol complexes
through analogy) and robust (because the system is not totally arbitrary), and this
type of system may have been a great advantage from an evolutionary viewpoint.
5. Concluding remarks
he present paper has shown that iconicity is by no means primordial but plays
a signiicant role in our semiotic praxis of meaning construction. Diagrammatic
iconicity in language is based on a highly developed form of uniquely human
cognition, namely the ability to see relational analogy between form and mean-
ing, and it may have played an important role in the rise of modern language as a
motivated network of constructions.
Acknowledgements
he present work is in part supported by JSPS (Japan Society for the Promotion of Science)
KAKENHI Grant Number 26370440. I would like to express my special gratitude to Masako
Hiraga for guiding us through the forest of language with her work in cognitive poetics. I am also
very thankful to the wonderful audience of the Ninth International Symposium on ‘Iconicity
in Language and Literature’ for their questions and comments, and equally to the reviewers of
this paper for highly insightful comments. All remaining shortcomings are, of course, my own.
Note on glossing
he following abbreviations are used in the glossing: 1dl = irst person dual (for Kewa);
acc = accusative (for Japanese); pl = plural, s = subject pronoun (for Goemai); sg = singu-
lar, nf=non-feminine, nom=nominalising, exist=existential, pres=present, vis=visual,
th=thematic, inter=interrogative, ncl=noun class, anim=animate, sub=subordinating
(for Tariana); caus=causative, p=potential, comp=complementizer, mood=deontic mood
marker (for Chalcatongo Mixtec).
Rethinking diagrammatic iconicity from an evolutionary perspective 273
References
Aikhenvald, A.Y. 2003. A Grammar of Tariana, from Northwest Amazonia [Cambridge Gram-
matical Descriptions]. Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9781107050952
Bolinger, D. 1949. he sign is not arbitrary. Boletín del Instituto Caro y Cuervo 5: 52–62.
Reprinted in Forms of English. Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press, 1965.
Bolinger, D. 1988. Reiconization. World Englishes 7: 237–242.
DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-971X.1988.tb00234.x
Crot, W. 2003. Typology and Universals, 2nd edn [Cambridge Textbooks in Linguistics].
Cambridge: CUP.
Deacon, T.W. 1997. he Symbolic Species: he Coevolution of Language and the Brain. New York
NY: W.W. Norton and Company.
Deacon, T.W. 2012. he symbol concept. In he Oxford Handbook of Language Evolution,
M. Tallerman & K.R. Gibson (eds), 391–405. Oxford: OUP.
Franklin, K.J. 1983. Some features of interclausal reference in Kewa. In Switch Reference and
Universal Grammar [Typological Studies in Language 2], J. Haiman & P. Munro (eds),
39–49. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/tsl.2.05fra
Haiman, J. 1980. he iconicity in grammar: Isomorphism and motivation. Language 56: 515–
540. DOI: 10.2307/414448
Haiman, John. 1983. Iconic and economic motivation. Language 59: 781–819.
DOI: 10.2307/413373
Haiman, J. 1985a. Natural Syntax: Iconicity and Erosion [Cambridge Studies in Linguistics].
Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1075/tsl.6
Haiman, J. (ed.). 1985b. Iconicity in Syntax [Typological Studies in Language 6]. Amsterdam:
John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/tsl.6
Haspelmath, M. 2008. Frequency vs. iconicity in explaining grammatical asymmetries. Cognitive
Linguistics 19: 1–33. DOI: 10.1515/COG.2008.001
Heine, B. & Kuteva, T. 2007. he Genesis of Grammar. Oxford: OUP.
Herlofsky, W.J. 2001. Good probes: Icons, anaphors, and the evolution of language. In he Moti-
vated Sign, O. Fischer & M. Nänny (eds), 55–66. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
DOI: 10.1075/ill.2.07her
Hewellwig, B. 2011. A Grammar of Goemai [Mouton Grammar Library]. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter. DOI: 10.1515/9783110238297
Holyoak, K.J. & hagard, P. 1995. Mental Leaps: Analogy in Creative hought. Cambridge MA:
he MIT Press.
Hopper, P.J. & Traugott, E.C. 2003. Grammaticalization, 2nd edn [Cambridge Textbooks in
Linguistics]. Cambridge: CUP. DOI: 10.1017/CBO9781139165525
Itkonen, E. 1994. Iconicity, analogy, and universal grammar. Journal of Pragmatics 22: 37–53.
DOI: 10.1016/0378-2166(94)90055-8
Jackendof, R. 1983. Semantics and Cognition. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Jakobson, R. 1960. Closing statement: Linguistics and poetics. Style in Language, T.A. Sebeok
(ed.), 350–377. Cambridge MA: he MIT Press.
Jakobson, R. 1965. Quest for the essence of language. Diogène 51: 21–37.
Jespersen, O. 1922. Language: Its Nature, Development and Origin. London: Allen and Unwin.
Langacker, R.W. 1987. Foundations of Cognitive Grammar, I: heoretical Prerequisites. Stanford
CA: Stanford University Press.
274 Toshio Ohori
Van Langendonck, W. 2007. Iconicity. In Oxford Handbook of Cognitive Linguistics, D. Geeraerts
& H. Cuyckens (eds), 394–418. Oxford: OUP.
Macaulay, M. 1996. A Grammar of Chalcatongo Mixtec [University of California Publications in
Linguistics]. Berkeley CA: University of California Press.
Noonan, M. 1992. A Grammar of Lango [Mouton Grammar Library]. Berlin: Mouton de
Gruyter. DOI: 10.1515/9783110850512
Nöth, W. 2008. Semiotic foundations of natural linguistics and diagrammatic iconicity. In Natu-
ralness and Iconicity in Language [Iconicity in Language and Literature 7], K. Willems &
L. De Cuypere (eds), 73–100. Amsterdam: John Benjamins. DOI: 10.1075/ill.7.06not
Ohori, T. 2004. Coordination in Mentalese. In Coordinating Constructions [Typological Studies
in Language 58], M. Haspelmath (ed.), 41–66. Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
DOI: 10.1075/tsl.58.04oho
Ohori, T. 2007. What linguistic diversity tells about the human mind: universal semantics from
the bottom up. In Diversity in Language: Perspectives & Implications, Y. Matsumoto, D.Y.
Oshima, O.R. Robinson & P. Sells (eds), 35–69. Stanford CA: CSLI.
Peirce, C.S. 1931–1958. Collected Papers of Charles Sanders Peirce, 8 Vols., C. Hartshorne,
P. Weiss & A.W. Burks (eds). Cambridge MA: Harvard University Press. <http://www.
helsinki.i/science/commens/terms/image.html> (15 December 2013).
Sapir, E. 1929. A study in phonetic symbolism. Journal of Experimental Psychology 12: 225–239.
Reprinted in Selected Writings of Edward Sapir. Berkeley CA: University of California Press,
1949. DOI: 10.1037/h0070931
Tallerman, M. & Gibson, K.R. (eds). 2012. he Oxford Handbook of Language Evolution [Oxford
Handbook in Linguistics]. Oxford: OUP.
Author index
A
Akita, K. 5–6, 125–127, 134,
139–140
Anderson, E.R. 213
Anellis, I. 42
C
Chastaing, M. 74
Chrystal, T. 36
D
Davis, R. 72
Deacon, T.W. 271
Dickinson, E. 207, 209–216
D’Onofrio, A. 73, 75, 80, 84
E
Eco, U. 16
Epstein, E.L. 24
F
Fischer, O. 163–164, 182
Freeman, M.H. 214
Frege, G. 38–39, 41–42, 44
G
Goodman, N. 16
Grammont, M. 74
Greenwald, A.G. 96
H
Haiman, J. 242, 260–261
Hamano, S. 134, 139, 144
Hill, T. 163–165
Hofstadter, D. 183
Holvoet, A. 254
Holyoak, K. 267–268
Hubbard, E. 72, 94
J
Jakobson, R. 19, 74, 93
Johansen, J.D. 209
K
Kageyama, T. 144–145, 158
Kakehi, H. 143–145, 158–159
Köhler, W. 58–59, 72, 75, 94
L
Lange, F.A. 38
Lindauer, M. 60
Ljungberg, C. 164
Luraghi, S. 256
M
Mikami, K. 119
Morris, C. 15–16, 19, 35–36
N
Nänny, M. 208
Nielsen, A. 73, 80
Nöth, W. 213
O
Ohala, J. 82
Ong, W. 13
Osgood, C.E. 95–97
P
Peano, G. 38, 41–42
Peirce, C.S. 13–32, 35–51, 203,
208–209, 260, 266, 270
Peterfalvi, J-M. 72, 74
R
Radwanska-Williams, J. 164
Ramachandran, V. 72, 94
Rendall, D. 80
Russell, B. 38, 41–42, 44
S
Saji, N. 73, 75, 80
Saussure, F. de 22, 57
Schourup, L. 144
Schröder, E. 38, 41–42
Sebeok, T.A. 36
Sells, P. 117
Š
Šukys, J. 242
T
Tabakowska, E. 163–164
Takeda, K. 164
Tamori, I. 144
hagard, P. 267–268
Tsuboi, M. 164
W
Waugh, L. 74
Subject index
A
acoustic feature 87–88, 93
activity [general, physical]
99, 112, 114, 207, 215, 222–226,
237
verbs of, see verbs of activity
activity [conceptual] 93, 95–98
africate 166–167, 175
alienation 179
alliteration 24, 166, 169, 171–
172, 176–177, 213
analogy 14, 82, 208, 267–268,
270–272
see also likeness, resemblance,
similarity
angularity 62
arbitrariness 22, 57, 74
articulation 71–74, 76–77, 79,
81–88, 98, 118, 170, 204
articulatory feature 83, 88
articulatory place of vowels
98
manner of, see manner of
articulation
place of, see place of
articulation
article [grammatical]
166, 180–181
assonance 24, 169–171, 175
asymmetry 262, 264, 267
see also symmetry
asyndeton 166, 172–175
auditory 207, 212–213, 215
diagram 24
B
bridge 212, 222, 227, 231–233
C
case [grammatical] 145, 155,
159, 173–174, 243–244, 246–
247, 249–250, 254–256
Christianity 231
cognition 16, 32, 58, 67, 119–
120, 207, 272
coherence 168, 214
commemoration 220–221, 233,
235, 237
composite photograph 29–32
connotation 144, 158–159,
176–177
consonant 71, 73, 76–77, 79–85,
87, 93, 97–99, 103, 105, 166,
169–175, 177–178
cluster 166, 172, 175
see also africate, fricative,
geminate, liquid, plosive,
nasal, and nasality
coordination 248
cross-modal 120, 208
perception 58
association 94–98
congruency 96
processing 94
D
dehumanization 179
deictic centre 192, 220, 222,
227, 234
determiner 171
see also article
diagram 13, 20–21, 23–25, 30,
36–38, 42, 52, 208, 212, 216,
260–261
diagrammatic icon 23, 30
diagrammatic image 30
see also auditory diagram,
iconic diagram, mental
diagram, logical diagram,
verbal diagram, and visual
diagram
dialogue 223, 226–227, 229,
233, 235–236
diminutive 174–176
see also suix
discourse 13–14, 23, 26, 43,
46–49, 190, 203, 222, 236
dominance 93, 95–99
do/say verb 140
Dutch 163–164, 169–171,
174–179, 181–182
dynamicity 109–120
E
evolution 72, 95, 259, 266–268
evolutionary context
267–268, 272
evolutionary scenario
271–272
evolutionary viewpoint
259, 272
eye rhyme 169
F
ictivity 110, 118–120
irstness 17–21
frequency [periodic] 125–126,
129, 131–132, 134, 154, 165–166,
168, 181
frequency [acoustic] 95
code 82
frequentative 181–182
see also repetition
fricative 65, 81–83, 86–88, 166,
170–172, 177
G
German 163–164, 170, 175,
177–178, 180–181
geminate 172–173
graphic feature 71, 79, 82–88
H
hypoicon 18–19
278 Iconicity: East Meets West
I
iambic 166, 176
icon 13–32, 35–39, 42–51,
87, 186, 201, 203, 208–209,
211–212, 214, 216, 260–263,
265–266, 270–271
iconic diagram 30, 236
iconic representation 21, 43,
45, 194, 199, 213, 220
see also pure icon,
diagrammatic icon,
rhematic icon, and
indexed icon
iconophobia 13
identity 36, 44–51, 176, 197, 199,
222–223, 225, 227, 231, 233, 237,
244, 260, 267
ideophone 109, 125
image 13–14, 17, 20–21, 23, 25–
26, 28–32, 37, 208, 266–267
imagic (image) iconicity
2, 213
see also diagrammatic image,
linguistic image, mental
image, and metaphorical
image
index 15, 17–18, 26–31, 35–36,
39, 49–51, 135
indexed icon 203
interpretant 18, 20–21, 25–26,
28–32, 208
isomorphism 242, 259–261,
266–268, 271
J
Japanese 2, 61, 67, 74, 101,
109–111, 113, 116–117, 125–126,
129, 133, 139–140, 143, 145, 151,
157, 159, 163–164, 171–173, 179,
181, 263, 265, 269, 272
K
kanji 137, 179
legisign 20–21, 28, 267
L
lexical 109–113, 118–119, 126,
129, 135, 139, 169, 172–173, 183,
255, 265, 271
category 126–127, 129–133,
140
choice 164, 176
iconicity hierarchy 125–127,
139
lexis 168, 177, 179, 181
representation 110, 112–113
likeness 14, 16
see also analogy, resemblance,
similarity
linguistic image 267
liquid 59, 165–166, 169–172,
174, 176, 181
logical diagram 21, 30
M
maluma-takete 71–73, 75, 79, 81
manner of articulation 71–72,
74, 81–82, 85–87
media 190, 203, 207, 209–210,
213
memorial 219, 223–226,
235–236
mental diagram 21
mental image 13–14, 17, 25–26,
28, 30, 32, 170
metaphor 13, 20–21, 23, 26, 31,
67, 118, 120, 148–149, 154–158,
208, 212, 215–216, 221, 231,
260, 270
metaphorical image 120
meter 166, 177, 183, 213–214
see also iambic, trochaic, and
spondaic
mimetic 109–113, 115–121,
125–126, 129, 131–134, 136–139,
143–147, 149–150, 154–155,
157–159, 266
mimetic verbs in Japanese
110, 112, 143–144, 147, 149,
154, 158–159
monument 219–220, 222–225,
227, 229–230, 232, 234
N
nasal 74, 76, 83–88, 165–166,
169–172, 174, 176–177
nasality 71–72, 80–87
narrative 23, 168, 183, 185–191,
194–196, 201, 204, 219–221,
233–234, 236–237
iction (ictional narrative)
165, 185
diagram 216
see also oral narrative
O
object [in relation to sign]
13–23, 25–26, 30, 37, 39, 44,
48–49, 109, 117–118, 155, 166,
172, 174–176, 186–187, 190,
199, 208–209, 211–213, 215,
223, 226, 228, 231, 236, 262,
267
object [grammatical] 24, 29,
156, 157, 159, 181, 236, 246
obstruent 57, 59, 62, 64–65, 67,
73–74, 81, 88, 110
onomatopoeia 2, 19, 21–23, 25,
94, 119, 177, 183, 213, 261, 267
oral narrative 219, 221, 233–
234, 237
ownership 223, 226–228, 232,
237
P
participle 167–171, 181–182
personality 58, 60, 63–67
phonological feature 71–74,
79–81, 83–84, 86, 88, 111
place of articulation 71–73,
81–86, 88, 170
plosive 76–77, 81–83, 86–88,
93–95, 97–99, 102–103, 166,
170, 172, 175–177
poeticalness 24
poetry 164–165, 209–210, 215,
222
Polish 163–164, 171, 173–175,
177–178, 180–183
polysyndeton 169, 173
preposition 27, 174, 241–244,
246–247, 249–256
prototypical speaker 235
pure icon 18–22
Q
qualisign 20–22, 30
R
rhematic icon 30
reduplicative suru-verb
6, 143–146, 149–150, 153–159
Subject index 279
repetition 24, 166–168, 171–172,
174–177, 180–181, 189–190,
194, 203, 213, 247
see also frequency
replica 28, 50
representamen 20, 50, 208–213,
215
representation 18–19, 21–23,
35–39, 40, 42–43, 46, 49–51,
65, 85, 113, 127, 133, 185, 188,
191, 193–194, 199, 207–208,
213, 215, 220, 260–261, 266
see also iconic representation,
lexical representation,
symbolic representation,
and visual representation
resemblance 14, 16–17, 37, 127,
208, 213, 233, 235
see also analogy, likeness,
similarity
rheme 21–22, 29–31
rhythm 164, 166–167, 173–176,
183–184, 214
Role and Reference Grammar
125–127
rubi (Japanese annotative gloss)
171–173
runes 219–222, 225–226,
229–233, 235, 237
master 222, 230
stone 220
writer 230
runic inscription 219–223,
226, 231, 233–234, 236–237
S
saliency 246, 248, 250–251,
253, 263
self-relexive 13, 24, 156
semantics 112–114, 118, 125,
139, 145, 157, 176, 189, 244,
255–256, 263
Serbian 163–164, 171–172, 174,
177–178, 180–182
shape-sound symbolism
71–72, 74
signiication 13, 26, 32, 199, 215
sign language 2–3, 266
similarity 14–17, 20, 22–23, 37,
58, 86–87, 169, 208, 211–216,
221, 231, 260, 267–268
see also analogy, likeness,
resemblance
sinsign 20–21, 28, 267
sonorant 59, 61–62, 65, 73–74,
81–82, 88, 93–94, 97–99,
101, 103
sound iconicity 93–94, 96, 105
see also sound symbolism
sound symbolism 2, 13, 22–23,
57–59, 62, 71–74, 89, 93, 120,
125, 139, 143, 175, 177, 179, 183
see also shape-sound
symbolism, and
synaesthetic sound
symbolism
spondaic 166, 176
stem 109–110, 112–115, 118, 120,
176–177
subject [in relation to sign]
14, 29, 31–32, 37, 117–118, 143–
146, 148–149, 151–154, 157–159,
188, 195–196, 199, 204,
subject [grammatical] 24, 30,
150, 168–169, 180–182, 225,
236
suix 143–144, 155, 157–159,
169, 174–176, 182, 244, 263,
270
Swedish 163–164, 170–171,
174–176, 178, 180–181
symbol 13, 15, 17–18, 20–23,
25–29, 31–32, 35–36, 47–48,
50–51, 173, 183, 212, 215, 221,
237, 266
complex 271–272
symbolic activity 40, 271
symbolic legisign 28
symbolic representation 215
symbolic rheme 22, 29
symbolicity 28, 50
symbolization 94, 231
symmetry 24–25, 259, 269
see also asymmetry
synaesthetic sound symbolism
71, 120
syntax 38, 41, 111, 125–126, 163–
164, 168, 170, 177, 179, 181–182,
212, 236, 260, 271–272
T
tombstone 220–221
trochaic 166, 176–177
tuku-verb 143–146, 148, 152–
155, 157–159
V
verb 29–31, 110–112, 114, 118–
119, 127–135, 137–139, 166–169,
180–182, 189, 191–192, 195,
219, 222–223, 225, 227, 246,
251, 253–255, 263, 269–272
of activity 144–145, 155,
158–159, 223, 225, 235–236,
254
verbal diagram 23
see also do/say verb,
reduplicative suru-verb,
and tuku-verb
verfremdung (s efect) 179
visual 25, 31–32, 35, 37, 60,
71–74, 79, 81, 87–88, 98–99,
179, 207, 210–215
diagram 212
icon (iconicity) 210–212
language 3
representation 35
voicing 71–74, 79–87, 166
vowel 58, 71, 73–74, 76–78,
80–81, 83–84, 87, 93, 98–99,
103, 165–166, 168–173, 175–
176, 178–179
