Part A
Defining the Asian EFL Context
6
It has been more than a decade since Kachru (1996) divided the
world into three different tiers of English use, and even longer since
Hofstede’s (1986) research into the cultural differences between different
countries and regions of the world. Still, such attempts to summarize
or characterize (some would say stereotype) countries in Asia relative to
the rest of the world tend to remain popular in summaries of the
region, obscuring the great diversity that exists here. Such summaries
of Asia also tend to be written from the perspective of an outsider
view. In many cases, even when scholars are from Asia, they tend to
be based in Western countries and report their affiliations as such.
Finally, summaries of the region tend to take as their starting point
nation-states as units of analysis and comparison, ignoring the con-
siderable diversity within countries, a shortcoming Hofstede (1991)
acknowledges.
Thus when we approached presenting English language teaching in
the Asian context for this book, we resolved to avoid making broad brush
strokes about the region and have tried to ensure teacher-researchers
living in Asia paint pictures of their context and experience, leaving it
to the reader to draw comparisons and contrasts with their own circum-
stances and potential similarities across borders.
One of our motivations for taking such an approach is that Asia
might best be defined by its outstanding diversity. It is home to the
world’s largest populations, including China, India, and Indonesia, as
well as some of the smallest, such as The Republic of Palau. It has some
of the wealthiest countries in the world, like Japan, and also some of the
poorest, including Myanmar. Likewise, with regard to education, spend-
ing in both total investment per pupil and percentage of GDP varies
considerably across countries (The World Factbook, 2010).
Introduction to Part A
Theron Muller and Philip Shigeo Brown
And in Asia, as in much of the world, English as a lingua franca or
English as an international language has continued to spread and
rapidly gain importance; it is often a required subject in school, used
in university entrance examinations and as a measure of educational
standards, and is increasingly a consideration for employment oppor-
tunities (Graddol, 2006). This further promotes the already widely held
view that English is necessary for economic development and maintaining
international competitiveness in a globalized world.
However, there has been a tendency to treat English as an academic sub-
ject rather than a tool for education, business, or global issues. Teaching
practices have historically centered primarily on grammar, reading, and
translation, and often still do, despite relatively recent government policy
changes intended to shift the focus towards teaching English as a tool
for engaging in communication. The continuing progression towards
communicative language teaching (CLT), often supported by task-based
language learning and teaching (TBLT), is evident in Asia, consistent with
the direction pedagogy appears to be taking in other parts of the world,
although the degree of implementation of CLT and TBLT have varied
considerably across countries in the region. For example, China has made
policy changes since the 1980s (Fang, Chapter 1), whereas CLT and TBLT
have been more recent developments in Indonesia’s Islamic boarding
schools, which have lagged behind changes in the national curriculum
there (Palmer and Chodidjah, Chapter 3). These differences perhaps
reflect the diverse range of experiences across Asia as new approaches and
methodologies have historically spread outwards from countries where
English is the native language to Inner Circle and Expanding Circle
countries (Baker, Chapter 2). They also demonstrate how within countries
there is considerable educational diversity among different populations
(Palmer and Chodidjah, Chapter 3).
Successfully adopting and adapting innovations to local contexts takes
time and effort, especially where inherent cultural differences may lead
to resistance to, if not rejection of, apparently foreign ideas, approaches
and/or methods; and the issues are increasingly complex as the scale and
number of stakeholders grow. Raising awareness of both learner and
teacher beliefs can be essential for challenging stereotypical notions
that may otherwise impede challenging or changing the status quo
(Finch, Chapter 4). In addition, issues of ownership, involvement, and
capital are all of central importance. Challenges faced by large-scale
reform might be addressed in part by a system of cascade workshops and
support networks (Palmer and Chodidjah, Chapter 3), where knowledge
can flow between an informed and experienced core and an informing
Introduction to Part A 7
and developing periphery. Finally, we feel that for too long Asia has
had a secondary role in driving forward research into language acquisi-
tion, and we hope that the chapters in this section go some way toward
demonstrating Asian innovations, which drive locally inspired, locally
informed curricular developments and reforms.
Whilst this opening section does not attempt to describe English
language teaching (ELT) throughout Asia, it does bring together four
chapters that we hope provide unique insights into the evolving Asian
EFL context. Distinct from ESL as practiced elsewhere, they represent
some of the most current and important issues, innovations, and trends
across Asia in terms of approaches to English teaching, materials develop-
ment, methodology, and curriculum reform, in addition to both learner
and teacher beliefs.
8 T. Muller & P. S. Brown
1
Teaching the New English
Curriculum: An Ethnographic
Study in a Chinese High School
Xi Fang
In 2001, the Central Ministry of Education of China (CMOEC) dissemi-
nated a new English curriculum (NEC) for primary and secondary schools.
The NEC promotes communicative language teaching (CLT) with an
expectation to improve students’ communicative proficiency. In the offi-
cial discourse, the NEC is advertised as a radical change; in the literature,
CLT is argued to be contradictory to the Chinese culture of learning (Hu,
2002). Challenges for implementing CLT in East Asian classrooms are
also frequently reported (Carless, 2007; Littlewood, 2007). So, what are
Chinese teachers’ perceptions of the NEC? What are their experiences of
teaching the NEC? Are there changes and challenges in their practices?
These issues are examined in this chapter.
This chapter, adapted from part of Fang (2009), is based on my ethno-
graphic fieldwork in a high school in Southeast China. Between September
2007 and July 2008, I worked in the school as an English teacher collect-
ing data through participant observation. Taking an ethnographer role
enabled me to establish good rapport with participants, gain an insider
perspective and obtain an in-depth understanding of teachers’ practices
(Brewer, 2000). My purpose was to uncover not only the way teachers
think and do, but also more importantly, the reasons underpinning their
thinking and practices, and the relationship with the broader institutional
and social context.
Background
English language teaching (ELT) in China is characterized by scale and
enthusiasm. The commitment to ELT, both by the government and indi-
viduals, is highly impressive (Jin & Cortazzi, 2002). Extensive resources
and efforts have been given to English provision. As an illustration,
9
10 X. Fang
between 1988 and 2001, eight national English syllabuses were introduced
(Hu, 2005). The policy reported in this chapter is the NEC for primary and
secondary schools, introduced by the CMOEC in 2001. This project inves-
tigated the high school stage and the main policy principles embodied in
the High School English Curriculum Standard (HSECS) (CMOEC, 2003).
Reviewing HSECS (CMOEC, 2003) reveals key changes in three areas
compared with the previous curriculum.
Teaching objectives
The NEC widens the scope of ELT by promoting all-round ability to use
English (see Figure 1.1) in which ability to use English, along with cogni-
tive goals and affective factors are emphasized (CMOEC, 2003). On the
one hand, the inclusion of principles such as communication skills and
cognitive and affective goals is largely consistent with principles suggested
in Western literature. On the other hand, many principles of the frame-
work are still specific to the Chinese context – for example, the inclusion
of “love the homeland,” as patriotism in education reflects the doctrine of
the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) that education should serve proletar-
ian politics and modern socialist development (Fang, 2009).
Teaching approaches
The NEC advocates CLT, particularly with task-based language teaching
(TBLT). ‘Task’ is defined in the HSECS as “all language practices that
Figure 1.1 Framework of all-round ability to use English
Framework of all-round ability to use English
Language
skills
Listening
Speaking
Reading
Writing
Linguistic
knowledge
Phonetics
Vocabulary
Grammar
Function
Cultural
awareness
Knowledge
Understanding
Awareness
Intercultural
competence
Affective factors
Motivation to learn
Interest in learning
Confidence in learning
Determination to learn
Learning strategies
Cognition (e.g. guess
new words through
context)
Regulation (e.g. make
learning plans)
Communication (e.g.
talk with native
speakers)
Teamwork to improve
Patriotism Resources (e.g. learn
English with TV)
International horizon
Topics
Teaching the New English Curriculum 11
facilitate students to do things in English” (CMOEC, 2003: 26). Six
principles for task design are given: tasks should have clear aims, reflect
authentic language use, involve information reception and processing,
require language use, require students to do things, and have specified
criteria for task completion. To encourage teachers to innovate and
experiment, pedagogical recommendations given in the NEC guidance
have moved away from detailed prescriptions to guiding principles that
allow for more flexible interpretation (CMOEC, 2003).
Teaching materials
Prior to the curriculum reform, only two types of high school textbooks
were used across the entire country. The new policy allows considerable
local autonomy in terms of textbook development and selection. Seven
agencies and institutions are commissioned to develop new textbook
series for selection by schools and local education authorities. Some
of them have been collaborating with overseas publishers and text-
book writers. For example, the most widely used textbook series, New
Senior English for China (Liu, 2006), is jointly compiled by the People’s
Education Press, the Longman publishing company and the United
Nations Development Program. Some international prominent figures
in ELT are also involved in textbook development. Compared with
their predecessors, these textbooks are more communicatively oriented
and learner-centered, with an attempt to incorporate new develop-
ments in international language education (Hu, 2005).
The research
In China, high schools are divided into two types, depending on the qual-
ity of education provided (determined by student performance on high
school entrance examinations): these are key schools and non-key schools.
The setting for this study is a key high school in Southeast China.
There are about 4,500 students and 300 academic staff in the school.
The average class size is 55–60. There are 26 classes in each grade and these
classes are further divided into four top classes and 22 ordinary classes.
Students in top classes, admitted with the highest performance in the
high school entrance examination, generally have greater English pro-
ficiency, and most of them are also more motivated learners. Therefore,
with the possibility of having a better teaching environment and higher
student performance, teaching top classes is often perceived as a desirable
position for teachers.
12 X. Fang
There are 36 teachers in the English Department. At the time this
ethnographic study took place, grade 1 and grade 2 teachers were teach-
ing the NEC while grade 3 teachers were teaching a relatively older
curriculum. The researcher was assigned to teach English vocabulary
and writing in grade 2, and therefore, this investigation focused on
grade 2 English teachers. By working together with grade 2 English
teachers it was believed that more insider perspective could be gained
and better researcher–researched rapport built. Among the 14 English
teachers in the grade 2 English team, five teachers participated in the
study, as shown in Table 1.1.
A triangulation of methods was used to collect data in order to
maximize research validity (Creswell, 2003). One source was classroom
observation. On average, I made 15 visits to each participant. In order
to gain a more comprehensive view of their practices, the observations
covered different units of the curriculum, different aspects of language
(including listening, speaking, reading, writing, and grammar), different
timing (before examination and after examination), and different occa-
sions (demonstration lessons and everyday teaching). In order to attend
to the complexity of classroom events, the observations were unstructured
and I took “full field notes” (Bryman, 2001: 305). In addition to observa-
tions, follow-up interviews were conducted to validate my observations
and generate data in areas that were not observable, such as teacher
perceptions and past experiences (Cohen, Manion & Morrison, 2007).
On average, ten interviews were arranged for each participant. Example
questions included learning and teaching experiences, considerations
regarding lesson planning, reflections on classroom events, and orienta-
tion toward teaching in general and the NEC in particular. In order to
better and more fully represent participant experiences, views, and feel-
ings, interviews were semi-structured in that participants were invited
to expand on the topics of discussion. In the interviews, Chinese
was used and issues arising out of the conversation were explored
Table 1.1 Information about the five research participants
Participants
(pseudonyms)
Gender Classes taught Teaching
experience
Professional
title
Anya Female Top class 27 years Senior
Baijuan Female Science class 9 years Level 2
Caili Female Top class 8 years Level 1
Denghua Male Science class 5 years Level 2
Enchu Female Arts class 18 years Senior
Teaching the New English Curriculum 13
(Cohen, et al., 2007). In exploring perceptions, understanding was con-
structed by asking participants about concrete experiences, such as
considerations regarding a particular lesson, rather than abstract views.
The concern was that, without prior experience of research participation,
teachers might not have conceptualized their thinking and understanding.
In addition, in the case of explicit statements, they might state what
they would like to believe rather than what they really believed (Woods,
1996). All interviews were conducted in Chinese, transcribed, and then
translated into English by the author. In addition, classroom materials
such as handouts, quizzes, and tests were collected. Further insights were
gained from interviewing 15 other teachers in the English Department
and observing 38 demonstration lessons of teachers inside and outside
the school. In total, data include 69 interviews, 107 classroom observa-
tions, documentation, and about 250,000 words of field notes. Data
were analyzed following grounded theory (Strauss & Corbin, 1990);
therefore, theories were arising from data, rather than constructed
from previous theories or assumptions. In addition, Bourdieu’s (1998)
sociological framework of field, practice, habitus, and capital was used
to assist analysis. The basic hypothesis is that practices, including class-
room methodology and teacher interactions with students, are neither
objectively determined nor produced by free will. On one level, Bourdieu
(1992) argues each person has his or her own particular habitus, which
is a state of mind and a bodily state of being that is demonstrated, for
instance, in the way a teacher talks to their students. On another level,
Bourdieu (1992) claims that rationality is often bounded in that there
are different fields within the social world, such as the field of ELT. Each
field has its own logic and taken-for-granted structure of necessity and
relevance that defines the situation for its occupants. Society is struc-
tured along differences in the distribution of capital, which is a system
of change that includes material goods and symbolic things, such as
fame, social connections, and education credentials (Bourdieu, 1998).
The amount of capital a person has decides his or her position in the
field, and the system of dispositions he or she acquires (Bourdieu, 1998).
Therefore, understanding the capital that is at stake in the field is crucial
in understanding people’s practices.
What are teachers’ perceptions of the NEC?
When asked about their views on the NEC, all participants tended to
talk about the new textbook rather than curriculum guidance. From the
teachers’ perspective, the most influential part of the curriculum change
14 X. Fang
seemed to be the new textbook, rather than the principles or teaching
approaches promoted in the curriculum guidance. This may be because
the textbook has to be followed daily, and so teachers considered it
more relevant to their teaching than the curriculum guidance. Two
participants overtly stated that they were less concerned in knowing the
NEC guidance than in understanding the textbook.
Although there are many complaints about the NEC, no data show
teachers are against the NEC principles. As previously explained, teachers’
perception of teaching was constructed from asking them to talk about
concrete experiences. Their discussion indicates that teachers’ views of
good teaching are generally consistent with the NEC guidance. Their
criticism and complaints, rather, are the result of frequent curriculum
changes, particularly the change of textbooks: prior to the introduction
of the NEC for high schools in 2003, two more new textbooks were used
in order to pilot the NEC implementation. There are three grades in high
schools and each textbook was used for three years, or rounds. This means
that at each new round, teachers had to use a new textbook. Therefore,
teachers have used textbooks new to them every year for the past ten
years. Their complaint is that frequently changing textbook requires
longer planning time, particularly because texts in the new textbooks
are long. While the textbooks are being used as agents of methodo-
logical change (CMOEC, 2003), that function is not recognized by most
teachers, who tend to regard the textbook as a carrier of language. Thus
the frequent change of textbooks is taken by many teachers as a sign of a
lack of a long-term strategy by the CMOEC. The changes may also have
increased teachers’ emotional uncertainty and insecurity, and reduced
their enthusiasm for change, as shown by the following comment:
Teachers always think, well, they are going to change the textbook in
the next round, all this information is just for one-off use and there’s
not much point spending too much time… (Enchu, Interview, June
17, 2008)
Interestingly, although the NEC is promoted as a radical change in the
official discourse, teachers do not seem to see such change as radical.
The most senior teacher (Anya) states that she has been using CLT since
the 1980s and the exemplar classroom scenarios she uses to support
her claim do indicate these activities are communicative. The other top
class teacher (Caili) also argues that she has been using many strategies
of the NEC long before the NEC was introduced. The three ordinary
class teachers, on the other hand, also claim that their practices are not
Teaching the New English Curriculum 15
much changed because of the NEC. One of them in fact claims that the
NEC is only old wine in a new bottle because it only changes the name
rather than the approach:
Actually I don’t think there is much change in teaching approaches
over the years, especially in our country. Sometime ago TBLT was
popular in China, but there’s not too much change from our previous
teaching approaches. Now activities are advocated, but how does it
differ from TBLT that was once famous? You still do tasks. You just
divide tasks into different activities. Actually I can’t see much change
in teaching approaches apart from the different names being used…
(Baijuan, Interview, May 20, 2008)
Two possible reasons may explain the discrepancy between teachers’
statements and the official discourse in terms of the level of change. From
one aspect, many NEC principles were introduced to teachers before they
formally appeared in the NEC, for example, through ELT seminars and
books. Therefore, change may not be as radical as it is promoted in the
official discourse. From another aspect, as previously argued, some teach-
ers have limited knowledge of the curriculum guidance and they may
have not recognized changes in the NEC. As exemplified in the comment
above, Baijuan mis-recognizes TBLT as being replaced by an activity
approach. It shows her lack of knowledge of the NEC on the one hand;
and, on the other hand, the comment also indicates that Baijuan has
some knowledge of ELT approaches and she had heard of TBLT before it
was introduced in the NEC guidance.
What are the constraints of the NEC implementation?
The study has identified a number of factors that may have constrained
teachers’ implementation of the NEC. Examples are form-oriented exami-
nations, low teacher enthusiasm for change, teacher lack of knowledge
about the NEC, low English proficiency, and low learner motivation
(Fang, 2009). Some of these issues have been identified by earlier studies
of CLT and TBLT implementation in China and other Asian countries
(Carless, 2007; Littlewood, 2007). However, through extensive and in-
depth teacher accounts and participant-observer field notes, this study
has examined how these issues are personally and locally experienced
by teachers, and has explored related social factors: for instance, how
and why the form-oriented examination system has constrained CLT
implementation. This section discusses three of these issues: teachers’
16 X. Fang
lack of knowledge about the NEC and ELT approaches, form-oriented
examinations, and teachers’ and students’ lack of conviction about the
effectiveness of CLT in supporting learning.
Teachers’ lack of knowledge about the NEC and ELT approaches
An important factor that may have constrained the NEC implementation
is that teachers’ knowledge of the NEC and ELT approaches is limited and
somewhat confused. As an illustration, some teachers do not know TBLT is
promoted in the NEC, and even when they do, many teachers are puzzled
as to what TBLT is. A common scene is that teachers tend to define ELT
approaches according to their literary translation. For example, complet-
ing a grammar exercise is included as a task because “it is something you
ask students to do.” This is contradictory to the definition in the curricu-
lum guidance (CMOEC, 2003) and TBLT literature (e.g. Willis, 1996).
A cause of teachers’ lack of knowledge is that training opportunities pro-
vided to teachers to facilitate NEC implementation are limited and often
confined to teachers in senior positions. Furthermore, even though there
are training opportunities provided, for example, through ELT seminars,
the effectiveness of these experiences is questionable. In this study, apart
from Anya, all other participants voice their skepticism about the benefits
of these experiences for their teaching:
We sometimes have the chance to listen to lectures about teaching
or observe others’ teaching. They will tell you to incorporate a lot of
activities…I was wondering, if it is not a demonstration lesson, would
they use so many activities… (Baijuan, Interview, May 20, 2008)
Teachers often view expert talks as propaganda and ELT theories as
distant from their practices, and therefore do not value training oppor-
tunities and are often found off-task at such events. Furthermore, the
lack of consistency within the field of TBLT research and the potential
conflict between different levels of interpretation of NEC guidance
(illustrated in Figure 1.2) may have also led to teacher confusion.
This contrasts with Palmer and Chodidjah’s curriculum innovation in
Indonesia (see Chapter 3); as editors of the teaching materials, they
report through personal exchange with teachers in training sessions
and cascade workshops; they successfully raise teacher awareness of
new methodology, forge close ties between at least some teachers and
innovators, and support practical use of new materials. Their cascade
workshops for communicating innovation are perhaps more effective
than what teachers received from the NEC implementation.
Teaching the New English Curriculum 17
Form-oriented examinations
Applying the sociology of Bourdieu (1998), agency practice is seen as
more or less concerned with capital acquisition with an aim to improve
or maintain their positions in the field. A form-oriented examination
system is identified in the literature as a main constraint of CLT and TBLT
(Littlewood, 2007). This study has shown that examinations, particularly
the National University Entrance Examination (NUEE), are important
capital in the field for students, teachers and schools, and is the reason
why it is powerful in influencing teachers’ practices. For students, a good
Figure 1.2 Interpretations and reinterpretation of the NEC
High School English Curriculum Standard (HSECS) (CMOEC, 2003)
Textbooks Publications in state
teaching journals
Books and ‘talks’ by
prominent scholars
Policies of the
Provincial DOE
Editorials in state
newspapers
…
Supplementary teaching and learning materials (e.g.,
examination papers and teachers’ books)
Publications in various teaching journals
Books and talks by different levels of experts
Policies of the City
Education Bureau
Comments in local
newspapers
…
Level-3 Interpretation
Level-2 Interpretation
Level-1 Interpretation
Discussion in
internet forums
Peer
discussion
…
Policies of the County
Education Committee
18 X. Fang
performance in the NUEE determines their chances of being accepted
by higher-ranking universities, which leads to more prosperous job
opportunities in the future (Jin & Cortazzi, 2002). For schools, having
good student performance in the NUEE is important because the NUEE
result often influences parents’ selection of schools for their children. For
teachers, students’ examination scores are related to their salaries, their
institutional positions, the evaluation of their teaching and their face
(Fang, 2009). In comparison, teaching the NEC, such as TBLT, seems to
be less productive capital for teachers.
Admittedly, in order to encourage the implementation of the NEC, the
provincial Department of Education has taken a number of measures.
These included a plan to incorporate more NEC principles in the NUEE, the
organization of a special supervision team to evaluate the NEC implemen-
tation, and CLT being used as an important criterion for judging teaching
competitions and evaluating demonstration lessons. However, at the time
this study took place, the prospect of innovation in the NUEE was less
clear (formal policy for NUEE reform was disseminated in April 2008, two
years after the NEC was introduced); teachers were therefore uncertain in
their decision-making, and some teachers were suspicious of the possibil-
ity of incorporating NEC principles in the examination system due to the
contextual constraints (such as large numbers of students, making it dif-
ficult to organize speaking tests). For the second strategy, as indicated in
the Chinese saying, “mountain high, emperor far away,” due to the size
of the province and the number of schools, the evaluation team could
not make frequent visits to each school. As a case in point, there was only
one visit to the school used for this ethnographic study. Additionally, the
chances of demonstration lessons and teaching competitions were limited
to about one to two lessons per teacher per semester. Winning prizes on
these occasions also seemed less important in the evaluation of teach-
ing. As an example, Baijuan won the first prize in the city’s teaching
competition yet this did not much help her capital acquisition: she still
taught ordinary classes and her professional title remained the lowest.
In contrast, Caili and two other teachers in the English Department had
high student achievement in the examinations and they were promoted
to teach top classes. In such a context, for teachers’ capital acquisition,
ensuring students’ scores in the examinations might be more helpful
than teaching according to the NEC guidance. The implication for
teachers was that as long as they could deliver CLT during demonstra-
tion lessons, teaching competitions, and evaluations, it did not matter
whether they taught according to the NEC in everyday practice. Many
teachers were identified to have “worn two pairs of shoes”: they used
Teaching the New English Curriculum 19
CLT for demonstration lessons and returned to the grammar translation
in everyday practice.
Teachers and students are not particularly convinced of the
effectiveness of CLT activities
Another force that has pulled teachers away from teaching the NEC is that
neither teachers nor students seem totally convinced of the effectiveness
of CLT approaches in supporting learning, particularly due to the need for
examination preparation. This is exemplified in the following comments:
Yeah, and also their mood. If you use activities, some students may
not listen. Although students seem to like activities, most students
prefer grammar instruction. When we are doing activities, many
students don’t listen because they would think it is not relevant to
examinations (Denghua, Interview, June 2, 2008)
In the literature, students’ low motivation towards communicative tasks
is considered a constraint of CLT (Hu, 2002). In contrast, this study has
identified students’ and teachers’ paradoxical attitudes towards CLT
(Fang, 2009). On the one hand, as exemplified in the above comments,
students and teachers are concerned that doing CLT activities may
adversely influence learning. On the other hand, comments also show
that CLT activities are welcomed by students, who think it more fun than
learning grammar. Since CLT activities are often liked by students, teachers
are often motivated to use CLT to keep students interested, although they
may not fully appreciate the benefit of CLT:
Students asked me, ‘Can you teach like Miss Fang?’ I know your
teaching is good and enjoyed by students, but I can hardly do this…
(Caili, Interview, March 20, 2008)
We want to do activities. It’s easy for me. Students enjoy it. But at
the end of the lesson, they will ask, ‘How much have they learned?’
(Baijuan, Interview, May 20, 2008)
Teachers’ comments indicate their view of knowledge as information,
teachers as transmitters of the information specified by the examination
syllabus, and explicit instruction as promoting learning. Referring to the
Confucian concept of learning that is influential in China, knowledge
accumulation is considered a prerequisite for reflection, creativity, and
deep understanding. The idea of one right way to produce a product
20 X. Fang
of an acceptable and recognized standard makes the Chinese believe
in skill development first, after which there is something to be creative
with (Gardner, 1989). Although research participants such as Anya
voice a firm belief in learning by doing, their views seem to imply that it
is additional to, and a consolidation of, learning by explicit instruction.
Explicit instruction is considered necessary and primary, and it should
precede “doing”. CLT is considered beneficial for learning, but only
based on the foundation of explicit instruction (Fang, 2009).
What changes does the NEC bring to teachers?
A charge frequently voiced by teachers is that the NEC has brought
additional workload to them and heightened their work pressure.
Observational data also show that most teachers in the grade 2 English
team work over 15 hours per day in planning and delivering lessons, and
marking students’ assignments. The pressure may result from considera-
tions about maintaining or improving their capital and institutional
positions or the pressure from the school management to outperform
their competitors. However, one important reason why introduction of
the NEC has brought additional pressure on teachers is the greater chal-
lenge in planning lessons. This is mainly due to the increased length and
difficulty of the textbooks, coupled with the effort to incorporate more
NEC principles with existing practices, such as form-focus and recitation
from memory, which teachers seek to retain in their methodological
repertoire.
Although teachers state that their practices are not much changed
due to the introduction of the NEC, there may still be changes taking
place. Although their use of CLT may still be limited, observation data
show that all teachers have used a wide range of NEC principles in their
teaching. Analysis of the observational transcripts shows that teachers
have taught lessons according to principles suggested in the NEC, and
their use of TBLT is largely consistent with principles suggested in the
curriculum guidance and TBLT literature. Due to information-sharing
between teachers, suggested by NEC guidance, teachers may have applied
NEC principles without being aware of them. Teachers, particularly top
class teachers, are innovating in their teaching and maximizing the use
of CLT activities in their classrooms. Although ordinary class teachers
may have used CLT to a lesser extent, they have used a range of NEC
principles outside the classroom, such as encouraging students to pro-
duce an English newspaper to promote information exploration and
encouraging participation in school English societies/clubs.
Teaching the New English Curriculum 21
In top classes, a virtuous circle of CLT is observed: teachers are interested
in CLT and they apply it in their classes; their students’ engagement moti-
vates them to further explore and develop CLT strategies, which gain more
interest from their students; and this leads teachers to further discovery
and development. Since CLT is promoted in the official discourse and
by senior teachers such as Anya, even though teachers may not be fully
convinced of its effectiveness, the importance of CLT is more recognized
by teachers, at least in their overt statements. This may help in shaping
the discourse where CLT is recognized as good practice.
Implications of this study
Based on the discussion above, the following implications are worthy of
consideration by curriculum developers.
Firstly, one of the main forces operating against teachers implementing
the NEC is that teachers cannot see themselves or their students benefit-
ing from it, because students’ examination scores are considered the most
important capital in the field. Therefore, in order to support change,
policy developers could consider establishing a more positive link between
curriculum implementation and the evaluation of teachers and students,
who need to see the benefits of following the curriculum.
Secondly, the frequent change of curriculum, particularly textbooks,
has reduced teachers’ enthusiasm for change and their trust in the educa-
tion authorities, and has brought emotional insecurity and uncertainty
to teachers. Therefore, the nature of the new curriculum and how it
should be implemented in the classroom needs to be clearer to teachers
(Fang, 2009). Curriculum developers may consider strategies for teachers
to recognize links (and differences) between different curricula to enable
teachers to relate the new materials to their cultural context and give them
a sense of ownership. New curricula should acknowledge teachers’
past experiences in order to gain their commitment for a new reform
agenda.
Thirdly, the quality and quantity of training opportunities to sup-
port NEC implementation are limited, as previously discussed, and this
may have also constrained teachers’ NEC implementation. Accordingly,
practical support for implementation should be increased if the NEC is
really to be accepted and incorporated into teachers’ practices (see, for
example, Palmer and Chodidjah’s chapter). As teachers voice their dis-
tance from theories, more opportunities for one-to-one communication
on practical issues could be created. Communication could be focused
on issues that are directly relevant to teachers’ practices. Learning from the
22 X. Fang
experience of the research participants, discussion among teachers should
be encouraged, for them to reflect on each other’s experience.
Conclusion
In this chapter, I have investigated the implementation of a national
NEC in a key high school in China. Based on the experience of five
teachers of English, I have explored ways in which they are responding
to the change, I have investigated factors that are related to teachers’
NEC implementation, and how such factors are personally and socially
experienced by those teachers. Although this is a small-scale study
with a specific context (i.e. a key school in an economically developed
region), the findings may be transferable (Guba & Lincoln, 1994) to
some extent, due to the similar features and contexts shared by other
schools (e.g. the influence of the NUEE and the impact of the Chinese
culture may affect teachers throughout China).
This chapter has aimed to serve two purposes. First, it has described the
way in which teachers respond to the NEC in order to provide insights
for curriculum developers, particularly in China. And second, through
ethnographic research, it has illustrated the complexity involved in
understanding teachers’ responses to curriculum changes, which in
turn will lead to a fuller understanding of ELT innovation in the global
context, and Asia in particular.
2
Global Cultures and Identities:
Refocusing the Aims of ELT in Asia
through Intercultural Awareness
Will Baker
Introduction
English is used in Asia as a vehicle of communication for knowledge,
economics, cultures, and identities; as a first language, second language,
and lingua franca; and at local, national, regional, and global levels.
This deep embedding of English in the region suggests that English
should be treated as an Asian language in its own right (Kachru, 2005)
and the norms decided locally. However, this has not been the case.
Much control over the English language, at least in terms of codifica-
tion, acceptance of varieties, and prestige, still rests with those countries
associated with Kachru’s (2005: 14) “Inner Circle” (i.e. North America,
the UK, and Australia). This is particularly the case in English language
teaching (ELT), where Inner Circle regions dominate in the production
of teaching materials, methodology, expertise, and most significantly, in
providing the models and norms that are taught.
For ELT to reflect the realities and needs of users of English in Asia it is
necessary to move away from a focus on Inner Circle regions and the native
English speaker (NES) model of English. English needs to be recognized as
a language of intercultural communication and the skills and knowledge
base of ELT broadened in scope to include the types of resources associated
with successful multilingual communication in multicultural contexts.
This also involves understanding the fluid nature of English in global
contexts in relation to linguistic and cultural forms and the resources they
offer for identity construction. This clearly goes beyond the traditional
lexico-grammatical and phonological scope of ELT.
An approach to conceptualizing the skills and knowledge needed to
communicate effectively in the divergent contexts of English in global
communication is intercultural awareness (ICA). This chapter will present
23
24 W. Baker
a characterization of ICA combined with possible applications in the ELT
classroom, drawing on examples from Thailand. Such an approach aims
to reconceptualize ELT in a manner that meshes with an understand-
ing of the diverse forms and functions of English in Asian and global
contexts. This is accompanied by multilingual, multicultural models of
language users as intercultural citizens, as an alternative model of identi-
fication to the inappropriate NES.
English in Asia
English is widely regarded as the de facto lingua franca of Asia (Kachru,
2005). While exact numbers of English users are hard to produce accu-
rately, Crystal (2008) estimates that speakers in India and China alone
now outnumber all the Inner Circle so-called native speakers of the
language. English is used in both Kachru’s (2005) Outer Circle (e.g., India,
Singapore, and the Philippines) and Expanding Circle (e.g., Thailand,
Vietnam, and China) settings. It is the official language of ASEAN
(Association of South-East Asian Nations) and ASEAN + 3 (which includes
China, Japan, and South Korea). As well as this political function, English
serves as a language of business, education, the media, the arts, and social
contact both within countries, such as Singapore and India, and across
the region. English is also seen by many governments as an essential
means of expression of national identity, communicating both cultural
and economic interests to the outside world (Tsui & Tollefson, 2007).
In sum, within countries where English is an official L2, English can be
viewed as a medium of local communication representing local needs,
and in virtually all countries in Asia it forms a medium of both regional
and global communication.
However, the extensive use of English in the region has not been
unproblematic. Kachru (2005: 16–17) describes “the albatross of mytho-
logy” by which the Inner Circle countries exert a strong influence on
the norms of language use and the acceptance of legitimate varieties of
English. Similar to the concerns expressed by “linguistic imperialism”
(Phillipson, 1992: 38), it has been suggested that despite the widespread
use of local varieties of English in Asia (for example Indian or Hong
Kong English), and the development of new varieties of English in
Expanding Circle settings (for example Chinese English), Inner Circle
English varieties (such as British or American English) are still regarded
as the most prestigious varieties. For instance, Jenkins (2007) revealed
Inner Circle English accents were preferred to local English accents,
even when less intelligible. Correspondingly, this has also resulted in
Global Cultures and Identities 25
according the speakers of Inner Circle Englishes higher status, and a
one-way flow of knowledge and expertise from the Inner Circle to Outer
Circle and Expanding Circle recipients (Canagarajah, 2005). This has
created tensions and paradoxes between the use of local languages and
the use of English, both as a local language and as a global language,
with exocentric norms and influences. Other concerns include the
extent to which English use has led to inequalities between those who
have access to effective English language education and are thus able to
use it, and those who do not and cannot use the language.
Such a multifarious characterization of English in Asia has called into
question many of the traditional characterizations of languages and
language users. Firstly, while Kachru’s (2005) notion of three concentric
circles of English provides a useful shorthand for describing different
settings of English use (Bruthiaux, 2003), and will be used as such here,
the distinctions between the different regions are becoming harder to
maintain. Users of English do not stay within the geographical regions
of the circles, but cross between them. Thus, the physical location of
English users may not be an accurate guide as to the types of Englishes
used. Furthermore, the notions of norm-dependent and norm-providing
are also problematic. Many Expanding Circle regions are developing
their own norms (see for example Deterding & Kirkpatrick, 2006) and,
while at the ideological level the influence of the Inner Circle countries
is still present, the relevance of their norms in describing actual English
use in Asia is being increasingly called into question (e.g. Baker, 2009b;
Canagarajah, 2005). Most significantly, the notion of native (NES) and
non-native speakers of English is difficult to sustain as a valid distinction
in such multilingual environments.
This has led to alternative conceptions of English which are better
able to describe the plurality of Englishes and diversity of uses and users
of the language. Perhaps most influential, although also controversial,
have been attempts to describe English as a lingua franca (ELF). ELF
has been defined as communication in English between users who
have different “linguacultures” (Jenkins, 2006b: 164). This definition,
while including those traditionally categorized as NES, does not view
English in lingua franca communication as being driven by the norms
of NES. Rather ELF recognizes a plurality of forms of English as well as
shared features of grammar, lexis, phonology, and pragmatics which are
driven by the context of communication and needs of the participants
(Jenkins, 2007). ELF thus attempts to legitimize the power of the majority
of non-NES users and remove the exocentric monolithic language and
communication norms associated with NES.
26 W. Baker
Equally important is the notion of global Englishes. Pennycook (2007: 6)
describes the “global flows” of English in which linguistic and cultural
forms are shaped to local needs, but also used in global contexts, which
in turn influence the forms and practices of English. Thus a continu-
ous flow is created between the global and local forms of English with
each influencing the other. This results in a constant tension between
a dynamic “fluidity” and more stable “fixity” (Pennycook, 2007: 7) of
forms. Analogous characterizations of language on a local and global
scale have been offered by Risager, who details the complexity of “trans-
cultural flows” (2007: 165). Languages and cultures are again viewed as
existing in a dynamic relationship, whereby the link between a language
and its cultural context is created anew in each instance of use. Crucially,
the inevitable link between English and the culture of the Inner Circle
countries is rejected. Lastly, Canagarajah (2005) also considers the relation-
ship between local and global forms and contexts of English use, in
which he describes users as “shuttling between communities” (p. xxvi)
where a variety of norms and repertoires of communicative practices is
to be expected.
Together, these characterizations of English move away from Inner
Circle norms and the NES model towards more pluralistic and dynamic
understandings of English use in Asia. Furthermore, this situation impacts
on conceptions of the relationship between the English language, culture,
and identity. English is no longer tied to the cultures of exocentric Inner
Circle NES settings, nor does the NES function as the sole point of
identity for speakers of English. Rather, local cultures and norms along-
side dynamic global references can serve as points of identification and
contextualization. This has significant implications for an understand-
ing of the processes and aims of ELT in Asia.
English language teaching in Asia
Before turning to the consequences of these more fluid conceptions of
English, cultural contexts, and intercultural communication for ELT,
it is necessary to briefly outline current approaches to, and issues in,
ELT in Asia. Due to the importance of English in Asia, it is high on the
agenda of language policy and planning in many countries. English forms
an extensive part of school and higher education curricula and there has
been a trend to increase the range of subjects taught in English, as well
as introducing it at younger levels of schooling (Nunan, 2003; Tsui &
Tollefson, 2007). However, this situation has not been unproblematic.
Both Nunan (2003) and Tsui and Tollefson (2007) draw attention to the
Global Cultures and Identities 27
inequalities in access to English language education. Nunan (2003)
suggests that the poor language level of many teachers in Asia, alongside
inadequate resources and preparation time, means that learners are often
not exposed to enough English to gain proficiency in the language. This
leads Nunan (2003) to question the value of giving so much curriculum
time to English at the expense of other subjects. Poor English language
education in state schools results in those students who can afford it
seeking extra private tuition, thus creating inequalities between those
with English language skills, which are often crucial for the successful
urban middle classes, and those without.
Further difficulties concern the already discussed bias towards the
model of Inner Circle NES, often accompanied by teaching materials
and methodologies developed for Inner Circle classrooms (Canagarajah,
2005; Kachru, 2005). Jenkins’s (2007) study of attitudes towards English,
which included Asian teachers, revealed the ambiguous attitudes of non-
native English-speaking teachers. While they valued their own accents
and L1 identity, many still felt it was necessary to conform to NES norms
to appear professionally competent. Lastly, the high stakes gate-keeping
English examinations, such as IELTS and TOEFL, are based on NES norms,
in effect ensuring that mastery of this variety remains important for
many learners of English (Jenkins, 2006a).
However, there have been increasing calls for different approaches
to ELT in Asia which are better adapted to local and global varieties of
English, local teaching practices, and local knowledge (for example Baker,
2008; Canagarajah, 2005; Kachru, 2005; Tsui & Tollefson, 2007). This has
also been accompanied by a more general call for ELT which reflects the
reality of global Englishes and ELF and moves away from the NES model
domination (Jenkins, 2007). Such approaches question the appropriate-
ness of focusing on a single variety of English with a specified grammar,
vocabulary, and phonology in the face of the plurality of Englishes. Instead,
they emphasize the need to negotiate the diversity of Englishes through
developing the skills and knowledge associated with multilingual and
intercultural communication. These include various pragmatic aspects of
communication such as accommodation, convergence, repair, repetition,
and cooperation, as well as linguistic and cultural awareness.
A commensurable view of language teaching which focuses on the
cultural dimension of learning and using another language has also
proposed expanding the repertoire of language teaching beyond the tra-
ditional foci (for example Byram, 1997; Kramsch, 1993). L2 use is treated
as intercultural communication, with an emphasis on the importance of
the cultural background of participants and context of communication.
28 W. Baker
This involves examination of the language learners’ culture and its
influence on communication, knowledge of other cultures, the ability
to compare and contrast cultures, an awareness of the relative nature of
cultural norms, the ability to predict areas of miscommunication, and the
ability to mediate and negotiate between cultures. This is combined with
a more critical understanding of languages and cultures in intercultural
communication as existing in “third places” (Kramsch, 1993: 223) which
are neither part of users’ L1 nor a target language. Although there has
been some discussion of the application of these pedagogic techniques
in Asian contexts (for example Baker, 2008; Jackson, 2004), this has yet
to be fully explored.
However, most of these approaches to culture and language teaching
have been based on the assumption that there is a defined relationship
between the language being taught and a target culture with which it is
associated, even if it is acknowledged that learners may not conform to
the norms of that culture (see Finch, Chapter 4, for an exploration of the
inappropriateness of ascribing learning styles based solely on cultural
background). Another difficulty is that, given the multiplicity and
fluidity of cultural contexts and backgrounds of participants in English
communication, learners could never be prepared with knowledge of all
the cultures they are likely to encounter through English. Moreover, as
the earlier discussion concerning the relationship between the English
language and the contexts of its use in Asia made apparent, no clear
or inexorable relationship and identification between English and a
target culture can be made. This chapter thus addresses the concern that
while many of the pluralistic approaches to English language description
and ELT pedagogy emphasize the role of multicultural and intercultural
communication, there has not been a clear explication of the cultural
dimension of this or its role in ELT.
Intercultural awareness
An answer to some of these difficulties is offered by intercultural aware-
ness (ICA) (Baker, 2009a). ICA builds on earlier approaches to cultural
awareness, including Byram (1997). Like cultural awareness, ICA views
successful intercultural communication as a process which goes beyond
just vocabulary, grammar, and phonology. However, whereas cultural
awareness has tended to deal in cultures as definable entities, ICA
recognizes the intercultural nature of the sociocultural context of lingua
franca communication, especially through English. This involves an
understanding of cultures as fluid, hybrid and emergent in intercultural
Global Cultures and Identities 29
communication, and the relationship between a language and its cultural
context and references as being created in each instance of communica-
tion, based both on pre-existing resources and those that emerge in situ.
ICA can thus be defined as:
a conscious understanding of the role that culturally based forms,
practices, and frames of understanding can have in intercultural com-
munication, and an ability to put these conceptions into practice in
a flexible and context specific manner in real time communication.
(Baker, 2009a: 88)
This definition can be further expanded into twelve features, given in
Table 2.1.
The order of the twelve elements suggests something of the relation-
ships between the identified knowledge and skills; although, this
Table 2.1 Twelve features of intercultural awareness
Awareness
1. of culture as a set of shared behaviors, beliefs, and values
2. of the role culture and context play in any interpretation of meaning
3. of our own culturally induced behavior, values, and beliefs, and the ability
to articulate them
4. of others’ culturally induced behavior, values, and beliefs, and the
ability to compare this with our own culturally induced behavior, values
and beliefs
5. of the relative nature of cultural norms
6. that cultural understanding is provisional and open to revision
7. of multiple voices or perspectives within any cultural grouping
8. of individuals as members of many social groupings including cultural
ones
9. of common ground between specific cultures as well as an awareness
of possibilities for mismatch and miscommunication between specific
cultures
10. of culturally based frames of reference, forms, and communicative practices
as being related both to specific cultures and also as emergent and hybrid
in intercultural communication
11. that initial interaction in intercultural communication may be based on
cultural stereotypes or generalizations but one has an ability to move
beyond these
12. of the need to negotiate and mediate between different emergent sociocul-
turally grounded communication modes and frames of reference based on
the above understanding of culture in intercultural communication.
30 W. Baker
characterization is necessarily simplified and the distinctions more
analytical than empirical (see Baker, 2009a, for a more detailed treat-
ment with supporting data). The later features, especially the final three
in the table, are viewed as the most difficult to develop but represent the
most crucial for successful intercultural communication. Importantly,
while knowledge of specific cultures and the influence this may have on
communication is still a component of ICA (see feature 9 in the table),
and recognition that participants may initially begin communication
with generalized culturally based frames of interpretation (features 3, 4,
9, and 11), there is also an attempt to go beyond single cultural frames of
reference in intercultural communication. Features 10 to 12, in particular,
propose that in parallel to knowledge of specific cultures, an understand-
ing of emergent cultural references and practices is needed, and that this
needs to be combined with the ability to negotiate and mediate between
these dynamic resources in intercultural communication. Such abilities
and awareness enable users to cope with the diversity and fluidity of inter-
cultural communication in which cultural frames of reference cannot be
defined a priori. ICA should thus be directly relevant to users of English
in international contexts, especially in Expanding Circle and ELF settings,
such as those found in Asia, both as an attempt to conceptualize the
cultural dimension of communication and also as a set of pedagogic aims.
ICA, identity, and ELT in Asia
Byram (2008) suggests that the development of the types of knowledge,
skills, and attitudes associated with successful intercultural communica-
tion, and conceptualized here through ICA, might result in the learner
going beyond acquiring simply a set of skills and knowledge. Instead,
Byram (2008) believes an identity as an intercultural citizen may develop
in which intercultural communicators view themselves as part of a
community of multilingual and multicultural users of English who can
mediate and negotiate between different languages and cultures. Similar
concepts have been developed by Risager (2007), in which she discusses
the competences and resources of the world citizen. In the context of ELF,
Jenkins (2007) has explored the complex relationship between identity
and ELF communication, and Seidlhofer (2007: 307) has put forward the
notion of “communities of practice” of proficient ELF speakers.
Importantly, intercultural citizenship offers a model that contrasts
with the inappropriate and ill-defined NES. Rather than an unattainable
native speaker goal, learners and users of English are offered an identifica-
tion which recognizes the importance of their L1 and C1 (first culture)
Global Cultures and Identities 31
and their resources as bilingual communicators. With its emphasis on
multilingualism and multiculturalism, intercultural citizenship can also
incorporate the fluid and dynamic nature of the relationship between
language, culture, and identity necessary for English use in global settings.
Indeed, rather than identity, it may be better to speak of identification
(Sarup, 1996) with intercultural citizenship, alongside other identities or
identifications, including those associated with users’ L1 and C1. Empirical
evidence is beginning to emerge in Asia that supports such a concep-
tion of identity through English (Baker, 2009b), in which English offers
a vehicle for the formation of dynamic and fluid identities alongside the
more stable identities constructed or ascribed according to L1/C1.
ICA and ELT: an example from Thailand
The next part of this chapter will offer some suggestions as to how the
elements of ICA can be developed in the classroom, taking an example
from Thailand. Although each region, and indeed each classroom, is
unique, there are also similarities between Thailand and other con-
texts in Asia, both in relation to English use and ELT. These similarities
include the forms of English used (Deterding & Kirkpatrick, 2006), the
settings in which English is used, predominantly as a lingua franca
for intercultural communication (Baker, 2008; Foley, 2007), and the
approaches taken to ELT (Baker, 2008; Foley, 2005). Nevertheless, the
suggestions presented here are not offered as a prescription for other
settings, or all settings within Thailand, but rather as an example of
how ICA can be translated into teaching practice, which may lead other
interested parties to reflect on the relevance of ICA to teaching English
for global intercultural communication in their own context.
Research into cultural and intercultural awareness highlights the not
surprising finding that experience of intercultural communication is
essential for developing the knowledge, skills, and attitudes necessary for
successful intercultural communication (Baker, 2009a; Byram, Nichols, &
Stevens, 2001). Table 2.2 (adapted from Baker, 2008) lists six areas or
opportunities for intercultural contacts offered in higher education con-
texts in Thailand which can be exploited to develop ICA.
Firstly, an understanding of learners’ own culture may provide a start-
ing point for exploration of other cultures, as suggested in the first
three elements of ICA. Important areas to concentrate on would include
attitudes to learning and classrooms, learners’ views of their own and
other languages, different cultural groupings within Thailand and their
relationship to language, and outsider views of Thai language and culture.
32 W. Baker
This may aid learners in understanding how their cultural contexts
influence their own behavior and communicative practices. It may also
highlight the diversity within their cultures. Small-scale ethnographic
projects provide one possible approach to such tasks.
The next five areas all relate to exploring other cultures and global
contexts. As suggested above, these include cultural artifacts such as
externally produced language textbooks and other teaching materials,
English language media (including the internet) and the arts, all of
which can be used to examine different images and perspectives of
other cultures at both local and global levels. However, it is necessary
to take a critical stance towards such materials and texts and consider to
what extent the images of other cultures presented may be stereotyped
or fragmented (see for example, Kramsch, 1993).
The internet, as well as providing authentic English language materials
through online texts from other cultures, also provides opportunities for
direct intercultural communication. This can be carried out through chat-
rooms and email with participants from other cultures, both with native
speakers and non-native speakers of English. Indeed, given the huge
growth in electronic communication this may now be many learners’
most frequent source of intercultural interaction in English.
The last two areas detail opportunities for face-to-face intercultural
communication. Within the classroom the most common may be the
experience of studying English with an English speaker from another
culture. Local ELT teachers who have spent time in other countries
can also provide information and offer outsider perspectives. Teachers can
thus perform the role of cultural informant, presenting information on
their respective cultures or those they are familiar with, as well as offering
comparisons with the local culture. Furthermore, in taking on such a role
the teacher can offer a model of a successful bilingual and multiculturally
Table 2.2 Opportunities for developing ICA in a Thai classroom (adapted from
Baker, 2008)
• Exploring Thai culture
• Exploring language learning materials
• Exploring the traditional media and arts – film, TV, radio, newspapers,
novels, and magazines
• Exploring IT/electronic media – the internet, email, chat rooms, instant
messaging
• Cultural informants – non-Thai English-speaking teachers and Thai English
teachers with experience in other cultures
• Face-to-face intercultural communication
Global Cultures and Identities 33
competent intercultural speaker or citizen, who is able to mediate and
negotiate between cultures. As with other sources of cultural information
and cultural contacts, learners need to adopt a critical approach, recognizing
that these perspectives will be necessarily subjective and partial.
Through such experiences it is hoped that learners will begin to engage
in the kind of processes envisaged in ICA, such as comparison and media-
tion, and that they will build the kind of knowledge and critical, dynamic
understanding of cultures and communication needed to engage in
successful intercultural communication. Furthermore, learners should be
able to apply these resources in a flexible manner that is adapted to the
needs of the communicative situations they engage in. Finally, through
such processes learners may be able to fashion identities for themselves
through English based on personal experiences of communicating in
local, regional, and global settings.
While Table 2.2 provides a number of recommendations grounded
in ELT in higher education in Thailand, these approaches need further
investigation. This list may not as yet be complete; other opportunities for
intercultural contacts from other teaching contexts in Thailand and Asia
may be possible. Another limitation is that issues of assessment have not
been dealt with, although research on assessing intercultural communica-
tive competence has been conducted in other contexts (see Humphrey,
2007, for an overview) and may offer insights for Asia. Lastly, while it
is proposed that the activities above are in the main conducted through
English, especially those involving intercultural communication, the rela-
tionship between developing ICA to other aspects of the English language
learning process has not been explicated. Developing specific pedagogic
applications of ICA and integrating these into the rest of the English
language learning curriculum still require further investigation.
Conclusions
This chapter has attempted to contribute to the increasing body of research
arguing that a shift in focus is required for ELT in Asia, moving away from
models based on Inner Circle countries’ Englishes. This is based on cur-
rent understandings of English use in Asia, global Englishes and English
used as a lingua franca. ELT needs to go beyond the predominant focus
on grammar, vocabulary, and phonology based on a single native speaker
variety of English. Instead, the skills and knowledge base of ELT needs
to be expanded to incorporate the resources employed in successful
intercultural communication with models of bilingual, multiculturally
competent, intercultural citizens adopted (Byram, 2008; Jenkins, 2007;
34 W. Baker
Risager, 2007). ICA has been proposed as a means of conceptualizing the
skills and knowledge possessed by successful communicators in inter-
cultural communication. Furthermore, examples of how ICA can be
developed in ELT classrooms were presented, including exploring local
cultures, language learning materials, the traditional media and arts,
IT/electronic media, cultural informants, and face-to-face intercultural
communication.
While proposals such as ICA are urgently needed for ELT to match the
realities of English use in Asia, further research is necessary to document
both the forms and functions of English use and how it is used to enact
and create cultural contexts and identities in Asia as a local and global
language. It should also not be assumed that descriptions of language
use will necessarily translate into findings that are relevant in the class-
room. Classroom practice involves selection and a simplification of
complexity in order to be effective (Brumfit, 2001). Therefore, equally
crucial is research into effective pedagogy that reflects and equips learners
for intercultural communication through English in Asia.
Neither should the acceptability of more pluralistic and heterogene-
ous approaches to ELT be assumed. There may be, and indeed has been,
resistance at all levels from language policy and planning, through edu-
cational administrators, to classroom teachers, and to the attitudes of the
learners themselves. The reluctance to move away from native speaker
models of English is illustrated in Jenkins’ (2007) study, which high-
lights the ambiguous attitudes to local varieties of English expressed by
English language teachers around the world. However, the depth and
influence of the traditional Inner Circle NES models of English and com-
munication in Asia, and globally, do not make them any more appro-
priate as an approach for ELT (Cook, 1999). ICA provides one means of
shifting the focus of ELT and corresponding characterizations of English
in Asia away from a deficit position and towards a more empowering
stance. This involves recognizing English as an Asian language with its
own local forms and functions existing in a fluid relationship alongside
global uses. Through such conceptions, learners of English in Asia may
be better equipped to engage with the complexity and diversity of the
English-speaking world on their own terms.
Acknowledgement
The research reported in this chapter was made possible by an ESRC
doctoral studentship award.
3
Training the Pesantren:
Intercultural Materials for Islamic
Boarding Schools in Indonesia
Gillian Palmer and Itje Chodidjah
The Intercultural English Pesantren project was designed to support
teachers at senior school level in NU (Nahdlatul Ulama) Pesantren Islamic
Boarding schools in East Java, Indonesia through the introduction of new
task-based materials based on intercultural understanding and supported
by teacher development. The NU is the biggest Islamic organization in
Indonesia and the schools are run with a strongly religious ethic. While
the Pesantren have their traditional base in East Java, there are schools
throughout Indonesia and the NU has a very powerful political and ideo-
logical influence nationally. The overall purpose of the project, which
was funded and initiated by The British Council, was to contribute to
the development of English language teaching within the Pesantren
school system and it aimed to raise the intercultural awareness (Kachru,
1992; Kramsch, 1993) of teachers and learners as well as to develop
English language proficiency.
The materials were created for the last three years of secondary school
in line with the Indonesian National Curriculum and examination
system. However, through a topic-oriented framework combining both
skills work and communicative language training, the purpose was also
to provide a means for Pesantren teachers to update their understand-
ing of methodology and for students to develop real language use. The
primary aims of the project were therefore to:
(a) develop Pesantren teachers’ language-teaching skills;
(b) develop the intercultural competence and understanding of global
issues of learners and teachers in NU senior secondary Pesantren
through the provision of school materials and teacher training;
(c) develop networks of teachers and trainers among Pesantren schools
to support future training;
35
36 G. Palmer & I. Chodidjah
(d) support English language teachers in Pesantren through the provision
of clear, appropriate, and developmental lesson materials (class
packs) for classroom teaching.
The Pesantren project was launched in September 2007 and was
designed in stages, focusing initially on twelve key Pesantren schools
in the East Java area. Through the British Council and the Pesantren
network, including school head teachers, 50 teachers were selected
from these schools for the core teacher in-service training program. The
materials were designed as classroom packs with 50 hours of teaching
material. These were produced as supplementary classroom materials
to complement textbooks currently in use in schools (e.g. Synaeroti,
2004) and the Indonesian national syllabus, and were designed to
alleviate issues within the Pesantren around the lack of access to good
quality teaching materials. The training initially focused on the mate-
rials and how to apply them in the classroom, with inbuilt language
and methodology input for teachers. The time scale for the project is
included in Table 3.1.
Interculturalism and the Pesantren schools network
As well as supporting teachers and the development of students’ capacity
to use English, a principal aim was to develop intercultural awareness and
understanding of global issues, through the use of topics (Bryam & Morgan,
1999; Corbett, 2003). At the time of the project’s initiation, the Pesantren
Islamic boarding schools had been largely closed to outsiders and had a
unique cultural and religious ethic based on the teaching of Islamic values
and the study of Islamic religious texts. Because Pesantren schools acted
as focal points for their communities, there was considerable community
involvement in determining what happened within the school walls and
religious values were expected to be upheld at every level.
The targeted area of East Javan schools with the local capital of Surabaya
represented a traditional stronghold of the NU and strict adherence to
their Islamic view was expected from those schooled within the system.
In addition, many of the schools were in rural districts and functioned as
self-contained villages with boarding sections and day schools for girls
and boys separated.
There was little access to outside influences or cultures through the
media or books. However, a more recent focus within the Pesantren state
school board system on widening the school curriculum had encouraged
school leaders and influential members of this Islamic organization to
Training the Pesantren 37
seek to implement a more standard syllabus in line with the Indonesian
National Curriculum alongside Islamic teachings, a goal which initiated
the British Council Pesantren project.
In order to support the development of teachers’ and learners’ inter-
cultural competence and linguistic competence, the materials were
designed to prepare them for interaction with other cultures and to
encourage them to understand and accept people from other cultures as
individuals with different perspectives, values, and behaviors (Candlin &
Mercer, 2001).
The concept of the project was to promote better and wider under-
standing of other cultures and religions, with respect equal to their own,
and to help them to consider interaction as an enriching experience. In
essence, to help prepare learners to be able to play active roles in the
world. The materials were designed to lead teachers and students into
greater open engagement with the world, to encourage critical thinking
and reflection on their own culture’s and society’s relationship to the
outside world, and to develop students’ language skills.
Scope of the materials design
We decided to use a task-based, communicative framework to train
teachers in classroom pedagogy, to introduce topics for teachers and
students to broaden their intercultural understanding, and to promote
language development through communicative, skills-based learning. The
changes also needed to take account of the need for language teaching to
facilitate higher levels of success in national examinations. The materials
were to be designed specifically to meet the needs of pupils and teachers
within the Pesantren network. While the materials would be supple-
mentary and small-scale, they would need to provide both learning
input and a basis for teacher development.
Table 3.1 Time scale of the Pesantren project
Date Action
October 2007 Scoping visit
October 2007–February 2008 Materials writing and piloting of materials
in Jakarta
February 2008 Teacher development: Surabaya
March 2008 Teacher development: Jombang
March–April 2008 Materials writing and second cascade
April–May 2008 Teacher development: Malang
May–June 2008 Materials publication and third cascade
38 G. Palmer & I. Chodidjah
Scoping visits and piloting the materials
Following discussions with Pesantren leaders and school head teachers,
sample materials were produced. A scoping visit then took place in East
Java in September 2007, visiting four key schools (Surabaya, Jombang,
Madura, and Probolinggo) where workshops and discussion sessions were
run to gain initial feedback on the materials from teachers. A discussion
forum was also set up in each institution for members of the school admin-
istration and the English department to meet the materials writer and the
liaison officer for the British Council and the Pesantren. The materials were
also piloted by the NU in selected Pesantren schools in Jakarta. Focus group
feedback, classroom observation, and a survey of current materials used
gave further input for the material design. Following this visit, four model
packs of materials were produced prior to the first teacher development
course in Surabaya for the 50 selected core teachers. School leaders and
teachers were involved at every stage in feedback. While these materials
were a preliminary to the finished product, they were to be evaluated
by the teachers on the course, both in terms of what they considered
appropriate for their learners and classrooms and the topics presented. The
materials writer was to revise the materials after further discussions with
Pesantren school leaders and piloting in Jakarta schools.
Issues and solutions
The materials needed to cater to a wide range of language classrooms
within the system. Schools in the cities, such as Surabaya and other
key schools, were well-resourced with a range of classroom media, such
as audio, video, computers, and national textbooks (Synaeroti, 2004).
Teachers usually had a good professional grounding in language teaching
methodology and classroom practice. There was, however, quite a range
of teacher language proficiency and classroom practice. Additionally, in
some rural schools, only the teacher had access to a textbook, with the
learners using booklets for reading and grammar exercises. Rote learning
was the norm with very little emphasis on fluency, listening, or speaking
skills. While some of these schools did have access to media resources,
there was a wide gap in knowledge of how to effectively use these in
the classroom. While the British Council materials were designed to
be supplementary materials, in some schools teachers and school leaders
were keen to have access to core teaching materials. While the main
objective of the British Council materials was principally to create
communicative task-based supplementary materials which focused on
intercultural topics, they would also need to help guide learners in rural
Training the Pesantren 39
schools to develop broader language skills in line with the requirements
of the national curriculum and the examination system.
Pesantren leaders consistently reiterated the need for learners to be
able to develop fluency and active language use as well as meet the
standard of national examinations. There was, however, a paradox in
this approach as the materials were conceived and designed as self-access
classroom packs to supplement existing language classroom materials,
to complement and not to replace or stand in lieu of, for example,
nationally produced textbooks.
Funding was available for up to 2,000 copies of the British Council
materials packs, which covered 50 hours of classroom teaching. However,
this could not be a substitute for school access to textbooks and materials
written to cover the Indonesian National Curriculum and an English
language syllabus.
Framework for material design
The final framework for the materials was based on a top-down stepladder
task-based approach, with links from lower- to higher-level communica-
tive activities and learning skills through topic, informed partly by Breen
(2001) and Nunan (1988). The lower-level communicative activities intro-
duce discussion of personal and local topics which relate directly to the
learners’ own lives before leading on to broader world and intercultural
issues and extended interactive classroom tasks. As the materials were
to cover three school levels (upper secondary, years 10–12), there would
be grading through the units of the materials packs both in terms of
language, skills development, and topic.
The teaching packs would also require different types of staged input
to engage the student in developing real language use and skills, with
the focus shifting from global skills to sub-skills, fluency to accuracy, and
open and controlled language practice through use of topic and task.
Students would use a variety of both creative and set language but the
principal aim remained promoting communicative language skills in the
classroom. Skills such as reading with a purpose, developing vocabulary
in context, approaching a variety of texts and genres, interpreting texts
effectively, using and assessing information, applying information (note-
taking, summarizing, and using charts and statistics), and giving an
informed opinion (through debate or writing) were introduced at differ-
ent levels and through different tasks as the materials progressed.
Because the materials were topic-based, learners would need to be
given the opportunity through the materials to gradually develop their
40 G. Palmer & I. Chodidjah
communicative skills to be able to engage with the topic level called for
by the intercultural framework. The selection of topics was altered to
allow for personal everyday themes to be introduced initially, such as
sport and music, which were also given an intercultural dimension. The
language skills covered were partly dependent on the topics selected,
and a variety of tasks, language skills, and awareness activities could be
introduced to reinforce the skills being taught.
Difficulties included the fact that the Pesantren project was limited by
the resources available in the schools and the scope of funding. Clearly,
with a materials and teacher development project designed for a set
amount of funding within a finite time period, it would not be possible
to produce listening or video materials, and language learning aims
were restricted to the original scope of the project. However, in addi-
tion to the materials packs, schools were provided with British Council
ELT software and website information to give teachers access to further
materials and ideas for classroom practice.
Teacher development program and cascading within
the Pesantren
While the main objective of the Pesantren project was to create supple-
mentary materials for the Islamic boarding schools, this was to be com-
plemented by teacher development in terms of applying these materials
in the classroom. Fifty core teachers were selected by Pesantren school
leaders from 12 key schools in the East Java area for intensive teacher
development courses. These teachers would then be responsible for train-
ing other teachers in their area through a network of Pesantren schools
created during the course of the project. This cascading network would
also help to develop links between teachers, often located in remote and
isolated schools, and later serve for other forms of teacher and learner
development conducted by Pesantren school leaders, such as setting up
English language clubs and creating forums for teacher exchange.
While the Pesantren school network created an opportunity for
English language teachers to receive guidance on using the materials in
the classroom, its effectiveness depended on the core teachers and local
school administration. The project was designed around intercultural
topics which served as an organizing framework, and in order to use
the materials packs, teachers needed to be confident with communicative
task-based materials. However, as described above, many language class-
rooms in rural schools used a traditional language teaching approach
and the materials in use did not always include national textbooks.
Training the Pesantren 41
The teaching methods required to implement the new materials involved
different classroom organization, such as pair and group work, and
active use of language. Providing extensive teacher notes for each unit of
the materials packs and methodology overviews was essential to support
the core teacher-trainers within the network cascade.
Innovation and teacher autonomy
Encouraging students and teachers to take a leap of faith (Sinclair, 1999)
and use active language in the classroom, with new classroom activities
and topics, was a key issue in cascading the Pesantren materials. The
materials posed a challenge both in terms of language use and classroom
practice. In a teaching context where learning traditionally took place
through memorization and recitation of the Qu’ran and where teaching
methodology was based on a teacher-directed classroom, opening up to
new forms of language learning and classroom organization was chal-
lenging. And yet, in order to improve the level of language skills within
the Pesantren school network, teacher development through introduc-
ing different forms of classroom practice and language training and
learning seemed essential (Hall & Hewings, 2000). Innovation, partly in
terms of materials design but also in training teachers to effectively use
the materials, was key in establishing the project on a firm footing.
For the materials packs not to sit on the staffroom shelf and to reach
beyond the teachers in urban areas or key district schools to those in poor
rural areas where the need was the greatest, the core teachers and cascad-
ing network were again crucial. It was equally essential that Pesantren
teachers and learners felt they shared ownership of the materials project
(Lamb & Reinders, 2008) and that their culture and teaching methods
within the Pesantren system were respected. Creating an infrastructure
for developing teaching and learning through the Pesantren network,
introducing a forum for teachers to discuss materials and classroom
practice, and providing materials which could be selected from and
adapted to local contexts were all means of extending the impact of the
Pesantren project. Linking Pesantren schools and providing a mecha-
nism for changes in teaching and learning within this network were as
important as creating appropriate materials.
Intercultural issues: framing topic and task
A further challenge for the materials writer was to present unit topics in
a way that allowed teachers and students to actively engage with issues
42 G. Palmer & I. Chodidjah
appropriately within the restrictions of religious-based Islamic schooling.
Even topics such as sport, music, or hobbies had the potential to be
controversial in terms of what is appropriate in this context, especially
for female students. While the materials were written to respect local
tradition and culture, they also had to allow for a range of interest in topics
within the Pesantren system. As supplementary materials packs, teachers
could select topics which were more appropriate for their pupils as well
as use tasks within the materials which suited the language level of their
learners.
Within the topic of each unit there was a top-down stepladder approach,
moving from communicative activities based on personal experience to
local issues and then to broader international topics. For example, “My
House” is the topic of Unit Four, where students engage in a communica-
tive pair-work activity, explaining their favorite part of their home and
what they like and dislike about their house. They then talk about dif-
ferent types of houses and places to live (town, country, suburb) and
describe a street scene. The topic evolves through a range of tasks to
local natural disasters such as flooding. Finally, a text about Hurricane
Katrina is introduced and global warming, natural disasters, and
changes in weather and climate are presented.
The design of the materials also allowed for language to be recycled.
Unit Five, “My Town,” re-uses and develops themes from “My House”
which are later seen again in “Places I Like,” which focuses in part on
tourism and its impact on the local environment and culture. “My Town”
covers mapping places of local interest, town planning and infrastructure,
and city, town, and rural life. Example activities include:
(a) planning a tour of the town;
(b) describing a favorite building;
(c) a question-prompt group exchange on ways to improve the local
area;
(d) text-based reading and writing tasks within the wider theme of
town infrastructure and planning;
(e) a group work oral exchange activity;
(f) extended reading tasks: floods in Jakarta 2007 (The Jakarta Post);
mud flow near Surabaya 2007 (The National Geographic);
(g) discussion of changing local weather patterns.
These examples show how the materials were designed to lead learners
through different aspects of a main topic incorporating first personalized
then wider themes. Allowing learners and teachers to explore a topic
Training the Pesantren 43
through a variety of perspectives and classroom activities, gradually
building on the core of the topic, helped learners engage with the
themes rather than dealing with the topic abstractly.
The materials packs were broadly graded in terms of topic and language
level with initial units covering such items as food, music, and sport and
later topic areas including values, charity, global English, and tourism.
Teacher development program: Surabaya
The first intensive teacher-training course took place 12–14 February,
2008 in Surabaya, the largest city in East Java. The training course was
designed as an introduction to a communicative and integrated skills-
based methodology, including a focus on topic-based learning through
tasks. The sample materials, which had since been refined into take-
home packs, would form a core component of the course, with the
emphasis on teachers using the materials to gain an understanding of
how they worked, along with the extensive teacher-support materials.
The materials were combined with example classroom activities from
UK-published teacher-training books such as Klippel (1984).
Actively experiencing, for example, different types of communicative
activity, from information-gap pair work to group work ranking or group
brainstorming as pre-reading activities, formed a practical platform for
teachers to then work from and engage in discussion of classroom prac-
tice and methodology. Each training activity was matched to an example
from the sample Pesantren materials to enable them to see clear links
between their classroom, the materials, and concepts of methodology
and practice.
Forum for teacher exchange
Given that the teachers came from very different teaching environments
within the Pesantren school system and from a variety of backgrounds,
the emphasis was on respect for different learning contexts and creating
a forum for feedback and debate. Using teacher exchange activities,
including diary writing, group sharing, and assessment of the materials,
the aim was to create a forum for dissemination of the materials and input
regarding methodological concepts and classroom practice. In this way
the teachers were actively engaged with the materials and invested in their
success. Discussion of the topic and how to present intercultural themes
to learners, along with the appropriateness of topic scope within the
Pesantren school context was important. The emphasis on teachers using
44 G. Palmer & I. Chodidjah
the materials and modeling teaching activities also helped them improve
their own language ability.
The first cascade
As a result of this initial in-service training, teachers gave two work-
shops within their school or neighboring schools, introducing the
material packs to their colleagues. The PowerPoint presentations and
teacher notes from the workshop were given to the teachers as the core
of their presentation, along with the sample materials packs and teacher
guidance notes. The teachers in training gave further feedback on the
materials, including evaluation of appropriateness for their students’
language levels, and of the topics, following the cascade workshops.
They were also asked to use a selection of the materials in their own
classrooms to assess their impact, then were required to prepare a short
presentation on the cascade workshops, and to submit a written report,
including school locations, participant attendance, and workshop
design. Three additional packs of materials were then produced prior to
a week-long training course held 10–14 March, 2008 in Jombang.
Teacher development program: Jombang
The second training course developed the skills the teachers would later
need to cascade the materials through their network of local schools.
The next four units of materials were produced for the teachers to evalu-
ate (Palmer, 2008). Understanding concepts of methodology, classroom
organization and activity, and materials development is very different
from putting knowledge into practice and developing an instinct for
applying new materials in the classroom. Passing on information to
colleagues is even harder, given that some teachers, while keen to have
new materials for classroom use, may find the changes in classroom
practice challenging. In fact, as trainers, it was encouraging to see the
Pesantren teachers take on the concepts of the materials and be ready
to adapt them to their classrooms, given their range of backgrounds.
While some were familiar with the methodology and classroom prin-
ciples presented and were more able to adapt the materials to their
classrooms and evaluate their impact in their own context, others were
being introduced to entirely new language learning principles and class-
room organization. The key to teachers engaging with the Pesantren
materials appeared to rest not only on interest in differing forms of
classroom practice but in their enthusiasm for knowledge of current
Training the Pesantren 45
ELT methodology and opportunity for discussion and feedback as to
how this could be applied to individual teaching contexts within the
Pesantren schools.
Closing the gap? Issues in the teacher development
program
Putting the emphasis on slow change and keeping teachers and students
within their comfort zone, both in terms of classroom activity and topic
appropriateness, helped to encourage the teacher trainees to adapt their
classrooms to the new activities. Giving guidance on how to introduce
different forms of classroom practice step-by-step within their normal
class routines and procedures with the materials and micro teaching
sessions were also key to teachers implementing the Pesantren materials.
Respecting other cultures, preserving cultural heritage, and viewing
your own culture and traditions within a global environment were also
key elements of this course. Given the traditional ethos of the Pesantren
schools, these issues were extremely important. Whether to engage with
a wider world or remain tightly linked to their own culture based on a
strict Islamic society were fundamental issues constantly under discussion
in the teacher development sessions. The materials and training focused
on preserving local traditions while at the same time enabling students
to investigate intercultural issues in relation to their own world.
Issues such as the impact of the internet (chat forums have recently
been banned within the NU), the influx of information, and access to
modern Western youth culture which NU leaders consider inappropriate
were currently pressing topics within the NU. Some of the topics of the
materials such as “Values” or “Places I Like” engendered intense discus-
sion and brought the teachers and trainers closer together.
The second cascade
Following the second training course, teachers were asked to cascade
the next sets of materials to schools in their area on a more formal
basis. This involved two separate weekends of training teachers in the
use of the materials. They were again required to write a report on
their workshops in conjunction with a local supervisor. Supervisors
were appointed to all the participant trainers in their area to help
prepare them for carrying out the workshops and to provide adminis-
trative assistance in setting up workshops, enrolling participants, and
setting locations and dates.
46 G. Palmer & I. Chodidjah
Teacher development program: Malang
The third teacher development course was held in Malang (27 April–
2 May, 2008). This course covered preparing the teacher-trainers for
further cascading of materials through the network on a more extended
basis. It reviewed the previous course input with a further emphasis on
integrated skills and looked at designing and adapting materials. The
concept of interculturalism and learning through topics was covered in
more detail and the final sets of materials were used as a basis for exploring
task type and innovating different forms of classroom practice. The later
packs of materials covered in more depth topics such as Global English,
Charity, Tourism, and Climate Change, with more extended tasks for
learners. The materials were evaluated by the teachers in terms of their
appropriateness for the Pesantren classroom and used by the teachers
in group activities, round table discussions, and as the basis for micro
teaching. This course was followed by the third stage of materials cas-
cading and teacher development within their local networks and a final
report on the cascade training.
Materials production
As a result of these teacher development workshops, the materials were
finalized and produced as a booklet that included extensive classroom
guidance and teaching notes. A total of 2,000 copies were sent out to
Pesantren schools within Java (Palmer, 2008). Although the main focus
area had initially been East Java, participants on the training courses had
included a few teachers from other parts of Indonesia. Further training
was given in cascade workshops and by national and international trainers
selected by the British Council who worked in schools across Java.
Limitations: extending across the Pesantren network
Thus far we have concentrated on the positive aspects of the project, but
within the limitations of funding and time, there were issues that couldn’t
be satisfactorily resolved through the materials development program.
This section will deal with three of these: the limited applicability of the
materials to some of the Pesantren schools, the potential limitations of the
cascade network, and the difficulty of bringing all schools and teachers
up to the standards of the national curriculum. Regarding the first point,
while the material topics were in line with the language and skills required
by the Indonesian National Curriculum, it was clear that in some rural
Training the Pesantren 47
schools where language levels were low, incorporating just a few of the
tasks from the materials was all that could be expected. Linking schools
was a key aspect of the project, but it was vital not to lower the level of
the materials and methodological input to cater only to the needs of rural
schools; the materials also needed to be relevant to the better-equipped
urban schools. Additionally, the cascade network may have become gradu-
ally less effective at introducing the materials and their classroom appli-
cations as the teachers explaining them became more distant from the
original core group of 50 teachers trained in their use. Finally, bringing all
learners to the level of the National Curriculum required a much longer
time scale than was available during the project. The scope of the project
did not incorporate a full-scale teacher development program; it called
for producing only 50 hours of supplementary self-access materials for
teachers covering three school years. However, we hope all schools within
the Pesantren system benefited from the materials as a building block
in raising awareness of modern teaching methods, classroom practice,
and by providing ready-made materials for Pesantren schools. Teacher
development and learner language improvement in outlying rural schools
required a project with a much wider scope, and in 2008 a second joint
British Council and Pesantren/NU initiative focused on language develop-
ment and initial teacher development for Pesantren teachers with little
access to training programs.
Access and applications
The Pesantren project was designed to give teachers in Islamic board-
ing schools access to materials based on a communicative task-based
methodology while updating methodology and classroom practice
from a base of twelve key schools in the East Java area. The intention
was to encourage engagement with other cultures by incorporating
discussion of global and intercultural issues within the supplementary
materials designed for their schools. The key to success was to engage
the Pesantren organization and core-training participants to be involved
in the process of reviewing the materials so they could claim ownership
of the materials and the new classroom practice. This was accomplished
through reflecting on how to implement and adapt the materials to
their particular teaching and learning contexts.
Working within a schools environment which did not normally have
access to international ELT publications or trainers, where language teach-
ing was often very traditional – reflecting rote-learning of the Qu’ran, and
where the dissemination of NU Islamic values was a core principle, the
48 G. Palmer & I. Chodidjah
materials design project was well removed from everyday teaching patterns
within many other schools in Indonesia. Creating clear materials which
could withstand cascading and underpin teacher development through
disseminating key principles of language teaching methodology was
a challenge. Whether teachers working within the Pesantren boarding
school system accommodated the new classroom practice represented
in the materials and were willing to introduce the topics included in the
intercultural outline of the materials in class, is open to debate.
However, being able to engage with teachers through mutual respect
and professional interaction was central to the success of the project. The
selection of 50 core teachers on the development program allowed for the
interaction of teachers from urban and rural schools. Working through
practical exemplars from the materials and discussing methodology and
classroom practice enabled the teacher-trainers to consider both the
impact of the principles underlying the materials and how to effectively
use these materials in their classrooms. The core participants were also
encouraged to give their views on topic selection and the intercultural
impact of learning a global language. Giving responsibility to the course
participants to cascade the materials through their local school network
encouraged their engagement with the project. The combination of
different levels and forms of task within the materials also helped to
ensure that the materials could be used across a wide range of language
classrooms within the Pesantren context. The focus on communicative
and task-based learning gave clear principles for teachers and trainers to
apply through the materials and into their classrooms.
While the scope of this project was limited to a specific joint British
Council/NU initiative, teachers gained access to new classroom materials,
were given an opportunity for language and classroom development,
and were invited to introduce their learners to new forms of classroom
language learning. Whether pupils in Pesantren schools were able to
improve their communicative skills and engage with intercultural topics
has not been measured, but the materials packs form the basis for such
opportunities. Additional training initiatives were implemented as a
result of the success of this project and the cascade network structure will
hopefully offer a continuing means for Pesantren teachers to exchange
ideas on teaching practice.
4
Language Learning Styles and
Beliefs of EFL University Students
in Korea: Are They Really
Stereotypical?
Andrew Finch
Introduction
The stereotype of Asian students as obedient listeners – whether or not
it is a reflection of their actual behavior in class – does not reflect the
roles they would like to adopt in class. They do not see the teacher as
an authority figure who should not be questioned; they do not want
to sit in class passively receiving knowledge; and they are only slightly
on the agreement side that the teacher should have a greater role than
themselves in evaluating their learning. (Littlewood, 2000: 33)1
This quotation touches an important nerve in the field of language
teaching in Korea, both in its use of the term ‘stereotype’ and in its
highlighting of the cultural expectations that such stereotyping indicates.
English language instructors in Korea quickly come into contact with
truisms about the typical language learner which, on deeper examina-
tion, generally turn out to be based on hidden assumptions and lack
of cultural and contextual understanding. According to these received
truths, which tend to be inaccessible to critical examination because
of their word-of-mouth transmission and therefore present an elusive
target for anyone wishing to contest their validity, Korean students:
(i) prefer grammar-/vocabulary-based rote learning to higher-order think-
ing (problem-solving, critical thinking, etc.); (ii) are passive absorbers of
information, rather than active discoverers; (iii) are unable to use the
target language; and (iv) have their ability for creativity and risk-taking
burned out of them by a hierarchical, teacher-centered, test-driven,
memory-based education system (Finch, 2004b). Such a view is largely
based on empirical evidence and is shared by many Korean teachers of
49
50 A. Finch
English, who believe that cultural preprogramming (Hofstede, 1980) and
the local learning culture preclude students from becoming autonomous
learners, from taking on group work, tasks and projects, and from
acquiring performance skills. The fact that such perceptions continue to
be held in this part of Asia2 is demonstrated by the fact that Littlewood
(2000) felt the need to counter them in his research in Hong Kong
(Murase also investigates these preconceptions in Chapter 5).
In light of the prevalence of such views about regional learning styles,
abilities, and cultural restrictions, this study set out to examine a group
of students studying English Education in a university in Korea, to find
out whether their learning profiles3 confirmed this stereotyping and
whether their attitudes to learning were indeed preprogrammed or open
to adaptation. Based on the premise that the attitudes, perceptions,
and beliefs that make up learning profiles have “a profound influence
on learning behavior” (Cotterall, 1995: 195) and on learning outcomes
(Reid, 1987), it was hypothesized that such psycholinguistic factors
might be a function of the learning context (schools, teachers, family)
along with global influences such as the media and the internet (nurture),
rather than immovable cultural constants (nature) (Hofstede, 1997). In
this case, guided development of learning strategies and exposure to
innovative teaching approaches might enable students to become more
effective learners and alter their attitudes to learning.
Learning styles and culture
The concept of the learner as an active agent in the management of his/
her learning profile began with early research on the relationship between
learner attitudes/beliefs and second language achievement (Gardner and
Lambert, 1965). Dunn and Dunn (1979) then identified various percep-
tual learning modalities (visual learning, auditory learning, kinaesthetic
learning, and tactile learning), and Domino (1979) showed that when
these were taken into account (along with differences in learning
strategies, learning styles, affect, and cognition), college students scored
higher on tests (in terms of factual knowledge, attitude, and efficiency).
Bassano (1986) confirmed that students have different needs, preferences,
beliefs, learning styles, and educational backgrounds, and Willing
(1988) added that learners have views on the learning process and can
articulate them. More recently, however, Coffield, Moseley, Hall, and
Ecclestone (2004) called these findings into question in a non-
peer-reviewed report, which identified 71 different theories of learning
style. Coffield, et al. found that none of the most popular learning style
Language Learning Styles of EFL Students in Korea 51
theories, including that of Dunn and Dunn (1979), which has been the
subject of 177 articles in peer-reviewed journals, had been adequately
validated through independent research.
Research including Korean participants can be traced back to Hofstede
(1980, 1986), whose four dimensions of cultural variability caused him
to classify the Korean culture as collectivist, large power-distance, strong
uncertainty avoidance, and feminine. While these findings serve to
remind language teachers to respect cultural variables, it must also be
remembered that the research group consisted of businessmen, and
Korea has absorbed diverse cultural influences since 1986, so that the
findings cannot be considered completely reliable (Chung, 2005). Reid
(1987) reviewed ESL learning style preferences over nine language back-
grounds, finding that Koreans were more visual than students from
other cultures, though they preferred kinaesthetic and tactile learning
as major learning styles. However, Stebbins (1995: 111) later found that
“Korean students strongly preferred visual learning.”
Major research on language learning beliefs was carried out by
Horwitz (1985), who developed the Beliefs About Language Learning
Inventory (BALLI) to assess teacher and student opinions on a variety
of issues related to language learning. Her review of BALLI studies
in 1999 included the findings of Park (1995) and Truitt (1995) on
Korean students studying English in Korea. Results from these two
studies showed significant divergence from each other and from the
original study, which Horwitz (1999) attributed to individual “or cur-
rent situational differences” (p. 573), finding that “there is no strong
evidence for a conclusion of cultural differences in learner beliefs”
(p. 576). This opinion is challenged by Oxford (1996), who states
(p. xi), “Cultural background affects strategy choice” and (p. x), “in
the foreign or second language classroom, the activities and cultural
influences cannot be separated from what is learned”. Finkbeiner
(2008: 132) also points out that research into learning and teaching
is “inevitably culturally biased by the minds of those who develop
the instruments and tests,” a point that is easy to overlook when
interpreting research results.
Having begun as an attempt to identify and classify cultural charac-
teristics, research shifted in the 1990s to a more global and relative
view. Phillipson (1992) addressed the issue of linguistic colonialism,
building on the power and politics aspect of linguistic hegemony voiced
by Freire (1986) and suggesting English language teachers were often
guilty of stereotypical thinking in terms of implicit historical and cultural
assumptions. Oxford (1996: x) pointed out, “Language learning is fully
52 A. Finch
situated within a given context,” and Littlewood (2000) proposed (p. 33),
that “educational contexts” are more responsible for Asian learning
styles than the learners themselves, a conclusion matching this author’s
experience with Korean university and secondary school students (Finch,
2010). Finkbeiner (2008), voicing the relativist perspective, found, “indi-
vidual and cultural diversity influence language learning decisions and
choices” (p. 138), and Nel (2008) confirmed “every learner does have a
learning style, consisting of a unique blend of instructional and envi-
ronmental preferences related to personality” (p. 57), finding causative
factors in the social context:
Learners are not all alike, nor are they all suspended in cyberspace
via distance learning, nor do they live their lives in language labora-
tories. Instead, they live in particular socio-economic settings where
age, gender, race, and class all interact to influence their attitudes to
learning. Moreover their social lives with their partners and friends,
their family lives with their parents and siblings, and their economic
lives with their employers and fellow workers influence their learn-
ing in significant ways. All these factors tend to be played down or
simply ignored in most of the learning styles literature and should be
addressed in future research. (Nel, 2006: 56–7)
This quotation reminds us that all language learners are unique, living
and studying in regional and global sociocultural contexts which
are constantly changing. Rather than being simply the stereotypical
outcomes of factory-model teaching methods, they are subject to
the same internet- and media-based global influences. Their learning
styles are complex and open to innovation, whether originating in
the non-threatening, autonomous, student-centered learning environ-
ment of an informed teacher (Oxford, Lavine, Felkins, Hollaway, &
Saleh, 1996), or developed with the aid of an internet language learn-
ing site. Language instructors must beware of propounding “a hidden
curriculum of values, ideologies and thinking” (Canagarajah, 1999:
14), since the learning culture, which includes everything inside as
well as outside the language classroom, is in a state of constant and
dynamic flux.
In view of this rapidly changing local and global learning context,
it was felt by the author that an examination of the learning profiles
of a group of EFL students in Korea would be a timely addition to the
research literature, bearing on the validity of teacher/student stereotypes
in an ever-changing sociocultural setting.
Language Learning Styles of EFL Students in Korea 53
Description of this study
The study took place in a National University in the Republic of Korea,
over three semesters from 2003 to 2004 (n ⫽ 224) and an additional fourth
semester in 2009 (n ⫽ 40). Male (20%) and female (80%) participating stu-
dents aged between 22 and 24 were mainly members of the Department
of English Education. The research was carried out in credit courses, using
an expanded learning journal format (Finch, 2004a) consisting of inter-
active, education-based meta-activities (performed in lesson-time), along
with weekly written reflections (completed individually at home). The
classroom activities included 17 questionnaires adapted from published
research instruments (Finch, 2004c), in addition to self-assessments, sur-
veys, discussions, interviews, and role-plays. (These can all be viewed at
www.finchpark.com/books/lj/index2.htm.) Students were mostly differ-
ent each semester, though a small number attended more than one of the
courses, showing heightened language-learning awareness in their second
or third semester of using the learning journal.
Learner journals were chosen for this research for a number of reasons.
Oxford, et al. (1996) state that keeping a diary or journal helps students
“become more aware of and attentive to their own learning processes”
(p. 21). It might be claimed, therefore, that this research is formative,
rather than objective, in that the examination of student learning pro-
files was carried out in such a way as to positively affect those profiles.
This was not seen as a problem however, since such positive attitude
modification would be an indication of the flexibility of learning styles
and their sensitivity to the learning context.
The purpose of the classroom activities was to expose students to
issues related to learning styles, learning strategies, learning prefer-
ences, and learning beliefs, and to stimulate discussion of these issues
in group investigations. It was hypothesized that self-directed investi-
gation of learning profiles would lead to positive attitude modification
and implicit learning strategy instruction as a result of heightened
awareness of the factors involved. It was stressed that there were no cor-
rect or incorrect answers, and that the process of exploration was most
important. The aim of the weekly individual reflections was to raise
language-learning consciousness through reflection on the topics of the
class activities, and to provide students with opportunities for authentic
and meaningful writing experiences in the target language. Being inte-
grated into the courses, with a defined purpose of awareness-raising, the
research was carried out comfortably and naturally, with no instances of
researcher-imposed, one-off, out-of-context research instruments. In the
54 A. Finch
same way, individual reflections were part of the course, and were not
isolated activities.
Results
The results of the classroom activities and individual weekly reflec-
tions for the first part of the study (2003–2004) appear in full in
Finch (2004c). The initial study covered three semesters and allowed
for a group consciousness to grow, as information about the courses
was handed down from students to students. The study was then
repeated in 2009 in order to examine how a new group of students
(all the previous participants having graduated) would react to the
learning journal and the non-threatening learning environment in
which it was set, and whether sociocultural factors had altered suf-
ficiently in six years to show noticeable differences. Representative
results from five of the 17 research instruments used in classroom
activities are offered here, using two sets of figures. The first set shows
the 2009 results (strongly agree and agree) and the second set the
2003–2004 results.
Beliefs about language learning inventory (BALLI) (adapted from
Horwitz, 1988)
These university English Education students had the dual advantage
over middle school and high school students of having successfully
passed through the test regime leading to university entrance, and
having studied principles of language education. Having said this, their
view of the place of the teacher in the classroom accorded more with
the Korean concept of Hongik Ingan (an ability to contribute creatively
and responsibly to society) than with the stereotype of the test-driven
paradigm, this trend being even more apparent in the 2009 figures
(Table 4.1).
Foreign language classroom anxiety scale (FLCAS) (adapted from
Horwitz, Horwitz, & Cope, 1986)
The learning environment during this research was designed with a
view to reducing affective filters and providing ‘facilitative learning
affordances’: “In terms of language learning, the environment is full of
language that provides opportunities for learning to the active, partici-
pating learner, … in short, affordances” (van Lier, 2000: 252). Results
from the FLCAS reflect this atmosphere. Rather than being worried
about accuracy and negative evaluation, students on average answered
Language Learning Styles of EFL Students in Korea 55
neutrally or even in terms of disagreement (lack of anxiety) in both
sessions of the study. Such results suggest that the excessive stress
Horwitz (1987) associates with English language learning might be a
function of the teaching style, the learning context, or developmental
issues such as the students’ familiarity with ambiguity and coping strat-
egies, rather than an intrinsic property of language courses.
The highest instance of anxiety shown in the 2003/4 session (using
a five-point Lickert scale from 1 ⫽ strongly agree to 5 ⫽ strongly disa-
gree) was for Q6 “I feel self-conscious when speaking with my teacher”
(2.6 ⫽ slightly agree) and for 2009, Q3 “I worry about making mistakes
in English class” (2.6 ⫽ slightly agree), while the lowest instance of
anxiety was with Q12 “I worry if the teacher corrects me in class”
(3.62009/3.82003/4, disagree) and Q14 “I worry if I can’t understand every
word the teacher says” (3.9/3.5, disagree).
Learning Style Inventory (adapted from Martinez, 1997)
Data from this instrument agreed with Stebbins’ (1995) findings, show-
ing a strong preference for visual learning (vps) (53%2009/60%2003/4),
compared with auditory (aps) (32/30%) and tactile learning (tps) (3/1%),
while a number of students shared equal preference for more than one
input (13/9%) (Table 4.2). These results contrast with Reid’s (1987) claim
that Korean students are tps-oriented and have important implications
if it is true that 90% of traditional classroom instruction is geared to the
auditory learner (Hodges, 1982) and that teachers tend to give higher
grades to students who have the same field style as they do (Hansen-
Strain, 1989).
Table 4.1 Comparative responses to the BALLI
BALLI item % agree
2009 2003/4
Q3: “Learning a language means organizing ideas through
experience.”
87 77
Q7: “It is most important to be able to communicate in the
language.”
95 28
Q8: “The role of the teacher is to help students learn how to
learn.”
95 88
Q11: “The role of the teacher is to prepare students for adult
life.”
89 83
Q36: “It is necessary to know the culture in order to speak a
language well.”
89 31
56 A. Finch
Table 4.3 Comparative scores on the SILL (adapted from Oxford, 1989)
Language learning strategies 2009 2003/4
Remembering more effectively 3.1 3.3
Using all your mental processes 3.5 3.4
Compensating for missing knowledge 3.8 3.7
Organizing and evaluating your learning 3.7 3.7
Managing your emotions 3.4 3.4
Learning with others 3.6 3.7
Overall mean average 3.5 3.5
Table 4.2 Learning preferences, 2009 and 2003/4
2003/4 2009
vps* aps* tps* vps/aps vps aps tps vps/aps aps/tps vps/aps/tps
n = 119 n ⫽ 60 n ⫽ 2 n ⫽ 18 n ⫽ 20 n ⫽ 12 n ⫽ 1 n ⫽ 3 n ⫽ 1 n ⫽ 1
59.8% 30.2% 1% 9% 52.6% 31.6% 2.6% 8% 2.6% 2.6%
*vps: visual preference style; aps: auditory preference style; tps: tactile preference style;
vps/aps: equal preference.
Strategy Inventory for Language Learning (SILL) (adapted from
Oxford, 1989)
On average, students scored highly across all six categories of the SILL
(averaging 3.5 out of 5), a result showing high awareness of language-
learning strategies and their use and attributed by the researcher, at least
in part, to a learning environment which focused on consciousness-raising
(Table 4.3).
Multiple Intelligences Survey (MIS) (McKenzie, 1999)
This activity (Finch, 2004a: 43–6, adapted from McKenzie, 1999) was
found by the participants to be one of the most meaningful in the
journal. Of the nine intelligences examined, intrapersonal (scoring an
average of 7.12009/6.82003/4 out of 9) and existential (6.3/6.0) proved to
be the most dominant, while verbal (5.22009) and interpersonal (4.72003/4)
scored the lowest, and individual scores ranged widely on musical and
logical (Table 4.4). These findings suggest the students were strongest at
self-management and weakest at pastimes and social skills. Figure 4.1
also indicates that the average scores during the two research periods
followed a similar profile, with 2009 results the higher (except for verbal
intelligence).
Language Learning Styles of EFL Students in Korea 57
Weekly written journal entries
Similar trends to those noted above were evident in the weekly written
reflections, in terms of the growth of autonomy and language learning
awareness. This growth was observed during the research periods as well
as between them, even in the relative absence of teacher monitoring,
feedback, or correction:
Weekly entries increased in length over the semester. As students became
familiar with the learning journal they valued the freedom to write
•
Table 4.4 Comparative scores on the MIS (Finch, 2004a,
adapted from McKenzie, 1999)
Multiple intelligences 2009 2003/4
Naturalist 6.0 5.0
Musical 5.3 4.8
Logical 5.5 5.1
Existential 6.3 6.0
Interpersonal 5.7 4.7
Kinaesthetic 5.6 4.9
Verbal 5.2 5.8
Intrapersonal 7.1 6.8
Visual 5.4 5.2
Figure 4.1 Comparative profiles of the 2009 and 2003/4 results for the MIS
Types of intelligence
naturalist
musical
logical
existential
interpersonal
Score
0–9
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
kinaesthetic
verbal
visual
intrapersonal
2009
2003–4
58 A. Finch
about matters that were important to them and became less inhibited,
since they knew that the grammar would not be corrected.
The number of grammatical inaccuracies decreased. Being English
Education students, the participants had considerable training in
syntax and grammar, but little hands-on practice of writing. Providing
them with such practice allowed the relevant performance skills to
develop (see, for example, Herder and Clements, Chapter 17).
Reflection topics became more oriented to language learning. The freedom
of topic choice for reflection allowed individual expression, which
gradually came to center on the meta-activities of lesson time.
Individual reflections gained in depth. Students who had little to say at first
became interested in the lesson content and started expressing their
views on related topics. Clements and Herder (Chapter 17) confirm this
potential benefit of learning journals.
There was a shift from confusion about the future and lack of confidence,
towards determination to “do my best” and achieve personal goals. This
positive attitude change was particularly evident in the choice of words
used by the students to express their ideas (Finch, 2004c: 16–20).
It would not be correct to say that there was no feedback at all given
to the written reflections; two pages of the learning journal were in fact
Teacher’s Thoughts pages, in which the teacher provided his own written
reflections and gave feedback as appropriate. Students indicated that
they appreciated such feedback in the initial research period (2003–4),
but it was not possible for the teacher to perform this role during the
2009 research session. Instead, the students were asked to give feedback
to each other on the relevant pages. When monitoring this student–
student feedback at the end of the semester, the researcher found that
the types of advice and comments given by the students were completely
in accordance with his own; it seemed that the students were by this time
fully able to counsel each other about language learning beliefs, percep-
tions, and consciousness-raising.
Discussion
Results for both parts of this study showed encouraging indications of
positive attitude change, brought about by a non-threatening learn-
ing environment consisting of classroom-based absolute assessment
(including self- and peer-assessment), portfolios, presentations, and
project-work. Modification of beliefs and perceptions regarding language
learning was confirmed in an analysis of pre-course and post-course
•
•
•
•
Language Learning Styles of EFL Students in Korea 59
questionnaires completed as interviews between the students (Finch,
2004c), which showed a significant increase in the use of positive (over
negative) vocabulary, suggesting subconscious perceptions and perspec-
tives had changed, along with the language used to describe them.
Students thus adapted quickly to an atypical learning environment for
their cultural context, and developed significantly in terms of autonomy,
interaction, performance, and assessment. The increased relative scores
of the 2009 participants might also suggest evidence of an ongoing
group consciousness emerging.
Contrary to stereotypical assumptions referred to by Littlewood (2000),
and confirming the author’s earlier experiences with a three-year university
English program (Finch, 2010), students in both parts of this study showed
little or no evidence of innate or cultural barriers to a student-centered,
holistic approach to language learning that might easily have been
viewed as a Western import. However, it must be acknowledged that
they were successful English learners studying English Education in a
university teachers’ college. Attempts to generalize the results to all
Koreans would therefore be meaningless. Rather, it is significant that these
students did not conform to any stereotypes or cultural preprogramming,
though they came from traditional high school learning environments.
Instead of adhering to familiar learning methods when confronted with
a different paradigm, as is often the case with successful learners in the
test-driven system, they adapted and made the most of it, exploring
issues in lesson time and reflecting on these individually at home. As
with the multidisciplinary students in Finch (2010), who readily became
interactive despite having no previous experience of performance
English, the students in this study quickly recognized the desirability
of autonomy, collaboration, and reflection, and modified their learning
profiles accordingly.
Conclusion
The findings of this study suggest that: (i) the contemporary Korean
learning culture is far broader than previously envisioned; (ii) it is
undergoing rapid change, in line with Korean society as a whole; (iii) the
language learning profiles of its students, in terms of beliefs, attitudes,
perceptions, learning preferences, and learning styles, cannot easily
and consistently be generalized or classified; and (iv) language learn-
ers in Korea are, when given the opportunity, flexible and capable of
maximizing their learning potential through the acquisition and use of
innovative learning concepts.
60 A. Finch
These findings reflect those of Kramsch (1998), who states that
categories of cultural comparison are “often outdated and neither reflect
current racial/ethnic realities nor linguistic and cultural truths” (p. 44).
When attempting to counter stereotypes regarding the Korean or Asian
learner, however, it is important to acknowledge the hidden assumptions
that lie behind them. In addition to the unquestioning application of
contemporary language learning theories, regardless of cultural context,
on the part of native speaker language instructors, these assumptions can
also include the rejection of such approaches on the grounds that they
represent linguistic colonialism and imperialism; uninformed new truths
can quickly take on the form of the old ones, and can be just as restrictive.
It is vital to realize that there are no easy classifications. Any approach
to language teaching which claims to know the distinguishing features
of learners in general fails to recognize that cultures and societies are
constantly changing and individuals can no longer be defined within
cultural categories as members of one group. Rather, it is our duty to
treat every student as an individual, and to understand his or her unique
learning needs in their particular sociocultural and global context:
In our globalizing world we cannot just glance at the surface and
assume we understand others. We need to dive deep not only to
understand others but also ourselves. (Finkbeiner, 2008: 131)
This study has shown that a given group of language learners in Korea
were open to innovation, without cultural constraint, and behaved inde-
pendently of any received truths about their learning styles. The research
acknowledged that in setting up a non-threatening, student-centered
learning environment, it was breaking with established norms in Korea
and was in danger of imposing Western expectations. This transparency,
however, removed the hidden agenda aspect and invited students to
explore and make their own decisions. It is significant that this is exactly
what occurred, not only contradicting the received truth stereotypes but
also establishing that these Korean students were just as open to higher
order thinking processes as other students throughout the world.
Notes
1. Littlewood’s (2000) study included 344 Korean university students.
2. Language learning conditions in Korea share many characteristics with those
in nearby countries such as China (including Hong Kong), Japan, Taiwan, and
Vietnam.
3. Learning management attributes include learning styles, preferences, strategies,
beliefs, and attitudes.
Part B
Empowering Asian Voices
62
Introduction to Part B
John Adamson
This Part embraces studies which draw upon the perspectives of various
participants in the teaching-learning process in Asian contexts. The
research from Japan, Thailand, and Malaysia seeks to reveal teacher
and student attitudes and beliefs regarding autonomous learning, student
behavioral patterns, attitudes towards teacher qualifications, and teacher
training. Data collection by a variety of means – interviewing, question-
naires, observation, and journal-keeping – is employed in these studies,
all with a combined purpose of eliciting local pedagogical perspectives,
in particular to contrast them with larger, outside influences impacting
upon them.
The first example of this insider–outsider contrast comes in the first
study by Fumiko Murase, who explores learner autonomy in a Japanese
university, drawing upon data from teachers and students. In relating the
literature in the field of autonomy to her practical context, Murase stresses
the importance of moving away from “native-speakerist” (Holliday, 2003:
111) views of Asian learners, advocating in their place research which
listens to the voices of “insider” participants. It is argued that these
locally contextualized perspectives should inform practitioners about
their students’ feelings towards autonomy, rather than Anglophone
stereotypes. Murase’s study triangulates data from questionnaires and
interviews. Findings reveal that although expatriate teachers commonly
regard Japanese university students as lacking in autonomous modes of
learning, local teachers may also show tendencies to stereotype their own
learners and often assume that their students follow homogeneous learn-
ing traits. As Murase states:
..even the insider local teachers may not fully understand their students
unless they make the effort to listen to their voices.
Murase concludes by noting that Japanese students may not “externally”
display elements of autonomous learning behavior, but may neverthe-
less be very active “internally.” It is, Murase advocates, the responsibility
of all teachers to access these internalized learners’ voices in order to
appropriate their own teaching methodologies to the local realities of
their learners.
The second study, by Chutigarn Raktham, investigates the relation-
ship between national culture and Thai students’ behavior. Raktham’s
study looks at Thai university students and asks to what extent national
cultural stereotypes manifest themselves in classroom observations.
Through pair and group interviews in which students reflect upon
their own classroom behavior, in addition to viewing videos of British
university students, Raktham’s findings reveal that there is great diver-
gence between the actual learner behaviors and national stereotypes
of Thai learners, particularly in the absence of deference to authority
figures. Similarly to Murase, Raktham’s findings show that a more
practical way to understanding the data is to adopt a “small culture”
approach (Holliday, 2005), i.e., a locally constructed view of the expla-
nation of classroom behavior, as opposed to a “large culture” approach
in which stereotypes are applied. This innovative methodology adopted
by Raktham drew students into different rhetorical positions when
reflecting on their behavior versus reflecting on British classroom
behavior:
…when students were asked to explain the behavior of students from
another society, they had to change their view from that of an insider
to that of an outsider. This inevitably affected their interpretations
and led them to rely on cultural knowledge to make sense of their
own culture and distinguish it from the other culture so students
used the point of divergence as their main interpretive category
or tool.
Raktham’s methodological approach to drawing students into insight-
ful “small” and “large” cultural reflections provides valuable lessons for
other researchers engaged in small-scale studies on this theme.
The third chapter in Part B, by John Adamson, investigates the
attitudes of both local and expatriate English teachers towards teach-
ing qualifications. This small-scale study conducted in Japan focuses
particularly on the semi-structured interview methodology of “co-
constructing” (Jacoby & Ochs, 1995: 171) talk and representing that
discourse. The means of “unpacking” teacher beliefs (Diaz-Maggioli,
Introduction to Part B 63
2002: 2) involves both interviewer and interviewees interacting in a
manner which, Adamson argues, constitutes a healthy form of teacher
development in its own right. The data analysis also takes care not
to overly reduce data which, although not conforming to research
questions, do provide valuable insights into the belief systems of inter-
viewees, termed in this study the reintegration of “cuttings”. Data
representation, too, purposely represents what discourse is constructed
during the interview itself, and what background knowledge concerning
both participants can impact upon the interview discourse: for example,
the position of participants relative to each other.
There is evidence that “critical incidents” (Cowie, 2001: 234) in teachers’
lives frequently from their own past pre-teacher training period – their
“apprenticeship of observation” (Lortie, 1975: 60) – shape their present
views on qualifications. The focus in Adamson’s study on the depth
of insights possible in eliciting views shows another perspective on
the local–global dichotomy, in this case the local taking the form of the
micro context of interview interaction and the global seen through
the lens of the possible impact of participant background histories on the
discourse itself.
The final chapter, by Rosemary Erlam and Susan Gray, looks at the teacher
education of a small group of Malaysian trainees over a period of one month
before they embarked upon a further three years’ study in New Zealand.
Erlam and Gray employ a combination of trainee journals and inter-
views to investigate the participants’ conceptualization of self-identity
during their training. Their findings reveal that many trainee beliefs had
been formulated prior to training, as also reported by Adamson. Such
beliefs, although vital to the formulation of self-identity and motivation,
are reported by Erlam and Gray as possibly negative influences on training
input, in that they were “inflexible” and acted as “a filter to new informa-
tion” presented to their trainees.
The careful and detailed methodological approach adopted by Erlam
and Gray provides valuable insights into qualitative field-work with
teacher trainees. Their analysis of reflective journals can be seen as a
useful methodological tool in the formulation of trainee beliefs and
identity construction, particularly in its role of creating a “safe forum”
for expression.
…the opportunity to reappraise their understanding of and more
completely understand the challenges and rewards of the student–
teacher relationship was also key to the growing development of
their identity as teachers.
64 J. Adamson
The four chapters in this Part, on empowering Asian voices, illustrate
the depth of insights available to researchers even in relatively small case
studies when local voices are accessed. The studies by Adamson and Erlam
and Gray show the powerful role of interviewing and journal-keeping to
help construct beliefs and identity. In tandem with this methodological
focus, the investigations by Murase and Raktham serve to further the
debate on the interplay between local realities and national stereotypes
of Asian learners and, interestingly, warn both local teachers and expatri-
ates of the dangers of assumptions concerning learner behavior.
Introduction to Part B 65
66
Introduction
Learner autonomy is an important goal in the field of language education.
Consequently, teachers have been engaged in practices for promoting
their students’ autonomy in the classroom in many different contexts and
cultures. However, it is often the case that learner autonomy in the Asian
context is discussed by teachers and researchers from the non-Asian,
“Inner Circle”1
(Kachru, 1992) community, framed with their views of
Asian students. For example, as criticized by Kubota (2001), Asian stu-
dents have been described as “reticent, passive, indirect, and not inclined
to challenge the teacher’s authority” (p. 14). Some of these descriptions
may reflect the true nature of Asian students, yet others are rather biased,
“native-speakerist” (Holliday, 2003: 115) views about Asian students held
by those from the Inner Circle countries. Although it should be acknowl-
edged that earlier studies on learner autonomy in the Asian context
conducted by Western scholars have greatly contributed to the field, it
seems crucial to investigate the reality of the Asian students; for example,
whether or not they are truly passive, by listening to the voices from
both the teachers and students within the context. Such insider voices
are expected to contribute to a better understanding of theories of learner
autonomy in the context and the actual experience of autonomous learn-
ing of English as a foreign language (EFL) in Asian classrooms.
Therefore, in this chapter, theories of learner autonomy will be briefly
reviewed and re-interpreted in the Asian EFL context by incorporating
voices from within that context. Starting with culture-related issues
such as the stereotypical views of Asian students, this chapter will
explore the concept of learner autonomy in the Asian context, with a
focus on the Japanese EFL context.
5
Learner Autonomy in Asia: How
Asian Teachers and Students See
Themselves
Fumiko Murase
Learner Autonomy in Asia 67
Concept of learner autonomy
Holec (1981) defines autonomy as “the ability to take charge of one’s
own learning,” and describes it (p. 3) as follows:
To take charge of one’s learning is to have, and to hold, the responsibility
for all the decisions concerning all aspects of this learning, i.e.:
determining the objectives;
defining the contents and progressions;
selecting methods and techniques to be used;
monitoring the procedure of acquisition properly speaking (rhythm,
time, place, etc);
evaluating what has been acquired.
Since the appearance of this definition, the concept of learner autonomy
has been defined in a number of different ways (e.g. Benson, 1997; Little,
1990). This variety of definition may be due to the fact that learner
autonomy is widely considered as a multidimensional concept (Little,
1990), one recognized as containing different aspects, such as the tech-
nical, psychological, political, social, and cultural.
The technical aspect of autonomy concerns learner ability to take control
of their own learning, as described by Holec (1981), whereas the psychological
aspect focuses on the internal capacity of individual learners which “allows
learners to take more responsibility for their own learning” (Benson, 1997:
19). An example of the political aspect of autonomy refers to the “control
over the content and processes of one’s own learning” (Benson, 1997: 25).
The social aspect of autonomy is concerned with the role of social interac-
tion in developing learner autonomy, which may involve the learners’
interdependence with their teachers or other learners. Finally, the cultural
aspect of learner autonomy looks at the social aspect of autonomy in the
broader context of the culture where the learning takes place.
Cultural aspects of learner autonomy
Learner autonomy should be discussed with an awareness of its cultural
aspects, as language “cannot be isolated from the particular contexts in
which it is used” (Pennycook, 1997: 47). As well as the concept of learner
autonomy, the term culture can be interpreted in various ways depend-
ing on the context. Palfreyman (2003: 6) states that “[i]n work on learner
autonomy, culture has often been interpreted as national/ethnic culture.”
68 F. Murase
Therefore, in this chapter the term will be used according to this meaning
(e.g. Western culture).
An important question is whether or not the concept of learner
autonomy is just an artifact of Western culture. Despite the fact that
promoting learner autonomy has been positively evaluated because,
as Little (1999: 13) claims, “most successful learners are autonomous,”
another question here is whether or not learner autonomy can be an
educational goal for English learners in the Asian context. It has been
argued that learner autonomy is a Western cultural construct. Jones
(1995), for example, claims that “the concept of autonomy is laden
with cultural values, particularly those of the West” (p. 228) and warns
against “assuming that autonomy is an inter-culturally valid objective”
(p. 233). It may be partly because the origin of the concept can be found
in Western philosophy, that early studies on learner autonomy were
contributed largely by academics in the Western context, and their work
has been fairly influential. As a more practical response to this question,
Palfreyman (2003: 1) suggested that:
The idea of autonomy has been promoted largely by Western teach-
ers and academics, and when attempts to implement it further afield
have encountered difficulties, these are often seen as due to cultural
differences between the West and other communities.
This may be true in some situations. When the promotion of learner
autonomy is unsuccessful, teachers may think that the concept is not
applicable to students in the non-Western context.
On the other hand, there have been opponents of the idea that learner
autonomy is solely a Western concept pursued only by Western students
in the Western context. Little (1999), for example, argues that “learner
autonomy is an appropriate pedagogical goal in all cultural settings,”
although he adds (p. 15) that it is necessary to “pay careful attention
to the cultural setting in which learning takes place.” In a more specific
cultural context, Aoki and Smith (1999: 19) claim that “autonomy can
be seen as a valid educational goal in the Japanese context”.
Learner autonomy for Asian students
Having presupposed the idea of learner autonomy as a universal edu-
cational goal, what kind of cultural issues are there to be dealt with?
For English teachers in the Asian context, student passivity can be
one motivation towards promoting student autonomy (Usuki, 2002)
Learner Autonomy in Asia 69
because, as mentioned earlier, Asian students tend to be seen as passive
learners and for teachers eager to promote their students’ autonomy,
this passivity could be perceived as being the opposite of autonomy.
However, it seems that we should reflect on these presumptions by
asking: “Are Asian students really passive?” and, “If they are, is their passiv-
ity a culturally inherited characteristic of Asian students?” As passivity is a
common stereotype of Asian students, it is frequently raised as a central
issue when the cultural aspect of learner autonomy turns to the contrast
of Asian and Western contexts. The rest of this chapter will focus on the
issue of students’ passivity in relation to learner autonomy by examining
the voices from different perspectives. The main focus will be on Japanese
students in the EFL context in Japan.
Methodology
This chapter presents a case study, which has a triangulation of methods,
using both quantitative and qualitative data. In addition to the voices
collected from the literature, questionnaire-based data with students
and interview data with a native-speaker teacher were examined. The
questionnaire-based data were collected from Japanese university students
and were both quantitatively and qualitatively analyzed. The interview
data, collected by an individual interview with a native-speaker teacher
of English, were analyzed qualitatively to supplement the questionnaire-
based data.
Voices from Inner Circle teachers
First of all, how are Asian students seen by native-speaker teachers,
those who are originally from the Inner Circle countries, especially by
those who have experience of teaching English to Japanese students in
Japan? The following, taken from the literature, are some native-speaker
teachers’ views of Japanese students:
In EFL classes Japanese students are frequently unwilling to provide
feedback or ask the teacher a question. This often becomes a problem
for foreign teachers when they face a passive class, in which students
are unresponsive and tend to shun communication with the teacher.
(Coughlin, 2007)
For the first-time teacher in Japan, it is important to know that
Japanese people tend to be shy, unassertive, and afraid of making
70 F. Murase
mistakes. An EFL teacher at the University of Hawaii remarked that
in her experience Japanese students were her worst pupils because
of their tendency towards passivity. Not knowing that Japanese
students are relatively passive could cause a teacher to misinterpret
classroom signs, especially if the teacher were from a culture that
believes in a highly participatory classroom. (Nevara, 2003: 8)
Although these extracts represent just a very few examples of negative
views towards Japanese students, they clearly portray Japanese students
as passive learners. In relation to learner autonomy, Holliday describes
his views of student passivity, looking back on his own experience:
There was a very strong feeling at the time that passive students
(i.e., not speaking, only listening) lacked the autonomy to learn
effectively. I always felt that the best classes were the ones where the
students were orally active, and that the less successful classes were
the ones where the students were quieter and less active. (Holliday,
2003: 112)
As in this extract, it is often the case that being orally passive is taken as a
synonym for being passive in learning. However, it is not necessarily so.
There seem to be two different kinds of passivity. A student may be orally
passive (e.g., not voluntarily speak in the class) but can play an active role
in his/her own learning, which can be seen as a sign of an autonomous
learner. When it comes to passivity in terms of learner autonomy, it
would be more plausible to focus more attention on what is happening
inside the students’ mind rather than focusing on their external, oral
passivity, which seems just a matter of different communication styles.
Another view from an Inner Circle teacher
There are teachers who originally came from the so-called Inner Circle
community but who have been teaching in Japan for many years. They
perceive themselves as being well aware of the culture of their teaching
context, not seeing themselves as an outsider to the context. In order
to take their views into consideration, I would like to cite some extracts
from an interview with a native-speaker teacher. The teacher here was
originally from Australia but had been teaching English in Japan for 18
years: four years at junior/senior high school and another 14 years at
university level. The following is part of his response to the question,
What do you think learner autonomy refers to?
Learner Autonomy in Asia 71
I know there is a lot of research done, saying that…you know,
Western students have a better attitude towards being autonomous
learners and Asian students don’t…and I don’t always agree with
that.
The teacher was aware of the existing stereotypical views about Asian
students in terms of learner autonomy and did not agree with such a
negative view. On the other hand, however, he admitted that there were
some challenges in helping Japanese students develop their autonomy
and the possible reasons behind them:
I try to foster or encourage […] their attitude towards becoming
an autonomous learner, and I think that the students are afraid of
that. You know, because they, particularly in Japan, they’ve gone
through […] 12 years of very prescribed education. And so, they
like the comfort, I think, of being told what to do, and how to do
it. And especially, in Japanese culture, the amae2 sort of notion of
dependency, you know, if you are a good teacher, then you give
everything to the students. If you are a good student, you get every-
thing from your teacher, you don’t question it. I think autonomy
sort of threatens that relationship.
At this point, although he did not use the word “passive,” he indicated
his views of Japanese students as being afraid of becoming autonomous
learners and liking to depend on teachers due to their learning experi-
ences and Japanese culture.
Voices from insider teachers
As seen in the previous section, Japanese students tend to be seen as
passive by teachers from Inner Circle cultural backgrounds. However,
this tendency should not be limited to Western cultural views since
even Japanese teachers, who share the same cultural and educational
background as their students, tend to see Japanese students as passive
learners. The following are some voices from Japanese teachers:
Japanese university students are often regarded as passive and teacher-
dependent in the language classroom. We cannot dispel this impression
because, in the traditional Japanese education system, students are
trained to behave passively in a teacher-centered classroom until
they enter university. I remember that I myself had never thought of
72 F. Murase
playing an active role in the classroom when I was a student because,
until graduating from university, I had been exposed only to teacher-
centered classrooms. (Takagi, 2003: 130).
In the past, I too had a stereotypical view of Japanese students’ class-
room behavior. I believed that students had grown accustomed to
teacher authority and spoon fed education, and that therefore they pre-
ferred to be told what to do by their teacher and to accept everything.
For this reason, I had always assumed that the students needed to
be trained to change their attitudes. However, after conducting the
focus group interviews, I realized that I was unconsciously expecting
them to be dependent students. Instead of trusting in their poten-
tial, I saw them in a negative light because I assumed that they were
not aware of their responsibility for their own learning and that
therefore I had to change them. (Usuki, 2002: 13)
Voices from students themselves
In addition to the characteristics and behaviors of Japanese students
described in the literature from the teachers’ perspectives, it is also
necessary to consider how the students view themselves as learners of
English. For that purpose, I refer to a survey study I conducted with
Japanese university students.
A survey study: collective voices
This study focuses, in particular, on Japanese university students who
study English in Japan. Their views were explored based on a question-
naire survey.3 The survey was developed by the author in order to measure
the students’ autonomy from different perspectives, and was partly used
in this study. It was administered to 15174 students (367 males, 1142
females) from 18 universities in Japan. Their age ranged from 18 to
63.5 Table 5.1 shows their fields of study at university. There was a mix
of both English majors (n = 399) and non-English majors (n = 1108).6
Most of the participants had been studying English for at least six
years within the compulsory English program by the time they entered
the university.7 They were asked about their views of student learning
in Japanese and Western contexts. The data include their responses to
seven statements in the survey and some of their free written comments.
The participants were asked to respond to each statement by choosing
their response on a five-point Likert scale ranging from “strongly agree” to
“strongly disagree”.
Learner Autonomy in Asia 73
Findings
The data collected were first analyzed quantitatively. Table 5.2 shows the
descriptive statistics of the students’ responses. Littlewood (1999: 88)
proposes that “East Asian students have the same capacity for autonomy
as other learners” and “[th]e crucial factors which underlie whatever dif-
ferences might be perceived are cultural and educational traditions, past
experiences, and the contexts in which learning takes place.” Based on
the results shown in Table 5.2, the students’ perceptions about learning
in the context of both Japanese culture and Western culture were com-
pared in order to see if there were any differences in their perceptions.
Taking the initiative in learning
Firstly, their views about both Western (Figure 5.1) and Japanese stu-
dents’ (Figure 5.2) initiative in their learning were compared. The results
indicated a clear difference in their responses. Although there were a
large number of the participants who chose “neither agree nor disa-
gree”8
more than half of the participants thought Western students tend
to taking the initiative in their learning whereas a very small number
of them thought that Japanese students tend to taking the initiative in
their learning.
Expectation of students’ taking the initiative in learning
Another comparison was made to see their views of cultural expectations
for students’ taking the initiative in learning.
Table 5.1 Participants’ fields of study (N = 1517)
Fields n
Language and Cultures* 522
Education 224
Arts 174
Social Studies 148
Business 144
Nutritional Science 79
Law 68
Engineering 51
Science 42
Policy Studies 27
Psychology 23
Medical Science 6
* Language and Cultures includes sub-fields such as English
Literature or Comparative Culture.
74 F. Murase
Table 5.2 Students’ responses to the survey (N = 1517)
Statement SD D N A SA M SD
Q1: Western students
tend to take the initiative
in their learning.
20
(1.3)
50
(3.3)
664
(43.8)
565
(37.2)
206
(13.6)} 3.59 0.81
Q2: In Western cultures,
students are expected
to take the initiative in
their learning.
18
(1.2)
35
(2.3)
636
(41.9)
602
(39.7)
212
(14.0)} 3.64 0.80
Q3: In Japanese culture,
students are expected
to take the initiative in
their learning.
56
(3.7)
223
(14.7)
693
(45.7)
448
(29.5)
87
(5.7)} 3.19 0.89
Q4: Japanese students
tend to take the initiative
in their learning.
148
(9.8)
498
(32.8)
715
(47.1)
127
(8.4)
20
(1.3)} 2.58 0.83
Q5: Japanese students
have the ability to learn
autonomously.
50
(3.3)
275
(18.1)
773
(51.0)
371
(24.5)
41
(2.7)} 3.05 0.82
Q6: Japanese students
have the experience of
learning autonomously.
71
(4.7)
355
(23.4)
809
(53.3)
253
(16.7)
22
(1.5)} 2.87 0.80
Q7: Japanese students
feel comfortable with
following their teachers’
directions.
104
(6.9)
329
(21.7)
673
(44.4)
343
(22.6)
61
(4.0)} 2.95 0.94
Note: SD = strongly disagree, D = disagree, N = neither agree nor disagree, A = agree, SA =
strongly agree; M = mean; SD = standard deviation; the number in parenthesis shows the
percentage of the response.
As can be seen in Figure 5.3, many participants (53.7%) believed that
student initiative was expected in Western culture. Although not as
obvious as the findings from Figure 5.3 about Western culture, 35.2 %
of the participants (Figure 5.4) believed Japanese students are expected
to take the initiative in Japanese culture.
Ability and experience
In terms of ability for autonomous learning (Q5), the number of partici-
pants who disagreed with the statement Japanese students have the ability
to learn autonomously (31.4%) was slightly larger than those who agreed
(27.2%). Regarding their experience of autonomous learning (Q6),
there was no difference between those who agreed with the statement
Figure 5.1 Question regarding Western students and taking initiative in learning
Strongly
disagree
Western students tend to take the initiative in their learning
0
200
400
600
Frequency
Strongly
agree
Disagree Neither agree
nor disagree
Agree
Figure 5.2 Question regarding Japanese students and taking initiative in learning
Japanese students tend to take the initiative in their learning
Strongly
disagree
0
200
400
600
800
Frequency
Strongly
agree
Disagree Neither agree
nor disagree
Agree
75
Figure 5.3 Responses to student opinions about Western cultures and learner
autonomy
In Western cultures, students are expected to take the initiative
in their learning
Strongly
disagree
0
200
400
600
Frequency
Strongly
agree
Disagree Neither agree
nor disagree
Agree
Figure 5.4 Responses to student opinions about Japanese culture and learner
autonomy
In Japanese culture, students are expected to take the initiative
in their learning
Strongly
disagree
0
200
400
600
Frequency
Strongly
agree
Disagree Neither agree
nor disagree
Agree
76
Japanese students have the experience of learning autonomously (28.2%) and
those who disagreed (28.1%).
Being comfortable following teachers’ directions
Finally, they were asked whether or not they would agree with the
statement Japanese students feel comfortable with following their teachers’
directions (Q7). This can be related to the native-speaker teacher’s com-
ment in the interview, the notion of “comfort […] of being told what to
do, and how to do it.” Slightly more students (28.6%) agreed with the
statement than disagreed (26.6%).
Individual voices
In the completed questionnaire forms in the survey study, there were
some free comments9 written by the participants. Some of those com-
ments are cited here as they show the students’ perceptions about cultural
aspects of learner autonomy.
First of all, there were two comments in which the students criticized
Japanese university students’ attitudes towards learning:
Japanese university students basically don’t display enthusiasm for
learning. […]There is no such atmosphere [of enthusiasm]. It seems
there is not a glimmer of the word autonomy. (Student A) [age N/A,
male, Comparative Culture, 1st year]
It seems to me that Japanese students tend to be passive and there are
many students who think they have only to do what they are given
[by teachers]. However, I feel it is not good for learning languages of
different cultures. (Student B) [21yrs, female, Education, 1st year]
Both respondents perceived Japanese students as being passive in
learning, which coincided with some teachers’ views of their students.
However, these two students were not passive, as they showed awareness
of the issue. Moreover, Student B’s comment on “learning languages of
different cultures” showed her strong awareness of, and positive atti-
tudes towards, different cultural expectations.
As a part of their passivity, Japanese students have been seen as being
accustomed to authority and not questioning it. However, this assump-
tion can be challenged when considering students’ comments such as
the following:
I hope [the university] would strongly instruct the teachers to use
only English in class. I was disgusted that I was told to answer the
Learner Autonomy in Asia 77
78 F. Murase
questions by using Japanese [in an English class] at university. When
I didn’t talk to the other students in Japanese or when I told them to
speak in English, they looked coldly at me. This is really ridiculous.
(Student C) [25yrs, male, English Literature, 1st year]
I think English education in Japan is not enough. In other countries,
people are educated so that they will be able to speak English as a
second language. However, although we have studied English through
compulsory education system and even at high school level, we still
can’t speak English at all. I wonder what we have studied for six years
and find it absurd. If we are to study English anyway, we should be
given the opportunity to learn English more effectively. (Student D)
[18yrs, female, English Literature, 1st year]
Although Student C did not directly ask his teacher to change his/her
teaching approach, he questioned the way his teacher taught the class
and actually took some action by himself (e.g., telling the other students
to speak in English). Student D, on the other hand, did not directly ques-
tion her teachers but did cast doubt on the quality of English education
in Japan in comparison with that of other countries.
Of course, these four students may be somewhat special in that they
have strong opinions about the students’ attitudes to authority. Another
student left a comment as follows:
As I still don’t know what kind of learning method suits me, I want to
know how those who can speak English are studying (or have studied)
English. (Student E) [19yrs, female, International English, 2nd year]
Although her comment, at first sight, may not sound as strong as those
of the other students, it is equally important. Her comment showed that
she was aware of her own learning problem and was trying to solve it
by seeking advice from successful learners. It can be seen as a positive
attitude towards learning.
It should be admitted that, as their comments were found in the optional
free comment section, the students gave these comments because they
had something to say. However, in this study it was important to give
students the space to let their voices be heard on themes beyond those
prescribed. Although it cannot be generalized, their comments showed
that not all Japanese students in this particular case were passive in their
learning. Findings from this study may carry some resonance over to
other cases in Japan and beyond.
Learner Autonomy in Asia 79
Discussion and implications
In earlier studies, it has been argued that learner autonomy can be seen
as a universal educational goal in any cultural context, though aware-
ness of the culture of the learning context should exist.
A possible problem is not simply that Inner Circle teachers impose
their ideas of learner autonomy, or what constitutes active learners,
onto Japanese students. There is the case that local teachers, such as the
Japanese teachers in the context of this study, assume they understand
their students because they share the same culture and believe their
students are passive and not autonomous and so need training.
The findings from this study and other studies (see Usuki, 2002)
indicate that even local teachers may not fully understand their
students unless they make the effort to listen to their voices. Looking
back on my own experience, I had a feeling that, being a Japanese
teacher of English with Japanese students in the Japanese context,
I was in the position where I was able to understand Japanese stu-
dents better than the teachers from a non-Japanese, Western, cultural
background. However, Usuki (1999) warns that Japanese and Asian
teachers may revert to teaching practices reminiscent of their own
learning experiences, similar to Lortie’s (1975: 60) “apprenticeship of
observation”. This resonates strongly with observations by Adamson
(Chapter 7), and Erlam and Gray (Chapter 8) concerning the beliefs of
Japanese and expatriate teachers of English in Japan, and of Malaysian
teacher trainees.
In a way, it is easier for Japanese teachers to make assumptions about
Japanese students than it is for Western teachers. Another reason for
these perceptions among Japanese teachers about their students may
be ascribed to the history of practices in the field. The promotion of
learner autonomy started in the Western context, and teachers in other
contexts, including the Asian context, have been actively engaged
in these practices. When local Asian teachers follow the theories and
practice of professionals in the Western context, they may then assume
stereotypical views of themselves, such as “Japanese students are
passive”. Moreover, sharing the same educational and cultural back-
ground with the students does not necessarily mean that we are able to
teach Japanese students better than teachers with Western cultural
backgrounds.
One way to solve this problem is that teachers with different cultural
backgrounds should share views and, based on their cultural under-
standings, work together towards the goal of helping their students
80 F. Murase
develop their autonomy. For example, in the interview the native-speaker
teacher said:
I think autonomy sort of threatens that relationship and so, I think, in
a sense, foreign teachers are a very good way of stimulating students
to think differently.
As he says, Western teachers can play an important role in raising aware-
ness of different cultural expectations. Moreover, we, both Japanese and
Western teachers, should listen to our students’ voices before making
any assumptions about them. In fact, those who understand Japanese
students most are, without doubt, the students themselves. Therefore, it
is important to provide them with opportunities to express their ideas
and for teachers to listen to them closely. Such voices will enable us to
apply theories of learner autonomy more appropriately to our own
teaching context and in the process work more sensitively with students
to develop their own pathways towards autonomy as English learners.
Conclusion
This chapter explored the cultural issues of learner autonomy with a focus
on the EFL context in Japan. As in Little’s (1999) claim, learner autonomy
is an appropriate goal in all cultural settings although it is necessary to
pay attention to the cultural setting of the learning in order for the
students’ autonomy to be successfully developed. For example, this study
indicated that, although Japanese students may not be seen as externally
as active as Western students, they may be internally actively taking
charge of their own learning in their own way. For the teachers working
with Japanese students, encouraging their students to express their inter-
nal voices will be an important first step towards the ultimate goal.
Notes
1. Kachru (1992) categorizes World Englishes into three concentric “circles”: the
“Inner Circle” (English spoken as a first language in countries such as UK),
the “Outer Circle” (English is spoken as a second language, such as Singapore)
and the “Expanding Circle” (English is a foreign language).
2. “Amae” is a concept, introduced in Doi’s (1973) Amae no Kōzō [The anatomy of
dependence], which describes the characteristics of Japanese society and culture.
3. Only a part of the survey was referred to in this chapter. The survey was
prepared both in Japanese and English. Although the Japanese version was
administered for data collection, the questions referred to in this chapter
were taken from the English version. A copy of the survey may be available
by contacting the author.
Learner Autonomy in Asia 81
4. Although 1,553 students responded to the survey, only the native speakers of
Japanese were considered as Japanese students for the purpose of this study.
Eight students did not provide the information about their gender.
5. The average age was 19.4 years old.
6. There were ten students who did not provide the information about their
major. The fields of study were classified into twelve different areas on the
basis of the information provided in the survey (e.g., the name of their insti-
tution, faculty and department). The English major students here were those
who belonged to Language and Culture and whose department seemed to offer
a program that specifically focused on English language.
7. In Japan, the compulsory English program starts at the first year of junior
high school (English will become a compulsory subject at elementary school
level from 2011).
8. In the previous study I conducted with similar questions, those who chose
this neutral option commented that they chose the response because they did
not know much about Western culture.
9. The comments cited here were originally written in Japanese and translated
into English by the author.
82
6
How Thai National Culture
Can Be Used to Explain
Students’ Behavior
Chutigarn Raktham
Background to the study
The notion of culture has multiple and variously inconclusive definitions.
Kroeber and Kluckhohn (1963) identified more than 160 definitions of
culture. Although there are many ways of defining the concept of culture,
the most common use of the word is to refer to national culture. Within
this concept, culture comes to be viewed simply as either behavior or fixed
values and beliefs, separated from social interaction and reality (Roberts &
Sarangi, 1993). This view can be problematic, as it reduces individuals to
stereotypical representations of their national culture, suppressing indi-
vidual differences, and it assumes that the categories used are sufficient
explanation for culture differences. As a result, relying on national culture
as a device to investigate what is happening between people in any given
group might not be fruitful or useful. As an alternative, Holliday (1999)
asserts a need to distinguish between the large culture paradigm, which
focuses on an explanation of cultural differences based on the notions of
ethnic, national, or international culture, and the small culture paradigm,
which regards any instance of cohesive behavior within any social group-
ing as culture in its own right.
The large and the small culture approaches
According to Holliday (2005: 17), the large culture approach takes an essen-
tialist view of culture in which “cultures are coincidental with countries,
regions, and continents…one can visit them while traveling and that they
contain mutually exclusive types of behavior so that people from...one
culture are essentially different from those...in another.” Although cul-
tural differences have the advantage of making culture particularly visible,
Thai National Culture and Students’ Behavior 83
they can be problematic as categories of analysis. Guest (2002) has argued
that any attempt to identify national characteristics for the purposes of
comparing and contrasting cultures can lead to oversimplification and
stereotyping of cultural characteristics, while at the same time ignoring the
significance of the various sub-cultures to which every individual belongs.
To avoid the trap of stereotypical over-generalizations, Holliday (1994)
suggested that the term culture should be handled carefully and that a small
culture approach should be considered.
The concept of small culture takes a non-essentialist view of cul-
ture which “focuses on the complexity of culture as a fluid, creative
social force which binds different groupings and aspects of behavior...
constructed by people in a piecemeal fashion to produce myriad com-
binations” (Holliday, Hyde, & Kullman, 2004: 3). A good example of
a small culture is a classroom where a group of students interact with
one another to form a small classroom (or sub-classroom) culture when
the group first meets. Each member carries within himself or herself
cultural beliefs and uses his or her culture-making ability to form rules
and meanings in collaboration with others. The small culture approach
accepts that there are many ways by which what happens in the class-
room can reflect the national culture; students bring with them these
already learned and internalized cultures. These cultures, alongside
individual motivational factors, will determine the way in which the
new classroom culture is approached and created. As a result, the influ-
ence of the students’ national culture will be significant but it will not
tell the whole story.
Critiques of characterizing national culture
In order to justify the merit of a small approach, I would like to discuss
the effects of two influential studies of Thai culture. Hofstede’s (1980,
1991) cultural dimensions and Komin’s (1990a, 1990b) nine cultural
orientations have been used extensively by Thai educational researchers
to explain characteristics and behaviors of teachers and students in
Thai settings (Corbitt & Thanasankit, 2000; Hallinger & Kantamara,
2001), following the essentialist view of culture and showing how
some characteristics of national culture affect student motivation and
behavior.
Hofstede (1986) described Thailand as a high power distance, strongly
collectivist, highly feminine, and mid-level uncertainty avoidance
country, and within this analytic framework there is a degree of success
in explaining Thai culture. Thai scholars have attempted to develop a less
84 C. Raktham
Western-biased instrument. In 1978, and again in 1981, Komin (1990a,
1990b) conducted an extensive study regarding Thai cultural values.
Analysis revealed the following nine value clusters, ranked according
to importance:
1. Ego orientation
2. Grateful relationship orientation
3. Smooth interpersonal relationship orientation
4. Flexibility and adjustment orientation
5. Religious-psychical orientation
6. Education and competence orientation
7. Interdependence orientation
8. Fun-pleasure orientation
9. Achievement-task orientation
Hofstede (1980, 1991) and Komin (1990a, 1990b) both regard
national culture as consisting of shared attitudes, beliefs, norms, roles,
values, and practices. Shared cultural knowledge not only character-
izes a particular country, but also differentiates people from different
cultures. When this view is applied to education, it suggests that both
teachers’ and students’ roles and relationships are partly derived from
their shared cultures. Understanding how national culture might influ-
ence behavior in different countries is essential if we are to determine
what is appropriate in terms of classroom behavior and instruction.
However, Hofstede’s (1980, 1991) and Komin’s (1990a, 1990b) works
are not immune to criticism. According to Munro (1997), there is still
no consensus on which units or dimensions should be used for describ-
ing culture; moreover, differences in culture cannot be explained by
analysis of only four or five dimensions, and as a result, both studies lead
to stereotyping and overgeneralization. While Hofstede (1991) assumes
the existence of a causal link between cultural dimensions of a particular
national culture and a specific national action, Komin (1990a, 1990b)
regards Thai cultural orientations as the cognitive blueprints that
guide individuals’ motivation and action. Both views presuppose that
national culture is uniform and that every member of a nation exhibits
the national characteristics to the extent that individual differences are
suppressed.
Hofstede’s (1991) attempt to explain other cultures via the concrete,
separate, behavior-defining characteristics of ethnic, national, and
international groups is also not exempted from the criticism that he
represents non-Western culture precisely through the methodologies
Thai National Culture and Students’ Behavior 85
and technologies of the West. Similarly, while Komin (1990a, 1990b)
tried to reduce the Western bias by conducting research based on the
interpretation of her own culture, she was following the large culture
approach by reducing her culture to different cultural-value clusters.
It can be seen that Hofstede (1980, 1991) and Komin (1990a, 1990b)
distinguish between West and East (almost as monolithic blocks) to
group cultural differences into different elements and to contextualize
them based on these elements. Both studies followed the large culture
approach which encourages a prescribed, normative idea of cultural differ-
ences resulting in reductionism, overgeneralization, and otherization of
foreign educators, students, and societies.
When the emphasis is on negative attribution of others’ characteristics,
the perception of individuals, and their willingness to agree or disagree
with these characteristics is often overlooked or ignored. This is when a
non-essentialist view of a small culture becomes appropriate, as this view
stands against the hasty imposition of national characteristics as explana-
tory factors in understanding others’ behavior. Instead, it focuses on
interpreting emergent behavior within any social grouping, with an
emphasis on understanding meaning from the individual’s point of view,
and viewing the social world as the product of individuals’ interactions
with and interpretations of their world.
As I made the initial assumption that Thai students’ behavior is
partly influenced by national characteristics, I aimed: (1) to observe
students’ interactions in the classroom to see if their behavior manifests
elements of Thai cultural characteristics; (2) to identify whether there
are any discernible sets of behavior that are specific to the group and
cannot be explained by – or which do not conform to – national culture;
and (3) to interview students, to understand their behavior, values, and
beliefs. As large-scale quantitative research does not allow this connection
between the researcher and the participants, I decided to follow the small
culture route by employing an ethnographic approach. Observational
data were then reported back to students so that students could interpret
and reflect on their own behavior.
Research methods
I employed two research methods. Firstly, classroom observation was
conducted with the intention of seeing, from a third-person perspec-
tive, how students interact both with one another and with teachers.
Secondly, students were interviewed in order to explore first-person
reports of students’ behavior and some of its causal foundations.
86 C. Raktham
Research informants
The informants for this study were a class of 40 second-year English
majors at a university in the northern part of Thailand. There were 40
students in the class: 34 female students and 6 male students. After the
four-week period of classroom observation ended, all students were
asked to volunteer for the interview process; 14 students volunteered,
11 of whom were female.
Data collection: classroom observation and interview
I started the classroom observation one month after the beginning of
the first term. Each week, the students studied eight different modules,
giving a total classroom time of 21 hours per week. Students met for
each class only once a week. All the modules studied were related to
language and were taught by both Thai and non-Thai teachers.
I joined the classroom in the role of a participant-as-observer, so the
students were aware of my role as a researcher. Over the research period
I remained in the classroom, making regular observations of student
behavior, keeping field notes, and a diary. I also engaged in small talk
with students before and after class with the intention of making them
more at ease in my presence. However, although I was not involved in
any classroom management or learning activities and did not engage
with either teachers or students outside the classroom, it is probable
that the simple fact of my classroom presence shaped to a greater or
lesser degree the students’ behavior and their subsequent interactions
with me during interviews. It is difficult to quantify the extent of this
influence but its probable existence should be noted.
For the first few days of classroom observation, students were very con-
scious of my presence. However, from the beginning of the second week
onward, I could observe and document social aspects of student behavior in
class. With respect to teacher–student interactions, the behaviors included
how teachers conducted their lessons, how they engaged students in
academic tasks and activities, how they helped students to learn or under-
stand what was taught, and how they dealt with disruptive behavior. As for
peer interactions, this included both academic and non-academic activities.
While the former showed how students behaved when learning was taking
place, the latter showed another side of students’ behavior (e.g., putting
on make-up, reading glossy magazines, answering the phone in class, etc.).
Because of the contrasting nature of student behaviors, I decided to form
the interview questions based on observed peer interactions.
Thai National Culture and Students’ Behavior 87
Before the end of the fourth week of observations, I asked students to
volunteer to be interviewed in pairs. The interviews were semi-structured:
I had a list of questions and topics to be covered but was prepared to
allow students to stray onto related areas. The interview was divided
into two parts.
The first part of the interview explored students’ behaviors and inter-
actions in class. The main aim of the classroom observation was to
identify patterns of behavior in class, which were then used to form the
interview questions. Recurrent behavior patterns identified in the class-
room included: (1) being late, (2) answering the phone, (3) walking out,
(4) cheating, (5) not participating, and (6) approaches to group work.
This part of the interview was central to the research because students
were asked to explain behavior which they sometimes took for granted
or of which they were unaware.
After the pair-interviews were finished, all the interviewees were asked
to come back together for a group interview. They were asked to watch
a 15-minute video of a key stage 3 (age 13–14) English language lesson,
filmed in a school in England. In the lesson an English teacher uses
different techniques to extend his students’ understanding of complex
sentences. The interviewees were able to see how teacher and students
interacted with one another in a British class, how the teacher intro-
duced different techniques and how students engaged in pair work. The
video was chosen because it shared some similarities with typical Thai
English classes, which mainly focus on grammar. Interviewees were
asked to watch the video because, unless attention is specifically drawn
to the differences, students often take their own learning experience
for granted. By looking at a class from another culture and seeing the
differences (teaching and learning styles, classroom size, and activities)
the interviewees might be better able to reflect on their own classes and
make more revealing insights.
Data analysis
After the interviews were completed, they were transcribed into
word-processed documents in Thai. I created a textual database which
I interrogated constantly, comparing data and searching for key
concepts until the data were extensively coded. In order to code all
the interview scripts, I employed both traditional (manually cutting,
pasting, and physically re-arranging excerpts from the transcripts)
and modern (NVivo 7 qualitative data software) techniques for coding
the data.
88 C. Raktham
The next step was to code the interviews exploring students’ behavior
and interactions. In this section of the interview the questions were
not pre-scripted. Rather, I consulted a list of topics to be covered and
introduced these at the appropriate time, giving students much more
flexibility to elaborate on their replies which, if found relevant, were
then used as follow-up questions. To analyze and interpret these data,
I printed all interview transcripts and broke the data into separate piles,
each reflecting a different pattern of behavior. After physically cutting
the word-processed texts, I was left with different piles of answers,
each pile reflecting one pattern of behavior; that is, there was one pile
containing all interview scripts answering the question why students
answered the phone in class, and another addressing the issue of why
students walked out of class, and so on. I then started coding the data
manually. The same process was repeated with each pattern of behavior.
In order to double-check all the categories, I used NVivo to look at all
the interview scripts and again to code all categories and their details
under nodes. This gave six tree nodes for each behavior. Under each tree
node was a list of categories and details of coded texts.
After I finished initial coding of the pair-interview transcripts, I moved
on to transcribe the group discussion. The group discussion was rela-
tively short (approximately 45 minutes) and so it was transcribed and
coded manually. I again looked for keywords and themes which emerged
from the data. During this process, any categories found to overlap or
to be repetitive were grouped together and any categories found to be
irrelevant to the research were omitted. The name of the core category
was also only provisional until a better label could be formulated. The
same process was carried out with other categories in order to develop
more core categories. The core categories were re-analyzed several times
until the process was completed.
Research findings and discussion
During the period of classroom observation, some student behavior, such
as being quiet in class, a reticence in participating in class, and a ready
acceptance of the teachers’ authority, coincided with culturally condi-
tioned behavior suggested by the literature. Some students’ accounts,
such as their tendency to avoid conflict or their reluctance to impose
on their teachers and friends, could also be understood to demonstrate
the influence of Thai culture on behavior. However, the emergence of
disruptive behavior seemed to contradict commonly held beliefs about
Thai culture.
Thai National Culture and Students’ Behavior 89
Factors influencing disruptive class behavior
While a substantial portion of the literature suggests that students in Thai
classrooms are well behaved and well disciplined – mainly, as the litera-
ture suggests, because of the influence of the cultural imperative of being
kreng jai, that is, being unwilling to impose on others or being considerate
of others at all times – actual observed student behavior in class was in
fact contrary to this and was marked by a noticeable absence of kreng jai in
peer interactions. This lack of kreng jai was manifested in behavior such as
answering the phone in class, sneaking out of class, or cheating in exams.
Even when the class was interesting to most students, some students still
misbehaved. This disruptive behavior happened sufficiently frequently
that all students noticed and made comments on it when interviewed.
Irresponsibility and indifference in individual students
There was a marked tendency for the same students to misbehave in almost
every class. These students displayed characteristics of individualism in
the sense that by disturbing the class or violating the rules, they broke
the solidarity of the group and the classroom expectation of conformity
and smooth interpersonal relationships. It is believed that in collectivist
cultures such as Thailand, students are socialized and ascribed roles which
demand a high degree of cooperation with and concern for others. Where
a context demands order, such as in a classroom, students are expected or
obliged to act accordingly. However, not every student understands and
carries through the process of modifying self-expression to fit in with social
surroundings (Mulder, 2000). For example, while most students responded
to lessons that were tiring, uninteresting, or meaningless by hiding in the
mass of students, and so maintained the classroom order, non-cooperative
students decided to do what they liked, without worrying about classroom
norms or their self-image. They seemed indifferent to the socially inspired
self-identity with which most students are expected to be content.
Allegiance to peer group norm
Although the above suggests that disruptive behavior resulted from
some few individuals who had become disengaged from classroom
regulations, this misbehavior could also be seen as student responses
to peer pressure. When students were in a group which did not value
socially responsible behaviors, they were likely to behave in the same
way as the other group members in order to avoid group rejection or
exclusion. For these students, being disruptive or acting contrary to the
classroom culture was understood in terms of an alternative allegiance
to their own group norm or expectation (Valentine, 1997).
90 C. Raktham
In a well-functioning and cohesive group, students reported that they
pressured one another to behave according to the rules of the class.
However, students said that there were times when group pressure or
sanctions did not work and that some individuals were in any case
immune to this pressure. Students also reported that they valued cohe-
siveness and their relationship with one another to the extent that they
sometimes ignored these disruptive behaviors in order to avoid conflict
with their peers. Since there was an unofficial norm that each group
would not interfere with the problems of other groups, it is highly
unlikely that the classmates from different groups would mediate or
resolve misbehavior outside their group and therefore teachers were
solely responsible for controlling that behavior.
Teachers’ lack of authority
The classroom observation revealed that most teachers’ reactions to
disruptive behavior did not extend to verbal criticism of the students.
When phones rang in class, most teachers would either stop the class
or stare at the students who answered the phone. Occasionally they
gestured students to talk outside. Similarly, when students walked out
of the class, some teachers might ask students where they were going
but there was no direct criticism. Some teachers even ignored these
behaviors and carried on teaching. According to the students, when
the teachers failed in this way to control the disruptive behaviors in
class, it maximized the chance of more disruptive behaviors and this
gave rise to comments that teachers were negligent in using their
authority.
While it is undeniable that the disruptive behavior mentioned
above interfered with the learning process, students’ behavior could be
described as passively non-cooperative as these students never mani-
fested their rebellion in full by openly speaking up and questioning the
teacher’s decisions, rules, or practices (Ehrman & Dörnyei, 1998: 129).
It might be assumed that as most disruptive behavior was oblique to
the teacher’s authority, it was unnecessary for the teachers to use a very
controlling or suppressive approach. However, the discrepancy between
teachers’ and students’ ideas on discipline could lead to greater disrup-
tion, as some students might take the lack of criticism and punishment of
misbehaving students as a signal that this behavior was acceptable. Not
only did these patterns of disruptive behavior deviate from commonly
held beliefs about Thai students but it also transpired that students’
reported attitudes to and experience of group work stood at significant
odds with those suggested by the research literature.
Thai National Culture and Students’ Behavior 91
Problems with group work: in-groups and out-groups
In the observed classes, with the presence and assistance of the teachers,
group work was relatively successful. However, when students were asked
to reflect on the group work that they did outside the classroom, all the
students reported problems, including issues with non-contributors, the
low quality of group work, and a lack of help from teachers. Students
reported that the problems stemmed mainly from in-group and out-
group conflicts.
While it is believed that the cohesiveness of the group is a significant
factor in successful group-based learning, in this class cohesiveness within
groups hindered effectiveness. When members of a group were very close,
students seemed to value their relationship with one another so much that
they tried to avoid disagreements or conflicts by deliberately withdrawing
their ideas or by showing an unwillingness to challenge the ideas of other
group members. This included a reluctance to check each other’s progress
after work was assigned to individual group members. This problem also
manifested itself when students worked with classmates from different
groups. While the out-group members expressed their discomfort when
asked to share or assert their ideas, the in-group members expressed their
reluctance to delegate the work or to tell out-group members what to do.
This reluctance to communicate with one another clearly suppressed
critical thinking as well as work progress.
This apparent group cohesiveness was also used by some members to
avoid doing any work at all. Some group members gambled that, with
the strong bond between the group members, their friends were likely
to forgive them if they failed to help but showed remorse for their non-
involvement. Although students allowed friends to take advantage of
other group members from time to time, they expected their friends
to reciprocate this understanding. By contrast, the out-group members
found that the lack of cohesiveness between them and the in-group
members meant that they had no responsibilities to the in-group
members and that they were not influenced by any in-group pressure
to help with the group work. As a result they refrained from helping or
participating in work. The interdependence (or lack of it) resulted in
some students doing significantly more work than others, leading to
poor quality outcomes.
Thus far it appears that student explanations were located mainly in
the domain of interpersonal and intrapersonal relationships. Although
Thai cultural influences were missing from students’ interpretations,
some of their behavior did resemble Thai national characteristics and
so it would be premature to conclude that because students had not
92 C. Raktham
explicitly referred to Thai cultural beliefs and values, this influence was
wholly absent. In order further to explore the issue of their national
culture and its influence on their behavior, students were shown the
video from the UK classroom.
Emergence of cultural issues during group discussion
It should be noted that before the group discussion, none of the students
mentioned culture as a factor in explaining their behavior. However,
after watching a classroom from another culture, students immediately
brought up the issue of culture to explain the differences in behavior
between themselves and their English counterparts. Students mentioned
the process of childhood enculturation as the main developmental factor
in their behavior, claiming that they were brought up to respect elders and
to accept always what elders said to them. Conversely, challenging elders’
ideas was not encouraged. In contrast, English students were brought
up to be confident, outspoken, and competitive, as was witnessed in the
video. Student accounts of the expectations and roles of Thai students
therefore closely corresponded to the behavior described in the literature
and previous research. This suggests that students were aware of these
socially shared conceptions but required the trigger of watching the video
to bring them to consciousness.
Initially, when asked to explain why they hardly participated in class,
students had said that peer reaction made them reluctant to participate
actively in the lesson. However, in the group discussion, most students
explained the same behavior through the cultural value of power dis-
tance. Students claimed that they were brought up to respect and not
challenge teachers and that Thai teachers maintained a large power
distance between pupils and students. Because of Thai teachers’ concern
about losing face, they would not lower themselves to the same level of
students and would not interact with students as equals; this contrasted
with English teachers, who treated students as friends. Students’ differ-
ent explanations of the same behavior emphasized the importance of
both social interactions and cultural values, so within the classroom,
students experienced and evaluated what they encountered, such as
friends’ reactions or classroom norms, and acted according to the group
requirements, without realizing that their behaviors might be influenced
by their culture.
Had the students not been shown the video, it is likely that no men-
tion would ever have been made of cultural difference. According to
Wedenoja and Sobo (1997: 172), “when people interpret the world
Thai National Culture and Students’ Behavior 93
unconsciously, they experience it as undeniably real rather than as
an interpretation”. Thus, to explain their behavior, students looked
for reasons within their own classroom; that is, through their inter-
actions with peers and teachers. This indicated that the classroom had
its own traditions, rules, activities, and patterns and that only insiders
would understand why and how certain behaviors occurred. In other
words, the classroom had its own culture, though one that could share
some characteristics with the national culture. However, it is clear that
students treated their classroom as the primary explanation for their
behavior.
Moreover, when students were asked to explain the behavior of
students from another society, they had to change their view from
that of an insider to that of an outsider. This inevitably affected their
interpretations and led them to rely on cultural knowledge to make
sense of their own culture and to distinguish it from the other culture,
so students used the point of divergence as their main interpretive cat-
egory or tool. It seems reasonable to suggest that however the English
students’ behavior varied from theirs, Thai students would attempt to
describe it in terms of cultural differences. This suggests that student
statements about the influence of Thai culture on their behaviors
represent not so much Thai national culture as the way in which Thai
culture was used by students to explain their behavior within their
small classroom culture.
This finding showed that students mutually and socially constructed
behavior to form the cultural makeup of their classroom. The cultural
makeup of this classroom may or may not have had national character-
istics but either way students did not seem to be concerned about this.
Rather, they were more concerned about their roles and the reac-
tions and expectations of those on whom they relied to guide their
behavior. Seeing small culture as rooted in students’ social context
and interaction enabled me to apply culture not only in terms of
national characteristics but also in terms of the processes that give
cohesion to group behavior. Although my research findings did not
identify national characteristics that influence student behavior, they
shed some light on the importance of small culture in this particular
classroom. In light of this, I would like to treat my research findings
as being extremely provisional and subject to confirmation or discon-
firmation by future studies.
In summary, while this study attempts to scrutinize the influence
of Thai culture on student behavior, it also raises awareness of the
significance of social context and interactions as well as the value of
94 C. Raktham
a research approach that takes into account the insider’s perspective.
The research result confirmed the difficulty of understanding the influ-
ence of culture, in the sense that it is still not possible to make a definite
statement that certain aspects of Thai culture influence individual
behavior in particular ways. It also shows the uniqueness of each social
context and the need to understand the details of human interaction
within given localized small cultures.
7
Co-constructing Teacher
Beliefs about Qualifications:
Insights from Interviews
in the Japanese Context
John Adamson
Introduction
The voices of teachers located in Asia can represent situated examples of
views of professional positioning. In this study, the local voices of both
Japanese and non-Japanese teachers towards qualifications are investi-
gated. As a common theme running through this section of the book, it
is important to seek ways to effectively express those voices. This chapter
puts forward a co-constructed semi-structured interview approach as a
means to do so, and it may represent a viable methodology to possibly
reveal similar concerns in other Asian contexts.
As a background to this study, I refer to two recent exchanges with
teachers in my locality in Japan. One lecturer who had recently gained
an MA in English Language Teaching (ELT) commented that her man-
ner of talking about education in a university staff room to non-ELT
qualified staff had to be dumbed-down in order to make her ideas more
acceptable. In another case, a non-ELT qualified private language school
manager complained that teachers with ELT qualifications were gener-
ally less reliable teachers and selfish.
Listening to these comments from both qualified and non-ELT qualified
teachers shows that “critical incidents” (Cowie, 2001: 234) shape teachers’
beliefs about themselves and each other. The discovery of these views in
narratives reveals a “hidden side” (Freeman, 2002: 1) of teacher beliefs.
It is the “unpacking” (Diaz-Maggioli, 2002: 2) of those beliefs which this
study seeks to explore.
95
96 J. Adamson
Research focus
Adamson (2003: 9) refers to the relationship at the workplace between
those possessing ELT qualifications and those who do not as an
“interface” potentially prone to conflict. Little research exists about
this, despite it being a realistic concern in many workplaces in Japan
where non-ELT qualified teachers often work together with those with
ELT qualifications. In this present study, interviewing a small group
of local teachers with whom I often interface is seen as a means to
recall and rationalize beliefs. Specifically, the research question to be
addressed is:
What attitudes and beliefs do English language teachers have towards
teacher qualifications and those who possess them?
Review of research into teacher beliefs
Inevitably, research into teacher beliefs about training and qualifica-
tions in ELT needs to consider what those beliefs are and where they
come from. Previous studies into the shape or nature of an ELT teacher
(Gabrielatos, 2002) identified personality and methodological knowl-
edge as inter-related and pivotal in defining teacher beliefs. But what
is lacking in this shape is a dimension which delves into the ability to
reflect upon and discuss such beliefs. Importantly, among Calderhead’s
(1996) concepts on the study of beliefs, awareness, and expression
about the self are indicated as an area for investigation. In this study,
it is proposed that teacher-to-teacher talk in research interviews repre-
sents an effective means to enable teachers to express their beliefs about
the research topic of qualifications. In fact, Nespor (1987) proposes it
is such investigations rather than those which focus on the minutiae
of their teaching methodologies that lead to a better understanding of
teacher behavior as a whole. In addition, Johnston (2003: 144) states
that ELT itself is “grounded in values and moral beliefs” which perme-
ate every decision made by the teacher. These beliefs concern more than
decisions made on an everyday basis about materials and methodol-
ogy and extend into larger issues of morality itself, defined as “a set of
beliefs which are evaluative in nature…which concern matters of what
is good and bad” (Johnston, 2003: 6). Beliefs then are interchangeable
with principles, morals, and ethics, and are inter-related with assump-
tions and knowledge about teaching (Woods, 1996). They are a loose
group of expressions which can directly affect teaching practice, but
Teacher Beliefs about Qualifications 97
also show great incongruence with what teachers actually do in the
classroom itself (Woods, 1996).
So what shapes beliefs and where do they originate? Freeman and
Johnson (1998) believe that they are often formed before teachers start
their careers. Particularly, previous experience as young learners in the
“apprenticeship of observation” (Lortie, 1975: 60) is argued as influ-
encing future teacher beliefs and consequently teaching practice itself,
forming a “hidden pedagogy” (Denscombe, 1982: 259) which formal
training itself often fails to consider, a point echoed by Murase in
Chapter 5, on Japanese teachers of English.
Methodology
In order to investigate the complexities of teacher beliefs, I will outline the
methodological approach of interviewing, the context and participants,
data reduction and finally the interview schedule itself.
Interviewing
The means chosen to investigate this research area is that of one-to-one
semi-structured interviewing which has a free form (Drever, 1995) in its
interactional style ideal for exploring the topics associated with beliefs.
It also possesses the flexibility to alter question forms to suit the linguistic
or conceptual competence of the interviewees.
Context and participants
The context for this small-scale research is essential in the qualitative
interpretation of interviewee responses. For this purpose, information
was gathered about each participant to give a “holistic description and
explanation” (Merriam, 2001: 29), the chosen criteria including: gender,
approximate age, whether they are native speakers of English or
not, the interview location, experience in teaching, qualifications, job
position, institution, and “positioning” (Sarangi & Candlin, 2003: 278)
with the interviewer, that is, their perceived relationship with me as,
for example, an expert, a friend, or confidant. Also, to supplement this
record, I chose to include what I believed that interviewee believed
about the interview topics – in essence, statements of my own subjec-
tive experiences of interfacing with that person before the interview
took place. This contextual “second record” (Hull, 1985: 29) of the
interview, its participants, and my subjectivity towards them is utili-
zed alongside the “first record”, that is, the record of the interview
98 J. Adamson
discourse in the analytical stage of the study, in tables termed “eco-
logical frames” (Erickson, 1996: 284). This has the overall effect of pro-
viding “multiple sources of information” (Creswell, 1998: 62) from the
interview and its participants in a concise and accessible manner.
I wished to explore the beliefs of 15 teachers working with me in ELT in
my various workplaces. Eight accepted the invitation to be interviewed
and were informed as to the objectives of the research and that they
would remain anonymous.
Data reduction
A large amount of data were generated for each interview and so data
reduction (Miles & Huberman, 1994) was undertaken according to a
four-stage adaptation of data reduction schemes by Kvale (1996) and
Hycner (1985). I firstly conducted a “phenomenological reduction”
(Hycner, 1985: 279) in which I noted down from the taped data what
the interviewee was attempting to convey from each question area as
a whole, and whether it was relevant to the question. I added my own
words and expressions from field notes on tone of voice, gestures, and
facial expressions where necessary, for each participant’s responses. For
the second stage of reduction, I identified the “central themes” (Kvale,
1996: 195) directly relevant to the questions. This entailed highlighting
words and sentences, termed by Hycner (1985: 279) as “crystallizing”
the meaning of each theme, and served to eliminate irrelevant data.
These first two stages traditionally focused on interviewee responses
only, yet, in keeping with the concept that discourse is “co-constructed”
(Jacoby & Ochs, 1995: 171) by both participants, I took the stance that
interviewer talk was also to be included in this process of finding the
essence of what was discussed.
Stage three entailed summarizing all the crystallizations for each
interview, resulting in ten interview summaries. At this point I chose
to consider selected eliminated data, or “cuttings” (Adamson, 2004:
119), which provide insights into the general beliefs of the interviewee
despite being unrelated to the research topic.
The final stage of reduction was to trace commonalities and idio-
syncrasies across all ten interviews and will be represented in the
findings.
Interview schedule and considerations
The interview schedule (Table 7.1) had eight “introducing” topics
(Kvale, 1996: 133) to open up discussion. If they failed to do so, supporting
Teacher Beliefs about Qualifications 99
questions termed as “follow-up” and “probing” questions (Kvale, 1996:
133) were used to stimulate discussion.
Findings and discussion
The findings from the eight interviews conducted can be represented
in various forms: ecological frames, extracts, selected quotations and
paraphrased comments. Table 7.2 gives the descriptions of teachers inter-
viewed.
Beliefs about teachers with qualifications
The representation of findings starts with an interview with T, who I
had known for about a year at a university where we were working part-
time. The ecological frame of topic 1 concerning beliefs about teachers
with qualifications can be seen in Table 7.3.
In the following frame in Table 7.4 with the second interviewee, M,
the discussion crossed over naturally into topic 2 on beliefs about teachers
without qualifications, so this frame combines topic 1 and 2.
Four other key comments were by F who said that “doctorates might be
useful, because you could apply for a Professorship at a university,” viewing
qualifications as entry devices into better positions. H said that “to have
some kind of qualification is better than having none.” She stressed a bad
experience with a Certificate holder in an interview but also claimed to
seek teachers with such qualifications for recruitment. A equated ELT quali-
fications with “methodological knowledge,” not research competence.
P saw qualifications merely as “a background statistic about the person.”
Beliefs about teachers without qualifications
Among the respondents, Gr held clear views represented in the frame
in Table 7.5.
Table 7.1 Interview schedule
1. Beliefs about teachers with qualifications.
2. Beliefs about teachers without qualifications.
3. The interviewee’s qualifications.
4. Experience working with qualified and unqualified teachers.
5. Teacher training courses: what they should teach for this context.
6. Methodological superiority of the postgraduate-qualified?
7. Hierarchies among teachers based on qualifications.
8. Self-development.
Table 7.2 The teacher interviewees
Identifying initial Nationality Gender Age Work role Qualifications
T American Female 50s Part-time university teacher Cert. in ELT, MA in theater
and speech
M American Female Part-time university and college lecturer Cert. in ELT, MA in Japanese
F Japanese Male Mid 50s Full-time college professor not known
H Japanese Female Private language school manager not known
A Japanese Female Early 30s Full-time college lecturer not known
P American Male Part-time university lecturer MA in Linguistics
Gr American Male Early 40s Full-time university lecturer MA in ELT
S Japanese Female Late 40s Full-time university lecturer BA in ELT
MA in Literature
100
Teacher Beliefs about Qualifications 101
Table 7.3 Topic 1: beliefs about teachers with qualifications
First record
Reduced data: T firstly questioned the meaning of the word “qualifications,”
asking whether it referred to advanced degrees or experience. She suggested
that higher qualifications are unnecessary if teachers continue to develop
themselves. Some reference was also made to doctorate-holders who do not
apply their knowledge beyond that piece of paper.
Cuttings: T: A teacher is a student who continues to develop themselves.
Interview discourse: The interview took place in T’s home. T was quite
strong in stressing that formal teacher qualifications are less important
than experience. She seemed at times to be directly challenging me as a
doctorate-holder.
Second record
Interviewee: American female, early 50s, a teacher for 25 years in Japan,
qualified with a Certificate in ELT and with an MA (theater and speech).
Some experience in business.
Interviewer: 42-year-old UK male, 20 years experience. Qualified as a Doctor
of Applied Linguistics. I had known the interviewee for one year prior to the
interview as a fellow part-time teacher in a local university.
My knowledge/perceptions of participant: I perceived T as someone who had
little time for ELT workshops or conferences.
My own self-perceptions/knowledge: I believe qualifications to have great
importance, though I do place value on non-EFL qualifications if applied to
teaching.
Table 7.4 Topics 1 and 2: beliefs about teachers with and without qualifications
First record
Reduced data: M said she usually doesn’t know whether other teachers
have qualifications or not. If she did, she might develop a “complex” and
“baggage.” Interestingly, she clearly differentiated between formal and informal
qualifications – the former as paper qualifications and the latter as experience
and the ability to empathize with students. She said she had respect for formal
qualification-holders but stressed that non paper-qualification holders often
intuitively know what it takes to be a good teacher. M also answered the second
topic by identifying four types of teachers: those with qualifications who
develop themselves; those who don’t; those with no qualifications who develop
themselves; and those who don’t.
Cuttings: none.
Interview discourse: We naturally discussed both topic 1 and 2. M had clear
views about these topics and expressed them confidently.
(continued)
102 J. Adamson
Second record
Interviewee: American female, early 50s. Native speaker, a teacher for more
than 20 years mostly in Japan but some early years were spent in Germany on
a US base. M has a Temple University Certificate in ELT and an MA in Japanese.
Interviewer: 42-year-old UK male, 20 years experience. Qualified as a Doctor
of Applied Linguistics. I had known the interviewee for one year prior to the
interview as a fellow part-time teacher in a local university.
My knowledge/perceptions of participant: I perceived M to be mostly interested
in teaching methodology. She helps organize local teaching workshops for a
national ELT association.
My own self-perceptions/knowledge: I believe qualifications to have great
importance, though I do place value on non-EFL qualifications if applicable to
teaching.
Table 7.5 Topic 2: beliefs about teachers without qualifications
First record
Reduced data: Gr stressed that there were too many highly-paid, yet unqualified
ELT teachers in Japan, especially on the JET* scheme. He suggested that the
Ministry of Education should use the finances allocated to the JET scheme to
send Japanese English teachers abroad to study English. The presence of so
many unqualified teachers in Japan downgrades the ELT profession, including
the salaries.
Cuttings: Gr mentioned that there were many literature majors in ELT who
lacked methodological awareness, especially in reading classes. Also, Japanese
students seem to respect teachers who employ a grammar-translation approach
(yakudoku) to teaching reading, yet qualified ELT teachers who employ a more
“communicative approach” can actually stimulate students more. There is, he
added, a “credibility gap” between “yakudoku teachers” and those who use a
more communicative approach, in the students’ eyes, since students tend to
regard “real English teaching” as focused upon grammar and vocabulary.
Interview discourse: The interview was held in my home. Gr spoke
confidently and, at times, slightly bitterly about his ELT teaching experiences
at university level. There was a good rapport between us during the interview
and he had clearly gathered his thoughts together before the interview.
Second record
Interviewee: Early 40s, Male, US, 10 years teaching experience in Japan, USA
and Thailand, MA in ELT.
Interviewer: 42-year-old UK male, 20 years experience. Qualified as a Doctor
of Applied Linguistics. I had known him only for about a month prior to the
interview.
Table 7.4 Continued
(continued)
Teacher Beliefs about Qualifications 103
My knowledge/perceptions of participant: I believed Gr to be very interested
in teaching methodology and knew he regularly attended conferences.
My own self-perceptions/knowledge: I believe qualifications to have great
importance, though I do place value on non-EFL qualifications if applied to
teaching.
* The Japan Exchange and Teaching (JET) scheme refers to the government initiative from
the late 1980s to the present to bring English-speaking graduates from any discipline from
outside of Japan to team-teach in Japanese schools.
The interviewees’ qualifications
This next question focused on the interviewees themselves and was
frequently supplemented by the follow-up question of why that qualifi-
cation had been taken and how useful it had proven to be. The interview
in Extract 7.1 with P in a coffee shop, may carry some resonance among
the increasing number of teachers in Japan wishing to take a career step
upwards into the college/university sector.
P’s answers, seen clearly in their co-constructed form, highlighted both
the pragmatic (“it was a gate-keeping step”) and the long-term objectives
of studying for the MA (“like a dialogue which makes the study more
grounded”). Other interviewees, notably F and A, also pinpointed the
job-enhancing possibilities which an MA may bring. A noted that a
“sensyu” qualification (the teaching qualification taken as part of an MA
course in Japan) was particularly useful for entry to college or university
employment. Gr however suggested that MA studies rarely involve
observed teaching and that methodological discussion alone on such
courses, although of use, is not sufficient to prove a teacher’s compe-
tence in classroom teaching.
Experience working with qualified and unqualified teachers
The responses to this question revealed that several teachers never
considered their colleagues’ qualifications when working with them.
F commented that a previous colleague, an American female unquali-
fied in ELT and who could not speak Japanese, constantly complained
about her students’ lack of English ability. H’s complaints focused on an
“arrogant” qualified ELT native-speaker teacher who suddenly left the
room during the recruitment interview without explanation. These critical
incidents with native-speaker teachers led both F and H to hold negative
views about foreigners in Japan who could not speak Japanese, and
qualified ELT native-speaker teachers respectively.
Table 7.5 Continued
104 J. Adamson
Various cuttings gathered for this topic were also insightful into the
speakers’ beliefs. P said that there was considerable anti-academic senti-
ment shown towards him by private language school management once
he had gained his MA. Gr complained that recruitment into Japanese
universities was not based on having relevant qualifications in ELT, and
was more a case of what “elite” university the candidate had attended.
He stressed that the “gate-keepers” (those in charge of recruitment into
the universities) were not qualified to take on such roles. T focused her
comments on Japanese teachers of English with no non-teaching work
experience, suggesting that they “live under a shadow.” This implied
that the “shadow” was akin to ignorance of the realities of other work-
ing contexts. T likened non-teaching work experience to real experi-
ences in life which should be considered as “qualifications” per se.
Teacher training courses: what they should teach for this context
This topic elicited several responses which pointed to the necessity of a
training course to prepare new teachers for their future working contexts,
both methodologically and culturally. H believed that foreign ELT teachers
should be instructed about Japanese culture and its economy (she recruited
teachers primarily for Business English teaching positions). One short
exchange with P raised the idea of adapting materials to local needs.
I: Do you have qualifications…in ELT, that is?
P: Yes, an MA in Linguistics from X University. I finished it in 2001.
I: I see. Was that full-time?
P: No, distance.
I: May I ask you why you did it?
P: ...well, it was a gate-keeping step, really…less a personal develop-
ment issue, more a professional one.
I: Oh right…
P: Yes, almost as soon as I got it, I got a job at X University.
I: Oh great…I see. And has the MA helped in your…holistic perspec-
tive of being a teacher?
P: …yes, sure. Yes, I always try to relate practical things to…theoretical
things..
I: I see.
P: …like a kind of dialogue which makes the study more grounded.
I: ...Ahhh, like applying theory to the classroom?
P: Umm, that’s right.
Extract 7.1 Topic 3: interview with P on his qualifications
(emphasis shown by italics)
Teacher Beliefs about Qualifications 105
The final point about country-specific training courses was echoed by
Gr, who explained how his Peace Corps training in ELT had taken place
in context, that is, in Thailand itself, where he was dispatched. This
taught him the value of sensitivity to Thai students and their values.
P noted that his pre-MA teaching experience made his MA study more
bearable since he could link theory to practice. On asking him how he
felt the MA had helped him in syllabus design, he replied: “We justify
by philosophy what we feel by nature. It gives you…the ammunition to
do what you want to do.”
Methodological superiority of the postgraduate-qualified
The overwhelming response to this question was that postgraduate
qualifications alone did not ensure that the holders had better teach-
ing ability than those with non-postgraduate qualifications. Of note, M
mentioned that postgraduate degree-holders in ELT “have experience of
going through courses themselves” but that such qualifications rarely
require classroom observation to assess that teacher. F clearly stated
that postgraduate qualifications are necessary to avoid “chaos” in the
educational system, continuing that it was more likely that an MA or
doctorate-holder would have more knowledge about teaching. H and Gr
concurred with this view by stating that MA-holders have more aware-
ness of methodology and lesson planning.
Throughout the responses, the concept of an “instinct” or “nature”
for teaching was frequently stated as being essential in combination
with a postgraduate qualification. In one exchange with P, I raised the
issue of the role of research into a teacher’s own working context, to
P: When planning a lesson with a text, it’s important to adapt lessons
to students.
I: Yes, a lot of teachers tend to reject the textbook.
P: I’m opposite to that. I believe even a bad textbook is better than
no textbook...because it provides a starting point.
I: I see, go on...
P: …because students and teachers share something. It’s how to
beat the standard of publishers’ textbooks.
I: I see..actually, I heard that X (Language School) has created a
Japan-specific certificate course.
P: Good idea…I mean experience in Taiwan and Japan is similar but
very different, for example, to South American students.
Extract 7.2 Interview with P on teacher training courses
106 J. Adamson
which he replied that “every class is unique” in that it possesses its own
“classroom culture,” a perspective he felt was rarely addressed in
postgraduate teacher training.
Hierarchies among teachers based on qualifications
There was great diversity of opinion on this topic, some respondents show-
ing a clear dislike of workplace-based hierarchies; for example, A said that
“any kind of hierarchy is unnecessary” since they “make teachers uncom-
fortable.” T claimed that no hierarchy existed among part-timers where she
worked as they simply had no time to create one. In slight contrast, M
believed that hierarchies should exist but not necessarily based on qual-
ifications alone, more in combination with experience and performance.
A firm advocate of hierarchies was H, who supported the idea of salaries
based upon qualifications and experience. Gr added that if a hierarchy
existed, it should be based on qualifications, but warned that if doctorate-
holders held positions of authority, then it did not necessarily mean that
they were better teachers than those below them in the hierarchy.
One recurrent sub-theme in discussions about hierarchies was that of
cliques, habatsu in Japanese, which often emerge within organizations.
Gr noted that at his university, cliques were formed based on nationality
and among the Japanese on their alma mater. One surprising finding
was seen in the following two extracts with F and A, who worked at the
same college.
I: Could you tell me a little about cliques, you know habatsu, and
hierarchies in your workplace?
F: There are no clique(s) here. Everyone the same. (indignant voice)
Extract 7.3 Interview with F
I: I’d like to talk a little about cliques, habatsu, and hierarchies at
your college, if you wouldn’t mind.
A: Well, (smiling)…you know I should not say bad things for your
interview. (attempts to cover the microphone with her hand)
Extract 7.4 Interview with A
The indignation was in contrast to the implication in Extract 7.4 with
A, that cliques did indeed exist in the college:
Teacher Beliefs about Qualifications 107
Self-development
The purpose of this question was to assess to what extent teacher
development after formal teacher training was embarked upon. Most
replied that they attended workshops and conferences throughout
the year, although not necessarily in the ELT field. Some were mem-
bers of national associations, and others were active in the regional
chapters of these associations helping to organize events. M, at the
time of the interview, was the Program Chair of her local chapter of a
large teaching association. She stressed that development for her took
the form of being a local organizer of events and also privately learn-
ing Japanese and local culture which helped her to “connect” more
with her students. Three Japanese (A, F, and H) mentioned that they
regarded “development” as taking the form of personal reflection about
their teaching rather than in collaborative post-observation feedback
sessions with other teachers. H added that she often talked to her stu-
dents after lessons for 15 to 20 minutes in order to receive feedback
from them about her teaching. Interestingly, M and P, both American,
spoke of the role of teacher-to-teacher talk and collegiality as a means
to develop their teaching methodologies, as well as to create a sense of
“community” in the staff rooms where they worked. P continued by
saying that the interview process with me also carried a certain thera-
peutic value which constituted a form of teacher development in itself.
In contrast, T liked to develop herself outside of ELT associations by
attending business conferences and seminars for women. Attendance
at ELT workshops and conferences had the effect of “turn(ing) her off a
little” to teaching.
Cuttings
The last collection of findings does not coherently fit into the interview
schedule, yet as argued by Wengraf (2002) and Adamson (2004), may
provide valuable insights into individual teachers’ beliefs. One primary
example of this occurred with S, when we were talking about career
development. It was originally eliminated from the findings because it
did not seem relevant to the research question, but was reintroduced
later, as it appeared to shape S’s beliefs regarding her role as a teacher.
This non topic-related talk appeared at first to be an irrelevant diver-
gence from the topic; however, there are clear insights into S’s perception
that there possibly existed male pressure at a higher institutional level
(“they”) for women in general and her in particular to play a more
108 J. Adamson
traditional role in society (“they think I should have children”) rather
than pursue research. T also alluded to issues of sexism at the workplace
by claiming that university management were of the belief that “she
doesn’t really need a proper job because she has a successful husband.”
Other significant cuttings came from H, who focused upon the clear
divide at her school between Japanese and foreign staff, complaining
that “foreigners look down on Japanese teachers.” M concurred with this
view and added that Japanese teachers of English “may have a complex”
regarding their language skills.
Conclusions
This small-scale study in a local Japanese ELT context has focused on
both the methodology of gathering and representing teacher beliefs
about their qualifications, and the beliefs themselves of my own col-
leagues. The interview-based approach is qualitative in nature and
has entailed the adaptation of Erickson’s (1996: 284) “ecological
frames,” extracts of both interviewer and interviewee talk, and “cut-
tings” (Adamson, 2004: 119) of previously discarded data in contextual
detail. This sociolinguistic depth to the interview findings shows teacher
beliefs in relation to their interview context and also to the known and
perceived backgrounds of both participants.
Fundamental to this highly contextualized representation of data is
the focus on the “co-construction” of talk (Jacoby & Ochs, 1995: 171) in
the interview process itself. It also entails the encouragement of off-topic
talk and a reflection upon what data should be reintegrated into the
findings, the “cuttings” normally discarded in data reduction.
Findings from this study show a variety of beliefs about ELT qualifica-
tions and those who possess them. They have informed me particularly
S: I am pressured to act like a traditional woman here…. but my
research requires me to have critical ….thinking.
I: What do you mean…. I mean, what is the relationship between
critical thinking and …
S: (interrupts) Ah yes, thinking, thinking, yes….(pauses to think)
I: Yes, critical thinking and traditional female roles?
S: ...I mean… they think I should have children, not be a researcher.
Also, I need to argue my opinion… for my research. (excitedly)
Extract 7.5 Interview with S on ELT career development
Teacher Beliefs about Qualifications 109
of the significance of “critical incidents” (Cowie, 2001: 234) in teachers’
lives in recruitment and how newly attained postgraduate qualifications
can be negatively perceived by colleagues. Beliefs towards ELT qualifi-
cations and those holding them range from the extreme of mere back-
ground statistic, to the other extreme in which they were regarded as the
primary factor in making workplace hierarchies and salary scales. There
was a clear divergence of views about the association between postgradu-
ate qualifications and methodological knowledge about teaching, some
strongly denying such a connection, whilst others believed there existed
some relationship. In findings about self-development, some teachers
relied purely on personal reflection about their teaching and research with
little interaction with others at work or with professional associations
about such issues, whilst others appeared to be very active, particularly
some full- and part-time American university teachers who attended, set
up, or even gave local workshops. Of some interest is the divergence in
perceptions about cliques existing within workplace hierarchies between a
Japanese college professor and a younger lecturer at the same institution.
110
8
‘Reconceptualizing’ Self as a
Teacher in a Malaysian Context
Rosemary Erlam and Susan Gray
Introduction
There has been widespread acknowledgement in the literature of the
fact that student teachers embark on professional training with a set
of preformed beliefs about teaching (Kagan, 1992; Velez-Rendon, 2006;
Walkington, 2005). These have developed from the “apprenticeship of
observation” (Lortie, 1975: 60) or their personal experience as consumers.
While these preconceived ideas about teaching may be what motivates
students to consider teaching as a profession (Walkington, 2005), they
may be so stable and inflexible (Calderhead & Robson, 1991, cited in
Kagan, 1992) that they serve as a filter to new information. This may
account for the widely documented fact that teacher education courses
tend not to change beliefs (Kagan, 1992; Velez-Rendon, 2006).
The profile of the beginning teacher
The core beliefs about teaching and being a teacher that pre-service
teachers bring to their pre-service programs constitute what Walkington
(2005) defines as teacher identity. As well as positive experiences with
teachers and teaching, Walkington (2005) believes that pre-service
teachers have a crucial belief in their own natural ability to be teachers.
In this respect, they have an imagined future and may well see them-
selves as part of what Kanno and Norton (2003) describe as an imagined
community, that is, a group of people with whom we connect through
the imagination.
Velez-Rendon (2006) points out that a key feature of the teacher
identity of a novice teacher is that he or she is more concerned about
the image they present to pupils than they are about either the teaching
“Reconceptualizing” Self as a Teacher 111
or learning that takes place in the classroom. Kagan (1992) emphasizes
the importance of novice teachers being able to adapt and reconstruct
their images of self as a teacher.
Prerequisites for growth as a pre-service teacher
For growth to occur, teachers need, as well as a strong sense of themselves
as teachers (Kagan, 1992), a context that will foster the creation of a
teaching identity. For Smagorinsky, Cook, Moore, Jackson, and Fry (2004),
identity is interwoven with context.
Growth will be facilitated, firstly, in a context in which there is tension
and cognitive dissonance. Kagan (1992) gives as an example of a context
which may lead to dissonance, that of an associate teacher whose beliefs
and practices are incongruent with those of the pre-service teacher. Such
a context will lead to the questioning of self and beliefs that is prereq-
uisite for growth. Smagorinsky, et al. (2004: 22) concludes that those
tensions that require a “socially contextualized intellectual resolution”
are facilitative of creating environments that lead to the “formation of
a satisfying teacher identity”.
In order for tension and cognitive dissonance to be facilitative of
growth, there is a need for contexts which acknowledge and allow for the
exploration of teacher beliefs. According to Tillema (1997), the first step
in promoting conceptual change is to validate the importance of beliefs
by giving teachers the chance to make them explicit. Through examining
their beliefs, pre-service teachers will have the opportunity to reflect on,
challenge, and adapt them (Walkington, 2005). An emphasis on self-
reflection and teacher cognition goes hand in hand with a shift from
product-oriented theories to constructivist process-oriented theories of
learning, teaching, and teacher-learning (Crandall, 2000). Teachers are to
construct their own knowledge, rather than have knowledge transmitted
to them.
There are a number of ways in which contexts which give teacher
trainees the chance to engage in self-reflection can be set up. Creating
opportunities for student teachers to interact and discuss with each
other is one. The potential of tension and cognitive dissonance as a
catalyst for growth has been mentioned above. Self-reflection can also
be facilitated through the creation of opportunities for narratives and
case studies. Crandall (2000) acknowledges the potential of the narrative
to represent the ways in which teachers organize and make sense of
the complexities of teaching. Another way in which self-reflection can
be fostered is through research (Walkington, 2005).
112 R. Erlam & S. Gray
As well as contexts which allow for cognitive dissonance, for self
reflection, and for the examination of belief systems, there is the
need for contexts that allow for the development of relationships. For
Smagorinsky, et al. (2004), “learning to teach is a process of construct-
ing identity in the midst of systems of relations” (p. 10). The pre-service
teacher is in a number of relationships which are important for the
growth of their teaching identity. The first of these is the relationship
they have with their teacher educators. The way that teacher educators
model their teaching has been acknowledged as an important influence
on student teachers (Lunenberg, Korthagen & Swennen, 2007). Another
relationship that is crucial for student teachers is the one they have with
their mentor teachers (Velez-Rendon, 2006). Mentor teachers who reflect
on their beliefs can foster the development of a questioning stance
towards teaching (Fieman-Nemser & Parker, 1992, cited in Walkington,
2005). Lastly the practicum experience gives student teachers the oppor-
tunity to interact with and acquire knowledge of pupils. This knowledge
is crucial in helping pre-service teachers shift the focus of attention from
self to pupil learning (Kagan, 1992).
In summary, the construction of a teacher identity is a key part of the
developmental process of the student teacher. Context is a key trigger
in this process. Tension is facilitative of this growth, as are those con-
texts where beliefs about teaching can be acknowledged and explored.
The relationships which student teachers are involved in, as they are
inducted into their chosen profession, are also essential in fostering the
development of a strong sense of self as a teacher. This chapter describes
a study which investigated the learning and development of a teaching
identity with respect to a group of pre-service teachers. A key focus of the
study was an investigation of the contexts which triggered this growth.
Methodology
This study was conducted at the beginning stage of a teacher education
program. It followed the development of 20 students during the first
course of a four-year Bachelor of Education in TESOL. All students in the
program were Malay and had just completed their secondary education,
which included passing A levels in English. They were recipients of a
Malaysian government scholarship. The first course, and the one on which
this study was based, was a residential orientation program conducted in
Malaysia. Immediately following the completion of this course, students
were to leave Malaysia to study at a New Zealand University for the next
three years. Their fourth year of study would be spent back in Malaysia.
“Reconceptualizing” Self as a Teacher 113
At the stage of the present study, students were attending a residential
program, prior to their departure for New Zealand, to fulfill the require-
ments of their first BEdTESOL course. This course, entitled “Classroom
Management and School Experience,” was designed to give students an
understanding of key issues and concepts relevant to the teaching of
English in a Malaysian context. It consisted of two key components: an
orientation and school experience. The orientation was a lecture program,
focusing on key aspects of classroom learning and teaching, and pre-
paring students for the second part of the course, two weeks in English
language classrooms in Malaysian schools. As part of the lecture program,
students designed observation schedules, focusing on key aspects of learn-
ing and teaching. They later completed these observation schedules in
classrooms as they observed their mentor teachers.
The lecture program of the course extended over a two-and-a-half week
period and focused, each day, on one aspect of teaching and/or learning
(11 topics in total). Students were given responsibility for their own learn-
ing as much as possible. They were encouraged to research a topic, discuss
findings in groups and present information to the rest of the class. They
worked in groups to design observation schedules that they could use in
the classroom to further investigate the topic, presenting the observation
schedule to the class and receiving feedback from their peers.
During the course students were instructed to keep journals/diaries.
They were told that keeping a journal would enable them to keep “a record
of [their] transition from student to teacher,” as they participated in
lectures and workshops and the school practicum. They were asked to
write at least four entries per week; journal entries would be for their use
only. At the beginning of the course they were given instructions as to how
and what to write (Hacker, 2004).
At four key points in the course students were instructed to write a
review of their journals. They were told that they were to look back over
the last week of journal entries and write a 500-word review outlining
what they thought were the key factors helping them in their transition
from student to beginning teacher. They were told that these reviews
would be collected and commented on by lecturers, but not used in
course assessment. These four journal reviews became the primary data
set for this study. Fifteen out of the 20 course participants gave signed
consent for their journal reviews to be used for research purposes.
As part of their course assessment, students also completed an essay
(worth 25% of the course grade) where they were asked to identify and
expand on four key themes in their journal entries and reviews that they
felt underpinned their transition from perceiving themselves as students to
114 R. Erlam & S. Gray
perceiving themselves as teachers. At the end of the course, when they had
taken up residence in New Zealand, six student teachers were arbitrarily
chosen from the top, middle and lower range of achievement (according
to course grades) to give a 30-minute interview. Questions required them
to describe and reflect on the learning that they thought they had done
over the period of the course. The essays and the interview became the
secondary data set for this study and allowed for triangulation of data.
Data analysis
The two researchers involved in this study took an inductive orientation
to the open coding of data (Ellis & Barkhuizen, 2005). They first read
over the whole data set and then met to discuss the coding process that
they would use in order to answer two key questions:
What do student teachers report they are learning?
What is triggering this learning?
Coding was developed in relation to each of these two categories, that
is, student learning and triggers of learning. For example, in reading
the data, the researchers identified that student teachers mentioned
“learning about self” and “gaining new understanding of the role of the
teacher,” which were coded as L/S and L/Rt respectively. Triggers identi-
fied at this stage included, “reflection on past experience” (T/Rp) and
“class participation” (T/Part).
Researchers met on a regular basis to discuss and refine coding accord-
ing to needs they had identified. As a result of these ongoing meetings,
a comprehensive coding system was developed. Researchers then coded
the whole data set independently. Then they met and discussed key
themes that they had independently identified as emerging from the
data, as they looked for answers to the questions of what and how students
were learning in the transition process from student to student teacher.
After a discussion of these key themes, they returned to the data to again
look for evidence that corroborated their conclusions. They also used the
secondary data set, the interviews, and essays, to verify conclusions that
they had made with their primary data.
Findings
Contrary to expectations, the researchers found that the student teach-
ers involved in this study varied considerably with respect to having
“Reconceptualizing” Self as a Teacher 115
a strong sense of self as teachers (Kagan, 1992). This was immediately
apparent with respect to motivation; while all teacher educators teach
groups of students with different motivations to teach, in this case the
diversity was even more pronounced. A number of the student teachers
had been enticed by the attractive incentive of generous government
scholarships for overseas study. At the first class, these students’ reluctance
was soon apparent: “Why do we have to do this course?” “Why can’t we
go to New Zealand now?” Others, it later became apparent from the jour-
nal reviews, had a limited or negative view as to what teaching entailed.
Only a small number began with what Walkington (2005) defines as a
teacher identity, evidenced by an early commitment to embrace teaching
as a vocation and a belief in a natural ability to teach. Given that this was
the case, the role of the teacher educators was to create a context that
could lead to the formation of a satisfying teacher identity (Smagorinsky,
et al., 2004). This would enable some students to discover whether teach-
ing was a future that they could see for themselves. It would enable others
to develop a more realistic view of what teaching entailed. It is important
to note that, for the most part, the teacher educators (who were also the
researchers) only became aware retrospectively, as they read journal
reviews, of the fact that students did not have a strong sense of self as
teachers. In this respect, they did not do anything other than proceed
with the teaching program they had initially planned.
After describing the student teachers’ varying levels of initial com-
mitment, the following sections will demonstrate how, while students
may have started at different points, they all recontextualized over the
duration of the course:
(a) what the role of the teacher entailed;
(b) the nature of the pupil–teacher relationship; and finally,
(c) came to see themselves as teachers.
The key triggers identified by the student teachers as assisting in this
reconceptualization were:
(d) reflecting on their learning in their journals, and
(e) relationships with lecturers and school mentors.
The importance, therefore, of contexts which allowed both for the crea-
tion of cognitive dissonance (Kagan, 1992) and the forming of “systems of
relations” (Smagorinsky, et al., 2004: 10), against which student teachers’
beliefs could be investigated and challenged, are thus explored.
116 R. Erlam & S. Gray
Students’ preliminary responses in describing their transition from
student to student teacher of a language highlighted their initial feelings
about seeing themselves as future teachers. The 15 of the 20 students
who chose to participate in the study could be divided into three
groups. The first group (n ⫽ 5) seemed reluctant or ambivalent (S1, 5, 9,
11, 12). A number were, after the lecture on motivation, honest enough
to share that they realized that their principal motivation had been
the opportunity for overseas study: “To be honest, I never liked that
idea of becoming a teacher and started only with extrinsic motivation
when I first came here. However, the classes I had since the first day
have somehow motivated me intrinsically to become a teacher” (S5 R1).1
Others remarked, quite realistically, on their lack of readiness and shared
their apprehension: “Fear, anxiety, anticipation, hope, and lots of other
things mixed up, making me a horrible wreck till I felt that I’m not
ready enough to pursue my ambition” (S9 R1). Over the duration of
the course, however, they reconceptualized what teaching entailed and
came to see a teaching future for themselves: “I no longer regret being
in [the residential orientation program], or being a student teacher,
most definitely taking the pleasure in the phase of becoming an emerging
teacher” (S1 R4).
The initial comments of the second group (S2, 6, 7, 8, 10) were char-
acterized by observations that teaching represented an unattractive
future. In their minds it was an unchallenging and potentially mun-
dane job. The following comment highlights this fear: “I’m starting
to see teaching in a new light. In one of my entries, I mentioned how
I used to think that teaching was probably a very boring and dull profes-
sion since the only changes are on students’ faces” (S8 R2). During the
course, this group, too, reconceptualized what teaching might entail,
with comments such as the following typical at the end of the school
experience: “Teaching can be a very fulfilling and wonderful job” (S2 R3).
The third group (S3, 4, 13, 14, 15) seemed already to have a sense of self
as teacher. This was inferred by the fact that they did not question their
commitment or reveal doubts about it in their writing and that they
reiterated their dedication to their choice of vocation: “I become con-
vinced that teaching is what I REALLY want to do and I will NEVER trade
it for any other jobs” (S3 R3).
Although all the students began with different levels of commitment
and anxiety about their ability to become teachers, over the course they
each came to construct a student-teacher identity as they questioned
and reconceptualized their initial beliefs about what the role of the
teacher entailed and the nature of the student–teacher relationship.
“Reconceptualizing” Self as a Teacher 117
Initial impressions of teaching as an easy and dull job seemed to be
dispelled as students realized what happened backstage and reconceptu-
alized their ideas about the role of the teacher. They were quite quickly
struck by the complexity and richness of the roles they noticed that
teachers played. Below are some of the comments they made:
…effective teaching requires “rigorous mental and physical prepara-
tion” (S9 R1).
“It is fascinating how teachers’ work does not stop at teaching the
learners the contents of the syllabus. Teachers have the responsibility
to motivate learners” (S10 R1).
“[a] teacher has to be alert in noticing the students’ need and inter-
est” (S5 R4).
“I also learnt that to become a great teacher, I must know how to
converse with the students in a way that they are most comfortable
with” (S5 R2).
The student teachers also realized that a teacher’s role was not con-
fined to pedagogy but could include a pastoral aspect: “A teacher is also
the motivator, the counselor, the planner, and even a parent to students
who sometimes don’t even appreciate the effort put forth by them”
(S9 R1). As the student teachers reconceptualized the role of the teacher,
they appreciated and wrote about some of the attributes that teachers
need. For example, teachers need to be: “firm but approachable” (S13 R4);
self-confident: “It is important for the teacher to be confident with herself
for the students to have confidence in her” (S6 R2); adaptable: “Teachers
have to be adaptable to the situation and being able to alter their plan if
it does not go the way it is expected” (S4 R1); and creative, “Teachers also
have to be creative to ensure that students do not lose interest in the
lesson” (S12 R4).
Understanding the complexity of the role of the teacher helped the
student teachers appreciate the significance of teaching for students
and society. One student discussed at length how teachers’ work con-
tributed to building the nation (S7 R3). As the considerable responsi-
bilities of teaching dawned on these student teachers, they realized that
teachers must be reflective practitioners and that their own learning
about teaching had only just begun. The following comment was indic-
ative of many as they realized with some anticipation that learning
would underpin the rest of their professional lives: “I am also interested
118 R. Erlam & S. Gray
in the importance of self-reflection to teachers, as I myself think that
learning to be a teacher does not stop the moment we graduate from
our teaching course, but rather a life-long process that is continuous”
(S10 R1).
Just as the complexity of the roles that teachers assume came as
a revelation to the student teachers, so did understanding of what
constituted the student–teacher relationship. They came to see how
the quality of the student–teacher relationship impacted on student
learning and as a result understood the satisfaction that this relation-
ship could hold. They wrote about “a strong bond between teachers
and students” (S12 R4) and the potential of what could be achieved
when students and teachers worked together: “...[o]ne who helps to
accomplish their goals even if they are beyond the students’ imagina-
tions such as wanting to have good command of English like a native”
(S1 R1). During the school experience they were able to witness the
student–teacher relationship in action and understand more deeply
the rewards that such engagement brought for their mentor teachers:
“They revealed that what motivated them to keep teaching, which can
be summed up as the teacher–student bond and the satisfaction in
knowing that they had made a difference in their students’ lives” (S2
R3). The student teachers understood too how their pupils can animate
the life of a teacher:
[T]yping this out makes me realize why those who initially dislike teach-
ing would then come to love it and decide to stay on teaching – the
students. Every year teachers have new students coming in, so the life
of a teacher is never boring. (S3 R4)
Having begun to grasp the complexity of the role of the teacher and
the demands and rewards of the student–teacher relationship, all the
students, despite initial reluctance, started envisioning futures for them-
selves as teachers. In constructing/reconstructing a teaching identity
they identified attributes that they needed to acquire, drew on both past
and future perspectives, rehearsed the roles and routines of teachers,
and adopted what they saw as a teacher’s way of thinking. They thus set
their own demanding agendas for personal change in the service of the
students they imagined they would teach. They reminded themselves
that they would need to “recruit a personal space for a teacher’s coura-
geous spirit inside of me to evolve” (S1 R1), to “make as much sacrifices
as I can” (S11 R4), “face my challenges and obstacles in my own learn-
ing, only then can I inspire others to learn” (S14 R4).
“Reconceptualizing” Self as a Teacher 119
Critical to seeing themselves as teachers was the opportunity to
observe and rehearse the roles and routines of teachers during the
school experience. The school experience gave them the opportunity
to participate in the quotidian of a teaching life. As one wrote: “The
associate teachers are like my colleagues, the students, the routines, go to
school, teach, then come back home. All of these help me prepare myself
in becoming a teacher in the future” (S6 R3). One student observed with
a certain amount of pride: “I have begun to adopt a teacher’s way of
thinking, finding solutions to problems instead of panicking about it”
(S10 R4).
The student teachers in this study reconceptualized, as has been
demonstrated, their understanding of teaching; many of them also
reconceptualized their image of themselves and came to imagine a future
for themselves as teachers. A key trigger in this process, it can be argued,
was the tension and cognitive dissonance that Kagan (1992) argues is
facilitative of growth. For some of the students in this study there was
an inner tension between what they wanted (the opportunity to live and
study overseas) and what had been chosen for them (a career as a teacher).
For most of the students, the rethinking that they did with respect to key
issues such as the role of the teacher and the student–teacher relation-
ship was evidence of an initial belief system that needed revision as it no
longer accorded with their new learning. Some students also identified a
tension between their current learning and their knowledge and experi-
ence of the Malaysian education system. A number, for example, referred
to the way in which the national exam shapes teaching and learning,
others to the censorship that there is of material included in textbooks.
Some students saw themselves as mediating change in Malaysia: “I will
perhaps mediate the Asian and Western values in the English language
teaching” (S9 R1).
Growth was also facilitated by a context that allowed students the
possibility to first make their beliefs explicit and then to reflect upon
and explore them. In this study, the requirement that students keep a
journal gave them the opportunity they needed to make sense of the
complexities of teaching (Crandall, 2000). This was a requirement that
was at first met with some reluctance: “So writing journals seems almost
impossible. However it’s a liability thrust upon me, hence I will take
it with an open arm, even if not necessarily with an open heart” (S1 R1).
As students became more used to the routine of writing a journal, how-
ever, they acknowledged its usefulness. The same student acknowledged
the journal was a safer context for the exploration of ideas than the
classroom: “As I’m becoming more accustomed to journal review ritual,
120 R. Erlam & S. Gray
it’s apparent that I’ve managed to create my own personal space to let
loose some of my interests on the controversial edge of things which is
unlikely to happen in the classroom” (S1 R2). Writing in their journals
also allowed students to make sense of what happened in the classroom:
“I find it very useful because not only does it help me to reflect on what
I learned from the lectures…” (S3 R1). It allowed them the opportunity
to explore ideas that they had come across in their reading: “writing
journals as I go along in the process of learning to be a teacher is very
helpful for me as I got to highlight on different perspectives that the
writers had on the arts of teaching” (S10 R1). Lastly, and arguably most
importantly, journal writing was a forum for students to reflect upon
their past experiences of the teaching process. They used it to make
sense of their past teachers’ actions in light of theories they were currently
learning about: “now I have grasped the connotation my teacher was
trying to imply whenever she repeated my statement!” (S1 R2).
Contexts that allowed for the development of relationships were also
important in fostering the development of a teaching identity in this
study. Firstly, the relationship between the students and their teacher
educators was important in that it provided a model of a student–teacher
relationship that students found inspiring: “It takes two to tango. Look
at how Miss R and the rest of us had established such a great relation-
ship” (S1 R1). This relationship also encouraged students to believe that
a future for them as a teacher was possible: “when Miss R. extended her
gratitude by commenting that I shall be a good and supportive teacher...
that was the turning point” (S1 R1). Equally important was the rela-
tionship with associate teachers who treated them as teachers; this
experience of being treated as an equal was fundamental in confirming
their identity as student teachers: “it started off with me being invited
to my associate teacher homeroom meeting...They received me with
open arms and accepted my presences as ‘Sis’” (S9 R4). Finally, school
placements also allowed the student teachers to develop relationships
with pupils. The growing understanding that the students developed of
the potential rewards of this relationship has already been discussed.
One student teacher wrote about “the aura of inspiration” (S1 R4) that
her pupils rewarded her with.
Conclusion
In summary, this chapter has presented a small glimpse of a group of
student teachers at the very beginning stages of their teacher education
program. It concludes that while a number of these students came to the
“Reconceptualizing” Self as a Teacher 121
course with a rather uninspiring view of teaching as a profession, the
opportunity to discover that the role of the teacher was much more com-
plex and multifaceted than they had initially imagined enabled them
to see for themselves, as prospective teachers, a future that enthused
them. Furthermore, the opportunity to reappraise their understanding
of, and more completely understand, the challenges and rewards of the
student–teacher relationship was also key to the growing development
of their identity as teachers. This learning was critically underpinned by
contexts in which they were able to investigate their beliefs and develop
key relationships. The requirement that they keep journals allowed them
a safe forum for the conscious discovery of, and reflection upon, their
beliefs, while the relationships that they developed with their teacher edu-
cators and their mentor teachers gave them a model of the student–teacher
relationship that inspired them. Finally, in their school placements they
had an opportunity to see and experience first-hand the rewards of the
student–teacher relationship.
To conclude, the learning that has been described above was the
initial stage of the transition process that this group of students made
from student of a language to student teacher of that language, a process
during which a number of them crucially constructed an identity for
themselves as teachers.
Acknowledgements
We are indebted to the students who participated so willingly and shared
so openly. We are also grateful for the opportunity to be involved in the
pre-service program on which this study is based.
Note
1. S5, R1 refers to Student 5 writing in their first journal review.
This page intentionally left blank
Part C
Innovating Teaching
Methodology in Asia
124
Introduction to Part C
Theron Muller
As we’ve hopefully already established in the Introduction to the volume
and in the first two Parts of the book, outlining aspects of the Asian
context and investigating the beliefs of those based in those contexts,
Asia is far too big for us to be able to capture the full variety between
and within national contexts in one book, or even in a series of books.
We do hope, though, that we’ve successfully demonstrated at least some
of the ways Asia differs from Western countries and contexts. It’s to this
difference between the Asian EFL context and other ESL contexts that
I would like to steer your attention now.
The dominance of the West, particularly the UK and even more so the
US, in development and dissemination of theory and practice is fairly well
described and understood across a range of disciplines, as summarized
in Belcher (2007). The unfortunate truth is that the dominant jour-
nals and scholars at the center of power tend to take a theory-driving
and theory-creating perspective, limiting non-dominant countries and
contexts to theory-testing and affirming (Lillis & Curry, 2006). However,
having established the uniqueness of the Asian context in the previous
chapters, the difficulty of exporting theory and practice from the West to
the East becomes particularly apparent. While I’m certainly not the first
person to have pointed this out (see Burrows, 2008 and Klein, Klein, &
Mumaw, 2001 for specific examples), what we hope to do in this section is
outline some compelling examples of methodology adaption to the Asian
context. While these don’t necessarily represent new theories or methodol-
ogies in their own right, my hope is that they go some way to bridging the
gap between methodology as expressed in dominant countries and their
publications and the classroom contexts of language educators in Asia.
In some ways I hope this chapter serves as an answer to Yeh’s (2005)
concerns, who wrote of how Taiwanese and Korean students doing
their postgraduate studies in the US formed a support group in order
to help the participants come to understand how the information they
were learning could be applied upon return to their home countries.
In teacher accounts from that research, the participants felt frustration
that their concerns regarding the classroom contexts of their home
countries weren’t engaged or discussed in their seminar classes, despite
the students from Asian countries outnumbering students from the US
on the program (Yeh, 2005). If this section serves to help such teachers
struggling to apply concepts of EFL to their classrooms, then it will have
been successful.
Additionally, within Asia there have been questions of the appropriate-
ness of communicative language teaching for classrooms (Burrows, 2008),
particularly in light of Hofstede’s (1986) classification of Asian students
as passive, preferring to defer to their teachers. The fact that these criticisms
are ongoing, despite accounts of Asian students’ expressed preference for
more interactive classes (Littlewood, 2000), highlights how the perception
of new methodologies as incompatible with national contexts is itself a
barrier to curriculum reform. Palmer and Chodidjah’s chapter in Part A
hopefully helps to add to the evidence that curriculum reform in Asia is
indeed practical, as she explains how teachers in Indonesia were eager to
engage in professional development, and welcomed the opportunity to
reflect upon and improve their practice. Part C expands on that theme by
illustrating how other teachers in Asia have implemented methodological
adaptations and investigations in their classrooms.
By no means do I think that the accounts of methodology in this
Part will prove to be definitive, except in the sense that I hope they
give voice to how teacher-researchers based in Asia have come to terms
with their contexts and have interpreted the vast body of knowledge
disseminated from Western contexts to make it relevant to their own
local environments.
Wendy Lam opens Part C with an analysis of strategy teaching and
its effectiveness with low-proficiency learners, contrasting strategies they
benefit from with strategies more advanced learners tend to use. Next,
Philip Shigeo Brown describes his implementation of a vocabulary
learning strategies program at a medical university in Japan. He explains
how he ultimately balanced his desire to pass on as many strategies as
possible with the need for his students to have sufficient time to come
to understand, use, and hopefully master those strategies. This need for
slower pacing may be a hallmark of the EFL context, where students have
considerably less exposure to the language than in ESL contexts. Finally,
Theron Muller and Mark de Boer share our ideas regarding scaffolding
Introduction to Part C 125
of language tasks in the classroom, examining how the rigid, formulaic
kind of language scaffolding described in research such as Mochizuki and
Ortega (2008) influences learner language during a task, and comparing
that to dynamic scaffolding which emerges through linguistic need.
We hope Part C offers you a glimpse into the potential for successful
classroom implementation of new methodologies and encouragement
that obstacles to change, when properly understood, can become tools
to help implement change, as demonstrated by Brown’s adjustment of
his curriculum to his students’ needs in chapter 10. We hope to make
it clear that researchers shouldn’t forget that the objective of language
education is to promote learner ability and not to generate quantita-
tive constructs from student production, a learning process I describe in
chapter 11, and a point Pallotti (2009) makes rather eloquently.
We hope you find the chapters in this Part informative, and that
they represent part of a conversation that will continue throughout the
discourse of the profession, in Asia and beyond.
126 T. Muller
127
9
Promoting Strategy Teaching as an
Innovative Practice in the Asian
EFL Oral Classroom
Wendy Y. K. Lam
Introduction
Developing learners’ oral skills is particularly daunting to English as a
foreign language (EFL) teachers in Asia, where English does not have
immediate social and communicative functions within the community
where it is learned and speaking is often neglected in EFL classrooms.
In view of this, this chapter proposes oral communication strategy
teaching as an innovative practice to promote teaching speaking skills
in Asia and beyond.
Oral communication strategies and strategy
teaching research
Communication strategies are defined as conscious thoughts or actions
taken to solve oral communication problems and to keep a conversa-
tion going despite linguistic deficiencies on the part of the speaker
(Griffiths, 2008).
To date, very few empirical studies have been conducted to examine
the impact of oral strategy instruction in the second language (L2)
classroom. Rossiter (2003) reports the effects of communication strategy
instruction on strategy use and L2 performance with adult immigrants
in Canada. While the findings indicated a direct effect in favor of the
communication strategy condition on a range of strategies used in an oral
description task, strategy training appeared to have little overall impact on
learner task performance. Kawai (2008) implemented task-based instruc-
tion for EFL oral discussion in a Japanese university. Participants were
taught strategies to facilitate oral interaction and given a list of gener-
ally useful expressions for practice. The findings suggested that strategy
128 W. Y. K. Lam
instruction for group discussions in English was effective in enhancing
student participation in oral interactions. So far, the studies reviewed
have not considered whether proficiency level makes a difference to the
effects of strategy teaching. The relationship between strategy use and
proficiency level is complex; Griffiths (2008) showed that higher-level
students reported more frequent use of two speaking strategies (talking
to others in English and talking to native speakers of English) than lower-
level students.
As Chamot (2008: 275) puts it, “strategy intervention research has taken
a back seat,” which calls for more studies of strategy instruction inter-
ventions. Similarly, Hassan, Macaro, Mason, Nye, Smith, & Vanderplank
(2005: 3) summarize, for speaking ability: “instructing learners to use
certain strategies appears successful but the evidence is not compelling
(small number of studies, varied relevance, varied reliability).” In fact,
strategy training is still unknown in many EFL classrooms in the Asian
context and the response to oral communication strategy teaching has
been mixed (Cohen & Macaro, 2007). The present study, therefore, aims
to address the research gap by conducting an evaluation of a strategy
instruction intervention in a Hong Kong English classroom.
The study
On the basis of communication strategies tried in previous studies
(Lam, 2004), eight strategies based on Kormos (2006) that might enable
learners to overcome potential oral communication problems were
targeted for teaching in this study. They included:
1. Resourcing, where the speaker uses ideas and structures provided in
the task instruction sheet to help them.
2. Paraphrasing, where the speaker uses vocabulary of similar meaning
to express themselves when they cannot think of the right word.
3. Using fillers, where the speaker uses empty words such as “well,” “you
know,” and “actually” to gain time to think.
4. Using self-repetition, where the speaker repeats what they have said to
gain time to think.
5. Using self-correction, where the speaker corrects any mistakes they
hear themselves make.
6. Asking for repetition, where the speaker asks their interlocutor(s) to repeat
what they say.
7. Asking for clarification, where the speaker asks their interlocutor(s) to
clarify what they say.
Strategy Teaching in the Asian EFL Oral Classroom 129
8. Asking for confirmation, where the speaker asks their interlocutor(s)
to confirm what they mean.
Two research questions shaped the inquiry:
What was the impact of strategy instruction on high- and low-
proficiency learners’ quantity and quality of strategy use?
What was the impact of strategy instruction on high- and low-
proficiency learners’ language use during group discussion tasks?
Research design
Forty students aged 13–14 in two intact secondary EFL classes (20
students each) of comparable English ability in Hong Kong (China)
participated in the study. One class was randomly assigned as the
treatment class (T) and the other class the comparison class (C). Non-
parametric tests were employed to assign the 20 students in each class
into three high-proficiency groups and two low-proficiency groups,
with four members in each group. The teachers of both classes possessed
similar academic and professional qualifications and teaching experi-
ence (Lam, 2004).
The intervention study involved a total of eight English oral lessons
spread over five months (i.e., week 1 to week 20) for each of the two
classes. Each lesson lasted 1 hour and 20 minutes. During the oral lessons,
both classes engaged in a variety of group discussion tasks. The T class
received explicit strategy training (Chamot, 2008) in the use of the eight
target strategies to facilitate oral communication whereas the C class
did not.
Methodology
As learner production during L2 oral tasks is often the outcome of
complex cognitive processes, where they have to determine what words
to use and what syntactic patterns to employ (Kormos, 2006), in order
to answer the first research question it was necessary to capture those
mental processes. Stimulated recall interviews were chosen as instruments
as they are likely to reveal students’ actual strategic thoughts (Gass &
Mackey, 2000). In stimulated recall, students are videotaped while
performing the task, then the interviewer plays back the videotape,
pausing as necessary, and asking students to describe their thoughts at
specific moments during the task (Chamot, 2008). One high-proficiency
•
•
130 W. Y. K. Lam
group and one low-proficiency group from each of the T and C classes
were randomly selected to do a ten-minute English group discussion
task outside normal class hours in weeks 1, 10, and 20. The same groups
were invited each time. Immediately after the task, both groups (eight
students in total) were interviewed individually, following a methodology
similar to Gass and Mackey (2000). A total of 48 individual stimulated
recall interviews were conducted during the course of the research. Each
interview was analyzed for strategy use by two independent coders who
identified, coded, and counted strategies reported by the students.
To answer the second research question, on the influence of strategy
instruction on learning, all of the groups in the T class and the C class
were asked to carry out one English discussion task during normal class
hours in weeks 1, 10, and 20. All performances were audiotaped, making
30 recordings of about eight minutes each altogether. Four English
language teachers were asked to independently assess each group record-
ing with respect to English proficiency, which included such measures
as pronunciation, vocabulary use, and fluency (Lam, 2004). The rating
was done on a six-point scale (1 ⫽ very weak; 6 ⫽ very good).
Findings
In Table 9.1, target strategies, non-target strategies, and non-strategies
constitute 100% of all the coded segments. The proportional frequency
(%) of each of the eight target strategies is the raw frequency of the
target strategy in relation to the total number of coded segments. Each
cell represents the total count of one group (four students) in each
class. Five out of the eight target strategies (using self-repetition, using
self-correction, asking for repetition, asking for clarification, asking for
confirmation) were sparsely reported and are not included. Only the
results of the three more frequently reported strategies are presented:
resourcing, paraphrasing, and using fillers.
Table 9.1 indicates that only the low-proficiency (L) students in
the T class demonstrated consistent increases (8.4%, 26.4%, 44.8%)
in the proportional frequency of the target strategies listed; neither
their high-proficiency (H) counterparts in the T class nor their low-
proficiency counterparts in the C class displayed increasing use of the
strategies. Moreover, only the low-proficiency students in the T class
showed sustained and substantial increases (5.6%, 21.6%, 22.4%) in the
reporting of resourcing. The small sample size, three high-proficiency
groups and two low-proficiency groups, did not permit statistical tests
for significance.
131
Table 9.1 Raw frequencies and proportional frequencies (%) of reported use of individual target strategies by proficiency
Proficiency
level
Strategy
Raw frequencies Proportional frequencies (%)
C class T class C class T class
1 10 20 1 10 20 1 10 20 1 10 20
Resourcing H 3 1 3 1 8 3 6.6 3.6 9.5 2.8 19.2 8.4
L 1 5 0 2 9 8 2.2 18.0 0.0 5.6 21.6 22.4
Paraphrasing H 13 0 11 3 3 5 28.6 0.0 34.8 8.4 7.2 14.0
L 4 4 3 1 0 3 8.8 14.4 9.5 2.8 0.0 8.4
Using fillers H 2 0 0 0 2 1 4.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.8 2.8
L 0 0 0 0 1 2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.4 5.6
Aggregated frequency* H 18 3 14 4 13 10 39.6 10.8 44.3 11.2 31.2 28.0
L 5 9 3 3 11 16 11.0 32.4 9.5 8.4 26.4 44.8
* Denotes the total count of all the eight target strategies including those not shown.
132 W. Y. K. Lam
Regarding resourcing, apart from quantity of strategy use, further
analyses were conducted to examine whether there were any qualita-
tive differences between the T and the C class in using resourcing and
whether proficiency made a difference. First, the findings show that
both high- and low-proficiency students in both the T and C classes
reported in the stimulated recall interviews that the two pages of notes
provided by the teacher had served as useful hints to help them with
the discussions. All students, regardless of whether they had received
explicit strategy instruction, displayed awareness of the usefulness of
resourcing as a strategy to help them in Week 1.
It is, nonetheless, striking to see in the interviews that only the low-
proficiency students in the T class demonstrated evidence of their ability
to think back and assess how well they had spoken. They attributed their
success to the use of resourcing in Weeks 10 and 20. Examples include:
“I felt that was my best sentence because I was able to use the phrase
from the notes” (Student A, Class T, Week 10); “...Um actually the reason
why I was able to say all those reasons accurately and fluently was that
they were in the notes” (Student B, Class T, Week 20). Moreover, only
low-proficiency students in the T class described two conditions con-
ducive to the use of resourcing: understanding words/meanings in the
notes (comprehension) and being able to pronounce words/phrases in
the notes (production). One student, for example, reported: “I could
understand the words in the notes…I therefore used the suggestion to
say something because I knew how to say the words out” (Student C,
Class T, Week 20).
Regarding the impact of strategy instruction on strategy use, strategy
instruction appeared to influence the strategy use of the low-proficiency
students. They showed increases in the aggregated frequency of the
use of the eight target strategies, particularly resourcing. Moreover,
they demonstrated an ability to reflect in the latter two interview
sessions on their own performance and on conditions conducive to
effective strategy use.
In answer to the question of the impact of strategy instruction on
language use, ratings on English proficiency are set out in Table 9.2.
In that table, H represents the mean rating of the three high-proficiency
groups and L the two low-proficiency groups in each class. The inter-rater
reliability coefficient was .899.
Table 9.2 shows that only the low-proficiency students in the T class
made consistent increases in their scores. This seems to support the
notion that strategy instruction had a positive influence on the low-
proficiency students’ language use in task performance. It should, however,
Strategy Teaching in the Asian EFL Oral Classroom 133
be reiterated that the use of the small sample size (five groups) did not
permit tests for statistical significance.
Discussion and pedagogic implications
Overall, strategy teaching seemed to associate with low-proficiency learn-
ers reporting more target strategy use compared with high-proficiency
students and students who did not receive strategy instruction. This sup-
ports Faucette’s (2001) proposal that communication strategies would
serve as excellent means for less proficient learners to have the tools
to maintain conversation, resulting in the opportunity to receive more
language input and improve their speaking ability.
Specifically, strategy instruction appeared to enhance the use of
resourcing, or strategic use of information provided in the task instruc-
tion sheet, by less proficient EFL speakers. Given that low-proficiency
learners lack linguistic resources, resourcing could help them resolve
these deficits by providing the needed vocabulary and structures (Kormos,
2006), corroborating Takeuchi’s (2003) conclusion that use of strategies
is helpful in increasing linguistic resources or promoting utilization of
required resources with the less proficient learners.
As for the more proficient speakers, while they also deploy resourcing,
they are in a better position to combine it with other strategies which
are not frequently used by less proficient learners. Hence, it is likely that,
having done the task twice (in Week 1 and in Week 10), the high-
proficiency learners might not have found resourcing effective and challeng-
ing enough to use it again in Week 20. Also, they might have suffered
because of inadequate time allocated to the teaching and consolidation of
more demanding strategies such as paraphrasing and self-correction that
require higher language ability on the part of the user than is required
by resourcing. Hence, their overall increase in strategy use was not that
Table 9.2 Mean ratings (on a 6-point scale) on English group discussion tasks
English scores (6 ⫽ highest; 1 ⫽ lowest)
Week 1 Week 10 Week 20
Class Ability Mean SD Mean SD Mean SD
C H 3.42 0.79 3.00 0.71 3.33 0.65
L 2.88 0.99 3.13 0.82 2.88 0.83
T H 3.67 0.49 3.55 0.63 2.92 0.90
L 1.88 0.64 2.14 0.46 2.88 1.25
134 W. Y. K. Lam
consistent (11.2%. 31.2%, 28.0%) over time as compared with that of the
less proficient students (8.4%, 26.4%, 44.8%).
It has so far been reported that in this study strategy instruction
associated with higher strategy use and increased use of resourcing
by the low-proficiency students as compared to their high-proficiency
counterparts. These consistent increases could account for the low-
proficiency students making greater improvements in performance.
During stimulated recall, only the low-proficiency students reported
enhanced reflective ability for language performance, which may further
explain their more marked improvement when compared to their high-
proficiency counterparts.
Notwithstanding the limitations of this small-scale study, this research
seems to indicate that low-proficiency students can benefit from strat-
egy instruction in junior secondary oral communication classrooms in
Hong Kong and perhaps in other similar EFL contexts. As several contexts
in Asia characteristically include low-proficiency learners, explicitly
teaching oral communication strategies may assist those learners to
better express themselves successfully in the classroom. In particular,
resourcing appeared to be a preferred strategy, perhaps because using
task notes is not linguistically demanding, as learners only need to
borrow vocabulary and structures directly from the notes to help them
with speech production.
In addition, the stimulated recall interviews seem to indicate that
low-proficiency learners were able to make strategic use of the task
notes when conditions were favorable, such as when they were able to
understand the words and meanings in the notes and pronounce them
accurately.
Last but not least, as Rabab’ah (2005) argues, there are good reasons
for raising consciousness of oral communication strategies via strategy
teaching, as their use can lead to learning, help conversations continue,
and enable learners to solve communication problems. Yet, to enhance
teaching effectiveness and ensure sustainable results, longer-term strategy
teaching is recommended (Cohen & Macaro, 2007). This may explain
why only a handful of the strategies introduced were used by the students
in this study.
10
Innovating a Vocabulary Learning
Strategies Program
Philip Shigeo Brown
Two fields have been gaining increasing attention in the learning and
teaching English as a foreign and second language literature: vocabulary
and learning strategies. Where they overlap is represented by the grow-
ing field of vocabulary learning strategies (VLS) (Nation, 2001). Recent
findings indicate that integrated VLS instruction can lead to signifi-
cantly improved vocabulary performance (Nyikos & Fan, 2007) and that
learners benefit from developing strategies to deal with new vocabulary
independently (Pavičić, 2008). However, there is limited research on
VLS training and few suggestions for instructional programs beyond
Nation (2008) and Pavičić (2008).
This chapter thus aims to help fill the gap between VLS research
and classroom practice by presenting a step-by-step account of how
a VLS program was designed and integrated into a content-based
medical English course in Japan in 2008, then later revised in 2009
following classroom-based teacher-research. It is hoped that the
lessons learned and insights gained may help to inform teachers,
teacher-trainers, and curriculum designers wishing to implement VLS
instruction in their contexts, as well as provide a methodological
framework for researchers interested in further exploring the issues
raised here.
First, this chapter introduces the context into which the VLS
was innovated. Next, it outlines the steps taken, together with the
research that informed the ongoing cycle of designing, implement-
ing, evaluating, and revising the program. Finally, considerations
for classroom pedagogy, research, and professional development are
discussed.
135
136 P. S. Brown
A first-year university content-based medical
English course
In my context, first-year medical students in the top four classes at the
university, generally with intermediate to high-level English, follow a
content-based medical English course centered on role-playing doctor–
patient interactions. In addition to developing their ability to interview
and examine patients, medical students face the challenge of learning
over 130 medical English terms, such as myocardial infarction and otolaryn-
gology, in their first 12–13 weeks. In the 2008 spring semester, the students
were required to understand and use these terms appropriately in class,
writing assignments, 10-minute weekly medical English vocabulary (MEV)
tests, and doctor–patient role-play based oral exams. I taught two classes
of 13–14 students for 90 minutes once a week, while a Japanese teacher
focused on English listening and reading skills on a different day.
Previously, vocabulary learning had just been left to the learners.
However, I believed students could benefit from a VLS program that
fostered effective vocabulary learning and encouraged students to be
more reflective, strategic, and autonomous learners.
Designing and refining a VLS program
After reviewing the VLS literature (Brown, 2009), the quantity of strategies,
the lack of guidance on VLS instruction and, in particular, the paucity of
descriptions of program development made program design challenging.
In the wider field of strategies-based instruction (SBI), however, Rubin,
Chamot, Harris, and Anderson (2007) helpfully identify four stages
common to most SBI models:
1. Raising awareness of learners’ existing strategy use
2. Presenting and modeling new strategies
3. Providing repeat opportunities for practice
4. Self-evaluation of strategies’ effectiveness and possibilities for transfer
to other tasks.
Their research further indicates a growing consensus that SBI should
be explicit (i.e., what strategies and why should be clearly explained to
learners) and integrated or embedded (i.e., included within the regular
content of the class rather than taught separately in isolation).
The three subsections below outline the design of the 2008 program
and subsequent adaptations in 2009.
A Vocabulary Learning Strategies Program 137
Raising awareness of existing VLS use
In both 2008 and 2009, the course began with VLS consciousness-raising
tasks based on Chamot, Barnhardt, Ed-Dinary and Robbins (1999). Due
to the 2008 course requirements, the task (Assignment I, Brown 2009)
formed one of three assessed written assignments:
Choose three words. Write 300–400 words on how you learned
them. What did you do? How often and how long for? How success-
ful were you?
In 2009, however, there was no university requirement regarding writ-
ten assignments, so a shorter MEV goal-setting task was used followed
by short, frequent reflection and assessment of goals to promote ongo-
ing evaluation of VLS.
Presenting, practicing, and evaluating VLS
Whilst Nation (2008) helpfully recommends teaching four important
strategies (guessing from context, learning from word cards, using word
parts, and dictionary use), for learners in my context – who had all
received at least six years of English education prior to university and had
proven themselves to be highly successful learners in that system – I was
uncertain as to how relevant these strategies would be and what the
learners would benefit from the most. Therefore, in the second week of
the 2008 course, a VLS Survey based on Bennett (2006), Kudo (1999) and
Schmitt (1997) was administered to identify learners’ existing VLS use and
beliefs regarding their perceived usefulness. The survey additionally pro-
moted reflection on learning vocabulary, introduced new strategies, and
stimulated thought and/or discussion about vocabulary learning (see, for
example, Bennett, 2006). The VLS perceived as most useful but under-
used by students were then primarily selected for SBI (Bennett, 2006).
These included Vocabulary Learning Sheets (VLS) (based on Hall, 2007;
Pimsleur, 1967 in Schmitt, 1997) to be used in vocabulary notebooks
aimed at long-term study; strategies for determining and remembering
form, meaning, and use, including total physical response (TPR) (Asher,
1977 in Schmitt, 1997); keyword technique (Nation, 2008; Pavičić,
2008); and a combination of sensory-perceptual strategies based on
Kuehne (2006) (see Brown, 2009, for details). These VLS were presented
and practiced in class to increase the likelihood of uptake out of class.
Two further reflection tasks encouraged learners to evaluate their strat-
egies use, and the anonymous course evaluation form asked students to
report changes in their VLS beliefs and behavior. The VLS Survey was
138 P. S. Brown
also re-administered at the end of the course to measure any changes.
Table 10.1 outlines the week-by-week implementation of the program.
On average, 15–20 minutes of class time were spent on VLS instruction
each week. In addition, classroom activities incorporating medical
English provided vocabulary review and doubled as VLS.
In 2009, however, the number of VLS explicitly presented and prac-
ticed in the program was dramatically reduced from 32 to 6, favoring
quality over quantity (Table 10.2). For example, the previously voluntary
use of Vocabulary Learning Sheets became compulsory and was marked
to account for the time and effort students invested, and an assignment
to define/explain medical procedures was created to encourage diction-
ary and internet use. Fewer VLS enabled greater recycling with expanding
review (Pimsleur, 1967 in Schmitt, 1997), aimed at developing fluency
and increasing strategies uptake (Moir & Nation, 2008). Furthermore, in
response to 2008 student feedback, the potential benefits and goals of the
overall program and individual VLS were made more explicit from the
outset by including specific reference to 2008 student testimonials that
might also inform learners’ understanding about their own learning.
Table 10.1 Week-by-week implementation of the 2008 VLS program
Week 1: Introduction, goals, Vocabulary Levels Tests (Nation, 1990),
Assignment I
Week 2: Role-plays, TPR, Slam*, self-assessment, VLS Survey
Week 3: VLS Survey feedback, vocabulary activities*, VL Sheets*, dictionary
training*
Week 4: VL Sheets*, role-plays*, combining VLS*, Assignment II,
self-assessment
Week 5: Identifying VLS, VL Sheets*, identifying cognitive styles,
self-assessment
Week 6: Grouping MEV*, role-plays*, asking for help*, reviewing/learning
from mistakes
Week 7: MEV in context*, personalization*, circumlocution/making
definitions*
Week 8: MEV in context*, role-plays*, fill-in-the-missing letters*, studying
MEV in pairs*
Week 9: Note-taking*, role-plays*, dictation*, listening bingo*
Week 10: Multiple role-plays*, Attack Bingo vocabulary game*, Assignment III*
Week 11: Self- and peer-review of Assignment III*, Vocabulary Levels Tests
Week 12: Oral exams, VLS Survey
Week 13: Oral exams, Course evaluation
*Activities utilizing medical English vocabulary.
Table 10.2 Week-by-week implementation of the 2009 VLS program
Week 1 Week 2 Week 3 Week 4 Week 5 Week 6 Week 7 Week 8 Week 9 Week 10 Week 11
Reflection
and goal
setting
MEV goal
setting
Evaluation
of VLS and
goals
Evaluation
of VLS
and goals
Evaluation
of VLS
and goals
Evaluation
of VLS and
goals
Evaluation
of VLS and
goals
Final self-
evaluation
Course
evaluation
Vocabulary
Learning
Sheets
Introduce
basic usage
(5%)*
Review
basic usage
(5%)*
Develop
basic usage
(5%)*
MEV word parts
(and keyword
technique)
Key MEV
roots and
suffixes
Review roots
and suffixes
Key MEV
prefixes and
suffixes
Guessing
from context
Gestures and
circumlocution
games
TPR and
role-plays
Gap-filler
task:
medical
procedures
Combining VLS,
including five
senses
Demonstrate
and practice
Review and
peer-
practice
Recall and
peer-
practice
MEV dictionary/
internet look-up
tasks
Medical
procedures
homework
(10%)*
[See word
parts, above]
Explaining
medical
procedures
Depth of MEV
test
Pre-test Post-test
* Assessed coursework comprised a total of 25% of students’ final grade; 25% was based on the weekly MEV test scores; 25% on in-class participation and
attendance, and the remaining 25% on the final role-play-based oral exams. Role-plays, although listed in Table 10.1, are not included here since they are in
fact an integral part of the medical English course.
140 P. S. Brown
VLS program evaluation
A VLS program might be evaluated in a number of different ways,
including both learners’ vocabulary growth and strategies development.
While measuring learners’ vocabulary size in 2008 helpfully informed
the selection of appropriate learning/teaching materials and indicated
general vocabulary development, it did not necessarily reflect the
medical focus of learners’ studies or application of VLS. Hence in 2009
a “depth of medical English vocabulary” pre- and post-test replaced the
Vocabulary Levels Tests (Nation, 1990).
Other than teacher-observations and reflection, student course evalu-
ations provided an invaluable, primary source of program evaluation. In
2009, the course evaluation form was amended to reflect the program
changes and present a user-friendlier format.
Results and findings
In Brown (2009), students were found to have benefited from the 2008 VLS
program in three key areas. First, most learners increased their awareness
of VLS use and the availability of other strategies. Second, they had oppor-
tunities to experiment with new strategies and were encouraged to find
those that helped them to achieve their individual learning goals. Finally,
by the end of the course, there was significantly more congruence between
the majority of learners’ VLS use and beliefs about their usefulness.
Feedback from the 2009 evaluation forms indicated that prior to the
course most students had thought relatively little about their vocabulary
learning (M ⫽ 2.30, SD ⫽ 0.78) but thought a lot about it after (M ⫽ 3.78,
SD ⫽ 0.58). This was very similar to the previous year, where there had
been an increase from M ⫽ 2.58, SD ⫽ 0.95 to M ⫽ 3.73, SD ⫽ 0.53 (Brown,
2009). Overall, the course was rated very useful (M ⫽ 4.05, SD ⫽ 0.76) with
no components scoring less than somewhat useful. Comparing the results
with the previous year, student satisfaction appeared to have increased
(from M ⫽ 3.39, SD ⫽ 0.84) in terms of usefulness as measured on the
same 5-point Likert scale (Table 10.3).
However, these results should be treated with caution because 2008
was the first time for me to teach the medical English course, a number
of components were different in 2009, and the course evaluations were
completed anonymously in 2008 but not in 2009. Even so, written feed-
back affirmed the value of the VLS program, showing that for 11 of the
26 students, “the best thing about the course” was learning (more) MEV,
while six of them reported learning to communicate in doctor–patient
interactions, and five chose the weekly MEV tests.
A Vocabulary Learning Strategies Program 141
On the other hand, four students said the MEV tests were the worst thing
about the course and three of them thought the VL Sheets should have
been voluntary. One student even wrote that the VL Sheets should not be in
the course, although it emerged in a follow-up discussion that the student
had unfortunately not used them as intended or demonstrated and thus
found them overly time-consuming.
The “depth of MEV” test contained ten non-words and erroneously
repeated “appetite” (items 22 and 29). Accordingly, these 12 items were
removed prior to data analysis. The pre- and post-test results revealed
that the students’ self-reported depth of medical English word knowledge
increased from a mean average of 2.29 (SD ⫽ 0.34) to 3.56 (SD ⫽ 0.29). Of
the 88 MEV items, on average, 39% were initially unknown but 73% could
be used in context by the end of the course, as illustrated in Figure 10.1.
In comparison, 23 students in a different class, who did not receive
VLS instruction but read newspaper articles on medical topics and were
taught by another teacher following the same syllabus, reported an
increase in the depth of MEV from a mean average of 2.17 (SD ⫽ 0.25)
to 3.35 (SD ⫽ 0.37), with 43% unknown items initially, and then 59%
that could be used in context by the end, as illustrated in Figure 10.2.
Although an independent-samples t test revealed a non-significant
difference (see Table 10.4) between the average increase in the depth
of vocabulary knowledge, comparing Figures 10.1 and 10.2 shows
a notable gain in productive knowledge by students who received VLS
Table 10.3 Comparison of 2008 and 2009 VLS program student feedback
Course components 2008 2009
1. Reflection and goal setting (Weeks 1, 2, 3, 5, and 8) 3.37
2a. Medical English Vocabulary tests (Japanese to English
translation)
4.15 4.59
2b. English-only Medical English Vocabulary tests 4.02 4.52
3a. Depth of MEV Pre-test 4.00
3b. Depth of MEV Post-Test 4.15
4. Textbook: Health Care English 4.41
5. Role-playing doctor-patient scenarios 3.87 4.19
6. Vocabulary Learning Sheets 3.13 3.85
7. Word parts (Weeks 3, 4, and 6) 4.00
8. Guessing meaning from context using gestures and
explanations
3.96
9. Combining strategies, including using five senses
(Weeks 4, 5, and 7)
3.68 3.81
10. Medical procedures homework assignment (Week 5) 4.00
11. Grading sheet explanation and self-evaluation 3.81
Note: shaded cells indicate 2009 course components not included in 2008.
142 P. S. Brown
instruction as opposed to those who read newspaper articles instead.
However, further investigation is needed to understand the causes and
significance of the results.
Reflection and discussion
As Tables 10.1 and 10.2 demonstrate, there were considerable changes to
the VLS program after 2008. These innovations arose through classroom
Figure 10.1 Mean average depth of MEV knowledge prior and subsequent to the
course for students with VLS instruction (n ⫽ 27)
22%
23%
Pre-course Post-course
16%
39%
1 = I don’t know this
word
2 = I can guess this
word’s meaning
3 = I know this
word’s meaning and/
or can give the
Japanese translation
4 = I can use this
word in context
73%
5%
6%
16%
Figure 10.2 Mean average depth of MEV knowledge prior and subsequent to the
course for students with no VLS instruction (n ⫽ 23)
Pre-course Post-course
1 = I don’t know this
word
2 = I can guess this
word’s meaning
19%
43%
16%
22% 59% 26%
6%
9%
3 = I know this
word’s meaning and/
or can give the
Japanese translation
4 = I can use this
word in context
A Vocabulary Learning Strategies Program 143
Table 10.4 Independent samples t-test statistics
Variables VLS program students Non-VLS program
students
Number of students (n) 27 23
Mean 1.28 1.19
Standard deviation (SD) 0.313 0.331
Low-High 0.818–2.05 0.364–1.63
Range 1.23 1.27
Mean difference t 0.915
0.998 (Equal variances assumed)
1.003 (Equal variances not assumed)
Degrees of freedom (df ) 48 (Equal variances assumed)
47.445 (Equal variances not assumed)
Significance? There is no significant difference between
the mean scores
research and reflection, together with experience, and teacher develop-
ment. If I were to begin again, I would consider the following key points:
The four stages common to SBI models (Rubin, et al., 2007) provide
a clear framework and simple starting point for innovating a VLS
program.
A VLS survey specifically tailored for intermediate to high-level medi-
cal English students would not only enlighten teachers and learners
about perceived strategies gaps (Bennett, 2006; Brown, 2009) but
might also be more favorably received than an exhaustive list of
strategies.
The 2009 focus on fewer strategies sacrificed variety and appeal to
different learning styles and preferences, but resulted in students visi-
bly gaining greater confidence and fluency with VLS. There were also
more opportunities to clarify misunderstandings, thus increasing the
likelihood of successful uptake and learning outcomes (Moir & Nation,
2008), although the difficulty of measuring strategies’ effectiveness
remains a key issue (Erten & Williams, 2008). Nation (2008) suggests
evaluating VLS and offers an example test of word parts knowledge,
but this is clearly an area requiring further research.
The depth of knowledge MEV test used in this study needs to be
assessed for validity and reliability with the students in this context,
considering the potential sensitivity of such instruments, as described
•
•
•
•
144 P. S. Brown
in detail by Reid (1990). For medical English students in my context,
it appears to be a more relevant gauge of vocabulary growth than the
Vocabulary Levels Test (Nation, 1990). However, it does not account for
gains in general and/or academic vocabulary that are also potentially
important to investigate.
Developing and integrating a VLS program into a language-learning
course brings measurable benefits for learners, but is not without its
challenges, such as the learning curve for both teacher and learners.
However, it is important from the point of view of teachers’
professional development and potentially fundamental to learner
development. As Anderson (2008: 104) states, “If we want to develop
meta-cognitively aware language learners, we must have meta-
cognitively aware teachers.”
This chapter has offered a step-by-step account of how a VLS program
was designed and integrated into a content-based, first-year university
medical English course in Japan. Students generally considered VLS
instruction very useful and became more aware of their vocabulary
learning. Although there remains a need for further investigation, pre-
liminary findings suggest the 2009 VLS program may have led to greater
productive use of MEV, as measured by a “depth of knowledge” test. For
teachers seeking to implement VLS instruction in their own context,
and researchers interested in exploring the issues surrounding VLS
instruction, I hope this chapter has contributed to this growing field.
•
145
11
Classroom Discourse Analysis
of Student Use of Language
Scaffolding During Tasks
Theron Muller and Mark de Boer
Introduction
There has been considerable debate regarding how to introduce new
language in the task-based classroom, yet the nature of language scaffold-
ing as it influences student classroom production and ultimate uptake
remains largely unexplored, despite some research interest in the topic
(Boston, 2008). This chapter addresses the issue by exploring, through
discourse analysis, two different means of scaffolding, one materials
mediated student–student interaction and the other teacher-mediated
student–student and teacher–student interaction. Through two differ-
ent Japan-based classrooms, we examine how the means of mediating
communication in those classes appears to influence classroom discourse,
and outline issues pertinent to scaffolding in the language classroom.
The chapter will start with the materials-mediated student–student
interaction in large classes of 40⫹ students and then move into data from
smaller classes (five students) where the discourse was teacher-mediated
student–student and teacher–student. Analysis will demonstrate that
the smaller classes with teacher-mediated discourse appear more advanta-
geous in terms of facilitating language development than the materials-
mediated large class context. While this represents an unsurprising
conclusion, that the smaller class is more successful in fostering learning-
oriented communication, it also provides a model for what teachers can
aim for and try to avoid when implementing communicative tasks. We
hope that through this research language teachers can see models of
successful and unsuccessful scaffolding and compare their own classroom
discourse against these examples in order to improve the effectiveness of
the discourse in their teaching contexts.
146 T. Muller & M. de Boer
In the next sections, scaffolding as it is understood in this chapter and
the lens through which the discourse data are analyzed, sociocultural
theory, will be briefly discussed before moving on to analysis of the
classroom discourse.
Scaffolding
Wood, Bruner, and Ross (1976: 96) introduced the term scaffolding as “lur-
ing the child into actions that produce recognizable-for-him solutions.” For
the purposes of this chapter, scaffolding is intended to incorporate Boston’s
(2008) concept of student “mining” of language from task instructions, in
addition to Wood, Bruner, and Ross’s (1976) definition of the term. The
classrooms explored include large high school classes of 40⫹ students
using materials in pairs without teacher intervention and smaller classes of
young learners where the teacher plays an integral role in the discussion.
Sociocultural theory
Sociocultural theory has informed our analysis of the classroom data
presented, with a mind to describing how students succeed or fail
in moving into and out of the zone of proximal development (ZPD)
(Vygotsky, 1978), which is
the distance between the actual development level as determined by
independent problem solving and the level of potential development
as determined through problem solving under adult guidance or in
collaboration with more capable peers. (1978: 86)
The ZPD is where “learning awakens a variety of internal developmen-
tal processes that are able to operate only when the child is interacting
with people in his environment and in cooperation with his peers”
(Vygotsky, 1978: 90). As Wells (1999) further elaborates:
A significant feature of this formulation is that it makes clear that the
zone of proximal development is not an attribute of the individual
learner but rather a potential for his or her intra-mental development
that is created by the inter-mental interaction that occurs as the
learner and other people cooperate in some activity. (1999: 25)
The zone of proximal development remains a zone of potential
development until the conditions are met to assist the distancing of
Student Use of Language Scaffolding 147
that development (Negueruela, 2008). This research was undertaken
to explore “…what conditions must be met if this interaction is to
enable the potential for development to be realized” (Wells, 1999: 25),
with the understanding that, “human mental activity is essentially a
mediated process in which symbolic, and socioculturally constructed,
artifacts, the most pervasive of which is language, play an essential role
in the mental life of the individual” (Aljaafreh & Lantolf, 1994: 467)
and “these processes are inherently social in origin and their develop-
ment in children proceeds from the social, or intermental domain,
to the individual, or intramental domain, as a consequence of the
linguistically mediated interaction which arises between children and
other, often more experienced, members of their sociocultural world,
including parents, teachers, siblings, older peers, etc.” (Aljaafreh &
Lantolf, 1994: 467). For example, a child working alone to solve math
or grammar problems has a certain limited capacity for learning at their
level. However, when aided (mediated) by a peer or adult, the child
can be helped to learn things they could not have grasped alone. This
then is the opening of the ZPD through the mediation of others. This
mediation can be called “scaffolding” and is achieved through inter-
mental, social interaction, gradually becoming intra-mentalized or
internalized, a process of “appropriation” (Newman, Griffin, & Cole,
1989: 64). Of course, different people may have different abilities to scaf-
fold and open up each other’s ZPDs, which we will see in the excerpts
below. Thus students rely on their peers, through social interaction,
to ensure understanding, with language efforts centered around
learning how to mean (Halliday, 1993). Here we take a “microgenesis”
(Aljaafreh & Lantolf, 1994: 467) approach to our data, searching for
examples of meaning negotiation and creation as they happen in the
classroom.
To summarize, in this chapter we are examining instances of social
interaction in different classroom contexts with different means of
scaffolding mediation, with the aim of determining to what extent the
social relationships engendered there facilitate or inhibit the potential
for the students in those classrooms to develop linguistically.
Materials mediation in student–student interaction
The data gathered for this research were originally intended to test
theories of mining of task instructions as originally outlined by Boston
(2008). The results of the research were presented by Muller (2009), but
upon closer analysis of the student discourse, it became apparent that
148 T. Muller & M. de Boer
quantitative discourse characteristics didn’t provide an adequate picture
of the nature of the interaction. Criticism of objective, quantitative
models of classroom interaction have recently gained some traction,
perhaps most notably with Sivasubramaniam (2009), who writes: “There
appears to be a mismatch between what science projects as a rationalis-
tic representation of life and the real, personally meaningful lived life of
the human being” (p. 54). Sivasubramaniam (2009: 54) calls for discard-
ing “...an objective epistemology in favor of a subjectivist/constructivist
epistemology,” going on to say:
This means the researcher does not expect knowledge to come as
a product of impersonal procedures designed to support a scientific
inquiry at a neutral site. On the contrary, the researcher regards knowl-
edge and its meaning as outcomes of experience in a given social context
and at a given time and place. (2009: 54)
Following in Reid’s (1990) footsteps, who critically revisited his
instruments and research methodology, this section explores what the
transcripts of student discourse from Muller’s (2009) research reveal
about the overall nature of the task, and student attitudes toward that
task in the context of the time and place where the research was con-
ducted. In terms of the discourse to be considered here, the parameters
of the “scientific inquiry at a neutral site” (Sivasubramaniam, 2009: 54)
are outlined in detail in Muller (2009). Briefly, an attempt was made to
replicate the task parameters outlined by Boston (2008), who concluded
that students mined task instructions in completing information-gap
tasks. Muller (2009) includes primarily quantitative data, intended to
measure and evaluate the influence of different task instruction language
on student production. In contrast, this chapter considers the student
production itself, asking how the language provided in the task instruc-
tions appears to have influenced communication among students, and
how the structured nature of the research appeared to influence student
attitudes and responses in enacting the activity. The difference between
the first instrument of analysis (Muller, 2009) and the second, in this
chapter, is similar to the contrast Kumaravadivelu (1999) draws between
quantitative classroom observation instruments like the Communicative
Language Teaching (COLT) Observation Scheme and critical classroom
discourse analysis.
While 200⫹ students were involved in the research, in the interests
of brevity, and with the understanding that qualitative inquiry into
discourse samples is a different kind of exploration from quantitative
Student Use of Language Scaffolding 149
analysis, this discussion will be limited to extracts of student speech
which match the following criteria:
Students received some scaffolding in the form of English language
instructions.
The samples are representative of the general student discourse from
the research.
The samples demonstrate some aspect of discourse among students
that is of interest to this investigation, illustrative either of poor or
of effective language scaffolding. Where possible, these are linked to
Kumaravadivelu’s (1991) ten communicative mismatch categories.
The classroom details of relevance to this research are that five second-
year high school English classes of approximately 42 students each
held a class in a language lab for the purposes of a one-time research.
The students were asked to work in groups of two in order to complete
an information-gap task, to fill in a fictional character’s schedule (Alan).
The contents of the task, in the interests of replication, were based
on Boston (2008), and the English provided to students was strictly
controlled as part of the parameters of the research, which meant all
instructions were provided in Japanese, written and orally. Students
were digitally audio-recorded during the task, and as part of the audio-
recording were asked to wear headsets with microphones.
The English input wasn’t highlighted or pointed out in the task
instructions, as part of the restrictions of the quantitative research model
employed. Thus it was up to students to notice the available structures
if they were to use them. While none of the results of the research were
statistically significant, the following samples are taken from the experi-
mental group who were the most influenced by the task input in Muller
(2009), the group which had a simple grammar input of “He is going
to…” and a vocabulary input of “plans.”
Materials mediation in student–student interaction
This section will consider extracts which reflect on how, in one case,
the task input, in the form of a worksheet distributed to the students,
interfered with student discussion. Extract 11.1 demonstrates how
S2 noticed an error in S1’s speech, initially not offering the correct
language, similar to a “process interpretation” (Renshaw and Gardner,
1990: 492) of the task, where S2 initially maintains “the prime respon-
sibility for error correction” (p. 492) lies with S1. (Note […, …] denotes
overlap in speech.)
•
•
•
150 T. Muller & M. de Boer
In Extract 11.1, S2 has an idea regarding the correct language to use
for the task, namely that Alan is male, not female (that he is a male is
written on their sheets in Japanese), and points out that S1 is in error in
turn 2, in Japanese, offering S1 a chance to correct his utterance from
turn 1, but not pointing out what the error is, characteristic of a “process
interpretation” (Renshaw and Gardner, 1990: 492) of the task, meaning
that it’s up to S1 to correct his error. However, it isn’t until turn 8, after
several exchanges, that she realizes S1 isn’t aware of what his mistake is
and escalates the amount of support for S1 by observing that the paper
says Alan is a boy, offering a specific observation regarding his language.
S1 rejects her offer and they begin an exchange about how there’s a
girl in the picture, so it isn’t clear which gender is correct. After the
exchange S2 continues using the female, stating in Japanese indiffer-
ence to whether his utterances are correct or not, seeming to reject S2’s
“other-regulation” (Aljaafreh & Lantolf, 1994: 468).
Summarizing the view from the sociocultural lens, it appears as if S2 is
attempting to function as a “near peer role model” (Murphey, 1996: 21),
1. S1: ee She shopping she is shopping? she shop on Mon on
Sa [Sun
2. S2: she shopping] okashi jyan (That’s strange)
3. S1: she is
4. S2: she is mo okashikunai? (That’s strange, too, isn’t it?).
5. S1: she will youtei dakara (It’s a plan, so...) she will be de youkune
(is correct).
6. S2: ma nandemoiidesuka (Well, isn’t anything OK?)
7. S1: futsu (Regular isn’t) will be jyanatake mitaike (it looks like).
8. S2: ee oto de kaitte aru kedo (Um it says here it’s a guy, but) she nani
kore (What’s this?)
9. S1: demo ore onna dane (But I’m a girl, right?) ah kira onna dessyou
(Oh. Well, this is a girl.)
10. S2: demo kore oto de kaitte aru (But here it says boy).
11. S1: doko ni? (Where?)…ah honto da (Oh, I see it.) oto da (He’s a boy.)
ah kira onna dessyou (But here there’s a girl.) [kono kono hito
(This person {in the picture}).
12. S2: moiika (That’s enough.)] she she is going to the mm cleaning
on the Tuesday.
Extract 11.1 Task input leads to negotiation of form in
material-mediated interaction
Student Use of Language Scaffolding 151
questioning S1’s English and suggesting an alternative, but S1 ultimately
rejects this effort at correction, apparently not engaged by this task, and
continues without modifying his language. The fact that the material
distributed states that Alan is male but there is a female in the picture
seems to offer evidence to support both students’ claims, and so the issue
of Alan’s correct gender remains unresolved and the moves to scaffold
are unsuccessful.
Student–student indirect correction with material mediation
This section considers the “co-construction” (Swain, 2009: 15) of language
in the task samples from the research, a quality that is often considered
an integral aspect of the pedagogic value of tasks. Interestingly, in the
two extracts below the language on the students’ handout doesn’t
influence their language use, thus the English on the materials doesn’t
appear to mediate their production; it’s only the content of the pictures
on the handout that they are discussing.
Extract 11.2 offers an example of “indirect” (Renshaw & Gardner,
1990: 493) error correction.
1. S3: Please question.
2. S4: [Question?]
3. S3: ask me.
4. S4: ee Is Alan have any plan on Tuesday.
5. S3: Tuesday? Aaa Alan will go to the laundry...[10]...What will he do
on Monday?
6. S4: ee He He will study ato school. He will study at school.
7. S3: hai (OK)
8. S4: [10] ee What will Alan do on...nandake (What?)...Saturday
Saturday
9. S3: He will go to the library.
Extract 11.2 Indirect correction of language through
student–student material-mediated interaction
In Extract 11.2, S4’s question in turn 4 is malformed and S3 uses the cor-
rect form in turn 5 without any explicit error correction. The following
question by S4, in turn 8, is correctly formed, indicating an instance of
“indirect” (Renshaw & Gardner, 1990: 493) error correction, evidence
of the potential for students to support one another indirectly during
task production, similar to Donato’s (1988) findings and described by
152 T. Muller & M. de Boer
Murphey (1996: 21) as “near peer role modeling,” which means students
are more likely to attend to and respond to one another’s output. On a
final note, the students are using “will,” which means they haven’t relied
on the grammar sample in their handouts.
In Extract 11.3 the students begin with negotiation of what language
is appropriate for the task before completing the activity.
1. S5: ...Alan ee could you tell me Alan’s plans mitaina kore kikeba ii
jyanai (This seems right. Is it OK to ask this?) Alan no kekako
wo oshierikudasai ne (Tell me Alan’s plans please, right?)
2. S6: Doe Does Does Alan
3. S5: sore jya yes ni nachau (If you ask that, the answer will be
yes.)
4. S6: ah sokka sokka (Oh. I see. I see.) What what does Alan do
5. S5: Alan gerende (ski slope)
6. S6: What does Alan [What does
7. S5: Alan’s plan] oshiettekurete ieba ii (Please tell me.)
8. S6: ah Please tell [me
9. S5: sonnakanjidane (That’s about right.)]
10. S6: Please tell me Alan’s plan
11. S5: Ah [OK
Extract 11.3 Student negotiation of appropriate language in
material-mediated activity
This is another extract potentially representative of “near peer role
modeling” (Murphey, 1996: 21), where the students are negotiating what
they should be saying and doing, an example of successful implemen-
tation of Kumaravadivelu’s (1991: 104) “procedural” and “evaluative”
categories, “procedural” because the students successfully negotiate what
they should be doing, and “evaluative” because they successfully nego-
tiate the forms necessary to perform the task. The last line’s “OK” is the
signal for them to begin the task. Interestingly, asking questions isn’t a
parameter of the instructions for the task, and so the requirement for
their use has been agreed upon between the students independently
of task instructions and input. Also, the language they use isn’t related
to the language on the handout, further indication they are relying
more heavily on one another to decide the parameters of the activity
than on resources (task instructions and handouts) provided by the
teacher.
Student Use of Language Scaffolding 153
Negative attitudes toward the task in materials-mediated
student–student interaction
This section will present extracts representative of students’ attitudes
toward the activity. Here both the student pairs fail to successfully resolve
the language difficulties they encounter. Once again, the language of the
input doesn’t appear to influence student language choice.
Extract 11.4 offers an example where both students seem indifferent
to how they go about completing the activity.
1. S7: ...jya kaiyoubi kaiyoubi wa (OK. Tuesday. On Tuesday) mm
musukasi dakedo na eeto (Hm. It’s difficult, isn’t it, but um.)
Alan eeto (Um) washu the ee (Um) wear
2. S8: wear
3. S7: in machine on Tuesday iika (Isn’t that OK?)
4. S8: ee (Uh-huh)
5. S7: jya iika (Fine then)
Extract 11.4 Mutual indifference toward material-mediated
activity
It’s evident in line 1 that S7 is having difficulty with forming a sentence,
and S8 acknowledges he caught the main word, “wear,” in turn 2. After
this S7 adds some extra information, asks for confirmation that he said
enough, and S8’s reply in turn 4 is a minimal response in Japanese,
acknowledging that he heard, but not offering an evaluation of the
utterance or attempting to offer support. Finally in turn 5, S7 decides
for himself that the item has been completed. This may be an example
of an attitudinal mismatch (Kumaravadivelu, 1991), as S7 is apparently
concerned about producing a sufficiently detailed and correct utterance,
but S8 is unresponsive and unsupportive. This sample shows that even
when scaffolding is requested by one participant, that request may not
be taken up by their interlocutor, and when this happens, the opportunity
for mutual negotiation of meaning is lost.
Extract 11.5 is similar to Extract 11.4, in that there are several misun-
derstandings and requests for repetition that go unanswered. In Extract
11.5, unresponsiveness to misunderstanding is demonstrated.
Here there are two cases of miscommunication between students, in
turns 1 and 2, where S9’s question is unanswered, and in turn 3, where
S9 asks for clarification of S10’s statement in turn 2. Rather than try to
clarify the answer, S10 offers a minimal response, then S9 proceeds onto
154 T. Muller & M. de Boer
the next item, perhaps representing an “attitudinal” (Kumaravadivelu,
1991: 105) mismatch on Kumaravadivelu’s schema, and evidence that
when students are asked to engage in pair work, mutual scaffolding
doesn’t automatically result.
Summary of material-mediated student–student interaction
What’s interesting from the extracts presented is how students influ-
enced each others’ production, both for the better and for the worse.
Considering the extracts, it appears that when the students are engaged
with the activity and take it seriously, they can successfully negotiate
the “procedural” parameters of the task (as in Extract 11.3), but that
outlining the task parameters and providing the materials to complete
the task, then stepping back isn’t a guarantee of success, as in many
cases the students failed to acknowledge the learning potential of the
activity (Extract 11.4) and didn’t always understand what it was they
were supposed to be doing.
In the next section, the potential for teacher mediation in classroom
interaction will be explored in the context of a smaller, young learners
classroom.
Teacher mediation of student–student and
teacher–student interaction
Previously we have illustrated how students responded to a material-
mediated task in a large classroom where the teacher was unable to
interact with the students during the task. Next we describe how a smaller
classroom offered advantages in facilitating authentic communication.
In this classroom, interaction tended to be student to student with the
teacher acting as a facilitator. In the classrooms described, student language
is directed toward making themselves understood, or learning how to
mean (Halliday, 1993). The structure of the lessons are more dynamic
1. S9: ee nanteiuno? (Um. What should I say here?) Studying?
2. S10: ah ee kaiyoubi ga (Oh. Yeah. On Tuesday) He will go to the
laundry
3. S9: runningu? (Running?)
4. S10: Ee (Um)
5. S9: He will playing ah play baseball
Extract 11.5 Unresponsiveness to misunderstanding in
material-mediated activity
Student Use of Language Scaffolding 155
and the progression may be very different for each student. Using this
approach, the classroom interaction appears less like the classroom
discourse presented above (and commonly throughout the literature),
and allows the interaction to be more like discourse typical of that used
outside the language classroom (van Lier, 1996). An important aspect of
the classroom here is that students were provided with the opportunity
to ask the questions they needed answers to in order to proceed in com-
pleting the assigned task. This provided opportunities for the teacher to
redirect questions and to use student questions as openings for clarifica-
tion checks, allowing for collaborating “in constructing a mutual activity
frame” (Aljaafreh & Lantolf, 1994: 468), offering opportunities for students
to explain their thoughts and get feedback on their ideas and language.
This section shares classroom discourse from the small group lessons,
highlighting instances of teacher–student and student–student scaffolding.
Four extracts will be discussed.
The first extract is typical of other research into the topic, namely
hints given by the teacher or a student to help the speaker along (Wood,
Bruner, & Ross, 1976). Here partial answers are provided in the hope
that the students will be able to build on these in order to express them-
selves successfully.
The second type of scaffolding emerges from a difficulty in expressing
an idea when the students are trying to make themselves understood.
The teacher, or another student, can be the interpreter, and while a student
is talking, the interpreter listens and tries to make sense of what the
student is saying. In the case where the speaker does not know how to
say what he or she wants to say, the student could then either move in
a different direction and use alternative language they already know or
they could ask for additional language from their interlocutors. It would
be up to their conversants to then provide the necessary language or
to clarify the speaker’s intended meaning. Where there is potential for
language acquisition through this type of discourse, this can be inter-
preted as scaffolding. As a result of this scaffolding, the student receives
the language he or she needs at the moment of use, and in being able to
use that language to continue to make themselves understood, operates
within the zone of proximal development.
The task
The lessons focused around the students designing an underwater city,
mainly how to supply food, oxygen, and energy. There were five second-
year high school students in the class. The intention of the research,
through analysis of the discourse, was to measure patterns of scaffolding
156 T. Muller & M. de Boer
where vocabulary was apparently learned, based on the students’
attempts to be understood.
Teacher–student scaffolding
Extract 11.6 shows an example of scaffolding where the teacher and
the student are using authentic language to understand each other. The
student uses the English he knows to make himself understood, then the
teacher provides him with specific language to express the concept.
1. T: Anybody else? What do you think so far?
2. S5: If we get electric power, we can get, oxygen from the water.
3. T: OK, how?
4. S5: We can use the seawater, we use electricity, we can get,
maybe oxygen.
5. S2: Japanese inaudible.
6. S5: Japanese inaudible.
7. T: Electrolysis?
8. S5: Electricity.
9. T: OK, we have electricity and you have the seawater, how do
you get the oxygen?
10. S5: If you have water and, can I use the board?
11. T: Yes, please do.
12. S5: We can separate water into, oxygen and hydrogen, I thought.
(writing)
13. T: OK, so, you have hydrogen and oxygen.
14. S5: Yes.
15. T: We call this, electrolysis
16. S5: OK
Extract 11.6 Teacher–student scaffolding in interaction
It can be argued that there are two kinds of scaffolding at play in this
extract. The first has to do with the linguistic symbol in English for
electrolysis. Regarding the vocabulary item, initially the student doesn’t
understand the teacher in turn 8, but after he explains his idea, in turn
15 the teacher confirms the student did indeed mean “electrolysis.”
This perspective illustrates co-construction of knowledge, as the student
didn’t know what word to use, but he understood the concept, and so
after explaining his intended meaning, the teacher could provide him
with the appropriate vocabulary.
Student Use of Language Scaffolding 157
The second kind of scaffolding occurs when the student understands
the concept of electrolysis in Japanese, and uses the board to demon-
strate the concept to the teacher. Once they scaffold their teacher to
the point where he knows what they are trying to communicate, then
he provides the appropriate word in English. In this interpretation, the
student uses a tool, the blackboard, to scaffold the teacher’s understanding
of his intended message.
Student–student scaffolding
In Extract 11.7 the student is trying to make herself understood and
with the help of both the teacher and another student, she succeeds.
1. T: Anybody have any ideas for above ground energy?
2. S1: Solar panel, in, on, the water.
3. T: On the water?
4. S1: On the water.
5. T: So above the water.
6. S1: But if the water go up, but on the solar panel, with go up.
7. T: Floating?
8. S1: Eh?
9. T: So the solar panels are floating?
10. S1: Change?
11. T: Floating.
12. S1: Eh?
13. S4: So floating (gesturing).
14. T: They are on top of the water floating (using gestures).
15. S1: Yureru? (undulate?)
16. S4: Uku, floating.
17. T: So the solar panels are floating on the water.
18. S1: Un. (yes, OK)
19. T: So as the water rises, the solar panels stay on top.
20. S1: Un.
21. T: That’s a great idea.
22. S4: Yes.
Extract 11.7 Teacher–student scaffolding with intervention by a
second student
In turn 2, the student has difficulty deciding between “in” or “on.” The
teacher in turn 3 asks a clarification question, but this doesn’t seem to help.
158 T. Muller & M. de Boer
In turn 5 the teacher asks another clarification question, but in turn 6, she
attempts to use different language to make herself clear. This leads to more
clarification questions, but in turn 13 another student intervenes and tries
to check what S1 means to say. She resorts to Japanese to check the mean-
ing, and realizes what the teacher was saying and what she was attempting
to say were the same. This is an example of discourse scaffolding where the
student is trying to make herself understood and is having difficulty. The
teacher has an idea of what the student is talking about and asks a clari-
fication question, which the student has trouble understanding. Another
student steps in and assists, clarifying the teacher’s question and helping
the student get the vocabulary needed to make herself understood.
In Extract 11.8, the students help each other to understand the
discourse while the teacher remains in the background.
1. T: Well, maybe you can tell S5 why we are making the
underwater city.
2. S1: Why?
3. T: Yes, why. Why are we making this underwater city?
4. S1/S2: Ah, because.
5. S1: Because we can’t live.
6. S2: The global warming is go, go up? Going up? The global
warming, going up?
7. T: Is going up?
8. S2: Susundeiru?
9. T: Oh, continuing?
10. S2: Continuing, continuing? And...
11. S1: Ah! OK! OK! The sea ground.
12. S2: Sea ground, eh?
13. S3: Sea level.
14. S1/S2: Eh?
15. S3: Sea level.
16. S1/S2: Ah, sea.
17. S2: Level, go up, go up.
18. S5: Ah, yes.
19. S1/S2: So, we can’t live.
20. T: We can’t live on the land.
21. S1/S2: Ah!
Extract 11.8 Three students scaffolding with a short teacher
intervention
Student Use of Language Scaffolding 159
The majority of this discourse is based around the students explaining
to each other their intended meaning. The dialog shows scaffolding from
both the teacher and other students. The teacher begins with an imperative
asking S1, S2, and S3 to explain the reason behind the discussion to S5, and
during the ensuing conversation there are two cases of scaffolding, one by
the teacher and the other by a student. One more interesting note is that
S1 and S2 use each other for support during their explanation. In one case
S3 jumps in to scaffold and assist in completing the explanation. There are
only four contributions by the teacher in this 21-turn dialog, demonstrat-
ing a material difference between this conversation and discourse typical of
IRF patterning, such as that shown in Sinclair and Coulthard (1975).
Student–student scaffolding
Extract 11.9 shows an example of feedback and scaffolding between
students without teacher intervention.
1. T: Also we talked last week about light. We need dark and light.
So let’s get more details. What kinds of plants can we use?
Or where? Do we have a special plant area to get oxygen?
What do you think?
2. S2: Apple farm
3. S1: Eh?
4. S2: Apple tree…If we grow, grows, apple tree, we can get oxygen
and apple.
5. S5: I have another question. If we can’t get light, then we can’t
grow plants.
6. S2: Right.
7. S1: Light!
8. S2: Light right!
9. S1: It’s a nice idea, but I think apples is difficult to grow.
10. S2: Really?
11. S1: Maybe.
12. S2: Aaaaahhhh.
13. S1: My grandfather grows it and, and nanka (um), they need
some help to grow.
14. S2: I see.
15. S1: But some fruits with trees is good, I think.
16. S2: Oooh, thank you.
Extract 11.9 Student-only scaffolding
160 T. Muller & M. de Boer
In turn 5, S5 comments on the conversation between S1 and S2. In turn
9, S1 comments on the idea stated by S2. Again in turn 15, S1 comments
again, to which S2 replies with a “Thank you.” As can be seen in this
16-turn dialog, the teacher only initiates with a question. In this case
the dialog has no apparent language scaffolding, as the primary focus
is on meaning, although clarification is requested at line 3. Turns 9 and
13 are also explanations counter to S2’s idea, thus they are negotiating
meaning.
Analysis
Above we have demonstrated how the different means of mediation,
materials-mediated student–student interaction, teacher-mediated
student–student, and teacher–student interaction differed. One such
difference is the use of L1; in the materials-mediated student–student
interaction, students discuss what to say in Japanese before beginning
the task, focusing on agreeing on the right way to complete the task.
While in the materials-mediated classes students appear to have mostly
understood the language, their discourse intent tended to be based on
completing the task using correct forms (which they negotiated, success-
fully or unsuccessfully, among themselves) rather than focusing on
meaning. One potential explanation for the considerable use of Japanese
is that instructions and explanations were provided in Japanese, and so
the students may have defaulted to their L1 in response to this.
In the teacher-mediated lessons, perhaps because the teacher was
able to interact with the students, their attention was focused on com-
munication and the scaffolding was based on the students learning
how to mean; and in doing so, the scaffolding that ensued came from
misinterpretation or misunderstanding in explanations, or realizing
there was a lack of knowledge required to facilitate understanding.
Peers became a meaning testing ground in a kind of repair-strategy milieu.
Conclusion
As stated in the introduction, it was our intention to lay out two differ-
ent means of mediating classroom communication, at one end rigidly
controlled input mediated through material distributed to student pairs
intended to meet the needs of a quantitative research framework, and
at the other, teacher-mediated student–student and teacher–student
interaction with the focus primarily on meaning. It’s understood that
most teachers will try to find some compromise between these two
Student Use of Language Scaffolding 161
extremes in their own classrooms, and our hope is that as teachers seek
to find their own balance for their own contexts, the information in
this chapter will help them to understand the limitations of the former
for encouraging authentic-seeming conversation and the potential of
the latter to facilitate interaction that mimics discourse outside the
classroom. While the direction of the classroom ideally should move
towards being more dynamic, some of the challenges that remain
include demonstrating how to scale teacher-mediated authentic-seeming
interaction into larger classrooms, such as the classes of 40⫹ students
discussed here.
162
12
Innovating EFL Teaching of
Reading: An Activity Theory
Perspective on Chinese Teachers’
Readiness to Adapt to Educational
Reform
Hongzhi Yang and Eva Bernat
Introduction
In the era of globalization, the importance of English is well recognized
by the Chinese government as the language will contribute to China’s
modernization and competitiveness in the global economy (CMOEC,
2002). As a result, English as a Foreign Language (EFL) education in
China has both a political and economic motivation (Q. Wang, 2007). To
this end, this chapter is concerned with Chinese EFL teachers’ commit-
ment to this vision, and the extent to which they embrace educational
reform – in particular, innovations related to teaching of EFL reading
comprehension. In this study, we discuss the development of university-
level EFL teaching for students who are non-English majors, which is
officially termed “College English,” highlighting some challenges to
successful implementation of innovation, including cultural, contextual,
and pragmatic factors. Next, we discuss the relevant literature and
theoretical frameworks that underpin a study conducted in China,
examining factors that account for teacher readiness to adapt to the
recently introduced reform. Finally, we discuss the implications of our
findings for pedagogy and teacher development, making a number of
recommendations for the local Chinese context.
Problems of College English education in China
College English education in China has received much attention in recent
years and has gone through a number of reforms. The College English
Test (CET) system was adopted to reinforce effective implementation
Innovating EFL Teaching of Reading 163
of the College English syllabus nationally, reflecting the nation’s
examination-oriented culture deriving from ancient China. This has had
a great impact on the Chinese people’s ideas of education and schooling
up to the present day. Test-oriented English teaching made the College
English curriculum give way to coaching materials and students spent
most of their time memorizing vocabulary and developing examination
skills, rather than developing communicative competence (J. Wang, 2007).
With regard to reading comprehension, teacher repertoires for teaching
reading skills remained limited, as test preparation is only concerned with
“careful reading” (Jin, 2010: 52), where students focus on “correctness/
product” instead of “meaning/process,” due to the multiple-choice test
format (Huang, 2005: 613).
Pedagogically, teachers are predominantly inclined to follow the
model of explaining texts in Chinese to students (Li, 2009), and thus
students strongly rely on translation and use more concrete bottom-up
decoding strategies in reading, rather than top-down strategies (Zhang,
2001). This is due to the Chinese conception of learning as a systematic
process that involves predetermined stages. As a result, Chinese teachers
focus on drilling skills and competence before allowing students to
read independently. In addition, according to Chinese beliefs, a good
teacher should be a knowledge transmitter and expert in subject-
matter knowledge (Chan & Rao, 2009). These pedagogic notions facilitate
a teacher-centered and textbook-based model where much of the class
time is devoted to explaining the minutiae of grammar and vocabulary
(Jin & Cortazzi, 2006). The Chinese government perceives such “bottom-
up” teaching models as hindering the improvement of learners’ English
language proficiency. Consequently, another round of College English
reform was introduced in 2007.
College English curriculum reform in 2007
The College English Curriculum Requirements of 2007 aimed to improve
Chinese learners’ overall communicative competence in English, their
ability to study independently, and their general cultural awareness
(CMOEC, 2007). The new teaching model proposed by the reform
advocates a shift from a teacher-centered approach that emphasizes
theoretical knowledge of the language, to a student-centered one that
aims to cultivate learner ability to use the language in addition to hav-
ing knowledge of that language. Another focus is to encourage the
use of multimedia and the internet (Hu, 2004). For teacher training,
the College English Curriculum Requirements emphasize encouraging
College English teachers to improve teaching quality, and promote
164 H. Yang & E. Bernat
effective cooperation in order to assist adoption of the new teaching
model.
The new 2007 CET reflects significant changes in content and tests a
greater breadth of skills, including reading in depth, skimming and scan-
ning, and understanding the contextual meaning of vocabulary (Jin,
2010). This means that teachers are now required to teach additional
reading skills which they may or may not be ready to embrace – for a
number of reasons, some of which are explored in this chapter. Moreover,
in order to be in line with the rest of the world, the tendency is to imple-
ment technological innovation, including an internet-based CET in place
of a pen and paper test, making the CET similar to TOEFL.
As part of meeting the requirements of the reform, a new teaching
resource has been developed, New Horizon College English (Zheng, 2008)
which includes a reading strategy section (Reading Skills in Section B)
and makes use of internet resources as background information for read-
ing. Importantly, these changes require students to use both top-down
and bottom-up reading strategies, such as making use of background
knowledge, contextual variables, and inferring and synthesizing infor-
mation from the text to interpret its meaning. Some of the challenges
that stem from this recent reform include the lack of IT infrastructure
in higher education institutions, as well as inadequate professional IT
training for teachers. Teachers also need to be aware that reading online
requires special reading skills (Hu, 2004).
These reforms represent ambitious changes in government policy which
have been challenged because of the government’s eagerness for quick
success and immediate changes that seem unrealistic and unsustainable in
the long term (Gao, 2009). Importantly, teachers need to be made aware of
the rationale for these changes and the expectations that this new reform
places on them. Some of the questions that remain include:
How will the policy be translated into practical procedures in the class-
room, and be socially and culturally situated to improve EFL education
at the tertiary level?
What kind of professional development and IT infrastructure are
needed to enable teachers to be successful?
Research exploring educational reform and teacher beliefs
In this section, we review literature regarding teacher preparedness for
educational reform and literature discussing teacher beliefs and knowledge
and how they connect to teacher readiness.
In order to successfully implement the reform, contextual and partici-
pant factors need to be taken into account. Snow (1989) suggests teacher
•
•
Innovating EFL Teaching of Reading 165
development and training needs must be met before implementing a
new assessment framework. Given the Chinese government’s require-
ments for a hasty implantation of the reform, it is timely to ascertain
teacher readiness to adapt their teaching methodologies to meet the
new demands placed on them and to analyze factors that account for
the differences among levels of teacher readiness. Teacher beliefs and
knowledge have been taken as important data indicating teacher readi-
ness (Walsh & Gardner, 2006).
Culturally based beliefs and values are an important factor in any
educational reform, and there is a growing body of empirical research
on how teacher beliefs affect their teaching practice, decision-making
processes, and classroom management (El-Okda, 2005). In the Chinese
context, Cortazzi and Jin (2001) analyze Chinese beliefs regarding the
“good teacher” with transcripts of classroom interaction to summarize
participation patterns. In addition, studies from other global contexts
(Graden, 1996; Meijer, Verloop, & Beijaard, 2001) suggest it is impor-
tant to study teacher beliefs and practices concurrently. Research into
teacher beliefs is regarded as indispensable for understanding teacher
practice (Nespor, 1987). This study falls into an area of increasing
research interest by examining teacher beliefs and practices to ascertain
their readiness for change in the Chinese context.
In addition to eliciting teacher beliefs, in order to understand their
readiness to embrace reform it is also important to gain insight into their
knowledge. It is also necessary to consider that knowledge is not entirely
formulated on teacher preparation courses – trainees’ views of how to
teach are frequently formulated from their own student experiences
in an “apprenticeship of observation” (Lortie, 1975: 60). Additionally,
teacher knowledge is at the intersection between practical knowledge
and theoretical knowledge (Lave & Wenger, 1991) and “brings together
past experience and future goals” (Freeman, 2002: 9) within the context
of teaching.
Therefore, this study explores teacher readiness from three empiri-
cal data sources; teacher beliefs, knowledge, and classroom practices.
Moreover, in this book, this study contrasts usefully with other studies
which also investigate teacher beliefs regarding teacher education/quali-
fications (Adamson, Chapter 5; Erlam and Gray, Chapter 8).
Theoretical frameworks
A number of concepts form the theoretical framework for the study.
First, we define readiness as “a developmental point at which a person,
166 H. Yang & E. Bernat
organization, or system has the capacity and willingness to engage in a
particular activity” (Fixsen, Blasé, Horner, & Sugai, 2009:1). It is argued
that teacher readiness is dynamically mediated by the tools and inter-
actions in the process of teacher learning and professional development.
The theoretical framework underpinning this study is activity theory,
which argues human behavior is mediated by cultural artifacts and
results from integration of socially and culturally constructed forms of
mediation into human activity (Edwards, 2007). Therefore, the study
uses the activity theory framework to explore both how teacher practice
is mediated by tools and cultural artifacts and to investigate how teachers
transform their teaching activity within the collective practice and
community. In addition, this study utilizes the Vygotskian concept
of the zone of proximal development (ZPD) to ascertain the level of
teacher readiness (Vygotsky, 1978).
Activity theory
Activity cannot be understood or analyzed outside the context in which it
occurs. The activity theory framework (Engeström, 1987) exemplifies the
interrelations between the individual subject and his or her community
(Figure 12.1).
In the reading class described in our study, the subject is the teacher.
The object is the teacher’s motive to realize their new goals in line with
the new educational reform. The tools constitute teaching methods,
teaching materials, and teacher beliefs about teaching. In the classroom
the teacher and the learners have negotiated their roles. The rules and the
negotiation process mediate the division of labor, and at a broader level,
Figure 12.1 The structure of a human activity system (Engeström, 1987: 78)
Community Division of labour
Rules
Subject
Object
Sense
Meaning
Outcome
Mediating artifacts:
Tools and signs
Innovating EFL Teaching of Reading 167
the school and classroom community negotiate the rules, customs, and
division of labor that mediate the activity.
The zone of proximal development (ZPD)
The ZPD is an important social concept, defined as “the distance between
the actual development level as determined by independent problem
solving and the level of potential development as determined through
problem solving under adult guidance or in collaboration with more
capable peers” (Vygotsky, 1978: 86). Our study uses two versions of the
ZPD described by Lave and Wenger (1991: 48–9):
A “cultural” interpretation: The concern is with the distance between
everyday and scientific understandings which are bridged by instruc-
tion. The concepts that develop within practical community experi-
ences are everyday concepts, while the concepts that develop within
formal school settings are scientific concepts. Generative interaction
between everyday and scientific concepts can occur in the ZPD.
A “collectivist” or “societal” interpretation: Emphasis is placed on the
distance between current understandings and new forms of collec-
tively generated solutions to the contradictions in current under-
standing.
From this perspective, we argue that the levels of teacher readiness to
change their teaching can be indicated by potential levels of development,
informed by the kind of assistance, both conceptual and material, needed
to form new types of instruction and teacher ability to use external assist-
ance to solve contradictions in their current teaching activities (Lantolf &
Thorne, 2006). Thus, the ZPD serves as a tool for exploring varying levels
of reading teachers’ readiness to adapt their reading instruction to meet
the demands of the educational reform.
Concepts of contradiction and relational agency
According to Engeström (2001), contradictions are not simply conflicts
or problems, but are “historically accumulating structural tensions
within and between activity systems” (p. 137). Contradictions have the
potential to generate transformation in an activity system. However,
contradictions may even disable learning because they may not be iden-
tified or resolved by the people experiencing them (Engeström, 2001).
The transformation of teaching activity also requires the ability to
make use of available resources, material and conceptual, or even other
people, in order to support object-oriented action (Edwards & D’Arcy,
•
•
168 H. Yang & E. Bernat
2004). This is called relational agency, which can be found in the
“collectivist” (Edwards, 2007: 3) interpretation of the ZPD. By engag-
ing with others within the ZPD, teachers may gain new insights into
the problems they are facing. They can make use of the histories and
interpretations of others in their sense-making and make their own
ideas semi-public within the relationship to be examined. In addition,
teachers should be trained to work with learners to expand the object of
their teaching (Edwards & D’Arcy, 2004). This kind of training is lacking
in the current Chinese educational reform.
Methodology
Studies concerned with teacher readiness are typically limited to sur-
veys (Drame, 2002; Kumar, Rose, & D’Silva, 2008). However, in order to
explore the complexity of teacher readiness, it is necessary to carry out
a more in-depth analysis of the interactions between beliefs, classroom
practices, and contextual factors. A qualitative case study approach ena-
bles the researcher to demonstrate the complexity and meanings of the
experience of individuals or groups, and interpret a contextualized social
phenomenon such as classroom culture and peer or group development
(Kamberelis & Dimitriadis, 2005). The present study is set at a medium-
sized private university in central China. The teaching material used for
non-English major students at this university is the New Horizon College
English textbook. The participants are two Chinese English language
teachers who teach non-English major students. Lynne (pseudonym),
female, is 45 years old and has been teaching English for about 17 years.
She was selected as the leader of the Teaching Research Office, was a
judge of the “Teaching demonstration and competition” at her univer-
sity, and was evaluated by the university as the “Research Backbone,”
meaning she is regarded as an expert in both teaching and research.
Jenny (pseudonym), female, 28 years old, has four years experience of
teaching English major courses. This is her first year of teaching New
Horizon College English. She has just received an MA in TESOL from the
US, in which she specialized in researching reading strategy instruction.
The procedures and instruments of data collection included three steps:
Step 1. An initial questionnaire was used for sampling purposes and
helped to select the participants for the qualitative data-gathering
stage. Questions were designed to elicit information about teacher
educational backgrounds and teaching experience, to ascertain
whether they already teach reading strategies in their classes, and
Innovating EFL Teaching of Reading 169
to elicit their beliefs about reading instruction and reading strategy
instruction. In order to reveal the levels of teacher readiness from
the perspective of the ZPD, the two cases were selected from 44 EFL
teachers surveyed who were willing to volunteer for the next stages
of the study; Lynne, a teacher who has both theoretical knowledge
and practical experience of teaching reading strategies and Jenny,
who has theoretical knowledge about reading strategy instruction
but lacks practical teaching experience.
Step 2. With both teacher and student agreement, the two teachers’
classrooms were observed and videotaped, a total of 18 hours of
recording for each teacher.
Step 3. Two interviews were conducted with each teacher about
their beliefs about reading and reading strategy instruction, and their
levels of readiness to change to meet the aims of the educational
reform.
Findings
As mentioned earlier, the data obtained from the interview and class-
room observations were categorized as teacher knowledge, beliefs, and
classroom teaching patterns. Based on activity theory, teacher class-
room practices have been sub-categorized into teaching goals, tools, and
division of labor.
Lynne
Lynne is currently conducting a research project on “Internet-based
CET.” She regularly attends meetings of the Teaching Research Office
to discuss with other teachers various problems in teaching and takes
part in external conferences to learn from her counterparts from other
universities because “…you have to force yourself to catch up with the
university’s development.” The following is a succinct summary of the
data elicited during the two interviews.
Knowledge: She has thorough knowledge of EFL reading instruc-
tion and reading strategy instruction, which was
the topic of her MA, taken in China.
Beliefs: Reading is communication between reader and
author. A good reader should have critical thinking
skills, a global understanding of the context, and
be able to clearly express the theme of the writing.
Teaching reading strategies is helpful for student
170 H. Yang & E. Bernat
reading, but student practice is more important than
teaching. Admittedly, her beliefs are formulated
from her own reflection on teaching and overall
life experience. Unlike traditional ideas of teacher
as knowledge transmitter, she believes the role of
teacher is as a guide and facilitator and students
should be actors instead of audience in the class.
These beliefs derive from her effort to catch up with
the changing educational reform policy.
Classroom practice: Her beliefs about EFL reading reflect a “top-down”
preference. She teaches background information and
global understanding of the text before teaching
detailed understanding of the text, followed by
teaching learners critical reading skills and appreci-
ation. She often uses questions to motivate students
to think and talk. She tries to self-design activities
in order to encourage student involvement and to
read for meaning. For example, at the beginning
of each class, she asks students to report a piece of
news in English, which they can search for from
English news websites she recommends. When
teaching reading strategies, she emphasizes student
practice, because the textbook does not explain how
to use reading strategies.
Goal of teaching: To develop student ideational and critical thinking
skills by studying how authors express their ideas
in texts and position the reader in relation to the
topic.
Tools: As a teacher with a senior position in the university,
she is privileged to use the multimedia classroom
once a week to illustrate text structure and introduce
background knowledge. Although she does not like
the design of the new textbook, she makes com-
promises by making minor adaptations, yet covers
the textbook material because of pressure from test
requirements and the school’s policy regarding cover-
age of the new curriculum. She teaches in English
and tries to simplify her language when students do
not understand her questions.
Division of labor: Although she states a preference for student-centered
teaching, most of her class time is dominated by
Innovating EFL Teaching of Reading 171
teacher explanation and student talk is limited to
answering questions. Despite her efforts to encourage
student involvement, they do not seem to respond,
probably because of their low language proficiency
and/or resistance to the new teaching methods.
Lynne tries to convince her students by sharing her
belief that the ultimate goal of reading is to get the
theme, rather than memorizing vocabulary.
Lynne’s teaching practices generally reflect her beliefs in a top-down
approach to reading instruction. However, her lack of application of her
espoused belief in a student-centered classroom reflects an incongruence.
She attributes this to students’ limited language proficiency and pressure
to cover the curriculum.
Jenny
Jenny feels that the textbook assigned by the school is not well designed
to teach reading strategies. At the same time, the influences of other
teachers make students resistant to her teaching style. She does not
interact with peer teachers, and feels that there is no support from
students or the school. She does not pay much attention to the require-
ments of the educational and test reform.
Knowledge: She has thorough discipline knowledge and is familiar
with various teaching theories and methods, hav-
ing focused her MA dissertation on reading strategy
instruction.
Beliefs: She prefers the bottom-up approach to teaching read-
ing, but she recognizes this approach will hinder
students from having higher-level understanding.
She is willing to try top-down instruction, but she
and her students need time to get used to the new
methods. She believes long-term and multiple strat-
egy instruction is helpful for students’ reading. She
thinks that the role of the textbook should be
facilitator instead of authority.
Classroom practice: At the beginning of the class, she teaches the mean-
ing and usage of each vocabulary item in Chinese.
When teaching a text, she usually summarizes the
main idea of each paragraph and explains the mean-
ing of every sentence in Chinese. Sometimes she will
172 H. Yang & E. Bernat
ask students to read the text aloud and translate
sentences into Chinese to check understanding.
There is no explicit teaching of reading strategies.
Goal of teaching: To teach students learning and reading strategies
and to prepare students for tests.
Tools: Contrary to her belief, she regards the textbook
as an authority and faithfully follows the steps in
it, because she states that her English is not good
enough to teach independently of the textbook.
She would like to be more innovative and use
multimedia courseware in her teaching, however,
the lack of multimedia-equipped classrooms in the
university and her status as a young teacher do not
allow for it.
Division of labor: In her class, teacher talk dominates most of the class
time. Although she expresses the desire to have
more interaction with her students, they appear to
have no interest in participating.
Jenny believes “It is risky to try the new methods. Although the tradi-
tional teaching is boring, it is the safe way” and “students do not want
to study because the teaching is boring.” She admits that the reason she
does not pursue the goal of teaching reading strategies is that “I have
no confidence in teaching reading strategies…because my students
have no interest in that...and I have not used all reading strategies in
my reading.” Another reason is the heavy workload; the school did not
offer her enough time to prepare when she was assigned to teach a new
course. There is an evident incongruence between Jenny’s beliefs and
teaching practices, as she does not teach any reading strategies explic-
itly, which is her stated goal of teaching. In addition, her reliance on
the textbook is contrary to her beliefs about the role of the textbook as
only a facilitator.
Discussion
After analyzing the two cases using activity theory, there are strikingly
similar contradictions in Lynne and Jenny’s teaching despite both teachers
being very different in many other respects. First, there is the contradic-
tion between the tools (textbook) and their goals of teaching. To a certain
extent the textbook reflects the requirements of reform by including a
wider range of reading strategies; however, it fails to place emphasis on
Innovating EFL Teaching of Reading 173
strategy application and does not reflect the notion of student-centered
teaching. Both teachers feel the textbook cannot meet their teaching goals
and they share the same pressure to cover the curriculum outlined in the
school policy. However, each teacher takes different action to compen-
sate. Lynne tries to form new tools by adapting the textbook to meet her
goals, teaching learners to read the passage critically and trying to integrate
top-down and bottom-up approaches to reading. She makes attempts to
offer learners opportunities to use reading strategies in their reading when
she recognizes that the textbook does not give adequate focus on strate-
gies use. In contrast, Jenny, who was educated in TESOL in the US and
has researched reading strategies, gives up teaching reading strategies
explicitly when she feels reading strategy instruction is inadequately
incorporated into the textbook.
Second, there is the same problem of lack of student response in
both teachers’ classes. Lynne tries to solve this by simplifying her ques-
tions, scaffolding students to think and talk, and by explaining her
beliefs, yet this doesn’t bring about the desired effect. Jenny, as a young
teacher, lacks confidence, sees student lack of cooperation as resist-
ance and indifference, and thus gives up risking innovation, instead
using survival strategies such as taking the easiest path. Interestingly,
this finding is contrary to Johnson’s (1992) study that shows young
teachers are more open to accept innovative changes, while more
experienced teachers usually hold to their own long-standing beliefs
and resist change.
The differences in the two teachers’ capabilities to take agentive action
to solve contradictions can be explained by two factors. The first factor
can be explained by the “cultural” interpretation of the ZPD. Lynne
has both everyday concepts (gained from practical teaching experience)
and scientific concepts (an understanding of theories of reading instruc-
tion). The interaction between the two concepts can occur in the ZPD,
offering her new reflections about teaching. For Jenny, there is still a gap
between theory and practice. Although she has scientific concepts about
reading strategy instruction, her lack of practical experience hinders her
learning when faced with contradictions.
The second factor is relational agency. Lynne seeks assistance from the
school, peer teachers, and learners, and tries to learn from others to improve
her teaching and research. Success brings her higher status in the school
and in turn offers her more power to make use of resources, both concep-
tual, such as opportunities to learn, and material, such as the multimedia
classroom. At the same time, she invites young teachers who are keen to do
research to participate in her projects. Despite assistance from school and
174 H. Yang & E. Bernat
peers, in order to realize her goals of teaching, Lynne needs more support
and cooperation from her students. On the other hand, Jenny, as a novice
teacher, does not feel she has support from the school or from the students.
Jenny expresses isolation from her peer teachers and reports lacking confi-
dence before her students. This lack of confidence hinders her innovation
and interaction with students. Therefore, she chooses to use teacher talk
to fill the class time and have a superficially dominant role as teacher. Tsui
(2007: 1051) suggests that beginning teachers’ “survival” phase may lead
to a negative experience of self-doubt, which emphasizes the need for
school-based professional development support. This is particularly impor-
tant, even crucial, for young teachers who are faced with the challenge of
complying with a new educational reform. To overcome the gap between
theory and practice, Jenny requires assistance from an expert guide to
successfully resolve the problems she encounters in putting the theory she
has learned into practice.
With reference to the educational reform, Lynne is comparatively
more prepared for the innovation required, because she is aware of the
changing policy, has urged the university to prepare equipment for the
new internet-based test, and attempts to shift to a more student-centered
teaching model. However, for a teacher like Jenny, who is overburdened
by her workload and trying to survive in her early career period, she does
not have enough time and energy to pay attention to the educational
reform, resulting in indifference or resistance to the reform because inno-
vation is perceived as “risky.” Although she expresses her willingness to
try the new top-down approach to teaching reading, both she and her
students need time to acclimatize to the new methods and materials. In
addition, there is no detailed introduction to the reform policy for teach-
ers in her university, which would help teachers have a more thorough
understanding of its rationale.
In summary, in this study the factors constraining teachers from
innovation range from the pragmatic to the philosophical. They include
inadequate textbook design, pressure of curriculum coverage, limita-
tions in resources, and resistance to change, observations consistent
with Cortazzi and Jin (1996)’s conclusions.
Conclusion and recommendations
As with any case study, there are limitations due to context specificity,
suggesting findings should not be generalized to the wider educational
community without consideration of contextual variables. Additionally,
many factors play a role in the formation of a teacher’s attitudes, beliefs,
Innovating EFL Teaching of Reading 175
and practices and it is not possible to capture them all. However, a
number of lessons emerge from this study.
In the centralized Chinese educational system, policy reform tends to
be implemented in a top-down manner (Wang & Cheng, 2008), without
considering local contexts. The College English reform policy reflects
the Chinese government’s aspiration to move Chinese education toward
catching up with the rest of the world. This is exemplified by their
explicit reference to the use of multimedia courseware and the internet.
However, this is not realistic, because the infrastructure for these tech-
nologies is not in place in most universities. Thus policymakers should
try to avoid mismatching idealized policy and actual conditions. In
addition, the shift toward computers may “deskill” (Breen, 2007: 1071)
the experiential pedagogy of the teacher and adversely influence teachers’
sense of worth.
Although the reform policy does outline expected changes to teach-
ing, such as the shift to student-centered teaching and teaching reading
online, it represents a departure from teachers’ prior experience and
beliefs (Little, 1993), and does not specify in enough detail procedures
that teachers could implement in their classroom pedagogy. The vague-
ness of the policy document may result in various interpretations of
the original intentions, which may result in the desired innovation
failing. In addition, the textbook should reflect the principles of the
new reform to guide teacher practice. The government and the school
should offer teachers adequate training so they can become familiar
with the new requirements of the reform and its philosophical under-
pinnings, which are more Western pedagogy-oriented, rather than what
Chinese teachers are accustomed to. There appears to be a need for
policymakers to carefully consider how the reform fits into the whole
network of social practice and cultural beliefs within the local Chinese
education context (Cortazzi & Jin, 2001). Training can help teachers
consider how the innovation relates to their practical experience within
contextually based constraints in their community and their personal
philosophy about teaching and learning. In addition, the question of
whether the innovations are appropriate to local conditions needs
further research.
In many cases, teacher collaboration would be helpful in scaffolding
teacher learning, especially among novice teachers, as part of the process
of educational reform (Chan & Rao, 2009). Government and schools
should give novice teachers time and space to grow. In addition, the
school should decrease teacher workload and provide adequate support
of professional development so teachers can learn from one another.
176 H. Yang & E. Bernat
Reflective of Jenny’s experience, many people nowadays study
Education or TESOL in Western countries. Upon their return to China,
they – and other people – assume they are ready to use the knowledge
or skills they have learned, to implement changes and improvements.
However, the altruistic readiness and high expectation may frustrate
them when faced with a gap between theory and practice and the problem
of how to transplant these teaching paradigms to Chinese contexts.
Guidance and support should be provided to help them overcome these
gaps and adjust to local cultures and practical realities.
Part D
Teaching Young Learners in Asia
178
Introduction to Part D
Barbara Hoskins Sakamoto
Before we can appreciate what innovation might mean in the context
of young learner EFL in Asia, it would be helpful to summarize what we
know about this context. It’s difficult to make assumptions about lan-
guage education across countries, but there are several generalizations
that seem to hold true for elementary English education in Asia (Butler
2007; Hu, 2002; Nunan 2003).
Firstly, English is seen as a global language, and increasing the number
of adults proficient in English is seen as key to national economic
strength and diplomacy. Toward this end, governments across the region
have made, or have plans to make, English compulsory in public elemen-
tary schools (Nunan, 2003). Secondly, there has been a shift toward
curricula that include learner-centered approaches to language teaching,
but without adequate material or professional support for the teachers
expected to implement these new English standards. In practical terms,
this means many schools lack access to the technology necessary to
support lessons, and teacher training tends to be inadequate either to
ensure successful adaptation of teaching methodologies or to explain
why the changes are necessary (Hu, 2002). Finally, while English skill
is deemed essential by policy makers, it remains irrelevant to the daily
lives of many young language learners in Asia. In general, children
still have little exposure to English outside language classrooms and
few hours devoted to English in school, with teachers who frequently
have limited ability in a language that bears little similarity to their
own. While curricular objectives stress communicative language ability,
assessment still values grammar-translation. This means access to the
perceived benefits of English ability (university admission, better-paying
jobs) is still determined by socioeconomic factors, meaning parents
with means send their children to private schools to supplement public
English education, or perhaps to schools where the instruction is in
English.
The research informing curriculum reform is largely anecdotal. When
curricular decisions have been founded on data-based research, they
refer to studies done with children who are learning English as a second
language (in English-dominant countries) or with university students
learning English as a foreign language. Thus the chapters in Part D are
welcome additions to the literature regarding the practice of English
language teaching in young learner classrooms in Asia. They have
been written by educators based in Asia, and based on studies done in
Asian classrooms of young learners.
Kırkgöz (Chapter 13) and Carreira (Chapter 14) examine the realities
of what top-down educational reform actually means for teachers
and students in public schools. Kırkgöz investigates teacher reactions to
curriculum reform in Turkey, and Carreira takes a look at student moti-
vation in Japan and how it changes with age. While education reform
often makes the news, we rarely see how it looks to the teachers charged
with implementing new guidelines. Turkey first attempted a nationwide
English curriculum in the primary grades in 1997. Later 2005 revisions
were an attempt to move English education toward a more constructivist,
child-centered approach. Kırkgöz shows that communication and training
for teachers are essential to success with any new way of teaching, espe-
cially one that asks teachers to move from a traditional teacher-centered
approach to a more learner-centered way of teaching. Carreira exam-
ines motivation as it relates to young learners in Japan. Students study
English because it is compulsory, but what motivates them to learn?
Does their motivation change with age, and are intrinsic and extrinsic
motivators mutually exclusive? Carriera’s study is one of the first to look
for these answers in Japanese public classrooms. What she found is that
an interest in foreign countries was one of the strongest motivations to
learn English. She also observed that instrumental motivation does
not correlate negatively with intrinsic motivation. Children who study
English because they have to can become children who learn English
because they want to.
The final two chapters in this Part introduce successful experiments
in collaborating to identify and solve problems in Asian EFL classrooms.
The “Picture Book Project” takes place in rural Japan and “Let’s Speak
English” in rural India, but the positive attitude shown by teachers in
looking for bottom-up solutions for top-down problems is common to
both, and can serve as a model for successful instructional design for
other educators in Asia.
Introduction to Part D 179
In Japan, teachers in Iwate faced problems familiar to many teachers in
the midst of educational reform, including conflicting expectations from
policy makers, schools, and parents. Efforts to standardize education
resulted in programs that didn’t fit the needs of individual schools. Hall,
Yamazaki, Takahashi, and Ishigame (Chapter 15) designed the Picture
Book Project as one way to introduce relevant English in a meaningful
and accessible context. While the project was limited to one school,
they provide a successful model for collaborative projects between
mainstream elementary and tertiary EFL educators.
Anderson and Naranyan (Chapter 16) provide another example of
collaboration as the key to solving another problem – EFL guidelines
that inadequately consider the realities of students from disadvantaged
public schools. Families who can afford it send their children to private
schools where students study in English. Children from families that
can’t afford private school tuition attend state schools, where subjects
are taught in their home language. For them, English is still a foreign
language. Since the majority of university courses are taught in English
and employers value English ability, students at state-funded schools
are at a disadvantage in comparison to their more affluent peers. Their
chapter shows transplanting innovative approaches into the EFL curricu-
lum, or simply setting high goals, are likely to fail unless they take into
account the educational environment and experience of students. Rather
than fighting against the state curriculum, AID INDIA looked at the needs
of India’s poorest learners and designed a program to meet those needs
and supplement the existing curriculum.
The four chapters in Part D represent a step in a very promising direc-
tion for innovating young learner education in Asia. I hope you find
them as enjoyable and informative as I have.
180 B. Hoskins Sakamoto
181
13
Exploring Teachers’
Implementation of the Recent
Curriculum Innovation in ELT in
Turkish Primary Education
Yasemin Kırkgöz
Introduction
Globalization has made a considerable impact on the language policies
of many countries. This, in turn, has created an increased demand for
English as the language for international communication, given the status
English holds as a global language or lingua franca (Crystal, 1997).
As noted by Nunan (2003: 589), “the demand for English and English
language education has exploded with economic globalization. It is the
language of business, technology, science, the internet, popular enter-
tainment, and even sports.” As a consequence, many countries have
attempted to ensure that they are adequately equipped with English
language skills to respond to the more globalized world (Nunan, 2003;
Graddol, 2006). While the extent to which globalization has affected
each country has varied, one common feature of the language policy
adopted in countries, particularly those in which English is used as ESL/
EFL, has been to lower the age at which children start learning English
in primary schools. The early introduction of English has also necessi-
tated the need to revise the foreign language curriculum and introduce
communicative language teaching (CLT) as part of the curriculum
innovation process. In several countries in the Asia-Pacific region, such
as mainland China, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan,
the governments have taken the decision to introduce English as a
compulsory subject at younger ages, as part of their national policy
of globalization and internationalization of the educational system
(Nunan, 2003).
Turkey, like many of the aforementioned countries, has responded
to the global influence of English in its foreign language policy by
182 Y. Kırkgöz
introducing English in state primary schools as a compulsory school
subject. Turkey has introduced two major curriculum innovations in ELT
at the primary level. The first curriculum innovation was introduced in
1997 (C1997), following a major Curriculum Innovation Project which
resulted in lowering the starting age at which children learn English as
a compulsory subject in primary education: Teaching English to Young
Learners (TEYLs) for grade 4 and grade 5 students (aged 9–11) (see
Kırkgöz, 2007, 2008). The early introduction of English has subsequently
prompted the need to revise the foreign language curriculum and intro-
duce communicative language, leading to a new Communicative Oriented
Curriculum initiative with student-centered learning as the main underly-
ing philosophy. The Turkish Ministry of National Education (TMNE) has
given priority to sustaining continuity in curriculum innovation in primary
ELT. Thus, in 2005, the Communicative Oriented Curriculum was revised
to bridge the gaps resulting from the previous policy implementation, to
help ensure higher levels of proficiency in English for young Turkish
students, particularly in state primary schools, and to adapt the curriculum
to European Union language teaching standards (Kırkgöz, 2007).
Effectively applying theory is a challenge that many teachers involved
in TEYLs face. How can the policy be implemented within classrooms
to make effective and dynamic learning come alive for young learners?
This study aims to explore teachers’ perceptions of the recent curriculum
innovation, and features of their instructional practices in teaching
English to young learners in grades 4–5 in Turkish state primary schools.
After introducing the macro-level national policy on primary English,
including curriculum goals, teaching materials, and assessment proce-
dures, the research design for the collection and analysis of the data is
presented. Then, teachers’ perceptions of the revised curriculum and
their implementation of the new ELT curriculum, based on a survey of
60 teachers, are given. Recommendations for future language policy are
discussed before the conclusion.
Macro-level planning underlying revision of the primary
ELT curriculum
The revised primary English Language Teaching (ELT) curriculum (C2005)
was prepared by a team of specialists consisting of Turkish native speakers
of English, appointed by the TMNE (MEB, 2006). It has been conceptual-
ized to incorporate recent methodological trends in ELT not only in the
formulation of objectives and the content of the curriculum but also in
the teaching materials and the assessment system. C2005 comprises
Curriculum Innovation in ELT in Primary Education 183
several components, as illustrated in Figure 13.1. The reasoning behind
the C2005 may be further explained as follows:
(a) As in C1997, the communicative dimension of the curriculum aims at
promoting learners’ communicative proficiency in English by foster-
ing integrated development of four language skills, with a particular
emphasis on speaking and listening, focusing on student-centered
instruction.
(b) C2005 encourages teachers to present lessons in a variety of ways so
that individualized learning styles and interests of students may be
addressed.
Figure 13.1 Components of the revised curriculum
REVISED
CURRICULUM
(C2005)
Content and Language
Integrated Learning
Cross-curricular
selection of topics
Experiential
Learning
e.g., drama, arts and
craft activities
Multiple Intelligences
Verbal/Linguistic
Logical/Mathematical
Musical/Rhythmic
Bodily/Kinaesthetic
Visual/Spatial
Interpersonal/Social
Intrapersonal/Introspective
Naturalistic
Constructivism
Via individual and
collaborative learning
Communicative
Language Teaching
Integrated language
skills development
via games, songs,
etc.
184 Y. Kırkgöz
(c) C2005 adopts content and language integrated learning through a
selection of topics from non-language cross-curricular subjects such
as geography, mathematics, music, and sports, which are taught in
Turkish and are scheduled in the students’ program to make the
foreign language learning experience more effective for learners, and
for certain cross-curricular topics to be learned in L2.
(d) C2005 is also influenced by the philosophy of constructivism which
is founded on the idea that “learners do not acquire knowledge that
is transmitted to them; rather they construct knowledge through
their intellectual activity and make it their own” (Chailee & Britain,
1991: 11). Based on this notion, in the curriculum framework, teach-
ers are expected to assign tasks to students related to the topics to be
performed individually or collaboratively.
(e) Through experiential learning, drama, arts, and craft activities are
suggested to improve young learners’ creativity and their social,
cognitive, artistic, and linguistic skills. Teachers are advised to employ
various supplementary audiovisual materials to provide learners
with opportunities for meaningful language in real contexts. C2005
introduced performance-based assessment, such as the use of a port-
folio, as an appropriate model to evaluate the learning outcomes
of young learners, and to update the assessment system in light of
recommendations of the European Union, of which Turkey is trying
to become a member.
Unlike C1997, which was implemented nationwide, the revised cur-
riculum was planned to be implemented incrementally, starting from
grade 4 and gradually proceeding to upper grades. In the 2005/2006
school year all state primary schools implemented C2005 only in grade
4 classes, and in consecutive years the revised curriculum was followed
into the upper grades.
After the implementation of C2005, TMNE updated textbooks in line
with the specified curriculum objectives. Currently, all state schools use
TMNE-approved textbooks, which are also provided to primary school
students, using state funds. There has also been an increase in the number
of teaching hours; each primary grade is now allocated an additional
hour; 4th graders are allocated three hours of compulsory and two hours
of elective English language study. However, schools do have a choice of
whether to use the optional two hours in their schedule to do activities
other than language instruction.
To facilitate diffusion of the revised curriculum, TMNE disseminated the
curriculum document to primary school directors and made it available
Curriculum Innovation in ELT in Primary Education 185
through the TMNE website. To ensure that teachers could appropriately
implement the curriculum objectives, TMNE also organized seminars and
conducted in-service training workshops in different cities (MEB, 2008).
Research design
In order to elicit teachers’ perceptions of the revised curriculum and
to develop a picture of how they implemented the new curriculum,
a multiple case study research design was adopted. The case study was an
ideal way to investigate teachers in the classroom setting in a longitudinal
study and develop an understanding of the revised curriculum from the
teachers’ own perspectives. The entire time-frame for the present study
was four months from March to June 2008.
Instruments
A survey questionnaire, observation, and interviews were used to collect
data. A 10-item questionnaire was designed to assess teachers’ depth of
knowledge and understanding of C2005. The questionnaire, adminis-
tered in Turkish, consisted of two parts: (a) six items aimed at eliciting
personal information about the teachers: their age, gender, degree,
teaching experience, and in-service training, if any, pertaining to TEYLs;
and (b) four open-ended items aimed at assessing the degree of teachers’
knowledge and understanding of C2005, such as the revised curriculum
objectives, textbooks, and teaching hours.
In addition, each teacher was observed for two successive lessons,
totaling eight rounds of classroom observation with each teacher in
their own primary classes, using a 19-item observation schedule from
Kırkgöz (2008). The observation schedule sought to access details under
three components. The first component explored the extent to which the
teacher had an instructionally innovative and student-centered teaching
approach, such as use of audiovisual aids and use of different activities
to address learners’ different intelligences. The aim of this component,
based on the framework of C2005, was to find out whether the teacher
created opportunities for all students to be involved in his/her lessons,
and considered those features necessary for effective instructional practice
in teaching English to these grades. The second component in the obser-
vation schedule included such indicators as the teacher maintaining
discipline, use of pair and group work, and teacher monitoring of the
class. The final component was related to whether a positive atmosphere
was created by the teacher.
186 Y. Kırkgöz
Semi-structured interviews were held with each teacher during the pre
and/or post-observation to gain a broader perspective on the teachers’
understanding of the nature of the revised curriculum, including how
they conceptualized the curriculum renewal, and how teachers were
informed about the curriculum changes. Post-observation interviews also
included some questions that arose from issues noted in the lesson obser-
vations. Each interview lasted 10–15 minutes and was audio-recorded
with the consent of the teacher.
Participants
Sixty primary school teachers, all Turkish native speakers, teaching
English in primary grade 4 and 5 classrooms in 50 different state primary
schools, participated in the study (see Table 13.1).
As seen in Table 13.1, the 14 male and 46 female teachers ranged from
23 to 47 years in age with the majority in their 30s. Three teachers were
novice teachers with only seven months teaching experience at primary
schools. Eight teachers had between two and eight years’ teaching experi-
ence with grade 4–5 students. The remaining teachers were experienced
teachers with between nine and 21 years’ of teaching experience, originally
teaching young adults (aged 12–18); but they also had taught English to
students in grades 4 and 5.
Regarding teacher qualifications, most teachers (n ⫽ 51) had completed
a teaching certificate, mainly through a four-year pre-service English
language teacher education program offered by the universities; seven
teachers graduated from the English Literature department, and two
Table 13.1 Participants
Male
14
Female
46
Age 23–30
31–40
41–47
2
8
4
8
28
10
Years of
experience
7 months–1 year
2–8 years
9–21 years
–
2
12
3
6
37
Department ELT
English Lit.
British/American
Culture and Lit.
11
1
2
40
6
–
In-service training 3 12
Curriculum Innovation in ELT in Primary Education 187
teachers were graduates of a British/American Culture and Literature
Department. Only 15 teachers had received in-service teacher training
related to TEYLs as seminars or short training courses, ranging from
1–3 days to 1–2 weeks, given by formateurs, i.e. Turkish teacher-trainers,
appointed by TMNE. The content of such courses included information on
the new curriculum, teaching methods, and language teaching activities
(how to teach English through games, plays, songs, and flashcards). Two
of the teachers received training abroad (England) on TEYLs. The majority
of the teachers (35) admitted that they did not receive any in-service
training specifically for this age group (aged 9–11).
Data analysis
The qualitative data obtained from the interviews, lesson observations,
and questionnaire were analyzed inductively to transform data into
findings (Miles & Huberman, 1994), which involved organization of
information, categorization, and obtaining data reduction by means
of coding, description, and synthesis. To achieve a systematic analysis of
the large volume of data, a separate file was kept for each participant
teacher, which contained a complete record of data from observation
notes, interviews, and the questionnaire.
Results
Teachers’ perceptions of the revised curriculum
The extent to which teachers were familiar with the curriculum objectives
depended mainly on how they were informed about the new curriculum
objectives. Almost half of the teachers (28) who stated they had received
a seminar on the new curriculum and consulted the TMNE’s website were
able to express in greater detail their opinions on the curriculum objec-
tives. These teachers were also knowledgeable about how effectively they
could implement those objectives in their classrooms, particularly regard-
ing the objectives of student-centered learning and improving students’
communicative proficiency through games, songs, and activities. In this
respect, their perceptions were consistent with the objectives of C2005.
Some teachers (10), including those who reported that they inferred the
curriculum objectives by consulting textbooks or found out about them
from the official documents circulated to schools by the TMNE, expressed
their opinion of C2005 in terms of its emphasis on speaking. Others (22),
however, could not articulate any idea, on the grounds of not being given
any information concerning the underlying principles of C2005.
188 Y. Kırkgöz
Although most teachers welcomed an increase in teaching hours, a
majority (56) still found the present teaching hours insufficient to perform
communicative hands-on activities, especially in crowded classes. Teachers
expressed the desire for an increase of another 1–2 hours to have more
effective classrooms.
Regarding textbooks, teachers unanimously agreed that the new grade
4 textbooks were well-designed, entertaining, contained interesting
characters, had a variety of activities, and were suitable for learners’ levels.
The grade 5 textbook was not found fully appropriate for students as it
was considered too difficult and dense in content, and above the students’
level. Another textbook-related issue was the late provision of the teacher’s
book. Although officially textbooks are accompanied with cassettes and
CDs, most teachers could not use the listening parts because they were
not supplied with CDs.
Teachers’ instructional practices
Based on the data collected from lesson observations and interviews,
three categories were identified displaying typical features of the teachers’
classroom practices in implementing C2005, putting teachers along the
continuum from transmission-oriented to interpretation-oriented.
Transmission-oriented teachers (T-teachers)
The major characterizing feature of the 20 T-teachers was their tendency to
put greater emphasis on transmitting knowledge about the language and
less emphasis on encouraging students to develop communicative abilities
(see also Kırkgöz, 2008). T-teachers put greater value on a teacher-fronted
learning environment, favoring the use of a combination of grammar-
translation and audio-lingual methods, textbook, and chalkboard. The
type of activities practiced included question-answer, repetition drills,
copying from the board, and translation. Grammar translation, the most-
preferred method, involved the teacher explaining the rules deductively.
Although TMNE guidelines do not specifically recommend focusing
children’s attention on certain contrasts between L1 and L2, it was found
that most T-teachers pointed out simple contrastive features, such as
differences in sentence construction, tenses, and adjectives through
explanations and translation.
What was not observed in the lessons of T-teachers was the use of
songs, games, and art and craft activities to cater for different intelligences,
or opportunities for students to work with different partners in pairs or
groups, as suggested by C2005. A focus on form and accuracy, and heavy
emphasis on reading and writing skills to the neglect of listening and
Curriculum Innovation in ELT in Primary Education 189
speaking, was preferred, despite the suggestions of C2005. Some teachers
(n ⫽ 5) had a TV, a computer, CDs and a video in their schools but did not
use them.
The following observation notes provide a picture of how a typical
T-teacher with 17 years of teaching experience in teaching adults, who
had moved to teaching grade 4 students in the last two years, imple-
ments C2005 in the classroom. She teaches a class of 28 students.
She teaches English in the same monotonous way throughout the
whole lesson. She always uses translation. She first reads out a sen-
tence in English and then asks the students to translate it into Turkish
and vice versa. If the students can translate accurately, she praises
them as successful learners. She always practices mechanical exercises;
YES/NO questions. She writes on the chalkboard the questions and the
answers, for example, Q: Do you like oranges, A: Yes, I like / No, I don’t.
She writes a lot of examples by using the same pattern, then she asks
questions to students. Obviously, the students are not interested in the
meaning of the questions, they just answer. Because they know that
they have two choices “Yes I do” or “No, I don’t” and both of them are
the true answers. She never uses different activities to attract students’
attention. She treats students as if they were adults; she is very strict,
she wants them to sit in their desks and not move around. Although
there is a computer and a projector in the classroom she does not use
them. She just uses the chalkboard and the textbook. She never uses
CDs thinking that CDs are not at the appropriate level for the students;
but other teachers in this school disagree with this.
An interview with this teacher revealed that doing some communicative
activities and using CDs for listening purposes may lead to a reduction
of time spent on grammar activities. Like other T-teachers, she omitted
many hands-on activities in the book, thinking that these would be a
waste of time.
Eclectic-oriented teachers (E-teachers)
The majority of the teachers observed (29) tended to follow an eclectic
approach, combining the traditional language teaching style: explicit
grammar instruction, and translation with various activities – vocabulary
games, drama, and songs – for reinforcing what has been learned and
promoting communicative proficiency.
Below are some observation notes on an E-teacher, typical of other
similar teachers. He has seven years’ experience teaching grades 4–5
190 Y. Kırkgöz
students. He mostly uses grammar-translation. He supplements his lessons
using flashcards, pictures, and occasionally games. In this particular
lesson, the teacher conducts a pattern practice drill with 42 students.
The topic is “teaching professions.” The teacher introduces each job
using pictures. First, he sticks some pictures of different professions
on the chalkboard. Then, he writes the names of students under
each picture, thus assigning each student an imaginary job. Later,
he sets up a chain drill with each student asking and answering
questions. e.g., What’s Cem’s job? Cem is a doctor. He helps patients.
He continues with expanded drill practice. At the end of the lesson,
he collects all the pictures. To check students’ understanding of the
topic, he asks questions, for which most students answer correctly.
The class has an internet connection, a computer and a projector. He
uses the projector to revise each profession introduced earlier, which
provides visual and aural support for the students, helping with
pronunciation practice. The students enjoy the lesson and they are
all involved in the activities.
Interpretation-oriented teachers (I-teachers)
The main characteristics of I-teachers (11) were that they met most of the
criteria expected from the revised curriculum, demonstrating them more in
their teaching practice than did other teachers. The instructional routine
of I-teachers manifested unpredictability in the sense that the teachers
introduced a variety of different communicative activities – games, songs,
puzzles, drama, and various visual aids such as puppets and flashcards – to
make the learning of English an enjoyable experience for the students,
adopting student-centered learning.
Another feature of I-teachers was their greater familiarity with char-
acteristics of young learners. Most had already participated in in-service
training specifically to teach this age group, which seemed to facilitate
their more effective implementation of C2005.
The lessons of six I-teachers made use of online resources; three schools
had an internet connection and teachers downloaded interesting songs
and activities appropriate for the level and interests of the students.
Those I-teachers whose schools lacked such facilities tried to make up
for this deficiency by bringing real pictures, objects, visuals, CDs, and
tape recorders, feeling that utilizing a variety of resources can help increase
student motivation, as reported in an interview with an I-teacher: “There
is not a special English language teaching classroom in my school. I bring
realia, flashcards, a tape recorder, and sometimes a laptop to my class.
Curriculum Innovation in ELT in Primary Education 191
When there is no material I try to make my students create their own
materials like a mask, puppet, and a story book.”
Below are observation notes of an I-Teacher with two years’ teach-
ing experience in grades 4–5. The teacher reviews the previous lesson
(“Where [are you; is s/he] from?”, “I/She/He am/is from”), using arts
and crafts activity. The school lacks many facilities for ELT. However,
the teacher skilfully uses games and additional materials to make the
lesson entertaining for the students. There are 39 students in her class.
The students take out a circle which they were previously told to
cut out of a piece of paper at home and bring to the lesson. They
are then asked by the teacher to draw on it a face of an imaginary
character, give it a name, paint it, then, on the other side of the circle
write sentences about the character, e.g., his/her age, where he/she
is from, his/her favorite color, etc. When they have finished making
the mask, the teacher creates an imaginary birthday party in the class
where students walk around wearing the mask they have made, meet
new people, ask and answer questions. At the same time, the students
sing the birthday song with their teacher. The students are enthusi-
astic in getting involved in the activities. They like sharing their
knowledge with their peers. At end of the lesson, students prepare a
birthday card as a follow-up activity. This is a free-time activity; there
is some noise in the classroom. The teacher tolerates this. She moves
around the class to help students make their cards, monitoring each
student. She encourages the students to speak English.
Taking into account students’ short attention span, the teacher intro-
duces a variety of activities to maintain the interest and involvement of
students – making masks, having a birthday party, then making birthday
cards. Activities chosen to practice particular grammar items are appro-
priate to students’ age, level of interest, and real life experiences. The
interview held with the teacher demonstrated that she had an adequate
understanding of the new curriculum: the notion of experiential learning
found in the definition of C2005, the concept of addressing multiple
intelligences by introducing a variety of activities, and the idea that
students should be actively involved in the learning process through pair
and group work – as indicated in the following interview extract:
In this lesson I applied stirring and settling activities. Birthday party
is a stirring activity which addresses students’ many senses; arts and
crafts and coloring are the settling activities. Making the mask is an
192 Y. Kırkgöz
example of arts and crafts activity. It aims to contribute to children’s
creativity, motor skills, and their experiential learning. It is an indi-
vidual work, which is turned into a pair work as the students walked
around the classroom, asking and answering questions. This activity
makes students speak in a natural environment and practice grammar
effectively. It is both creative and has a linguistic content as it directly
addresses students’ different learning styles like visual, auditory, kin-
esthetic, and experiential.
Discussion
The results of this study revealed that, overall, teachers surveyed had
a positive perception of the revised curriculum. All teachers welcomed
an increase in teaching hours, yet they suggested a further increase
to enable them to do more activities. Teachers displayed consensus
in their view of the grade 4 textbook as appropriate and suitable for
children; however the grade 5 textbook was not found to be fully
appropriate for students.
The findings with regard to how well the principles underlying
C2005 manifested in teachers’ classroom practice are consistent with
those of our previous research. As illustrated in figure 13.2, our previous
Figure 13.2 Teachers’ classroom practices
Previous research (1977)
Number
of
teachers
Present research (2009)
30
35
25
20
15
10
5
0
transmission-oriented
interpretation-oriented
eclectic-oriented
Curriculum Innovation in ELT in Primary Education 193
research was conducted with 32 teachers in state primary schools to
investigate Turkish teachers’ implementation of the earlier curriculum
(C1997) (Kırkgöz, 2008). It was found that most teachers (n ⫽ 16)
were transmission-oriented, ten teachers were eclectic-oriented, and
only six teachers were interpretation-oriented.
The findings of the present study indicate that of the 60 participant
teachers, 20 teachers are transmission-oriented, 29 eclectic-oriented,
and the remaining 11 are interpretation-oriented. A noteworthy finding
of the present study is that the number of T-teachers (20), compared
with the total number of teachers investigated (n ⫽ 60) is on the
decrease. An encouraging finding from this study is that a changing
trend towards eclectic-oriented teaching (29) seems to be taking place
in Turkish foreign language classrooms, with many teachers trying to
adapt the new teaching methods to their specific classroom context.
Many of the findings from the present study, including insufficient
class hours and teachers’ inadequate knowledge about the curriculum
are not unique to Turkey; they are consistent with curriculum innova-
tion experiences in primary education in other Asian countries (see
Chodidjah, 2008).
Pedagogical implications
Findings suggest that the underlying principles of curriculum goals and
objectives need to be better communicated to teachers to ensure more
effective implementation of curriculum renewal, because in the present
study not every teacher was found to have a complete understanding of
C2005. Despite TMNE’s efforts to disseminate information concerning
C2005 to teachers, it has been found that the curriculum was not well
communicated because many teachers were not clear about the under-
lying philosophy of English education. A similar argument can be put
forward for the provision of in-service courses. Research findings show
that not every teacher has been provided with such opportunities, lead-
ing to less effective implementation of C2005.
In recognition of the fact that teachers are the key players in the
curriculum implementation process, in-service teacher development
opportunities need to be increased for teachers, particularly those in
the transmission-oriented paradigm, to enable them to make the profes-
sional adjustments needed in TEYLs. For example, T-teachers need to be
supported to develop better classroom management skills and to adopt
innovative ideas into their instructional practices considering the char-
acteristics of young learners, who have short attention spans and are
194 Y. Kırkgöz
active. They need to be supported to develop the practical skills needed
to effectively teach English to young learners using games, songs, arts,
and craft activities. And as the new curriculum requires teachers to use
CDs and other technological tools, teachers need to be offered specific
training in the use of multimedia resources for teaching.
The findings also suggest the need to improve infrastructure at schools
by supplying computers, CDs, tape recorders, and audiovisual materials
to enable the implementation of C2005. In the present study, of the
50 schools visited, 28 were found to be technologically well-equipped.
Almost half the schools (15) located in the outskirts had some techno-
logical facilities but in six of these schools the facilities were not used at
all; in nine schools teachers used them effectively to facilitate language
acquisition. Lack of facilities or ineffective use of resources tended to
operate against successful implementation of the curriculum.
Although officially the books are intended to be used alongside
cassettes and CDs, most teachers could not practice listening because
CDs were not supplied with the textbooks; as a result, their students
fell behind in this skill. Timely provision of CDs by the TMNE is also
needed for teachers to promote students’ integrated skills development.
With the growing importance of English in the Turkish primary school
curriculum, it would be desirable that a separate classroom for English,
equipped with technological facilities, should be designed to increase
ELT effectiveness.
Despite an increase in weekly teaching hours, the intensity of English
teaching hours grade 4 and 5 students are exposed to, totaling 114 hours
per year, still remains below the suggested 200 hours per year of instruc-
tion recommended by Nunan (2003) to achieve measurable progress in
young learners’ L2 achievement. This suggests that further increases in
teaching hours are needed; otherwise, the quantity of the input students
are exposed to needs to be reduced to allow more time for practice
within the allocated teaching hours.
Class size appears to impede effective teacher implementation of the
new curriculum. Class size varied between 18 and 55 students, with
an average class size of 35. Most teachers (n ⫽ 52) stated that due to
overcrowded classes, they could not apply the curriculum adequately,
and could not pay adequate individualized attention to students. Such
activities as dramatization, games, and plays were not being used – or
when used, caused too much noise. Although the government has been
trying hard to reduce class size to 25 or below with the establishment
of pilot schools, there is an urgent need to reduce class size in many
schools to ensure more effective implementation of the curriculum.
Curriculum Innovation in ELT in Primary Education 195
A final implication relates to the textbook, the basic tool used by
teachers in realizing curriculum objectives. From the research findings
it seems clear that the grade 5 textbook needs to be revised in terms of
the selection of topics, cultural content, sequencing, and organization
of grammar items to make it more appropriate for the level, interest, and
cognitive development of learners, and to achieve a greater degree of
continuity and a smooth transition between grade 4 and grade 5.
Conclusion
This study has investigated teachers’ perceptions of C2005, and features
of their classroom practices in implementing the new curriculum in
Turkish state primary grade 4 and 5 classes. There is no doubt that the
present study, by focusing on a fairly large number of teachers on a
longitudinal basis, has added much to our understanding of several major
issues in curriculum implementation. Yet, in the climate of great changes
taking place in the ELT curriculum in primary education in Turkey, and
the Turkish government’s firm commitment to the curriculum renewal
process, research into exploring micro-level implementation needs to
be on-going to shed light into the curriculum development and renewal
process the TMNE is committed to undertake in future years.
Although the present study focused on Turkish teachers, it is expected
that the study has wider implications for curriculum planners, researchers,
and teacher practitioners who are involved in the implementation and
renewal of curricula in teaching English in primary schools in other
contexts as well.
196
14
Affective Factors Contributing to
Intrinsic Motivation for Learning
English among Elementary School
Students in Japan
Junko Matsuzaki Carreira
Introduction
As English has become increasingly more important as a language of
international communication, governments in East Asia have realized
English language education is an important factor in meeting political,
economic, and societal goals. This has recently led various East Asian
countries to introduce English at elementary schools (Butler, 2007).
Specifically, in Japan the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science,
and Technology (MEXT) introduced English language activities in elemen-
tary schools in 2002, triggering increasing interest in learning English at
an early age. Although English study is popular in Japan, motivation to
learn can be lacking.
Just what motivation is, and how it is represented in the research,
deserves some attention here. By the 1990’s, Gardner’s (1985) motivation
theory had overwhelming dominance in second language (L2) motivation
research (Dörnyei, 2001). Gardner and Lambert (1972) coined the two
phrases integrative motivation, referring to positive attitudes and feelings
toward the target language group, and instrumental motivation, referring to
the potential utilitarian gains of L2 proficiency, such as getting a better
job or higher salary. Some researchers in second language acquisition
(SLA), however, have started to incorporate psychological and “education-
friendly” motivation into SLA research (Dörnyei, 2001). The difference
between intrinsic motivation and extrinsic motivation is “motivation to
engage in an activity for its own sake” versus “motivation to engage in
an activity as a means to an end” (Pintrich & Schunk, 2002: 245). Intrinsic
motivation in SLA has attracted the attention of several researchers
(Dörnyei, 2001; Noels, 2001; Wu, 2003).
Motivation to Learn English in Elementary School 197
Several studies (e.g. Carreira, 2006; Sung & Padilla, 1998) have reported
developmental trends in motivation for language learning. In particular,
Carreira (2006) revealed developmental decline in intrinsic motiva-
tion for learning English among Japanese elementary school children.
To prevent such a decline, we should investigate what variables affect
intrinsic motivation for learning English, across grade levels. Thus, this
chapter explores how and to what extent affective factors associate with
students’ intrinsic motivation for learning English and how the results
differ between grade levels.
Affective factors contributing to motivation for
L2 learning
There have been several studies that have investigated affective factors
contributing to L2 intrinsic motivation (Honda & Sakyu, 2004; Wu, 2003).
For example, in China, Wu (2003) revealed that a predictable learning
environment, moderately challenging tasks, necessary instructional
support, and evaluation emphasizing self-improvement were effective in
promoting children’s self-perceptions of L2 competence.
On the other hand, Noels, Pelletier, Clement, and Vallerand (2000)
found integrative orientation strongly correlated with intrinsic motiva-
tion, whereas instrumental orientation was associated with extrinsic
motivation. On the basis of Noels, et al. (2000) and Noels (2001), Honda
and Sakyu (2004) conducted two surveys with 467 university students in
Japan, with their results similar to those of Noels, et al. (2000) and Noels
(2001). They found that integrative orientation was more positively
correlated with intrinsic motivation, whereas instrumental orientation
most correlated with extrinsic motivation.
After a brief review of existing literature, the current study into how
attitudes toward English study differ across grade levels will be explained,
followed by some of the educational policy implications of this research.
How does children’s motivation for learning languages
change with age?
Several studies (e.g., Carreira, 2006; MEXT, 2004) focusing on develop-
mental trends in motivation for learning languages have been published.
MEXT conducted a survey about English activities at Japanese elemen-
tary schools in 2004, with 4,923 4th graders (age 9–10) and 5,079 6th
graders (age 11–12). MEXT reported that 4th graders (76.6%) and 6th
graders (71.5%) were satisfied with the English language classes they take.
The reasons why 4th and 6th graders like English activities were because
198 J. M. Carriera
“I can sing songs and play games in English” (79.5%, 74.0%), “I can
speak to foreigners or a foreign teacher” (46.3%, 40.6%), “I can read in
English” (44.6%, 37.5%), “I can talk to my friends in English” (41.4%,
33.5%), and “I can learn about foreign countries” (30.7%, 28.6%). The
results showed 4th graders were more satisfied with English activities
and more motivated to learn English than 6th graders.
Carreira (2006) investigated 345 Japanese elementary school students’
(174 3rd graders [8–9 years old] and 171 6th graders) motivation for learning
English. The results showed significant differences in intrinsic motiva-
tion, interest in foreign countries and instrumental motivation between
the two groups, with 3rd graders more motivated than 6th graders.
Parental encouragement
Several researchers (Koizumi & Matsuo, 1993; Sung & Padilla, 1998) have
investigated parental encouragement towards learning foreign languages.
In California, Sung and Padilla (1998) found that parental attitudes were
a significant contributing factor to students’ attitudes toward learning
Asian languages in elementary and secondary schools. In Japan, Koizumi
and Matsuo (1993) found that the lower parental encouragement to learn
English was perceived to be by junior high school students, the lower the
students’ motivation and attitudes toward learning the language. They con-
cluded parental encouragement positively influences children’s attitudes
and motivation, and helps them become successful language learners.
Purpose
As has been seen above, several studies have investigated which affective
factors influence student L2 intrinsic motivation. However, there is still
limited understanding of how affective factors influence motivation in
elementary schools in Japan, thus research into this area is necessary.
Based on Noels, et al. (2000), Noels (2001), Honda and Sakyu (2004),
Koizumi and Matsuo (1993), and Sung and Padilla (1998), this study
examined the following three variables as affective factors contributing
to intrinsic motivation for learning English: interest in foreign countries,
instrumental motivation, and perceived parental encouragement.
“[E]xamining the temporal progression of L2 motivation is a potentially
fruitful research direction that can significantly enrich our understanding
of the attitudinal/motivational basis of language learning” (Dörnyei, 2005:
88). In particular, when it comes to child L2 motivation, we should pay
more attention to how motivation for learning English changes over
time, as while several studies (Carreira, 2006; MEXT, 2004) have revealed
such changes, no research has investigated how different affective factors
Motivation to Learn English in Elementary School 199
associate with intrinsic motivation for learning English for different grades
of Japanese elementary school students. Based upon these considerations,
the following research questions were formulated:
1. How is intrinsic motivation for learning English associated with interest
in foreign countries? How different are the relationships between
intrinsic motivation for learning English and interest in foreign coun-
tries according to grade?
2. How is intrinsic motivation for learning English associated with
instrumental motivation? How different are the relationships
between intrinsic motivation for learning English and instrumental
motivation according to grade?
3. How is intrinsic motivation for learning English associated with per-
ceived parental encouragement? How different are the relationships
between intrinsic motivation for learning English and perceived
parental encouragement according to grade?
Method
Participants
Students in a private elementary school, located in Tokyo, Japan, were
selected to participate in this study. There were 217 (n ⫽ 128 boys and 89
girls) participants, of whom 56 were 3rd graders, 60 were 4th graders, 54
were 5th graders, and 47 were 6th graders. English lessons were provided
from 3rd through 6th grades. They had English lessons twice a week with
a Japanese English teacher.
Materials
The survey used was the Motivation and Attitudes toward Learning
English Scale for Children (MALESC), created by Carreira (2006). The
MALESC has 19 items meant to assess five affective variables including
motivation, anxiety, and perceived parental encouragement. Four vari-
ables were used in this study: (1) intrinsic motivation for learning English,
(2) interest in foreign countries, (3) instrumental motivation, and (4)
perceived parental encouragement. The MALESC uses closed questions
and a Likert scale with four choices. Each response option was assigned a
number for scoring purposes: Strongly agree ⫽ 4, agree ⫽ 3, disagree ⫽ 2,
and strongly disagree ⫽ 1. Each item on the scale is described as follows:
1. Intrinsic motivation for learning English (four survey items). This is
a measure of the degree to which respondents enjoy English lessons.
200 J. M. Carriera
Samples: I am looking forward to the day when English lessons are
given. English lessons are great fun.
2. Interest in foreign countries (five survey items). A high score represents
a high level of interest in foreign countries. Samples: I would like to go
to various foreign countries. I would like to talk to foreigners when my
English becomes proficient.
3. Instrumental motivation (four survey items). This is a measure of the
degree to which individuals want to learn English for instrumental
reasons. Samples: I study English for a future job. I study English in
order to enter a high school or a university.
4. Perceived parental encouragement (three survey items). This is a
measure of the degree to which respondents are encouraged by their
parents to learn and study English. Samples: My caregivers feel it is
very important to learn English. My caregivers hope my English will
be proficient.
Procedures
The data were collected in October 2006. To reduce environmental bias a
tape recorded by the researcher was used to give instructions during the
collection sessions. Informed consent statements, where each participant
was assured of anonymity and confidentiality, were received from the
students’ teachers. After the teachers distributed the questionnaires, the
students listened to the tape. Administration of the questionnaire took
10–15 minutes. The returned questionnaires were coded and the data
analyzed using the Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS).
Results
The average scores for each subscale were calculated and used for subse-
quent analysis (see Table 14.1). Cronbach’s alpha reliability coefficients
Table 14.1 Means and standard deviations for measures of motivation for learning
English
Intrinsic
motivation
Foreign
countries
Instrumental
motivation
Parental
encouragement
Grade Mean SD Mean SD Mean SD Mean SD
3 3.67 0.51 3.40 0.67 3.19 0.70 2.89 0.85
4 3.55 0.51 3.19 0.74 2.96 0.79 2.94 0.72
5 3.58 0.47 3.29 0.75 3.03 0.73 2.85 0.80
6 3.03 0.81 3.03 0.83 3.01 0.79 3.11 0.71
Average 3.24 0.75 3.47 0.62 3.05 0.75 2.94 0.77
Motivation to Learn English in Elementary School 201
Table 14.2 Correlations between intrinsic motivation for learning English
and affective factors
Interest in foreign
countries
Instrumental
motivation
Parental
encouragement
Intrinsic
motivation
.46** .37** .03
**p ⬍ .01.
for the subscales ranged from .77 to .86. Table 14.2 shows correlation
scores between intrinsic motivation for learning English and interest
in foreign countries, instrumental motivation, and perceived parental
encouragement. Intrinsic motivation for learning English positively cor-
related with interest in foreign countries and instrumental motivation, but
did not significantly correlate with perceived parental encouragement.
Correlational analyses were conducted separately for each grade.
Table 14.3 summarizes those results. Intrinsic motivation for learning
English in 4th, 5th, and 6th grades was positively correlated with interest
in foreign countries. Intrinsic motivation for 3rd, 5th, and 6th grades was
positively correlated with instrumental motivation.
Discussion
In considering the results of our inquiry, we first consider how intrin-
sic motivation for learning English associated with interest in foreign
countries and whether this differed by grade. Consistent with Noels,
et al. (2000), Noels (2001), and Honda and Sakyu (2004), who found that
integrative orientation was strongly related to intrinsic motivation, the
present study shows a significant relationship between intrinsic motiva-
tion for learning English and interest in foreign countries. MEXT (2004)
Table 14.3 Correlations between intrinsic motivation for learning English
and affective factors according to grade
Intrinsic
motivation
Interest in foreign
countries
Instrumental
motivation
Parental
encouragement
Grade
3 .26 .45** .06
4 .30* .20 .17
5 .63** .42** .06
6 .56** .48** .11
**p ⬍ .01.
202 J. M. Carriera
also revealed over one-third of students liked English activities because
they can speak to foreigners or a foreign teacher or learn about foreign
countries, a goal of English classes in Japan. Regarding differences
between grade levels, in all the grades except 3rd grade, interest in foreign
countries correlated positively with intrinsic motivation for learning
English. Third graders don’t learn about foreign countries in Geography
lessons, which may be why at this grade level interest in foreign countries
doesn’t correlate with intrinsic motivation for learning English.
Next we consider how intrinsic motivation for learning English associ-
ated with instrumental motivation and whether they differed by grade.
In contrast to Noels, et al. (2000), Noels (2001), and Honda and Sakyu
(2004), this study showed intrinsic motivation for learning English
was associated with instrumental motivation; students who admitted need-
ing to learn English in the future tended to enjoy their English lessons. This
is a positive sign, as Hayamizu (1993) pointed out, “Extrinsic motivation
may be changed into intrinsic motivation” (p. 86). It is also worth noting
that intrinsic and extrinsic motivation are not two ends of a continuum
but separate continua entirely (Pintrich & Schunk, 2002) and thus do not
necessarily negatively correlate (Lepper, Sethi, Dialdin, & Drake, 1997).
Furthermore, the self-determination theory proposed by Deci and Ryan
(1985) points to an association between self-determination and intrinsic
motivation. Thus, it makes sense that instrumentally motivated children
were simultaneously intrinsically motivated. With regards to grade level
differences, in all the grades except 4th, instrumental motivation was
positively associated with intrinsic motivation for learning English.
Determining why instrumental motivation was not associated with
intrinsic motivation for learning English in 4th, graders is not within the
scope of this research.
Finally, I discuss whether intrinsic motivation for learning English is
associated with perceived parental encouragement, and whether this
correlation differs by grade. Although several researchers (e.g., Koizumi
& Matsuo, 1990; Sung & Padilla, 1998) have found parental encour-
agement is associated with child motivation and attitudes toward
learning languages, in this study perceived parental encouragement
did not associate with intrinsic motivation for learning English.
Limitations
This section will consider the limitations of this study. Firstly, self-report
instruments such as questionnaires do not always appropriately gauge
participant feelings and perceptions. Using measures with strong empirical
Motivation to Learn English in Elementary School 203
qualities and ensuring anonymity, however, helps minimize such pitfalls.
Secondly, since this study was designed to probe the motivational pat-
terns of only one population of students, further research is necessary to
assess the relationship between intrinsic motivation for learning English
and affective factors among other groups of young learners. Since the
school used in this research is a private school, the results cannot be gener-
alized to public elementary schools in Japan. Furthermore, motivation may
differ geographically; thus schools outside Tokyo may find considerably
different patterns of motivation among their students. Thirdly, regarding
perceived parental encouragement, in this chapter student perceptions of
parental attitudes were reported, and these may differ from actual parental
attitudes. Finally, any correlational analysis is limited because it only pro-
vides information on relationships and does not imply causality. Therefore
this study is unable to definitively answer the question of why the different
variables correlated the way they did.
Implications and conclusion
Several specific instructional implications can be drawn from the results
of this research. Firstly, intrinsic motivation for learning English asso-
ciated with interest in foreign countries. Additionally, there is a slight
difference in the results according to grade. Interest in foreign coun-
tries seems to be more influential on intrinsic motivation for learning
English in higher grades, meaning it may be productive to get students
interested in foreign countries, people, and their cultures in English
classes. Secondly, although instrumental motivation and intrinsic moti-
vation are often seen as two ends of a continuum, this chapter implies,
contrary to previous research, that instrumental motivation associated
with intrinsic motivation for learning English. Thirdly, also contrary
to previous studies, this study found perceived parental encourage-
ment did not associate with intrinsic motivation for learning English.
However, based on this sole research it is unwise to conclude that perceived
parental encouragement does not have positive effects on motivation
for learning English.
Overall, the present study showed how affective factors such as
interest in a foreign culture, instrumental motivation, and perceived
parental encouragement associate with intrinsic motivation for learning
English. It is hoped these findings will inform future English education
reform in elementary schools in Japan and Asia.
204
15
Adapting English Picture
Books to an EFL Context:
A Study of Collaboration
between Elementary School
Teachers and TEFL Practitioners
in Rural Japan
James M. Hall, Tomoko Yamazaki, Chohei Takahashi, and
Takeru Ishigame
Introduction
English activities in Japanese elementary schools will be made compulsory
for 5th and 6th graders starting in 2011, and at the time of writing,
elementary schools are in what is termed a “transition period” in which
they have two years to prepare. The looming English activities have
caused much uneasiness among primary school teachers to the extent
that some have considered early retirement (AERA, 2008). This chapter
is a descriptive study of how elementary school teachers and EFL educa-
tors collaborated to integrate English picture books into a school’s existing
English activity curriculum. The project we will analyze, the Working
with Picture Books project (WPB), was conducted by the Faculty of
Education at Iwate University (IU) and its affiliated elementary school,
(Fuzoku ES). First, we will give a background on English activities in
Japanese elementary schools, arguing that the current method of enhanc-
ing them in a top-down fashion alone is inadequate. Second, we will
introduce the WPB project as an example of a bottom-up plan to make
positive changes to local English activities. We will then show how the
collaboration between educators at both IU and Fuzoku ES led to English
Picture Book lessons where teachers themselves were able to read the
book in English and most students were able to understand and enjoy
the reading.
Adapting English Picture Books to EFL Context 205
Background: issues in English activities at Japanese
elementary schools
The history of English activities in elementary schools can be categorized
into three stages (Matsukawa & Oshiro, 2008). The first stage was from
1992 to 2001 when English activities were first piloted by two elementary
schools in Osaka and by 1996 every prefecture had one pilot school.1
The second stage was between 2002 and 2010 when English activities
were introduced to all elementary schools as part of the “Period for
Integrated Study,” a period allotted for multi-disciplinary study such
as international understanding or health and welfare. Unlike other
subjects, there were no compulsory curriculum guidelines for elementary
schools to follow (no textbooks). English activities were established as
a component of international understanding, and Elementary schools
could decide their content as well as the frequency with which to conduct
them. The percentage of elementary schools which conducted English
activities increased to 97.1% by 2007 although there was considerable
variation in the number of hours schools devoted to English activities
(MEXT, 2008a). The third stage starts in 2011 and English activities2
will
become compulsory. Under this plan, 5th and 6th graders will partake
in English activities once a week. Schools are expected to start making
the transition in 2009 by conducting experimental lessons and engaging
in professional development (MEXT, 2008b). To help schools meet the
requirements, MEXT has developed a school textbook to be distributed
to all homeroom teachers, Eigo Nooto (English Note), as well as digital
and non-digital teaching materials. Teacher-training workshops will
also be conducted. It should be noted that MEXT officials (Kan, 2008)
have emphasized that the purpose of the new English activities is not
for children to develop English skills but rather to encourage them to
be more active communicators. However, the expectations for English
activities differ among parents, teachers, and policy makers as some
expect children to acquire English skills and others do not (Matsukawa,
2006). It is under these conflicting expectations that elementary schools
are required to commence English activities.
In addition to this, as indicated by the introduction of English Note
and teacher-training workshops, the implementation of the new English
activities and training are currently conducted in a top-down style in
order to standardize the practices at schools across Japan (Matsukawa &
Oshiro, 2008). Prefectural boards of education, who receive the national
standards of English activities from MEXT, try to spread them by trans-
mitting detailed guidelines of the new program to each school through
206 J. M. Hall, T. Yamakazi, C. Takahashi, & T. Ishigame
municipal boards of education. However, the successful implementation
of new English activities depends on adapting them to meet students’
actual ability and regional situations (Matsukawa & Oshiro, 2008). How
each school with its own unique circumstances can adapt the new
standards for English activities is a challenging problem that top-down
initiatives alone will not solve.
Context of the study, participants, and method
Iwate University and Fuzoku Elementary School are located in Morioka
city in Iwate, a rural prefecture in the northern part of Japan. Fuzoku ES
is one of the few elementary schools in Iwate which conducts English
activities for grades 1–6. English activities are usually conducted by a
homeroom teacher and a native English speaking Assistant Language
Teacher (ALT). An English Group (Eigohan) consists of one teacher from
each grade. The group plans the English activity syllabus and lesson plans
for each grade. At the beginning of each academic year, the English Group
also chooses a topic to research and then designs its curriculum to address
this topic. All classes typically use a lesson plan made by this group. The
basic structure of a Fuzoku ES English activity is noted in Table 15.1.
In the 2008 academic year (April, 2008–March, 2009), the research
topic of the English Group was “the development of English activities
that foster in students a rich communicative ability.” To accomplish this,
English activities were designed to provide children with enjoyment so
that they would develop a positive attitude towards communicating
in English. Fuzoku ES generally succeeded in developing an outline of
a lesson that all teachers could practice (See Table 15.1) and children
tended to enjoy the lessons. However, it was acknowledged in the
English Group that the focus of the lessons (learn a phrase, practice the
phrase, play a game using the phrase), although effective, was narrow and
needed to be expanded. Thus, the research topic for the 2009 academic
year (April, 2009–March, 2010) was “to develop a deeper connection
Table 15.1 Basic structure of a Fuzoku ES English activity
1. Warm-up (Children typically sing a song)
2. Introduction of the topic or the goal for the day
3. A short talk about the topic by the ALT
4. Introducing and practicing new vocabulary or phrases
5. A game where children use the phrases or vocabulary that they learned
6. The children give their impressions of the lesson
7. The ALT gives his/her impressions of the lesson.
Adapting English Picture Books to EFL Context 207
with English” by deepening children’s understanding of culture and
providing more meaningful English learning experiences. The WPB
project was intended to help the English Group meet this goal.
The WPB project was carried out from December, 2008 to March, 2010
and was the offspring of a project called Cross-cultural Understanding
Using Picture Books (CCUP) which IU conducted with the Education
Development Center of Newton, MA in the USA between 2005 and 2007.
In CCUP, English picture books chosen by the Education Development
Center (CCUP, 2007) were used in 27 Elementary schools across Iwate to
teach about US culture. From his observation of CCUP lessons, Hall (2008)
noted English picture books had the following applications for English
activities: (1) providing children with a rich literary experience (where
children listen to a story and are absorbed in it); (2) helping children learn
about a different culture; and (3) encouraging English learning strategies
(such as listening strategies). After CCUP, however, schools stopped using
the picture books. Thus, in order to further develop the gains made in
CCUP, the WPB project was started in 2008. The goal of the WPB project
was to develop lesson plans using English picture books to enrich elemen-
tary school English activities and to share them with other schools.
Regarding the participants, the WPB project consisted of an executive
committee of two members from Fuzoku ES and two members from IU.
The composition of the WPB executive committee is given in Table 15.2.
In addition, the English Group played a key role in the project as they
planned the picture book lessons that each class would teach. Fuzoku ES
has 27 teachers who all participated in English picture book workshops
given by the executive committee. Twelve of these teachers taught classes
using English picture books to children in grades 1–6 and post-class ques-
tionnaires were collected from 289 children.
Regarding the methodology of this study, we will examine how the par-
ticipants of IU and Fuzoku ES collaborated to adapt English picture books
to Fuzoku ES’s English activities by referencing field notes and diaries of the
executive committee members, plans of the workshops and classes, and
questionnaire responses from Fuzoku ES teachers and children.
Table 15.2 Members of the executive committee
Name Title and affiliation
Chohei Takahashi Head of Research, Fuzoku ES
Takeru Ishigame Curriculum Planner, Fuzoku ES
Tomoko Yamazaki Professor, IU
James Hall Associate Professor, IU
208 J. M. Hall, T. Yamakazi, C. Takahashi, & T. Ishigame
Implementing the WPB project
The project consisted of three stages: preparation, practice, diffusion – and
a second cycle. In this section we will discuss how Fuzoku ES and IU
collaborated to prepare for the carrying out of picture book lessons in the
preparation stage, the results of the practice stage and our efforts in the
diffusion stage.
The preparation stage (December, 2008–April, 2009)
The preparation stage consisted of enlisting Fuzoku ES teachers’ help,
preparing materials to support the instructors’ class preparation and
teaching, conducting workshops for the teachers, and consulting with
teachers on an individual basis about their classes.
Soon after the WPB project officially started, in January, 2009, the
executive committee introduced the WPB project and conducted a dem-
onstration class using a picture book for the Fuzoku ES teachers during
a faculty meeting. The objective of the presentation was for teachers to
grasp the general image of English activities using picture books and
show the appeal of the project. The lesson was planned by Yamazaki,
Ishigame, and Hall and performed by Hall and Ishigame. Takahashi
acted as the facilitator during the meeting and answered teacher ques-
tions about the project after the demonstration. At the end of the meet-
ing, the Fuzoku ES teachers agreed to participate in the project.
After receiving the teachers’ consent, between February and April, the
executive committee began to prepare for the lessons by choosing picture
books and simplifying them, as well as researching learning activities
and reading techniques to use with the books. The executive commit-
tee selected four picture books to use in the lessons, all of these except
Suddenly were used in CCUP. Table 15.3 shows the books that were chosen
and the grades they were used for and gives a summary for each book.
After selecting the books, Hall then rewrote the text of all the books except
for Suddenly into simpler English. Ishigame recommended that the text
include more dialogue and less description and Hall attempted to accom-
modate this. After rewriting the text, Hall also received feedback from the
other executive committee members about the difficulty of the text. Since
each class would have only one book and the originals were too small to
use with classes of 40 children, with assistance from graduate students,
Hall and Yamazaki color-copied each page onto A3-sized paper (420mm ⫻
300mm) and laminated it. The text of the story was then pasted on the
back. Lastly, Hall made an audio-recording for the reading of each book so
teachers could use them to practice reading aloud.
Adapting English Picture Books to EFL Context 209
With the books prepared, the executive committee conducted two
workshops for the teachers. The workshops were planned by Hall and
Yamazaki who then met with Takahashi and Ishigame for feedback and
ideas which would be incorporated into the new proposal. During the
workshops, Hall and Yamazaki served as instructors, Ishigame served as
the facilitator, and Takahashi recorded the instructors’ and participants’
presentations. The goal of the first workshop was for teachers to become
familiar with the overall structure of a picture book lesson and write
a tentative lesson plan, and the goal of the second workshop was for
teachers to become comfortable with reading the books. All the Fuzoku
ES teachers attended each workshop.
At the beginning of the first workshop Hall and Yamazaki gave an
overview on how to use English picture books based on a seven-page
handout distributed to the teachers. In the overview, they emphasized
the structure of a picture book lesson which consists of pre-storytelling,
Table 15.3 Summary of each book used for Working with Picture Books
Project classes
Suddenly by Colin McNoughton (grades 1 and 2)
Preston, a pig, leaves school and runs some errands before going home. Little
does he know that he is being pursued by a wolf who wants to eat him.
…………..
Tulip Sees America by Cynthia Rylant and Lisa Desimini (grades 3 and 4)
A young man who grew up in Ohio takes his dog Tulip on a car trip across the
United States of America. They discover unique characteristics and landscapes
in the different places they pass through. They drive through Iowa, Nebraska,
Wyoming, Colorado, Nevada, and end up in Oregon, where they decide to stay.
………….
Nana Upstairs and Nana Downstairs by Tomie dePaola (grade 5)
Tommy, a four-year old boy, enjoys visiting his grandparents and great
grandmother every Sunday. He calls his grandmother Nana Downstairs and his
great-grandmother, who is 94 years old, Nana Upstairs. One day, his mother
tells Tommy that his Nana Upstairs died. Tommy has to then understand what
losing someone he loves means.
…………..
Yoko by Rosemary Wells (grade 6)
When Yoko’s classmates teased her about her strange sushi lunch, her teacher,
Mrs. Jenkins decided to hold an International Food Day. On International Food
Day, Yoko’s classmates brought all kinds of interesting food. Everyone tried a
little bit of everything except Yoko’s sushi because it looked different from the
type of food that they were used to. However, Timothy, who was still hungry,
decided to try Yoko’s sushi and found that he liked it. From that day on, the
two became good friends.
210 J. M. Hall, T. Yamakazi, C. Takahashi, & T. Ishigame
while-storytelling, and post-storytelling stages. After discussing the class
structure, Hall presented techniques and activities to use in each stage.
After the presentation, teachers divided into four groups, depending
on the book their grade was assigned to read. Each group was asked to
make a tentative lesson plan for their book, including the focus of their
lesson (language, culture, or the story itself) and activities for the pre-
storytelling, while-storytelling, and post-storytelling stages. Each group
also had the blown-up version of their book and the simplified text.
While the groups were planning their presentations, Hall, Yamazaki,
Ishigame, and Takahashi each worked with a particular group. When the
groups presented, they introduced their book, the theme in their books,
and potential activities they could do in conjunction with the story.
Hall wrote in his diary about working with his group, and the entry
below shows that teachers preferred to use activities they were familiar
with rather than those presented by the instructors:
I sat with the group who was preparing a lesson plan for Yoko. I tried
not to interfere and only spoke when they asked me something. When
they were preparing their presentation, they did not discuss any of the
points they were asked to nor did they use the [handout of activities].
These teachers were veterans who had their own ideas about how they
could use the book.
The second workshop was conducted two weeks later and its goal was
for teachers to become more comfortable with reading their books. The
workshop was planned by Hall, Yamazaki, and Takahashi. First, Hall
and Yamazaki presented “points for reading picture books.” Hall and
Yamazaki emphasized that teachers do not have to rely on translation to
help children understand the content of the story. Rather, pre-storytelling
activities, questioning techniques, the book’s pictures, the reader’s expres-
sion, intonation, and variation in rhythm will help children understand
the story.
After the presentations, participants divided into the same groups as
the first workshop and practiced reading their book. Each group had an
audio-recording of their book and listened to it before practicing. After
practicing, each group performed a reading of their book before the
other teachers and received feedback from the other teachers through
the writing of advice sheets. At the ending of the workshop, Yamazaki
and Hall gave comments about the readings.
Hall wrote in his diary that, “each group was very enthusiastic about
practicing,” as each group made efforts to understand the story and relate
Adapting English Picture Books to EFL Context 211
the content to their students. Each group’s readings of their book were
different, as they conceived of different methods to relate the unique con-
tent of their book. The following comment written by a teacher in the
post-workshop questionnaire illustrates the philosophy behind this effort:
[Effective reading] is not about being able to read the words, it is also
important to understand the content and feeling of the story to be
able to relay the meaning to the children. By understanding the story,
teachers will be able to [read] the [language] in an effective manner.
After the workshops, the English Group began to write lesson plans.
Before the lessons were conducted, Hall, Yamazaki, and Ishigame met
together with teachers twice to consult with them about their lessons.
In addition, Hall received visits, phone calls, and email inquiries from
three teachers with questions about their lessons. As a response to these
inquiries, Hall helped these teachers locate digital materials such as
pictures and diagrams they could use for their classes.
The practice stage (June, 2009)
Altogether 12 WPB classes, two per grade, were conducted for grades 1–6 in
June, 2009. Lesson plans for each grade were made by that grade’s English
Group member. The books were read by the Japanese homeroom teach-
ers but ALTs were also present to provide assistance. Appendix 15.1 gives
an outline of the WPB classes conducted for each grade. It demonstrates
that each lesson had characteristics of Fuzoku ES English activities and the
WPB style. For example, in addition to having the WPB-recommended
pre-storytelling, while-storytelling, and post-storytelling stages, classes also
had such features as “song”, “short talk,” and “impressions,” which are
routinely used in Fuzoku ES English activities (Table 15.1). Furthermore,
grade 2, grade 4, and grade 6 used an “interview game,” which is also a
common activity in Fuzoku ES English lessons.
Regarding the reading, Appendix 15.1 shows that grades 1–5 read
their books entirely in English while teachers in grade 6 used some
Japanese during the reading. Teachers relied on pre-storytelling activi-
ties and their own reading style to help children understand the story.
This was evident in children’s responses in the post-class questionnaires
which were collected from eight of the 12 classes. In the questionnaire,
children were asked to choose from a list of possibles, what helped
them understand the story. Children were permitted to select more than
one item. Table 15.3 shows student responses, and seems to confirm
that teachers focused on ways to help children understand the English
212 J. M. Hall, T. Yamakazi, C. Takahashi, & T. Ishigame
picture books other than translating the content into Japanese. For
example, compared to the teacher’s Japanese, children answered more
frequently that the pictures, teacher expressions, and change in teacher
voice were helpful in understanding the story.
Lastly, Table 15.5 shows children’s responses as to the extent they
understood and enjoyed the story: 86% reported either understand-
ing the story well or understanding the story a little, and 87%
found the story either interesting or a little interesting. Thus, one
can conclude the teachers succeeded in reading an English picture
book that most students could understand and most children found
interesting.
Table 15.4 Childrens’ responses as to what helped them understand the
story (n ⫽ 289)
No. of responses (%) Item
161 (55%) The pictures
133 (46%) I heard words that I knew
130 (44%) The teacher’s expression when reading
108 (37%) I did not really understand the English
but I could follow the flow of the story.
103 (35%) The teacher’s voice becoming loud
and soft.
98 (33%) I would think about what would
happen next while I was listening to the
story.
84 (29%) The teacher’s Japanese
46 (15%) The teacher’s talk before reading the
book.
31 (10%) Asking the teacher questions
1 (0.3%) Other
Table 15.5 Student reactions to the story
Did you understand the story?
(n ⫽ 288)
Was the story interesting?
(n ⫽ 288)
I understood well. 143 (49%) It was very interesting. 181 (63%)
I understood a little. 105 (37%) It was a little interesting. 69 (24%)
I did not understand well. 34 (12%) It was not very interesting. 33 (11%)
I did not understand at all. 5 (2%) It was not interesting at all. 5 (2%)
Adapting English Picture Books to EFL Context 213
The diffusion stage (July, 2009–November, 2009)
The diffusion stage had two goals: implementing English picture books
into the Fuzoku ES curriculum in the long-term, and encouraging other
schools to participate in the WPB project. Takahashi, head researcher of
Fuzoku ES, discusses the first goal, below:
In the 2009 academic year, Fuzoku ES placed importance on the
enrichment of language activities across subjects. This is part of the
school goal to develop children to have keen senses, think thor-
oughly, and be creative. One of the ways we have sought to develop
children’s language abilities is to have book reading activities in each
subject. The use of English picture books during English activities is an
example of this. Until the 2008 academic year, Fuzoku ES prioritized
the development of a positive attitude towards communication in its
English activities. We have begun to prepare the compulsory English
activities in 2011 and we believe that a combination of English Note,
the style of English activities we have developed, and using English
picture books will enrich the variety of our English activities.
Regarding the second goal, on November 27, 2009, Fuzoku ES and IU
held an open class using English picture books and then conducted a
workshop. This class was open to all teachers in Iwate.
Lastly, we would like to note that while teachers are currently using
the picture books in their classes on their own, the diffusion stage
described here will be followed by a second cycle of school-wide prepa-
ration, practice, and diffusion in the next school year.
Discussion
In the practice stage, the classes themselves were moderately successful in
that the teachers were able to conduct classes with pre-, while-, and post-
storytelling activities, and read the book in English in such a way that
a majority of the children reported understanding and enjoying it. We
would like to propose that the following elements of our collaboration
contributed to this modest success: the fact that the innovation addressed
a need of Fuzoku ES English activities, whole school cooperation, selective
adoption, and logistical support.
Regarding the first element, Fuzoku ES reflected on their English
activities and realized that English picture books could address a need
to expand the scope of their current English activities.
214 J. M. Hall, T. Yamakazi, C. Takahashi, & T. Ishigame
Second, regarding whole school cooperation, the WPB Project was
overseen by two members each from Fuzoku ES and IU. The executive
committee worked together to convince Fuzoku ES teachers to cooper-
ate with the project and as a result had conducted 17 pilot lessons by
December, 2009. In contrast, in CCUP, which was overseen only by IU,
lessons were carried out by individual teachers from the pilot schools
but no school ever committed as a whole to carry out the project.
Thus, as soon as a pilot lesson ended so did the school’s involvement
in the project.
Third, regarding selective adoption, as is evident from the first work-
shop, teachers selectively incorporated new ideas into the lessons while
still maintaining certain characteristics of the English activities that they
had practiced up to that point. For example, teachers incorporated
the structure of a picture book lesson into their classes in addition to
reading techniques that they had learned in the workshops but still
retained some of the features of English activities they had always
used, such as songs, short talks, reporting impressions, and certain
games. In this collaboration, IU played the role of presenting vari-
ous ideas and Fuzoku ES adopted those they felt appropriate for their
classes.
Fourth, regarding accommodating the difficulty of implementing the
changes, Fuzoku ES was supplied with an abundance of teaching mate-
rials and ready-to-use versions of the books. A common remark among
teachers in CCUP was that they had to spend too much time preparing
for class, which made implementation of English picture books unfeasible.
Teachers involved in the project described here, on the other hand, had
more support.
Conclusions
We have argued that a problem with the implementation of English
activities is that a top-down approach to implementation is insufficient;
a bottom-up approach is also necessary to help teachers adapt. This study
has tentatively shown some characteristics of a moderately successful
bottom-up approach where EFL educators and elementary schools
collaborated to implement a new type of English activity. Characteristics
that led to success include: a need of the school was addressed; the whole
school participated; teachers selected which ideas to adopt from TEFL
specialists and blended the innovation with their current practice; and
the preparation load for teachers was reduced by providing ready-made
materials.
Appendix 15.1 Outline of four selected picture book classes
Book Suddenly
Grade 1 2
Warm up Greetings
Song
Greetings
Song
Pre-storytelling Introduce important words
and story characters
Introduce important words
and story characters
Students chant the words
Preview the story
While-storytelling
(Avg. reading time)
All spoken English
(5:44)
All spoken English
(5:32)
Post-storytelling Confirm the meaning of
the story. Karuta (Card
game)
Practice words
Game 1: Order the story
Game 2: Where are you
going?
Interview game
Impressions Children then ALT say
their impressions of the
lesson.
Children then ALT say
their impressions of the
lesson
Book Nana upstairs, Nana
downstairs
Yoko
Grade 5 6
Warm-up Greeting Greeting
Short talk ALT talks about his family
and draws family tree.
ALT gives short talk
about maple syrup.
Pre-storytelling Teach new words and
introduce characters.
Teach the meaning of
upstairs and downstairs.
Discussion about
international food.
Interview game: What is
your favorite food?
While-storytelling
(Avg. reading time)
All English: Teacher reads
half the story. (6:39)
English and Japanese:
Teacher reads half the
story. (11:29)
Post-storytelling Discuss the story.
Family Karuta: Example:
If the teacher says
“Tommy’s mother’s
mother” then children
pick up a picture of
Tommy’s grandmother.
Predict what will happen in
the second part of the book
Reflect about the picture
book.
Predict what will happen
in the second part of the
book.
Impressions Children then ALT say their
impressions of the lesson.
Children say their
impressions of the lesson.
216 J. M. Hall, T. Yamakazi, C. Takahashi, & T. Ishigame
Notes
1. Fuzoku ES was the pilot school for Iwate.
2. From 2011, MEXT (Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and
Technology) will use the term “Foreign language activities” instead of “English
activities”. The reason for this is that the official name of the subject of English
in secondary school is “Foreign language” and MEXT wants to acknowledge
the connection between English education in elementary school and secondary
school when the new course of study is enacted (Kan, 2008).
16
“Let’s Speak English”: Bridging the
Linguistic Divide in Tamil Nadu
Kirsten A. Anderson and Parvathy P. Narayanan
Introduction
Can you imagine a school without classrooms, teachers, blackboards
and chalk, clean drinking water, toilets for boys and girls, and a safe,
clean playing space? Unfortunately, even for educationally “advanced”
states in India, issues of infrastructure and human resources plague the
government and rural schools. Tamil Nadu, a state on the east coast of
Southern India, has an educational infrastructure and higher enrollment
statistics than most other Indian states. Recently, it has gained national
and international attention for its innovative implementation of activity
based learning (ABL) in more than 30,000 primary schools across the
state. On the other hand, in terms of basic reading (mother tongue and
English) and arithmetic learning outcomes in young learners, the 2009
Annual Status of Education Report’s (ASER) national evaluation of rural
schools, ranked Tamil Nadu in the bottom 33% nationwide. One would
have expected that with good infrastructure and a focus on innovation,
Tamil Nadu’s young learners would be leading the nation. Why is that
not the case?
This chapter will situate ABL, a new and innovative methodology
adopted in government primary schools in Tamil Nadu, within the
linguistic divide that plagues the state. Next it will argue for additional
exposure to English after discussing the methodology and results
of AID INDIA’s1 spoken English program, “Let’s Speak English.” Lastly,
it will conclude with suggestions for ways the state can intervene to
improve English for all students.
217
218 K. A. Anderson & P. P. Narayanan
Situating innovation: the linguistic divide and the
EFL scenario
English is an established co-official language in India, and has become a
permanent linguistic fixture. However, while it is kept within the reach of
the middle class, it is sadly inaccessible to “those who are disadvantaged
because of their economic situation, their caste, or both” (Ramanathan,
1999: 212, 226). In theory, English could be a unifying language, but it
has become a medium used to maintain inequalities in society (Baik &
Shim, 1995).
Young learners in India attend either privately funded, English-medium
(EM) schools, where all subjects are taught in English, or government-
funded schools, where the medium of instruction is in the mother tongue,
also called vernacular-medium (VM) (Ramanathan, 2005). However,
at the university level across India, English is the standard medium
of education for the sciences and professional subjects (Ramanathan,
2005). Moreover, functional knowledge of English is necessary to secure
employment in a growing global economy. Students who attend VM
schools are often from poor economic backgrounds and have little
exposure to English outside the language classroom, especially in rural
areas. Consequently, English for disadvantaged populations of India is
taught as a foreign language at school. However, English as a foreign
language lacks innovative and culturally relevant materials and a student-
centered methodology.
In the state of Tamil Nadu, where our research is based, 78.5% of
students in rural areas attend government-funded VM schools (ASER,
2008). The Tamil Nadu State Board syllabus expects students in 5th grade
to have a minimum vocabulary of 455 English words, to be able to ask
and respond to questions relating to situations/objects, to hold con-
versations with peers on familiar topics, and to be able to read stories
and describe a picture/object/place in sentences of their own making.
However, among the 31 Indian states, ASER (2009) ranked Tamil Nadu
ninth from the bottom in English reading skills. Additionally, ASER
(2009) reported that only 14.9% of young learners in 3rd through 5th
grades were able to read sentences in English. Similarly, AID INDIA’s
English Action Research (EAR) team’s 2007 and 2008 surveys in
Chennai2
indicated that only 10% of the sample of 4th and 5th grade
children were able to read simple stories (8-line stories of 3rd grade level).
While ASER does not evaluate spoken language skills, the AID INDIA
EAR surveys found only 7% of children in urban areas and only 2% of
children in rural areas3
could respond to commonly used questions in
“Let’s Speak English”: Bridging the Linguistic Divide 219
a complete sentence. Why are the English skills of young learners in
Tamil Nadu so unsatisfactory?
In VM schools, EFL involves rote memorization and grammatical
rules rather than focusing on meaningful communication and relevant
content. Students attending these schools have little or no exposure
to English outside the school, and their parents typically do not speak
or understand English either. Many teachers also have difficulty with
understanding and speaking English. Emphasis is given to reading and
writing. Consequently, students can barely understand or speak more
than a few words in English after several years of language study. There
are few, if any, opportunities for students to practice communicating in
English. Hence, they lack confidence and do not believe they can learn
English. What they need is an innovative and balanced approach to
foreign language learning if they are to improve.
Activity-based learning
In 2007, the government of Tamil Nadu introduced activity-based learn-
ing (ABL) in 37,500 schools across the state (Mahapatra, 2009). This
new and innovative methodology, developed by the Rishi Valley
Institute for Educational Resources in Andhra Pradesh, and adapted by
the Tamil Nadu department of education, has removed textbooks, desks,
and lecturing from 1st through 4th grade classrooms in the subjects
of mathematics, Tamil and English. The ABL classroom is intended to
discourage the traditional blackboard-centered rote-learning style of
teaching. Instead, students are arranged in groups on the floor. In these
classrooms, they study using activity-based flashcards only; they have no
homework, no exams, and according to some reports, “no fear of failure”
(Anandalakshmy, 2007: 8). Each subject and grade has a corresponding
progress ladder displayed as a poster in the classroom. It is measured in
milestones, or learning outcomes. Each milestone is comprised of multiple
graded activities. However, there is currently no public information
available to indicate what skills students should have acquired at each
milestone. The progress ladder guides students from one activity to the
next, using a system of logo-labeled cards kept in boxes on shelves in
the classroom. For example, the 1st grade English ABL materials use
transportation logos. The logos, placed in the corner of each card, are
divided into different types of activities. For example, reading and
vocabulary activities use logos such as a cycle, a cycle rickshaw, a motor-
cycle, a car, and a bus. Each of these cards either has a word, a picture,
or both a word and a picture on it for students to read and practice
220 K. A. Anderson & P. P. Narayanan
through repetitive drills. On the other hand, writing activity cards,
with a different set of logos, direct the students to practice writing on
a blackboard that has been lowered to match their height and encircles
the classroom (Anandalakshmy, 2007). First grade students spend the
whole first month learning the extensive logo system.
Logistics aside, this new and innovative approach expects the teacher
to facilitate each student’s individual learning process instead of dictat-
ing it. Designed for child-centered, multi-grade, multi-level classrooms,
students are encouraged to independently progress through a structure of
cooperation and peer learning or “vertical grouping” (Anandalakshmy,
2007: 8). The child is encouraged to be self-directed and the teacher
is expected to assist small groups or work one-on-one with individual
learners. However, ABL also requires the teacher to closely monitor mul-
tiple activities, as well as the individual progress of each child and the
class as a whole. Without proper monitoring, especially in large classes,
children may fall behind and not complete all the milestones of each
ladder before moving to the next grade level.
English is one of the subjects being taught through ABL, but it was not
one of the subjects Rishi Valley Institute for Educational Resources
developed using the ABL model. The English ABL cards that the govern-
ment developed focus on reading, writing, speaking, and listening skills.
Anandalakshmy (2007) praises the ABL system overall, but points out
that neither the Tamil nor the English language materials are adequate,
and both need to be reviewed. For example, the English materials do
not start by teaching the alphabet, but instead by teaching five words
for each letter of the alphabet. This results in 1st grade students memo-
rizing 130 English words. For example, for the letter “x” students are
taught: xebec, xiphias and xiphoid, words unknown to most native
speakers and not relevant to a 6-year-old child’s life (Anandalakshmy,
2007). Overwhelmed, some students have been observed rocking back
and forth, repeatedly chanting the word on the card, resorting to rote
memorization to try to remember these words, and hence do not view
English as a language they can use for meaningful communication. If
young learners require interactive language practice and experimenta-
tion with language, will this self-directed foreign language learning
system lead to more desirable learning outcomes state-wide?
Due to declining enrollments and pressure from parents, the state
government is attempting to fill the need for more language exposure
and has subsequently introduced a video series called “Hello English”
produced by the Regional Institute of English,4 South India. Intended to
address the English educational needs of students in the four southern
“Let’s Speak English”: Bridging the Linguistic Divide 221
states, including Tamil Nadu, this series is entirely in English. Each episode
lasts 30–40 minutes and focuses on vocabulary building, description,
listening, and repetition. Although this medium employs songs and
cartoons, students have been observed to lose interest quickly, as the
content is entirely in English. Additionally, a bilingual English radio
program, with graded supplemental activity workbooks, was also intro-
duced but has not been made available to all schools. Unfortunately,
teachers are not sure how to incorporate these additional resources
within the ABL system. And while most schools, if given the above
resources, could make use of them, many rural and marginalized schools
have kept their prized government-sponsored television sets and DVD
players locked in a cabinet; this is either due to maintenance issues or
lack of electricity supply. In an effort towards achieving an innovative
and potentially effective approach to foreign language learning, and
while the government continues to lack the necessary implementation
strategy and training resources needed to address this foreign language
learning crisis, AID INDIA has stepped in with an exciting new idea.
A pilot project: AID INDIA’s “Let’s Speak English” (LSE)
AID INDIA is a non-governmental organization with a vision to provide
quality education for every child in Tamil Nadu. AID INDIA has found
that the most effective way to improve the quality of education is
to create time-bound units to supplement the existing curriculum in
schools, rather than trying to replace it. AID INDIA’s main focus is on
improving the English language skills of students from poor economic
backgrounds who attend VM schools.
AID INDIA’s EAR team works on improving young learners’ English
comprehension, speaking, and reading skills. Since ASER and AID INDIA
surveys indicate that 5th graders graduate to middle school without
achieving basic comprehension and speaking skills, the EAR team decided
to work with this age group from the outset of the project. The team’s
initial focus was to design a program that encouraged students to experi-
ment with the language through meaningful speaking and listening
activities, thereby improving their overall ability and confidence.
Methodology
In August of 2008, the EAR team implemented LSE as a new pilot project
to improve English comprehension and speaking skills among 4th
and 5th grade students in 50 schools in Kaveripakkam Block (Vellore
222 K. A. Anderson & P. P. Narayanan
District) and Minjur Block (Thiruvallur District). The pilot program
involved 1,036 students at the experimental program schools (668 in
Kaveripakkam and 368 in Minjur) and 224 students at control group
schools (129 in Kaveripakkam and 95 in Minjur). The program ran for
seven months from August 2008 through February 2009.
Implementation of this program required additional staff and mate-
rial resources, as well as an ongoing, consistent plan for monitoring
and evaluation. Four Block Resource Persons (BRPs) helped with imple-
mentation, monitoring, and evaluation. These BRPs were trained on
the content and methodology of the program and offered classes with
students in their village every evening. This provided BRPs with a sense
of confidence and familiarity with the program.
The pilot project began with an evaluation of students’ English skills
conducted by the BRPs then validated by the EAR team. The evaluation
took approximately five minutes per student and required them to:
(1) look at pictures and identify vocabulary in English;
(2) verbally or physically communicate the meaning of simple instruc-
tions given in English;
(3) respond to questions in a complete sentence in English.
Following the initial evaluation, government teachers were given initial
training followed by additional new content training every two months.
The training sessions allowed teachers to practice the activities and
enabled the EAR team to provide them with feedback. These teachers
conducted classes three to five days a week, for six months. While classes
were in progress, members from the EAR team and BRPs visited schools to
observe classes and student progress. This in turn provided a great resource
for the design of future modules. On completion of eight full modules,
in February 2009 a final evaluation was completed, and the results were
encouraging.
Results
The results of the evaluation of the experimental pilot project schools
(Table 16.1) indicated a 17% increase in students who could respond to
questions such as “Where do you live?” in a complete sentence, while
in the control schools there was only a 0.4% increase. Similarly, 26%
more students were able to understand simple instructions, for example
“Close your eyes,” in comparison with a 1% improvement in control
schools. Improvement in vocabulary reached almost 30%, with 84% of
“Let’s Speak English”: Bridging the Linguistic Divide 223
children being able to say ten random English words out of a set of 300
taught during the six months.
Creating an effective EFL environment
The content and methodology for “Let’s Speak English” was developed
after a two-year action research period. This involved initial observation
of EFL classes in VM schools, including ABL classrooms, systematically
conducting and documenting language activities with students, and
consulting other organizations and experts in education and language
teaching across the country.
These included UNICEF5
(Chennai), the Centre for Learning Resources6
(Pune), Pratham7
(Mumbai) and Akanksha8
(Mumbai). Overwhelmingly,
educators and language teachers agreed that a good language program
must (a) build children’s confidence levels by encouraging them to express
their thoughts in English, rather than forcing them to speak English with
perfect diction and grammar and (b) encourage students to listen to
English conversations and stories with correct pronunciation and grammar
in order to build familiarity with the language. This compilation of feed-
back, unsurprisingly, parallels Nation’s (2009) four strands approach. He
(Nation, 2009) promotes a well-balanced English program as equal parts:
meaning-focused input, meaning-focused output, language-focused learn-
ing, and fluency practice. EFL works best when it recognizes the need for
learning grammar, making it one’s own through fluency practice, and by
using language to communicate meaning as both input and output.
Specifically, the EAR team’s experiences during this period empha-
sized the importance of repeated exposure to input as a crucial element
Table 16.1 “Let’s Speak English” experiment pilot program evaluation results
for 2009
Skills Program schools Control schools
Initial Final % improvement Initial Final % improvement
Basic
vocabulary
55.8 84.3 28.5 30.4 47.8 17.4
Advanced
vocabulary
6.1 35.1 29 0.4 5.8 5.4
Simple
instructions
6.5 32.7 26.2 0 0.9 0.9
Response to
questions
1.6 18.9 17.3 0 0.4 0.4
224 K. A. Anderson & P. P. Narayanan
for young learners in the EFL language classroom. For example, students
need to be exposed to a single topic for several days to provide them
with a sense of familiarity and confidence (similar to the approach of
Sesame Street), before proceeding on to a new topic. This kind of predict-
able class structure enhances children’s understanding of what they can
expect to learn. Based on these principles, our recommended daily class
schedule is grounded in three skill sets: vocabulary building, listening
comprehension, and speaking practice (see Table 16.2). These skills were
incorporated into every class, every day for 45–60 minutes. Within this
structure, teachers have the flexibility to choose appropriate activities,
thereby encouraging teacher creativity and adding variety to each class.
“Let’s Speak English” followed a modular approach. Within each
module, vocabulary, listening comprehension, and speaking practice
were addressed in relation to the topic. A few of the topics used in each
module are:
Introducing myself
Colors
Parts of the body
Actions
A typical module structure lasting approximately five days is shown in
Table 16.3.
•
•
•
•
Table 16.2 A basic class schedule
Skill Activity and material Duration
Vocabulary building Students interact with bilingual
flashcards and posters to learn
new vocabulary.
10 minutes
Listening comprehension Students listen to a bilingual story
on an audio CD. The teacher
displays the corresponding
storybook to the class, page by
page, in line with the narrator.
Students listen to the narrator
and practice key questions and
sentences within the story
context.
15 minutes
Speaking practice Students interact as a class,
practicing simple instructions,
questions, and dialogs.
35 minutes
“Let’s Speak English”: Bridging the Linguistic Divide 225
A unique set of materials was created for each module. Using the
“parts of the body” module as an example, original flashcards and a
storybook with audio were created. The flashcards have lively photo-
graphs of government school children (see Figure 16.1). The bilingual
storybook incorporates parts of the body vocabulary through a game
Table 16.3 Modular components for parts of the body
Component Activity
Vocabulary Students learn the names of 25 parts of
the body using bilingual flashcards.
Listening Students listen to a story that uses the
question “What is this?” in relation to
parts of the body and repeat the
question and answer with the narrator.
Simple instructions Students play a game similar to “Simon
says” involving action words and parts
of the body such as “Touch your head”,
“Close your eyes”, etc.
Asking and responding to questions Students ask and answer questions
using “What is this/that?” “What are
these/those?” “Is this/that…” and
“How many…” in relation to parts of
the body.
Figure 16.1 An example of a flashcard from the LSE program
226 K. A. Anderson & P. P. Narayanan
played by a father and daughter. A revision module followed every three
modules. Using the same class structure, teachers integrated the previous
content using a variety of activities.
Discussion
The greatest implementation challenge was convincing teachers to adopt
the LSE methodology in a context where language has been taught through
rote memorization and grammar translation. Initially, some teachers were
skeptical about the effectiveness of this approach. However, as the program
progressed, teacher feedback was overwhelmingly positive. They com-
mended the attractiveness of the materials, the ease of the methodology,
and the relevance of the content to the existing curriculum. Following, is
a discussion of our successes and limitations.
Successes
The results of the evaluation indicate a positive improvement overall.
The success of the project across 50 schools can be attributed to the fol-
lowing key factors:
Materials: In contrast to alternative materials widely available in the
market that contain references and images specific to contexts in the
USA or UK, this program used flashcards that were locally relevant,
containing images and examples that young learners in Tamil Nadu
can relate to. The use of flashcards as game cards that students could
use, rather than as teacher-centered material, excited students and
led to their regular use.
Bilingual audio stories: Listening to bilingual stories (rather than English-
only stories) on CD ensured an opportunity for children to listen to
English and guaranteed their understanding of the contents.
Daily speaking practice: Activities encouraged daily listening and speak-
ing practice, which ensured that all students got a chance to express
themselves in English every day. It also created expectations for the stu-
dents and opportunities for students to demonstrate their potential.
Classroom dynamics: The program changed the EFL classroom scenario
from one where the teacher asks questions and the students respond,
to one where students actively ask and respond to questions. This
excited children, most of whom were asking teachers questions for
the first time in their school life. Interestingly, teachers also enjoyed
this interaction with students and began to wonder why they had
not integrated it into their lessons earlier.
•
•
•
•
“Let’s Speak English”: Bridging the Linguistic Divide 227
Bilingual teacher manual: The bilingual teacher’s manual was a reference
tool which teachers frequently used to help plan lessons.
Audio aids: Attempts at using audio aids in the classroom revealed
that a fine balance is needed between entertainment and education
to achieve learning effectiveness.
Limitations
While LSE has proven its effectiveness in improving young learners’
English comprehension and speaking skills, it has had its fair share of
challenges. In program design, the key challenge was to provide relevant
and adequate resources, which children could use independently, while
at the same time retaining teachers’ intervention by giving them the
role of facilitators.
It took the LSE program a couple of months to soften teacher resist-
ance to its pedagogy, which required them to break away from rote
memorization and instead make the language classroom interactive.
In addition, working with teachers who had difficulty understanding
and speaking English themselves, proved to be a challenge in program
implementation. Our training programs were adapted to accommodate,
in addition to core program content, additional sessions to improve
teachers’ understanding of English in general. As a result, training sessions
had to be conducted more frequently.
While the availability of audiovisual equipment at schools enabled
the EAR team to use this to its advantage as a learning resource in the
language classroom, frequent suspension of the power supply at rural
schools interrupted audiovisual sessions. Hence, some schools could not
use this medium as often as others.
LSE was most effective only in schools where the average class size was
about 30 students. Therefore, customized approaches may be needed for
EFL classrooms in schools which have more than 30 students per class.
Finally, as with every innovation, the learning curve is always steep.
However, at the end of different phases of a new project, it is useful to
reflect on the overall meaningfulness of one’s efforts.
Conclusion
In this chapter, ABL, an innovative classroom methodology, was dis-
cussed and critiqued in light of Tamil Nadu’s linguistic divide and its
need for an improved EFL curriculum in Tamil-medium (VM) schools.
In an attempt to contribute to the current EFL teaching system, AID
INDIA’s EAR team presented both methodology and results from their
•
•
228 K. A. Anderson & P. P. Narayanan
pilot program “Let’s Speak English.” The two major things we have
learned from this classroom-based action research project are the need
for continued innovation and collaboration if Tamil Nadu is to succeed
at improving English state-wide. Innovating EFL, especially in a resource-
challenged environment like India, is a complicated and challenging
task that requires multiple types of input, adequate exposure as well as
interesting, relevant, effective, and culturally appropriate materials. But
it also must be cost-effective, reusable, and long-lasting. There is no single
EFL methodology or program that provides all the necessary inputs to
achieve language learning success. One of the main reasons LSE worked
well was because it changed the classroom dynamic by encouraging
students to speak and express themselves in English every day, thus
supporting meaningful use of English. Effective EFL programs for young
learners should encourage play, build confidence, and focus on commu-
nication before introducing grammar rules. Teachers also need to learn
to create a balanced instructional approach for students with multiple
styles of input and various modes of output. Government-run programs
like the English component of ABL would benefit from adopting inno-
vative components from the action-based research of non-governmental
organizations and other EFL practitioners. If Tamil Nadu is striving
to achieve bilingual fluency in English, the key challenges will be to
identify and retain the important aspects of successful EFL experiments,
while at the same time standardizing contents and methodology for
large-scale replication.
Notes
1. The authors worked for Eureka Aid, which is the education initiative of AID
INDIA, a non-governmental organization working to improve the quality of
education for all young learners across the state of Tamil Nadu.
2. 106 4th and 5th grade students participated in the urban Chennai survey.
3. 438 4th and 5th grade students participated in the rural survey in 2008.
4. Hello English available at http://www.riesi.co.in/publications.html
5. UNICEF: www.unicef.org/
6. Centre for Learning Resources, Pune: www.clrindia.net/
7. Pratham, Mumbai: www.pratham.org/
8. Akanksha, Mumbai: www.akanksha.org/
Part E
Innovating Teaching Writing
in Asia
230
Introduction to Part E
Steven Herder
It is generally agreed that the L2 writing field is relatively young; even
though there is a large body of research, there are few answers as to
how learners learn to write or how teaching aids the learning process
(Cumming & Riaza, 2000, cited in Ferris & Hedgecock, 2005). Additionally,
EFL writing research, conducted in cultures where English is not the
dominant language (where the writing system may not even be based
on roman characters) tends to be conflated with ESL writing research
conducted in English-dominant cultures. However, writing researchers
such as Casanave (2004) and Truscott (2007), teacher-researchers based
in Asia with a well-balanced theoretical and practical view of L2 writing
in the Asian context, offer insight worth sharing here. Casanave (2004)
recognizes L2 writing instruction still has a long way to develop and
offers an three-pronged approach to decision-making in writing class-
rooms, including “a philosophy of teaching and learning; knowledge of
relevant issues; and the practical realities of local teaching and learning
settings” (p. 9). Truscott (2007) makes a strong claim for error correction
of writing in Asian classrooms as an ineffective use of time, contending it
may even be harmful for L2 learners. This claim can be easily contrasted
with the ESL literature’s consideration of the importance of error correc-
tion (Ferris, 1997, 2004).
Thus while ESL and EFL have some characteristics in common, they
also have different needs and call for different approaches that have yet
to be clearly defined. There are a handful of big L2 writing issues that
most researchers agree upon and which are discussed throughout the
literature both in ESL and EFL contexts. They include:
1. Extensive writing vs. process writing
2. Error correction – who, what, when, where, why?
3. Genre approach – how many different genres to introduce?
4. Use of L1 and L2 by the teacher
5. Individual writing, pair work and group work: what balance?
6. Assessment and testing
Fortunately, three of these important issues are focused on in this sec-
tion. Herder and Clements (Chapter 17) argue for an extensive writing
approach in EFL classrooms which focuses on fluency (Nation, 2001).
Herder and Clements propose one way to improve the overall balance
in Japanese writing education can be through a fluency-first approach
in high school writing classes. They discuss the benefits and challenges
of implementing such an approach in a high school writing program.
Furthermore, they examine the effects of this teaching method on student
writing and attitudes.
Another important piece of high school classroom research into L2
writing comes from Mainland China. Zhao (Chapter 18) addresses the
topic of error correction within feedback. She explains that empirical
studies have shown gains through peer feedback among ESL learners
in revising their writing texts and that peer feedback may help learners
develop writing proficiency. Zhao’s research substantiates the value of
peer feedback for Chinese EFL learners, and shows that while learners use
more teacher feedback than peer feedback in redrafts, they understand
peer feedback better than teacher feedback. This promotes sociocultural
theory in EFL by suggesting that different types of social regulation
(peer and teacher feedback in this study) contribute to different devel-
opmental levels of writing proficiency.
Hisaoka (Chapter 19) shows that the need for clear assessment criteria in
Japan is widely recognized but is dominated by sentence-level translation
and is only now shifting towards writing for communication. Hisaoka
introduces a full range of problems and challenges Japanese teachers
face in addressing this shift, and considers the theoretical perspective
of Systemic Functional Linguistics (SFL) as a possible solution to clarify
assessment criteria for Japanese students’ English writing.
Describing EFL writing is a work in progress and, as Casanave (2004)
shares, working toward articulating beliefs, reflecting on them, and being
open to modifying them is an important step to making our teaching
“more principled, less random, perhaps more experimental and innova-
tive” (p. 9). In that spirit, all three chapters in this section explore issues
in L2 writing pertinent to L2 teachers in the Asian context.
Introduction to Part E 231
232
Introduction
One of the ironies surrounding the teaching of writing in high school
English classes in Japan is that not much actual writing takes place.
Students spend the bulk of the time transcribing single sentences with
little attention given to communicating ideas (Takagi, 2001). The reasons
for this have to do with the predominance of the yakudoku (grammar-
translation) approach to instruction, a teacher-centered style which
focuses almost exclusively on form, and the literal translation of
English text into Japanese (Gorsuch, 1998). Although instructors have
been known to express frustration with this approach, yakudoku is per-
petuated by the university entrance exam system, which puts enormous
pressure on teachers and textbook writers to focus on the grammatical
structures and sentence patterns likely to appear in future tests. Moreover,
research suggests that guidelines released by the Japanese Ministry of
Education, while implicitly supporting a communicative approach, have
been unclear about how this should be realized, resulting in classroom
practices informed by “a minimalist definition of writing” (Gates, 2003:
214). Finally, most Japanese teachers of English are themselves the
successful products of yakudoku instruction, which suggests that they are
more likely to prefer the approach in their own classes.
The goal of this chapter is not to argue for a wholesale rejection of yaku-
doku teaching, but rather to propose that some balance can be achieved
in writing classes through a fluency-first approach. After outlining the
theoretical basis of this approach, we discuss a study (Herder, 2009) of the
benefits and challenges of implementing fluency-first in a high school
writing program. Since part of our purpose is to suggest that context is
crucial in any pedagogical innovation, we first describe the program as a
17
Extensive Writing: A Fluency-first
Approach to EFL Writing
Steven Herder and Peter Clements
A Fluency-first Approach to EFL Writing 233
whole and the pedagogical decisions that went into its design. The second
part examines the effects of this teaching method on student writing and
attitudes through data from a class survey and from ten-minute free
writing sessions that were held at the beginning of each class.
Fluency first
One of the most important issues that L2 writing teachers face is how
to balance fluency and accuracy in their teaching. The fluency-first
approach arose out of an awareness that many writing courses tend
to over-emphasize accuracy, thus stifling student writers’ attempts to
compose meaningful prose, especially at the early stages. This approach
is most directly supported by whole language theories of learning,
which posit that learning proceeds from the whole to the part. That
is, language skills are learned not in isolation, but in a rich and inter-
active context that involves learners in meaningful activities directly
relevant to their personal and educational needs (Freeman & Freeman,
1992). In fluency-first programs, the traditional sequence of instruction
is reversed, in that students are first required to do large amounts of
reading, writing, and discussion with no error correction and no formal
teaching of grammar. Clarity and correctness are dealt with later in the
course sequence, when students begin to complete more formal writing
assignments. Even in later courses, however, grammar is not taught sepa-
rately but dealt with in reference to student writing. In other words,
rather than first mastering basic sentence structure and then moving
on to write progressively longer texts, students start by writing lengthy
texts and concentrating primarily on meaning, then later devote more
attention to grammar and organization.
While there is no published research to date on the full-scale implemen-
tation of a fluency-first approach with Japanese students, some studies
have examined the use of fluency-building activities in writing courses.
Although fluency-building activities can take many forms, such as in-class
free writing sessions, online exchanges, and blogs, it is journals (student
diaries) that have received the most attention. For example, Hirose (2001)
incorporated journals into a university-level academic writing course.
Her rationale was that since most Japanese students are familiar with
writing in their L1 about the kinds of personal topics that journals imply,
they are an effective means of getting students used to writing in the L2
without having to worry about organization and grammar. Casanave
(1995) also investigated the use of journals in an intensive university
EFL program, and found not only that students improved in fluency,
234 S. Herder & P. Clements
but also that some students improved in accuracy as well, while others
showed greater depth of thinking and expressiveness in their writing.
Duppenthaler (2002) examined a year-long journal activity conducted at
a girls’ high school, finding that journal writing had a positive effect on
student motivation regardless of the type of feedback used by the teacher
to respond to the journals. In short, journal writing can spur individual
writers to develop in a variety of ways, some of which are not easily
captured by objective measures. Moreover, it has been observed that
Japanese students’ first language (L1) literacy training emphasizes expe-
riential writing over the deductive expository style favored in North
America (Watanabe, 2004), which further points to the appropriateness
of journals as a means of getting students to produce longer texts and
to focus more on meaning when they write.
Thus, it seems clear that the potential of a fluency-first approach to
writing instruction in Japan deserves more systematic examination,
especially in that fluency-first activities can provide students with
opportunities to engage in the kinds of unstructured writing that are
more reflective of their L1 literacy experience. While activities that target
fluency seem to be increasingly common, few studies investigate the
effects of such activities on student writing or motivation. The studies
that do exist (Casanave, 1995; Duppenthaler, 2002) have focused on
journal writing as a single component of a course involving other writ-
ing activities. The current study, on the other hand, examines a course
that consisted primarily of free writing as a fluency-first activity.
The writing program
After 14 years teaching oral communication courses in a private girls
high school in Japan, I (Herder) was asked to teach three writing classes
from April 2007. As a native English-speaking teacher who supports a
holistic, communicative approach that focuses on conveying meaning
to promote learning, I was faced with a conundrum: trying to find a
balance between the somewhat opposing realities of the Japanese edu-
cational system and my own beliefs about how L2 writing should be
taught. Even as I was told by the administration that I could do what-
ever I liked, I knew full well that there were expectations by various
stakeholders: the school administration, other teachers, the parents, and
the students themselves. In fact, two of the homeroom teachers whose
classes I was going to teach expressed concern that their students might
be at a disadvantage for the upcoming university entrance examina-
tions because I was to be the teacher. Therefore, I realized that I needed
A Fluency-first Approach to EFL Writing 235
to structure an approach that would satisfy my own aims as well as
those of the other stakeholders.
In designing the course, I started with my own beliefs about how one
learns to write in general and thus followed what I knew about L1 writing:
good writers are not born, but are nurtured and develop through instruc-
tion, making consistent efforts at writing, and from doing a great deal
of writing. EFL students, in particular, need copious amounts of fluency
practice, something their ESL counterparts often get naturally from
their environment. I also believed that if Japanese learners were given
more balanced amounts of input and output, a judicious focus on both
accuracy and fluency, coupled with reasonable expectations and moti-
vation, then they would be much more successful. Therefore, I decided
that my writing class would provide the output, or fluency practice,
that had been lacking in their other English classes. This central idea of
a heavy focus on fluency practice formed the basis of my pedagogical
approach and I became determined to use every opportunity in class to
have my students write as much as possible. Once I established this, all
further decisions about classroom practice were rather straightforward.
I did, however, have to address expectations that this course would also
prepare students for the university entrance exams.
I devised a two-year plan that aimed to appeal to the stakeholders but
also incorporate fluency practice at the crucial early stages of L2 writ-
ing. The first year would focus heavily on writing fluency, particularly
on narrative and expository writing. The second year would emphasize
university entrance test practice and would include the persuasive genre
seen in many entrance exam questions (see Table 17.1).
A crucial issue that needed to be addressed at the beginning of the
course was error correction. Based on my understanding of the research
(for example Truscott, 2007), I decided beforehand, and clearly told
students, that I would only actually correct about 5–10% of what they
wrote. I asked them what they thought about this and even took a
Table 17.1 Overview of two-year writing class
Year Main focus Genre focus Focused activities
Grade 11
(age 16–17)
Fluency Narrative, expository,
personal writing
Ten-minute writing
and basic writing
conventions
Grade 12
(age 17–18)
University Entrance
Exam preparation
Persuasive Practice previous
year’s exams from
around Japan
236 S. Herder & P. Clements
vote: they overwhelmingly expressed that they wanted me to correct
every word they wrote. However, I was able to convince them that
many researchers agree that having the teacher correct student errors
does not lead to better writing and moreover is not the most efficient
use of the teacher’s time. I defined two kinds of errors: careless mistakes
and errors beyond students’ level. I promised to help them learn to find
their careless mistakes and also introduce ways of expressing meaning
beyond their current level. Having this discussion clearly seemed to ease
their minds and allowed us to decide that rather than ignore accuracy
completely, it would be better to build it into the actual writing time that
I gave students in class. As they wrote, I would move about the classroom
offering assistance and helping them to notice mistakes. This immediate
feedback would offer more individual consciousness-raising opportunities
as well as increase uptake, hopefully leading to more effective learning.
Each 45-minute class started with a ten-minute free-writing activity.
Students were told to try to write as much as possible about anything at
all. They were not allowed erasers or dictionaries. If they didn’t know a
word in English, leaving a blank or writing the Japanese word was fine.
At the end of the activity, they exchanged notebooks with a neighbor,
read their partner’s writing, then went back and counted the total number
of words. They also noted for the writer what percent they could under-
stand. Sometimes I would have students give specific feedback in various
ways, such as adding a follow-up comment or question, noting grammati-
cal errors, or highlighting conjunctions. In the remaining 30 minutes,
I had students do one of a number of different things such as learn a writ-
ing convention (e.g., topic or transitional sentences), discuss topics (in
Japanese) that they would then write about, or do collaborative writing.
As I watched students complete these activities, a number of pedagog-
ical lessons became immediately apparent to me. Importantly, students
needed time to discuss topics before writing, but given this time, they
showed little hesitation to offer written opinions. In fact, they loved to
share opinions with each other once they got used to it. In addition to
hearing their classmates’ ideas, they were often very interested in what
I had written about the same topic. So, I made it a point, as often as
possible, to share my own version of the writing task that I had assigned
to them. My writing sample was often useful and interesting to students
because it not only showed correct writing form, but also content that
usually came from a different perspective. Another valuable observation
was that writing in pairs was enormously important at the start of the
course because it took the focus away from individuals and lowered
students’ affective filters. However, as soon as students got used to writing
A Fluency-first Approach to EFL Writing 237
and gained some confidence, they more often seemed to prefer to write
on their own. Finally, as obvious as it may sound, writing conventions
were well received and implemented immediately as long as they were
concrete and appropriate to the students’ level. For example, students
initially rarely used any conjunctions other than and, but, so, and because.
However, after a range of more difficult conjunctions was introduced,
students quickly began to use them. Furthermore, students rather easily
understood and began to try to use colons and semi-colons soon after
I taught them. On the other hand, even after two years, abstract concepts
such as topic sentences and cohesion continued to be a challenge.
As the course progressed, the students fell into a rhythm in a very
short time, realizing that this writing class was an active learning
environment that involved learning while writing. I noticed students
becoming more and more satisfied with what they wrote in class, which
may have been because of my consistent, positive attitude to their
writing, their recognition of their own improvements, or their growing
interest in each other’s ideas. I was collecting 60 pieces of writing per
week and the time it took to even read them all, much less comment
on them, was daunting. However, I tried to read or at least scan as
much as I could. I also found that orally commenting to writers had a
tremendous effect on student attitudes. A comment in the classroom or
even in the hallway like, “Yuko, I loved what you wrote about colors
the other day – I didn’t know that that we all see colors differently” was
meaningful and effective because it communicated several messages to
the student: I was impressed enough to remember what she wrote and
take the time to comment; I cared about her learning; and I was an
appreciative reader. Besides being a relatively rare opportunity to con-
nect directly with a student, it made us both happy and the intrinsic
connection to writing was not lost on either of us.
A second factor in our ongoing success was the students’ own recogni-
tion of their improvements. At the start of the course almost all students
doubted that they could write a lot in a short period of time. The mental
barrier appeared to be 100 words in ten minutes. Some students got
beyond this milestone reasonably quickly, but others did not. However,
interestingly, once a student wrote more than 100 words in ten minutes,
she rarely ever wrote less than that in subsequent attempts. I set this as a
goal for the entire class at the beginning of the year, and we all encour-
aged the slower students to break through this barrier. One of these
students took over a dozen attempts to finally pass the 100 mark, but
a few months later wrote nearly 200 words. It was on one of those days
that she looked up at me as I noticed 189 written in her own notebook
238 S. Herder & P. Clements
and said to me, “Now, that’s improvement, huh!” There is simply nothing
more motivational than when students notice their own improvement.
Finally, by observing the ongoing dynamics of classroom interaction,
a few unexpected developments in my approach emerged. One day
early in the program, a student noticed something written on her
friend’s page and asked to see it. Noticing that the writer seemed fine
with sharing her writing, I suddenly told all the students to exchange
notebooks and read what their neighbors had written. The intrinsic
expectations that grew out of having students read each other’s writing
was not something I had planned to happen, nor was the actualization
of a real and meaningful audience that was created for my learners. So
often, classroom activity can be a contrived, unreal experience; yet in
this writing class students were entertained, challenged, moved, and
enlightened by each other’s writing. This expectation was continuously
in the air; students knew that the teacher or their peers would be looking
at what they wrote, and this reminded them to keep their efforts up to
an acceptable level.
Within six months, my role was becoming more facilitative and less
directive. The students knew the flow of the class, had some confidence
in what they were doing, and wanted me out of the way. The time
spent actually writing each period went from ten minutes in the first
class to about 35 minutes. I set out a writing activity, gave students
some time to get started, then simply cruised around the classroom,
offering feedback, and pointing out mistakes. Overall, it was relatively
easy for students to see their own improvements. They were also having
fun exchanging ideas and learning to express themselves in English. The
course itself was a satisfying and successful teaching experience. The next
section looks in more detail at the effects of this approach on student
writing and attitudes.
Effects of fluency first
In order to examine and document some of the effects of the fluency-
first approach described above, I collected two kinds of data: a survey
that was administered to two classes and writing samples collected from
a third class. The two classes that responded to the survey consisted of
28 students about to complete their third year of high school (grade 12).
These students were nearing completion of the first two-year cycle of the
program and had taken the fluency-first part of the program the previous
year (see Table 17.1). Writing samples were collected over the course
of nine months from a third class of 18 students1
in their second year
A Fluency-first Approach to EFL Writing 239
(grade 11) while they were engaged in fluency-first activities. Although
I did not measure students’ English proficiency or L2 writing ability,
there was clearly a range of levels and abilities, both among the separate
classes and within each class. For example, student scores on the Test of
Practical English Proficiency (known in Japan as the Eiken) ranged from
grade 3 (equivalent to a score of less than 400 on the TOEFL paper-based
test) to grade 2 (equivalent to 450 or above).
Writing samples consisted of the writing that students produced dur-
ing the ten-minute free-writing activity held at the beginning of each
class over a nine-month period (25 sessions total). These were analyzed
using two measures of fluency: words per minute (W/M) and sentence
length (W/S). Because these sessions were strictly timed, the first of
these measures was calculated by dividing the total number of words
by ten. Sentence length was calculated by dividing the total number
of words by the total number of sentences. The group mean for each
session was then calculated for each measure. The survey was an online
questionnaire that was designed using tools available at surveymonkey.
com and administered during the second-to-last class of the year. The
questionnaire was written in English and consisted of multiple-choice
questions, each with a space at the end for optional comments in
English or Japanese. The discussion that follows will focus on student
responses to the questions presented in Table 17.2.
My working hypotheses in collecting these data were that regular
fluency practice would lead to (1) measurable gains in students’ written
fluency, and (2) increased motivation and self-confidence.
Fluency measures
Figure 17.1 displays the mean word count for the class for each of 25
sessions. As is readily apparent, with a few fluctuations, the class as a
whole produced increasingly longer texts, resulting in a W/M gain of
nearly 100% (7.6 at the first session to 14.5 at the final). While this
result might seem dramatic, it should be pointed out that after the first
session, the class mean did not fall below 100 words. A more realistic
comparison might be between the W/M for session five (10.8) and
the final session, which reveals an increase of 3.7 words. This suggests
students wrote increasingly longer texts and that they began to write
longer sentences within those texts.
Survey responses
Item 3 of the survey asked students to evaluate the overall effectiveness
of the course. In response to the first question (“Was this class useful for
240 S. Herder & P. Clements
Table 17.2 Survey questions
1. Last year, at the beginning of this writing course, how were the following?
[very bad; OK; good; very good]
A. Expressing my ideas
B. Writing quickly
C. Writing many sentences
D. Writing correct grammar
E. Enjoying writing in English
2. Now, at the end of this writing course, how are the following?
[very bad; OK; good; very good]
A. Expressing my ideas
B. Writing quickly
C. Writing many sentences
D. Writing correct grammar
E. Enjoying writing in English
3. Please answer the questions below.
[no; yes, a little; yes; yes, very much]
A. Was this class useful for you?
B. Did your writing get better in this class?
4. How has your writing changed after two years in this class?
A. Thinking time
B. Writing speed
C. Attitude to writing
D. Interest in writing
E. Grammar
5. For you, what is the best way to learn to write in English?
A. I need to listen to the teacher explain how to write
B. I need to study more vocabulary
C. I need to practice writing a lot
D. I need to study writing technique from a textbook
E. I need to practice grammar worksheets
you?”), 93% of the students answered “yes” (56%) or “yes, very much”
(37%). In response to the second item (“Did your writing get better in
this class?”), 93% answered “yes” (63%) or “yes, very much” (30%).
No students answered “no” to either of these items. These results are
represented in Figure 17.2. The first two survey items asked students to
evaluate how specific aspects of their writing had improved from the
beginning to the end of the writing program. In all categories, there
is a clear shift from the negative end of the scale (total responses that
were either “very bad” or “OK”) to the positive end (those that were
“good” or “very good”. These results are graphically represented in
Figure 17.3.
A Fluency-first Approach to EFL Writing 241
Question 5 of the survey also asked students about how they felt their
writing had changed during the course. Student responses are generally
in line with their responses to the first two questions, with the largest
numbers noting changes in writing speed (74%), attitude (59%), and
interest in writing (44%). Finally, in response to question 4 (“What
is the best way to learn to write in English?”), the largest number of
students chose “study more vocabulary” (80%) or “practice writing a
lot” (76%).
Conclusion
The foregoing study demonstrates, we feel, that a fluency-first approach
to writing, if carefully implemented with an eye towards student needs
and stakeholder expectations, is a powerful means of getting beginning
writers to put away their concern with correctness and write longer,
more meaningful texts. The data presented above indicate that over the
course of a school year, with regular free-writing practice, students wrote
substantially more words, and gradually increased their sentence length
as well. More important, however, was the change in student attitudes,
as shown by survey responses. Not only did an overwhelming major-
ity of students feel that the approach was useful and that their writing
had improved in a number of specific ways (volume, enjoyment, and
self-expression), but many of them also felt that their attitude toward
Figure 17.1 Mean words per ten minutes over 25 sessions
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
242 S. Herder & P. Clements
writing had improved, and that one of the ways to keep developing was
simply to write as much as possible. These data, however, only tell part
of the story. Underlying the quantifiable differences was a tangible quali-
tative change in student motivation and understanding of what writing
is all about and their autonomy as learners. They started the course
expecting the teacher to tell them what to write and to correct all of their
mistakes but soon began to take more charge of their own writing, prefer-
ring the teacher to get out of the way and let them compose, showing
more satisfaction and interest in their own (as well as others’) writing,
and proudly noting visible improvements and progress.
Figure 17.2 Student perceptions of the class and writing improvement
Was this class useful for you?
Did your writing get better in this class?
Yes,
a little
7%
Yes
56%
Yes, very much
37%
Yes,
a little
7%
Yes, very much
30%
Yes
63%
A Fluency-first Approach to EFL Writing 243
Nevertheless, this account of classroom practice only scratches the
surface of the potential of putting fluency first, and so we close with
suggestions for how the current study could be improved and extended.
First, this study only measured fluency in terms of words per minute and
sentence length. It is not known if other objective measures of fluency
would show similar results. Moreover, fluency can also be examined
by investigating the behaviors that writers engage in as they write, an
approach which may not only further illuminate the concept of fluency
itself, but also show more precisely how it actually develops. Second, this
study did not attempt to measure other aspects of student writing, such as
overall quality, accuracy, or complexity. Nor did it attempt to investigate
Figure 17.3 Student perceptions of various gains
100%
Writing many sentences Writing correct grammer
Enjoying writing in English
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
Very bad
2008 3.8
14.8
30.8
55.6
42.3
22.2
23.1
2
2007
OK Good Very good
Very bad
2008 3.8
29.6
30.8
59.3
42.3
11.1
23.1
0
2007
OK Good Very good
Very bad
2008 0
29.6
29.6
63
18.5
0
2007
OK
51.9
7.4
Good Very good
244 S. Herder & P. Clements
the possible effects of fluency-first on subsequent writing during the next
course, which focused on preparation for university entrance exams.
These are all useful, indeed necessary, avenues of research to explore if
the fluency-first approach is to become a convincing alternative to teach-
ing that overwhelmingly favors accuracy. Finally, the qualitative effects
of fluency-first could be examined in much more depth. This could take
the form of textual analyses of student writing over time or case studies of
the writers themselves. Studies along these various lines would lead to a
better understanding of the potential benefits of the approach as a way of
meaningfully engaging beginning writers.
Note
1. Although this class actually consisted of 22 students, four students’ writing
was excluded for the following reasons; two students returned from a year-
long study program in Canada too late in the study and two students had
extended absences from school for personal reasons.
18
Who Takes the Floor? Peer
Feedback or Teacher Feedback: An
Investigation of Chinese University
English Learners’ Use and
Understanding of Peer and Teacher
Feedback on Writing
Huahui Zhao
In the past two decades, the development of sociocultural theory within
the arena of English as a second language (ESL) learning has created a grow-
ing debate over the use of peer feedback to develop ESL learners’ writing
proficiency. Empirical studies have shown that peer feedback assists ESL
learners in revising their writing texts and possibly helps them in develop-
ing their English writing proficiency (e.g., Cheng & Warren, 2005; Ferris &
Hedgcock, 1998). However, a closer look at the literature reveals that the
use of peer feedback in the English as a Foreign Language (EFL) learning
context throughout Asia is unexplored. Additionally, most studies compare
peer feedback with teacher feedback in terms of the quantity of revisions
peer feedback and teacher feedback trigger in redrafts. Few studies examine
the learners’ understanding of peer feedback and teacher feedback that
is used in redrafts. Learners using feedback without internalizing it may
improve the immediate quality of written texts but do not necessarily con-
tribute to the development of their long-term writing proficiency.
This study introduced peer assessment into a Chinese university EFL
writing class and examined learner use and understanding of peer feed-
back and teacher feedback. Eighteen second-year English majors and
their writing tutor at a large-scale university in south China participated
in this case study research for 16 weeks. Two research questions were
examined:
1. Which type of feedback did the students use more frequently in their
revisions, peer feedback or teacher feedback?
245
246 H. Zhao
2. Which type of feedback did the learners internalize more successfully,
peer feedback or teacher feedback?
This study attempts to explore the appropriateness of peer feedback for
Chinese university EFL learners who have long-term, teacher-driven learn-
ing experiences. This study also aims to question the appropriateness of the
existing research which discusses the efficacy of peer and teacher feedback
in terms of learner use rather than learner understanding of feedback.
Theoretical background
The development of sociocultural theory in ESL teaching and learning
in the past two decades precludes teachers as the sole legitimate assess-
ment agents and raises learners’ role in writing. Within that theoretical
framework, language learning is suggested to be socially and culturally
mediated via tools including teachers and peers (e.g., Lantolf, 2003;
Vygotsky, 1978). Writing, as one of the most essential language learn-
ing activities, should also be viewed as a social cognitive process (e.g.,
Ferris & Hedgcock, 1998; Flower & Hayes, 1981; Hayes, 1996). As Hayes’
(1996) process writing model highlights, student writing is an interactive
process between individual writers and their embedded social environ-
ment consisting of collaborators and audiences. Students could act as
collaborators and audiences for their peer learners, assisting their peers
in improving their writing quality from the audience’s perspective.
Empirical studies validate peer feedback in ESL/EFL writing by con-
sistently reporting that ESL/EFL students use peer feedback to improve
the quality of their redrafts. However, peer feedback is not used as fre-
quently as teacher feedback. Connor and Asenavage (1994) compared
the use of peer and teacher feedback by freshman ESL college learners
and found that 5% of student writing revisions were based on peer
feedback, in contrast with 35% on teacher feedback. Similarly, the 12
Chinese college EFL learners in Yang, Badger, and Yu’s (2006) study
were also observed to incorporate a greater amount of teacher feedback
(90%) than peer feedback (76%) in their subsequent drafts. Accordingly,
teacher feedback is suggested to be more helpful than peer feedback to
assist learners in improving their writing quality.
On the other hand, students understand the reasoning behind such
revisions isn’t clear. For example, Hyland (1998) conducted retrospec-
tive interviews with ESL learners and noted that at times ESL learners
made revisions from teacher feedback with no real understanding of
why they were made. Similarly, the ESL learners in Goldstein’s (2006)
Peer Feedback or Teacher Feedback 247
study also admitted in interviews that they might use teacher feedback
without understanding its necessity for their drafts. In the Hong Kong
context, Lee (2007) ascertained through interviewing six teachers and 18
students in a secondary school that the students sometimes copied teacher
feedback in their revisions without thinking about why it was made and
consequently made similar mistakes in subsequent writing tasks.
In this sense, the feedback that is used in redrafts, but that has not been
internalized by learners may help improve the immediate quality of learner
texts but will not necessarily contribute to the development of students’
long-term English language proficiency. According to sociocultural theory,
the key to developing second language with social mediation (e.g., peer and
teacher feedback in this study) lies in learner internalization of the received
social mediation (Lantolf, 2003). That is to say, without fully understanding
why a peer or teacher feedback instance is provided and how it helps to
improve the writing quality, even though learners use the feedback in their
revision, their language proficiency may not be developed as a result. This
concept is the catalyst for this study: to investigate and distinguish learn-
ers’ use and understanding of peer and teacher feedback and to further
measure whether, and to what extent, peer and teacher feedback facilitates
developing EFL learners’ English language ability.
Current study
Two research methods were employed in the study to distinguish learners’
use from their understanding of feedback. Content analyses of learn-
ers’ first and revised drafts were used to examine the use of feedback.
Learners’ understanding of feedback was investigated via stimulated recall
interviews (SRIs) with feedback and revisions as the prompt. Eighteen
second-year English majors and their writing teacher in a large university
in south China were involved in the study for 16 weeks (28th February–
21st June, 2006).
Existing writing pedagogy in the researched institution
Before the introduction of peer assessment, interviews were conducted
with the 18 participating students and all six Chinese English writing
tutors in the institution, in addition to classroom observations of ten
English writing classes instructed by the six teacher interviewees. A strong
examination-oriented and teacher-dominant assessment culture was
observed, with the following key characteristics:
1. One draft and one mark: Since the examination essay was a one-shot
activity, learners were required to submit one draft for each writing
248 H. Zhao
task. On this draft, the students received a mark from their Chinese
writing teachers as they did in examination essays.
2. Heavy use of textbooks: The textbooks assigned by the institution were
heavily used in class to structure the class and to provide writing topics.
In particular, writing teachers asked students to memorize model texts
(most from previous public examinations) until they could mimic them
in writing assignments and examination essays.
3. Silent classes: Few interactions occurred between and among learners
in the writing class. Teachers talked through the class time about
how to write high-score examination essays.
4. Teachers as the only assessment agent: Since teachers were the only
legitimate assessors of students’ examination essays, they were rec-
ognized as the sole agent to assess student writing assignments.
Such examination-driven teaching pedagogy seems to worry the Ministry
of Education of the People’s Republic of China, particularly since it may
adversely influence Chinese EFL learners’ developing communicative
English language abilities. Therefore, they encourage College English
teachers to use process-oriented assessment (including peer assessment) in
their classes.1 In response to the Ministry, the current researcher introduced
peer feedback to a writing class alongside the existing teacher feedback,
expecting writing assessment to become a tool for learning rather than
focus exclusively on examination performance and standards.
Background of participants
The 18 second-year English majors scored on average 120 out of 150
in the English examination in their university matriculation examina-
tions, according to the official statistics held by the institution. Students
were intermediate English learners (roughly equivalent to 6.5–7.0 on the
IELTS test) according to their American writing teacher. As a result of the
entrenched teacher-predominant writing assessment culture as described
above, the participating learners had no experience of providing and
receiving peer feedback on their writing in class.
Data collection and analysis methods
The data collected in this study encompass peer feedback (PF) and
teacher feedback (TF) on learners’ first drafts, learners’ revised drafts,
and student stimulated recall interview data.
First and revised drafts of 26 assignments were used to locate the feedback
that was incorporated in learner revisions. The 26 assignments covered
Peer Feedback or Teacher Feedback 249
a wide range of genres (including letters, poems, arguments, fiction, and
research papers) as student self-selected writing topics. Individual feedback
points and revision operations were coded, categorized, and analyzed by
taking each feedback point as the unit of analysis. Feedback in this study
consisted of symbols and marks in the margin, underlining of problems,
corrections, detailed text-specific comments, and suggestions that could
trigger revisions. Four groups of feedback categories were produced: PF/
used, PF/not used, TF/used, and TF/not used.
Stimulated recall interview
SRIs were used to help learners vocalize their understanding of the
feedback that was integrated in their revisions. The following three SRI
questions were asked:
1. Could I help you with any feedback instance that you feel confused
about?
2. I noticed you changed the language point here. What were you
thinking when changing it?
3. I noticed you deleted this part here. What were you thinking when
deleting it?
The first question is to invite the learners to identify the feedback that is
used without a full understanding. The researcher provided interviewees
with clarifications of the confusing feedback instance, to motivate them
to identify feedback that was not understood but used. The last two
questions are oriented to the feedback that was used but not mentioned
in students’ responses to the first question. SRIs were conducted in
students’ mother tongue (Mandarin Chinese) according to the partici-
pants’ request. They believed that using Chinese would make it easier
to get more helpful suggestions from the researcher.
Findings
Learners’ use of peer and teacher feedback
Table 18.1 shows that students incorporated more teacher feedback
than peer feedback: 74% (SD ⫽ 12.35) versus 46% (SD ⫽ 3.41).
In an obvious contrast to teacher feedback, less than half of peer feed-
back was integrated in learners’ revised drafts. Since peer and teacher
feedback was provided on the same assignments, a paired-sample t-test
was employed to investigate whether or not the amount of peer
and teacher feedback that was used was significantly different. Peer
250 H. Zhao
feedback was assigned a value of 1 and teacher feedback was assigned
a value of 2.
We can see in Table 18.2 that the difference in the mean of integrated peer
and teacher feedback instances in learners’ revisions is statistically signifi-
cant, t(25) ⫽ 5.55, p ⬍ .05 (two-tailed). This means that the difference exists
in most assignments. To be specific, the learners used a mean of 11.57 more
teacher than peer feedback instances when revising their drafts.
The statistical results of the use of peer and teacher feedback indicate
that teacher feedback triggered significantly more revisions in learners’
redrafts than peer feedback did. In this sense, teacher feedback exercised
a significantly greater impact on students’ revised written texts than
peer feedback did in this study. It is not a surprising finding since nearly
all the existing investigations report a less influential role of peer than
teacher feedback in triggering revisions.
Understanding of peer and teacher feedback
A different picture is revealed when learner understanding of feedback
is considered.
Table 18.3 shows that about 83% of the total number of used peer
feedback instances were understood by learners in terms of why they
were provided and how they would help them to improve written texts.
The small SD (2.16) further suggests that the amount of internalized peer
feedback varies little across assignments. By contrast, only 58% (237 out
of 408) of teacher feedback instances were found to be fully understood.
The SD value of 4.63 suggests that most students only understood half
of the teacher feedback that was incorporated in their redrafts.
Table 18.1 Use of peer and teacher feedback
Type of
feedback
Instances provided on
drafts
Instances used in
redrafts
% acted
on
Sum SD Sum SD
PF 232 6.54 107 3.41 46
TF 551 13.02 408 12.35 74
Note: PF ⫽ Peer feedback; TF ⫽ Teacher feedback.
Table 18.2 Paired t-test on use of peer and teacher feedback
Mean SD SE t df p
Peer feedback – Teacher
feedback
⫺11.57 10.64 2.09 5.55 25 .000
Peer Feedback or Teacher Feedback 251
Based on the SRI results of learners’ understanding of peer and teacher
feedback in this study, peer feedback seems to have led to more suc-
cessful language acquisition than teacher feedback in this study. In this
case, peer feedback is more valuable for the development of learners’
long-term EFL writing proficiency according to this study than teacher
feedback, even though it was less frequently used by learners when deal-
ing with their drafts.
Summary and discussion
In this study, the examination of learners’ revision behaviors in response
to peer and teacher feedback indicates that teacher feedback triggered
more changes in learners’ next drafts than did peer feedback (74% versus
46%.) Nevertheless, the investigation of learners’ understanding of peer
and teacher feedback via SRIs reveals that the students internalized peer
feedback more successfully (83% as for peer feedback compared with
58% as for teacher feedback).
This study thus substantiates the value of peer feedback for Chinese EFL
learners who possess a long-term, teacher-driven, and examination-oriented
learning experience. This is because peer feedback assisted students in
revising their writing texts as well as developing their writing proficiency.
In addition, the findings that the learners use more teacher feedback than
peer feedback in redrafts but understand more peer feedback than teacher
feedback can be explained partially by sociocultural theory. First of all, dif-
ferent types of social regulation (such as peer and teacher feedback) will
contribute to different developmental levels of EFL writing proficiency.
Secondly, we would expect peer feedback to be more easily comprehensible
to students than teacher feedback. Thirdly, one would expect some teacher
feedback to be beyond the students’ ZPDs, i.e. beyond the developmental
level of the students at the time of correction, and thus not understandable
without further intervention and instruction. Here then is where we need
to get students to ask for further explanation so that they may learn more
and internalize more for future use.
Table 18.3 Understanding of peer and teacher feedback
Type of
feedback
Instances that
were used
Instances that
were understood
% of understood
feedback
Sum SD Sum SD
PF 107 3.41 89 2.16 83
TF 408 12.35 237 4.63 58
252 H. Zhao
Learners using feedback without understanding it implies that using
that feedback does not necessarily equate to acquisition of language
knowledge from that feedback. This echoes Hyland’s (1998) and Goldstein’s
(2006) assertion that learners at times utilize feedback without a full under-
standing of its necessity for their writing. Writing teachers need to remind
learners of the importance of using feedback with understanding and to
create chances for learners to discuss feedback with teachers or peers before
putting it to use. It also shows the importance of taking into consideration
learners’ understanding of feedback when considering the effectiveness of
peer and teacher feedback for developing EFL learners’ writing proficiency,
and especially when making decisions as to whether or not to use peer
feedback in EFL writing classes. In this study and the other empirical
studies discussed here, if the value of peer and teacher feedback for
Chinese EFL learners’ writing is judged by counting the revisions trig-
gered by peer and teacher feedback, teacher feedback appears to be more
effective, assuming all peer and teacher feedback instances are valid.
However, if learner understanding of feedback is used to suggest the
value of peer and teacher feedback, as was considered in this study, the
former is more effective because the reasons for the suggested revisions
are more successfully understood.
Despite the small sample size, the current study substantiates that
peer feedback could facilitate university EFL learners in China or other
similar educational contexts improving their writing quality as well as
developing their writing proficiency. It also underlines that learner usage
and understanding of peer and teacher feedback should be viewed as
two at least equally essential factors to consider when deciding whether
or not to integrate peer feedback into an EFL writing class alongside
teacher feedback. This study may also serve as a stepping-stone for writ-
ing instructors and researchers to explore the value of peer feedback
for developing ESL/EFL learner writing proficiency in terms of learner
understanding of peer feedback.
Note
1. Refer to the Ministry of Education of China (2007) Teaching Requirements
for College English Curriculum: www.moe.edu.cn/edoas/website18/level3.
jsp?tablename⫽1192&infoid⫽34295 (retrieved in August 2006).
19
Assessing EFL Writing: Meaningful
Innovations through SFL
Toshio Hisaoka
Introduction
The need for clear assessment criteria for learners has been widely
recognized in English language education in Japan (Nekoda, Nekoda, &
Miura, 2004). This issue is particularly critical for Japanese EFL writing
instruction, which, previously dominated by a focus on sentence-level
translation, is shifting towards beyond-the-sentence-level writing for com-
munication, commonly called “free composition” in Japan (Yamanishi,
2005). However the spread of free composition has been met with growing
concern amongst teachers and confusion amongst learners. A nation-wide
survey by the National Institute for Educational Policy Research clearly
shows that in Japanese EFL writing classrooms, teachers face considerable
difficulty teaching free composition, with painfully little progress being
made in their students’ writing (National Institute for Educational Policy
Research, 2007). One of the causes is a lack of clear criteria for assessing
Japanese EFL learners’ written language.
As Kato, Katsuzawa, Shimazu, and Morishita (2006) maintain, numerous
attempts have been made to establish assessment criteria for Japanese
EFL learners. This chapter argues that such goal-setting attempts have
suffered from two key problems: the absence of clear language criteria and
the failure to recognize the separation of language and meaning. In order
to address the first problem, this chapter critically reviews attempts to
set developmental goals for EFL writers in Japan. The second problem is
addressed in a discussion about written language assessment in Japanese
EFL classrooms and research. Finally the chapter adopts the theoretical
perspectives of Systemic Functional Linguistics (SFL) to explore possi-
bilities for clarifying assessment criteria for Japanese EFL learners’ written
language.
253
254 T. Hisaoka
Writing goals specified for Japanese EFL learners
The current Course of Study guidelines of the Japanese Ministry of
Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology (MEXT) state the
objectives for learners in vague and broad terms: “...to write about their
thoughts, etc. in simple English” (MEXT, 2003b); “to write with due atten-
tion to the structure and development of passages” (MEXT, 2003c) [emphasis
added]. Such ambiguous goal descriptions have been carried over to
the recently announced new guidelines (MEXT, 2008b, 2009). In order
to set clearer achievement goals, MEXT once issued the Action Plan to
Cultivate Japanese with English Abilities (MEXT, 2003a). It was their first
official benchmarking of target proficiencies for Japanese EFL learners
against standard proficiency tests such as EIKEN,1
TOEIC, and TOEFL
(Cornwell, Simon-Maeda, & Churchill, 2007). For instance, the second
or pre-second EIKEN grade is for senior high school graduates and the
third level for junior high school graduates (MEXT, 2003a). However,
one of the main problems in defining achievement goals based on
standardized proficiency tests is that their grades/levels or test scores do
not detail the actual language use of learners (Negishi, 2001).
In an attempt to arrive at clearer assessment criteria, a number of empiri-
cal studies, referred to as “Can-do studies,” have been conducted. These
efforts originally attempted to relate scores of standardized proficiency
texts to testees’ real-life competence in English and to make empirically
sound predictions concerning their performance outside the scope of the
specific test (Negishi, 2001). As Tanaka (2008) and Naganuma (2008) point
out, these studies have also been influenced by the Common European
Framework of Reference for Languages (Council of Europe, 2001).
Following this model, more and more Can-do statements are being
developed at all levels of Japanese EFL education (Naganuma, 2008). For
instance, the EIKEN Can-do List (Society for Testing English Proficiency,
2006) is having a far-reaching effect on Japanese EFL education (see
Table 19.1). As Negishi (2001) argues, EIKEN’s seemingly concrete descrip-
tions of what learners can write in English at different proficiency levels
are supposed to specify developmental processes of writing ability. The
list has also been frequently referred to as a framework to define achieve-
ment and assessment criteria at school and a variety of local Can-do
statements have been developed at university (Naganuma & Miyajuma,
2006) and at the senior and junior high school level (Naganuma, 2008).
These Can-do studies are not without problems. One problem is that
they are not based on learners’ real language use. Negishi (2001) con-
tends that the self-rating-questionnaire-based Can-do statements are
only a reflection of learners’ beliefs about their English language ability
Assessing EFL Writing: Innovations through SFL 255
and do not reflect actual productive ability. Another important problem
is the language criteria for fulfillment of a task. Tanaka (2008) argues
that Can-do studies have only dealt with the functionality of learners’
ability to handle a task and ignored their use of language. Descriptions of
a school trip, one of the tasks listed in Table 19.1 above, for instance, can
be written by learners of different proficiency using different language
resources. However, few criteria to assess those differences in language use
have been defined in Can-do studies. They fail to define the appropri-
ate language required to achieve a task.
In conclusion, goal-setting attempts in Japan have not yet specified clear
language criteria for assessing Japanese EFL learners’ written language.
Furthermore, when we consider the way in which Japanese learners’ free
compositions have been assessed until now, another problem emerges:
the separation of language and meaning.
Assessment of Japanese EFL learners’ written language
There are two popular assessment methods for Japanese EFL learners’ free
compositions; analytic ratings and objective language measurements.
Analytic ratings see writing ability as consisting of sub-abilities and assess
each of them separately. For instance, the English Composition Profile
(Jacobs, Zinkgraf, Wormuth, Hartfield, & Hughey, 1981), a popular analytic
rating scheme in Japanese EFL writing research (Yamanishi, 2005), distin-
guishes five assessment categories: content, organization, vocabulary,
language use, and mechanics. It is assumed that such separate assessment
can not only attain a high level of reliability (Yamanishi, 2004) but also
yield a detailed picture of one’s writing ability with each assessment
category independently showing which sub-ability is advanced or remains
to be developed (Yamanishi, 2004). However the English Composition
Profile, for instance, requires assessors to distinguish between what writers
Table 19.1 EIKEN Can-do list for writing (grade 2) (Society for Testing English
Proficiency, 2006)
Writing
Can write texts of some length about topics from everyday life.
Can describe the details of memorable experiences (e.g., school events, trips).
Can write a simple description introducing his/her own school or workplace.
Can write a simple description introducing the area in which he/she lives.
Can describe his/her impressions of books he/she has read or films he/she has
seen.
Can write letters and emails of some length (e.g., describing recent news
and events to a homestay host family or friend).
256 T. Hisaoka
write (vocabulary, language use, and mechanics) and what they mean
(content and organization). Such a way of assessing separate writing sub-
categories can lead to an assumption that linguistic competence is fully
independent of semantic competence.
The separation of language and meaning becomes more rigid with
language assessment categories which adopt more objective language
measurements. As Ishikawa (1995) explains, the total number or frequency
of given linguistic items is often adopted as an indication of the
fluency, accuracy, and complexity of learners’ written language. However,
simply showing an increase or decrease in such numerical data ignore
the meanings achieved by producing particular linguistic resources and
obscures the dynamic relations between language and meaning.
At the heart of language education is the concept of communicative
competence (Tanaka, 2008). Therefore the separation of language and
meaning in the assessment of Japanese EFL learners’ written language may
have its roots in Japanese EFL education’s interpretation of communica-
tive competence. As Tanaka (2008) argues, the most popular definition
of communicative competence in Japan classifies competence into sub-
competences – usually grammatical, discourse, sociolinguistic, and
strategic (Canale & Swain, 1980). The taxonomic view of communica-
tive competence can also found in the Common European Framework of
Reference (CEFR; Council of Europe, 2001; see Figure 19.1), which, as
mentioned above, has been extremely influential in recent Japanese EFL
teaching and research (Tanaka, 2008). The problem with the categorical
conception of language ability, as Tanaka (2008) argues, is that there can
be a risk of assuming that these sub-competences exist independently
of each other. As Figure 19.1 shows, for instance, the CEFR distinguishes
lexical and grammatical competences from semantic competence.
Although the CEFR acknowledges the interwoven relationships between
forms and meanings (Council of Europe, 2001), its categorical concep-
tion of language ability can induce an erroneous assumption that the
ability to use linguistic forms and the ability to make meaning are
independent entities. When it comes to assessing learners’ written texts,
such an assumption is likely to lead to separate assessment of their use
of language and the meaning they express irrespective of each other, as
with the analytical rating schemes discussed above.
The lack of clear linguistic criteria for assessing writing and the theo-
retical separation of language and meaning have exerted an adverse
influence on methods for assessing Japanese EFL learners’ free composi-
tions. The all-prevailing criteria for written language assessment is
that meaning should be logical and language should be well-formed.
Assessing EFL Writing: Innovations through SFL 257
With meaning separated from language, however, there seems little
agreement on how language works to realize a logical structure in a text.
There is a generally accepted physical text structure of Introduction–
Middle/Body–Conclusion, which does not clarify how each part of the
text contributes to text logicality (Painter, 2001). As a result, the assess-
ment of text logicality, as the survey by Yamanishi (2004) suggests, may be
based on raters’ personal opinions or impressions. On the other hand, the
absence of clear language assessment criteria will lead to vague descriptions,
only stating to what extent certain linguistic items are used in learners’
texts, as in analytic rating schemes: “few errors,” “several errors,” “frequent
errors,” and “dominated by errors” (Jacobs, et al., 1981: 30). Language is
also often assessed separately according to its fluency, accuracy, and com-
plexity in terms of the number or frequency of particular linguistic items
without clearly stating what meaning the use of those forms enables the
learner to create. Another measure sometimes adopted is to point out
every grammatical mistake. The result of this approach is likely to be,
Figure 19.1 Taxonomical view of communicative competence (Council of
Europe, 2001)
Communicative language competence
Linguistic competence
Linguistic markers
of social relations
Politeness
conventions
Expressions of
folk wisdom
Register
differences
Dialect and accent
Sociolinguistic competence Pragmatic competence
Discourse
competence
Lexical
competence
Grammatical
competence
Semantic
competence
Phonological
competence
Orthographic
competence
Orthoepic
competence
Functional
competence
258 T. Hisaoka
as Schleppegrell (2006) argues, that learner language is judged to be
inferior and what they have become able to write in English fails to
receive recognition.
An alternative linguistic theory
An alternative linguistic theory which can be adopted to help overcome
the lack of language criteria and the language-and-meaning separation,
is found in SFL. This theory recognizes language as the basis for mak-
ing meaning and clearly accounts for dynamic relationships between
language and meaning (see Figure 19.2).
Meanings in SFL are of three types: “what’s going on, including
who’s doing what to whom, where, when, why and how and the
logical relation of one going-on to another” (ideational meaning);
“how people are interacting, including the feelings they try to
share” (interpersonal meaning); “the ways in which ideational and
interpersonal meanings are distributed in [a text]” (textual meaning)
(Martin & Rose, 2008: 24). Each of the meanings is simultaneously
realized through a variety of combinations of words and grammatical
resources, each of which SFL identifies as a system and clearly theorizes
which language system is responsible for which type of meaning
(Eggins, 2004; Martin, 2001). From a SFL perspective, language is
made up of a set of systems, each of which is a set of linguistic
options, and together they can provide unlimited choices for making
meanings (Bloor & Bloor, 2004).
Figure 19.2 Language and context (based on Martin, 2009)
Context of
culture
Register Context of
situation
Tenor Mode Field
Interpersonal
meaning
Mood choices,
Modality choices
e.g. e.g. e.g.
Textual
meaning
Ideational
meaning
Language
Theme and rheme
patterns,
Cohesive devices
Choices of verb,
Patterns of
clause
combination
Genre
Assessing EFL Writing: Innovations through SFL 259
Unlimited linguistic choices, however, are not equal to unlimited
language use in practice. SFL not only admits inexhaustible choices of
linguistic resources available to the speaker/writer for making meaning
but also recognizes that their choices are restricted by the context where
they use language. Any immediate context of language use, or context
of situation, embodies a certain contextual meaning appropriate to the
situation, or register, which is a configuration of three dimensions: field
is concerned with the subject matter, what is being spoken or written
about; tenor deals with the relationship between the speaker/writer and
the addressee; mode is the channel of language use, for example, spoken
or written (Painter, 2001). Field, tenor, and mode respectively determine
context-appropriate ideational, interpersonal and textual meanings to
be realized through linguistic choices and result in facilitating or impeding
certain language use.
Suppose, for example, a student is writing a formal letter of invitation to
his/her teacher for an alumni event. The tenor of the context, which is the
relationship between the student and the teacher, will require the student
to make certain linguistic choices in expressing appropriate interpersonal
meanings. One possible choice would be made in mood, which SFL
theorizes as responsible for speech functions (Eggins, 2004). The student
would not directly demand action from the teacher by adopting an imper-
ative such as Come to the class reunion. This mood choice would express
an informal and inappropriate tenor for this context, more suitable for a
relationship between friends. Instead the student could indirectly request
the same action by choosing a declarative such as I’m hoping you will come
to the class reunion. In this way a particular choice of register variable
activates that corresponding meaning, which simultaneously determines
the appropriate choices of language resource the writer can make.
Furthermore, SFL argues that language is also used to function in a
given society (Martin, 2001). Take the same formal invitation letter, for
example. When the student writes such a letter, the student not only
talks about the class reunion (field–ideational meaning), addresses the
teacher appropriately (tenor–interpersonal meaning), and uses written
rather than spoken language (mode–textual meaning). The letter must
achieve its purpose in the given social context. If the student wrote one
in Japanese, for instance, the letter would achieve its purpose only if it
started with small talk about the weather, asked after the teacher’s well-
being and reported on his/her own, extended the invitation, and closed
the letter wishing the teacher good health. These stages in a letter are
specific to Japanese culture and would look odd if set out in the same way
in English. Different stages of a letter can be found in different cultures.
260 T. Hisaoka
Such socioculturally bounded language activities are conceptualized in
SFL as genre in the context of culture (see Figure 19.2). Genre is defined
as “a staged, goal-oriented purposeful activity in which speakers [and
writers] engage as members of our [their] culture” (Martin, 2001: 155).
A genre develops because it has functioned successfully in a specific
culture and its social institutions (Martin, 2001). To be functional, any genre
must fulfill a social purpose, and to fulfill the purpose a genre must follow
a number of specific stages (Painter, 2001). Such socioculturally established
discourse structures have been empirically identified in SFL studies as
schematic structures (see Table 19.2). When a certain written text achieves
its purpose, it embodies its specific schematic structure, whose individual
stages perform their own roles with language.
Application of SFL to assessing the writing of Japanese
EFL learners
This section illustrates how SFL theories could work in practice, and
highlights the difference between assessment from an SFL perspective
Table 19.2 Examples of schematic structure (adapted from Macken-Horarik,
2001: 21–2)
Genre Social purpose Schematic
structure
Description of stages
Recount Retells events
for the purpose
of informing or
entertaining.
Orientation^ Provides information
about the situation
(people, place, time).
Record of
events^
Presents events in
temporal sequence order
of time with personal
opinions.
(Reorientation) Sums up the events and
brings back to present.
Exposition Argues for a
particular point
of view on an
issue.
Thesis^ Introduces the writer’s
viewpoint on the topic.
Argumentsn
^ Provides the writer’s
views in order of his/her
preference.
Reiteration Returns to the writer’s
position and concludes.
Note: ^ ⫽ is followed by; ( ) ⫽ optional; n
⫽ stage may recur.
Assessing EFL Writing: Innovations through SFL 261
and conventional written language assessment in Japan by assessing
an expository text written by a Japanese EFL learner at university2
(see
Appendix 19.1) adopting the two different approaches.
It is likely that in a traditional writing class in Japan all the grammati-
cal mistakes in the text would be corrected. Different treatments may
sometimes be applied depending on the type of error. One generally
established error treatment would be to give global errors priority over
local errors (Kudo, 2009). Errors in the text with articles, prepositions,
subject–verb agreement, and spelling may be regarded as local errors
and the text may be rated high in that it has few global errors, defined
as those which cause serious communication breakdowns. As Kudo
(2009) points out, however, the distinction between the two types of
error can be arbitrary. Certain errors may or may not be picked out
depending on the assessors’ subjective judgment of the seriousness of
the error. Besides whether all or only some mistakes are corrected, the
focus would always be on grammatically incorrect elements and little
attention would be paid to grammatically correct ones.
The text’s fluency, accuracy, and complexity could be measured
numerically (see Table 19.3). The numbers will leave no room for
the subjectivity of the assessor. However, these numbers fail to show
what the writer means with the language he/she used in the text,
and whether the text achieves its purpose. It is likely that the writer
would be told to write more words without specifying the functions
the added words should fulfill, and to make as many subordinations as
possible with little attention to their possible effect on the meanings of
the text.
Without specific meanings the writer should make in each step of
constructing the text, the text organization would be assessed against
the universal text structure: Introduction-Main Body-Conclusion. As
Painter (2001) points out, the three-part text structure only shows the
text’s physical construction without identifying the functions that
language achieves in each part. The result may be that the logicality of
Table 19.3 Objective measurements of the text (adapted from Wolfe-Quintero,
Inagaki, & Kim, 1998)
Fluency Accuracy Complexity
The average number of
words per T-unit
The ratio of error-free
T-units to the total
number of T-units
The number of clauses
per T-unit
6.7 words 31.0 % 1.2
262 T. Hisaoka
the argument is rated based on a teacher’s subjective judgment about
whether it follows what he/she thinks is common logic or whether the
writer included his/her own opinion (Yamanishi, 2004).
Let us now assess the same expository text from an SFL perspective.
Firstly, SFL can provide the logical structure of a text, or its genre.
In order to fulfill its purpose, the text must build the schematic struc-
ture for an exposition: statement of position ^ (preview of argument) ^
argumentn [point ^ elaboration] ^ reinforcement of position state-
ment (Board of Studies NSW, 1998). Only when it has this schematic
structure can the text be judged to be logical. The assessment of the
text (see Table 19.4) shows it has problems with two parts of the
functional structure of an exposition: the points of the arguments.
The first argument starts into elaboration with examples without
stating its point. The second argument has a point statement, which
could benefit from revision to specify the influence the mass media
can have in preventing or inducing crimes. It is possible that revision
of these two parts would express the writer’s intended meaning more
logically
Secondly, SFL can supply clear language criteria for making appropriate
meanings in a text. In assessing ideational meaning choices, for instance,
Table 19.4 Assessment of the genre of the text
Statement of position I disagree this opinion.
Preview of argument Because I have two my opinions. Topics are
school and mathmedia.
Argument 1 Point (missing)
Elaboration One, when you go to school,
teacher said “you should
study more, so you can go
to excellent university.” ...
Result of children hurt their
parents or teacher or other
people.
Argument 2 Point And more, mathmedia have big
influences!
Elaboration Because, these days, mathmedia
have many quiz
programs. ... If they can’t do,
children hurt someone.
Reinforcement of
position statement
So, I disagree this opinion.
Assessing EFL Writing: Innovations through SFL 263
clause structures can be analyzed. SFL argues that written language is
different from spoken language in the way of logical representation of
what is talked about in a text. While the former condenses information
into single-clause structures with embedded clauses and nominaliza-
tion (Colombi, 2002), the latter realizes one event in one clause and
expresses relationships between them with conjunctions (Martin,
1985). As Extract 19.1 shows, the writer connects clauses with conjunc-
tions and also continues several clauses, which is a way of realizing
logical relations between events in spoken language. This creates an
inappropriate field of context for the piece.
…So, students think that good at study is all I need! I’m not good at
study, so I’m bad. Gradually, children doesn’t like study and doesn’t
go to school, stay at home lonely, children resist their parents and
doesn’t like communication...
Extract 19.1 Ideational meaning choices: clause structures
In assessing the interpersonal meaning choices, modality choices can
be analyzed. Modality is a means to argue for writer positions about
their messages (Eggins, 2004). The tenor of the text requires the writer
to distance him/herself from his/her point of view in order to be an
authoritative information provider, which can be realized through low
and objective choices of modality (Knapp & Watkins, 1994). The text
has a few instances of modal finites (auxiliary verbs): must, should, have
to. They are high and subjective choices of modality (Eggins, 2004). The
rest of the text is written without modality choices; e.g., children hurt
their parents or teacher or other people. The “no modality” choices and
“high and subjective” ones make the writer clearly express his/her atti-
tude or judgment. This creates an inappropriate tenor for the context
of this written exposition.
In assessing the textual meaning choices, the Theme3
choice can
be analyzed. One feature of the written mode is the zigzag pattern of
Thematic progression, where an element in the Rheme in the previous
clause is taken as the Theme in the next (Eggins, 2004). This makes a
text cohesive with cumulative development of argument. Extract 19.2
shows the writer successively builds his/her argument in the zigzag pat-
tern, which makes his/her argument advance successfully. This activates
an appropriate context for this written exposition.
264 T. Hisaoka
SFL theories can assess the functionality of expository writing according
to appropriate purpose fulfillment and the linguistic choices for mak-
ing meaning in the text. This meaning-based assessment of language is
significantly different from conventional text assessment. Firstly, the
SFL text assessment is not simply based on grammaticality. Exclusive
attention to grammaticality can ignore grammatical linguistic resources
which in fact make inappropriate meanings in a text (Schleppegrell,
2006). Such seemingly correct language choices can be detected in assess-
ment from an SFL perspective, which judges language resources against
the meanings they make and the functionality their meanings achieve.
As an ideational meaning choice, for instance, there would be nothing
grammatically wrong with writing clauses connected with conjunctions.
This way of realizing the world in a text, however, can be assessed as
expressing inappropriate logical meanings for the written exposition. In
contrast, the assessment of the writer’s textual meaning choice showed
his/her success in advancing the written argument in the mode through
zigzag progressions. SFL can shed light on what meaning the writer learned
to make in written English that conventional assessment fails to recognize.
Secondly, SFL text assessment is based on systematic linguistic evidence.
As an interpersonal meaning choice, the writer could have adopted a low
modal finite auxiliary verb to distance him/herself from his/her own view-
point as follows: Children could hurt their parents or teacher or other people.
The clear linguistic criteria of SFL for making appropriate meanings in
expository writing can make it possible to show the writer what language
resources are required to make the text conform to written standards.
Thirdly, SFL text assessment has a theoretical assessment framework of
Extract 19.2 Textual meaning choices: Zig-Zag Pattern
Because, these days, mathmedia have many quiz programs.
Its cast must graduate famous university.
They have high grade.
Of course, to know many things is very good and important.
Assessing EFL Writing: Innovations through SFL 265
the logical structure of a text: genre. The expository writing was assessed
against its schematic structure, or whether language is used to perform
the required function in each of the stages and those stages are ordered
to achieve the purpose of expository writing. Such an approach is dramati-
cally different from the subjective and impressionistic judgments about
meaningfulness and logicality in conventional assessment methods
adopted in Japan.
Conclusion
This chapter has argued that current methods of assessing Japanese
EFL learners’ written language lack clear language criteria and create a
separation between language and meaning. Furthermore, the chapter has
claimed these two assessment defects can be eliminated by adopting SFL
as an alternative linguistic theory. The adoption of SFL is still in its infancy
in the Japanese EFL context, where there have been a limited number of
studies of SFL theories and their implementations in Japanese classrooms
(Sasaki, 2008). It is important to note that there have been reservations
voiced about adopting SFL in language teaching, one of which is con-
cerned with the “technicality” of SFL. SFL is a rather complex theory of
language and its concepts and its terminology make it hard to absorb even
for native English-speaking teachers (Hyland, 2002). However I believe
this is a challenge worth undertaking. SFL’s clear language criteria and
systematic relation between language and meaning will provide teachers
with a reliable basis for assessing student compositions. This chapter
concludes that SFL has great potential for identifying helpful assessment
criteria to apply to Japanese learners’ written language.
Appendix 19.1 Expository text written by a Japanese EFL
university student
I disagree this opinion. Because I have two my opinions. Topics are
school and mathmedia.
One, when you go to school, teacher said “you should study more, so
you can go to excellent university.” So, students think that good at study
is all I need! I’m not good at study, so I’m bad. Gradually, children doesn’t
like study and doesn’t go to school, stay at home lonely, children resist
their parents and doesn’t like communication. Result of children hurt their
parents or teacher or other people.
And more, mathmedia have big influences! Because, these days,
mathmedia have many quiz programs. Its cast must graduate famous
266 T. Hisaoka
university. They have high grade. Of course, to know many things is
very good and important. To think many things is very difficult. Human
beings have to study all day. But, it is not all! Other things is also very
important. Parents often said “famous university lead to good life” In
way of, it is true, But, children have own right to choose life. So, par-
ents should recognize their children all. If they can’t do, children hurt
someone. So, I disagree this opinion.
Acknowledgment
Toshio Hisaoka is a recipient of the Sir Neil Currie Australian Studies
Awards Program provided by the Australia-Japan Foundation which is
part of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.
Notes
1. EIKEN is Japan’s leading language assessment backed by MEXT, with 2.5 million
examinees annually at about 18,000 test sites. It has seven grades: grade 1,
pre-1, 2, pre-2, 3, 4, and 5.
2. The text was written to respond to the writing prompt: Do you agree or
disagree with this statement? Society is doing enough to deal with violent
crime. The learner originally wrote it in pencil on a sheet of paper, which was
reproduced here by the author keeping the original wording of the learner.
3. Theme is the element in the first position of the clause and bears familiar,
or given, information, while Rheme is the rest of the clause loaded with
unfamiliar, or new, information (Eggins, 2004: 299). In Extract 19.2, “many
quiz program[s]” in the Rheme of the first clause is taken up as part of the
Theme of the second clause (“its [their] cast”). Likewise “have high grade[s]”
in the Rheme of the third clause is rephrased and works as the Theme of the
fourth clause (“to know many things”).
20
Epilogue: Description and
Evaluation of the Process of
Creating this Book
Theron Muller and John Adamson
Introduction
The theme of this book has been empowering the voices of teacher-
researchers in Asia to help them to better define for themselves what
teaching and working in this diverse geographical area means. While the
contributions may have demonstrated more diversity throughout Asia
than commonality within and between contexts, perhaps this picture
of variation among students, teachers, local classrooms, and national
contexts is more illustrative of the reality of the Asian context (and
likely other contexts) than is implied by Hofstede’s (1980) quantitative
separation of nationalities according to different cultural attributes.
This sharing of the diversity of Asia hopefully included some com-
monalities between readers’ contexts and the contexts of the authors.
Our hope is that the conversation doesn’t end with this book and
that our readers continue to explore the themes investigated here in
their own contexts. But particularly since this book presents its content
in a final, polished form and readers don’t have access to the multiple
drafts papers went through during editing, we feel we have one more
task to accomplish before inviting readers to respond to the stories
conveyed here. To ensure you have access to the tools necessary to
disseminate your own ideas and research, we felt it necessary to include
this final chapter detailing how this book project came to fruition. Our
intention is for our experience to inform and inspire other grassroots
projects of regional significance to language education. Thus in the
following pages we share our experience of preparing this book, to
encourage similar “off-network” (Swales, 1987:43) scholars to plan,
organize, and execute new projects of local or regional importance to
language teaching.
267
268 T. Muller & J. Adamson
We first explain how we organized and scheduled the call for papers
and subsequent screening of abstracts, then describe some of the systems
put in place to encourage collaboration among members of the project.
Next we discuss the results of a questionnaire that was emailed to con-
tributors regarding their impressions of the project, including discussion
of their current place in the field, the relative success of the efforts to
facilitate collaboration, and the motivations for contributing to this
project. Finally, we assess the effectiveness of the approach used for
organizing this project and conclude with advice for others considering
organizing an edited book project of their own.
This chapter is loosely structured after and inspired by Edwards’
(2005) epilogue chapter in Teachers Exploring Tasks, where she shared
the impressions and experiences of contributors to that book in order
to paint a picture of the challenges and rewards inherent in conducting
classroom research.
Concept to call
This book project was initiated between Steven Herder and Theron
Muller in late 2008. Between the two of us we negotiated a call for
papers to be distributed through a number of different venues with the
intention of soliciting a broad range of abstracts related to the theme of
our project. While the original call is too long to reproduce here, at the
time of writing it is available for download from the Journal of Second
Language Writing online forums (Herder, 2008). The timeline used for
the call is reproduced in Table 20.1.
Table 20.1 Timeline for call for papers to Innovating EFL Teaching in Asia
Project stage Due date Duration
Solicitation of abstracts Starting December 2008 About 1 month to
distribute call
Abstract submissions End of February 2009 3 months for receiving
abstract submissions
Screening of submitted
abstracts
End of March 2009 1 month for vetting
Completed articles for
editing
End of November 2009 8 months for writing
Edited articles for
submission to
publisher
Original: End of
December 2009
Final: End of
January 2010
2 months for final edits
3 months were required
in the end
Epilogue: The Process of Creating this Book 269
In our experience the concept of the project was unique, as it is focused
around a geographical area and includes a broad variety of specialties
within EFL. Because of this uniqueness, we intentionally provided extra
time for submission of completed chapters to allow authors to conduct
new research. The list of publications we used to distribute the call is
included in Appendix 20.1. We also contacted a number of colleagues
privately to encourage them to submit abstracts and to distribute the
call for abstracts to their colleagues.
Screening, organizing, and editing
We were surprised at the positive response our call for papers engendered;
distribution of the call resulted in 56 abstracts submitted by 54 authors
from 12 countries, with 30 of the abstracts submitted from Japan-based
authors. Realizing that the scope of the project would be too great for two
editors, we invited John Adamson, Philip Shigeo Brown, and Mark de Boer
onto the project to help screen abstracts and edit papers. The abstracts
were uploaded to a private online forum where the five editors were able
to comment on the abstracts received, which resulted in an average of 4.8
posts per paper discussing and evaluating the abstracts. In six cases addi-
tional information and clarification were requested from authors, and in
all cases the clarification request included asking for additional references
to help situate the research in the context of existing literature. Using the
forum and a Google document summary of all of the submissions, we
selected 20 papers for inclusion in the volume based on evaluations of
the submitted abstracts and additional criteria outlined below.
In selecting contributions for the volume, we wanted to ensure that as
many countries as possible would be represented in the final book, which
meant rejecting a large number of well-written Japan-based abstracts.
A second consideration was the amount of space available for the final
publication. As this was an unsolicited book proposal (we didn’t have
the backing of a publisher to produce the book during the abstract
selection or writing stages), we needed to ensure the final length of the
book would be attractive to publishers. Based on previous experience,
we set a goal of 100,000 words for the final proposal, with a total of up
to 20 chapters of either 3,000 or 5,000 words in length. Once abstracts
had been narrowed down from the initial 56 to 32 potentially accept-
able abstracts, based on the contents of those short-listed abstracts, we
divided the book thematically into the Parts it is presented in now,
covering the Asian context, narrative stories, methodology, young
learners, and the teaching of writing. Deciding on the themes of the
270 T. Muller & J. Adamson
different Parts of the book based on the abstracts received gave us
some flexibility in including submissions which we hadn’t necessarily
expected to receive – one such example is Part D on young learners; we
hadn’t anticipated any submissions on this topic at the beginning of the
project but felt the abstracts we received on this topic were compelling
and that it was important to have this aspect of Asian EFL represented
in this book. At this time we also assigned an editor to oversee editing
of each of the Parts, finalizing the abstract screening process.
In the next stage of the project, the accepted abstracts were uploaded
to a different website with forum-like capabilities, and authors were
encouraged to use this site to facilitate forming connections between
chapters within the volume.
Editors were encouraged to work independently with their authors on
drafts and revisions of their final contributions leading up to the end of
November 2009, with the option of consulting the lead editor (Theron) in
the case of problems or questions. At the end of November 2009, I (Theron)
met with a major publisher representative at the Japan Association of
Language Teaching’s 2009 Conference to present a project prospectus and
discuss our intention to submit a book proposal. In December 2009 and
January 2010 I gave a final read-through of the completed contributions
and imported them into a submission file to be sent on to the publisher
for review, along with the prospectus and other materials required for
publication consideration. Once the proposal was complete, we sent an
optional questionnaire to the authors of the contributions asking for their
impressions of the writing and editing process, the results of which will be
discussed in detail in the next section.
Author perceptions
The questionnaire we distributed to authors after the proposal was sent to
the publisher had three primary objectives: to verify that we did indeed
capture locally situated Asian-based voices; to evaluate how successful our
efforts toward collaboration were; and to investigate author motivations
toward contributing to this project. Our intention in creating this book
project was to give voice to the perspectives of Asian-based practitioners
who may not necessarily otherwise be heard in the English language
teaching literature, partially in response to criticisms of the “hegemony
of western communities in academic activities” (Canagarajah, 2002: 31).
Thus part of our objective in distributing the questionnaire was to evalu-
ate how successful we were in those efforts. Additionally, we conceived
of this project from the start as a collaborative effort – bringing together
Epilogue: The Process of Creating this Book 271
the voices of practitioners from the Asian context in a coordinated way.
We intended for synchronicities between chapters and Parts to be linked
during writing to present a clear picture of how the different contexts
represented here are similar and dissimilar. To evaluate the degree of
collaboration attained, the questionnaire asked authors about whether
this project was unique in their experience and to what extent they
felt they were able to collaborate with others involved in creating the
book. Finally, the pressure on academics to publish is well documented
(Curry & Lillis, 2004; Flowerdew, 1999), and so we were interested in
better understanding contributor motivations for getting involved in
this project, and whether they felt that their contribution to this book
would change their standing in the field.
The questionnaire was designed to solicit answers dealing with each
of the above topics of interest, and is reproduced in Table 20.2. The
continuum used in question 8 exactly replicates a question asked by
Edwards (2005: 267), and forms the basis for the continua used for
question 7.
Fourteen of the 26 contributors returned the questionnaire, so the
results included below represent a little more than half of the authors
involved in this project, and include the responses of the editors to
the survey questions. While it would have been ideal to have received
responses from all of the authors involved, we feel that the authors
who responded are representative of the general experiences of
contributors to the book. The benefits of using an email questionnaire
over other means of research investigation in the case of a geographi-
cally dispersed group are summarized in detail in Edwards and Owen
(2002), and because of space limitations, won’t be considered in
detail here. Some of the advantages include the fact that question-
naires could be completed asynchronously, were free to deliver via
email, and allowed reporting of respondent voices, as responses were
qualitative in nature. Disadvantages include the risk of reading too
much into the limited data gathered, although this chapter has been
circulated among all of the contributors to this book in an effort
to ensure that respondents’ intended messages have been correctly
interpreted.
The following sections deal with each of the themes of interest in
turn: contributor perceptions of their place in the field, locally and
internationally, and their impression of their role as teaching practi-
tioner or researcher; consideration of how collaborative the project
ultimately was; and finally, contributor motivations for participating in
the project.
272 T. Muller & J. Adamson
1. How was the process of contributing your paper to this book? (In what
ways do you think it was different to other editorial processes?)
2. Did you have to face any issues or difficulties in contributing to this
book project? Please feel free to address issues of time, skills, confidence,
or other issues that come to mind.
3. To what extent do you feel that the process helped you write a better
paper?
A lot Somewhat A little Not so much Not at all
If you would like to comment on your answer, please do so:
4. What can we do to improve this process in the future?
5. What was your motivation for contributing to this project?
6. How is your contribution to this book project relevant to your context?
7. In the literature there is often a continuum from the core of practice to
the periphery. For example, the CEO of a company may be considered
to be at the core of the company, while a part-time holiday worker at
the same company may be considered at the periphery. In terms of EFL
practice, where do you feel you are on this continuum?
7A. In your immediate context
7B. In your extended context (i.e., nationally):
7C. In the profession (i.e., internationally):
Table 20.2 Questionnaire items sent to contributors
You often
have influence
or
responsibility
You
sometimes
have
influence or
responsibility
You
occasionally
have
influence
or
responsibility
You rarely
have
influence
or
responsibility
Periphery
Core
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
You often
have influence
or
responsibility
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
You
sometimes
have
influence or
responsibility
You
occasionally
have
influence
or
responsibility
You rarely
have
influence
or
responsibility
Periphery
Core
You often
have influence
or
responsibility
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
You
sometimes
have
influence or
responsibility
You
occasionally
have
influence
or
responsibility
You rarely
have
influence
or
responsibility
Periphery
Core
(continued)
Epilogue: The Process of Creating this Book 273
8. Similarly, there is a tendency to draw a dichotomy between teachers
and researchers in the literature. Where do you feel you are on this
continuum?
Language
teacher who
sometimes
experiments
in their
classroom
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11
Language
teacher who
sometimes
does some
classroom
research
Language
teacher-
researcher
Researcher
who also
teaches
language
Researcher
Language
teacher
Finally, we are interested in how this book project may influence your
image of yourself as a professional; either internally, how you see yourself;
or externally, how others see you. The next questions probe this topic.
9. Do you feel contributing to this book project may change your place in
the profession?
10. Do you feel contributing to this book project may change the way oth-
ers see you professionally?
11. Please feel free to add any other comments about important issues that
have not been covered in our questions.
Contributor perceptions
Contributor influence and role
This section will deal primarily with responses to questions 7 and 8, about
where contributors placed themselves in terms of influence, in their local,
national, and international contexts and where they felt they were on
a continuum between teacher and researcher. Some contributors voiced
confusion or reservations about how to answer question 7, which is
perhaps unavoidable when asking respondents to represent their
subjective experiences in terms of a number. Yet the results are never-
theless informative, as in their local contexts 11 respondents placed
themselves at between “1” and “5” in terms of influence. In their national
contexts six respondents indicated they had an influence of five, and
four respondents indicated seven. Internationally, only three respondents
indicated an influence of four or five, with the rest of the respondents
reporting seven through 11 in terms of international influence. Thus it
appears we’ve attracted authors who have some say in their local contexts,
less nationally, and appear to feel that their voice has been largely unheard
internationally. While these results may be representative of the majority
of practitioners, they also indicate that we were largely successful in
Table 20.2 Continued
274 T. Muller & J. Adamson
attracting a demographic of authors whose voices may have been margin-
alized in international scholarship previously. As one respondent shared:
...it will be really good to have a book reporting on conditions and issues in
Asia, wholly written by (qualified and competent) people working with those
issues. ELT Conferences and publications in Asia have been dominated by
researchers from outside of the region for too long.
With regard to author placement on a continuum between teacher and
researcher, five respondents placed themselves at “7”, ten between “6”
and “9”, one at “4”, and one at “11”. Thus it appears that the contribu-
tors tend to see themselves as more researcher than teacher, and all but
one of the respondents are still involved in teaching in some capac-
ity. Additionally, the gravitation toward an answer of 7-ish seems to
reinforce Edwards’ (2005) observation that, “For most teachers, 6 or 7
is probably the sort of teaching-research balance they will be happy to
maintain” (p. 267).
Reflections on collaboration
The collaborative process followed during the course of this book
project can, for the sake of convenience, be separated into two parts, use
of the online forum site created for authors and editors and the process
of interaction and collaboration with editors via email.
Collaboration and use of the website
The findings from the questionnaire suggest that their impression of the
MASH forum site was mixed. Some understood its purpose and felt that
their own perspectives had been broadened:
...the process of writing about my work as part of a larger Asian context
helped me look at my work as a piece that fits into an overall context,
rather than as an isolated project. In this way, it made me introspect about
the relevance and contribution of this project to this larger context.
Some common comments referred to the “stimulating” nature of the col-
laboration embedded in the online forum and how it led to “a lot more
involvement and support from editors.” Also, authors reported a “strong
sense of collaboration” and “something special about this project.”
Others, however, were less clear about the purpose of the forum and
the initial technicalities of its use, stating that the editorial process
appeared to be “exciting” at first but then “turned out to be quite the
same as other editorial processes.” Despite these shortcomings, even
Epilogue: The Process of Creating this Book 275
those who were critical of the forum collaboration noted the commit-
ment of the editors and the different nature of the process involved:
...there was a feeling for me that others on the editing team were interested
and wanted the paper to achieve its maximum realization. It was also
significant that the editors were visible and contactable. The whole process
was transparent and non-threatening.
This points to a view of the editor–author relationship as generally
positive. Additionally, the collaboration between authors often took the
form of viewing other authors’ drafts on the forum. This was perceived
as being “valuable” as a potential source of cross-fertilization of ideas.
Apparently, authors relied on the forum to view the work of others, but
not necessarily to comment on it, as one contributor shared:
I enjoyed it. I particularly liked the online forum for comments and being
able to view other writers’ work.
The flow of messages, though, did not take place so much through the
forum itself, but rather in the form of email exchanges between authors
and editors and among authors, which is the topic of the next section.
Collaboration between editors and authors
As indicated previously, the story of collaboration between authors and
editors is more encouraging than the experience of use of the forum
was. As one contributor noted:
It was different as I received useful several rounds of feedback from the
editor as we were working together over a few drafts. This process was
particularly valuable.
Additionally, several contributors noted this is the first book project
they’ve participated in, and so they weren’t able to compare this expe-
rience to any previous experiences. This perhaps points to the issue of
balancing the multiple demands on contributor time. As one person
explained:
Well, to be honest I did not look at the website so much and I feel bad
about that. For me, getting the paper written in addition to working on other
papers and dealing with the responsibilities of work and family were all
that I could handle. I was a bad collaborator because I did not really know
what other people in my group were doing.
276 T. Muller & J. Adamson
There was also some variability between editors, which was reflected
in author comments. Some authors felt they received little support in
the writing of their papers:
Honestly, we did not receive much feedback on our paper until a few weeks
earlier. [i.e. just before submitting TM]
While others felt that the process used for this book was unique in their
experience:
I think that the editing process, with comments from [editors] was
extremely useful.
While it is perhaps inevitable that different editors will take different
stances toward their responsibilities, the suggestions of one respondent
are particularly pertinent for guiding future projects of a similar nature:
Having a clearer time-frame for initial drafts, feedback on drafts, revisions,
re-drafting, second round feedback, and finalizing the paper may help to
break the project down into more manageable chunks.
The suggestion for multiple deadlines and a clearer process for the
handling of drafts was mentioned by several of the respondents.
Related to the above criticism, one common issue for contributors
that appeared to adversely affect their experience of contributing to
this book was time, which was also mentioned as an issue among the
authors Edwards (2005) surveyed. Related to this, one contributor
acknowledged the simultaneous potential inherent in collaborative
technologies and the limitations they present with respect to efficiently
completing the task at hand:
It could be interesting to have contributors interacting by email –
a contributors’ email list. This could help to crystallize the issues and to
confirm similarities and differences in the region. However, there needs to be
a balance of individual and group input and email lists can also be counter-
productive and time-consuming, turning into hot air devoid of content. I was
happy with the process, since it preserved my privacy as well as giving me
opportunities to explore what was going on.
Contributor motivations
Considering the amount of attention that has focused on the pressures
on academics to publish in international, English language journals
Epilogue: The Process of Creating this Book 277
(Flowerdew, 1999; Curry & Lillis; 2004), it’s interesting that only four
contributors explicitly mentioned a desire to publish as part of their moti-
vation for contributing to this project. Other prescient themes included a
desire to share research with the intention of engaging with other research-
ers, to “let more people know about the peculiar education characteristics
in Asia.” As another contributor shared, “The very motivation of mine was
to ask others for their opinions on my study.” Finally, there was a theme of
expanding the scope of the literature. As one contributor put it:
I am interested in contributing to the literature that examines language
teaching in wider contexts than has been the case so far, and this project
seems to follow these aims.
The next section will conclude with some suggestions regarding how
the process could be improved in future projects, summarizing points
that others should keep in mind when considering implementing a
similar project.
Assessment of the system and suggestions for future
improvement
The questionnaire responses indicate that our vision has largely been real-
ized; we’ve included contributors from Asia who have been able to share
information about their local contexts within the pages of this book.
Also, the findings regarding the process of contributing overwhelmingly
praise the intention of the forum-based concept for exchanging ideas.
Compared to other editorial processes for edited book compilations, what
has been attempted has clear implications for publishers and editors.
Collaboration between authors and editors here has required editors to
play a multitude of roles – that of confidant, gatekeeper, mentor, and
facilitator of exchange. That places some pressure on the editors, yet is an
essential form of pressure to exert and expect of them as the core ethos
of the project has been to create a temporary “community of practice”
(Lave & Wenger, 1991) embracing non-hierarchical dialogue and invit-
ing challenges to their authority (i.e., authors could challenge editorial
feedback and suggestions for revisions). Flowerdew (2000) advocates this
stance in editorial processes as it creates a “safe environment” (Davies,
2005: 567) in which less experienced scholars can more freely discuss
multiple drafts without fear of rejection. This leads to co-construction of
content through dialog between editors and authors, and importantly
in this project, between authors too. The various stakeholders in this
278 T. Muller & J. Adamson
process can be seen as playing the role of “literacy brokers” (Lillis & Curry,
2006: 13) around the submitting author, ready to advise, prompt, and
encourage when needed. In findings on editorial perceptions of roles
and responsibilities (Adamson & Muller, 2008), some journal editors do
not feel comfortable in such roles; however, when they are so inclined,
the editorial process creates a healthy “conversation of the discipline”
(Bazerman, 1980: 657), highly conducive to exploration and questioning
of disciplinary writing norms and avoiding the “narrow vocationalism”
(Carter, 1995: 55) typical of Anglophone journals. It also answers Swales’
(1996) calls for a less “occluded” (p. 45) editorial process in which the
“stigma” (Flowerdew, 2008: 79) often felt by “off-networked” scholars
(Swales, 1987: 43; Belcher, 2007: 1) towards academic publishing is
removed. The dialog inherent in the collaboration in this project repre-
sents challenges to stereotypical editorial gate-keeping roles and helps to
reposition academic publishing, albeit on a small scale, to a place where
the research of local scholars in the Asian context is highly valued and
shaped according to locally positioned norms rather than native-speaker
norms of relevance (Canagarajah, 2005: xxvii).
Nevertheless, there are some lessons to be learned from our experience
which are worth disseminating to a wider audience interested in bring-
ing local voices and contexts to the fore in the literature. The first lesson
is for editors and coordinators of projects to stay true to their vision;
early on at the abstract solicitation stage a colleague was kind enough
to contact another major publisher regarding our project, and that pub-
lisher replied that we were welcome to submit a proposal that included
up to 13 chapters, yet we had already determined that we wanted to
include as many voices from Asia as possible, and declined to reshape
our vision of this book to fit that publisher’s requirements. The fact that
you are reading this now hopefully speaks to the wisdom of that deci-
sion, and may be a lesson others can learn from and use as inspiration.
Regarding the inclusion of technology, the private forum used for
vetting abstracts between the five editors had difficulties because of
extremely slow connection speeds, which likely hindered the depth and
quality of the discussion in screening abstracts. Later the website used
to share authors’ chapters was difficult to use for different reasons, as it
didn’t use a format familiar to everyone involved in the project. In both
cases, these difficulties could have been overcome by using a free forum-
hosting software which would have offered sufficient speed and a famil-
iar format for sharing, viewing, and posting comments and drafts.
Finally, our vetting process included only one round of screening at
the beginning, which involved evaluating submitted abstracts. Accepting
Epilogue: The Process of Creating this Book 279
more abstracts and then including a second round of screening of full
chapters would have put less stress on the editorial team as submission
deadlines approached. Unfortunately, three of the abstracts which were
approved for inclusion in the volume weren’t ultimately published, and
it’s likely that authors who had submitted abstracts that were rejected
could have been able to fill those gaps, but unfortunately there wasn’t
enough time remaining, as the final proposal was assembled, to solicit
additional chapters.
To conclude, this project has been an overwhelmingly positive one
for the majority of the contributors, and we hope that it will soon be
only one of many publications celebrating the importance of local,
contextualized research into language learning as others take up our call
to share their voices and perspectives of their experience of practicing
language teaching.
Appendix 20.1 Venues through which the call for abstracts was promoted
Venue Explanation
JALT EBM Mailing list for JALT officers, included
request for officers to pass the call on
to their members.
CELS list Mailing list for University of
Birmingham Centre for English
Language Studies Open Distance
Learning staff and students
The Linguist List Mailing list for linguists, at http://
linguistlist.org/
Asian EFL Journal Online, free-access journal based in
Asia that encourages submissions of
articles with relevance to the teaching
and researching of EFL in Asia at www.
asian-efl-journal.com/
English Language Teaching Contacts
Scheme, East Asia mailing list
Mailing list for teachers based in East
Asia sponsored by the British Council.
More information is available at www.
teachingenglish.org.uk/eltecs
Journal of Second Language Writing
online forum
International journal devoted to the
study of second language writing at
www.jslw.org/jslwonline
British Association of Applied
Linguistics
An association of applied linguists, at
www.baal.org.uk, suggested by John
Adamson.
280
References
Adamson, J. L. (2003). In praise of the unqualified teacher. IATEFL Issues, 71: 9.
Adamson, J. L. (2004). Unpacking teacher beliefs through semi-structured
interviewing: Insights into the interviewing process in context. The Journal of
Language and Learning, 2(2): 114–28.
Adamson, J. L., & Muller, T. (2008). Evolving academic journal editorial systems.
ELTED, 11: 45–51. Retrieved from www.elted.net/issues/volume-11/7%20
Adamson%20&%20Muller.pdf.
AERA. (2008). Shuken zaikai de eigo girai ni shou 3 kara eigo no hamon [The ripple
of “English from grade 3” and the authority of the private sector causing the
disliking of English] (October 13, 2008).
Aljaafreh, A., & Lantolf, J. P. (1994). Negative feedback as regulation and second
language learning in the Zone of Proximal Development. The Modern Language
Journal, 78(4): 465–83.
Anandalakshmy, S. (2007). Activity based learning: A report on an innovative
method in Tamil Nadu. Available from www.ukfiet.org/documents/Paper%20by%
20S.%20Anandalakshmy.pdf
Anderson, N. J. (2008). Metacognition and good language learners. In C. Griffiths
(ed.), Lessons from good language learners (pp. 99–109). Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Aoki, N., & Smith, R.C. (1999). Learner autonomy in cultural context: The
case of Japan. In S. Cotterall & D. Crabbe (eds.), Learner autonomy in language
learning: Defining the field and effecting change (pp. 19–27). Frankfurt am Main:
Peter Lang.
ASER. (2008). Annual status of education report (rural) 2008. Available from
www.asercentre.org.
ASER. (2009). Annual status of education report (rural) 2009. Available from
www.asercentre.org.
Baik, M., & Shim, R. (1995). Language, culture, and ideology in the English text-
books of two Koreas. In M. Tickoo (ed.), Language and culture in multilingual
societies: Viewpoints and visions (pp. 122–38). Singapore: Sherson Publishing
House Pte., Ltd. Pg.
Baker, W. (2008). A critical examination of ELT in Thailand: The role of cultural
awareness. RELC, 39(1): 131–46.
Baker, W. (2009a). Intercultural awareness and intercultural communication
through English: An investigation of Thai English language users in higher
education. Unpublished PhD dissertation, University of Southampton, UK.
Baker, W. (2009b). Language, culture, and identity through English as a lingua
franca in Asia. The Linguistics Journal, Special issue “Language, culture and
identity in Asia.” Retrieved from www.linguistics-journal.com.
Bassano, S. (1986). Helping learners adapt to unfamiliar methods. English Language
Teaching Journal, 40(1): 13–19.
Bazerman, C. (1980). A relationship between reading and writing: The conversa-
tional model. College English, 41: 656–61.
References 281
Belcher, D. (2007). Seeking acceptance in an English-only research world. Journal
of Second Language Writing, 16: 1–22.
Bennett, P. (2006). An evaluation of vocabulary teaching in an intensive study
program. Unpublished MA dissertation, The Centre for English Language
Studies, University of Birmingham, UK. Retrieved from www.cels.bham.ac.uk/
resources/essays/Bennett%20Dissertation.pdf
Benson, P. (1997). The philosophy and politics of learner autonomy. In P. Benson &
P. Voller (eds.), Autonomy and independence in language learning (pp. 18–34).
London: Longman.
Bloor, T., & Bloor, M. (2004). The functional analysis of English: A Hallidayan
approach (2nd edn). London: Hodder Arnold.
Board of Studies NSW. (1998). K-6 English syllabus. Sydney: Board of Studies.
Boston, J. (2008). Learner mining of pre-task and task input. ELT Journal, 62: 66–76.
Bourdieu, P. (1992). The logic of practice. Cambridge: Polity Press.
Bourdieu, P. (1998). Practical reason. Cambridge: Polity Press.
Breen, M. P. (2001). Syllabus design. In R. Carter & D. Nunan (eds.), The
Cambridge guide to teaching English to speakers of other languages (pp. 151–60).
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Breen, M. P. (2007). Appropriating uncertainty: ELT professional development in
the new century. In J. Cummins & C. Davison (eds.), International handbook of
English language teaching (Vol. 3, pp. 1067–84). New York: Springer.
Brewer, J. D. (2000). Ethnography. Buckingham: Open University Press.
Brown, P. S. (2009). Integrating a vocabulary learning strategies program in a first-
year medical English course. Unpublished MA dissertation, The Centre for English
Language Studies, University of Birmingham, UK. Retrieved from www.cels.
bham.ac.uk/resources/essays/PhilipShigeoBrown_Integrating_a_Vocabulary_
Learning_Strategies_Program_into_a_First-year_Medical_English_Course.pdf
Brumfit, C. (2001). Individual freedom in language teaching. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Bruthiaux, P. (2003). Squaring the circles: Issues in modeling English worldwide.
International Journal of Applied Linguistics, 13(2): 159–78.
Bryman, A. (2001). Social research methods. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Burrows, C. (2008). Socio-cultural barriers facing TBL in Japan. The Language
Teacher, 32(8): 15–19.
Butler, Y. G. (2007). Factors associated with the notion that native speakers are
the ideal language teachers: An examination of elementary school teachers in
Japan, JALT Journal, 29: 7–40.
Byram, M. (1997). Teaching and assessing intercultural communicative competence.
Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Byram, M. (2008). From foreign language education to education for intercultural citi-
zenship: Essays and reflections. Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Byram, M., & Morgan, C. (1999). Teaching and learning language and culture.
Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Byram, M., Nichols, A., & Stevens, D. (ed.). (2001). Developing intercultural compe-
tence in practice. Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Calderhead, J. (1996). Teachers: Beliefs and knowledge. In D. C. Berliner & R. C. Calfee
(eds.), Handbook of educational psychology (pp. 709–25). New York: Macmillan.
Canagarajah, S. (1999). Resisting linguistic imperialism. Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
282 References
Canagarajah. S. (2002). Multilingual writers and the academic community: Towards
a critical relationship. Journal of English for Academic Purposes, 1: 29–44.
Canagarajah, S. (2005). Reconstructing local knowledge, reconfiguring language
studies. In S. Canagarajah (ed.), Reclaiming the local in language policy and practice
(pp. 3–24). Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum.
Canale, M., & Swain, M. (1980). Theoretical bases of communicative approaches
to second language teaching and testing. Applied Linguistics, 1(1): 1–47.
Candlin, C., & Mercer, N. (eds.) (2001). English language teaching in its social
context. London: Routledge.
Carless, D. (2007). The suitability of task-based approaches for secondary schools:
Perspectives from Hong Kong. System, 35: 595–608.
Carreira, J. M. (2006). Motivation for learning English as a foreign language in
Japanese elementary schools. JALT Journal, 28: 135–57.
Carter, R. (1995). Keywords in language and literacy. London: Routledge.
Casanave, C. (1995). Journal writing in college English classes in Japan: Shifting
the focus from language to education. JALT Journal, 17: 95–111.
Casanave, C. P. (2004). Controversies in second language writing: Dilemmas and
decisions in research and instruction. Ann Arbor, MI: The University of Michigan
Press.
Chailee, C., & Britain, L. (1991). The young child as scientist. New York:
HarperCollins.
Chamot, A. U. (2008). Strategy instruction and good language learners. In C.
Griffiths (ed.), Lessons from good language learners (pp. 266–81). Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Chamot, A. U., Barnhardt, S., Ed-Dinary, P. B., & Robbins, J. (1999). The learning
strategies handbook. New York: Addison Wesley Longman, Inc.
Chan, C. K. K., & Rao, N. (2009). The paradoxes revisited: The Chinese learner in
changing educational contexts. In C. K. K. Chan & N. Rao (eds.), Revisiting the
Chinese learner: Changing contexts, changing education (pp. 315–49). Hong Kong:
Comparative Education Research Centre.
Cheng, W., & Warren, M. (2005). Peer assessment of language proficiency.
Language Testing, 22(1): 93–121.
Chodidjah, I. (2008). English in primary school: Gem in the mud. Paper pre-
sented at “The way forward: Learning from international experience of TEYL.”
3–6 January, 2008. Bangalore, India.
Chung, Y. C. (2005). A perspective of Hofstede’s 4-D model: Two Korean stu-
dents’ participation in American classrooms. The New Korean Association of
English Language and Literature, 47(2): 235–52.
CMOEC (The Central Ministry of Education of China). (2002). Higher education qual-
ity and reform program. Retrieved from www.zlgc.edu.cn/Detail.espx?Id/1140.
CMOEC. (2003). High school English curriculum standard. Beijing: People’s
Education Press.
CMOEC (2007). College English curriculum requirements. Retrieved from www.moe.
edu.cn/edoas/website18/info34295.htm.
Coffield, F., Moseley, D., Hall, E., & Ecclestone, K. (2004). Learning styles and
pedagogy in post-16 learning. A systematic and critical review. London: Learning
and Skills Research Centre.
Cohen, A. D., & Macaro, E. (eds.) (2007). Language learner strategies: Thirty years
of research and practice. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
References 283
Cohen, L., Manion, L., & Morrison, K. (2007). Research methods in education (6th
edn). London: Routledge.
Colombi, M. C. (2002). Academic language development in Latino students’
writing in Spanish. In M. J. Schleppegrell & M. C. Colombi (eds.), Developing
advanced literacy in first and second languages (pp. 67–86). Mahwah, NJ:
Lawrence Erlbaum.
Connor, U., & Asenavage, K. (1994). Peer response groups in ESL writing classes:
How much impact on revision. Journal of Second Language Writing, 3(3):
256–76.
Cook, V. (1999). Going beyond the native speaker in language teaching. TESOL
Quarterly, 33(2): 185–209.
Corbett, J. (2003). An intercultural approach to language teaching. Clevedon:
Multilingual Matters.
Corbitt, B., & Thanasankit, T. (2000). Cultural context and its impact on require-
ments elicitation in Thailand. The Electronic Journal of Information Systems in
Developing Countries, 1: 1–19. Retrieved from www.ejidsdc.org
Cornwell, S., Simon-Maeda, A., & Churchill, E. (2007). Selected research on
second-language teaching and acquisition published in Japan in the years
2000–2006. Language Teaching, 40(2): 119–34.
Cortazzi, M., & Jin, L. (1996). English teaching and learning in China. Language
Teaching, 29: 61–80.
Cortazzi, M., & Jin, L. (2001). Large classes in China: “Good” teachers and inter-
action. In D. Watkins & J. Biggs (eds.), Teaching the Chinese learner: Psychological
and pedagogical perspectives (pp. 115–34). Hong Kong: CERC/ACER.
Cotterall, S. (1995). Readiness for autonomy: Investigating learner beliefs. System,
23(2): 195–205.
Coughlin, M. (2007). Japanese passivity. UsingEnglish.com, Teacher Articles. Retrieved
from www.usingenglish.com/teachers/articles/japanese-passivity.html.
Council of Europe. (2001). Common European framework of reference for languages:
Learning, teaching, assessment. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Cowie, N. (2001). Tell me about your life: Narratives of English language teacher
development. In A. S. Mackenzie & E. McCafferty (eds.), Developing autonomy
(pp. 233–6). Tokyo: JALT Cue SIG.
Crandall, J. (2000). Language teacher education. Annual Review of Applied
Linguistics, 20: 34–55.
Creswell, J. W. (1998). Qualitative inquiry and research design: Choosing among five
traditions. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
Creswell, J. W. (2003). Research design: Qualitative, quantitative, and mixed methods
approaches (2nd edn). Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
Cross-cultural Understanding Using Picture Books. (2007). Retrieved September 15,
2009 from www.englisheducation.iwate-u.ac.jp/Hall/ccup.html.
Crystal, D. (1997). English as a global language. Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Crystal, D. (2008). Two thousand million? English Today, 24(1): 3–6.
Curry, M. J., & Lillis, T. (2004). Multilingual scholars and the imperative to publish
in English: Negotiating interests, demands, and rewards. TESOL Quarterly, 38(4):
663–88.
Davies, B. (2005). Communities of practice: Legitimacy not choice. Journal of
Sociolinguistics, 9(4): 557–81.
284 References
Deci, E. D., & Ryan, R. M. (1985). Intrinsic motivation and self-determination in
human behavior. New York: Plenum Press.
Denscombe, M. (1982). The “hidden pedagogy” and its implications for teacher
training. British Journal of Sociology in Education, 3(3): 249–65.
Deterding, D., & Kirkpatrick, A. (2006). Emerging South-East Asian Englishes and
intelligibility. World Englishes, 25(3): 391–409.
Diaz-Maggioli, G. H. (2002). Options for teacher professional development.
English Teaching Forum, 41(2): 2–13, 21.
Doi, T. (1973). The anatomy of dependence (J. Bester, Trans.). Tokyo: Kodansha
International Ltd. (Original work published 1971).
Domino, G. (1979). Interactive effects of achievement orientation and teaching
style on academic achievement. ACT Research Report, 39: 1–9.
Donato, R. (1988). Beyond group: Psycholinguistic rationale for collective activ-
ity in second language learning. Unpublished PhD dissertation, University of
Delaware, USA.
Dörnyei, Z. (2001). Teaching and researching motivation. Harlow: Pearson
Education.
Dörnyei, Z. (2005). The psychology of the language learner: Individual differences in
second language acquisition. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Drame, E. R. (2002). Sociocultural context effects on teachers’ readiness to refer
for learning disabilities. Exceptional Children, 69(1): 41–53.
Drever, E. (1995). Using semi-structured interviews in small-scale research. Edinburgh:
The Scottish Council for Research in Education.
Dunn, R., & Dunn, K. (1979). Learning styles/teaching styles: Should they … can
they … be matched? Educational Leadership, 36: 238–44.
Duppenthaler, P. M. (2002). The effect of three types of written feedback on
student motivation. JALT Journal, 24: 130–54.
Edwards, A. (2007). Relational agency in professional practice: A CHAT analysis.
Action: An International Journal of Human Activity Theory, 1: 1–17.
Edwards, A., & D’Arcy, C. (2004). Relational agency and disposition in sociocultural
accounts of learning to teach. Educational Review, 56(2): 47–55.
Edwards, C. (2005). Epilogue: Teachers exploring research. In C. Edwards & J. Willis
(eds.), Teachers exploring tasks in English language teaching (pp. 256–79). Basingstoke
and New York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Edwards, C., & Owen, C. (2002). What should go into an MA TEFL program?
Teachers’ evaluations of the taught components of a sample program. ELTED,
7: 54–73. Retrieved from www.elted.net/issues/volume-7/edwards.pdf.
Eggins, S. (2004). An introduction to Systemic Functional Linguistics (2nd edn).
London: Continuum.
Ehrman, M., & Dörnyei, Z. (1998). Interpersonal dynamics in second language educa-
tion: The visible and invisible classroom. London: Sage.
Ellis, R., & Barkhuizen, G. (2005). Analysing learner language. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
El-Okda, M. (2005). EFL student teachers’ cognition about reading instruction.
The Reading Matrix, 5(2): 43–60.
Engeström, Y. (1987). Learning by expanding: An activity-theoretical approach to
developmental research. Helsinki: Orienta-Konsultit.
Engeström, Y. (2001). Expansive learning at work: Toward an activity theoretical
reconceptualization. Journal of Education and Work, 14(1): 133–56.
References 285
Erickson, F. (1996). Ethnographic microanalysis. In S. L. McKay & N. H. Hornberger
(eds.), Sociolinguistics and language teaching (pp. 283–306). Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Erten, I. H., & Williams, M. (2008). A comparative look into how to measure the
effectiveness of vocabulary learning strategies: Through using percentages or
correlation coefficients. Journal of Language and Linguistic Studies, 4(2): 56–72.
Fang, X. (2009). Teaching the new English curriculum in a Chinese school: An eth-
nographic study. Unpublished PhD dissertation, Sheffield Hallam University, UK.
Faucette, P. (2001). A pedagogical perspective on communication strategies:
Benefits of training and analysis of English language teaching materials. Second
Language Studies, 19(2): 1–40.
Ferris, D. R. (1997). The influence of teacher commentary on student revision.
TESOL Quarterly, 31: 315–39.
Ferris, D. R., & Hedgcock, J. S. (1998). Teaching ESL composition: Purpose, process,
and practice (Vol. 9). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum.
Ferris, D. R. (2004). The “grammar correction” debate in L2 writing: Where are
we, and where do we go from here? (And what do we do in the meantime...?).
Journal of Second Language Writing, 13: 49–62.
Ferris, D. R., & Hedgcock, J. S. (2005). Teaching ESL composition: Purpose, process,
and practice. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Finch, A. E. (2004a). English reflections: An interactive, reflective learning journal.
Daegu, Republic of Korea: Kyungpook National University Press.
Finch, A. E. (2004b). An analysis of EBS preparation materials for the CSAT,
English section. English Teaching, 59(3): 305–29.
Finch, A. E. (2004c). Promoting positive attitude change: Interactive learner journals.
English Language Teaching, 16(4): 1–26.
Finch, A. E. (2010). A task-based university EFL program in Korea: Design, implemen-
tation and formative evaluation. Saabrücken: LAP Lambert Academic Publishing
AG & Co.
Finkbeiner, C. (2008). Culture and good language learners. In C. Griffiths (ed.),
Lessons from good language learners (pp. 131–41). Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Fixsen, D. L., Blase, K. A., Horner, R., & Sugai, G. (2009). Readiness for change.
Scaling-up brief #3. Chapel Hill, NC: The University of North Carolina, FPG,
SISEP. Retrieved from www.fpg.unc.edu/~sisep/docs/SISEP_Brief_3_Readiness_
2009.pdf.
Flower, L., & Hayes, J. R. (1981). A cognitive process theory of writing. College
Composition and Communication, 32(4): 365–87.
Flowerdew, J. (1999). Writing for scholarly publication in English: The case of
Hong Kong. Journal of Second Language Writing, 8(2): 123–45.
Flowerdew, J. (2000). Discourse community, legitimate peripheral participation,
and the nonnative-English-speaking scholar. TESOL Quarterly, 34(1): 127–50.
Flowerdew, J. (2008). Scholarly writers who use English as an additional language:
What can Goffman’s “stigma” tell us? Journal of Sociolinguistics, 7: 77–86.
Foley, J. (2005). English in Thailand. RELC Journal, 36(2): 223–34.
Foley, J. (2007). English as a global language: My two satangs’ worth. RELC,
38(1): 7–17.
Freeman, D. (2002). The hidden side of the work: Teacher knowledge and learning
to teach. Language Teaching, 35: 1–13.
286 References
Freeman, D., & Johnson, K. E. (1998). Reconceptualizing the knowledge-base of
language teacher education. TESOL Quarterly, 32: 397–417.
Freeman, Y. S., & Freeman, D. E. (1992). Whole language for second language learners.
Portsmouth, NH: Heinemann.
Freire, P. (1986). Pedagogy of the oppressed. London: Continuum Press.
Gabrielatos, C. (2002). The shape of the language teacher. In A. Pulverness (ed.),
IATEFL 2002 York Conference Selections (pp. 75–8). Kent: IATEFL Publications.
Gao, Y. (2009). Sociocultural contexts and English in China: Retaining and
reforming the cultural habitus. In J. L. Bianco, J. Orton, & Y. Gao (eds.), China
and English: Globalization and the dilemmas of identity (pp. 56–78). Salisbury, UK:
Short Run Press Ltd.
Gardner, H. (1989). To open minds: Chinese clues to the dilemma of contemporary
education. New York: Basic Books.
Gardner, R. C. (1985). Social psychology and second language learning: The role of
attitudes and motivation. London: Edward Arnold.
Gardner, R. C., & Lambert, W. E. (1965). Language aptitude, intelligence, and
second language achievement. Journal of Educational Psychology, 56: 191–9.
Gardner, R. C., & Lambert, W. E. (1972). Attitudes and motivation in second lan-
guage learning. Rowley, MA: Newbury House Publishers.
Gass, S. M., & Mackey, A. (2000). Stimulated recall methodology in second language
research. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Gates, S. (2003). Inconsistencies in writing within the Japanese junior high
school EFL education system. JALT Journal, 25: 197–217.
Goldstein, L. (2006). Feedback and revision in second language writing: Con-
textual, teacher, and student variables. In K. Hyland & F. Hyland (eds.), Feedback
in second language writing: Contexts and issues (pp. 185–205). Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Gorsuch, G. J. (1998). Yakudoku EFL instruction in two Japanese high school
classrooms: An exploratory study. JALT Journal, 20: 6–32.
Graddol, D. (2006). English next. London: British Council. Retrieved from www.
britishcouncil.org/learning-research-english-next.pdf.
Graden, E. C. (1996). How language teachers’ beliefs about reading instruction
are mediated by their beliefs about students. Foreign Language Annals, 29(3):
387–95.
Griffiths, C. (2008). Strategies and good language learners. In C. Griffiths (ed.),
Lessons from good language learners (pp. 83–98). Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Guba, E. G., & Lincoln, Y. S. (1994). Competing paradigms in qualitative research. In
N. K. Denzin & Y. S. Lincoln (eds.), Handbook of qualitative research (pp. 105–17).
Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
Guest, M. (2002). A critical “checkbook” for culture teaching and learning. ELT
Journal, 56(2): 154–61.
Hacker, P. (2004). Language teachers’ personal theories: Understanding through
reflection and listening. Unpublished MA dissertation, University of Auckland,
New Zealand.
Hall, D. R., & Hewings, A. (2000). Innovation in ELT. London: Routledge.
Hall, J. M. (2007). Will learners utilize vocabulary notebooks to explore the depth
of information associated with a word?
[Hakodate Eibungaku Dai, Hakodate Eigo Eibun Gakkai], 46: 41–55.
References 287
Hall, J. M. (2008). Selecting and using English picture books in Japanese elementary
schools. In K. Bradford-Watts (ed.), JALT 2007 Conference Proceedings. Tokyo: JALT.
Retrieved from http://jaltpublications.org/archive/proceedings/2007/E047.pdf.
Halliday, M. A. K. (1993). Towards a language-based theory of learning. Linguistics
and Education, 5: 93–116.
Hallinger, P., & Kantamara, P. (2001). Exploring the cultural context of school
improvement in Thailand. School Effectiveness and School Improvement, 12(4):
385–408.
Hansen-Strain, L. (1989). Student and teacher cognitive styles in second language
classrooms. In V. Bickley (ed.), Language teaching and learning styles within and
across cultures (pp. 218–26). Hong Kong: Institute of Language in Education,
Education Department.
Hassan, X., Macaro, E., Mason, D., Nye, G., Smith, P., & Vanderplank, R. (2005).
Strategy instruction in language learning: A systematic review of available
research. In Research evidence in education library. London: EPPI-Centre, Social
Science Research Unit, Institute of Education, University of London. Retrieved
from http://eppi.ioe.ac.uk/cms/Default.aspx?tabid⫽297&language⫽en-US.
Hayamizu, T. (1993). Between extrinsic and intrinsic motivation: Examination
on individual beliefs of the links between both motivation. Bulletin of the
School of Education, 40: 77–88.
Hayes, J. R. (1996). A new framework for understanding cognition and affect in
writing. In C. M. L. S. Ransdell (ed.), The science of writing (pp. 1–28). Mahwah,
NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Herder, S. (2008). Innovating teaching in context: Asia. Journal of Second Language
Writing Online Forums. Retrieved from www.jslw.org/node/556.
Herder, S. (2009). Extensive writing (EWr): An innovative approach to EFL writing
in a Japanese high school. Unpublished MA dissertation, The Centre for English
Language Studies, University of Birmingham, UK.
Hirose, K. (2001). Realizing a giant first-step toward improved English writing:
A case in a Japanese university. In I. Leki (ed.), Academic writing programs
(pp. 35–46). Alexandria, VA: TESOL.
Hodges, H. (1982). Madison Prep: Alternatives through learning styles. In J. W. Keefe
(ed.), Student learning styles and brain behavior: Programs, instrumentation, research
(pp. 28–31). Reston, VA: National Association of Secondary School Principals.
Hofstede, G. (1980). Culture’s consequences. California: Sage Publications.
Hofstede, G. (1986). Cultural differences in teaching and learning. International
Journal of Intercultural Relations, 10: 301–20.
Hofstede, G. (1991). Cultures and organizations. Maidstone, UK: McGraw-Hill
Book Company Europe.
Hofstede, G. (1997). Cultures and organizations: Software of the mind. Intercultural
cooperation and its importance for survival. Beverly Hills, CA: Sage Publications.
Holec, H. (1981). Autonomy in foreign language learning. Oxford: Pergamon.
Holliday, A. (1994). Appropriate methodology and social context. Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Holliday, A. (1999). Small cultures. Applied Linguistics, 20(2): 237–64.
Holliday, A. (2003). Social autonomy: Addressing the dangers of culturism in
TESOL. In D. Palfreyman & R. C. Smith (eds.), Learner autonomy across cultures:
Language education perspectives. (pp. 110–26), Basingstoke and New York: Palgrave
Macmillan.
288 References
Holliday, A. (2005). The struggle to teach English as an international language.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Holliday, A., Hyde, M., & Kullman, J. (2004). Intercultural communication: An
advanced resource book. Oxford: Routledge.
Honda, K., & Sakyu, M. (2004). Multiple models of motivation for Japanese EFL
learners: An investigation into concepts in different paradigms. Annual Review
of English Language Education in Japan, 15: 41–50.
Horwitz, E. K. (1985). Using student beliefs about language learning and teaching
in the foreign language methods course. Foreign Language Annals, 18(4): 333–40.
Horwitz, E. K. (1987). Surveying student beliefs about language learning. In
A. Wenden & J. Rubin (eds.), Learner strategies in language learning (pp. 119–29).
Cambridge, MA: Prentice-Hall.
Horwitz, E. K. (1988). The beliefs about language learning of beginning university
foreign language students. The Modern Language Journal, 72(3): 283–94.
Horwitz, E. K. (1999). Cultural and situational influences on foreign language
learners’ beliefs about language learning: A review of BALLI studies. System,
27: 557–76.
Horwitz, E. K., Horwitz, M. B., & Cope, J. (1986). Foreign language classroom
anxiety. Modern Language Journal, 70(2): 125–32.
Hu, G. W. (2002). Potential cultural resistance to pedagogical imports: The case of
communicative language teaching in China. Language, Culture, and Curriculum,
15(2): 93–105.
Hu, G. W. (2005). Contextual influences on instructional practices: A Chinese
case for an ecological approach to ELT. TESOL Quarterly, 39(4): 635–60.
Hu, Z. (2004). The basic notions of College English Curriculum Requirement:
Individualization, collaboration, modulation, and hypertextualization. Foreign
Language Teaching and Research, 36(5): 345–50.
Huang, J. (2005). A diary study of difficulties and constraints in EFL learning.
System, 33(4): 609–21.
Hull, C. (1985). Between the lines: The analysis of interview data as an exact art.
British Educational Research Journal, 11(1): 27–32.
Humphrey, D. (2007). Intercultural communication competence: The state of
knowledge. Retrieved from www.cilt.org.uk/standards/donnareport.pdf.
Hycner, R. M. (1985). Some guidelines for the phenomenological analysis of
interview data. Human Studies, 8: 279–303.
Hyland, F. (1998). The impact of teacher written feedback on individual writers.
Journal of Second Language Writing, 7(3): 255–86.
Hyland, K. (2002). Teaching and researching writing. Harlow, UK: Pearson
Education Limited.
Ishikawa, S. (1995). Object measurement of low-proficiency EFL narrative writing.
Journal of Second Language Writing, 4(1): 51–69.
Jackson, J. (2004). Language and cultural immersion: An ethnographic case
study. RELC Journal, 35(3): 261–79.
Jacobs, H. L., Zinkgraf, S. A., Wormuth, D. R., Hartfield, V. F., & Hughey, J. B. (1981).
Testing ESL composition: A practical approach. Rowley, MA: Newbury House.
Jacoby, J., & Ochs, E. (1995). Co-construction: An introduction. Research on
Language and Social Interaction, 28(3): 171–83.
Jenkins, J. (2006a). The spread of EIL: A testing time for testers. ELT Journal,
60(1): 42–50.
References 289
Jenkins, J. (2006b). Points of view and blind spots: ELF and SLA. International
Journal of Applied Linguistics, 16(2): 137–62.
Jenkins, J. (2007). English as a lingua franca: Attitude and identity. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Jin, L. X., & Cortazzi, M. (2002). English language teaching in China: A bridge to
the future. Asia Pacific Journal of Education, 22(2): 53–64.
Jin, L. X., & Cortazzi, M. (2006). Changing practices in Chinese cultures of learning.
Language, Culture, & Curriculum, 19(1): 5–20.
Jin, Y. (2010). The national College English Test committee. In L. Cheng &
A. Curtis (eds.), English language assessment and the Chinese learner (pp. 44–59).
New York: Routledge.
Johnson, K. E. (1992). The relationship between teachers’ beliefs and practices
during literacy instruction for non-native speakers of English. Journal of
Reading Behavior, 24(1): 83–108.
Johnston, B. (2003). Values in English language teaching. Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence
Erlbaum Associates.
Jones, J. F. (1995). Self-access and culture: Retreating from autonomy. ELT Journal,
49(3): 228–34.
Kachru, B. B. (ed.) (1992). The other tongue: English across cultures. Urbana, IL:
University of Illinois Press.
Kachru, B. B. (1996). World Englishes: Agony and ecstasy. Journal of Aesthetic
Education, 30(2): 135–55.
Kachru, B. B. (2005). Asian Englishes: Beyond the canon. New Delhi: Oxford
University Press.
Kagan, D. (1992). Professional growth among preservice and beginning teachers.
Review of Educational Research, 62(2): 129–69.
Kamberelis, G., & Dimitriadis, G. (2005). On qualitative inquiry: Approaches to
language and literacy research. New York: Teachers College Press.
Kan, M. (2008). Shougakkou eigokatudou ni motomerareru mono to kongo no
yukuei. [Demands of foreign language activities at elementary schools and
their future directions] Handout from keynote speech given at the “All-Japan
Conference on English Activities in Elementary School.” January 26, 2008.
Kanno, Y., & Norton, B. (2003). Imagined communities and educational possi-
bilities: Introduction. Journal of Language, Identity, and Education, 2(4): 241–9.
Kato, Y., Katsuzawa, I., Shimazu, M., & Morishita, M. (2006). The development
and research of level descriptions specific to developmental stages. ARCLE
Review, 1: 54–71.
Kawai, Y. (2008). Speaking and good language learners. In C. Griffiths (ed.),
Lessons from good language learners (pp. 218–30). Cambridge: Cambridge
University Press.
Kırkgöz, Y. (2007). English language teaching in Turkey: Policy changes and their
implementations. RELC Journal, 38(2): 216–28.
Kırkgöz, Y. (2008). A case study of teachers’ implementation of curriculum inno-
vation in English language teaching in Turkish primary education. Teaching
and Teacher Education, 24: 1859–75.
Klein, H., Klein, G. & Mumaw, R. (2001). A review of cultural dimensions
relevant to aviation safety. Technical report prepared for the Boeing Company
under General Consultant Agreement 6-1111-10A-0112. Fairborn, OH: Wright
State University.
290 References
Klippel, F. (1984). Keep talking. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Knapp, P., & Watkins, M. (1994). Context-text-grammar: Teaching the genres and
grammar of school writing in infants and primary classrooms. Broadway, Australia:
Text Productions.
Koizumi, R., & Matsuo, K. (1993). A longitudinal study of attitudes and moti-
vation in learning English among Japanese seventh-grade students. Japanese
Psychological Research, 35: 1–11.
Komin, S. (1990a). Culture and work-related values in Thai organisations.
International Journal of Psychology, 25: 681–704.
Komin, S. (1990b). The psychology of the Thai people: Values and behavioral patterns.
Bangkok: National Institute of Development Administration.
Kormos, J. (2006). Speech production and second language acquisition. Mahwah, NJ:
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Kramsch, C. (1993). Context and culture in language teaching. Oxford: Oxford
University Press.
Kramsch, C. (1998). Between self and other. In. V. Berry & A. McNeill (eds.), Policy
and practice in language education (pp. 43–62). Hong Kong: University of Hong
Kong, Department of Curriculum Studies.
Kroeber, A. L., & Kluckhohn, C. (1963). Culture: A critical review of concepts and
definitions. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Kubota, R. (2001). Discursive construction of the images of U.S. classrooms.
TESOL Quarterly, 35(1): 9–38.
Kudo, Y. (1999). L2 vocabulary learning strategies. National Foreign Language
Resource Center, University of Hawai’i at Manoa. Retrieved from www.nflrc.
hawaii.edu/networks/NW14.pdf.
Kudo, Y. (2009). A study on the characteristics of global errors made by learners
of different levels of writing ability. ARCLE Review, 3: 110–21.
Kuehne, S. (2006). NLP and Feldenkrais®
: Body and mind in the classroom.
Workshop at JALT Yokohama Chapter, 9 April 2006.
Kumar, N., Rose, R.C., & D’Silva, J. L. (2008). Teachers’ readiness to use technology
in the classroom: An empirical study. European Journal of Scientific Research, 21(4):
603–16.
Kumaravadivelu, B. (1991). Language-learning tasks: Teacher intention and learner
interpretation. ELT Journal, 45(2): 98–107.
Kumaravadivelu, B. (1999). Critical classroom discourse analysis. TESOL Quarterly,
33(3): 453–84.
Kvale, S. (1996). InterViews. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications.
Lam, W. Y. K. (2004). Teaching strategy use for oral communication tasks to ESL
learners. Unpublished PhD dissertation, School of Education, University of
Leeds, UK.
Lamb, T., & Reinders, H. (eds.) (2008). Teacher and learner autonomy. Philadelphia:
John Benjamins
Lantolf, J. P. (2003). Intrapersonal communication and internalization in the
second language classroom. In A. Kozulin (ed.), Vygotsky’s educational theory in
cultural context (pp. 349–70). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lantolf, J. P., & Thorne, S. (2006). Sociocultural theory and the genesis of second
language development. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Lave, J., & Wenger, E. (1991). Situated learning: Legitimate peripheral participation.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
References 291
Lee, I. (2007). Feedback in Hong Kong secondary writing classrooms: Assessment
for learning or assessment of learning? Assessing Writing, 12(3): 180–98.
Lepper, M.R., Sethi, S., Dialdin, D., & Drake, M. (1997). Intrinsic and extrinsic moti-
vation: A developmental perspective. In S. S. Luthar, J. A. Burack, D. Cicchetti, &
J. R. Weisz (eds.), Developmental psychology: Perspectives on adjustment, risk, and
disorder (pp. 23–50). New York: Cambridge University Press.
Li, D. (2009). Activating strategies to fossilization for English learners in China.
English Language Teaching, 2(4): 75–7. Retrieved from www.ccsenet.org/journal/
index.php/elt/article/view/4450/3791.
Lillis, T., & Curry, M. J. (2006). Professional academic writing by multilingual
scholars: Interactions with literacy brokers in the production of English-
medium texts. Written Communication, 23(3): 3–35.
Little, D. (1990). Autonomy in language learning. In I. Gathercole (ed.), Autonomy
in language learning (pp. 7–15). London: CILT.
Little, D. (1999). Learner autonomy is more than a Western cultural construct.
In S. Cotterall & D. Crabbe (eds.), Learner autonomy in language learning: Defining
the field and effecting change (pp. 11–18). Frankfurt am Main: Peter Lang.
Little, J. W. (1993). Teachers’ professional development in a climate of educational
reform. Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis, 15(2): 129–51. Retrieved from
www.jstor.org/stable/1164418
Littlewood, W. (1999). Defining and developing autonomy in East Asian contexts.
Applied Linguistics, 20(1): 71–94.
Littlewood, W. (2000). Do Asian students really want to listen and obey? ELT
Journal, 54(1): 31–5.
Littlewood, W. (2007). Communicative and task-based language teaching in East
Asian classrooms. Language Teaching, 40: 243–9.
Liu, D.Y. (2006). New senior English for China. Beijing: People’s Education Press.
Lortie, D. C. (1975). Schoolteacher: A sociological study. Chicago: University of
Chicago Press.
Lunenberg, M., Korthagen, F., & Swennen, A. (2007). The teacher educator as role
model. Teaching and Teacher Education, 23: 586–601.
Macken-Horarik, M. (2001). “Something to shoot for”: A systemic functional
approach to teaching genre in secondary school science. In A. M. Johns (ed.),
Genre in the classroom. Multiple perspectives (pp. 17–42). Mahwah, NJ: Lawrence
Erlbaum Associates.
Mahapatra, A. (ed.) (2009). Activity based learning: Effectives of ABL under SSA.
Chennai: Schoolscape. Retrieved from www. Mahapatraeducationforallinindia.
com/evaluation-of-activity-based-learning-of-tmail-nadu.pdf.
Martin, J. R. (1985). Factual writing: Exploring and challenging social reality.
Melbourne, VIC: Deakin University Press.
Martin, J. R. (2001). Language, register, and genre. In A. Burns & C. Coffin (eds.),
Analysing English in a global context: A reader (pp. 149–66). London: Routledge.
Martin, J. R. (2009). Genre and language learning: A social semiotic perspective.
Linguistics and Education, 20(1): 10–21.
Martin, J. R., & Rose, D. (2008). Genre relations: Mapping culture. London: Equinox
Publishing Ltd.
Martinez, M. (1997). Developing an intentional learning orientation question-
naire. Paper presented as a prospectus for a measurement project, IP & T 567R.
Brigham Young University, USA.
292 References
Matsukawa, N. (2006). Shougakkou no eigo katsudou no toutatsu ten to korekara
no kadai [Achievement of elementary school English activities and future
issues]. BERD, 5: 1–5. Retrieved from http://benesse.jp/berd/center/open/berd/
backnumber/2006_05/fea_mawsukawa_01.html.
Matsukawa, N., & Oshiro, K. (2008). Shougakkou gaikokugo katsudou jissen manyuaru
[Manual for carrying out foreign language activities in primary schools]. Tokyo:
Obunsha.
McKenzie, W. (1999). Multiple intelligences survey. Surfaqaurium Consulting.
Retrieved from http://surfaquarium.com/MI/inventory.htm.
Meijer, P. C., Verloop, N., & Beijaard, D. (2001). Similarities and differences in
teachers’ practical knowledge about teaching reading comprehension. The
Journal of Educational Research, 94(3): 171–84.
MEB (Milli Eǧitim Bakanlıǧı) (Turkish Ministry of National Education). (2006).
English language curriculum for primary education grades 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. Ankara:
MEB.
MEB. (2008). 2008 yilinda düzenlenen hizmetiçi faaliyetleri [In-service teacher
training seminars organized in 2008]. Retrieved from http://hedb.meb.gov.
tr/plan/2007.mht.
Merriam, S. B. (2001). Qualitative research and case study applications in education.
San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass.
MEXT (Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science, and Technology). (2003a).
Action plan to cultivate “Japanese with English abilities”. Retrieved from www.
mext.go.jp/english/topics/03072801.htm.
MEXT. (2003b). The course of study for lower secondary school: Foreign languages.
Retrieved from www.mext.go.jp/english/shotou/030301.htm.
MEXT. (2003c). The course of study for upper secondary school: Foreign languages.
Retrieved from www.mext.go.jp/english/shotou/030301.htm.
MEXT. (2004). Shougakkou no eigokyouiku ni kannsuru ishikichousa [An attitude survey
on English language education in elementary schools]. Retrieved from www.mext.
go.jp/b_menu/shingi/chukyo/chukyo3/015/gijiroku/05032201/004/001.htm.
MEXT. (2008a). Shogakkou eigo katsudo jissi jokyo chosa kekka gaiyo Heisei 19 nendo
[A summary of the survey of enforcement of English activities in primary schools
in the academic year 2007]. Retrieved from www.mext.go.jp/b_menu/hou-
dou/20/03/08031920.htm.
MEXT. (2008b). Atarashii gakushuu shidouyouryou dai4shou gaikokugokatusdou.
[The new course of study chapter 4 foreign language activities]. Retrieved from
www.mext.go.jp/a_menu/shotou/new-cs/youryou/syo/gai.htm.
Miles, M. B., & Huberman, A. M. (1994). Qualitative data analysis. Thousand
Oaks, CA: Sage.
Mochizuki, N., & Ortega, L. (2008). Balancing communication and grammar in
beginning-level foreign language classrooms: A study of guided planning and
relativization. Language Teaching Research, 12(1): 11–37.
Moir, J., & Nation, I. S. P. (2008). Vocabulary and good language learners. In
C. Griffiths (ed.), Lessons from good language learners (pp. 159–84). Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Mulder, N. (2000). Inside Thai society: Religion, everyday life, change. Chiang Mai:
Silkworm Books.
Muller, T. (2009). Researching the influence of pre-task language embedding
on task performance. Presented at “IATEFL 2009”, Cardiff, Wales. Available
References 293
from http://iatefl.britishcouncil.org/2009/sessions/64/researching-influence-
pre-task-language-embedding-task-performance.
Munro, D. (1997). Levels and processes in motivation and culture. In D. Munro,
J. F. Schumacher, & S. C. Carr (eds.) Motivation and culture (pp. 3–15). New York:
Routledge.
Murphey, T. (1996). Near peer role models. Teachers Talking to Teachers, 4(3): 21–2.
Naganuma, N. (2008). The potential of Can-do scale to provide better English
education. ARCLE Review, 2: 50–77.
Naganuma, N., & Miyajuma, M. (2006). The development of Seisen academic
Can-do framework. Bulletin of Seisen University, 54: 43–61.
Nation, I. S. P. (1990). Teaching and learning vocabulary. Boston, MA: Heinle and
Heinle.
Nation, I. S. P. (2001). Learning vocabulary in another language. Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Nation, I. S. P. (2008). Teaching vocabulary: Strategies & techniques. Boston, MA:
Heinle, Cengage Learning.
Nation, I. S. P. (2009). Teaching ESL/EFL reading and writing. New York: Routledge.
National Institute for Educational Policy Research. (2007). Heisei 17 nendo koutou-
gakkou kyouikukatei jisshijoukyou tyousakekka no gaiyou. Retrieved from http://
www.nier.go.jp/kaihatsu/katei_h17_h/h17_h/05001000040007001.pdf.
Negishi, M. (2001). Can-do risuto kaihatsu. Eeigokyouikukaihatsukennkyusyo kiyou,
3: 22–9.
Negueruela, E. (2008). Revolutionary pedagogies: Learning that leads (to) second
language development. In J. P. Lantolf and M. E. Poehner (eds.), Sociocultural
theory and the teaching of second languages (pp. 189–227). London: Equinox.
Nekoda, H., Nekoda, K., & Miura, S. (2004). Yoroppa to nihon niokeru hyokaki-
zyun oyobi kijun no rirontekihikaku. Chugokuchiku eigokyoikugakkai kennkyukiyo,
34: 29–36.
Nel, C. (2008). Learning style and good language learners. In C. Griffiths. (ed.),
Lessons from good language learners (pp. 49–59). Cambridge: Cambridge University
Press.
Nespor, J. (1987). The role of beliefs in the practice of teaching. Journal of
Curriculum Studies, 19: 317–28.
Nevara, J. (2003). Teaching English in Japan to Chinese students. Asian EFL
Journal, 5(3). Retrieved from www.asian-efl-journal.com/sept_03_sub1.php.
Newman, D., Griffin, P., & Cole, M. (1989). The construction zone: Working for
cognitive change in school. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Noels, K. A. (2001). Learning Spanish as a second language: Learners’ orientations
and perceptions of their teachers’ communication style. Language Learning, 51:
107–44.
Noels, K.A., Pelletier, L.G., Clément, R., & Vallerand, R. (2000). Why are you
learning a second language? Motivational orientations and self-determination
theory. Language Learning, 50: 57–85.
Nunan, D. (1988). Syllabus design. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Nunan, D. (2003). The impact of English as a global language on educational pol-
icies and practices in the Asia-Pacific region. TESOL Quarterly, 37(4): 589–613.
Nyikos, M., & Fan, M. (2007). A review of research on vocabulary learning strate-
gies. In A. D. Cohen & E. Macaro (eds.), Language Learner Strategies: Thirty Years
of Research and Practice (pp. 251–73). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
294 References
Oxford, R. L. (1989). Use of language learning strategies: A synthesis of studies
with implications for strategy training. System, 17(2): 235–47.
Oxford, R. L. (ed.). (1996). Language learning strategies around the world: Cross-cultural
perspectives. Honolulu, HW: University of Hawai’i Press.
Oxford, R. L., Lavine, R. Z., Felkins, G., Hollaway, M. E., & Saleh, A. (1996).
Telling their stories: Language students use diaries and recollection. In R. L.
Oxford. (ed.) Language learning strategies around the world: Cross-cultural perspec-
tives (pp. 19–34). Honolulu, HW: University of Hawai’i Press.
Painter, C. (2001). Understanding genre and register: Implications for language
teaching. In A. Burns & C. Coffin (eds.), Analysing English in a global context:
A reader (pp. 167–80). London: Routledge.
Palfreyman, D. (2003). Introduction: Culture and learner autonomy. In D.
Palfreyman & R. C. Smith (eds.), Learner autonomy across cultures: Language edu-
cation perspectives (pp. 1–19). Basingstoke and New York: Palgrave Macmillan.
Pallotti, G. (2009). CAF; Defining, refining, and differentiating constructs. Applied
Linguistics, 30(4): 590–601.
Palmer, G. (2008). English and the world. Jakarta: British Council.
Park, G. P. (1995). Language learning strategies and beliefs about language learn-
ing of university students learning English in Korea. Unpublished doctoral
thesis, The University of Texas at Austin.
Pavičić, V. (2008). Vocabulary learning strategies and foreign language acquisition.
Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Pennycook, A. (1997). Cultural alternatives and autonomy. In P. Benson &
P. Voller (eds.) Autonomy and independence in language learning (pp. 35–53).
London: Longman.
Pennycook, A. (2007). Global Englishes and transcultural flows. London: Routledge.
Phillipson, R. (1992). Linguistic imperialism. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Pintrich, P. R., & Schunk, D.H. (2002). Motivation in education. Theory, research,
and application (2nd edn). Upper Saddle River, NJ: Merrill Prentice Hall.
Rabab’ah, G. A. (2005). Communication problems facing Arab learners of
English. Journal of Language and Learning, 3(1): 194.
Ramanathan, V. (1999). “English is here to stay”: A critical look at institutional
and educational practices in India. TESOL Quarterly, 33(2): 211–31.
Ramanathan, V. (2005). The English-vernacular divide: Postcolonial language politics
and practice. Hyderbad: Orient Longman Pvt. Ltd.
Reid, J. (1987). The learning style preferences of ESL students. TESOL Quarterly,
21(1): 87–111.
Reid, J. (1990). The dirty laundry of ESL survey research. TESOL Quarterly, 24(1):
323–38.
Renshaw, P., & Gardner, R. (1990). Process versus product task interpretation
and parental teaching practice. International Journal of Behavioral Development,
13(4): 489–505.
Risager, K. (2007). Language and culture pedagogy. Clevedon: Multilingual Matters.
Roberts, C., & Sarangi, S. (1993). “Culture” revisited in intercultural commu-
nication. In T. Boswood, R. Hoffman, & P. Tung (eds.), Perspectives on English
for international communication (pp. 43–54). Hong Kong: Hong Kong City
Polytechnic.
Rossiter, M. J. (2003). “It’s like chicken but bigger”: Effects of communication
strategy in the ESL Classroom. Canadian Modern Language Review, 60: 105–21.
References 295
Rubin, J., Chamot, A. U., Harris, V., & Anderson, N. J. (2007). Intervening in the
use of strategies. In A. D. Cohen & E. Macaro (eds.), Language learner strategies:
Thirty years of research and practice (pp. 141–60). Oxford: Oxford University
Press.
Sarangi, S., & Candlin, C. N. (2003). Introduction to the special issue: Trading
between reflexivity and relevance: New challenges for applied linguistics.
Applied Linguistics, 24(3): 271–85.
Sarup, M. (1996). Identity, culture, and the postmodern world. Edinburgh: Edinburgh
University Press.
Sasaki, M. (2008). On genre and its application to English education in Japan. In
Ergo: In commemoration of the Department of Communication (pp. 193–17). Aichi
prefecture: Aichi Gakuin University Junior College.
Schleppegrell, M. J. (2006). The linguistic features of advanced language use: The
grammar of exposition. In H. Byrnes (ed.), Advanced language learning: The con-
tribution of Halliday and Vygotsky (pp. 134–46). London: Continuum.
Schmitt, N. (1997). Vocabulary learning strategies. In N. Schmitt & M. McCarthy
(eds.),Vocabulary:Description,acquisition,andpedagogy(pp.199–227).Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press.
Seidlhofer, B. (2007). English as a lingua franca and communities of practice.
In S. Volk-Birke & J. Lippert (eds.), Anglistentag 2006 Halle Proceedings (pp.
307–18). Trier: Wissenschaftlicher Verlag.
Sinclair, B. (1999). More than an act of faith? Evaluating learner autonomy. In
C. Kennedy (ed.), Innovation and best practice (pp. 96–107). Harlow: Longman
in association with the British Council.
Sinclair, J., & Coulthard, R. M. (1975). Towards an analysis of discourse: The English
used by teachers and pupils. London: Oxford University Press.
Sivasubramaniam, S. (2009). Articulating an alternate voice in language teaching
research: An exercise in practitioner empowerment. In R. Nunn & J. Adamson
(eds.), Accepting alternative voices in EFL journal articles (pp. 52–70). Busan: Asian
EFL Journal Press.
Smagorinsky, P., Cook, L., Moore, C., Jackson, A., & Fry, P. (2004). Tensions in
learning to teach: Accommodation and the development of a teaching iden-
tity. Journal of Teacher Education, 55: 8–24.
Snow, R. E. (1989). Toward assessment of cognitive and conative structures in
learning. Educational Researcher, 18(9): 8–14.
Society for Testing English Proficiency. (2006). The EIKEN Can-do List. Retrieved
from www.eiken.or.jp/about/images/btn_candoEng.gif.
Stebbins, C. (1995). Culture-specific perceptual-learning style preferences of post-
secondary students of English as a second language. In J. Reid (ed.), Learning
styles in the ESL/EFL classroom (pp. 108–17). Boston: Heinle & Heinle.
Strauss, A., & Corbin, J. (1990). Basics of qualitative research: Grounded theory pro-
cedures and techniques. London: Sage.
Sung, H., & Padilla, A. M. (1998). Student motivation, parental attitudes, and
involvement in the learning of Asian languages in elementary and secondary
schools. The Modern Language Journal, 82: 205–16.
Swain, M. (2009). Languaging and second/foreign language learning. The
Language Teacher, 33(7): 14–16.
Swales, J. (1987). Utilizing the literatures in teaching the research paper. TESOL
Quarterly, 21: 41–68.
296 References
Swales, J. (1996). Occluded genres in the academy: The case of the submission
letter. In E. Ventola & A. Mauranen (eds.), Academic writing: Intercultural and
textual issues (pp. 45–58). Amsterdam: John Benjamins.
Synaeroti (ed.). (2004). Bahasa inggris series (including workbooks).
Takagi, A. (2001). The need for change in English writing instruction in Japan.
The Language Teacher, 25(6). Retrieved from www.jalt-publications.org/tlt/
articles/2001/07/takagi.
Takagi, A. (2003). Learner autonomy and motivation in a cooperative learning
class. In A. Barfield & M. Nix (eds.), Teacher and learner autonomy in Japan 1:
Autonomy you ask! (pp. 129–42). Tokyo: JALT.
Takeuchi, O. (2003). What can we learn from good foreign language learners?
A qualitative study in the Japanese foreign language context. System, 31(3):
385–94.
Tanaka, S. (2008). A theoretical framework of the Can-do studies in English peda-
gogy. ARCLE Review, 2: 6–33.
Tillema, H. (1997). Promoting conceptual change in learning to teach. Asia-Pacific
Journal of Teacher Education, 25: 7–16.
Truitt, S. N. (1995). Anxiety and beliefs about language learning: A study of
Korean university students learning English. Unpublished PhD thesis, The
University of Texas at Austin.
Truscott, J. (2007). The effect of error correction on learners’ ability to write
accurately. Journal of Second Language Writing, 16(4): 255–72.
Tsui, A. B. M. (2007). What shapes teachers’ professional development? In
J. Cummins & C. Davison (eds.), International handbook of English language
teaching (Vol. 3, pp. 1053–66). New York: Springer.
Tsui, A. B. M., & Tollefson, J. W. (2007). Language policy, culture, and identity in
Asian contexts. London: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.
Usuki, M. (1999). Promoting learner autonomy: A reconsideration of the stereo-
typical views about Japanese learners. Independence, 24: 7–10.
Usuki, M. (2002). Learner autonomy: Learning from the student’s voice. CLCS
Occasional Paper No. 60. Dublin: Trinity College, Centre for Language and
Communication Studies.
Valentine, J. (1997). Conformity, calculation, and culture. In D. Munro, J. F.
Schumacher, & S. C. Carr (eds.), Motivation and culture (pp. 97–116). New York:
Routledge.
van Lier, L. (1996). Interaction in the language curriculum: Awareness, autonomy,
authenticity. Harlow: Pearson Education Ltd.
van Lier, L. (2000). From input to affordance: Social-interactive learning from
an ecological perspective. In J. P. Lantolf (ed.), Sociocultural theory and second
language learning (pp. 245–59). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Velez-Rendon, G. (2006). From student to teacher: A successful transition. Foreign
Language Annals, 39: 320–35.
Vygotsky, L.S. (1978). Mind in Society. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Walkington, J. (2005). Becoming a teacher: Encouraging development of teacher
identity through reflective practice. Asia-Pacific Journal of Teacher Education,
33: 53–64.
Walsh, G., & Gardner, J. (2006). Teachers’ readiness to embrace change in
the early years of schooling: A Northern Ireland perspective. European Early
Childhood Education Research Journal, 14(2): 127–40.
References 297
Wang, H., & Cheng, L. (2008). The impact of curriculum innovation on the cultures
of teaching. Chinese EFL Journal, 1(1): 5–30.
Wang, J. (2007). The College English Test in China: Challenges and suggestions.
Asian Journal of English Language Teaching, 17: 137–44.
Wang, Q. (2007). The national curriculum changes and their effects on English
language teaching in the People’s Republic of China. In J. Cummins & C.
Davison (eds.), International handbook of English language teaching (Vol. 1, pp.
87–105). New York: Springer.
Watanabe, M. (2004). Nattoku no kozo: Nichibei shotokyoiku ni miru shikohyogen no
sutairu [The structure of persuasion: Ways of thinking and expression as reflected in
early education in the US and Japan]. Tokyo: Toyo Shuppan.
Wedenoja, W., & Sobo, E. J. (1997). Unconscious motivation and culture. In
D. Munro, J. F. Schumacher, & S. C. Carr (eds.) Motivation and culture (pp. 159–77).
New York: Routledge.
Wells, G. (1999). Dialogic inquiry: Towards a sociocultural practice and theory of
education. New York: Cambridge University Press.
Wengraf, T. (2002). Qualitative research Interviewing. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage.
Willing, K. (1988). Learning styles in adult migrant education. Adelaide, Australia:
National Curriculum Resource Centre.
Willis, J. (1996). A framework for task-based learning. Harlow: Pearson Education
Limited.
Wolfe-Quintero, K., Inagaki, S., & Kim, H. Y. (1998). Second language development
in writing: Measures of fluency, accuracy, and complexity. Honolulu: University of
Hawaii, Second Language Teaching and Curriculum Center.
Wood, D., Bruner, J. S., & Ross, G. (1976). The role of tutoring in problem-solving.
Journal of Child Psychology and Child Psychiatry, 17: 89–100.
Woods, D. (1996). Teacher cognition in language teaching: Beliefs, decision making,
and classroom practice. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
The World Factbook. Central Intelligence Agency. Available from https://www.cia.
gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/index.html
Wu, X. (2003). Intrinsic motivation and young language learners: The impact of
the classroom environment. System, 31: 501–17.
Yamanishi, H. (2004). How are high school students’ free compositions evaluated
by teachers and teacher candidates? A comparative analysis between analytic
and holistic rating scales. JALT Journal, 26(2): 189–205.
Yamanishi, H. (2005). Using generalizability theory in the evaluation of L2 writ-
ing. JALT Journal, 27(2): 169–85.
Yang, M., Badger, R., & Yu, Z. (2006). A comparative study of peer and teacher
feedback in a Chinese EFL writing class. Journal of Second Language Writing,
15(3): 179–200.
Yeh, H. (2005). Teacher study groups as a vehicle to strengthen EFL teachers’
professional identity and voice. Asian EFL Journal, 7(4): 50–73. Retrieved from
www.asian-efl-journal.com/December_05_hc.php.
Zhang, L. (2001). Awareness in reading: EFL students’ metacognitive knowledge
of reading strategies in an acquisition-poor environment. Language Awareness,
10(4): 268–88.
Zheng, S. (ed.). (2008). New Horizon College English (2nd edn). Beijing: Foreign
Language Teaching and Research Press.
298
Index
action research see classroom research
activity theory 166
see also Vygotsky and zone of
proximal development (ZPD)
apprenticeship of observation 64, 97
Asia 1, 6, 24, 62, 66, 124, 178, 230, 267
attitude
change 58
modification 53
autonomy see learner autonomy
Byram, M. 30
Canagarajah, S. 25–6, 52, 270
Chamot, A. U. 128, 136
children see learner, primary school
Chinese context 10, 165
Chinese Ministry of Education see
Ministry of Education, of China
clarification see negotiation of
meaning, clarification
classroom research 9, 127, 135, 145,
181, 204, 217, 232
cliques 106, 109
collaboration 175, 204, 271, 274–5,
277–8
Common European Framework of
Reference (CEFR) 256
communication see oral
communication
comprehension see learner
comprehension
consciousness-raising 56, 137
context
EFL see English as a Foreign
Language
local xiii, 41, 175
sociocultural see sociocultural
conversation of the discipline 278
correction see learner self-correction
Cortazzi, M. 163–4, 174–5
course book see textbook
Crystal, D. 24, 181
culture
global 23
Japanese 71, 74, 76, 259
Thai 32, 82, 88, 93–4
Western 68, 74, 76, 84
curriculum innovation in Turkey 181
see also Ministry of Education of
Turkey and Turkish context
data
analysis 13, 64, 87, 114, 141, 187
collection 12, 62, 80, 86, 168,
248
discourse of the profession see
conversation of the discipline
Dörnyei, Z. 196, 198
eclectic-oriented teacher see teacher,
eclectic-oriented
ecological frames see qualitative
inquiry, ecological frames
educational reform see Ministry of
Education and teacher, readiness
to adapt to reform
Edwards, A. 166–8
Edwards, C. 268, 271, 274, 276
EFL see English as a Foreign Language
EIL see English as an International
Language
elementary school see learner, primary
school
Engeström, Y. 166–7
English as a Foreign Language xiii,
8, 68–9, 128, 133, 162, 169,
180, 218–19, 223–4, 230–1, 246,
253–4
English as an International
Language xiii
errors see feedback for learners
evaluation forms see teacher,
evaluation forms
examinations
high school 11
national 7, 15, 17–18, 119, 248
Index 299
feedback
peer 231, 245–6, 249–52
teacher see teacher feedback
writing see writing feedback
feedback, from learners
learning journal 53
methodology 63
feedback, for learners 236
field, mode, and tenor see register,
field, mode, and tenor
first language see L1
Flowerdew, J. 271, 277–8
fluency
accuracy, and complexity 261
first approach 232–4, 238
focus 223, 231
measurement of 239, 256
practice 223, 235
writing see writing fluency
focus on form see grammar, focus on
form
frames of reference 29–30
free writing see writing, free
Freeman, D. 95–7, 165
Gardner, R. C. 149, 196
genre 235, 249, 258, 260, 262
goals
learner 58
teaching 139, 172
writing 254
grammar 102
focus on form 188–9, 256
translation 19, 102, 178, 188, 190,
226
habatsu see cliques
high school see learner, high school
Hofstede, G. 6, 50, 83, 125, 267
Holliday, A. 62–3, 70, 82
Horwitz, E. K. 51
Hu, G. W. 9–11, 178
Hu, Z. 163–4
identity 301
Indian context 217
Indonesian context 35
innovation
curriculum 162, 182–3
in China 9, 24, 129, 162
in Turkey 181
instrumental motivation see
motivation, instrumental
interest in foreign countries 198–202
intercultural awareness 28–30, 35
interpretation-oriented teachers see
teacher, interpretation-oriented
intrinsic motivation see motivation,
intrinsic
Japanese context 79, 95, 197
Japanese Ministry of Education see
Ministry of Education, of Japan
Jenkins, J. 24–5, 27
Jin, L. X. 163–5, 174–5
Jin, Y. 163–4
Kachru, B. B. 6, 23–5, 35, 66
knowledge, co-construction of 156
Komin, S. 83–5
Korean context 49
Kramsch, C. 60
Kumaravadivelu, B. 148–54
L1 use 160, 231
L2 writing 230, 234
language
activities 260
and meaning, separation of 256
criteria 253, 262–3
Lantolf, J. P. 147
learner
autonomy 66–70, 76, 79–80
comprehension 132
confidence 143, 219, 223, 228, 237
elementary school see learner,
primary school
feedback for see feedback, for
students
feedback from see feedback, from
students
junior high school 198, 254
high school 9, 35, 129, 149
learning journal 58
motivation see motivation
preferences see learning preferences
primary school 181–2, 184, 194,
196–8, 201, 204–5
300 Index
learner – continued
production 132
recordings of see recordings, of
students
self-correction 128, 130
strategies see learning strategies
university 136, 197
see also learning
learning
journal see writing journal
preferences 53
strategies 127–8, 130–1, 135
styles 192
listening 183
comprehension 224
Little, D. 67–8
Littlewood, W. 15, 17, 49–50, 52,
59, 73
Malaysian context 110
Martin, J. R. R. 258–60
materials 42
Matsukawa, N. 205–6
meaning 142, 166, 257–9, 264
focus on 234
see also negotiation of meaning
meaning-based assessment 264
methodology 16
Ministry of Education
of China 9
of Japan 196–8, 205, 254
of Turkey 182
morals, of teaching and teacher
beliefs 96
motivation 19, 64, 68, 116, 200–3
instrumental 196
integrative 196
intrinsic 197–8
Motivation and Attitudes toward
Learning English Scale for
Children (MALESC) 199
narrative 111
Nation, I. S. P. 135, 137–8, 223
national exams see examinations,
national
native speakers of English 24, 34
negotiation of meaning 153
clarification 155
Noels, K. A. 197–9, 201–2
non-native speakers of English 25, 32
Nunan, D. 26, 178–81
on access to English language
education 27
on curriculum 27
observations, methodology 12
oral communication 127–8, 134
Oxford, R. L. 51–3, 56
perceived parental encouragement
200
Pennycook, A. 26
picture books 207–8
primary school see learner, primary
school
professional development see teacher
development
program development 136
qualitative inquiry 148–9, 168
co-construction 108, 151, 156,
277
cuttings 64, 98, 107–8
ecological frames 97, 107
first record 97
phenomenological reduction 98
second record 97
semi-structured interviewing 97,
186
triangulation 12, 69
questionnaires 58–9, 202, 271
Ramanathan, V. 218
reading 162–4, 170–4
recording 130
register 259
field, mode, and tenor 258–9
Reid, J. 50–1
Renshaw, P. 149–51
research
action 223, 228
qualitative see qualitative inquiry
role-play 136, 139
scaffolding 126, 145–52, 155–60
secondary school see learner, high
school
Index 301
semi-structured interviews
see qualitative inquiry,
semi-structured interviewing
sensyu see teacher qualifications
speaking 10, 127–8, 183, 220–4
storytelling 210–11, 215
strategy instruction 53, 127–8,
132–4
syllabus 218
systemic functional linguistics (SFL)
253
t-test 143, 249
Tanaka, S. 254–6
tape-recording see recording
task performance 127, 132
tasks 133, 137, 145–6, 148–50, 153–4
teacher
beliefs 7, 95–7, 111, 165
cognition 111
confidence 173–4
development 36, 174, 193
eclectic-oriented 189, 192
education 110, 112, 120, 165, 168
evaluation forms 140
feedback 231, 245–8, 249–52
identity 64, 110–12, 115–16, 118,
120–1
interpretation-oriented 190, 192
journal 64, 113, 119–21
knowledge 15–16, 19, 27, 44, 64,
96, 99, 105, 109, 111–12, 165,
169–71, 185, 193
mentors 112–13, 118, 121
qualification 64, 95–6, 99–104, 186
readiness to adapt to reform 125,
162, 164–72, 174, 179–80
reflection 19, 47, 64, 96, 107, 109,
111–12, 114, 117–18, 120–1,
170–1, 231
training see teacher education
transmission-oriented 188, 192–3
unqualified 104
textbook 11, 38, 105, 163, 170–5
Thai context 31–2, 63, 82, 84–5, 89,
91–3
transcripts 20, 87–8, 148
triangulation see qualitative inquiry,
triangulation
Tsui, A. B. M. 26–7, 174
Turkish context 179, 181–4, 193–5
Turkish Ministry of Education see
Ministry of Education, of Turkey
university see learner, university
Usuki, M. 72, 79
vocabulary 135, 156, 222
Vygotsky, L. S. 146, 166
writing 220, 230, 232, 245, 253
assessment 253
complexity see fluency, accuracy,
and complexity
difference from spoken
language 259, 263
feedback 231, 245
fluency 232
free 236, 239, 241
journal 53, 57–8, 233–4
see also teacher journal
Wu, X. 196–7
Yamanishi, H. 253, 255, 257
Yeh, 124–5
young learners see learner, primary
school
zone of proximal development
(ZPD) 146, 167
