24 Alcón Soler
this case, if the political decisions are based on educational research, we
cannot claim that multilingualism guarantees effective schooling, but
learners can benefit from the cognitive benefit of developing at least two
languages fully and learning English as a third language. Moreover, it is
possible that by encouraging multilingual education language education
policies may help to develop a broader enculturation and a wider view on
merging with different cultures. This, in turn, may foster a viewpoint that
is sensitive to cope with differences of traditional minority languages, as
well as to accept the new minority languages and cultures of immigrants.
At supranational levels, the aim of the European language policy is to
foster the readiness of European citizens to have at their disposal
knowledge of different linguistic codes and socio-cultural norms, as well
as awareness of socio-pragmatic functions of language choice. Therefore,
the main objective of language education is to prepare European citizens
to communicate in different cultural and linguistic environments to take on
new political and professional responsibilities. Such objective requires
understanding the European Union as a multicultural zone where language
learning takes place by communicating in other languages and with other
cultures. In this sense, Gogolin (2002) claims that the objective of
language learning in a multilingual context should be focus on developing
plurilingual and intercultural competence, which in turn means promoting
language diversity at the same time that the teaching of English and
through English are encouraged. However, this objective may not be fully
accomplished unless two controversial issues are clarified. These issues,
which I will refer below, are the possible threat of the spread of English
towards plurilingualism in Europe, and the effect of a homogenisation
view of English language use and learning.
2.2 The Spread of English in Continental Europe
The European Union is presented with a challenge of finding a balance
between linguistic integration and diversity. On the one hand,
internationalisation, co-operation and mobility, within and without Europe,
have led to consider English as the preferred option for linguistic unity,
allowing people from different first language backgrounds to
communicate. As a consequence, nearly all Europeans, irrespectively of
social class, are provided with instruction in English (survey published by
Euro stat -Euro stat 53- reported that English was taught to more than 90%
of Europe’s lower secondary students), and English is accepted as an
international or global language (according to Euro barometer -2001-
English was considered the most useful and prestigious language). On the
Linguistic Unity and Cultural Diversity in Europe 25
other hand, for many people in Europe, linguistic diversity means the
diversity of national languages in Europe, the co-existence of language
territories in a nation state (like Belgium or Switzerland) or the co-
existence of national and minority languages (Basque and Catalan in
Spain, Welsh in Great Britain or the Sorbs in Germany). Besides, the
European Union, sooner or later, will have to face linguistic reality in
Europe. Additionally, in a globalising world where technology permits
commercial, cultural and financial information exchange, the following
statements are not questioned:
- English is the language spoken by more non-native speakers than
native speakers.
- English is the language to have access to journals and conferences.
- English is the dominant language in publishing.
- English language education is compulsory in most schools. In other
words, when education is given in a language from outside the
nation/region, this is done in English.
- English is used when the content of courses, manuals and software
have a bilingual or trilingual pattern (in the case of regional
autonomies).
- Multinationals are set up in Europe and, not matter its location,
English is the working language.
The problem is that while economic policy within the European Union is
seen as a unifying element, the language policy reflecting linguistic
diversity seems to be a dividing element. In this sense, pessimists link the
massive use of English to globalisation and Americanisation processes
(Mühlhäusler 1996; Swales 1997), and optimists claim that English should
be understood as a lingua franca with no threat for linguistic and cultural
diversity (House 2003 and this volume; Seidlhofer 2004). In our opinion, if
the expansion of English is at the cost of other languages, there is no doubt
that this might result in a threat towards plurilingualism in Europe.
However, before making any further generalisation, it seems relevant to
analyse if, as reported by Phillipson (1992), the spread of English points
towards linguistic imperialism. Singh and Doherty’s (2004) review of
cultural processes under conditions of globalisation might be useful to
answer this question. The authors suggest three hypotheses in relation to
cultural processes under conditions of globalisation: homogenisation,
polarization and hybridity. The first one claims that the worldwide spread
of a neoliberal market economy is likely to homogenise or standardise
local cultures. This spread of global culture is what is frequently known as
Americanisation, Coca-Colonisation or McDonaldisation (Holton 2000;
26 Alcón Soler
Porter and Vidovich 2000). The second hypothesis dealing with the
cultural consequences of globalisation relates to the fact that the
homogenisation of an American consumer culture is likely to be resisted
and challenged by various antiglobalisation movements around the world.
The third hypothesis, the hybridity hypothesis, is based on the thesis that
there is no pure or authentic culture distinct from others and claims the
need for a synthesis of diverse cultural forms.
The unresolved argument between these theoretical positions applies to
how the spread of English is perceived in Europe. On the one hand, the
recognition of English as a threat to other languages has resulted in
considering English as a killer language (Mühlhäusler 1996) and
“tyrannousaurus rex” (Swales 1997), claiming that linguistic unity in
Europe, that is to say the use of English in Europe, will strength the forces
of globalisation and Americanisation rather than constraining them.
Likewise the level of resistance to English language use can be observed in
measures taken both at supranational and national levels. At supranational
level, the Commission document promoting language learning and
linguistic diversity: An action plan 2004–2006, August 2003 is designed to
indicate that English alone is not enough and encourages multilingualism
in Europe. At national level, many activities, such as the book “Deursch
nix wichtig” appealing German elites to stop the Americanisation culture
in Germany, or the Belgian government complaining about the
announcements discriminating native speakers of English, can be
understood as a resistance to accept the spread of English in Europe. On
the contrary, the hybridisation process understands the spread of English as
an opportunity for accepting new cultural forms and identities, and as an
ideal opportunity to insist on the official status of regional languages.
From a hybridity theory it is possible to explain the spread of English
within a mosaic of languages and cultures where diversity represents its
source of cultural development. In this sense, the spread of English can be
explained as a result of developments in information and communication
technologies and by economic globalisation. However, its main function is
not to kill other European languages, but to facilitate communication when
other communicative means are absent. According to House (2002a,
2002b), if we accept the distinction between language for communication
and language for identification (Hüllen 1992), an increasing linguistic
unity is not a threat for cultural diversity because English functions as a
direct mediator between participants in a discourse who would otherwise
have to rely on translation. In the same vein, Breidbach (2003) claims that
linguistic diversity and the use of English as a lingua franca (ELF) are not
mutually exclusive, but they rely on each other.
Linguistic Unity and Cultural Diversity in Europe 27
In our opinion, different reasons speak in favour of English as a lingua
franca. Firstly, the virtual absence of a debate within the general public
that English is a world language. Kachru (1985, 1992) explains its
expansion in terms of three concentric circles. The inner circle includes
countries such as Australia, Canada, United Kingdom, Ireland, United
States of America, and New Zealand, where English is the first language
for the majority of the population. The second circle includes countries
where English is used at an institutional level as a result of colonisation,
such as Nigeria, Philippines, and India. Finally, the expanding circle
includes, among others, Continental Europe where English has not official
status and it is taught as a foreign language. From a quantitative point of
view, Crystal (1997) claims that there are approximately 320–380 millions
speakers of English in the inner-circle countries. In outer-circle countries
there are roughly 150–300 million second language speakers of English,
and 100 to 1,000 millions of learners of English in the expanding circle.
Besides, the degree of contact between languages in the three circles can
also explain that the number of English non-native speakers is substantially
larger than its native speakers (the relationship is about four to one).
Secondly, descriptive studies on English as a lingua franca from a
formal perspective show that interlocutors use it as a language for
communication not as a language for identification. Research such as the
one conducted by Firth (1996), Meierkord (1996), Wanger and Firth
(1997) have pointed out participants’ mutual engagement in achieving
understanding as the most outstanding feature of ELF interaction. In
other words, it is a meaning oriented interaction where topic development
gains importance over form-related or context-related issues. As a matter of
fact, examples of form-focused interaction, typically found in NS-NNS or
NNNs-NNNS classroom interaction or task based pedagogical
investigations are absent, and potential troubles are not explicitly
attended. Similarly, research has shown that, although interlocutors do
not share single speech norms and as a consequence they probably have
different forms of participation, a consensus-oriented conversational
behaviour characterizes ELF interaction. This behaviour may be explained
because interlocutors use English for transactional purposes. In this line,
the notion of a speech community or native speaker’s norms is
inappropriate to explain the use of English in Europe. In this vein, House
(2003) suggests Wenger’s (1998) concept of community of practice for
describing ELF communication. According to House (2003), the three
dimensions characterizing a community of practice ─mutual
engagement, a joint negotiated enterprise, and a shared repertoire of
negotiated resources─ are appropriate for describing ELF
communication:
28 Alcón Soler
The activity-based concept of community of practice with its diffuse
alliances and communities of imagination and alignment fits ELF
interactions well because ELF participants have heterogeneous backgrounds
and diverse social and linguistic expectations. Rather than being
characterized by fixed social categories and stable identities, ELF users are
agentively involved in the construction of event-specific, interactional styles
and frameworks.
The concept of speech community and community of practice leads back
to the question of unity and diversity in Europe. European citizens may
have common goals for interaction but different socio-cultural conditions.
Besides, they may wish to achieve a delicate balance between linguistic
unity and linguistic diversity. Following the argument that languages
express cultures and hence cultural and linguistic diversity are key issues
of a European identity, the question is if accepting the communicative
value of English at a supranational level will not foster plurilingualism as a
part of a European identity. From our point of view, this should not be the
case. On the one hand, in using English as an international means of
communication at supranational level, speakers are unlikely to use
language as a symbol of identification. As a matter of fact, the idea that
English belongs to everyone who speak it has been gaining ground and, as
pointed out by Widdowson (1994), the question of the ownership of
English is a problematic one:
It is a matter of considerable pride and satisfaction for native speakers of
English that their language is an international means of communication. But
the point is that it is only international to the extent that it is not their
language (Widdowson 1994: 385).
Likewise, since there is not a definable group of English as lingua franca
speakers, it may be difficult to have a disposition towards accepting the
cultural norms of the members of this ELF community. Therefore it would
be more appropriate to describe the European Union as a contact zone
where people with different cultural identities meet with each other, often
in highly asymmetrical relations of domination and subordination, and as a
space of intercultural exchange. This means that a mutual entanglement of
cultural practice will take place through intercultural exchanges. The major
advantage to use English as a medium of communication in those
intercultural exchanges is to open one space within which people meet and
produce new cultural forms and identities. In this vein, English in Europe
cannot be understood as a threat to multilingualism, rather it may provide
conditions for developing plurilingual citizens and an opportunity to
establish a sphere of interculturality, where one national culture is
Linguistic Unity and Cultural Diversity in Europe 29
considered in relation to other cultures. Besides, accepting English as a
lingua franca may stimulate the language maintenance and revitalization of
languages at national level. At least there are two reasons to claim that
English as a lingua franca may present hope for minorities languages.
First, languages are used for affective and identification purposes, which
cannot be achieved through English as a lingua franca. Secondly, as it
happened in the process of elaborating the European Constitution, it can be
the case that Europe is more likely to tolerate regionalism than the nation
state.
In line with Cenoz and Jessner (2000) and Hoffmann (2000), we believe
that the spread of English in Europe will not be a threat towards
plurilingualism, if it is understood within the framework of the hybridity
hypothesis. This means that in communicative situations what we have is a
process of language choice at different levels which enable speakers to
maintain their native language and cultural identity, but at the same time
being able to use different languages as an instrument to understand each
other. This approach entails accepting the use of English as a lingua franca
while training in minority languages and through those languages are
encouraged. The question is how we can meet the requirement of linguistic
unity and diversity. It seems that in order to get a European language
planning under control it will be necessary a revision of the traditional
curricula in languages because of their implicit presupposition of
monolingualism. However, this will be difficult to achieve unless language
education objectives and strategies are set up within a hybridity hypothesis
of language use and learning.
2.3 English Language Use and Learning: Towards a Hybridity
Hypothesis
Taking into account the spread of English in Continental Europe and the
aim of the European Commission to prepare European citizens to
communicate in different cultural and linguistic environments, a new
hypothesis of English language use and learning is clearly needed. So far,
English language teaching has been informed by linguistic research on the
nature of English language and by insights on second language acquisition
research. With regard to the nature of language, describing language in use
in naturally occurring contexts has been applied to the different levels of
linguistic analysis. For instance, the analysis of grammar and vocabulary
as an aspect of discourse has influenced current approaches to the teaching
of grammar (see Edmondson and House 1981; Batstone 1996; Hughes and
30 Alcón Soler
McCarthy 1998) and has shed light on the relationship between context
grammar and vocabulary (McCarthy 1990; McCarthy and Carter 1994),
offering the teaching profession insights into issues such as lexical
cohesion (Halliday and Hasan 1976), the role of vocabulary in signalling
textual patterns (Hoey 1991), or the relationship between lexical selection
and register. Moreover the increasing understanding of language use in
speech and writing has influenced the teaching of oral and written skills.
As far as the teaching of oral skills, observations of how people behave in
spoken discourse have contributed to increasing our understanding of
native/non-native and non-native/non-native communication. Likewise, the
main concern of speech act research has been to identify similarities and
differences between NSs and NNSs, explaining these differences as a
source of misunderstanding. With regard to the teaching of writing skills,
the analysis of written language has contributed to a better understanding
of the texture and structure of texts and how they contribute to the
interactive nature of reading and writing (see Wallace 1992; Hudson 1998;
Grabe 2002; for a review on teaching reading and Tribble 1996;
Cumming 1998; Raimes 1998; Manchón 2001; Hyland 2002; for a review
on teaching writing). In this sense, we can claim that research on discourse
analysis has helped to identify the linguistic content of English language
teaching. The problem seems to be that, although attention has been paid
to the analysis of naturally occurring spoken and written discourse, as well
as the devices used to achieve communicative purposes, the link between
discourse analysis and English language in use needs to be reviewed. In
other words, we can claim that, in spite of the contributions of discourse
analysis to language teaching, this line of research has focused on
describing native speakers’ language use, which is an incomplete
description of the English language use in continental Europe. Besides, it
is unrealistic to base our description of English language use only on
native speaker’s models, since there are more people using English as a
lingua franca than native speakers by birth. Consequently, although there
is no doubt that language education goals should be influenced by
linguistic description of English language use, it seems that the linguistic
content cannot longer be based on a homogenisation view of English
language and culture, and on the ideal native speaker.
In the same vein, a revision of the underlying assumptions in most
pedagogical models is needed. In fact, most pedagogical models accept a
homogenisation hypothesis of language use. More specifically, based on
native speakers’ notion of communicative competence four main
competences are suggested as language learning goals: grammatical,
sociolinguistic, discourse and strategic (Canale and Swain 1980; Canale
1983; Bachman 1990; Celce-Murcia et al. 1995; Alcón 2000). Firstly,
Linguistic Unity and Cultural Diversity in Europe 31
grammatical competence provides the linguistic rules of usage and aims to
foster accuracy in performance. Secondly, while sociolinguistic
competence deals with the social rules of language use, and involves an
understanding of the social context in which language is used, discourse
competence deals with how language is used in text and discourse. Finally,
strategic competence refers to the different communication strategies that
enable one to get by when faced with communicative difficulties, and
make it possible to keep the communicative channel open. However, in
these pedagogical models, although they accept that the communicative
features underlying the sociolinguistic, discourse, and strategic
competencies in the target language culture are different from those in the
learners’ own culture, emphasis is made to acquire the conventions of the
target culture. From this perspective, language learning could also mean
particular cultural values and beliefs. The problem would be to decide
which culture and which values are accepted in a context where different
languages and cultures are in contact, and English is used as a means of
communication among people. Thus, it seems that the concept of
communicative competence, based on native speakers’ models and taken
as a reference to set the language learning objectives, may not be
adequate to develop plurilingual and pluricultural European citizens. In
this sense, Alptekin (2002) and Coperías (2002) also question the validity
of those pedagogical models whose focus is on native speaker
competence in the target language setting. According to Alptekin (2002),
the traditional notion of communicative competence, based on the native
speaker, is a utopian concept because inner, outer, and expanding circles
co-exist in a globalised globe, and if one of these varieties is preferred
over others this is done according to social values not according to
linguistic criteria. Besides, Coperías (2002) warns us about the
pedagogical consequences of accepting the native speaker model since it
means creating an impossible target to attain.
In our opinion, a hybridity hypothesis of English language use could
resolve some of the problems mentioned above. By a hybridity hypothesis
we mean accepting different types of English that have emerged around
the world, as well as the need to analyse the discourse constructed through
intercultural communication. In other words, as suggested by Sifakis
(2004) a new perspective that prioritises the nature of cross-cultural
comprehension rather than regularity patterns or standards is needed.
Firstly, this will imply a replacement of the native speaker as a reference
point by that of the mediator between cultures. Secondly, the same
components that are included in the pedagogical models of communicative
competence described above will be considered, but they will be
understood from a different point of view: That of the mediator. By doing
32 Alcón Soler
that, the focus of discourse analysis should also include the discourse of
those mediators who do not aim to become monolingual speakers but
plurilingual individuals, and whose level of communicative competence
may vary in their knowledge of languages. Thirdly, individuals’
knowledge of more than one language presents the challenge of analysing
how this knowledge is used in interaction with different patterns and in
different contexts. From this perspective, NNS’s performance does not
need to be measured by native speakers’ pragmatic norms, but by the
notion of language users’ expertise. This, in turn, will also allow language
teachers to present pedagogical models which take into account the notion
of communicative competence from a developmental perspective. Finally,
measuring language learning in relation to the concept of expertise must
result in setting realistic objectives for learners.
Similar to the growing acceptance of the native speaker model in
language curricula and the educational market (see Pennycook 1999),
English language learning has been influenced by insights on second
language acquisition (SLA), which is characterized by the acceptance of
American and British English models. We will illustrate it by referring to
research dealing with language learning through conversational
interaction. Since Hatch (1978) illustrated how learners’ participation in
conversations provided them with opportunities for language learning,
studies carried out within the interaction hypothesis to date have focused
on the nature of conversational interaction, whether or not opportunities
are present for the conditions and processes that are claimed to facilitate
learning, and the nature of the development that takes place. More recently
SLA research has focused on the role of interaction in instructed language
learning contexts in contrast to research on conversational interaction in
naturalistic settings (García Mayo and Alcón 2002). However, whenever
the conditions that are claimed to facilitate language learning are
examined, both in naturalistic and instructional settings, the reference has
been the native speaker. In this line, the input learners are exposed to, and
their output have been compared taking into account native speakers
norms of interaction, and all aspects of NNSs L1 (phonological,
grammatical or pragmatic features) are considered obstacles that may
hinder communication. The problem with this line of research is that it
seems to forget that the English language is owned by native and non-
native speakers alike, since according to Crystal (2003) it is the first
language chosen in communication between different non-native speakers
who manage to overcome potential misunderstanding in specific contexts.
From this perspective, and following Hatch’s hypothesis of language
learning through conversational interaction, the effect of conversational
interaction in naturalistic and instruction language learning seems to be
Linguistic Unity and Cultural Diversity in Europe 33
incomplete. From our point of view, there is also a need to account for
language learning in an educational globalised world where the English
language functions as a means of communication and makes it possible
that people with disparate historical and cultural trajectories meet and
interact with each other. Out of this interaction, our hybridity hypothesis of
language learning claims that opportunities for input, output, and feedback
will also take place in what Singh and Doherty (2004) call contact zones.
According to the authors, sites of internationalised education are the result
of, and in turn contribute to the cultural processes of globalisation, as well
as they create new educational contact zones. In our opinion, the challenge
of research on language education is to conduct research on those contact
zones where English is a language for communication and indirectly for
language learning. However, before generalizing the effect of interaction
in ELF contexts, it is necessary to carry out further descriptive studies with
the aim to compare conversational interaction in different ELF situations.
These situations, which are likely to differ from English native
speakers/non-native speakers’ conversation in naturalistic or instructional
settings, present new challenges for a research agenda on English in
Europe.
2.4 English in Europe: A Research Agenda
The use of English in Europe also presents new challenges for research on
English language use and learning. As far as research on the use of English
in Europe, there are a few studies that have focused on describing English
as a lingua franca by a range of L1 speakers at a phonological (Jenkins
1998, 2000), lexicogrammatical (Hollander 2002; Kordon 2003; Seidlhofer
2003) and pragmatic level (Firth 1996; House 1999, 2002a; Meierkord
2002; Lesznyák 2002, 2003, 2004). Jenkins’ (1998, 2000) research, on the
basis of interactions collected between L2 speakers of English has
provided core areas that cause intelligible pronunciation when English is
spoken in lingua franca context. In relation to the scant description
undertaken at the lexico-grammatical level, it seems that perceived
grammatical errors by language teachers do not seem to be an obstacle for
successful communication. However, certain vocabulary items or
idiomatic expressions cause misunderstanding, particularly when speakers
lack strategic competence to overcome it. Finally, some of the research
findings at the pragmatic level point out that there are few
misunderstandings and, if they occur, they are overcome by topic changes.
It is also reported that interference from L1 interactional norms is almost
absent, and ELF speakers lack pragmatic fluency such as gambits,
34 Alcón Soler
discourse strategies, appropriate routines, or appropriate uptaking (House
2002a, 2002b). Although much larger databases will be required before
generalizing the results on the use of English in Europe, the descriptive
studies mentioned above take a different perspective from the studies on
the use of English by native speakers. In other words, these studies
question the idea of the non-native speaker as a defective interlocutor and
open up the possibility of describing English as it is used in continental
Europe. Besides, since intercultural communication is a fact in the
European community, the attempt to describe the linguistic reality of
English as a lingua franca is justified. From this perspective, corpus based
descriptions of ELF provide an opportunity to move English language
analysis from native speakers’ perspective to that of the intercultural
speaker. The Vienna Oxford ELF Corpus (Seidlhofer 2004) and the
Hamburg project (House 2002b) are two attempts to further understand the
nature of ELF and to move beyond the native speaker as a model for
English language learning. However, further descriptive studies need to be
conducted on this line in order to answer the following questions:
- Is Euro English an international variety of ELF? If so, which are its
characteristics?
- Does L1 background influence the nature of ELF?
- Do features of ELF vary in a range of settings and domains?
- Do variables such as L1, participants’ roles and status influence the
nature of ELF interaction?
- Does consensus in lingua franca communication vary on interlocutors’
ability to handle communicative situations?
In relation to the changes that are taking place in teaching and learning
English as a lingua franca, it is worth mentioning that the aim of those
studies focussing on ELF is not to replicate NS language norms. As a matter
of fact, nobody would doubt that NNS need rules of language, but they also
need models of language use. In the latter case, descriptions of ELF offer
language teachers, similarly to the insights they got from analysing native
speakers discourse in a range of settings and modes, the possibility of raising
learners’ awareness of different NNS discourse and strategies, addressing
issues such as politeness, face threatening acts, and ways to mitigate them.
This, in turn, means combining comprehension in different situations and
with different NNS of English with training in intercultural communication.
In other words, as reported by Mckay (2002), the cross-cultural nature of the
use of English must be taken into account. In this sense, the teaching goals
in Europe should focus on the teaching of English as a language for
supranational communication, with an emphasis in intelligibility and on
Linguistic Unity and Cultural Diversity in Europe 35
textual and strategic competence, together with the teaching of national and
regional languages. By doing that, the notion of plurilingualism with English
will reinforce the idea that national and European identities are not
monolithic. Moreover, it will require finding a place for the teaching of
culture.
Following the idea that languages express cultures and thus languages
cannot be taught without knowledge of a target culture, English language
teaching used to combine the teaching of American or English culture
together with the teaching of English. However, with the spread of English
the question would be which culture to teach. In this context it seems more
adequate to follow Kramsch’s (1993: 205) notion of culture. According to
the author, culture is “a social construct, the product of self and others’
perceptions”. This view can also be explained from a hybridity theory of
culture. That is to say, culture is constructed by negotiating differences,
establishing a third sphere of interculturality among individuals who use
language in the interpersonal process of cultural construction. Informed by
this view of culture as a social construct, McKay (2002) outlines that
teaching is understood as an interpersonal process and teaching culture as
difference. The author also points out that knowing a culture does not
mean that one has an obligation to behave in accordance with the
conventions of that culture. In the same line, Byram (1988) makes a
distinction between biculturalism and interculturalism. While biculturalism
accepts the beliefs, values and practices of a particular culture,
interculturalism assumes knowledge of that culture. In this line, in our
opinion, there is a need to inform learners about particular cultures, rather
than encouraging them to accept particular cultural values and beliefs.
Additionally, there is also a need to include information about the
students’ own culture. In so doing, students can learn more about their
culture and acquire the English to explain their own culture to others.
As mentioned above English language is changing in its forms, uses, as
well as its teaching. However, before claiming the pedagogic relevance of
these changes, it might be wise to outline a research agenda from a SLA
perspective research. Firstly, further empirical research is needed on the
effect of training NNS in developing pragmatic fluency as well as textual
and strategic competence. Secondly, development studies are also required
to test the hypothesis that plurilingualism with English is not only possible
but it facilitates language learning. Thirdly, the study on conversational
interaction should move from addressing the effect of conversation
between NS-NNSs or NNS-NNS in instructed language settings, where
learners share the L1, to the effect of conversational interaction among
learners from different first language backgrounds in lingua franca settings.
Finally, an interesting issue would be to corroborate House’s (2003)
36 Alcón Soler
statement on the fact that consensus in Lingua franca talk feigns
misunderstanding. According to the input hypothesis (Krashen 1985), this
will be important to determine an indirect relationship between
comprehensible input and acquisition in ELF contexts. Similarly,
describing ELF output and type of feedback would allow us to determine if
the ELF context provides learners with input, output and feedback, that is
to say, if the theoretical conditions for language learning are provided in
the context of ELF.
2.5 Conclusion
In this paper it is acknowledged that the European Commission and the
Council of Europe have taken political initiatives to promote
multilingualism. To achieve that, the main objective of language education
is directed towards preparing European citizens to communicate in
different cultural and linguistic environments. However, in our opinion,
such objective will require to understand the European Union as a
multicultural zone, where language learning takes place by communicating
in other languages and with other cultures. In this sense, it is suggested that
the objective of language learning in a multilingual context should be
focus on developing plurilingual and intercultural competence, which
means promoting language diversity at the same time that the teaching of
English and through English are encouraged. Additionally, it is suggested
that research on English language use and under different conditions for
language learning is required in this European multicultural zone.
References
Alcón, E (2000) Desarrollo de la competencia discursiva oral en el aula de lenguas
extranjeras: Perspectivas metodológicas y de investigación. In: Muñoz C (ed) Segundas
Lenguas: Adquisición en el aula. Ariel Lingüística, Barcelona, pp 259–276
Alptekin C (2002) Towards intercultural communicative competence in ELT. ELT Journal
56: 57–64
Bachman LF (1990) Fundamental Considerations in Language Testing. Oxford University
Press, Oxford
Batstone R (1996) Grammar. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Breidbach S (2003) European communicative integration: The function of foreign language
teaching for the development of a European Public Sphere. In: Byram M, Grundy P (eds)
Context and Culture in Language Teaching and Learning. Multilingual Matters,
Clevedon, pp 81–91
Byram M (1988) Cultural identities in multilingual classrooms. In: Cenoz J, Genesee F
(eds) Beyond Bilingualism. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 96–116
Linguistic Unity and Cultural Diversity in Europe 37
Canale M (1983) From communicative competence to communicative language pedagogy.
In: Richards JC, Schmidt RW (eds) Language and Communication. Longman, London,
pp 2–27
Canale M, Swain M (1980) Theoretical bases of communicative approaches to second
language teaching and testing. Applied Linguistics 1: 1–47
Celce-Murcia M, Dörnyei Z, Thurrell S (1995) Communicative competence: A
pedagogically motivated model with content specifications. Issues in Applied Linguistics
6: 5–35
Cenoz J, Jessner U (2000) English in Europe. The Acquisition of a Third Language.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Coperías MJ (2002) Intercultural communicative competence: A step beyond
communicative competence. ELIA, Estudios de Lingüística Inglesa Aplicada 3: 85–102
Crystal D (1997) English as a Global Language. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge
Crystal D (2003) English as a Global Language, 2nd edn. Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge
Cumming A (1998) Theoretical perspectives on writing. Annual Review of Applied
Linguistics 18: 61–78
Edmondson W, House J (1981) Let’s talk and talk about it. A Pedagogic Interactional
Grammar of English. Urban and Schwarzenberg, München
Firth A (1996) The discursive accomplishment of normality. On lingua franca English and
conversation analysis. Journal of Pragmatics 26: 237–260
García Mayo MP, Alcón E (eds) (2002) International Journal of Educational Research.
Special Issue on the role of interaction in instructed language learning, 37
Grabe, W (2002) Teaching and Researching Reading. Pearson, Edinburgh
Gogolin I (2002) Linguistic and cultural diversity in Europe. European Educational
Research Journal 1(1): 123–138
Halliday MAK, Hasan R (1976) Cohesion in English. Longman, London
Hatch E (1978) Discourse analysis and second language acquisition. In: Hatch E (ed)
Second Language Acquisition. Newbury House, Rowley, MA, pp 401–435
Hoey M (1991) Patterns of Lexis in Discourse. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Hoffmann C (2000) The spread of English and the growth of multilingualism with English in
Europe. In: Cenoz J, Jessner U (eds) English in Europe. The Acquisition of a Third
Language. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 1–21
Hollander E (2002) Is ELF a Pidgin? A Corpus-based study of the Grammar of English as a
Lingua Franca. Unpublished MA thesis, University of Vienna
Holton R (2000) Globalization’s cultural consequences. Annals of the American Academy
570: 140–152
House J (1999) Misunderstanding in intercultural communication: Interactions in English
as a lingua franca and the myth of mutual intelligibility. In: Gnutzmann C (ed) Teaching
and Learning English as a Global Language. Stauffenburg, Tübingen, pp 73–93
House J (2002a) Developing pragmatic competence in English as a lingua franca. In: Knapp
K, Meirkord C (eds) Lingua Franca Communication. Peter Lang, Frankfurt am Main
House J (2002b) Communicating in English as a lingua franca. In: Foster-Cohen S,
Ruthenberg T, Poschen ML (eds) EUROSLA Yearbook 2, John Benjamins Publishing
Company, Amsterdam, Philadelphia, pp 243–261
House J (2003) English as a lingua franca: A threat to multilingualism? In: Coupland N (ed)
Thematic issue on Language and Globalisation. Journal of Sociolinguistics 7: 556–579
Hudson T (1998) Theoretical perspectives on reading. Annual Review of Applied
Linguistics 18: 43–60
Hughes R, McCarthy M (1998) From sentence to discourse: Discourse grammar and
English language teaching. TESOL Quarterly 32: 263–287
38 Alcón Soler
Hüllen W (1992) Identifikationssprachen und kommunikationssprachen. Zeitschrift für
Germanistische Linguistik 20: 298–317
Hyland K (2002) Teaching and Researching writing. Pearson, Edinburgh
Jenkins J (1998) Which pronunciation norms and models for English as an International
Language? ELT Journal 52: 119–126
Jenkins J (2000) A sociolinguistically based, empirically researched pronunciation syllabus
for English as an International Language. Applied Linguistics 23: 83–103
Kachru BB (1985) Standards, codification and sociolinguistic realism: The English
language in the outer circle. In: Quirk R, Widdowson HG (eds) English in the World.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, pp 11–36
Kachru BB (1992) Models for non-native Englishes. In: Kachru BB (ed) The Other
Tongue, 2nd edn. University of Illinois Press, Urbana, IL, pp 48–74
Kordon K (2003) Phatic Communion in English as a Lingua Franca. Unpublished MA
thesis, University of Vienna
Kramsch C (1993) Context and Culture in Language Teaching. Oxford University Press,
Oxford
Krashen S (1985) The Input Hypothesis: Issues and Implications. Longman, London
Lesznyák A (2002) From chaos to the smallest common denominator. Topic management
in English lingua franca communication. In: Knapp K, Meirkord C (eds) Lingua Franca
Communication. Peter Lang, Frankfurt am Main, pp 163–193
Lesznyák A (2003) Dynamism versus stability. Nonnative Speaker Discourse in a Lingua
Franca and a Foreign Language Context. Unpublished Ph.D dissertation. University of
Hamburg
Lesznyák A (2004) Communication in English as an international lingua franca: An
exploratory case study. Books on Demand, Norderstedt, Germany
Manchón RM (ed) (2001) Writing in the L2 classroom: Issues in research and pedagogy.
International Journal of English Studies, vol 1/2
McCarthy M (1990) Vocabulary. Oxford University Press, Oxford
McCarthy M, Carter R (1994) Language as Discourse: Perspectives for Language
Teaching. Longman, London
Mckay S L (2002) Teaching English as an International Language. Oxford University
Press, Oxford
Meierkord C (1996) Englisch als Medium der interkulturellen Kommunikation.
Untersuchungen zum non-native-/non-native speaker Diskurs. Lang, Frankfurt
Meierkord C (2002) “Language stripped bare” or “linguistic masala”? Culture in lingua
franca communication. In: Knapp K, Meirkord C (eds) Lingua Franca Communication.
Peter Lang, Frankfurt am Main, pp 109–133
Mühlhäusler P (1996) Linguistic ecology. Language Change and Linguistic Imperialism in
the Pacific Rim. Routledge, London
Pennycook A (1999) Pedagogical implications of different frameworks for understanding the
global spread of English. In: Gnutzmann C (ed) Teaching and Learning English as a Global
Language: Native and Non-native Perspectives. Narr, Tübingen, pp 147–155
Phillipson R (1992) Linguistic Imperialism. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Porter P, Vidovich L (2000) Globalisation and higher education policy. Educational Theory
50: 449–459
Raimes A (1998) Teaching writing. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics 18: 142–167
Seidlhofer B (2003, September) Lexicogrammar in ELF: Some findings from VOICE.
Paper presented at the colloquium Research into English as a lingua franca: The state of
the art. British Association of Applied Linguistics Conference, Leeds
Seidlhofer B (2004) Research perspectives in teaching English as a lingua franca. Annual
review of Applied Linguistics 24: 209–239
Linguistic Unity and Cultural Diversity in Europe 39
Sifakis N (2004) Teaching EIL- teaching international or intercultural English? What
teachers should know. System 32: 237–250
Singh P, Doherty C (2004) Global cultural flows and pedagogic dilemmas: teaching in the
global university contact zone. TESOL Quarterly 38: 9–42
Swales JM (1997) English as tyrannosaurus rex. World Englishes 16: 373–382
Tribble C (1996) Writing. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Wallace C (1992) Reading. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Wanger J, Firth A (1997) Communication strategies at work. In: Kasper G, Kellerman E
(eds) Communication Strategies. Longman, London, pp 323–344
Wenger E (1998) Communities of Practice. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge
Widdowson HG (1994) The ownership of English. TESOL Quarterly 28: 377–388
3
Rethinking the Role of Communicative Competence
Marianne Celce-Murcia
University of California, USA
3.1 Introduction
In the mid-1990s I had many discussions with colleagues concerning the
role of ‘communicative competence’ in language teaching and applied
linguistics. These discussions resulted in two publications (Celce-Murcia
et al. 1995; Celce-Murcia 1995). Then during the late 1990s I co-authored
a text on the role of discourse and context in language teaching (Celce-
Murcia and Olshtain 2000), which further influenced my thinking about
the role of communicative competence in language teaching. In this paper
I present a revised and updated model of communicative competence
which synthesizes and elaborates on my previous work and which further
explores the role that this model of communicative competence could play
in language teaching.
The term ‘communicative competence’ has been in circulation for about
forty years and has been used extensively in justifications and explications
of communicative language teaching. Thus before I discuss my revised
model in some detail, I would like to summarize briefly the evolution of
the term ‘communicative competence’ starting with its original source
(Hymes 1967, 1972) through the contributions of Canale and Swain
(1980), Canale (1983), and Celce-Murcia et al. (1995). There have been
other models proposed to represent constructs similar to ‘communicative
competence’ (e.g., the ‘language ability’ in Bachman (1990); Bachman
and Palmer (1996); however, these models have been developed with
language assessment in mind—rather than language teaching. For most
discussions of language pedagogy per se, the model proposed by Canale
and Swain (l980), along with the elaborations proposed by Canale (l983),
remain the key sources for discussions of communicative competence and
related applications in applied linguistics and language pedagogy.
in Language Teaching
E. Alcón Soler and M.P. Safont Jordà (eds.), Intercultural Language Use and Language Learning, 41–57.
41
© 2008
Springer Science+Business Media B.V.
42 Celce-Murcia
As mentioned above, ‘communicative competence’ is a term coined by
the anthropological linguist Dell Hymes (1967, 1972); he put forward this
notion in response to the theories of the formal linguist Noam Chomsky
(Chomsky 1957; 1965), who focused on linguistic competence and
claimed that any consideration of social factors was outside the domain of
linguistics. Hymes (1972) argued that in addition to linguistic competence
(the rules for describing sound systems and for combining sounds into
morphemes and morphemes into sentences), one also needed notions of
sociolinguistic competence (the rules for using language appropriately in
context) to account for language acquisition and language use. Hymes thus
argued that language structure and its acquisition were not context-free,
while Chomsky had claimed they were (i.e. that an innate language
mechanism was sufficient to account for first language acquisition).
At about that time applied linguists and language teachers were developing
the communicative approach to language teaching in reaction to grammar
translation and audiolingual approaches to language pedagogy. Many applied
linguists adopted Hymes’ terminology and perspective, and his notion of
communicative competence thus became part of the theoretical justification for
a new language teaching approach and new teaching materials that were
compatible with communication as the goal of second or foreign language
teaching.
Among the earliest applied linguists to develop and elaborate a model of
communicative competence that course designers and language teachers
could apply to teaching and assessment were Canale and Swain (1980), who
added strategic competence (i.e. the ability to compensate for problems or
deficits in communication and do various types of planning) to the linguistic
competence and sociolinguistic competence that Hymes (1972) had
proposed; however, they referred to ‘linguistic competence’ as ‘grammatical
competence’. A few years later, Canale (1983) added discourse competence
(the ability to produce and interpret language beyond the sentence level) to
the model.
In the mid nineties Celce-Murcia et al. (1995) proposed that actional
competence (the ability to comprehend and produce all significant speech
acts and speech act sets) should also be part of communicative competence.
These authors made two changes in terminology re: the Canale-Swain
model: (1) that sociolinguistic competence be modified to sociocultural
competence (the cultural background knowledge needed to interpret and use
a language effectively) and (2) that grammatical competence be re-labeled as
linguistic competence to explicitly include the sound system and the lexicon
as well as the grammar (i.e., morphology and syntax). This historical
development of the components included in the various models of
communicative competence is summarized in Figure 3.1:
Figure
3.1
Chronological
evolution
of
‘communicative
competence’
Chomsky
(1957,
1965)
Hymes
(1967,
1972)
Canale
and
Swain
(1980)
Canale
(1983)
Celce-Murcia
et
al.
(1995)
Linguistic
Competence
Linguistic
Competence
Grammatical
Competence
Grammatical
Competence
Linguistic
Competence
Sociolinguistic
Competence
Strategic
Competence
Strategic
Competence
Strategic
Competence
Sociolinguistic
Competence
Sociolinguistic
Competence
Sociolinguistic
Competence
Actional
Competence
Discourse
Competence
Discourse
Competence
One of the important contributions of Celce-Murcia et al. (1995) was to
specify that the various components of communicative competence were
interrelated and that it was important to properly describe the nature of
these interrelationships in order to fully understand the construct of
communicative competence. To this end they offered Figure 3.2 in their
1995 publication, which made the interrelationships explicit:
This 1995 model is a pyramid enclosing a circle, surrounded by another
circle. The circle inside the pyramid is discourse competence, the core or
central competence. The three points of the triangle are the top-down
sociocultural competence and the bottom-up linguistic competence and
actional competence. The arrows indicate that the various components are
constantly interacting with each other and the discourse component. This
construct thus placed the discourse component in a central position where
the lexico-grammatical resources, the actional organizing skills, and
the sociocultural context all come together and shape the discourse. The
circle surrounding the pyramid is strategic competence, an available
inventory of communicative, cognitive, and metacognitive strategies that
allow a skilled interlocutor to negotiate meanings, resolve ambiguities, and
to compensate for deficiencies in any of the other competencies.
DISCOURSE
COMPETENCE
LINGUISTIC
COMPETENCE
ACTIONAL
COMPETENCE
SOCIO-
CULTURAL
COMPETENCE
STRATEGIC
COMPETENCE
44 Celce-Murcia
Figure 3.2 Schematic representation of communicative competence in Celce-Murcia et al.
(1995: 10)
Rethinking the Role of Communicative Competence 45
While this model and the content specifications provided by Celce-
Murcia et al. (1995) were a step forward with respect to Canale and Swain
(1980) and Canale (1983), there were still some perceived gaps that Celce-
Murcia tried to fill later during the same year (Celce-Murcia 1995) in an
attempt to give a more central role to formulaic language (as opposed to
language as system) and to the paralinguistic aspects of face-to-face oral
communication.
3.2 A Proposed Revision of the 1995 Models
DISCOURSE
COMPETENCE
SOCIO-
CULTURAL
COMPETENCE
INTERACTIONAL
COMPETENCE
FORMULAIC
COMPETENCE
STRATEGIC
COMPETENCE
LINGUISTIC
COMPETENCE
Figure 3.3 Revised schematic representation of ‘communicative competence’
With ten years’ hindsight and with the benefit of co-authoring a teachers’
handbook on the role of discourse and context in language teaching in
the interim (Celce-Murcia and Olshtain 2000), I now propose the
following model (Figure 3.3) to describe communicative competence for
language teachers (this model draws heavily on both Celce-Murcia
et al. (1995) and Celce-Murcia (1995):
46 Celce-Murcia
3.2.1 Sociocultural Competence
This most recent model maintains the top-down role of sociocultural
competence. Sociocultural competence refers to the speaker’s pragmatic
knowledge, i.e. how to express messages appropriately within the overall
social and cultural context of communication. This includes knowledge of
language variation with reference to sociocultural norms of the target
language. In fact a social or cultural blunder can be far more serious than
a linguistic error when one is engaged in oral communication. The
pedagogical challenge lies in the fact that second and foreign language
teachers typically have far greater awareness and knowledge of linguistic
rules than they do of the sociocultural behaviors and expectations that
accompany use of the target language. Even when good cultural
descriptions are available, it is hard to get learners to change their native
verbal behavior based on a new set of assumptions.
Celce-Murcia et al. (1995: 23–24) describe several sociocultural
variables, three of which are most crucial in terms of the current model.
- social contextual factors: the participants’ age, gender, status, social
distance and their relations to each other re: power and affect.
- stylistic appropriateness: politeness strategies, a sense of genres and
registers.
- cultural factors: background knowledge of the target language group,
major dialects/regional differences, and cross cultural awareness.
The above competencies can be acquired in part through some knowledge of
the life and traditions as well as knowledge of the history and literature of the
target language community. An extended living experience among members
of the target language group is probably the best experience for language
acquisition if the learner has adequate basic preparation in both linguistic and
sociocultural competence coupled with good powers of observation.
3.2.2 Discourse Competence
The proposed model also maintains the central role of discourse
competence in any construct of communicative competence. Discourse
competence refers to the selection, sequencing, and arrangement of words,
structures, and utterances to achieve a unified spoken message. This is
where the top-down communicative intent and sociocultural knowledge
intersect with the lexical and grammatical resources to express messages
and attitudes and to create coherent texts. Celce-Murcia et al. (1995: 13–15)
describe several sub-areas of discourse competence, four of which are most
important with regard to the current model:
Rethinking the Role of Communicative Competence 47
- cohesion: conventions regarding use of reference
(anaphora/cataphora), substitution/ ellipsis, conjunction, and lexical
chains (i.e. Halliday and Hasan l976).
- deixis: situational grounding achieved through use of personal
pronouns, spatial terms (here/there; this/that), temporal terms
(now/then; before/after), and textual reference (e.g. the following
table, the figure above).
- coherence: expressing purpose/intent through appropriate content
schemata, managing old and new information, maintaining temporal
continuity and other organizational schemata through conventionally
recognized means.
- generic structure: formal schemata that allow the user to identify an
oral discourse segment as a conversation, narrative, interview, service
encounter, report, lecture, sermon, etc.
3.2.3 Linguistic Competence
The left and right triangles of Figure 3.3 refer to linguistic competence and
formulaic competence. This distinction is important and will be discussed
further as both components are described. Linguistic competence includes
four types of knowledge:
- phonological: includes both segmentals (vowels, consonants, syllable
types) and suprasegmentals (prominence/stress, intonation, and rhythm).
- lexical: knowledge of both content words (nouns, verbs, adjectives)
and unction words (pronouns, determiners, prepositions, verbal
auxiliaries, etc.).
- morphological: parts of speech, grammatical inflections, productive
derivational processes.
- syntactic: constituent/phrase structure, word order (both canonical and
marked), basic sentence types, modification, coordination,
subordination, embedding.
3.2.4 Formulaic Competence
Formulaic competence is the counterbalance to linguistic competence.
Linguistic competence entails the recursive, open-ended systems listed
above. Formulaic competence refers to those fixed and prefabricated
chunks of language that speakers use heavily in everyday interactions. It
had been largely ignored prior to seminal work by Pawley and Syder
48 Celce-Murcia
(l983), Pawley (1992), and Nattinger and DeCarrico (l992), whose work
brought this domain to general attention.
- routines: fixed phrases like of course, all of a sudden and formulaic
chunks like How do you do? I’m fine, thanks; how are you?
- collocations: verb-object: spend money, play the piano adverb-
adjective: statistically significant, mutually intelligible adjective-noun:
tall building, legible handwriting
- idioms: e.g., to kick the bucket = to die; to get the ax = to be
fired/terminated
- lexical frames: e.g., I’m looking for ______________. See you
(later/tomorrow/ next week, etc)
Formulaic competence has grown in importance; it is now acknowledged
that fluent speakers of a language draw on formulaic knowledge of the
target language as often as they use systematic linguistic knowledge (Hunston,
2002). Much language pedagogy has yet to catch up with this fact.
3.2.5 Interactional Competence
The bottom-up counterpart to the more global top-down socio-cultural
competence is the hands-on component of interactional competence.
Interactional competence has at least three sub-components relevant to the
current model:
- actional competence: knowledge of how to perform common speech
acts and speech act sets in the target language involving interactions
such as information exchanges, interpersonal exchanges, expression of
opinions and feelings, problems (complaining, blaming, regretting,
apologizing, etc.), future scenarios (hopes, goals, promises,
predictions, etc.) See Celce-Murcia et al. (l995) for more detailed
information regarding actional competence.
- conversational competence: inherent to the turn-taking system in
conversation described by Sachs et al. (l974) but may be extendable to
other dialogic genres:
¾ how to open and close conversations
¾ how to establish and change topics
¾ how to get, hold, and relinquish the floor
¾ how to interrupt
¾ how to collaborate and backchannel, etc.
Rethinking the Role of Communicative Competence 49
- non-verbal/paralinguistic competence includes:
¾ kinesics (body language), non-verbal turn-taking signals, backchannel
behaviors, gestures, affect markers, eye contact.
¾ proxemics (use of space by interlocutors)
¾ haptic behavior (touching)
¾ non-linguistic utterances with interactional import (e.g. ahhh!
Uh-oh. Huh?) the role of silence and pauses
Interactional competence is extremely important; the typical performance
of speech acts and speech act sets can differ in important ways from
language to language, as Tamanaha (2002) has demonstrated for
Japanese and English. It is important, for example, for second and
foreign language learners to understand how to manage social
introductions, how to complain, how to apologize, and so forth (see
Alcón this volume), if they are going to achieve communicative
competence in the target language. However, such actional competence
must mesh with the more general rules of conversational competence
related to the turn-taking system in the target language. Languages also
differ on how they open and close conversations and on other
conversational conventions: Can speakers interrupt each other? If so,
how is this done? Can speakers overlap (i.e., talk simultaneously)?
Should speakers backchannel? If so, how often? How long should
pauses last? Normal conversational practice in one culture is often
construed as rude behavior in another. Thus awareness of the
conversational norms of the target language community and of the
important differences between the L1 and L2 norms is very important for
conversational competence.
The nonverbal or paralinguistic aspects of oral interaction are also
crucial and are rarely treated in the language classroom. These
conventions can overlap with those for conversational turn-taking; for
example, an English speaker’s body movements, in breaths, and eye
contact can result in a conversational turn for the person displaying such
non-verbal signals. Other relevant issues to address in this domain are:
What is the normal physical space between speakers? Can speakers touch
each other? Do speakers make and sustain direct eye contact with each
other? Do speakers greet each other with a bow, a hand-shake, a hug, a
kiss on one or both cheeks, or in some other way? What do speakers do
when taking leave? These questions raise important issues in intercultural
communication yet they are seldom adequately addressed in traditional
language courses.
50 Celce-Murcia
3.2.6 Strategic Competence
According to Oxford (2001: 362), strategies for language learning and use
are “specific behaviors or thought processes that students use to enhance
their own L2 learning.” Such behaviors are either (1) learning strategies or
(2) communication strategies. We know that learners who can make
effective use of strategies (i.e. who have strategic competence) tend to
learn languages better and faster than those who are strategically inept.
Of Oxford’s learning strategies, three are most important for our
purposes:
- cognitive: these are strategies making use of logic and analysis to help
oneself learn a new language through outlining, summarizing,
notetaking, organizing and reviewing material, etc.
- metacognitive: these strategies involve planning one’s learning by
making time for homework or for preparation, and engaging in self-
evaluation of one’s success on a given task or on one’s overall
progress. This is achieved in part by monitoring and noting one’s
errors, learning from teacher and peer feedback, etc. Compensating for
missing or partial knowledge by guessing the meanings of words from
context or the grammatical function of words from formal clues are
also aspect of metacognition.
- memory-related: these are strategies that help learners recall or retrieve
words through the use of acronyms, images, sounds (rhymes), or other
clues.
The other crucial strategies, which are the ones we highlighted in Celce-
Murcia et al. 1995: 26–29), are communication strategies; they include the
following:
- achievement: strategies of approximation, circumlocution, code-
switching, miming, etc.
- stalling or time gaining: using phrases like Where was I? Could you
repeat that?
- self-monitoring: using phrases that allow for self repair like I mean….
- interacting: these are strategies that include appeals for
help/clarification, that involve meaning negotiation, or that involve
comprehension and confirmation checks, etc.
- social: these strategies involve seeking out native speakers to practice
with, actively looking for opportunities to use the target language.
Rethinking the Role of Communicative Competence 51
3.3 What the Model Implies for Language Pedagogy
Assuming that the revised model proposed above is comprehensive and
accurate, it suggests a number of principles for the design and
implementation of language courses that aim at giving learners the
knowledge and skills they need to be linguistically and culturally
competent in a second or foreign language.
3.3.1 The Importance of Culture
If the goal of language instruction is communicative competence, language
instruction must be integrated with cultural and cross-cultural instruction.
General knowledge of the literature and other arts that are integral to the
target culture should be part of language instruction as should basic
knowledge of the history and geography associated with the target
language community. The social structure of the culture should also be
covered (e.g. family, kinship relations, child-rearing, courtship and
marriage, gender roles) especially if the target culture differs in important
ways from the learner’s culture. Political and educational systems should
be introduced as should the major religion(s) and holidays, celebrations,
and important customs. These topics can all serve as content for language
instruction—with special focus on areas of cultural and interactional
difference. Brinton et al. (2003), among others, have shown that teaching
language through content is one of the most effective means available for
achieving communicative competence in a second or foreign language.
3.3.2 The Importance of Discourse and Context
Much foreign language instruction is still done with word lists to be
memorized and sentence patterns to be practiced using meaningless
exercises and drills. In contrast, current cutting-edge pedagogy (Celce-
Murcia and Olshtain 2000) argues that language instructors should use
materials that are well contextualized and meaningful to learners. In
addition, the learning objectives should be grounded in some type of real-
world discourse: a story, a dialogue/conversation, a cartoon strip with
accompanying language, a radio broadcast, a video/film clip, an e-mail
message, a letter, a recipe, etc. The goal should be for learners to interpret
and produce meaningful discourse yet also to practice the phonological
features, words, formulas, and grammatical structures that are salient in the
discourse providing the content. If the discourse and content selected for
52 Celce-Murcia
language instruction are accurate and authentic with respect to the target
language and culture, then criticisms of artificiality can be avoided and
language learning has the potential to become a genuine exercise in
communication. Of course, the social contexts that are simulated in
learning activities must also be realistic, and the learning activities should
include authentic tasks.
3.3.3 The Need to Balance Language as System and Language
as Formula
Traditionally, language instruction has focused on language as system and
learners have tried to master the grammar and pronunciation of the target
language. However, a communicative focus, which includes mastery of
systems such as conversational turn-taking and speech-act sets means that
many set phrases and other formulaic elements of language use also need
attention. Generally, for each social move or function, there is a stock of
potential utterances; speakers must know enough about their interlocutors
to choose appropriately from among these stock utterances. Many of the
notional-functional language syllabuses (for example van Ek and Trim
1991) have attempted to provide inventories of such stock expressions; the
learner’s task is to choose from such a stock those words/phrases most
appropriate for a given situation.
The pedagogical challenge is to maintain a balance: mastering only
vocabulary and stock phrases for speech acts without appropriate
knowledge of and focus on grammar and pronunciation will result in fluent
but inaccurate and therefore limited oral competence. Mastering only
grammar and phonology results in linguistically accurate but socially
dysfunctional oral communication. Thus the systematic, formulaic, and
interactional aspects of language must all be addressed in effective
language instruction.
3.3.4 The Need to Focus on Dynamic Aspects of Interaction
There is no way that the traditional teacher-fronted language classroom
can help learners practice the dynamic nature of genuine interaction in
their target language. The rhythm and intonation, the body and eye
movements, and other aspects of face-to-face communication must be
practiced in pairs and small groups. Teachers and learners need to have
access to videotapes or film clips that realistically demonstrate
interlocutors’ total behavior (not just speech) during oral communication.
Rethinking the Role of Communicative Competence 53
Such videotapes or film clips can be used in many ways to sensitize
learners to target language use:
- watch the segment without sound to observe, describe, and imitate
non-verbal behaviors;
- listen to the segment (sound only) to focus on the language: rhythm,
intonation, pitch, timing, and volume—as well as grammar and
vocabulary;
- watch and listen to the intact segment several times in order to role-
play the segment or to perform a similar interaction.
Finally, teachers should videotape learner performances so the learners can
observe themselves and see where they need to improve (feedback from
teacher and peers is very useful here as well).
3.3.5 The Need to Focus on Strategies From Time to Time
Oxford (2001) cites a wide array of research indicating that learners who
make effective use of a range of language strategies learn more and learn
faster than learners who do not use a variety of language learning strategies.
Thus teachers should regularly integrate some strategy training and some
discussion of strategies into their language classes. When teaching
vocabulary, ways to memorize words and phrases can be covered. When
working with a reading passage, ways of guessing the meaning of words in
context can be discussed. The best students can explain to others what they
are doing to master the language. There are now many published articles and
handbooks for language teachers on how to integrate strategy instruction
into their teaching (for example Rubin 1975; Oxford 1990; and Cohen 1998;
to mention just a few).
Given the five principles above, what might a language lesson look like
if it tried to use these principles as guidelines? The sample lesson outline
that follows provides one such example.
3.3.6 A Sample Lesson Outline
¾ General topic: raising awareness of cross-cultural problems with
gestures.
¾ Content focus: the American “OK” sign (i.e. thumb and index finger
forming a circle with the other 3 fingers up and the palm open toward
interlocutor(s)).
54 Celce-Murcia
¾ Grammatical focus: use of should/shouldn’t in giving and getting
advice (i.e. statements and questions).
¾ Lexical focus: any new vocabulary in the recorded discourse/text; this
depends on the learners but a likely candidate here is obscene; also any
new phrases the learners might need to do the activities should be
discussed and practiced.
¾ Material/text: “Gestures around the world” (text adapted from Jill
Korey O’Sullivan (to appear) ideally on videotape with the speaker
demonstrating the gesture). Gestures have different meanings in
different countries. For example, the American ‘OK’ sign is a common
gesture in the United States; it signals that things are okay or that
something specific is okay. But you shouldn’t use it in most other
countries. The gesture is rude or obscene in Russia, in many Latin
American countries, and in most of the Middle East. In Japan it means
‘money’. In France it means ‘zero’.
¾ Activities: Comprehension check: students match meanings of the
gesture with countries/regions.
¾ Presentation: replay tape and practice any new vocabulary; review
how to ask for and give advice using should/shouldn’t in questions and
answers.
¾ Role-Play 1: students work in pairs pretending they are Americans; the
objective is to use the ‘OK’ gesture appropriately in a short exchange,
e.g.:
- A: Can you come to dinner party at our place on Saturday?
- B: Yes, great! (making ‘OK’ sign). What should/can I bring?
¾ Role-Play 2: students work in small groups to prepare a conflict role-
play where an American uses the OK gesture inappropriately in
country X, and some friends there give him/her advice with You
should…./You shouldn’t… The American asks for advice at least once
using Should I…..? (If possible, both role-plays should be videotaped
and played back for feedback sessions.)
¾ Discussion: Teacher leads class in a discussion of other gestures that
can differ from culture to culture, e.g. pointing, indicating ‘yes’ or ‘no’
with head movements, etc.
3.4 Conclusion
The model and the sample lesson outline presented in this paper indicate
that the content of a language course with communicative competence as
Rethinking the Role of Communicative Competence 55
its objective should be drawn from linguistics, cultural anthropology,
sociolinguistics, and other relevant areas of the social sciences and
humanities. All discrete learning objectives such as a sound, a word, or a
grammatical structure should be presented through richly contextualized
discourse that addresses the content objectives in a context that is
meaningful to the learners. Teaching materials must be learner-centered
and allow for communication while learning tasks need to be interactive
whenever possible (pair work, group work, role play, etc.).
Some examples of tasks and activities designed to encourage interaction
are:
- eliciting information or opinion via a telephone call (a mock call if
necessary) or an e-mail message in the target language;
- getting information by interviewing someone or surveying a group of
people in the target language (using one’s classmates and teacher, if
necessary);
- summarizing the gist of a discourse segment with a partner;
- role-playing a speech act set (e.g. apologizing for losing a book your
friend lent you), perhaps developing a script for acting out the
situation in class.
- developing/writing an advertisement (as a group task) to sell a given
product in the target language; this should be done after a sample of
authentic target-language ads have been examined and discussed.
- writing and publishing a class newsletter on cultural differences
between the target language community and the first-language
community; research would be done with presentation of oral and
written drafts of reports/essays followed by feedback and revision
prior to publication.
The proposed model obviously has its limitations. The model should be
dynamic, but in its present form, it looks static. I ask the reader to imagine
an organic version of the model where each component can expand or
contract depending on the pedagogical objectives and the needs of the
learner. This means that the application of the model is relative rather than
absolute. McGroarty (1984) rightly points out that ‘communicative
competence’ can have different meanings depending on the target learners
and on the pedagogical objectives in any given context. In the course of a
thorough needs analysis and the curriculum development process, a model
such as the one proposed should be adapted to the communicative needs of
the learners. This, for example, is what Hoekje and Williams (1992) did
when they applied the Canale and Swain (1980) framework to the
development of their oral skills course for international teaching assistants
56 Celce-Murcia
at a university in the US. Despite the problems they encountered and the
modifications they had to make, they concluded that the Canale and Swain
framework had provided an integrated and principled basis for designing
their language course. I hope that the up-dated model of ‘communicative
competence’ presented in this paper can serve a similar purpose for
teachers who are developing language courses for intercultural speakers.
References
Bachman L (1990) Fundamental Considerations in Language Testing. Oxford University
Press, Oxford
Bachman L, Palmer A (1996) Language Testing in Practice: Designing and Developing
useful Language Tests. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Brinton D, Snow MA, Wesche M (2003) Content-based Second Language Instruction.
Michigan classics edition. University of Michigan Press, Ann Arbor
Canale, M (l983) From communicative competence to communicative language pedagogy.
In: Richards J, Schmidt R (eds) Language and Communication. Longman, London,
pp 2–27
Canale M, Swain M (l980) Theoretical bases of communicative approaches to Second
language teaching and testing. Applied Linguistics 1(1): 1–48
Celce-Murcia M (l995) The elaboration of sociolinguistic competence: Implications for
teacher education. In: Alatis JE, Straehle CA, Ronkin M (eds) Linguistics and the
Education of Language Teachers: Ethnolinguistic, Psycholinguistic, and Sociolinguistic
Aspects. Proceedings of the Georgetown University, Round Table on Languages and
Linguistics, 2005. Georgetown University Press, Washington DC, pp 699–710
Celce-Murcia M, Dörnyei Z, Thurrell S (1995) A pedagogical framework for
communicative competence: A Pedagogically motivated model with content
specifications. Issues in Applied Linguistics 6(2): 5–35
Celce-Murcia M, Olshtain E (2000) Discourse and Context in Language Teaching.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge
Chomsky N (l957) Syntactic Structures. Mouton, The Hague
Chomsky N (l965) Aspects of the Theory of Syntax. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA
Cohen AD (1998) Strategies in Learning and using a Second Language. Longman, Essex
Halliday MAK, Hasan R (l976) Cohesion in English. Longman, London
Hoekje B, Williams J (l992) Communicative competence and the dilemma of international
teaching assistant education. TESOL Quarterly 26: 243–269
Hunston S (2002) Pattern grammar, language teaching, and linguistic variation. In: Reppen
R, Fitzmaurice S, Biber D (eds) Using Corpora to Explore Linguistic Variation. John
Benjamins, Amsterdam, pp 167–186.
Hymes D (l967) Models of the interaction of language and social setting. Journal of Social
Issues 23(2): 8–38
Hymes D (l972) On communicative competence. In: Pride JB, Holmes J (eds)
Sociolinguistics: Selected Readings. Penguin, Harmondsworth, pp 269–293
McGroarty M (l984) Some meanings of communicative competence for second Language
students. TESOL Quarterly 18: 257–272
Nattinger JR, DeCarrico J (l992) Lexical Phrases and Language Teaching. Oxford
University Press, Oxford
Rethinking the Role of Communicative Competence 57
Oxford R (1990) Language Learning Strategies: What every Teacher should know. Heinle
& Heinle, Boston, MA
Oxford R (2001) Language learning styles and strategies. In: Celce-Murcia M (ed)
Teaching English as a Second or Foreign Language. Heinle & Heinle, Boston, MA, pp
359–366
Pawley A (1992) Formulaic speech. In: Bright W (ed) International Encyclopedia of
Linguistics, vol 2. Oxford University Press, New York
Pawley A, Syder FH (l983) Two puzzles for linguistic theory: Nativelike selection and
nativelike fluency. In: Richards JC, Schmidt RW (eds) Language and Communication.
Longman, London, pp 191–227
Rubin J (l975) What the “good language learner” can teach us. TESOL Quarterly 9(1): 41–51
Sachs H, Schegloff E, Jefferson G (l974) A simplest systematics for the organization of
turn-taking for conversation. Language 50(4): 696–753
Tamanaha M (2002) Interlanguage speech act realization of apologies and complaints: The
performances of Japanese L2 speakers in comparison with Japanese L1 and English L1
speakers. Unpublished Ph.D. dissertation in Applied Linguistics. University of
California, Los Angeles
Van Ek JA, Trim JLM (l991) Threshold Level 1990. Council of Europe Press, Strasbourg
O’Sullivan JK (2007) Grammar Connection: Structure through Content. Book1 Boston:
Thomson Heinle
4
Dealing with Intercultural Communicative
Competence in the Foreign Language Classroom
Maria José Coperías Aguilar
Universitat de València, Spain
4.1 Communicative Competence and the Native Speaker
In the 1970s Hymes (1972) introduced the concept of communicative compet-
der to understand first language
acquisition, it was necessary to take into account not only how
grammatical competence but also the ability to use language appropriately
were acquired, thus placing emphasis on sociolinguistic competence
among native speakers. This idea was taken up by Canale and Swain
(1980) in North America and Van Ek (1986) in Europe, who applied it to
foreign language acquisition and turned it into a fundamental concept in
the development of communicative language teaching. The aim of
communicative methodology was to acquire the necessary skills to
communicate in socially and culturally appropriate ways, and, in the
learning process, focus was placed on functions, role playing and real
situations, among other aspects.
Canale and Swain (1980) proposed that communicative competence was
minimally composed of grammatical, sociolinguistic and strategic
competence (1980: 27–31):
- Grammatical competence includes the knowledge of lexical items and
rules of morphology, syntax, sentence grammar semantics, and
phonology.
- Sociolinguistic competence is made up of two different sets of rules:
sociocultural and discourse. The former focuses on the extent to which
certain propositions and communicative functions are appropriate within
a given sociocultural context, and the extent to which appropriate
attitude and register or style are conveyed by a particular grammatical
form within a given sociocultural context. Rules of discourse are
concerned with cohesion and coherence of groups of utterances.
ence (CC) when he argued that, in or
E. Alcón Soler and M.P. Safont Jordà (eds.), Intercultural Language Use and Language Learning, 59–78.
59
© 2008
Springer Science+Business Media B.V.
60
- Finally, strategic competence is made up of verbal and nonverbal
communication strategies that the speaker may resort to when
breakdowns in communication take place due to performance variables
or to insufficient competence. These strategies may relate to
grammatical competence (how to paraphrase, how to simplify, etc.) or
to sociolinguistic competence (for instance, how to address strangers
when unsure of their social status).
At the same time, they insisted on the need to establish communicative
interaction with “highly competent speakers” of the language so that
learners would be able to respond to genuine communicative needs in
realistic second language situations. On the other hand, they also proposed
that learners should be taught about the second language culture in order to
provide them with the sociocultural knowledge of the second language
necessary to infer the social meanings or values of utterances.
A few years later, Van Ek (1986) suggested that foreign language (FL)
teaching was not concerned merely with training in communication skills
but should also involve the personal and social development of the learner as
an individual, and, therefore, he presented a framework for comprehensive
FL objectives which included aspects such as social competence, the
promotion of autonomy or the development of social responsibility (1986:
33–65), quoted by Byram (1997: 9). The model he presented contemplated
six dimensions of CC, each of them called competence also. In fact, they are
six points of view of a complex phenomenon, which overlap and are
mutually dependent:
- Linguistic competence: The ability to produce and interpret meaningful
utterances which are formed in accordance with the rules of the
language concerned and bear their conventional meaning ... that
meaning which native speakers would normally attach to an utterance
when used in isolation.
- Sociolinguistic competence: The awareness of ways in which the
choice of language forms ... is determined by such conditions as
setting, relationship between communication partners, communicative
intention, etc. ... [this] competence covers the relation between
linguistic signals and their contextual –or situational– meaning.
- Discourse competence: The ability to use appropriate strategies in the
construction and interpretation of texts.
- Strategic competence: When communication is difficult we have to
find ways of ‘getting our meaning across’ or ‘finding out what
somebody means’; these are communication strategies, such as
rephrasing, asking for clarification.
Coperías Aguilar
Dealing with Intercultural Communicative Competence 61
- Sociocultural competence: Every language is situated in a
sociocultural context and implies the use of a particular reference
frame which is partly different from that of the foreign language
learner; socio-cultural competence presupposes a certain degree of
familiarity with that context.
- Social competence: Involves both the will and the skill to interact with
others, involving motivation, attitude, self confidence, empathy and
the ability to handle social situations.
Both proposals are very similar except for the incorporation by Van Ek
(1986) of two1
more points of view, sociocultural and social competence,
which take into account values and beliefs, on the one hand, and attitudes
and behaviours, on the other.
The native speaker (NS) as a model is implicit in both the linguistic and
the sociolinguistic competences and the idea that the language presented in
the classroom should be as authentic as possible, so as to represent the
reality of NS language use, has been one of the tenets of the
communicative approach (Alptekin 2002: 61). Even as regards
sociocultural competence, the tendency is to consider the learner as an
imperfect NS, who does not manage to assume the appropriate body
language, intonation or even life view. This dependency on the NS has
been precisely one of the reasons given by several authors to challenge the
concept of CC. The problem with taking the NS as a model is that he
becomes an impossible target for the learner, who will inevitably end up
frustrated. As Cook (1999) has put it, “the prominence of the native
speaker in language teaching has obscured the distinctive nature of the
successful L2 user and created an unattainable goal for L2 learners” (1999:
185). Even in the case that the learner should manage to acquire this
degree of perfection, it might not be the correct kind of competence as it
would mean that the learner has to abandon one language in order to blend
into another linguistic environment, thus becoming linguistically
schizophrenic (Byram 1997: 11). It also means that the learner’s native
language is completely left aside in the process of learning an FL, when it
could be usefully introduced to give confidence to the student and trigger
interest in some topics or aspects to be dealt with in the classroom.
Although, as we have said above, Canale and Swain (1980) hinted at the
idea of supplementing the students’ instruction with a smattering of the
culture attached to the language being learnt in order to provide them with
the necessary background to infer social meanings, the fact is that
communicative methodology is focused on functional uses of language and
the mere acquisition of communication skills. After some years of
communicative euphoria, though, some teachers felt the need to introduce
62
a humanistic and a cultural approach to the teaching of an FL (Aarup
Jensen 1995: 30; Kramsch 1995: 83). However, in agreement with the idea
of the NS as a model for the linguistic and sociolinguistic competence, the
cultural aspects usually taken into account are also those of the target
language, leaving the learner’s own culture in a peripheral position or even
completely ignored (Alptekin 2002: 62), a shortcoming –along with the
need to introduce emotional aspects, which are so important in the contact
with a foreign language– that has also been pointed out by other authors
(Oliveras Vilaseca 2000: 34).
4.2 The Intercultural Speaker
We should not forget, though, that on growing up we are all subject to
socialization, that is to say, the process of acquiring adult roles,
internalizing the beliefs and values of a specific society or group.
Socialization is therefore clearly linked to cultural transmission and it
mostly takes place through the medium of language; at the same time, we
are also socialized into ways of using language (Cortazzi 1990: 56–57).
This means we have acquired certain frameworks of assumptions, ideas
and beliefs that we use to interpret other people’s behaviour and where
most of our experiences fit. We are so familiar with our own culture that
we do not even realize it is there and, inevitably, it influences our
expectations when we establish contact with people belonging to a
different culture. This is even more so when it comes to the learning of an
FL, where a process of acculturation2
takes place, leading learners to
acquire new cultural frames of reference and probably a new world view in
agreement with those of the target culture. Most often, the learners’
cultural experience will influence their expectations of the second
language and culture as well as the learning process. Driven by
ethnocentrism, we tend to take as “normal” what we know, what we are
familiar with, and when confronted with new situations we may lose
footing. The clash of the two cultures, the learner’s own and the one
related to the language to be acquired, may range from total acceptance or
assimilation to complete rejection. Students may freely accept the new
frames of reference or even be already familiar with them if we speak
about a language like English and the global cultural domination attached
to it by means of the media (basically cinema, music and advertising). On
the other hand, they may have developed some stereotypes about the new
culture which prevent acceptance or even provoke rejection of the new
culture and maybe the language.
Coperías Aguilar
Dealing with Intercultural Communicative Competence 63
At the same time, it has usually been thought that the aim of learning an
FL was to be able to communicate with its NSs or to become familiar with
some aspects of its culture, for instance, literature but, as experience
shows, this is not necessarily the case. Regarding language, we may find
several communicative situations: participants with different languages
and nationalities where only one of them is an NS; participants with
different languages and nationalities where neither of them is an NS, as
they are using a specific language as a lingua franca; and even participants
with the same nationality but different mother tongues where only one of
them is an NS of the language used (Byram 1997: 22). As for culture, in
our present world learners of an FL will find themselves more and more
often in situations where they have to understand the relationships between
different cultures and will have to make sense of different behaviours and
attitudes, they will have to become mediators trying to interpret and
connect two or several ways of understanding the world (Byram 1995: 54).
And this is so because we are living in a complex world with new
requirements concerning linguistic and cultural qualifications in people:
we have to be able to deal with this complexity, both productively and
receptively, at local level or in a micro-context –home, the work place or
school– and also in global situations or macro-contexts –international
meetings or the Internet (Risager 2000: 15; Jæger 2001: 54). Such learners
need to function fully in a situation where at least two languages and two
cultures, their own and another one, interplay and they may find
themselves in a no-man’s-land or, more exactly, in a “third place” from
which they must understand and mediate between the home and the target
language and culture (Kramsch 1993: 233–259). Learners have to become
mediators who have the ability to manage communication and interaction
between people of different cultural identities and languages, coming out
from their own perspective and taking up another, able to handle different
interpretations of reality, persons who have a privileged position between
the home and the target culture, that is to say, learners must become
intercultural speakers (IS).
Consequently, the NS as a reference point for the FL learner should be
replaced by the IS, as was already proposed by Byram and Zarate in 1994.
It is true that an IS will most probably be less skilled than an NS regarding
the mastery of the language3
. But it is also true that the former is at a
privileged vantage point regarding communication abilities and interaction
with people from other cultures and with other languages. Replacing the
NS with the IS, though, should not be understood as lowering the
standards of achievement expected of the FL learner (Steele 1996: 77). It
seems that the IS is in a more relaxed position since it is now allowed to
retain one’s social, linguistic and cultural baggage; however, the IS is a
64
dynamic concept with no specific goal or limits and the learner must
always be ready to acquire more knowledge and more abilities (Jæger
2001: 53).
4.3 Intercultural Communicative Competence in the Foreign
Language Classroom
If the NS is no longer suitable as a model for the FL learner, CC is probably
not the most appropriate approach either. According to Byram (1997),
when persons from different languages and/or countries interact socially
they bring to the situation their knowledge about their own country and that
of the others’. Part of the success of such interaction will depend on the
establishing and maintenance of human relationships, something which
depends on attitudinal factors. At the same time, both aspects, knowledge
and attitude, are influenced by the processes of intercultural
communication, that is to say, the skills of interpretation and establishing
relationships between aspects of the two cultures and the skills of discovery
and interaction. Finally, all these factors should be integrated within a
philosophy of political education and develop the learners’ critical cultural
awareness of all the cultures involved (1997: 32–33). Byram presents these
factors as savoirs to be acquired or developed by the learner, the future IS:
- savoir être, which is concerned with attitudes and values and consists
in showing curiosity and openness, readiness to suspend disbelief
about other cultures and belief about one’s own;
- savoirs, which refers to the knowledge of social groups and their
products and practices in one’s own and in one’s interlocutor’s
country, and of the general processes of societal and individual
interaction;
- savoir comprendre, related to the skills of interpreting and relating,
that is to say, the ability to interpret a document or event from another
culture, to explain it and relate it to documents from one’s own;
- savoir apprendre/faire, connected to the skills of discovery and
interaction or the ability to acquire new knowledge of a culture and
cultural practices and the ability to operate knowledge, attitudes and
skills under the constraints of real-time communication and interaction;
- savoir s’engager, in relation to critical cultural awareness and/or
political education, which means having the ability to evaluate
critically and on the basis of explicit criteria perspectives, practices
and products in one’s own and other cultures and countries (Byram
1995: 57–66, Byram 1997: 31–54).
Coperías Aguilar
Dealing with Intercultural Communicative Competence 65
In fact, what the learner would be acquiring would be intercultural
competence (IC) or intercultural communicative competence (ICC). When
defining the different savoirs, no linguistic aspects have been mentioned
and all the focus has been on culture and the relationship between cultures,
that is to say, interculturality. We should not forget, though, that
interculturality means interaction, and interaction is communication, that is
to say, language of one kind or another. In any case, Byram (1997: 70–71)
introduces the possibility of distinguishing between both competences: in
IC, individuals have the ability to interact in their own language with
people from another country and culture, drawing upon their knowledge
about intercultural communication, their attitudes of interest in otherness
and their skills in interpreting, relating and discovering; whereas in ICC,
interaction takes place between people from different cultures and
countries in an FL, the knowledge of the participants of another culture is
linked to their language competence through their ability to use language
appropriately and their awareness of the specific meaning, values and
connotations of the language. Therefore IC can and should be acquired by
people from all walks of life and involved in any kind of trade; however,
when dealing with FL teaching and learning, it is ICC that we must aim at,
as the focus is mostly on linguistic aspects and, in this context,
“communicative” is normally identified with “linguistic” (Risager 2000: 14).
4.3.1 Implementation of ICC in the Curriculum
Does ICC mean that we have to use a new methodology in the classroom,
as happened when the communicative approach was adopted? Some
authors (Byram et al. 2002: 7; Corbett 2003: 14) defend the idea that
introducing the intercultural approach in our classrooms does not mean
introducing new methods, and we can still use many of the practices well
known to many FL teachers such as role-play, projects or co-operative
goal-directed activities; the differences will lie in the role given to
language in the construction of identities and to the understanding and
mediation of cultural differences. However, some other authors have also
shown the objections made by some teaching practitioners about the
impossibility of introducing new aspects or new contents in an already
very busy curriculum (Müller 1995: 61) or the debate about whether IC
should be developed as an integral part of the language learning syllabus
and into what kind of course it should be integrated: grammar, literature,
topic-based or a mixture of them all (Mughan 1999: 63–64). Byram (1997:
64) also echoes some of the objections about making IC compatible with
FL classroom work as usually conceived and points out how teachers with
66
a more literary oriented training would probably be more willing to adopt
this approach as they may find analogies in the skills of interpreting and
discovering with the traditions of some approaches to literature.
Despite some of these objections, the interest of the educational
institutions and authorities of different countries in intercultural aspects to
be present in their FL teaching curricula has been evident since the late
1980s. In 1989, the guidelines issued by the Japanese Government for
junior secondary school stated that one of the basic aims of its educational
policy was “to place importance on deepening international understanding
and developing an attitude of respect for our country’s culture and
traditions” (quoted by Parmenter and Tomita 2001: 133), although some
contradictions have been experienced in their implementation (ibid. 134).
In 1990, a document called Modern Foreign Languages for Ages 11–16:
Proposals of the Secretary of State for Education and Science and the
Secretary of State for Wales, which applied to England and Wales,
established that the purposes of FL teaching were:
- to offer insights into the culture and civilisation of the countries where
the language is spoken;
- to encourage positive attitudes to foreign language learning and to
speakers of foreign languages and a sympathetic approach to other
cultures and civilisations; and
- to develop pupils’ understanding of themselves and their own culture
(quoted by Byram et al. 1994: 15).
Another document published in 2000 (The National Curriculum for
Modern Foreign Languages) continued to stress the importance of
learning modern FLs by stating that “through the study of a foreign
language, pupils understand and appreciate different countries, cultures,
people and communities –and as they do so, begin to think of themselves
as citizens of the world as well as of the United Kingdom” (quoted by
Dodd 2001: 163), and some of the aspects to be acquired include:
knowledge and understanding of the target language, language skills and
cultural awareness. The educational law developed by the Spanish
authorities between 1990 and 1991 established that students, apart from
being able to understand and produce oral and written messages
appropriately in their own language as well as in an FL, should also
learn to relate with other persons and take part in group activities
with tolerant attitudes, overcoming prejudices. This law specifically
values the presence of FLs in the curriculum as their knowledge is a
necessary condition to facilitate intercultural understanding in a world
increasingly open to all kinds of international relationships, and it will
Coperías Aguilar
Dealing with Intercultural Communicative Competence 67
The Danish education act of 1995 follows very similar lines in the sense
that, apart from the teaching of the language skills proper, it establishes
that “the teaching shall create a framework for experience, insight and co-
operation and shall strengthen pupils’ active participation … [it] shall give
pupils insight into cultural and social conditions in English-speaking
countries and thus strengthen their international understanding and their
understanding of their own culture4
” (quoted by Aktor and Risager 2001:
220–221). The authors of the report Standards for Foreign Language
Learning (1996) in the United States opened it by saying that “Language
and communication are at the heart of the human experience. The United
States must educate students who are equipped linguistically and culturally
to communicate successfully in a pluralistic American society and abroad”
(quoted by Carel 2001: 146), thus making obvious the aims of FL
teaching, although they have been considered unrealistic by some teachers
at different levels of education. More recently, other countries have also
expressed their concern about these issues, and the Polish Ministry of
Education, in a document published in 2002, stated that FL teaching in
upper secondary schools should, among other things, enrich the cultural
component with issues related to European integration and foster attitudes
of curiosity, openness and tolerance towards other cultures in students
(Bandura 2003: 1).
As we can observe, the Polish curriculum talks about “European
integration”, which is the aim towards which the Council of Europe has
been working for years. One of the main concerns regarding integration is
obviously languages, as a consequence of both diversity and the
“monolingual” tendency towards the use of English as a lingua franca.
After years of debate, in 1996 the Common European Framework of
Reference for Languages (CEF) was issued, a guideline to describe
achievements of learners of FLs across Europe with the aim to provide a
method of assessing and teaching which can be applied to all languages in
Europe. The CEF (1996) deals in one of its chapters with the competences
the learner must acquire, which are divided into general and
communicative. In the former group, intercultural awareness is one of the
items included, which is referred to in the following terms: “Knowledge,
awareness and understanding of the relation … between the ‘world of
origin’ and the ‘world of the target community’ produce an intercultural
awareness. … It is also enriched by awareness of a wider range of cultures
than those carried by the learner’s L1 and L2” (CEF 1996: 103).
Either impelled by the guidelines issued by their different governments
or by their own desire to innovate and improve their teaching practices,
allow students to expand the field of interpersonal relationships,
contributing to the students’ socialization process.
68
many FL teachers throughout Europe have shown an increasing interest in
and a will to introduce an intercultural approach in their classes, as has
been proved by two different surveys carried out as part of wider projects5
.
We are not going into the results of these surveys in detail, but we would
like to comment broadly on some aspects. In both surveys, the respondents
answered in favour of introducing the cultural dimension in FL teaching
and recognised the important role of ICC for communication in an FL and
that it should be given more emphasis in the language classroom. At the
same time, they tried to create as many opportunities as possible for their
students to understand and experience other cultures by means of the
textbook, videos, films, press articles, inviting native-speaking guests or
even promoting exchange programmes. This interest, however, contrasted
with another part of the answers: when asked about the curriculum
contents, they recognised that, in general, they still attach much more
importance to the teaching of the language itself than to the teaching of
cultural aspects, reaching results of 80% and 20%, respectively, in many
cases. On top of this, when asked about the cultural contents they
considered most important in teaching an FL, issues like traditions and
customs, history, geography or political conditions appeared in top
positions, and other aspects more closely connected to what we should
understand as ICC –developing attitudes of openness and tolerance
towards other peoples and cultures, promoting the ability to handle
intercultural contact situations, promoting reflection on cultural differences
or promoting increased understanding of the students’ own culture– came
in lower positions. It is evident, then, that a lot remains to be done.
4.3.2 The Changing Role of Teachers and Students
We said above that ICC did not consist in a new methodology, but it is true
that its implementation as the goal of FL teaching will depend on the
attitude and the training of the teachers in these aspects. According to the
results of the surveys we have just mentioned, it seems that the attitude is
there, so maybe there is something wrong with the training. In one of those
surveys, teachers were asked if they had received any intercultural
communication training and all of them answered that, although some
aspects of IC might be implicitly included in subjects dealing with
civilisation, sociolinguistics, literature, history, etc., they had not studied
IC in a systematic way (Aleksandrowicz-Pędich et al. 2003: 10). As we
explained before, ICC goes beyond the concept of language learning as
just acquiring skills in a language, accompanied by some factual
knowledge about a country where the language is spoken. The teacher now
Coperías Aguilar
Dealing with Intercultural Communicative Competence 69
becomes a mediator that has to give priority not to the amount of
knowledge to be acquired but to the development of new attitudes, skills
and critical awareness in the student. That is to say, the task of the teacher
is not to provide comprehensive information or bring the foreign society
into the classroom for learners to observe and experience but to develop in
students the competence that will make them relativise their own cultural
values, beliefs and behaviours and investigate for themselves the
otherness, what is different to their “norm” (Byram et al. 2002: 13–33;
Byram et al. 2001: 3). Consequently, in this context non-native teachers
become particularly valued for their ability to move between the home and
target cultures (Corbett 2003: 12), although, obviously a curious, open-
minded native teacher, especially if widely-travelled, can be equally or
better valued. In fact, the best teacher will be neither the native nor the
non-native speaker, but the person who can make students see the
connections between their own and other cultures, as well as awaken their
curiosity about difference and otherness.
If in ICC what is important is not the amount of knowledge transmitted,
but the attitudes, skills and critical awareness that learners develop, we
have to understand that the learners become the centre of the teaching and
learning process. In the process of ICC acquisition, Byram (1997: 64–73)
distinguishes three locations: classroom, fieldwork and independent
learning, each with a different degree of teacher-student interaction; in the
classroom the participation of the teacher is higher, although it can also
range through different degrees; in fieldwork it is reduced to the role of a
mere supervisor and in independent learning6
, even if the teacher may act
as a tutor or guide, the full responsibility is the student’s. The figure of the
teacher, however, never disappears completely, as the learning process in
order to be more beneficial cannot be a random activity but has to be
scheduled, and the achievements, sooner or later, have to be assessed. This
idea of “sharing the power” with students is at the heart of Coffey’s (1999)
proposal of building cultural community in FL learning curricula. For her,
building cultural community means fostering meaningful communication
among all group members when they do not share a common worldview.
In order to do this, apart from sharing power with our students, we have to
encourage them to be tolerant of ambiguity, foster empathy as well as
cooperation and build an understanding of cultural values; as we can see,
all these aims are completely in agreement with those of ICC. Many other
authors (Steele 1996: 79; Jæger 2001: 53; Cesevičiūtė and Minkutė-
Henrickson 2002: 55) also share the idea that the primary role of the
teacher in ICC is to develop students’ autonomous and independent
learning skills and that learner-centred pedagogy is the most effective way
of teaching an FL.
70
Several authors have defended the idea that one of the best ways to
develop ICC in general and autonomy in particular in FL learning is by
introducing ethnographic skills7
. Technically speaking, ethnography refers
to an anthropologist’s description of a community through systematic
observation, usually by living among the community as a participant
observer over a period of time (Corbett 2003: 9). One of their fields of
work is description of language behaviour within the community, but in
later years ethnography has widened its scope and includes a variety of
research techniques in the media, cultural studies as well as other areas.
The idea is not that students become professional anthropologists, but
some training in ethnographic techniques –the introduction of discovery
skills– can benefit the language learning process as students learn via
observation and the gathering of data. The ethnographic approach matches
many of the goals of communicative language teaching by seeking:
- an integration of linguistic and cultural learning to facilitate
communication and interaction;
- a comparison of others and self to stimulate reflection on and (critical)
questioning of the mainstream culture into which learners are
socialised;
- a shift in perspective involving psychological processes of
socialisation;
- the potential of language teaching to prepare learners to meet and
communicate in other cultures and societies than the specific one
usually associated with the language they are learning. (Byram and
Fleming 1998: 7, as quoted by Corbett 2003: 35).
Of course, the ethnographic activities have to be adapted to the purpose
and the level of the FL learning classroom. The book Developing
Intercultural Competence in Practice (Byram et al. 2001), “a forum for
reflection on the experience and practice of learning and teaching
languages and intercultural competence” (vii), contains several
experiences carried out by teachers in different parts of the world, most of
which have an ethnographic component where students have to collect
information on a specific topic by means of research, interviews or mere
observation of events or social and cultural products. This is what is often
referred to as fieldwork. The data gathered will be presented and exploited
in the classroom in different ways so that the students can improve both
their language and intercultural competence. Most experiences presented
in the book also prove that ethnographic activities can be used with
students belonging to a wide range of ages, from young children to adults;
a variety of cultural backgrounds, from barely literate people to university
Coperías Aguilar
Dealing with Intercultural Communicative Competence 71
students; and a diversity of national origins: students from just one
country, students from two countries working in partnership or immigrants
from different countries working together. Something else these
experiences showed is that there is enough material to work on our
doorstep as almost any element around us is apt to be used in order to
trigger our curiosity and the development of our ICC. In fact, almost all the
textbooks and material we are going to deal with in the following section
contain activities with an ethnographic approach.
4.3.3 Textbooks and Teaching Material
At the beginning of this chapter we expressed some of the problems that
taking the NS as a model presented for the FL learner. Part of the problem
lies in the fact that this is the model that most teaching material follows.
Alptekin (2002: 61) criticizes the fact that corpus descriptions of English8
contain databases of NS usage, influencing model situations in
coursebooks, which involve mostly interactions of NS with NS, excluding
almost completely interactions between NS and non-native speaker (NNS)
or between NNSs. At the same time, an idealized image of the English-
speaking country is portrayed, thus perpetuating a number of stereotypes.
And as has been pointed out by some authors (Clarke and Clarke 1990:
35), stereotypical representations in textbooks can be doubly dishonest in
the sense that they generally omit aspects such as linguistic and ethnic
diversity or class and gender oppositions, thus transmitting the idea of
perfect societies to foreign recipients, in contrast with their own, which
they experience as imperfect.
As regards teaching materials, it will also be useful to distinguish between
what Cortazzi and Jin (1999: 196) have called cultural content and culture of
learning, which refers to a series of dynamic processes, including the very
act of teaching and learning: what kinds of interactions are appropriate in
class9
, how texts should be used, etc. In the last decades several checklists
have been elaborated in order to measure the cultural contents of
textbooks10
. The most recent and complete one we know about is the result
of a pilot study carried out by members of one of the networks of the
abovementioned Project 1.2.3. coordinated by the ECML in Graz. Here the
evaluators took into account not just the cultural contents of the teaching
material, but also aspects like the correspondence between the aims and
goals of the materials and the students’ conceptual framework, needs and
goals and the presentation of the contents through cultural knowledge and
attitudinal, intercultural and culture-and-language perspectives. The results
of the questionnaires and interviews and their consequent analysis have been
72
summarized in a series of strengths and weaknesses (Skopinskaja 2003: 52).
The positive trends are: an increase in attempts to include, on the one hand,
intercultural activities and, on the other, serious social issues; an attempt to
personalise the FL learning process by providing opportunities for
exchanges of views; and the inclusion of a wider range of both accents and
voices and genres and text types. However, still manifest are the
subordination of the goal of culture teaching to other goals and the as yet
excessive focus on language form with detriment to intercultural
communication; the Anglo-centric focus of coursebooks; and the
stereotypical representation of both the target and the student’s culture.
As pointed out by Cortazzi and Jin (1999: 199–201), the textbook in
itself can represent many things ranging from the, in our opinion, most
harmful ones: authority or ideology, to others more beneficial as, for
instance, a map or a resource. The book is just an object, although often a
very useful one, that has to be skilfully used by both the teacher and the
students. First of all, textbooks should be challenged: language is always
value-laden and therefore texts are never neutral, a “simple” grammar
exercise can reinforce prejudice and stereotypes by means, for instance, of
the vocabulary used or the pronouns chosen. Critical discourse analysis,
which studies the way text and talk may reproduce or resist racism, abuse
of social power, dominance and inequality, comes in very handy here, and
several authors (Gray 2000: 281; Risager 2000: 17; Byram et al. 2002: 24,
27–28; Corbett 2003: 13) encourage both teachers and learners to apply it
to the contents of textbooks. Once the textbook has been challenged and
the shortcomings, as well as the advantages, have been spotted, it is the
teacher’s turn to act as a mediator: parts of the book can be adapted, new
material can be supplemented, the account of a personal experience can be
presented, and ethnocentric approaches or images can in fact be turned
around and used as a pretext for intercultural activities.
In the previous paragraphs, we have spoken about the target culture
and the “idealized image of the English-speaking country”, but when
dealing with the culture associated to a language and more specifically in
the case of English, which culture or which English-speaking country do
we mean? Traditionally it has been British or American culture but, on
the one hand, there are several other English-speaking countries and, on
the other, in the last decades English has become an international
language or a lingua franca which not always represents the mother
tongue of either speaker. There are arguments to reject either
representation in textbooks: if the textbook only represents the target
culture its very strangeness and detachment may provoke rejection in the
student, it may create further problems if this representation is on top of
everything stereotyped and “ideal”; and when books try to include
Coperías Aguilar
Dealing with Intercultural Communicative Competence 73
representations of several cultures, either related to the target language or
not, the result may be unconnected topics and issues that eventually
make no sense. A third possibility is to set textbooks in the learner’s own
country but, as has been shown by Clarke and Clarke (1990: 36), if the
target culture is removed or just presented in partial, stereotypical
glimpses, the effect can be one of distortion. In fact, an attempt should be
made to find a position that takes into account all three stances, that it to
say, an intercultural approach. A real representation of the society and an
account of some historical and cultural aspects of the countries where the
FL is spoken originally can help learners to understand better language
structures, predominant vocabulary, idioms or the status of that language
in the world. However, it is necessary to introduce elements of the
learner’s own culture, as well as other cultures, so that by means of
contrast and comparison an openness of mind and a reflection on the
relativity of their acquired values can be fostered in the learners. At the
same time, rather than reflecting a specific culture, textbooks should help
to develop discovery skills that will allow students to get the information
necessary in each situation, not only during the learning period but also
in future. The combination of all these elements should be the
development of critical cultural awareness.
The position most strongly defended by experts at the moment is that
rather than producing textbooks for the international market, teaching
materials should be addressed to particular communities and become more
involved with country-specific publishing (Corbett 2003: 212; Pulverness
2004: 7). This also seems to be the position of two important institutions
related to the field of FL teaching, the ECML, dependent on the Council of
Europe, and the British Council, that have been working along these lines.
Due to its inherent characteristics, the Council of Europe or the ECML
develop a wide range of activities and studies aimed at the defence of
multiculturalism and multilingualism all over Europe. One example of the
efforts made to develop understanding would be the publication promoted by
the Youth Directorate of the Council of Europe All different, all equal, which
is an education pack including resources and activities for intercultural
education with young people and adults11
. Well-reputed scholars like Van Ek
or the so often quoted in this article Byram have carried out important work
to establish guidelines that will help to spread real intercultural
communication throughout Europe. Byram’s model for ICC is at the basis of
the previously mentioned Project 1.2.3. supported by the ECML, one of
whose results is the publication of Mirrors and windows. An intercultural
communication textbook, a book “aimed at teacher trainers, teacher trainees
[or] secondary school teachers of any subject” and that “can be used … as a
practical coursebook on intercultural communication, or as supplementary
74
material in language development” (Huber-Kriegler et al. 2003: 9). Although
the book is written in English, it can be adapted for learners and speakers of
other languages too and includes elements from different cultures.
The British Council, even though its undeniable aim is to spread
English language and British culture, has been working in close
collaboration with teachers of mainly Central and Eastern European
countries in order to develop materials which show and put in
connection both British and these other cultures. Three of the most
interesting examples12
are Zoom In, Branching out and Changing Skies.
The first book is focused on Hungarian and British societies and is the
result of a study trip to the South West of England by some Hungarian
teachers, who used the authentic material (photographs, audio and video
recordings) gathered there, as well as their experiences, to write a book
to develop knowledge, attitudes, skills and critical awareness in
students. Branching out, was the result of the experience of about sixty
teachers working in Bulgarian secondary schools in a project
coordinated by Davcheva and Docheva (1998), with the support of
Pulverness (2001). Unlike Zoom In, which could not easily be used
outside Hungary, Branching out, although drawing on Bulgarian culture,
has a wider scope and the activities proposed could be transposed to any
other country. Even though it can be used as a textbook, we consider it a
collection of very interesting activities aimed at developing ICC.
Pulverness’s (2001) Changing Skies is in our opinion an excellent
example of ICC in its broader sense: the improvement of the learner’s
proficiency in English language and the development of intercultural
skills by means of a series of well devised and organised exercises and
activities. As the subtitle indicates, it is a “European course for
advanced level learners” and therefore skilfully draws on elements from
different European countries.
Although we do not have the time or the space to go into the work of
American scholars in favour of the development of ICC, we would like
to mention just a couple of books: Seelye’s (1987) Teaching Culture.
Strategies for Intercultural Communication, a classic originally
published in 1984 with many re-editions, and Fantini’s (1997) more
recent book New Ways in Teaching culture, an anthology of suggested
lesson ideas for integrating language and culture.
4.4 Conclusion
Several authors (Mughan 1999: 62; Oliveras Vilaseca 2000: 29–32) have
pointed out that the need for IC was actually identified as early as the
Coperías Aguilar
Dealing with Intercultural Communicative Competence 75
1950s, when several international companies and institutions realized that,
apart from language competence, their workers also needed some kind of
intercultural understanding in order to make their work more effective or
simply not to fail in their aims. In recent years, this need, far from
disappearing, has spread to more and more areas of interaction. In one of
the studies mentioned above (Aleksandrowicz-Pędich et al. 2003: 7–37),
when teachers were asked about the potential benefits of including ICC in
FL teaching, both pragmatic and idealistic reasons were mentioned: the
first included success in business and the tourist industry, working and
travelling abroad, and coping with multicultural societies; the latter were
connected with values that might contribute to a better world society, such
as, acceptance and tolerance of differences, building up the spirit of the
European Union and world peace in general, learning how to avoid
potential conflicts and internationalism.
We should not forget that FL teaching does not consist in the mere
transmission of speaking skills but is part of the whole process of
education of a person in the sense of the acquisition of values, attitudes
and beliefs. Due to its very nature, FL teaching offers students
opportunities to get in touch with real life experience and with other
cultures which are denied to other subjects. IC can and must be present
in many areas of education and is in fact a life-long process that may
help us to become resourceful members of our complex contemporary
society; ICC also trains us as language and cultural mediators in an
increasing multilingual and multicultural world. There is little to lose
and quite a lot to gain with the implementation of ICC in the FL
classroom independently of our pragmatic or idealistic reasons for doing so.
1
What Canale and Swain call sociolinguistic competence, which they split into
sociocultural and discourse rules, corresponds in fact to Van Ek’s sociolinguistic and
discourse competence.
2
In the bibliography we have consulted the terms enculturation and acculturation are
sometimes used indistinctly; however, we are following the terms as used by Berry et al.,
who establish that “enculturation is the process by which the group generally incorporates
children into the culture and by which the child acquires the appropriate behaviors. In
contrast, acculturation refers to cultural and psychological change brought about by contact
with other peoples belonging to different cultures and exhibiting different behaviors”
(1994: 19).
3
Corbett (2003: 39–40) observes how few native English speakers entirely conform to
“Standard English in their output and how ironic it is that second language learners are
often required institutionally to conform to standards that are more rigorous than those
applied to native speakers.”
4
This quotation belongs to the overall aims for the teaching of English, but these are
identical for the teaching of French and German.
Notes
76
5
The first project, “FL teachers’ perceptions of their role as mediators of language-and-
culture: a comparative investigation in seven countries,” stemmed from an idea presented
by Dr Lies Sercu at a seminar on the intercultural dimension in teaching organised by
Professor Michael Byram at the School of Education University of Durham in 2000. An
electronic questionnaire with 64 mostly closed questions organized in 11 sections was
prepared. It was answered by 409 teachers from Belgium, Sweden, Poland, Mexico,
Greece, Spain and Bulgaria; the respondents were secondary school teachers, mostly of
English. The results were due to be analysed by the coordinator in each country and later
published in book form; so far, we have only managed to have the results and analysis of
the Polish questionnaires, which were answered by 49 teachers (Bandura 2003). The second
one, Project 1.2.3., originated after a workshop on incorporating ICC in pre- and in-service
language teacher training, organised by the European Centre for Modern Languages
(ECML) in Graz in April 2001. As a follow-up, four networks were set up in order to work
on different areas: perception of teachers, evaluation of teaching materials, design of
teaching materials and assessment. The results of the survey among teachers, “The views of
teachers of English and French on intercultural communicative competence in language
teaching,” was published by Aleksandrowicz-Pędich L et al., in Lázár, I (ed) (2003). 47
teachers of English and 15 teachers of French from Cyprus, Poland, Romania, Slovenia,
Greece, Malta, Iceland, Hungary, Estonia and the Netherlands answered the questionnaire.
6
Independent learning can be a life-long activity; however, we are taking it here as
simultaneous with classroom and fieldwork, as part of the teaching-learning process while
at school or university.
7
In the United Kingdom the introduction of ethnography into FL learning and teaching has
been the result of the work of Byram and his associates, for instance, Byram 1997; Byram
et al. 1994; Byram and Fleming 1998; Roberts et al. 2001.
8
So far, we have referred to the teaching of FLs in general without focusing on any specific
language; however, due to our training and area of work, many of the aspects and examples
we will deal with in this last part of the chapter are about the teaching and learning of
English as an FL.
9
In the literature on FL teaching and learning, there are numerous examples of unfulfilled
expectations in the classroom on the side of either the teacher or the students due to the fact
that they come from different cultural backgrounds and ways of socialization.
10
Cortazzi and Jin (1999: 201–204) and Skopinskaja (2003: 44–46) revise some of the
most relevant ones.
11
A similar recent contribution is Utley’s (2004) Intercultural Resource Pack.
12
Some more examples of textbooks as well as very useful bibliography and notes on
materials can be found in “An Intercultural Reader”, at http://elt.britcoun.org.pl/forum/-
intereader.htm.
References
Aarup JA (1995) Defining intercultural competence. In: Aarup JA et al. (eds), Intercultural
Competence. A New Challenge for Language Teachers and Trainers in Europe. Vol II:
The Adult Learner. Language and Cultural Contact no 12. Aalborg University Press,
Aalborg, pp 29–41
Aktor L, Risager K (2001) Cultural understanding in Danish schools. In: Byram M, Nichols
A, Stevens D (eds), Developing Intercultural Competence in Practice. Multilingual
Matters, Clevedon, pp 219–235
Coperías Aguilar
Dealing with Intercultural Communicative Competence 77
Aleksandrowicz-Pędich L et al. (2003) The views of teachers of English and French on
intercultural communicative competence in language teaching. In: Lázár I (ed),
Incorporating Intercultural Communicative Competence in Language Teaching education:
European Centre for Modern Languages – Council of Europe, Strasbourg pp 7–37
Alptekin C (2002) Towards intercultural communicative competence in ELT. ELT Journal
56(1): 57–64
Andrews M et al. (2001) Zoom In. Swan Communications
Bandura E (2003) Developing Intercultural Communicative Competence – Polish
questionnaire results. At: http://elt.britcoun.org.pl/forum/devint.htm
Berry JW et al. ([1992] 1994) Cross-cultural Psychology Research and Applications.
Cambridge University Press, New York
Byram M (1995) Acquiring intercultural competence. A review of learning theories. In:
Sercu L (1995) Intercultural Competence, vol I: The Secondary School. Aalborg
University Press, Aalborg, pp 53–69
Byram M (1997) Teaching and Assessing Intercultural Communicative Competence.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Byram M, Zarate G (1994) Definitions, Objectives and Assessment of Socio-cultural
Competence. Council of Europe, Strasbourg
Byram M, Morgan C et al. (1994) Teaching-and-Learning Language-and-Culture.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Byram M, Fleming M (eds) (1998) Language Learning in Intercultural Perspective:
Approaches Through Drama and Ethnography. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge
Byram M, Nichols A, Stevens D (eds) (2001) Developing Intercultural Competence in
Practice. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Byram M, Gribkova B, Starkey H (2002) Developing the Intercultural Dimension in
Language Teaching. A Practical Introduction for Teachers. Council of Europe, Strasbourg
Canale M, Swain M (1980) Theoretical bases of communicative approaches to second
language teaching and testing. Applied Linguistics 1(1): 1–47
Carel S (2001) Students as virtual ethnographers: Exploring the language culture-
Connection. In: Byram M, Nichols A, Stevens D (eds), Developing Intercultural
Competence in Practice. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 146–161
Cesevičiūtė I, Minkutė-Henrickson R (2002) Developing students’ intercultural
communicative competence: Towards effective university learning environments.
Socialiniai Mokslai 4(36): 48–56
Clarke J, Clarke M (1990) Stereotyping in TESOL materials. In: Harrison B (ed) Culture
and the Language Classroom. Modern English Publications and the British Council,
Hong Kong, pp 31–44
Coffey M (1999) Building cultural community in English language programs. TESOL
Journal 8(2): 26–30
Cook V (1999) Going beyond the native speaker in language teaching. TESOL Quarterly
33(2): 185–209
Corbett J (2003) An Intercultural Approach to English Language Teaching. Multilingual
Matters, Clevedon
Cortazzi M (1990) Cultural and educational expectations in the language classroom. In:
Harrison B (ed), Culture and the Language Classroom. Macmillan and Modern English
Publication / British Council, London, pp 54–65
Cortazzi M, Jin L (1999) Cultural mirrors. Materials and methods in the EFL classroom. In:
Hinkel E (ed) Culture in Second Language Teaching and Learning. Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge, pp 196–219
Council of Europe (1995) All Different, all Equal. Education Pack. European Youth Centre,
Strasbourg
78
Council of Europe (1996) Common European Framework of Reference for Languages. The
Council of Europe, Strasbourg.
Davcheva L, Docheva Y (1998) Branching out. A Cultural Studies Syllabus. British
Council and Tilia, Sofia
Dodd C (2001). Working in tandem: An Anglo-French project. In: Byram M, Nichols A,
Stevens D (eds), Developing Intercultural Competence in Practice. Multilingual Matters,
Clevedon, pp 162–175
Fantini A (ed) (1997) New ways in teaching culture. TESOL, Alexandria, Virginia
Gray J (2000) The ELT coursebook as cultural artefact: How teachers censor and adapt.
ELT Journal 54(3): 274–283
Huber-Kriegler M, Lázár I, Strange J (2003) Mirrors and Windows. Council of Europe
Strasbourg; Penguin, Harmondsworth
Hymes D (1972) On communicative competence. In: Pride JB, Holmes J (eds)
Sociolinguistics. Penguin, Harmondsworth, pp 269–293
Jæger K (2001) The intercultural speaker and present-day requirements regarding linguistic
and cultural competence. Sprogforum 19: 52–56
Kramsch C (1993) Context and Culture in Language Teaching. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Kramsch C (1995) The cultural component of language teaching. Language, Culture and
Curriculum 8(12): 83–92
Lázár I (ed) (2003) Incorporating intercultural communicative competence in language
teaching education: European Centre for Modern Languages – Council of Europe,
Strasbourg
Mughan T (1999) Intercultural competence for foreign languages students in higher
education. Language Learning Journal 20: 59–65
Müller BD (1995) An Intercultural theory of teaching German as a foreign language. In:
Aarup Jensen A et al. (eds), Intercultural Competence. A New Challenge for Language
Teachers and Trainers in Europe.
Contact no. 12. Aalborg University Press, Aalborg, pp 59–76
Oliveras Vilaseca A (2000) Hacia la competencia intercultural en el aprendizaje de una
lengua extranjera. Edinumen, Madrid
Parmenter L, Tomita Y (2001) Virtual intercultural competence: A programme for Japanese
In: Byram M, Nichols A, Stevens D (eds), Developing
Intercultural Competence in Practice. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 133–145
Pulverness A (2004) Here and there: issues in materials development for intercultural
learning. At: http://elt.britcoun.org.pl/forum/handt.htm
Risager K (2000) The teacher’s intercultural competence. Sprogforum 18: 14–20
Roberts C, Byram M, Barro A, Jordan S, Street B (2001) Language Learners as
Ethnographers. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Seelye HN ([1984] 1987) Teaching culture. Strategies for Intercultural Communication.
National Textbook Company, Lincolnwood, IL
Skopinskaja L (2003) The role of culture in foreign language teaching materials: an
evaluation from an intercultural perspective. In: Lázár I (ed), Incorporating Intercultural
Communicative Competence in Language Teaching Education: European Centre for
Modern Languages – Council of Europe, Strasbourg, pp 39–69
Steele R (1996) Developing intercultural competence through foreign language instruction.
Alatis JE et al. (eds) Linguistics, Language Acquisition, and Language Variation: Current
Trends and Future Prospects. Georgetown University Press, Washington DC, pp 70–83
Utley D (2004) Intercultural resource pack. Intercultural Communication Resources for
Language Teachers. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge
Van Ek J (1986) Objectives for Foreign Language Learning. Council of Europe, Strasbourg
vol. II: The Adult Learner. Language and Cultural
elementary school students.
Pulverness A (2002) Changing Skies: a one-level course for advanced-level learners,
dealing with current issues within a European context. Delta Publishing. Surrey, UK
Coperías Aguilar
5
A Role for English as Lingua Franca in the Foreign
Language Classroom?
Anne Ife
Anglia Polytechnic University, Cambridge, UK
5.1 Introduction
Intercultural speakers have existed for as long as there has been linguistic
and cultural diversity. The difference now is the scale and the visibility of
cross-linguistic and cross-cultural communication in the modern world.
This may involve interaction between mother tongue (L1) speakers and
those using a second or foreign language (L2); or between speakers using
different varieties of the same L1, as within the varied English-speaking or
Spanish-speaking world, where cultural assumptions are not necessarily
shared, in spite of a shared language. Increasingly, though, it involves
speakers of English as a lingua franca (ELF), where all parties use a
language adopted for the purposes of wider communication.
The contexts for ELF use are many, varied and familiar, ranging from the
routine exchanges of travellers the world over, of varying degrees of triviality
or sophistication, to the more elevated exchanges of international conferences,
or the vital and significant communications of modern international politics
and diplomacy. ELF is accepted as a global medium of communication by L2
speakers and L1 speakers alike and its spreading use is now well documented
(Crystal 1997; Cenoz and Jessner, 2000; Graddol 1997, 1999; James 2000;
Labrie and Quell 1997; among others).
The focus of the current paper is an area of ELF use that is less well known:
namely, the use of ELF in mediating the learning of a third language in the
foreign language (FL) classroom, as experienced in the UK. We begin with an
exploration of the background to this rather new phenomenon, and then
provide an analysis of data from a case study of classroom interaction to
illustrate the kind of use being made of ELF by learners and by teachers. We
discuss the findings in the light both of recent work on lingua franca use and
of thinking about input in the FL classroom before suggesting directions for
future research.
E. Alcón Soler and M.P. Safont Jordà (eds.), Intercultural Language Use and Language Learning, 79–100.
79
© 2008
Springer Science+Business Media B.V.
80 Ife
5.2 The Context
As a result of globalisation and the spread of English, UK universities now
receive large numbers of international students, many of them ELF-speakers
who study all kinds of subjects, including foreign languages. For the foreign
language classroom the resulting constituency of learners can be a
heterogeneous, international, multilingual mix. Some of these students will
start a completely new foreign language, since a particular feature of the UK
university system is that foreign languages are offered at beginner level to
the linguistically able. As a result, the target language (henceforth TL) is
learned not in the TL country, or even in the student’s own (L1) country, but
in an intermediate, third country, in an international environment.
Such a multi-national classroom offers many virtues for FL teaching.
The language teacher no longer has to strive to create an ‘international’
flavour because it is there, ready-made. Admittedly it is an international
flavour, rather than a specifically TL flavour. However, to learn a language
in an international environment is undoubtedly an improvement on a
situation where everyone is of one nationality. The new situation at least
transports learners to a slightly ‘exotic’ psychological state, which is
perhaps half the battle of language learning – never easy whilst still held
fast in a first-language mind set. Moreover, the new environment allows
learners to exchange real information about their lives and cultures,
something difficult to achieve when all share a national culture and know a
good deal about each other at the national cultural level. Even discussion
of daily routines and working weeks takes on a more interesting dimension
when you really do not know what your pair-work partner’s life style is.
It might be supposed that ELF plays no role in this context, since the
prevailing pedagogical orthodoxy of recent decades, with its focus on
communicative language teaching, has suggested that, in the interests of
successful acquisition, TL alone should be used within the classroom, a
philosophy that has been widely accepted and followed in the UK
(Butzkamm 2003; Caldwell 1990; Cook 2001). Now there would seem to be
even better reason for using TL as a lingua franca in the classroom from the
very beginning: if students in the group do not share a first language why
use any language other than the target language for classroom activities?
However, a method using TL-only input has its disadvantages at beginner
and elementary levels, being slow in its requirement for inductive learning
and not always well received by older, linguistically experienced learners
who have developed a metacognitive awareness about language and who
know what they want to know. As a result they seek rules and explanations,
presenting language teachers with a dilemma, since metalinguistic
knowledge in particular is not easily imparted to beginners in TL, at least not
A Role for English as Lingua Franca 81
without a considerable investment of time and ingenuity. The question
arises, therefore, of what language should be used for such classroom
interaction that requires a language level beyond the learners’ current ability,
such as classroom management, learner inquiry, or task instructions. For a
homogeneous group of UK learners a pragmatic approach to teaching and
learning would lead to some expedient use of L1 (English). For a
heterogeneous group, with no shared L1, the answer is less obvious.
Cumulative experience in this context has shown that, contrary to earlier
expectations, the use of English has not been banished from the elementary
FL classroom (see Coperias this volume). Now, however, the use of
English is often initiated by ELF-speaking learners who use ELF to
mediate their learning. To understand better what use is being made of
ELF, how it is being used, and under what circumstances, we offer below a
case study of activity within the FL classroom.
5.3 The Case Study
5.3.1 The Subjects
The participants observed in this study were two groups of learners of
Spanish at the author’s UK university. The learners were students of varied
nationalities, including a few English native speakers. Most ELF-speakers
had been in the UK for at least 8 months when recorded observations took
place, but some were longer-term residents. The breakdown of
nationalities, in Table 5.1, shows that, as has become usual in recent years,
ELF-speakers constitute the majority of each group.
Table 5.1 Group profile according to first languages spoken
First Language (L1) Group 1 (T1) Group 2 (T2)
French 3 7
English 5 2
Italian 5 2
Greek - 2
Turkish 2 1
Arabic 1 1
Albanian - 1
Polish - 1
Slovenian - 1
Czech 1 -
Total 17 18
82 Ife
The teachers of the groups were T1, a native English-speaker, who is an
experienced, near-bilingual, L2 Spanish-speaker, and T2, an L1 Spanish-
speaker, a near-bilingual in English. The groups were following the same
course materials based on a text book and tapes, produced and published
entirely in Spanish, including the instructional language. The learners, all
beginners, had been studying Spanish for approximately 6 months. T2’s
group is taught exclusively by the Spanish native-speaker while teaching
of T1’s group is shared 50:50 with a Spanish native-speaker. The Spanish
level of the learners was thus still basic, although classes had reached a
point where it was feasible to conduct them entirely in Spanish and to
expect learners to be able to understand and respond.
The English level of the ELF participants is good. All have a minimum
level equivalent to IELTS 5.5 but in some cases it is higher, 7 or above.
For many of the ELF students English is also a subject of study, as well as
their medium of instruction in other classes. This means that outside the
FL classroom ELF is usually their normal medium of communication
unless they count other members of their L1 community among their
friends. In these particular groups there are L1 friendships among Italian
speakers, French speakers and Arabic speakers.
The teaching aims for both groups are similar, namely to encourage
good comprehension of both spoken and written language and to
develop both oral and written proficiency. Early emphasis is placed on
listening and interaction in classroom, with a focus on meaning and
communication. TL is the language of instruction from the beginning as
far as possible. However, the target level aimed for and the limited
input possibilities mean that anything felt to enhance the learning
experience will be permitted. Consequently English is not ruled out,
and is responded to if used, but in TL initially.
Classes involve a mixture of teacher-centred and whole-group
interaction and group/pair task activity. This is course-book led to provide
points of reference and to support follow-up independent learning activity
but supplementary materials are also provided.
5.3.2 Method
The data for this study comes from the recording of two two-hour class
sessions at a point when both groups were studying similar material.
Incidents of interaction involving ELF were transcribed and analysed.
Subsequently, learners were asked to give feedback on their use of ELF in
their Spanish classes.
A Role for English as Lingua Franca 83
Although the groups included a few English native speakers (Table 5.1),
our interest was in ELF use among non-natives, hence examples given
involve no use of English by native speakers, except for the case of T1. In
any case, the English native speakers did not constitute a dominant sub-set
of the groups, something which might be thought to influence English use
within the classroom. English L1-speakers are not only a minority, but
typically are less vocal than their more confident European peers when it
comes to language learning.
5.3.3 Research Questions
Our interest here was to find out the extent to which ELF is used, by
whom and exactly what use is made of it. We thus examined ELF use in
the provision of input, in metalinguistic commentary, in classroom
management and in classroom interaction, whether between teachers and
learners or among learners themselves. The results are presented in the
section that follows.
5.4 ELF Use in the Foreign Language Classroom: Findings
The recordings showed that both teachers, T1 and T2, consistently used TL
for classroom management, for presentation of material and for interaction
with learners. The dominant classroom discourse was TL discourse and
ELF was relatively little used, but was used by both teachers and non-
native speakers of English (henceforth NNSs) for specific functions and it
clearly served as a useful form of scaffolding for the learning process. We
examine the use of ELF first in relation to input and then in relation to
classroom interaction.
5.4.1 Input Enhancement
While both teachers use TL consistently throughout their class sessions,
they and the ELF-speaking learners are inevitably aware of ELF as a
shared lingua franca that is currently at a more advanced level than the
target classroom lingua franca (TL). This knowledge is made use of to
enhance the input given and received, both in relation to formal aspects
of language and to clarification of meaning. We take examples first from
the learning of morphology and syntax and secondly from the area
of lexis.
84 Ife
5.4.1.1 Morphology and Syntax
Both teachers adopt an inductive approach to the teaching of morphology
and syntax, presenting the material in TL and assisting learners to reach an
understanding through TL. Usually occurrences of ELF are initiated by the
learners themselves, although sometimes teachers do spontaneously clarify
the input in ELF. Example 1, for example, offers a case of teacher-led use
of ELF where, while maintaining predominantly TL input, what are
perceived as potentially difficult key words in the metalinguistic
explanation are offered in ELF without dwelling on them or otherwise
code-switching into ELF. (Uses of ELF are highlighted in bold in the
examples to distinguish them from translations, presented in italics.)
Example 1
T2: El imperativo se usa para dar instrucciones y para dar órdenes –
commands, instructions.
The imperative is used to give instructions and orders –
commands, instructions
In example 2, T1 initiates the use of ELF, apparently from a sense that the
explanation of a grammar query will be too complex or lengthy if made in
TL, even though NNS makes the original query (¿Qué es ‘lo’?) in TL:
Example 2
T1: (to class, in relation to audio/reading text being studied)
¿Qué es lo más interesante que ha hecho esta mañana?
What’s the most interesting thing he has done this morning?
NNS: (after long pause from Ss…)
¿Qué es ‘lo’?
What’s ‘lo’?
T1: ‘lo más interesante’ means ‘the most interesting thing’…
NNS: ‘Lo’ is a pronoun isn’t it?
T1: ‘Lo’ is a pronoun. It means literally ‘what is the thing most
interesting’ …. ‘lo’ is ‘the thing’ and it’s ‘lo’ because it’s neuter and
does not refer to a specific thing, but just to something general.
(Explanation continues in ELF contrasting the neuter pronoun with
gender specific pronouns relating to specific referent.)
Usually, however, Ss initiate the use of ELF. In example 3 T1 wants Ss to
focus on the agreement of ‘doscientas’ with the female referent. The
response comes from an ELF speaker who spontaneously uses ELF to
reveal that she has partially understood, although T1 continues to use TL
A Role for English as Lingua Franca 85
to try to draw out the full significance of the point she is trying to make.
Eventually NNS shows full understanding, still using ELF. T1 accepts the
ELF contributions from NNS but she does not change from TL use.
Instead she tries to show that NNS could have made the same point easily
in TL, by offering a final model in reply. For the learner it seems that the
use of ELF allowed for what might be perceived as a more sophisticated
expression, ‘they are all female’.
Example 3
T1: Doscientas fans... ¿Qué me podéis decir de los fans? Doscientas...
¿Por qué doscientas?
Two hundred (+ f. agreement) fans... What can you tell me of the
fans? Two hundred (+ f. agreement)… Why two hundred (+ f.
agreement)?
NNS: It’s a number, no?
T1: Sí es la cantidad... pero no dice ‘doscientos’, dice ‘doscientas’ fans
Yes, it’s the quantity … but he doesn’t say ‘Two hundred (– f.
agreement).., he says ‘Two hundred (+ f. agreement)…
NNS: They are all female
T1: Sí, son todas chicas.
Yes, they are all girls
Elsewhere (example 4), another NNS asks a question about TL syntax in
ELF, wanting to know if the subject verb inversion is essential. Again, the
question could have been asked in Spanish in a simple way (‘¿se puede
decir ‘Raúl ha hecho’?’), but NNS chooses a more complex formula and is
clearly thinking in ELF at a metalinguistic level. On this occasion T1
replies briefly in ELF before reverting to TL, again perhaps sensing that
explaining a stylistic point in limited TL is unlikely to be fully understood.
Example 4
T1: (referring to text studied)
Esto es lo más peligroso que ha hecho Raúl esta mañana.
(literal) This is the most dangerous thing that has done Raúl this
morning.
NNS: Is it possible to put Raúl in front of ‘ha hecho’?
T1: It doesn’t sound so good in Spanish.
At this point in the programme, Ss are still at the point where their
command of ELF is significantly better able to deal with morphological or
syntactic explanations like these. It is thus frequently the case that, having
presented a new tense, for example, and having encouraged Ss to
86 Ife
understand the working of the tense through TL, a subsequent ELF
explanation will be provided in confirmation of understanding. This is so,
for example, in relation to verb morphology, where person and number and
tense are reflected in the morphology of the verb. Since the ELF-speaking
Ss have also learned English to a high level, it helps to be able to compare
TL systems with English systems, about which the ELF speakers are very
conscious, perhaps more so even than of their own L1 systems which are
understood at a more subliminal, less analytical level. Informal feedback
from a Turkish learner, for instance, suggested that understanding the three
different past tenses of Spanish (past perfect, imperfect and simple past)
was easier in relation to English (which has at least two of them), than in
relation to her L1, whose tenses she feels are not similar at all to those of
TL. ELF thus mediated her learning in a very conscious way.
5.4.1.2 Lexis
It is perhaps in relation to lexis, however, that ELF provides the readiest
source of input support. Numerous examples occur in the data of ELF
being used to facilitate understanding of lexis, although often in an
incidental rather than a focal way. T2 in particular has a favoured
technique of presenting new vocabulary, whereby an ELF translation is
sandwiched between two presentations of the TL word or phrase and the
predominantly TL discourse of the classroom is preserved.
Example 5
T2: Tengo hambre. I’m hungry. Tengo hambre. ¡Qué hambre tengo!
How hungry I am! ¡Qué hambre tengo!
At other points, as with syntax and morphology, ELF is used to confirm a
meaning that Ss have hopefully deduced, as in examples 6 and 7:
Example 6
NNS: ¿Qué es afónico?
What is ‘afónico’
T2: Cuando no puedes hablar…
When you can’t speak…
NNS: Aah
T2: you lose your voice. Estás afónico.
Example 7
T1: Ha perdido la voz. Perder la voz. ¿Qué es la voz? Es algo
importante para un cantante…
A Role for English as Lingua Franca 87
He’s lost his voice. To lose one’s voice. What’s ‘la voz? It’s
something important for a singer…
NNS: Voice…
T1: Sí, ésta es la voz. Si no tienes voz no puedes cantar. Dice ‘he
perdido la voz’, he’s ‘lost his voice’.
Yes, that’s ‘la voz’. If you have no voice you can’t sing. He says
‘I’ve lost my voice’…. He’s lost his voice
Sometimes overt attention is drawn to ELF for clarifying a new linguistic
item. T2, for instance, draws explicit attention (example 8) to a Spanish-
English contrast in explaining when to use ‘tener’ (as in ‘tengo hambre’:
) and when to use ‘estar’ (as in ‘estoy cansado’: I am tired). This
reflects a tacit assumption that ELF is the common point of reference for all
learners in the group, both L1-English and ELF users, and for the Spanish-
speaking teacher, since no possible confusion would arise if it were not for
prior knowledge of English, which does not make the same distinction.
Example 8
T2: Está expresando un estado, por ejemplo ‘estoy cansado’: I feel
tired. Recordad que os dije que una regla para usar ‘estar’ es
cuando en inglés podéis decir I feel.
It’s expressing a state, for example, ‘estoy cansado’: I feel tired.
Remember that I told you that a rule for using ‘estar’ is when in
English you can say I feel.
Elsewhere explicit reference to English serves as a useful device for
clarifying a subtle meaning distinction that derives from the Spanish use of
reflexives to add an intensity of meaning. In examples 9 and 10 both T1
and T2 use this device as they switch between ELF and TL, weaving ELF
translations into the fabric of their TL discourse:
Example 9
T2: (confirming a task response) ‘vete a casa, go home, y …descansa.
El verbo es irse ... irse cuando se usa como reflexivo means ‘to go
away’. Pero aquí, de la misma forma podéis decir ‘ve a casa’, eh,
go home. El verbo IR o IRSE. Vale, los dos quieren decir ‘go’ ...
home es ‘a casa’ – ve a casa/vete a casa.
‘go (reflexive) home, go home, and … rest. The verb is ‘irse’
means ‘to
go away’. But here, you can also say ‘go (non- reflexive) home, go
home. The verb IR or IRSE. Both mean ‘go’…. ‘home’ is ‘a casa’–
go home/ go(away) home.
I am hungry
(plus reflexive) … ‘irse’ when used in its reflexive form
88 Ife
Example 10
T1: Se ha caído. ¿Qué es caerse? (Demonstrates)... To fall over. Es
reflexivo.
Existe el verbo ‘caer’, significa ‘fall’, pero ‘caerse’ significa ‘fall
down’, ‘fall over’
He’s fallen over. What is ‘caerse’? … (To ‘fall over). It’s
reflexive. The verb ‘caer exists, it means ‘fall’, but ‘caerse’ means
‘fall down’, ‘fall over’.
Most uses of ELF in examples 5, 8, 9 and 10 are limited to translating
the specific items whose meaning is likely to cause some difficulty,
while in example 7 ELF provides an interpretation, as T1 reports what
the speaker has said, rather than giving an exact translation. In
example 9 the ELF use veers at one point towards a more integrated
code-switching, as T2 introduces the word ‘means’ into her Spanish
discourse. A similar case happens in example 11 where the ELF
clarifications are mostly still strictly translations, woven into the
discourse, apart from the use of ‘so’. Having provided a whole-phrase
translation, though, T1 then picks up individual words (‘salud’) and
expressions (‘tienes que’) that she suspects might cause difficulty and
then offers an additional translation.
Example 11
T2: Si quieres tener buena salud tienes que.....hacer deporte. ¿Eh? So if
you want to have good health, salud - health, tienes que, you have
to, hacer deporte.
If you want to have good health you have to … do sport. Eh? So if
you want to have good health, ‘salud’, health, you have to you
have to do sport.
Example 12, however, shows more fully developed intra-sentence code-
switching. A substantial portion of ELF discourse is interwoven into the
TL discourse when it becomes clear that Ss are having difficulty with a
new word ‘agotador’.
Example 12
T1: Agotador, ¿qué significa ‘agotador’? (...silence) Si haces una cosa
muy dura, y al final estás muy cansado, dices que ha sido
‘agotador’ (still no response) – exhausting, wearing out. ‘Agotar’
is to wear out – it can be a thing or a person – so ‘agotador’ is
something that really wears you out. Entonces lo más agotador que
ha hecho Raúl es que...
A Role for English as Lingua Franca 89
‘agotador’ What does agotador mean? …If you are doing
something that’s difficult, and at the end you are very tired, you
say that it has been ‘agotador’ - exhausting, wearing out.
‘Agotar’ is to wear out – it can be a thing or a person - so
‘agotador’ is something that really wears you out. So the most
exhausting thing that Raúl has done is that….
Ss Ha hecho muchos ejercicios.
He’s done a lot of exercise
T1: Ha hecho muchos ejercicios, se ha entrenado mucho, sí, muy bien.
He’s done a lot of exercise, he’s trained a lot, yes, very good.
Interestingly, in example 12, the ELF intervention appears to succeed yet
Ss as a group respond in TL, showing that the dominant discourse in the
teaching situation is clearly TL, in spite of the intrusion of ELF. Such
interweaving of the two languages, and the development of a kind of
TL/ELF bilingual discourse occurs even more in more affective aspects of
classroom discourse, to which we now turn.
5.4.2 Classroom Interaction
5.4.2.1 Class Management and Task Completion
ELF is used in a number of different ways to assist comprehension and to
facilitate activity in the classroom. Task instructions are typically given by
teachers in TL and only when Ss have demonstrated whether or not they
understand is confirmation given in ELF. Example 13 follows a full
explanation in TL of an impending role play, including how it will happen
and what its purpose is. Learners are about to be given time also to read
through the TL instructions.
Example 13
T2: ¿Está claro? Primero mirarlo y luego preguntar si hay preguntas.
OK? So have a look at it, at your handout, and see everything you
have to do. And ask me if you have any queries. ¿Alguna
pregunta?
Is it clear? First you look at it and then ask if you have questions.
OK? So have a look at it, at your handout, and see everything you
have to do. And ask me if you have any queries………Any
queries?
90 Ife
As with input enhancement, above, teachers do not automatically code-
switch in response if a learner initiates an ELF interaction but will
frequently respond in TL as if the query were initiated in TL. This occurs
where Ss are involved in group activity and seek either clarification of the
task (example 14) or assistance with vocabulary that they want to use (15).
Example 14
NNS: So what we have to do.……describe them?
T1: No, no, tenéis que decir lo que han hecho estas personas
recientemente
No. You have to say what these people have done recently
Example 15 is a good example of T2 apparently being taken off guard by
the use of ELF, as she responds ‘¿Cómo?’ to the ELF query.
Example 15
NNS: How do you say ‘engaged’?
T2: ¿Cómo?
What?
NNS Engaged.
T2: Prometido (como ‘promise’) continues to explain in TL
like ‘promise’,
In example 16 T2 is helping Ss complete an activity from the course book.
NNS gives a wrong response (‘Tienes gripe’) and T2 adopts the technique
previously seen (9) to clarify what are perceived as key phrases, that may
not have been understood. When NNS indicates, using ELF, that she does
not know the word needed, T2 accepts the comment but responds in TL,
before clarifying finally in ELF, but with an interpretation rather than an
exact translation (as in 7).
Example 16
[Ss are completing an activity that involves supplying a phrase previously
presented]
T2: Cuando trabajas mucho y duermes poco ¿......?
When you work a lot and sleep little?
NNS: Tienes gripe.
You have flu
T2: Trabajas mucho, ¿eh?, you work very hard, y duermes poco, you
sleep very little. ¿Estás?
You work a lot, eh, you work very hard and you sleep little, you
sleep very little. You are?
‘prometido’,
A Role for English as Lingua Franca 91
NNS: I don’t know the…
T2: Agotado. Estás agotado. Estás muy muy muy cansado. (Writes on
board) (Says) I’m exhausted.
Exhausted. You are exhausted. You are very, very, very tired. I’m
exhausted
The accepted use of ELF and the teachers’ responses in these previous
examples show ELF acting in a support role to the second language
learning process. Although we cannot provide firm evidence of this from
this ‘snapshot’ case study data, experience shows that if the learners’
requests in ELF are accepted unobtrusively but dealt with in TL their
confidence gradually grows to the point where they feel more able to
inquire in TL themselves. Indeed queries are already occurring in TL
(examples 2 and 6) but in many learners this point arrives only after some
months of learning. The assistance of ELF provides a cushion, or
scaffolding in socio-cultural terms (Antón and DiCamilla 1998: 318), to
enable learners to negotiate the difficult early stages of language learning
and offers protection for the psychological vulnerability of the new
language learner. Such vulnerability is likely to heighten a learner’s
anxiety state, an area highlighted by studies of learner variables as
potentially influencing successful learning (Ellis 1994: 479–83; Skehan
1989: 115–118). Oxford (1990: 140) talks of the ‘tremendous influence
over the emotional atmosphere of the class’ that can be exerted by
teachers. ELF is clearly deployed and accepted within the observed
language classrooms as a valuable tool in reducing learner anxiety.
5.4.2.2 Interpersonal Relationships
If the learner-teacher relationship is important in the learning process, so
too is the relationship between learners, since group dynamics and peer
relationships are also likely to be contributory factors in affecting a
learner’s anxiety state. Among the students themselves, the study shows
that ELF serves on a number of occasions to cement the relationship
between them. It is difficult in an embryonic language to establish the kind
of easy, jocular relationship with peers that can help group bonding and
create an ambience in which learners feel at ease. ELF helps to create this
atmosphere and to allow the learners to reveal their personalities or make
humorous comments to and about each other, or indeed about themselves.
Through ELF they can assuage the sense of unease that learners feel when
trying to express themselves in TL while acutely aware that their
expressive potential is much more limited than someone of their age and
intellectual ability would wish.
92 Ife
This is illustrated in examples 17 and 18. Both examples show interplay
between males and females in the group, clearly at ease with each other,
where ELF allows them to interact via ELF-TL code-switching to make
jokes, based on male-female teasing. In example 17, NNS1 is describing a
good looking film actor and a male (NNS2) offers himself, in ribald
fashion, as the obvious answer – using ELF. A second female (NNS3)
supplies the correct answer, at which NNS2 expostulates in TL at the idea
that Brad Pitt is good looking. NNS3 retorts with good humour in ELF that
‘we (females) know these things’. T1 interestingly intervenes as a
participant in this discourse, effectively switching it back to TL mode,
although NNS2’s response is then part TL, part ELF – ELF helping out
with the idiomatic, wry comment ‘come on!’ (directed at both teacher and
fellow learners), when an appropriate TL phrase, such as ‘¡Qué va!’, is still
not available in the learner’s interlanguage.
Example 17
[Learners are describing a person whose name the others have to guess]
NNS1(f): Es muy guapo, y se ha divorciado y es ...
He’s very good looking, and he’s got divorced and he’s…
NNS2 (m): Me
Laughter
NNS3 (f): Brad Pitt
NNS2 (m): ¡¿Guapo?!
Good looking?!
NNS3(f): laughs … we know these things…
T1: Sí, es muy guapo
Yes, he’s very good looking
NNS2 (m): No ‘muy, muy’, come on!
Not ‘very, very’, come on!
Example 18 shows the interplay of TL and ELF when a female learner,
who is developing a good, friendly relationship with her male peers,
comments jokingly on the fact that a male (NNS1) can identify a blond
female photograph when the rest of them cannot (‘How do you know all
their names?). Another male suggests in ELF that it’s ‘because she’s
beautiful’ but the female learner jokes that the blond must be of the same
nationality as NNS1 (‘She must be Italian’). T1 again participates in TL,
diverting the discourse back to TL, as in the previous example.
Example 18
[Ss try to identify people in photos]
T1: Otra persona de las fotos es bastante famosa. ¿Cuál?
A Role for English as Lingua Franca 93
Another person in the photos is quite famous, which one?
NNS1(m): (It) La rubia...
The blond one ...
T1: La rubia, sí... ¿Cómo se llama?
The blond one, yes.......What’s her name?
NNS1(m): Valeria Matsa …
T1: Sí, muy bien
Yes, very good
Other Ss: laughter.
NNS2(f) How do you know all their names?
NNS3(m): She’s… beautiful
NNS2(f): She must be Italian (laughter from others)
T1: ¿Es italiana, A.?
Is she Italian, A.?
NNS1(m): No, es argentina
No, she’s Argentinian
On other occasions, ELF serves a different purpose: it helps a learner out of
difficulty or embarrassment within the group, by explaining that they cannot
provide an apparently simple answer to a question because they do not know
how to pronounce something, or have misunderstood a word in a question.
In other words, it allows the speaker to save face as in example 19.
Example 19
[Referring to text where answers have to be picked out and comprehension
is not difficult]
T2 Si duermes en una mala postura, y te duele el cuello, ¿qué
te pasa?
If you sleep in a bad position, and your neck hurts, what’s
the matter with you?
NNS: I understand what it says, but I don’t know how to….
(presumably how to pronounce it)
T2 Tienes tortícolis. You have a stiff neck.
At other times learners use ELF to help each other out. In pair activity they
can be heard explaining or questioning how the TL works in particular
instances, sometimes even when they could have been expected to use a
mutually shared L1. One particularly striking example occurred between
two students, one a French native speaker and the other a bilingual
English/French speaker. The French native explained a TL difficulty to his
partner in ELF, rather than French (as might have been expected), ‘it’s like
in French…’
94 Ife
Although no examples occurred in the recorded data, throughout the
course learners have used ELF to elaborate cultural points, stimulated by
contact with the TL culture. When learning about how surnames function
in Spanish, or how Christmas customs work, or about particular festivals,
learners in multilingual, multicultural groups want to be able to tell others
about their home customs. This is of course encouraged to happen in TL,
but at a point where their TL ability is limited they may be tempted into
ELF by a desire to inform that exceeds their linguistic capability.
Ultimately the teacher has to take a pragmatic decision: to cut the
contribution, with the risk of demotivating and discouraging the learner at
a personal level in a context where he or she has to develop a relationship
with multicultural peers, or to allow the contribution to continue in ELF,
with the attendant interest and involvement of the peer group and the
consequent raising of the learner’s stock in their eyes. In the interests of
group bonding, and indeed of wider educational benefit, it is often wiser to
allow the ELF elaboration to continue.
It must not be forgotten, though, that the prime motivation of the foreign
language class is for the learners to learn the TL. In this regard, use of ELF
can serve a useful intercultural function: when some aspect of the TL
culture has been presented or explained in TL, the fact that learners want
to clarify, comment and, indeed elaborate on parallel customs in their own
culture using ELF, helps to reinforce learning in relation to the TL culture.
It also helps the class teacher to confirm to what degree learners’
understanding of the TL culture has been achieved through the TL itself.
TL and ELF can thus fruitfully work together in the early stages of SLA
in the ways outlined. A valid question is whether the use of ELF has any
detrimental effects on acquisition of TL. While one can see clear examples
of transfer from learners’ L1 from time to time, especially from speakers
of French and Italian, there is only one obvious example in this data of
confusion between ELF and TL on the part of an ELF learner, this from a
speaker of Czech, whose own language is removed from either ELF or
Spanish. She interprets the phrase ‘tu personaje’ in T1’s initial question
through ELF, when she responds ‘two persons?’
Example 20
[Learners are identifying a well known personality according to what new
worthy activities they have done recently]:
T1: M., dinos ¿qué ha hecho tu personaje recientemente?
M., tell us what your character has done recently?
NNS1: Two persons?
T1: No, tu personaje, no ‘two persons’
No, ‘tu personaje’, not ‘two persons
A Role for English as Lingua Franca 95
NNS1: (Laughter.) Sorry! ... Ha vestido ‘Nazi costume’ y su padre
ha tenido aventura.
Sorry! He has worn ‘Nazi costume’ and his father has had
an affair.
T1: En vez de ‘costume’ mejor decir ‘traje’ ... ha vestido traje
de nazi, y su padre ha tenido una aventura, sí
Instead of ‘costume’ it’s better to say ‘traje’… he has
worn Nazi costume, and his father had an affair, yes
NNS1: Bueno, y va ser rey, so it’s obvious
Well, and he’s going to be king, so it’s obvious
NNS2: Prince er Harry
T1: Y ¿cómo se dice ‘prince’ en español?.... príncipe, el
príncipe Harry, sí’
And how do you say ‘prince’ in Spanish? … príncipe,
Prince Harry, yes
This example suggests that at this point in this particular learner’s
interlanguage ELF and TL are somehow fused, perhaps not unlike the case
of children developing bilingually who periodically mix their two
languages. This impression is reinforced by her use of ELF for pragmatic
functions, to apologise for her mistake (‘Sorry!’) and to minimise the
likely transparency of her contribution (‘so it’s obvious’).
5.5 Discussion
Two main issues of interest emerge from this experience of ELF in the
third language classroom. One concerns the way ELF use in this particular
context relates to other observations of ELF use. The other concerns the
role that ELF is playing in a third-language classroom and how this
squares with current orthodoxies on input in second language acquisition
and with prevailing methodologies. We deal with each of these in turn.
5.5.1 ELF in Relation to Previous Research
Previous research on ELF has focused on its use in a variety of contexts,
including casual conversation (Meierkord 2000), more formal, discussion
contexts (House 2002a, 2002b), or business negotiation (Firth 1990), and
among speakers of variable ELF ability. While some studies focus on ELF
as a linguistic system (Jenkins 2000; Seidlhofer 2002; for example), others
focus on the characteristics of lingua franca communication (see House
96 Ife
2002a, 2002b; Meierkord 2000; Meierkord and Knapp 2002). Messages
emerging from studies to date suggest that ELF communication may
frequently be superficial in nature, with speakers opting for ‘safe topics’
on which they can achieve a degree of consensus and avoid inadvertently
raising taboo subjects (Meierkord 2000). At other times they engage in
parallel monologues, not really interacting with each other (House 2002a)
as native speakers would, perhaps because of different cultural
assumptions about what polite interaction consists of. Generally, though,
ELF use seems to be supportive, with ELF speakers helping each other
out, not focusing on others’ linguistic weaknesses and not focusing on
misunderstandings, but being willing to change topic rather than highlight
miscomprehension. Reference is made to the co-operative nature of much
ELF interaction (Meierkord 2000; Meierkord and Knapp 2002; House
2002a).
Our ELF data comes from a very different context, but is perhaps nearest
in kind to the casual conversation observed by Meierkord (2000) although
now it is incidental to the main activity. Nonetheless, ELF use in our
observed data is always purposeful, being directly focused on the task in
hand (learning TL) and is clearly fundamental to the functioning of the FL
classroom. The co-operativeness noted in previous studies has usually
related to the face needs of other participants in interaction (avoiding
embarrassment, disguising failures of comprehension, etc.). Here ELF use
may instead protect own face-needs (examples 16, 19, 20), allowing
learners to excuse their own perceived inadequacies and thus protect their
own face in relation to both the teacher and their peers. In relation to
others, a different kind of co-operativeness operates, learners using ELF, in
these rather unusual circumstances, to create a mutually supportive
environment for a common endeavour. ELF-TL code switching is used on
a number of occasions, sometimes with the collusion of the class teacher,
to allow a more continuous discourse than would otherwise occur
(examples 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 18). However, it is in the examples of
extended inter-group interaction, that we find perhaps the most interesting
occurrences of ELF as it takes on a real pragmatic function in the
interaction, allowing the repartee (18 ‘how do you know all their
names?!’), the casual comments (20 ‘so it’s obvious’), the whimsical or
ironic comments (18 ‘come on!’), or even expressions of regret (20
‘sorry’), that are still unavailable in TL. In the recorded data, T1’s group
produced most of these examples. This appears to be a group at ease with
itself and wanting to inter-relate at a level that TL does not yet allow. ELF
at this point in learners’ development clearly helps.
A Role for English as Lingua Franca 97
5.5.2 ELF Use in Relation to SLA Research
As regards the role of ELF in the language learning process, we indicated
earlier that prevailing orthodoxies have for a long time stressed the need
for maximising TL use in the second language learning classroom on the
grounds that classroom input is the main, if not the only, source of input in
the instructed learning process, a view that stems from the post-Krashen
assumption that L2 learning will occur most successfully if the L1 learning
process is simulated. This has led to the banishing of L1 from L2 classes
and to L2 teachers being reluctant to admit to any use of L1 (Cook 2001).
This view has been questioned in a spate of publications urging a
reconsideration of the use of L1 in L2 learning (see inter alia Butzkamm
2003; Caldwell 1990; Cook 2001; Dodson 1972; Harbord 1992) and a
recommendation that the L1 resource be more systematically exploited,
especially among older learners, for whom a different learning process
may be needed in SLA (Caldwell 1990). Socio-cultural approaches to L2
have also become prominent advocates of the importance of L1 in
mediating the learning process through private speech and collaborative
task completion (for a résumé and persuasive classroom evidence see
Antón and DiCamilla 1998). L1 is seen both as an important cognitive tool
in analysing L2 and as a vital tool in promoting effective collaboration in
task-based activity.
What we have seen in the current study is ELF fulfilling several of the
functions envisaged for L1 in some of the debate mentioned above. L1 use
is not a classroom option here, as teachers do not normally have access to
the learner’s L1. Experience shows, and student feedback confirms, that
those learners whose language is closely related to Spanish (notably Italian
and French) clearly refer to L1 in interpreting Spanish vocabulary and
understanding syntactic functioning. They admit to cross-referencing with
L1 outside the classroom and can sometimes be heard using L1 in
collaborative task activity with a partner from the same background. Those
whose languages are distant from Spanish (Turkish, Arabic, Persian, for
example) see L1 as unhelpful and find ELF more useful to them. All,
however, seem willingly to collude in creating the ELF-supported
environment in which they learn: ELF functions as the default medium of
expression of the ‘international environment’, conducive to language
learning, that we mentioned earlier.
Both teachers and learners, as we have seen, adopt a kind of code-
switching behaviour between TL and ELF, where ELF bridges the gap
between current level of ability in TL and the level needed for successful
communication. ELF here fulfils the kind of scaffolding, or inter-
psychological function, described by Antón and DiCamilla (1998: 318),
98 Ife
whereby learners can focus on the elements within their range of ability
while something/someone else takes charge of the elements that are
currently beyond them. Both teachers and learners employ ELF in this
sense, as when ELF is used to access TL lexical items or to understand text
(examples 5–12). We would argue that it is also used in the inter-
subjective function identified by the socio-culturalists in classroom
interaction, where learners complete their discourse with elements from
ELF (examples 17, 20).
5.6 Conclusion
The major conclusion that can be drawn from this study, in our view, is
that it provides further evidence of the value of supplementing TL input
with other linguistic resources in the early stages of adult language
learning. Although we would in no way argue against maximising L2 input
in SLA, arguments in favour of exploitation of L1 as a resource in SLA
learning are persuasive and are reinforced by the evidence that, when L1 is
not available, learners may, as here, opt to use instead a common lingua
franca. Learners who are already fluent ELF speakers are cognitively
advanced individuals, who know better than most what it means to learn a
second language and they appear instinctively to call upon what prior
linguistic knowledge they have as they negotiate the first stages of
learning, even though from the outside such a mingling of language
resources might appear potentially confusing. If at the same time they can
function within a more natural environment where ELF provides some
essential pragmatic functions in the discourse, this appears to be likely to
be conducive to learning in that it reduces stress, preserves face and
mediates the development of comfortable inter-group relationships.
What this study cannot show is the full extent to which learners use ELF
and the extent to which they will continue to use it as their learning
progresses. A number of lines of future research suggest themselves.
Observation of ELF speakers’ interaction in pair or group work, for
example, would throw more light on the nature of ELF use in collaborative
activity, especially its pragmatic function, and would permit a greater
contribution to the understanding of the characteristics of ELF itself. Such
observations could also show how far ELF is involved in the intra-
psychological function of private speech among more advanced ELF
speakers (Antón and DiCamilla 1998), or whether they revert to L1 or
perhaps a combination of the two in mediating TL. Furthermore, different
learners are also likely to make use of ELF in different ways. We saw
above (20), a learner who has a kind of mingled TL/ELF interlanguage and
A Role for English as Lingua Franca 99
individual learner studies could reveal interesting variation in this respect.
They could also help to show how long ELF continues to mediate learning,
and with what ultimate effect, for those who begin as TL learners in an
ELF context.
Clearly the current study represents only a first step in understanding
ELF use in the SLA context and much remains to be understood. Platt and
Brooks (1994: 509) speak of L1 as ‘really the only mediational tool fully
available to learners, especially at the lower proficiency levels, for solving
the kinds of problems we have seen in these various examples of talk.’
Butzkamm (2003: 29), lamenting the dogma of monolingual classrooms,
sees the L1 as ‘the greatest asset people bring to the task of foreign
language learning’ and one which ‘provides a Language Acquisition
Support System.’ We would argue, on the basis of what we have observed
here, that a lingua franca such as ELF can also serve as an efficient support
system in certain contexts and is worthy of further exploration.
References
Antón M, DiCamilla F (1998) Socio-cognitive functions of L1 collaborative interaction in
the L2 classroom. Canadian Modern Language Review 54: 314–42
Butzkamm W (2003) We only learn language once. The role of the mother tongue in FL
classrooms: Death of a dogma. Language Learning Journal 28: 29–39
Caldwell J (1990) Analysis of the theoretical and experimental support for Carl Dodson’s
bilingual method. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development 11: 459–79
Cenoz J, Jessner U (2000) English in Europe. The Acquisition of a Third Language.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Cook V (2001) Using the first language in the classroom. Canadian Modern Language
Review 57(3): 314–342
Crystal D (1997) English as a Global Language. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge
Dodson CJ (1972) Language Teaching and the Bilingual Method, 2nd edn. Pitman, London
Ellis R (1994) The Study of Second Language Acquisition. Oxford University Press,
Oxford
Firth A (1990) ‘Lingua franca’ negotiations: Towards an interactional approach. World
Englishes, 9(3): 269–280
Graddol D (1997) The Future of English? British Council, London
Graddol D (1999) The decline of the native speaker. In: Graddol D, Meinhof U (eds)
English in a Changing World. AILA Review 13: 57–68
Harbord J (1992) The use of the mother tongue in the classroom. English Language
Teaching Journal 46, 4: 350–355
House J (2002a) Communicating in English as a lingua franca. In: Foster-Cohen S,
Ruthenberg T, Poschen M-L (eds) EUROSLA Yearbook 2, John Benjamins Publishing
Company, Amsterdam/Philadelphia, pp 243–261
House J (2002b) Pragmatic competence in lingua franca English. In: Knapp K, Meierkord
C (eds) Lingua Franca Interaction. Lang, Frankfurt/Main, pp 245-267
James A (2000) English as a European lingua franca. In: Cenoz J, Jessner U (eds) English in
Europe: The Acquisition of a Third Language. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 22–38
100 Ife
Jenkins J (2000) The Phonology of English as an International Language. Oxford
University Press, Oxford
Labrie N, Quell C (1997) Your language, my language or English. The potential language
choice in communication among nationals of the European Union. World Englishes
16: 3–26
Meierkord C (2000) Interpreting successful lingua franca interaction. An analysis of non-
native/non-native small talk conversations in English. Linguistik Online5, 1/00,
www.linguistik-online.de/1_00/ [accessed 23.08.05]
Meierkord C, Knapp K (2002) Approaching lingua franca communication. In: Knapp K,
Meierkord C (eds) Lingua Franca Communication. Lang, Frankfurt/Main, pp 9–28
Oxford RL (1990) Language Learning Strategies. Heinle and Heinle, Boston,
Massachusetts
Platt E, Brooks FB (1994) The ‘acquisition-rich environment’ revisited. Modern Language
Journal 78(4): 497–511
Seidlhofer B (2002) Habeas corpus and divide et impera: ‘Global English’ and Applied
Linguistics. In: Spelman Miller K, Thompson P (eds) Unity and Diversity in Language
Use, BAAL/Continuum, London/New York, pp 198–217
Skehan P (1989) Individual Differences in Second-language Learning. Edward Arnold,
London/New York
6
Writing-to-learn in Instructed Language
Learning Contexts
Rosa M. Manchón
Julio Roca de Larios
Universidad de Murcia, Spain
6.1 Introduction
It is a common observation that writing is part and parcel of learning and
teaching second languages (L2) in many parts of the world, and this is
certainly the case across Europe, precisely the context analysed in this
book. It follows, then, that writing must play an important role in the life
of students and teachers in instructed language contexts, just as its role
must also be important in the life of many professionals worldwide for
whom communicating through writing in an L2 plays a central part in their
daily routine. These issues might explain the exponential growth of
research on what learning to write entails (especially, although not solely,
at university levels), the result of which has been an active research agenda
that has included both theoretical concerns related to the three dimensions
of writing (the writers themselves, their texts and the contexts in which
they write and learn to write. See Cumming, 1990, 1998, 2001 for recent
reviews), as well as more applied matters related to pedagogy. For
instance, as one of us recently stated (Manchón 2001: vii):
scholars have devoted their efforts to trying to elucidate how writing
teachers can best respond to and assess their students’ writing, as well as
how teachers and educational programs can best assist second language
users (including disadvantaged groups) in their efforts to express their
voices, purposes and intentions in a new language in a variety of educational
settings and communicative situations, and for different purposes,
participation in society and personal growth.
Featuring in a significantly less prominent place in the research agenda are
scholarly discussions of other equally important theoretical and applied
matters –perhaps more relevant in foreign (as opposed to second) language
E. Alcón Soler and M.P. Safont Jordà (eds.), Intercultural Language Use and Language Learning, 101–121.
101
© 2008
Springer Science+Business Media B.V.
102
learning contexts-, such as the actual role that writing plays or should play
in the language learning experience of classroom learners (is writing an
end in itself or a means to an end?), or the various personal (for both
teachers and students) and/or institutional consequences that derive from
introducing writing into school programmes.
There are indications, however, that this state of affairs might change in
the near future. Two recent publications are representative of what we
hope is an emergent critical line of enquiry. The first one is a lucid and
ideologically committed paper by Ilona Leki (2001) with the suggestive
title of “Material, educational, and ideological challenges of teaching EFL
writing at the turn of the century”, in which she critically reflects on
different sets of challenges faced by foreign language teachers both on a
day-to-day basis, and also at a more general, invisible level. Among the
former Leki mentions the problems derived from having to teach large
classes, to accommodate local needs, to overcome the teachers’ own lack
of professional training, or their students´ lack of training and experience
in L1 writing. The more invisible, ethical and educational challenges
discussed by Leki encompass a whole set of crucial concerns (which
perhaps have much more far-reaching consequences, as the author herself
acknowledges) such as:
the need to justify the large investment required on the part of institutions
and individuals in order to teach L2 writing, the right to resist center
imposed materials and methods, the need for a dialogue with students about
the role of writing in their lives, and the need to make L2 writing enhance
learner options rather than limit them so that for learners, writing in L2
becomes not a pointless additional burden but a powerful means of
accomplishing personal goals (Leki 2001: 197).
The second publication representative of this recently-opened research
avenue is Linda Harklau’s (2002) thorough and timely reflection on the
crucial role that literacy plays in the learning experience of many foreign
language learners and, thus, the need for more research on the issue in
classroom-based studies of second language acquisition (SLA). Despite the
fact that the issue of foreign language writing and intercultural writers has
been partly tackled by some scholars (Ventola and Mauranen 1996), Harklau
convincingly argues that in many instructed language contexts, and in
contrast to what may be inferred from published SLA research, useful input
for acquisition does not come about as a result of the interactions among the
participants in the classroom, but rather through the printed word, as she
herself could discover when she observed different American foreign
language classrooms, and as the reader might also confirm on the basis of
Manchón and Roca de Larios
Writing-to-learn in Instructed Language Learning Contexts 103
his or her learning/teaching experience. This far-reaching observation leads
Harklau to claim that SLA research still has to understand how these L2
learners exploit their literacy experiences in the accomplishment of their
self- or other imposed learning goals, which means that at the level of
theory and research “it is important to investigate how L2 learners learn how
to write, but it is just as important to learn more about the instrumental role
that writing can play in the acquisition of a second language in educational
settings” (Harklau 2002: 345). Based on these premises, the author sets up a
research agenda that includes learner and target language variation,
multimodality and language socialization in classroom communication, and
interactionist approaches to classroom research.
This chapter is motivated by a desire to contribute to this debate. We will
do so by reflecting from two different angles on the learning potential of
writing in instructed language contexts. Along the lines of the research
agenda set up by Harklau, it is our aim to present the psycholinguistic
rationale for the purported language learning potential of writing in
instructed language contexts, a potential that, we will argue, is closely linked
to the problem-solving nature of composing. Thus, our second building
block is a review, albeit selective and synthetic, of the empirical evidence
available (including data from our own research) on the problem-solving
behaviour L2 writers engage in when they write. This is what we will do in
the second part of the chapter, in which we offer a synthesis of the research
on the problem-solving nature of the text-generation subprocess of
composing (thus leaving out issues pertaining to how writers approach the
planning and revision of their texts), but we shall limit our reference to essay
writing, i.e. to cases in which an attempt is made to produce a whole text.
The decision to focus on essay writing is based on the conviction that,
although other forms of writing are present and surely useful in learning and
teaching writing, as Hedge (1988) once put it, the ultimate goal of any
writing programme ought to be to enable “students to write whole texts
which form connected, contextualized, and appropriate pieces of
communication” (Hedge 1988: 8). We conclude the chapter by mentioning
some general implications of the research reviewed for the teaching of
writing in instructed learning contexts.
6.2 A Psycholinguistic Rationale for the Language Learning
Potential of L2 Writing
Our analysis of the language learning potential of L2 writing is approached
from two strands of research: cognitive views of writing, and cognitive
accounts of SLA.
104
6.2.1 The Problem-solving Nature of Composing
It is our view that an explanation of the language learning potential of L2
writing needs to take account of the cognitive conceptualisation of writing
as a recursive, cognitively-demanding, problem-solving task. In this view,
the process of text creation is recursive because, as suggested by Perl
(1979), writers’ composing processes develop by “shuttling from the sense
of what they wanted to say forward to the words on the page and back
from the words on the page to their intended meaning” (p 330). Therefore,
and in contrast to traditional beliefs, texts are not produced by first
planning what one wants to say, then writing it and, finally, revising it.
Rather, these three macro-processes (planning, formulation and revision)
interact with each other in a cyclical manner in a way that makes it
possible for any of these processes to be embedded in any other. What is
more, the recursive nature of writing also entails a continuous backward
and forward movement between the already written and the emerging text
since what we have written exerts a very strong influence over what we
will write next. As Flower and Hayes (1981) once put it, writers need to
“juggle and integrate the multiple constraints of their knowledge, their
plans, and their text into the production of each new sentence” (p 371).
This juggling of constraints explains in part why, in addition to being
recursive, composing a text is also a complex, cognitively demanding task
that involves continuous decision-making and problem-solving activity on
the part of the writer. Problem solving in this context means that an
organism (in our case somebody trying to produce a text) has to cross a
gap between two points (known as “initial state” and “end state”,
respectively) and that the gap cannot be crossed automatically, i.e. it
requires a search process. To put it in a different way, composing a text is
a task in which goals are continuously set, although not automatically
achieved. The goals pursued may be related to any possible dimension of
text creation, from language-, text-, or content-concerns, to issues of
purpose or audience. The problem-solving process is the thinking process
one engages in to get from the initial to the end state and it has been
defined as a sequence of cognitive operations, also referred to as problem-
solving strategies (see Manchón et al., forthcoming, for a review of the
empirical research on L2 writing strategies).
Researchers in the field have attempted to shed light on the type of
problems L2 writers pose themselves while composing, the search
processes they engage in, and the writer-internal and/or writer-external
variables that influence the writers’ problem-solving behaviour while they
attempt to express themselves in their L2 (as reviewed in Roca et al. 2002).
We will synthesise this research in a later section, but at this juncture let us
Manchón and Roca de Larios
Writing-to-learn in Instructed Language Learning Contexts 105
clarify a couple of points. First, it is important to note that all stages or
subprocesses of composing (i.e., planning, formulation –or text generating-
and revision) entail problem solving, although in L2 writing this is
especially the case during text-generating activity, i.e. when an attempt is
made to transform ideas and intentions into language. The explanation is
that, compared to more able, experienced, or proficient L2 users, the
majority of L2 learners have less knowledge of the L2 (at some or all
linguistic levels), and/or less possibility of having automatic access to the
L2 knowledge that they possess. Thus, when faced with the dialectic
between content and rhetorical concerns that lies at the heart of writing, L2
writers are likely to experience many “gaps” between their content
concerns (their intended meaning) and their rhetorical concerns (how to
convey their intentions successfully, with “success” acquiring here various
possible meanings).
Second, it is pertinent to refer to two further aspects of the problem-
solving nature of composing which have crucial pedagogical implications.
The first is that writing problems fall into the category of “ill-defined
problems”, i.e. those for which either the actual end state one is trying to
reach is not clear at the start, and/or the search process is a question of
using heuristics rather than algorithms. The second is that writing
problems are self-initiated in the sense of their being the result of one’s
own goals, intentions, and perception of task demands. As such, the
problem-solving route followed by the writer, in addition to being self-
initiated, is not fixed as it can be easily modified, or even replaced by an
alternative route that, in extreme cases, could entail “problem avoiding”
rather than “problem solving” behaviour: writers may attempt to reach the
original end state of the problem space, set a less distant end state from the
original one, or even abandon the search altogether. The traditional
distinction between “risk-taking” -or “achievement”– and “risk-avoiding” –
or “reduction”– oral communication strategies (cf. Faerch and Kasper
1983) somehow echoes these possible problem-solving routes. The
implication is that it cannot be taken for granted that, when confronted
with identical writing tasks, all writers will necessarily engage in identical
problem-solving behaviour. This issue has crucial implications for
pedagogical decision making. For instance, it would seem reasonable to
suggest that one of the teacher’s tasks is to create learning conditions for
“all” learners to engage in what we could call “deep problem-solving
behaviour”. These conditions are closely linked to, inter alia, issues of task
design (see Manchón 1999 for an example of how different prompts
encourage students to pursue goals of increasing complexity) and to
teachers’ responses to the students´ writing, the ultimate aim of which –as
repeatedly stated in the relevant literature- is to give students reasons for
106
revision, i.e. to give them problems of a different nature from those they
posed themselves in the first place.
Returning to the problem-solving nature of composing and to its
relationship with the learning potential of writing, it has been suggested
that when L2 writers fully engage in their attempt to express thoughts and
ideas in writing, i.e. when they employ deep problem-solving behaviour,
they will of necessity have to solve the multiplicity of problems involved
in writing. This problem-solving activity would result in a linguistic
exercise that might, in turn, contribute to the student’s progress in his/her
language learning process, and do so in two different ways: repeated and
guided writing practice may help the student in knowing more about the
language, and also in becoming more competent at using the language.
The psycholinguistic rationale behind these assumptions is related to the
role that attentional processes and certain types of practice have in second
language development, as we discuss next.
6.2.2 Attention and Practice in L2 Development
Some cognitive processing models of L2 acquisition view it as the
acquisition of a complex skill (DeKeyser 1998, 2001; Segalowitz 2003)
and, accordingly, the process involves a gradual progression from having
declarative L2 knowledge (i.e. knowing what), to the proceduralization of
declarative knowledge (i.e. knowing how), and then to the automatization
of procedural knowledge (i.e. being able to use the L2, receptively and/or
productively fast, unconsciously and without effort or attention). In the
words of Segalowitz (2003: 395):
Initially, the execution of a cognitive skill involves retrieving and using
declarative knowledge to solve the problem at hand, involving the
application of production rules upon the declarative knowledge [...] [T]he
transition from declarative knowledge to procedural knowledge through the
application of production rules occurs via a process called proceduralization.
This involves passing from a cognitive stage where rules are explicit,
through an associative phase where rules are applied repeatedly in a
consistent manner, to an autonomous stage where the rules are no longer
explicit and are executed automatically, implicitly in a fast, coordinated
fashion.
Seen from a cognitive angle, the progression from having L2 declarative
knowledge to being able to use the L2 with automaticity comes about as a
result of the actual processing engaged in by the learner. And it is precisely
here where two processes associated with composing become crucial: to
Manchón and Roca de Larios
Writing-to-learn in Instructed Language Learning Contexts 107
progress in L2 development learners need to engage in meaningful and
challenging L2 production, and to do so through “real practice” (in contrast
to “controlled practice”). These statements need further unpacking.
The learning potential of producing language is associated with the
“Output Hypothesis” (Swain 1985), which posits that output, in addition to
being the end result of the language learning process, can actually have an
important role in promoting language development. Its main tenet is that
producing language (either orally or in writing) pushes learners into
making their output more precise, coherent and appropriate. This is
especially so when learners experience communicative difficulties in the
sense of having to struggle to express their intentions, as in the case of
writing when conceptualised as a form of problem solving in the sense
explained above. The production of this type of output is thought to
contribute to second language development as a result of the hypothesis-
testing, metalinguistic, noticing, and a fluency functions attributed to
output (Swain 1995, 1998):
The hypothesis-testing function is predicated on the grounds that the
internal or external feedback obtained on their productions can help L2
learners to test their L2 hypotheses (see Shehadeh 2002 for a review of the
empirical research in this area). In the case of writing, and in contrast to
the on-line production of messages in oral interactions, writers have time
to write and rewrite, to search for an optimal match between intentions and
their expression. This search may trigger internal feedback in the form of
self-evaluation of one’s own choices, for instance, a process that quite
often is done through the writer’s L1, as we shall see later. In addition,
learners also obtain external feedback on their writing, because responding
to students´ writing is, has been, and will always be an integral part of
pedagogical approaches to the teaching of writing, which might explain the
abundant attention that matters of feedback have received in the research
in the area (see Ferris 2002, 2003 for recent comprehensive accounts).
The second purported function of output is the metalinguistic function.
Swain suggested that the production of output is “the trigger that forces the
learner to pay attention to the means of expression needed in order to
successfully convey his or her own intended meaning” (Swain 1985: 249).
This reflection on language (which, it should be remembered, comes about
while engaged in meaningful communication) may help students develop
their L2 knowledge, most probably at the level of declarative knowledge:
“Reflection on language may deepen the learner’s awareness of forms,
rules, and form-function relationship if the context of production is
communicative in nature” (Izumi 2003: 170). Whether or nor this
awareness has a long-term impact on learning is still an empirical question,
as is also the question of whether or not this impact results in expanding
108
L2 declarative knowledge or in restructuring L2 declarative knowledge to
facilitate its proceduralization.
In line with other important developments in SLA research, producing
output is also thought to serve a noticing function, by which it is meant that
when producing oral and written language, L2 learners may notice the gap
between what they know and can do, and what they need to know in order
to convey successfully the messages they want to communicate: “It is
while attempting to produce the target language [...] that learners may
notice that they do not know how to say (or write) precisely the meaning
they wished to convey” (Swain 1998: 67). In the case of writing, “noticing
the gap” may encourage learners to look for alternative ways to express
their intentions, either by searching existing knowledge or relevant/expert
sources, which in turn may lead to expanding one’s own learning
resources. This is more likely to happen in writing than in oral production
because of the time factor: in writing we are in control of the flow of time,
thus facilitating attention to form while performing the communicative
task. It is perfectly possible for the communicative function (i.e. actual
writing) to be called to a halt while one pays attention to the form of the
language, behaviour that could easily lead to a breakdown in
communication if done while engaged in oral interaction.
Common to the three functions of output mentioned so far is the
assumption that learners can pay “attention” to language while writing, and
that this is beneficial for language learning because (i) attention allows the
L2 learner to become aware of the gap or mismatch between what they can
communicate and what they would like to communicate, and (ii) through
external feedback and the process of monitoring one’s own productions,
learners may also notice the gap between the rules underlying their
production and the L2 rules, as well as the gap between what they can
produce and what more proficient users of the L2 (for instance their
teacher) produce or ask them to produce.
But these attentional processes may just trigger the learning declarative
knowledge. However, as suggested earlier, skilled performance is
governed by procedural knowledge, which comes about with practice. As
noted by DeKeyser (1998:30):
[...] proceduralization is achieved by engaging in the target language
behaviour –or procedure- while temporarily leaning on declarative
knowledge [...] Repeated behaviours of this kind allow the restructuring [...]
of declarative knowledge in ways that make it easier to proceduralize.
It is precisely at this point where we can establish a link with another
function attributed to output, i.e. the fluency function. It has been claimed
Manchón and Roca de Larios
Writing-to-learn in Instructed Language Learning Contexts 109
that “extended practice, under particular conditions and circumstances,
will increase fluency by developing automaticity” (Segalowitz 2003: 401).
What is more, the promotion of automaticity requires “massive repetition
experiences and consistent practice” (Segalowitz, 2003: 402). It follows
that engaging in meaningful, frequent and guided written practice can be
an ideal scenario for the development of automaticity and fluency in
second language acquisition.
In short, there are convincing grounds to posit a language learning
potential for the problem-solving activity involved in frequent, repeated
and guided practice in writing whole texts which (echoing Hedge’s and
Swain’s words again) form connected, contextualized, coherent, and
appropriate pieces of communication. We now turn our attention to what
empirical research has uncovered about the nature of this problem-solving
activity.
6.3 The Problem-solving Nature of Writing Processes:
As announced earlier on, what follows is a synthesis of the research that
has focused on the problem-solving nature of L2 writers’ composing
behaviour while engaged in the subprocess of text generation. Although
we will make general reference to the research in the area, the analysis
pays particular attention to the empirical findings obtained in a
comprehensive programme of research on cognitive writing processes that
we have conducted over the last ten years. Let us start, then, with a brief
overview of the project as the necessary background for the research
synthesis that follows.
The original drive behind our research project, entitled A crossectional
study of EFL writing processes, was to contribute to current theorizing on
second language writing, and to do so with data from a study conducted in
a foreign language context. More precisely, we attempted to investigate
whether or not cognitive activity is influenced by some writer-related and
task-related factors: (i) the writer’s command of the L2; (ii) the cognitive
demand of the task to be performed; and (iii) the language of composition,
i.e. whether writers composed in their L1 or L2.
The participants were three year groups in the Spanish educational
system with 6, 9 and 12 years of instruction in English whose L2
proficiency was assessed with a standardised test. Each level was
composed of 7 participants, who were all Spanish native speakers. Level 1
consisted of high school pupils aged 16–17; Level 2 was composed of
Research Insights
110
university students of Education aged 19–20; while the informants in
Level 3, aged 23–24, had recently graduated after completing a five year
degree in English. Gender was not controlled in the design of the study.
There were 4 males and 3 females in Level 1, 7 females in Level 2, and 6
females and 1 male in Level 3, which was more or less a proportionate
representation of their year groups.
Data for the project consisted of the participants’ think-aloud protocols
while performing an argumentative and a narrative task in L1 and L2
explained elsewhere (see especially Manchón et al. 2005a), part of the
reasons for our choice or concurrent protocols was the belief that it would
afford us a more accurate picture of our participants on-line processing,
and this was essential given the phenomenon we wanted to investigate:
cognitive activity while writing. However, as with the use of any other
methodology, we needed to reduce the threats to validity associated with this
method. This entailed taking decisions basically at three levels: the design of
the study, the elicitation of the verbalisations and the coding of the data.
6.3.1 The Problem-solving Nature of Text-generating Activity:
Research Insights
6.3.1.1 L2 Writing is Less Fluent than L1 Writing.
Research has consistently shown that writing fluency (operationalized as the
number of words written, or as the number and length of pauses) is affected
by the difficulties involved in L2 composing (Silva 1993). As compared to
their L1 writing, L2 writers tend to produce fewer words of written text (cf.
Chenoweth and Hayes 2001; Sasaki and Hirose 1996; Silva 1993) and show
a higher number of pauses and a lower number of words between them
(Chenoweth and Hayes 2001; Krings 1994; Roca de Larios et al. 2001;
Whalen and Ménard 1995). It is still an empirical question whether or not
(4 tasks in total). Participants were given 1 hour to complete each task. As
’
Although only three studies have specifically focused on the analysis of text-
generating activity (Chenoweth and Hayes 2001; Roca de Larios et al. 2001;
Roca de Larios et al. 2006a), reference to this subprocess of composing
appears in many other process-oriented L2 writing investigations, and
therefore some conclusions can be drawn about the nature of this important
writing process, which is in fact, the only compulsory activity while writing:
writers may decide to plan or not to plan, to revise or not to revise their text,
but there is no text at all if the writer does not attempt to transform ideas
into language.
Manchón and Roca de Larios
Writing-to-learn in Instructed Language Learning Contexts 111
these two aspects of writing (number of words written and pausing
behaviour) are affected by writing skill (see review in Roca et al. 2002).
6.3.1.2 Text-generating is the Writing Subprocess that Consumes
more Writing Time
As could be expected, consistent empirical evidence has been obtained
regarding the predominance of text-generating activity while composing.
Wang and Wen (2002), in a study of Chinese learners of English, found
that their participants devoted over 60% of their time to sentence
construction, a finding interpreted by the authors as suggesting that “text-
generating activity might be the most difficult among all composing
activities” (p 239). Our own empirical data offer clear evidence in the
same direction: the time devoted to formulation by our participants ranged
from 62% to 80% of their total composition time (Manchón et al. 2005b;
Roca et al. 2001). Taken together these data offer further empirical
evidence of previous findings in L1 writing that L1 writers mainly devote
their efforts to transforming ideas into language. However, important
quantitative differences exist between the 2 language conditions: while L1
writers have been reported to devote around 50% of time to formulation, in
the L2 condition this figure can rise to 80%.
In addition, if we look closely at the picture of the writers devoting most
of their writing time to generating their texts, we are able to see further
details. Two of them stand out: on the one hand, not all the time devoted to
formulation is used to solve problems and, second, there is a clear
proficiency-dependency in the way L2 writers distribute their time among
different composing activities, which, in turn, affects how much time is
devoted to generating their texts.
In Roca et al. 2001 an attempt was made to uncover how writers
manage the trade-off between fluent transcription and the range of
problems they have to solve on-line in L1 and L2 writing. Interestingly,
it was found that across languages, and regardless of the writer’s L2
proficiency level, the writers under investigation devoted more time to
fluent formulation (i.e. generating text without having to engage in
problem solving) than to problem-solving formulation. However, and
this is evidence of the more labour-intense nature of generating texts in a
non-native language, these writers, when writing in their native language,
spent five times longer on fluent formulation, whereas in the L2
condition, the ratio was 2/1, i.e. generating texts without having to
engage in any type of problem solving required twice as much time as
problem-solving formulation processes.
112
1,40 5,29
12,63
80,53
64,74
62,42
5,91
20,67
15,74
12,16 9,30 9,21
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3
Planning Formulation Revision Other processes
The second issue we mentioned above is that the way L2 writers distribute
their time is proficiency dependent (Manchón et al. 2005b). The tendency
observed in our data is towards a more balanced allocation of time to
different processes as proficiency increases, which concords with previous
findings in both L1 and L2 writing research that associate successful writing
with an appropriate balance among writing processes (Hayes and Nash
1996; Pennington and So 1993; Raimes 1987; Smith 1994).
As can be seen in Figure 6.1, the three groups of participants in our
study devoted most of their time to generating their texts. However, we
also observe in Figure 6.1 a gradual decrease in the time devoted to
transcription processes as a function of proficiency, complemented by a
parallel increase in the time devoted to planning, and revision as
proficiency increases. This differential allocation of processing time results
in a more balanced allocation of time to different composing activities.
6.3.1.3 The Type and Range of Problems Tackled While Text Generating
Activity is Proficiency-dependent and Varies in L1 and L2 Composing
We have conducted different studies (Roca et al., 1999, 2001, 2006b)
in which we tried to ascertain what type of problems writers tackle while
they generate their texts, as well as whether or not this problem-solving
Figure 6.1 Time allocation to planning, text generation and revision in L2 writing
Manchón and Roca de Larios
Writing-to-learn in Instructed Language Learning Contexts 113
behaviour varies (i) cross-linguistically, and (ii) as a function of the
writer’s L2 proficiency level. This research focus is in part the result of the
fact that previous studies had produced contradictory findings regarding
whether or not writers deal with the same type of problems in L1 and L2
writing. Thus some investigations have empirically confirmed a decrease
in the number of goals generated in L2 composing (Skibniewski 1988),
with writers tending to give priority to morpho-syntactic and lexical
aspects rather than to rhetorical and textual ones (Whalen and Ménard
1995). In contrast, other studies point to similarities across languages in
the attention paid to grammar, spelling, and vocabulary (Sasaki and Hirose
1996), content, language, and discourse (Uzawa 1996).
In our own data (cf. Roca et al. 1996, 1999, 2006a), we found both
similarities and differences. Thus across proficiency groups, writers
allocated around 50% of their time to solving compensatory problems (i.e.
those that derive from lack of interlanguage resources or lack of automatic
access to relevant knowledge). Concerns related to the upgrading of
lexical, stylistic and rhetorical options constituted the other 50%, and
occupied a percentage of time similar to that spent on solving similar
problems in L1 writing, a condition in which compensatory problems were
practically nonexistent. It appears then that, although there is a common
ground of upgrading concerns that runs across languages, writers have to
invest more time in formulating their L2 texts because they have to add the
compensatory problems in order to produce meaningful messages. Similar
results were obtained in another study (Roca et al. 1999) in which we set
out to investigate lexical searches, an important component of text-
generating activity which we operationalised as the access and retrieval of
lexical items through which the writers can express their intended
meaning. We found that our participants struggled with various types of
lexical problems, including higher-level concerns (concerns of lexical
precision and appropriacy, a characteristic usually considered typical of
writing expertise), search for translation equivalents (in cases in which the
intended meaning is encoded in the L1), and problems derived from lack
of access to relevant lexical items in long- term memory with which to
express the intended meaning. All these problems were present in L2
writing, whereas in the L1 condition the participants tackled a more
restricted range of lexical problems as they did not have to engage in
searches to find translation equivalents, or tackle problems that derive
from being unsure about the correctness or appropriacy of the option
available to express the intended meaning. Given this crosslinguistic
difference, it might be concluded that L2 writers may need a wider range
of strategies than those developed in their L1 to deal with lexical problems
when composing in an L2. If this were the case, the pedagogical implication
114
would be that learners should be helped to develop specific L2 writing skills
to be added to their general L1 writing skills.
Regarding the proficiency-dependency of the writer’s problem-solving
behaviour, and in relation to the study of lexical problems that we have
just referred to, it was found, as could be expected, that with increased
proficiency, L2 writers faced fewer L2-specific lexical problems. This
finding matches the developmental trend observed in the other studies in
which we have focused on the tackling of L2 formulation in general (not
just lexical issues). We observed that the lower the proficiency of the
writers, the more they were found to engage in compensating for
interlanguage deficiencies vis à vis ideational or textual preoccupations
(Roca de Larios et al. 1999, 2006a).
6.3.1.4 L2 Writers use a Wide Range of Problem-solving Strategies While
Engaged in Text Generation
As recently reviewed in Manchón et al. (forthcoming), empirical research
has greatly contributed to uncovering the strategic behaviour L2 writers
engage in while composing. Regarding the process of text generation in
particular, and as part of our global research project, we have studied in
detail three very characteristic writing strategies: Restructuring,
Backtracking, and, what is perhaps the most characteristic feature of L2
writing, the use of one’s native language (or any other language known) in
the process of creating a text in a second language. We shall summarise
this research next, although in broad strokes rather than in detail.
6.3.1.4.1 Restructuring
This strategy is conceptualised as the search for an alternative syntactic
plan once the writer anticipates or realises that the original one is not going
to be satisfactory for a variety of linguistic, ideational or textual reasons. In
our data (Roca et al. 1999) restructuring was implemented at all three
levels of discourse (ideational, textual and linguistic) for two main
purposes: to compensate for limited language resources or –interestingly-
to upgrade the form in which the writers had originally expressed their
meaning. Our interpretation was that, by manipulating this strategy
successfully, writers can find a better match between intention and
expression. Examining the effect of L2 proficiency on the deployment of
this strategy we found that the participants were able to restructure,
regardless of their level of L2 competence; however, each group
distributed time differently. In line with other findings reported above, the
intermediate group spent seven times longer on restructuring their texts for
Manchón and Roca de Larios
Writing-to-learn in Instructed Language Learning Contexts 115
compensatory purposes than the advanced group. In contrast, the advanced
group allotted twice as much time as the lower group to restructuring for
textual and ideational purposes. Considering the results from a different
angle, the intermediate group was more balanced in its distribution of the
time spent on upgrading and compensatory purposes, while the balance in
the advanced group tipped heavily in favour of spending time on
restructuring to upgrade rather than to compensate. This lends support to the
idea that increasing proficiency allows greater control over the strategy,
probably because automatisation of language skills frees up cognitive
resources to be deployed on higher level writing processes. Thus, our
contention is that restructuring is not just a crutch for the L2 writer to lean
on to compensate for limited language resources but a powerful strategy to
manage the complex and multilevel nature of discourse production.
6.3.1.4.2 Backtracking
We mentioned above that writing is a recursive process that involves
continuous rescanning of the text written so far as a way of moving
forward. If, as has been suggested (Flower and Hayes 1984), a text is
simply one instantiation, among many possible ones, of the writer's
unwritten plans, goals and alternatives, backtracking the already written
text may serve the purpose of checking the correspondence between
intentions and expression. Rescanning the already written text also allows
the writer to evaluate the role played by the text written so far in the
generation of further text:
In composing sentences, writers frequently reread the beginning of an
incomplete sentence in order to get a “running start” in composing the next
segment. Writers appear to use the text written so far to remind them of the
constraints imposed by what has already been written (Hayes and Nash
1996: 41).
These assumptions have received empirical confirmation in a number of
studies (cf. Breetvelt et al. 1996; Raimes 1987; Smith 1994; Van den
Bergh et al. 1994; Wong 2005; Wolfersberger 2003). The picture that
emerges from this research is that writers rescan their texts in a variety of
ways and for various purposes. Our own data (Manchón and Roca 2005;
Manchón et al. 1998, 2000a, 2000b) indicate that L2 writers use both
their languages for rescanning their texts in a variety of ways including
a) back-translating literally, or b) paraphrasing, c) skimming-and-dipping, or
d) summarising stretches of text through the L1, as well as the more
expected direct rereading in the L2. In line with previous research findings,
the participants in our research used backtracking for both retrospective and
prospective purposes. However, we found that the main use of this strategy
116
was to move forward, especially regarding the process of text generation:
writers strategically resorted to backtracking as a trigger to keep on
generating ideas to be incorporated into their texts, and to solve the
different linguistic problems tackled while they attempt to transform their
intentions into language.
6.3.1.4.3 L1 Use in L2 Writing
The study of the writer’s use of his/her L1 while engaged in L2 writing has
featured prominently in the research agenda. This interest derives from the
recognition that any comprehensive and explanatory theory of L2
composing must adequately account for a basic distinguishing feature that
sets L1 and L2 writing processes apart, which is that, in contrast to L1
writers, L2 writers have at their disposal two linguistic systems. As Raimes
(1987: 441–42) once put it,
”
Second language writers can be viewed [...] as
bringing to the act of composing the additional and beneficial dimension of
linguistic and perhaps rhetorical knowledge of another language”.
Therefore, an empirical question in the field has been to ascertain whether
or not L2 writers switch to their native language in the process of L2
composing, under what conditions, for what purposes and with what
functional benefits. In our recent review of this issue (Manchón et al.
forthcoming), we concluded that, regarding the text-generation process,
writers resort to their L1 for three main purposes: to generate and rescan
their texts (see above), to tackle linguistic and stylistic problems (both in
their attempt to find a way to express their intended meaning, and also to
evaluate and refine their lexical and syntactic choices), as well as to
organise and structure their texts (perhaps as a result of lacking the required
meta-language to be able to talk/think about these issues in the L2).
Due to its relevance for pedagogy, it is pertinent to refer to the debate as
to the possible benefits or drawbacks of the generation of ideas through the
L1. While some scholars argue that this procedure may be beneficial
(especially when writing about L1-culture topics), others contend that the
very act of translating a message originally encoded in the L1 may add to
linguistic problems, thus slowing down the writing process and may even
block the generation of ideas. However, a close look at the research
available shows that the beneficial or detrimental effects of this use of the
L1 (at both product and process levels) seems to be dependent on a number
of variables pertaining to the writers themselves (e.g. the detrimental
effects have been observed mainly in cases of low-proficiency writers) and
to the task environment, especially regarding the time on task. Thus, in the
studies that have compared direct and translated writing (Cohen and
Brooks-Carson 2001; Kobayashi and Rinnert 1992), it was observed that,
Manchón and Roca de Larios
Writing-to-learn in Instructed Language Learning Contexts 117
if the time to complete the task is limited, the usefulness of the translation
strategy decreases as its deployment would involve extra time needed to
translate the L1 generated content into the L2.
In short, recourse to the L1 appears to be a strategy purposefully used by
L2 writers in their attempt to solve the multiplicity of problems involved in
the act of composing, and this strategy appears to be one of the most
striking L2-writing phenomena.
6.4 Concluding Remarks
In this chapter we have argued in favour of the language learning potential
of the problem-solving activity involved in frequent, repeated and guided
practice in writing whole texts that form connected, contextualized,
coherent, and appropriate pieces of communication. Apart from the role
that this type of writing may play in the students´ personal and academic
growth, the view defended here is that this linguistic exercise may lead to
the acquisition of declarative knowledge about the L2 (as a result of the
attentional processes implemented during the act of writing), as well as to
the proceduralisation of this knowledge (via engagement in the type of real
practice that writing entails).
The empirical research reviewed in the preceding pages has shed light
on the nature of this problem-solving behaviour while writing that is
deemed to be conducive to learning. In our view, one clear implication of
this research is the importance of the temporal dimension of writing. We
have learned that most of the time employed while communicating through
writing is devoted to the linguistic exercise of transforming ideas into
language. However, when one becomes more competent at performing this
task as a result of having developed more L2 proficiency, more time is
available to pose oneself other types of higher-order problems at the levels
of planning, revision or text generation, for instance, by tackling more
sophisticated lexical problems. We have also learned that the efficacy of
the deployment of some strategies is also dependent on the time available
to complete the task. We mentioned the case of the use of the L1, although
the same applies to other strategies, as we concluded in our recent review
of the empirical research on composing strategies (Manchón et al.
forthcoming). Similar findings have been obtained with respect to other
aspects of writing, for example revision. For instance, Porte (1996)
concluded from his analysis of the writing performance of a group of
university EFL writers that “what encourages more extensive and profound
revision may not be so much the amount of composing time made
available in one session but rather the distance that can be created between
118
the writer and his or her text by judicious distribution of time across a
number of sessions” (p 115).
In our view, it can be validly inferred from this research that L2 writers
need time, time and more time to engage in the type of deep problem-
solving behaviour that is thought to lead to L2 development. Hayes and
Nash (1996) reviewed a number of studies which clearly offered empirical
evidence of the strong relationship between text quality and time-on-task,
and concluded that, if students do not spend the required amount of time
on the completion of their writing tasks, “they will fail to face and solve
the writing problems their writing assignment pose. Thus, writing
instruction will suffer” (p 53).
It is obvious that simply allowing time-on-task will not guarantee the
students’ involvement in deep problem-solving writing behaviour. The
pedagogical intervention also entails finding ways to engage students in
the writing tasks set, which links up with issues of motivation, a growing
area of SLA research (see Dörnyei 2005 for a recent comprehensive
account), although the study of writing has been absent from the research
agenda in this area. Similarly, writing instruction has to pay attention to
crucial issues in task design and implementation, as well as to finding
ways of responding to student writing in meaningful ways to initiate and
maintain their motivation, and to encourage them to solve problems of a
different degree of sophistication from those the students posed themselves
in the first place.
What lies ahead is a research agenda in which, first, the purported
learning functions of L2 writing are put to empirical test, and, second,
researchers search for answers related to the best ways of creating optimal
conditions to foster the learning potential of L2 writing in instructed
language learning contexts so that writing, echoing Leki’s (2001) words,
becomes a powerful means of accomplishing language learning goals.
Acknowledgements
We would like to thank Liz Murphy and Chris Mayhew for their useful
References
Breetvelt I, Van den Bergh H, Rijlaarsdam G (1996) Rereading and generating and their
relation to text quality: An application of multilevel analysis on writing process data. In:
Rijlaarsdam G, Van den Bergh H, Couzijn M (eds) Theories, Models and Methodology
in Writing Research. Amsterdam University Press, Amsterdam, pp 10–20
suggestions on an earlier version of this chapter.
Manchón and Roca de Larios
Writing-to-learn in Instructed Language Learning Contexts 119
Chenoweth N, Hayes J (2001) Fluency in writing. Generating text in L1 and L2. Written
Communication 18(1): 80–98
Cohen AD, Brooks-Carson A (2001) Research on direct vs. translated writing processes:
Implications for assessment. The Modern Language Journal 85(2):169–188
Cumming A (1990) Metalinguistic and ideational thinking in second language composing.
Written Communication 7: 482–511
Cumming A (1998) Theoretical perspectives on writing. Annual Review of Applied
Linguistics 18: 61–78
Cumming A (2001) Learning to write in a second language: Two decades of research. In:
Manchón RM (ed) Writing in the L2 classroom. Issues in research and pedagogy.
International Journal of English Studies 1(2): 1–23
DeKeyser R (1998) Beyond focus on form: Cognitive perspectives on learning and
practising second language grammar. In: Doughty C and Williams J (eds) Focus on
Form in Classroom Second Language Acquisition. Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge, pp 42–63
DeKeyser R (2001) Automaticity and automatization. In: Robinson P (ed) Cognition and
Second Language Instruction. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, pp 125–151
Dörnyei Z (2005) The psychology of the language learner. Individual Differences in
Second Language Acquisition. LEA, Mahwah, NJ
Faerch C, Kasper G (1983) Strategies in Interlanguage Communication. Longman, London
Ferris D (2002) Treatment of Error in Second Language Student Writing. The University of
Michigan Press, Ann Arbor, MI
Ferris D (2003) Response to student writing. Implications for Second Language Students.
Lawrence Erlbaum, Mahwah, NJ
Flower L, Hayes J (1981) A cognitive process theory of writing. College Composition and
Communication 32: 365–387
Harklau L (2002) The role of writing in classroom second language acquisition. Journal of
Second Language Writing 11: 329–350
Hayes J, Nash J (1996) On the nature of planning in writing. In: Levy M, Ransdell S (eds)
The science of writing. LEA, Mahwah, NJ
Hedge T (1988) Writing. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Izumi S (2003) Comprehension and production processes in second language learning: In
search of the psycholinguistic rationale of the Output Hypothesis. Applied Linguistics
24(2): 168–196
Kobayashi H, Rinnert C (1992) Effects of first language on second language writing:
Translation versus direct composition. Language Learning 42(2): 183–215
Krings H (1994) What do we know about writing processes in L2? The state of the art. In:
Heinz Pogner K (ed) More about Writing. Odense Working Papers in Language and
Communication 6: 83–114
Leki I (2001) Material, educational, and ideological challenges of teaching EFL writing at
the turn of the century. In: Manchón RM (ed) Writing in the L2 Classroom: Issues in
Journal of English Studies 1(2): 197–209
Manchón RM (1999) La investigación sobre la escritura como proceso. Algunas
implicaciones para la enseñanza de la composición en lengua extranjera. In: Salaberri S
(ed) Lingüística aplicada a la enseñanza de lenguas extranjeras. Servicio de
Publicaciones de la Universidad de Almería, Almería, pp 227–297
Manchón RM (2001) Introduction to Manchón RM (ed) Writing in the L2 classroom:
Issues in research and pedagogy. The International Journal of English Studies, pp vii–xiv
Research and Pedagogy. The International
Flower L, Hayes J (1984) Images, plans and prose: The representation of meaning in
writing. Written communication 1: 120–160
120
Manchón RM, Roca de Larios J, Murphy L (1998) Language ability, writing behaviours
and the use of backward operations in L2 writing. Paper given at the AAAL Conference,
Seattle, WA
Manchón RM, Roca de Larios J, Murphy L (2000a) An approximation to the study of
backtracking in L2 writing. Learning and Instruction 10: 13–35
Manchón RM, Roca de Larios J, Murphy L (2000b) The strategic value of backtracking in
L2 writing. Paper given at the AAAL 2000 Conference, Vancouver
Manchón RM, Murphy L, Roca de Larios J (2005a) Using concurrent protocols to explore
L2 writing processes: Methodological issues in the collection and analysis of data. In:
Matsuda PK, Silva T (eds) Second Language Writing Research. Perspectives on the
Process of Knowledge Construction. Lawrence Erlbaum, Mahwah, NJ, pp 191–205
Manchón RM, Roca de Larios J, Murphy L (2005b) Time allocation to writing processes at
different proficiency levels. Paper presented at the AILA Conference, Madison, WI
Pennington MC, So S (1993) Comparing writing process and product across two
languages: A study of 6 Singaporean university student writers. Journal of Second
Language Writing 2: 41–63
Perl S (1979) The composing process of unskilled college writers. Research in the Teaching
of English 13: 317–336
Raimes A (1987) Language proficiency, writing ability, and composition strategies: A
study of ESL college student writers. Language Learning 37: 439–467
Roca de Larios J, Murphy L, Manchón RM (1999) The use of restructuring strategies in
EFL writing: A study of Spanish learners of English as a foreign language. Journal of
Second Language Writing 8(1): 13–44
in L1 and L2 writing. Language Learning 51: 497–538
Roca de Larios J, Murphy L, Marín J (2002) A critical examination of L2 writing process
research. In: Ransdell S, Barbier ML (eds) New directions for Research in L2 Writing.
Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht, pp 11–47
Roca de Larios J, Manchón R M, Murphy L (2006a) Strategic knowledge in L1 and L2
composing: A cross-sectional study. Proceedings of the European Writing Conference
(CD-ROM), Universitat de Barcelona
Roca de Larios J, Manchón RM, Murphy L (2006b) Generating text in native and foreign
language writing: A temporal analysis of problem-solving formulation processes. The
Modern Language Journal
Sasaki M, Hirose K (1996) Explanatory variables for EFL students’ expository writing.
Language Learning 46: 137–174
Segalowitz N (2003) Automaticity and second languages. In: Doughty C, Long M (eds)
The Handbook of Second Language Acquisition. Blackwell, Oxford, pp 382–408
Shehadeh A (2002) Comprehensible Output, from occurrence to acquisition: An agenda for
acquisitional research. Language Learning 52(3): 597–647
Silva T (1993) Toward an understanding of the distinct nature of L2 writing: The ESL
research and its implications. TESOL Quarterly 27: 657–677
Manchón RM, Roca de Larios J (2005) Forms and functions of backtracking in L2 writing:
A study of Spanish EFL learners at different proficiency levels. Paper presented at the
XXIII Conference of the Spanish Association of Applied Linguistics, Palma de Mallorca
Manchón RM, Roca de Larios J, Murphy L (In press 2007) A Review of Writing
Strategies: Focus on conceptualizations and impact of first language. In: Cohen AD,
Macaro E (eds) Language Learner Strategies: 30 Years of Research and Practice. Oxford
University Press, Oxford
Porte GK (1996) When writing fails: how academic context and past learning experiences
shape revision. System 24(1): 107–116
Roca de Larios J, Marín J, Murphy L (2001) A temporal analysis of formulation processes
Manchón and Roca de Larios
Writing-to-learn in Instructed Language Learning Contexts 121
Swain M (1985) Communicative competence: Some roles of comprehensible input and
comprehensible output in its development. In: Gass S, Madden C (eds) Input in Second
Language Acquisition. Newbury House, Rowley, MA, 235–153
Swain M (1995) Three functions of output in second language learning. In Cook G,
Seidlhofer B (eds) Applied Linguistics. Studies in honour of H. G. Widdowson. Oxford
University Press, Oxford, pp 125–144
Swain M (1998) Focus on form through conscious reflection. In: Doughty C, Williams J
(eds) Focus on Form in Classroom Second Language Acquisition. Cambridge University
Press, Cambridge, pp 64–81
Uzawa K (1996) Second language learners’ processes of L1 writing, L2 writing and
translation from L1 into L2. Journal of Second Language Writing 5(3): 271–294
Van den Bergh H, Rijlaarsdam G, Breetvelt I (1994) Revision process and text quality: An
empirical study. In: Eigler G, Jechle T (eds) Writing: Current Trends in European
Research. Freiburg, Hochschul Verlag, pp 133–148
Ventola E, Mauranen A (1996) Academic writing: intercultural and textual issues. John
Benjamins, Amsterdam.
Wang W, Wen Q (2002) L1 use in the L2 composing process: An exploratory study of 16
Chinese EFL writers. Journal of Second Language Writing 11(3): 225–246
Whalen K, Ménard N (1995) L1 and L2 writers’ strategic and linguistic knowledge: A
model of multiple-level discourse processing. Language Learning 45: 381–418
Wolfersberger M (2003) L1 to L2 writing process and strategy transfer: A look at lower
proficiency writers. TESL-EJ 7(2)
Wong ATY (2005) Writers´ mental representations of the intended audience and of the
rhetorical purpose for writing and the strategies they employed when they composed.
System 33: 29–47
Skibniewski L (1988) The writing processes of advanced foreign language learners in their
native and foreign languages. Evidence from thinking-aloud and behavior protocols.
Studia Anglica Posnaniensia 21: 177–186
Smith V (1994) Thinking in a Foreign Language: An Investigation into Essay Writing and
Translation by L2 Learners. Verlag, Tübingen
7
The Acquisition of Pragmatic Competence
and Multilingualism in Foreign Language Contexts
Jasone Cenoz
Universidad del País Vasco, Spain
7.1 Beyond Second Language Acquisition: Learning
Multilingualism is a very common phenomenon all over the world and
one of the obvious reasons is that the number of languages spoken in the
world nowadays (approximately 6000) clearly outnumbers the number
of countries (approximately 200). The role of English as the most
important language of wider communication also contributes to
multilingualism in many countries in which English is learned as an
additional language. The study of multilingualism and the acquisition of
additional languages (going beyond the second language) has had a very
important development in the last years as it is reflected in publications
(Cenoz and Jessner 2000; Cenoz et al. 2001, 2003; Hoffmann and Ytsma
2003; Safont 2005). The new journal ‘International Journal of
Multilingualism’ and the International Conferences of Multilingualism
both focusing on the acquisition and use of more than two languages in
different contexts also confirm the developing interest in this area.
Second language acquisition and the acquisition of additional languages
have a lot in common but there are also some important differences
between the two processes. The process of acquiring an additional
language can be affected by the fact that learners have already faced the
task of acquiring a second language. This influence can be reflected in the
development of learning strategies and metalinguistic awareness.
Moreover, additional language learning can be influenced not only by the
first language but also by other languages already acquired. Therefore, the
study of the acquisition of additional languages is potentially more
complex because it involves all the factors related to second language
acquisition plus additional factors related to the size of the learner’s
linguistic repertoire and his/her experience as language learner (Cenoz and
Genesee 1998).
Additional Languages
E. Alcón Soler and M.P. Safont Jordà (eds.), Intercultural Language Use and Language Learning, 123–140.
123
© 2008
Springer Science+Business Media B.V.
124 Cenoz
The areas that have received more attention when comparing second and
third language acquisition have been metalinguistic awareness, learning
and communicative strategies (see Cenoz 2003a for a review). Research on
the effects of bilingualism on metalinguistic awareness has associated
bilingualism with a higher ability to reflect on language and to manipulate
it. A number of studies have also reported that multilinguals use a wider
variety of processing strategies (see for example Nayak et al. 1990).
Multilinguals have been found to have greater flexibility in switching
strategies according to the demand characteristics of the task and to modify
strategies when they realize they are not effective. Bilingual children have
also been reported to be more sensitive to the communicative needs of
their interlocutors and to use more varied communication strategies
(Genesee et al. 1975; Thomas 1992).
Several studies have analysed the influence of bilingualism on third
language by comparing bilingual and monolingual learners acquiring a
third language. These studies tend to confirm the advantages of bilinguals
over monolinguals in language learning. The results concerning general
aspects of proficiency indicate that bilingualism has a positive effect on
third language acquisition when this process takes place in additive
contexts and bilinguals have acquired literacy skills in both their languages
(see for example Bild and Swain 1989; Thomas 1988; Cenoz and Valencia
1994; Sanz 2000).
However, not all research studies report positive effects of bilingualism
on third language acquisition. Some studies comparing the degree of
proficiency achieved in the third language by bilingual immigrant students
and majority language students have reported no differences (see Sanders
and Meijers 1995; Van Gelderen et al. 2003). These results highlight the
influence of social factors in language acquisition.
Regarding specific studies of pragmatic competence in the acquisition of
additional languages we can mention Safont (2005). This research study
focuses on the differences between monolinguals and bilinguals regarding
pragmatic competence and metapragmatic awareness. Participants were
160 monolingual and bilingual students from Jaume I University who were
learning English. Safont (2005) used open role-plays, an open discourse-
completion test and a discourse evaluation test. The results of the study
indicate that bilingual learners’ degree of pragmalinguistic awareness was
higher than that of monolinguals. Bilinguals also showed better results in
oral and written production tasks and therefore showed a better
performance in formulating requests.
The advantages of multilingualism and the positive effect of previously
acquired languages on the target language have also been reported by
different individuals when asked about their lives in different languages
The Acquisition of Pragmatic Competence and Multilingualism 125
(see Belcher and Connor 2001). For example Stevern Beering, former
president of Purdue university, was raised in German and French before
going to the US and considers:
I think my ability in English, which I wish were better, has been enhanced
very much by my lengthy study of Latin –in a German Gymnasium Latin is
required – and then by my early education in several languages. I think
automatically about the proper positioning of words and syntax and
grammar and spelling. I spell much better because I started with multiple
languages (Beering and Connor 2001: 204).
Second language acquisition can take place formally (through instruction),
naturally (outside school) or by a combination of instruction and natural
acquisition. When several languages are involved, there is more potential
for diversity. For example, Ytsma (2001) proposes a typology of trilingual
education which includes 46 types and it is based on factors such as the
linguistic distance between the languages involved, the use of the third
language in the sociolinguistic context or the age of introduction of the
third language. This diversity makes the process of studying multilingual
acquisition quite complex.
7.2 Pragmatic Competence and Multicompetence
Pragmatic competence also called actional competence has been defined
as: “the competence in conveying and understanding communicative intent,
that is, matching actional intent with linguistic form based on the knowledge
of an inventory of verbal schemata that carry illocutionary force” (Celce-
Murcia et al. 1995: 17).
Some researchers distinguish between two dimensions of pragmatic
competence: pragmalinguistic and sociopragmatic competence (Leech
1983; Thomas 1983). Pragmalinguistic competence refers to the linguistic
elements used in the different languages to perform speech acts.
“Pragmalinguistic knowledge requires mappings of form, meaning, force
and context” (Kasper 2001: 51). For example greetings can be expressed in
different ways in different languages and in many cases it is not possible to
have a literal translation:
Example 1
Spanish: ¡Buenos días! (Good days)
English: ¡Good morning!
126 Cenoz
Sociopragmatic or cultural component is related to implicit social
meaning, and there can be different assessments of social aspects of the
context, such as the social distance between the speaker and the addressee.
Sociopragmatics refers to the link between action-relevant context factors
and communicative action (e.g. deciding whether to apologize or not) and
does not necessarily require any links to specific forms at all (Kasper
2001: 51). LoCastro (2003: 125) gives the following examples that can
illustrate difficulties with sociopragmatic competence:
Example 2
[A clerk making a comment in English, her second language, to a visiting
professor from the United States]
Clerk: “oh, you look like you’re ready to go to the beach…”
As LoCastro (2003) says the professor finds it difficult to interpret the
pragmatic meaning of this utterance and has several possibilities. It can be
interpreted as a compliment about the dress and sandals she was wearing, a
criticism for wearing such clothing to an office or an icebreaker, showing
the clerk’s desire to be friendly.
LoCastro (2003: 230–231) also gives an example of misattribution or
faulty assessment of other participants’ intentions. She refers to the
expression used in the North of England by postal clerks, both male and
female who may address their regular customers with:
Example 3
‘Morning, luv, what can I do for you’
As LoCastro (2003) says customers not used the expression ‘luv’ in this
context may take offence, mainly if the clerk is male.
Differences in linguistic and cultural backgrounds can produce
important misunderstandings because they imply different rules of
interaction and the use of different linguistic terms to convey meaning. As
Boxer (2002) points out cross-cultural competence is increasingly critical
in multilingual and multicultural contexts.
Pragmatic competence and pragmatic failure both at the pragmatic and
sociopragmatic levels is studied by cross-cultural and interlanguage
pragmatics. Cross-cultural pragmatics has adopted a sociolinguistic
perspective and has focused on the comparison of speech acts by speakers
with different cultural backgrounds. Each speech community has some
values and beliefs which are the basis of their own culture. The speech acts
they produce reflect this culture and therefore different cultures do not
The Acquisition of Pragmatic Competence and Multilingualism 127
produce or understand speech acts in the same way. Studies in cross-
cultural pragmatics analyse the strategies and linguistic forms used in the
formulation of speech acts. The comparison of distant cultures provides
very interesting results and there is a substantial number of studies on
speech acts formulated in Asian and Western cultures (see for example Ide
1998; Wong 2004). It is interesting to observe that differences are not only
related to each language but also to each speech community. For example,
speakers of different varieties of English or Spanish show important
differences in the formulation of some speech acts.
On the other hand, interlanguage pragmatics adopts a second language
acquisition perspective and focuses on the study of the pragmatic
development of second and foreign language learners. Interlanguage
pragmatics analyses the way language learners acquire and use pragmatic
competence. Kasper and Schmidt (1996) pointed out that most studies in
interlanguage pragmatics had focused on second language use rather than
development, that is, they had adopted a product approach rather than
analysing the process of acquiring pragmatic competence. This limited
focus is changing and there is an increasing number of studies on the deve-
lopmental aspect of interlanguage pragmatics (see Kasper and Rose 2002).
Pragmatic competence is one of the components of communicative
competence and it is included as such in the most important models of
communicative competence (Bachman 1990; Celce-Murcia et al. 1995; see
Cenoz 1996 for a review). Pragmatic competence was considered as part
of sociolinguistic competence in Canale and Swain’s model (1980); other
models include sociolinguistic competence as part of pragmatic
competence (Bachman 1990) but others consider it as independent but
related to other competencies (Celce-Murcia et al. 1995).
Second language learners and learners of additional languages need to
acquire pragmatic competence along with all the other components of
communicative competence: linguistic competence, sociolinguistic,
discourse and strategic competence. When several languages are involved as
it is the case in third language acquisition, it seems to be quite unrealistic to
expect learners to acquire a native-like level of competence in all these
different components. In fact, the traditional idea of competence as related to
second language acquisition has been challenged. Grosjean (1992), Cook
(1992, 1995), and others consider that the traditional position is a
‘monolingual view of bilingualism’ because we refer to monolingual native
competence as a goal to be achieved by multilingual learners to monolingual
learners. As Edwards (1994) points out a perfectly balanced bilingual or
multilingual is exceptional. Most learners do not achieve native competence
in a second or third language and in some cases teachers and learners feel
this as failure in the language acquisition process. This feeling is derived
128 Cenoz
from the fact that only native speakers’ norms are considered and not the
needs that learners have and the way they are going to use the language.
Even highly educated second language users who have been in contact with
English after moving to the US declare that they are still more
comfortable in the L1 (Kubota 2001) or that they feel they write as a foreign
even if their writing is ok (Kulwicki 2001) or they still feel they are learners
and that learning English is a lifelong process (Tsai 2001). These feelings of
incompleteness have also been confirmed by researchers working on the age
factor who consistently report that second language learners do not achieve
native competence unless they arrived to the host country at a very early age
(see Singleton and Ryan 2004 for a review).
These alternative views of bilingualism are particularly interesting when
applied to multilingualism and multilingual acquisition. If we go beyond
bilingualism, we are even less likely to find balanced multilinguals
because the multilingual speaker has a larger linguistic repertoire than
monolinguals but usually the same range of situations in which to use that
repertoire. Thus, although all of the components that are generally
regarded as part of communicative competence among monolinguals may
be necessary for effective communication in multiple languages,
multilingual competence presents specific characteristics that distinguish it
from monolingual competence. Multilingual speakers tend to use different
languages in different situations for different purposes. Therefore, while
they may need all the components of communicative competence in total,
they do not necessarily and often do not need to develop all competencies
to the same extent in each language.
This view of bilingualism in which native proficiency in the first and
second language is expected has been considered by Grosjean (1992) a
“fractional” view of an idealized form of bilingualism which is different
from the holistic view he proposes. Bilinguals seldom have balanced
proficiency because they have developed communicative competencies in
two languages according to the specific contexts in which they learn to use
them. The language competence of bilinguals should not be regarded as
simply the sum of two monolingual competencies, but rather should be
judged in conjunction with the users’ total linguistic repertoire.
Cook (1992) has proposed the notion of “multicompetence” to designate
a unique form of language competence that is not necessarily comparable
to that of monolinguals. According to Cook (1992), second language users
should not be viewed as imitation monolinguals in a second language, but
rather they should be seen to possess unique forms of competence, or
competencies, in their own right. Herdina and Jessner (2002) also adopt a
holistic view of bilingualism and emphasize the fact that multilingual
competence is dynamic rather than static.
The Acquisition of Pragmatic Competence and Multilingualism 129
7.3 Acquiring Pragmatic Competence in an Additional
Language in a Foreign Language Context
There is a considerable body of research on the acquisition of pragmatic
and discourse competence in first language acquisition and it has been
found that children acquire pragmatic competence from a very early age
even at pre-verbal stages (see for example Fletcher and MacWhinney
1995; Ninio and Snow 1996; Clark 2004). Parents help the children’s
acquisition of pragmatic competence and often remind children that they
have to use expressions such as ‘Thank you’ or ‘please’ to mitigate the
impact of requests on the hearer. Schools also pay attention to the
acquisition of pragmatic competence, mainly in the first years and they try
to teach children to be polite when they formulate speech acts.
One of the few studies on the acquisition of pragmatic competence by a
trilingual child is Barnes (2005). Barnes reports the development of
questions and their functions in English by a trilingual child in Basque,
Spanish and English. This study shows that this trilingual child with
English as the ‘mother’ tongue shares some of the characteristics of the
development of questions reported in other studies but also that her
development has some special characteristics because of the interaction
with other languages. These findings are limited to one of the languages
but are compatible with the concept of multicompetence proposed by Cook
(1992, 1995) because they indicate that a multilingual speaker has
distinctive characteristics.
The study of contrastive and interlanguage pragmatics in second
language acquisition has also developed in the last years. Research in
contrastive pragmatics points in the direction of a universal and a language
specific component in the realization of speech acts. The universal
pragmatic knowledge is shared across languages and explains, for
example, that the same basic strategies (direct, conventionally indirect and
nonconventional indirect or hints) are used in the realization of requests in
different languages (Blum-Kulka, House and Kasper 1989). Here is an
example of the three strategies:
Example 4
Direct: Please open the window
Conventionally indirect: Can you open the window?
Nonconventional indirect or hints: It is cold, isn’t it?
At the same time, there are different interactional styles and important cross-
linguistic differences in the selection, distribution and realization of speech
130 Cenoz
acts. For example, German speakers are more direct than British English
speakers when uttering requests (House and Kasper 1981) and Hebrew
speakers are more direct than American English speakers (Blum-Kulka
1982). Learning speech acts in a second or a third language does not only
imply that we have to learn the new linguistic elements but also new social
attitudes to know how these linguistic elements are used. It is very common
that linguistic elements cannot be transferred from one language to another.
This does not necessarily mean that speakers of different languages are more
or less polite but that they use different resources.
As an example we can compare the following sentences in English and a
regional variety of Spanish from Spain:
Example 5
English: Could you close the door please?
Spanish standard: ¿Podrías cerrar la puerta por favor?
Spanish variety (Navarre): Cierra la puertica.
Close the door-DIM
The utterance in the Navarrese variety of Spanish seems to be more direct
because it uses the imperative and does not add ‘please’. However, the
diminutive, the intonation and the gesture that usually accompany this type of
utterance mitigate the request and produce an effect which is comparable to
the English or Spanish standard. It is interesting to see that a similar use of
the diminutive was already reported by Sifianou (1992) for Greek and its use
to minimize the request has also been discussed for Colombian Spanish by
Travis (2004) who gives the following example:
Example 6
Me hace un favor, un vasito con agua
Could you do me a favour. A glass-DIM of water (Travis 2004: 264)
The use of different linguistic and paralinguistic elements to convey requests
can produce misunderstandings and Spanish or Greek speakers of English
could be regarded as rude if they just transfer their utterances into English
literally. In this case the use of the diminutive, the intonation or the gesture
may be overshadowed by the imperative and the request may be considered
impolite.
Differences between languages reflect different interaction styles and are
related to social and cultural aspects. The differences are seen not only in
the general style of the interaction but also in the selection, frequence and
distribution of linguistic elements.
The Acquisition of Pragmatic Competence and Multilingualism 131
Studies on interlanguage pragmatics have shown important differences
between native and non native speakers in the formulation of requests
(Blum-Kulka 1983; Blum-Kulka and House 1989; Faerch and Kasper
1989), apologies (Olshtain 1983, 1989; Bergman and Kasper 1993) or
complaints (House and Kasper 1981; Olshtain and Weinbach 1993).
Differences are related to the type of structure used, the strategies,
intensifiers or the perspective. Studies in interlanguage pragmatics also
analyse the way pragmatic competence is acquired (see Kasper and Rose
2002).
Bardovi-Harlig (1996, 2002) has identified four main differences
between the way native and nonnative speakers use speech acts. First,
native and nonnative speakers may use different speech acts. An example
of this was reported by (Bardovi-Harlig and Hartford 1993) who found that
native speakers used more suggestions and nonnative speakers more
rejections. Second, native and nonnative speakers may use different
formulas for the same speech act. For example nonnative speakers may
give more additional explanations when they ‘waffle’ by mitigating
supportives as reported in Cenoz and Valencia (1996). Third, they may use
Pragmatic failure differs from other types of failure because it is not
easily recognizable by interlocutors who may judge the speaker as being
impolite or uncooperative or attribute the pragmatic errors to the speaker's
personality. Moreover, pragmatic failure is common not only among
students with low proficiency in the target language but also among
advanced language learners presenting a good command of grammatical
and lexical elements (Bardovi-Harlig and Hartford 1990). The most
common explanation for pragmatic failure is pragmatic negative transfer
(Thomas 1983) defined as “the influence of L1 pragmatic competence on
IL pragmatic knowledge that differs from the L2 target” (Kasper and
Blum-Kulka 1993: 10). Pragmatic negative transfer can take place at the
pragmalinguistic and sociopragmatic levels (Blum-Kulka 1991; Thomas
1983). In the case of pragmalinguistic failure, the learner uses linguistic
elements which do not correspond to native forms and can produce
breakdowns in communication or socially inappropriate utterances. At the
sociopragmatic and cultural level, the learner produces an inappropriate
utterance because he/she is not aware of the social and cultural rules
affecting speech act realization in a particular language. These rules can
involve a different perception of social psychological elements such as
social distance, relative power and status or legitimization of a specific
behaviour. Pragmatic negative transfer has been observed in a large
number of studies but there is less research on positive pragmatic transfer
or other common processes in interlanguage such as overgeneralization
(Kasper 1992).
132 Cenoz
similar formulas but the content may be different. For example an
explanation is provided but the content is quite different in the case of
native and nonnative speakers. Fourth, the utterances produced by native
and nonnative speakers may differ in the linguistic forms used.
Most studies in interlanguage pragmatics have been carried out in
contexts where the second language is used. As Boxer says “Interlanguage
pragmatics typically takes the perspective that it is the task of the language
learner or newcomer to acquire the norms of the host community” (Boxer
2002: 151). The acquisition of pragmatic competence in a foreign language
context with very limited exposure to interaction with native speakers has
some characteristics which make it different from acquiring pragmatic
competence in the community where the language is used. Some of these
characteristics are the following:
a) The learner is usually closely identified with his/her own language and
culture. In this situation it may seem unnatural to adapt to the
sociocultural rules of another culture which is seen as remote.
b) The model of pragmatic competence offered in other contexts by
native speakers is only shown indirectly through teaching materials. In
the case of English it is even difficult to identify one model of
reference because of the different varieties.
c) The interaction with native speakers in natural contexts is very limited
and in some cases there is no interaction at all. This situation implies
that there is no feedback for the student and no communicative need.
These characteristics apply in different ways in different foreign language
contexts because there are important differences regarding the
opportunities to use the foreign language. In fact, the difference between
‘second’ and ‘foreign’ should be considered as the two ends of a
continuum which includes other intermediate positions. Foreign language
instruction can be combined with the experience of studying abroad which
provides opportunities to develop pragmatic competence in a more natural
way. Even within the school context the methodological approach can be
more or less close to natural exposure to the language. For example, when
The effect of instruction on the acquisition of pragmatic competence has
been analysed in different research studies and its effect has been proved
to be positive (see for example Rose and Kasper 2001; Martínez-Flor et al.
2003). After analysing the results of a number of studies on the effect of
instruction Kasper and Rose (2002) conclude the following: i) pragmatic
competence is teachable; ii) instruction has a positive effect and
iii) explicit instruction with ample practice opportunities produces the best
results.
The Acquisition of Pragmatic Competence and Multilingualism 133
the foreign language is the main medium of instruction it is more likely to
find natural situations to develop pragmatic competence. The role of the
target language in the specific sociolinguistic context in which the learning
is taking place is very important to provide opportunities to use the
language with other speakers or to observe the way the language is used in
the media.
The situation of acquiring pragmatic competence in a foreign language
can even be more complex if the target language is only one of the
languages in the learners’ repertoire. The use of several languages can
develop in different types of interaction as it can be seen in the following
section.
7.4 Interaction between Languages / Multilingualism
The acquisition of communicative competence in more than one non-
native language is an enormous task. Even if we do not aim at acquiring
native competence in all the components of communicative competence
the task is certainly difficult. This section will focus on some aspects of the
pragmatic component of communicative competence when a third
language is acquired.
Transfer and cross-linguistic influence have a long tradition in second
language acquisition studies but most studies do not consider the
possibility of a bidirectional relationship between the two languages.
Studies in interlanguage pragmatics follow the same tradition and tend to
analyse the influence of the L1 on the L2. In the last years some
researchers such as Kecskes and Papp (2000) have pointed out that there is
evidence to prove that the L2 can also exert an important influence on
different areas of the L1. Cook (2003) has collected a series of research
studies on this ‘reverse’ or ‘backward’ transfer affecting different areas
with a different combination of languages.
In the area of pragmatics the interaction between the L1 and the L2 has
been reported by Blum-Kulka (1990) and Blum-Kulka and Sheffer (1993)
who found that requests issued in English (L1) and Hebrew (L2) by
American immigrants to Israel fully competent in the two languages
differed significantly from both Israeli and American patterns. These
requests presented a level of directness that could be situated between
American and Israeli requests. The fact that second language learners of
Hebrew differ from native speakers is not remarkable if we take into
account that native proficiency is not achieved by most second language
learners but it is interesting to observe that their first language differs from
that or other Americans.
134 Cenoz
Blum-Kulka (1991) proposes the intercultural style hypothesis to define
the development of an intercultural pattern which reflects bi-directional
interaction between the languages. Research with immigrant population in
other countries is also compatible with this hypothesis. For example Clyne
(2003) reports the phenomenon of convergence in trilingual speakers who
tend to make their languages more similar. There is also a lot of anecdotal
support for this hypothesis. For example, some Spanish advanced learners
of English are said to use (please) and the conditional podría’
(could you?) more often than other Spanish speakers who are not
proficient in English. It is true that the influence of English on Spanish can
also be noticed at a wider sociolinguistic level but this is a different
phenomenon. For example, the expression translated from English ¿Puedo
ayudarle? (Can I help you?) is very commonly used by shop assistants
nowadays and has the same function as the more traditional Spanish
questions ¿Qué desea? (What do you wish?) or ¿Le atienden? (Are you
being served?). This is an example of a loan expression that could come
from the increasing number of multinational corporations and has some
impact on language change. The intercultural pattern proposed by Blum-
Kulka affects individuals who are in contact with other languages and it is
the result of this contact at the individual level.
Another example of this pattern is reported by Cenoz (2003b). Cenoz
carried out a study on the formulation of requests in English by university
students in the Basque Country. Participants had Spanish or Basque as
their first language, and they were studying English. The study aimed at
analysing if the requests uttered by learners of English reflected
bidirectional interaction, that is if the intercultural hypothesis could be
confirmed.
The subjects (n=69) were divided into two groups according to their
level of English. The subjects were divided into two groups according to
their proficiency in English: the ‘fluent in English’ group was composed by
49 subjects who were specializing in English Studies and the rest of the
subjects (n=20) were Psychology students with a very low command of
English ('non-fluent in English' group). All the participants filled in a
discourse completion test in English and Spanish. The five elements
considered for analysis were the following: alerters, request strategies,
syntactic down–graders, lexical downgraders and mitigating supportives.
The results indicated that subjects whose first language is Spanish and
who are fluent in English do not present differences when they formulate
requests in English and Spanish, that is, they tend to use a similar number
of alerters, preparatory strategies, syntactic downgraders, lexical
downgraders and mitigating supportives. The qualitative analysis of the
utterances also indicates that they use the same type of elements when
‘ por favor’ ‘
The Acquisition of Pragmatic Competence and Multilingualism 135
The advanced group seems to be developing its own intercultural style
using requests which differ both from English (see Cenoz and Valencia
1996) and from the Spanish group who does not have a high level of
proficiency in English. These advanced learners seem to have developed
an intercultural pattern which is reflected both in the similarity between the
requests uttered in Spanish and English and in the differences between
these requests and those formulated by other native speakers of Spanish.
These results highlight the importance of analysing bidirectional
interaction in pragmatic development and confirm the intercultural style
hypothesis. This intercultural style is more likely to develop when more
than two languages are involved. The fact that multilinguals are exposed to
different dimensions of communicative competence in several languages
and in the case of pragmatic competence to different ways to achieve
pragmalinguistic and sociopragmatic competence in the different
languages could enhance the use of simplification strategies. In this way,
multilinguals could use the same common underlying conceptual base and
develop an intercultural style which explains the similarities of their
requests in different languages. Monolinguals do not have the need to use
these simplification strategies and their requests correspond to their
experience in a single language.
7.5 Conclusions and Future Perspectives
This chapter has focused on pragmatic competence as related to
multilingualism and foreign language contexts. It has tried to link the
already well developed area of cross-cultural and interlanguage pragmatics
formulating requests in English and Spanish. The use of similar
pragmalinguistic elements to formulate requests in the two languages
could partly be due to transfer from the first language (Spanish) into
English. Pragmatic transfer is well documented in second language
acquisition research. Nevertheless, the existence of pragmatic transfer
from the first into the second language does not exclude the possibility of a
more complex bidirectional interaction between the two languages. In fact,
the comparison of the requests formulated in the first language (Spanish)
by the two groups provides evidence to support the ‘Intercultural Style
Hypothesis’. These results reveal some quantitative and qualitative
differences when requests are formulated in Spanish by the ‘fluent in
English’ and the ‘non-fluent in English’ groups. Speakers who are fluent in
English use their interlocutors’ first name more often, more indirect
strategies and a wider range of syntactic downgraders, lexical downgraders
and mitigating supportives.
136 Cenoz
to the specific area of multilingualism and the acquisition of additional
languages. Moreover, it has focused on the acquisition of pragmatic
competence in foreign language contexts. The situation discussed in this
chapter has not received enough attention on part of researchers but it is
extremely common all over the world.
To acquire pragmatic competence in several languages in a foreign
language context is even more challenging than to acquire pragmatic
competence in a second language in situations where the learner is living
in the L2 speech community. Some second language users have reported to
change personality when they speak different languages (see Enkvist 2001:
55) but it is unlikely for multilingual learners in foreign language contexts
to give up their personal and social identity and their own style of
communication when using each of the languages in their linguistic
repertoire. It is not very realistic to think that learners can become native
speakers of a second language and even less realistic to think that they can
become native speakers of several different languages. As Cook (2003: 5)
says even when only two languages are involved L2 users’ knowledge of
their L1 and L2 has some distinctive characteristics. In the case of
multilingualism it is even more important to consider that there is interaction
between the languages a multilingual speaker uses and that learning of an
additional language can have an effect on the other languages. There are also
many research questions to be answered regarding the interaction between
the different languages at the pragmatic level. Bilinguals are in general terms
more efficient learners of a third language (see Safont 2005 for pragmatic
competence). It would be very interesting to conduct further research so as to
know if they adopt the same intercultural style for all their languages and to
see if this intercultural style is different from that of second language learners
or from that of learners who go beyond third language acquisition and learn
additional languages. One of the most important advantages associated with
bilingualism is the development of metalinguistic awareness. The
development of pragmatic awareness is crucial for the intercultural speaker to
be competent at the pragmatic level (for a review of pragmatic awareness see
Alcón and Safont, in press). It is crucial to carry out studies so as to know
if multilinguals differ from monolinguals regarding pragmatic awareness
and if they do it is important to analyse the type of specific characteristics
associated with multilingualism.
In spite of the difficulty of acquiring pragmatic competence the
intercultural speaker needs to be an efficient speaker in order to avoid
misunderstandings when s/he interacts with native and non-native speakers
of the target language. The intercultural speaker does not have to be an ideal
native speaker of each of the languages s/he uses and as House (2003: 149)
suggests:
The Acquisition of Pragmatic Competence and Multilingualism 137
The aim is not to imitate native speakers of a specific variety but to make
learners aware of the pragmatic conventions of different varieties so that
they are in House’s words ‘expert users’ of the language. Awareness
raising is of course the first crucial step for the acquisition of pragmatic
competence.
References
Alcón E, Safont P (in press) Pragmatic awareness. In: Cenoz J, Hornberber N (eds)
Encyclopedia of Language and Education, Vol 6. Springer, New York
Bachman LF (1990) Fundamental Considerations in Language Testing. Oxford University
Press, Oxford
Bardovi-Harlig K (1996) Pragmatics and language teaching: Bringing pragmatics and
pedagogy together. In: Bouton L (ed) Pragmatics and language learning. Monograph 7.
Division of English as an International Language, University of Illinois, Urbana-
Champaign, Urbana-Campaign, IL, pp 21–39
Bardovi-Harlig K (2002) Pragmatics and second language acquisition. In: Kaplan R (ed)
Handbook of Applied Linguistics. Oxford University Press, Oxford, pp 182–192
Bardovi-Harlig K, Hartford BS (1990) Congruence in native and nonnative conversations:
Status balance in the academic advising session. Language Learning 40(4): 467–501
Bardovi-Harlig K, Hartford BS (1993) Learning the rules of academic talk: a longitudinal
study of pragmatic development. Studies in Second Language Acquisition 15: 279–304
Barnes J (2005) Early Trilingualism. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Beering S, Connor U (2001) The advantages of starting out multilingual: an interview with
Steven Beering. In: Belcher D, Connor U (eds) Reflections on Multiliterate Lifes.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 200–208
Belcher D, Connor U (eds) (2001) Reflections on Multiliterate Lifes. Multilingual Matters,
Clevedon
Bergman ML, Kasper G (1993) Perception and performance in native and nonnative
apology. In: Kasper G, Blum-Kulka S (eds) Interlanguage Pragmatics. Oxford
University Press, Oxford, pp 82–107
Bild ER, Swain M (1989) Minority language students in a French Immersion programme:
their French proficiency. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development 10:
–
Blum-Kulka S (1982) Learning to say what you mean in a second language: A study of the
speech act performance of learners of Hebrew as a second language. Applied Linguistics
3: 29–59
Blum-Kulka S (1983) Interpreting and performing speech acts in a second language: A
cross-cultural study of Hebrew and English. In: Wolfson N, Judd E (eds)
Sociolinguistics and Language Acquisition. Newbury House, Rowley, MA, pp 36–55
255 274
the yardstick by which such a ‘still unstable’ ELF speaker should be
measured is the stable bilingual or multilingual speaker under comparable
social, cultural, historical conditions of language use with comparable goals
for interaction in different discourse domains.
138 Cenoz
Blum-Kulka S (1991) Interlanguage pragmatics: The case of requests. In: Phillipson R,
Kellerman E, Selinker L, Sharwood Smith M, Swain M (eds) Foreign/Second Language
Pedagogy Research. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 255–272
Blum-Kulka S, House J (1989) Cross-cultural and situational variation in requestive
behavior. In: Blum-Kulka S, House J, Kasper G (eds) Cross-Cultural Pragmatics:
Requests and Apologies. Ablex, Norwood, NJ, pp 123–154
Blum-Kulka S, Sheffer H (1993) The metapragmatic discourse of American-Israeli families
at dinner. In: Kasper G, Blum-Kulka S (eds) Interlanguage pragmatics. Oxford
University Press, New York, pp 196–223
Blum-Kulka S, House J, Kasper G (eds) (1989) Cross-cultural Pragmatics. Ablex,
Norwood, NJ
Boxer D (2002) Discourse issues in cross-cultural Pragmatics. Annual Review of Applied
Linguistics 22: 150–167
Canale M, Swain M (1980) Theoretical bases of communicative approaches to second
language teaching and testing. Applied Linguistics 1: 1–47
Celce-Murcia M, Dörnyei Z, Thurrell S (1995) Communicative competence: A
pedagogically motivated framework with content specifications. Issues in Applied
Linguistics 6: 5–35
Cenoz J (1996) La competencia comunicativa: su origen y componentes. In: Cenoz J,
Valencia J (eds) La Competencia Pragmática: Elementos Lingüísticos y Psicosociales.
Cenoz J (2003a) The additive effect of bilingualism on third language acquisition: a review.
The International Journal of Bilingualism 7: 71–88
Cenoz J (2003b) The intercultural style hypothesis: L1 and L2 interaction in requesting
behaviour. In: Cook V (ed) Effects of the Second Language on the First. Multilingual
Matters, Clevedon, pp 62–80
Cenoz J, Genesee F (eds) (1998) Beyond Bilingualism: Multilingualism and Multilingual
Education. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Cenoz J, Jessner U (eds) (2000) English in Europe: The Acquisition of a Third Language.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Cenoz J, Valencia JF (1994) Additive trilingualism: Evidence from the Basque Country.
Applied Psycholinguistics 15: 195–207
Cenoz J, Valencia JF (1996) Cross-cultural communication and interlanguage pragmatics:
American vs. European requests. Pragmatics and Language Learning 7: 41–54
Cenoz J, Jessner U, Hufeisen B (eds) (2001) Cross-linguistic Influence in Third Language
Acquisition: Psycholinguistic Perspectives. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Cenoz J, Jessner U, Hufeisen B (eds) (2003) The Multilingual Lexicon. Kluwer Academic,
Dordrecht
Clark EV (2004) Pragmatics and language acquisition. In: Horn LR, Ward G (eds)
Handbook of pragmatics. Blackwell, Oxford, pp 562–577
Clyne M (2003) Dynamics of Language Contact. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge
Cook V (1992) Evidence for multi-competence. Language Learning 42: 557–591
Cook V (1995) Multi-competence and the learning of many languages. Language, Culture
and Curriculum 8: 93–98
Cook V (2003) Introduction: The changing L1 in the L2 user’s mind. Effects of the Second
Language on the First. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 1–18
Edwards J (1994) Multilingualism. Routledge, London
(eds) Universidad del País Vasco, Leioa, pp 95–114
Blum-Kulka S (1990) Interlanguage pragmatics: The case of requests. In: Phillipson R,
Kellerman E, Selinker L, Sharwood Smith M, Swain M (eds) Foreign/Second Language
Pedagogy Research: A Commemorative volume for Claus Faerch. Multilingual Matters,
Clevedon, pp 255–272
The Acquisition of Pragmatic Competence and Multilingualism 139
Enkvist NE (2001) Reministences of a multilingual life: a personal case study. In: Belcher
D, Connor U (eds) Reflections on Multiliterate Lifes. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon,
pp 51–59
Faerch C, Kasper G (1989) Internal and external modification in interlanguage request
realization. In: Blum-Kulka S, House J, Kasper G (eds) Cross-Cultural Pragmatics:
Requests and Apologies. Ablex, Norwood, NJ, pp 221–247
Fletcher P, MacWhinney B (1995) The Handbook of Child Language. Blackwell, London
Genesee F, Tucker R, Lambert W (1975) Communication skills in bilingual children. Child
Development 46: 1010–1014
Grosjean F (1992) Another view of bilingualism. In: Harris RJ (ed) Cognitive Processing in
Bilinguals. North Holland, Amsterdam, pp 51–62
Herdina P, Jessner U (2002) A Dynamic Model of Multilingualism. Multilingual Matters,
Clevedon
Hoffmann C, Ytsma J (eds) (2003) Trilingualism in Family, School and Community.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
House J (2003) Teaching and learning pragmatic fluency in a foreign language: the case of
English as a lingua franca. In: Martínez-Flor A, Usó-Juan E, Fernández-Guerra A (eds)
Pragmatic Competence and Foreign Language Teaching. Servei de Publicacions de la
Universitat Jaume I, Castelló, pp 133–159
House J, Kasper G (1981) Politeness markers in English and German. In: Coulmas F (ed)
Conversational Routine. Mouton, The Hague, pp 157–185
Ide R (1998) “Sorry for your kindness”: Japanese interactional ritual in public discourse.
Journal of Pragmatics 29: 509–529
Kasper G (1992) Pragmatic transfer. Second Language Research 8: 203–231
Kasper G (2001) Classroom research on interlanguage pragmatics. In: Rose KR, Kasper G
(eds) Pragmatics in Language Teaching. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,
pp 33–60
Kasper G, Blum-Kulka S (1993) Interlanguage pragmatics: An introduction. In: Kasper G,
Blum-Kulka S (eds) Interlanguage Pragmatics. Oxford University Press, New York, pp
196–223
Kasper G, Rose KR (2002) Pragmatic Development in a Second Language. Blackwell
Publishers, Malden, MA
Kasper G, Schmidt R (1996) Developmental issues in interlanguage pragmatics. Studies in
Second Language Acquisition 18: 149–169
Kecskes I, Papp T (2000) Foreign Language and Mother Tongue. Lawrence Erlbaum,
Mahwah, NJ
Kubota R (2001) My experience of learning to read and write in Japanese as L1 and
English as L2. In: Belcher D, Connor U (eds) Reflections on Multiliterate Lifes.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 96–109
Kulwicki AD (2001) Growing up trilingual: memories of an Armenian/Arabic/English
speaker. In: Belcher D, Connor U (eds) Reflections on Multiliterate Lifes. Multilingual
Matters, Clevedon, pp 161–164
Leech GN (1983) Principles of Pragmatics. Longman, London
LoCastro V (2003) An Introduction to Pragmatics. The University of Michigan Press, Ann
Arbor, MI
Martínez-Flor A, Usó-Juan E, Fernández-Guerra A (eds) (2003) Pragmatic Competence
and Foreign Language Teaching. Servei de publicacions Universitat Jaume I, Castelló
Nayak N, Hansen N, Krueger N, McLaughlin B (1990) Language-learning strategies in
monolingual and multilingual adults. Language Learning 40: 221–244
Ninio A, Snow C (1996) Pragmatic Development. Westview Press, Oxford
140 Cenoz
Olshtain E (1983) Sociocultural competence and language transfer: The case of apology. In:
Gass S, Selinker L (eds) Language Transfer in Language Learning. Newbury House,
Rowley, MA, pp 232–249
Olshtain E (1989) Apologies across languages. In: Blum-Kulka S, House J, Kasper G (eds)
Cross-Cultural Pragmatics: Requests and Apologies. Ablex, Norwood, NJ, pp 155–173
Olshtain E, Weinbach L (1993) Interlanguage features of the speech act of complaining. In:
Kasper G, Blum-Kulka S (eds) Interlanguage Pragmatics. Oxford University Press,
Oxford, pp 108–122
Rose KR, Kasper G (2001) Pragmatics in Language Teaching. Cambridge University Press,
New York
Safont Jordà MP (2005) Third Language Learners: Pragmatic Production and Awareness.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Sanders M, Meijers G (1995) English as L3 in the elementary school. ITL 107–8: 59–78
Sanz C (2000) Bilingual education enhances third language acquisition: Evidence from
Catalonia. Applied Psycholinguistics 21: 23–44
Sifianou M (1992) Politeness Phenomena in England and Greece: A Cross-cultural
Perspective. Clarendon Press, Oxford
Singleton D, Ryan L (2004) Language Acquisition: The Age Factor (2nd revised and
updated ed). Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Thomas J (1983) Cross cultural pragmatic failure. Applied Linguistics 4: 91–112
Thomas J (1988) The role played by metalinguistic awareness in second and third language
learning. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development 9: 235–246
Thomas J (1992) Metalinguistic awareness in second- and third-language learning. In:
Harris RJ (ed) Cognitive Processing in Bilinguals. North Holland, Amsterdam, pp 531–545
Travis CE (2004) The ethnopragmatics of the diminutive in conversational Colombian
Spanish. Interlanguage Pragmatics 1–2: 249–274
Tsai M (2001) Learning is a lifelong process. In: Belcher D, Connor U (eds) Reflections on
Multiliterate Lifes. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 135–140
Van Gelderen A, Schoonen R, De Glopper K, Hulstijn J, Snellings P, Simis A, Stevenson
M (2003) Roles of linguistic knowledge, metacognitive knowledge and processing speed
in L3, L2 and L1 reading comprehension: A structural equation modelling approach. The
International Journal of Bilingualism 7: 7–25
Ytsma J (2001) Towards a typology of trilingual primary education. Journal of Bilingual
Education and Bilingualism 4: 11–22
Wong JO (2004) Cultural scripts, ways of speaking and perceptions of cultural autonomy:
Anglo English vs. Singapore English. Intercultural Pragmatics 1–2: 231–248
8
Interindividual Variation in Self-perceived Oral
Proficiency of English L2 Users
Jean Marc Dewaele
Birbeck College, London, UK
8.1 Introduction
Studies in SLA that focus on individual differences in oral proficiency can
roughly be divided in two categories: firstly studies based on cross-
sectional designs with the aim of identifying the underlying characteristics
of the most proficient learners (Naiman et al. 1978), or in longitudinal
designs, typically running the length of a school year, where the
development of proficiency of individual learners can be analysed and
linked to sociobiographical and psychological factors. Longitudinal studies
allow researchers to measure the impact of specific teaching methods, or
of the effect of a period spent abroad, on the learners’ interlanguage. The
problem with longitudinal studies is the difficulty in generalizing the
findings. Firstly, because the samples are usually relatively small the
results are often inconclusive: the difference between significant and non-
significant results may depend on the presence or absence of a few
outliers. Secondly, local factors (not necessarily identified by the
researcher) may have neutralized the hypothesized effects of independent
variables, for example, a dislike shared by the participants for a particular
target language or method of instruction which might have overshadowed
any effects of personality. Thirdly, longitudinal studies are seldom “long”
enough.
Researchers involved in longitudinal studies typically follow
participants over a one-year to a three-year period during which the
learning process is on-going. We are unaware of really long-term studies
(say a period of ten years) on the effects of the teaching method or study
abroad on students’ levels of proficiency (see however Regan 2005 and
Regan et al. to appear who looked at the performance of study abroad
students one year after their return). The aim of the present study is to
avoid these pitfalls by investigating individual differences in a large
E. Alcón Soler and M.P. Safont Jordà (eds.), Intercultural Language Use and Language Learning, 141–165.
141
© 2008
Springer Science+Business Media B.V.
142 Dewaele
sample of L2 users rather than L2 learners. In other words, we will consider a
socially diverse group of adult multilinguals with different native
languages who have been using the same L2 (English) for quite some time
since leaving school without necessarily reaching native-like proficiency
in the L2 (Cook 2002). Local effects linked to a specific learning situation
should have dissipated over time, leaving only the more enduring effects to
be identified by researchers. What these L2 users all have in common is
more than the use of English L2 as a neutral, linguistic tool of
communication. They will have accumulated rich intercultural experience.
This experience is likely to have affected their attitudes, beliefs, social
identity and values (Berry et al. 1992). Their view of “in-group” and “out-
group” may have evolved as they may have shifted themselves
imperceptibly to an “out-group” position. The intercultural experience
makes people realize that their own values, beliefs and behaviours are not
absolute, and that alternatives can be valid and possible (Byram, Gribkova
and Starkey 2002: 13). This process can provoke frustration, a sense of
loss, but also one of enrichment and fulfillment. Sercu (2005: 2) observes
that surprise is the cornerstone of the intercultural experience. Eva
Hoffman presents a poignant illustration of this surprise. She emigrated
with her parents from Poland to Canada at the age of thirteen. She seems
to have picked up English quicker than her parents and has acculturated
into the new culture to a much higher degree. As a result her mother
suddenly notices that her daughter has “changed”:
My mother says I'm becoming “English.” This hurts me, because I know she
means I’m becoming cold. I’m no colder than I’ve ever been, but I’m learning
to be less demonstrative. (...) Perhaps my mother is right, after all; perhaps
I'm becoming colder. (Hoffman 1989: 146–7).
The focus in the present study is on self-perceived oral proficiency in
English. This is the kind of holistic statement that is expected in the
curriculum vitae under the heading “language knowledge”. It is a judgment
that we are all forced to make at some point. It probably reflects a sum of
various aspects of the L2 including perceived competence in grammar,
phonology, lexis, syntax, pragmatics and it is probably also influenced by
past traumatisms or successes in the L2, as well as recent experiences in
intercultural communication. Pondering over the adjective describing our
proficiency, we probably all decide after some deliberation that an honest
answer is the safest option, as boasting about one’s language knowledge
only to be caught out at the job interview is something most of us would
prefer to avoid.
Interindividual Variation in Self-perceived Oral Proficiency 143
Research on the acquisition of communicative competence suggests that
a complex interplay of psychological, affective and sociobiographical
variables determine the levels of proficiency reached by L2 learners and
users. The present paper will consider the effects of sociobiographical
The data have been gathered through an on-line web questionnaire with
open-ended and closed-ended questions aimed at multilinguals (Dewaele
and Pavlenko 2001). The questionnaire contained 35 questions concerning
emotional and non-emotional language use in different situations in up to
five languages. It included questions on social, demographic and linguistic
background and questions on the relationship between languages and
emotions. The closed questions allowed the gathering of numerical data
through the use of Likert scales and permitted further statistical analysis.
Five open-ended questions at the end of the questionnaire invited
participants to comment on (1) the weight of the phrase “I love you” in the
8.2 Literature Review
8.2.1 Context of Acquisition
Context of acquisition emerged as a significant variable in a number of
previous studies on emotion and bilingualism (Dewaele 2004a, 2004b,
2005). The effect of context of acquisition was found to have a significant
effect on the self-reported use and perceived emotional force of swear
words and taboo words in up to five languages among 1039 multilinguals.
The effect of context of acquisition was generally stronger for self-
reported language choice for use of swearwords than for perception of
their emotional force. Participants who learned their language(s) in a
naturalistic ─or mixed─ context were more likely to use swear words and
taboo words in that language and they rated them as being more forceful
compared to the rating of instructed language learners. The effect of
participants’ respective languages; (2) their linguistic preferences for emotion
terms and terms of endearment; (3) emotional significance of their languages;
(4) language of the home and language in which they argue; (5) ease or
difficulty of discussing emotional topics in languages other than the first. The
questionnaire has been completed by 1454 multilinguals with 77 different
first languages. The data elicited through the open questions yielded a corpus
of about 150,000 words.
variables: context of acquisition (instructed, mixed or naturalistic); “age of
onset” of the L2 (AOA); typological distance between the L1 and English
L2; frequency of use; gender; age; and education level of the participant.
144 Dewaele
authentic language use with the TL on the development of the
interlanguage has been clearly demonstrated in a study by Housen (2002).
He looked at the English L2 of Italian primary school children (aged 8–10)
in four different contexts: one group of learners in foreign language
classroom from a mainstream school in Bologna, three groups of learners
in the European Schools of Varese (Italy), Brussels (Belgium) and Culham
(UK), and one control group of English L1 speakers from the European
School of Brussels. The amount of formal instruction was similar across
the groups, only the amount of extra-curricular contact with the TL varied.
The amount of contact with English outside the classroom was limited in
Bologna and Brussels and much more frequent in Varese and Culham.
Although ANOVAs failed to uncover an overall effect for context on
verb type diversity, lexical richness, verb/noun ratios and global lexical
mastery, post-hoc tests did show that the Culham group scored
significantly higher than the two other learner groups, but remained
significantly below the scores of the English L1 control group. This clearly
demonstrates the beneficial effects of frequent interaction in the TL in
addition to the formal instruction. Similar patterns have also emerged from
numerous studies on the acquisition of sociolinguistic competence (for an
overview, see Dewaele 2004c). The studies showed that after their stay
abroad or after prolonged contact with native speakers the L2 users
approximated roughly – though not exactly – to the native speaker norm on
a range of sociolinguistic variables. It seems thus that living abroad for an
extended period does something unique to the learners’ usage which
classroom input does not.
8.2.2 Age of Onset (AOA)
One of the big debates in Second Language Acquisition concerns the
optimal age to start learning a foreign language. The problem is that there
is lot of contradictory evidence on the effect of AOA. Firstly, a number of
recent studies that looked at AOA in formal instruction of English found
that older beginners significantly outperformed younger ones in both oral
and written proficiency when the number of hours of instruction was held
constant (Cenoz 2003, García Mayo 2003, Muñoz 2003). Secondly,
several studies have shown that younger starters have an advantage over
older starters in the area of phonology Bongaerts et al (2003). The third posit-
term attainment goes back to the study by Krashen et al. (1979: 161) who
stated that: “acquirers who begin natural exposure to second languages
during childhood generally achieve higher second language proficiency
ion is that younger starters might be better in the long run. This focus on long-
145
than those beginning as adults”. Support for this position has come from
the studies of Hyltenstam and Abrahamsson (2000) who found that
immigrants who had arrived in Sweden early reached higher levels of
proficiency than those who had arrived around and beyond puberty.
Our own studies on language choice for emotional speech among adult
multilinguals have exactly the type of time-scale that Singleton and Ryan
(2005) were pleading for. AOA was found only to predict perception of
emotional force of swear words in the L2 (and not in the L3, L4 and L5), it
had no significant effect on language choice for swearing (Dewaele 2004a,
2004b). A stronger effect of AOA on language choice for the expression of
anger was found in Dewaele (2006a) who used the complete corpus with
the 1459 multilinguals. Participants who had started to learn a language
early were more likely to use that language to express anger at the time
of filling out the questionnaire (which was, on average, more than 20 years
after the start of the L2 learning process). We argued that this long time-
span between the acquisition phase and the moment the data were gathered
could account for the weakness of the effects. A multilingual using or not
using a language for a prolonged period may have reinforced or annulled
the effect on context of acquisition on language choice. Some participants
reported never having used an instructed language again after school;
others reported picking it up again much later and becoming highly
proficient in the language. It is therefore possible that the effect of some
more recent life-events can overwhelm the effect of variables linked to the
genesis of the language learning experience, but that these remain
detectable like a kind of background radiation.
8.2.3 General Frequency of Use of a Language
Another finding that emerged from the previously mentioned studies
concerned general frequency of use of a language (Dewaele 2004a, 2004b,
2005, 2006a). It was found to be a strong predictor of perception of the
emotional force of swear words in a TL, of frequency of swearing in a TL
and of expression of emotions in a TL. The adage “practice makes perfect”
certainly applies to multiple language use. Frequent use of a language has
been shown in previous research to be linked to development of
grammatical accuracy as well as the more elusive aspects of
sociopragmatic and sociocultural competence (Dewaele and Pavlenko
2002; Dewaele and Véronique 2001; Pavlenko 2003). However, one
should not underestimate the effect of fossilization, i.e. an L2 user might
remain “stuck” for years on a plateau below native speaker norm (Han
2003). Foreign accents in an L2, for example, may be detectable despite
Interindividual Variation in Self-perceived Oral Proficiency
146 Dewaele
years of intense use of the L2. The awareness of the foreign accent may
also affect the judgment of multilinguals about their proficiency in a
language.
8.2.4 Typological Distance between the L1 and the L2
The effect of typological distance between the L1 and foreign languages
has been analysed in studies on cross-linguistic influences at
morphological, morphosyntactic, lexical, pragmatic levels (Cheng 2003;
De Angelis 2005; Safont Jordà 2005; Williams and Hammarberg 1998; to
name but a few). A typical finding has been that typological closeness
increases the probability of the influence of one language on another.
Studies that considered the effect of typological/cultural distance between
the L1 and the target language (TL) on levels of sociocultural and
sociopragmatic competence in populations with similar levels of linguistic
proficiency in the TL reported a negative correlation between
8.2.5 Gender, Age and Education Level
Grosjean (1998) exhorted researchers to pay close attention to
methodological and conceptual issues, such as the potentially confounding
effect of sociobiographical variables such as gender, age and education
level. Donovan and MacIntyre (2004) investigated age and sex differences
in Willingness to Communicate. They found no sex differences in
communication apprehension or self-perceived competence between the
typological/cultural distance and levels of sociocultural and socio-
pragmatic competence (Rintell 1984). Dewaele (2004c) investigated
patterns of foreign language anxiety in English L2 in the same sub-corpus
of 475 multilinguals on which the present study is based. Despite non-
significant differences in levels of self-perceived proficiency in speaking
and writing, native speakers of Slavonic languages reported significantly
higher levels of foreign language anxiety than native speakers of Romance
languages, who in turn scored higher on the foreign language anxiety scale
than native speakers of Germanic languages. The differences were
especially striking in stressful situations like phone conversations or public
speech. They were weaker in communication with friends, colleagues or
strangers. However, the effect size was modest (eta2
: .045). It thus seems
that intercultural communication is more anxiety-arousing when the L2
user perceives a wide cultural divide between him/herself and the native
speaker interlocutor.
147
junior high (90 males, 177 females) and high school students (85 males,
106 females), but they discovered that the female university students
(n = 215) suffered more from communication apprehension and had lower
self-perceived competence than their male counterparts (n = 68).
8.2.6 Self-perceived Competence
Self-perceived competence is a person’s evaluation of their ability to
communicate (McCroskey and McCroskey 1988). It is considered by
MacIntyre (1994) to be one of the two antecedents underlying Willingness
to Communicate (the other being communication apprehension). Donovan
and MacIntyre (2004) found a negative correlation between self-perceived
competence and communication apprehension. In other words, higher
levels of self-perceived competence are linked to lower levels of
communication apprehension.
To sum up, variables such as context of acquisition, AOA, frequency of
use, language distance and sociobiographical variables have been found to
have an effect on language choice for the communication of emotion
(which may be interpreted as a sign of sociocultural competence) and
affective variables (attitude, perceived competence and communicative
anxiety) among adult multilinguals. The present study will investigate
whether these independent variables also affect the multilinguals’ self-
perceived oral proficiency in English L2.
8. 3 Method
8.3.1 Participants
A sample of 475 multilinguals (338 females, 137 males) was extracted
from a web questionnaire database of 1459 participants (Dewaele 2006a).
The selection criteria were the following: participants had to have English
as a second language and had to be native speakers of a Germanic,
Romance or Slavonic language. Native speakers of Spanish represent the
largest group (n = 111), followed by French (n = 100), German (n = 91),
Italian (n = 36), Dutch (n = 31), (n = 1), Russian (n = 27), Portuguese
(n = 22), Swedish (n = 15), Afrikaans (n = 14), Danish (n = 9), Romanian
(n = 5), Norwegian (n = 5) and Polish (n = 3). There are also native
speakers of Catalan, Slovene, Bulgarian and Albanian.
The mean AOA of learning of English as L2 was 8.95 yrs (SD = 4.8).
The L2 was defined as the second language to have been acquired.
Interindividual Variation in Self-perceived Oral Proficiency
148 Dewaele
Participants are generally highly educated with 42 having a high school
diploma (8.8%), 133 a Bachelor’s degree (28%), 154 a Master’s degree
(32.4%), and 145 a doctoral degree (30.6%). Age ranged from 16 to 73
(Mean = 34.6; SD: 10.0).
8.3.2 Research Design
family; 4) frequency of use of the L2; 5) gender; 6) age; and 7) education
level. The dependent variable is a self-perceived proficiency score for
speaking and understanding spoken English. Variables will be presented in
more detail in the following sections. Sample sizes may vary across the
analyses because some participants did not provide data for all the
dependent variables. Quantitative results are supplemented by qualitative
data provided by the same participants. These responses, elicited by means
of open-ended questions, have a purely illustrative value in the present
study.
8.3.3 Independent Variables
8.3.3.1 Context of Acquisition
The variable ‘context of acquisition’ distinguishes between three types of
contexts: 1) naturalistic context (i.e. no classroom contact, only naturalistic
communication outside school), 2) mixed context (i.e. classroom contact +
naturalistic contact), and 3) instructed context (i.e. formal classroom
contact only). No further distinction was made between types of formal
instruction, such as, for instance, ‘immersion classrooms’, where the TL
serves as the medium for teaching non-language subject matter and ‘non-
immersion classrooms’, where the TL is the instructional target. Similarly,
the notion of ‘naturalistic context’ as used here is a cover term for a wide
range of ways in which a language can be learned without guidance from a
particular teacher or program, but developed gradually or spontaneously
through interaction with speakers of the TL. An analysis of the distribution
of participants according to context of acquisition of English as a L2
showed that half of them (n = 234) had learnt the language in a mixed
context, 44% (n = 205) had learnt the language through formal instruction
and 6% (n = 29) had learnt English naturalistically.
Seven main independent variables were selected in the present design:
1) acquisition context; 2) age of onset of learning the language; 3) language
149
Language Family L1 N
Russian 27
Polish 3
Serbian 2
Slovene 1
Bulgarian 1
Slavonic (n = 35)
Albanian 1
Spanish 111
French 100
Italian 36
Portuguese 22
Romanian 5
Romance (n = 275)
Catalan 1
German 91
Dutch 31
Swedish 15
Afrikaans 14
Danish 9
Germanic (n = 165)
Norwegian 5
8.3.3.2 Language Family
Participants were grouped in three groups according to the language family
their L1 belonged to: Germanic, Romance or Slavonic. Table 8.1 shows
the distribution of the sample according to first language and the language
family.
8.3.3.3 AOA of Learning
Three categories of participants were distinguished: 1) Those who can be
considered “bilingual first language users” who started learning English
before the age of three; 2) “early learners” who started learning English
before onset of puberty; and 3) “late learners” for whom the learning
process started at the age of thirteen or later.
An analysis of the distribution of the sample according to AOA of
English L2 revealed that 10% of the participants (n = 48) started learning
English before age three, 77% of the participants (n = 366) learnt it
between age three and twelve, and the remaining 13% (n = 60) learnt it
after age thirteen.
Table 8.1 Distribution of participants according to language family of L1
Interindividual Variation in Self-perceived Oral Proficiency
150 Dewaele
8.3.3.4 Frequency of Use
An analysis of the distribution of the participants according to
frequency of use of English showed that more than half of the
participants (57%: n = 269) used English all day long. Nearly a quarter
used it every day (23%: n = 110); 12% (n = 56) of the remaining
participants used it weekly; 6% (n = 29) used it monthly and 1.5%
(n = 7) used it on a yearly basis.
8.3.4 Dependent Variable: Self-reported Oral Proficiency in English
Data on self-reported oral proficiency in English were elicited through two
items using a 5-point Likert scale. The question was formulated as follows:
On a scale from 1 (least proficient) to 5 (fully fluent) how do you rate
yourself in speaking, and understanding English?
Scores for speaking and comprehension were added up. The maximum
possible score for oral proficiency was thus 10. The dependent variable is
thus a single numerical value reflecting self-perceived oral proficiency in
English L2. One could wonder whether such self-reports are accurate
reflections of participants’ actual oral proficiency. Dörnyei (2003)
observes that “people do not always provide true answers about
themselves” in questionnaires (p 12). The reason for this is the social
desirability or prestige bias. While such a bias cannot be excluded from the
present study, one can argue that in most cases the participants were
unknown to the researchers, unknown to each other, and that they had
nothing to gain from exaggerating their proficiency level in English. Given
the wide range of languages involved, it was impossible to design tests for
measuring actual oral and written proficiency in all languages known to
the participants. The disadvantage that self-reports may not be as accurate
as one may wish does not weigh up to the fact that they are easy to collect,
enabling us to consider larger sample sizes than in research based on
production data. Also, they provide sufficient detail for the current
research questions.
Finally, research on this question has revealed that self-report
measures of proficiency correlate highly with linguistic measures of
proficiency. Mettewie (2004: 238) correlated self-reported oral
proficiency scores for Dutch and French with an objective measure of
language proficiency (based on results for grammar tests, reading and
listening comprehension exercises) among 338 pupils in Brussels. She
151
A series of one-sample Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests revealed that the oral
proficiency scores in our corpus are not normally distributed
(Kolmogorov-Smirnov Z values = 6.6, p < .0001). The distribution of
participants across frequency categories (proficiency scores ranging from 1
to 10) is strongly skewed towards the positive end: Table 8.2 shows that
more than half (53.9 %) of the participants judge themselves to be fully
fluent in oral English. As a consequence, Kruskal-Wallis tests were used as
nonparametric equivalents to one-way ANOVAs, and a Mann-Whitney
test was used instead of a t-test.
Oral Proficiency Score English L2
Score n %
1 0 0.0
2 4 0.8
3 0 0.0
4 1 0.2
5 5 1.1
6 15 3.2
7 24 5.1
8 100 21.1
9 70 14.7
10 256 53.9
474 100
Table 8.2 Distribution of participants according to self-perceived proficiency
Interindividual Variation in Self-perceived Oral Proficiency
found highly significant positive relationships between the measures
(r = .83*** for Dutch and r = .76*** for French) which led her to
conclude that self-reports provide valid measures to researchers.
MacIntyre et al. (1997) looked at perceived competence in French L2 as
a function of actual competence and language anxiety in a sample of 37
adult Anglophone students. They completed scales of language anxiety
and a “can-do” test, which assessed their self-perceptions of competence
on 26 French tasks. They then performed each of those tasks. Perceived
L2 competence and actual L2 competence were found to be strongly
intercorrelated. It thus seems that measures of perception of proficiency
are acceptable indicators of actual proficiency. Although some
personality types tend to overestimate their proficiency slightly
(MacIntyre et al. 1997), this is compensated by the fact that an equal
number tends to underestimate their proficiency slightly.
152 Dewaele
8.4 Hypotheses
It was hypothesised:
1) that participants who learned English in an instructed setting only
would rate their oral proficiency in English lower than participants
who learned the L2 in a mixed or naturalistic environment;
2) that participants who started learning English L2 at a younger age
would rate their oral proficiency in English higher than participants
who started learning English later;
3) that participants whose L1 was typologically closer to English would
rate their oral proficiency in English higher.
4) that frequent users of English would rate their oral proficiency in
English higher than less frequent users.
5) that females would rate their oral proficiency in English higher than males.
6) that more highly educated participants would rate their oral proficiency
in English higher than less educated participants.
7) that older participants would rate their oral proficiency in English
higher than younger participants.
8.5 Results
8.5.1 Testing Hypothesis 1: Context of Acquisition
The Kruskall Wallis tests revealed that acquisition context had a highly
significant effect overall (Chi2
= 30.6, df = 2, p < .0001) on self-reported
8
8.5
9
9.5
10
instructed Mixed Naturalistic
Proficiency
score
Figure 8.1 The effect of context of acquisition on self-perceived oral proficiency.
153
Participants’ comments illustrate the fact that purely formal instruction
in a TL makes it harder to attain high proficiency levels in that TL. For
example, participant A reports that after spending many years studying
English in her home country, she did not master emotional speech and
intonation patterns in English. Only authentic language use allowed the
participant to reach higher levels of proficiency in the L2:
8.5.2 Testing Hypothesis 2: The Effect of AOA
The Kruskall Wallis tests showed a significant effect of AOA on self-
perceived oral proficiency (Chi2
= 16.2, df = 2, p < .0001). Those who
started at a younger age rate their oral proficiency in English much higher
than late starters.
8
8.5
9
9.5
10
zero-two three-twelve thirteen +
Proficiency
scores
oral language proficiency. An inspection of the mean scores show that
instructed learners feel less proficient in English compared to mixed and
naturalistic learners (see Figure 8.1).
Participant A: “During the five years I spent in London I learned many
emotional expressions that I never really cared to translate into
Slovenian (I didn’t need to) and now they mean much more to me than
their Slovenian translations because I experienced the words in real life
(go berserk, my petal for “my darling”). I also learned to use the
appropriate intonation together with the new words or new meanings,
which I had not when I learned and later studied English in Slovenia”.
Interindividual Variation in Self-perceived Oral Proficiency
Figure 8.2 The effect of age of onset on self-perceived oral proficiency
154 Dewaele
Participant B, who learned English L2 at the age of 15 observes that she
does not feel as proficient in the L2 as in the L1 despite being a highly
frequent user of English:
8.5.3 Testing Hypothesis 3: The Effect of L1 Language Family
The Kruskall Wallis test revealed that the language family to which a
participant’s L1 belongs has a significant effect on self-perceived oral
proficiency in English (Chi2
= 8.3, df = 2, p < .015). The pattern is
unexpected however. Native speakers of Romance languages perceive
themselves to be most proficient in English, followed by the native
speakers of Slavonic languages, with the native speakers of other
Germanic languages trailing behind.
8
8.5
9
9.5
10
Germanic Romance Slavonic
Proficiency
score
None of the participants noted that they felt more proficient in a particular
language because of its typological proximity to their L1. Most linked their
feeling of proficiency to their life experiences in that language:
Participant B: “I’m always more comfortable communicating in my
L1. I think I started with my L2 too late to really ever feel satisfied
with my communicative competence even though I've lived in the UK
for 5 years.”
Participant C: “In English (L2) I feel I am more relaxed light-hearted
and easy-going than in either German (L1) or Russian (L3) but I think
Figure 8.3 The effect of the L1 language family on self-perceived oral proficiency
155
Proficiency also encompasses the ability to produce culturally
appropriate discourse. One participant (Romanian L1, English L2,
Japanese L3) expresses a strong surprise when she discovered that the
amount of emotional talk in her native Romania was much higher than in
English (her L2) or in Japanese (her L3):
8.5.4 Testing Hypothesis 4: Frequency of Use
Frequency of use shows, as expected, a highly significant effect on self-
perceived oral proficiency in English (Chi2
= 100.4, df = 4, p < .0001).
Frequent users of English rate themselves higher than less frequent users
of the L2.
6
6.5
7
7.5
8
8.5
9
9.5
10
yearly monthly weekly daily all day
Frequency of use
that’s more to do with the environment (these things are valued highly
in Ireland) and personality largely overrides any language- or
environment-induced differences.”
Interindividual Variation in Self-perceived Oral Proficiency
Figure 8.4 The effect of frequency of use on self-perceived oral proficiency
Participant D: “We Romanians do not only express our own emotions
whenever given the chance, we also love talking about other people's
emotions (attributing various emotional states to others and using these
attributions in order to explain and predict their behaviour). I believe
there is a connection between this 3rd person emotion talk and the
capacity to express one's own emotions. Japanese almost never discuss
other people's feelings in this manner. I find it very frustrating.”
156 Dewaele
It is important to underline that the measure “frequency of use” gives
at best a broad indication of how frequently a particular language is used.
The multilinguals in the database may use different languages with equal
frequency, but use these languages with particular people in particular
situations. Some, like participant D cited below, may have become
dominant in a language other than their L1 because the other language is
that of the social environment and the one most frequently used. Yet,
other languages, including the L1, may not be used as frequently, but
allow the participant to be most proficient when talking about emotional
topics:
Another participant (F) notes that despite feeling fully proficient in two
languages, she prefers one language for writing and another for speaking,
linked to past and present frequency of use of the languages in specific
situations:
8.5.5 Testing Hypothesis 5: The Effects of Gender
The effects of gender were tested using a Mann-Whitney test. The results
show a marginally significant difference (Mann-Whitney U = 20788,
p = .056) with females rating their oral proficiency English slightly higher
than the males.
Participant E: “Since my second language (English) is now the strongest
language, it is easier for me to talk in that language. However the people
closest to me in my life speak Finnish and French, so I often speak
about emotional topics with these people in Finnish and French. I use
English mainly for work and other social activities not so much for
“deep talk”. Sometimes however, because I am not as fluent in French, I
have difficulty finding appropriate words. Then I can sometimes use an
English word, hoping others will understand.”
Participant F: “I’m ambilingual in Spanish and English. Though I have
put 5 for my proficiency level in the different skills, one language takes
precedence over the other in certain areas. For example I prefer to write
in English as I went to university and did all my academic writing in
English. I prefer to speak in Spanish as it's the language I use most for
general communication and the language that surrounds me. I have no
preference when reading or listening.”
157
8
8.5
9
9.5
10
Female Male
Proficiency
score
8.5.6 Testing Hypothesis 6: The Effects of Education Level
A Kruskall Wallis test determined the effect of education level on self-
perceived oral proficiency in English. A marginal effect emerged (Chi2
= 7.4,
df = 3, p = .06), suggesting that more highly educated participants tended
to rate their oral proficiency in English higher compared to participants
with lower levels of education.
The knowledge of English in a largely monolingual, non-English,
environment can confer prestige on the speaker, as participant G, a
Japanese female with a MA in English observes:
Interindividual Variation in Self-perceived Oral Proficiency
Figure 8.5 The effect of gender on self-perceived oral proficiency
Participant G: “Language is power to me. Whenever I speak in English
(L2) people usually tend to treat me with respect. If people don’t know
that I’m bilingual, I see more ‘looking down’ looks glanced at me, you
know those looks we all have when we are looking at strangers with no
special interest. But once the same people notice that I am speaking
English (in Tokyo) they suddenly react with a surprised look and the
next thing you know you become close to a celebrity (a bit
exaggerated).”
158 Dewaele
8
8.5
9
9.5
10
Alevel BA MA PhD
Proficiency
score
8.5.7 Testing Hypothesis 7: The Effects of Age
A Spearman rank correlation showed a significant positive relationship
between age and oral proficiency scores (Rho = 0.10, df = 471, p < 0.033).
In other words, older L2 users feel more proficient in the L2.
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80
Age
Figure 8.6 The effect of education level on self-perceived oral proficiency
Figure 8.7 Correlation between age and self-perceived oral proficiency
159
8.6 Discussion and Conclusion
To sum up, the findings of the study fully support hypothesis 1, namely,
that participants who learned English in an instructed setting only rate their
oral proficiency in English lower than participants who learned the L2 in a
mixed or naturalistic environment. The findings also support hypothesis 2,
namely that participants who started learning English L2 at a younger age
rate their oral proficiency in English higher than participants who started
learning English later. The results force us to reject hypothesis 3:
participants whose L1 was typologically closer to English did not rate their
oral proficiency in English higher; in fact the opposite pattern emerged.
The findings fully support hypothesis 4, namely that frequent users of
English rate their oral proficiency in English higher than less frequent
users. Hypothesis 5, namely that females would rate their oral proficiency
in English higher than males is partially supported. A similar marginally
significant result emerged for hypothesis 6 concerning the effect of
education level: more highly educated participants tended to rate their
oral proficiency higher than less educated participants. Finally, support
was found for hypothesis 7, namely that older participants considered
themselves to be more proficient than younger participants.
Comments on the open questions illustrated the statistical trends and
added nuance to the quantitative findings. First it is clear that the construct
designed to “measure” proficiency is too rigid to fully reflect the complex
reality of the multilingual individual. Indeed, some participants pointed out
that they may feel more proficient in a particular language when speaking
about certain topics and not others. Some are more at ease in written
communication, others feel more comfortable in oral interaction. Also one
may feel more fluent speaking to one person rather than another. Recent
language episodes could also unduly affect the self-judgment of
proficiency. The memory of a negative experience in relatively rarely used
language may cloud one’s judgment; for example, a student having
performed badly on a language test may feel that s/he is “rubbish” at it,
also, a misunderstanding in an intercultural communication arising from
one of the speakers’ foreign accent or non-native prosody could affect that
person’s self-confidence and perceived competence in the foreign language.
We decided in the present paper to focus exclusively on sociobiographical
variables linked to self-perceived proficiency, but we are fully aware that
psychological dimensions also play a role in judgments. MacIntyre et al.
(1997) showed that students with higher levels of foreign language anxiety
tended to underestimate their proficiency in French L2, while more
confident students tended to overestimate their proficiency. Extraverts, who
Interindividual Variation in Self-perceived Oral Proficiency
160 Dewaele
tend to be less nervous and anxious than introverts, are also known to judge
their performances optimistically, while the introverts exhibit the opposite
pattern (Furnham and Heaven 1998). As these personality traits are
normally distributed in the population, we had no reason to believe that our
sample was skewed in this respect. In other words, while some participants
may have exaggerated their level of oral proficiency in English, others may
have underestimated it, and this would have cancelled itself out in the end,
allowing us to focus exclusively on sociobiographical factors.
The most interesting results in the present study are undoubtedly the
effects of context of acquisition and AOA. We used cross-tabulation to
check whether these variables interacted with other variables: where the
youngest learners for example also the ones who used English most
frequently? Results showed an even spread along the different levels for
the different variables. The significant effect for context of acquisition
suggests that only after a certain amount of authentic interaction in English
do participants feel that they are sufficiently proficient in English. This is
typically reflected in narratives where they report choosing English to
communicate emotions. Those who did not start interacting in English
shortly after their formal instruction, somehow never seemed able to close
that lag. In the group of L2 users who were using English daily at the time
of filling out the questionnaire, those who had learned purely through
formal instruction (n = 104) trailed their peers who had learnt English in a
mixed (n = 141) or naturalistic (n = 19) way (see Figure 8.8).
8
8.5
9
9.5
10
instructed mixed naturalistic
Proficiency
score
Figure 8.8 The effect of context of acquisition on self-perceived oral proficiency among
participants reporting using English all the time
161
This finding of a beneficial effect for an early start of L2 acquisition
over a long term can provide fresh ammunition to those who defend an
early introduction of a foreign language at school. Indeed, the present
finding goes against the trend that emerged from a number of recent
studies that looked into short term and mid term effects of an early start.
Singleton and Ryan (2005) who reviewed the literature on the critical
period hypothesis and age effects in SLA state that: “extrapolating from
the naturalistic studies, one may plausibly argue that early formal
instruction in an L2 is likely to yield advantages after rather longer periods
of time than have so far been studied” (2005: 223). This is exactly what
our results suggest: 20 years down the line, the younger starters may “win”
the race after all. These results also lend support to the position of
Hyltenstam and Abrahamsson (2000) on the advantage of early starters in
terms of ultimate attainment in the L2.
The finding that native speakers of Romance and Slavonic languages
report higher levels of oral proficiency in English rather than native
speakers of Germanic languages is counter-intuitive and frankly puzzling.
The effect was significant but not very strong. Maybe the cultural distance
between the three groups was too limited. Only further research, preferably
with a group of native speakers of Asian or African languages will allow
us to see whether large typological distances between the L1 and the L2
language/culture do indeed affect self-perceived proficiency.
The present study further strengthens the argument for a maximalisation
of authentic communication in an L2. MacIntyre and Charos (1996: 17)
already found that for their English L1 students in French immersion
programmes “having more opportunities for interaction in French may lead
to an increase in perceived competence, a greater willingness to
communicate in French, and more frequent communication”.
Skills in a foreign language learnt and used within the walls of a
classroom look pale and weak compared to those of L2 learners/L2 users
who engaged in (frequent) authentic communication. It thus makes sense
to include stays in the target language community as part of the language-
learning curriculum. Evans and Fisher (2005) showed that even a week-
long stay abroad has significant effects on linguistic development in the
target language.
The finding that females tend to perceive themselves as more proficient
than the males contradicts earlier findings by Donovan and MacIntyre
(2004). They found that while females in junior high school tended to score
higher than their male counterparts, this difference disappeared in high
school, and that at university the males scored significantly higher on self-
perceived proficiency.
Interindividual Variation in Self-perceived Oral Proficiency
162 Dewaele
The effect of level of education on self-perceived oral proficiency is
probably quite indirect and a consequence of the socio-educational make-
up of the sample. Indeed illiterate speakers can still attain high levels of
oral proficiency. There is no need for formal education to attain fluency in
a foreign language. A majority of our participants with PhDs had studied
linguistics, and very often English. Having studied and used English at this
level implies a high level of proficiency. The fact of having higher degrees
of education may also strengthen a participant’s belief in his/her linguistic
abilities compared to those without the prestige of a university degree.
The fact that older participants scored higher on self-perceived oral
proficiency could be related to the fact that they had had more opportunities
to use English in authentic intercultural interactions. It is possible that if we
had asked more pointed questions about the knowledge of grammar and
pragmatic knowledge, we would not have found a correlation between age
and scores for strictly linguistic knowledge, but maybe a stronger
correlation would have appeared between age and scores for socioprag-
matic and sociocultural knowledge. We all learn to communicate by
experience, so growing older has its communicative advantages.
Finally, it is important to remind ourselves that the different factors that
determine oral proficiency cannot easily be considered in isolation, and
that any attempt to do so, while statistically feasible, may show only part
of the more general picture (Muñoz 2003; Navés et al. 2005). Also, we
realized during the design of our questionnaire that factors such as length
and intensity of exposure are hard to quantify (and consequently dropped
from the questionnaire). Quantification is difficult, firstly because an adult
L2 user cannot possibly be expected to remember the total time spent
learning the L2. Also, periods of intense effort in learning the L2 may have
been followed by periods of inactivity. Secondly, while it is probably true
that “the longer the period of exposure, the better” in terms of linguistic
development, it is perfectly possible that short but intense periods of L2
learning and use, linked to high levels of language learning motivation
(Evans and Fisher 2005) may have a more significant impact than longer
periods of less intense L2 learning/use with lower levels of motivation. In
other words, quantitative researchers need to remain aware that the
richness of individual experience in L2 learning and L2 use cannot easily
be captured through questionnaires, tests and post-hoc rationalization. This
is why we plead for triangulation in this type of research: i.e. the use of a
combination of different research methodologies in order to answer common
research questions. In this approach, empirical and quantitative accounts can
be combined with an emic perspective, or participant-relevant view, “as a
result of which the L2 learners’ and users’ voices and opinions (…) are
heard on a par with those of the researchers” (Pavlenko 2002: 297).
163
To sum up, we would like to argue that individual levels of intercultural
competence can be determined through a combination of measures of
language choice for phatic communication, affective variables, and also,
crucially self-perceived oral proficiency. The element of surprise, which is
central to intercultural communication according to Sercu (2005), might
not always be explicitly mentioned in the participants’ narratives but it is
present between the lines. This surprise (and sometimes frustration) comes
in different forms. Some seem surprised by how different languages have
acquired different emotional connotations to them, or how they have
become able to express themselves fluently and appropriately in their
English L2 after a long and difficult learning process. Some participants
regret the sociocultural constraints that exist in their L2 or L3 that do not,
for example, allow them to discuss their own and other people’s emotions
as freely as in their L1 (participant F). Other participants, like the Japanese
teacher of English (participant G), describe the surprised reactions of their
monolingual countrymen at their multilingualism and intercultural
competence.
Multilingualism and intercultural communication are a constant source
of surprise, both to researchers and to multilinguals themselves. Eva
Hoffman, describes how, in her internal monologues, “Occasionally,
Polish words emerge unbidden… They are usually words from the primary
(Hoffman 1989: 272, cited in Besemeres 2004: 143).
References
Berry JW, Poortinga YW, Segall MH, Dase PR (1992) Cross-cultural Psychology:
Research and Applications. Cambridge University Press, New York
Besemeres M (2004) Different languages, different emotions? Perspectives from
autobiographical literature. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development
25(2/3): 140–158
Byram M, Gribkova B, Starkey H (2002) Developing the Intercultural Dimension in
Language Teaching: A Practical Introduction for Teachers. Council of Europe,
Strasbourg
Cenoz J (2003) The influence of age on the acquisition of English: General proficiency,
attitudes and code-mixing. In: García Mayo MP, García Lecumberri ML (eds) Age and
the Acquisition of English as a Foreign Language. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp
77–93
Cheng W (2003) Intercultural Conversation. Benjamins, Amsterdam – Philadelphia
Cook V (2002) Background to the L2 user. In: Cook V (ed) Portraits of the L2 User.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 1–28
Interindividual Variation in Self-perceived Oral Proficiency
palette of feeling: “I’m so happy,” a voice says with bell-like clarity…”
Bongaerts T, Van Summeren C, Planken B, Schils E (1997) Age and ultimate attainment in
the pronunciation of a foreign language. Studies in Second Language Acquisition
19:447–465
164 Dewaele
Dewaele J–M (2004a) Blistering barnacles! What language do multilinguals swear in?!
Estudios de Sociolingüística 5: 83–106
Dewaele J-M (2004b) The emotional force of swearwords and taboo words in the speech of
multilinguals. Journal of Multilingual and Multicultural Development 25: 204–222
Dewaele J-M (2004c) The acquisition of sociolinguistic competence in French as a foreign
language: An overview. Journal of French Language Studies 14: 301–319
Dewaele J-M (2005) The effect of type of acquisition context on perception and self-
reported use of swearwords in the L2, L3, L4 and L5. In: Housen A, Pierrard M (eds)
Investigations in Instructed Second Language Acquisition. Mouton De Gruyter, Berlin,
pp 531–559
Dewaele J-M, Pavlenko A (2001) Web Questionnaire Bilingualism and Emotions.
University of London
Dewaele J-M, Pavlenko A (2002) Emotion vocabulary in interlanguage. Language
Learning 52: 265–324
Dewaele J-M, Véronique D (2001) Gender assignment and gender agreement in advanced
French Interlanguage: A cross-sectional study. Bilingualism, Language and Cognition 4:
275–297
Donovan LA, MacIntyre PD (2004) Age and sex differences in willingness to
communicate, communication apprehension and self-perceived competence.
Communication Research Reports 21: 420–427
Dörnyei Z (2003) Questionnaires in Second Language Research: Construction,
Administration, and Processing. Lawrence Erlbaum, Mahwah, NJ
Evans M, Fisher L (2005) Measuring gains in pupils’ foreign language competence as a
result of participation in a school exchange visit: The case of Y9 pupils at three
comprehensive schools in the UK. Language Teaching Research 9: 173–192
Furnham A, Heaven P (1998) Personality and Social Behaviour. Arnold, London
García Mayo MP (2003) Age, length of exposure and grammatically judgments in the
acquisition of English as a foreign language. In: García Mayo MP, García Lecumberri
ML (eds) Age and the Acquisition of English as a Foreign Language. Multilingual
Matters, Clevedon, pp 94–114
Grosjean F (1998) Studying bilinguals: Methodological and conceptual issues.
Bilingualism: Language and Cognition 1: 131–149
Han Z (2003) Fossilization in Adult Second Language Acquisition. Multilingual Matters,
Clevedon
Hoffman E (1989) Lost in Translation. A Life in a New Language. Dutton, New York.
Housen A (2002) Paramètres liés à l'environnement dans l'apprentissage guidé d'une langue
seconde. In: Coste D (ed) L'acquisition en classe de langue. AILE 16: 23–46
Hyltenstam K, Abrahamsson N (2000) Who can become native–like in a second language?
All, some, or none? On the maturational constraints controversy in second language
acquisition. Studia Linguistica 54: 150–166
Krashen S, Long M, Scarcella R (1979) Age, rate and eventual attainment in second
language acquisition. TESOL Quarterly 13: 573–582. Reprinted in: Krashen S, Scarcella R,
De Angelis G (2005) Interlanguage transfer of function words. Language Learning 55:
379–414
Dewaele J-M (2006a) Expressing anger in multiple languages. In: Pavlenko A (ed)
Bilingual Minds: Emotional experience, expression, and representation. Clevedon
Multilingual Matters, pp. 118–151
Long M (eds) (1982) Child-Adult Differences in Second Language Acquisition. Newbury
House, Rowley, MA
165
MacIntyre PD (1994) Variables underlying willingness to communicate: A causal analysis.
Communication Research Reports 1: 241–247
MacIntyre, PD, Charos C (1996) Personality, attitudes, and affect as predictors of second
language communication. Journal of Language and Social Psychology 15: 3–26
MacIntyre PD, Noels KA, Clément R (1997) Biases in self-ratings of second language
proficiency: the role of anxiety. Language Learning 47: 265–287
McCroskey JC, McCroskey L (1988) Self-report as an approach to measuring
communication competence. Communication Research Reports 5: 106–113
Mettewie L (2004) Attitudes en motivatie van taalleerders in België (Attitudes and
motivation of language learners in Belgium). Unpublished PhD dissertation, Vrije
Universiteit Brussel, Brussels
Muñoz C (2003) Variation in oral skills development and age of onset. In: García Mayo
MP, García Lecumberri ML (eds) Age and the Acquisition of English as a Foreign
Language. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 161–181
Naiman N, Fröhlich M, Stern HH, Todesco A (1978) The Good Language Learner. Ontario
Institute for Studies in Education, Toronto
Navés T, Miralpeix I, Celaya ML (2005) Who transfers more…and what? Crosslinguistic
influence in relation to school grade and language dominance. International Journal of
Multilingualism 2: 113–134
Pavlenko A (2002) Poststructuralist approaches to the study of social factors in L2. In:
Cook V (ed) Portraits of the L2 User. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 277–302
Pavlenko A (2003) Eyewitness memory in late bilinguals: Evidence for discursive
relativity. International Journal of Bilingualism 7: 257–281
Regan V (2005) From speech community back to classroom: what variation analysis can
tell us about the role of context in the acquisition of French as a foreign language. In:
Dewaele J-M (ed) Focus on French as a Foreign Language: Multidisciplinary
Approaches. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 191–209
Regan V, Howard M, Lemée I (to appear) The Acquisition of Sociolinguistic Competence
in a Study Abroad Context. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Rintell E (1984) But how did you feel about that? The learner's perception of emotion in
speech. Applied Linguistics 5: 255–264
Safont Jordà MP (2005) Third Language Learners. Pragmatic Production and Awareness.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Sercu L (ed) (2005) Teaching foreign languages in an intercultural world. In: Sercu L (ed)
Foreign Language Teachers and Intercultural Competence. Multilingual Matters,
Clevedon, pp 1–18
Singleton D, Ryan L (2005) Language Acquisition: The Age Factor, 2nd edn. Multilingual
Matters, Clevedon
Williams S, Hammarberg B (1998) Language switches in L3 production: Implications for a
polyglot speaking model. Applied Linguistics 19: 295–333
Interindividual Variation in Self-perceived Oral Proficiency
9
Pragmatic Production of Third Language Learners:
A Focus on Request External Modification Items
Maria Pilar Safont Jordà
Universitat Jaume I, Spain
9.1 Introduction
This article1
examines English learners’ use of mitigation devices
accompanying the request head act. In so doing, we focus on one aspect of
third language learners’ pragmatic development, that of mitigating the
impositive nature of requests. The acquisition and use of request acts have
received a great deal of attention in the interlanguage pragmatics area.
Most studies have focused on request realisation strategies adopting Brown
and Levinson’s directness to politeness continuum (1987); however, few
scholars have dealt with the use of mitigation devices in performing
request moves (Hassall 1997; Hill 1997), thus providing a partial account
of requestive behaviour. Furthermore, authors examining the use and
acquisition of modifiers have focused on ESL settings. Given the need to
mitigate the impositive nature of request acts and the apparent misuse of
requests on the part of learners (House and Kasper 1987), further research
should focus on the use of request acts peripheral modification items by
EFL learners. These learners often possess knowledge of at least two other
languages, hence they learn English as a third language. Very little
research to date has been devoted to investigate pragmatic competence of
third language learners (Fouser 1997; Safont 2005a and 2005b; see Cenoz
and Dewaele, this volume). In addition to that, developmental studies in
interlanguage pragmatics have scarcely accounted for the learners’
linguistic background (Kasper and Rose 2002; Barron 2003).
We will first provide a short description of the speech act of requesting
by pointing to existing descriptions, and to its two main constituents,
namely those of the request head act and its peripheral modification items.
We will pay special attention to the type of modification items that are
examined in our study, that is, grounders, expanders, disarmers and the
word please. Secondly, we will refer to the theoretical background
E. Alcón Soler and M.P. Safont Jordà (eds.), Intercultural Language Use and Language Learning, 167–189.
167
© 2008
Springer Science+Business Media B.V.
168 Safont Jordà
underlying the present study. Hence, previous studies dealing with
proficiency effects in the use of request forms and modification devices
will be taken into account. In addition, we will also tackle the importance
of dealing with pragmatic competence from a multilingual perspective.
After presenting the hypotheses for the present study which derive from
previous research, we will describe the method and data collection
procedure. Finally, we will show results and implications of the present
study, which deals with third language learners’ use of request external
modification devices.
9.1.1 The Request Head Act and Peripheral Modification Items
The speech act of requesting has received a great deal of attention on the
part of IL pragmatists either in cross-sectional (Scarcella 1979; Blum-
Kulka and Olshtain 1986; Takahashi and Dufon 1989; Trosborg 1995;
Takahashi 1996; Hill 1997; Hassall 1997; Rose 2000) or in longitudinal
studies (Schmidt 1983; Ellis 1992; Ohta 1997). Requests are those
illocutionary acts belonging to Searle’s category of directives. As reported
by this author, “these are attempts by the speaker to get the hearer to do
something. They may be very modest attempts as when I invite you to do
it, or they may be very fierce attempts as when I insist that you do it”
(Searle 1979:13). Therefore, request acts are performed by the speaker in
order to engage the hearer in some future course of action that coincides
with the speaker’s goal. In this sense, these are pre-event acts, which
anticipate the desired or expected action, as opposed to apologies that
constitute post-event acts. Asking somebody to do something for your own
purposes bears an impositive nature which may then be regarded as an
intrusion into the interlocutor’s territory. Following Brown and Levinson’s
terms (1987), requests are characterised by their face-threatening nature. In
fact, some authors prefer to include these acts under the term impositive
acts (Green 1975; Leech 1983) rather than that of directive.
However, we agree with Sifianou (1999) in that requests do not always
bear an imposition on the hearer, although they frequently direct him/her
to perform some action, thus, the term directive would be preferred.
Sifianou also points out the idea that request acts show the existing social
relationship between participants, as these last ones may choose the entity
that will be placed in prominent position when performing the request:
(a) the speaker Can I close the door?, (b) the addressee Can you close the
door?, (c) both speaker and addressee Could we close the door?, and
(d) the action Would it be possible to close the door? These features have
also been taken into account by Trosborg’s (1995) suggested classification
Pragmatic Production of Third language Learners 169
As the focus of the present study refers to external modifiers, we will
provide a more detailed classification. External modification items concern
those optional clauses that soften the threatening or impositive nature of
the request head. Sifianou (1999) distinguishes between commitment-
seeking and reinforcing devices. The former group corresponds to
Edmondson’s pre-exchanges (1981), that is, initiation moves that focus on
the speaker’s assurance for fulfilment before realising the request (e.g. Can
I ask you a question?). The second group, that of reinforcing devices,
includes (i) grounders, (ii) disarmers, (iii) expanders and the use of (iv) the
word please. According to Sifianou (1999), reinforcing devices have a
twofold function, for they mitigate the force of the request and they may
also intensify its impact. (i) Grounders may exemplify this double
function, since they are clauses that either precede or follow a request act
and which may provide an explanation or threaten the hearer. We might
find cases where an explanation softens the impositive nature of the
request (e.g. Could you switch off the light? I have a terrible headache),
while other cases may denote a threat to the hearer and thus would
intensify the force of the act (e.g. Can you be here on time? Otherwise we
will talk seriously about you delay).
Focusing on the addressee, (ii) disarmers, as its name indicates, aim at
limiting the hearer’s possibilities for refusal to perform the requested
action. Typical examples of English disarmers include if clauses (e.g. If
you have time, could you please type this letter for me?), although
declaratives can also be used (e.g. I wouldn’t like to bother you but could
you type this letter for me?). The speaker may also opt for repetition of the
request move in order to increase its effect on the hearer. Sifianou (1999)
refers to this possibility as the use of (iii) expanders, because when
repeating or providing synonym expressions for the request act, the
speaker is expanding his intention (e.g. Could you come to the party?
We’ll have a good time. Please, come).
A final instance of external modification proposed by Sifianou (1999)
and which is very common in English requests involves the use of (iv) the
for request acts linguistic formulations best described in the following
subsection. A wide variety of linguistic forms can embrace a request act.
This act is made up of two main parts: the core or head of the request,
which performs the function of requesting, and its peripheral elements,
which mitigate or aggravate the force of the request. These last ones
involve modification items that are distributed into two main groups, those
referring to internal modification of the request head and those modifying
the core externally. Internal modifiers are those items that mitigate the
impositive nature of the request and are placed within the request head act
(e.g. Could I possibly ask you to open the window?).
170 Safont Jordà
word please. Given its multifunctionality, it is treated separately as a sole
entity that softens the force of the request and which may appear at the
beginning or end of the request move, isolatedly when the social distance
is high or low, and, as stated by Ervin-Tripp (1976), in direct, indirect or
conventionally indirect realisations. However, House (1989) states that
please cannot be employed with opaque (i.e. indirect) strategies, since it
would mark the utterance as a request and result in a contradiction.
According to Searle (1975), please may be regarded as the most
conventional form for requests in English. As shown by the following
examples, please is very frequently used in various requests realisations:
- Please, pass me the bread.
- Could you please look for this report?
- I wonder whether you could tell me what happened yesterday, please.
- A: Could you photocopy that for me?
B:.. Sure!
A: Please.
Despite the actual presence of please and other modifiers in request acts,
most research in interlanguage pragmatics has focused on strategies
involved in the request head. In the following subsection we shall present
some of these studies which have accounted for foreign language learners’
use of requests, and which, as our study, also aimed at denoting differences
in these acts production by pointing to proficiency-level effects.
9.1.2 Proficiency-level Effects in the Use of Request Forms
Various studies from the field of interlanguage pragmatics (Takahashi and
Dufon 1989; Hill 1997) have accounted for proficiency effects. Regarding
request acts production, several scholars have pointed to significant
changes in the type of linguistic formulations used that was related to an
increase in the proficiency level of their subjects (Takahashi and Dufon
1989; Ellis 1992). Nevertheless, other studies have reported little influence
of the learners’ proficiency in their performance (Takahashi 1996). We
should point out the fact that most of these studies have examined learners
at an intermediate and advanced proficiency level. However, as raised by
Kasper and Rose (1999), few studies have dealt with learners at a beginner
level. Therefore, it seems appropriate to study learners of lower levels in
and Modifiers
Pragmatic Production of Third language Learners 171
order to ascertain to what extent the learners’ proficiency level in target
language affects both their performance and pragmatic development. On
that account, population for the present study consisted in learners at an
intermediate and beginner proficiency level, and our research aim was to
ascertain to what extent the learners’ level would affect the use of request
external modification items. On the basis of previous findings reported
above, one could predict a mismatch between beginner and intermediate
learners in terms of their grammatical and pragmatic competence (Kasper
1997; Kasper and Rose 1999), yet, other studies present contradictory
results (Ellis 1992; Francis 1997; Hill 1997; Pérez-i-Parent 2002).
Ellis (1992) analysed two English learners’ requests production within
the classroom setting. Participants were aged 10 and 11 and their
performance revealed three developmental stages in requests production.
First, learners’ productions showed illocutionary intentions but not socially
or linguistically appropriateness. Second, participants started making use
of certain routines and mitigators (e.g. please); and finally, they showed
more variation in the use of request forms and politeness aspects. Francis’
study (1997) reveals similar findings as intermediate adult ESL learners
employed more appropriate request forms than their beginner counterparts.
In the same line, Japanese EFL learners in Hill’s study (1997) made higher
use of conventionally indirect strategies as their level increased learners;
particularly those strategies belonging to the willingness subtype. In this
way learners’ development denoted an approximation to the target
language norms. Nevertheless, this author also found that learners at
different proficiency levels shared an overuse of direct strategy types.
EFL learners were also analysed in P rez-i-Parent’s (2002) study with a
focus on request acts production. Participants in this study were distributed
into three level groups ranging from beginner to advanced levels. The
author examined proficiency-level effects in the use of request forms by
Catalan learners of English. Data were obtained by means of a written
discourse completion test which included six situations that varied in terms
of dominance and power. As concluded by the author, results showed that
pragmatic competence improved in line with the learners’ linguistic
ability. Hence, results in Pérez-i-Parent’s study (2002) coincided with
those provided by Hill (1997) and Francis (1997), as stated above.
The studies mentioned above have focused on analysing particular
request forms, and results showed that requestive behaviour of language
learners was subject to proficiency effects. However, as it has been
previously mentioned, request acts are made of two main parts: the request
head act and accompanying modification items. Despite the scarcity in
investigation dealing with request modifiers, findings from contrastive
studies in ESL contexts point to the learners’ underuse of internal request
é
172 Safont Jordà
modifiers compared to native speakers’ performance (Rintell 1981; Kasper
1982; House and Kasper 1987; Harlow 1990; Hartford 1996). In addition
to that, research in EFL contexts shows an increase of mitigation devices
parallel to the learners’ proficiency level. We may refer to the studies by
Kawamura and Sato (1996), Kobayashi and Rinnert (2003), and Safont
(2003) as an instance of investigation related to EFL learners and the use
of request modifiers.
Kawamura and Sato (1996) analysed the performance of high and low-
level Japanese EFL learners by means of a written discourse completion
test. Results showed that both groups responded similarly in terms of
external modifiers, while higher-level learners employed a wider amount
of internal modification items. According to these findings, it seems that
the choice of request modifiers was related to the learners’ proficiency
level, especially as far as internal modifiers were concerned. Yet, these
results are just partly confirmed by another study which also dealt with
Japanese EFL learners. Kobayashi and Rinnert (2003) found that their
subjects’ proficiency level was related to an increase in the use of both
external and internal modifiers. We should state that these last authors
made use of an oral task, namely a role-play activity, whereas Kawamura
and Sato (1996) resorted to a written discourse completion test in obtaining
pragmatic information.
Safont (2003) also made use of a written discourse completion task in
analysing Spanish EFL learners’ requestive behaviour after a particular
instructional period. Despite the fact that proficiency-effects were not the
goal of that study, it was found that intermediate learners employed a
higher amount of external modifiers than beginner participants. Hence,
some proficiency-effects could be attributed although further research
would be needed to corroborate those findings.
From the above quoted studies, we may assume that the choice of
request forms and modifiers seems to be influenced by the linguistic
competence of participants. However, the extent to which proficiency
effects correlate with the use of particular request modification items may
require further study. On the one hand, results from studies conducted in
Japan report contradictory findings as far as the use of internal modifiers
and its relationship with the learners’ proficiency level. On the other hand,
studies adopting the same type of elicitation task present different results.
Kawamura and Sato (1996) and Safont (2003) employed a written
discourse completion task, but proficiency effects were not clear in the
first study, as no difference was reported regarding participants’ use of
external modifiers. Yet, the learners’ proficiency level affected both their
use of external and internal modifiers in Safont’s study (2003). We should
point out the fact that learners in Safont’s study were bilingual, and as
Pragmatic Production of Third language Learners 173
stated by Kasper and Rose (2002), a focus should be drawn on individual
variables affecting learners’ performance. In this sense, we have also
considered the learners’ L1 in analysing their use of request modifiers.
More specifically, we have tackled the role of bilingualism in using
English as a third language.
9.1.3 Pragmatic Production of Third Language Learners
Current research on third language acquisition that focuses on cognitive
and developmental processes has pointed out the advantage of bilinguals
over monolinguals. Studies in this respect have focused on creative
thinking (Ricciardelli 1992), metalinguistic awareness (Lasagabaster
1998), immersion programmes (Sanz 2000) and individual factors like
those of age, motivation and intelligence (Cenoz and Valencia 1994;
Muñoz 2000). Lambert (1990) also refers to bilinguals’ advantage over
monolinguals: “My own working hypothesis is that bilingualism provides
a person with a comparative, three-dimensional insight into language, a
type of stereo linguistic optic on communication that the monolingual
rarely experiences” (1990: 212). In line with Lambert’s hypothesis,
Hoffmann (2001) argues that the learners’ ability to create their own
linguistic means and adapt them to suit particular communicative
requirements draws a difference between monolinguals on the one hand
and bilinguals and trilinguals on the other. Considering Bachman’s model
of communicative competence (1990), which is subdivided into language
and pragmatic competence, Hoffmann (2001) presents a description of
trilingual competence. According to this author, trilingual competence not
only includes the linguistic aspects from the three language systems but
also the pragmatic component, consisting of sociolinguistic, discourse and
strategic competences pertaining to the three languages involved.
Some research has now been conducted with a focus on third language
use addressing issues like those of switching phenomena (Hammarberg
2001; Williams and Hammarberg 1998), cross-linguistic influence (Cenoz
et al. 2001), communicative sensitivity, communicative anxiety (Dewaele
2001). Results from such investigation point to two main trends. On the
one hand, bilinguals’ production presents distinct features that may bear
interesting implications for current paradigms (i.e. models of language
production). On the other hand, there seems to be an advantage of
bilinguals over monolinguals regarding their interactional competence.
Despite the increasing interest in third language use (see Cenoz et al.’s
volume 2001), few studies have addressed the development of pragmatic
competence in third language learners. Yet, findings so far reveal the out
174 Safont Jordà
performance of bilinguals when compared to monolinguals pragmatic
production (Safont 2005a). The focus of research on third language
pragmatics has been transfer (Fouser 1997) and the use of request forms
(Safont 2005a).
Despite the above quoted assumptions that point out differences between
monolinguals and bi-/trilinguals in terms of communicative language use,
most research has accounted for cognitive and developmental variables
rather than for features of language use on the part of third language
learners. However, some research has been conducted in this respect
addressing issues like those of switching phenomena (Hammarberg 2001;
Williams and Hammarberg 1998) and cross-linguistic influence (Cenoz et
al. 2001), communicative sensitivity, communicative anxiety (Dewaele
2001), interactional competence and pragmatic transfer.
Williams and Hammarberg (1998) analysed the role of background
languages in the production of a third one as far as switching phenomena
were concerned. The subject for the study was an adult whose first
language was English, second languages were German, French and Italian,
and Swedish was her third language. Results attributed a distinct role to the
subjects’ first and second languages in switching code while using a third
language. In addition to that, findings presented interesting implications
for existing models of bilingual production (De Bot 1992) regarding the
activation of first and second languages in the use of a third one.
The influence of speakers’ first and second languages in producing a
third one, as well as interaction among those languages and its effect on
their use has been further documented in Cenoz et al.’s volume (2001).
These authors compile existing research on cross-linguistic matters
affecting the use and acquisition of a third language in different
multilingual settings. On the one hand, studies in this volume focus on
factors involved in linguistic interference (Cenoz 2000) and on the
interaction among existing languages in the trilingual mind (De Angelis
and Selinker 2001; Hammarberg 2001; Kellerman 2001). On the other
hand, certain issues related to trilinguals’ or polyglots’ communicative
competence, mainly those involved in grammatical (Gibson et al. 2001),
lexical (Ecke 2001; Herwig 2001; Ringbom 2001) and discourse skills
(Fouser 2001) are also dealt with. Findings from these experiments present
an extended research agenda in the field of third language acquisition
thereby focusing on its use. Therefore, it raises the need for further
investigating third language production. In fact early findings on language
use pointed to an advantage of bilingual over monolingual subjects in
communicating. Genesee et al. (1975) contrasted the degree of
communicative sensitivity of bilingual and monolingual children in
describing a game to a blind person. Results showed that bilingual
Pragmatic Production of Third language Learners 175
speakers were more sensitive than monolingual ones concerning
interpersonal skills.
According to Oskaar (1990), interactional competence, including
sensitivity to the listener among other features, may be described as the
ability to transfer sociocultural norms. Bearing this notion in mind, we
may consider pragmatic competence as a constituent of the whole
construct of interactional competence. This definition also implies
pragmatic issues of the languages known by the bilingual or multilingual
speaker. Jessner (1997) also points to the advantage of bilinguals over
monolinguals regarding their interactional competence, that is, their ability
to communicate with others, to perform and interpret communicative
actions on the basis of the sociocultural and sociolinguistic norms of a
particular speech community. In fact, as argued by this author, bilinguals
might show a higher degree of pragmatic development than monolingual
speakers. Nevertheless, despite the increasing interest in third language use
(see Cenoz et al.’s volume 2001), few studies have addressed the
development of pragmatic competence in third language learners.
An exception is Fouser’s research (1997) which focuses on pragmatic
transfer of an adult Korean advanced learner of Japanese as a third
language in manipulating various speech levels and honorifics in Japanese.
Participants in this study were a 27 year old Korean/English speaker
learning Japanese as a third language at an advanced level, and a native
speaker of Japanese aged 24, who acted as a native-speaker informant. In
order to elicit the use of honorifics and collect relevant data from the
subjects, they were asked to complete a Japanese C-Test, a translation task,
a Discourse Completion Test, a Discourse Evaluation Test, a short writing
task, and a language learning experience questionnaire. Both participants
also held a retrospective interview with the researcher. The use of various
elicitation techniques aimed at obtaining information on their global
proficiency level, pragmatic production, affective and cognitive variables
and metapragmatic knowledge. The hypothesis of this study was based on
perceived language distance effects in target language production, which
had also been dealt with by Kellerman (1991) and Cenoz (2000).
Therefore, the author predicted that language transfer would occur from
the language perceived as closest (Korean) to the target language
(Japanese). Fouser’s prediction was supported by results, which pointed
out the overruling effect of perceived language distance in pragmatic
transfer. Subjects resorted to their first language (Korean) regarding
pragmatic features of the target language (Japanese). The influence of the
second language (English) is not clearly seen. On the basis of these results
the author posits a mismatch between advanced learners linguistic and
pragmatic competence. However, as stated by Fouser (1997), individual
176 Safont Jordà
variables might have also promoted the results. The author also raises the
idea that cognitive variables, differences in formal education and
metapragmatic knowledge might have affected the learners’ output.
Following Fouser’s assumptions (1997) on the factors that might have
influenced his subjects’ performance, particularly those of educational
background and metapragmatic knowledge, we also believe that further
research should consider other variables that may influence bilingual
learners’ pragmatic competence in a third language. Investigation in this
respect should account for the complex nature of multilingualism on the one
hand, and for particular characteristics of pragmatic development on the
other.
Bearing this idea in mind, in the present study we have examined L3
learners’ use of specific external modifiers and compared their
performance with monolingual learners of English. In so doing, we have
tackled the role of individual variables (Kasper and Rose 1999) in the
pragmatic performance of EFL learners, the one side, and pragmatic
production in third language acquisition (Hoffmann 1999), on the other.
These issues have not received much attention on the part of scholars but
they have been mentioned in the proposed research agendas of scholars
from the IL pragmatics and L3 acquisition disciplines (see Kasper and
Rose 2002; Hoffmann 2001).
Hypotheses of our study are as follows:
Hypothesis 1: Bilingual learners of English as a third language will
outperform monolingual learners in the number of external modification
items employed, thus denoting better pragmatic performance as far as
request acts mitigation is concerned (Jessner 1997).
Hypothesis 2: The use of external modification items will be related to
the learners’ proficiency level. Hence, intermediate learners will make use
of a wider amount of modifiers compared to the beginner subgroup (Safont
2003; Kobayashi and Rinnert, 2003).
9.2 The Method
Participants for the present study consisted in 80 female students of Jaume
I University based in Castelló who were engaged in an English for
Academic Purposes course as part of their Teacher Training program. Our
subjects had studied English as a foreign language both at primary school
and at high school and none of them had ever been to an English-speaking
Pragmatic Production of Third language Learners 177
country before. They were Spanish and born in the Castelló region. Their
age ranged between 19 and 23 years old, the average age being 21.5 years.
For the purposes of our study two main factors were taken into account:
their proficiency level in English and their degree of bilingual competence
in Catalan and Castilian. In order to ascertain the actual degree of
bilingualism of our subjects we distributed a bilingualism test that was
designed on the basis of Wei’s classification of bilingual competence
(2000: 6–7) and Baker’s definition (1996) of the phenomenon. The test
included eighteen questions aimed at ascertaining the degree of bilingual
competence of our subjects. On account of the results obtained from the
bilingualism test, we considered as bilingual subjects those who had been
trained both at primary school and high school with a prevalence of
Catalan over Castilian language and who also made regular use of Catalan
in their daily communication with friends, at home and at the university.
These participants also viewed Catalan as their mother tongue and as the
mother tongue of their parents. Besides, we considered as monolingual
subjects those ones who had not received prior instruction in Catalan
neither at primary nor at secondary schools and who had never used
Catalan in formal or in informal situations. Interestingly, most of these
monolingual subjects were living in Castelló city and their parents came
from towns and cities belonging to Castilian-speaking areas in Spain.
Therefore, despite the fact that they were born in this bilingual community,
they had never had the need to communicate in Catalan, nor to read the
press or watch TV in that language. Additionally, these subjects had never
studied the language as they came from private schools, which some time
ago did not necessarily include instruction in or about the Catalan language.
As stated above, a second criterion in selecting our informants was that of
their proficiency level in the target language, i.e. English. All our subjects
had studied English as a foreign language both at primary school and at high
school. However, they did not have the same proficiency level. Hence, they
were administered a proficiency level test that consisted of four main parts:
listening comprehension, reading comprehension, writing, speaking and
grammar. The tests were corrected on the basis of the ACTFL Proficiency
guidelines suggested by Byrnes et al. (1986). As we were mainly concerned
with learners’ production as part of their communicative competence, we
also considered the ACTFL Proficiency Guidelines revision related to
speaking that was provided by Breiner-Sanders et al. (1999). According to
these authors, novice-level (or beginner) speakers can respond to simple
questions, convey minimal meaning to interlocutors experienced in dealing
with foreigners by using isolated words, lists of words and recombinations
of words and phrases, and who may satisfy a number of limited needs.
Intermediate learners can participate in simple, direct conversations, to
178 Safont Jordà
create the language and communicate personal meaning, obtain and give
information, sustain uncomplicated communicative exchanges and satisfy
simple personal needs. The teacher and researcher selected those learners
that could be considered as beginners and those ones that were considered as
intermediate learners. Subjects who showed higher or lower levels were not
taken into account in this study. Furthermore, those subjects who had also
learnt other foreign languages were excluded.
On the basis of the degree of bilingual competence and the proficiency
level in the target language mentioned before, our participants’ distribution
is displayed in Table 9.1 below.
In order to analyse bilingualism and proficiency effects in pragmatic
production, we examined participants’ performance in an open role-play.
This task was selected on the basis of previous research examining the
advantages of a given elicitation method over another one (Kasper and Dahl
1991; Rose 1992). The role-play task consisted of ten prompts or brief
descriptions for situations that identified the status of the speaker and hearer
in the exchange to be produced but no further guidelines were offered. It was
carried out in pairs for it required oral interaction. Data from the role-play
task was tape-recorded and transcribed for its later coding. In order to codify
our data related to the use of request acts modification items, we considered
the amount and type of modifier employed by our subjects on the basis of
Sifianou’s (1999) and Achiba’s (2003) suggested taxonomy of request
modification devices, as illustrated in Table 9.2.
Table 9.1 Participants’ distribution according to their proficiency level and degree of
bilingualism
Table 9.2 Taxonomy of external modification devices based on Sifianou (1999) and
Achiba (2003)
EXTERNAL
MODIFICATION
Grounders
Disarmers
Expanders
(Explanation)
if you are not too
busy
Please
(repeat request with
diff. formula)
Bilingual N Monolingual N Total N
Beginner 20 20 40
Intermediate 20 20 40
TOTAL NUMBER 40 40 80
OF SUBJECTS
Pragmatic Production of Third language Learners 179
We believe that peripheral modification devices have a notable
importance in the case of request acts given their impositive nature. In
fact, other scholars (Trosborg 1995) considered the use of modification
items in their subjects’ requestive behaviour as an attempt to provide a
comprehensive analysis of request acts use on the part of non-native
speakers. On that account, we consider that learners’ use of mitigation
devices in performing requests may be seen as an instance of appropriate
pragmatic behaviour. Nevertheless, criteria to identify appropriate
request formulations and evaluation were discussed with that senior
researcher from the second/foreign language acquisition field, and
instances of inappropriate pragmatic behaviour were not taken into
account.
Since our data were not normally distributed (Kolmogorov-Smirnov =
.000), we made use of statistical non-parametric tests. The Mann-Whitney
test was employed in addressing significant differences between
monolingual and bilingual subjects’ responses, as well as between
beginner and intermediate participants’ performance in the role-play task.
The reason why we chose this statistical procedure referred to the fact that
we lied data in two subgroups (bilingual and monolingual or beginner and
intermediate) and contrasted their performance in the above quoted task.
Results from those statistical analyses would allow us to test the first and
second hypotheses of the study. In addition to that, we made use of the
Kruskal Wallis test to specifically account for the use of particular request
modifiers, and thus, provide a more comprehensive account of our
analysis.
9.3 Results and Discussion
As stated above a first analysis of our data concerned the comparison
between our bilingual and monolingual subjects in terms of the number
of external modification items used. In so doing, we aimed at testing
hypothesis 1, which predicted the advantage of bilingual over
monolingual subjects in their global use of external modification items.
Findings to this respect are best exemplified in Figures 9.1 and 9.2
below.
180 Safont Jordà
Figure 9.1 Total number of modification devices used by monolingual and bilingual subjects
1,00 1,25 1,50 1,75 2,00
Bilingualism
0
1
2
3
4
5
Role-
play
extern
al
modifi
cation
items
Monolingual
Bilingual
Figure 9.2 Total number of modification devices used by monolingual and bilingual subjects
Pragmatic Production of Third language Learners 181
As shown in the box plot above and Figure 9.1, bilingual subjects did
not only employ a wider amount of external modification devices but their
performance reveals a higher degree of frequency in terms of use as a
regular pattern. In order to further analyse the apparent divergence related
to the number of external modification items used by the two subgroups,
we decided to apply a Mann-Whitney test to our data.
Table 9.3 Total number of external modification devices employed
m. r. Z
Monolingual 30.18 -4.181*
Bilingual 51.35
*p < 0.001
Figure 9.3 Use of particular external modification items in the two learner subgroups
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
Expander Grounder Disarmer Please
Use of specific modification items
Bilingual
Monolingual
As provided by results from the Mann-Whitney test displayed in Table 9.3
above, the difference in the quantity of external modifiers appeared as
statistically significant with a probability level of 99% {p = .000}, thus,
confirming hypothesis 1 of our study which predicted the advantage of
bilingual learners‘ over monolingual ones in their global use of external
modifiers. Results presented so far refer to quantitative differences between
groups. In accounting for qualitative differences, we analysed bilinguals
and monolinguals use of specific external modifiers. In order to account
for statistical significance between groups, we made us of Kruskal Wallis
test in contrasting the use expanders, disarmers, grounders and the word
please. Results show that bilinguals employed a higher number of expanders,
disarmers, grounders and the word please than monolingual speakers, as
illustrated in Figure 9.3 below. However, such differences were only
statistically significant in the case of the word ‘please’ {Chi2
= 13.441
(p> .001)}.
182 Safont Jordà
Furthermore, we may state that our study is also in line with Jessner’s
assumptions (1999) which report an advantage to bilingual compared to
monolingual learners as far as their interactional competence is concerned,
since we understand pragmatic production is part of the learners’ overall
interactional competence, and request modifiers are instances of pragmatic
behaviour. Additionally, our findings also seemed to confirm Herdina and
Jessner’s dynamic view of multilingualism (2000), since the skill of
reducing the impositive nature of request acts by making use of mitigators
(i.e. modification items) seemed to be highly more developed in bilingual
learners of English (p =.000).
Our second hypothesis was related to proficiency-level effects in the use
of external modification items, and we predicted that intermediate learners
would outperform beginner ones in the number of external modifiers
employed. In testing this hypothesis we compared beginner and
intermediate learners’ requestive behaviour as far as their use of
modification items was concerned. In order to identify whether differences
between groups were statistically significant, we made use of the Mann-
Whitney test. Results are displayed in Table 9.4 as follows.
Table 9.4 Proficiency-level effects and external modifiers
m. r. z
Beginner 25.35 -5.841*
Intermediate 54.91
*p < 0.001
According to Mann-Whitney Test results described above, we may state
that hypothesis 2 of our study was confirmed by our findings, which stated
Although qualitative differences between groups were not statistically
significant in all cases, we believe that our results are significant to the
extent that they posited relevant differences between the two groups as far
as their global use of external modifiers was concerned. In this sense, we
may say that hypothesis 1 of our study that predicted the advantage of
bilingual over monolingual learners was supported by our findings.
Additionally, our results coincide with those of a previous study (Safont
2005a) in which we examined bilingual subjects’ use of both internal and
external modifiers in a written and an oral production task. Results from
that study showed that bilingual participants employed a higher number of
external and internal modifiers than their monolingual counterparts.
Although the type of modification item was not taken into account in that
study (Safont 2005a) we believe that results may be compared as a similar
population was used for the analysis.
Pragmatic Production of Third language Learners 183
that the higher the level the more mitigation in making requests. Yet in an
attempt to further account for the role of the proficiency-level, we decided
to compare these two learner subgroups in terms of their use of specific
external modification items. In so doing, we focused on beginner and
intermediate learners’ use of expanders, grounders, disarmers and the word
please. In order to account for statistical differences a Mann-Whitney test
was applied to our data. Results from such test showed that intermediate
learners seemed to employ more modifiers in all cases, yet the difference
between the two learner subgroups was not statistically significant in the
case of expanders and grounders. We found statistical significant
differences in their use of the word ‘please’{z= -6.315 (p< 0.001)} and
disarmers{z= -2.888 (p<0.001)}.
Results reported above are in line with previous studies on the use of
request realisations by learners at different proficiency levels (Takahashi
and Dufon 1989) and with longitudinal studies addressing learners at a
beginner level. Ellis (1992) examined request acts use by two beginner
subjects and reported a significant change in their performance. According
to this author, developmental stages were identified which referred to an
increase in the use of mitigation devices and more variation in the request
linguistic formulations used. Taking these facts into account, we may say
that our results shared some characteristics with Ellis’ study (1992), as a
wider use of modification devices was reported by intermediate than by
beginner learners. Similarly, intermediate learners employed a wider
amount of request linguistic realisations, which also denoted wider
variation. In addition, our findings confirm those of previous studies
dealing with request modifiers in EFL settings, namely those of Kobayashi
and Rinnert (2003) and Safont (2003). In both studies learners’ use of
external modifiers increased in line with their proficiency level. However,
our findings differ from those that were provided by Kawamura and Sato
(1996). In this latter study no significant differences were reported
considering the use of external modifiers by low and high-level learners.
However, we should state that Kawamura and Sato employed a written
discourse completion task, while we have resorted to an oral task, which
was also employed in Kobayashi and Rinnert s study (2003).
We may also assume that despite the fact that grammatical competence
is not a sufficient requirement for pragmatic development (Bardovi-Harlig
and Hartford 1990), it seems to play an important role, at least as far as
request acts modifiers are concerned. However, such role calls for further
attention on the part of IL pragmatics researchers, since no clear
facilitating role in terms of pragmatic competence development may be
attributed to the learners’ proficiency level according to the results
obtained in this study. In fact, there were no differences regarding beginner
’
184 Safont Jordà
and intermediate learners’ use of grounders and expanders. Additionally,
task effects could have also influenced our results as different findings
were obtained in another study dealing with EFL learners (Kawamura and
Sato 1996).
In light of our results further research is necessary to truly account for
the role of bilingualism and the proficiency level in the learners’ use of
request modification devices in particular, and other pragmatic aspects in
general. We have tried to adopt a different perspective in analysing our
learners pragmatic production, that of their linguistic background which
pointed to the fact that half of them were learning English as a third
language. Additionally, it has also been our purpose to broaden the scope
of investigation in third language acquisition to consider pragmatic
development of L3 learners, since, as argued by Hoffmann (2001), it
concerns one aspect which characterises bilingual and trilingual
competence and differentiates these from monolingual competence.
9.4 Conclusion
As a conclusion, we may say that our hypotheses were supported by our
results. On the one hand, we aimed at determining whether bilingualism
would affect foreign language learners’ pragmatic production and results
confirmed the advantage of bilingual over monolingual learners in the
global use of external modification items. Therefore, our results support
Jessner’s assumptions that point to a highly developed interactional
competence in third language learners, since we understand pragmatic
production as part of the overall communicative competence. Furthermore,
we may state that our findings are in line with Herdina and Jessner’s
dynamic view of multilingualism (2000), since skills involved in making
use of appropriate requestive behaviour (including mitigation devices)
appeared more developed in third than in second (foreign) English learners.
On the other hand, our second hypothesis, which predicted the
advantage of intermediate over beginner learners, was also confirmed by
our findings. Results confirmed previous studies about proficiency-level
effects on pragmatic development (Ellis 1992) and on the use of request
modifiers (Kobayashi and Rinnert 2003; Safont 2003). However, our study
is also subject to certain constraints, as we have only dealt with female
participants at a similar age range, and data were not normally distributed.
Dealing with subjects at different age periods or including male
participants could have varied our results, since investigation in these
matters bears some influential role to the age and gender factors (Cenoz
2000; Muñoz 2000).
Pragmatic Production of Third language Learners 185
Notes
1
This study is part of a research project funded by (a) the Spanish Ministerio de Educación
y Ciencia (HUM2004-04435/FILO), co-funded by FEDER, (b) Fundació Universitat
Jaume I and Caixa Castelló-Bancaixa, and (c) Generalitat Valenciana (GV05/172).
References
Achiba M (2003) Learning to request in a second language. A Study of Child Interlanguage
Pragmatics. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Bachman LF (1990) Fundamental Considerations in Language Testing. Oxford University
Press, Oxford
Baker C (1996) Foundations of Bilingual Education and Bilingualism. Multilingual
Matters, Clevedon
Bardovi-Harlig K (1999) Exploring the interlanguage of interlanguage pragmatics: a
research agenda for acquisitional pragmatics. Language Learning 49: 677–713
Bardovi-Harlig K, Hartford BS (1990) Congruence in native and nonnative conversations:
Status balance in the academic advising session. Language Learning 40: 467–501
Barron A (2003) Acquisition in Interlanguage Pragmatics. John Benjamins, Amsterdam
Blum-Kulka S, Olshtain E (1986) Requests and apologies. A cross-cultural study of speech
act realisation patterns (CCSARP). Applied Linguistics 5: 196–212
Breiner-Sanders KE, Lowe P, Miles J, Swender E (1999) ACTFL Proficiency Guidelines-
Speaking. Foreign Language Annals 33:13–17
Brown P, Levinson S (1987) Universals in Language Use: Politeness Phenomena.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge
Despite the above-mentioned limitations that may be attributed to the
present study, we believe that findings should be considered to the extent
that they support our hypotheses and seem to confirm and further expand
previous research from the field of third language acquisition. The
advantage of bilingual subjects in producing requestive behaviour seems to
call for further research on the development of pragmatic competence on
the part of third language learners by focusing on the production of other
pragmatic aspects. So far a wide amount of research in the interlanguage
pragmatics field (Bardovi-Harlig 1999) has signalled out developmental
stages that help us understand psycholinguistic and cognitive processes in
acquiring a second and to a lesser extent a foreign language. Nevertheless,
we do live in a multilingual society and since knowledge of more than one
language has proved to influence the acquisition and use of a third one,
pragmatic competence deserves investigation from that perspective. In so
doing, we may better understand the development of those processes
implied in multilingual acquisition and use, while shedding more light on
the development of second/foreign language acquisition and use in turn.
186 Safont Jordà
Byrnes H, Child J, Patrizio N, Lowe P, Makino S, Thompson I, Walton A (1986) ACTFL
Proficiency Guidelines. American Council on Teaching of Foreign Languages
Cenoz J (2000) Research on multilingual acquisition. In: Cenoz J, Jessner U (eds) English in
Europe: The Acquisition of a Third Language. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 39–53
Cenoz J, Valencia JF (1994) Additive trilingualism: Evidence from the Basque Country.
Applied Psycholinguistics 15: 195–207
Cenoz J, Hufeisen B, Jessner U (2001) Cross-linguistic Influence in Third Language
Acquisition: Psycholinguistic Perspectives. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
De Angelis G, Selinker L (2001) Interlanguage transfer and competing linguistic systems in
the multilingual mind. In: Cenoz J, Hufeisen B, Jessner U (eds) Cross-linguistic
influence in Third Language Acquisition: Psycholinguistic Perspectives. Multilingual
Matters, Clevedon, pp 42–58
De Bot K (1992) A bilingual production model: Levelt’s ‘speaking‘ model adapted.
Applied Linguistics 13: 1–24
Dewaele J-M (2001) Activation or inhibition? The interaction of L1, L2 and L3 on the
language mode continuum. In: Cenoz J, Hufeisen B, Jessner U (eds) Cross-linguistic
influence in Third Language Acquisition: Psycholinguistic Perspectives. Multilingual
Matters, Clevedon, pp 69–89
Ecke P (2001) Lexical retrieval in a third language: Evidence from errors and tip-of-the-
tongue states. In: Cenoz J, Hufeisen B, Jessner U (eds) Cross-linguistic influence in
Third Language Acquisition: Psycholinguistic Perspectives. Multilingual Matters,
Clevedon, pp 90–114
Edmondson W (1981) Spoken Discourse: A Model for Analysis. Longman, London
Ellis R (1992) Learning to communicate in the classroom. A study of two language
learners’ requests. Studies in Second Language Acquisition 14: 1–23
Ervin-Tripp S (1976) Is Sybil there? The structure of some American English directives.
Language in Society 5: 25–66
Fouser RJ (1997) Pragmatic transfer in highly advanced learners: some preliminary
findings. Centre for Language and Communication Studies Occasional Papers 50: 1–44
Fouser RJ (2001) Too close for comfort? Sociolinguistic transfer from Japanese into
Korean as an L3. In: Cenoz J, Hufeisen B, Jessner U (eds) Cross-linguistic Influence in
Third Language Acquisition: Psycholinguistic Perspectives. Multilingual Matters,
Clevedon, pp 149–169
Francis N (1997) Malintzin: Bilingüismo y alfabetización en la sierra de Tlaxcala.
Ediciones Abya-Yala, Quito
Genesee F, Tucker R, Lambert W (1975) Communication skills in bilingual children. Child
Development 46: 1010–1014
Gibson M, Hufeisen B, Libben G (2001) Learners of German as an L3 and their production
of German prepositional verbs. In: Cenoz J, Hufeisen B, Jessner U (eds) Cross-linguistic
Influence in Third Language Acquisition: Psycholinguistic Perspectives. Multilingual
Matters, Clevedon, pp 138–148
Green G (1975) How to get people to do things with words. In: Cole P, Morgan JL (eds)
Syntax and Semantics, 3. Academic Press, New York, pp 30–50
Hammarberg B (2001) Roles of L1 and L2 in L3 production and acquisition. In: Cenoz J,
Hufeisen B, Jessner U (eds) Cross-linguistic Influence in Third Language Acquisition:
Psycholinguistic Perspectives. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 21–41
Harlow L (1990) Do they mean what they say? Sociopragmatic competence and second
language learners. The Modern Language Journal 74: 328–351
Hartford BS (1996) At your earliest convenience: A study of written student request to
faculty. In: Bouton L (ed) Pragmatics and Language Learning, vol 7. Division of
English as an International Language, Urbana, IL, pp 55–69
Pragmatic Production of Third language Learners 187
Hassall TJ (1997) Requests by Australian learners of Indonesian. Unpublished doctoral
dissertation. Australian National University, Canberra
Herdina P, Jessner U (2000) The dynamics of third language acquisition. In: Cenoz J,
Jessner U (eds) English in Europe: The Acquisition of a Third Language. Multilingual
Matters, Clevedon, pp 84–98
Herwig A (2001) Plurilingual lexical organisation: evidence from lexical processing in L1-
L2-L3-L4 translation. In: Cenoz J, Hufeisen B, Jessner U (eds) Cross-linguistic influence
in Third Language Acquisition: Psycholinguistic Perspectives. Multilingual Matters,
Clevedon, pp 115–137
Hill T (1997) The Development of Pragmatic Competence in an EFL Context. Unpublished
doctoral dissertation. Temple University Japan, Tokyo
Hoffmann C (1999) An Introduction to Bilingualism. Longman, London
Hoffmann C (2001) Towards a description of trilingual competence. International Journal
of Bilingualism 5: 1–17
House J (1989) Politeness in English and German: The function of Please and Bitte. In:
Blum-Kulka S, House J, Kasper G (eds) Cross-cultural Pragmatics: Requests and
Apologies. Ablex, Norwood, NJ
House J, Kasper G (1987) Interlanguage pragmatics: requesting in a foreign language. In:
Lorscher W, Schulze R (eds) Perspectives on Language Performance: Festschrift for
Werner Hullen. Gunter Narr, Tübingen, pp 10–22
Jessner U (1997) Towards a dynamic view of multilingualism. In: Pütz M (ed) Language
Choices? Conditions, Constraints and Consequences. Benjamins, Amsterdam, pp 17–30.
Jessner U (1999) Metalinguistic awareness in multilingual speakers: Cognitive aspects of
third language learning. Language Awareness 8(3&4): 201–209
Kasper G (1982) Teaching-induced aspects of interlanguage discourse. Studies in Second
Language Pragmatics 4: 99–133
Kasper G (1997) Can pragmatic competence be taught? Network # 6. University of
Hawai’i, Second Language Teaching and Curriculum Center, Honolulu. Available online
at http://www.nflrc.hawaii.edu/NetWorks/NW06/
Kasper G, Dahl M (1991) Research methods in interlanguage pragmatics. Studies in
Second Language Acquisition 13: 215–247
Kasper G, Rose KR (1999) Pragmatics and SLA. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics 19:
81–104
Kasper G, Rose KR (2002) Pragmatic Development in a Second Language. Blackwell
Publishing, Malden, MA
Kawamura Y, Sato K (1996) The acquisition of request realization in EFL learners. JACET
Bulletin 27: 69–86
Kellerman E (1991) Compensatory strategies in a second language: a critique, a revision,
and some (Non-)implications for the classroom. In: Phillipson R, Kellerman E, Selinker L,
Sharwood Smith M, Swain M (eds) Foreign/Second Language Pedagogy Research.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 54–67
Kellerman E (2001) New uses for old language: cross-linguistic and cross-gestural
influence in the narratives of non-speakers. In: Cenoz J, Hufeisen B, Jessner U (eds)
Cross-linguistic influence in Third Language Acquisition: Psycholinguistic Perspectives.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 170–191
Kobayashi H, Rinnert C (2003) Coping with high imposition requests: High vs. low
proficiency EFL students in Japan. In: Martínez-Flor A, Usó-Juan E, Fernández-Guerra
A (eds) Pragmatic Competence and Foreign Language Teaching. Servei de publicacions
Universitat Jaume I, Castelló, pp 161–184
188 Safont Jordà
Lambert WE (1990) Persistent issues in bilingualism. In: Harley B, Patrick A, Cummins J,
Swain M (eds) The Development of Second Language Proficiency. Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge
Lasagabaster D (1998) Creatividad y Conciencia Metalingüística: Incidencia en el
Aprendizaje del Inglés como L3. Universidad del País Vasco, Leioa
Leech G (1983) Principles of Pragmatics. Longman, London
Muñoz C (2000) Bilingualism and trilingualism in schools students in Catalonia. In: Cenoz J,
Jessner U (eds) English in Europe: The Acquisition of a Third Language. Multilingual
Matters, Clevedon, pp 84–98
Ohta AS (1997) The development of pragmatic competence in learner-learner classroom
interaction. In: Bouton L (ed) Pragmatics and Language learning, Monograph Series,
Vol. 8. University of Illinois, Urbana, IL, pp 35–46
Oskaar E (1990) Language contact and culture contact: Towards an integrative approach in
second language acquisition research. In: Dechert H (ed) Current Trends in European
Second Language Acquisition Research. Multilingual Matters, Clevendon, pp 10–20
Pérez-i-Parent M (2002) The production of requests by Catalan learners of English:
Situational and proficiency level effects. Atlantis xxiv(2): 147–168
Ricciardelli A (1992) Creativity and bilingualism. Journal of Creative Behaviour
26: 242–254
Ringbom H (2001) Lexical transfer in L3 production. In: Cenoz J, Hufeisen B, Jessner U
(eds) Cross-linguistic influence in Third Language Acquisition: Psycholinguistic
Perspectives. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon, pp 59–68
Rintell E (1981) Sociolinguistic variation and pragmatic ability: A look at learners.
International Journal of the Sociology of Language 27: 11–34
Rose KR (1992) Speech acts and questionnaires: The effect of hearer response. Journal of
Pragmatics 17: 49–62
Rose KR (2000) An exploratory cross-sectional study of interlanguage pragmatic
development. Studies in Second Language Acquisition 22: 27–67
Safont MP (2003) Instructional effects on the use of request acts modification devices by
EFL learners. In: Martínez-Flor A, Usó-Juan E, Fernández-Guerra A (eds) Pragmatic
Competence and Foreign Language Teaching. Servei de publicacions Universitat Jaume
I, Castelló, pp 211–232
Safont MP (2005a) Third Language Learners. Pragmatic Production and Awareness.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Safont MP (2005b) Pragmatic production of third language learners of English: A focus on
request modifiers. International Journal of Multilingualism 2: 84–104
Sanz C (2000) Bilingual education enhances third language acquisition: Evidence from
Catalonia. Applied Psycholinguistics 21: 23–44
Scarcella R (1979) On speaking politely in a second language. In: Yorio CA, Peters K,
Schachter J (eds) ON TESOL‘79 - The Learners in Focus. TESOL, Washington, DC
Schmidt R (1983) Interaction, acculturation and the acquisition of communicative
competence: A case study of an adult. In: Judd E, Wolfson N (eds) Sociolinguistics and
Language Acquisition. Newbury House, Rowley, MA
Searle JR (1975) Indirect speech acts. In: Cole P, Morgan JL (eds) Syntax and Semantics 3:
Speech Acts. Academic Press, New York, pp 1–30
Searle JR (1979) Expression and Meaning: Studies in the Theory of Speech Acts.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge
Sifianou M (1999) Politeness Phenomena in England and Greece. A Cross-Cultural
Perspective. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Takahashi S (1996) Pragmatic transferability. Studies in Second Language Acquisition 18:
189–223
Pragmatic Production of Third language Learners 189
Takahashi S, Dufon MA (1989) Cross-linguistic influence in indirectness: The case English
directives performed by native Japanese speakers. Unpublished manuscript, Department
of English as a Second Language, University of Hawai’i at Manoa
Trosborg A (1995) Interlanguage Pragmatics: Requests, Complaints and Apologies.
Mouton de Gruyter, New York
Wei L (2000) The Bilingualism Reader. Routledge, London
Williams S, Hammarberg B (1998) Language switches in L3 production: Implications for a
polyglot speaking model. Applied Linguistics 19: 295–333
10
North Korean Schools in Japan: An Observation
of Quasi-Native Heritage Language Use in Teaching
English as a Third Language
Robert J. Fouser
Kagoshima University, Japan
10. 1 Introduction
In 2005, the number of foreigners living in Japan passed 2,000,000 for the
first time, but it remains a small percentage of the total population of
128,000,000. The number of foreigners has increased steadily since the
end of World War II, but Japan has yet to witness the influx of immigrants
that has occurred in Europe and North America. Though acculturated
foreigners become Japanese citizens in increasing numbers each year, Japan
remains one of the most ethnically and linguistically homogeneous nations
in the world. The degree of ethnic and linguistic homogeneity makes
Japan a particularly interesting place to study efforts of ethnic minorities to
maintain their identity and language against overwhelming odds.
Of all ethnic minorities in Japan, ethnic Koreans are by far the largest
group. According to the 2004 Immigration Bureau (Nyūkyoku Kanrikyoku)
figures, 607,000, or 30.8 percent of all foreigners in Japan are Korean.
Of these, 461,000 have “special permanent residency,” which is reserved
for Koreans were born in Japan or Korea before end of the World War II in
1945. Another 146,000 Koreans who were not born in Japan after 1945
have the same types of visas as foreigners from other nations. The
overwhelming majority of these “newcomers,” as they are called, come
from South Korea (Republic of Korea). Koreans who hold “special
permanent residency” and who maintain a Korean citizenship (South
Korea or North Korea [Democratic People’s Republic of Korea]) are
referred to as Zainichi Kankoku/Chōsenjin, or “resident Koreans in Japan.”
Since the 1950s, resident Koreans have been taking out Japanese
citizenship, and currently about 10,000 do so each year (Kashiwazaki
2000), bringing to total to over 250,000 by the early 2000s (Tai 2004).
Determining the number of Koreans is complicated by intermarriage
E. Alcón Soler and M.P. Safont Jordà (eds.), Intercultural Language Use and Language Learning, 191–206.
191
© 2008
Springer Science+Business Media B.V.
192 Fouser
because the percentage of marriages between ethnic Koreans has declined
to only 10% of all marriages involving a Korean partner in the 2000s (Tai
2004). Together, as Ueda (2001) noted, it is commonly estimated that
700,000 people in Japan are ethnic Korean, either with Japanese
citizenship, a Korean citizenship, or, in rare cases, citizenship of another
country. The rise in intermarriage and the number of “newcomers,”
however, makes it difficult to determine an accurate number.
Most of resident Koreans in Japan have roots in the period of Japanese
colonialism in Korea (1910–1945) when large numbers of Korean laborers
came or were forced to come to Japan. Most Koreans came from
Kyŏngsang Province, the closest province to Japan; the second largest
group came from the island province of Cheju (Mori 1996). Korean
students also came to Japan in considerable numbers during the colonial
period, and many played leading roles in Korean history in the 20th
century. By 1945, the Korean population in Japan was 2,400,000, many of
whom were repatriated, amid considerable confusion, to the Korean
peninsula shortly after the war ended (Ryang 1997).Those who stayed
faced discrimination in employment, housing, and schooling. Though the
situation has improved greatly in recent years (Tai 2004), resident Koreans
still face subtle social discrimination, as Kashiwazaki (2000) and
Umakoshi (1991) discussed with reference to the use of Korean names
in school.
This paper investigates how Korean as “quasi-native” heritage language
is used in teaching English as a third language in a junior high school
operated by the General Association of Korean Residents in Japan
(“Chaeilbon Chosŏnin Ch’ong Ryŏnhaphoe” in Korean and “Zainihon
Chōsenjin Sōrengōkai” in Japanese), the organization of resident Koreans
with North Korean citizenship in Japan. Following Ryang (1997), the
abbreviated form “Chongryun”1
is used to refer to the organization
throughout this paper. Ueda (2001) termed the Korean used in
Chongryun schools “Chongryun Korean,” and described it as a
quasi-native variety of Korean that is unique among Korean dialects
because it is used only in the public sphere. This paper offers insight into
understanding of how classroom dynamics relate to broader issues of
language in constructing and maintaining a Korean ethnic identity in
Chongryun schools. The use of a quasi-native heritage language to teach
English as third language also offers new insight into the role of foreign
language education to create “third spaces” for ethnic minorities in largely
homogeneous societies.
North Korean Schools in Japan 193
10.2 Background
Korean schools in Japan emerged soon after the end of the World War II.
The majority of Koreans were repatriated quickly, but the pace of
repatriation slowed in 1946 because parents of children who were not
literate in Korean wanted to prepare their children for returning to Korea
(Kim DR 2002). Rumors of instability in the Korean Peninsula, particularly
in the southern half where most Koreans were from, added to the anxiety
among Koreans. The number of Korean schools increased rapidly from the
1946 until local governments and the American occupation authorities
forced them to close amid a broader purge of Communist and other
left-wing activities in 1949 (Ryang 1997; Kim DR 2002). In 1955, three
years after the end of the American occupation, Koreans sympathetic to
North Korea founded the Chongryun with the primary aim of preparing
Koreans to return to North Korea. From 1955 through the end of the 1960s,
the Chongryun developed an extensive system of schools with Korean as
the medium of instruction. The school system was organized into the same
structure as Japanese schools: six years of elementary school, three years
of junior high school, and three years of high school. At this time, the goal
of the education system was to prepare Koreans for returning to North
Korea. A less obvious goal was to promote loyalty to the Chongryun and to
educate its future leaders (Ryang 1997).
In the 1980s and 1990s as South Korea gained economic strength and
democratized itself and as the North Korean economy collapsed, North
Korea lost its appeal and enrollment in Chongryun schools declined
steadily. Since the 1990s, many schools have been forced to close or
merge with other schools for lack of students. In 2005, the Chongryun
operated 73 schools, including one university, throughout Japan. This
marks a substantial decline from a peak of 150 in the 1980s. Umakoshi
(1991) reported that Chongryun schools enrolled only about 13% of
resident Korean students, while almost 86% attended Japanese schools (the
percentage in Korean schools in 2005 is most likely below 10%). More
recently, Chongryun schools have gradually deemphasized ideology and
have reached out local communities in an attempt to repackage themselves
as Korean language immersion schools (The Asahi Shimbun, September 10,
2002). A new curriculum and textbooks were adopted in 2003, the first
such reform since 1993. The 1993 curriculum itself built on the sweeping
changes implemented with the 1983 curriculum, the first to follow the
Japanese national curriculum instead of the national curriculum in North
Korea (Ryang 1997). The 2003 curriculum puts greater emphasis on
science and technology and cross-cultural understanding than the previous
194 Fouser
curriculum (The Asahi Shimbun 2002; Chaeilbon Chosŏnin Ch’ong
Ryŏnhaphoe 2005). Chongryun schools are concentrated in urban areas
with large resident Korean communities. Most schools are concentrated in
four areas: Tokyo-Yokohama-Chiba, Nagoya, Osaka-Kobe-Kyoto, and
Kitakyushu-Fukuoka. Of these, the Osaka-Kobe-Kyoto area has the largest
number of resident Koreans.
The larger competing organization is the Korean Residents Union in
Japan (abbreviated as “Mindan”), the organization of resident Koreans
with South Korean citizenship. The Mindan operates only four schools and
all of the schools use Japanese as the medium of instruction, but teach
Korean as a second language within a curriculum that closely mirrors the
Japanese national curriculum. Since the 1977 education for ethnic Koreans
has been included in some Japanese public schools in Osaka, Nagoya, and
Fukuoka (Umakoshi 1991). Korean ethnic education in the public schools
focuses on Korean history, language, and music for two to four hours
per week.
Many Mindan operated schools have changed their name as they have
received accreditation from the Japanese Ministry of Education. None of
the Chongryun schools has official accreditation, which means that
graduation from the schools is not officially recognized. The Ministry of
Education, however, has recognized them as “miscellaneous school,” a
category reserved for nonacademic schools. To receive accreditation,
Chongryun schools would have to follow time allotments in the national
curriculum, which would drastically reduce the time allotted for Korean.
For many years, students who graduated from Chongryun schools could
not sit for examinations to national universities and faced distinct
disadvantages in employment. This situation has improved since the 1990s,
but some barriers remain. Chongryun schools are not eligible for Ministry
of Education funding, but sympathetic boards of education have secured
small amounts of funding from local governments in many places
(Umakoshi 1991).
To instill Korean identity, Chongryun schools maintain a strict policy of
using Korean only as a medium of instruction, known as the “100% Our
Language Movement” (Ryang 1997). Korean is the medium of instruction
and the medium of discourse in the school for every subject, except
Japanese, which is taught as a “foreign language,” even though it is the
native language of all the students and teachers (Ryang 1997; Ueda 2001).
In the immediate postwar period, many teachers would have been native
speakers of Korean who came from Korea during the colonial period, but
now all the teachers are native speakers of Japanese who learned Korean in
the Chongryun system (Ueda 2001). This produces an interesting situation
in which the language of instruction is a quasi-native heritage language
North Korean Schools in Japan 195
that students and teachers rarely use outside of the school, except to mark
their membership in the Chongryun (Ryang 1997). As a result, the Korean
that is used in the schools is a stilted school language that has developed
its own norms independent of those of the Korean used in standard
language or dialects in either Korean state (Kim 1994; Ueda 2001). Ueda
(2001) noted that the standard South Korean variety of Korean is
influencing the language of ethnic Koreans in China and the former Soviet
Union through contacts with South Koreans and South Korean media and
pop culture. Ueda (2001) also noted that the Chongryun has published
reference books on “proper Korean” to reduce the influence of the
Japanese and reinforce the Chongryun standard against possible influence
from the South Korean standard.
All Chongryun schools follow a centralized curriculum and, as mentioned
above, the current curriculum was adopted in 2003. The curriculum is
similar to the national curriculum in Japan except for the large amount of
time devoted to Korean language study. Time allotments for most other
subjects are similar to the national curriculum. Most of the time for Korean
is taken out of Japanese, physical education, and non-subject activities that
emphasize interdisciplinary approaches to learning. The time allotment for
Japanese is less, but the contents of the subjects in the curriculum closely
follow those of the national curriculum. Interestingly, the time allotment
for English in Chongryun schools is slightly more than the national
curriculum. In the 2003 curriculum, Korean, Japanese, and English subjects
comprise 38.1% of the current elementary and junior high school curriculum,
indicating that language is central to Chongryun education. Language
subjects in Japanese schools, by contrast, comprise only 24.6% of the
curriculum (Chaeilbon Chosŏnin Ch’ong Ryŏnhaphoe 2005).
10.3 Method
10.3.1 Participants
Data for this paper were obtained from a full 45-minute class observation of
a second-year junior high school English class at Kitakyushu Korean
Elementary and Junior High School (“Kitakyūshū Chosŏn Cho-junggŭp
Hakyo” in Korean and “Kitakyūshū Chōsen Sho-chūkyu Gakkō” in
Japanese) in Kitakyushu in February of 20012
. About 20 students were
enrolled in the class and most were attending the day the data were gathered.
The teacher taught the class solo, and the classroom had minimal decoration.
Above the blackboard were framed photographs of Kim Il Sung and Kim
196 Fouser
Jung Il, the founder and current leader of North Korea, respectively3
. To
the right of the blackboard was a map of the Korean Peninsula, and to the
left, a quotation from Kim Il Sung stating that resident Koreans should study
Korean as preparation for returning to a unified Korea. As specified by the
1993 curriculum in force when the data were collected, second-year students
met for five 45-minute English classes a week (Pak 1997; information
obtained from the school principal). In the 2003 curriculum, time for English
in the second and third years of junior high school was reduced to four hours
per week instead of five as part of time adjustments required because of the
elimination of Saturday classes in Japan (Chongryun schools, however, have
a number of required activities on Saturday). Table 10.1 provides an
overview of the 1993 curriculum for junior high school.
The Kitakyushu Korean Elementary and Junior High School was founded
in 1968 and had an enrollment of 227 students in 2001 when the data were
collected. Kitakyushu is an industrial city of 993,000 (2005) people on the
northern tip of the island of Kyushu. For much of the 20th century, the city
was a center of heavy industry and it remains the closest large Japanese city
to the Korea. In 2003, Immigration Bureau (Nyūkoku Kanrikyoku) figures
showed that the city had 7,365 persons of Korean citizenship, making it one
of the larger Korean communities in Japan. As in other parts of Japan,
Table 10.1 Outline of the 1993 Curriculum for Chongryun Junior High Schools
Source: information taken from Pak (1997) and unpublished information from Kitakyushu
Korean Elementary and Junior High School
Subject 1st Year 2nd Year 3rd Year
Social Studies 2 2 4
Korean 5 5 5
Korean Composition 1 1 1
Korean History — 2 —
Korean Geography 2 — —
Mathematics 4 4 5
Science 4 4 4
Japanese 5 4 4
English 4 5 5
Health and Physical Education 2 2 2
Music 1 1 1
Art 1 1 1
Home Economics 1 — —
Computer Literacy — 1 —
Number of Subjects 12 12 10
Total Class Hours Per Week 32 32 32
North Korean Schools in Japan 197
resident Koreans of school age were all born in Japan and are native speakers
of Japanese. Most students in the class were fourth generation residents in
Japan, and nearly all of them lived in the Kitakyushu area (a few students
from outlying areas in Kyushu attended the school).
10.3.2 Procedure and Analysis
Special permission for a private school visit was obtained from the
principal of the school. The principal introduced the research to several
English teachers and obtained permission to videotape the class for the
complete 45 minutes. Supplementary data for the paper was obtained from
various classes at the Kyoto Korean Junior and Senior High School
(“Kyotto Chosŏn Chung-gogŭp Hakyo” in Korean and “Kyōto Chōsen
Chū-kōkyū Gakkō” in Japanese) in Kyoto in November 2003. Data from
the high school in Kyoto were gathered during an “open school day” in
which members of the community were invited to visit the school and
observe classes. English, Korean, Japanese, and other classes were
videotaped for about 15 minutes each. Data from the short observations
were used to supplement the discussion of the data from full class in
Kitakyushu. In addition, trends in language use in teaching English in
Japanese schools were included to augment the analysis.
Data from the full class at the Kitakyushu Korean Elementary and Junior
High School and other supplementary data were analyzed qualitatively to
discern trends in the classroom discourse and language use. Discourse
issues include turning taking, repairs, and overall interaction between the
teacher and students and among students (for a detailed discussion of types
of classroom discourse, see Seedhouse 2004). Language use issues focus
on the pronunciation, grammatical accuracy, lexical diversity, linguistic
repertoire, and speech levels of the languages used in the classroom. This
study is limited, of course, because of the small number of classroom
observations and because the research had very limited contact with
students and teachers outside of the classroom.
10.4 Results and Discussion
10.4.1 Organization of the Lesson
The lesson followed a pattern typical of most junior high school English
classes in Japan. Table 10.2 provides an overview of the organization of
the lesson.
198 Fouser
Table 10.2 Order and contents of observed English class at Kitakyushu Korean Elementary
and Junior High School
Order Contents Duration Language Use
1 Roll call; comments on homework 3 minutes Mostly Korean
2 Review of use of “more” from previous
lesson
3 minutes Mostly Korean
3 Choral reading of first passage in Lesson
12 of the textbook
5 minutes Mostly English
4 Explanation of reading passage 5 minutes Mostly Korean
5 Practice using “most” 5 minutes Mostly English
6 Grammatical explanation of “most” 7 minutes Mostly Korean
7 Workbook activity using “most” while
teacher wrote grammar explanations on
blackboard and walked around to check
student work
15 minutes Mostly Korean
8 Summary of lesson; assigned homework 2 minutes Mostly Korean
9 Concluding bow to teacher Brief English
The teacher began the lesson by calling roll and making brief comments
rkbooks, which were piled on the
teacher’s podium in the front of the classroom. Some students were
talking with each other, and the teacher used the Japanese word niichan
(“older brother
“
) to get the attention of a student who was looking away
from the podium what he was doing. When used by a teacher to a student,
this word is sarcastic and indicates impatience. This is the only Japanese
word that appeared in the lesson. The teacher then moved quickly to a
review of the grammar that had been introduced in the lesson the day
before. The review focused on the use of “more” with adjectives ending
in “–ed,” “–ing,” or “–ful.” All grammar explanations were in Korean. The
teacher translated example sentences orally into written-style Korean,
which reflects common teaching practice in Japan. Next, the teacher
introduced the point of the lesson for that day and directed students to the
first reading passage in Lesson 12 of the textbook. The teacher read
phrases and clauses aloud and then prompted students to read aloud
chorally. After the choral reading, the teacher moved to a
sentence-by-sentence explanation of the vocabulary and structures in the
reading while introducing the use of “most.” In this part of the lesson, the
teacher used grammatical terminology frequently as the students took
notes. The teacher then used various adjectives with “most” to ask
questions to students. The teacher called on individual students, but did not
press them for an answer. Frequently, she would answer herself, suggesting
that this part of the lesson was used mainly to model the form. Next, the
teacher offered a grammatical explanation of “most,” that included
on student homework contained in wo
North Korean Schools in Japan 199
examples sentences related to North Korea, such as “Pyongyang is the
most beautiful city in Korea.”
The teacher then switched from teacher-fronted activities to individual
work. She returned workbooks to students and asked students to
complete the sentence writing activity relating to the use of “most.” While
the students worked, the teacher put a grammatical explanation in Korean
of the use of “most” with adverbs on the blackboard. The teacher then
walked around the class to check students’ work, offering additional
explanation to the whole class when she noticed that a particular student
was having difficulty with the activity. During activity, some students
helped each other quietly. Unlike many classrooms in Japan where
students sit two to a row, students sat one to a row, making it somewhat
difficult to work with another student in pairs. The teacher then reviewed
the first couple of sentences in the activity in front of the class. She then
offered a short summary of the point of the lesson—the use of “most” with
certain adjectives and adverbs. As the bell rang, the teacher gave
homework. The class ended with students standing and bowing, as is
common throughout Japan, while the teacher said good-bye to the class
in English.
10.4.2 Instructional Material
The class contained three forms of instructional material: a textbook, a
workbook, and writing on the blackboard. The textbook and workbook
contained no Japanese, and the teacher did not use any Japanese on the
blackboard or in the poster and flash cards that she used in the lesson. This
differed from Walker’s (1999) observation of an English class at Osaka
Korean High School in which the teacher there used trilingual (Korean,
English, Japanese) flash cards. The textbook, Yong’ŏ II chunggŭp [English
II Intermediate] (Ch’ongnyŏn Chung’ang Sang’im Wiwŏnhoe Kyogwasŏ
P’yŏnch’an Wiwŏnhoe 2000), was the only textbook in use in Chongryun
junior high schools in 2001. The book was first published in 1994 in
cooperation with Sanseido Publishing Co. Ltd., a large Japanese publisher
that publishes the New Crown English Series textbooks. Aside from
references to Korean culture and to North Korea, the contents and
organization of the textbook is very similar to other textbooks used in
Japan. Table 10.3 below shows an outline of the contents compared with
the New Crown English Series: Book 2 (Sanseido Publishing Co, Ltd.,
1997) textbook that was being used in many Japanese junior high schools
in 2001.
200 Fouser
Table 10.3 Comparison of second-year textbooks in Chongryun and Japanese Junior High
Schools
Yong’ŏ II chunggŭp New Crown English Series: Book 2
Lesson Title Lesson Title
1 The New School Terms 1 Life in Australia
2 Diary in English 2 English Diary
3 Holidays in May 3 Who “Discovered” America
4 Communication 4 Computers in Future Schools
5 Dolphins 5 Rain Forests
6 Who “Discovered” America 6 Squid
7 An Australian Teacher 7 Speech—“My Dream”
8 The Maori in New Zealand 8 Ainu
9 Speech—“My Dream” 9 The United Kingdom
10 Cooking 10 Gestures Talk
11 The United Kingdom 11 Kenya
12 City Life and Country Life — —
The similarity of titles of the lessons reflects the cooperation between the
Chongryun textbook editorial committee and the Japanese publisher. Three
lessons have exactly the same title, but the contents vary slightly.
Throughout the Chongryun textbook, references to Japan, for example, are
changed to refer to Korea. The contents of Chongryun textbook, however,
are no more political or ideological than those of the Japanese book. The
textbooks contain nearly the same vocabulary and cover the same
grammatical structures. Taken together, the close similarity between the
Chongryun textbooks and those of Sanseido, the cooperating Japanese
publisher, and the similarity in lesson structure and teaching style reveals
little difference in English teaching between Chongryun schools and
Japanese high schools, except, of course that the language of instruction is
Korean instead of Japanese.
10.4.3 Classroom Discourse
Analysis of classroom discourse was difficult because the lesson consisted
of mostly teacher-fronted activities and individual work. During the
teacher-fronted activities, the teacher addressed the class as a whole almost
exclusively. When she addressed individual students, she did so in brief,
formulaic language relating to the contents of the lesson. None of the
students asked a question during the lesson and students did not interact
much with each other except for brief comments which were not audible.
During the workbook activity, the teacher observed students, offering
comments, mostly in the form of repair statements containing the correct
North Korean Schools in Japan 201
form that the activity in the workbook was designed to elicit. Even
during this time, students did not ask the teacher questions, and instead
worked silently or quietly with a friend. The paucity of interaction,
particularly during non-teacher-fronted activities, is somewhat unusual in a
junior high school in Japan, but it is difficult to draw any firm conclusion
because the teacher may have had opportunities outside the classroom to
interact with students. One explanation could be that, as Ryang (1997)
discussed, students lack a wide linguistic repertoire in Korean and are thus
confined to a highly codified language derived from the written form.
Interaction in English, meanwhile, was almost nonexistent. Though not
uncommon in grammar-based teaching in Japan, most junior high school
English classes begin with a warm-up activity that includes simple
question-and-answer interaction between the teacher and students as a
whole or between the teacher and an individual student. The classes
observed at the Kyoto Korean Junior and Senior High School revealed a
similar degree of teacher-fronted activities, but analysis of interaction in
that school should be treated with caution because the data were gathered
during an “open school day” for which teachers and students would have
prepared carefully.
10.4.4 Overall Trends in Classroom Language Use
Analysis of language use showed that the teacher and students used
Korean for most classroom activities. As mentioned above, the lesson
included little time for student-student interaction, so it was difficult to
determine whether students use Japanese with one another in class.
Student-student interaction during the workbook activity was largely
inaudible, but what was audible indicated that the students spoke Korean
with one another in class. The teacher used English and Korean for
classroom management; mostly Korean for grammar and vocabulary
explanations and vocabulary prompts for drills; and English for presenting
examples words and sentences. This style of organizing activities is
common in Japanese junior high schools, though the amount and quality of
English used varies with the teacher and the year in school.
As discussed at length in Ryang (1997), the language of Chongryun
schools is a codified form of school Korean that does not reflect
native-speaker norms in North or South Korea, though the textbooks
follow the written form of Korean that is official in North Korea. Ryang
(1997: 36) stated, “The Korean language schoolchildren speak is
predominantly text-dependent: It is a written form that is spoken.” Data
from the class under study correspond to Ryang’s description, though with
202 Fouser
considerable individual variation. The teacher of the class at Kitakyushu
Korean Elementary and Junior High School had a weak “Japanese accent,”
whereas the teachers at the Kyoto Korean Junior and Senior High School
had stronger “Japanese accents.” The influence of Japanese was most
teachers in Chongryun schools are graduates of the Chongryun system,
younger teachers would have learned Korean among other quasi-native
speakers who speak the same form of school Korean. Older teachers,
however, would have learned Korean from native speakers, most of whom
spoke dialects from Kyŏngsang or Cheju Province (Ueda 2001). Students
who attend Korea University (“Chosŏn Taehak” in Korean or “Chōsen
Daigaku” in Japanese), the sole Chongryun university in Japan, however,
can visit North Korea and have informal contact with native speakers of
Korean in the Tokyo area. Chongryun high schools also organize regular
visits to North Korea. The differences in pronunciation among the teachers
observed in this study are most likely because of individual differences in
aptitude and cognitive skill, rather than differences in exposure to Korean
in the Chongryun school system. The differences could also reflect the
dialect of Japanese that teachers speak as a native language (Ryang 1997).
The students in the class used the same form of school Korean, but it was
difficult to discern differences among the students because the class was
largely teacher-fronted, with almost no opportunity to observe student
language production.
Individual differences in Korean proficiency were more difficult to discern
in the accuracy of grammar and vocabulary use. The teacher at the
Kitakyushu Korean Junior and Senior High School made no errors in
Korean grammar and vocabulary usage during the 45-minute lesson.
Teachers of the other classes observed also made no errors during the
period of observation. Korean and Japanese share many lexical,
morphological, and syntactical similarities that native speakers of Japan,
such as Chongryun Koreans, can draw to learn Korean. The consistently
high-level of grammatical accuracy of the teachers also confirms Ryang’s
(1997) assertion that the Korean language in Chongryun schools is
codified and controlled. The teachers in this study also showed a high-level
of accuracy in use of English in the classroom. To be sure, the range of
English required to teach the classes, particularly at the junior high school
level, is limited, but the degree of accuracy raises the intriguing question
of whether teachers in Chongryun schools apply the cognitive skills
developed from learning and using quasi-native Korean as the medium
instruction to the task of teaching English and other subjects. As Ryang
(1997: 36) noted, “The schools do not teach how to speak daily Korean;
prominent in vowel sounds [∂] and [ɨ] and syllable final [ŋ]. Because all
North Korean Schools in Japan 203
they teach how to read and write correct sentences.” The desire to maintain
“control” over use of quasi- and non-native languages at work may also
explain why the observed classes were largely devoid of the humor and
spontaneous interaction that is often observed in English classes in
Japanese schools.
The range of Korean vocabulary that teachers used in teacher-fronted
activities was similar to that of other English teachers in Japanese schools.
In the class at Kitakyushu Korean Junior and Senior High School, the
teacher used a full range of metalinguistic terms to explain the words and
grammatical patterns that appeared in the lesson. Though the teacher did
not check whether students understood the terms or the explanations
directly, most students took notes as the teacher spoke, suggesting that they
were familiar with the terms. The teacher used North Korean vocabulary
only twice. The first instance was adding the suffix tongmu (“comrade”)
when addressing a student; the second was using the word Chosŏn to refer
to Korea. In the few other cases where the teacher addressed students
directly, she used their given name only. The teacher’s use of English
vocabulary was largely limited to words in the textbook and that appeared
in previous lessons. None of the vocabulary or words that appeared in
the lesson were translations of North Korean usage. Data from the other
classes observed were very similar to the full-class data, suggesting, as
with the above discussion of grammar, that classroom language in
Chongryun schools is consistent across the system.
10.4.5 Sociolinguistic Trends in Classroom Language Use
To a greater degree, sociolinguistic trends in classroom language use
confirmed descriptions by Kim (1994) and Ryang (1997) of the Korean
used in Chongryun schools. The teacher of the class at Kitakyushu Korean
Junior and Senior High School switched between two speech levels: the
formal style and the panmal (informal/intimate) style. Like Japanese and
Javanese, Korean has clearly defined speech levels that are marked
through word choice, terms of address, and verbal suffixes (Lee and
Ramsey 2000). As a quasi-native speaker of Korean, the teacher would
have learned to manipulate speech levels as she rose through the
Chongryun school system. The use of only two speech levels may also
reflect North Korean usage, because in South Korea, the panmal level is
frequently mixed with the formal level, particularly by women, when in
classroom teaching. The panmal level would be used to address individual
students or during the discourse of humor, discipline, and other
context-specific discourse. Unfortunately, the observed classes offered
204 Fouser
little insight into the speech levels that students used in talking to the
teacher or to one another.
Ryang (1997) and Ueda (2001) discussed frequent code-switching
between Japanese and Korean in private life, and Walker (1999) noted
code-switching among Japanese, Korean, and English in English class. The
teacher of the class at Kitakyushu Elementary and Junior High School
moved freely between Korean and English, but the degree of
code-switching was similar to that of an English teacher in a Japanese
junior high school. One important difference, however, is that the students
in the Kitakyushu class did not lose their concentration or turned their
attention away from the teacher when she switched to English, as
frequently as students in a Japanese junior high school. This is perhaps
because, as Chongryun Koreans, code-switching is a part of everyday life
(Kim 1994; Ryang 1997).
10.5 Conclusion
“… I look upon much of the ethnic education movement as well
intentioned but historically limited,” was what Rohlen (1981: 221)
concluded about the future of ethnic Korean schools in Japan. The 25 years
since have largely proved Rohlen correct. Enrollment in Chongryun
schools has plummeted, creating a wave of school closers and mergers.
Indeed, the junior high school where data for this paper was obtained in
2001 was merged with the local Chongryun high school. In ever increasing
numbers, Chongryun Koreans are taking out Japanese or South Korean
citizenship, and intermarriage between resident Koreans and Japanese has
become the norm. The issue of Korean ethnic identity is increasingly mote
because the assumed holders of the identity are themselves less “Korean.”
For Chongryun schools, the weakening of identity subverts the rationale
for a Chongryun education. The English class studied in this paper,
however, reveals latent, no doubt deeply hidden, rationale: trilingual
education. Except for a few symbolic references to North Korea and the
comparatively small number of students, the classroom could be anywhere
in Japan. The textbook, classroom activities, and atmosphere of the class
could also be anywhere in Japan. The difference—the overwhelming
difference—was language. The difference in language, of course, goes
beyond the medium of instruction: Chongryun schools assume
bilinguality; Japanese assume monolinguality.
In homogeneous Japan, the sight of students using a quasi-native
language to learn a third language is unimaginable. For Japan as a whole,
the “unimaginableness” of Chongryun schools gives them meaning. Since
North Korean Schools in Japan 205
1955, they have produced more than 100,000 quasi-native speakers of
Korean (Pak 1997), which is far more quasi-native speakers of any
language than the Japanese school system has ever produced. They have
done so with limited resources and contact with native speakers. Amid
challenges of globalization in Japan, then, the Chongryun schools stand as
a model for what can be achieved in language education, multicultural
education, and heritage language maintenance—if only Japanese society
had the presence of mind to look.
Notes
1
The organization uses this style of Romanization for the abbreviated form; romanization of
other Korean words follows the McCune-Reischauer system.
2
In 2004, the junior high school program was merged into the Kyushu Korean Junior and
Senior High School (“Kyusyu Chosŏn Chunggogŭp Hakyo” in Korean and “Kyūshū
Chōsen Chūkōkyū Gakkō”).
3
In the observations conducted in 2003 in the Kyoto Korean Junior and Senior High School,
the portraits of the two North Korean leaders had been removed from the classrooms used
for junior high school classes.
Acknowledgments
The author would like to thank Ms. Todate Emi and Mr. Choe Chun-ho for assisting in
arranging the visits and accompanying him during the visits. The author would also like
to thank the teachers at the schools for their most warm welcome.
References
The Asahi Shimbun (September 10, 2002) Chongryun schools to ax Kim portraits.
Retrieved September 16, 2002 from http://www.asahi.com
Chaeilbon Chosŏnin Ch’ong Ryŏnhaphoe (2005) Minjok kyoyuk: 2003 nyŏndo putŏ
chagyong toen sae kyogwasŏ [Korean education: New textbooks from the 2003
academic year]. Retrieved January, 5, 2006 from http://www.chongryon.com/k/
edu/index3.html
Ch’ongnyŏn Chung’ang Sang’im Wiwŏnhoe Kyogwasŏ P’yŏnch’an Wiwŏnhoe (2000)
Yong’ŏ II chunggŭp [English II Intermediate]. Hagusŏbang, Tokyo
Kashiwazaki C (2000) To be Korean without Korean nationality: Claim to Korean identity
by Japanese nationality holders. In: Ryang S (ed) Koreans in Japan: New Dimensions of
Hybrid and Diverse Communities. East Rock Institute, New Haven, Connecticut, pp
48–70
Kim DR (2002) Chōsen gakkō no sengoshi 1945–1972 [A history of Korean schools from
1945–1972]. Shakai Hyōronsha, Tokyo
Kim I (1994) Chōsen Sōren no Chōsengo kyōiku: Saiseisan nokomyuniti tekunoroji
[Korean language education in the Chōsen Sōren: Technology of community
206 Fouser
reproduction]. In: Maher J, Honna N (eds) Atarashii Nihonkan, sekaikan ni mukatte:
Nihon ni okeru gengo to bunka no tayosei [New views toward the world and Japan:
Cultural and linguistic diversity in Japan]. Shoin, Tokyo, pp 182–199
Lee I, Ramsey RS (2000) The Korean Language. State University of New York Press,
Albany, New York
Mori Y (1996) Suji ga gataru Zainichi Kankoku/Chosenjin no rekishi [The history of
Koreans in Japan as told in numbers]. Akaishi Shoten, Tokyo
Pak S-S (1997) Nihon no naka no Chōsen gakkō [Korean schools in Japan]. Chōsen
Shōnensha, Tokyo
Rohlen T (1981) Education: Policies and prospects. In: Lee C, De Vos G (eds) Koreans in
Japan. University of California Press, Berkeley, CA, pp 182–222
Ryang S (1997) North Koreans in Japan: Language, Ideology, and Identity. Westview Press,
Boulder, CO
Sanseido Publishing Co, Ltd (1997) New Crown English Series: Book 2. Sanseido
Publishing Co, Ltd, Tokyo
Seedhouse P (2004) The Interactional Architecture of the Language Classroom: A
Conversation Analysis Perspective. Blackwell Publishing, Oxford
Tai E (2004) “Korean Japanese”: A new identity option for resident Koreans in Japan.
Critical Asian Studies 36(3): 355–382
Ueda K (2001) “Sōren Chōsengo” no kisoteki kenkyū [Rudimentary Research on “Soren
Korean”]. In: Noro K, Yamashita M (eds) “Tadashisa” eno toi: Hihanteki shakai
gengogaku no kokoromi [Questioning “correctness”: A taste of critical sociolinguistics].
Sangensha, Tokyo, pp 111–147
Umakoshi T (1991) The role of education in preserving the ethnic identity of Korean
residents in Japan. In: Beauchamp ER (ed) Windows on Japanese Education. Greenwood
Press, Westport, CT, pp 281–289
Walker L (1999) Korean language immersion programs in Japan. Paper presented at the
12th World Congress of Applied Linguistics (AILA), Waseda University, Tokyo August
3, 1999
11
Examining Mitigation in Requests: A Focus
on Transcripts in EL T Coursebooks1
Patricia Salazar Campillo
Universitat Jaume I, Spain
11.1 Introduction
11.1.1 Pragmatic Competence and Pragmatic Instruction
Studies of the development of foreign language (FL) knowledge have
tended to focus more on the acquisition of phonological, morphological,
syntactic and semantic forms than on the development of pragmatic ability
(Kasper and Schmidt 1996). Evidence of this emphasis is the fact that FL
learners may master the vocabulary and grammar of the target language
without having a comparable control over the pragmatic uses of the
language. This amounts to saying that FL learners may know several ways
of thanking, complaining or requesting without being sure under what
circumstances it is appropriate to use one form or another. As we have just
mentioned, studies centred on speech act ability have not dealt with the
development of this process. However, pragmatic ability is part of a
learner’s communicative competence, and it has received attention in the
proposed models of communicative competence (Canale 1983; Bachman
1990; Celce-Murcia et al. 1995). In 1983 Canale proposed a model of
communicative competence which consisted of four components:
grammatical competence (the knowledge of the language code),
sociolinguistic competence (the appropriate application of vocabulary,
politeness, etc.), discourse competence (the ability to combine language
structures into different types of cohesive texts) and strategic competence
(the knowledge of communicative strategies to overcome communicative
breakdowns). This model was highly influential, and it has been used as a
starting point for many subsequent studies on the topic.
Bachman (1990) divided language knowledge into two main categories,
which were in turn subdivided into subcategories. The first category was
termed organisational knowledge, which included grammatical and textual
knowledge. The second category was pragmatic knowledge, including
E. Alcón Soler and M.P. Safont Jordà (eds.), Intercultural Language Use and Language Learning, 207–222.
207
© 2008
Springer Science+Business Media B.V.
208
lexical, functional and sociolinguistic knowledge. In the mid-nineties,
Celce-Murcia et al. (1995) developed their own model of communicative
competence, and they added the actional competence component. The
authors defined actional competence as “competence in conveying and
understanding communicative intent” (1995: 17) and claimed that actional
competence was closely related to interlanguage pragmatics.
As we can observe, what these models have in common is the fact that
they consider pragmatic competence as an essential component of
communicative competence. In this vein, Cenoz and Valencia (1994) argue
that the mastering of phonetic, semantic and syntactic levels is not enough
to acquire a second language (L2), but knowing how to use it in the
appropriate way is of paramount importance, as a lack of pragmatic
competence can cause both communicative problems and negative
reactions on the part of the hearer. However, it has been widely
acknowledged in the literature (e.g. Trosborg 1995) the poor performance
in terms of pragmatic forms by both L2/FL learners. This is the case even
in advanced students, as in many cases their level of grammatical
proficiency does not match their level of pragmatic use.
To address the imbalance between linguistic and pragmatic competence, a
large number of studies have shown that instruction on pragmatic aspects
may be effective to develop pragmatic ability. In the L2 setting, studies by
Billmyer (1990) on the teaching of compliments and responses to
compliments and Bouton (1994) on understanding different types of
implicature are examples of pragmatic development by means of instruction.
Besides, studies using explicit and implicit instruction have provided
evidence in favour of the effectiveness of both, with a slight advantage for
the first type. For example, Kubota’s (1995) study on the teaching of
implicature in Japan incorporated three groups of university students. One
group received no instruction and the other two groups received deductive
and inductive instruction, respectively. The results showed that both
instructed groups benefited, with the inductive group outperforming the
deductive. On the other hand, House (1996) examined two versions of a
communication course in two groups of students: the first one received
explicit metapragmatic information and the second one did not obtain it. The
findings pointed to the importance of providing that kind of information.
In the English as a Foreign Language (EFL) setting, studies on requests
carried out by Safont (2001, 2003) reveal that instruction favours the use
of a wider variety of request formulae and modification devices in the
post-tests than in the pre-tests. Therefore, the above-mentioned studies are
part of the growing literature demonstrating the positive effect of
instruction on pragmatic development. In Kasper’s (1997: 7) words,
“comparisons of instructed students with uninstructed controls reported an
Salazar Campillo
Examining Mitigation in Requests 209
advantage for the instructed learners”. Moreover, there seems to be more
development when pragmatic features are explicitly taught. As shown by
Tateyama et al. (1997), pragmatic instruction is also beneficial for
beginners, a fact that may imply that learners do not have to possess a high
level of linguistic proficiency in the target language to use it appropriately.
As reported by Kasper (1997), there is an increasing body of research
showing that different pragmatic features can be improved through
pedagogic intervention. Instruction is especially needed in the FL context,
since it does not provide as diverse and frequent input as the L2 setting
(Kasper and Schmidt 1996). One way of presenting learners with
pragmatic input in the classroom is through the materials they have to
work with. However, the studies which have focused on the analysis of the
presentation of pragmatics in textbooks point to a lack of pragmatic
information. As for English Language Teaching (ELT) materials, Bardovi-
Harlig et al. (1991) carried out a study on closings in which twenty ELT
textbooks were examined. The authors found that only twelve textbooks
included complete examples of closings. Similar results were obtained by
Boxer and Pickering (1995), who examined the presentation of complaints
in seven textbooks. These materials dealt with direct complaints, and
indirect complaints were not tackled despite the fact that in natural
conversations this last type of complaining is more frequent than direct
complaints. In turn, Alcón and Tricker (2000) analysed how the discourse
marker well was used in some English coursebooks and compared its
occurrence in transcripts from American films. As their findings indicate,
ELT materials did not present interactive characteristics of well which
encourage natural speech production.
A recent study on ESL and EFL textbooks is Vellenga’s (2004). She
carried out a qualitative and quantitative analysis of eight textbooks to
determine the use of metalanguage, explicit treatment of speech acts and
metapragmatic information. Her results show that the textbooks examined
lack explicit pragmatic information. As a corollary, learning pragmatics
from these materials is highly unlikely. Another study on teaching
coursebooks was conducted by Usó and Salazar (2002). The authors
corroborated previous findings by examining the range of requests in ELT
recorded materials. They found that expressions which demanded the
hearer’s ability or willingness to comply with the speaker’s desires were
by far the most common manifestations of requests, with structures such as
Could you…?, Would you…? (in Trosborg’s (1995) taxonomy,
conventionally indirect - hearer-oriented conditions). The results of this
last study motivated the current paper, in that we aim at analysing whether
the requests we examined include mitigating devices, and if so, how
mitigation has occurred.
210
11.1.2 Requests and Peripheral Modification
In Trosborg’s (1995: 187) words, “a request is an illocutionary act whereby a
speaker (requester) conveys to a hearer (requestee) that he/she wants the
requestee to perform an act which is for the benefit of the speaker”. This
author divides request strategies into four main categories which comprise
eight sub-strategies. As observed in Table 11.1, the four categories range
from the most indirect (hints) to the most direct (imperatives). In Brown and
Levinson’s (1987) terms, this scale of directness varies between “on-record”
strategies, which are pragmatically transparent and use no mitigating devices,
to “off-record” strategies, which are pragmatically opaque and avoid
unequivocal formulation of a face-threatening act through the use of hints.
Table 11.1 Trosborg’s (1995) classification of request strategies
Request Strategies
(presented at levels of increasing directness)
Situation Speaker Requests to Borrow Hearer’s Car
Cat. I Indirect request
Str. 1 Hints (mild) I have to be at the airport in half an hour.
(strong) My car has broken down.
Cat. II Conventionally indirect
(hearer-oriented conditions)
Str. 2 Ability Could you lend me your car?
Willingness Would you lend me your car?
Permission May I borrow your car?
Str. 3 Suggestory formulae How about lending me your car?
Cat. III Conventionally indirect
(speaker-based conditions)
Str. 4 Wishes I would like to borrow your car.
Str. 5 Desires/needs I want/need to borrow your car.
Cat. IV Direct requests
Str. 6 Obligation You must/have to lend me your car.
Str. 7 Performatives
(hedged) I would like to ask you to lend me your car.
(unhedged) I ask/require you to lend me your car.
Str. 8 Imperatives Lend me your car.
Elliptical phrases Your car (please).
The impact of a request on the addressee does not only depend on the
degree of directness employed, it is also important to choose the
appropriate kind of modification. Following Trosborg (1995) and Sifianou
(1999), requests are made up of two main components: the core request or
head act and the peripheral elements. The following example taken from
our data illustrates those two components:
Salazar Campillo
Examining Mitigation in Requests 211
Example 1
I was wondering, could I have a smoking seat?
PERIPHERAL HEAD ACT
ELEMENT
The head act is the main utterance with the function of requesting and can
stand by itself. Yet core requests may be preceded and/or followed by
peripheral elements, which mitigate or aggravate the propositional content.
Indeed, the use of peripheral modification devices with face-threatening
acts such as requests changes the degree of politeness involved when
performing this specific speech act. Therefore, the ability to use these
devices adequately is one aspect of pragmatic proficiency, which
according to Nikula (1996: 29) refers to “the ability to use language not
only correctly as far as grammar and vocabulary are concerned but also
appropriately so that language use fits the social context in which it is
being used.” In order to use language appropriately, speakers have to
master both linguistic knowledge and socio-cultural and context
knowledge (Sifianou 1999). In other words, apart from the wide range of
language choices available to the speaker to modify the request, the
contextual constraints as well as the topic and the relationship between
participants in a given situation always need to be taken into account.
The use of requests by learners has been largely examined in different
contexts (e.g. House and Kasper 1981; Hill 1997) and they have generally
focused on the use, rather than on the development, of this specific speech
act. However, we concur with Safont (2003) in that attention has to be paid
not only to the request head act, but also to its peripheral modification so
that learners are provided with a wide range of formulations that may be
used in making requests. Drawing on Brown and Levinson’s (1987)
politeness theory and on Brown and Yule’s (1983) discourse types, Nikula
(1996) proposes the following five contextual factors that may affect the
appropriate use of peripheral modification devices:
a) Power: those who have more power can express themselves without
employing modifiers (for example, boss-employee)
b) Social distance: those who are strangers will tend to use more modifiers
c) Ranking of imposition: how demanding the request is implies that
more or less modification will be used
d) Type of interaction: whether the interaction is for transactional or
interactional purposes will have an impact on the use of peripheral
modification devices
e) Type of speech act: the more the speech act is face-threatening, the
more modifying devices are needed
212
Peripheral modification devices can be internal or external. Internal
modification refers to linguistic elements within the same speech act,
whereas external modification is achieved by devices which occur in
the immediate linguistic context rather than in the speech act itself
(Sifianou 1999). One instance of each type of modification is provided
as follows:
Example 2: External modification
May I ask you a favour? I need some money for my new computer
Example 3: Internal modification
Would you mind closing the window?
Several taxonomies have been developed in order to account for the
different modification devices in requests (i.e. Trosborg 1995; Sifianou
1999). For the purposes of the present study, we will be referring to the
taxonomy presented in Table. 11.2. In this taxonomy, we have mainly
followed Sifianou’s (1999) description of internal modification devices
rather than Trosborg’s (1995) for two main reasons. On the one hand,
Trosborg (1995) divides internal modification devices into downgraders
and upgraders following House and Kasper’s (1981) classification of
modality markers. The former refer to those modality markers that tone
down the impact an utterance is likely to have on the hearer, whereas the
latter increase the impact of an utterance on the hearer. However, Sifianou
(1999: 157) states that “in English, intensifying devices are rarely used
with requests”, and this is the reason why an extensive study of softeners,
instead of upgraders, has been carried out.
On the other hand, Trosborg (1995) classifies downgraders into two sub-
types: syntactic downgraders and lexical/phrasal downgraders, paying
special attention to grammatical forms when requesting. In this sense,
Sifianou (1999) claims that making a request does not only require
linguistic/syntactic knowledge, but also knowledge of the contextual
factors that affect the appropriate use of a particular form to make a
request.
The taxonomy which has been used for the purposes of the present paper
has been elaborated drawing on previous literature and it has been
modified on the basis of analysing EFL learners’ oral production data. To
better understand the table, a brief explanation of each modification device
is offered.
Salazar Campillo
Examining Mitigation in Requests 213
Table 11.2 Typology of peripheral modification devices in requests (Alcón et al. 2005)
Type Sub-type Example
Internal
Modification
Openers - Do you think you could
open the window?
- Would you mind opening
the window?
Softeners Understatement - Could you open the
window for a moment?
Downtoner - Could you possibly open
the window?
Hedge - Could you kind of open the
window?
Intensifiers - You really must open the
window.
- I’m sure you wouldn’t
mind opening the window.
Fillers Hesitators - I er, erm, er – I wonder if
you could open the window
Cajolers - You know, you see, I mean
Appealers - OK?, Right?, yeah
Attention-
getters
- Excuse me …; Hello …;
Look …; Tom, …; Mr.
Edwards …; father …
External
Modification
Preparators - May I ask you a favour? …
Could you open the
window?
Grounders - It seems it is quite hot
here. Could you open the
window?
Disarmers - I hate bothering you but
could you open the window?
Expanders - Would you mind opening
the window? … Once again,
could you open the window?
Promise of
a reward
- Could you open the
window? If you open it, I
promise to bring you to the
cinema.
Please - Would you mind opening
the window, please?
214
As far as internal modification is concerned, it is divided into openers,
softeners, intensifiers and fillers. Openers refer to opening words and
expressions which search the addressee’s co-operation (for example, do
you think…). They are conventionalised ways of introducing requests in
English and they soften the illocutionary force of the sentence. The second
type of internal modification is softeners, which mitigate the force of the
request by means of understatements (expressions such as for a moment, a
bit), downtoners (adverbs like just, possibly, perhaps) and hedges (for
example, kind of, sort of).
Unlike softeners, intensifiers aggravate the impact of the request with
expressions such as terribly, awfully or sure. The last type of internal
modification refers to fillers, which are subdivided into hesitators, cajolers,
appealers and attention-getters. Hesitators are the most common fillers,
taking place “when the speaker is uncertain of the impact of a request on
the addressee” (Sifianou 1999: 179). Examples of hesitators are er, erm,
which can be considered as simple stuttering. Cajolers are modifiers that
invite the addressee to participate in the conversation and restore harmony
(for example, you know, I mean). By means of appealers, the speaker
requests the addressee’s understanding and elicits consent. Instances of
appealers are OK? Right? Finally, the speaker may employ attention-
getters to alert the addressee before the actual request is made with
expressions such as Excuse me, hello or listen.
External modification is achieved by means of six different types of
modifiers: preparators, grounders, disarmers, expanders, promise of a
reward and please. As for preparators, they are used by the requester to
prepare the addressee for the request. Regarding the second type,
grounders, they consist of reasons and justifications for the request being
made and can precede or go after it. Disarmers aim at avoiding the
possibility of a refusal on the part of the addressee and make him/her
favourably disposed to perform the request being asked. The use of
expanders involves the repetition of the same request act or other
synonymous expressions. The promise of a reward entails a compensation
for the requestee and therefore increases the possibility of compliance. The
last modifier is the expression please, which, according to Sifianou (1999:
189) is “possibly the commonest and most significant modifier in
requests”. It softens the imposition carried out by the request and elicits
cooperative behaviour from the addressee.
It is worth mentioning a further aspect that has been taken into account
when dealing with requests and mitigation, we are referring to the Maxim
of Congruence, which predicts that participants will employ speech acts
congruent with their status. On the contrary, if a noncongruent act
is performed participants may mitigate their contributions by using a
Salazar Campillo
Examining Mitigation in Requests 215
Maxim of congruence: Make your contribution congruent with your
status.
Corollary: If congruence is not possible, mitigate noncongruence by
employing a status-preserving strategy (SPS).
The status-preserving strategies these authors suggest are as follows:
a) Appear congruent. Use the form of a congruent speech act where
possible
b) Mark your contribution linguistically. Use mitigators
c) Timing. Do not begin with a noncongruent contribution
d) Frequency. Avoid frequent noncongruent turns
e) Be brief
f) Use appropriate content
11.2 Methodology
As mentioned earlier, the research conducted draws on a previous study
(Usó-Juan and Salazar 2002) which focused on only one part of the request
act, that of the head. Requests seemed essential to us in Tourism
exchanges, as they appear very frequently and constitute a speech act that
has to be mastered by future workers in the Tourism industry. The results
of that study showed a large number of requests belonging to
conventionally-indirect hearer-oriented conditions (Trosborg 1995) in five
ELT coursebooks. Specifically, the data analysed were the first ten
transcripts of the following Tourism coursebooks: High Season. English
for the Hotel and Tourist Industry (Harding and Henderson 1994), English
for International Tourism (Jacob and Strutt 1997), English in Tourism.
Checkpoint 2 (Mioduszewska et al. 1997), Going International. English
for Tourism (Harding 1998), and Welcome! English for the Travel and
Tourism Industry (Jones 1998). A total of 49 transcripts (as English in
Tourism. Checkpoint 2 had only nine listening tasks) were analysed. The
only criterion for selection is that these are the most common courses used
in Spanish universities that offer a degree in Tourism. In the present paper
we aim at examining the peripheral element accompanying the head act.
The mitigation devices were analysed according to the taxonomy presented
in Table 11.2.
status-preserving strategy. Bardovi-Harlig and Hartford (1993: 281)
provide the following definition of this maxim:
216
11.3 Results and Discussion
Table 11.3 shows the number of requests found in the transcripts and the
percentage of mitigation modifying those requests. Of the total number of
requests offered, in English for International Tourism more than half (56%)
are mitigated. High Season and Going International provide a very similar
percentage of mitigation (32% and 31%, respectively) although the former
offers more request realizations. Out of 33 requests, in Welcome! only 6
(18%) include mitigation devices; in turn, English in Tourism presents seven
requests, none of which is mitigated. This quantitative analysis clearly
shows the discrepancy in amount of mitigation that is available to the learner.
Table 11.3 Number of requests and mitigators per coursebook
High
Season
English for
International
Tourism
English
in
Tourism
Going
International
Welcome!
Total
number of
requests
44 25 7 29 33
Total
number of
mitigators
14
(32%)
14 (56%) 0 (0%) 9 (31%) 6 (18%)
From a qualitative perspective, Table 11.4 illustrates the distribution of
mitigation devices in the transcripts.
(1) High Season, (2) English for International Tourism, (3) English in
Tourism, (4) Going International, (5) Welcome!
Table 11.4 Distribution of mitigators
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) TOTAL
Internal
modification
Opener 1 2 3
Understatement 2 2
Downtoner 4 2 6
Hedge
Intensifier
Hesitator
Salazar Campillo
Examining Mitigation in Requests 217
Cajoler
Attention-getter 1 1
External
modification
Preparator
Grounder 1 1
Disarmer
Expander
Promise of a reward
Please 4 9 4 17
TOTAL 9 11 0 6 4 30
As can be seen in the above table, there is a wide difference in terms of
variety and frequency of mitigators in the recorded materials. Yet, Table
11.4 does not show the occurrence of combinations of mitigators. By
combination we mean those cases in which there is more than one
mitigating device per request. These combinations have been taken into
account in the data analysis, and for this reason the total number of
mitigators in Table 11.3 outnumbers the number of mitigators in Table
11.4. In order to better understand the findings, we will deal with the
mitigating devices employed in each coursebook individually. To begin
with, High Season offers a single opener, four downtoners and four
occurrences of please. This means that the use of internal and external
modification is quite balanced. Moreover, this coursebook includes five
combinations of mitigators, which are made up of (i) opener + downtoner,
(ii) two cases of downtoner + please, (iii) downtoner and understatement
and (iv) opener + grounder. Some instances of these combinations are the
following:
Example 4
Reservations to caller: I would be grateful if you could just confirm in
writing (opener + downtoner)
Example 5
Guest to reception: Would you mind asking someone to send up some
aspirin – I haven’t got anything with me (opener + grounder)
English for International Tourism presents two examples of internal
modification (understatements) and nine instances of please (external
modification). Three combinations of mitigators are also employed which
are subdivided into (i) hesitator + opener, (ii) opener + please and (iii)
218
opener + downtoner. The first combination, that of the hesitator, is the only
one appearing in all the transcripts reviewed.
Example 6
A: Could you tell me what your name is?
B: Yes, Bogdan Kominowski
A: Um… yes… er, would you mind spelling that for me? (hesitator +
opener)
Usó-Juan and Salazar (2002) found seven request realizations in English in
Tourism. Checkpoint 2. Out of those seven requests, none is mitigated in
the transcripts. This may imply a serious drawback in terms of pedagogical
implications, in the sense that learners are not provided with appropriate
input needed for their pragmatic development.
Going International offers nine mitigators in the transcripts, which are
divided into two openers, two downtoners and one attention-getter
(internal modification). External modification is illustrated by one
grounder. The transcripts also provide three combinations (two attention-
getters + understatement and one attention-getter + opener). As shown by
our findings, this coursebook is the only one that presents mitigation by
means of several attention-getters:
Example 7
Interviewer to woman: Excuse me. Could I ask a few questions?
(attention-getter + understatement)
Example 8
Interviewer to woman: Excuse me, madam. I wonder if you’d mind
answering some questions? (attention-getter + opener)
Finally, Welcome! English for the Travel and Tourism Industry presents
external modification by means of four examples of please and two
combinations: (i) downtoner + please and (ii) opener + please. This last
combination is illustrated as follows:
Example 9
Passenger to check-in clerk: I was wondering, could I have a smoking
seat, please? (opener + please)
Our findings reveal a striking difference both in number and variety of
mitigators in the transcripts of the coursebooks reviewed. Only in English
for International Tourism more than half of the requests are mitigated. In
the remaining coursebooks, one third or less of requests include mitigating
Salazar Campillo
Examining Mitigation in Requests 219
devices, reaching no mitigation in English in Tourism. From a qualitative
point of view, most mitigators fall under the category of internal
modification. On the other hand, external modifiers almost exclusively
centre on the use of please in medial and final position within the request.
This mitigator served as a marker of politeness while simultaneously
reinforcing the request. There were no occurrences of please in initial
position, which may be considered more as an attention-getter or as an
apology for the interruption (Sifianou 1999). Finally, as regards the
combinations of mitigators, we have found a wide range of possibilities, in
that both types of modification make up the different combinations.
A common feature emerging from our analysis is the fact that the
requests and their mitigation seem to comply with the maxim of
congruence, in the sense that, depending on the role and the status of the
requester, a higher or lower degree of politeness was involved and
congruence was present in the examined service encounters.
Due to the limited amount and range of mitigation devices to soften the
impact of the request (for example, there are no occurrences of hedges,
disarmers, promises or cajolers), these pragmatic items may not be salient
enough for FL learners. In other words, the input learners are offered may
not be enough to help them develop their pragmatic competence in the
academic setting.
11.4 Conclusion
This study is a brief overview of how mitigation devices are presented in
several ELT coursebooks from the discipline of Tourism. According to the
findings, the transcripts surveyed ignore a number of mitigators and focus
on only a small number, mostly on the use of please and some
combinations of mitigators.
Some authors have pointed out that the FL classroom is an impoverished
learning environment for developing pragmatic competence (Alcón 2001).
Kasper and Rose (1999) have also argued that the EFL class does not
provide many possibilities for pragmalinguistic awareness. In light of our
findings we should add that the recorded materials learners are exposed to
are also poor materials to foster pragmatic ability. Although the transcripts
examined tend to reflect real situations for the learner, we agree with
Boxer and Pickering (1995) on the fact that data should be taken from
spontaneous speech in order to show the real use of language. Moreover,
attention should be paid to the fact that conversational interaction varies
with different settings and relationships between participants.
220
Results from the current study corroborate previous ones (e.g. Kasper
1997) which point to the mismatch between textbook dialogues and
authentic discourse. This implies the scarcity of features of everyday
conversation found in ELT materials. In order to address this lack, research
on conversational analysis and interlanguage pragmatics may positively
contribute to textbook development, so that textbooks include a wide range
of speech acts and pragmatic aspects.
The fact that the current study used a small sample of coursebooks and
the analysis was limited to the first ten transcripts clearly presents a
limitation. However, some pedagogical implications emerge from this
study which can be useful to enrich the possibilities for pragmatic
development in instructed foreign language contexts: first, in order to
develop pragmatic ability, some factors as contextual and interlocutor
information (e.g. status, age, etc.) should be provided in teaching materials.
In this way, L2/FL learners will have the adequate tools to perform
different speech acts appropriately. Secondly, activities such as role-plays
may engage learners in different roles in order to offer opportunities to
practise pragmatic abilities that are needed in service encounters.
Therefore, it will be possible to explicitly point out when pragmatic failure
occurs so that learners avoid impolite or inappropriate behaviour. Finally,
focusing on aspects of pragmatic knowledge through consciousness-raising
activities and communicative practice may also be highly facilitative.
1
This study is part of a research project funded by (a) the Spanish Ministerio de Educación
y Ciencia (HUM2004-04435/FILO), co-funded by FEDER, (b) Fundació Universitat
Jaume I and Caixa Castelló-Bancaixa, and (c) Generalitat Valenciana (GV05/172).
References
Alcón E (2001) Developing pragmatic competence in the academic setting: The case of
suggestions in NS/NNS advising sessions. Paper presented at the XI Congreso
Luso-Hispano de Lenguas Aplicadas a las Ciencias, Castelló
Alcón E, Tricker D (2000) Teaching discourse competence in the classroom: An example
Proceedings of the 22nd International Conference of Aedean, pp 61–66
Alcón E, Safont MP, Martínez-Flor A (2005) Towards a typology of modifiers for the
speech act of requesting: A socio-pragmatic approach. Ræl, Revista Electrónica de
Lingüística Aplicada 4: 1–35
Bachman L (1990) Fundamental Considerations in Language Testing. Oxford University
Press, Oxford
Notes
based on the discourse marker well in EFL materials. In: Gallardo P, Llurdà E (eds)
Salazar Campillo
Examining Mitigation in Requests 221
Bardovi-Harlig K, Hartford BS (1993) Learning the rules of academic talk: A longitudinal
study of pragmatic development. Studies in Second Language Acquisition 15: 279–304
Bardovi-Harlig K, Hartford BS, Mahan-Taylor R, Morgan MJ, Reynolds DW (1991)
Developing pragmatic awareness: Closing the conversation. ELT Journal 45: 4–15
Billmyer K (1990) I really like your lifestyle: ESL learners learning how to compliment.
Penn Working Papers in Educational Linguistics 6: 31–48
Bouton L (1994) Conversational implicature in the second language: Learned slowly when
not deliberately taught. Journal of Pragmatics 22: 157–167
Boxer D, Pickering L (1995) Problems in the presentation of speech acts in ELT materials:
The case of complaints. ELT Journal 49: 44–58
Brown P, Levinson S (1987) Politeness: Some Universals in Language Usage. Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge
Brown G, Yule G (1983) Teaching The Spoken Language. Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge
Canale M (1983) From communicative competence to communicative language pedagogy.
In: Richards JC, Schmidt R (eds) Language and Communication. Longman, New York,
pp 2–27
Celce-Murcia M, Dörnyei Z, Thurrell S (1995) Communicative competence: A
pedagogically motivated model with content specifications. Issues in Applied Linguistics
6: 5–35
Cenoz J, Valencia J (1994) La competencia pragmática. Elementos lingüísticos y
psicosociales. Servicio Editorial de la Universidad del País Vasco, Bilbao
Harding K (1998) Going international. English for Tourism. Oxford University Press,
Oxford
Harding K, Henderson P (1994) High Season. English for the Hotel and Tourist Industry.
Oxford University Press, Oxford
Hill T (1997) The Development of Pragmatic Competence in an EFL Context. Temple
University Japan, Ph.D. Dissertation, Tokyo
House J (1996) Developing pragmatic fluency in English as a foreign language. Routines
and metapragmatic awareness. Studies in Second Language Acquisition 18: 225–252
House J, Kasper G (1981) Politeness markers in English and German. In: Coulmas F (ed)
Conversational Routine. Mouton de Gruyter, The Hague, pp 157–185
Jacob M, Strutt P (1997) English for International Tourism. Longman, London
Jones L (1998) Welcome! English for the Travel and Tourism Industry. Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge
Kasper G (1997) Can pragmatic competence be taught? Network # 6. University of Hawai’i,
Second Language Teaching and Curriculum Center, Honolulu. Available online at
http://www.nflrc.hawaii.edu/NetWorks/NW06/
Kasper G, Rose K (1999) Pragmatics and SLA. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics
19: 81–104
Kasper G, Schmidt R (1996) Developmental issues in interlanguage pragmatics. Studies in
Second Language Acquisition 18: 149–169
Kubota M (1995) Teachability of conversational implicature to Japanese EFL learners.
IRLT Bulletin 9: 35–67
Mioduszewska M, Gallego J, Olivares A, Urquía MA (1997) English in Tourism.
Checkpoint 2. Centro de Estudios Ramón Areces, Madrid
Nikula T (1996) Pragmatic Force Modifiers. A Study in Interlanguage Pragmatics.
University of Jyväskylä, Jyväskylä
Safont Jordà MP (2001) Examining requests used in the English for Academic Purposes
classroom. In: Posteguillo S, Fortanet I, Palmer JC (eds) Methodology and New
222
Techniques in Languages for Specific Purposes. Servei de publicacions Universitat
Jaume I, Castelló, pp 125–133
Safont Jordà MP (2003) Instructional effects on the use of request acts modification devices
by EFL learners. In: Martínez-Flor A, Usó-Juan E, Fernández-Guerra A (eds) Pragmatic
Competence and Foreign Language Teaching. Servei de publicacions de la Universitat
Jaume I, Castelló, pp 211–232
Sifianou M (1999) Politeness phenomena in England and Greece. A cross-cultural
Perspective. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Tateyama Y, Kasper G, Mui L, Tay H, Thananart O (1997) Explicit and implicit teaching
of pragmatic routines. In: Bouton L (ed) Pragmatics and Language Learning, Monograph
Series vol 8. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, pp 163–178
Trosborg A (1995) Interlanguage Pragmatics. Requests, Complaints and Apologies.
Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin
Usó-Juan E, Salazar P (2002) Developing pragmatic competente in the EFL setting. The
case of requests in Tourism texts. Estudios de Lingüística Inglesa Aplicada 3: 103–122
Vellenga H (2004) Learning pragmatics from ESL & EFL textbooks: How likely? Teaching
English as a Second or Foreign Language-Electronic Journal 8: 1–18
Salazar Campillo
12
The Presentation and Practice of the Communicative
Act of Requesting in Textbooks: Focusing
1
Esther Usó-Juan
Universitat Jaume I , Spain
12.1 Introduction
Developing learners’ communicative competence, i.e. the ability to
communicate appropriately, is commonly recognised as the ultimate goal
of language teaching (Kasper 1997a; Usó-Juan and Martinez-Flor 2006).
Therefore, teaching practices should focus not just on the features of the
target language system but also on its sociolinguistic and pragmatic rules
(Judd 1999). In other words, learners should be given plenty of
opportunities to practise use of the language that is appropriate to a given
situation. In fact, as noted by Crandall and Basturkmen (2004) error of
appropriacy on the part of the non-native speaker may have more
negative results than grammatical errors. While a grammar error when
performing an impositive face-threatening speech act may be seen as a
language problem by native speakers, an error of appropriacy may
characterise the non-native speaker as being rude and offensive.
Consequently, language learners need to be exposed to appropriate input
in the classroom, particularly in foreign language (FL) classroom
settings, where learners opportunities to be in contact with the target
language are usually non-existent. In such a context, textbooks are the
core of the classroom syllabi and therefore constitute the primary source
of input learners are exposed to (Vellenga 2004). However, serious
scepticism regarding their appropriacy for presenting learners with
accurate language functions has been raised (Bardovi-Harlig 2001;
Bardovi-Harlig et al. 1991; Boxer and Pickering 1995).
To test this contention, this paper attempts to explore how a particular
speech act, namely the act of requesting, is treated, in pragmatic terms, in
English language teaching (ELT) textbooks. The rationale behind
the selection of this speech act derives from the fact that, given its
on Modifiers
E. Alcón Soler and M.P. Safont Jordà (eds.), Intercultural Language Use and Language Learning, 223–243.
223
© 2008
Springer Science+Business Media B.V.
224
face-threatening nature, learners need to possess considerable pragmatic
expertise to be able to perform it successfully. Related to this pragmatic
expertise, knowledge of how to modify it so that the impositive force of
the request is minimised is essential. On that account, this chapter aims
to examine 1) whether pragmatic information is given in the activities
learners have to carry out to practise requests, and 2) whether requests
are presented with modifiers as happens in authentic language use and, if
so, to examine the type of modifiers commonly presented. To this end,
this chapter will first present a survey of the literature on the treatment of
different functions and speech acts in textbooks. Following this, it will
analyse what five popular textbooks teach about the communicative act
of requesting. Finally, the findings will be discussed and teaching
implications will be suggested in order to help teachers in their task of
providing learners with opportunities to develop their full communicative
competence.
12.2 Pragmatic Input in the Classroom: A Focus on Textbooks
Learners’ opportunities to develop pragmatic competence differ
significantly depending on the setting in which the target language is being
learned or taught. In a second language (L2) setting, learners may be
exposed to the target language outside the classroom as well as experience
opportunities for cross-cultural communication (Rose 1999). This fact
provides learners with excellent opportunities to develop pragmatic
competence. In contrast, in a FL setting learners’ opportunities to be in
contact with authentic situations in the target language are limited or
absent and, therefore, the chance to develop their pragmatic competence
depends on the quantity and quality of the pragmatic input presented to
them in the classroom.
In a FL classroom setting, information to learners about pragmatics
tends to be limited to textbooks, which serve as the main source of input.
In fact, textbooks have been acknowledged by Vellenga (2004) as ‘the
centre of the curriculum and syllabus in most classrooms’. However,
instructors are now becoming aware that the acquisition of pragmatic
competence through textbooks or other instructional material is quite
unlikely, since they do not provide learners with the necessary conditions
to foster their pragmatic competence, namely 1) exposure to appropriate
input; 2) opportunities for collaborative practice in a written and oral
mode, and 3) metapragmatic reflection (Kasper 2001; Kasper and Roever
2005). With regard to exposure to appropriate pragmatic input, several
studies have illustrated that often textbooks do not present a specific
Usó-Juan
The Presentation and Practice of the Communicative Act 225
language function or a speech act at all and when they do it may not reflect
real language use (Alcón and Tricker 2000; Bardovi-Harlig et al. 1991;
Boxer and Pickering 1995; Gilmore 2004; Grant and Starks 2001; Mandala
1999; Salazar and Usó-Juan 2001, 2002; Kakiuchi 2005; Williams 1988).
Scotton and Bernsten (1988), for example, compared real direction-
giving conversations to those in textbooks dialogues and observed that the
models provided in textbooks were missing sequences that take place in
natural exchanges. Similarly, Williams (1988) analysed (at the level of
speech functions) differences between how business meetings are taught
(as used in the tapes and films that accompany the textbook) and what they
are like in real life. The author reported a mismatch between both types of
data and argued that natural language use is far more complex than simply
realising functions with suitable exponents as presented in textbooks.
Bardovi-Harlig et al. (1991) examined conversational closings in twenty
ELT textbooks and reported that many of them fail to represent closing
phases accurately since the majority of conversations ended in an abrupt
way. Conversation closing typically went as far as shutting down a topic or
occasionally as far as a pre-closing. Grant and Starks (2001) were also
critical of textbook conversational closings. In their study, they compared
textbook closings with closings from episodes of soap operas and reported
that although soap opera materials are still far from constituting realistic
conversational input, they are a better source of data than textbook
examples.
This lack of authenticity in the presentation of language functions was
also highlighted by Alcón and Tricker (2000) in their analysis of the
presentation of the discourse marker well in the recorded and written
material of two communicative English as a foreign language textbooks.
Results showed that the recorded material of the textbooks did not pay
much attention to the interactive features of well with regard to its use as a
face-threatening mitigator (i.e. to signal that a face threat is about to occur)
and as a delaying device (i.e. to allow the speaker time to consider his
response to a difficult question) despite its high frequency in natural
conversations. Furthermore, no activity in the two textbooks focused on
analysing the different uses of this discourse marker explicitly. In a similar
vein, Gilmore (2004) focused on the discourse features of several
dialogues published in seven textbooks and contrasted them with
comparable authentic interactions. He found out that textbook dialogues
were far from being authentic-like, differing considerably across a range of
features such as length and turn-taking patterns, lexical density, number of
false starts and repetitions, pausing, frequency of terminal overlap or
latching, and the use of hesitation devices and back-channelling.
226
Moving on to the presentation of particular speech acts and their
realisation strategies, Boxer and Pickering (1995) examined complaints in
four American and three British ELT textbooks. They reported that
teaching material focused mainly on direct complaining rather than on
indirect complaining (although this is common in natural exchanges) and
that the main aim of what was presented was to teach the learner the
cultural value of softening the face-threatening act of complaining through
the use of certain expressions. The study conducted by Salazar and Usó-
Juan (2001) investigated request realisation strategies offered in several
textbooks by following Trosborg’s (1995) request typology. The authors
found that the majority of strategies fell under the category of
conventionally indirect (hearer-based) requests with a few instances of
indirect or direct requests and they therefore concluded that the input
learners are exposed to in textbooks fails to offer examples of requests that
reflect natural instances of language use in authentic situations. These
findings however, should be seen as being tentative, since in this study no
attention was paid to those modifying devices that accompany the request
head act to soften its degree of imposition.
The speech acts of suggesting and advising have also served as the target
of different studies. In the case of Salazar and Usó-Juan (2002), the focus
was on the presentation of the suggesting and advising realisation
strategies in several textbooks. The authors observed that the
conventionally indirect realisation strategies were the most common ones
presented in all courses analysed, with no instances of indirect or direct
suggesting or advising strategies. Again, the authors were critical of the
shortcomings of textbooks, claiming that realisation strategies of speech
acts presented in textbooks should tackle a wider range of realisation
strategies in order to be more realistic. For Mandala (1999), the target was
advice realisation strategies. The author compared the structure of advice-
giving exchanges in natural talk with such exchanges in textbook
dialogues and found there was no correspondence between the two. It was
observed that textbook dialogues were presented from an advice-giver’s
point of view therefore omitting the features of conflict resolution and
mutual moves towards agreement that are common in authentic samples.
Greetings were also addressed in the research carried out by Kakiuchi
(2005), who analysed how this speech act is used by native speakers in
natural conversations and compared these samples with those in textbook
dialogues. The author found that while one-turn greetings were presented
accurately in some textbooks, other features such as number of turn-
takings and particular greetings expressions were not reflected
appropriately. A possible explanation for such a lack of presentation of
authentic language models in textbooks may be that such materials rely
Usó-Juan
The Presentation and Practice of the Communicative Act 227
heavily on the intuition of native textbook developers about functions and
speech acts realisations rather than empirical research, which is sometimes
unreliable (Boxer 2003; Kasper 1997a; LoCastro 2003).
In addition to the above limitation, textbooks have also been criticised
for failing to provide learners with the two remaining conditions necessary
to foster their pragmatic competence, namely opportunities for
collaborative practice, as well as metapragmatic reflection (Crandall and
Basturkmen 2004; Meier 1997; Vellenga 2004). A few studies have
examined these issues however. Meier (1997: 24) criticised textbooks for
presenting the speech act realisations as a mere list of phrases along a
directness/politeness continuum with which to express a particular speech
act. Additionally, she argued that such a presentation of strategies is
typically associated with a role-play task which is likely to result in ‘a
concatenation of phrasebook-type expressions’. Vellenga (2004)
conducted an empirical study which aimed at determining the quantity and
quality of pragmatic information included in four English as a second
language and four English as a foreign language textbooks. In doing so,
the author focused specifically on 1) the use of metalanguage, that is, how
the activities were prefaced; 2) the treatment of speech acts, that is, how
the speech acts were presented and practised; and 3) the metapragmatic
information, that is, whether any commentaries on the usage of speech acts
or contextual references were explicitly stated in the activities. Results
showed that metalanguage in textbooks provided the learner with a poor
model for pragmatically appropriate speech act realisation and that the
treatment of most speech acts was not adequate, since contextual
information or metapragmatic discussion was missing in the majority of
the activities. In other words, speech acts were presented in isolation and
decontextualised, which in itself neglects the acquisition of pragmatics
since learners were not taught when it is appropriate to use a particular
form depending on contextual variables.
To summarise, research on the pragmatic input presented in textbooks
has targeted a variety of functions such as those used in direction-giving
(Scotton and Bernsten 1988), meetings (Williams 1988), closing in
dialogues (Bardovi-Harlig et al. 1991; Grant and Starks 2001) or discourse
markers (Alcón and Tricker 2000; Gilmore 2004). Many studies have
focused on specific speech acts and their realisation strategies, including
complaints (Boxer and Pickering 1995), requests (Salazar and Usó-Juan
2001), suggestions and advice (Mandala 1999; Salazar and Usó 2002),
greetings (Kakiuchi 2005) or a range of different speech acts (Vellenga
2004). It is evident from such an examination that textbooks are a poor
source of pragmatic input for learners in the FL classroom, since language
functions or speech act realisations presented rarely match with those used
228
in authentic exchanges. Whereas most studies have concentrated on the
authenticity of functions and speech act samples presented in textbooks,
research on how impositive speech acts are presented in textbooks, and
more specifically on analysing the modification devices that either mitigate
or aggravate their force, has received far less attention. In fact, the series of
studies conducted by Salazar and Usó-Juan (2001, 2002) on impositive
speech acts only focused on those strategies employed to perform the
speech act itself, therefore providing only a partial report of how they are
presented in textbooks. Additionally, little research has been conducted
into how a particular speech act is practised in communicative textbooks.
Therefore, the main point raised in this chapter is to examine the treatment
of the communicative act of requesting in ELT textbooks. In particular, the
goal of this study is twofold:
a) To examine, from a pragmatic approach, the textbook activities
learners are to carry out in order to practise the speech act of
requesting, and
b) To examine whether the speech act of requesting is presented with
modifiers in textbook activities and, if so, what types of modifiers are
used.
12.3 The Communicative Speech Act of Requesting in Textbooks
12.3.1 Request Analysis
The speech act of requesting is by nature an impositive face-threatening act,
since its performance requires the hearer to carry out an act for the
requester’s sake (Brown and Levinson 1987). A request may vary in strategy
type and level of directness. Three general strategies of requests have been
identified (Trosborg 1995), namely direct forms, which include
performatives, imperatives and expressions implying obligation;
conventionally indirect forms, which may be either speaker or hearer
oriented and include those routinised expressions denoting polite behaviour;
and indirect forms or hints, which imply opaque language. One way for the
requester to vary the politeness of a request is by employing indirect
strategies rather than direct ones. However, the appropriacy of the level of
directness for a given context may vary across cultures (Olshtain and Cohen
1991; Safont 2005). In addition to this, it is also possible to make the request
less threatening or increase its compelling force by using peripheral
modification devices, which typically consist of two major groups: internal
Usó-Juan
The Presentation and Practice of the Communicative Act 229
modifiers, i.e. those devices which appear within the same request act, and
external modifiers, i.e. those devices which appear in the immediate
linguistic context of the request head act, either preceding or following it.
In order to ascertain the amount and types of request modification
devices offered in textbooks, we will analyse them by following the
functional typology of modification devices in requests proposed by Alcón
et al. (2005). As regards internal modifiers, four main subtypes of devices
are identified in this taxonomy, namely openers (i.e. to seek the
addressee’s cooperation), softeners (i.e. to soften the impositive force of
the request), intensifiers (i.e. to aggravate the impact of the request), and
fillers (i.e. to fill in gaps in the interaction). Concerning external modifiers,
six main subtypes of devices are identified, namely preparators (i.e. to
prepare the addressee for the request), grounders (i.e. to justify the
request), disarmers (i.e. to avoid a refusal), expanders (i.e. to indicate
tentativeness), promise of reward (i.e. to offer a reward upon fulfilment of
the request), and the word ‘please’, to signal politeness, among other
functions (see Table 12.1 for examples of all the above-stated subtypes of
modifiers). The strong point of this taxonomy is that it follows a socio-
pragmatic approach rather than a grammatical and syntactic one.
Table 12.1 Typology of peripheral modification devices in requests (Alcón et al. 2005: 17)
Type Sub-type Example
Internal
Modification
Openers - Do you think you could open
the window?
- Would you mind opening the
window?
Softeners Understatement - Could you open the window
for a moment?
Downtoner - Could you possibly open the
window?
Hedge - Could you kind of open the
window?
Intensifiers - You really must open the
window.
- I’m sure you wouldn’t mind
opening the window.
Fillers Hesitators - I er, erm, er – I wonder if you
could open the window
Cajolers - You know, you see, I mean
Appealers - OK?, Right?, yeah
Attention-getters - Excuse me…; Hello…; Look…;
Tom …; Mr. Edwards…;
father… …
230
External
Modification
Preparators - May I ask you a favour? …
Could you open the window?
Grounders - It seems it is quite hot here.
Could you open the window?
Disarmers - I hate bothering you but could
you open the window?
Expanders - Would you mind opening the
window? … Once again, could
you open the window?
Promise of
reward
- Could you open the window?
If you open it, I promise to
bring you to the cinema.
Please - Would you mind opening the
window, please?
12.3.2 Textbook Selection
The speech act of requesting is common in natural exchanges in the field
of tourism and therefore learners in the discipline of Tourism need to be
explicitly taught how to produce this speech act appropriately for
professional communication. Given this need, it was considered that an
examination of how tourism textbooks treat the speech act of requesting
would be interesting. Consequently, an informal survey was conducted
among university teachers who teach English in this discipline in Spain
and they were asked whether a particular book was the centre of their
syllabus and, if that was the case, for the title of the book they use in their
classes. Following this criterion, five textbooks were chosen for this
analysis: High Season. English for the Hotel and Tourist Industry
(Harding and Henderson 1994), English for International Tourism (Jacob
and Strutt 1997), English in Tourism. Checkpoint 2 (Mioduszewska et al.
1997), Going International. English for Tourism (Harding 1998), and
Welcome! English for the Travel and Tourism Industry (Jones 1998). As
indicated by the publishers, all of them are intermediate or upper-
intermediate level courses.
12.3.3 Textbook Analysis
Following a chronological order, all textbooks are examined individually,
first, to analyse the type of activities learners have to carry out to practise
the speech act of requesting and also to determine whether any
metapragmatic information is offered in the student’s textbook activities
Usó-Juan
The Presentation and Practice of the Communicative Act 231
and teachers’ book. The requests offered in these activities are then
analysed to find out both the range of request realisation strategies and the
number and type of request modification devices presented.
High Season. English for the Hotel and Tourist Industry (1994) employs
a topic-based approach to enable students to work effectively in the
tourism industry. It is divided into twelve units, each containing a balanced
variety of activities in the four language skills, including a language study
section and a word study section. The language study section of Unit Five,
“Hotel and Restaurant Services”, focuses on requesting. The appropriate
way to make polite requests is reviewed in a taped exercise in which
students listen to three brief conversations between a client and a waiter
ordering food and responding politely in a hotel restaurant. This exercise is
followed by the presentation of the four requests that were used by the
three clients when ordering. Practice work requires students to make
similar requests using different prompts and to role play a client and a
waiter in a hotel restaurant. The aim of these activities is simply to
familiarise students with routine expressions for formulating polite
requests when ordering food in a restaurant. Pragmatic information, related
to culture or the contextual factors that affect the use of the speech act of
requesting is missing. The following four strategies are offered (p 57):
Example 1
Can you bring us a bottle of water, please?
Could you change mine, please?
Could we possibly order, please?
Do you think you could bring us the wine list, …?
With regard to the teachers’ book, we found that in addition to answers to
activities, teachers are also provided with two additional expressions to
teach students how to make requests (see example 2), as well as with
expressions for accepting or rejecting a request. Additionally, the teacher
is recommended to stress the importance of using the word please at the
end of every request. These expressions are presented in isolation and it is
up to the teacher how to teach them to the students (p 19):
Example 2
Would you mind giving me an alarm call, please?
I wonder if you could get me a doctor, please.
All request strategies presented in both the textbook and teachers’ book are
conventionally indirect (hearer-based) in terms of the scale of directness
employed and they are all modified to soften the force of the requesting
move. Regarding their type, we observe that both external and internal
232
modifiers are employed. In example 1 the first two requests make use of
the external modifier please; similarly the third request makes use of the
same external modifier but it is also internally modified by a downtoner
(possibly); finally, the last request is internally modified by an opener (Do
you think…). In example 2 the two requests are doubly modified externally
by the use of please and internally by two different openers (Would you
mind… / I wonder if…).
The second textbook selected for the analysis, English for International
Tourism (1997), contains fifteen units, each covering a core topic area
from the tourist trade. Each unit provides students with a wide variety of
activities in the four language skills and promotes grammatical accuracy
with language focus sections which include grammar explanations and
activities for classroom practice. None of the fifteen units in the book
devote a section to the speech act of requesting. Instead, requests are
treated peripherally in the language focus section of Unit Thirteen “Things
to do”, which deals with conditionals. Here, grammatical aspects are the
focus of teaching without paying attention to contextual or pragmatic
factors. Students are required to read fifteen conditional sentences and
answer which of them: a) describe a usual state of affairs, b) talk about the
past, c) make an offer, d) make a recommendation, e) make a polite
request, or f) describe situations which are unlikely or impossible. On the
whole, the activity has the goal of getting students to notice that the
sequence of tenses in conditionals is not absolutely fixed and depends on
what the speaker wants to say. An inductive approach is used to achieve
that aim. The grammar activity which follows has students fill in the gaps
of conditional sentences with verb tenses, modals or connectors such as
unless, providing/provided that or on condition that. Finally, students have
to discuss what they would do if they were to make a place more attractive
to tourists. All expressions are presented and practised without discourse
context and information on pragmatic issues is missing. With regard to the
teachers’ book, we found that it consisted of just answers to activities
provided in the textbook and there were neither extra activities nor
recommendations for teaching politeness issues. The following two
conditional sentences are presented in the textbook to students as polite
requests (p 85):
Example 3
I’d be grateful if you could fill in this questionnaire before you go.
If you’ll just fill in this registration form, I’ll make the booking for you.
All request strategies are again conventionally indirect (hearer-based) and
they are modified to decrease the force of the imposition of the request.
Usó-Juan
The Presentation and Practice of the Communicative Act 233
The first sentence is internally modified by the use of an opener (I’d be
grateful if…), whereas the second one is modified both internally by use of
a downtoner, that is, a type of softener (just), and externally by use of a
disarmer (I’ll make the booking for you).
In English in Tourism. Checkpoint 2 (1997), each of the nine units also
comprises a balanced variety of activities in the four skills as well as a
section devoted to the functions of the language. Requests are dealt with in
the function section of Unit Six, “Timeshare”. Students are presented with
four formulaic expressions as a means of making polite requests (see
example 4) and then these strategies are briefly reviewed by the students in
a taped exercise in which they are simply asked to listen to them. Finally,
students are required to practise them by using hints such as “Your pen has
just run out of ink” (p 76). Analogous to what we have observed in the
previous textbooks, requests are presented and practised in isolation, that
is, without any information on pragmatic issues. This textbook is not
accompanied by a teachers’ book. The following requests are presented to
students (p 75):
Example 4
Would you mind filling in the registration card?
I wonder if you would mind changing this £5 note for me?
I wonder if you could give me a lift to the airport?
I have forgotten my glasses. Do you think you could read the menu for me?
The request strategies presented are conventionally indirect (hearer-based)
strategies and all of them are modified to soften the illocutionary force of
the request. Regarding the type of modification, we observe that the first
three requests are internally modified by the use of openers (Would you
mind…/ I wonder if…), whereas the last one is modified both externally by
the use of a grounder (I have forgotten my glasses) and internally by the
use of an opener (Do you think…).
Going International. English for Tourism (1998) has a topic-based
organisation similar to the textbooks already examined. There are twelve
units, each including a wide range of activities in the four language skills
as well as language focus sections with explanations and activities to help
understand the use of language. Requests are dealt with superficially in the
first language focus section “telephone language – requests and responses”
of Unit Ten, “Guiding”. Practice activities require students to complete six
written requests after listening to them on tape, the requests being used to
ask if a person is available (see example 5). After that, students have to
decide which expressions are more formal. Freer practice follows this
controlled exercise in which students are to act out in pairs whether a
234
person is or is not free to do a particular job. Surprisingly, emphasis is
given to different levels of formality. However, pragmatic explanation on
what makes a request more or less formal is again missing. It was found
that the teachers’ book consists of little else than answers to the activities
and a recommendation to present the sentences as formulaic request
expressions. The requests presented in textbook are the following (p 140):
Example 5
I was wondering if you were able to do a half-day panoramic tour for us?
Any chance of a repeat this year?
Call us soon if you’re interested.
Do you think you could do another job for us?
Would you be interested?
I wanted to know if you could do a Hampstead Sunday tour for us?
All requests, with the exception of the third one, are conventionally
indirect (hearer-based) strategies, whereas the third request is a direct one.
Four out of the six requests are modified to soften the force of the request.
The first, fourth and sixth requests are internally modified by the use of
openers (I was wondering if … / Do you think… / I wanted to know if…),
whereas the third one is externally modified by use of a disarmer (if you
are interested). Perhaps the reason why not all requests are modified could
have to do with the activity, in which students are required to select the
most formal requests. In fact, the first, fourth and sixth requests (the
conventionally indirect modified request strategies) are regarded by the
textbook’s authors as the most formal ones whereas the third request (the
direct strategy) and the second and the fifth (the unmodified strategies) are
regarded as being less formal.
The last textbook Welcome! English for the Travel and Tourism
Industry (1998) is organised differently to the previous books. There are
ten modules on specialised themes, each containing from four to six
lessons. Particular emphasis is placed on oral communication tasks.
Lesson thirty-seven is devoted to “Offering and requesting”. Students
are first presented with two request structures (see example 6) and then
they have to use them to ask a client to do the following five things:
“move her car”, “pay in cash”, “show you his driving license”, “wait a
moment” and “move to another table” (p 81). The lesson goes on to
present two reasons why students would like the client to do the above-
mentioned things and then they must decide which of the two reasons
sounds more polite. The request structures presented to students are the
following (p 81):
Usó-Juan
The Presentation and Practice of the Communicative Act 235
Example 6
Excuse me. Would you mind + ing …?
I’m sorry, but could I ask you to…, please?
To conclude the lesson, students are presented with six different pictures in
which a client is doing something that is not allowed, for instance parking
the car in a strictly forbidden area, and then students are to take the role of
a member of a staff and make polite requests to clients. This exercise
depicts the following structure to formulate polite requests (p 81).
Example 7
I’m sorry to have to ask you this, but … would you mind moving your car,
please?
A distinguishing feature of this textbook is that it includes ‘advice’ on how
to deal with clients. More particularly, it recommends students to sound
polite whenever asking clients to do something and explain why they want
the clients to do what they ask if they are requested to do something they
do not want to. On the whole, emphasis is placed on giving reasons for
requesting a client to do something and because of this it could be
considered the richest textbook in terms of metapragmatic information
provided to students. However, practice exercises are restricted to little
else than repeating the request structures that are being taught. In fact, the
structures are presented in isolation and the focus is on making students
acquire such structures as grammatically correct chunks that should be
employed when requesting. In the first structure of example 6, for instance,
students are told that after the expression ‘Would you mind’, the verb has
to be written with an ‘ing’ form. This fact indicates that the important
point is to teach grammar rather than a variety of contextualised
expressions that can be employed when modifying requests. With regard to
the teachers’ book, it is found that, like the majority of textbooks
examined, it consists of answers to the activities and a recommendation to
add ‘please’ in most requesting situations.
The request strategies provided in this textbook are again conventionally
indirect (hearer-based) strategies and they are all modified to make
requests extra polite, an aspect which is constantly reiterated in this
textbook. As regards the type of modifiers, we observe that in example 6
the two requests are doubly modified: the first one, internally by the use of
a filler, more specifically an attention getter (Excuse me), and an opener
(Would you mind…), whereas the second one is modified externally by use
of a disarmer (I’m sorry but…) and ‘please’. Similarly, the request
presented in example 7 appears modified both externally by the use of a
236
disarmer (I’m sorry to have to ask you this, but…) and ‘please’, and
internally by the use of an opener (Would you mind…).
12.3.4 Summary of Findings Regarding Request Modification Devices
A total of 21 request realisation strategies were presented in the textbooks
examined. As regards their strategy types, all of them except one were
conventionalised requests, that is, polite realisations through modal forms
(e.g. Would you…? Could you…?), whereas the remaining one was a
direct request realised by means of an imperative (i.e. Call us soon …). As
regards modification devices, all request moves except two were modified
either internally (16 cases) or externally (13 cases). Starting with internal
modification devices, we found that the most frequent type of modifier
employed by textbooks was the openers type (13 cases) followed by
downtoners, which is a type of softeners (2 cases), and to a lesser extent
attention-getters, a type of fillers (1 case). No instances of intensifiers
were found. In relation to external modification devices, we found that
‘please’ was the most frequent type of modifier employed (8 cases),
followed by disarmers (4 cases) and to a lesser extent grounders (1 case).
There were no occurrences of preparators, expanders or promise of
reward in the data analysed. Additionally, modifiers occurred individually
(10 cases) and in combination (9 cases). The primary combination which
occurred in the data comprised an opener, as an internal modifier, and
‘please’, as an external modifier.
12.4 Discussion
The goal of the present study was to provide more insights into the
treatment of the communicative act of requesting in ELT textbooks.
Specifically, our aim was to examine from a pragmatic approach: 1) the
activities learners had to carry out to practise the speech act of requesting,
and 2) the speech act of requesting with its internal and external
modification devices. As regards activities on requests, we found that
textbooks concentrated almost exclusively on the acquisition of linguistic
competence since practice work required learners to drill, either
individually or in pairs, a list of ‘useful expressions’ for request
realisations in either a written or a spoken mode. Accordingly, little or no
information regarding situational and contextual variables in which the
requests were embedded was given to the learners except for the explicit
information that the requests took place in a workplace setting between a
Usó-Juan
The Presentation and Practice of the Communicative Act 237
client and a worker. However, information regarding interlocutors’ age,
social status, degree of intimacy or the degree of imposition of the request
necessary for selecting the appropriate request form in a particular
situation (Brown and Levinson 1987) was neither mentioned nor implicit.
With regard to the teachers’ books, we found that the majority of them
consisted of little else than answers to the activities. This lack of pragmatic
information in the description of the activities confirms the contention that
textbooks serve as a poor model to foster the pragmatic competence
learners need to achieve successful communication (Boxer and Pickering
1995; Kakiuchi 2005; Mandala 1999; Salazar and Usó-Juan 2001, 2002;
Vellenga 2004).
Concerning requests and the modification devices accompanying them,
we observed that all textbooks showed a clear preference for the
conventionally indirect request strategies rather than the direct or indirect
ones, the request moves being modified in all cases except two. As
explained in the analysis, the lack of modification in these two request
strategies could be related to an exercise learners had to perform, since
they were required to select the most formal request out of a list of six. In
relation to the type of request modification, we found a preference for
internal modification over the external one, and in particular openers were
by far the most widely selected type. As stated by Alcón et al. (2005), the
use of openers is a conventionalised way of introducing requests and it is
closely associated to formality. External modification also occurred but
emphasis was almost exclusively on the politeness marker please, which
textbooks recommended adding to the request head act in final position
rather than in initial or embedded position (a position which also takes
place in authentic language use as reported by Martínez-Flor, this volume).
Finally, only a brief reference to other types of external modifiers was
made without providing contextualised examples of when they are used.
On the whole, the aim of what was presented was to teach learners to
make polite requests not only by selecting a conventionally indirect
request strategy capable of expressing a high degree of politeness by itself,
but also by including modifying devices that help to minimise the
imposition involved in a request. However, both the request head act and
the modifiers were presented as fixed chunks in single written sentences
with no discourse context. This fact explains why occurrence of other
types of external modifiers was minimal or non-existent, since they require
longer contextualised utterances in order to carry out actions such as 1)
prepare the hearer for the incoming request; 2) give reasons to support the
speaker’s request; 3) use strategies to disarm the hearer from the
possibility of a refusal; 4) expand the request, which has been claimed by
Alcón et al. (2005) as taking place in consecutive turns rather than single
238
acts; or 5) offer a reward upon fulfilment of the request. Furthermore,
these types of external modification devices, unlike the internal ones,
cannot be taught as a mere list of ‘useful strategies’ since their realisation
is heavily conditioned by interactional and situational/contextual variables
(Nikula 1996). In focusing almost exclusively on internal modification of
requests, textbooks omit the important role that external modification has
in persuading the hearer to perform the request – something which is
normal in authentic language use (see Martínez-Flor, this volume).
Considering all the pitfalls involved in making an exclusive use of
textbooks for the presentation of pragmatic knowledge in the FL
classroom, and on the basis of previous research in interlanguage
pragmatics (Kasper 2001), the teaching of the speech act of requesting
should take into account the three conditions necessary for developing
pragmatic competence, namely, 1) exposure to pragmatic input; 2)
opportunities for collaborative practice; and 3) metapragmatic reflection.
A possible way to incorporate these three aspects for the practice of the
speech act of requesting in the FL classroom is presented in the
following section.
12.5 Alternative Activities for Practising Requests
Researchers in the field of interlanguage pragmatics have suggested
different activities and approaches to foster learners’ pragmatic
competence (Bardovi-Harlig and Mahan-Taylor 2003; Boxer and
Pickering 1995; Judd 1999; Kasper 1997b; Koester 2002; Martínez-Flor et
al. 2003; Olshtain and Cohen 1991; Rose 1994, 1997, 1999; among
others). Based on these proposals, we have devised the following explicit
method to present and practise the speech act of requesting and
subsequently aid students in fostering their pragmatic competence. The
method consists of three main stages: presentation, recognition and
production.
12.5.1 Presentation
This first stage has a theoretical approach. Teachers explain the importance
of developing pragmatic competence in communication to learners. The
presentation focuses on the two elements of pragmatics (Leech 1983):
pragmalinguistics (i.e. linguistic manifestations for conveying the speech
Usó-Juan
of requesting) and sociopragmatics (i.e. social factors that qualify a
be interesting to refer to the
request as being appropriate). Here, it should
The Presentation and Practice of the Communicative Act 239
12.5.2 Recognition
This second stage focuses on developing learners’ understanding of the
speech act of requesting by providing them with practice in recognising
both its pragmalinguistic and sociopragmatic elements. Practice is aimed
at developing both 1) learners’ awareness of cross-cultural and cross-
linguistic differences between their native language and the target
language, and 2) learners’ pragmatic awareness (Judd 1999). As regards
the first type of practice, learners could be asked, for example, to collect
naturally occurring requests in their mother tongue, focusing on its
linguistic manifestations and the sociopragmatic features in which the
request was embedded (i.e. interlocutors’ age and gender, social status,
degree of intimacy, occupation, the degree of imposition of the request,
setting, and so forth). In class, learners could compare data in their mother
tongue with the data presented by the teacher in the first stage. This
activity could help learners to understand that the way requests are
realised may vary across languages and even across speech communities
(Yates 2003).
With regard to the second type of practice, a variety of activities could
be designed. In an attempt to widen the scope of the request strategies and
their modification devices presented in textbooks, teachers could provide
learners with the context of a situation, which should be rich in pragmatic
information, and four requests for response to that situation, which could
be presented on a scale of directness and with a variety of modifiers.
Learners could then be asked to rank the requests from the most to the
least appropriate realisation for the given context. Other activities could be
power-distance-imposition parameters of Brown and Levinson’s (1987)
politeness theory. The analytical framework employed in the present study
could be a useful tool for sharpening learners’ understanding of request
strategies (Trosborg 1995) and modification devices (Alcón et al. 2005).
Ideally, these manifestations should be collected from naturally occurring
interactions and they should be presented to learners in context, eliciting
who is requesting to whom and under what conditions. These explanations
should be used as the basis for discussion on how modification devices
vary across situational and contextual features (Nikula 1996). If natural
data is not readily available, especially in FL contexts where direct contact
with the target language is quite unlikely, teachers could use scenes from
films, which also offer great possibilities to provide learners with authentic
and contrasting samples (see Martínez-Flor, this volume, for contex–
tualised examples of all request modification devices).
240
presented with the aim of eliciting learners’ metapragmatic reflection. By
way of example, the teacher could provide learners with the whole context
of a situation and a request for response to it and then ask them to apply
the principles discussed in the first stage to rate what they believe is the
level of suitability on a scale ranging from 1 to 5. The proposed activities
are mere examples of those teachers could design to help learners to
understand the communicative act of requesting.
The main purpose of these first two stages is to push learners to notice
the importance of employing modifying devices to soften the impositive
force of the request and how the form they may take depends on situational
and contextual variables. Once they have a clear understanding of these
issues, they can be presented with opportunities for collaborative practice,
which has been regarded as essential in fostering pragmatic competence
(Kasper 2001), and is the aim of the third and final stage.
12.5.3 Production
In this final stage, learners practise the use of the speech act of requesting
in conversational interaction in simulated contexts. As noted by many
researchers (Judd 1999; Kasper 1997b; Olshtain and Cohen 1991), role-
play activities are particularly suitable here. We fully agree with Judd
(1999) that the important thing to remember is that learners should be
provided with scenarios (rich in pragmatic information) with differing
sociopragmatic features in order to observe whether these variables affect
the form of the request strategy and its modifiers. This practice should be
followed by the teacher’s feedback and metapragmatic reflection on the
learners’ performance so as to drive them to produce more appropriate and
accurate request forms.
These kinds of activities are an alternative to those presented in
textbooks to aid learners in fostering their pragmatic competence in the
target language. With such activities and teacher’s feedback, learners could
be provided with the necessary conditions for the acquisition of pragmatic
competence to enhance their overall communicative competence.
12.6 Concluding Remarks
The findings of this study reveal that models offered in textbooks on how
requests are realised fail to provide learners with enough appropriate input
to promote learners’ communication. In fact, language input on requests
was presented to learners in a simplistic way, and opportunities to practise
Usó-Juan
The Presentation and Practice of the Communicative Act 241
it did not include either contextually rich information to help them make a
request appropriately for a given situation or metapragmatic information
regarding its appropriate use in other situations. The study is, of course,
limited by the selection of a small sample of textbooks. However, despite
this limitation, we believe its results can help teachers whose teaching goal
is to develop learners’ communicative competence to consider the need to
supplement the input of textbooks with real-world materials as well as to
develop learners’ awareness of the sociopragmatic rules of the target
language. To achieve this aim, the suggested activities proposed in this
chapter may be of help.
1
This study is part of a research project funded by (a) the Spanish Ministerio de Educación
y Ciencia (HUM2004-04435/FILO), co-funded by FEDER, and by (b) Fundació
Universitat Jaume I and Caixa Castelló-Bancaixa.
References
Alcón, E, Tricker D (2000) Teaching discourse competence in the classroom: An example
based on the discourse marker well in EFL materials. In: Gallardo P, Llurdà E (eds)
Proceesings of the 22nd International Conference of Aedean. Servei de Publicacions
Universitat de Lleida, Lleida, pp 61–65
Alcón E, Safont MP, Martínez-Flor A (2005) Towards a typology of modifiers for the
speech act of requesting: A socio-pragmatic approach. RæL, Revista Electrónica de
Lingüística Aplicada 4: 1–35
Bardovi-Harlig K (2001) Evaluating the empirical evidence: Grounds for instruction in
pragmatics? In: Rose KR, Kasper G (eds) Pragmatic in Language Teaching. Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge, pp 13–32
Bardovi-Harlig K, Hartford BS, Mahan-Taylor R, Morgan MJ, Reynolds DW (1991)
Developing pragmatic awareness: Closing the conversations. ELT Journal 45: 4–15
Bardovi-Harlig K, Mahan-Taylor R (2003) Teaching Pragmatics. Department of State
Office of English Language Programs. Washington DC, U.S. Available online at
http://exchanges.state.gov/education/engteaching/pragmatics.htm
Boxer D (2003) Critical issues in developmental pragmatics. In: Martínez-Flor A, Usó-Juan E,
Fernández-Guerra A (eds) Pragmatic Competence in Foreign Language Teaching.
Servei de Publicacions Universitat Jaume I, Castelló, pp 45–67
Boxer D, Pickering L (1995) Problems in the presentation of speech acts in ELT materials:
The case of complaints. ELT Journal 49: 44–58
Brown P, Levinson S (1987) Politeness: Some Universals in Language Use. Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge
Gilmore A (2004) A comparison of textbooks and authentic interactions. ELT Journal 58:
362–374
Crandall E, Basturkmen H (2004) Evaluating pragmatics-focused materials. ELT Journal
58: 38–49
Grant L, Starks D (2001) Screening appropriate teaching materials. Closings from
textbooks and television soap operas. International Review of Applied Linguistics 39:
39–50
Notes
242
Harding K (1998) Going International. English for Tourism. Oxford University Press,
Oxford
Harding K, Henderson P (1994) High Season. English for the Hotel and Tourism Industry.
Oxford University Press, Oxford
Jacob M, Strutt P (1997) English for International Tourism. Longman, Essex
Jones L (1998) Welcome! English for the Travel and Tourism Industry. Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge
Judd EL (1999) Some issues in the teaching of pragmatic competence. In: Hinkel E (ed)
Culture in Second Language Teaching and Learning. Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge, pp 152–166
Kakiuchi Y (2005) Greetings in English: Naturalistic speech versus textbook speech. In:
Tatsuki D (ed) Pragmatics in Language Learning, Theory and Practice. JALT, The Japan
Association for Language Teaching, Pragmatics special interest group, Tokyo, pp 61–85
Kasper G (1997a) Can pragmatic competence be taught? Network # 6. University of
Hawai’i, Second Language Teaching and Curriculum Center, Honolulu. Available online
at http://www.nflrc.hawaii.edu/NetWorks/NW06/
Kasper G (1997b) The role of pragmatics in language teacher education. In: Bardovi-Harlig
K, Hartford B (eds) Beyond Methods Components of Second Language Teacher
Education. McGraw-Hill, New York, pp 113–136
Kasper G (2001) Classroom research on interlanguage pragmatics. In: Rose KR, Kasper
G (eds) Pragmatics in Language Teaching. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,
pp 33–60
Kasper G, Roever C (2005) Pragmatics in second language learning. In: Hinkel E (ed)
Handbook of Research in Second Language Teaching and Learning. Lawrence Erlbaum
Associates, Mahwah, NJ, pp 317–334
Koester AJ (2002) The performance of speech acts in workplace conversations and the
teaching of communicative functions. System 30: 167–184
Leech G (1983) Principles of Pragmatics. London, Longman
LoCastro V (2003) An Introduction to Pragmatics: Social Action for Language Teachers.
Michigan Press, MI
Mandala S (1999) Exiting advice. In: Bouton LF (ed) Pragmatics and Language Learning,
vol 8. University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, pp 89–111
Martínez-Flor A, Usó-Juan E, Fernández-Guerra A (eds) (2003) Pragmatic Competence
and Foreign Language Teaching. Servei de publicacions Universitat Jaume I, Castelló
Meier AJ (1997) Teaching the universals of politeness. ELT Journal 53: 21–28
Mioduszewska M, Gallego J, Olivares A, Urqu a MA (1997) English in Tourism.
Checkpoint 2. Editorial Centro de Estudios Ramon Areces, SA, Madrid
Nikula T (1996) Pragmatic Force Modifiers. A Study in Interlanguage Pragmatics.
University of Jyväskylä, Jyväskylä
Olshtain E, Cohen AD (1991) Teaching speech act behavior to nonnative speakers. In:
Celce-Murcia M (ed) Teaching English as a Second or Foreign Language. Heinle &
Heinle, Boston, pp 154–165
Rose KR (1994) Pragmatic consciousness-raising in an EFL context. In: Bouton LF,
Kachru Y (eds) Pragmatics and Language Learning, vol 5. University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, pp 52–63
Usó-Juan
Martínez-Flor A (2007) Analysing request modification devices in films: Implications for
pragmatic learning in instructed foreign language contexts. In: Alcón E, Safont MP (eds)
Intercultural Language Use and Language Learning. Springer, Amsterdam, pp 245–279
í
The Presentation and Practice of the Communicative Act 243
Rose KR (1997) Pragmatics in the classroom: Theoretical concerns and practical
possibilities. In: Bouton LF, Kachru Y (eds) Pragmatics and Language Learning, vol 8.
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, pp 267–295
Rose KR (1999) Teachers and students learning about requests in Hong Kong. In: Hinkel E
(ed) Culture in Second Language Teaching and Learning. Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge, pp 167–180
Safont JMP (2005) Third Language Learners: Pragmatic Production and Awareness.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Salazar P, Usó-Juan E (2001) The speech act of requesting in ESP materials: An example
based on Tourism course books. In: Posteguillo S, Fortanet I, Palmer JC (eds)
Methodology and New Technologies in Language for Specific Purposes. Servei de
publicacions de la Universitat Jaume I de Castelló, Castelló, pp 95–105
Salazar P, Usó-Juan E (2002) The presentation of pragmatics in current tourism texts: The
speech acts of suggesting and advising. In: Luttikkhuizen F (ed) Proceedings of the 5th
International Conference on Languages for Specific Purposes. Universitat de Barcelona,
Canet de Mar, pp 311–318
Scotton CM, Bernsten J (1988) Natural conversations as a model for textbook dialogue.
Applied Linguistics 9: 372–384
Trosborg A (1995) Interlanguage pragmatics. Requests, Complaints and Apologies.
Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin
Usó-Juan E, Martinez-Flor A (2006) Approaches to language learning and teaching:
Towards acquiring communicative competence through the four skills. In: Usó-Juan E,
Martinez-Flor A (eds) Current Trends in the Development and Teaching of the Four
Language Skills. Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin, pp 3–25
Vellenga H (2004) Learning pragmatics from ESL and EFL textbooks: How likely? TESL
Electronic Journal 8(2): 1–18
Williams M (1988) Language taught for meetings and language used in meetings: Is there
anything in common? Applied Linguistics 9: 45–58
Yates L (2003) Softening short requests. In: Bardovi-Harlig K, Mahan-Taylor R (eds)
Teaching Pragmatics. Department of State Office of English Language Programs,
Washington DC. Available online at http://exchanges.state.gov/education/engteaching/
pragmatics.htm
13
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films:
Implications for Pragmatic Learning in Instructed
Foreign Language Contexts1
Alicia Martínez-Flor
Universitat Jaume I, Spain
13.1 Introduction
E. Alcón Soler and M.P. Safont Jordà (eds.), Intercultural Language Use and Language Learning, 245–280.
Learners’ exposure to rich and contextually appropriate input has been
regarded as a necessary condition for the development of their pragmatic
competence in the target language (Kasper 2001; Kasper and Roever
2005). However, in foreign language contexts, learners lack the
opportunities to face authentic pragmatic input and chances for
interaction outside the classroom. Therefore, different researchers have
already praised the use of audiovisual material as a valuable source that
can present learners with samples of appropriate language use in a
variety of contexts (Alcón 2005; Rose 2001; Washburn 2001). In an
attempt to expand this line of research, this paper explores whether the
use of films can be regarded as a suitable source of authentic input in the
foreign language setting by analysing the occurrence of a particular
pragmatic feature, that of request modification devices, in a corpus of ten
films. To do so, the paper begins with a theoretical review of the role that
audiovisual input has played in developing pragmatics in foreign
language contexts on the one hand, and the description and function of
the pragmatic aspect under study (i.e. request modification devices) on
the other hand. A detailed analysis of the number and types of
modification devices identified in the films is then presented in full
conversational examples. Finally, some pedagogical implications for the
integration of these film excerpts in instructed foreign language
pragmatics are suggested.
245
© 2008
Springer Science+Business Media B.V.
246 Martínez-Flor
13.2 Theoretical Background
13.2.1 The Role of Audiovisual Input in the Foreign Language Context
The presentation of rich and contextually appropriate input has been
regarded as a necessary condition for developing learners’ pragmatic
ability in the target language (Kasper 2001; Judd 1999; Bardovi-Harlig
2001; Kasper and Roever 2005). In this regard, the context in which a
language is learned is essential in terms of both the quantity and quality of
the kind of input to which learners are exposed (Barron 2003). Learners
immersed in the second language community have more opportunities to
come into contact with the target language, so exposure to it can facilitate
their pragmatic ability. In contrast, learners in a foreign language context
are in a disadvantageous position, since they depend exclusively on the
input that arises in the classroom (Kasper and Roever 2005). According to
LoCastro (2003), learners are exposed to three types of input in this
particular setting, namely those of the teacher, the materials, and other
learners. Focusing specifically on how materials can be used to develop
learners’ pragmatic competence, it has been claimed that most textbooks
and other written manuals are based on native-speakers’ intuitions rather
than on empirical studies of pragmatic norms (Boxer 2003; LoCastro
2003). Moreover, research on the analysis of this type of written materials
has demonstrated an inaccurate and decontextualised presentation of the
different pragmatic aspects examined, as well as a lack of natural
conversational models representing the real use of language (see Usó-Juan
this volume for a review of this research). Therefore, the use of video,
films and TV has been considered an alternative way of bringing authentic
pragmatic input into the foreign language context.
Video input has long been used as a valuable resource that enhances the
language learning process in the classroom, as it provides learners with
realistic models to imitate for role-play, as well as enabling them to
strengthen their audio/visual linguistic perceptions in a simultaneous
fashion (Arthur 1999; Canning-Wilson 2000; Sherman 2003). The use of
video sequences has also been employed as a way to raise learners’
motivation towards a particular instructional target feature and to lower
their anxiety when practising the skill of listening (Larimer and Schleicher
1999; Martínez-Flor and Usó-Juan 2006a; Ryan 1998; Stempleski and
Tomalin 1990). Moreover, Canning-Wilson (2000) reports that video
provides a contextualised view of language that can help learners visualise
words and meanings and get them to understand how the setting reveals
the norms for appropriate language use. Therefore, the use of video can be
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films 247
regarded as an ideal medium for introducing pragmatic issues in the
classroom (Rose 1993, 1994, 1997, 1999), as well as increasing learners’
awareness of other cultures (Arthur 1999; Charlebois 2004; Summerfield
1993; Williams 2001). From this perspective, research has been conducted
to support the fact that authentic audiovisual input provides ample
opportunities to present learners with a wide range of pragmatic features in
a variety of social and cultural contexts (Alcón 2005; Grant and Starks
2001; Kite and Tatsuki 2005; Martínez-Flor and Fernández-Guerra 2002;
Rose 1994, 1997, 1999, 2001; Tatsuki and Nishizawa 2005; Washburn
2001; Weyers 1999).
On the one hand, the studies by Alcón (2005), Grant and Starks (2001),
Tatsuki and Nishizawa (2005), Washburn (2001) and Weyers (1999)
addressed the value of using TV to introduce pragmatics in the foreign
language classroom. The focus of Grant and Starks’ (2001) study was that
of closings. The authors compared closings in twenty-three EFL
coursebooks with closings from fifty episodes of the soap opera Shortland
Street, and concluded that TV conversations imitate natural conversations,
provide a wide variety of functional conversational English, imitate natural
speech and follow the cultural and linguistic behaviour of both the
language and the participants. The potential of soap operas or sitcoms was
also examined by Washburn (2001) and Weyers (1999). Particularly,
Washburn (2001: 22) noted that “sitcoms present many models of
appropriate pragmatic language use among various characters of differing
status, familiarity, gender, and in varied settings, such as at work, at home,
in public places, and at formal gatherings”. Focusing on the presentation of
particular speech acts, Alcón’s (2005) study dealt with learners’ exposure
to requests included in different excerpts from the series Stargate. After a
period of instruction, the author provided positive evidence of the value of
employing this type of audiovisual material as the instructional base to
make learners aware of the sociopragmatic and pragmalinguistic aspects
involved in making requests. Similar findings regarding the use of TV
interviews as a reliable model for presenting the pragmalinguistic forms
typical of compliments were also obtained by Tatsuki and Nishizawa
(2005). However, after comparing the occurrence of this speech act in 40
videotaped TV interviews, film data and naturally occurring data, the
authors observed that some sociopragmatic features, such as gender, did
not correspond with natural language use, which may have been influenced
by the gender of the data collectors who gathered the corpus from natural
language use for that study.
On the other hand, the potential of films as a way of presenting
language input in rich cultural contexts has also been examined by
researchers such as Kite and Tatsuki (2005), Martínez-Flor and
248 Martínez-Flor
Fernández-Guerra (2002) and Rose (1993, 1994, 1997, 1999, 2001). In
fact, Rose (1997: 283) has praised the use of scenes from films as
opportunities to observe pragmatic language use, since “in foreign
language contexts, exposure to film is generally the closest that language
learners will ever get to witnessing or participating in native speaker
interaction”. He therefore conducted a good number of studies involving
activities designed to implement the use of film in the classroom (Rose
1993, 1994, 1999), and to determine the authenticity of film excerpts
when compared to naturally occurring data (Rose 1997, 2001). In his
1997 study, Rose compared the occurrence of compliments in forty-six
American films with a corpus of compliments (collected by Manes and
Wolfson 1981), and found that, for global categories, such as the
distribution of syntactic formulae, the film data closely matched
naturally-occurring speech. Later, Rose (2001) supported this finding in a
follow-up study which showed that syntactic formulae, compliment topic
and compliment strategy responses were found to be similar in film data
and in naturally-occurring speech (i.e. pragmalinguistic forms), although
some differences were identified regarding gender distribution (i.e.
sociopragmatic features). Focusing on a different speech act (i.e.
apologies), Kite and Tatsuki (2005) obtained similar results to those
reported by Rose (2001), since the pragmalinguistic strategies employed
to express apologies in both films and naturally-occurring discourse were
equivalent, whereas sociopragmatic factors, such as the gender of
participants, also appeared to differ in both sources. Finally, Martínez-
Flor and Fernández-Guerra (2002) adopted a different perspective and
compared the occurrence of three exhortative speech acts, namely
requests, suggestions and advice acts, in coursebooks and films. The
authors found that in contrast to the artificial and inappropriate
presentation of these speech acts in the textbooks analysed, the
occurrence of them in the films that were examined appeared highly
contextualised and displayed a wide variety of linguistic formulae.
From the previous review of research, which has addressed the benefits
of employing audiovisual material for introducing authentic language use
in the foreign language classroom, it can be claimed that a range of
pragmatic features has been examined (e.g. closings and speech acts, such
as advice, apologies, compliments, suggestions or requests). Nevertheless,
focusing specifically on requests, a partial account of this speech act was
reported in the study conducted by Martínez-Flor and Fernández-Guerra
(2002), since the analysis only centred on those linguistic formulae
employed to express the request head act, without considering the
modification devices that accompany it. In order to account for this fact,
the present paper analyses whether audiovisual input can also be
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films 249
considered a good source of material with which to raise learners’
pragmatic awareness about these particular modification devices. Before
presenting the analysis, however, a description of these elements is
provided in the next subsection.
13.2.2 Request Modification Devices
Request modification devices have been regarded as one of the main
parts into which the speech act of requesting is divided into, that is, the
head act and these same devices (Trosborg 1995; Sifianou 1999;
Márquez Reiter 2000; Safont 2005). Whereas the head act, or the core
request, consists of the main utterance which has the function of
requesting and can stand by itself, modification devices are optional
elements that may follow and/or precede the request head act. These
elements can be further classified into two groups, namely internal (i.e.
items that appear within the same request head act) and external (i.e.
devices that occur in the immediate linguistic context surrounding the
request head act). The use of these modification devices does not change
the propositional content of the request speech act itself. However,
considering that requests are one of the most face-threatening speech
acts (Brown and Levinson 1987), these elements play an important role
in either mitigating or intensifying the requestive pragmatic force. In
fact, speakers’ use of these items (or their failure to do so) may be
crucial for the actual fulfilment of their request moves. Therefore, for an
appropriate use of these modification devices, speakers need to master
not only pragmalinguistic knowledge (i.e. which particular linguistic
choices can be used to express a mitigating device), but also
sociopragmatic knowledge (i.e. which factors influence the appro-
priateness of a given pragmalinguistic choice).
According to Nikula (1996), these sociopragmatic factors are of
paramount importance to make language fit appropriately in the social
situation in which it is used, and they involve the topic of a given
situation, the relationship between the participants in such a situation, and
the contextual constraints involved in that particular situation. More
specifically, the contextual factors that affect the appropriate use of these
modification devices are based on Brown and Levinson’s (1987)
politeness theory and Brown and Yule’s (1983) different types of
discourse interaction. On the one hand, Brown and Levinson (1987)
identify three sociopragmatic parameters which refer to power (i.e. the
social status of the speaker with reference to the hearer), social distance
(i.e. the degree of familiarity between interlocutors), and rank of
250 Martínez-Flor
imposition (i.e. the type of imposition the speaker is exerting over the
hearer). On the other hand, Brown and Yule (1983) distinguish two main
types of interaction that may influence the use of modification devices (or
their failure to do so) for an appropriate requestive performance. The first
refers to an interaction for transactional purposes (i.e. the mere
transmission of information), in which the request does not need to be
softened, since the main result of the request act does not threaten the
hearer’s face (e.g. a surgeon’s direct order to a nurse during an operation).
The second type of interaction is for interactional purposes (i.e.
maintaining relationships) and the request is usually mitigated, since the
speaker may exert an impositive force over the hearer (e.g. a conversation
between relatives).
Bearing in mind the importance of using these modification devices for
appropriate request performance, learners should be exposed to the
various linguistic forms that can be employed to express them. Similarly,
they should be aware of how the particular setting in which they are used
also influences their appropriateness. Therefore, considering the potential
of employing audiovisual material for exposing learners to authentic
samples of appropriate language use in a variety of contexts, this paper
attempts to shed light on whether the use of films could also be
considered as a valuable resource to present these devices in the foreign
language classroom. More specifically, the aim of the present paper is
(i) to analyse whether request modification devices appear in films and,
if so, (ii) which types they adopt, as well as (iii) in which situations
they appear.
13.3 The Study
13.3.1 Data
The selection of films for the present study was made on the basis of
criteria and recommendations set up by Rose (2001) and Sherman (2003),
who pointed out the need to choose films that represent realistic life in a
setting that is as close to modern times as possible. On this account,
cartoons, musicals, period films, and films made earlier than the 1990s
were avoided, and the ten films chosen for this analysis were related to the
genre types of drama, comedy and romance (see Appendix A for the
complete list).
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films 251
13.3.2 Procedure
All films were viewed in their entirety and different request situations
were identified. Then, each request situation was transcribed in its full
conversational context after viewing each film repeatedly. After having
transcribed all the request situations, we proceeded with the
identification of the modification devices employed with each request
head act. In order to classify the different types of modification devices,
we followed the typology proposed by Alcón et al. (2005), since it is
based on previous research from the fields of cross-cultural and
interlanguage pragmatics (House and Kasper 1981; Trosborg 1995; Hill
1997; Márquez Reiter 2000; Achiba 2003). Additionally, this typology
adopts a socio-pragmatic approach that pays attention to interactional and
contextual factors that affect the appropriate use of these devices (Nikula
1996; Sifianou 1999), and takes into account the analysis of data about
Spanish EFL learners’ oral production as regards their use of these
modification devices when requesting (Martínez-Flor and Usó-Juan,
2006b, 2006c). Finally, bearing in mind the fact that two main types of
modifiers, namely internal and external, have been regarded as a
universal phenomenon of language use (Nikula 1996; Hill 1997), this
typology was divided into these two main groups, which in turn were
further classified into different subtypes:
a) Internal modifiers, which are classified into openers, softeners (i.e.
understatement, downtoner and hedge), intensifiers, and fillers (i.e.
hesitators, cajolers, appealers and attention-getters).
b) External modifiers, which are classified into preparators, grounders,
disarmers, expanders, promise of a reward, and please.
13.4 Results and Discussion
A total of 113 request situations, which contained 134 request moves,
were identified in the ten films analysed. From these request moves, only
seven did not contain any modification devices, whereas the rest of them
contained a variety of modification devices that amounted to a total of
342. Table 13.1 shows the number of modifiers belonging to each subtype
of both internal and external modification groups and, as can be observed,
instances from all types of modifiers were found in the data.
252 Martínez-Flor
Table 13.1 Numbers of the different types of internal and external modification devices
identified in the films analysed
Additionally, it is important to point out that most of the request moves
(n=102) contained a combination of two or more different types of
internal and/or external modification devices, which is considered to be
how they typically occur (Trosborg 1995). In the next two sections, a
descriptive analysis of each subtype of modification device included in
Alcón et al.’s (2005) taxonomy is provided with the support of
contextualised examples from the films that were analysed. Therefore,
although a combination of different modifiers can be observed in each
example, only one particular modifier, which has been underlined for
quick identification, is discussed in turn.
Type Sub-type N %
Internal
Modification
Openers 16 4.68
Softeners Understatement 14 4.09
Downtoner 49 14.33
Hedge 3 0.87
Intensifiers 3 0.87
Fillers Hesitators 23 6.73
Cajolers 29 8.48
Appealers 16 4.68
Attention-getters 59 17.26
External
Modification
Preparators 11 3.22
Grounders 32 9.35
Disarmers 21 6.14
Expanders 28 8.19
Promise of
reward
2 0.58
Please 36 10.53
Total 342 100.00
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films 253
13.4.1 Internal Request Modification Devices
The first type of internal modification device is the opener, which refers to
those opening words and expressions that introduce the intended request.
A total of 16 occurrences of openers were found in the selected films.
They were employed in different situations illustrating a variety of
participant relationships, that is either addressing a person who is known to
the speaker and, consequently, there is a close social distance between
them (example 1), or a person who is a stranger to the speaker and, thus,
the social distance between them is greater (example 2). Therefore, these
examples illustrate the use of this particular mitigating device in two
situations that reflect one of the sociopragmatic factors proposed by Brown
and Levinson (1987), namely that of social distance.
Example 1 from The Bourne Identity:
[Jason and Marie enter in Jason’s house in Paris. They are looking around
the apartment searching for clues that may help Jason know who he is and
what job he has]
Marie: Hello? Are you sure this is all yours?
Jason: I guess […] This is my kitchen.
Marie: Any clues?
Jason: I think I’m in the shipping business.
Marie: So, it’s all coming back […] eh? […] Do you mind if I use
the bathroom?
Jason: eh […] sure
Marie: Okay
Example 2 from Pretty Woman:
[It is 3 o’clock in the morning and Edward is playing the piano downstairs.
He is alone with some waiters. He finishes and they applaud him. Then
Vivian arrives]
Edward: Thank you. Thank you very much.
Vivian: I didn’t know you played.
Edward: I only play for strangers.
Vivian: I was getting lonely upstairs all by myself.
[he looks at her and then he addresses the waiters]
Edward: Gentlemen, would you mind leaving us, please?
[the men get up and leave the place]
Edward: Thank you.
Vivian: People always do what you tell them to do? […] I guess
so.
254 Martínez-Flor
The next type of internal modification device is that of softeners which,
as the name indicates, serve to soften the impositive force of the request
head act. This particular type of mitigating device includes three subtypes
that are each going to be analysed in turn: understatement, downtoner and
hedge. The understatement is a type of softener that includes a series of
fixed expressions, such as “a second”, “a minute” or “a little bit”, which
are employed by the requester with the aim of understating or minimising
some aspects of his/her desired act. In the films analysed, 14 instances
containing understatements were found. The following film extracts
include two different understatements (e.g. a second and a moment,
respectively) that are employed in an attempt to play down the impact of
the request being made to a colleague (example 3) and to a clerk (example
4). Thus, different participant relationships can also be observed in these
two conversations, as well as the use of this type of modifiers in different
settings (e.g. a courtroom and an official institution, that is, the American
consulate in Zurich). In addition, example 4 shows a request situation in
which different request moves have been made by both the clerk and
Marie. First of all, Marie is asking for her visa, and the clerk asks her to
calm down and keep her voice down. Then, Marie asks for the person she
talked to the last time she was there, and the clerk asks to have her
attention. As can be observed, this situation reflects a kind of conversation
for interactional purposes (Brown and Yule 1983), in which the different
request head acts are softened and mitigated through the use of a wide
variety of modification devices.
Example 3 from A Few Good Men:
[It is the decisive day in which Danny is going to put Colonel Jessep on the
stand. He arrives at the courtroom where Jo is waiting for him]
Danny: Where is Sam?
Jo: He’s on his way.
Danny: Did he get the guys?
Jo: Yeah. Listen […] eh […] can I talk to you for a second?
Danny: Yeah
Example 4 from The Bourne Identity:
[Marie is asking the clerk working at the visa desk in the American
consulate in Zurich for her visa]
Marie: No. Excuse me. No. This is not my current address, okay?
This was my current address until two days ago, when I
started standing in line outside. Now, I lose my apartment,
okay? That means no address, no phone, no money, no
time. And I still have no visa!
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films 255
Clerk: Miss Kreutz, please. I must ask you to keep your voice
down.
Marie: Excuse me. But where’s the guy that I talked to last week?
Every week it’s a new person. How am I supposed to […]
Clerk: I don’t know who you saw last week.
Marie: Well, let me help you. I’m sure I have it. Hang on.
Clerk: Could I have your attention for a moment, please?
Marie: Look, I have it right here. Just look at it.
The next type of softener, the downtoner, consists of adverbs and modal
particles that serve to make what the requester is saying more tentative in
order to downtone the impact of the request. A high occurrence of this type
of modifier, amounting to 49 instances, was identified in the films
analysed. Moreover, it is important to point out that the positioning of this
type of modifier can vary, as it can appear in an embedded position
(example 5) or at the beginning of the request move (examples 6, 7 and 8).
The next two situations (examples 5 and 6) show a type of interaction in
which the interlocutors maintain a conversation for interactional purposes
(Brown and Yule 1983). However, the relationship that exists between the
participants, as well as the rank of imposition involved in the requests
performed in each situation, differs to a considerable extent. To put it in
Brown and Levinson’s (1987) terms, the requests performed by Mr. Lewis
in example 5 do not threaten Mr. Thompson’s face, whereas the request
performed by Phil to Vivian in example 6 is very impositive and,
consequently, he tries to mitigate it with the use of different modification
devices, among which “maybe”, a downtoner, is employed.
Example 5 from Pretty Woman:
[Edward leaves the hotel and is talking to Mr. Thompson, the hotel
manager]
Mr. Thompson: Mr. Lewis.
Edward: You don’t have any messages for me, do you?
Mr. Thompson: No, I’m afraid not, Sir.
Edward: I’ll need a car to the airport also.
Mr. Thompson: Of course. Darryl will take you wherever you need
to go.
[addressing Darryl]
Darryl, the limousine out front, please.
Darryl: Yes, sir.
Mr. Thompson: Thank you, Darryl.
Edward: One last thing.
Mr. Thompson: Yes.
256 Martínez-Flor
Edward: If you could possibly return this to Fred’s for me,
please.
Mr. Thompson: Yes, of course, Sir.
[he grabs the box where the collar is with the
intention to have a look at it]
May I, sir?
Edward: Of course, please.
Mr. Thompson: It must be difficult to let go of something so
beautiful […] you know, Darryl also drove Miss
Vivian home yesterday
[looking again at the collar]
I’ll take care of it.
Edward: Thank you, Mr. Thompson.
Example 6 from Pretty Woman:
[Edward and Vivian have gone to a polo match. While she is standing
alone observing the match, Phil, Edward’s lawyer, approaches her after
Edward has told him that Vivian is a hooker. He has told him so because
Phil thought she was an industrial spy]
Phil: Having a nice time, Vivian?
Vivian: Yeah, I’m having a great time.
Edward: Must be quite a change from Hollywood
Boulevard, hmm?
Vivian: What?
Edward: Yeah, Edward told me, but don’t worry. Your secret
is safe with me. Listen, maybe […] uh […] you and
I could get together sometime after Edward leaves.
[she looks like very confused and disappointed to
hear these words, so she doesn’t know what to
answer]
Vivian: Yeah, sure. Why not?
Phil: Well, then we’ll just have to do that, hmm?
[and he goes because his wife is calling him]
In contrast to these two previous conversations for interactional purposes,
the following two situations (examples 7 and 8) have been made for
transactional purposes (Brown and Yule 1983), and both make use of the
combination of the downtoner “just” with an imperative. The use of this
combination together with the loud tone of voice in which the request is
performed reflects the power of the speaker (e.g. a police officer) over the
hearer (Brown and Levinson 1987). Moreover, in both situations the action
being requested is urgent.
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films 257
Example 7 from Angel Eyes:
[There is a car accident and Sharon is calling someone to get ambulances
and doctors sent to the place where the accident has occurred]
Sharon: Major accident. We’ll need more ambulances.
Man: All units have been deployed. I don’t have an ETA
[…]
Sharon: I need those medics.
Man: I’ll do the best I can.
Sharon: Just get them over here.
Example 8 from Ocean’s eleven
[There is a robbery in a building and Basher, the man Rusty is looking for
to become one of the eleven members of the band, is arrested. A
policeman, who is pretending to be an inspector, is talking to him when
Rusty arrives. He asks this policeman to look for another man]
Rusty: Booby traps aren’t Mr. Tarr’s style. Isn’t that
right? Basher?
[then addressing to the policeman and showing
him his identification]
Peck. ATF. Let me venture a guess. Simple G-4
mainliner, back wound, quick fuse with a drag
under 20 feet.
Basher: Yeah.
Rusty: Let me ask something else. You search this
scumbag for booby traps? Not something else? I
mean, really searched?
[then addressing Basher and with a loud angry
tone of voice]
Rusty: Stand back
Basher: All right
Rusty: Here we go [now addressing the police officer]
Rusty: Go find Griggs. I need him.
Police officer: Who?
Rusty: Just find him, will you?
Regarding the third type of softeners, the hedge, only 3 occurrences were
found. By using this modifier, the requester can be intentionally vague
about certain aspects of the act to be carried out. In the following situation
(example 9), Sharon is indirectly requesting her addressee, Catch, not to go
to the bar where they had to meet because she is cancelling their date.
258 Martínez-Flor
Example 9 from Angel Eyes:
[Sharon phones Catch to tell him that she is not going to go to the bar
where they had to meet]
Sharon: Hi. Don’t pick up. Look […] mmm […] I didn’t
get much sleep […] and maybe this was a bad idea
anyway. I was feeling kind of weird last night and
[…] anyway, I’m fine now. So, let’s just leave it
where it’s at.
The occurrence of the third type of internal modification devices, that of
intensifiers, was also very low, since only 3 instances were identified in
the films examined. This is likely to have been due to the fact that this sort
of modifiers are rarely used (Sifianou 1999), since their function is to
intensify the impact of the request instead of softening its illocutionary
force, which is what the speaker usually desires to do in order to get
his/her request fulfilled. The use of intensifiers in the following two
conversations (examples 10 and 11) is totally different due to the kind of
situation in which they are employed. Although the participants’ social
distance is very close in both situations as they are relatives and have the
same relationship (e.g. brothers-in-law and sisters-in-law, respectively),
the contextual factors illustrate the informal atmosphere that surrounds the
situation in example 10, whereas the conversation in example 11 is very
tense and Cathy’s use of lexical intensification may be regarded as rude
and impolite. In fact, the role the participants play in this situation is not
that of sisters-in-law, but rather police officer and victim. This fact
indicates the importance of considering the interactional and contextual
factors that characterise a given situation for an appropriate understanding
of the language being used (Nikula 1996).
Example 10 from My Big Fat Greek Wedding:
[There is a party at Toula’s house because Ian’s parents have gone to meet
Toula’s family. They are going to have dinner together. Then, Nick,
Toula’s brother, wants to play a joke on Ian and asks him to say something
in Greek]
Nick: Hey, Ian.
Ian: Nick
Nick: Good to see you, man. Listen, you know I really think you
should say
[he says something in Greek]
It means “everyone, let’s come in the house” I think
everybody will really like it
Ian: [repeats the same words in Greek]
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films 259
Nick: That’s good. Very good, you got it.
Ian: I’m not falling for that again.
Nick: Why?
Ian: Yeah, why? […] Angelo! How do you say “everyone, let’s
go in the house”?
Angelo: [he says those words in Greek]
Ian: [then, Ian says those words in a loud voice for everyone,
which in fact mean “I have three testicles”]
[everybody looks astonished at him]
Example 11 from Angel Eyes:
[Sharon goes to her brother Larry’s house. The police have received a call
from his neighbours because they heard voices. Larry was hitting his wife,
Cathy, so the police come. When Sharon arrives, she talks to Cathy]
Sharon: Are you okay?
Cathy: Yeah. Neighbors moved in two weeks ago, and they’re
calling the police. Welcome to the neighborhood.
Sharon: Must’ve gotten pretty loud.
Cathy: Well, yeah. We had a fight. People fight you know.
Sharon: Why don’t you tell me …?
[she stops talking because she sees Cathy’s face]
Sharon: Oh, my … Shit!
Cathy: Please, do make me a favour. Don’t make it worse.
Sharon: Oh, does it get worse?
Cathy: He didn’t mean it, okay? It’s never happened before.
Sharon: Oh, first time for everything.
Cathy: Don’t fucking patronize me, Sharon. I don’t need this shit
from you.
Sharon: Cathy, look at you.
Cathy: Look at you, in my house! Policing my family! Where do
you get off?
Sharon: It’s me Cathy. I didn’t hit you.
Cathy: I don’t want your fucking pity Sharon, okay? It happened,
all right? He’s torn up about it.
Sharon: He’s torn up about it? Fuck him! He’s torn up? I mean …
has he hit Larry, Jr. yet?
Cathy: He’d never do that. He’s a good man, Sharon.
Sharon: That’s exactly what my mother said to us. “Your father’s a
good man. He didn’t mean it. He’s torn up about it”
Cathy: Get out of my house. Get the fuck out of my house!
260 Martínez-Flor
The last type of internal modification devices belongs to the group of
fillers, that is to say, those optional lexical items that perform a
sociopragmatic function and are used by the requester to fill in the gaps
that occur during an interaction. A large number of them were identified in
our analysis, which may indicate the important role they play in all
situations, given their interactive nature. Regarding the first subtype, that
of hesitators, a total of 23 occurrences were found that illustrated how
often speakers hesitate before making a request, if such a request may
cause a great impact on the addressee. The following two conversations
(examples 12 and 13) show two face-threatening situations which illustrate
the importance of considering the three sociopragmatic factors proposed
by Brown and Levinson’s (1987) politeness theory for an appropriate use
of modification devices. On the one hand, in example 12 the request made
by Jo (i.e. a Commander) is a delicate matter that must be discussed with a
superior (i.e. a Captain), whom she has not met before. Therefore, her
request is highly mitigated and she hesitates a lot because she does not
know what the Captain’s reaction to her request will be. On the other hand,
the situation in example 13 reflects a different participant relationship,
since it is between a father and his daughter (i.e. close social distance).
However, given the customs in their family, the request Toula has to make
to her father, a person of superior power, is very face-threatening and
involves a high degree of imposition. Thus, her request is highly mitigated
and she hesitates a lot because she is afraid of her father’s reaction to her
request.
Example 12 from A Few Good Men:
[Jo, Lieutenant Galloway, goes to the Captain’s office to talk to him about
the two men that are charged with the murder of a soldier in the military
base of Guantamo Bay, Cuba. The captain is in his office with two other
Commanders]
Man: Jo, come on in!
Jo: Thank you sir.
Man: Captain Bless. This is Lieutenant Commander Galloway.
Jo, you know Commander Lawrence?
Jo: Yes sir. Captain, I appreciate you seeing me, that’s such an
honour.
Captain: Will you sit down?
Jo: Ah, I’m fine, sir.
Captain: Have a sit!
Jo: Okay […]
[she sits down and then they talk about what has happened.
Jo explains all the details …]
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films 261
Jo: It sounds like a Code Red.
Captain: Christ!
Jo: So, I’d like to have them moved to Washington and
assigned up counsel. Someone who can really look into
this, someone who possesses not only the legal skill but a
familiarity with the inner works of the military. In short,
Captain, I’d like to suggest that […] eh […] I be the one
who that […] eh […] who that it be me […] eh […] who is
assigned to represent them […] myself.
Captain: Lieutenant Galloway, why don’t you get herself a cup of
coffee?
Jo: Thank you, sir. I’m fine
Captain: May I ask you to leave the room, so that we can talk about
you behind your back?
Jo: Certainly, sir.
[she stands up and goes out of the room]
Example 13 from My Big Fat Greek Wedding:
[This is a conversation between Toula and her father. She wants to talk to
him because she would like to go to college]
Toula: Dad? I’ve been going through our inventory and I’ve
noticed that we’ve been doing a lot of unnecessary
ordering […] So, I was thinking that maybe we should
update our system […] like, we could get a computer […]
I don’t know if you remember, but I got all A’s in
computers but there’s a lot of new staff to learn now, so
[…] eh […] if you want, I could go to college and take a
few courses.
Father: Why? Why you want to leave me?
Toula: I’m not leaving you. Don’t you want me to do something
with my life?
Father: Yes. Get married, make babies. You look so old!
Frequent use of cajolers was also identified, since 29 occurrences included
this type of modifier. These modification devices also illustrate the
importance of establishing interpersonal relationships and are used to
attract the addressee’s attention in an attempt to invite him/her to
participate in the subsequent request event. Example 14 shows two
instances of the same cajoler (i.e. you know), one in each turn. In this
situation, quite a large social distance can be observed between the two
interlocutors, since they have just met each other, and the degree of
imposition involved in his request is also high.
262 Martínez-Flor
Example 14 from Before Sunrise:
[Jesse and Celine have just met in the train and have been talking for a
while. However, the train has already arrived in Vienna. Here, Jesse has to
get off, whereas Celine goes on to Paris. He has already got off the train,
but comes back to talk to Celine]
Jesse: All right. I have an admittedly insane idea, but if I don’t
ask you this, it’s just […] you know […] it’s gonna haunt
me the rest of my life.
Celine: What?
Jesse: eh […] [he sits down] I want to keep talking to you […]
you know […] I have no idea what your situation is but
[…] eh […] but I feel we have some kind of connection,
right?
Celine: Yeah, me too.
Jesse: Yeah, look, great. So, listen, here’s the deal. This is what
we should do. You should get off the train with me here in
Vienna and come check out the town.
Celine: What?
Jesse: Come on. I’ll be fun.
[she laughs]
Jesse: Come on.
[he keeps talking and gives her different reasons why she
should accept. She listens to him very carefully and finally
she accepts]
Celine: Let me get my bag
[they stand up and go together]
Similarly, appealers, that is to say those devices employed by requesters to
appeal directly to the hearer’s consent, have also been identified in 16
occurrences. In the previous situation (example 14), Jesse’s use of the
appealer “right?” triggers Celine’s immediate response. In example 15 the
use of a different appealer, “okay?”, is also employed with the same
intention. In this particular situation, the status-relationship between the
participants can be clearly observed, since he has the power to do what he
wishes in that moment.
Example 15 from Pretty Woman:
[Edward and Vivian are in Edward’s suite in the hotel where he’s staying.
He has invited Vivian to go there with him and she is asking him what he
is going to do with her. As he did not have the intention of going back to
the hotel with a hooker, he does not want to do anything in that moment]
Edward: Why don’t we just talk for a little bit, okay?
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films 263
Vivian: Talk. Yeah. Um, okay […] Edward, are you in town on,
uh, business or pleasure?
Edward: Business, I think.
Vivian: Business, you think […] well, let me guess …
The last subtype of internal modification devices is that of attention-getter,
the main function of which is to attract the addressee's attention and alert
him/her before the actual request is made. This device was the most
frequently identified type with a total of 59 occurrences. Moreover, it was
found to appear in all the films and in a variety of different forms. The
following examples illustrate this variety, that is, the use of a formulaic
entreaty (i.e. excuse me) in example 16, the use of an imperative
construction (i.e. look) in example 17, the addressee’s names (i.e. Oscar,
Captain Algren) in examples 18 and 19 respectively, and a kinship term of
address (i.e. Aunt Sharon) in example 20. The participant relationships in
each situation can therefore be clearly identified by the use of these
attention-getters (i.e. strangers, friends, relatives).
Example 16 from Pretty Woman:
[Edward is driving his car. He’s going to Beverly Hills, but he doesn’t
know how to get there. Since he’s lost, he stops and asks a stranger, a
vagrant, for directions]
Man: Ah, this stuff. There’s nothing but garbage.
Edward: Uh, excuse me.
Man: Huh?
Edward: Can you tell me how to get to Beverly Hills?
Man: You’re here! That’s Sylvester Stallone’s house right there!
[laughing]
Edward: Thank you.
Man: You’re welcome.
Example 17 from Before Sunrise:
[Jesse and Celine are sitting in a train reading a book. They have just
started to talk to each other]
Jesse: Look, I was thinking about going to the lounge car
sometime soon. Would you like to come with me?
Celine: Yeah.
Jesse: Okay.
Example 18 from The Last Samurai:
[Algren has been kept in captivity by the samurais. He has now been
liberated and he goes with Colonel Bagley and the Ambassador to talk to
264 Martínez-Flor
Omura, the Japanese minister. After they talk about the documents related
to the arms agreement that Omura has to sign, he wants to talk to Algren
alone]
Omura: Good afternoon, gentlemen. Captain Algren, perhaps you
and I might have a word in private. Please, sit down. May I
offer you whiskey?
Algren: No, thank you.
Example 19 from Ocean’s Eleven:
[Rusty and Ocean are talking about robbing three casinos. They are
inside a building looking at some plans of the casinos. It is night. Then,
the officer, who is called Oscar and is Ocean’s friend, arrives with a
lantern]
Oscar: Hey
Ocean: Oscar, lower it a bit, would you?
Oscar: Sorry. You guys done? Find what you want?
Ocean: Yes, we’ll take these home for the night and make some
copies. Is it all right?
Oscar: Whatever you need.
Ocean: Appreciate it.
Example 20 from Angel Eyes:
[Sharon goes to visit her mother and when she arrives, she meets Cathy,
her sister-in-law and Larry Jr., her nephew]
Larry Jr.: Aunt Sharon, can I see your police car?
Sharon: Yes
13.4.2 External Request Modification Devices
The first type of external modification device examined is that of
preparators. The function of these is to prepare the addressee for the
subsequent request that is going to be made. A total of 11 occurrences of
these modifying items were found in the films analysed. In example 21,
Danny employs a preparator as a kind of device to ask for permission and
prepare the Colonel for the requests he has to make. This fact illustrates
the power relationship between the participants, since the Colonel is a
person of superior rank and status who has to be respected and even
feared. Therefore, once he agrees to answer some questions, Danny starts
with his inquiry, which involves a series of requests related to the case he
is investigating.
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films 265
Example 21 from A Few Good Men:
[Danny, Jo, Sam and other commanders are having lunch together at
Colonel Jessep’s house. The Colonel is talking about something else.
Then, Danny interrupts him]
Danny: Colonel, I do have to ask you a couple of questions about
September the 6th
.
Colonel: Shoot!
Danny: An NIS agent contacted you and told you that Santiago
knew about a fenceline shooting.
Colonel: Yes.
Danny: Santiago was going to reveal the person’s name in
exchange for a transfer.
Colonel: Yes.
Danny: If you feel there are any details that I miss it, you should
feel free to speak up.
Colonel: [after some seconds]
Thank you.
[Danny realises he is not going to talk, so he follows with
his inquiry]
Frequent use of grounders was also identified in the data, which
amounted to 32 occurrences. These mitigating devices consist of reasons
used to support the request being made and have been regarded as one of
the most typical types of external modification devices employed by
requesters (Trosborg 1995; Hill 1997; Achiba 2003). Example 22 below
illustrates a request situation in which two different request moves can be
observed. Each request is addressed to a different person and supported
by a grounder, in which Bill explains the reasons of why the requests are
being performed. In the first one, Bill addresses his secretary, Jennifer,
and asks her to call his family because he wants to have dinner with
them. She immediately agrees and follows his orders. In the second
request move, Bill asks Joe to wait in his office during the meeting
because he is not a member of the board. However, Joe refuses and asks
him in turn to make it possible for him to attend the meeting with him.
Therefore, this situation illustrates the different role relationships
between the participants that interact in it (i.e. boss/secretary, mortal
human being/Death personified in the shape of a man, respectively), and
how the power that the requester has over the two addressees influences
the positive fulfilment of his request in the first move, but fails to
produce his desired effects in the second one.
266 Martínez-Flor
Example 22 from Meet Joe Black:
[Bill and Joe go together to Bill’s company. Bill has an important
meeting with the rest of his board. When they arrive, he addresses his
secretary]
Bill: And, call my family, I’d like them to have dinner with me
tonight.
Secretary: Didn’t the family get together last night?
Bill: Jennifer
[with a rising tone]
Secretary: Of course, Mr. Parrish, right away.
[Then Bill addresses Joe]
Bill: Uh, perhaps you’d like to wait in my office.
Joe: No.
Bill: What I’m trying to say is this is a board meeting and
you’re not a member.
Joe: [interrupting]
I’m sure you’ll find a way to make it all right.
[Then Joe addresses the secretary]
Joe: Nice to meet you.
The following type of external modification device identified in the films
analysed is that of the disarmer, of which a total of 21 occurrences were
found. As its name indicates, this modifier is used by a requester in an
attempt to disarm the addressee of the possibility of a refusal. The situation
presented in example 23, which is the continuation of the conversation
held in example 21 above, illustrates the importance of paying attention to
the hearer’s social status when making a given request in order not to
threaten his face and give the impression of being impolite (Brown and
Levinson 1987). Specifically, this situation shows how Colonel Jessep
feels agitated after hearing Danny’s request for a document (i.e. Santiago’s
transfer order), which he needs to include in his report about the murder he
is investigating. The Colonel finds Danny’s words very arrogant and says
authoritatively, “you have to ask me nicely”. This face-threatening
situation makes Danny repeat his request with a softer and lower tone of
voice and with a far more mitigated request that includes, among other
modifiers, the disarmer “if it’s not too much trouble”.
Example 23 from A Few Good Men:
[Danny, Jo, Sam and other commanders are having lunch together at
Colonel Jessep’s house. After Jo has asked Colonel Jessep several
important questions that have to do with the practice of Code Reds, they
are just going to leave]
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films 267
Danny: Let’s go
[he stands up and the three of them are ready to go]
Colonel, I just need a copy of Santiago’s transfer order.
Colonel: What’s that?
Danny: Santiago’s transfer order, you guys have papers of that
kind […] I just I just need them for the file.
Colonel: For the file?
Danny: Yeah
Colonel: Of course you can have a copy of the transfer order for the
file. I’m here to help any way I can.
Danny: Thank you.
Colonel: You believe that, don’t you, Danny? That I’m here to help
you in any way I can?
Danny: Of course.
Colonel: The Corporal will take you by Personnel and you can have
all the transfer orders that you want
[Danny turns back and says “let’s go”]
Colonel: But you have to ask me nicely.
Danny: I beg your pardon?
Colonel: You have to ask me nicely. You see, Danny, I can deal
with the bullets, and the bombs, and the blood. I don’t
want money and I don’t want medals. What I do want is
for you to stand up there and with your faggoty white
uniform and with your Harvard mouth to extend me some
fucking courtesy
[they look perplexed at each other]
You got to ask me nicely.
Danny: [after some seconds]
Colonel Jessep, if it’s not too much trouble, I’d like a copy
of the transfer order, Sir.
Colonel: No problem
Moving on to the next type of external modification devices examined in
our analysis, that of expanders, a total of 28 occurrences were identified.
This particular modifier has been related to repetition and it is used by the
requester to indicate tentativeness. Moreover, a typical feature of expansion
involves the fact that it occurs in different consecutive turns rather than in
single acts. This aspect is clearly illustrated in the previous situation
(example 23), in which Danny has to repeat his request (e.g. a copy of
Santiago’s transfer order) in two different request moves by making use of
a different expander each time. In the first request move, he repeats his
request after the Colonel’s question “what’s that?” by using the same words
268 Martínez-Flor
(i.e. Santiago’s transfer order […] I just need them […]), whereas in the
second request move, Danny’s request is repeated by means of an expander
that includes further elements, as it is far more mitigated (i.e. I’d like a copy
of the transfer order). The use of an expander to externally modify a
request head act can also be observed in the following situation (example
24), which shows an informal conversation between two participants who
share a close social distance (i.e. husband/wife). In particular, Lucy is
asking Jack to bring their son to the airport the next morning, and she
repeats her request three turns later to make sure he will do it.
Example 24 from The Day of Tomorrow:
[This is a phone conversation between Jack and his wife, Lucy, about their
son Sam’s grades]
Lucy: Are you gonna get that? [addressing her son Sam, then she
picks up the phone] Hello?
Jack: I just saw that Sam got an F in calculus.
Lucy: I’m aware, Jack. I get a copy of his report card too.
Jack: Sam is a straight A student. He doesn’t fall classes.
Lucy: I don’t have time to talk about this now.
Jack: Well, maybe you ought to make time.
Lucy: Excuse me, I’m not the one who’s away for months and
months at a time.
Jack: I just don’t understand
Lucy: I’ll let him explain it. Can you take him to the airport in
the morning?
Jack: Sam’s getting on a plane?
Lucy: He joined the Scholastic Decathlon Team. They’re
competing in New York.
Jack: Sam joined a team.
Lucy: Yeah, I think there’s a girl involved.
Jack: Oh.
Lucy: Look, can you pick him up at 8.30? I gotta go because I’m
on call tonight. Jack, please don’t be late. I don’t want him
taking a taxi again.
Jack: All right. Okay. I’ll be there. Okay? I’ll be there.
The following type of external modifier is that of promise of a reward, in
which the requester promises something so that his/her request may be
accomplished. Only 2 occurrences of this type of modifier were identified
in the films analysed. The following situation (example 25) is one of them,
in which Jesse wants to get a bottle of wine but he does not have any
money to buy it. More specifically, this situation involves two participants
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films 269
who do not know each other (i.e. large social distance) and the degree of
imposition implied in the request Jesse makes is very high. Consequently,
the use of modification devices that soften and mitigate his request is
necessary in order to have it fulfilled. Among them, Jesse promises to send
him the money for the bottle.
Example 25 from Before Sunrise:
[Jesse and Celine enter a pub to get a bottle of wine and two glasses. She
sits at a table and, while he tries to persuade the barman to let them have a
bottle, she steals the glasses]
Jesse: Hello
Man: Hello
Jesse: eh […] do you speak English?
Man: a bit
Jesse: yeah? a bit? Well, all right. I’m having a kind of an odd
situation which is that […] eh […]
Man: uh […]
Jesse: […] eh […] this is […] eh […] you see that girl over
there?
Man: Yeah
Jesse: […] yeah, well, this is our only night together […] eh […]
and she […] eh […] all right […] here is the problem […]
the problem is that she wants a bottle of red wine […] and
[…] I don’t have any money [laughing] […] eh […] but
what I was thinking was that you might want to […] eh
[…] give me the address of this bar, and […] I know […] I
would promise to send you the money […] and you’d be
making our night complete
Man: You would send me the money?
Jesse: Yes
Man: [he looks at Celine and then at Jesse again]
Your hand?
[they shake hands]
Man: Okay
[he goes for a bottle […] and comes back with the bottle]
Man: For the greatest night in your life
[they both laugh]
Jesse: Thank you very much
Finally, the use of please as an external modification device was identified
in 36 occurrences. This device has been regarded as one of the commonest
modifiers in requests, since it explicitly signals politeness by softening the
270 Martínez-Flor
imposition involved by this directive speech act. Moreover, it is important
to point out that it can be positioned in different places in the request
move, and it can perform different functions. Regarding its positioning
within the request move, the politeness marker please can appear at the
beginning of the request move (example 26), in an embedded position
(example 27) and at the end of the request move (example 28).
Example 26 from Pretty Woman:
[Edward leaves the party and he is looking for a car to go back to the hotel.
Then, he addresses some men, who are parking the cars]
Edward: Is this Mr. Stuckey’s car?
[one of the men says “Yes”]
Phil: Edward, where ya goin’?
Edward: You got the keys to your car?
Phil: Why? What’s wrong with the limo?
Edward: Look, the limo is buried back there. Darryl can’t get it out.
Please give them the keys.
Phil: All right, look. I don’t think you should drive. You’re a
little excited. Don’t drive my car. Let me work something
out here. Fellas, what kind of system is this? Can you
move these cars out of there?
[addressing the men]
[addressing again Edward]
Look, Edward. Edward. Are you familiar with a stick
shift?
Edward: Oh, yeah.
Phil: Have you driven a shift?
Edward: Yeah, yeah.
Phil: Listen, all right. Just, just be ginger with it. Don’t hit …
it’s a new car. Don’t …
Edward: Okay, I can do it.
Phil: It’s just a little … Edward. Give me a break, please?
Edward: I love this car.
Phil: I love it too. Look, you don’t even know where you’re
going. You … you’re gonna get lost in the dark! Beverly
Hills is down the hill!
Example 27 from Meet Joe Black:
[Bill is having dinner with his family when he starts hearing a voice saying,
“I’m waiting outside the front door, Bill. Won’t someone let me in?”]
Bill: [Bill calls the stewardess]
Lillian? Is there somebody at the front door?
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films 271
Lillian: I didn’t hear a ring, sir.
Bill: Have a look, would you, please?
[she goes to have a look]
Example 28 from Angel Eyes:
[Sharon phones Catch]
Catch: Hello
Sharon: Do you have a machine?
Catch: What?
Sharon: Do you have an answering machine?
Catch: Yes
Sharon: Would you hang up please and I’ll call your machine?
Catch: Why?
[then she hangs up and calls again]
[Answering machine: Please leave a message after the
tone]
Sharon: Hi. It’s Sharon. Maybe we can have breakfast or
something. I usually get up early to run in Lincoln park
and there’s a coffee shop across the street. Like 8 or so? If
you’re there, you’re there.
Concerning the different functions that the modifier please can fulfil, it
may be claimed that its use in the three previous examples is precisely that
of an external modification device that accompanies the main request head
act. In contrast, the use of please in the next three examples illustrates that
a whole request move can be substituted by employing just this device. In
example 29, Saul’s utilising please replaces the request head act, which
could be rephrased as “Could you carry the briefcase for me?” In fact, he
employs two other modification devices to soften his request (i.e. an
attention-getter and a grounder). Similarly, the sole use of please in
example 30 also performs the function of substituting a whole request “go
out”. However, in this situation no other modification devices are
employed, since Edward’s power over Phil, his lawyer, allows him to use
please as a substitute for a direct unmitigated request. Finally, Sam’s use
of please directed towards his friend Brian at the end of the situation
illustrated in example 31 is to substitute another direct request to make
Brian shut up. In fact, as Brian keeps talking, Sam resorts to an expander
by repeating his request again, although this time using an imperative form
“shut up”.
272 Martínez-Flor
Example 29 from Ocean’s Eleven:
[Saul, who is pretending to be Mr. Zerga, an important businessman, has
told Terry Benedict that he is expecting a very important briefcase which
contains something very valuable to him. He asks him to keep this
briefcase in a very safe place. When the briefcase arrives, both of them go
together to pick it up]
Saul: Mr. Benedict, please, I have never enjoyed the touch of
steel to my skin.
Example 30 from Pretty Woman:
[This is the day when Edward has a meeting with Mr. Morse and other
men because Edward is going to buy Mr. Morse’s company. However, he
wants to talk to Mr. Morse alone]
Phil: Mr. Morse, you said this morning you wish to speak to Mr.
Lewis. Mr. Lewis is now listening.
Mr. Morse: I’ve reconsidered my position on your acquisition offer.
On one condition. I’m not so concerned about me, but the
people who are working for me.
Phil: It’s not a problem. They’ll be taken care of. Now then,
gentlemen, if we could address ourselves to the contracts
in front of you. If you look […]
Edward: Excuse me, Phil. Gentlemen, I’d like to speak to Mr.
Morse alone. Thank you.
Phil: [he is a little bit disoriented]
All right, gentlemen. You heard the man. Please, wait
outside.
[all the men in the room get up except for David and Phil]
Edward: You too, Phil.
Phil: What do you mean?
Edward: I mean I would like to speak to Mr. Morse alone.
[Phil rises]
Phil: Why does he get to stay
[addressing David, Mr. Morse’s grandson]
Edward: Please […] Please
[directly to Phil]
Phil: I’ll be right outside.
Edward: Good.
Example 31 from The Day After Tomorrow:
[Sam and Brian are in a pub in New York after the competition in the
morning. Then, Laura and finally J.D., a boy from the other school team,
come]
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films 273
Sam: This place is so retro, it might actually be cool if it were on
purpose.
Brian: Yeah, look at all these nerds.
Laura: Hey.
Sam: Hey. You look beautiful!
Laura: Thanks. This place is incredible. Do you believe this is
their cafeteria?
J.D.: You played a great first round.
Laura: So did you. These are my teammates, Sam and Brian. I’m
Laura.
J.D.: Oh, I’m J.D.
Laura: Your school’s amazing.
J.D.: Would you, would you like a tour?
Laura: Sure. That’d be great [then addressing Sam] Could you
hold this for a second?
Sam: Yeah, sure.
Laura: Thanks.
Brian: Man, you got some serious competition.
Sam: Please [with a rising tone of voice]
Brian: And I’ll bet he’s really rich too.
Sam: Shut up.
After reporting the total number of modification devices identified in the
ten films analysed and providing contextualised examples for each
particular type of modifier examined in this study, two important points
can be raised in relation to the two central sides of pragmatics, that is,
pragmalinguistics and sociopragmatics (Leech 1983; Thomas 1983). On
the one hand, occurrences of all types of both internal and external
modification devices were found in our data. This finding indicates that
film scenes seem to be a good source of pragmatic input that may be used
to present learners with all the different types of devices to be employed
when modifying the speech act of requesting (i.e. different
pragmalinguistic types). On the other hand, all the request modification
devices identified in our data took place in fully contextualised
situations. This fact also illustrates the potential that films can have in
foreign language contexts to help learners raise their pragmatic
awareness towards those interactional and contextual factors that
need to be considered for an appropriate use of these modifiers
(i.e. sociopragmatic factors). These two aspects therefore bear important
pedagogical implications for the use of films in the teaching
of pragmatics.
274 Martínez-Flor
13. 5 Pedagogical Implications of Using Films for the Teaching
of Pragmatics
An appropriate and effective use of films in the foreign language
classroom has been regarded as a powerful pedagogical tool to develop
learners’ pragmatic competence in the target language, since “it offers the
possibility for repeated viewings which can be used to uncover multiple
layers of pragmatic particulars from a single scene” (Rose 2001: 283).
Moreover, the potential of this tool is that it can be used with different
teaching approaches, such as explicit versus implicit or deductive versus
inductive approaches. In this way, language teachers have the possibility
of choosing those segments that best represent the pragmatic aspects they
want to cover and integrate them in their current teaching syllabus. To this
respect, several researchers have already proposed activities to be
implemented with films in order to raise learners’ awareness of a wide
range of pragmatic functions, such as speech acts or politeness issues
(Charlebois 2004; Fujioka 2003; Martínez-Flor and Fernández-Guerra
2002; Meier 2003; Rose 1993, 1994, 1997, 1999; Rylander 2005; Tatsuki
1998). Among these activities, Rose (1994, 1997, 1999) has proposed
what he calls the “pragmatic consciousness-raising” technique, which is a
type of inductive approach to fostering awareness of how language forms
are used appropriately in context. In contrast, other researchers prefer to
start with an explicit description of the various means of making a
particular speech act, and then support their explanations with examples
from film segments (Charlebois 2004; Rylander 2005).
Although it should be very interesting to test these two different
approaches empirically in order to ascertain their effectiveness, we believe
that both may be useful in raising learners’ awareness of pragmatic
functions in language by presenting them with contextualised examples
from different film scenes. On that account, a combination of activities
from both teaching approaches, namely inductive and deductive (Martínez-
Flor 2005), could be adopted and modified in order to cover the particular
pragmatic feature to be taught with our film excerpts, that is request
modification devices. The different steps that could be therefore taken, if
adopting an inductive-deductive teaching approach for the integration of
films in the foreign language classroom, are as follows:
1. Selection of two different film scenes (e.g. those presented in
examples 4 and 13 above).
2. Elaboration of two written situations that display the same
conversations as those taking place in the film scenes selected.
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films 275
3. Distribution of those situations to the learners with the explanation of
what they have to do: “write what you would say in the following two
situations.”
4. Distribution of the transcripts of the film scenes with the instructions
learners have to follow: “compare your own responses with what
actually takes place in these two conversations.”
5. Class discussion and teacher’s description of the speech act performed
in both situations (e.g. request), with the presentation of the different
pragmalinguistic forms for both the request head act and the internal
and external modification devices.
6. Presentation of the two film scenes on the DVD.
7. Second presentation of the two film scenes together with the
distribution of a video worksheet in which learners have to pay
attention to the participants’ relationship (e.g. Do they know each
other?; Has one a superior status over the other?), the setting where
the situation is taking place and other non-verbal behaviour aspects,
such as tone of voice, body language or facial expressions.
8. Class discussion and teacher’s explanation on the importance of the
sociopragmatic factors involved in a particular situation for an
appropriate use of the speech act of requesting (i.e. how to modify it
when necessary given its impositive and face-threatening nature).
9. Selection of two other film scenes (e.g. those presented in examples
25 and 26 above).
10. Elaboration of follow-up activities, such as role-plays, in which
learners have to orally perform similar conversations to those taking
place in the new film scenes that have been selected.
11. Class discussion about learners’ performance in terms of the
pragmalinguistic forms chosen to express their requests, as well as the
sociopragmatic factors considered for the appropriate use of this
speech act in those situations.
12. Presentation of the two new film scenes on the DVD and final
discussion.
As can be observed in the suggested steps that have just been outlined, a
combination of activities that involves learners’ inductive and deductive
learning processes is proposed. First, learners follow an inductive learning
process about the pragmalinguistic forms that may be employed to express
the speech act of requesting, both the head act and its modification devices
(steps 3 and 4), as well as the sociopragmatic factors that influence their
appropriate use (steps 6 and 7). Second, each of these steps is followed by
a general class discussion together with teacher’s metapragmatic
explanations on the speech act of requesting that complement their
276 Martínez-Flor
learning process by following a deductive approach (steps 5 and 8,
respectively). In this way, it can be seen how the use of film scenes
present learners with contextualised examples of the particular pragmatic
feature to be covered and they constitute, therefore, the basis of the
suggested instructional approach presented above.
As a last remark, it also needs to be pointed out that films can be the
vehicle to transport learners to other cultures and prepare them for
successful communication in those new cultural settings. In fact, three of
the films analysed in this paper (e.g. Before Sunrise, My Big Fat Greek
Wedding, and The Last Samurai) can be used to raise learners’ awareness
of the cultural differences and typical stereotypes of the American way of
life, and the French, Greek and Japanese cultures, respectively. A different
type of activities exploiting how to use these scenes to develop learners’
intercultural competence (Alptekin 2002; Byram 1997; Byram and Feng
2005; Coperías 2002, 2007) could also be designed and developed to
to achieve this goal.
13.6 Conclusion
The aim of the present paper was to examine whether the occurrence of
request modification devices takes place in films, which types of internal
and external modification devices appear, and in which situations they
take place. Results from our analysis have indicated that (i) most of the
request moves identified in the films analysed are modified by the use of
these devices; that (ii) instances from all types of internal and external
modifiers are found; and that (iii) different sociopragmatic variables, such
as the speaker’s intentions, participants’ relationship or the degree of
politeness, have been considered to be of paramount importance for the
appropriate selection and use of these request modification devices.
Considering these findings, it may be claimed that the use of films is a
good source of material for exposing learners to authentic samples of
appropriate pragmatic input in a variety of contexts, as well as preparing
them for communication in different cultural settings. The benefits of
bringing audiovisual material into the foreign language context can
therefore contribute to improve learners’ pragmatic and intercultural
competence, which in turn may also affect the development of their
overall communicative competence in the target language and culture.
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films 277
Notes
1
This study is part of a research project funded by (a) the Spanish Ministerio de Educación
y Ciencia (HUM2004-04435/FILO), co-funded by FEDER, and by (b) Fundació
Universitat Jaume I and Caixa Castelló-Bancaixa.
References
Achiba M (2003) Learning to request in a Second Language: Child Interlanguage
Pragmatics. Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Alcón E (2005) Does instruction work for learning pragmatics in the EFL context? System
33(3): 417–475
Alcón E, Safont MP, Martínez-Flor A (2005) Towards a typology of
modifiers for the speech act of requesting: A socio-pragmatic approach. RæL,
Revista Electrónica de Lingüística Aplicada 4: 1–35
Alptekin C (2002) Towards intercultural communicative competence in ELT. ELT Journal
56: 57–64
Arthur P (1999) Why use video? A teacher's perspective. VSELT 2: 4
Bardovi-Harlig K (2001) Evaluating the empirical evidence: Grounds for instruction in
pragmatics? In: Rose KR, Kasper G (eds) Pragmatics in Language Teaching. Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge, pp 13–32
Barron A (2003) Acquisition in Interlanguage Pragmatics: Learning how to do things with
Words in a Study Abroad Context. Benjamins, Amsterdam
Boxer D (2003) Critical issues in developmental pragmatics. In: Martínez-Flor A, Usó-Juan
E, Fernández-Guerra A (eds) Pragmatic Competence in Foreign Language Teaching.
Servei de publicacions Universitat Jaume I, Castelló, pp 45–67
Brown P, Levinson S (1987) Politeness: Some Universals in Language Use. Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge
Brown G, Yule G (1983) Teaching the Spoken Language. Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge
Byram M (1997) Teaching and Assessing Intercultural Communicative Competence.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Appendix A: List of films
1. Pretty Woman (1990)
2. A Few Good Men (1992)
3. Before Sunrise (1995)
4. Meet Joe Black 1998)
5. Angel Eyes (2001)
6. Ocean’s Eleven (2001)
7. My Big Fat Greek Wedding (2002)
8. The Bourne Identity (2002)
9. The Last Samurai (2003)
10. The Day after Tomorrow (2004)
278 Martínez-Flor
Hill T (1997) The Development of Pragmatic Competence in an EFL Context. Unpublished
doctoral dissertation. Temple University Japan, Tokyo
House J, Kasper G (1981) Politeness markers in English and German. In: Coulmas F (ed)
Conversational Routine. Mouton de Gruyter, The Hague, pp 157–185
Judd EL (1999) Some issues in the teaching of pragmatic competence. In: Hinkel E (ed)
Culture in Second Language Teaching and Learning. Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge, pp 152–166
Kasper G (2001) Classroom research on interlanguage pragmatics. In: Rose KR, Kasper G
(eds) Pragmatics in Language Teaching. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, pp
33–60
Kasper G, Roever C (2005) Pragmatics in second language learning. In: Hinkel E (ed)
Handbook of Research in Second Language Teaching and Learning. Lawrence Erlbaum
Associates, Mahwah, NJ, pp 317–334
Kite Y, Tatsuki D (2005) Remedial interactions in film. In: Tatsuki D (ed) Pragmatics in
Language Learning, Theory and Practice. Tokyo, JALT, The Japan Association for
Language Teaching, Pragmatics Special Interest Group, pp 99–117
Larimer RE, Schleicher L (eds) (1999) New Ways in using Authentic Materials in the
Classroom. TESOL, Alexandria, VA
Leech G (1983) Principles of Pragmatics. Longman, London
LoCastro V (2003) An Introduction to Pragmatics: Social Action for Language Teachers.
Michigan Press, MI
Manes J, Wolfson N (1981) The compliment formula. In: Coulmas F (ed) Conversational
Routine: Explorations in Standardized Communication Situations and Prepatterned
Speech. Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin, New York, pp 115–132
Martínez-Flor A (2005) The acquisition of pragmatic competence in instructed settings: An
analysis of requests and suggestions in English for Industrial Engineering. Paper
presented at the XXIII AESLA Conference. Universitat de les Illes Balears, Palma de
Mallorca
Martínez-Flor A, Fernández-Guerra A (2002) Coursebooks and films in foreign language
teaching: A pragmatic approach. SELL, Studies in English Language and Linguistics 4:
181–206
Martínez-Flor A, Usó-Juan E (2006a) Towards acquiring communicative competence
through listening. In: Usó-Juan E, Martínez-Flor A (eds) Current Trends in the
Development and Teaching of the Four Language Skills. Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin,
New York, pp 29–46
Byram M, Feng A (2005) Teaching and researching intercultural competence. In: Hinkel E
(ed) Handbook of Research in Second Language Teaching and Learning. Lawrence
Erlbaum Associates, Mahwah, NJ, pp 911–930
Canning-Wilson C (2000) Practical aspects of using video in the foreign language
classroom. The Internet TESL Journal VI: 11
Charlebois J (2004) Pragmatics: The heart and soul of linguistic proficiency. The Language
Teacher 28(4): 3–8
Coperías MJ (2002) Intercultural communicative competence: A step beyond
communicative competence. ELIA, Estudios de Lingüística Inglesa Aplicada 3: 85–102
Fujioka M (2003) Raising pragmatic consciousness in the Japanese EFL classroom? The
Language Teacher 27(5): 1–3
Grant L, Starks D (2001) Screening appropriate teaching materials. Closings from
textbooks and television soap operas. International Review of Applied Linguistics 39:
39–50
Coperías MJ (2007) Dealing with intercultural communicative competence in the foreign
language classroom. In: Alcón E, Safont MP (eds) Intercultural Language Use and
Language Learning. Springer, Amsterdam, pp 59–78
Analysing Request Modification Devices in Films 279
Rose KR (1994) Pragmatic consciousness-raising in an EFL context. In: Bouton LF,
Kachru Y (eds) Pragmatics and Language Learning, vol 5. University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, pp 52–63
Rose KR (1997) Pragmatics in the classroom: Theoretical concerns and practical
possibilities. In: Bouton LF, Kachru Y (eds) Pragmatics and Language Learning, vol 8.
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL, pp 267–295
Rose KR (1999) Teachers and students learning about requests in Hong Kong. In: Hinkel E
(ed) Culture in Second Language Teaching and Learning. Cambridge University Press,
Cambridge, pp 167–180
Rose KR (2001) Compliments and compliment responses in film: Implications for
pragmatics research and language teaching. International Review of Applied Linguistics
39: 309–326
Ryan S (1998) Using films to develop learner motivation. The Internet TESL Journal IV: 11
Rylander J (2005) A video-based pragmatics class. In: Tatsuki D (ed) Pragmatics in
Language Learning, Theory and Practice. JALT, The Japan Association for Language
Teaching, Pragmatics Special Interest Group, Tokyo, pp 139–143
Safont JMP (2005) Third Language Learners: Pragmatic Production and Awareness.
Multilingual Matters, Clevedon
Sherman J (2003) Using Authentic Video in the Language Classroom. Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge
Sifianou M (1999) Politeness phenomena in England and Greece. A Cross-cultural
Perspective. Oxford University Press, Oxford
Stempleski S, Tomalin B (1990) Video in Action. Prentice-Hall Europe, Hertfordshire
Summerfield E (1993) Crossing Cultures through Film. Intercultural Press, Yarmouth, ME
Tatsuki D (1998) Politeness in movies. The Internet TESL Journal IV: 3
Tatsuki D, Nishizawa M (2005) A comparison of compliments and compliment responses
in television interviews, film, and naturally occurring data. In: Tatsuki D (ed) Pragmatics
in Language Learning, Theory and Practice. JALT, The Japan Association for Language
Teaching, Pragmatics Special Interest Group, Tokyo, pp 87–97
Thomas J (1983) Cross-cultural pragmatic failure. Applied Linguistics 4: 91–112
Trosborg A (1995) Interlanguage pragmatics. Requests, Complaints and Apologies.
Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin
Usó-Juan E (2007) The presentation and practice of the communicative act of requesting in
textbooks: Focusing on modifiers. In: Alcón E, Safont MP (eds) Intercultural Language
Use and Language Learning. Springer, Amsterdam, pp 223–243
Martínez-Flor A, Usó-Juan E (2006b) Do EFL learners modify their requests when
involved in spontaneous oral tasks? Paper presented at the XXIV AESLA Conference.
Universidad Nacional de Educación a Distancia (UNED), Madrid
Martínez-Flor A, Usó-Juan E (2006c) Learners’ use of request modifiers across two
University ESP disciplines. Ibérica 12
Márquez Reiter R (2000) Linguistic politeness in Britain and Uruguay. A Contrastive Study
of Requests and Apologies. John Benjamins, Amsterdam
Meier AJ (2003) Posting the banns: A marriage of pragmatics and culture in foreign and
second language pedagogy and beyond. In: Martínez-Flor A, Usó-Juan E, Fernández-
Guerra A (eds) Pragmatic Competence in Foreign Language Teaching. Servei de
uublicacions Universitat Jaume I, Castelló, pp 185–210
Nikula T (1996) Pragmatic Force Modifiers. A Study in Interlanguage Pragmatics.
University of Jyväskylä, Jyväskylä
Rose KR (1993) Sociolinguistic consciousness-raising through video. The Language
Teacher 17: 7–9
Washburn GN (2001) Using situation comedies for pragmatic language teaching and
learning. TESOL Journal 10(4): 21–26
Weyers JR (1999) The effect of authentic video on communicative competence. The
Modern Language Journal 83: 339–349
Williams M (2001) ‘It must be cultural because I don’t do it’: Cultural awareness in initial
TESOL teacher education. In: Byram M, Nichols A, Stevens D (eds) Developing
Intercultural Competence in Practice. Multilingual Matters, Mouton de Gruyter,
pp 111–129
280 Martínez-Flor
281
Aarup Jensen, A. 62, 76, 78
Abrahamsson, N. 145, 161, 164
Achiba, M. 178, 185, 251, 265, 277
Aktor, L. 67, 76
Alatis, J.E. 56, 78
Alcón, E. 1, 2, 3, 23, 30, 32, 36, 37, 49,
136, 137, 209, 213, 219, 220, 225,
227, 229, 237, 239, 241, 242, 245,
247, 251, 252, 277, 279
Aleksandrowicz-Pędich, L. 68, 75, 76, 77
Alptekin, C. 31, 36, 61, 62, 71, 77,
276, 277
Ammon, U. 20
Andrews, M. 77
Antón, M. 91, 97, 98, 99
Arthur, P. 246, 247, 277
Atkinson, D. 12, 21
Ayoun, D. 164
Bachman, L.F. 30, 36, 41, 56, 127, 137,
173, 185, 207, 220
Baker, C. 177, 185
Bakhtin, M. 18, 20
Bandura, E. 67, 76, 77
Barbier, M.L. 120
Bardovi-Harlig, K. 1, 5, 6, 131, 137,
183, 185, 209, 215, 221, 223, 225,
227, 238, 241, 242, 243, 246, 277
Barnes, J. 129, 137
Barro, A. 78
Barron, A. 3, 6, 167, 185, 246, 277
Basturkmen, H. 223, 227, 241
Batstone, R. 29, 36
Bhabha, H. 17, 20
Beauchamp, E.R. 206
Beering, S. 125, 137
Belcher, D. 125, 137, 139, 140
Bergman, M.L. 131, 137
Bernsten, J. 225, 227, 243
Berry, J.W. 75, 77, 142, 163
Besemeres, M. 163
Biber, D. 56
Bild, E.R. 124, 137
Billmyer, K. 208, 221
Blum-Kulka, S. 16, 17, 20, 21, 129, 130,
131, 133, 134, 137, 138, 139, 140,
168, 185, 187
Bongaerts, T. 144, 163
Börner, W. 21
Bouton, L.F. 21, 137, 186, 188, 208,
221, 222, 242, 243, 279
Boxer, D. 126, 132, 138, 209, 219, 221,
223, 225, 226, 227, 237, 238, 241,
246, 277
Bratt Paulston, C. 19, 20, 21
Breetvelt, I. 115, 118, 121
Breidbach, S. 26, 36
Breiner-Sanders, K.E. 177, 185
Bright, W. 57
Brinton, D. 51, 56
Brooks, F.B. 99, 100
Brooks-Carson, A. 116, 119
Brown, G. 211, 221, 249, 250, 254, 255,
256, 277
Brown, P. 167, 168, 185, 210, 211, 221,
228, 237, 239, 241, 249, 253, 255,
256, 260, 266, 277
Bührig, K. 16, 20
Butzkamm, W. 80, 97, 99
Byram, M. 1, 6, 35, 36, 60, 61, 63, 64,
65, 66, 69, 70, 72, 73, 76, 77, 78,
142, 163, 276, 277, 279
Byrnes, H. 177, 186
Caldwell, J. 80, 97, 99
Canale, M. 30, 37, 41, 42, 43, 45, 55, 56,
59, 61, 75, 77, 127, 138, 207, 221
Canning-Wilson, C. 246, 277
Carel, S. 67, 77
Carter, R. 30, 38
Celaya, M.L. 165
Celce-Murcia, M. 2, 3, 30, 37, 41, 42,
43, 44, 45, 46, 48, 50, 51, 56, 57,
125, 127, 138, 207, 208, 221, 242
Index
Index
282
Cenoz, J. 3, 29, 36, 37, 79, 99, 123, 124,
127, 131, 134, 135, 137, 138, 144,
163, 167, 173, 174, 175, 184, 186,
187, 188, 208, 221
Cesevičiūtė, I. 69, 77
Chafe, W. 8, 20
Charlebois, J. 247, 274, 277
Charos, C. 161, 165
Cheng, W. 146, 163
Chenoweth, N. 110, 119
Child, J. 183
Chomsky, N. 11, 42, 43, 56
Clark, E.V. 129, 138
Clarke, J. 71, 73, 77
Clarke, M. 71, 73, 77
Clément, R. 165
Clyne, M. 16, 20, 134, 138
Coffey, M. 69, 77
Cohen, A.D. 53, 56, 116, 119, 120, 228,
238, 240, 242
Cole, P. 186, 188
Connor, U. 125, 137, 139, 140
Cook, G. 121
Cook, V. 61, 77, 80, 97, 99, 127, 128,
129, 133, 136, 138, 142, 163, 165
Coperías Aguilar, M.J. 3, 31, 37, 59, 81,
276, 277
Corbett, J. 65, 69, 70, 72, 73, 75, 77
Cortazzi, M. 62, 71, 72, 76, 77
Coste, D. 164
Coulmas, F. 139, 221, 278
Coupland, N. 16, 20, 37
Couzijn, M. 118
Crandall, E. 223, 227, 241
Crystal, D. 27, 32, 37, 79, 99
Cumming, A. 30, 37, 101, 119
Cummins, J. 188
Dahl, M. 178, 187
Dase, P.R. 163
Davcheva, L. 74, 78
De Angelis, G. 146, 163, 174, 186
De Bot, K. 174, 186
DeCarrico, J. 48, 56
Dechert, H. 188
De Glopper, K. 140
DeKeyser, R. 106, 108, 119
De Vos, G. 206
Dewaele, J-M. 4, 141, 143, 144, 145, 146,
147, 164, 165, 167, 173, 174, 186
DiCamilla, F. 91, 97, 98, 99
Docheva, Y. 74, 78
Dodd, C. 66, 78
Dodson, C.J. 97, 99
Doherty, C. 25, 33, 39
Donovan, L.A. 146, 147, 161, 164
Dörnyei, Z. 37, 56, 118, 119, 138, 150,
164, 221
Doughty, C. 119, 120, 121
Dufon, M.A. 168, 170, 183, 189
Ecke, P. 174, 186
Edmondson, W.J. 29, 37, 169, 186
Edwards, J. 127, 138
Eigler, G. 121
Ellis, R. 91, 99, 168, 170, 171, 183,
184, 186
Enkvist, N.E. 136, 139
Ervin-Tripp, S.M. 170, 186
Evans, M. 161, 162, 164
Faerch, C. 105, 119, 131, 138, 139
Fantini, A. 74, 78
Feng, A. 276, 277
Fernández-Guerra, A. 6, 139, 187, 188,
222, 241, 242, 247, 248, 274, 277, 278
Ferris, D. 107, 119
Firth, A. 27, 33, 37, 39, 95, 99
Firth, J.R. 12
Fisher, L. 161, 162, 164
Fitzmaurice, S. 56
Fleming, M. 1, 6, 70, 76, 77
Fletcher, P. 129, 139
Flower, L. 104, 115, 119
Fortanet, I. 221, 243
Foster-Cohen, S. 37, 99
Fouser, R.J. 4, 167, 174, 175, 176,
186, 191
Francis, N. 171, 186
Fröhlich, M. 165
Fujioka, M. 274, 277
Furnham, A. 160, 164
Gallardo, P. 220, 241
Gallego, J. 221, 242
García Lecumberri, M.L. 163, 164, 165
García Mayo, M.P. 32, 37, 144, 163,
164, 165
Gass, S. 1, 5, 6, 121, 140
Geertz, C. 9, 20
Genesee, F. 36, 123, 124, 138, 139,
174, 186
Index 283
Gibson, M. 174, 186
Giles, H. 20
Gilmore, A. 225, 227, 241
Gnutzmann, C. 21, 37, 38
Gogolin, I. 24, 37
Goodenough, W.H. 9, 20
Grabe, W. 30, 37
Graddol, D. 79, 99
Grant, L. 225, 227, 241, 247, 277
Gray, J. 72, 78
Green, G. 168, 186
Gribkova, B. 77, 142, 163
Grosjean, F. 127, 128, 139, 146, 164
Grundy, P. 36
Halliday, M.A.K. 12, 30, 37, 47, 56
Hammarberg, B. 146, 165, 173, 174,
186, 189
Han, Z. 145, 164
Hansen, N. 139
Harbord, J. 97, 99
Harding, K. 215, 221, 230, 242
Harklau, L. 102, 103, 119
Harley, B. 188
Harlow, L. 172, 186
Harris, R.J. 139, 140
Harrison, B. 77
Hartford, B.S. 131, 137, 172, 183, 185,
186, 215, 221, 241, 242
Hasan, R. 30, 37, 47, 56
Hassall, T.J. 167, 168, 187
Hatch, E. 32, 37
Hayes, J. 104, 110, 112, 115, 118, 119
Heaven, P. 160, 164
Hedge, T. 103, 109, 119
Heinz Pogner, K. 119
Hellinger, M. 20
Henderson, P. 215, 221, 230, 242
Herdina, P. 128, 139, 182, 184, 187
Herwig, A. 174, 187
Hickey, L. 21
Hill, T. 167, 168, 170, 171, 187, 211,
221, 251, 265, 278
Hinkel, E. 77, 242, 243, 277, 278, 279
Hirose, K. 110, 113, 120
Hoekje, B. 55, 56
Hoey, M. 30, 37
Hoffman, E. 142, 163, 164
Hoffmann, C. 29, 37, 123, 139, 173,
176, 184, 187
Hofstede, G. 9, 20
Hollander, E. 33, 37
Holliday, A. 9, 12, 20
Holmes, J. 56, 78
Holquist, M. 20
Holton, R. 25, 37
Honna, N. 206
Horn, L.R. 138
Hornberber, N. 137
House, J. 2, 7, 9, 11, 15, 16, 18, 20, 21,
25, 26, 27, 29, 33, 34, 35, 37, 95, 96,
99, 129, 130, 131, 136, 137, 138,
139, 140, 167, 170, 172, 187, 208,
211, 212, 221, 251, 278
Housen, A. 144, 164
Howard, M. 165
Huber-Kriegler, M. 74, 78
Hudson, T. 30, 37
Hufeisen, B. 138, 186, 187, 188
Hughes, R. 29, 37
Huizinga, J. 9, 21
Hulstijn, J. 140
Hüllen, W. 26, 38, 187
Hunston, S. 48, 56
Hyland, K. 30, 38
Hyltenstam, K. 145, 161, 164
Hymes, D. 12, 20, 21, 41, 42, 43, 56,
59, 78
Ide, R. 127, 139
Ife, A. 3, 79
Izumi, S. 107, 119
Jacob, M. 215, 221, 230, 242
James, A. 79, 99
Jæger, K. 63, 64, 69, 78
Jechle, T. 121
Jefferson, G. 57
Jenkins, J. 33, 38, 95, 100
Jessner, U. 29, 37, 79, 99, 123, 128,
138, 139, 175, 176, 182, 184, 186,
187, 188
Jin, L. 71, 72, 76, 77
Jones, L. 215, 221, 230, 242
Jordan, S. 78
Judd, E.L. 137, 188, 223, 238, 239, 240,
242, 246, 278
Kachru, B.B. 27, 38
Kachru, Y. 21, 242, 243, 279
Kakiuchi, Y. 225, 226, 227, 237, 242
Kaplan, R. 137
284 Index
Kashiwazaki, C. 191, 192, 205
Kasper, G. 3, 6, 15, 16, 20, 21, 39, 105,
119, 125, 126, 127, 129, 130, 131,
132, 137, 138, 139, 140, 167, 170,
171, 172, 173, 176, 178, 187, 207,
208, 209, 211, 212, 219, 220, 221,
222, 223, 224, 227, 238, 240, 241,
242, 245, 246, 251, 277, 278
Kawamura, Y. 172, 183, 184, 187
Kecskes, I. 133, 139
Kellerman, E. 39, 138, 174, 175, 187
Kiesling, S. 20, 21
Kim, D.R. 193, 205
Kim, I. 195, 203, 204, 205
Kite, Y. 247, 248, 278
Kluckhohn, C. 9, 21
Knapp, K. 37, 38, 96, 99, 100
Kobayashi, H. 116, 119, 172, 176, 183,
184, 187
Koester, A.J. 238, 242
Koole, T. 16, 21
Kordon, K. 33, 38
Kramsch, C. 1, 6, 35, 38, 62, 63, 78
Krashen, S. 36, 38, 97, 144, 164
Krings, H. 110, 119
Kroeber, A. 9, 21
Krueger, N. 139
Kubota, M. 208, 221
Kubota, N. 17, 21
Kubota, R. 128, 139
Kulwicki, A.D. 128, 139
Labrie, N. 79, 100
Lambert, W.E. 139, 173, 186, 188
Larimer, R.E. 246, 278
Lasagabaster, D. 173, 188
Lázár, I. 76, 77, 78
Lee, C. 206
Lee, I. 203, 206
Leech, G.N. 125, 139, 168, 188, 238,
242, 273, 278
Leki, I. 102, 118, 119
Lemée, I. 165
Lesznyák, A. 33, 38
Levinson, S.C. 167, 168, 185, 210, 211,
221, 228, 237, 239, 241, 249, 253,
255, 256, 260, 266, 277
Levy, M. 119
Libben, G. 186
LoCastro, V. 126, 139, 227, 242,
246, 278
Long, M. 120, 164, 165
Lorscher, W. 187
Lowe, P. 185, 186
Luttikkhuizen, F. 243
Llurdà, E. 220, 241
Macaro, E. 120
MacIntyre, P.D. 146, 147, 151, 159,
161, 164, 165
MacWhinney, B. 129, 139
Madden, C. 121
Mahan-Taylor, R. 221, 238, 241, 243
Maher, J. 206
Makino, S. 186
Malinowski, B. 12
Manchón, R.M. 3, 30, 38, 101, 104,
105, 110, 111, 112, 114, 115, 116,
117, 119, 120
Manes, J. 248, 278
Mandala, S. 225, 226, 227, 237, 242
Marín, J. 120
Márquez Reiter, R. 249, 251, 278
Martínez-Flor, A. 5, 6, 132, 139, 187,
188, 220, 222, 223, 237, 238, 239,
241, 242, 243, 245, 246, 247, 248,
251, 274, 277, 278
Matsuda, P.K. 120
Mauranen, A. 102, 121
McCarthy, M. 30, 37, 38
McConell-Ginet, S. 6
McCroskey, J.C. 147, 165
McCroskey, L. 147, 165
McGroarty, M. 55, 56
Mckay, S.L. 34, 35, 38
McLaughlin, B. 139
Meier, A.J. 227, 242, 274, 278
Meierkord, C. 27, 33, 38, 95, 96, 99, 100
Meijers, G. 124, 140
Meinhof, U. 99
Ménard, N. 110, 113, 121
Mettewie, L. 150, 165
Miles, J. 185
Minkutė-Henrickson, R. 69, 77
Mioduszewska, M. 215, 221, 230, 242
Miralpeix, I. 165
Morgan, C. 77
Morgan, J.L. 186, 188
Morgan, M.J. 221, 241
Mori, Y. 192, 206
Mughan, T. 65, 74, 78
Mühlhäusler, P. 25, 26, 38
285
Index
Mui, L. 222
Müller, B.D. 65, 78
Muñoz, C. 36, 144, 162, 165, 173,
184, 188
Murphy, L. 120
Naiman, N. 141, 165
Nash, J. 112, 115, 118, 119
Nattinger, J.R. 48, 56
Navés, T. 162, 165
Nayak, N. 124, 139
Nichols, A. 76, 77, 78, 279
Nikula, T. 211, 221, 238, 239, 242, 249,
251, 258, 278
Ninio, A. 129, 139
Nishizawa, M. 247, 279
Noels, K.A. 165
Ohta, A.S. 168, 188
Olivares, A. 221, 242
Oliveras Vilaseca, A. 62, 74, 78
Olshtain, E. 41, 45, 51, 56, 131, 140,
168, 185, 228, 238, 240, 242
Oskaar, E. 175, 188
O’Sullivan, J.K. 54, 57
Oxford, R.L. 50, 53, 57, 91, 100
Pak, S-S. 196, 205, 206
Palmer, A. 41, 56
Palmer, J.C. 221, 243
Papp, T. 133, 139
Parmenter, L. 66, 78
Patrick, A. 188
Patrizio, N. 186
Pavlenko, A. 143, 145, 162, 164, 165
Pawley, A. 47, 48, 57
Pennington, M.C. 112, 120
Pennycook, A. 32, 38
Pérez-i-Parent, M. 171, 188
Perl, S. 104, 120
Peters, K. 188
Phillipson, R. 25, 38, 138, 187
Pica, T. 4, 6
Pickering, L. 209, 219, 221, 223, 225,
226, 227, 237, 238, 241
Pierrard, M. 164
Platt, E. 99, 100
Poortinga, Y.W. 163
Porte, G.K. 117, 120
Porter, P. 26, 38
Poschen, M-L. 37, 99
Posteguillo, S. 221, 243
Pride, J.B. 56, 78
Pulverness, A. 73, 74, 78
Pütz, M. 20, 21, 187
Quell, C. 79, 100
Quirk, R. 38
Raimes, A. 30, 38, 112, 115, 116, 120
Ramathan, V. 12, 21
Ramsey, R.S. 203, 206
Ransdell, S. 119, 120
Regan, V. 141, 165
Rehbein, J. 20, 21
Reppen, R. 56
Reynolds, D.W. 221, 241
Ricciardelli, A. 173, 188
Richards, J.C. 37, 56, 57, 221
Riemer, C. 21
Rijlaarsdam, G. 118, 121
Ringbom, H. 174, 188
Rinnert, C. 116, 119, 172, 176, 183,
184, 187
Rintell, E. 146, 165, 172, 188
Risager, K. 63, 65, 67, 72, 76, 78
Roberts, C. 76, 78
Robinson, P. 119
Roca de Larios, J. 3, 101, 104, 110, 111,
112, 113, 114, 115, 119, 120
Roever, C. 224, 242, 245, 246, 278
Rohlen, T. 204, 206
Ronkin, M. 56
Rose, K.R. 3, 6, 127, 131, 132, 139, 140,
167, 168, 170, 171, 173, 176, 178, 187,
188, 219, 221, 224, 238, 241, 242, 243,
245, 247, 248, 250, 274, 277, 278, 279
Ross, S. 21
Rubin, J. 53, 57
Ruthenberg, T. 37, 99
Ryan, L. 128, 140, 145, 161, 165
Ryan, S. 246, 279
Ryang, S. 192, 193, 194, 195, 201, 202,
203, 204, 205, 206
Rylander, J. 274, 279
Sachs, H. 48, 57
Safont Jordà, M.P. 1, 4, 5, 6, 123, 124,
136, 137, 140, 146, 165, 167, 172,
174, 176, 182, 183, 184, 188, 208,
211, 220, 221, 222, 228, 241, 242,
243, 249, 277, 279
286 Index
Salaberri, S. 119
Salazar Campillo, P. 5, 6, 207, 209,
215, 218, 222, 225, 226, 227, 228,
237, 243
Sanders, M. 124, 140
Sanz, C. 124, 140, 173, 188
Sapir, E. 11
Sarangi, S. 16, 21
Sasaki, M. 110, 113, 120
Sato, K. 172, 183, 184, 187
Scarcella, R. 164, 168, 188
Schachter, J. 188
Schegloff, E. 57
Schleicher, L. 246, 278
Schmidt, R.W. 37, 56, 57, 127, 139,
168, 188, 207, 209, 221
Schoonen, R. 140
Schulze, R. 187
Scotton, C.M. 225, 227, 243
Searle, J.R. 168, 170, 188
Seedhouse, P. 197, 206
Seelye, H.N. 74, 78
Segall, M.H. 163
Segalowitz, N. 106, 109, 120
Seidlhofer, B. 25, 33, 34, 38, 95, 100
Selinker, L. 13, 14, 15, 21, 138, 140,
174, 186, 187
Sercu, L. 76, 77, 142, 163, 165
Sharwood Smith, M. 138, 187
Sheffer, H. 133, 138
Shehadeh, A. 107, 120
Sherman, J. 246, 250, 279
Sieloff Magnan, S. 5, 6
Sifakis, N. 31, 39
Sifianou, M. 130, 140, 168, 169, 178,
188, 210, 211, 212, 214, 219, 222,
249, 251, 258, 279
Silva, T. 110, 120
Simis, A. 140
Singh, P. 25, 33, 39
Singleton, D. 128, 140, 145, 161, 165
Skehan, P. 91, 100
Skibniewski, L. 113, 120
Skopinskaja, L. 72, 76, 78
Smith, V. 112, 115, 120
Snellings, P. 140
Snow, C. 129, 139
Snow, M.A. 56
So, S. 120
Spelman Miller, K. 100
Spencer-Oatey, H. 21
Sperber, D. 10, 21
Starkey, H. 77, 142, 163
Starks, D. 225, 227, 241, 247, 277
Steele, R. 63, 69, 78
Stempleski, S. 246, 279
Stern, H.H. 165
Stevens, D. 76, 77, 78, 279
Stevenson, M. 140
Stewart, M. 20
Straehle, C.A. 56
Street, B. 78
Strange, J. 78
Strutt, P. 215, 221, 230, 242
Summerfield, E. 247, 279
Swain, M. 30, 37, 41, 42, 43, 45, 55, 56,
59, 61, 75, 77, 107, 108, 109, 121,
124, 127, 137, 138, 187, 188
Swales, J.M. 25, 26, 39
Swender, E. 185
Syder, F.H. 47, 57
Tai, E. 191, 192, 206
Takahashi, S. 168, 170, 183, 188, 189
Tamanaha, M. 49, 57
Tateyama, Y. 209, 222
Tatsuki, D. 242, 247, 248, 274, 278, 279
Tay, H. 222
Ten Thije, J. 16, 20, 21
Thananart, O. 222
Thomas, J. 16, 21, 124, 125, 131, 140,
273, 279
Thompson, I. 186
Thompson, P. 100
Thurrell, S. 37, 56, 138, 221
Todesco, A. 165
Tomalin, B. 246, 279
Tomita, Y. 66, 78
Travis, C.E. 130, 140
Tribble, C. 30, 39
Tricker, D. 209, 220, 225, 227, 241
Trim, J.L.M. 52, 57
Trosborg, A. 5, 6, 168, 179, 189, 208,
209, 210, 212, 215, 222, 226, 228,
239, 243, 249, 251, 252, 265, 279
Tsai, M. 128, 140
Tucker, R. 139, 186
Ueda, K. 192, 194, 195, 202, 204, 206
Umakoshi, T. 192, 193, 194, 206
287
Index
Urquía, M.A. 221, 242
Usó-Juan, E. 5, 6, 139, 187, 188, 209,
215, 218, 222, 223, 225, 226, 227,
228, 237, 241, 242, 243, 246, 251,
277, 278, 279
Utley, D. 76, 78
Uzawa, K. 113, 121
Valdman, A. 1, 6
Valencia, J.F. 124, 131, 135, 138, 173,
186, 208, 221
Van den Bergh, H. 115, 118, 121
Van Ek, J.A. 52, 57, 59, 60, 61, 73,
75, 78
Van Gelderen, A. 124, 140
Vellenga, H. 209, 222, 223, 224, 227,
237, 243
Ventola, E. 102, 121
Véronique, D. 145, 164
Verspoor, M. 20, 21
Vidovich, L. 26, 38
Vogel, K. 21
Von Humboldt, W. 11
Walker, L. 199, 204, 206
Wallace, C. 30, 39
Walton, A.R. 186
Walz, J. 5, 6
Wang, W. 111, 121
Wanger, J. 27, 39
Ward, G. 138
Washburn, G.N. 245, 247, 279
Wei, L. 177, 189
Weinbach, L. 131, 140
Wen, Q. 111, 121
Wenger, E. 27, 39
Wesche, M. 56
Weyers, J.R. 247, 279
Whalen, K. 110, 113, 121
Whorf, B.L. 11
Widdowson, H.G. 28, 38, 39
Wiemann, J. 20
Williams, J. 55, 56, 119, 121
Williams, M. 225, 227, 243, 247, 279
Williams, S. 146, 165, 173, 174, 189
Wolfersberger, M. 115, 121
Wolfson, N. 137, 188, 248, 278
Wong, A.T.Y. 115, 121
Wong, J.O. 127, 140
Yates, L. 239, 243
Yoon, K.K. 17, 21
Yorio, C.A. 188
Ytsma, J. 123, 125, 139, 140
Yule, G. 211, 221, 249, 250, 254, 255,
256, 277
Zarate, G. 63, 77
